{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__anonymous___works_of_aristotle_the_famous_philosopher.pdf","mytitle":"Works Of Aristotle The Famous Philosopher","mylang":"de"}
THE
WORKS
L^ JL kJ
THE FAMOUS PHILOSOPHER
CONTAINING,
HIS COMPLETE MASTERPIECE,
Displaying the Secrets qfJVaiure in the Generation
of' Man:
TO \THICH IS ADDED,
THE FAMILY PHYSICIAN,
Being approved Remediesfor the various Distempers
incident to the Human Body :
ALSO
HIS EXPERIENCED MIDWIFE,
S^solutely necessary for Surgeons, Midwives, JVurses, and
Childbearing Women:
AND
HIS LAST LEGACY,
Unfolding the Secrets ofJVaiure in the Generation'
ofMan.
A NEW AND IMPROVED EDITION,
With Engravings.
PRINTED FOR MILLER, LAW, AND CARTEBj
and sold by all the Booksellers.
1830.
WM(DiTTi^iPim r1".
TJECiE ^WiD)]KM:S 01» .M^I^^O^JLE.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
INTRODUCTION.
If one of the meanest capacity were asked,
What was the wonder of the world? I think the
most proper answer would be, man ; he being
the Httle world, to whom all things are subor-
dinate; agreeing in genius with tensitive things,
all being animals, but different in the species :
for man alone is endowed with reason; and
therefore the Deity, at man's creation, (as the
inspired penman tells us,) said, " Let us make
man in our own image, after our own likeness."
As if the Lord had said Let us make man ir
our image, that he, as a creature, may be lik
us: and the same in his likeness, that he ma^
be after our image. Some ofthe fathers do dis-
tinguish, as if by the image the Lord doth plant
the reasonable powers of the soul, will, and
memory ; and by hkeness, the qualities of the
mind, charity, justice, memory, &;c. But M<>ses
confounded this distinction, if you compare
these texts of Scripture, Gen. i. 7, and v. 1,
Colos. X. Eph. V. 14. And the apostle, where
he saith, " fie was created, after the image
of God, in knowledge, and the same in righte-
n INTRODUCTIOJf.
The Greeks represent him as one turning his
eyes upwards, towards him whose image and
superscription he bears.
See how the heavans' high Architect
Hath framed man in this wise,
To stand, to go, to look erect,
With body, face, and eyes?
And Cicero says, hkc Moses, all creatures
were made to rot on the earth except man, to
whom was given an upright frame to contem-
plate his Maker, and behold the mansion pre-
pared for him above.
Now, to the end that so noble and glorious a
creature might not quite perish, it pleased the
Creator to give unto woman the field of gene-
ration, for the reception of human seed; where-
by that natural and" vegetable soul, which lies
potentially in the seed, may by the plastic pow-
er, be reduced into act; that man, who is a
mortal creature, by leaving his offspring behind
him, may become immortal, and survive in his
posterity. And because this field of generation,
the womb, is the place Vv'here this excellent
creature is formed, and in so wonderful a man-
ner, that the royal Psalmist, having meditated
thereon, cries out, as one in an ecstasy, " I am
fearfully and wonderfully made!" it will be ne-
cessary to treat thereon in this book ; which to
that end is divided into two parts
:
The first whereof treats of the manner and
parts of generation in both sexes. For from
the mutual desire they have to each other,
JNTRODUCTiON. Tii
which nature has implanted in them to that end,
and from the dehght which they take in the act
of copulation, does the whole race of mankind
proceed ; and a particular account of what things
are previous to that act; and also what are
consequential to it ; and how each member
concerned is adapted and fitted for that work to
which nature has designed it. And although,
in uttering these things, something may be said
which those that are unclean may make bad
use of, and use it as a motive to stir up their
bestial appetites ;
yet such may know that this
never was intended for them; nor do I know
any reason that those sober persons for whose
use this was ment should want the help hereby
designed them, because vain loose persons will
be ready to abuse it.
The second part of this work is wholly de-
signed for the female sex, and does treat largely
not only of the distempers of the womb, and the
various abuses, but also gives you proper re-
medies for the cure of them. For such is the
ignorance of most women, that when by any
distemper those parts are afflicted, they never
know from whence it proceeds, nor how to ap-
ply a remedy : and such is their modesty also,
that they are unwilling to ask that they may
be informed. For the help of such is this de
signed : for, having my being from a woman, I
thought none had more right to the grapes than
she that planted the vine. And therefore, ob-
serving that, among all diseases incident to the
body, there are none more frequent and pe-
viii INTRODUCTION.
rilous than those that do arise from the ill state
of the womb ; for through the evil quality thereof,
the heart, the hver, and the brain are affected
;
from whence the actions, vital, natural, and ani-
mal, are hurt; and the virtues, concoctive, san-
guificative, distributive, attractive, retentive,
with the rest, are all weakened, so that from
the womb come convulsions, epilepsies, apo-
plexies, palsies, and fevers, dropsies, malignant
ulcers, &c. And there is no disease so bad,
but may grow worse from the evil quality of it.
How necessary, therefore, is the knowledge
of these things, let every unprejudiced reader
judge : for, that many woman labour under them,
through their ignorance and modesty (as I said
before) woeful experience makes manifest.
Here, therefore, as in a mirror, they may be
m^de acquainted with their own distempers,
and have suitable remedies without applying
themselves to physicians, to which they have so
great reluctance.
ARISTOTLE'S
PART FIRST.
CHAPTER I.
OfMarriage, and at what Age Young Men and Virgins are
capable ofit; and why so much desire it. Also, how long
Men and Women are capable ofhaving Children.
There are very few, except some Profest debauchees, but
what will readily agree, that " Marriage is honourable to all,"
being ordained by Heaven in paradise; and without which
no nian or woman can be in a capacity, honestly, to yield
obedience to the first law of the creation, " Increase and
multiply." And since it is natural in young people to desire
these mutual embraces, proper to the marriage bed, it be-
hoves parents to look after their children, and, when they
find them inclinable to marriage, not violently to restrain their
affections, and oppose their inclinations (which, instead of
allaying them, makes them, but the more impetuous,) but
rather provide such suitable matches for them, as may make
their lives comfortable : lest the crossing of their inclinations
should precipitate thetn to commit those follies that may bring
an indelible stain upon their families.
The inclinations of maids to marriage is to be known by
many symptoms; for, when they arrive at puberty, which is
about the 14th or 15th year of their age, then their natural
id ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
purgations begin to flow : and the blood, which is no longer
taken to augment their bodies, abounding, stirs up their minds
to venery. External causes also may incite them to it : for
their spirits being brisk and inflamed, when they arrive at
that age, if they eat hard salt things and spices, the body be-
comes more and more heated, whereby the desire to vene-
real embraces is very great and sometimes almost insuperable.
And the use of this so much desired enjoyment being denied
to Virgins, many times is tollowed by dismal consequences
;
such as the green wesel colonet, short breathing, trembling of
the heart, &c. But when they are married, dnd their venere-
al desires satisfied by the enjoyment of their husbands, those
distempers vanish, and they become more gay and lively than
before. Also, their eager staring at men, and effecting their
company, shews that nature pushes thenj upon coition ; and
their parents neglecting to provide them with husbands, they
break through modesty to satisfy themselves in unlawful em-
braces. It is the same with brisk widows : who cannot be
satisfied without that benevolence to which they were accus
tomed when they had husbands.
At the age of 14, the menses, in virgins, begin to flow
when they are capable of conceiving, and continue, gene
rally, to 44, when they cease bearing, unless their bodies are
strong and healthful, which sometime enables them to bea
at 55. But many times the menses proceed from some vio
ience done to nature, or some morbific matter, which often
proves fatal. And, therefore, men who are desirous of issue
ought to marry a woman within the age aforesaid, or blame
themselves if they meet with disappointment: if an old man
not worn out by diseases and incontinency, marry a brisk
lively lass, there is hope of his having children to seventy or
eighty years.
Hipprocrates says, that a youth of 15, or between that and
17, having much vital strength, is capable of getting children;
aad also, that the force of procreating matter increases till
45, 50, and 55, and then begins to flag : the seed, by degrees.
becoming unfruitful, the natural spirits being extinguished
and the humours dried up. Thus in general, but as to par-
ticulars it often falls out otherwise. Nay, it is reported b}' a
reditable author that in Sweden, a man was married at IOC
years ofage to a girl of 30 years, and had many children hy
her ; but his countenance was so fresh, that those who knew
him not, imagined him not to exceed 50. And in Campania
where the air is clear and temperate, men of 80 marry youn^,
virgins, and have children by them ; which shows, that age
in them hinders not procreation, unless they be exhausted ia
their youth and their yards shrivelled up.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 11
If any would know why a woman is sooner barren than a
raan, they may be assured that the natural heat, which is the
cause of generation, is more predominant inthelatter than ia
the former ; for since a woman is truly more moist than a man
as her monthly purgations demonstrate, as also the softness
of her body; it is also apparent, that he doth much exceed
her in natural heat, which is the chief thing that concocts the
humours into proper aliment, which the woman wanting
grows fat: when a man, through his native heat, melts his fat
by degrees, and his humours are dissolved ; and, by the bene-
fit thereof are elaborated into seed. And this may also be
added, that women, generally, are not so strong as men, nor
so wise or prudent ; nor have so much reason and ingenuity
m ordering affairs ; which shows, that thereby their faculties
are hindered in operation.
CHAPTER IL
Mi3W to get a Male or Female Child ; and of the Embryo and
perfect Birth ; and thefittest Timefor Copulation.
When a young couple is married, they naturally desire
children, an'd therefore use the means that nature has ap-
pointed to that end. But notwithstanding their endeavours,
they must know, the success of all depends on the blessing of
GOD ; not only so, but the sex, whether male or female, is
from his disposal also: though it cannot be denied, but se-
condary causes have influence therein, especially two. First,
the genital humour, which is brought by the arteria praepa-
rantes to the testes, in form of blood, and there elaborated
into seed, by the seminifical faculty residing in them. Se-
condly, the desire of coition, which fires the imagination
with unusual fancies, and by the sight of brisk charming
beauty may soon inflame the appetite. But if nature be en-
feebled, such meats must be eaten as will conduce to afford
such aliment as makes the seed abound, and restores the de-
cays of nature, that the faculties may freely operate, and re-
move impediments obstructing the procreation of children.
12 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
Then, since diet alters the evil state of the body to a better,
those subject to barrenness must eat such meats as are iuicy
and nourish well, making the body lively and full of sap ; of
which faculty are all hot moist meats. For, according to
Galen, seed is made of pure concocted and windy superfluity,
of blood ; whence we may conclude, there is a power in ma-
ny things to accumulate seed, and also to augment it, and
other thingsof force to cause erection, as hen eggs, pheasants,
woodcocks, gnat snappers, thrushes, blackbirds, young pi-
geons, sparrows, partridges, capons, almonds, pine, nuts,
raisins, currants, strong wines taken sparingly, especially
those made of the grapes of Italy. But erection is chiefly
caused by scuraum, eringoes, cresses, crysmon, parsnips, ar-
tichokes, turnips, asparagus, candied ginger, galings. acorns
bruised to powder and drank in muscadel, scallion, and sea
shell fish, &c. But these must have time to perform their
operation, and must use them for a considerable time, or you
will reap but little benefit by them. The act of coition being
over, let the woman repose herself on her right side, with her
head lying low, and her body declining, that by sleeping in
that posture, the cani, on the right side of the matrix, may
prove the place of the conception ; for therein is the greatest
generative heat, which is the chief procuring cause of male
children, and rarely fails the expectation of those that ex-
perience it, especially if they do but keep warm, without
much motion, leaning to the right, and drinking a little spirit
of saffron and juice of hyssop in a glass of malaga or alicant,
when they lie down and arise for a week.
For a female child, let the woman lie on her left side,
strongly fancying a female in the time of procreation, drinking
the decoction of female mercury four days, from the first day
of purgation ; the male mercury having the like operation in
case of a male ; for this concoction purges the right and left
side of the womb, opens the receptacles, and makes way for
the seminary of generation. The best time to beget a female
is, when the moon is in the wane, in Libra, or Aquarius. Ad-
vicene says, when the menses are spent and the womb cleans-
ed, which is commonly in five or seven days at most, if a
man lie with his wife from the first day she is purged to the
fifi^h, she will conceive a male; but from the fifth to the eighth
a female ; and from the eighth to the twelfth, a male again:
but after that, perhaps neither distinctly, but both in an her-
maphrodite In a word, they that would be happy in
the fruits of their labour, must observe to use copulation in
due distance ol time, not too often nor too seldom, for both
are alike hurtfui , and to use it immoderately weakens and
wastes the spirits, and spoils the seed. And thus much for
.F'<zare /7.
TJi:al "wei:' e 3d oTrjaJola cfc and eoa^ e i^ e cl tv-jj li
i
HairJo\^ tlie ImaaiiiatioiiL of tlie Ikreiils. •
|
T^'^Eiei^e clrilcbreTL'tliris are Doonx "wiLln-lLary^ coats
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. IS
the first paiticiilar. The second is, to let the reader know
how the child is formed in the womb, what accident it is li-
able to there, and how nourished and brought forth. There
are various opinions concerning this matter, therefore I shall
show what the learned say about it.
Man consists of an egg, which is impregnated in the
testicles of the woinan. by the more subtle part of the man's
seed ; but the forming faculty and virtue in the seed is a di-
vine gift, it being abundantly endued with a vital spirit, which
gives sap and form to the embryo : so that all parts and bulk
of the body, which is made up in a few months, and gradually
formed into the lovely figure of a man, do consist in, and are
adunibrated thereby, most sublimely expressed. Psalm cxxxix,
" 1 will praise thee, O Lord, for I am fearfully and v/onder-
fully made."
Physicians have remarked four different times, in which a
man is framed and perfected in the womb : the first moon
after coition, being perfected in the first week, if no flux hap-
pens ; which sometimes falls out through the slippernessof the
head of the matrix, that shifts over like a rose- bud, and opens
suddenly. The second time of forming is assigned, when na-
ture makes manifest mutation in the conception, so that all the
substance seems congealed flesh and blood, and happens 12
or 14 davs after copulation. .\nd thougli this fleshy mass
abounds with inflamed blood, yet remains undistinguishable,
without form, and may be called an embryo, and compared
to seed sowq in the ground, which, through heat and mois-
ture, grows by degrees, to a perfect form, in plant or grain.
The third time assigtied to make up this fabric is, when the
principal parts show themselves plain ; as the heart, whence
proceed the arteries : the brain, from which the nerves, like
small threads run through the whole body: and the liver,
that divides the chyle from the blood, brought to it by the
venna porta. The two first are fountains of life, that nou-
rish every part of the body ; in framing which, the faculty of
the womb is busied, from the conception to the eighth day of
the first month. The fourth and last, about the thirtieth da)',
the outward parts are seen nicely wrought, distinguished by
joints. From which time, it is no longer an embryo, but a
perfect child.
Most males are perfect by the thirtieth day, but females
seldom to the fortv second or forty fifth dav. because the heat
of the womb is greater in producing the male than the female.
And. for the same reason, a woman going with a male child,
quickens in three months ; but going with a female, rarely un-
der four : at which time its hair and nails come forth : and the
child begins to stir, kick, and move in the womb ; and thea
B
14 ARISTOTLE'S WOPKS.
the woman is troubled with a loathing of her meat ; and gree-
dy longing for things contrary to nutriment, as coals, rubbish,
chalk &,c. which desire often occasicns abortion and mis-
carriage. Some women have been so extravagant as to long
for hob-nails, leather, man's flesh, horse flesh, and otiier
unnatural as well as unwholesome food ; for want of which
thing, they have either miscarried, or the child has continued
dead in the womb for many days, to the imminent hazarrl of
their lives. But I shall now proceed to show by what real
means the child is sustained in the womb, and what posture
it there remains in.
Various are the opinions about nourishing the foetus in ths
womb. Some say by blood only, from the umbilical vein ;
others, by chyle taken in by the mouth. But it is nourished
diversely, according to the several degrees of perfection ; and
an egg passes from a conception to a foetus ready for birth.
But, first, let us explain the meaning of the ovum or egg. fn
the generation of the foetus, there are two principles, active
and passive; the active is the man's seed, elaborated in the
testicles, out of the arterial blood and animal spirits : the pas-
sive is an egg, impregnated by the man's seed. The nature
of conception is thus ; the most spirituous part of man's seed,
in the act of generation, reaching up to the testicles of the
woman, which contain divers eggs, impregnates one of them ;
and being conveyed by theovaducts to the bottom of the womb
presently begins to swell bigger and bigger, and drinks in the
moisture that is plentifully sent thither, as seeds suck moisture
in the ground to make them sprout out. When the parts of
the embryo begin to be a little more perfect, and that, at the
same time, the chorin is so very thick, that the liquor cannot
soak through it, the umbilical vessels begin to be formed, and
to extend the side of the amnion, which they pass through,
and all through the aliantreides and chorin, and are implant-
ed in the placenta, which gathering upon the chorin. joins
to the uterus. And now the arteries that before sent out the
nourishment into the cavity of the womb, open by the orifice
into the placenta, v/here they deposit the said juice, which
is drunk up by the umbilical vein ; conveved by it to the liver
of the foetus, then to the heart, where its thin and spirituous .
partis turned into blood, while the groosser part descending
by the aorta, enters the umbilical arteries, and is discharged
into its cavity by those branches that run through the am-
nion.
As soon as the mouth, stomach, gullet. &c. are formed so
perfectly, that the foenis can swallow, it sucks in some of the
grosser nutncious juice that is deposited in the amnion by
the umbilical arteries, which, descending into the stoinacli
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 15
and intestines, is received by tiie lacteal veins, as in adult
persons.
The foetus being perfected, at the time before specified, in
all parts, it lies equally balanced in the centre of the womb,
on its head ; and being long turned over, so that the head a
little inclines, it lays its chin upon its breast, its heels and an-
kles upon its buttocks, its hands on its cheeks, and its thumbs
to its eyes: but its legs and thighs are carried upwards, with
its hams bendiiig, so that they tOLich the bottom of its belly;
the former, an 1 that part of the body which is over againsi;
us, as the forel'.ead. nose and face, are towards the mother's
back, the head inclining downwards towards the rump-bone
that joins to the os sacrinn ; which bone, together with ths
OS p'!!)!s in the time of birth, is loosed.
Tlie learned Hippocrates afiirms, that the child as he is
placed in the wonb. hath his hands on his knees and his
head bent to his feet; so that he lies round together, his
hands upon his knees, and his face between them; so that
each eye touches each thumb, and his nose betwixt his
knees. And of the same opinion, in this matter, war Bar-
thoiinus Columbus is of opinion, that the figure of the
child in the womb is round, tiae nghi arm bov/ed, the fingers
under the ear and above the neck, the head bowed, so that
the chin toncheth the breast, the left arm bowed above both
breast and face, and propped up by the bending of the right
elbow; the legs are lifted upwards, the right so much that
the thigh toucheth the belly, the knees the navel, the heel
toucheth the left buttock, and the foot is turned back, and
coveseth the secrets: the left thigh toucheth the belly, and
ike leg lifted up to the breast, a^ below.
!6 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER III.
^he Reason why Cliildren are like their Parents, and that the
J\fother''s Imagination contribute? thereto : and whether the
Man or Woman is the cause of the Male or Female Child.
In the case of similitude, nothing is more powerful than
the imagination of the mother: for if she fix her eyes upon
any object, it will so impress her mind, that it ofttiines so
happens that the child has a representation thereof on some
part of its body And if, in the act of copulation, the woman
earnestly look upon the man, and tix her mind upon him, the
child will resemble its father Nay, if a wo>r>an. even in un-
lawful copulation, fix her mind on her husband, the child
will resemble him, though he did not beget ir. The same ef-
fect hath i:nagination in occasioning warts stains, mole spots
and dartes; though indeed they sometiuies happen through
frights, or extravagant longing Many women, being with
child, on seeing a hare cross the road before them, will,
through the force of imai^init'on. bring forth a child with a
hairy lip- Some children are born with flat noses and wrv
mouths, great blubber lips, and ill shaped bodies: which
must be ascribed to the imagination of the mother, who hath
cast her eyes and mind upon some ill shaped creature.
—
Therefore it behoves all women with child, if possible, to
avoid such sights, or at least, not to regard them. But
thouah the mother's imagination nay contribute much to the
features of the child, vet. in tranners. wit, and propension
of the mind, experience tells us, that children are commonly
of tiie condition with their parents, and same tempers But
the vigour or disability of persons in the act of copilation
many times causes it to be otherwise: for children got
through the heat and strength of desire, must needs partake
more of the nature and inclinations of their parents, than
those begotten with desires more weak : and therefore, the
children, begotten by men in their old age, are generally
weaker than those begotten by them in their youth As to
ihe share which each of the parents has in begetting the
child, we will give the opinion of the ancients about it.
Though it is apparent, say they, that the man'.s seed is the
ARISTOTLE'S VvORKS. 17
chief efficient beginning of the action, motion, and genera-
tion ;
yet tliat the woman affords seed, and effectually contri-
butes in that point to the procreation of the child, is evinced
by strong reasons. In the first place, seminary vessels had
been given her in vain, and genical testicles inverted, if the
ivoman wanted seminal excrescence, for nature does nothing
in vain, and therefore we must grant they are made fo*- the
use of seed and procreaiion, and placed in their proper parts,
both the testicles and receptacles ot seed, whose nature is to
operate and afford virtue to the seed And to prove this,
theie Ti'eeds no stronger arguinent. say they, than that if a
wnman lio not use copulation to eject her seed, she often
falls into strange diseases, as appears by young women and
virgms. A second reason they urge is, that although the so-
ciety of a lawful bed consists not altogether m these things,
yet it is apparent the female sex are never better pleased,
nor appear more blythe and jocund, than when they are sa-
tisfied this way : which is an inducement to believe, they have
more pleasure and titulation therein than men. For, since
nature cau'^es much delight to accooipany ejection, by the
breaking forth of the swelling spirits, and the swiftness of
the nerves ; in which case, the operation on the woman's part
is double, she having an enjn\'rnent both by ejection and re-
ception, by which she is more delighted in the act.
Hence it is, sav thev, that the child ii ore frequently resem-
bles the mother than the father, because the mother contri-
butes most towards it. And they think it may be further in-
stanced, from the endeared affection they bear them : for that
besides their contributing seniinal matter, they feed and nou-
rish the child with the purest fountain of blood, until its birth.
Which opinion Galen affirms, by allowing children to parti-
cipate most of the fiiOther ; and ascribes the difference of se.'?
to the operation of the menstrual blood ; but the reason of the
likeness, he refers to the power of the seed : for. as the plants
receive more nourishment from fruitful ground, than from the
industry of the husbandman , so the infant receives more
abimdance from the mother than the father. For the seed
of both is cherished in the womb, and there grows to perfec-
tion, being nourished with blood. And for this reason it is,
say they, that children, for the most part, love their mother
best, because they receive the most of their sul^stance fi-om
their mother : for about nine months she nourishes her child
in the womb with her purest blood ; then her love towards it
newly born, and its likeness, do clearly show, that the woman
affordeth seed, and contributes more towards making the
child than the man.
But in all this the ancients were very erroneous; for the
B2
is ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
testicles, so called in women, afford not any seed, but are two
eggs, like those of fowls, and other creatures : neither have
they any office, as those of men, but are indeed the ovaria,
wherein the eggs are nourished by the sanguinary vessels dis-
persed through them : and from thence one or more, as they
are fecundated by the man's seed, is separated and conveyed
into the womb by the ovaducts. The truth ot this is plain, for
if you boil them, their liquor will be the same colour, taste,
Rnd consistency with the taste of bird eggs. If any object
that they have no shells, that signifies nothing : f(<r the eggs
of fowls, while they are in the ovary, nav. after they had fas-
tened into the uterus, have no shell And though, when they
are laid, they have one, yet that is no more than a defence
which nature nas provided them against any outward injury,
while they are hatched without tiie body : whereas thoi-e of
women being hatched wittiin the body, need no other fence
than the womb, by which they are sufficiently secured. And
this is enough, I hope, for tite clearing of this point.
As for the third thing proposed, as whence grow the kind,
and whether the man or wonan is the cause of the uale or
female infant. —The primarv cause we must ascribe to GOD,
as is most justly his due. who is the Ruler and Disposer of all
things; yet ne suffers many things to proceed according to
the rules of nature, by the:r inbred inotion. according to usual
nnd natural courses, without variation : though indeed by
favour from on high. Sarah conceived Isaac; Hannah. Sa-
muel ; and Elizabeth, John the Baptist: but these were all
very extraordinary things, brought to pass by a divine power
above the course of nature ; nor have such instances been
wanting in latter days ; therefore 1 shall vt'ave them, and pro
ceed to speak of things natural.
The ancient phvsicians and philosophers say, that since
there are two principles out of which the body of man is marie,
and which render the child like the paients. and by one or
other of the sex, viz seed common to both sexes, and n-en-
strual blood, proper to the woman only : the similitude,
say they, must needs consist in the force and virtue of the
male or female : so that it proves like the one or other,
according to the quantity afforded by either; but that the
difference of the sex is not referred to the seed, but to
the menstrual blood, which is proper to the woman, is ap-
parent; for, were that force altogether retained in the seed,
the male seed being of the hottest quality, male children
would abound, and few of the female be propagated : where-
fore the sex is attributed to the temperament of the active
qualities, which consist in heat and cold, and the nature of
^•he matter under them—that is, the flowing of the menstru-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 13
oils bjood ; but now the seed, say they, affords both force to
procreate and form the child, and matter for its generation;
and HI the menstruous hlood there is both matier and force;
for as the seed most helps the material principle, so also does
the menstrual blood the potential seed: vvhicii is, says Galen,
blood well concocted by the vessels that contain it. So that
blood is not only the inatter of generating the child, but also
seed, it being impossible that menstrual blood hath both
principles. '
The ancients also say, that the seed is the stronger efficient,
the matter of it being verv little in quantity, hut tlie poten-
tial quality of it is very strong: wlierelbre, if these princi-
ples of generation^ according to which the sex is made. were
onlv, say they, .in the menstrual blood, then would the chil-
dren be all mostly females; as, were the efficient force in the
seed, they would be all males; but since both have opera-
tion in menstrual blood, n>atter preriominaies in quantity,
and in the seed force and virtue. And therefore Galen ttiinks*
the child receives its sex rather from the mother than from the
father; for tliough his seed contributes a little to the material
principle, yet it is more Vv-eakly But for likeness, it is refer-
red rather to the father than to the mother. Yet the woman'^
seed receiving strength from the menstrual blood for the
space of nine months, overpowers the man's as to that par-
ticular: for the menstrual olood flowing in vessels, rather
cherishes the one than the other; from which it is plain,
the woman affords both matter to make, and force and virtue
to perfect the conception: though the female's seed be fit
nutriment for the male's by reason of the thinness of it, be-
ing more adapted to make up conception thereby For as of
soft wax and moist clay the artificer can frame what he in-
tends, so sav they, the man's seed mixing with the woman's,
and also with the menstrual olood, helps to make the form
and perfect part of man.
Rut. with ail imaginable deference to the wisdom of our
fathers, give me leave to say, that their ignorance in the ana-
tomy of man's bodv hath led them into the paths of error, and
run them into great mistakes. For their hvpothe^s of the
formation of the embryo, from cotomixture of seed, and the
nourishment of it ton in the menstruous blood, being wholly
false, their opinion, in this case, must of necessity be so like-
wise,
}. shall therefore conclude this chapter with observing,
that although a strong imagination of the mother may often
determine the sex, yet the main agent in this case is the
plastic or formative principle, according to those laws and
»ules given to us by the wise Creator, who makes and fashions
20 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
it, and therein determines the sex, according to the council of
his will.
CHAPTER IV.
'Thai Man's Soul is not propagated by the Parents, but is
infur,ed by its Creator and can neither die nor corrvpt.
At what time it is infused. Of its Immortality, and Cler-
tainty of its Resurrection.
Man's soul is of so divine a nature and excellency, that
inan hin.self cannot comprehend it, being the infused l)reath
of the Almighty, of an immortal nature, and not to he com-
prehended but by him that gave it. For Moses, by holy in-
spiration, relating the original of man, tells us, that ' God
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and he became
a living soul." Now, as for ail other creatures, at his word
they were made, and had life: but the creature that God
had set over his works was his peculiar vvorkn.anship. form-
ed by him out of the dust of the earth, and he condescended
to breathe into his nostrils the breath of life; which seems
to denote both care, and, if we may so term it, labour, used
about man more than about all other creatuies : he only par-
taking and participating of the blessed divine nature, bear-
ing God's image in innocence and purity, whilst he stood
firm : and when, by his fall, that lively image was defaced,
yet such was the love of the Creator towards him, that he
found out a v/ay to restore him ; the only begotten Son of
the eternal Father coming into the world to destroy the
works of the devil, and to raise up man from that low con-
dition to which his sin and fall had reduced him, to a state
above that of angels.
If. therefore, man would understand the excellency of his
soul, let him turn his eyes inwardly, and look into himself,
and search diligently his own mind : and there he shall see
many admirable gifts and excellent ornaments, that must
needs fill him with wonder and amazement ; as reason, un-
derstanding, freedom of will, memory, &c. that plainly show
the soul to be descended from a heavenly original : and that
therefore it is of an infinite duration, and not subject to
annihilation Yet, for its man)- offices and operations whilst
in the body, it goes under several denominations : for, when
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 21
St enlivens the body, it is sailed the soul ; when it gives know°
ledge, the judgment of the mind ; and when it recalls things
past, the memory; whilst it discourses and discerns, reason;
whilst it contemplates, the spirit ; while it is in the sensitive
parts, the senses. And these are the principal offices,
whereOy the soul declares its powers, and performs its
action. For bemg seated in the highest parts of the body,
it diffuseth its force inio every member. It is not propa-
gated from the parents, nor mixed with gross matter, but
the infused breath of GOD, immediately proceeding from
him ; not passmg (vonx one to another as was the opinion of
Pythagoras, who held a tiansmigratmn of the soul : but that
the soul is given to every infant by infusion, is the most re-
ceived and ortnodcx opinion. And the learned do likewise
agree, that this is done when the mfant is perfected in the
womb, which happens about the 24ih day after conception :
especiallv for males, who are generailv born at the end of
nine months, but in fe^naies, who are not so soon formed and
perfected through defect of heai not till the 50th day. And
though this day, in all cases, cannot be tnilv set down, yet
Hippocrates has given hjs opinion, that it is so when the
child is formed, and hegniD to move, when born in due sea-
son. In his book of the nature of infants, he says, if it be
a male, and he be perfect on the the 30th day, and move on
the 70th, he will be born on the 7th month; but if he be per-
fectly formed on the 35ih day. he will move on the 70ih, and
be born in the 8th month Again, if he he perfect! v formed
on the 45th day, he will move on the 90th, and be born in the
9th month. Now, from these passing of days and months, it
plainly appears, that the day of forming being doubled, makes
up the day of moving, and that day. three times reckoned,
makes up the dav of oirth. As thus, when 35 perfects the
form, if you double it, makes 70 the day of motion : and 3
times 70 amounts to 210 days : which, allowing 30 days to a
month, make 7 months; and so you must consider the rest.
But as to a fediale, the case is different; for it is longer per-
fecting in the womb, the mother ever going longer with
a girl than a boy, vvhich makes the account differ: for a fe-
male formed in 30 days, moves not till the 70th day, and is
born in the 7th month- when she is formed on the 40tb, she
moves not till the 80th, and is born in the 8th month ; but if
she be perfectly formed on the 45th day, she moves on the
90th, and is born in the 9th month ; but if she that is formed
on the 60th day, moves the 110th day, she will be born in the
10th month. I treat the more largely hereof that the reader
may know that the reasonable soul is not propagated bv the
parents, but is Infused by the Almighty, when the child hath
22 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
jts perfect form, and is exactly distinguished in its linea?
ments.
Now, as the life of every other creature, as Moses shows,
js in the blood, so the life of nmn consisteth in the soul,
which, although subject to passion by reason of the gross
composures of the body, in' which it has a temporarj con-
finement, yet it is immortal, and cannot in itself corrupt or
sufiei change, it being a spark of tlie Divine Mind. And
that every man has a peculiar soul plainly appears by tiie vast
difference between the will, judguient, opinion, manners,
anri affections in men. This David observes, when he says,
" GOD hath fashioned the hearts and minds of men ; and has
given to every one his own being, and a soi.l of its own na-
ture." Hence Solomon rejoiced that GOD ha(i given him a
soul, and a body agreeable to it. It has been disputed among
the learned, in what part of the body the soul resides : some
are of opinion, its residence is in the midrle of the heart, and
from thence communicates itself to every part ; which Solo-
mon (Prov. iv ) seems to confirm, when he says, " Keep thy
heari: with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of live.'*
But many curious physicians, searching the works of natur^
in man's anatomy, do affirm that its- chief seat is in the brain,
from whence proceed the senses, faculties, and actions, dif-
fusing the operation of the soul through all the paits of the
body whereby it is enlivened with heat and force to the heat,
by the arteries, corodities, or sleepy arteries, which part upon
the throat; the which, if they happen to be broke or cut,
they cause barrenness, and if stopped an apoplexy : for their
must necessarily be ways through which the spirits, animal
and vital, may have intercourse, and convey native heat from
the soul. For, though the soul has its chief sear in one place,
jt operates in every part, exercising every member, which are
the soul's instruments by which she discovers her power.
But if it happen that any of the organ ical parts are out oj tune.
jts whole work is confused, as appears in idiots and mad-
men ; though in sone of them tlie soul, by a vigorous exer-
tion of its power, recovers its innate strength, and they be
come right after a long despondency in mind: but in others
it IS not recovered again in this life. For, as fire under ash-
es, or the sun obscured from our sight by thick clouds, afford
not their lawful lustre, so the soul, overwhelu/ed in moist oi
morbid matter, is darkened, and reason thereby over clouded:
and though reason shines less in children than in such as are
arrived to maturity, yet no man must imagine that the soul
of an infant grows up with the child, for then would it again
decay : but it suits itself to nature's weakness, and the imbe-
cility of the body wherein it is placed, that it may operate
ARir.i OTLE'S WORKS. 2S
U]8 better. And as the body is more and more capable of
receiving its iniliience, so the soul does more and more exert
its faculties, havmg force and endowments at the time it en-
ters the form of a child in the womb : for its substance can
receive nothing less. And thns much to prove that the soul
comes not fsom the parents, but is infused by GOD. I shall
next prove its immortality, and so demonstrate the certainty
of our resurrection.
Of the Immoriolity of the Soul.
That the soul of man is a divine ray, infused by the Sove-
reign Creator, 1 have already proved, and now cov.e to show,
that whatever immediately proceeds from him, and partici-
pates of bis nature, must be as immortal as its original ; for
though all other creatures are endowed with life and motion^
yet they want a reasonable soul and fiom thence it is con-
cluded that their life is in thetr olood, and that being corup-
tible, they perish and are no more ; but man being endowed
with a reasonable soul, and stamped with the Divine image
its of a different nature; and though his body be corruptible,
yet his soul being of an immortal nature, cannot perish ; bus
must, at the dissolution of his body, return to God, who gave
it either to receive reward or punishment. Now, that the
body can sin of itself is impossible, because, wanting the soul,
which is the principle of life, it cannot act nor proceed to any
thing either good or evil : for couid it do so, it might even sin
in the grave; but it is plain, that after death there is a cessa-
tion for as death leaves us, so judgment will find us.
Now, reason having evidently demonstrated the soul's im-
mortality, the rioly Scriptures do abundantly give testimony
of the truth of the resurrection ; as the reader mav see by pe-
rusing the 14th and 19th chapters of Job, and 5th of John I
shall therefore leave the further discoursing of this matter to
divines, whose proper province it is, and return to treat of
the works of nature.
24 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS
CHAPTER V.
Of Monsters and monstrous Births ; and the several reasons
thereof, according to the opinion of the Ancients. Also,
•whether Monsters are endowed with reasonable Souls ; and
whether Devils can engender ; is here briefly discussed.
By the Ancients, monsters are ascribed to depraved con-
ceptions, and are designated to be excursions of nature, which
are vicious one of these fo ir ways ; either in figure, magni-
tude, situation, or number.
In figure, when a man bears the character of a beast, as
did the beast in Saxony. In magnitude, when one part doth
not eqnalize with another; as when one part is too big or
too little for the other oarts of the body. But this is so com-
mon among us, that I need not produce a testimony for it.
I proceed to explain the cause of their generation, which
is either divine or natural The divine cause proceeds fr im
God's permissive will, suffering parents to bring forth abom-
inations for their filthv and corrupt aflections, which are let
loose unto wickedness, like brute beast that have no under-
standing. Wherefore it was enacted among the ancient
Romans, that those who were in any way deformed, should
not be admitted into religious houses. \nd St. Jerome was
grieved, in his time, to see the deformed and lame offering
up spiritual sacrifices to God in religious houses.- And Keck-
erman, by wav of inference, excludeth all that are ill shaped
from this presbvterian function in the church. And that
which is of more force than all, God himself commanded Mo-
ses not to receive such to offer sacrifice among his people
;
and he renders the reason. Lev. xxii ?8. " Lest he pollute
my sanctuaries." Because the outward deformity of the bo-
dy is often a sign of the pollutions of the heart, as a curse laid
upon the child for the incontinence of the parents. Yet it
is not always so. Let us therefore dulv examine, and search
out the natural cause of their generation : which (according
to the ancients, who have dived into the secrets of nature,)
is either in the matter or in the agent ; in the seed, or in the
womb.
^cmi^n i]sr the wo:mb
.-.::»«i^Slg^g^.^i**"W""^"m -
;
iLik:e this M'as ]3orii atlRaveiina in Ital^ iix the
ARISTOTLE'S V/ORK^. 25
The matter may be m default two ways—by defect or by
excess, . detect, when the cnild hath but one arm ; bv ex-
cess, when it hath three hands or two heads. Some mon-
sters are begot by a wornau's unnatural lying with beasts;
as in the year ItlOS. ttiere was a n.onster begotten by a wo-
man's ge.ieiHitnig v^ilh a dog; which iDonster, from the naval
upwards. ha(i tne perfect resemblance of iis mother ; but
from its naval dovinwards it resembled a dog, as you may
see by the foregoing figure.
The agent, or wowb, inay be in fault three ways : 1st, The
forn)ative facuitv. which • b\ de too strong or too weak, by
which is procured a neinvve.d figure , 2oly. ;n ihe instrument
or place of conception : ii;e evil coufonnation or disposition
whereof will cause a nnmstrous birth ; 3dly, In the ima-
ginative power at the tiir-e of conception ; which is of such
a force, that it stamps the character of the ih-ng imagined
on the child. So that the children of an aaultress u^ay be
like her own husband, though begot by anoftier n^an, which
is caused through the force of imagination that the woman
hath of her own husband in the act of coition. And I have
heard of a woman, who, at the time of conception beholding
the picture of a blackamoor, conceived and brought forth
an Ethiopian. 1 will not trouble you vyith more human tes-
timonies, but conclude with a stronger warrant. We read
(Gen. XXX. 31) how Jacob, having agreed with Laban to
have all the spotted sheep for keeping his flock, to augment
his wages took liazel rods and peeled white strakeson them,
and laid them before the sheep when they ca'me to drink,
which coupling together there, whilst they beheld the rods,
conceived and brought forth young.
Another monster representing an hairy child. It was
all covered with hair like a beast. That which rendered
it more frightful, was. that its naval was in the place where
the nose should stand, and its eyes placed where the mouth
should have been ; and its mouth was ui the chm. It was of
the male kind, and was born in Fr.^nce in the year 1597. at
a town called Arlest m Province, and lived a few days,
frightening all that beheld it. It was looked upon as a fore-
runner of those desolations which soon af'er happened in
that kingdom, where men towards each other were more
like beasts than human creatures
Likewise, in the reign of Henry III. there was a woman
delivered of a child, having two heads and four arms, and
the bodies were joined at the backside: Ue heads were so
placed, that they looked contrary ways; • - had two dis-
tinct arms and hands; they would both laufi ..ispeak,and
both cry, and be hungry together, souietiii^es the one would
C
56 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
speak, and the other would keep silence, and sometimes both
speak together. It lived several years. bi;t one outlived the
other three years, carrying the dead one (for there was no
parting them) till the odier fainted with the burden and more
with the stink of the dead carcase.
The imagination also v.'orks into the child, after concep-
tion, for which we have a pr»ignant instance.
A vvonhy gentlewoman ni Suffolk, who being with child,
and passing hy a butcher killing his meat, a drop of blood
sprung on her face, whereupon she said, her child would
have a biemish on its face; and at tlie birth it was found
marked with a red spot.
It is certain, that monstrous births often happen by means
of undue copulation ; for some there are, who having been
long absent froin one another, and having .an eager desire
for e,njovment, consider not, as they ought, to do as their
circuMisiances require. And if it happen that they come to-
gether when the woman's menses are flowing, and notwith-
standing proceed to the act of copulation, which is t)oth un-
clean and unnatural, the issue of such copulation does often
prove monstrous as a just punishment for doing what nature
forbids. And, therefore, though men should be ever bO ea-
ger for it, yet, wofuen, knowing their own conditions, should
ai such times refuse their company. And though such copu-
lations do not always produce monstrous births, yet the chil
dren, then begotten, are generally heavy, dull, and sluggish,
and defective in tlieu- understandmgs, wanting the vivacity
and liveliness which children got in proper seasons are en-
dowed with
By the following figure you may see, that though some of
the meiiibers may be wanting, yet they are supplied by other
members.
It remains now that I make some inquiry, whether those
that are born monsters have reasonable souls, and are capa-
ble of resurrection. And here both divines and physicians
are generally of opinion that tliose who, according to the or-
der of generation derkiced from our first parents, proceed by
natural tne»ns from eitlier sex, though their outward shape
may be deformed and monstrous, have notwithstanding a
reasonable soul, and consequently their bodies are capable
of a resurrection, as other men's and women's are ; but those
monsters that are not begotten by men. but are the product
of wonien's lumatural lusts in copulation with other creatures,
shall perish as the brute beasts, by whom they were begotten,
not having a reasonable soul, or any breath of the Almighty
infused into them anci sucii can never be capable of a resur-
rection. And the same is also true of imperfect and abortive
births.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 27
Sonie are of opinion, that monsters niay be engendered by
some infernal spirit. Of tiiis mind was Agidus Facius. speak-
ing of a deformed monster born at Cracovis : and Hironamns
Gardaniis wrote of a maid that was got with child of a devil,
she tintiking it had been a fair youns man. The like also is
recorded l)v V icentius. of the prophet Merlin, that he was
befioiren by anevd spirit. But what a repugnance would it
be both to religion and nature, if the devils could tiegev men;
when we are taught to believe, that not anv w as ever begot-
ten without human seed, except the Son of God i the devil
liien being a spirit, and having no corporeal substance, has
therefore no seed of generation : to say that he can use the
act of generation eftectiially is to affirm, that he can make
something of nothing, and consequently to affirm the devil
to tjB God., for creation belongs to God onlv. Again, if the.
devil cotdd assume to himself a human body, and enliven the
faculties of it, and cause it to generate as some aff.rm he can,
yet this body must bear the image of the devil And it bor-
ders upon bla?pliemy to think, that God should so far give
leave to the devil, as out of God's image to raise his own dia-
bolical offspring In the scliool of nature we are taught the
contrarv, viz tlmt like begets like: tlieseforeof a devil can-
not man be born Yet it is not denied, but that devils trans-
forming themselves into human shapes, may abuse l/oth I'len
and women and aiili wicked people use carnal copulation ;
but that any such unnatural conjunction can bring forth a
hunian creitture is contrary to nature and religion.
CHAPTER VI.
Gfthe happy Sfaie ofMatrimony, as it is appointed by God;
the t7'ue Felicity that rebounds thereby to either Sex : and
to what end it is ordained.
Without doubt, the uniting of hearts in holy wedlock is
of all conditions the happiest; for then a man has a second
self to whom he can reveal his thoughts ; as well as a sweet
companion in his labour; he has one in whose breast,
as in a safe cabinet, he may repose his inmost secrets, es-
pecially where reciprocal love and inviolate faith is set-
tled . for there no care, fear, jealousy, mistrust, or hatred
can ever interpose. For what man ever hated his own flesli ?
28 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
and truly a wife, if lighiiy cot.sideie i. as our grandfather
Adam well observed, is or ouglit to be esteemed of every
hone-t man, " Bone of his bone, and flesh of liis flesh." &.c.
Nor was it the least care of the AJmijihty to 0!(!ain so near a
union, and that for two causes; the 1st, for iiicrease of pos-
terity : ihe 2d, to bride man's wandering desires and affec-
tions ; nay. that they might be yet happier, when God had
joined them together he " hless-er) them-" as m Gen. ii.
Columila, contemplating this liappy state, tells, out of the
Economy of Xenophon, that rlie uarriage bed is not only the
most pleasant, but profitable course of life that may be enter-
ed on for the preservation and increase of posterity. VS here-
fore, since marriage is the most safe. sure, and delightful si-
tuation of mankind, who is exceeding prone, by the dictates
of nature, to propagate his like, he doe- in no ways pr vide
amis for his own tranqmllity who enters into it especially
when he conies to iiian;riry of years.
There are many abuses in niarriage. contrary to what is
ordained, the which, in the ensumg chapter, I shall expose
to view. But to proceed: seeing our blessed Saviour and
his holy apostles detested unlawjii] lusts, and pronounced
those to be excluded the kincdom of heaven that polluted
themselves with adultery and whoring: I cannot conceive
what face persons have to colour their impieties, who hating
matrimony, make it their study how they may live licentious-
ly : for. in so floing. they rather seek to '.hemselves torment,
anxiety, and disquietude, than certain pleasure ; besides the
hazard of their immortal soul ; and certain it is, mercenary
love, (or, as the wise nsan calls it. harlot smiles) cannot be
true and sincere, and therefore not pleasant, but rather a
net laid to betray such as trust in them into ail mischief, as
Solomon observes of the young man void of understanding,,
who turned aside to the harlot's house, " as a bird to the
snare of tiie fowler, or as an ox to the slaughter, till a dart
was struck through his liver " Nor in this c.^se can they have
children, those endearing affection: or, if they have, they
will rather redound to their shame than comfort, hearing
the odious brand of bastards, l-'arlots. likewise, are like
swallows, flying in the summer season of prosperity ; but the
black stormy weather of adversity coniing, they take wing
and fly into other regions—that is, seek after other lovers;
but a virtuous chaste wife, fixing her entire love upon her
nusband, and submitting to him as he>- bead and king, by
whose directions she ought to steer in all lawful courses, will,
like a faithful companion, sliare patiently with him in all ad-
versities, run with cheerfulness through all difficulties and
iiangerSj though ever so hazardous, to preserve or assist him
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS, 2D
in poverty, sickness, or whatever other misfortunes may be-
fal him, acting according to her duty in all things : but a proud
imperious harlot will do no more than she lists, in tne sun-
shine of prosperity ; and, like a horse leach, ever craving, and
never satisfied ; still seeming displeased, if ail her extravagant
cravings be not answered : not regarding the ruin and misery
vi'hich she brings upon him by those means, though she seem
lo doat upon him, using to confirm her hypocrisy witn cro-
codile tears, vows, and swoonmgs, when her cully is to de-
part awhile, or seems but to deny her immoderate desires
yet this lusts no longer tnan she can gratify her appetite, and
prev upon his fortune.
Now, on the contrary, a loving, chaste, and even tempered
wife, seeks what she inay do to prevent such dangers, and in
everv condition does all to make him easy. And, in a word,
as there is no content in the embrace-j of a harlot, so there is
no greater joy than in the reciprocal affection and endearing
embraces of a loving, obedient, and chaste wife. Nor is
that the principal end for which matrimony was ordained,
hut that the man might follow the law of his creation, by in-
creasing his kind, and replenishing the earth ; for this wag
the injunction laid upon him in Paradise, before his fall.
To conclude, a virtuous wife is a crown and ornament to her
nusband, and her price is above rubies; but the ways of a
harlot are deceitful.
CHAPTER VII.
Of errors in Marriage; miy they are; And the Prejudices
ofihem.
By errors in marriage, I mean the unfitness of the persons
marrying to enter into this state, and that both with respect
to age, and the constitution of their bodies; and therefore
those that design to enter into that condition oue;ht to observe
their ability, and not run the.-nselves into inconveniences;
for those that marry too j'oung may be said to marry unsea-
sonably, not considering their inability, nor examining the
force of nature: for some, before they are ripe for the con-
summation of so weighty a matter, who either rashly, of their
own accord, or by the instigation of procurers, or marriage
brokers, or else forced thereto by their parents vvno covet a
30 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
large dowry, take upon them this yoke to their prejudice; by
which some, before the expiration t'f a year, have been so
enfeebled, that all their vital moisture has been exhali!^ted;
which hath not been restored agam without great trouble,
and the use of medicines. V\ heiefore, my advice is, that it
is no ways convenient to suffer children, or such as are not
of age, to marry or get children.
He that proposes to marry, and wishes to enjoy happiness
in that state, shordd choose a wile descended from honest
and temperate patents: she being chaste, well bred, and of
good manners. For if a woman haih good qualities, she
hath portion enough. That of Mcinena, in Plautus, is much
to the purpose, where he brings in a young woman speaking
thus :
I take not that to be my dowry, which
The vulgar sort do wealth and honour call
:
But all my wishes terminate in this,
T' obey my husband, and be chaste withal
;
To have God's fear, and beauty, in my mind,
To do those good who're virtuously inclin'd.
And 1 think she was in the right, for such a wife is more pre-
cious than rubies.
It is certainly the duty of parents to be careful in bringing
up their children in the ways of virtue, and to have regard
to their honour and reputation ; and especially of virgins,
when grown to be marriageable. For, as has been before
noted, if through the too much severity of parents, they may
be crossed in their love, many of them throw themselves in-
to the unchaste arms of the next alluring tempter that comes
in the way, being, throsigh the softness and flexibility of
their nature, and the strong desire they have after what na-
ture strongly incites them to, easily induced to believe men's
false vows of promised marriage, to cover their shame ; and
then too late their parents repent of their severity, which has
brought an indelible stain upon their families.
Another error in marriage is, the inequality ot years m the
parties married ; such as for a young man who. to advance
his fortune, marries a woman old enough to he his grand-
mother ; between whom, for the most part, strife, jealousies,
and discontents, are all the blessings which crown tiie ge-
nial bed, it being iviipossible for such to have any children.
The like may be said, though with a litt'le excuse, when an
old doting widower marries a virgin in the prime of her youth
and vigour, who, while he vainly strives to please her, is
thereby wedded to his grave. For as in green yo'ith, it is
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 31
unfit and unseasonable to think of marriage, so to marry in
old age is altogether the same ; for they that enter upon it too
soon, are soon exhausted, and fall into consuiDptions and di-
vers other diseases, and those that procrastinate and marry
unseetnly, fall into the like inconveniences ; on the other side
havnig only tins honour, if old men they become young cuck-
olds, especially if their wives have not been trained up in
the paths of virtue, and lie too much open to the importunity
and temptation of lewd and debauched men. And thus much
for the errors of rash and inconsiderate mairia"8s.
CHAPTER VIII.
The Opmionj)/ the Learned concerning- Children conceived
and born 'Hhin seven Months ^ ivitk arguments upon the
Subject, t: r.'svent Suspicion of Incontmency, and bitter
Contests on thai Account. To xvhich are added. Rules to
know the Disposition of Man's Body by the Genital Parts.
Many bitter quarrels happen between men and their wives
upon the man's supposing that his child comes too soon,
and by consequence, that he could not be the father ; whereas
it is throiigii want of undeistanding the secrets of nature,
that brings the irsan into that error; and which, iiad he known
might have cured l|im of his suspicion and jealousy.
To remove which, I shall endeavour to prove, that it is
possible, and has been frequently known, that children have
been born at^seven months The cases of this nature that
have happened have made work for the lawyers, who have
left it to the physicians to judge, by viewingthe child, wl'^eth-
er it be a child of seven, or eight, or ten months Paul, the
counsel, has this passage in his 19th Book of Pleadings, viz,
" It is now a received truth, that a perfect child mav be born
in the seventh month, by the authority of the learned Hip-
pocrates ; and therefore we must believe, that a child bom
at the eno"' of the seventh month in lawful matrimony, mac
be lawfully begotten."
Galen is of opinion, that there is no certain time set for the
bearing of children : and that from Pliny's authority, who
makes mention of a woman that went 13 months with child ;
nut as to what concerns the 7th month, a learned author says
" I know several married people in Holland that had twins
32 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
horn in the 7th month, wise hved to old age, having lusty ba
dies and lively minds. Wherefore their opinion is atisiird
who assert that a child at 7 months cannot be perfect and long
lived ; and that it cannot in all parts be perfect till the 9th
month. Thereupon this author proceeds to tell a passage
from his own knowledge, viz. " Of late there happened a
great disturbance among us, which ended not without blood-
siied ; and was occasioned by a virgin, whose chastity had
been violated, descending of a noble fauily of unspotted
fame ; several chargerl the fact upon the judge, vvlio was
president of a city in Flanders, who firmlv" denied it. saying,
ne was ready to give his oath that he never had any carnal
copulation with her, and that he would not father ttiat
which was none of his: and fartlier argued; that he
veri'v believed .hat it was a child born in 7 iiionths, himself
being many miles distant from the mother of it, when it v/as
conceived. Upon which the judges decreed, that the child
should be viewed bv a')le physicians and experienced women,
and that they should make their report. They haxing made
diligent inquiry, all of them, with one mind, concluded the
child without respecting who was the father, was born with-
in the space of 7 monliis. and that it was carried in the mo-
ther's womb but twenty seven weeks and some odd days ;
but if she should have gone full nine u'onths, the child's parts
and limbs would have been more firm and strong, and the
structure of tlie body more compact; for the skin was very
loose, and the breast bone that defends the heart, and the
gristle that lay over the stomach, lay higher than naturally
they should i)e, not plain, but crooked find sharp, ridged or
pointed like those of a young chicken hatehed in the begin-
ning of spring.
" And being a female, it wanted nails upon the joints of the
fingers ; upon wliich, from the mascuious cartilaginous rhat-
ter of the skin, nails that are very smooth do come, and by
degrees harden : she had, instead of nails, a thin skin or film.
As for her toes, there was no sign of nails upon them, v/anting
the heat which was expanded to the fingers from the nearness
of the heart. All this being considered, and above all. one
gentlewoman of quality that assisted affirming, that she hsd
been the mother of 19 chikhen, and tliar divers of them had
been born and lived at 7 months; they, wiliiout favour to any
party, made their report, that the infant was a child of 7
months, though within the 7th month : For in such cases, the
revolution of the moon ought to be observed, wliich perfects
itself in four bare weeks, or somewhat less than 28 days : in
which space of the revolution; the blood being agitated by the
force of Uie moon, the courses of the women flow from ibem t
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. ,
; ,
33
which bsing spent, and the matrix cleansed from the aieiistru-
ous- blood, which happens on the 4th day, then if a man on
'he 7th riav lie with his wife, the copulation is most natural,
and then is the conception best : and a child thus begotten
fiay be born in the 7th month and prove very healthful. So
sat on this report the supposed father was pronounced inno-
eiit. on proof that he was 100 miles distant all that month in
7!hich the child was begotten ; as for the mother, she strongly
i-«nied that she kne'v the father, being forced in the dark;
and so through fear and surprise, was left in ignorance "
As for coition, it oji^ht not to be used unless the parties be
in health, lest it turn to the disadvantage of the children so
begotten, creating ir thern. through the abundance of ill hu-
mours, divers languishing diseases. Wherefore, health is no
way better discerned than by the genitals of the man: for
which reason mid wives, and other ?kdful women, were for
merly wont to see the testicles of children, thereby to con
jecture their temperature and state of bodv : and young men
may know thereby the signs or symptoms of death ; loi if the
cases of the testicles be loose and feeble, and the cods fall
down, it denotes that the vital spirits, which are the props of
life, are fallen ; but if the secret parts be wrinkled and raised
up it is a sign all is well : but that the event may exactly an-
swer the prediction, it is necessary to consider what pad of
the body the disease possesseth ; for if it chance to be ths
upper part that is affiictad, as the head or stomach, then it will
not so well appear bv the members, which are unconcerned
with such grievances : but the lower part of the body exactly
sympathising with them, their liveliness, or the contrary,
makes it apparent ; for nature's force, and the spirits that
have their intercourse, first manifest themselves therein
;
which occasions mid wives to feel the genitals of children, to
know in what part the grief is residing, and whether life or
death be portended thereby, the symptoms being strongly
ommunicated to the vessels, that have their Intercourse with
,he principal seat or life.
34 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER IX.
Of the Greai-sickness in Virgins, wiVi its Causes, Signs, and
Cures ; together with the chief Occasion of Barrenness in
JVomeJi, and the Jtleans to remove the Cause, and render
ihem fruitful.
The green-sickness is so common a distemper in virgins,
especially those of a phlegmatic complexion, that it is easily
discerned, showing itself by discolouring the face, making it
.ook green, pale, and of a dusty colour, proceeding from raw
and indigeste'^ liumoiirs; nor doth it only af>pear to the eye,
but sensibly fiffects ihe person witli difficulty of hreathing,
pains in the head, palpitation of the heart, with unusual beat-
ngs and small throbbings of the arteries in the temples, neck,
and back, which often cast them into fevers, when the hu-
mour is overvicious : also loathmg of Oieat. and the distention
of the ' ypocondriac part, by reason of the inordinate effiuc-
tion ol the menstruous blood to the greater vessels : and from
the abundance of humours, the u hole body is oJten troubled
with swellings, or at least the thighs, legs, and ankles, r-11
above the heels: there is also a great weariness of the body!
without any reason for it.
The Galenical physicians affirm, that this distempei pro-
ceeds from the wo:nb, occasioned bv the gross, vicious, and
lude humours arising from several inward causes; but there
are also outward causes, which have a share m the production
of it; as taking cold in the feet, drinking of water, intempe-
rance of diet, eating things contrarv to nature, viz. raw or
burnt flesh, ashes, coals, old shoes, chalk, wax. nut-shells,
mortar, lime, oatmeal, tobacco pipes. &c. which occasion
both a suppression of the menses, and obstructions through the
whole body ; therefore the first thing necessery to vindicate
the cause is matrimonial conjunction, and such copulation as
may prove satisfactory to her that is afflicted : for then the
menses will begin to flow, according to their natural and due
course, and the humours being dispersed will soon waste
themselves; and then no more matter being admitted to in-
crease them, they will vanish and a good temperament of bo-
AKISTOTLE'S WORKS. Si
dy will retiiin ; but in case tiiis best remedy cannot be had
soon enough, then bleed her in the ankles: and if she be
about the age of sixteen, you may likewise do it in tlie arm ;
but let her be bled sparingly, especially if the blood be good.
If the disease be of any continuance, then it is to be eradica-
ted by purging, preparation of the humour fust considered,
which may be done by the virgin's drinking the decoction of
guiacum, with dittany of Crete: but the best purge in this
case ought to be mads of aloes, agric, senna, rhubarb: and
for strengthening the bowels and opening obstructions, cha-
lybeate medicines are chiefly to be used. The diet must be
moderate, and sliarp things by all m.eans avoided.
And now since barrenness daily creates discontent, and
that discontent breeds difference between man arid wife, or,
hy immediate grief, frequently casts the woman into one or
other distemper, I shall in the next place treat thereof.
OF BARRENNESS.
Formerly, before won^en came to the marriage-bed, they
were first searched by the midwife, and those only which she
allowed of as fruitful were admitted. 1 hope, therefore, it
will not be amiss to siiow you liovv they may prove themselves,
and turn barren ground into a fruitful soil. Barrennes is a
deprivation of the life and power which ought to be in seed
to procreate and propagate ; for which end men and women
were made, ''"auses of barrenness may be overmuch cold or
heat, drying up the seed, and corrupting it, which extinguish-
es (he life of the seed, making it vvaterish and unfit for gene-
ration. It may be caused also by the not flowing or overflow-
ing of the courses, by swelling, ulcers, and inflamations of
the womb, by an excrescence of flesh growing about the
mouth of the matrix, by the mouth of the matrix being turned
to the back or side, by the fatness of the body, whereby the
mouth of the matrix is closed up, being pressed witii the
omentum or caul, and the matter of the seed is turned to fat
;
if she be of a leau and dry body, and though she do conceive,
yet the fruit of her body will wither before it come to per-
fection, for want of nourisnment. One main cause of bar-
renness is attributed to want of a convenient moderating
quality, whicii the woman ought to have with the man ; as
jT he be hot, she must be cold : if he be dry, she must be
moist; but if they be both dry or both moist of constitution,
they cannot propagate . and yet, simply considered of them-
selves, they are not barren : for he and she who were before
as the barren fig-tree, being joined to an apt constitution, be-
come as the fruitful vine. And that a man and woman being.
S6 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
every way of like constitution cannot procreate, I will bring
nature itself for a testimony, who hath made man of the bet-
ter constitution than woman, that the quality of the one may
moderate the quality of the other.
Signs of Bancnness. If barrenness doth proceed from
overmuch lieat. jhe is of dry body, subject to anj;;er. hath
black hair, quick pulse, her purgations flow but liitle, and
that with pain, and she loves to play in the courts of Venus.
But if it comes by cold, then are the signs contrary to these
above mentioned If through the evil quality of the womb,
make a suffumioation of red storax. ii\vrrb. cassia wood, nut-
meg, and cinnamon : and let her receive the funie of it into
the womb, covering her very close and if the odour so receiv-
ed passeth through tie body to the mouth and nostrils, she is
fruitful. But if she feels not the fume in her niouth and nose,
it argues barrenness one of these \vays—that the spirit of the
seed is either througli cold extinguished, or through heat dis-
sipated. If anv woman be stjspecred to be unfruitful, cast na-
tural brimstone, such as is digged out of the mine, into her
urine; and if worms breed therein, she is not barren.
Prognostics. Barrenne-s makes women look young, be-
cause they are free from those pains and sorrows which other
women are accustomed to. Yet they have not the full perfec-
tion of health which fruitful women do enjoy, because they
are not rightlv purged of the menstruous blood and superfluous
seed, which are the principal causes of most uterine diseases.
Cure First, the cause must be removed, the womb strength-
ened, and the spirits of the seed enlivened.
If the v.'omb be over hot, take syrup of succory, with rhu-
barb, syrup of violets, endive, roses, cassia, purslain. Take
of endive, water lilies, borage fiowers, of each a handful ;
rhubarb, mirobalans. of each three drams: with water make
a decoction : and to the straming of the syrup add electuary
of violets one ounce, syrup of cassia half an ounce, manna
three drams : make a potion Take of syrup of mugwort one
ounce, syrup of maiden-hair two ounces, pulv elect, triasand
one dram : make a jnlep Take prus. salt, elect, ros. mesua,
of each three rams, rhubarb ope scruple, and make a bolus:
apply to the reins and privities fomentations of the juice of
lettuce, violets, roses, malloes. vine eaves, and nightshade;
anoint the secret parts with the cooling unguent of Galen
If the power of the seed be extinguished by cold, take eve-
ry morning two spoonfuls ofcinnamon water, with one scruple
of mithridate. Take syrup of calamint, mugmort. and beto-
ny, of each one ounce : water of penny royal, feverfew, hys-
sop, and sage, of each two ounces: make a julep. Take oil
of anniseed two scruples and a half ; diacimini, diacilathidi-
-Ziz-a^^ ^a ,
Lilce tJhis was l?om-at !Ka2;ara,milie^ax^l5'50
It liacL ibiTr aTiiis aixd foxir leos
.
ARISTOTLE'S VvORKS. 37
amosei, and diaglaangae, of each one oram, sugar four oun-
ces, with water of cinnamon, and make lozenges: take of
them a dram anji a-half twice a-day, two hours before meals;
fasten cupping-glasses to the hips and belly. Take of storax
and calainint one ounce, mastich, cinnamon, nutmeg, lign,
aloes and frankincense, of each lialf an ounce; musk ten
grams, ambergrease half a scruple: with rose-water make a
confection, divide it into four equal parts; or one part make a
pomuin oderatum, to smell to, if she he not hysterical ; of the
second make a mass of pills, and let her take three every
night ; of the third make a pessary, dip it in the oil of spike-
nard, and put it up: of the fourth make a suffumigation for
the womb.
If the faculties of the womb be weakened, and the life of
the seed suffocated by over much humidity flowing to those
parts: take of betony. marjoram, mugwort, penny-royal, and
balm, of each a handful , roots of ailo'u and fennel, oC each
two drams; anniseed and cummin, of each one dram, with
sugar and water a sufficieiit quantity ; make a syrup, and lake
three ounces every morning.
Fu;ge with the fnilovving things : take of the diagnidium
two grains, specierum of castor a scruple, pillfoedit two scru-
ples, with syrup of mugwort; make six pills Take spec-
diagem, diaiuoser, diamb. of each one tham ; cinnamon one
dram atid a half; cloves, mace and nutmeg, of each half a
dram; sugar six ounces, with water of feverfew: make lo-
zenges, to be takes) every morning. Take of the decoction
of salsaporilla, and virga-aurea, not forgetting sage, which
Agrippa, wondering at its operation, hath honoured with the
name of sacra herba, a holy herb, and is recorded by Do-
dona?us in the Historv of Plants, lib. ii. cap. 77; that after a
great mortality among the F.gyotians, the surviving women,
that they might multiply quickly, were commanded to ;irink
the juice of sage, anoint the genitals with oil of anuiseed
and spikenard. Take mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, stora;i and
amber, ol each one dram ; cloves, lautlanum. of each half a
dram: turpentine, a sufficient quantity ; trocliisks, to smooth
the womb. Take roots of valerian and elecaiupane, of each
one pound; galanga, two ounces: origan, lavender, marjo-
ram, betony, mugwort, bay-leaves, calamint, ofeach a hand-
ful : witfi water make an infusion, in w!)ich let her sit, after
she hath her courses.
if barrenness proceed from dryness, consuming the matter
of the seed, take every day almotsd milk, and goat's milk ex-
tracted with honey : but often of the root saiyon candied, and
of the electuary of diasyren. Take three wethers' heads,
boil iheni tiiJ all the flesh come from the bones ; then take
D
inil
38 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
nielilot, violets, camomile, mercury, orchia with tlieir roj
of each a handful: fenugreek, linseed, valerian roots, of Cil
one pound ; let all these be decocted in the aibresaid b«j
and let the woman sit in the decoction up to the navel.
If barrevmess be caused>by any proper effect of the wo
the cure is set down in the second part. Sometimes the won
proves barren where there is no impediment on either si
except only in the manner of tiie act; as when in the era
sion of the seed, the man is quick, and the woman too slq
whereby there is not an emission of both seeds at the sai
instant, as the rules of conception require. Before the a(
of coition, fomer>t the private parts with the decoction of I
tony, sage, hyssop, and calamint, and anoint the mouth ajliff
neck of the womb with musk and civet. '''
The cause of barrenness being removed, let the womb
corroborates) as follows. Take of bay berries, mastic, nutme
frankincense, nuts, laudanum, giapanum, of each one drai
styracis liquid, two scruples, cloves, half a scruple, anibe
grease, two grains, then with oil of spikenard make apessar
Take of red ro.ses, lapidis hcematis, white frankincens
of each half an ounce. Sanguis draconis, fine bole, mast!
of each two drams: nutmeg, cloves, of each one draiT
spikenard half a scruple ; witii oil of wormwood ; make
plaister for the lower part of the belly ; then suffer her to e.
often of eringo roots candied : and make an injection only (
the roots of satyrion.
The aptest time for conception is instantly after the mei
ses are ceased, because then the womb is thirsty and dry, aj
both to draw the seed, and return it, by the roughness of th
inward supernces And, besides, in some, the mouth of th
womb is turned into the back or side, and is not placed righ
until the last day of the courses.
Excess in aJl things is to be avoided. Lay aside all passion
of the mind; shun study and care, as things tiiat are eiseuiie
to conception : for, if a woman conceive under such circurn
stances, how wise soever the parents are, the children at bes
will be but foolish : because the mental faculties of the pa-
rent, viz. the understanding and the rest (from whence the
child derives its reason) are, as it were, confused through the
multiplicity of cares and cogitations : examples hereot we
have in learned men, who, after great study and care, accom-
panying with their wives, very often begervery foolish chil-
dren. A hot and moist air is most convenient, as appears by
the women of Egypt, who usually bring fortii three or four
children at one time.
ARISTOTLE'S WOKKS. 39
CHAPTER X.
titi/, what it is, in what it consists, and how vitiated ; to-
er with the Opinion of the Learned about iheMutation
he Sex in the IVomb, during the Operation of JYature
brming the Body.
RE are many ignorant people that boast of their skill
knowledge of virginity, and some virgins have under-
lard censures through their ignorant determinations;
iierefore, I thought it highly necessary to clear this
that the towering imaginations of conceited ignorance
e brought down, and the fair sex (whose virtues are so
ously bright, that they excite our wonder, and coni-
our imitation) maybe freed from the calumnies and de-
ns of ignorance and envy : and so their honours may
ue as unspotted as they have kept their persons uncon-
ited and free of defilement.
inity. in a strict sense, does signify the prime, the chief,
5t of any thing, which makes men so desirous of mar-
irgins, imagining some secret pleasure to be enjoyed
r embraces, more than in those of widows, or such as
een lain withal -.
though not many years ago, a very
erson was of another mind ; and, to use his own ex-
<n. —'• That the getting of a maidenhead was such a
»f drudgery, as was itiore proper for a porter than a
" But this was only his opinion, for most men, I am
ave other sentiments. But to return to our purpose,
curious inquirers into nature's secrets have observed,
young maid? in the sinus pudoris, or in that place
is caller) the neck of the womb, is that wondrous pro-
1. vulgarly called the hymen, but more rightly the
urn virginale ; and in the French, bouton de rose, or
td : because it resembles the bud of a rose expanded,
3nvex gillvflower. From hence is derived the word
. or deflower; and hence taking a"way virginity iscai!-
nvering a virgin ; most being of opinion, that the vjr-
s altogether lost, when this duplication is fractured and
ted by violence ; and when it is found perfect and ea-
40 ARIS'iOTLE'S WORKS.
tire, no penetration has been made; and it is the opinion of
some learned physicians, that there is neither hymen, nor
skin expanded containing blood in it, which divers think, in
the first copiila'ion. flows from the fractured expanse.
Now this claustrum, or virginale. or flower, is composed of
four carbuncles, or little buds like myrtle berries, which, in
virgins, are full and plump, but in women flag and hang loose ;
and these are placed in the four angles of the sinus pudoris,
joined together bv little membranes and ligatures like fibres,
each of them situated in the testicles, or spaces between each
carbuncle, with which, in a maimer, they are proportionally
distended : which membranes being once (ielacetated denote
devirgri\ation ; and manv inquisitive, and yet ignorant per-
sons, finding their wives defective therein the first not of
their uiarriage. have thereupon suspected their chastity, and
concluded another had been there before them. Now to un-
deceive such, I do affirm, that such fractures happen divers
acci ienial ways, as •veil as bv copulation with men. viz by
violent straining, cough mg. sneezing, stopping of urine, and
violent motions of the vessels, forcibly sending down the hu-
mours, which, prpfsing for passage, break the ligatures or
membrane . so that the fracture of that which is commonly
taken for their virginity, or maidenhead, is no absolute sign
of dishonesty . though certain it is, that it broke in copula-
tion oftenerthan by any oiher neans.
I have heard, that at an assize held at Rutland, a young
man was tried for a rape, in forcing a virgin : when, after di-
vers questions being asked, and the maid swearing- positively
to the matter naming the time, place, and manner of the ac-
tion . it was upon mature deliberation resolved, that she
should be searched by a skilful surgeon and two midwifes,
who w/ere to make their report upon oath; which, after due
examination, they accordingly did, afiiiming that the mem-
branes were entire, and not delacerated : and that it was their
opinion, for that reason, that her body had not been penetra-
ted : v;hich so far wrought with rhe jury, that the prisoner
was acquitted ; and the maid afterwards confessed, she swore
against him out of revenge, he having promised to marr^ her,
and afterwards declined it And thus much shall suifice to
be spoken concerning virginity.
I shall now proceed to something of nature's operation, in
mutation of sexes in the womb.
This point is of much necessity, by reason of the different
opinions of men relating to it ; therefore, before any thing
positively can be asserted, it will be proper to recite what has
been delivered, as well in the negative as affirmative. And
Brst, Severus Plinus, who argues for the negative, write?
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 41
thus : The genital parts of both sexes are so unlike each
otiier in substance, composition, situation, figure, action, and
use, that nothing is more unlike, and by how much more all
parts of the body (the breasts excepted, which in women
swell more, because nature ordained them for suckling the
infant) have exact resemblance, so much more do the genital
parts of the one sex, compared with the other, differ : and
if their figure be thus different, much more their use. The
venereal appetite also proceeds from different causes: for in
a man it proceeds from a desire of emission, and in woman
from a desire of reception ; in women also the chief of these
parts are concave and apt to receive ; but in men they are
more porous. Ail these things being considered, I cannot
but wonder, says he, how any one can imagine that the geni-
tal members of the female births should be changed into those
that belong to the male, since by those parts only the distinc-
tion of the sexes is made ; nor can 1 well impute the reason
of this vulgar error to any thing but the mistake of inexpert
midwifes, who have been deceived by the evil conformatiou
of the parts, which, in some male births, may have happened
to have some small prolusions, not to have been discerned,
as appears by the example of a child, christened at Paris by
the name of Joan, as a girl, who afterwards proved a boy :
and. on the contrary, the over- far extension of the clvtoris in
female births may have occasioned the like mistakes. Thus
far Pliny proceeds in the negative : and yet, notwithstanding
what he hath said, there are divers learned physicians that
have asserted the afiirmative, of which number Galen is one.
A man, saith he, is different from a woman is nothing else
but having his genital members without his body,'' whereas a
woman has them within. And this is certain, that if nature,
having formed a male should convert him into a female, she
hath no other task to perform, but to turn his genital members
inward ; and so to turn a woman mto a man by the contrary
operation. But this is to be undersiood of the child, when
it is in the womb, and not perfectly formed ; for, oft-times,
nature hath made a female child, and it hath so remained in
the womb of the mother for a month or two ; and after plen-
ty of heat jncreasiiig in the genital membeis, they have is-
sued forth, and the child has become a male, yet retaining
some certain gestures unbffntingthe masculine sex, as female
actions, a shrill voice, and a mote effeminate temper than or-
dinary ; contrary wise, nature having often made a male, and
cold humours flowing to it, the genitals have been inverted,
yet still retaining a masculine air, both in voice and gestures.
Now, though both these opinions are supported by several
seasons, yet 1 esteem the latter more agreeable to truth ; for
D2
42 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
there is not that vast difference between the genitals of th«
two sexes, as Pliny would have us believe there is : for a wo-
man has in a manner the same members with the man, though
they appear not outward, but are inverted for the convenien-
cy of generation ; the chief difference being, that the one is
solid and the other porous, and that the principal reason for
changing sexes is, and must be attributed to, heat or cold,
suddenly or slowly contracted, which operates according to
its greater or lesser force.
CHAPTER XT.
Directions and Cantions for Midvdfes : and first how a
Midwife ought to be qunlifed.
A Midwife that would acquit herself well in her employ-
ment, ought by no means to enter upon it rashly or unadvi-
sedly, but wiih all imaginable caution, consirlenna that ^he is
accountable for al) the mischief that befalls the fen^ale through
her wilful ignorance or neglect. Therefore let none take
upon them the office baiely upon pretence of maturity of years
and child bearing, for in such, for the most part, there are
divers things wanting that ought to be observed, which is the
occasion so many women and children are lost.
Now, for a midwife, in relation to her person, these things
ought to be observed, viz. —She must neither be too old nor
too young, neither extraordinarily fat nor weakened by lean-
ness, but in a good habit of body : nor subject to diseases
fears, and sudden frights ; her body well shaped, and neat in
her attire; her hands smooth and small, her nails ever paired
short, not suffering any rings to be upon her fingers durmg
the time she is doing her office, nor any thing upon her wrists
that may obstruct. And to these ought to be added activity
and a convenient strength, with much cautiousness and dili-
gence, nor subject to drowsiness, nor apt to be impatient.
A? for her manners, she ought to be courteous, affable,
sober, chaste, and not subject to passion, bountiful and com-
passionate to the DOor, and not covetous when she attends
upon the rtch.
Her temper should be cheerful and pleasant, that she may
the better comfort her patient m her labours. Nor must she
at any time make overmuch haste, though her business should
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 43
reqvnre her in another case, lest she thereby endanger the
mother or the child.
Of spirit, she ought to be wary, prudent, and cunning
;
but, above all, the fear of God ought to have the ascendant
ill her soul, which will give her both " knowledge and dis-
cretion ," as the wise man tells us.
CHAPTER XII.
Further Dh'eciions for Midwives, teaching' them what they
ought to do, and what to avoid.
Since the office of a midwife has so great an influence on
the well or ill-rioing of women and children, in the first place,
let her be diligent to acquire wsiatever knouiedge may be ad-
vantageous to her practice ; never thinking heiseif so perfect,
but (hat she may add to her kriowledge by study and experi-
ence : yet never let her make anv experiment which may
prove distresslol to her patient nor apply any unless she has
tried them before, or knows they will do no harm . imposing
neither upor» poor nor ricn, but speakmg freely what she
knows; and oy no means prescribuig such medicines as will
cause ai)ort[on, tnough desired : which is a high degree of
wickedness, and may he termed murder. If she be sent for
to one she knows not, let her be very cautious ere she goes,
lest, by laying an infectii)us woman, she do injury to others,
as sometimes it has iiappened. Neither must she make her
house a receptacle for great bellied women to discharge their
burdens in, lest her house get an ill name, and she tliereby
suffer loss.
in laying of women, if the birth happen to be large and
difficult, she must not seem to be concerned, but must cheer
up the woman, and do what she can to make her labor easy-
For which she may find directions in the second part of this
book.
She must never think of any thing but doing well, causing
all things to be in readiness that are proper for the work,
and the strengthening of the woman, and receiving of the
child ; and, above all, lei her take care to keep the woman
fro'ii being unruly when her tiiroes are coming upon her.
Jest she thereby endanger her own life and the child's.
Sh« must also take care that she be not too hasty in her bu-
44 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
siness, but wait God's time for the birth ; lest, through fear,
if things should not go well, it should make her incapable of
giving that assistance which the labouring woman stands in
need of; for when there is most seeming danger, there is
most need of prudence to set things right.
And now, because she can never be a skilful midwife that
knows nothing but what is to be seen outwardly. I think it
^vill not be amiss, but on the contrary highly necessary, with
modesty, to describe the generative parts of women, as they
have been anatomized by the learned, and show the use of
such vessels as contribute to generation.
CHAPTER XIII.
Of the Genitals of iVomen, external and internal, to the VeS'
sels of the Wo^nb.
If it were not for public benefit, especially of the practi-
tioners and professors of the art of midwifery, I would for-
bear to treat of the secrets of nature, because they may be
turned by some into ridicule: but, being absolutely necessary
to be known, I will not omit them. Those parts exposed at
the bottom of the belly are the fissura magna, or the great
chink, with its labia or lips, the Mons Veneris, and the hair ;
these are called the pudenda, because, when bare, they bring
pudor, or shame, upon a woman. The fissura magna reaches
from the lower part of the cs pubis, to within an inch of the
anus; but it is lesser and closer in maids than in those that
have borne children, and has two lips, which, towards the
pubis, grow thicker and more full ; and meeting upon the
middle of the os pubis, make that rising hill called Mons Ve-
neris, or the Hill of Venus. Next are thenynipha and cjyto-
ris ; the former is of a membrany and flammy substance,
spungy, soft, and partly fleshy, of a red colour, in the shape
of wings, two in number, though, from their rise, they are
joined in an acute angle, producing there a fle^iy substance,
which clothes the clytoris : and sometimes they spread so
far, that incision is required to make way for the man's in-
strument of generation.
The clytoris is a substance in the upper part of the division
where the two wings concur, and is the seat of venereal
pleasure, being like a yard in situation, substance, composi-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 45.
tion, and erection ;
growing sometimes out of the body two
inches: but timt never happens unless through extreme lust
or extraordinary accidents. This clytoris consists of two
spungy and skinny bodies, containing a distinct origmal from
the OS pubis, the liead of it being covered with a tender skin,
having a hole or passage like the penis or yard of a man,
though not quite through, in which, and the bigness, it only
differs from it.
The next things are the flv knobs, and the great neck of
the womb. Those knobs are behind the wings, being four
in number, and resemble myrtle berries, being placed quad-
rangularly one against the other : and in this place is insert-
ed the orifice of the bladder, which opens itself into the fis-
sures, to evacuate the urine; for securing of which from cold,
or the like inconveniency, one of these knobs is placed be-
fi re it. and shuts up the passage
The lips of the woii'b. that next appear, being separated,
disclose the neck thereof; and in ihem two things are to be
observed, which is the neck itself and the hymen, but more
properly the claiistrum virginale, of which before I have dis-
coursed. By the neck of the womb is to be understood the
channel that is between the aforesaid knobs and the inner
bone of the womb, which receives the penis like a sheath;
and that it may be the better dilated from the pleasure of
procreation, the substance of it is sinewy and a little spungy;
and in this concavity are divers folds, orobicular plaits, made
by tunicles wrinkled like an expanded roset. In virginsthey
plamly appear, but in wonen that have often used copulation
they are extinguished, so that the inner side of the womb's
neck appears smooth, but in old women it appears more hard
at. J gristled. But though this cliannel be sometimes writhed
and crooked, sinking down, yet, in the time of copulation,
labour, or the monthly purgation, it is erected and extended;
which overtension occasions the pain in child birth.
The hymen, or claustrum virginale, is that which closes
the neck of i\je womb, being broken in first copulation, its
use being rather to stay the untinielv courses in virgins than
to any other end : and commonly when broken in copulation,
or bv any other accident, a sinall quantity of blood flows from
It, atte-tded with some little pain. From whence some ob-
serve, that between the duplicity of the two tunicles, which
constitute the neck of the womb, there are many veins and
arteries running along and arising from the vessels on both
side^ of the thigh, and so passing into the neck of the womb,
being very large; and the reason thereof is, that the neck
of the bladder requires to be filled with abundance of spi-
rits, thereby to be dilated, for its better taking hold of the
4G ARISTOTLE'S vVORKS.
penis, there being great heat required in such motions, which
becomes more intense by the act of friction, and consumes a
considerable quantity of moisture, in the supply of which,
large vessels are altogether necessar}'.
Another cause of the largeness of these vessels is, by rea-
son the menses make their way threw them, which often
occasions women with child to continue their purgation ,
for, though the womb be shut up, yet the neck in the passage
of the womb, tnrough wiiich these vessels pass, are open.
Jn this case there is further to be observed, that as soon
as you penetrate the puriendum, there appear two little
pits or holes, wherein is contained humour, which being
expunged in time of copulation, greatly delights the wo*
man.
CHAPTER XIV.
,.1 Description of the JVom.an's Faoric, the Preparing VeS'
sels and Testicles in IVomen. As also of the Difference
' and Ejac.ulatory Vessels,
';
Lm the lower part of the hypogastrium, where the lips are
'
widest and broadest, they being greater and broader there-
about than those of men, for which reason they have likewise
broader buttocks than men; the womb is joined to its neck,
tnd !s placed betv\ een the bladder and straightgut, whicn keep
t from swaying or roiling, yet give it liberty to stretch and
, 'Hate itself, and again to contract, as nature disposeth it. Its
: .gure is in a manner round, and not unlike a gourd lessening
httle, and growing mere accute towards one end. bemg knit
igether by its proper ligauients : its neck likewise is joined
y its own substance and ceriain n^ensbranes that fasten unto
)e OS sacrum and the share-bdhe. As to its largeness, that
uch differs in women, especially the difference is great be-
••een those that have borne children, 'and those that have
jnie none ; in substance it is so thick, that it exceeds a
iinble-breadth ; which, after copulation, is so far from de-
easing, that it augments to a greater proportion ; and the
ore to strengthen it, it is interwoven with fibres overthwart,
i ', ; lich are both strait and winding: and its proper vessels ara
iins, arteries, and nerves; and among tl^ese tiiere are two
[
; ',le veins, which j^ass fiorii the spermatic vessels into the
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS, 4?
bottom or the womb, and two larger from the neck, the mouth
of these veins piercing as far as the inward concavity.
The womb hath two arteries on both sides of the spermatic
vessels and the hypogastric, which accompany the veins ; and
besides, there are divers little nerves, that are knit and twin-
ed in the form of a net, which are also extended throughout,
even from the bottom of the pudendum itself, being placed
chiefly for sense and pleasure, moving in sympathy between
the head and the womb.
Now, it is to be further noted, that by reason of the two
ligaments that hang on either side of the womb, from the
share-bone, piercing through the peritoneum, and joined to
the bone itself, the womb is moveable upon sundry occa-
sions, often falling low or rising high. As for the neck of the
womb, it is of exquisite feeling: so that if it be at any time
out of order, being troubled with a schirrosity, over fatness,
moisture, or relaxation, the womb is subjected thereby to
barrenness. In those that are with child, there frequently
stays a glutinous matter in the entrance to facilitate the
birth ; for, at the time of deliver}', the mouth of the womb
is opened to such a wideness as is conformable to the
bigness of the child, suffering an equal dilation from the
bottom to the top.
As for the preparatory, or spermatic vessels, in women,
they consist of two veins and two arteries, not differing from
those of men, but only in their largeness and manner of in-
sertion : for the number of veins and arteries is the same as
in men, the right vein issuing from the trunk of the hollow
vein descending; and beside them are two arteries, wliich
flow from the aorta.
As to the length and breadth of these vessels, they are
narrower and shorter in vvomeu than in men ; only, observe,
they are more writhed and contorted than in men, and shrink-
ing together, by reason of their shortness, that they may, by
their looseness, be better stretched out when occasion re-
quires it ; and those vessels in women are carried in an in-
direct course through the lesser guts and testicles, but are
mid-way divided into two branches; the greater goes to the
stones, constituting a various or winding body, and wonder-
fully inoculating; the lesser branch ending in the womb, in
the inside of which it disperseth itself, and especially at the
higher part of the bottom of the womb, for its nourishment,
and that part of the courses may purge through the vessels:
and seeing the testicles of women are seated near the womb,
for that cause these vessels fall not from the peritoneum, nei-
ther make they much passage, as in men, not extending tliem-
selves in the share- bone.
43 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
The stones in women, commonly called testicles, perform
not the same action as in men : they are also different in their
location, bigness, temperature, substance, form, and cover-
ing As for the place of their seat, it is in the hollowness of
the abdomen ;
neither are they pendulous, but rest on the
muscles of the loins, so that they may, by contracting the
greater heat, be more fruitful, their office being to contain
the ova. or eggs, one of which bemg impregnated by the
man's seed engenders man •
yet thev differ froin those of men
in figure, by reason of their lessness or flatness at each end,
not bemg so round or oval . the external superfices being
likewise more unequal, appearing like th-.. compositioii of
a great many knobs or kernels mixed together. There ia
a difference also in their substance, they being much more
soft and pliable, loose, and not so well compacted. Their
bigness and temperament are likewise different : for they are
much colder, and less than those in men. As for their co-
vering or enclosure, it differs extremely; for as men's are
wrapped in divers unicles, by reason they are extremely pen-
dulous, and subject to divers injuries, unless so fenced by
nature, so women's stones, being internal, and less subject
to casuality, are covered with ot;e tiinicle or membrane,
which, though it closely cleave to them, yet they are likewise
half covered with the peritoneum.
The ejaculatory vessels are two obscure passages, one on
each side, nothing differing from the sperniatic veins in sub-
stance. They rise in one part from the bortnui of the womb,
not reaching from the other extremity, either to the stones or
to any other part, but shut up and impassable, adhering to
the womb, as the colon does to the blind gut, and winding
half way about : and though the testicles are remote from
them, and touch them not, yer they are tied to them by cer-
tain membranes, resembling the wing of a bat, through
which certain veins and arteries passing from the end of the
testicles, may be termed here to have their passage proceed-
mg from the corner of the womb to the testicles, and are ac-
counted proper ligaments, by which the testicles and womb
are united and strongly knit together : and these ligaments in
women are the cremasters in men. of which I shall speak
more largely when I come to describe the masculine parts
conducing to generation.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 49
CHAPTER XV.
vf Description of the Use and Action of several Paris m
Women, appointed in Generation.
The externals, commonly called the pudenda, are designed
to cover the great orifice, and to receive the penis or yard in
tlie act of coition, and give passage to the birth and urine.
The use of the wings and knobs, like myrtle- berries, are for
the security of the internal parts, shutting the orifice and
neck of the bladder, and by their swelling up, to cause titi-
lation and delight in those parts, and also to obstruct the in-
voluntary passage of the urine.
The action of the clytoris in women is like that of the pe-
nis in man, via. the erection ; and its outer end is like the
glands of the penis, and has the spme name- And as the
glands of man are the seat of the greatest pleasure in concep-
tion, so is this in the woman.
The action and use of the neck of the womb is equal with
that of the penis, vis. erection, occasioned divers ways
:
first, in copulation, it is erected and made strait for the pas-
sage of the penis into the womb; 2dly, whilst the passage is
repleted with spirit and vital blood, it becomes more strait
for embracing the penis; and as for the conveniency of erec-
tion, it is twofold; first, because if the neck of the womb
was not erected, the yard could have no convenient passage
to the womb: secondly, it hinders any hurt or damage that
might ensue through the violent concussion of the yard du-
ring the time of copulation.
As few the veins that pass through the neck of the womb,
their use is to replenish it with blood and spirit, t-hat still, as
the moisture consumes by the heat contracted in copulation,
it may by these vessels be renewed ; but their chief business
IS to convey nutriment to the womb.
The womb has many properties attributed to it : as, first,
retention of the foecundated egg, and this is properly called
conception : secondly, to cherish and nourish it. till nature
has framed the child and brought it to perfection, and then
h strongly operates in sending forth the birth, when the time
£
50 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
of its leinaining there is expired, dilating itself in a wondt;/-
ful manner, and so aptly removed from the senses, that no-
thing of injury can proceed from thence, retainina itself a
I)Ovver and strength to operate and cast forth the birth, unless
by accident it be rendered deficient; and then, to strengthen
and enable it, remedies must be applied by skilful hands;
directions for applying of which will be given in the second
part.
The use of the prepari.ig vessels is this: the arteries con-
vey the blood to the testicles: part whereof is put in the
nourishment of them, and the production of these little blad-
ders (in all things resembling egss.) through which the vast
preparentia run, and are obliterated in them : and as for the
veins, their office is to bring back what blood remains from
the use aforesaid The vessels of this kind are nnich short-
er in women than in men, by reason of their nearness to the
stones; which defects are yet made good by the many intri-
cate windings to which those vessels are subject: for, m the
middle v/ay they divide themselves into two branches, though
different in magnitude, for one being greater than the other,
passes to the stones.
The stones in women are very useful, for where they are
defective, generation- work is at an end. For although those
bladders which are on tlteir outward superfices contain no-
thing of seed, as the followers of Galen and Hippocrates did
erroneously imagine, yet they contain several eggs, generally
twenty in each testicle; one of which being impregnated by
the spirituous part of the man's seed in the act of coition,
descends througii the ovaducts into the womb, and from
hence, in process of time, becomes a living child.
CHAPTER XVI.
Of the Organs of Generation in Man.
Having given j^ou a description of the organs of generation
m women, with the anatomy of the fabric of the womb, I
shall now, to complete the first part of this treatise, describe
the organs of generation in men, and how thsi^ are fitted to
the use for which nature designed them.
The instrument of generation in man (commonly called th?
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 5J
yard, and in Latin, penis, a pendendo, because it hangs with-
out the belly,) is an organ ical part, which consists of skin,
tendons, veins, arteries, sinews, and great ligaments; and
is long and round, and on the upper side flattish, seated un-
der the OS pubis, and ordained b}' nature partly for evacua-
tion of urine, and partly for conveying the seed into the ma-
trix : for which end it is full of small pores, through which
the seed passes into it, through the vesiculae seminales, and
also the neck of the vesicute iirinalis, which pours out the
urine when they make water ; besides the common parts, viz.
the two nervous bodies, the septum, the urethra, the glands,
four muscles, and the vessel. The nervous bodies (so called,)
are surrounded with a thick white pervious membrane, but
their inmost substance is spungv. consisting chiefly of veins,
arteries, and nervous fibres, interwoven together like a net.
And when the nerves are filled with animal spirits, and the
arteries with hot and spirituous blood, then the penis is dis-
tended, and becomes erect ; but when the influx of the spirits
ceases, then the blood and remaining spirits are absorbed by
the veins, and so the penis' spirits are limber and flaggy.
Below these nervous bodies is the urethra; and whenever
the ni^rvous bodies swell, it swells also. The muscles of the
penis are four ; two shorter, arising from the coxendix, and
serving for erection, and for that reason are called erecto-
res ; two larger, proceeding from the spinchter of the anus,
which serve to dilate the urethra for evacuation of seed, and
are called dilatantes or winding. At the end of the penis
are the glands, covered with a very thin membrane, by
means of which, and its nervous substance, it becomes most
exquisitely sensible, and is the princiual seat of pleasure in
copulation. The outmost covering of the glands is called
praeputium, a percutiendo, from being cut off, it being that
which the Jews cut off in circumcision, and it is tied by the
lower parts of it to the glands of the foetus. The penis is also
stocked with veins, arteries, and nerves.
The testiculi. or stones, (so called, because testifying one to
be a man.) elaborate the blood brought to them by the sperma-
tic arteries into seed. Tney have coats of two sorts, proper
and cominon ; the common are two, and invest both the tes-
tes The outermost of the common coats consists of the
cuticula, or true skin, and is called the scrotum, hang-
ing out of the abdomen like a purse: the innermost is the
membrana carnosa. The proper coats are also two, the out-
er called cliotrodes or virginaies. the inner albugidia : into
the outer is inserted the cremaster To the upper part of the
testes are fixed the epidimydes, or prostratse ; from whence
ariseth the vasa deferentia, or ejaculatoria; which, v,rhen they
S2 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
come near the neck of the bladder, deposit the seed into the
vesiculse seminales, these vesiculae seminales are two. each
like a bunch of grapes, and emit the seed into the urethra in
the act of copulation. IN'ear them are the prostatae, about
the bigness of a walnut, and join to the neck of the bjadaer.
Authors do not agree about the use of them, but most are of
opinion that they afford an oily, sloppy, and fat hurDOur, to
besmear the urethra; whereby to deiiend the same from the
acrimony of the seed and urine. But the vessels which con-
vey the blood to the testes out of which the seed is made, are
arteriae spermaticae, and are also two The veins which
carry out the remaining biood are two, and have the name
venae spermaticae.
CHAPTER XVII.
A fVord of j9.dvice to both Sexes, being several Directions
respecting the Act oj" Copulation.
Since nature has implanted in every creature a mutual de-
sire of copulation, for the increase and propigation of the
kind, and more especially in man, the lord of the creation
and master-piece of nature, that so noble a piece of divine
workmanship might not perish, something ought to he said
concerning it, it being the foundation of all that we have
hitherto been treating of, since without copulation there can
be no generation. Seeing therefore so much depends upon it,
I thought it necessary, before I concluded the first part, to give
directions to both sexes, for the performance of that act, as
may appear efficacious to the end for which nature designed
it : but it will be done with cautioq as not to offend the chast-
est ear, nor put the fair sex to the trouble of a blush in read-
ing it. First, then, when a married couple, form a desire of
having children, are about to make use of those means that
nature ordained to that purpose, it would be very proper to
cherish the body with generous restoratives, that so it may be
brisk and vigorous; and if their imaginations were charmed
with sweet and melodious airs, and care and thought of busi-
ness drowned in a glass of rosy wine, that their spirits may
be raised to the highest pitch of ardour and joy, it would not
be amiss; for any thing of sadness, trouble, and sorrow, are
enemies to the delights of Venus. And if, at any such times
of coition there should be conception, it would have a malevo-
lent effect upon the child. But though generous restoratives
jjiay be used for invigorating nature, yet all excess is to be
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 53
carefully avoided, for it will allay the briskness of the spirits,
and render them duliand languid, and also hinder digestion,
and so must needs be an enemy to copulation for it is food
moderately taken and well digested, that creates good spirits,
ann enables a man with vig-our and activity to perform the
dictates of nature. It is alse highly necessary that in their
mutual embraces they meet eacu other with an equal ardour,
for if the spirits flag on either part, they will fall short of
what nature requires, and the woman must either miss of con-
ception, or else the children prove weak in their bodies, of
defective in their understanding : and therefore 1 do advise
them, before they begin their conjugal embraces, to invigo-
rate their mutual desires, and make their flames burn with
a tierce ardour by tiose endearing ways that love can better
teach than I can write.
And when they have done what nature requires, a man
must have a care he does not part too soon from the embra-
ces of his wife, lest some sudden interposing cold should
strike into the womb, and occasion a miscariage, and there-
by deprive them of their labour.
And when, after some small convenient time, the man hath
withdrawn hnnself, let the woman gently betake herself to
rest with all imaginable serenity and composure of mind,
'free from ail anxious and disturbing tdouglus, or any other
kind of perturbation whatsoever. And let her, as much as
she can, forbear turning herself from tliat side on which she
iirsi reposed. And by all means let her avoid coughing and
sneezing, which, by its violent concussion on the body is a
great enemy to conception, if it happen soon after the act of
coition.
A
PRIVATE I.OOIiING-GLASS
FOS THE
^MAIM SEX.
PART SECOND.
TREATING OF SEVEEAL MALADIES INCIDENT TO
THE WOMB, WITH PROPES EEMEDIE FOR
THE CURE OF EACH.
CHAPTER I.
Of the womb in general.
ALTHOUGH in the first part f have spoken something
of trie womb, yet being in the second part to treat more par-
ticularly thereof, and of the various distempers and maiadies
it is subjected to, I shall not think it tautology to give you,
by way of instruction, a general description both of its situa-
tion and extent, but rather think it can by no means be omit-
ted, especially since in it I am to speak of the quality of the
menstruous blood.
First, touching the womb. By the Grecians it is called
nietra, the mother; adelphos, says Priscian because it makes
us all brothers.
It is placed in the hypogastrium, or lower part of the body,
in the cavity called pelvis, having the strait gut on one side,
to keep it from the other side of the backbone, and the blad-
der on the other side to defend it from blows. The form or
figure of it is like a virile member, only thus described—the
manhood is outward, and womanhood inward.
It is divided into the neck and the body. The neck consists
of a hard fieshy substance, much like cartilage, to the end
ARISTOTLE'S, WORKS, 55
wberaof there is a membrane transversely placed, called hy-
men, or eiigion. Near to the neck there is a prominent pin-
nacle, which is called by Mountmus, the door of the womb,
because it preserves the matrix from cold and dust; by the
Grecians it iscaiiedclytoris; by the Latins, prsputium mulie-
bre, because the Jewisli women did abuse those parts to their
own mutual lusts, as PaJi speaks, R.om. i. ZQ.
The body of the womb U that wherein the child is conceiv-
ed ; and this is not aitogetner round, but dilates itself into two
angles, the outward part of it nervous and full of sinews, which
are the cause of its motion, but inwardly it is fleshy. In the
caviiy of the womb there are two ceiit^ or receptacles for hu-
man seed, divided i)y a line running tliroiigh tiie midst of it.
In the right sifie of the cavity, by the reason of the heat of the
liver, males are conceived ; in the left side, by the coldness of
the spjeen, females are begotten. Most of our moderns hold
the above as an infallible truth, yet Hippocrates holds it but
in general: -'For in whom (saitn he) the spermatic vessels
on the right side come from the reins and the spermatic ves-
sels on the left side from the hollow vein, in them males are
coric(?>ved in the left side, and females in the right." Well,
tiierefore, may i conclude with the saying of Empedocies.
" Such sometimes is the power of the seed, that the maie
may be conceived in the left side, as well as in tlie right."
In the bottom of the cavity, there are little holes called the
cotiledones. which are the ends of certain veins and arteries,
serving in breeding women to convey substance to the child,
which is received by the umbilical veins- and others to carry
their courses into the matrix.
Now, touching the menstruals, they are defined to be a
monthly flux of excrementitiousand unprofitable blood, which
is to hs understood of the suiierpius or redundance of it. Fo?
It is an excrement in quality, its quantity being pure and in-
corrupt, like unto the blood in the veins.
And that the menstruous blood is pure and subtle of itself,
all in one quality with that in the veins, is proved two ways:
first, from the final cause of the blood, which is the propaga-
tion and conversation of mankind, that man might be con-
ceived; and being begotton. he might be comforted and pre-
served both in the womb and out of the womb. And all will
grant it for a truth, that a child, when in the matrix, is nou-
rished with the blood. And it is true, that being out of the
womb, it is still nourisherl with the same- for the milk is noth-
ing but the menstruous blood made white .n the breast. Se-
condly, it is proved to be true, from the generation of it, it be-
ing the superfluity of the last aliment of the fleshy parts.
The natural end of man and woman's being is Xq propagate
:
56 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
and this injunction was imposed upon them by God at their
firsl creation, and again after the deluge. Now, in the act of
conception, there must lie an agent and patient; for if theA be
both every way of one constitution, they cannot propagate
:
man therefore is hot and dry, woman cold and moist ; he is
the agent, she the patient or weaker vessel, that she should
be subject to the office of the man. It is necessary the wo-
man should be of a cold constitution, because in her is requir-
ed a redundanc\ of nature for the itiiant depending on her:
for otherwise, if there were not a superph s of nourishment
for the child, ii ore than is convenient for the mother, then
would the infant detract and weaken the principal parts ol the
mother, and like unto the vifier. the generation of the infant
would he the destruction of the parent.
The monthly purgations continue from the 15th year to the
46th or 50th ;
yet often there happens a suppression which
is either natural or morbifical ; they are r.aturallv suppressed
in breeding won.en, and such as give suck. The inorbifical
suppression falls now into our method to be spoken of.
CHAPTER il.
Of the Retention of the Courses.
The suppression of the terms, is an interception of that ac^
customed evacuation of blood which every month should
come from the matrix, proceeding from the instrument or mat-
ter vitiated. The part affected is the womb, and that of itself
or by consent.
Cause. The cause of this suppression is either external or
internal. The external cause may be heat, or dryness of the
air, immoderate watching, great labour, vehement motion,
&c. whereby the matter is so consumed and the body so ex-
hausted, that there is not a surplus remaining to be expelled,
as is recorded of the Amazons, who. being active and always
in motion, had their fluxions very little or not at all. Or it
may be caused by cold, which is most frequent, making the
blood vicious and gross, condensing and binding up the pas-
sages that it cannot flow forth.
The internal cause is either instrumental or material, in the
womb or in the blood.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 57
In the womb it may be divers ways; by imposthumes, nu-
mours, ulcers, by the narrowness of the veins and passages,
or by the omentum, in fat bodies, pressing the neck of the
matrix : but then they must have hernia, zirthilis, for in man-
kind the kell reacheth not so low ; by overmuch cold or heat,
the one vitiating the action, the other consuming the matter
;
by an evil composition of the uterine parts, by the neck of
the womb being turned aside, and sometimes, though rarely,
by a membrane or excrescence of the flesh growing about the
mouth or neck of the womb. The blood may be in fault two
ways, in quantity or quality; in quantity, when it is so con-
sumed tliat there is not a superplus left, as in viragoes, or virile
women, who, through their heat and strength of nature, di-
gest and consume all in their last noarishment, as Hippocrates
writes of Prelhusa, who being exalted by her husband Pathea,
her terms were suppressed, her voice changed, and had a
beard, with the countenance of a man. But these I judge
rather to be Tynopagi, or woman eaters, than women breed-
ers, because they consume one of the principles of genera-
tion, which gives a being to the world, viz. the menstruous
blood. The blood likewise may be consumed, and conse-
quently the terms staid, by bleedmg at the nose, by a flux of
the hemorrhoids, by a dysentery commonly called the bloody
flux, by many other evacuations, and by contmual and chroni-
cal diseases Secondly, the matter may be vicious in quali-
ty; and suppose it to be sanguinous, phlegmatical, bilious, or
melancholic ; every one of these, if they oflfend in grossness,
will cause an obstruction in the veins.
SiG.\s. Signs manifestmg the disease, are pains in the
head, neck, back, and loms; weariness of the whole body,
but especially of the hips and legs, by reason of a confiuity
which the matrix have with these parts; trembling of the
heart. Particular signs are these : If the suppression pro-
ceed from cold, she is heavy, sluggish, of a pale colour, and
has a slow pulse: Venus's combats are neglected, the urine
cruddles, the blood becomes waterish and much in quantity,
and the excrements of the guts usually are retained. If of
heat, the signs are contrary to those now recited. If the re-
tention be natural, and come of conception, this may be
known by drinking of hyriromel, that is, vvater and honey, al-
ter suppejf, going to bed, by the effect which it worketh ; for
if, after the taking of it, she feels a beating pain upon the
navel, and the lower part of the belly, it is a sign she hath
conceived, and that the suppression is natural; if not, then it
is vicious, and ought medicinally to be taken away.
PKO(i.\osTics. VVith tlie evil quality of the womb, the
whole body stands charged, but especially the heart, the liver,
58 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
and the brain ; and betwixt the womb and these three prin-
cipal parts there is a singular concert: First, the womb com-
mimicaies to the heart by the mediation of those arteries
which come from the aorta. Hence, the terms being sup-
pressed, will ensue fainiings, swoonings, intermission of pulse,
cessation of breath. Secondly, it communicates to the liver
by the veins derived from the hollow vein. Hence will follow
obstructions, cahexies, jaundice, dropsies, hardness of spleen.
Thirdly, it communicates to the brain by the nerves and mem*
brane of the back : hence will arise epilepsies, frenzies, me-
lanctiolv. passion, pain in the afterparts of ttie head, fearful-
iiess, and mability of speaking Well, therefore, may 1 con-
clude with Hippocrates, if the months be suppressed many
dangerous diseases will ff How.
Cure. In the cure of this, and of all the other following
effects. 1 will observe the order. The cure shall be taken
from chirurgical, pharmaceutical and diuretical means.
—
This suppression is a plethoric effect, and must be taken
away by evacuation, and therefore we will first begin with
phlebotomy. In the midst of the menstrual period open
tlie liver vein ; and for the reservation of the humour, two
days before the evacuation, open the saphena in both feet •
if the repletion be not great, apply cupping glasses to the legs
and thighs, although there should be no hopes to remove the
suppression. As in some the cotiledones are so closed up,
that nothing but copulation will open them : yet it will be
convenient, as much as may be, to ease nature of her burden,
by opening the hemorrhoid veins with a leech. After phle-
botomy, let tne humours be prepared and made flexible with
syrup of stychas calamint, betony, hyssop, mugwort, hore-
hound, fumitary, maiden hair. Bathe with camomile, penny
royal, savia, hay leaves, juniper berries, rue, marjoram, fe-
verfew. Take of the leaves of nep, maiden hair, succory,
and betony, of each a handful, make a decoction ; take there-
of three ounces Syrup of maiden hair, mugwort, and suc-
cory; mix of each half an ounce After she comes out of
the bath, let her drmk it off. Purge with pill de agaric, fley-
bang, corb, feriae. Galen, in this case, comsnends pilulae de
caberica. coloquintida; for, as they are proper to purge the
humour offending, so also they do open the passage of the
womb, and strengthen the faculty by their aromatical quality.
If the stomach be overcharged, let her take a vomit, yet
such an one as may work both ways, lest working only up-
ward, it should, too much turn back the humour. Take tro-
chisks of agaric two drams, infuse them in two ounces of
oxyinel, in whicn dissolve of the electuary diasarum one scru-
ple and a half, bendic. laxit. half an ounce. Take this after
tiie manner of a juirge.
ARiS rOTLE'S WORKS. 59
After the humour hath been purged, proceed to more pro-
per and forcible remedies. Take of trochisk of myrrh one
dram and a half: parsley seed, castor rindp, or cassia, of each
one scruple, and of the extract of mugwort one scruple and a
half: of musk ten grains, with the juice of smallaj^e ; make
twelve pills ; take six every inorning, or after supper gojng to
bed. Take of cinnamon half an ounce, smirutium, or rogos,
Valeria aristolochia, of each two drams; roots of astrumone,
dram saffron, of each two scruples; spec, dienibia, two drams;
irochisk of myrrh, four scruples ; tartari vitriolari, two scru-
ples ; make half into a powder with mugwort water and su-
gar a sufficient quantity ; make lozenges ; take one dram of
tiiem every morning, or mingle one dram of the powder with
one dram of sugar, and take it in white wine. Take of pre-
pared steel, spec, hair, of each two drams; borax, spec, of
myrrh, of each one scruple, with the juice of savine; make
it up into eighty eight lozenges, and take three every other
day before dicmer. Take of castor one scruple, wild carrot
seed half a dram, with syrup of mugwort, and make four pills,
take them in a morning fasting, and so for three days toge-
ther, before the wonted time of the purgation. Take of aga-
ric, aristolochia. juice of horehound. of each five drains ; rhu-
barb, spikenard, anniseed, gaidanum, assafoetida, mallow
root, gentian, of the three peppers, lacoac, of each six drams;
with honey make an electuary, take of it three drams for a
dose. In phlegmatic bodies nothing can be belter given than
the decoction of the wood of guaicum, with a little disclaim,
taken in the morning tasting, and so for twelve days together,
without provoking of sweat.
Administer to the lower parts by suffumigations, pessaries,
unctions, injections: make suffumigations of cinnamon, nut-
meg, cloves, bay berries, mugwort, galbanum, molanthium,
amber, &c. Make pessaries of figs, and the leaves of mercu-
ry bruised, and rolled up with lint If you desire a stronger,
make one of myrrh, adulium, apopanax, ammoniacum, galba-
num, sagepanum, mithridate, sgaric, coloquintida, &.c. Make
injections of the decoction of origane, mugwort, mercury, be-
tony, and eggs; inject it into the womb by an instrument fit
for that purpose. Take of oil of almonds, lilies, capers, cam-
omile, of each half an ounce: laudani. oil of mvrrh, of each
two drams ; with wax make an unguent, with which let the
place be anointed ; make infusions of fenugreek, camomile,
inelilot, dill, marjoram, pennyroval, feverfew, juniper berries,
and calamint ; but if the suppression comes by a defect of mat-
ter, then ought not the courses to be provoked until the spi-
rits be animated, and the blood again increased : or if by pro-
per efifects of the womb as dropsies, inflamations, &.c. then
60 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
must particular care be used ; the which I will not insist U[)on
here, hut speak of them as they lie in order.
If the retention comes from repletion or fulness, if the air
be hot and dry, use moderate exercise before meals, and your
meat and drink attenuating; use with your meat garden sa-
vory, thyme, origane, and eyche peason : if of emptiness, or
defect of matter, if the air be moist and moderately hot. shua
exercise and watching; let your meat be nourishing and of
light digestion, as raw eggs, lamb, chickens, almonds, milk,
and the like.
CHAPTER III.
Of the Over/lowing of the Courses.
The learned say, that by comparing contraries, truth is
made manifest ; having therefore spoken of the suppression
of terms, order requires now that I should insist on the o^'er-
flowingof them an effect no less dangerous than the former;
and this inunoderaie flux of the mouth is defined to be a san-
guinous excrement, proceeding from the womb, exceeding
both in quantity and time. First, it is said to be sanguinous,
the matter of the flux being only blood, wherein it differs from
that which is commonly called the false courses, or the whites,
of which I shall speak hereafter. Secoiidly, it is said to pro-
ceed from the womb ; for there are two ways from which the
blood flows forth ; the one is by the internal views of the body
of ihe womb ; and this is properly called the monthly flux
;
the other is by those veins which are terminated in the neck
of the matrix ; and this is called by Aetius, the hemorrhoids
of the womb. Lastly, it is said to exceed both in quantity
and time. In quantity, saith Hippocrates, when they flow
about eighteen ounces; in time, when they flow above three
days ; but we take this for a certain character of their inordi-
nate flowing, when the faculties of the body are thereby
weakened. In bodies abounding in gross humours, this im-
moderate flux sometimes unburdens nature of her load, and
aught not to be staid without the counsel of a physician.
Cause. The cause of this affair is internal or external.
The internal cause is threefold ; in the matter, instrument,
or faculty. The matter, which is the blood, may be vicious
two ways; first, by the heat of constitution, climate, or sea-
son, heating the blood, whereby the passages are dilated, and
the faculty weakened, that it cannot retain the blood. Se-
condly, by falls, blows, violent motion, breaking of the veinsj
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 61
&c The external cause may be calidity of ths air, liftings
carrying of heavy burdens, unnatural child birth, &c.
Signs. In this inordinate fiux the appetite is decayed, the
conception is depraved, and ail the actions vi'eakened ; the
feet are swelled, the colour of the face is changed, and a ge-
neral feebleness possesseth thev/hole body. If the flux comes
by the breaking of a vein, the body is sometimes cold, the
blood flows forth in heaps, and that suddenly, with great
pains, [fit comes through heat, the orifice of the vein being
diluted, thevi there is little or no pain, yet the blood flows fas-
ter than it doth in an erosion, aud not so fast as it doth in a
rupture. If by erosion, or sharpness of blood, she feels a
great heat scalding the passage ; it differs from the other tv/o,
in that it flows not so suddenly, nor so copiously as they do.
If by weakness of the womb, she abhorreth the use of Venus.
Lastly, if it proceed from an evil quality of the blood, drop
some of it on a cloth, and when it is dry, you may judge of
the quality by the colour. If it be choleric^ it will be yellow;
if melancholy, black: if phlegmatic, waterish and whitish.
Prognostics. If with the fiux be joined a convulsion, it
is dangerous, because it intimates the more noble parts are
vitiated : and a convulsion caused by emptiness is deadly.
If it continues long, it will be cured with great difficulty: for
it was one of the miracles which our '^aviour. Christ, wrought,
to cure this disease, when it had continued twelve years.
To conclude, if the flux be inordinate, manv diseases will
ensue, and without remedy, the blood, together with the na-
tive heat, being consumed, either cachetical, hydropical, or
paralytica! diseases will follow.
Cure. Tiie cure consisteth in three particulars. First, in
repelling and carrying away the blood : Secondly, in correct-
ing and taking away the fluxihility of the matter •
Thirdly, in
incorporating the veins and faculties. For the first, to cause
a regression of the blood, open a vein in the arm, and draw
out so much blood as the strength of the patient will permit;
and that not altogether, but at several times, for thereby the
spirits are less weakened, and the refraction so much the
greater.
Apply cupping-glasses to the breasts, and also ** >•
liver,
that the reversion may be in the fountain.
To correct the fluxibility of the matter, cath3,ifCa meaiiS,
moderated with the astnctories, may be usef^.
If it be caused by erosion, or sharpness •
'ij'oi'o, COJisiUei
whether the erosion be by salt phlegm, >, < iisi tVoo.er. i
by salt phlegm, prepare with syrup of vio ets, o:"' '
<»d,
roses, citron-pill, succory, &c. Then make his n! ,ation
following: inirobolaos, chebol, half an ounce tcrvjiisks of
F
€2 ARISTOTLE^S WORKS.
agaric, one dram ; with plantain-waier, make a decoction ; and
thereto fir, roast, and lax, three ounces, anxl make a potion.
If by adust choler, prepare the body with syrup of roses,
myrtles, sorrel, and purslain, mixed with water of plantain,
knot-grass, and endive. Then purge with this potion ; take
rind of mirobolans and rhubarb of each one dram, cinnamon
fifteen grains; infuse them one night in endive water; add to
the straining, pulp of tamarind, cassia, of each half an ounce,
syrup of roses an ounce; n^ake a potion. If the blood be
waterish or uncoeted. as it is in hydropical bodies, and flows
forth by reason of tlie tenacity or thinness, to draw off the
water, it will be profitable to t>urge with agaric, elaterium,
coloquintida : sweating is nroper in this case, for thereby the
matter offending is taken hwhv. and fhe motion of the olood
carried to the outward parts. To procure sweat use cardus-
water. with mithridate. or the cecoction of guaiacnm and
sarsaparilla The gum of guaiacum also doth greatly
provoke sweat: pills of sarsaparilla. taken every night
going to bed. are worthily recommended. If the blood
flows forth through the opening or breaking of a vein, with-
out anv evil quality of itself then ough' only corroboratives
to be applied : whicn is the last thing to be done in this inor-
dinate flux.
Take of bole ammoniac one scruple. T ondon treacle one
dram, old conserve of roses half an ounce, with syrup of myr-
tle make an electuary: or, if the flux hath continued long,
take of mastic two drams, olibani iroch rie caraba. of each
one dram: balustium one scruple: make a powder; vi'ith sy-
rup of quinces make it into pills: take one always before
meals Take lapidis, hseinatia. triti, of each two scruples;
sperierdum, alantalia. one ounce . treeh decarabede. scorria,
ferri, coral, frankincense, of each one sciuple : fine bole one
scruple : beat tt^ese to fine powder, and with sugar and plain-
tain-water iMake lozenges Asses' nung is approved of. whe-
ther token mwardlv with svrun of quinces, or outwardlv with
steeled water Galen, bv conveying the juice of it through
a me'renchita in t'ne womb four davs together, cured this
immoderate flux, which no wavs else could be restrained.
Going to bed, let her take one scruple and a half of pilon in
water; make a suifumigation for the matrix of mastic, frank-
incense, burnt frogs, not forgetting the hoof of a mule. Take
the juice of knotgrass, comfrey, and quinces, of each one
ounce, camphire one dram, dip silk or cotton therein, and ap-
ply it to the place. Take of oil of mastic, myrtles, quin-
ces, of each half an ounce; fine bole, troch, decarda, of
each one dram : sanguis draconis a sufficient quantity; mjike
an unguent, and apply it befoie and behind. Take of plao-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 63
tain, shepherd's purse, red rose leaves, of each one ounce and
a half: dried mint one ounce: beanmeal three ounces:
boil all these in plantain- water, and make of it twopiaisters,
apply one before and behind. If the blood flow from those
veins which are terminated in the neck of the matrix, then it
is not called the overflowing of the terms, but the hemorrhoids
of the womb ;
yet the same cure will serve both, only the in-
strumental cure will a little differ : for, in the uterine hermor-
rhoids, the ends of the veins hang over like little teats or brush-
es, which must be taken away by incision, and then the veins
closed up with aloes, fine bole, burnt alium, trorch de terrs
fiall ; myrrh, mastic, with the juice of comfrey and knot grass,
laid plaisterways thereunto.
Tiie air must be cold and dry. All motion of the body must
be forbidden. Let her meat be pleasant, patridge, niountain
birds, coneys, calf feet &c. And let her beer be mixed with
juice of pomegranates and quinces.
CHAPTER IV.
Of the Weeping o/ the IVomb.
The weeping of the womb is a finx of blood, unnatural,
coiiMng fi-om thence bv drops, afier the inaimer of tears, caus-
ing violent pams in the sasif ket-ping ueit.'.er fierio nor
tin e Hv sortie it is referred unto the inur{i(ierate evacuation
of ihe courses vet they are disiinguishen in dn-' quantitv and
manner of ovprflouing. u) thar the^ flow copioi.t.lv and free;
this iscon^inual. thoutih by lif'le ami little and that with great
pain aiirir'jfricult'. , wherelnrf it is iikener"- unto the stranguary.
Theranse is in the facuitw instro i enr or natter in the
faculty, by being en feeblen that it cannot expel tlie' blood ;
and the blood resting there, ntake tha' pari i.i be unwibgrow
hard, and stretcheth the vessels: from whence proceeri the
pains of the womb, in the instrisn ent. by the narrowness
of the passages. Lastly, it may he the niaiterof the hlood,
which may offend in too trreat a quantity or in an evil quality,
it being so gross and tliick that it cannot flow forth as it ought
to do, but by drops. The signs will best appear by the rela-
tion of the patient: hereupon will issue pains m the head,
stomach, and back, with inflan'ations, suffocations, and
excoriations of the matrix. If the strength of the patient will
permit, first open a vein in the arm, rub the upper parts, and
let her arm be corded, that the force of the blood may be
carried bapkward : thesi apply such things as may laxate and
64 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
niolify the strengthening of the womb, and assuage t'ne sharp,
ness of the blood, as cataplasms made of bran, linpeed, fenu-
greek, melilot, mallows, mercury, and artiplex. If the blood
be vicious and gross, add thereto mugwort, calamint, dictam,
and betony ; and 1st her take of Venice treacle the quantity
of a nutmeg and the syrup of mugwort every morning: make
an injection of the decoction of mallows, mercury, linseed,
groundsel, mugwort, fenugreek, with oil of sweet almonds.
Sometimes it is caused by the wind, and then phlebotomy
is to be omitted, and in the stead thereof take syrup of fever-
few one oimce : honey, roses, syrup of roses, syrup of flachus,
of each half an ounce- water of calamint, mugwort, beton}',
and hyssop, of each one ounce, make a julep If the pain
continues, take this purgation : take of spec, and hierse one
dram, diacatholion half an ounce: syrup of roses and laxa-
tive one ounce; with the decoction of mugwort and the four
cordial flowers make a potion. If it comes through the weak-
ness of the faculty, let theu be corroborated. If throu{*h the
grossness and sharpness of the' blood, let the quality of it be
altered, as I have shown in the ibregoiug chapter. Lastly, if
the excrement of the guts be retained, provoke them by a
clyster of the decoction of camomile, betony, feverfew, mal-
lows, linseed, juniper berries, cummin seed, anniseed, melilot,
adding thereto of diacatholicon half an ounce hiera picra,
two drams honey and oil of each one ounce; salt nitre a
dram and a half The patient must abstain from salt, sharp
and windy meats.
CHAPTER V.
Of the False Corses, or Whites.
From the womb proceed not only menstruous blood, but,
accidentally, rcany other exc'etnents, which by the ancients
are comprehended under the title of rebus gunakois : which
IS a distillation of a variety of corrupt humour through the
womb, flowing from the whole body, or a part of the same,
keeping neither courses nor colour, but varying in both.
Cause. The cause is either promiscuously in the whole
body, by a cocochymia, or weakness of the same, or in some
of the parts, as in the liver, which, by the inability of the
sanguificative faculty, causeth a generation of corrupt blood,
apd then the matter is reddish; sometimes the gall bein^
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 65
sluggish in its ofl&ce, not drawing away those choleric super-
fluities engendered in the liver, the matter is yellowish ; some-
times in the spleen, not deficiating and cleansing the blood of
the dregs and excrementitious parts; and then the matter
flowing forth is blackish. It may also come from the catarrh
in the head, or from any other putrified or corrupted member;
but if the matter of the flux be white, the cause is either in
the stomach or reigns ; m the stomach by a phlegmatical and
crude matter there contracted and vitiated, through grief,
melancholy and other distempers for, otherwise, if the mat-
ter were onlv pituitous, crude phlegm, and no ways corrupt,
being taken hito the liver, it might be converted into blood;
for phlegm m the ventricle is called nourishment half digest-
ed ; hut being corrupt, though sent into the liver, yet it can-
not be turned into nutriment: for the second >iecoction can-
not correct that which the first hath corrupted ; and therefore
the liver sends it to the womb, which can neither digest nor
repel it, and so it is voided out with the same colour it had in
the ventricle. The cause also may be in the reins be^ue over-
heated, whereby the spermatical matter, by reason of its thin-
ness, flows forth. The external causes mav he -noisTness of
the air, eating of corrupt meats, anger grief, slothfulness,
immoderate sleeping, costiveness in the body.
The signs are, extenuation of the body, shortness and stink-
ing of the breath, loathing of meat pain in the head, swel-
lings of the eyes and feet, and melancholy: humidity flows
from the womb of divers colours, as red. black, green, yellow,
and white. It differs from the flowing and overflowing of the
courses, in that it keeps no certain period, and is of many
colours, all of which do generate froiu blood.
Prognostic. If the flux be phlegmatical, it will continue
long and be difiicult to cure, yet if vomiting or diarrhoea hap-
peneth, it diverts the humour and cures the disease If it be
choleric, it is not so permanent, yet more perilous, for it 'vill
cause a cliff in the neck of the womb, and sometimes make
an excoriation of the matrix: if melancholic, it must be dan-
gerous and contumacious. Yet the flux of the hemorrhoids
administer cure.
If the matter flowing forth be reddish, open a vein in the
arm : if not, applv ligatures to the arms and shoulders Ga
len glories of himself, how he cured the wife of Brutus, la-
bouring of this disease, by rubbing the upper part with crude
honey.
If it he caused by a distillation from the brain, take syrup
of betony, stochas, and marjoram: purge with pillcoen ine
quibus de agrico : make nasalia of the juice of sage, hy* 0R4
betony, nigella, veith one drap of oil of elect= dianthp ar» ^t,
€6 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
rosat diambre, diamosei diilcis, of each one dram, nutmeg
half a dram : with sugar and betony water make lozenges,
to be taken every morning and evening; Auri Alexandria,
half a dram at night going to bed. If these things help not,
use the suffumigation and plaister, as they are prescribed.
If it proceed from crudities in the stomach, or from a cold
distempered liver, take every morning of the decoction of lig-
num sanctum : purge with pill de agrico, de hermodact, de
hiera, diacolinthio, faetid. agrigatio : take elect aromat. roses
two drams: citron peel dried, nutmeg, long pepper, of each
one scruple: diaglanga one dram; fantali, alb. lign. aloes,
of each half a scruple; sugar six ounces, with mint v^ater ;
and i-iake lozenges ot it ; lake of them before uieals. If, with
the frigidity of the liver, there be joined a repletion of the
stomach, purging by vomit i= commendable; for which three
drams of the electuary diasatu. Galen allows of diuretical
means, as absum petrofolnian.
If the matter of the flux be choleric, prepare the humour
with syrup of rosea, violets, endive, succory; purge with mi-
robolans, manna, rhubarb, cassia. Take of rhubarb two
drains, ann':seec' one dram, cinnamori a scruple and a half;
infuse then) in six ounces of prune broth, add of the straining
of manna one ounce, and take in the morning according to
art. Take specierurn. diatonlantoe, diacorant, prig, diarthod,
abbaris, dyacydoines, of each -one dram, sugar four ounces,
with plantain water ; make lozenges. If the clyster of the
gall be sluggish, and do not stir up the faculty of the gut, give
hot clysters of the decoction of the four mollifying herbs with
honey of roses and aloes.
If the flux be meJancholous, prepare with syrup of maiden-
hair, epithymium, polipoly, borrage, buglos, furnitary, harts-
tongue, and syrupus bisantius, which must be made without
vinegar, otherwise it will rather animate the disease than na-
ture : for melancholy by the use of vinegar is increased, and
both by Hippocrates, Silvius, and Avenzoar, it is disallowed
cf as an enemy to the womb, and therefore not to be used in-
wardly in all uterine diseases. Purgers of melancholy are
pilulse sumarioe, pilulse lud de lapina, lazuli diosena, and
confectio hamec. Take of stamped prunes two ounces;
sen. one dram; epithimium, polibody, fumitary, of each a
dram and a half; sour dates, one ounce; with endive water,
make a decoction ; take of it four ounces, add unto it con-
fections, hamesech three drams, manna three drams. Or
take pil. indie, pil. foetid, agarici, trochisati, of each one
scruple; pills of rhubarb one scruple; lapidis lazuR six
grains; with syrup of epithimium make pills, and take them
OBce every week. Take elect, tetificants, galen three drams;
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS, 67
diamargarita, calimlone, diamosci, dulcis, conserve! of bo-
rage, violets, bugloss, of each a dram ; citron-peel candied
one dram ; sugar seven ounces ; w^itli rose water make lo-
zenges.
Lastly, Let the womb be cleansed from the corrupt matter,
and then corroborated. For the purifying thereof, make
injections of the decoction of betony, feverfew, spikenard,
oistort, mercury, 'and sage, adding thereto sugar, oil of sweet
almonds, of each two ounces; pessaries also may be made
of silk or cotton, mollified in the juice of the aforenamed
hej;bs.
To corroborate the womb, you must thus prepare trochisks;
take of mugwort, feverfew, myrrh, amber, mace, nutmeg,
storax, lign aloes, red roses, of each one ounce ; with the
mucilage, tragacanth, make trochisks ; cast some of them
into coals, and smoke the womb therevvuh, and make fomen-
tations for the womb with red wine, in which hath been de-
cocted mastic, fine bole, malustia, and red roots; anoint the
matrix with oil of quinces and myrtles^ and apply thereto em-
plastrum, pro matrice ; and let her take diamosdum, dulce,
aract, and celematicum, every morning.
A dry diet is commended to be the best, because in this ef-
fect the body most commonly abounds with phlegmatical and
crude humours. For this cause Hippocrates counsels the
patient to go to bed supperless. Let her meat be partridge,
pheasant, and mountain birds, rather roasted than boiled.
Immoderate sleep is forbidden, moderate exercise is com-
mended.
CHAPTER 11.
Of the Suffocation of the Mother ,
Tms effect, which, if simply considered, is nothing but
the cause of an effect, is called in English, " The suffocation
of the mother;" not because the womb is strangled, but for
that it causeth the womb to be choked. It is a retraction of
the womb towards the midriff and the stomach, which so
presseth and crusheth up the same, that the instrumental
cause of respiration, the midriff, is suffocated, and conseuiing
with the brain, causes the animating faculty, the efficient
€VI ARISTOTLE'S 'WORKS.
cause ol respiration, also to be intercepted, while the bc(iy
being refrigerated, and the action depraved, she falls to the
ground as one dead.
In those hysterical passions some continue longer, soma
shorter. Rabbi Moses writes of some who lay in the par-
oxysm of the fit for two days. Rufus makes mention of ono
who continued in the same passion three days and three
nights; and at the three days end she revived That we may
learn by other men's harms to bevv'are, 1 will tell you an ex-
ample: Paroetus writeili of a woman in Spain, who sudden-
ly fell into an uterine suffocation, and appeared to :; en's
judgment as dead : her friends wondering at this her sudden
change, for their better satisfaction sent for a surgeon to have
her dissected, who, beginning to make an mcision. the wo-
man began to move, and with great clamour returned to her-
self again, to the honor and admiration of the spectators.
To the end that you may distinguish the iivmg from the
dead, the ancients prescribe three experiments; the first is,
to lay a light feather to the mouth, and by its motion you may
judge whether the patient be living or dead : the second js.
to place a glass of water on the breast, and if you perceive
:-t to move, it betokeneth life : the third is, to hold a pure
looking glass to the mouth and nose: and if the glass appears
thick, with a little dew upon it, ii betokeneth life: and these
three experiments are good, yet with this caution, that you
ought not to deoend upon them too much: for though the
feather and the water do not move, and the glass continue
pure and clear, yet it is not a necessary consequence thai she
is destitute of life For the motion of the lungs, by which
the respiration is made, may be taken away that she cannot
breathe, yet the internal transpiration of the heat may re-
main ; which is not manifest by the motion of the Lireast or
lungs, but lies occult in the heart and inward arteries; exam-
ples whereof we have in the fly and swallow, who, in cold
winters, to occular aspect, seem dead inanimate, and breathe
not at all ; yet they live by the transpiration of that heat
which is reserved in the heart and inward arteries: there-
fore, when the summer approacheth, the internal heat beini^,
revocated to the outward parts, they are then again revived
out of their sleepy extasv.
Those women, therefore, who seem to die suddenly, and
upon no evident cause, let them not be committed unto the
earth until the end of three days, lest the living be t^uried for
the dead.
Cure. The part effected is the womb, of v/hich there is a
twofold mo''on—natural and symptoraatical. The natural
motion is, when the womb attracteth the human seed, or
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 6a
excludeth the infant or secundine. The symptomatica! mo-
tion , of which v/e are to speak, is a convulsive drawing up
of the womb.
The cause usually is in the retention of the seed, or the
suppression of the menses, causing a repletion of the corrupt
humours in the womb, from whence proceeds a flatuous re-
frigeration, causing a convulsion of the ligaments of the
womb. And as it may come from humidity or repletion, being
a convulsion, it may 8e caused by emptiness or dryness. And
lastly, by abortion, or difficult child-birth.
Signs. At" the approaching of the suffocation, there is
paleness of the face, weakness of the legs, shortness of breath,
frigidity of the whole body, with a working into the throat,
and then she falls down as one void of both sense and mo-
tion \ the mouth of the womb is closed up, and being touched
with the finger, feels hard. The paroxysm of the fit being
once past, she openeth her ej'es, and feeling her stomach
oppressefl, she offers to vomit. And lest any one should be
deceived in taking one disease for another, I will shovv how
it may be distinguished from those diseases which have the
nearest affinity to it.
It differs from the apoplexy, by reason it comes without
shrieking out : also in the hysterical passion the sense of
feeling is not altogether destroyed and lost, as it is in the apo-
plectic disease; and it differs from the epilepsies in that the
eyes are not wrested, neither doth any spungy froth come from
the mouth ; and that convulsive motion, which sometimes, and
that often, is joined to suffocations, is not universal, as it is ia
the epilepsies, only this or that matter is convulsed, and that
without any vehement agitation. In the syncope, both respi-
ration and pulse are taken away, the countenance waxeth
pale, and she swoons away suddenly; but in the hysterical
passion, commonly, there is both respiration and pulse,
though it cannot be well perceived ; her face looks red, and
she hath a forewarning of her fit. Yet it is not denied but
that syncope may be joined v.'ith this suffocation. Lasdy,
it is distinguished from the lethargy by the pulse, which, in
the one is great, and in the other little.
Prognostic If the disease hath its being from the cor-
ruption of the seed, it foretels more danger than if it proceed
firom the suppression of the courses, because the seed it con-
cocted, and of a purer quality than the menstruous biood : and
the more pure being corrupted, becomes the more foul and
filthy, as appears in eggs, the purest nourishment, which, viti-
ated, yield thr noisomest savour. If it be accompanied with
a syncope, it shows nature is but weak, and that the spirits are
almost exhausted; but if sneezing follows, it shows the heat,
to AKISTOTLE'9 WORKS.
v;hich was almost extinct, doth now begin to return, and that
nature will subdue the disease.
Cure. In the cure of this effect, two things must be ob-
served : first, that during the time of the paroxysm, nature be
provoked to expel those malignant vapours which blind up
the senses, that she maj' be recalled out of that sleepy extasy.
Secondly, that in the intermission of the fit, proper medicines
may be applied to take away the cause.
To stir up nature, fasten cupping-glasses to the hips and
navel, apply ligatures unto the thigh, rub the extreme parts
with salt, vinegar, and mustard : cause loud clatnours and
thundering in the ears. Apply to the nose assafoetida, castor,
and sagapaneux, steeped in vinegar : provoke her to sneeze
by blowing up into her nostrils the powder of castor, white
pepper, Spanish pelitory, and hellebore : hold under her nose
partridge feathers, hair, and burnt leathur, or any other thing
having a strong stinking sn ell ; for evil odours being disa-
greeable to nature, the animal spirits do so contest and strive
against thenv that the natural heat is thereby restored. The
brain is sometimes so oppressed, that there is a necessity foi
burning the outward skin of the head with hot oil, or with a
hot iron. Sharp clysters and suppositories are available.
Take of sage, calamint. horehound, feverfew, marjoram,
betony, hvssop. of each one handful: anniseed half an ounce;
colnquintida, white hellebore, sal gem. of each two drams,'
boil these in two poimds of water to the half, add the strain-
ing oil of castor two ounces, hiera picra two drams, and n ake
a clvster of it ; or, take honey boiled two ounces, cuphorb
half a scruple, coloqumt four grains with hellebore two
grains, salt one dram: make a supnositorv. Hippocrates
writeth of a hysterical woman who could not be freed from
the paroxysm but bv pouring cnUt water upon her: vet this
cure is singular and ought to be administered only in heat of
summer when the sun is in the tropic of Tancer.
If it be caused by the retention and corruption of the seed,
at the instant of the paro?<vsm let the midwife take oil of
lilies, marjoram, and ha\ s, dissolving in the same two grains
of civet, and as much musk : let her dip her finger therein,
and put it up into the neck of the womb tickling and rubbing
she same.
The fit being over, proceed to the curing of the cause, if
It arise from the suppression of the menses, look to the cure
in chap. xi. If from the retention of the seed, a good hus-
band will administer a cure; but those who cannot honestly
purchase that cure, must use such things as will dry up and
diminish the seed, as diacimina, diacalaminthes. &c. Amongst
psiisns, the seed of agnus castas is well esteemed of, v/hether
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS 71
taken inwardly, applied outwardly, or received as suffumiga-
tion ; it was held in great honour amongst the Athenians, for
by it they did remain as pure vessels and preserved their chas-
tity, by only strewing it on the bed whereon they lay, and
hence the name of agnus castus given it, as denoting its ef-
fects Make an issue on the inside of each leg, a hand"
breadth below the knee. Make trochisks of agaric, two scru-
ples, wild carrot seed, lign. aloes, of each half a scruple;
washed turpentine, three drams; wilh conserve of anthos
make a bolus. T'astor is of excellent use in this case, eighi
drams of it taken in white wine; or you may make pills of it
with mithridaxe, and take them going to bed Take of white
briony root, dried and cut after the manner of carrots, one
ounce, put in a draught of wine, placing it by the fire, and
when it is warm, drink it. Take iiivrrh, castor and assafcs-
tida. of each one scrapie: saffron and rue seed, of each four
grains: make eight pills, and take two every night going to bed.
Galen, by his own example, commends unto us agaric pul-
verized, of which he frequently gave one scruple in white
u'ine.' Lay to the navel, at bed time, a head of garlic bruised,
fastening it with a swathing band. Make a girdle of galba-
num for the waist, and also a plaister for the belly, placing in
one part of it civet and musk, which must be laid upon the
navel. Take puJveris, benedict, trochisk of agaric, of each
two drams; of mithridate a sufficient quantity; and so make
two pessaries, and it will purge the matrix of wind and
phlegm : foment the natural part with salid oil, in which hath
been boiled rue, feverfew, and camomile. Take of rose
leaves a handful, cloves two scruples, quilt them in a little
cloth, and boil them in malmsey the eighth part of an hour,
and apply them to the mouth of the womb, as hot as may be
endured, but let not the smell go to her nose. A dry diet
must still be observed. Tlie moderate use of Venus is com-
mended. Let her hread be anniseed biscuit, her flesh mes?
rather roasted tiian boiled.
n ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER VII.
Of ike descending or falling of the Mother
The falling down of the womn is a relaxation of the liga-
tures, whereby the matrix is carried. backward, and in some
bangs out in the bigness of an egg : of this there are two
kinds, distinguished by a descending andprecipitation. Tiie
descending of the womb is, when it sinks down to the en-
trance of the privities, and appears to the eye either not at
all, or very little. The precipitation is, when the womb,
like a purse, is turned inside outward, and hangs betwixt the
thighs in the bigness of a cupping-glass.
Cause. The cause is external or internal ; the external
cause is difficult child birth, violent pulling away of the se-
cundine. rashness and inexperience in drawing away the
child, violent coughing, sneezing, falls, blows, and carrying
heavy burdens. The internal cause in general is overmuch
humidity flowing into these parts, hindering the operations of
the womb, whereby the ligaments by which the womb is sup-
ported are relaxed.
The cause in particular is referred to be in the retention of
the seed, or in the suppression of the monthly course.s.
SiGxs. The arse gut and bladder oftentimes are so crushed
that the passage of both the excrements are hindered , if the
urine flows forth white and thick, and the midriff moistened,
the loins are grieved, the privities pained, and the womb
sinks down to the private parts, or else comes clean out.
Prognostics. This grief possessing an old woman, is
cured with great difficulty : because it weakens the faculties
of the womb, and therefore, though it be reduced into it? pro-
per place, yet upon every little illness or indisposition, it is
subject to return ; and so it also is with the younger sort, il
the disease be inveterate. If it be caused by a putrefaction
of the nerves, it is incurable.
Cube. The womb being naturally placed between the
straight gut and the bladder, and now fallen down, ought
not to be put up again, until the faculty, both of the gut and
of the bladder, be stirred up. Mature being unloaded of her
burden, let the woman be laid on her back in such sort that
her legs may be higher than her head ; let her feet be drawn
up to her hinder parts, with her knees spread abroad ; then
molify the swelling with oil of lilies and sweet almonds, or
with the decoction of mallows, beets, fenugreek, and linseed ;
when the inflammation is dissipated let the raidwife anoint her
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. ?S
hand with oil of mastic, and reduce the womb into its place.
The matrix being up, the situation of the patient must be
changed, let her legs be put out at length, and laid together:
six cupping-glasses, to her breasts and navel: boil mugwort,
feverfew, red roses, and comfreg in red wine; make suflfumi-
gaiion for the matr'x, and move sweet odours to her nose ; and
at her coming out of the bath, give her of syrup of feverfew
one ounce, with a dram of mithridate. Take laudani, mas;
tic, of each three drams, make a plaister of it for the navel;
then make pessaries of assafcstida, saffron, comfrey, and mas-
tic, adding thereto a little castor.
The practice of Parius in this case was to make them only
of cork, in figure like a little egg, covering them over with
wax and mastic, dissolved together, fastening them to a
tbread, and put into the womb.
The present danger being now taken away, and the matrix
seated in its natural abode, the remote cause must be remov-
ed. If the body be plethoric, open a vein ;
prepare with
syrup of betony, calammt, hyssop, and feverfew ;
purge with
pil. hierac, agaric, pil. de colcocin. if the stomach be op-
pressed with crudities, linburden it by vomiting: sudorifical
decoctions of lignum sanctum, and sassafras, taken twenty
days together, dry up the superfluous moisture, and conse-
quentiy suppress the cause of the disease.
Let the air be hot and dry, your diet hot and attenuating;
abstain from dan^ ;:ng, leaping, squeezing, and from all motion
both of boiy aE.?J mind ; eat sparingly, drink little, sleep
aioderately^
CHAPTER Vlil.
Oj ihe Inflammation of the Womb.
The phlegm :;i, or inflammation of the matrix, is an hu-
mour possessf i^ the whole womb, accompanied with unna-
tural heat, by (obstruction, and gathermg together of corrupt
blood
Cause. T'ae cause of this eifect is suppression of the
menses, repUtion of the "whole bodf, immoderate use of Ve-
nus, often handling the genitals, difficult childbirth, vehe-
ment agitasjon of the body, falls, blows ; to which also may
G
n ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
be added, the use of sharp pessaries, whereby not seldom the
womb IS inflamed ;
cupping-glasses also fastened to the pubis
and hypogastrium, draw the humours to the womh.
Signs- The signs are, anguish, humours, pain in the head
and stomach ; vomiting, coldness of the knees, convulsions
of the neck, doating, trembling of tiie heart ; often there is a
straightness of breath, by reason of the heat which is com-
mimicated to the midriff, the breasts synipathismg with the
Womb, pained and swelled Further, if the fore part nt the
matrix be inflamed, the privities are grieved, the urme is sup-
pressed, or flows forth with difiiculty. If the after part, the
loins and back suffer, the excrements are retained on the
right side, the right hip suffers, the right leg is heavy and
glow to motion, insomuch that someTiiiies she seems to halt;
and so if the left side of the womb be inflamed, the left liip
is pained, and the left leg is weaker than the right if the
neck of the womb be refreshed, the midwife puttini^ up her
finger, shall feel the mouth of it retracted, and closed up with
a hardness about it.
Prognostics. All inflammations of the womb are danger-
ous, if not deadly ; and especially if the total sub*;tance of
the matrix be inflamed : but they are very perilous if m the
neck of the womb. A flue .ii the belly foretels health, if it
be natural : for nature works best by the use of her own in-
struments.
Cure. In cure, first let the humours flowing to tne womb
be repelled; for effecting of which, after the belly has been
loosed by cooling clysters, phlebotomy will be needful : open
therefore a vein in the arm, if she be not with child ; the day
after strike the saphena en both feet, fasten ligatures and
cupping-glasses to the arm, ami rub the upper part. Purge
gently with cassia, rhubarb, senna, myrobolans. Take of
senna two drams, anniseed one scruple, myrobolans half an
ounce, barley-water a sufficient quantity make a decoction,
dissolve it in syrup of succory, with rhubarb two ounces,
pulp of cassia half an ounce, oil of anniseed two drops, and
make a potion. At the beginning of the disease anoint the
privities and reins with oil of roses and quinces : make plais-
ters of plantain, linseed, barley- meal, melilot, fenugreek,
whites of eggs, and, if the pain be vehement, a little opium,
foment the genitals with the decoction of poppy heads, purs-
lain, knot-grass, and water-lilies; then make injections of
goat's milk, rose-water, clarafied whey, with honev of roses.
In the declining of the disease, use incisions of sage, linseed,
mugwort, pennyroyal, horehound, and fenugreek; anoint
the lower part of the belly with the oil of camomile and
violets.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. T^
Take lily-roots and mallow-roots, of each four ounces;
mercury one handful ; niugwort, and feverfew, camomile
flowers, and meliiot. of each a handful and a half; bruise the
herbs and roots, and boil them in a sufficient quantity of
milk ; then add fresh butter, oil of camomile, and lilies, of
each two ounces : bean- meal a sufficient quantity: make two
plaisters. the one before, the other behind.
If the tumor cannot be removed, but tends to suppuration,
take fenugreek, mallow-roots, decocted figs, linseed, barley-
meal, dove's dung, turpentine, of each three drams; deer's
suit half a dram, opium half a scruple; with wax make a
plaister.
Take of bay leaves, sage, hyssop, camomile, mugwort, and
with water make an infusion.
Take wormwood and betony, of each half a handful; white
wine and milk, of each half a pound : boil them until one
part be confirmed . then take of this decoction four ounces,
honey of roses two ounces, and make an injection. Yet be-
ware that the humours are not brought down unto the womb.
Take roasted figs and mercury bruised, of each three drams;
turpentine and duck's grease, of each three drams: opiutn,
^wo grains; with wax make a pessary.
The air must be cold : and all 'he motion of the body,
especially of the lower part, is forbidden. Vigilence is com-
mended, for by sleep the humours are carried inward, by
which the inflammation is increased ; eat sparingly; let your
drink be barley water, or clarified whey, and your meat be
chickens, and chicken broth, boiled, with endive, succfrv,
sorrel, bugloss, and mallowSo
CHAPTER IX.
Ofthe Sehirrosity, or Hardness of the Womb,
Of phlegm neglected, or not perfectly cured, is generated
& schirrus of the matrix, which is a hard unnatural swelling,
insensibly hindering the operations of the womb, and dispos-
ing the whole body to slothfulness.
Cause. One cause of this disease may be ascribed to want
of judgment in the physician ; as many empiricks adminis-
teting to an inflammation of the womb, do overmucb refri-
76 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
gerate and affria;e the humour, that it can neither pass for*
ward nor backward ; hence the matter bwing condensed, de-
generates into a lapidious hard substance. Other causes may
be suppression of the menstruous retention of the lochi, com-
monly called the after purgings : eating of corrupt meats,
as in the disorduiate longing called pica, to which breeding
women are so often suoject. it uiay proceed also from ob-
structions and ulcers in the matrix, or from evil effects in the
liver and spleen.
Signs. If the bottom of^'the womb be affected, she feels
as it were a heaw burden representing a- mole . yet diftering,
in tnat the breasis are attenuated and ifie whole body waxed
less. If the neck of Uie wouib t)e affected, no outward hu-
mours will a pnertr ; tiie uiouth ol It is retracted, and being
touched with the fingers, feels ham . nor can she have the
companv of a nan wiiiuxit great [jams and prickings.
Prognostics \ sctmrus confirn ed is incurable and will
turn 'Uto a cancer, or mcuraiile dropsy ; and ending in a
cancer, proves deadly, because the native heat in tliose parts
being afrr.ost sinotliered Ccin hardly again l)e restored.
Cure Where mere Is a repleiion. phlebotomy is advise-
able ; wherefore open the medma on both arms, and the
sapnena on both feet, more especially if the menses be sup-
pressed.
Prepare the huninur with syrup of borage, succory, epithy-
man, ann clanfien v\hey: then take of tliese pills following,
accord ms; to the streugth of the patjent -.
Take of niera picra six trams, black helebore, polvbody,
of each two drains and a half; ajjanc lapis lazuli, abluti sa,
lindiae colri'jumtida. of each one dram and a half; mi: them
and make pills The oody being purged, proceed to molify
the nar'Mif^ss as foUowPth .-
hik-iiu me privities and neck of
the womD with unsiuent. riecalthea, and agrippa ; or take
opopanax. hdellium, ammoniac, and myrrh, of each two
drams, saffron half a nrair, : disb.olve the gum in oil of lilies
and sweet almonds; with wax and turpentine make an un;
guent; applv bplou- the navel ciacalion, ferellia: make infu-
sions of figs, u.ugwort. mallows, penny roval. althea, fennel
roots, melilot. fenusirepk boiled in water. Makean injection
of calamint. linseeci. meiiiot. fenugreek and the four mollif\'-
ing herbs, with oil of dill cainomile. and lilies dissolved in
the same. Three draws uf the gum bdellium ; cast the stone
pyrites on the coals, and let her receive the fume into her
womb. Foment the secret parts with decoction of the roots
and leaves of daiiewoit Takeofgu:ii galbanum, opopanax,
of each one draso. yicc of danewort, mucilage, fenugreek, of
each one dram ; calf's marrow an ounce, wax a sufncien?
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 77
quantity : make a pessary, or make a pessary only of lead,
dipping it in the aforesaid tilings, and so put up.
The air must be temperate : gross, vicious, and salt meats
are forbidden, as pork, bull's beef, fish, old cheese, &c.
CHAPTER X.
Of the Dropsy ofthe Womb.
The uterine dropsy is an unnatural swelling, elevated by
the gathering together of wind or phlegm in the cavity p em-
branes, or substance of the womb, by reason of the debility
of the native heal and aliment received, and so it turns into
an excrement.
The causes are overmuch cold or moistness of the melt
and liver, immoderate drinking, eating of crude meats: all
which, causing a repletion, do suifocate the natural heat.
It may be caused likewise by the overfjowiug of the courses,
or by any other immoderate evacuation. To these may be
added abortions, phlegmons and schirrosities of the womb.
Cure. The signs of this effect are these. The lower parts
of the belley, with the genitals, are puffed up, and pained;
the feet swell, the natural colour of the face decays, the ap-
petite is depraved, and the heaviness of the whole body con-
curs. If she turns herself in the bed, from one side to the
other, a noise like the flowing of water is heard. Water
sometimes comes from the matrix. If the swelling be caused
by wind, the belley being hot. it sounds like a drum ; the guts
rumble, and the wind breaks through the neck of the womb
vi'ith a murmuring noise; this effect may be distinguished
from a true conception many ways, as will appear by the
chapter "Of Conception." It is distinguished from the ge-
neral dropsy, in that the lower parts of the belly are most
welled. Again, in this sanguificative faculty it appears not
so hurtful, nor the urine so pale, nor the countenance so
soon changed, neitlier are the superior parts extenuated as
in the general dropsy.
Prognostics. This effect foretells the sad ruin of the
natural functions, by that singular consent the womb hath
with the liver, and that therefore chachevy, or general dropsy,
will follow.
62
78 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
Cure. In the cure of this disease imitate the practice
of Hippocrates: first, mitigate the pain with fomentation of
melilot, mercury, mallows, linseed, camomile, and althea
;
then let the womb be prepared with syrup of stoebis, hvssop,
calamint, mugwort, of both sorts, with the distilled waters or
decoction of elder, marjorani, sage, origan, sperage, penny-
royal, betony : purge wiih senna, agaric, rhubarb, and cla-
terium. Take specierum, hier. rhubarb, and trochisks of
agaric, of each one scruple; with j(nce of iros make pills.
'
In diseases which have their rise from moistness, purge
with pills. And m these efiects which are causeri by empti
ness or dryness, purge with (>otion. Fasten a cupping glass
to the betley, with a great fiiine. and also the navel, especially
of the swelling be flatulent : n:ake an issue c)n the msirie of
each leg. an handhrea th helow the knee. Take specierum,
dian tirte mamolet, diacalaiinnti, niacinair>oni, diocimini,
and trorh. de myrrh, of each two draajs, sugar one pound:
with betonv water make lozenges: take of them two hours
before meais Aj)pl\ to the hoitom of the belly, as hot as
may be emiured, a lutle bag of camomile, cummin, and n'eli-
lot, boiled in oil of rue : ano ni the belh and secret parts with
unguent aarippa anrl unguent arra-^ons: mingle therewith
oil of iros: cover the lov\'er pnrts of-the hellv with the plais-
ters of bav berries, or a caiaplasm marie of cummin, camo-
mile, briony roots, adding cow's and goat's dung.
Our moderns ascribe great virtues to tobacco-water distill-
ed, and poured into the womb by a metrenchyta. Take hin,
balm, southern wood, origan, wormwood, calamint. hay
leaves, n-arjoram, of each one handful ; juniper berries four
drains, with water make a decoction : of this may be made
fomentations and infusions: make pessaries of storax, aloes,
with the roots of dictau, aristolochia. and gentian Instead
of this you may use pessary, prescribed chapter xvii. Let
her take of electuarium aromaticum, dissatyron, and eringo
roots candied, everv morning.
The air rpust be hoi and dry: moderate exercise is allow-
ed; much sleep is forbidden. She n ay eat the flesh of par-
tridges, laiks, chickens, n.ountain birds, hares, ccnies, &&
Xet her drink be thai wine.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER XL
Of Moles and False Conceptions.
This disease is called hv the Greeks mole : and the cause
of this denoiiiination is taken from the load or heavv weight
of it, ii heing a mole, or great lump of hard flesh burdening
the womb.
It is defined to be an inarticulate piece of flesh, without
form, begoaen in a niatrix as if it wer^e a 'rue conception.
In which definition we are to note two things: first, in that
a mole is said to be marticulafe and without form, it differs
from monsters, which are both formats and articulate : se-
condly, it is said to be as it were a true conception, which
puts a difference between a true conception and a mole:
which difference holds good three ways first, in the genus,
in that a uiole cannot be said to be an animal : secondly, in
the species, because it hath no human figure, and hears not
the character of a man : thirdly, in the individual, for it
hath no affinity with th« parent, either in the whole body
or anv particular part of the same.
Cause. About the cause of this effect, among learned au-
tliors, ! fitid a variety of judgments Some are of opinion,
that if the woman's seed goes into the womb, and not the
man's, tnereby is the mole produced. Others there be that
affirm, it is engendered of the menstruous blood But if these
two were granted, then maids, by having their courses, or
through nocturnal nollutions, might be subject to the same,
which never yet any were. The true cause of this fleshy
mole proceeds both from the man and from the woman, from
corrupt and barren seed m man, and from the menstruous
blooH in the woman, both emitted together in the cavttv of
the womb, where nature finding herself weak, (vet desiring
to maintain the perpetuity of her species,) labours to bring
forth a vicious conception rather than none ; and instead or
aliving creature, generates a lump of flesh.
Signs. The signs of a mole are these: the months are
80 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
suppressed, the appetite is depraved, the breasts swell, and
the belly is suddenly puffed up, and waxeth hard. Thus
far the signs of a breeding woman, and one that beareth a
jnole, are all one. I will show you how they differ. The first
sign of difference is taken from the motion of a mole; it
may be felt to move in the womb before the third month,
which an infant cannot ; yet the motion cannot be understood
of any intelligent power in the mole, but the faculty of the
wotiib and the animal spirits diffused through the substance
of the mole; for it hath not an animal but a vegitative life,
in manner of a plant : secondly, if a mole, the belly is sud-
denly puffed up; but if a true conception, the belly is sud-
denly retracted, and then riseth up by degrees: thirdly, the
belly bemg pressed with the hand, the mole gives way; and
the hand being taken away, it returns to the place again;
but a child in the womb, though pressed with the hand,
moves not presently; and being removed, returns slowly, or
not at all; lastly, tlie child contmiies in the womb not above
eleven months, but a mole continues sometimes four or five
years, more or less, according as it is fastened in the matrix.
J have known a mole fall away in four or five months. If
it remain until the eleventh month, the legs wax feeble, and
the whole body consun)es, only the swelling of the belly
still increases, which makes some think they are dropsi-
cal, though there be little reason for it; for in the dropsy the
legs swell and grow big, but in a mole they consume and
wither.
Prognostics. If, at the delivery of a mole, the flux of
the blood be great, it shows the more danger, because the
parts of nutrition having been violated by the flowing back
of the superfluous humours, where the natural heat is consu-
med : and then parting with so much of her blood, the wo-
man thereby is so weakened in all her faculties, that she can-
not subsist without difficulty.
Cure We are taught in the school of Hippocrates, that
phlebotomy causeth abortion, by taking all that nourishment
which should preserve the life of the child; wherefore, that
this vicious concef)tion may be deprived of that vegitative sap
by which it lives, open the liver vein and the saphena in
both the feet, fasten cupping glasses to the loins and sides of
the belly, which done, let the uterine parts be first mollified,
and then the expulsive faculty provoked to expel the burden.
To laxate the ligature of the mole, take mallows with the
roots, three handsfull ; camomile, melilot, pelitory of the
wall, violet leaves, mercury, root of fennel, parsley, of each
two handsfull ; linseed, fenugreek, each one pound ; boil thera
in water, and let her sit therein up to the navel. At her going
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. SI
out of the bath, anoint the privates and reins with the fol
lowing unguent : take oil of camomile, lilies, sweet almonds,
one ounce each; fresh butter, laudanum, ammoniac, of each
half an ounce: with the oil of linseed make an unguent. Or,
instead of this may be used unguentum agrippa. or dialthea.
Take mercury and althea roots, of each half a handful
;
flos, brachoc, ursini, half a handful: linseed, barley meal,
of each six ounces : boil all these with water and honey,
and make a plaister. make pessaries of the gum galbanum,
bdellium, antimoniacum. figs, hog's suet, and honey.
After the ligaments of the uiole are loosed, let the expul-
sive faculty be stirred up to expel the mole, for effecting of
which all uedicaments may be used which are proper to
bring down the courses Take troch rie uiyrrh one ounce;
castor astro ochia gentium, dictam, of each half an ounce;
make a pov^der : take one dram in four ounces of auigwort
water. Take of hvpericon. calamint, pennvroyal, betony,
hyssop, sage, horehound. Valeria, madder, savine with wa-
rer make a decoction take three ounces of it, with one
ounce and a half of feverfew. Take of mugwort, myrrh, gen-
tian, pill. cnch. of each four scruples; rue, peimyroval sage,
panum. oppopanax. of each a drani : assafoetida cinnanon,
iuniper l)erries, borage of each one dram -.
with the juice of
savine make pills to he taken everv morning make an infu-
sion of hyssop, bay leaves, asirum, calamint : bay berries,
camo riile, mugwort, ervine. cloves, nutmeg, of each two scru-
ples : ,";albaniim one dram : hiera picra and black hellebore
oil, of each one scruple: with turpentine make a pessary.
But if these things prove not available, then must the mole
be drawn away with an instrument put up into the womb,
called a pes griphus, which mav be done with no great dan-
ger, if it be performed bv a skilful surgeon. Xfter the deli-
very of the mole, by reason thaf the woman hath parted with
much blood already, let the flux of blood be staved as soon as
may be. Fasten cupping glasses to the s-hoidders and liga-
tures to the arms, if this help not, open the liver vein in the
right arm.
The air must be tolerably hot and dry, and dry diet, such
as doth mollify and attenuate ; she may drink white wine.
82 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER XII.
Of Conception ; and how a Woman may know whether sht
hath conceived or not, and whether Male or a Female.
The natural instinct that nature has implanted in men and
women to propagate their own species, puts them upon mak-
ing use of those ways that nature has ordained for that end,
which after they have made use of, the woman many times,
through ignorance of her having coriceived, or want of that
due care which she ought to take, is little better than a mur-
derer of her own child, though she intent^s it not ; for, after
conception, finding herselt not well, and, through ignorance,
not knowing what is the matter witli her. goes to a doctor
and inquires of him ; and he knowing nothing but what they
tell him, and not thinking of their being with child, gives
them strong cathartical potions which desftoy the conception.
And some there are, that out of a foolish coyness, though
they do know they have conceived, yet will not confess it,
that they might be instructed how to order themselves ac-
cordingly; those that are so coy may in time learn to be
wiser ; and for the sake of those that are ignorant, I shall set
down the signs ofconception, that women may thereby know
whether ?hey have conceived or not.
Signs. If under the eye the vein be swelled, that is, under
the lower eyelid, the veins in the eyes appearing clearly, and
the eyes sometimes discoloured, if the woman has not the
ternis upon her, nor watched the night before, you may cer-
tainly conclude her to be with child : and this appears most
plainlv just upon her conception ; and the first two months I
never knew this sign to fail.
Keen the urine of the woman close in a glass three days,
and then strain it through a fine linen cloth : if you find small
living creatures in it, she has most assuredly conceived with
child ; for ttie urine which was before part of her own sub-
stance, will be generated ^s well as its mistress.
A coldness and chillness of the outward parts after copu-
ation the heat being retired to make conception.
The veins of the breast are more clearly seen than they
^vere wont to be.
The body is weakened, and the face discoloured.
The belly waxeth very flat, because the womb closeth
itself together to nourish and cherish the seed.
If cold water be drank, a coldness is left in the breasts.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS, 83
Loss of appetite to victuals, sour belchmgs, and exceeding
weakness of stomach.
The breasts begin to swell and wax hard, not without pain
and soreness.
Wringing or griping pains, like the cramp, happen in the
belly about the navel.
Divers appetites and longings are engendered.
The veins of the eyes are clearly seen, and the eyes seem
somewhat discoloured, as a looking glass will show you.
This is an infallible sign.
The excrements of the guts are voided painfully, because
the womb swelling thrusleth the riglu gut together.
Take a handsome green nettle, and put it into the urine oi
the woman; cover it close, and let it remain a whole night
;
if the woman be with child, it will he full of red spots on the
morrow; if she be not, it will be blackish.
There are several other rules of this nature, but these are
the best, and some of them seldom fail.
Now, because many are mighty desirous to know whether
they be with child of a male or a female, 1 will in the next
place lay down some rules whereby you may form a proper
judgment in that case.
Signs ofa Male Child.
The woman breeds a boy easier and with less pain than
girls, and carries her burden not so heavily, but is more nim-
ble in stirring.
The child is first felt by her on the right side ; for the an-
cients are of opinion that male children lie on the right side
of the womb. The woman, when she riseth up from a chair,
doth sooner stay herself upon her right hand than on her
left.
The belly lies rounder and higher than when it is a
female.
The right breast is more plump and harder than the left,
and the right nipple redder.
The colour of a woman is more clear and not so swarthy as
when she conceives a girl.
The contrary to these are signs of the conception of a fe-
male, and therefore it is needless to say any thing of them.
But I will add the following, which have been the result of
my own experience, and which I never knew to fail.
If the circle under the woman's eyes, which is of a wan
blue colour, be more apparent under the right eye, and the
veins most apparent in her right eye, and there most disco-
loured, she is with child of a boy; if the marks be most ap-
parent in her left eye, she is with child of a girl.
§4 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
Again, let her milk a drop of her milk in a basin of fair
water; if it sinks to the bottom, as it drops in, round in a
drop, it is a girl she is with child of; but if it be a boy, it will
spread and swim at the top. This I have often tried, and it
never failed.
CHAPTER XIII.
Of Untimely Births.
When the firuit of the womb comes forth before the seventh
month, that is, before it comes to maturity, it is said to he
abortive; and, in effect, the child proves abortive (I mean,
does not live) if born in the eighth month. And why chil-
dren born in the seventh or ninth month may live, and not in
the eighth month, may seem strange, yet it is ture. The
cause thereof, by some, is ascribed to the planet uhder which
the child is born ; for every month, from the conception to
the birth, is governed by its proper planet; and in the
eighih month Saturn doth predominate, which is cold and dry;
and coldness being an utter enemy to life, destroys the nature
of the child. Hippocrates gives a better reason, viz. the in-
fant being every way perfect and complete in the seventh
month, desires more air and nutriiuent than it had before
and because it cannot obtain these, it labours for a passage
to go out : and if its spirits become weak and faint, and have
not strength sufficient to break the membranes and come
forth, as is decreed by nature, it shall cont(inue in the v;omb
till the ninth month, that in that time its wearied spirits may,
again be strengthened and refreshed ; but if it returns to
strive again the eighth month, and be born, it cannot live,
because the day of its birth is either past or to come. For,
in the eighth month, saith Aven, he is weak an infirm ; and,
therefore, being then cast into the cold air, his spirits cannot
be supported.
Cure. Untimely birth may be caused by co\A ; for as it
maketh the fruit of the tree to wither and to fall down before
it be ripe, so doth it nip the fruit of the womb before it comes
to full perfection, and makes it to be abortive: sometin)es by
humidity, weakening the faculty, that the fruit cannot be re-
strained till the due time: by dryness or emptiness, defrauding
the child of its nourishment: by one of these alcine fluxes,
by phlebotomy, and other evacuations: by inflammations ot
the womb, and other sharp diseases. Sometimes it is caused
by joy, laughter, anger, and especially fear 5 for in that the
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 85
neat forsakes the womb, and runs to the heart for help there,
and so cold strikes in the matrix, whereby the ligaments are
ralaxed, and so abortion follows ; wherefore Plato, in his
time, commanded that the women should shun all temptations
of immoderate joy and pleasure, and likewise avoid all occa-
sions of fear and grief. Abortion also may be caused by the
corruption of the air, bv filthy odours, and especially by the
snuff of a candle; also by falls, blows, violent exercise, leap-
ing, dancmg, &c.
Signs. Signs of future abortion are, extenuation of the
breasts, with a fiux of watery milk, pain m the womb, heavi-
ness m the head, unusual weariness in the hips and thighs,
flosvmg of the courses Signs foretelling the fruit to be dead
in the womb, are hollowness in the eyes, pain in the head,
anguish, horror, paleness of the face and lips, gnawing of the
stomach, no motion of ihe infant, coldness and looseness of
the mouth of the womb, and thickness of the belly, and
watery and bloody excreaients come from the matrix.
CHAPTER XIV.
DirectionsJor Breeding TVomeyi.
The prevention of untimely births consists in taking awav
the forementioned causei:, which must be effected before and
after the conception.
Before conception, if the body be over hot, dry, or moist,
correct it with the contr.ines- if couchmical, purge it: if
phletor'cal. oppn the liver vem ; if roo gross, attenuate it. if
too lean, corroborate and nourish it. All diseases of ths
womb must be removed as f have showed.
After cnnceotion let the air be temi^erate: sleep not over-
much, avoid watchings. much exercise of body passions of
the mind, loud clamours, and filthy smells ;. sweet odours also
are to be rejected of those that are hvsterical Abstain from
all things which provoke either the urine or cours^es: also
fro.u salt, sharp, and wmdy meats. A utoderate diet should
be observed-
If the excrement of the guts be retained, lenify the belly
with clvsters marie of the decnctinn of mallows, violets, with
sugar and conmon oil; or mike broth with borage, bugloss,
beets mallows, taking in the same a little manna. On the
contrarv if she be troubled with looseness in the belly, let it
not be stayed without the judgment of a physician 5 for all
H .
86 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
the uterine fluxes have a malign quality hi them, which mus?
be evacuated before the flux be stayed.
The cough is another accident which accompanieth breed-
ing women, and puts them in great danger of miscarrying,
by a continual distillation falling from the brain. To pre-
vent which, shave away the hair on the cornal and satical
cojssures. and apply thereon the following plaister: take
of resinas half an ounce, of laudana one dram, citron peel,
lign, aloes, olihani, of each a dram ; stirachis liquidae,
and sicca, a sufficient quantity ; dissolve the gums m vine-
gar, and make a plaister : at night going to bed let her take
the fume of these trochisks cast upon the coals. Also, take
of frankincense, storax powder, and red roses, of each a dram
and a half, sandrach eight drams, mastic, benjamin, amber,
of each one dram; with turpentine make trochisks, apply a
cautery to the nape of the neck, and every night let her
take these pills following: take hypocistides, terria;, sigillate,
fine bole, of each half an ounce; bastort, alcatia, styracis,
calamint, of each two drams, cloves one dram ; with syrup
of myrtles make pills.
Jn breeding women there is a corrupted matter generated,
which flowing to the ventricle dejecteth the appetite, and
causeth a vomiting; and the stomach being weak, and not
able to digest this matter, sometimes sends it to the guts,
whereby is caused a flux in the belly, which greatly stirreth
up the faculty of the wnmh. To prevent all these dangers,
the stomach must be corroborated as follows; take iign, aloes
and nutmeg, of each one dram ; mace, clove, mastic, and
laudanum, of each two scruples : oil of spike an ounce . musk
two grains; oil of mastic, quinces, and wormwood, of each
half an ounce ; make an unguent for the stomach to be ap-
plied before meals. But instead thereof may be used cero-
num, stomachile, galeni. Take of conserve of borage, bu-
gloss. and atthos. of each half an ounce: confect. de hyacinth,
lemon peel candied, specierum, diamarg. pulv. de gemmis,
of each two drams; nutmeg and dianibra, of each two scru-
ples ; piony roots and diacorati, of each two drams; with sy-
rup of roses make an electuary ; of which she must take twice
a day two hours before meals. Another accident which per-
plexeth a woman with child is swelling of the legs, which
happens the first three months, by superfluous humours fall-
ing down from the stomach and liver: for the cure whereof,
take oil of roses two drams, salt and vinegar, of each one
dram ; shake them together until the salt be dissolved, and
anoint the legs therewith hot, chafing it in with the hand : it
may be done without danger in the fourth, fifth, or sixth month
of pregnancy ; for the child in the womb may be compared
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 87
So an apple on a tree ; the first three months it is weak and
tender, subject, with the apple, to fall away ; but afterwards,
the membranes being strengthened, the fruit remains firmly
fastened to the womb, not apt to mischances, and so conti-
nues until the seventh month, till growing near the time its
ligaments are again relaxed, like the apple that is almost ripe,
and grow looser every day until the fixed lime of delivery.
If, therefore, the body is in real need of purging, she may do
it without danger in the fourth, fifth, or sixth months: but
not before nor after, unless in some sharp diseases, in which
the mother and the child both are like to perish. Apply
plaisters and unguents to the reins, to strengthen the fruit of
the womb. Take of gum agaric, gajangale, bistort, hypocis-
tic, and storax, of each one dram ; fine bole, nutmeg, mastic,
bollust, sanguis draconis, and myrtle berries, a dram and a
half; wax and turpentine a sufficient quantity: make a plais-
ter. Apply it to the reins in the winter time, and remove it
every twenty four hours, lest the reins be over hot therewith.
In the interim anoint the privities and reins with unguent and
consiiissae; but if it be the summer time, and the reins hot,
the following plaister is more proper : take of red roses one
pound, mastic and red Sanders, of each two drams; bole am-
moniac, red coral and bistort, each two drams; pomegranate
peel prepared, and coriander, of each two drams and a half;
barberries two scruples: oil of mastic and quinces, of each
an ounce; juice of plantain two drams; with pilch make a
plaister; anoint the reins also with unguentum sandal. Once
every week wash the reins with two parts of rose water, and
one part of white wine mingled together and warmed at the
fire This will assuage the heat of the reins, and disperse
the oil of the plaister out of the pores of the skin, aod cause
the ointment or plaister the sooner to penetrate and strength-
en the womb. Some are of opinion, that as long as the load-
stone is laid to the navel, it keeps the woman from abortion.
The like is also recorded of the stone setites, being hanged
about the neck; the same virtue hath the stone samius.
CHAPTER XV.
Directions to be observed by Women at the time of theirJail-
ing in Labour, in order to their safe Delivery, with DireC'
tions for Midwives.
Havi.\g given necessary directions for child-bearing wo-
men, how to govern themselves during the time of their preg-
m ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
nancy, I shall add what is necessary for them to oYj&rve in
order to their delivery.
The time of birth drawing near, let the woman be careful
to send for a skilful midwife, and that rather toe soon than
too late; against which time let her prepare a palJet, bed, or
couch, and place it near the fire, that the midwife and her as-
sistants may pass round, and help on every side as occasion
requires, having a change of linen ready, and a small stool to
rest her feet against, she having more force when they are
bowed than when they are otherwise.
Having thus provided, when the woman feels her pain
come, and the weather not cold, let her wfJk about the room,
resting herself by turns upon the bed, and so expect the com-
ing down of her water, which is a humour contracted in one
of the outward membranes, anrj flows thence when it is broke
by the struggling of the child there being no direct time fixed
for the effl'ix, though generallv it flows rot above two hours
before the birth. Motion will likewise cause the womb to open
and dilate itself when from lying long in bed it is uneasy.
Yet if she be very weak she inav take some gentle cordial to
refresh heiself, if her pain will permit.
If her travail be tedious, she mav re\ ive her spirits with
taking chicken or mutton broth, or she inay take a poached
egg, but must take heed of eating to exct ss.
As for the posiures women are deliverei! in, there are many,
some lying on their beds, some sitting ir a chair, supported
and held by others, or resting upon the bed or chair : some
again upon their knees, being supported upon their arms;
but the nost safe and commodious way is in the bed. and then
the midwife ought to mind the foilo.vin? rules:—Let her lay
the woman upon her back, her bend a little raised by the
help of a pillow, having the like help to s^jpport her reins and
buttocks, and that the rump may lie high for if she lies low,
she cannot well be delivered. Then lef her keep her knees
and thighs as far distant as she can, her legs bowed together
to her buttocks, the soles of her feet anrf heels being fi'<ed
upon a little log of timber placed for thit purpose, that she
mav strain the stronger; and in case hei back be very weak,
a swathing bind must be cast under it the band being four
times double, and about two inches bropd; and this must be
held by two persons, who with steadv lands and equal mo-
tion must raise her up at the time her pains happen . but it
they be not exact in their motion, it is better to let it akme.
And at the same time, let two women hold her shoulders that
she may then strain nut the birth with more advantage: and
then to facilitate it. let a woman stroke or press the upper
part of the belly gently and by degrees. Nor must the woman
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 5y
Vierself be faint hearted, but of good courage, forcing herself
by straining and holding her breath.
In case of delivery, the midwife must wait with patience
till the child's head or other members burst the membrane;
for if through ignoraace, or haste to go to other women, as
some have done the midwife tear the membrane with her
nails, she endangers both the woman and the child ; for by
lying dry. and wanting that sli|:)periness that should make it
easy, it comes forth with great pains.
When the head appears, the midwife must gently hold it
between her hands, and draw the child at such times as the
woman's pains are upon her, and at no other, slipping by de-
grees her forefingers under its arm pits, not using a rough
hand in drawing it forth, lest by that means the tender infant
may receive any deformity of body. As soon as the child is
taken forth, which is for the most part with its face down-
wards, let it be laid on its back, that it may more freely re-
ceive external respiration ; then cut the navel string about
three inches from the body, tying that end which adheres to
the body with a silken string, as near as you can; then cover
the head and ston.ach of the child well, suffering nothing to
come upon tlie face.
The child being thus brought forth, if healthy lay it by, and
let the midwife regard the patient in drawing forth the secun-
dine ; and this she may do by v^agging and stirring them up
and down, and afterwards v;ith a gentle hand drawing them
forth : and if the work be difficult, let the woman hold salt
in her hanjis, shut them close, and breathe hard into them,
and hereby she will know whether the membranes be broken
or not. Tt may be also known by causing her to strain or vomit,
by putting her finger down her throat, or by straining or mov-
ing her lower parts : but let all be done out of hand If this
fail, let her take a draught of raw elder water, or yolk of a
new laid egg, and smell to a piece of assafoetida, especially if
she is troubled with the windy cholic. If she happen to take
cold, it is a great obstruction to the coming down of the se-
cundine : and in such cases, the midwife ought to chafe the ^
woman's belly gently, to break not onlv the wind, but oblige
the secundine to come down. But these proving inefi'ectual,
the midwife must insert her hand into the extern or orifice of
the womb, and gently draw it forth.
Having now discoursed of common births, or such as for
the most part are easy, 1 shall now give directions in cases
of extremity
H2
DO ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER XVI.
In Case of Extremity, what ought to be observed; especially
to IVomen, icho, in their Travail, are attended with a Flux
of Blood, Convulsions and Fits of the Mind.
If the woman's labour be hard and difficult, jjreater reij;ard
must be had then at other times. —And first of all, ihe situa-
tion of the woini) and posture of lying must be acnibs the
bed, being held by suong |'.ers<ons to prevent her slipping
down or moving lierself in tiie operation of the chirurgeon ;
her thighs must be put asunder, as far distant as may be and
so held.; whilst her head must lean upon a bolster, and the
reins of her back be supported after the same manner. Her
rump and buttocks being lifted up, observe to cover her sto-
mach, belly, and thighs, with warm linen, to keep them from
the cold.
The woman being in this posture, let the operator put up
his or her hand, if the neck ol the womb be dilated, and
remove the contracted blood that obstructs the passage of the
birth ; and having by degrees gently irade wa\, let him ten-
derly move the infant, his hand being first anointed with
sweet butter or a harndess pomatum. And if the waters be
not come down, then witliout difficulty mav they be let forth
;
when, if the infant should attempt to break out with its head
foremost, or cross, he may gently turn it to find the feet;
which having done, let him draw forth the one, and fasten it
to the riband, then put it up again, and by degrees find the
other, bringing them as close and even as may be, and be-
tween whiles let the woir^an breathe, urging her to strain, in
helping nature to perfect the birth, tliat it may be drawn forth
;
'
and the readie- _, do it, and that the hold may be the surer,
wrap a linen cloth about the child's thighs, observing to bring
it into the v\orld with its face downwards.
Incase of a flu.x of blood, if the neck of the womb be open,
it must be considered whether the infant or secundine comes
first, which the latter sometimes happenmg to do, stops the
mouth of the womb, and hinders the birth, endangering both
the woman and child ; but in this case tne secundine must be
removed by a swift turn ; and indeed they have by their so
coming down deceived many, who feeling their softness, sup-
posed the womb v/as not dilated, and by this means the woman
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. ei
and child, or at least the latter, has been lost. The secun-
dine moved, the child must be sought for, and drawn forth,
as has been directed; and if in such a case the woman or
child die, the midwife or surgeon is blameless, because they
did their true endeavour.
If it appears upon inquiry that the secundine comes first,
let the woman be delivered with all convenient exp«dition,
because a great flux of blood will follow ; for the veins are
opened, and upon this account two things are to be consi-
dered.
First, The manner of the secundine advancing, whether
Jt be much or little. If the former, and the head of the child
appear first, it may be guided and directed towards the neck
of the vvoii'b, as in the case of natural birth; but if there
appear any difficulty in the delivery, the best way is.to search
for the feet, and thereby draw it forth ; but if the latter, the
secundine may be put back with a gentle hand, and the child
first taken forth.
But if the secundine be far advanced, so that it cannot be
put back, and the child follow it close, then is the secundine
to be taken forth with much care, as swift as may be. and laid
easy without cutting the entrail that is fastened to them ; for
thereby you may be guided to the infarit,which. whether alive
or dead, must be drawn forth by the-feet in all haste; though
it is not to be acted unless in case of great necessity, for in
other cases the secundine ought to come last.
And in drawing forth a dead child, let these directions be
carefully observed bv the surgeon, viz. If the child be fourid
dead, its head being foremost, the delivery will be more diffi-
cult; for it is an apparent sign, by the woman's strength be-
ginning to fail her. that the child, being Head, and wanting its
natural force, can be no ways assisting to its delivery ; where-
fore the most certam and safe way for the surgeon is to put up
his left hand, sliding it as hollow in the palm as he can into
the neck of the womb, and into the lower part thereof to-
wards the feet, and then between the head of the infant and
the neck of the matrix; then having a honk in the right hand,
couch it close, and slip it up above the left hand, between the
head of the child and the flat of his hand, fixing it in the bars
of the temple towards the eye. For want of a convenient
coming at these in the occiputal hone, observe still to keep
the left hand in its place, and with it gentlv moving and stir-
ring the head, and so with the right hand and hook draw the
child forward, admonishing the woman to put forth her utmost
strength, still drawing when the woman's pangs are upon her.
The head being drawn out, with all speed he must slip his
hand up under the arm-holes of the child, and take it quits
92 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
out; giving these things to the woman, viz. a toast of hue
wheaten bread in a quarter of a pint of Ipocras wine.
Now the former application failmg, when tiie woman is in
her bed, let her receive the following portion hot, and rest
till she feels the operation.
Take seven blue figs, cut them to pieces, add to them fenu-
greek, motherwort, and seed of rue, of each five drams; wa-
ter of Pennyroya] and motheiwprt, of each six ounces; boil
them till one half l)e consumed ; and having strained them
agam, add tDchisks of myrrh one dram, and saffron three
grains; sweeten the iiquor with loaf sugar, and spice it with
cinnamon.
Havmg rested upon this, let her labour again as much as
may be: and if she be not successful make a fumigatiun of
castor, opnpanax. and sulphur, and assafoedita, of each. half
a dra(n. beating them into powder, and welting them with the
juice of rue. so that the smoke or fume may only come to the
matrix, and no further.
If these effect not your desire, then tiie following jjlaister
is to be applied, viz. Take of galbanum an ounce and a iialf;
colocvnthia without grains, two drams; the juice of mother-
wort and rue, of eacl) lialf an ounce, add seven ounces of
virgin bees' vvax : t)ruise and melt them together, spreading
tiiem on a se;ircloth, to reach from t'.ie navel to the os pubis,
spreading also the flax, at the same time making a convenient
pessarj- of wood, closing it in a bag of sHk. and dipping it in
a decoction of round birthwort, savin, colocvnthia with grains;
stavescare, black hellebore, of each one drain ; a little sprig
of rue.
But those things not having the desired success, and the
woman's danger still increasing, let the surgeon use his in-
strument to dilate and widen the womb; to which end the
woman nnist be set in a chair, so that she may turn her crup-
per as much from its back as is convenient, drawing likewise
lier legs up as close as she can, spreading her thighs as wide
as may be : or if slie be very weak, it may be more conveni-
ent that she be laid on a bed witli her head downwards, and
her buttocks raised, and both legs drawn up as much as may
be; the stn-geon tlien, with his speculum matricis, or his
apertory, may dilate t!ie womb, and draw out tiie child and
secimdine together, if it be possible: the whole being done,
the womb must be well washed and anointed, and the woman
laid in her bed, and cotnforted with spices and cordials.
This course must be taken in the delivery of all dead chil-
dren, likewise with moles, secundines, and false births, that
will not of themselves come forth in season. If the inslru-
tuent aforesaid will not sufTiciently widen the womb, then
«^''
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. SS
other instruments, as the drake's bill, and long pincers, ought
to be used.
If it so happen that any inflammation, swelling, or con-
gealed blood be contracted in the matrix, under the film of
these tumours, either before or after the birth, where the
matter appears thinner, tlien let the midwife, with a penknife,
or incision instrument, lance it, and press out the corruption,
healing it with a pessary dipt in oil of red roses.
If at any time through cold or some violence, the child
happens to be swelled in any part, or hath contracted a wa-
tery humour, if it remain alive, such means must be used as
are least injurious to the cliild or mother; but if it be dead,
the hutnours must be let out hv incision to facilitate the birth.
If, as it often happens, thai the child comes with its feet
foremost, and the hands dilating themselves from the hips,
in such cases the midwife must be provided with necessary
instruments to stroke and anoint the infant with, to help it
coming forth, lest it turn agam into the womb, holding at the
same time both the arms of the infant close to the hips, that
so it may issue forth after this manner; but if it proves too
big, the womb must be well anointed. The woman must also
take sneezing powder, to make her strain ; those who attend
may gently stroke her belly to make the birth descend, and
keep it from retiring back.
Sometiiues it falls out, that the child coming with the feet
foremost has its arms extended aiwve its head ; but the mid-
wife must not receive it so, but put it back into the womb,
unless the passages be extraordinarily wide, and then ?he
must anoint both the child anvl the womb nor is it safe so to
draw it forth, which must be done after this manner: the
woman must be laid on her back, with her head depressed,
and her buttocks raised : and then the midwife, with a gentle
hand, must compress the belly of the womb, bv that ii;eans
to put back the infant, observing to turn the face of the child
towards the back of its mother, raising up its thighs and
buttocks towards her navel, that so the birth may be mo
natural
If a child hapnen to come forth with one foot, the arm be-
ing extended along the side, and the other foot turned back-
ward, then nmst the woman be instantly taken to her bed, and
laid in the posture above described, at which time the mid
v/ife must carefully put back the foot so appearing, and the
woman rock herself from one side to the other, till she find
the child is turned, but must not alter the posture, nor turn
upon her face : after which she may expect her pains, and
must have great assistance and cordials to revive and suppovi
her soirits.
94 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS
At other times it happens that the child lies across in the
womb, and falls upon its side : in this case the woman must
not be urged in her labour, neither can any expect the birth
in such a manner : therefore the midwife, when she finds it
so, must use great diligence to reduce it to its right form, or
at least to such a form in the womb as may make the delivery
possible and most easy, by moving the buttocks, and guiding
the bead to the passage ; and if she be unsuccessful herein,
let the woman again try by rocking herself to and fro, and
wail with patience till it alters its manner of lying.
Sometimes the child hastens the birth, by expanding its
legs and arms: in uhich, as in the former case, the woman
must rock herself, but not with violence, till she finds those
parts fail to their proper stations; or it may be done by a
gentle compression of the womb: but if neither of them pre-
vail the midw ife, with her hand, must close the legs of the
infant : and. if she con e at them, do the like to the arms, and
so draw it forth ; but if it can be reduced of itself to the pos-
ture of a natiiral birth it is better.
If the infant cones forw ard with both knees foremost, and
the hands hanging down upon the thighs, then must the mid-
wife put both knees upw ard, till tlie feet appear ; taking hold
of which with her left hand, let lier keep her right hand on
the side of the child, and in that posture endeavour to bring
ji forth But if she cannot r!o this, then also must the wo-
man vock herself till the child is in a more convenient posture
for delivery.
Sometimes it happens that the child presses forward with
one arm stretched on its thighs, and the other raised over its
head, and the feet stretched out at length in the womb, in
guch ca'-e, the midwife must not attempt to receive the child
in that posture, but must lay the wonan on the bed in the
n^anner aforesaid, making a soft and gentle compression ou
lier belly, to oblige the child to retire ; which, if it does not,
then must the midwife thrust it back by the shoulder, and
brinti the arm that was stretched above the head to its right
station; for there is more danger in these extremities: and,
therefore the midwife must anoint her bands and the womb
of the won. an with sweet butter, or a proper pomatum, and
thrust her hand as near as she can to the arm of the infant,
and bring it to the side. But if this cannot be done, let the
•woman be laid on her bed to rest awhile; in which time, per-
haps, the child may be reduced to a better posture : which
the midwife finding, she must draw tenderly the arms close
to the hips, and so receive it.
If an infant come with its buttocks foremost, and almost
double, the midwife niusi anoint her hand and thrust it up,
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. S5
,ahd gently heaving up the buttocks and back, strive to iurn
the head to the passage, but not too hastily, lest the infant's
retiring should shape it worse; and, therefore, if it cannot be
turned with the hand, the woman must rock herself on the
bed, taking such comfortable things as may support her spi-
rits, till she perceives the child to turn.
If the child's neck be bowed, and it comes forward with
its shoulders, as sometimes it doth, with the hands anrj feet
stretched upwards, the midwife must gently move the shoul-
ders, that she may direct the head to the passage ; and the
better to effect it, the woman must rock herself as aforesaid.
These and other the like methods are to be observed in
case a woman hath twins, or three children at a birth which
sometimes happens: for, as the single birth hath but one na-
tural and many unnatural forms, even so it may be in a dou-
ble or treble birth.
Wherefore, in all sucn cases, the midwife must take care
to receive that first which is nearest the passage: but not let-
ting the other go, lest by retiring it should change the form ;
and when one is born, she must be speedy in bringing forth
the other. And this birth, if it be in the natural way, is more
easy, because the children are commonly less than those of
single birth, and so require a less passage. But if this birth
come unnaturally, it is far more dangerous than the other.
In the birth of twins, let the widwife be very careful that
the secundine be naturally brought forth, lest the womb, be-
ing delivered of its burden, fall, and so the secundine con-
tinue longer there than is consistent with the woman's safety.
But if one of the twins happen to come with the head, the
other with the feet foremost, then let the midwife deliver the
natural birth first; and if she cannot turn the other, draw it
out in the posture it presses forward ; but if that with its feet
downward be foremost,"she may deliver that first, turning the
other side. But in this case the midwife must carefiiliy see
that it be not a monstrous birth, instead of twins, a body with
two heads, or two bodies joined together, which she rnay soon
know, if both the heads come foremost, by putting up her
hand between the:n, as high as she can ; and then, if she find
they are twins, she may gently put one of them aside to niake
way for the other, taking that first which is most advanced,
leaving the other so that it do not change its situation. And,
for the safety of the other child, as soon as it comes forth out
of the womb, the midwife must tie the navel siring, as hath
before been directed ; and also bind, with a large and long
fillet, that part of the navel that is fastened to the secundine
the more readily to find it.
The second infant being born, let the midwife carefully ex-
&6 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
amine whether there be not two secunriines; for some time?
it falls out, that by the shortness of the ligament, it retires
back to the prejudice of the woman. W^herefnre, lest the
womb should close, it is most expedient to hasten them forth
with all convenient speed.
If two infants are joined together by the bodv, as some-
times it monstrously falls out, then, though the head should
come foremost, yet it is proper, if possible, to turn them, and
draw them forth by the feet, observing, when thev co'pp to
the hips, to draw them out as soon as mav be. \nd here
great care o^ighi to be used in anointing and widening the
passage. But these sorts of bir'hs rarelv happening, ! need
to sav the les< of them . and, therefore, shall next show how
women should be ordered after delivery.
CHAPTER XVII.
Hov) Childbearing Women ought to be ordered after Delivery.
If a woman has had very hard labour, it is necessary she
should be wrapped up in a sheep's skin, taken off before it
is cold, applying the fleshv side to her reins or bellv : or. for
want of this, the skin of a hare or conev, flaved off as soon
as killed, may be applied to the same parts, and in so doing,
a dilation being made in the birth, and the melancholy blood
expelled m these parts, continue these for an hour or two.
Let the woman after vards be swathed vA'ith fine Imen
cloth, about a quarter of a yard in breadth, chafing her belly,
before it is swathed, with oil of St. John's wort : after that,
raise up the matrix with a linen cloth, manv times folded,
then with a linen pillow or quilt, cover her flanks, and place
the swathe so newhat above the haunches, winding it pretty
stiff anplving at the same time, a warm cloth to her nipples;
do not immediatelv use the remedies to keep bark the milk,
by reason, the body at such a time, is out of fra^ne for there
is neither vein nor arterv which does not stronelv beat and
remedies to drive back the milk, being of a dissolving nature,
it is improper to apply them to the breasts, during such dis-
order, lest by doing so. evil hu nours be contrac-'ed in the
breast. Wherefore, twelve hours at least ought to be allow-
ed for the circulation and settle lent of the blood and what
was cast on the lungs by the vehement agitation durmg the
labour, to retire to its proper receptacles.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 97
Some time after delivery, you may make a restrictive of
the yolks of two eggs, and a quarter of a pint of whne wine,
oil of St. John's wort, oil of roses, plantam, and rose-water,
of each one ounce; mix thern together, fold a hnen cloth, and
apply it to the breast, and the pains of those parts will be
greatly eased.
She must by no means sleep directly after delivery: but
about four hours after, she may take broth, caudje, or such
liquid victuals as are nourishing ; and if she be disposed to
sleep, it may be very safely permitted. And this is as much
in case of a natural birth as ought immediately to be done.
But in case of an extremity, or an unnatural birth, the fol-
lowing rules ought to be observed :
In the first place, let the woman keep a temperate diet, by
no means overcharging herself after such en extraordinary
evacuation, not being ruled by giving credit to unskilful nurs-
es, who admonish them to feed heartily, the better to repair
the loss of blood. For that blood is not for the most part
pure, but such as has been detained in the vessels or mem-
brane, better voided, for the health of the woman, than kept,
unless there happen an extraordinary flux of the blood. For
if her nourishment be too tiuich, it may make her liable to a
fever, and increase the milk too much : which curding, very
often turns to imposthumes.
Wherefore, it is requisite, for the first five days especially,
that she take moderately, panado broth, poached eggs, jelly
of chickens or calves' feet, or fresh barley broth, every day
increasing the quantity a little
And if she intend to be a nurse to her child, she must
take something more than ordinary, to increase the milk by
degrees, which must be of no continuance, but drawn off eith-
er by the child or otherwise. In this case likewise, observe
to let her have coriander or fennel seeds boiled in barley
broth ;
but by all means, for the time specified, let her abstain
from meat, if no fever trouble her, she may drink now and
then a small quantity of pure white wine or claret, as also,
syrup of maiden-hair, or any other svrup that is of an astrin-
gent quality, taken in a little water well boiled.
After the fear of a fever or contraction of humour in the
breast is over, she may be nourished more plentifully with the
broth of pullets, capons, pigeons, mutton, veil. &,c which
must not be till after eight days from the time of delivery ; at
which titue the womb, unless some acciflent hinder, has purg;
ed itself It will be then likewise expedient to give cold
meats, but let it be sparingly, that so she may the better gath-
er strength. And let her, during the time, rest quietly and
1
98 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
free from disturbance, not sleeping in the day-time il she cars j
avoid it.
*
Take of both the mallows and pellitory of the wall a hand-
ful ; camomile and ineliiot flowers, of each a handful ; an-
niseed and fennel seed, of each two ounces ; boil them in
a decoction of sheep's head, and take of this three quarts
diss*-: vjno; in i; coi'imon honev, coai>^e sugar, and new fresh
butter, two ounces ; strain it well, and administer it clyster-
wise ; but if it does not operate well, take an ounce of ca-
tholicon.
CHAPTER XVIII.
How to expel the Cholicfrom Women in Childbirth.
These pains frequently afflict the women no less than the
pains of her labour, and are by the ignorant taken many times
the one for the other : and sometimes they happen both at
the same instant ; which is occasioned by a raw, crude, and
watery matter in the stomach, contracted through ill diges-
tion : and while such pains continue, the woman's travail is
retarded.
Therefore, to expel fits of cholic, take two ounces of oil of
sweet almonds, and an ounce of cinnamon water, with three
or four drops of spirits of ginger : then let the woman drink
it off
If this does not abate the pain, make a clyster of camo-
mile, balm-leaves, oil of olives, and new milk, boiling the for-
mer in the latter. Administer it as is usual in such cases.
And then fomentations proper for dispelling of wind will not
be amiss.
if the pain produce a griping in the guts after delivery,
then take of the root of great comfrey one dram, nutmeg and
peach kernels of each two scruples, yellow amber eight
drams, ambergrease one scruple: bruise them together, and
give them, to the woman as she is laid down, in two or three
spoonfuls of white wine : but if she be feverish, then let it
be in as much warm broth.
THE
FAMILY PHYSICIAN.
BEING
CHOICE AND APPROVED REMEDIES FOR SEVERAL
BISTEMPERS INCIDENTAL TO HUMAN BODIES.
For the Apoplexy.
Take man's skull prepared, powder of the roots of male
peony, of each an ounce and a half; contrayerva. bastard
dittany, angelica, zedoary, of each two drams ; mix and make
a powder; add thereto two ounces of candied orange and
Jemon peel, beat all together to a powder, whereof you may
take half a dram or a dram.
A Powderfor the Epilepsy orJailing Sickness
Take of opopanax, crude antimony, dragon's blood, castor,
peony seeds, of each an equal quanritv; make a subtle pow-
der; the dose, half a dram, in black cherrv-water. Before
you take it, the stomach must be cleansed with some proper
vomit, as that ofMynficht's emetic tartar, from four grains
to six; if for children, salt of vitriol, from a scruple to half
a dram.
For a Head-ache of a long standing.
Take the juice of powder or distilled water of hog-lice,
and continue the use of it.
For Spitting ofBlood.
Take conserve of comfrey and of hips, of each an ounce
and a half; conserve red roses, three ounces; dragon's
blood, a dram ; species of hyacinths, two scruples; red coral,
100 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS
a dram ; mix, and with sj'iup of red poppies make a sofl
electuary. Take the quantity of a walnut night and morning.
For a Looseness.
Take Venice treacle and riiascordium, of each half a dram,
in warm ale or waier-gruel, or what you like best at night
going to bed.
For the Bloody-Flux.
First take a dram of powder of rhubarb, in a sufficient
quatititv of conserve of red roses, in the morning early : then
at n!j>nt, take ol loirified or roasted rhubarb, half a dram;
djascoifiiiim, a nram and a half: liquid laudanum cydoma-
ted, a scruple; mix, and make a bolus.
For an Injlammation of the Lungs.
Take of charious water, ten ounces ; water of red pop-
pies, three ounces : syrup of poppies, an ounce : pearl pre-
pared, a fi'am: make a julep, and take a spoonful every
fourth hour.
Ointmentfor the Pleurisy.
Take of oil of violets or sweet almonds, of each an ounce,
with wax and a litde s;iffion: make an ointment, warm it
and bathe it upon the part affected.
An Ointment for the Itch.
Take sulphur vive it powder, half an ounce, oil of tartar
per deliquiii!' a sufficient (juaniuv, ointnieni of roses four
ounces make a liiiii ent. to w hich and a scruple of rhodi-
um to aronvatize, and rub the parts affected by it.
For a Running Scab.
Take two pounds of tar, incorporate it into a thick mass
with well sitrerl a>hes: boil the mass in fountain water, ad
din>^ leaves of ground ivv, white horehound, fumitory roots,
shaTp pointert dock, and of ffocan pan. of each four hands
full: make a bath, to be used with care of taking cold.
For Worms in Children.
Take wormseed half a dram, flour of sulphur a dram, salt
prunel naif a drau! mix, and make a powder. Give as
much as will lie on a silver threepence, night and morning.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 101
In grocer's treacle or honey ; or to people grown up, you
may add a sufficient quantity of aloe rosatum, and so make,
them up into pills ; three or four may be taken every morning.
For Fevers in Children,
Take crabs-eyes a dram, cream of tartar half a dram
white sugar candy finely powdered weight of both ; mix all
well together, and give as much as will lie on a silver three-
pence, in a spoonful of barley-water or sack-whey.
A Quiet JVight Draught when the Cough is violent.
Take water of green wheat sis ounces, syrup diascordium
three ounces, take two or three spoonsful going to bed every
flight, or every other night.
An Electuary for the Dropsy,
Take best rhubard one dram, gum lac prepared two drams,
zyloaloes, cinnamon, long-birtii worth, half an ounce each,
best English saffron half a scruple; with a syrup of chy-
chory and rhubard make an electuary. Take the quantity
of a nutmeg or small walnut, every morning fasting.
For a Tympany Dropsy.
Take roots of cheveril and candied eringo roots half an
ounce each, roots of butcher broom two ounces, grass-roots
three ounces shaving of ivory and hartshorn two drams and
a half each, buidock seeds three drams; boil them in two or
three pounds of spring water. While the strained liquor is
hot, pour it upon the leaves of water cresses and goose-grass
bruised, of each a handful, adding a pint of Rhenish wine.
Make a close infusion for two hours, then strain out the li-
quor again, and add to it three ounces of magistral water and
earth worms, and an ounce and a half of the syrup of the-
five opening roots. Make an apozem, whereof take four
ounces twice a day.
For an Inward Bleeding.
Take leaves of plantain and stinging-nettles, of each three
handfulls, bruise them well, and pour on them six ounces of
plantain water, afterwards make a strong impression, and
drink the whole off. Probatum est.
12
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS,
WORTHY OF NOTICE.
WHEN YOU FIND
A red man to be faithful, a tall man to be
wise, a fat man to be swift of foot, a lean man
to be a fool, a handsome man not to be proud,
a poor man not to be envious, a knave to be no
liar, an upright man not to bold and hearty to
his own loss, one that drawls when he speaks
not to be crafty and circumventing, one that
winks on another with his eyes not to be false
and deceitful, a sailor and hangman to be pi-
tiful, a poor man to build churches, a quack
doctor to have a ^ood conscience, a bailiff not
to be a merciless villain, an hostess not to over-
reckon you, and an usurer to be charitable,
THEN SAY,
Ye have found a prodigy,
Men acting couirary to the common course of
nature.
THE
EXPERIENCED MmWIFE.
INTRODUCTION.
I HAVE given this Book the title of The Experienced Mid-
wife, hold because it is chiefly designed for those that pro-
fess Vlidwiferv. and contains whatever is necessary for them
to know HI the practice thereof anH al-o. because it is the
result of many years' experience, and that in the most diffi-
cult cases, and is, therefore, the more to be depended upon.
A midwife is tiie most necessarv ani^ honourable office, be-
ing indeed a helper of nature: which therefore makes it ne-
cessary for her to be well acquainted with all the operations
of nature in the work of generation, and instruments with
which she works. For she that knows not the Of)erations of
nature, nor with what tools she works, must needs be at a
loss how to assist therein. And seeing the instruments of
operation, both in men and women, are those things bv which
mankind is produced, it is very necessary that all Midwives
should be well acquamted with theui. that thev may the bet-
ter understand their business, and assist nature as there shall
be occasion.
The first thing then necessary as introductory to thts trea-
tise is an anatomical description of the several parts of gene-
ration both in '.nen and women ; but, as in the former part of
this work, I have treated at large upon these subjects, t)eing
desirous to avoid tautology, 1 shall not here repeat any thing
of what was then said, but refer the reader thereto, as a ne-
cessary introduction to what follows And though i shall be
necessitated to speak plainly, that so I mav be understood,
yet I shall do it with that modesty, that none shall have need
to blush, unless it be from something in themselves, rather
than from what they shall find here; having the motto of tiie
royal garter for my defence, which is, " Honi soit qui mai y
pense." " Evil be to him that evil thinks"
A GUIDE
^
TO
CHILD-BEARING WOMEN,
PART SECOND.
CHAPTER VIII.
Section I. Of the Womb.
In this chapter I am to treat of the womb, v/hich the Latins
call matrix. Its parts are two; the mouth of the womb, and
the bottom of it. The mouth is an orifice at the entrance into
it, which may be dilated and shut together like a purse: tor
although in the act of copulation, it is big enough to receive
the glands of the yard, yet, after conception, it is so close and
shut that it will not admit the point of a bodkin to enter; and
5'et again, at the time of the woman's delivery, it is opened to
such an extraordinary degree, that the infant passeth tinough
it into the world : at which time this orifice wholly disap-
pears, and the womb seems to have but one great cavity from
its bottom to the entrance of the neck. When a woman is
not with child, it is a little oblong, and of subs-tance very
thick and close; but when she is with child, it is shortened,
and its thickness diminisheth proportionably to its distension .
and therefore it is a mistake of some anatomists, who affirm
that its substance waxeth thicker a little before a woman's
labour, for any one's reason will inform him, that the more
distended it is, the thinner it must be; and the nearer a wo.
man is to the time of her delivery, the shorter her womb mufcit
be extended. As to the action by which this inward orifice of
the womb is opened and shut, it is purely natural ; for, were
it otherwise, there would not be so many bastards begotten as
there are ; nor would any married woman have so many chil-
dren. Were it in their own power, they would hinder con-
ception, though they would be willing enough tP use copula-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 105
tion ; for nature has attended that action with something so
pleasing and delightful, that they are willing to indulge them-
:?elves in the use thereof, notwithstanding the pains they af
irwards endure, and the hazard of their lives that often fol-
'ws it. And this comes to pass, not so much from an inor-
nate lust in women, as that ihe great Director of Nature,
yr the mcrease and multiplication of mankinri, and even of
all oilier species in the eieit entar} world, hath placea such a
niagnetic virtue in the womb, that it draws the seed to it as
the loadstone does iron.
The Author of Nature has placed the womb in the belly,
that the neai inight always be maintained by the waru'th of
the parts surrounding it : it is therefore seated in the middle
of the h\pogasirum (or lower part of the belly.) between the
bladder and the rectum (or right gut.) by which also it is de-
fended from any hurt through the hardness of the bones ; and
it is placed in the lower part of the belly lor the conveiiiency
of copulation, and of a birth'!> being thrust out at the lull time.
It IS of a figure aln ost round, inclining son ew hat to an ob-
long, in pari resembling a pear; for beng broao at the bot-
tom. It gradually terminates in the point of the orifice, which
is narrow.
The length, breadth, and thickness of the womb differ ac-
cording to ihe age and disposition of the body. For in vir-
gins not ripe it is veiy sinall in all us dm ensions . but, in wo-
men whose terms flow in great quantities, and such as fre-
quently use copulation, it is much larger: and if they have
had children, it is larger in them than in such as have had
jione but, in women of a good stature, and well shaped, it
is (as f have said before.) from the entry of the privy parts to
the bottom of the won b. usually about eight inches but the
length of the body of the womb alone does not exceed three ;
the breadth thereof is near about the san^e, and of the thich-
ness of the little finger, when the womb is not pregnant , but,
v/hen the woman is with child, it becomes of a prodigious
greatness, and the nearer she is to her delivery the more is
the womb extended.
It is not without reason then that nature (or the God of na-
ture) has made the womb of a membranous substance; for
thereby it does the easier open to conceive, is gradually dila-
ted by the growth of the foetus, or young one, and is after-
wards contracted and closed again, to thrust forth both it and
the afterburden, and then to retire to its primitive seat. Hence
also it IS enabled to expel any noxious humours which may
sometimes happen to be contained within it.
Before i have done with the womb, which is the field of
generation, and ought therefore to be the more particiilarly
106 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
taken care of, (for as the seeds of plants can produce no
plants, nor spring, unless sown in ground proper to awaken
and excite their vegetative virtue, so likewise the seed of a
man, though potentially containing all the parts of a child,
never produce so admirable an effect, if it were not cast into
the fruitful field of nature, the womb:) I shall proceed to a
more particular description of its parts, and the uses for which
nature hath designed them.
The womb then is composed of various similar parts, that
is, of membranes, veins, arteries, and nerves, its meiiibranes
are two. and they compose the principal parts of its body;
the outermost of which ariseth from the peritoneum, or caul,
and is very thin, without smooth, but within equal, that it may
the better cleave to the womb, as it is fleshier and thicker
than an\ thing else we meet withm the body when the woman
js not pregnant, and is interwoven with all sorts of fibres or
small strings, that it may the better suffer the extension of the
child and the waters caused during tiie pregnancy, and also
that it may the easier close again after the delivery.
The veins and arteries proceed both from the hypogastrics
and the spermatic vessels, of which I shall speak by and by;
all these are inserted and terminated in the proper membrano
of the wom.b. The arteries supply it with food for nourish
ment, which, being brought together in too great a quantity,
sweats through the substance of it, and distils as it were a
dew into the bottom of the cavity : from whence do proceed
both the terms in ripe virgins, and the bipod which nourish-
€th the embryo in breeding women. The branches which
issue from the spermatic vessels are inserted in each side of
the bottom of the woriib, and are much less than those which
proceed from the hypogastrics, those being greater, and he-
dewing the whole substance of it. There are yet some other
small vessels, which arising the one from the other, are con-
ducted to the internal orifice, and by these those that are
pregnant do purge away the superfluity of their terms, when
they happen to have more than is used in the nourishment of
the infant: by which means nature hath taken such care of
the womb, that during its pregnancy it shall not be obliged
to open itself for the passing away those excrement itior::
humours, which, should it be forced to do, might often et
danger abortion.
As touching the nerves, they proceed from the brain,
which furnishes all the inner parts of the lower belly with
them, which is the true reason it hath so great a sympathy
with the stomach, which is likewise very considerably fur-
nished from the same part: so that the womb cannot be af-
flicted with any pain but the stomach is immediately sensiblo
ARISTOTLE'S WORK§. 167
thereof, which is the cause of those loathings or frequenJ
vomitings which happen to it.
But, besides all these parts which compose the womb, it
hath yet four ligaments, whose office it is to Iteep it firm in
its place, and prevent its constant agitation, by the continual
motion of the intestines which surround it ; two of which
are above, and two below. Those above are called the broad
ligaments, because of their broad and membranous figure,
and are nothing else but the production of the peritoneum,
which growing out of the side of the loins, towards the reins,
come to be inserted in the sides of the bottom of the womb,
to hinder the body from bearing too much on the neck, and
so from suffering a precipitation, as will sometimes happen
when the liga nents are too much relaxed : and do also con-
tain the testicles, and as well safely conduct the different
vessels as the ejaculatories to the womb. The lowermost are
called round ligaments, taking their original from the side of
the womb near the horn, from which they pass the groin,
together with the production of the f)eritoneum, which ac-
companies them through the rings and holes of the oblique
and transverse muscles of the belly, by which they divide
themselves into many little branches, resembling the foot
of a goose, of which some are inserted into the os pubis, and
the rest are lost and confounded with the membranes that
cover the upper and interior parts of the thigh : and it is
that which causeth the numbness which women with child
feel in their thighs. These two ligaments are long, round,
and nervous, and pretty big in their beginning, near the ma-
trix, hollow in their rise, and all along fo the os pubis,
where thev are a little smaller, and become flat, the better
to be inserted in the manner aforesaid, ft is bv their means
the womb is hindered from rising too high. Now, although
the womb is held in its natural situation by means of these
four ligaments, yet it has litierty enough to extend itself
when pregnant, because they are very loose, and so easily
yield to distention. But, besides these ligaments, which
keep the womb as it ^vere in a poise, yet it is fastened, for
greater security, by its neck, both to the bladder and rectum,
between which it is situated. —Whence it comes to pass, that
if at any time the womb be inflamed, it communicates the
inflammation to the neighbouring parts.
Its use or proper action, in the work of generation, is to
receive and retain the seed, and deduce from it power and
action by its lieat for the generation of the infant; and is
therefore absolutely necessary for the conservation of the spe-
cies. It also seems by accident to receive and er.peX ths in!-
108 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
purities of the whole body, as when women have abundance
of whites; and to purge away, from time to time, the super-
fluity of the blood, as when a woman is not with child.
SECTION II.
Of the Difference between the Ancient and Modern Physi
cianSf touching the Woman's contributing Seed to the
Formation of the Child.
Our modern anatomists and physicians are of different sen-
timents from the ancients touching the woman's contributing
of seed for the formation of the child, as well as the man ;
the ancients strongly affirming it, but our modern authors
being generally of another judgment. I will not make myself
a party in this contr-oversy, but set down impartially, yet
briefly, the argunents on each side, and leave the judicious
reader to judge for himself
Though it is apparent, say the ancients, that the seed of
man is the principal efficient and beginning of action, mo-
tion, and generation, yet that the woman affiirds seed, and
contributes to the procreation of the child, is evident from
hence, that the women have seminal vessels, which had been
given her in vain if she wanted seminal excrescence : but
since nature forms nothing in vain, it must be granted they
were made for the use of seed and procreation, and fixed in.
their proper places, to operate and contribute virtue and effi-
cacy to the seed; and this, say they, is further proved from
hence, that if women at years of maturity use not copula-
tion to eject their seed, they often fall into strange diseases,
as appears by young women and virgins: and also it appears
that the women are never better pleased than when they
are often satisfied this way, which argues that the pleasure
and delight, say the\% is double in women to what it is in
men ; for as the delight of men in copulation consists chiefiy
in the emission of ihe seed, so women are delighted both in
the emission of their own and the reception of the man's.
But against all this, our modern authors affirm, that the
ancients are very erroneous, inasmuch as the testicles in wo-
men do not afford seed, but are two eggs, like those of fowls
and other creatures; neither have they any such offices as
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 109
in men, but are indeed an ovarium, or recepticle for eggs,
wherein these eggs are nourished by the sanguinary vessels
dispersed through thf^m ; and from thence one or more, as
they have fecundated by the man's seed, are conveyed into
the womb by the ovaducts. And the truth of this, say they,
is so plain, that if you boil them, their liquor will have the
same taste, colour, and consistency, with the taste of birds'
eggs. And if it be objected, that tliey have no shell, the an-
swer is easy : for the eggs of fowls, while thev are in the
ovary, nay, after they are fallen snto the uterus, have no shell;
and though they have one when they are laid, yet is no
more than a fence which nature has provided for them
against outward injuries, they being hatched without the
body; but those of women being hatched within the body
have no need of any other fence than the womb to secure
them.
They also further say, there are in the generation of the
fcetus, or young ones, two principles, active and passive:
the active is the man's seed elaborated in the testicles, out
of the arterial blood and aniiital spirit ; the passive princi-
ple is the ovum, or egg, impregnated by the man's seed : for
to say that women have true seed, say they, is erroneous.
But the manner of conception is this: the most spirituous
part of man's seed, in the act of copulation, reaching up to
the ovarum or testicles of the woman (which contain divers
eggs, sometimes more, sometimes fewer,) impregnated one
of them ; which, being conveyed by the ovaduct to the
bottom of the womb, presently begins to swell bigger and
bigger, and drinks in the moisture that is plentifully
sent thither, after the same manner that the seeds in the
ground suck in the fertile moisture thereof to make them
sprout.
But, notwithstanding what is here urged by our modem
anatomists, there are some late writers of the opinion of the
ancients, viz. that women both have, and emit seed in the
act of copulation ; and even women themselves take ill to be
thought merely passive in that act wherein they make such
vigorous exertion, and positively affirm, that they are sen-
sible of the emission of their seed in that action, and that
in it a great part of the delight which thev take in that action
consists. 1 shall not, therefore, go about to take away any
of their happiness from them, but leave them in possession
of their imaginary felicity.
Having thus laid the foundation of this work, 1 will now
proceed to speak of conception, and of those things that arc
necessary to be observed by women from the time of thci?
eonception to the time of their delivery.
110 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER II.
OF conception; what it is; how women are
TO ORDER THEMSELVES AFTER CONCEPTION.
SECTION I.
JVhat Conception is, and the Qualifications requisite thereto.
Conception is nothing else but an action of the womb, by
which the prolific seed is received and retained, that an
infant may be engendered and formed out of it. There are
two sorts of conception : the one according to nature, which
is followed by the g«M)eration of the infant in the womb; the
other false, and wholly against nature, in which the seed
changes info water, and produces Only false conceptions,
moles, or ottier strange matter. Now, there are three things
particularly necessarv in order to a true conception, so that
generation may follow, viz. diversity of sex, congression. and
emission of seed. V\ ithout diversity of sex there can be no
conception ; for, though some will have a women to be an
animal that can engender of herself, it is a great mistake;
there can be no conception without a man to discharge his
seed into her womb. What they alledge of pullets laying
eggs without a cock's treadmg them is nothing to the purpose;
for those eggs, should they be set under a hen, will never be-
come chickens, because they never received any prolific vir-
tue from the male, which is absolutely necessary to this pur-
pose, and is sufficient to convince us. that diversity of sex is
necessary even to those animals, as well as to the generation
of man. But divers. 'y of sex, though it be necessary to con-
ception, yet it will not do alone ; there must also be a con-
gression of those different sexes; for diversity of sex would
profit little, if copulation did not follow. I confess 1 have
heard of some subtle women, who. to cover their sin and
shame, have endeavoured to persuade some peasants that
they were never touched by man to get them with child : and
thai one. in particular, pretended to conceive by going into a
bath where a man had washed himself a little before, and
spent his seed in it, which was drawn and sucked into her
ARISTOTLE'S WOLKS. Ill
^'omb, as she pretended. But such stories as these are only
for those who know no better. Now, that tuese different sexes
should be obliged to come to the touch, which we call copu-
lation, or coition, besides the natural desire of begetting their
like, which stirs up men and women to it, t'le parts appointed
for generation are endowed by nature with a delightful and
mutual itch, which begets in them a desire to ;he action . with-
out which, it would not be verv easy for a man, born for the
conteuiplation of divine mysteries, to join hiiHi^elf by the way
of coition, to a woman, in regard of the uncieanness of the
Eart and of the action. And on the other siile, if vvomen did
ut think of those pains and inconveniences to which they
a^e subject by their great nellies, and those hazards of life
itself, besides the unavoidable pains tnat attend their delivery,
it IS reasonable to believe thev would be affrignted from it.
But neither sex makes these reflections till niter the action is
over, considering nothing beforehand but the fiieasure of en-
joyment; so that it is from this voluptuous itch that nature
obliges both sexes to this congression. Upon which the
third thing followeth of course, viz the emission of seed into
the womb in the act of copulation For the woman having
received this prolific seed into her womb, and retained it
there, the womb thereupon becomes depressed and embra-
CQS the seed so closely, that being closed, the point of a nee-
dle cannot enter it without violence And now the woman
may be said to have conceived, having reduced by her heat
from power into action the several faculties whicn are in the
seed contained, making use of the spirits with which the heed
abounds, and which are the instruments which begin to trace
'lutihe first lineaments of all the parts, and which aftet wards,
by making use of the men-truous blood Sowing to it. give Lt
in time, growth and final perfection. \nd fhiis much shaS'l
siiiffice to explain what conception is. I shall now proceed
to show,
SECTION II.
Mow a Woman ought to order herself after Conception.
My design in this treatise being brevity. I shall bring for-
ward a little of what the learned have said of the causes of
twins, and whether there be any such thing as superfoeta-
tions, or a second conception, in a woman, (which is yet com-
mon enough) when I come to show you how the midwife
ought to proceed in the delivery of these women that are
pregnant with them. But, having already spoke of concep-
tion, I think it now necessary to show how such as have
coEceiFed ought to order themselves during their pregnaticy.
112 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
that they may avoid those inconveniences which often en-
danger the life of the child, and many times their own.
A woman, after her conception, during the time of her be-
ing with child, ought to be looked on as indisposed or sick,
though in good health; for child-bearing is a kind of one
month's sickness, being all that time in expectation of many
inconveniences which such a condition usually causes to
those that are not well governed during that time ; and there-
fore ought to resemble a good pilot, who, when sailing on a
rough sea, and full of rocks, avoids and shuns the danger, if
he steers with prudence; but if not, it is a thousand to one
but he suffers shipwreck. In like manner, a woman with
child is often in danger of miscarrying and losing ner life, if
she is not very careful to prevent those accidents to which
she is subjficr all the time of her pregnancy; all which time
her care must be double, first of herself, and secondly of the
child she goes with: for otherwise, a single error may pro-
duce a double mischief for, if she receives anv prejudice,
her child also suffers with her. Let a wodian, therefore, after
conception, observe a good diet, suitable to her ten'pera-
meiit, custom, condition, and quality •
and if she can, let the
air where slie ordinarily dwells be clear anr* well teriipered,
free from extremes either of heat or cold . for being too hot it
dissipateth the spirits too u.uch, and canseth many weak-
nesses: anr^ b\ being too cold and foggv, it may bring down
rheums and distillations on the lungs, and so caii^e her to
cough, which by its impetuous motion, forcing downwards,
may make her miscarry. She ought also to avoid all nau-
seous and ill smells : for sortietimes the stench of a candle,
not well put out, may cause her to come before her time;
and 1 have known the smell of charcoal to have the same
eiFect. Let her also avoid of smelling of rue, mint, penny-
royal castor, brimstone, &.c.
But, with respect to their diet, women with child have
generally so great loathings, and so many different longings,
that it is very difficult to prescribe an exact diet for them.
Only this I think advisable, that they may use those meats
and drinks which are to them most desirable, though per-
haps not in themselves so wholesome as some others, and it
may be, not so pleasant : but this liberty must be made use of
with this caution, that what she so desires be not in itself un-
wholesome; and also, that in every thing she take care of
excess.
But, if a child-bearing woman finds herself not troubled
with such longings as we have spoken of, let her take simple
food, and in such quantity as may be sufficient for herself and
the child, which her appetite may in a great measure regu^
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 113
^te ; for it is alike hurtful to her to fast too long, or to eat too
much : and, therefore, rather let tier eat a little and often :
especially let her avoid eating too much at night ; because the
stomach being too much filled compresseth ihe diaphragms,
and thereby causes difficulty of breathing. Let her meat be
easy of digestion, such as the tenderest parts of beef, mutton,
veal, sows, pullets, capons, pigeons, and patridges, either
boiled or roasted, as she likes best: new laid eggs are also
very good for her; and let her put into her brottis those
herbs that purify it, as sorrel, lettuce, succory, and burrage:
for they will purge and purify the blood. Let her avoid
whatsoever is hot seasoned, especially pies and baked meats,
which, being of hot digestion, overcharge the storiiach. If
she desires fish, let it be fresh, and such as is taken out of ri-
vers and running streams. Let her eat quinces or marma-
lade, to strengthen her child; for which purpose sweet al-
monds, honey, sweet apples, and full ripe grapes, are also
good. Let tier abstain from all sharp, sour, bitter, and salt
things : and all thmgs that tend to provoke tlie terms—such
as garlic, onions, olives, mustard, fennel, pepper, and all
spices except cinnamon, which in the last three montns is
good for her. If at first her diet be sparing as she increases
in bigness let her diet be increased -.
for she ought to consi-
der she has a child as well as herself to nourish Let her be
moderate in her drinking: and if she drinks wine, let it be
rather claret than white, (which will breed good blood, help
the digestion, and comfort the stomach, which is always weak-
ly during her pregnancy.) but white wine being diuretic, or
that which provokes urine, ought to be avoided. Let her
have a care of too much exercise : and let her avoid dancmg,
riding in a coach, or whatever else puts the body into vio-
lent motion, especially in her first month. But to be more
particular, I shall here set down rules proper for every
month for child bearing women to order herself and from the
time she first conceived to the time of her delivery.
Rulesfor the First Two Months
jus soon as a woman knows (or has reason to believe) she
hath conceived she ought to abstain from all violent motions
and exercise; whether she walks on foot, or rides on horse-
back, or in a coach, it ought to be very gently. Let her also
abstain from every venery (to which, after conception, she has
usually no great inclination,) lest there be a mole or superfoe-
tation ; which is ihe adding of one embryo to another Let
her beware she lift not her arms too high, nor carry great
burdens, nor repose herself on bard and uneasy seats Let
her use moderately good juicv m«at, and of easy digestion ;
K2
114 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
and let her wine be neither too strong nor too sharp, but a
little mingled with water ; or if she be very abstemious, she
may use water wherein cinnamon is boiled. Let her avoid
fastings, thirst, watching, mourning, sadness, anger, and all
other perturbations of the mind Let none present any
strange or unwholesome thing to her, nor so much as name
it, lest she should desire it, and not be able to get it, and so
either cause her to miscarry, or the child to have some de-
formity on that account. Let her belly be kept loose with
prunes, raisins, or manna, in her broth ; and let her use the
following electuary, to strengthen the womb and the child :
" Take conserve of burrage, buglos, and red roses, each
two ounces; of balm an ounce; citron peel and shreos, mi-
robolaus candied, each an uuuce ; extract of wood aloes, a
scruple; pearl prepared, half a dram : red coral, ivorv. each
a dram ;
precious stones, each a scrnple ; candied riutmegs,
two drams: and with syrup of apples and quinces make an
electuary,"
Let her observe the follotoing Rules.
" Take pearls prepared, a dram ; red coral prepared and
ivory, each half a dram ; precious stones, each a scruple ;
yellow citron peels, mace, cinnamon, cloves, each half a
dram ; saffron, a scruple ; wood aloes, half a scruple ; am-
bergris, six drams ; and with six ounces of sugar dissolved in
rose water, make rolls." Let her also apply strengtheners
to the navel, of nutmegs, mace, mastich. made up in bags, or
a toast dipt in malmsey, sprinkled with powder of mint.
Jf she happens to desire clay, chalk, or coals (as many women
with child do,) give her beans boiled with sugar; and if she
happens to long for any thing which she cannot obtain, let
her presently drink a large draught of pure cold water.
Rulesfor the Third Month.
In his month and the next, be sure to keep from bleeding;
for though it may be safe and proper at other times, it will
not be so to the end of the fourth month ; and yet if too much
blood abound, or some incident disease happen, which re-
quires evacuation, you may use a cupping-glass, with sacrifi-
cation, and a little blood mav be drawn from the shoulders
and arms, especially if she has been accustomed to bleed.
Let her also take care of lacing herself too straitly, but give
herself more liberty than she used to do ; for, inclosing her
belly in too straight a mould, she hinders the infant from
taking its free growth, and often makes it come before its
tiiDe>
ABISTOTLE!S WORKS. U^
Rulesfor the Fourth Month.
In this month you ought to keep the childbearing woman
from bleeding, unless in extraordinary cases ; but when this
month is past, bloodletting and physic may be permitted, if
it be gentle and mild ; and perhaps it may be necessary to
prevent abortion. In this month she may purge in an acute
disease ; but purging may be only used from the beginning of
this month to the end of the sixtli : but let her take care that
in purging she use no vehement medicine, nor any bitter, as
aloes, which is disagreeable and hurtful to the child, and
opens the mouth of the vessels: neither let her use coloquin-
tida, scammony, nor turbith : she may use cassia, n.anna, rhu-
barb, agaric, and senr.a : but dyacidodium purgans is beet,
with a little of the electuary of the juice of roses.
Rules for the Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Months.
In these months childbearing women are troubled with
coughs, heartbeating, fainting, watching pains in the loins
and hips, and bleeding. The cough is from a sharp vapour
that comes to the jaws and rough artery from the terms, ot
the thin part of that blood gotten into the veins of the breast,
or falling from the head to the breast.; this endangers abor-
tion, and strength fails from watching : therefore purge the
humours that fall to the breast with rhubarb and agaric, and
strengthen the head as in a catarrh, and give sweet lenitives,
as in a cough. Palpatation and fainting arise from vapours
that go to it by the arteries, or from blood that aboundeth,
and cannot get out at the womb, but ascends, and oppresseth
the heart: and in this case cordials should be used both in-
wardly and outwardly. Watching is from sharp dry vapourfi
that trouble the animal spirits, and in this case use frictionSf
and let the woman wash her feet at bed-time, and let her
take syrup of poppies, dried roses, emulsions of sweet al-
monds, and white poppy seed. If she be troubled with pains
in her loins and hips, as in these months she is subject to be
from the weight of her child, who is now grown big and heavy,
and so stretcheth the ligaments of the womb, and parts ad-
jacent, let her hold it up with swathing bands about her
neck. About this time also the woman often happens to
have a flux of blood ; either at the nose, womb, or hemor-
rhoids, from plenty of blood, or from the weakness of the
child that takes it not in in ; or else from evil humour in the
blood, that stirs up nature to send it forth. And sometimes
it happens that the vessels of the womb may be broken,
either by some violent motion, fall, cougb, or trouble of nuniJ,
116 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
(for any of these will work that effect ;) and this is so danger^
ous, that in such a case the child cannot be well : but if it
be from blood only, the danger is less, provided it flows by
the veins of the neck of the womb : for then it prevents
plethory, and takes not away the nourishment of the child;
out if it proceeds from the weakness of the child, that draws
it not in, abortion of the child often follows, or hard travail,
or else she goes beyond her time. But if it flows by the in-
ward veins of the womb, there is more danger by the open-
ness of the womb, if it come from evil blood : the danger is
alike from cacochimi, which is like to fall upon both. Ff it
arises from plethory. open a vein, but with very great caution,
and use astringents, of which the following will do well :
—
take pearls prepared, a scruple ; red coral, two scruples
;
mace, nutmegs, each a drain: cinnamon, half a dram; make
a powder, or, with sugar, rolls. Or give this powder in broth
;
"Take red coral, a dram ; half a dram precious stones: red
Sander, half a dram : sealed earth, tormentil roots, each two
scruples, with sugar of roses, and manus Christi : with pearl,
five drams : make a powder You may also strengthen the
child at the navel ; and if there be a cachochimy, alter the
humours: and if you mav do it safely, evacuate: you may
likewise use amulets in her hands and about her neck. In a
flux of hemorrhoids, wear off the pain ; and let her drink hot
wine with a toasted nutmeg. In these months the belly is
also subject to be bound ; but if it be without any apparent
disease, the broth of a chicken, or veal sodden with oil, or
with the decoction of mallows, or marshinallows, mercury,
and linseed, put up in a clyster, will not be amiss, but in less
quantity than is given in other cases: viz of the decoction
five ounces, of common oil three ounces, of sugar two ounces,
of cassia fistula one ounce. But if she will not take a clyster,
one or two yolks of new laid eggs, or a little peas' pottage
warm, with a little salt and sugar, supped a little before meat,
will be very convenient. But if her belly shall be distended
and stretched out with wind, a little fennel seed and anni-
seed reduced into powder, and mingled with honey and su-
gar, made after the manner of an electuary, will do very well.
Also, if the thighs and feet swell, let them be anointed with
exphrodinum (which is a liquid medicine made with vinegar
and rose-water,) mingled with salt.
Rulesfor the Eighth Month.
The eighth is commonly the most dangerous, therefore the
greatest care and caution ought to be used ; the diet better
in quality but no; more, nor indeed so much in quantity as
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 117
before ; but as she must abate her diet, so she must increase
her exercise : and because then women with child, by rea-
son that sharp humours aher the belly, are accustomed to
weaken their spirits and strength, they may well take before
meat an electuary of diarrhoden or aromaticum rosatum, or
diamagarton ; and sometimes they may lick a little honey
:
as they will loathe and nauseate their meat, they may take
green ginger candied with sugar, or the rinds of citron and
oranges candied : and let them often use honey for the
strengthening of the infant. When she is not far from her
labour, let her eat every day seven roasted figs before meat,
and sometimes let her lick a little honey. But let her be-
ware of salt and powdered meat, for it is neither good fo£
her nor the child.
Rules for the JVinth Month.
In the ninth month let her have a care of lifting any great
weight; but let her move a little more, to dilate the parts
and stir up natural heat. Let her take heed of stooping, and
neither sit too much, nor lie on her sides ; neither ought she
to bend herself much, lest the child be unfolded m the umbi-
lical ligament, by which means it often perisheth. Let her
walk and stir often, and let her exercise be rather to go up-
ward*, than downwards. Let her diet, now especially, be light
and easy of digestion ; and damask prunes with sugar, or figs
with raisins, before meat ; as also tr e volks of eggs,, flesh and
broth of chicken, birds, partridges, and pheasants . astrin-
gent and roasted meats, with rice, hard eggs, millet and
such like other things are proper. Baths of sweet water,
with emollient herbs, ought to be used by her this month with
some intermission . and after the baths, let her belly be
anointed with oil of roses and violets : but for her privy parts
it is better to anoint them with the fat of hens, geese, or
ducks, or with oil of lilies; and the decoction of linseed and
fenugreek, boiled with oil of linseed and marshmallows, or
with the following liniment:
" Take of mallows and marshmallows, cut and shred, of
each an ounce: of linseed one ounce; let them be boiled
from twenty ounces of water to ten : then let her take three
ounces of the boiled broth; of oil of almonds and oil of flow-
er-de-luce, of each one ounce; of deer's suet three ounces."
Let her bathe with this, and anoint herself with it warm.
If for fourteen days before the birth she do every morning
and evening bathe and moisten her belly with muscadine and
lavender water, the child will be much strengthened thereby.
And if every day she eat toasted bread it will hinder any
ns ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
thing from growing to tiie child. Her privy parts may be
gently stroked down with this fomentation.
"Take three ounces of linseed, and one handful each of
mallows and marshmallows sliced, then let them be put in a
bag and immediately boiled." Let tne woman with child
every morning and eveumg take the vapour of this decoction
in a hollow stool, takmg great heed that no wind or air come
to her in parts, and then let her wipe the pan so anointed
with a linen cloth, and she may anoint the belly and groins
as at first.
When she is come so near her time as to be within ten or
fourteen days thereof if she begins to feel anv more than or-
dinary pain, let her use every day the following:—"Take
mallows and marshmallows, of each one handful ; camomile,
hard mercury, maiden hair, of each half a handful; of lin-
seed, four ounces ; let them be boiled in such a sufficient
quantity of water as to make a bath therewith." But let her
not sit too hot upon the seat, nor higher than a little above
her navel : nor let her sit on it longer than about half an hour,
lest her strength languish and decay; for it is better to use it
often than to stay too long in it.
And thus have I shown how a child bfaring woman ough
to govern herself each month during her pregnancy. How
she must order herself at her delivery, shall be shown in
another chapter, after I have first shown the ntended mid-
wife how the child is first formed in the womb, and the
raanner of its decumbiture there.
CHAPTER m.
Of the Parts proper to a Child in the Womb. How it ts
Jhrmed there^ and the manner of its Situation therein.
In the last chapter I treated of conception, showing what
it was how accomplished, its signs, and how she who has
conceived ought to order herself during the time of her preg-
nancy. Now before I come to speak of her delivery, it is ne-
cessarv that the midwife be first made acquainted with the
parts proper to a child in the womb •
and also, that she be
shown how it is formed : and the manner of its situation and
decumbiture there : which are so necessary to her, that with-
out the knowledge thereof no one can tell how to deliver
a woman as she ought. This, therefore, shall be the work of
ifeis chapter. I shall begin with the first of these.
AHI9TOTLE»9 WORSS. '
119
SECTION I.
Of iht Parts prover to a Child in the Womb.
In this section I must first tell you what I mean by the
parts proper to the child in the womb; and they are only
those that either help or nourish it, whilst it is lodged in that
dark repository of nature, and that help to clothe and defend
it there, and are cast away, as of no mure use. after it is born
;
and these are two, viz. the umbilicurs, or navel vessels, and
the secundinum. By the first it is nourished, and by the
second clothed and defended from wrong. Of each of these
1 shall speak distinctly: and, first,
Ofthe Umbilicurs, or J^avel Vessels.
These are four in number, viz. one vein, two arteries and
the vessel which is called the urachos.
1. The vein is that by which the infant is nourished, from
the time of its conception till the time of its delivery ; till, be-
ing brought into the light of this world, it has the same way,
of concocting its food that we have. This vein ariseth from
the liver of the child, and is divided into two parts when it
hath passed the navel ; and these two are again divided and
subdivided, the branches being upheld by the skin called
chorion (of which I shall speak by and by,) and are joined to
the veins of the mother's womb, from whence they have
thefir blood for the nourishment of the child.
2. The arteries are two on each side, which proceed from
the back branches of the great artery of the mother; and the
vital blood is carried by those to the child, being ready con-
cocted by the mother.
3. A nervous or sinewy production is led from the bottom
of the bladder of the infant to the navel, and this is called
vrachos : and its use is to convey the urine of the infant from
the bladder to the alantois. Anatomists do very much vaiy
in their opinions concerning this: some denying any such
thing to be in the delivery of women : and others on the con-
trary, affirming it : but experience has testified there is such
a thing; for Bartholomew Carbrolius, the ordinary doctor
of anatomy to the College of Physicians at Montpelier, in
France, records the history of a maid, whose water, being a
long time stopped, at last issued out through her navel. And
Johannes Fernelius speaks of the same thing that happened
to a man of thirty years of age, who, having a stoppage at the
120 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
neck of the blarlder, his urine issued out of his navel many
months together, and that without any prejudice at all to his
healih which he ascribes to the ill lying of his navel, where-
by the urachos was not well dried. And Volchier Coitas
quotes such another instance in a maid of 34 j'earsof age, at
Nuremburg, in Germany. These mstances, though they
happen but seldom, are very sufficient to prove that there is
such a thing as an urachos in men.
These four vessels before-mentioned, viz. one vein, two
arteries, and the urachos, do join near to the navel, and arc
united by a skin, which they have from the chorion, and so
become like a gut or rope, and are altogether void of sense,
and this is that which women call the navel-string. The
vessels are thus joined together, that so they may neither be
broken, severed, nor entangled :»and when the intant is born,
are of no use, save only to make up the ligament which stops
the hole of the navel, and some other physical use, &.c.
Of the Secundine, or After-Birth.
Setting aside the name given to this by the Greeks and
Latins, it is called in English by the name of secundine,
afterbirth, or after-burden; which are held to be four in
number.
1. The Jirst is called placentia, because it resembles the
form of a cake, and is knit both to the navel and chorion, and
makes up the greatest part of the secundine, or after birth.
The flesh of it is like that of the milt, or spleen, soft, red, and
tending something to blackness, and hath many small veins
and arteries in it ; and certainly the chief use of it is, for con-
taining the child in the womb.
2 The second is the chorion. This skin, and that called
the amonis, mvolve the child round, both above and under-
neath, and on both sides, which the alaniois doth not. This
skin is that which is most commonly called the secundine, as
it is thick and white, garnished with many small veins and
arteries, ending in the placentia before named, being very
light and slippery. Its use is not only to cover the child round
about, but also to receive and safely bind up the roots of the
veins and arteries or navel vessels before described.
3. The third thing which makes up the secundine is the
alantois, of which there is a great dispute amongst anatomisis.
Some say, there is such a thing; and others that there is
not. Those that will have it to be a membrane, say it is
white, soft, and exceeding thin, ar*d just under the placentia,
where it is knit to the urachos, from whence it receives the
tiriiie ; and its office is to keep it separate from the sweat,
AKISrOTLE'S WORKS. 121
that the saltness of it may not offend the tender skin cf the
child.
4. Thejvurth and last covering of the child, is called am-
nios; and it is white, soft, and transparent, being nourished
by some very small veins and arteries, its use is not only
to enwrap the child, but also to retain the sweat of the
child.
Having thus described the part? proper to a child in the
womb, I will next proceed to speak of the formation of the
child therein, as soon as I have explamed the hard terms of
this section, that those for whose help this is designed, tnay
understand what they read. A vein is that which receives
blood from the liver, and distributes it in several branches to
all parts of the bodv. Arteries proceed from the heart, are in
a continual motion, and by their continual motion quick' o the
body. JVerve is the same with sineio. and is that bv which
the brain adds sense and motion to the body. Placentia pro-
perlv signifies a sugar cake; but in this section it is used to
signify a spungy piece of flesh, resembling a cake, full of
veins and arteries, and is made to receive the mother's blood
appointed for the infant's nourishment in the womb. The
chorion is the outward skin wliich cnmpasseth the child in
the womb. The amnios is the inner skin wliich compasseth
the child in the womb. The alantois is the skin that holds
the urine of the child during the time that it abides in the
womb. The urachos is the vessel that conveys the urine from
the child in the womb to the alantois. I now proceed to
SECTION 11.
Ofthe Formation of the Child in the Womb.
To speak of the formation of the child in the womb, we
must begin where nature begins : and that is at the act of
coition, in which the womb having received the generative
seed (without which there can be no conception.) the womb
immediately shuts up itself so close thai the point of a needle
cannot enter the inward orifice: and this it does partly to
hinder the issuing out of the seed again, and partly to cherish
it by an inbred heat, the better to provoke it to action
which is one reason why women's bellies are so lank at thei,
first conception. The woman having thus conceived, the
first thing which is operative in the conception is the spirit,
whereof the seed is full, which nature quickening by the heat
of the womb, stirs up to action. This seed consists of very
different parts, of which some are more, and some are less
122 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
pure. The internal spirits, therefore, separate the parts that
are less pure, wl)ich are thick, cold, and clSinniy, from those
that are more pure and noble The less pure are cast to the
outsides, and with these the seed is circled round, and the
membranes made, in wliich that seed which is the niost pure
is wrapped round, and kept close together, that it may be de-
fended from cold and other accidents, and operate the better.
The first thing that is formed is the amnios; the next the
chorion ; and they enwrap the seed round like a curtain.
Soon after this (for the seed thus shut up in the woman lies
not idle) the navel vein is bred, which pierceth those skins,
being yet very tender, and carries a drop of blood from the
veins of the mother's womb to the seed, from which the ve-
na cava, or chief vein, proceeds, from which all the rest of
the veins which nourish the body spring ; and now the seed
hath something to no nourish it, whilst it performs the rest
of nature's work, and also blood administered to every part
of it, to form flesh.
This vein being formed, the navel arteries are soon after
formed; then the great artery, of which all others are but
branches; and then the heart; for the liver furnisheth the
arteries with blood to form the heart, the arteries being made
of seed, but the heart and the flesh of blood. After this the
brain is formed, and then the nerves to give sense and motion
to the infant. Afterwards the bones and flesh are formed ;
and of the bones, first the vertebree or chin bones, and then
the skull, &LC,
As to the lime in which this curious part of nature's work-
manship is formed, having already in Chapter II. of the for-
mer part of this work spoken at large upon this point, and
also of the nourishment of the child in the womb, I shall here
only refer the reader thereto, and proceed to show the man-
Ber in which the child lies in the womb.
SECTION III.
Of the Manner of the Child''s lying in the Womb.
This is a thing so essential for a midwife to know, that she
€an be no midwife who is ignorant of it : and yet even about
this authors extremely differ ; for there are not two in teti
that agree what is the form that the child lies in the womb,
or in what fashion it lies there; and yet this may arise in a
great measure from the different figures that the child is founa
in, according to the different times of the woman's pregnan-
cy i
for near the time of its deliverance out of those winding
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. Jl23
chambers of nature, it oftentimes changes the form in which
it lay before for another.
I will now show the several situations of the child in the
mother's womb, according to the different times of pregnancy,
by which those that are contrary to nature, and are the chief
cause of all ill labours, will be the more easily conceived by
the understanding midwife. It ought, therefore, in the first
place, to be observed, that the infant, as well male as female,
IS generally situated in the midst of the womb; for though
sometimes, to appearance, a woman's belly seems higher on
one side than another, yet it is so with respect to her belly
only, and not to her womb, in the midst of which it is always
placed
But, in the second place, a woman's great belly makes dif-
ferent figures, according to the different times of pregnancy
,
for,A^hen she is young witli child, the embryo is always found
of a round figure, a little oblong, having the spine moderately
turned inwards, the thighs folded, and a little raised, to which
the legs are so raised, that the heels touch the buttocks; the
arms are bending, and the hands placed upon the knees to-
wards which the head is inclining forwards, so that the chin
toucheth the breast : in which posture it resembles one sitting
to ease nature, and stooping down with the head to see what
comes from him. The spine of its back is at that time plac-
ed towards the mother's, the head uppermost, the face for-
wards, and the feet downwards: and, proportionably to its
growth, it extends its members by little and little, which were
exactly folded in the first month. In this posture it usually
keeus till the seventh or eighth month ; and then, by a natu-
ral propensity and disposition of the upper part of the body,
the head is turned downwards toward the inward orifice of
the womb, tumbling as it were over its head, so that then the
feet are uppermost, and the face towards the mother's great
gut : and this turning of the infant in this manner, with its
head downwards, towards the latter end of a woman's reck-
oning, is so ordered by nature, that it may thereby be the bet-
ter disposed for its passage into the world at the time of its
mother's labour, wliich is not then far off (and indeed some
children turn not at all, until the very time of birth) for in
this posture all its joints are most easily extended in com.ing
forth ; for. by this means the arms and legs cannot hinder its
birth, because they cannot be bended against the inward ori-
fice of the womb; and the rest of the body being very sup-
ple, passeth without any difficulty after the head, which is
hajd and big, being past the birth. It is true, there are divers
children that lie in the womb in another posture, and come
to birth with their feet downwards, especially if there be
124 ARISTOTLE'S VV0RK3.
twins; for then by the different motions they do so disturb
one another, that they seldom come both in the same posture
at the time of labour, but one will come with the head, and
another with the feet, or perhaps lie acrc)ss ; and sometimes
neither of them will come right. But however the child may
be situated in the womb, or in whatever posture it presents
itself at the time of birth, if it be not with its head forwards,
as I have before described, it is always against nature, and
the delivery will occasion the mother more pain and danger,
and require greater care and skill from the midwife, than
when the labour is more natural.
CHAPTER IV.
A Chiide for TVomen in Travail, showing what is to he donCy
when they fall in Labour, in order to their Delivery.
The end of all we have been treating of is, the bringing
forth a child into the world with safety both to the moiher
and the infant, as the whole time of a woman's pregnancy
may verv well be termed a kind of labour: for, from the
time of her conception to the time of her delivery, she la-
bours under many difficulties, is subject to many distem-
pers, and in continual danger, from one efl'ect or another, till
the time of birth comes, and when that comes the greatest
labour comes with it, insomuch, that her labours are forgot-
ten, and that only is called the time of her labour; and to
deliver her safely is the })rincipal business of the midwife;
and to assist her therein shall be the chief design of this
chapter. The time of the child's being ready for its birth,
when nature endeavours to cast it forth, is that which is pro-
perly the tune of a woman's labour; nature then labouring
to be eased of its burden And since many child-bearing
women (especially the first child) are often mistaken in their
reckoning and so, when they draw near their time, take
every pain thev meet with for their labour, which often proves
prejudicial and troublesome to them, when it is not so; I
will, in the first section of this chapter, set down some signs,
by which a womaa may know when the true time of her
labour is coiue.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 125
'
SECTION I.
The Signs of the true Time of a Woman's Labour.
When women with child, especially of their first, perceive
any extraordinary pains in their belly, they immediately send
for their midwife, as taking it for labour ; and then, if the
midwife be not a skilful and exi}erienced women to know the
time of labour, but takes it for granted without further in-
quiry, (for some such there are,) and so goes about to put her
into labour before nature is prepared icyc it, she may endanger
the lives of both mother and child, by breaking the amnios
and chorion. These pains, whicii are often mistaken for
labour, are removed by warm cloths laid to the belly, and the
application of a clyster or two, by which those pains which
precede a true labour are rather furthered than hindered.
There are also otlier pains incident to a woman in that con-
dition from a flijx of the belly, which are easily known by
the frequent stools that follow them.
The signs, therefore, of labour, some few days before, are
that the woman's belly, which before lay high, sinks down,
and hinders her from walking so easily as she used to do;
also there flows from the womb slimy humours, which nature
has appointed to moisten and smooth the passage, that its
inward orifice may be the more easily dilated when there is
occasion : which, beginning to open at that time, suffers that
slime to flow away, which proceeds from the glandules, call-
ed prostata. The.se are signs preceding the labour ; but when
she i^ presently falling into labour, the signs are, great pains
about he region of the reins and loins, which, coming and
retreating by intervals, are answered in the bottom of the
belly by congruous throws, and sometimes the face is red and
inflamed, the blood being much heated by the endeavours a
woman makes to bring forth her child \ and likewise, because
during these strong throws her respiration is intercepted
which causes the blood to have recourse to her face: also
her privy parts are swelled by the infant's head lying in the
birth, which, by often thrusting, causes those parts to descend
outwards. She is much subject to vomiting, which is a sign
of good labour and speedy delivery, though by ignorant w/o-
men thought otherwise ; for good pains are thereby excited
and redoubled; which vomiting is excited by the sympathy
there is between the womb and the stomach. Also, when the
birth is near, women are troubled with trembling in the thighs
and legs, not with cold like the beginning of an ague fit, but
L2
126 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
with the heat of the '.vhole body : though it must be grauted,
this Hoes not happen always. Also, if the humours which
then flow from the womb are discoloureci with tiie blood,
which the midwives call t^hozvs, it is an inlallible mark of the
birth being near. And if tlien the midwifo puis up her fin-
gers into me neck of the womb, she will find the inner orifice
(blated ; at the opening of which, tiie niembranes of the in-
fant, containing the water, present themselves, atid are strong-
ly forced downwards with each pain she hath ; at which
time one may perceive them sometimes to resist, and then
again press forward the finger, being more or less hard and
extended, according as the pains are stronger or weaker.
Thete membranes, with the waters in them, when they are
before t!ie head of the cliild, which the nudwives call the
gathering of the ivate7-s. resemble to the touch of the finger
those eggs which have no sliell, but are covered only by a
simple membrane. After this, the pains still redoubling, the
membranes are broken by a strong impidsion of the waters,
which flow away, and then the head of the infant is present-
ly felt naked, and presents itself at the inward orifice of her
v.'Omb. When tliese waters come thus away, then the mid-
wife may be assured the birth is very near, this being the
most certain sign that can be ; for the amnios alantois, which
contained those waters being broken ijy the pressing forward
of the birth, the child is no better able to subsist long in the
womb afterwards, than a naked man in a heap of snow.
Now. these waters, if the child comes presently after them,
facilitate the labour, by making the passage slippery ; and,
therefore, let no midwife (as some have foolishly done) en-
deavour to force away the water, for nature knows best when
the true time of the birth is, and therefore retains the water
till tliat time. But if by accident the water breaks away too
long before the birth, then such things as will hasten it hiay
be safely administered: and what these are, I shall show in
another section.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 127
SECTION II.
Hmo a JVoman ought to be ordered when ike Time of her
Labour is come
When it is known that the true time of her labour is come,
by the signs laid down in the foregoing section, of which
those that are most to be relied on are pains and strong throws
in the belly, forcing downwards toward? the womb, and a
dilation of the inward orifice, may he perceived by touching
it with the finger, and tne gathering of the waters before the
head of the child, and thrusting down of the membranes which
contain them ; through which, between the pains, one may
in soma manner with the finger discover the part which
presents (as was said before,) especially if it be the head of
the child, by its roundness and hardness ; 1 say, if these things
concur and are evident, the midwife may be sure it is the
time of the woman's labour; and care must be taken to get
all things that are necessary to comfort her in that time. And
the better to help her, be sure to see she be not strait-
laced ; vou may also give her one strong clyster or more, if
tliere be occasion, provided it be none at the beginning, and
before the child be too forward ; for it will be difficult for her
to receive them afterwards. The benefit accruing hereby
will be, that they excite the gut to discharge itself of its ex-
creiiients, that so. the rectum being emptied, tiiere may be
more soace for the dilation of the passage : likewise to cause
the pains to bear the more downward, through the endea-
vours she makes when she is at stool; and in the meantime,
all other necessary things for her labour should be put in
order, both for the mother and child. To this end some gel
a midwife's stool ; but a pallet bed girded, is much the best
way, placed near the fire, if the season so require; which
pallet ought to he so placed, that there may be easy access to
it on every side, that the women may be more readily assist-
ed as there is occasion.
If the woman aboimds with blood, to bleed her a little may
pot hi improper, for tnereliy she will both breathe the better
and have her breasts more liberty, and likewise more
strength to bear down her p=t" nd this may be done ivith-
out danger, because the chil;. -
i,^ about that time ready to
be born, has no more need of the mother's blood for it3 nou-
rishment : besides, this evacuation does many times prevent
her having a fever after delivery, and if her strength permit,
let her walk up and down her chan:iV<er : and that she may
have strength sO to do, it will be necessary to give her some
128 A^^ISTOTLE'S -WORKS.
good streng'iLeiiii'i^ ihing?. such as jelly broth, new laid eggs,
or some spootisAil of burnt wine; and let her by all means
hold out her pains, bearing them down as much as she can
at the time they take her : and let the midwife from time to
time touch the inward orifice with her finger, to know whe-
itlier the waters are ready to break, and whether the birth
will follow soon after. Let her also anoint the woman's
privities with emollient oil, hogs' grease, and fresh butter,
if she find they are hard to he dilated. Let the midwife
Jikewise be all tlie while near thelahouring woman, and dili-
gently observe her gestures, complaints, and pains ; for by
this she may guess pretty well how her labour advanceth
because when she changeth her ordinary groans into loud
cries, it is a sign the chdd is very near the birth : for at that
time her pains are greater and more frequent. Let the wo-
man, likewise by intervals, rest herself on the bed, to regain
her strength, but not too long, especially if she be little, short,
and thick : for such women have always worse labour if they
lie long on their beds in their travail. It is better, therefore
that she walk about the chamber as much as she can, the
women supporting her imder the arms, if it be necessary :
for by this means, the weight of the child causeth the inward
orifice of the womb to (tilate the sooner than in bed ; and if
ber pams be stronger and more frequent, her labour will not
be near so long.
Let not thelahouring woman be concerned at those qualms
and vomitings which perhaps she may find come upon her,
for they will he much for her advantage in the issue, however
uneasy she may be for the time, as they further her throes
and pains by provoking downwards.
When the waters of the chiid are ready and gathered, (as
may be perceived through the membranes to present them-
selves to the inward orifice) to the bigness of the whole dila-
tion, the midwife ought to let them break of themselves, and
not, like some hasty midwives, who being impatient of the
tvoman's long labour, break them, intending thereby to hasten
their business, when instead thereof they retard it, for, by
the too hastv breaking of these waters (which nature design-
ed to cause the infant to slide forth more easy) the passage
remains dry, by which means the pains and throws of the
labouring women are less efficacious to bring forth the infant
than they would otherwise have been. It is therefore much
the better way to let the watet-s break of themselves ; after
which the midwife may with ease feel the child by that
part which presents, and thereby discern whether it comes
right, that is with the head foremost, for that is the most pro-
per and natural way of its birth. If the head comes rightj.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 129
she will find it round, big, hard, and equal ; but if it be any
other part, she will feel it unequal, rugged, and soft or hard,
according to the nature of the part it is. And this being the
true time when the woman ought to be delivered, if nature
be not wanting to perform its office; therefore, when the
midwife finds the birth thus coming forward, let her hasten
to assist and deliver it, for it ordinarily happens soon after,
if it be natural.
But it it happens, as sometimes it may, that tne waters
break away loo long before the birth, in such a case those
things that hasten nature may be safely administered. For
which purpose make use of penny royal, dittany, juniper-
berries, red coral, betony. and feverfew, boiled in white wine,
and give a draught of it; or it would be much better to take
ihe juice of it when in its prime, which is in May, and hav-
ing clarified it. make it into syrup, with double its weight of
sugar, and keep it all the year, to use when occasion calls for
it: mugwort, used in the same manner, is also good in this
case; also a dram of cinnamon powder given inwardly, pro-
fits much in this case; and so does tansey, broiled, and ap-
plied to the privities; or an oil of it, so made and used, as
you were taught before. The stone JEtites held to the privi-
ties is of extraordinary virtue, and instantly draws away both
child and after burden ; but great care must be taken to re-
move it presently, or it wfil draw forth the womb and ail ; for
such is the magnetic virtue of this stone, that both child and
womb follow it as readily as iron doth the loadstone, or the
loadstone the north star.
There are many other things that physicians affirm are
good in this case: among which are. an ass's or horse's
hoof hung near the privities a piece of red coral hung near
the said place. A loadstone helps very much, held in the
vvoman's left hand : or the skin cut off a snake, girt about the
middle, next the skin. These things are mentioned by Mi-
•zaldus; but setting those things aside, as not so ceitain, not-
withstanding Mizaldus quotes them, the following prescrip-
tions are very good to give speed)' deliverance to women in
travail
1. A decoction of white v.'ine made in savory, and drank.
2. Take wild tansey, or silver-weed, bruise it, and apply
xt to the woman's'nostrils. i
3. Take date-stones, and beat them to powder, and let her \
lake half a dram of them in white wine at a time.
4. Take parsley, and bruise it, and press out the juice, and
dip a linen cloth in it, and put it up so dipped into the mouth
of the womb; it v.'ill presently cause the child to come away,
though it be dead, and v.'ill bring away the after burdeftt
130 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
Also, the juice of parsley is a thing of so great virtue (espe-
cially stone- parsley) that being drank by a woman with child
it cleanseth not onlj,- the woinb, but also the child in the
womb, of all gross humours.
5. A scruple of castorum in powder, in any convenient li-
quor, is very good to be taken in such a case ; and so also is
two or three drops of spirit of castorum in any convenient li-
quor ; also eight or nine drops of spirit of myrrh, given in any
convenient liquor, gives speedy deliverance.
6 Give a woman in such a case another woman's milk to
drink: it will cause speedy delivery, and almost without any
pain
7. The juice of leeks, being drank with warm water, highly
operates to cause speedy delivery.
8 Take peony-seeds, and beat them into powder, and mix
the oowder with oil, with which oil anoint the loins and pri-
vities of the woman and child: it will give her deliverance
very speedily, and with less pain than can be imagined.
9. Take a swallow's nest, and dissolve it in water, strain
it and drink it warm ; it gives delivery with great speed and
much ease.
iN^ote this also in general, that all things that move the
terms, are good for making the deliverv easy : such as myrrh,
white amber in white wine, or lilly water, two scruples or a
dram : or cassia lignea, ditianv. each a dram : cinnamon half
a dram, saffron, a scruple: give a dram: or take borax mi-
neral a dram, cassia lignea a scruple, saffron six grains, and
give it in sack : or take cassia lignea a dram : dittany, amOer,
of PFich a dram ; cinnamon, borax, of each a dram and a half;
saffron a scruple ; aid give her half a dram ; or give her soma
dropsofoil of hazel in convenient liquor: or two or three drops
of oil of ciimamon in vervain water. Some prepare the
secundine thus : Take the navel-string and dry it in an oven,
take two drams of the powder, cinnamon a dram, saffron half
a scruple,vvith juice of savin make trochisks : give two drains;
or wish the secundine in wine, and bake it in a pot ; then
wash it in endive water and wine: take half a dram of it:
long pepper, galengal, of each half a dram : plantain and en-
dive seed, of each a dram and a half: lavender seed four
scruoles; make a powder; or take laudanum two drams;
storax, calamite, benzoin, of each half a dram : musk, ara-
bergreise, each sis grains : make a powder, or trochisks for a
fume Or use pessaries to provoke the birth : take galbanum
dissolved in vinegar, an ounce; myrrh two drams; saffron a
dram ; with oil of orris make a pessary.
ARISTOTLE'S vVORSS. 131
Ati Ointment Jor theJVavd.
Take oil of keir two ounces, juice of savine an ounce, of
leeks and mercury each half an ounce ; boil them to the con-
sumption of the juice ; and galbanum dissolved in vinegar half
an ounce, myrrh two drams, storax liquid a dram : round bit-
wort sov/bread, cinnamon, saffron a dram ; with wax make
an ointment, and appjy it.
If the birth be retarded through the weakness of the
mother, refresh her by applying wine and soap to the nose
;
confect, alkermes diamarg
These things may be applied to help nature in the delivery,
when the child comes to the birth the right way, and yel
the birth be retarded ; but if she finds the child comes the
wrong way, and is not able to deliver the woman as she ought
to be, by helping nature and saving both mother and child
(for it is not enough to lay a woman, if it might be done any
other way with more safely and ease, and less hazard both to
woman and child,) then let her send speedily for better and
more able help ; and not, as I once knew a midwife do, who,
when a woman she was to deliver had hard labour, rather
than a man- midwife should be sent for, undertook to deliver
the vvoman herself (though told it was a man's business.) and
in her attempting it brought away the child, but left the head
of the infant in tlie mother's womb: and had not a man mid-
wife been presently sent for. the mother had lost her life as
well as the child : such persons may rather be termed butch-
ers than midwives. But supposing the woman's labour to be
natural, I will next show what the midwife ought to do, in
order to her delivery.
CHxiPTER V.
O/' jYutural Labour; tvhat ii.is, and what the Midwife is Lj
do in such a Labour.
SECTION I. What jYaiural Labour is.
There are four things which denominate a woman's natu-
ral labour : the first is, that it be at the full time ; for, if a wo-
man comes before her time, it cannot properly be termed
132 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
natural labour ; neither will it be fo easy as if she had corri-
pleted her nine months. The second ihing is, that it be speedy,
and without an ill accident : for. when tlie tine of tlie birtrt
is come, nature is not dilatory in the bringmg of it forth with-
out some ill accident intervene^ which renders it unnatural.
The third is, that the child be alive ; for all will '^rr-.m, that
the being delivered of a dead child is very unnatmal. The
fourth thing requisite to a natural birth is. that the child corns
right : for if the position of the child in the womb be contra-
ry to what is natural, the event will prove it so, by making
that which should be a time of life the death both of the mo-
ther and the child.
Having thus told you what I mean by natural labour, I
shall next show bow the midwife is to proceed therein, in
order to the woman's delivery. When all the foregoing re-
quisites concur, and after the waters be broke of themselves,
let the labouring woman be conducted to a pallet bed. provided
near the fire for that purpose, as has already been said, and let
there rather be a quilt laid upon the pallet bedsiend than a
feather bed, having thereon linen, and cloths in n nay folds,
with such other things as are necessary, and that may be
changed according to the exigency requiring it, so that the
woman may not be incommoded with the blood, waters, and
other filth which are avoided in labour. The bed ought so to
be ordered, that the woman, being ready to be delivered,
should lie on her back upon it. having her body in a conve-
nient posture; that is, her head and breast a little raised, so
that she be between lying and sitting; for being so placed,
she is best capable of breathing, and likewise will have more
strength to bear her pains than if she lay otherwise, or sunk
down in her bed. Being so placed, she must spread her
thighs abroad, folding her legs a little towards her buttocks,
somewhat raised by a small pillow underneath, to the end her
rump should have more liberty to retire bark : and let her
feet be stayed against some firm thing : besides this, let her
take hold of some of the good women attending her with her
hands, that she may the better stay herself during her pains
She being thus placed near the side of her bed. having her
midwife at hand, the better to assist as nature mav require,
let her take courage, and help her pains the best she can,
bearing ihein down when they take her, which she must do
by holding in her breath, and forcing them as much as possi-
ble, in like manner as when she goes to stool ; for by such
straining, the diaphragma, or midriff, being strongly thrust
downwards, necessarily forces down the womb and the child
in it. In the meantime, let the midwife endeavour to comfort
her all she can, exhorting her to bear her labour courage-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 133
«usly, telling her it will be quickly over, and that there is no
fear but she will have a speedy delivery. Let the midwife
also, having no rings on her fingers, anoint them with oil
or fresh butter, and therewith dilate gently the inward orifice
of the womb, putting her finger ends into tne entry thereof,
and then stretch them one from the other, when her pains
take her ; by this means endeavouring to help forward the
child, and thrusting, by little and little, the sides of the orifice
towards the hinder part of the child's head, anointing it with
fresh butter, if it be necessary.
When the head of the infant is a little advanced into the
inward orifice, the midwives' phrase is, " it is crowned ;"
because it girds and surrounds it just as a crown . but when
it is so far that the extremities begin to appear without the
privy parts, they then say, " The child is in the passage;"
and at this time the women feels herself as it were scratched,
or pricked with pins, and is ready to imagine that the midwife
hurts her, when it is occasioned by the violent distention of
these parts, and the laceration which sorrietimes the bigness
of the child's head causeth there. When things are in this
posture, let the midwife seat herself conveniently to receive
the child, which will now come quicklv, and with her finger
ends (which she must be sure to keep close paired) let her
endeavour to thrust the crowning of the womb (of which 1
have spoken before) back over the head of the child ; and as
soon as it is advanced as far as the ears or thereabouts, let
her take hold of the two sides with her two hands, that whets
a good pain comes she may quickly draw forth the child,
caking care that the navel-string be not entangled about the
neck, or any other part, as sometimes it is, lest thereby the
after-burden be pulled with violence, and perhaps the womb
also, to which it is fastened, and so either cause her to flood,
or else break the strings, both which are of bad consequence
to the woman, whose delivery may thereby be rendered the
more difficult. It must also be carefully observed, that the
head be not drawn forth straight, but shaking it a little from
one side to the other, that the sho-ulders may sooner and easier
take theii place immediately after it is past, without losing
any time, lest, the head being past, the child be stopt there
by the largeness of the shoulders, and so come in danger of
being suffocated and strangled in the passage, as it sometimes
happens, for the want of care therein. But as soon as the
head is born, if there be need, she may slide her fingers under
the armpits, and the rest of the body will follow without any
difficulty.
As soon as the midwife hath in this manner drawn forth the
child, let her put it on one side, lest the blood and water,
t34 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
which follow immediately, should do it an injury, by running
into its mouth and nose as they would do if it lay on its back,
and so endanger the choaking of it. The child being thus
born, the next thing requisite is to bring away the after bur-
den : but before that, let the midwife be very careful to ex-
amine whether there be more children in the womb : for
sometimes a woman may have twins that expected it not;
which the midwife may easily know, by the continuance of
the pains after the child is born, and the bigness of the
mother's beUv. But tlie midwife mav be more sure of it, if
she puts her hand up to the entry of the womb, and finds
there another water gathering, and a child in it preseiitmg to
the passage: and if she finds it so, she must have a care of
going to fetch the after-birth, till the woman be nelivered of
all the children she is pregnant with. \^ hereCore the first
string must be cut, being first tied with a thread three or four
double, and fasten the other end with a string to the woman's
thighs, to prevent the inconvenience it may cause by hanging
between her thighs, and then, removing the child already
born, she must take care to deliver her of the rest, observing
all the same circumstances as with the first ; after which it
will be necessary to fetch away the after birth or births.
But of that f shall treat in another section ; and first show
what is to be done to the new-born infant.
: SECTION II.
Ofthe Cutting ofthe ChiWs JVavel String.
Though this is by many accounted but a trifle, yet great
care is to be taken about it : and n shows none of the least
art and skill of a midwife to do it as n should he: and that it
may oe so clone, the midwife ought to observe, 1, The time.
2. The place. 3. The manner. 4. The event.
1. The time is, as •soon as ever the inlant comes out of the
womb, whether it brings part of ttie afterbirth with it or not;
for sometimes the ciiild brings into the world a piece of the
amnios upon its head, and is what mid wives call the and. and
ignorantly attribute some extraordinary virtue to the child
that is so born ; but this opinion is only the effect of their ig-
norance ; for when the child is born with such a crown (as
some call it) upon its brows, it generallv hetokeiis weakness,
and denotes a short life. But to proceed to the matter in
hand. As soon as the child is come into the world, it should
be considered whether it is weak or strong: and if it l^e
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 135
weak, let the midwife gently put back part of the vital and
natural blood into the body of the child by its navel ; for that
recruits a weak child (the vital and natural spirits being
communicated by the mother to the child by its navel string;
but if the child be strong, the operation is needless. Only let
me advise you. that many children that are horn seemingly
dead, may be soon brought to life again, if you squeeze six
or seven drops of blood out of that part of the navel-string
which is cut off, and give it to the child inwardly.
2. As to the place in which it should be cut. that is, v.'he-
ther it should be cut long or short, it is that which authors
can scarcely agree m, and which many midwives quarrel
about; some prescribing it to ne cut at four fin2;ers breadth,
which is at best, but an uncertam niie. unless all fingers were
of one size. It is a received opinion that the parts adapted
to generation are contracted ordilated accor'liuii to thecutting
of the navel string : and this is the reason why midwives are
generallv so kind to their own sex. that thev leave a longer
part of the navel-string of a male than h fei.ale because they
would have the males provided for the encounter of Venus;
and the reason thev give, wbv they cut that of females shorter
Is, because thev nel'.eve it niakes thf^ 'nodest. and their pri-
vities narrower, which makes ihe-, v.ore acceptable to their
husbands Mizaldus was not alMjuprher of the oomion of
these midwives, and he therefore ordered the navel s'l !•'>-; to
be cut long both in male and fe nale children for whicu he
gives this reason, that the instrument if aeneraiiO!! follows
the proportion of it : and therefore, if it be cut too short in a
female, it will be a hinderance to her having children, f will
not go about to contradict the opinions of Mizaldus : these
experience has made good :
—The one is that if the navel-
string of a child, after it is cut, be suffered to touch the ground,
the child will never hold its water either sleeping or wakmg
but will be subject to an involuutarv makini^ of water till its
lifetime. The other is. that a oiece of the child's navel string
carried about one, so that it touch his --km defends him that
wears it from the falling sickne'^s and ^^onvilsions.
3. .\s to the manner it must be cut let the midwife take a
brown thread, four or five times double, of an ell long, or
thereabouts, tied with a single knot at each of the ends, to
prevent their entangling ; and with this thread so acco nmo-
dated (which the midwife must have in readiness before the
woman's labour, as also a good pair of scissors, that so no
time may be lost) let her tie the string within an inch of the
belly with a double knot, and, turning about the end of the
thread, let her tie two more on the other side of the string,
reiterating it again, if it be necessary ; then let her cut eff
136 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
the navel another inch below the ligatures, towards the after-
birth, so that there only remains but two inches of the string,
in the midst of which will be the knot we speak of, which
must be so strait knit as not to suffer a drop of blood to
squeeze out of the vessels . but care must be taken, not to
knit it so strait as to cut it in two, and therefore, the thread
must be pretty thick, and pretty strait cut, it being better too
strait than too lose ; for some children have iniserably lost
their lives, with all their blood, before it was discovered, be-
cause the navel-string was not well tied; therefore great care
must be taken that no blood squeeze through ; for if there do,
a new knot must be made with the rest of the string. You
need not fear to bind the navel-string very hard, because it is
void of sense, and that part of it which you leave falls off of
its own accord in a very few days, sometimes in six or seven,
or sooner, but never tarries longer than eight or nine. When
you have thus cut the navel-string, then take care the piece
that falls off touch not the ground for the reason I told you
MizaJd^:^ 2;ave, which experience has justified.
4. The last thing I mentmneri was. the event or conse-
quence, or what follows cutting the navel-string. As soon as
the navel-Etriug is cut off. applv a little cotton or lint to the
place to keep it wanTi.. lest 'he cold enter mio the body of the
child, which it most certainly will do, if you have not bound
it hard enough, if the lint or cotton you apply to it be dipped
in oil of roses, it will be the better: and then put another rag
three or four times double upon the belly, upon the top of
all, put another small bolster : and then swathe it with a Imen
swathe, four fingers broad, to keep it steady, lest by moving
loo much, or by being continually stirred from side to side, it
comes to fall off before the navel string which you left re-
maining is fallen off. It is the usual custom of midwives to
put a piece of burnt rag to it, which we commonly call tinder;
but I would rather advise them to put a litie ammoniac to it,
because of its drying quality.
SECTION III.
How to bring av)ay the After-burden.
A Woman cannot be said to be fairly delivered, though the
child be born, till the after burden be also taken from her
;
herein differing from most animals, who. when they have
brought forth their young, cast forth nothing else but some
water, and the membranes which contained them. But wo-
men have an after-labour, which sometimes proves more daa?
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 137
gerous than the first : and how to bring it safely away, without
prejudice to her, shall be my business to show in this section.
As soon as the child is born, before the midwife either ties
or cuts the navel-string, lest the womb should close, let her
take the string and wind it once or twice about one or two of
the fingers of her left hand joined together, the better to hold
it, with which she may draw it moderately, and with the right
hand she may only take a single hold of it above the left ttear
the privities, drawing likewise with that very getitlv, resting
the while the fore-finger of the same hand, extenderi and
stretched forth along the string towards the entry of the va-
gina, always observing, for the greater facilit v. lo draw it
fron) the side where the burden cleaves least: for, m so do-
ing the rest will separate the better: and special care must
be taken that it be not drawn forth with too n.uch violence,
lest by breaking the string near the burden the niidu ile be
obliged to put the whole hand into the uof h to deliver the
woman ; and she needs to be a very skilful person that imder-
takes it, lest the womb, to which this burden is sometuMes
very strongly fastened, be drawn away with it. as it ha* some-
times happened. It is therefore best to use such remetiiesas
may assist nature. And here take lu.tice. that u hat brings
away the birth, will also birmg away the after buth. And
therefore, for effecting this work, I will lay down the follow-
ing rules.
1. Use the same means in bringing away the after-birth
that you made use of to bring away the birth ; for the same
care and circumspection are needful now that \\pre then.
2. Considering the labouring woman cannot but bt; nuch
spent by what she has already undergone n bringing forth
the infant ; and therefore be sure to give her someihnsg to com-
fort her. And in this case good jelly- broths, also a liMie wme
and toast in it. and other comforting things, will be verv ne-
cessary.
3. A little white hellebore in powder, to make her sneeze,
is in this case very proper
4. Tansey and the stone .^tites. applied as before directedf
are also of good use in this case.
5. If you take the herb vervain, and either boil it in wine,
or make a syrup with the juice of it. which yon inav Ho by
adding to it double its weight of sugar, (having r;ar.fien th©
juice before you boil it,) a spoonful of that given to the wo-
man is very efficacious to bring away the seoun* me and
featherfew and mugwort have the same operation, raken as
the former.
6. Alexander boiled in wine, and the wine drank, alsc*
M2
138 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
sweet cervile, sweet cicely, angelica roots, and musterwort,
are excellent remedies in this case.
7. Or, if this fail, the smoke of marigolds, received up a
woman's privities by a funnel, have been known to bring
away the after-birth, even when the midwife let go her hold.
8. Boil mugwort in water till it be very soft ; then take it
out and apply it in the manner of a poultice to the navel of
the labouring woman, and it instantly brings away the birth
and after-birth. But special care must be taken to remove it
as soon as they come away, lest by its longer tarrying it should
draw away the womb also.
SECTION IV.
<jf Laborious and Difficult Labours, and how the Midioije
is to proceed therein.
There are three sorts of bad labours, all painful and dif-
ficult, but not all prooerly unnatural. It will be necessary
therefore to distinguish these.
Thejirst of these labours is that wherein the mother and
child suffer vi^ry much bv extreme pain and difficulty, even
though the child come right: and this is distinguishably cal^
ed the laborious labour.
The second is that which is difficult, and differs not much
from the former, except that, besides those extraordinary
pains, it is generally attended with some unhappy accident,
which, by retarding the birth, causes the difficulty : but these
difficulties being removed, it accellerates the birth and has-
tens the delivery.
Some have asked, what is the reason that women bring
forth their children with so much pain.'' I answer, the sense
of feeling is distributed to the whole body by the nerves: and
the mouth of the womb being so strait thai it must of neces-
sity be dilated at the time of the woman's delivery, the dila-
ting thereof stretches the nerves, and from thence comes
pain. And therefore the reason why some women have
more pain in their labours than others proceeds from their
having the mouth of the matrix more full of nerves than
others.
The best way to remove those difficulties that occasion hard
pains and labour is to show first from whence they proceed,
i^ow the difficulty of labour proceeds either from the mother,
or child, or both.
ARISTOTLETS WORKS. 135
From the mother, by reason of the indisposition of the bo^
dy, or from some particular part only, and chiefly the womb,
as when the womb is weak, and the mother is not active to
expel its burden, or from weakness or disease, or want of
spirits ; or it may be from some strong passion of the mind
with which she was before possessed ; she may also be too
young, and so may have the passage too strait ; or too old,
and then, if it be her first child, because her pains are too dry
and hard, and cannot be easily dilated, as happens also to
them which are too lean ; likewise those who are either
small, short, or deformed, as crooked women, who have not
a breast strong enough to help their pains, and to bear them
down, and persons that are crooked having sometimes the
bones of the passage not well sh;iped. The cholic also hin-
ders labour, bv preventing the true pains : and all great and
acute pains, as when the woman is taken with a violent tisver,
a great flooding, frequent convulsions, bloody flux, or any
other great distemper. Also, excrements retamed cause
much difficulty, and so does a stone in the bladder; or wnen
the bladder is full of urine, without being able to void it ; or
when the woman is troubled with great and painful biles, It
may also be from the passages, when the membranes are
thick, the orifice too strait, and the neck of the wonib not
sufficiently open, the passages pressed and strained by tu-
mours in the adjncent parts, or when the bones are too firm,
and will not open, which very much endangers the mother
and child ; or when the passage? are not slippery, by reason
of the waters having broke too soon, or of the membranes
being too thin. The womb may he also out of order with
respect to its bad situation, or conformation, having its neck
too strait, hard, and callous, which may easily be so natural-
ly, or may come by accident, being manv times caused by a
tumour, an imposthume, ulcer, or superfluous flesh
As to hard labour occasioned by the child, it is when the
child happens to stick to a mole, or when it is so weak it can-
not break the membranes ; or if it be too big all over,'or in
the head only, or if the navel vessels are twisted about ifs
neck ; when the belly is hydropical ; or when it is monstrous,
having two heads, or joined to another child ; also, when the
child is dead, or so weak that it can contribute nothing to its
birth ; likewise when it comes wrong: or when there are two
or more. And to all these various difficulties there is often-
times one more, and that is, the ignorance of the midwife,
who, for want of understanding in her business, hinders na-
ture in her work instead of helping her.
Having thus looked into the causes of hard labour, I will
naw show the industrious midwife how she may minister
140 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
some relief to the labouring woman under these diflficult cir-
cumstances. But it will require understanding and judgment
to the midwife, when she finds a woman in difficult labour, to
know the particular obstruction, or cause thereof, that so a
suitable remedy may be applied ; as, for instance, when it
happens by the mother's being too young and too strait, she
must be gently treated, and the passages anointed with oil,
bog's lard, or fresh butter, to relax and dilate them the easier,
lest there should happen a rupture of any part when the
child is born, for sometimes the peritoneum breaks, with the
skin from the privities of the fundament.
But if the woman be in years with her first child, let her
lower parts be anointed to molify the inward orifice, which,
in such a case being more hard and callous, does not easily
yield to the distention of labour, which is the true cause why
such women are longer in labour, and also why their children,
being forced agamsr the inward orifice of the wou'b (which,
as I have said, is a little callous) are born with great humps
and bruises on their heads.
Those women that are very small and misshapen, should
not be put to bed, at least, till their waters are broke, but ra-
ther kept upright, and assisted to walk about the chamber, by
being supported under the arms ; for, by that means, they
will breathe more freely, and mend their pains better than
on the bed, because there they lie all on a heap. As for those
that are very lean, and have hard labour from that cause, let
them moisten the parts with oils and ointments, to make them
more smooth and slippery, that the head of the infant and
the womb be not so compressed and bruised by the hardness
of the mother's bones which form the passage. If the cause
be weakness, she ought to be strengthened, the better to sup-
port her pains; to wiiich end give her good jelly broths, and
a little wine with a toast in it. If she fears her pains, let her
be comforted, assuring her that she will not endure many
more, but be delivered in a litde time. But if her pains be
slow Snd small, or none at all. they must Ije provoked by fre-
quent and pretty strong clysters ; let her walk about the cham-
ber, that so the weight of the child may help them forward.
If she flood or have strong convulsions, she must then be
helped by a speedy delivery ; the operation I shall relate in
the section of unnatural labours. If she be costive, Jet he**
use clysters, which may also help to dispel the cholic, at those
times very injurious, because attended with useless pams. and
because such bear not downward, and so help not to forward
the birth. If she find no obstruction or stoppage of the
urine, by reason the womb bears too much on the bladder,
Ipt her lift up her belly a little with her hand, and trj' if by
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 141
that she receives any benefit; if she find she does not, it will
be necessary to introduce a catheter into her bladder, and
thereby draw forth her urine. If the difficulty be from the
ill posture of the woman, let her be placed otherwise, in a
posture more suitable and convenient for her, also if it pro-
ceed from the indispositions of the womb, as from its oblique
situation, &c., it must be remedied, as well as it can be, by
the placing her body accordingly ; or, if it be a vicious confor-
mation, having the neck too hard, too callous, and too strait,
it must be anointed with oils and ointment, as before directed.
If the membranes be so strong as that the waters do not
break in due time, they may be broken with the fingers, ii
the midwife be first well assured that the child is come for-
ward into the passage, and ready to follow presently after;
or else, by the breaking of the waters too soon, the child
may be in danger of remaining dry a long time: to supply
which defect, you may moisten the parts with fomentations,
decoctions, and emollient oils: which is not half so well as
when nature does her work in her own time, with the ordi-
nary slime and waters. These membranes do sometinjes
press forth with the waters three or four fingers' breadth out
of the body before the child, resembling a bladder full of wa-
ter: but there is then no great danger to break them, if they
be not already broken ; for when the case is so, the child is
always in readiness to follow, being in the passage: but let
the midwife be very careful not to pull it with her hand, lest
the after- burden be thereby loosened before its time, for it
adheres thereto very strongly. If the navel-string happea
to come first, it must presently be put up again, and kept so
if possible, or otherwise the woman must immediately be de-
livered. But if the after burden should come first, it must
not be put up again by any means: for the infant having
no further occasion for it, it would be but an obstacle if it
were put up: in this case it must be cut off, having tied the
navel-string, and afterwards drawn forth the child with all
the speed that may be, lest it be suffocated.
SECTION V.
Of Women labouring with a dead Child.
'
When the difliculty of labour arises from a dead child, it is
a case of great danger to the mother, and great. care ought to
be taken therein ; but before any thing be done, the midwife
ought to be well assured the child is dead indeed, which may
be known by these signs,
1i2 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
1. The breast suddenly slacks, or falls flat, or bags down,
2. A great coldness possesses the belly of the mother, espe-
cially about the navel. 3. Her urine is thick, and a filthy
stinking settles at the bottom 4. No motion of the child can
be perceived ; for the trial whereof, let the midwife put her
hand in warm water, and lay it upon her belly ; for that, if
it is alive, will make it stir. 5. She is very subject to dream
of dead men, and be affrighted therewith. 6. She has ex-
travagant longings to eat such things as are contrary to nature.
7. Her breath stinks, though not used so to do. 8. When
she turns herself in her bed, or rises up, the child sways that
way like a lump of lead.
These things being carefully observed, the midwife may
make a judgment whether the child be alive or dead, espe-
cially if the vvoiuan take the following prescription: "Take
half a pint of white wme and burn it. and add thereto half
an ounce of cinnamon, but no other spices whatever ; and
^hen she has drank it, if her travailing pains come upon her,
the child is certainly dead ; but if not, the child may possibly
bfl either weak or sick, but not dead : this will bring her
•pains upon her if it be dead, and will refresh the child, and
give her ease, if it be living; for cinnamon refresheth and
atrengthenetii the child
Wow if, upon trial, it be found the child is dead, let the
piother do all she can to forward the delivery, because a dead
child can be nowise helpful therein. It will he necessary,
therefore, that she take some comfortable tbmgs to prevent
ber fainting, by reason of the putrid vapours ascending fromi
the dead child. And in order to her delivery, let her take
the following herbs boiled in white wine (or at least as many
of them as you can get,) viz. dittany, betony, pennyroyal,
sage, featherfew, centaury, ivy leaves, and berries. Let her
also take sweet bazil, in powder, and half a dram at a time,
in while wine : let her privities be also anomted with the juice
of the garden tansey. Or take the tansey in the summer,
when it can be most plentifully had, and before it runs up to
the flower, and having bruised it well, boil it in oil till the
juice of it be consumed. If you set it in the sun, after you
have mixed it with oil, it will be more effectual This an in-
dustrious midwife, who would be prepared against all events,
ought to have always by her. As to the manner of her deli-
very, the same methods must be used as are mentioned in the
section of natural labour. And here I cannot but commend
again the stone iEtites, held near the privities, vvhose magne-
tic virtue renders it exceedingly necessary on this occasion,
for it draws the child any way, with the same facility thait
the luadstvne draws iron.
AilISTOTLE'S WORKS, W
Let the midwife also make a strong decoction of hyssqj
with water, and let the woman drink it very hot, and it will
in a little time bring away the dead child.
If, as soon as she is delivered of the dead child, you are in
doubt that part of the after-birth is left behind in the body
(for in such cases as these, many limes, it rots, and comps
away piece meal,) let her continue drinking the same decoc-
tion till her body be cleansed.
A decoction made of the herb mustervvort, used as you did
the decoction of hyssop, works the same effect. Let the
midwife also take roots of pollodum, and stamp them well;
warm them a little, and bind them on the sides of her feet,
and it will soon bring away the child either dead or alive.
The following medicines likewise are such as stir up the
expulsive faculty : but in this case they must be made strong-
er, because the motion of the child ceaseth.
Take savine, round birth wort, trochisks of myrrh, afaram
roots, cinnamon, saffron, each half a dram ; make a powder,
give a dram.
Or she may purge first, and then apply an emollient, anoint-
ing her about the womb with oil of lilies, sweet almonds, ca-
momile, hen and goose grease. Also foment to get out the
child with a decoction of mercury, orris, wild cucumbers,
eaecus, broom flowers. Then anoint the privities and loins
with ointment of sowbread. Or,
Take coloquintida, agaric, birthwort, of each a dram
;
make a powder; add ammoniacum dissolved in wine, oxgall
each two drams; with oil of keir make an ointment. Or this
pessary :
—
Take birthwort, orris, black hellebore, coloquintida, myrrh,
each a dram; powdered amoniacum dissolved in wine, ox
gall, each two drams. Or make a fume with an ass's hoof
burnt, or gallianum, or castor, and let it be taken in with a
funnel.
To take away pains, and strengthen the parts, foment with
the decoction of mugwort. mallows, rosemary, with wood
myrtle, St. John's wort, each half an ounce, spermaceti two
drams, deers suet an ounce ; with wax make an ointment.
Or,
Take wax six ounces, spermaceti an ounce ; melt them, dip
fla.i therein, and lay it all over her belly.
If none of these things will do, the last remedy is to use sur-
gery, and then the midwife ought without delay to send for an
expert and able man-midwife, to deliver her by manued ope-
ration ;
of which 1 shall treat more m the next chapter.
144 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER VI.
Of Unnatural Labours.
In showing the duty of a midwife, when the childbearing
woman's labour is unnatural, it will be requisite to show, in
the first place, what I mean by unnatural labour; for, for
women to bring forth children in pain and sorrow is natural
to ail. Therefore, that which I call unnatural is, when the
child comes to the birth in a contrary posture to that which
nature ordained, and in which the generality of children
come into the world.
The right and natural birth is, when the child comes with
its head first, and yet this is too short a definition of a natu-
ral birth ; for if any part of the head but the crown comes
first, so that the body follows not in a straight line, it is a
wrong and difficult birth, even though the head comes first.
Therefore, if the child come with its feet first, or with the
side across, it is quite contrary to nature, or to speak more
plainly, that which I call unnatural.
Now, there are four general ways a child may come wrong,
3. When any of the fore parts of the body first present
themselves. 2. When, by any unhappy transportation, any
of the hinder parts of the body first present themselves. 3.
When either of the sides, or, 4, the feet present themselves
first. To these the difiTereni wrong postures that a child can
present itself may be reduced.
SECTION I.
Hoio to deliver a Woman of a dead Child by Manual
Operation.
When manual operation is necessary, let the operator ac-
qvaint the woman of the absolute necessity there is for such
an operation, and that, as the child has already lost its life,
there is no other way left for the saving of hers. Let him
also inform her, for her encouragement, that he doubts not,
with the divine blessing, to deliver her safely; and that the
pain arising thereby will not be so great as she fears. Then
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 14S
1st him endeavour to stir up the wouian's pains by giving her
some sharp clyster, to excite her throws to bear down and
bring forth the child. And if this prevail not, let him pro-
ceed with the manual operation.
First, therefore, let her be placed across the bed that he
may operate the easier, and let her lie on her back, with lier
hips a little higher than her head, or at least the body equally
placed, when it is necessary to put back or turn the infant
to tjive it a better posture. Being thus situated, she niust
fold her legs so a;^ her heels be towards her buttocks, and
her thighs spread, anrl held so by a couple of strong persons:
there must be others also to support her under lier amis, that
the body may not slide down uhen the child is drawn forth;
for which, sotiietinies. a great strength is required. Let the
sheets and blankets cover her thighs, for decency's sake, and
with respect to the assistance, and also to prevent her catch-
ing cold : the operator liere governing hiniself as well with
respeet to his convenience, and the facility and surety of «he
operation, as to other things. Then let him anoint the en-
trance of the womb with oil or fresh butter, if necessary, that
so with more ease he may introduce his hand, which must
also be anointed . and having, by the signs beforementioned
received satisfaction that it is a dead child, he must do his
endeavour to fetch it away as soon as he possibly can. If
the child offer the head first, he must gently put it back, until
he hath liberty to introduce his band quite into the womb;
then sliding it along, under the belly, to find the feet, le
him draw it forth by them, being very careful to keep the
head from being locked in the passage, and thnt it be not
separated from the body : which may be effected the n ore
easily, because the child being very rotten anrl putrified, the
operator needs not be so mindful to keep the breast and face
downwards as he is in living births But if, notwithstanding
all these precautions, by reason of the child's putrefaction,
the head should be separated and left behind in the womb,
it must be drawn forth according to the directions which
shall be given in section third of this chapter. But when the
head, coming first, is so far advanced that it cannot well be
put back, it is better to draw it forth so. than to torment the
woman too much bv putting it back to turn it and bring it
by the feet : but the head being a part round and slippery,
it may so happen that the operator cannot take hold of it
with his fingers by reason of its moisture, nor put them up
to the side of it, because the passage is filled with its bigness
;
he must therefore take a proper instrument, and put it up as
far as he can, without violence, between the womb and the
child's head, observing to keep the point of it towards the
N
146 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
head (for tne child being dead before, there can be no ianger
in ne operation.) and let him fasten it there, giving it good,
hold upon one of the bones of the skull, that it may not slide,
anrt I tier i' is well fixed m the head, he may therewith draw
it form, keeping the ends of the fingers of his left hand flat
upon me opposite side, the better to help to disengage it, and
by vvao;giiig It a little, to conduct it directly out of the pas-
sage until me head be quite born : anrt then taking hold of
it with me hanrts oiilv. the shoulders may be drawn into the
passage and so sliding the fingers of t)oth hands under the
ar.ii-p!ts tne child mav he quite delivered . and then the
aftt^r ourrlen fetrheo, lo finish the operation, being carefiil not
to pluck the na^/el string too hard, lest it break, as often hap-
pens vnen it is corrupt.
if the dean child come with the arm up the shoulder so ex-
tre-nely swelled that ;he woman must suifer too great vio-
lence to have ii put hack, it is then (being first well assured
thf child IS dead) best to take it off by the shoulder joints,
by twisiing it three or four times about, which is very easily
done oy reason of the softness and tenderness of the body.
After the arn is so sei.iarated, and no longer possesses the
pa^-aiie, tne operator will have more room to put up his
hauM into the womb, to fetch the child by the feet, and bring
it a^vay.
But although the operator be sure the child is dead in th«
womb vet he nuisl not therefoie presentlv' use instruments,
becftii-e thev are never used but when hands are not suffi-
cient, and there is no other remedy to prevent the woman's
daiiger, or to hrinsi (c>rui the child any other way; and the
jui' ci i!is xjerafor will choose that way which is the least
hazardous and most safe.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 147
SECTION II.
Hoio a Woman must be delivered, when the Child's Feet come
Jirst,
There is nothing more obvious to those whose business
it is to assist labouring women, than that the several imtja-
tural postures in which children present themselves at tneir
birth are the occasions of most of the bfiH laonurs and ill ac-
cidents that happen unto them in that condition.
And since rnidwives are verj' often obliged, because ot the
unnatural situations, to draw the children forth bv the feet,
I conceive it to be proper first to show how a ctiild nius' be
brought forth that presents itself in that posture, because it
will be a guide to several of the rest.
I know indeed that in this case it is the advice of several
authors to change the figure, and place the nead so thai it
may present t't the birth; and this counsel I shouln be very
inclinable to follow, could they but also show how it it, ay be
done. But it will appear very difficult, if not inip'is?- i^ie to
be performed, if we would avoid the nans^er that iiv sucr vi-
olent agitations both the mother and the child nnist be put
into; and therefore my opinion is, thai i? i!« better to draw
forth bv the feet, when it presents itself m thai posture., than
to venture a worse accident by turnma; it
As soon, therefore, as the waters are broken, and ^x is
known ihat the child couies thus, and that the womb ;- oten
enousjh to admit the miduife's or operator's tiand intt: it, (or
else bv anointing the passage with oil or hog'v jtrease. ro en-
deavour to dilate it bv ftegrees. using her fingers to tt' ? our-
pose, spreading them one from the other, after they aie to-
gether entered, and continuing to do so till they be t?;iffi-
cientlv dilated.) then, taking care that her nails be well pa^ed,
no rings on her fingers, and the woman placed in ihe i.^arner
directed in the former section, let her gently introduce her
hand into the entrance of the womb, where, finnlug the
child's feet, let her draw it forth in the manner I shall pre-
sently direct; only let her first see whether it presents one
foot or both ; and if but one foot, she ought to consider whe-
ther it be the right foot or left, and also in whac fashion it
sonies; for, by that means, she will soon come to know
148 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
where to find the other, which, as soon as she knows and
finds, let her very gentlv draw it forth with the other; hul
of this circu nstance she must be especially careful, viz.
that the second be not the foot of another child—for, if so,
it may be of the most fatal consequence, for she may sooner
split both mother and child, than draw them forth: but this
may t easily prevented, if she but slide the hand up by the
first 1(
4, and thigh to the twist, and there find both thighs join-
ed together, and descendmg from one and the same body.
And this IS also the best means to find the other foot when it
comes but with one.
As soon as the -nidwife has found both the child's feet, she
may draw them forth, and holding them tt^ether, mav bring
t'<en bv little and little in this manner; takmg afterwards
hold of the arms and tnighs a.-< soon as she can co.ne at ttiein,
dra vin?? them so til! the h ""s come forth While thjs i- do-
ing let ner nOseive to wraf 'he parts in a single cloth that
so her hands, being always e '^asv. slide not on the infant's
bodv. which is verv slinoerv hecaose of the vicious hmnours
whic'i nr« -ill over it and oreven' one's takmsr good holri of
it; which henig done she :iav take hold under the hips, so
as to draw i> firth to the beginiiinii of the breast: and let her
on both sides with her hand bring down the child's hand
along its body which she mav easily find and then let
her take care that the belly and face of the child be down-
wards for, if thev should be upwards, there would be some
danger of its being stopped bv the chin over the share bone:
and therefore, if it be not so, she must turn it to that pos-
ture : which mav be easily done, if she takes a proper hold
of the body when the breast and arms are forth, in the
manner we have said, and draws it, turning it in propor-
tion on that side whicii it most inclines to. till it be turn-
ed with t'^e f:\ce iownwards; and so, having brought it
to the shoulders let her lose no time, desiring the woman
at tne same time to bear down, that so drawing, the head
at that instant mav take its place, and not l^e stopped in
the passage Some children there are whose heads are
80 big, that when the whole body is born, vet that stops
the passage, though the midwife takes all possible care to
prevent it. \nd when this happens, she .oust endeavour
to draw forth the child by the shoulders, taking care that
fche separate not the body from the head, as T haye known it
done by the midwife, discharging it bv degrees from the bones
ta the passage with the fingers of each hand, sliding them
on each side opposite the one to the ot ler. sometimes above,
and sometimes under, until the work c« ended : endea •,
oui-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 119
mg to despatch it as soon as possible, lest the child be suffo-
cated, as it will unavoidably be if it remain long in tnat pos-
ture ; and this being well and carefaily effected, she Miay
soon after fetch away the after- birth, as I have before
directed.
SECTION III.
flow to bring away the Head of the Child, when separated
from the Body, and left behind in the Womb.
Though the utmost care be taken in bringing away the
child by the feet, yet, if it happen to be dead, it is some-
times so putrified and corrupt, that with the least |)ull the
head separates from the body, and remains alone in the
womb, and cannot be brought away but with a manual ope-
ration and great difficuhy, it being extremely slipijerv, by
reason of the place where it is, and from the rnundiiess of
its figure, on which no hold can be well taken : and so very
great is the difficulty in this case, that sometimes two or three
able practitioners in midwifery have, one after thf other,
left the operation unfinished, as not able to effect it. after the
L.i.Taost efforts of their industry, skill, and strength ; so that
the woman, not being able to be delivered, perished. To
prevent which fatal accident let the following operation be
observed.
When the infant's head separates from the body, and is left
alone behind, whether through putrefaction or otherwise, let
the operator immediately, without anv delav. while the vAomb
is yet open, direct up his right hand to the mouth of the head
(for no other hole can there be had.) and having found it,
let him put one or two of his fingers into it. and the thumb
under its chin, then let him draw it bv little and little, holding
it by the jaws : but if that fails, as sometimes it will, when
putrified then let him pull forth the right hand, and slide up
his left with which he must support the head, and with the
right let him take a narrow instrument, called a crochet but
Jet it be strong and with a single branch, which he iuust guide
along the inside of his hand, with the point of it towards it,
fcr fear of hurting the womb : and having thus introduced it,
let him turn it towards the head, to strike either in an eye-
hole, or the hole of an ear, or behind the head, or else be'
tween the suture, as he finds it most convenient and easy
and then draw forth the head so fastened with the said instru^
N3
1S0 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
inent, still helping to conduct it with the left hand ; but when
he hath brought it near the passage, being strongly fastened
to the instrument, let hrni remember to draw forth his hand,
that the passage not being filled with it, may be larger and
easier, keeping still a finger or two on the side of the head,
the better to disengage it.
There is also another method, with more ease and less
hardship than the former : let the operator take a soft fillet
or linen slip, of about four fingers' breadth, and the lengin of
three quarters of an eil, or thereabouts ; takmg the two ends
with ihe left hand, and the middle with the right, and lei him
so put it up with l)is rigtii as that it may be beyond the head,
to embrace it as a sling rioih a stone, and afterwards draw
forth the fillet by the two ends together ; it will tnus be easily
drawn forth, the fillet not hindering the least passage, because
it takes up little or no space.
When the head is fetched out of the womb, care must be
taken that not the least part of it be left behind, and likewise
to cleanse the woman well of her afier-burden, if it remain.
If tue burden be wholly separated from the sides of the
womb, that ought to be first bi ought away, because it may
also hinder the taking hold of the iiead But if it still ad-
here to the womb, it must not be meddled with till the head
be brought away ; for if one should endeavour to separate it
from the womb, it might then cause a flooding, which would
be augmented by the violence of the operation ; the vessels to
which it is joined remaining for the most part open as long
as the womb is distended, which the head causeth while it is
retained in it, and cannot close till this strange body be void-
ed, and this it doth by contracting and ©ompressing itself
together, as has been more fully before explained. Besides,
the after-birth remaining thus cleaving to the womb during
the operation prevents it from receiving easily either bruise
or hurt.
SECTION IV.
^010 to deliver a Woman wken ihe Child's Head is preaented
to the Birth.
Thoug5 some may think it a natural labour, when the
child's head comes first ; yet, if the child's head present not
the right way, even that is an unnatural labour ; and there-
lore, though the head comes first, yet, if it be the side of the
htad instfiad of the crown, it ia very dangerous both t» tho
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 151
mother and child, for the child's neck would be broken iC
born in that manner; and by how much the mother's pains
continue to bear the child, which is impossible, unless the
head be rightly placed, the more the passages are stopped.
Therefore, as soon as the position of the child is known, the
woman must be laid with all speed, lest the child should ad-
vance further into the vicious posture, and thereby render it
more difficult to thrust it back, which must be done in order
to place the head right in the passage, as it ought to be.
To this purpose, therefore place the v.oipan so, that her
buttocks may be a little higher than her head and shoulders
causing her to lenn a little upon the opposite side to the child's
ill posture; then let the operator slide up his hand, well anoint-
ed with oil, by the side of the child's head to bring it right
gemly wi*h his fingers between the head, and the womb but
if the head he so engaged that it cannot be done that way, he
must then put up his- hand to the shoulders that so by thrust-
ing them back a little into the womb. souiCtimes on the one
side and sonietitnes on the other, he may by little and little
give it a natural position I confess it would be better, if the
operator could put back the child by its shoulders with both
bands : but the head takes up so much room, that he will find
much ado to put up one. with which he must perform this
operation, and w ith the help of the finger ends of the other
hand put forth the child's birth, as when the labour is natural.
Some children present their face first, having their heads
turned back, in which posture it is extre'sielv difficult for a
child to be born : and if it continue so long, the face will be
swelled, and become black and blue, so that it will at first
seem monstrous, which is occasioned, as well bv the compres-
sion of it in that place, as bv the midwife's fingers handling
it, in order to place it in a better posture. But this black-
ness will wear away in three or four days time by anointing
it often with oil of sweet almonds. To deliver ihe birth, the
same operation must be used as in the former, when the
child comes first with the side of the head: only let the mid-
wife or operator work very gently, to avoid as much as pos-
sible bruising the face.
SECTION V.
How to deliver a Woman when ihe Child presents one or both
Hands together with the head.
SoMiTTMM the infant will present some other part tt>gether
with its head ; which if it does, it is usually one or both its
152 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
hands ; and this hinders the birth, because the hands take up
part of that passage which is little enough for the head alone
:
besides that, when this happens, they generally cause the
head to lean on one side: and therefore this position niay
be very well styled unnatural. When the chdd presen's thus,
the first thing to be done, after it is perceived, is to fjrevent
it from coming down more, or engaging further in the uas-
sage ; and therefore the o^jerator having placed the woman
on the bed, with her hear! a little lower than her buttocks,
must guide and put back the mfant's hand with his own as
tiiMch as fiiav be, or both of them, if they both come down,
to give way to the child's head ; and this being done, if the
head be on one side, it must be brought mto its natural pos-
ture, in the middle of the passage, that it mav come in a
straight line, and then proceed as directed in the foregoing
section.
SECTION VL
How a JVoman is to be delivered, when the Hands and Feet
of the Infant come together.
There are none but will readily grant, that when the hands
and feet of an infant present together, the labour must be
unnatural; because it is impossible a child can be born in
ihat manner.
In this case, therefore, when the midwife guides her hand
to the orifice of the womb, she will perceive onlv many fin-
gers close together; and if it be not suffinentlv dilated, it
will be a goo(1 while before the hands and feet will be ex-
actly distinguished ; for they are so^ietimes so shut and
pressed together, that they seem to be all of one and the same
shape but where the womb is open enough to introduce the
hand into it, she will easily know which are tlie hands and
which are the feet ; and having taken particular notice there-
of, let her slide up her hand, and presently direct it towards
the infant's breast which she will find verv near, and then
let her very gently thrust back the bodv towards the bottom
of the womb, leaving the feet in the same place where she
found them : and then having placed the woman in a conve-
nient posture, that is to say, her buttocks a little raised above
her breast and head (which situation ought also to be observ-
ed when the child is to be put back into the womb.) let the
midwife afterwards take hold of the child by the feet, and
(^ravp it forth as is directed in ihe second section.
ARISTOTLE'S V/ORKS. 153
This labour, though somewhat troublesome, yet is much
better than when the child presents only its hands; for then
the child must be quite turned about before it can be drawn
forth ; but in this they are ready, presenting themselves, and
there is little to do but to lift and thrust back the upper part
of the body, which is almost done of itself, by drawing it by
the feet alone.
1 confess there are many authors that have written of la-
bours, who would have all wrong births reduced to a natuial
figure : which is. to turn it thai it may come with the netd
first. But those that have thus wriiten are such as never un-
derstood the practical part, for if thev had the least experi-
ence herein, they would know that it is verv often impossible;
at least, if it were to be done that violence must necessarily
be used in doin^ it ttiat would very prooably be the death of
mother and child in the operation I would therefore lay
down, as a general rule, that whensoever a child presents it-
self wrong to the birth, in what posture soever, from the
shoulders to the feet, it is the best wav, and soonest done to
draw It out by the feet; and tiiat it is better to search for
them, if they do not oresent themselves, than try to put it in
the natural posture, and place the hend foremost : for the
great endeavours necessarv to be used in turning the infant
in the womb do so .luich weaken both tne nother and child,
that there remains not afterwards strength enoua,h to commit
the operation to the work of nature . for. usually, the woman
hath no more throes or pains fit for labour after she has been
so wrought upon : for which reason it would be very difiicult,
and tedious at best, and the child, by such an operation, made
very weak, would be in extreme danger of perishing before
it could be born. It is therefore much better in these cases
to bring it away immediately by the feet : searching for them,
as i have already directed, when thev do not present them-
selves : by which the mother will be prevented a tedious
labour, and the child be often brought alive into the world,
who otherwise could hardly escape death.
SECTION VII.
Hmo a JVoman should be Delivered that has Twins, which
present themselves in different Postures.
We have already spoken something of the birth of twins
in the chapter of natural labour; for it is not an unnatural
labour barely to have twins, provided they come in a right
position at the birth. But when they present tJemselves in
different lostu res; they come properly under the denomina-
154 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
tion of unnatural labours; and if when one child presents
itself in a wrong figure, it makes the labour dantiproiii- and
unnatural, it must needs make it much more so when ihere
are several, and render it not only more painful to the f other
and children, but to the operator also, for they often trouble
each other, and hinder both their births: besuies which the
womb is so filled with them, that the operator can haroly in-
troduce his hand without much violence, which he must do,
if they are to be turned or thrust back, to give them a better
position.
When a woman is pregnant with two children, thev rarely
present to the birth together, the one being generally more
forward than the other, and that is the reason that but one is
felt, and that mauv times the midwife knows not that there
are twins till the first is born, and that she is going to fetch
away the after birth, in the fifth chapter, wherein I treated
of natural labour. I have showed how a woman should be de-
livered of twins, presenting theinselves t)oth light, and there-
fore, before i close the chapter of unnatural labour, it only
remains that i show what ought to be done when the}' either
both come wrong, or one of them onlv. as for the tnost part it
happens ; the first generally corning right, and the second
with the feet forward, or in some worse posture. In such a
case, the birth of the firsi uuist he hastened as much as possi-
ble to make way for the second, which is best broiiglit away
by the feet, without endeavouring to place n right, because, it
has been, as well as its mother, already tired, and weakened
bv the birth of the first anri there would be greaiei daniier of
its death than likelihood of its coming out of the womb that
way.
But if. when the first is born naturally, the second should
likewise offer its head to the birth, it would lie then best to
leave nature to finish what she has so well begun if nature
shoi'ld be fo" slow in her work. sonie of those things n)en-
tioi.er! in the fourth chapter to acce'erate the birth mav be
properly enough applied •
and if after that, the second birth
should be yet delayed, let a manual operation be de-
ferred no longer , but the woman being properly placed, as
has been befiire directed, let the operator direct his hand
gently into the womb to find the feet, and so draw forth the
econd child, which will be the more easily effected, because
there is a way made sufficiently by the birth of the first : and
if the waters of this second child be not broke, as it often
happens, yet intending to bring it by the feet, be need not
scruple to break the membranes with his fingers: for though,
when the birth of a child is left to the operation of nature, it
h necessary that the waters should break of themselves, yet
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 155
when the child is brought out of the womb by art, there js no
danger in breaking of them j
nay, on the contrary, it becomes
necessary, for without the waters are broken, it would be al'
most impossible to turn the chiid.
But herein lies principalh' the care of the operator, that
he be not deceived, when either the hands or feet of both
children offer themselves together to the birth ; in this case he
ought well to consider the operation, as, whether they be not
joined together, or any way monstrous, and which part be-
longs to one child, and which to the other, that so they may
be fetched nne after the other, and not both together, as
might be. if it were duly considered ; taking the right foot of
the one and the left of the other, and so drawing thetn to-
gether, as if they tjoth belonged to one body, because there is
a,left and right, by which means it would be impossible ever
to deliver them. But a skilful operator will easily prevent
this. if. havmg found two or three feet of several children
presenting together in the passage, and taking aside two of
the forwardest, a right and a left, and sliding his hand along
the legs and thighs up to the twist, if forwards, or the but-
tocks, if backwards, he find they both belong to one body;
of which being thus assured, he may begin to draw forth the
neerest. without regarding which is the strongest or weakest,
bigger or less, living or dead, having put first a little aside
that part of the other child which offers to have the more
way, and so despatch the first as soon as may be, observing
the same rules as if there were but one, that is. keeping the
breast and face downwards, with every circumstance direct-
ed in that section where the child comes with its feet first,
and not fetch the burden till the second child is born. And
titerefore, when the operator hath drawn forth one child,
hi must separate it froin the burden, having tied and cut the
11 ivel-string, and then fetch the other by the feet in the sarne
rt inner, and afterwards bring away the after- burden with
it'i two strings, as hath been before showed. If the chil-
£.*n present any other p?:rt than the feet, the operator may
T- iovi' the same method as directed in the foregoing sectioDj
>;, C!i« the several unuaiural oositions are fully treated of.
156 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER VIL
Directions for Child-beanng Woman, in ihar Lymgtn.
SECTION I.
Hoio a Woman newly Delivered ought to bf ordered.
As soon as she is laid in her beri, let her be placed in it
conveniently for ease and rest, which sne stands in great
need of, to recover herself of the great fatigue she under-
went during her travail ; and that she may lie the .iiore easily
let hands and body be a little raised, that she may breathe
more freely, and cleanse the better, especiallv of that blood
which then comes away, that so it may not clot, which being
retained causeth great pain.
Having thus placed her in bed, let her take a draught of
burnt white wine, having a dram of spermaceti melted there-
in. The herb vervain is also sitigularlv good for a woman in
this condition, boiling it in what she either eats or drinks, for-
tifying the womb so exceedingly, tiiat it will do it more good
in two days than anv other thing does in double that ti 'le,
having no offensive taste. '\nd this is no more than what she
stands in need of, for her lower parts being greatlv distended
till the birth of tlie infant, it is good to endeavour the preven-
tion of an inflam'natioii there. Let there be also outwardly
applied, all over the bottom of the belly and privities, the fol-
lowing anodyne and cataplasm ; take two ounces of oil of
sweet almonds, and two or three new laid eggs, yolks and
v/hites. stirring them together in an earthen pipkin over hot
embers, till they come to the consistence of a poultice: which
being spread upon a cloth must be applied to those parts indif-
ferently warm, having first taken away the closure (which
was put to her presently after her delivery,) and kikewise
such clots of blood as were then left. Let this lie on live or
six hours, and then renew it again when you see cause.
Great care ought to be taken at first, that if her body be very
weak, she be not kept too hot. for extremity of heat weakens
nature and dissolves the strength ; and whether she be weak
or strong, be sure that no cold air comes near her at first : lor
cold is an enemy to the spermatic parts, and if it get into the
womb, it increases the afterpains, and causes swelling in the
womb, and hurts the nerves. As to her diet, let it be hot
and let her eat but a little at a time. Let her avoid the light
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 157
for the first three days, and longer if she be weak, for her
labour weakens her eyes exceedingly, by a harmony betweeri
the womb and them. Let her also avoid great noise, sadness,
and trouble of mind.
If the womb be foul, which may be easily perceived by
the impurity of the blood (which will then easily come away
in clots or stinking, or if you suspect any of the after burden
to be left behind, which may sometimes happen,) make her
drink of featherfew, mugwort, pennyroyal, and mother of
thyme, boiled in white wine and sweetened with sugar.
Panado and new laid eggs are trie b<=ist meat for ner at
first ; of which she may eat often, but not too much at a time
And let her nurse use cinnamon in all her meats and drinks,
for it generally strengthens the womb.
Let her stir as little as may be, till after the fifth, sixth or
seventh day of her delivery, if she he weak ; and let her talk
as liiiie as possible, for that tends to weaken her very much.
If she goes not well to stool, give a clyster made only with
the decoction of mallows and a little brown sugar.
When she hath lain in a week or more, let her use such
things as close the womb, of which knotgrass and comfrey are
very good; and to them you may add a little polipodiuni, for
it will do her good, both leaves and root being bruised.
SECTION 11.
How to remedy those Accidents which a Lying-tn fVomm
is subject to.
I. The first common and usual accident that troubles wo-
men in their lying in, is after pains. They proceed from
cold and wind contained in the bowels, with which tney are
easily filled after labour, because then they have more room
to dilate than when the child was in the womb by which they
were compressed : and also because nourishment and matter,
contained as well in them as in the stomach, have been so
confusedly agitated from side to side during the pains of la-
bouf, by the throes which always must compress the belly,
that they could not be well digested, whence the wind is af-
terwards generated, and by consequence the gripes, which,
the woman feels running into her belly from side to side
according as the wind moves more or less, and sometimes
likewise from the womb, because of the compression ant
commotion which the bowels make. These being generally
the case, let us novp apply a suitable remedy.
158 ARISTOTLE'S \^ORKS
1. Boil an «gg soft, and pour out the yolk of it : with which
mix a spoonful of cinnamon water, and let ner drink it; and
if you mix in two grains of ambergrise, it will be better ; and
yet vervain taken in any tiling she drinks, will be as effectual
as the other.
2. Give the lying-in woman, immediately after delivery,
oil of sweet almonds and syrup of maiden hair mixed
together. Some prefer oil of walnuts, provided it be made
of nuts that are very good ; but it tastes worse than the other
at best. This will lenily the inside of the intestines by unc-
tuousness, and by that means bring away that which is cou*
tained in them more easily.
3 Take and boil onions very well in water, then stamp
them with oil of cinnamon, spread them on a cloth, and apply
them to the region of the womb.
4. Let her be careful to keep her belly warm, and not
drink too cold ; and if the pain prove violent, hot clothes,
from time to time, must be laid on her belly, or a pancake
fried in walnut oil may be applied to it, without swathing her
belly too strait. And for the better evacuating the wind out
of the intestines, give her a clyster, which may be repeated
as often as necessity requires.
5 Take bay berries, beat them to powder, put the powder
upon a chafing dish of coals, and let her receive the smoke of
Cnem up her privities.
6. Take tar and bear's grease, of each an equal quantity,
boil them together, and whilst it is boiling, add a little pi-
geon's dung to 11. Spread some of this upon a linen cloth,
and apply it to the reins of the back of her that is troubled
with after pains, and it will give her speedy ease.
Lastly. Let her take half a dram of baybernes beaten into
a powder in a draught of rnuscadpl or tent.
II. Another accident to which women in childbed are sub-
ject is the hemorrhoids, or piles, occasioned through the
great straining in bringing the child into the world. To cure
this,
1. Let her be let blood in the saphaena vein.
2. Let her use polypodium in her meat and drink, bruised
and boiled.
3. Take an onion, and having made a hole in the middle
of it, fill it full of oil, roast it, and having bruised it all toge-
ther, apply it to the fundament.
4. Take a dozen of snails, without shells if you can get
them, or else so many shell snails, and pull them out and
having bruised them with a little oil, apply them wari.i as
before.
5. If she go not well to stool, let her take an ouoce of cas-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 159
«io fiatula drawn at night going to bed ; she needs no change
of diet after.
III. Retention of the menses is another accident happen-
ing to women in r.hiidbed ; and which is of so dangerous a
jconsequence, that, if not tiniel)' remedied, it proves mortal.
When ihis happens,
1. Let the woman take such medicines as strongly provoke
the terms, such are dittany, betony. pennyroyal, featherfew,
centaury, juniper herries, peony roots.
2. Let her take two or three spoonfulls of bnony water
each morning.
3 Gentian roots beaten into a powder, and a dram of it
taken every mornmg in wine, are an extraordinary remedy.
4. The roots of birthwort, either long or round, so used
and token as the former, are very good.
5. Take twelve peony seeds, and heat them mto a very
fine powder, and let her drink them in a draught of hot car-
dus posset, and let her sweat after. And if this last medicine
do not bring them down the first time she takes it, let her
lake as much more three hours after, and it seldom fails.
IV. Overflow ing of the menses is another accident inci
dental to childbed women For which,
1. Take shepherd's purse, either boiled in any convenient
liquor, or dried and beaten in a powder, and it will be an
admiiable lemedy to stop them, this being especially appro-
priated to the privities.
2. The flowers and leaves of brambles, or either of them,
ceing dried and beaten into powder, and a dram of them
taken every morning in a sponnfid of red wine, or m a de-
coction of leaves of'the same (vvh'ch perhaps is much better,^
s an ad-virable remedy for the immoderate flowing of the
iernis in women,
V. Fxcoriations. bruises, and rents of the lower part of
Jie womb are often occasioned by the violent distention and
separation of the four caruncles in a woman's labour. For
he healing of which,
As soon as the wonian is laid, if there be onlv simple con-
tusions and excoriations, then let the anod\ ne cataplasm, for-
snerh directed, be applieH to the lower parts to ease the pain,
maiie of the yolks and whites of new laid eggs and oil of
roses. boileH a little over warm embers, continually stirring
till It be mixed, and then spread on a fine cloth ; ii must be
applied very warm to the bearing place for five or six hours,
and when it is taken away, lay some fine rags dipped in oil of
St John's wort on each side of the bearing place; or let the
part excoriated be anointed with oil of St. John's wort twice
«r thrice a day; also foment the parts with barley water and
160 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
honey of roses, to cleanse them from the excrenients which
pass. When the woman makes water. let thern be defended
with fine rags, and thereby hinder the urine from causing
smart and pain.
VI. Toe cutfthng and clotting of the milk is another acci-
x^ent that happens to women n» childbed ; for, in the begin-
ning of childoed, the woman's milk is rml purified, because
of the great commotions her body suffered duriog her labour,
which afifec'ed all the parts, and it is then moved with many
humours Now this clotting of the milk does, for the most
part, proceed from the breasts not being fully drawn, and that
either because she has to(j mucti milk, mid that the infant is
too small and weak lo suck ail, or because she doth not de-
sire to oe a nur-ie: for the milk m those cases remamuig in
the oreast after concoction without bt-ing drawn loseth the
sweetness and the balsamic quality it had, and by reason of
the heat it acquires, and the toc^ long stay it makes there, it
sours, curdles, and clots, in like manner as we see runnet put
into ordinary milk turns it into curds. The curdling of the
milk .nay be also cau>ed bv having taken a great cold, and
not keeping the breast -veil covered.
But fro, I) what causes soever this curdling of the milk pro-
ceeds, the most certain remedy is-, speedily to draw the
breasts until it is emitted and dried. But in regard that the
infant, by reason of weakness, cannot draw strong enough,
the woiuan being hard marked when her milk is curdled, it
will be most proper to get another woman to draw her breasts
until Die nilk comes freely, and then she may give her child
suck. Vnd that she may not afterwards be troubled with a
surplus of milk, she must eat such diet as gives but little
iiourishmeut, and keep her body open.
But if the case be such, that the woman neither can nor
will be a nurse, it is necessarv to apply other remedies for the
curing of this distemper : for then it will be best not to draw
her breasts: for that will be the way to bring more milk into
them For which purpose, it will be necessary to empty the
bodv. bv oleeding the arm : besides which let the humours
be drawn down by strong clvsters and bleeding in the foot;
nor will it be amiss to purge gentlv : and to digest, dissolve,
and dissipate the curdled milk, applv a cataplasm of pure
honey, or that of the four grains dissolved in a decoction of
sage, milk, smallage and fennel, mixing with it oil of camo-
mile, vvith which oil let the breasts be well anointed The
following hninient is also good lo scatter and dissipate the
milk.
ARISTOTt^E'S WORKS. 161
A Liniment to scatter and dissipate iJt£ Milk.
That the milk flowing back to the breast may without of-
fence be dissipated, you must use this ointment :
" Take pure
wax two ounces, linseed oil half a pound ; when the wax is
melted, let the liniinent be made, wherein linen cloths must
be dipped, ana accordmg to their largeness, be laid upon the
breast : and when it shall be dispersed, and pains no more,
let other linen cloths be dipped in the distilled water of acorns,
and put upon them."
Note, That the cloths dipped in the distilled water ofacorns
must be used only by those who cannot nurse their own
children but if a swelling in the breast of her who gives
suck do arise, from abundance of milk, and threatens an in-
flammation, let her use the former omtment, but abstain from
using the distilled water of acorns.
CHAPTER VTII.
Diy-eciions for the Murses, in ordering newly bom Children.
When the child's navel-string hath been cut. according to
the rules before orescribed, let the midwife presently cleanse
it from the excrements and filth it brings into the world with
it; of which some are within the body, as the urine in the
bladder, and the excrement found in the guts ; and others
without, which are thick, whitish, and clammy, proceeding
from the sli.iiiness of the waters. There are chilareri some-
times so covered all over with this, that one would think they
were rubbed all over with soft cheese ; and some women are
of so easy a belief, that they really think it so, because they
had some while thev were with child From these excre-
ments, let the child be cleansed with wine and water a little
war'iied, washing even,' part therewith, but chiefly the head,
because of the hair, also the folds of the groins arm-pits and
the cods or privities ; which parts must be gently cleansed
with a linen rag, or a soft spunge dipped in hike warm wme.
If this claminv or vicious excrement stick so close that it will
not he easily washed off from those places, it may be fetched
oiFwith oil of sweet almonds, or a little fresh butter melted
v/ith wine and afterwards well dried off; also make tents of
fine rags, and wetting them in this liquor, clear the ears and
nostrils : but for the eyes, wipe them only with a dray soft
rag, not dipping it in the wine, lest it should make them
smart.
02
i62 ARiSTCTLE'S VVCEliS.
The child bemg thus wasiiea and cieased hum me nalivo
blood and impurities which attend it into ilie world, it nuisf in
the next place be searched, ;o see whether all things be right
about it, and that there is no fault or dislocation ; whether its
nose be straight, or its tongue tied ; or whether there be any
bruise or tumour of the head ; or whether the mould be not
overshot ; also whether the scrotum (if it be a male) be not
blown up and swell'd; and, in short, whether it has suffered
any violence by its birth, in any part of its hody ; and whether
all the parts be well and duly shaped ; that suitable remedies
may Le applied, if any thing be found not right, i\or is it
enough to see that ail be right without, and that the outside of
the body be cleansed, but she must chiefly observe whether it
dischargeth the excrements contained within, and whether
the passage be open, for some have been born without having
been perforated : therefore, let her examine whether the con-
duits of the urine and stool be clear, for want of which some
have died, not being al)le to void their excrements, because
timely caie was not taken at first. As to the urine all chil-
dren, as well males as females, do make water as soon as they
are born, if they can, especially if they feel the heat of the
fire, and sometimes also void the excrements, but not so soon
as the urine, if the infant does not ordure the first day, then
put up into Its fundament a small suppository, to stir it up to
be discharged, that it may not cause painful gripes by reniain
ing -;o long in its belly A sugar almond may he proper for
this purpose, anointed over with a little boiled honey : or else
a small piece of Castile soap rubbed over with fresh butter;
also give the child for this purpose a little syrup of roses or
violets at the mouth, mixed with some oil of sweet almonds
drawn without a fire, anointing the belly also with the same
oil, or fresh butter.
The midwife having thus washed and cleansed the child,
according to the before mentioned directions, let her begin to
swaddle it in swathing cloths, and when she dresses the head,
let her put small rags behind the ears to dry up the filth which
usually ervgenders there, and so let her do also in the folds of
the arm-pits and groins, and so swathe it: then wrap it up
warm in a bed with blankets, which there is scarce any wo-
man so ignorant but knows well enough how to do . only let
me give them this caution, that they swathe not the child too
strait in its blankets, especiallv about the l^reast and stomach,
that it may breathe the more freely, and not be forced to vo-
mit up the milk it sucks, because the stomach cannot be suffi-
ciently extended to contain it : therefore let its arms and legs,
be wrapped in its bed. stretched and strait, and swathed to
keep them so, viz. the arms along its sides, and its legs equally
#
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 163
both together, with a little of the bed between them, that
they may not be galled by rubbing each other ; then let the
head be kept steady and strait, with a stay fastened on
each side of the blanket; and then wrap the child up in
mantles and blankets to keep it warm. Let none think this
«)f swathing the infant is needless to set down, for it is neces-
sary it should be thus swaddled to give its little body a strait
figure, which is most decent and proper for a man, and to
accustom him to keep upon his feet, who otherwise would go
upoii all-four, as most other animals do.
CHAPTER IX.
SECTION I,
OfGripes and Pains in the Bellies of Young Children.
This I mention first, as it is often the first and most com-
mon distemper which happens to little infants after their birth,
many children being so troubled and pained therewith, that it
causes them to cry night and day. and at last die of it. The
cause of it for the most part comes froui tlie sudden change of
their nourishdient. for having always teceived it from the
umbilical vessels whilst in the mother's womb, they come on a
sudden to change not only the manner of receiving it, but the
nature and quality of what they received as soon as they are
born : for instead of purified blood only, which was conveyed
to them by means of the umbilical vein only, they are now
obliged to be nourished with their mother's milk, which they
suck with their mouths, and from which are engendered ma-
ny excrements, causing gripes and pains, and that not only
because it is not so pure as the blood with which it was nou-
rished in the womb, but because the stomach and the intes-
tines cannot yet make a good digestion, being unaccustomed
to it. it is also caused sometimes by a rough phlegm, and
sometimes bv worms, for physicians affirm, that worms have
been bred in children even in their mother's belly.
Cure. If it proceed from the too sudden changes of nou-
rishment, the remedy must be to forbear giving the child suck
for some days, lest the milk be mixed with phlegm, which is
then in the stomach corrupt and at first it must suck but lit-
tle, until it is accustomed to digest it. If it be the excrements
in the intestines, which by their long stay increase these painsj
i64 .
ARISTOTLE^S WORKS.
give them at the mouth a little oil of sweet almonds and
ayriip of roses: if it be worms, lay a cloth dipped in oil of
wormwood, mixed with ox gall, upon the belly, or a small
cataplasm mixed with the powder of rue, wormwood, colo-
quintida, aloes, and the seeds of citron mcorporated with ox-
gall and the powder of lupines. Or give it oil of sweet
almonds, with sugar candv, and a scruple of anniseert : it
purgeth new born habes from green rholer and stinking
phlegm ; and, if it be given with sugar pap, it allays the gri-
ping pains of the belly. Also anoint the belly with oil of
<iill, or pelhtory stamp, with oil of camomile.
SECTION II.
Of Weakness in new-bom Infants
Weakness is an accident that many children brins into the
world along with them, and isoftnn occasioned by the labour
of the mother, bv the violence and length whereof they suffer
so much, that they are born vvitli great weakness, and many
times it is difficult to know whether thev are alive or dead,
their body appearing so sens-eless. and their face so blue and
livid, that they seem to be quite choaked : and even after
some hours, their showing anv signs of life is attended with
so much weakness, that it looks like a return from death, and
that thev are still in a dying condition.
Cure. Lav the infant speedily in a warm blanket, and car-
ry it to the fire, and then lei the midwife take a little wine in
her mouth and spout it into its mouth, repeating it often if
there be occasion Let her apply linen to the breast, and bel-
ly, dipped in wine, and let the face be uncovered, that it u'ay
breathe the more freely: also, let the midwife keep his
mouth a little open, cleanse the nostrils with small linen
tents dipped in white wine, so that it may receive the smell
of it, and let her chafe every part of its body well with warm
cloths, to bring back the blood and spirits, which, being re-
tired inwards, through weakness, often puts it in danger of
being choaked. By the application of these means, the in-
fant will gradually recover strength, and begin to stir its
limbs bv degrees, and at length to cry : and though it be but
weakly at first, yet afterwards, as it bieathea mure freely, im
cry will become more strong.
.ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 165
SECTION III.
Of(he Fundament being closed up in a newly born Infant
Another defect thai new born infants are liable to is to
have their fjjndament closed up; by which they can neither
evacuate the new excrements engendered by the milk Ihey
suck, nor that which was amassed in their intestines before
birth which IS certainly mortal without a speedy remedy.
There have been some female children who have had theiff
funda'uent quite closed, and yet have voided the excrements
of tiie guts by an orifice, which nature, to supply that defect,
had made witliin the neck of the womb.
Cure. Here we must take notice, tliat the fundament is
closed two ways; either by a single skin, through which one
may discover some black and blue marks, proceeding from
the excreiiients retained, wnich. if one touch with the finger,
there is a softness fell within, and tnereabout it ought to be
pierced or else ii is quite stopiied by a thick fleshy sub-
stance, m such sort that there appears nothing without by
which its true situation may be known. When there is no-
thing but the single skin which makes the closure, the opera-
lion IS very easy, and the children may do very well ; for then
an aperture or opening may be made with a small incision
knife cross wavs, that it may the belter receive a round form,
and thm the place may not afterwards grow together, taking
great care not to prejudice the spmcter or muscle of i>ie rec-
tum. The incision being thus nade the excrements will cer-
tainly have issue But if, by reason of their long sta\ in the
beUv. thev become so dry that the mfant cannot void them,
then let a clyster be given to moisten and bring theiii away;
afterwards put a Imen tent into the new made tundaaient,
which at first had best be anointed with h'.ney of loses, and
townrds the end with a dryitii; cicatrizing ointment, such as
unguentuin album, or pompinlix otiseHrving to cleanse the
infant of his excrements, and dry hiin again as soon and as
often as he evacuates them, that so the aperture may be pre-
vented froii turning into a malignant ulcer.
But if the fundament be stopped up in such a manner, that
neither mark nor appearance of it can be seen or felt, then
the operation is much more difficult; and even when it is
done, the danger is much greater that the infant will not sur-
vive it. Then, if it be a female, and it sends forth its excre-
ments |)y the v/ay I have mentioned before, it is better not to
meddle, than, by endeavouring to remedy an inconveoience,
?un an extreme hazard of the ijifant's death. But whea
X6S ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
there is no vent for the excrements, without which death is
unavoidable, then the operation is justifiable.
Operation Let the operator, with a small incision knife
that nath but one erjge. enter into the void place, and tuining
the back of it upwards within half a finger's breadtt) from the
child's rump, which is the place wiiere he will certainly find
the intestine, let him thrust it forward, that it may be open
enough to give firee vent to the matter there contained, being
especiallv cureful of the sphincter, after which, let the wound
be dressed according to the method directed.
SECTION IV.
Ofthe Thrush, or Ulcers in the Mouth ofan Infant.
The thrush is a distemper that children are very often sub«
ject to. and it arises frorn bad milk, or from foul humour in
the stomach : for sometimes, though there be no ill quality in
the fDilk itself yet it may corrupt in the child's stomach be-
cause of its weakness, or some other indisposition : in which,
acquiring an acrimony instead of being well digested, there
arise from thence biting vapours, which forming a thick vis-
cosity. do thereby produce this distemper.
Cure ~ It is often difficult, as physicians tell us, because it
is seated in hot and moist places, where the putrefaction is
easily augmented, and because the remedies applied cannot
lodge there, heing soon washed away with spittle. But if it
arises from too hot quality in tiie nurse's milk, care must be
taken to temper and cool, prescribing her cool diet, bleeding
and purgmg her also, if there he occasion.
Take lentiles husked, powder them, and lay a little of
them upon the child's gums. Or take bdellium flower half
an ounce, and with oil of roses make a liniment Also wash
the child's mouth with barley and plantain water, and honey
of roses or syrup of dry roses, mixing with them a little ver-
juice of lemons, as well to loosen ann cleanse the vicious hu-
mours which cleave to the inside of the child's mouth, as to
cool those parts which are already over heated. This niay
be done by means of a small fine rag fastened to the end of a
little stick, anfl dipped therein, whereby the ulcers may be
gently rubbed, being careful not to put the child to too much
pain, lest an inflammation make the distemper worse The
child's body must also be kept open, that the hutT>ours being
carried to the lower parts, the vapours may not ascend, as
it is usual for them to do when the body is costive and the
.excrements too long retained.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 16-7
If the ulcers appear malignant, let such remedies be used
to do their work speedily, that the evil qualities that cause
them being thereby instantly corrected, their malignity may
be prevented ; and in this case touch the ulcers with plantain-
water, sharpened with the spirits of vitriol ; for the remedy
must be made sharp, according to the malignity of the dis-
temper. It will be necessary to purge these ill humours
out of the whole habit of the child, by giving half an ounce
of succory with rhubarb.
SECTION V.
OfPains in the Ears, In/tanynaiton, Moisture, SfC.
The brain in infants is very moist, and hath many excre-
ments which nature cannot send out at its proper passages"
they got often to the ears, and there cause pains, flux of blood,
with inflammation, and matter, with pain ; this in children is
hard to be known, as they have no other way to make it
known but by constant crying; you will perceive them ready
to feel their ears themselves, but will not let others touch
them if they can prevent it : and sometimes you may discern
the parts about the ears to be very red.
These pains, if let alone, are of dangerous consequences,
because they may bring forth watching and epilepsy : for the
moisture breeds worms there, and fouls the spongy bones, and
Dy degrees causes incurable deafness.
Cdr£. Allay the pain with all convenient speed, but have
a care of using strong remedies. Therefore only use warm
milk about the ears, w iih the decoction of poppy tops, or oil
of violets; to take away the moisture, use honey of roses,
and let aquamoUis be dropped into the ears: or take virgin
honey half an ounce, red wine, two ounces: allum saffron,
saltpetre, each a dram; oiix them at the fire; or drop in
herapseed oil with a little wine.
SECTION VI.
Of Redness, and Inflammation of the Buttocks, Groin, and
the Thighs of a Young Child.
If there be not great care taken to change and wash the
child's bed as soon as it is fouled with the excrements, and
to keep the child very clean, the acrimony will he sure to
cause redness, and beget a smarting in the buttocks, groin,
and thighs of the child, which, by reason of the pain, will
168 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
afterwards be subject to inflammations, which follow the soon-
er, through the delicacy and tenderness of their skin, from
which the outward skin of the body is in a short tin»e sepa-
rated and worn away.
Cure. First, keep the child cleanly : and. secondly, take
off the sharpness of its urine. As to keeping it cleanly, she
must be a sorry nurse that needs to be taught how to do it;
for if she lets it have but dry. clean, and warm beds and
clouts, as often and as soon as it has fouled and wet them,
either by its urine or excrements, it will be sufficient. And
as to the taking off the sharpne«;s of the child's urine, that
must be done by the nurse's takina a cool diet, that her milk
may have the same quality : and therefore she ought to ab-
stain from all things that mav tend to heat it.
But besides these, cooling and drying remedies are requi-
site to be -applied to the inflamed oarts; therefore let the
parts be bathed with plantain water, with a fourth of lime-
water added to it, each ti:ne the child's excrements are wiped
off: and if the pain be very great, let it only be fomented
with luke warm milk The powder of a post to dry it. or a
little mill dust strewed upon the parts affected, may be pro-
per enough, and is used hy many women Also, unguentum
album, or a diapampoligos, spread upon a small piece of
leather, in form of a plaister, will not be amiss.
But the chief thing must be the nurse's taking great care
to wrap the inflamed parts with fine rags when she opens the
child, that those parts may not gather and be pained by rub-
bing together.
SECTION vir.
Of Vomiting in Young Children.
Vomiting in children proceeds sometimes from too much
milk, and sometimes from bad milk, and as often from a moist
loose stomach ; for as dryness retains, so looseness lets go.
This is, for the most part, without danger in children: and
they that vomit from their birth are the lustiest ; for the sto-
mach not being used to meat, and milk being taken too much,
crudities are easily bred, or the milk is corrupted ; and it is
better to vomit these up than to keep them in ; but if vomit
ing last long, it will cause an atrophy, or consumption, for
want of nourishment.
Cure. If this be from too much milk, that which is emit-
ted is yellow and green, or otherwise ill-coloured and stink-
ing; in this case, mend the milk, as has been showed before
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 169
cleanse the child with honey of roses, and strengthen its
stomach with synip of milk and quinces made into an ejec-
tuar' if the humours be hot and sharp, give the syrup of
pomegranates, currants, and coral : and apply to the belly
the plaister of bread, the stomach cerate, or bread dipped in
hot wine or take oil of mastich, quinces, mint, wormwood,
each naif an ounce ; of nutmegs, by expression half a dram;
chymical oil of mint, three drops Coral hath an occult
property to prevent vomiting, and is therefore hung about the
neck.
SECTION VIII.
OfBreeding Teeth in young Children.
This is a very great and yet necessary evil in all children,
having a variety of symptoms joined with i<. They begin to
oome forth, not all at once, but one after the ofher, about the
sixth or seventh month ; the fore-teeth coming first, then the
eye-teeth, and, last of all, the grifiders. The eye teeth cause
more pain to the child than any of the rest, because they have
a deep root, and a small nerve which hath cominunication
with that which makes the eye move.
In the breeding of the teeth, first they feel an itching in
their gums, then they are pierced as with a needle, and prick-
ed by the sharp bones, whence proceed great pains, watch-
ing, inflammation of the gums, fever, looseness, and convul-
sions, especialiv when they breed their eye-teeth
The signs when children breed their teeth are these :
1. It IS known by the time, which is usually about the
seventh month.
2. Their gums are swelled, and they feel a great heat there,
with an itching, which makes them put their fingers into their
mouths to rub them ; a moisture also distils from the gums
into the month, because of the pam thev feel there.
3. Thev Hold the nipple faster than before.
4. The gums are white where the teeth begin to come;
and tne nurse, in giving them such, finds the mouth hotter,
and that tney are irmrh changed, crying every moment, and
cannot sleep, or hut very little at a time.
The fever that follows breeding of teeth comes from cho-
leric humours, inflamed by watching, pam. and heat. And
the longer teeth are breeding, the more dangerous it is, so
that many, in the breeding of them, die of fevers and con-
vulsions. .
110 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CcuF.. Two Tlnngs are to be regarded : one is, to preserve
the child fiom the evil accidents that may happen to it by rea-
son of the great pain : the other, to assist as much as may bs
the ciJtting of the teeth, when they can hardly cul the gums
theii^selve?.
For the first of these, viz. the preventing these accidents
to the child, the nurse ought to take ereat care to keep a good
diet, and to use all thinjis that may conl and temper her milk,
that so a teser iDdv not follovi' the. pam of the teeth. And to
prevent the hiiiuour from falling too imich upon the inflauied
gums, let the child's belly be kept alv/ays loose by gentle clys-
ters, if he be hound •
though oftentuues there is no need of
theiii, because they are at those times usuallv troubled with a
looseness . auri vet for all that, clvsters may not be improper.
.A^ to the other, which is to assist in cutting the teeth, that
the nurse uiust do from titne to time by mollifying and joosen-
ing them, and rubbing them with her finger dif.peH ia butter
or honev : or let the child have a v.irgin way candle to chew
upon: or anoint the guius with the viucilage of quince ri'ade
with mallow- water or with the brains of a hare; also fo-
mei.f the cheeks with the decocti<m of althaea, and camomile
flo\\erand dill ir vvi'h the juice of niailow-- -md fresh butter.
If 'he gums are infla'ned, nnd juice of nightshade and let-
tuce 1 have abeadv said the mirse ought to take a tempe-
rate diet: shall now only add, that barlev- broth, v.'ater-
gruel, raw n^gs. prunes, lettuce and endive, are good for her;
Dut let her avoid salt, sharp, biting, and peppered meals and
wine.
SECTION IX.
Ofthe Flux of the BcUy. or Looseness in Infanis.
It is very conmon for -nfants to have the flux of the beliv,
or looseness, especiall*. luion the least indisposition : nor is it
to be tvondered at. seeing their natural moistness contributes
so much thereto and even if it be extraordinarily violent,
such are in a better state of health than those that are bound.
The flux, if violent, proceeds froiu divers causes; as, 1 F'rom
breeding r)f the teeth, and is then comrvionlv attended with
a ff^ver. in which the concoction is hindered, and the nourish-
jpent corrupted 2 From watching. 3. From pain. 4.
Froni stirring ud of the humours by a fever. 5. When they
suck or drink too much in a fever Sometimes they have a
flux without breeding of teeth, from inward cold in the guts or
Stomach that obstructs concoction. If it be from the teeth, it
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 171
is easily known ; for the signs in breeding, of teeth will disco-
ver it. If it be from external cold, there are signs of other
causes. If from a humoiu- flowing froui the head, there are
signs of a catarrh, and the excrements are'frothy. If crude
and raw hmnotirs are voided, anti there be wind, belching,
and phlegmatic excrements: or if they be yellow, green, and
slink, the flux is from a hot and sharp humour. It is best in
breading of teeth when the belly is loose, as I have said be-
fore : but if it be too violen.t, and you are afraid it may end in
a consumption, it musr be stopped : and if the excrements
that are voided be blacic, and attended witb a fever, it is very
bad.
Cure. The remedy in this case is principally veith resoect
to the uiirse, and the condition of the milk must chieflv be
observed : the nurse must be cautioned that she eat no green
fruit, nor things of httrd concoction If the child suck not,
remove the 8ux with such purges as leave a cooling quality
behind thern. as syrup of honey or roses, or a clyster. Take
the decoction of millium, mvrobolans. o*" "acn two or three
ounces, with an ounce or two of svrup of roses, and make a
clyster. After cleansing, if it proceed from a hot cause, give
syrup of dried roses, quinces, myrtles, with a iittie sanguis
draconis. Also anoint with oil of roses, myrtles, Tiii-t'ch,
each two drams: with oil of myrtle.'^ and wax make an Oint-
ment Or take red roses and moului of each a handful: cy-
press roots two drams; make a bag; bou u in red wine, and
apply it to ihe b«ily. Or, use the piaister of bread or sto-
mach oiatment. if the cause be cold, and the excrements
white, give svrup of (nnstich and quinces, with • int waier.
Use outwardly mint, imjstich, cirMmin or take rose seeds an
ounce, cummin. annis«9d. each two drams; with oil of raas-
tich, worn^vvood, and wax make an ointment.
SECTION X.
Of the Epilepsy and Convulsions tn Ckildren.
This is a distemper that is often fatal to j'oung children, and
frequently proceeds from the brain, as when liie in;r.-!()urs
that cause it are bred in the brain, originating eitner from
the parents, or from vapours or bad humours that twitch the
membranes of the brain: if is also sometimes caused by other
distempers, and by bad diet : likewise the toothach. when the
brain consents, causes ii, and so does a sudden flight As to
the distemper itself, it is manifest and well enough known
iieams h is; znd a§ to t.he cause whence it come*, you may
172 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
know by the signs of the disease, whether it conies from ba
milk, or worms, or teeth ; if these are all absent, it is certain
that the brain is first affected ; if it come with the sniall-pox
or measles, it ceaselh when they com,e forth, if nature be
strong enough.
Cure. For the remedy of this grievous and often mortal
distemper, give the following powder, to prevent it. t^ a ch id,
as soon as it is born ; take male peony roots, gathered in the
decrease of the moon, a scruple; uitti leaf gold make a pow-
der; or take peony roots a dram; peony seeds, miiletoe ol
the oak, elk's hoof, man's skull, amber, each a scruple,
musk, two grams; make a powder. The be^t pan of the
cure is taking care of the nurse's Oiet, which nmst ne regulai
by all means. If it oe from corrupt milk, provoke a vomit;
to flo which, hold rlnwn the tongue, and put a quiiJ dipped
in sweet almonds, down ihe rhroat. If it coioe frotn ihe
worms, give such things as will kdl the worms. It there be a
fever, witn res))ect to that also, give coral smarageo and elk's
hoof In the fit. give epileptic water, as lavender water and
rub with oil of amher. or hang a peony root, and elk's hoof
smarjiged, about the child's neck
As 10 a convulsion, it is when the brain labours to cast oitt
that which Troubles it; the manner is m the marrow of the
back and fountain of the nerves: it is a stubborn disease,
and often kills.
Wash the body, when in the fit, especially the back bone,
with decoction of althaea, lily roots, peony and camomile
flowers, and anoint it with man's and goose's grea'-e, nils of
worms, orris, lilies, foxes, turpeniiiie, mastich, storax, and
calamint. The sunflower is also very good, boiled in water,
to wash the child.
PROPER AND SAFE REMEDIES
FOR CURING ALL THOSE
DISTEMPERS THAT ARE PECULIAR TO
THE FEMALE SEX,
AND
ESrECIALLY THOSE THAT ARE OBSTRUCTIONS TO
BEARING OF CHIDREN.
PART SECOND.
Having finished the first part of this bonk, and therein, 1
hope, amply made good mv pYouur-e to t.'ie reader, I am now
come to treat of the distempers pectiiiar to the female sex;
in which it is my design to treat only o( tiiose to which tri^y
are more subject when in a breeding condition, and those
that keep them from being so ; together with such proper
and safe reinedies as may l>e sufficient to rape) them And
since, amongst all the diseases to which human nature if
subject, there is none which more dja-.^efi'icaiiy oppos^^s
the very end of our creation, and the design of nature
in the formation of the dififierent sexf^s. and the p/wer
thereby given us for the work of generation, than t^t of
sterility, or barrenness, which, where it prevails, i^ndera
the most accomplished midwife but a useless perstti. and
destroys the design of our book ; I think, therefore oarren-
ness is an effect that deserves our first and pfin/P*J' G«n-
sideration,
P2 / -, ..
t74 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
CHAPTER I.
Ofbarrenness ; its several Kinds; with the proper- Remedies
for it ; and the Signs of Insvfjiciency in Men ana Women.
SECTION I.
OfBarrenness m general.
Barrenness is either natural or artificial.
Natural barrenness is, when a woman is barren though
the insiruments of generation are perfect both ni herself
and liasband, and no preposterous or diabolical course used
to cause it, and neither age nor disease, nor an}' natural
defect hindering, and vet the woman ren)ains naturally
barren.
.\ ow this may proceed from a natural cause ; fcr if the
man and wo nan be of one complexion, thev seldom have
children: and the reason is clear, for the universal course
pf nature, beino forciPfi of a coMioos't;on of coiitrHr'es, can-
ii'jt Lie increased oy a composition of likes ; and therefore,
if x{,e cons'nution of me wonan be hot and dry. as well as
tht oiari. there can De no conceotion : and if. on the coinrary,
the rian biiouitd oe of a coin and moist constitui-ou. as well
as t-;e wo.'iiao. rhe effect would be the sa^ie—and this bar-
tenrie>s is nurelv natural The onlv way to help this. is. for
people oefoi'e they aiarry, to observe each other's co nplexion
/>f thev design to have children If their complexions and
ci Mistitutions be alike, they are not fit to come together, for
jjjs; •xydaat natures only make harmony in tne work of gene-
ratio ^
An! ither natural cause of barrenness is want of love be-
tween tbeman and wife Love is that vital principle that
ought to ' inspire each organ in the act of generation, or else jft
will he si
wJt^l^ss and dull: for if their hearts be not united in
love, how should their seed unite to cause conception .-'
\nd
this is suffi cie«tly evinced, in that there never follows con-
ception on ^ rape. Therefore if men and women design to
^ave ehildre ^» ^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ *o ^^^^ ^^^ir hearts as well as
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 175
their bodies may be united, or else they may miss of their
expectations.
A third cause of natural barrenness, is the letting virgins
blood in the arm before their natural courses ar« come nown,
which is usually in the fourteenth and fifteenth vears of age
—
sometimes, perhaps, before the thirteenth, but never before
the twelfth. And because usually they are out of order and
indisposed before their purgations come down, their parents
run to tiie doctor to know what is tlte matter: and he, il not
skilled, will naturallv prescribe opetiing a 7ein m ine arm,
thinking fulness of blood the cause: and thus she seems re-
co\'ered for the present : and when the young virgin happens
to be in the same disorder, the mother applies again to the
surgeon, who uses the same remedy: and b\ these rceans
the blood is so diverted from its proper chaimel, that it comes
not down to the womb as usual : and so the womb dries up,
and she is for ever barren. To prevent this, let no virgin
blood in the arm before her courses coi)ie down well hut, if
there be necessity, let her blood in the foot, for that w ill br'ng
the blood downwards, and by that means provoke the men-
strua to come down.
Another cause of natural barrenness is debilitv in copula-
tion. If persons perform not that aci with all the hem and
ardour that nature reqinre>, thev mav as well ier it alone, nnd
expect to have children without it; for frie,idifv and coidness
never produce conception. Of the cure f)f this we Wiil si-eak
by and by, after I have spoken of accidental harrei'iiess,
v/hich is occasioned bv some niorhific fiaiter or mfirmity
upon the body, either of the man or the woman, wh^ch t'eing
removed they become frmtfuj. And since, as I have f'efore
noted, the first and j^reat law of the creation was to mciease
and multiply, and barrenness is in direct oopositiori to that
law, and frustn'es the end of otn- creation . and as it is a great
affliction to many to be without children, and often causes
man and wife to iiave hard thoughts one of another: I shall
here, for the satisfaction of well-meaning people, set down
the sigtjs and causes of insufficiency both in men and women ;
premising first, that when people have no children, they must
not presently blame either party, for neither may be in fault.
176 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
SECTION 11. .
Signs and Causes of Insufficiency in Men.
One cause may be in some viciousness of the yard, as if
the same be crooked, or any ligaments thereof distorted and
broken, whereby the ways and passages through which the
seed should flow come to be stopped or vitiated.
Another cause may he too much weakness of the yard, and
tenderness thereof, so that it. is not strong enough erected to
inject seed into the womb: for the strength and stiffness of
the vard verv much conduces to conception, by reason of the
forcible injection of the seed.
Also, if the stones have received any hurt, so that they can-
not exercise the proper gift in producing seed ; or if they be
oppressed with an inflammation, tumour, wound, or ulcer, or
drawn up within the belly, and not appearing outwardly.
Also, a man may be barren by reason of the defect of seed ;
as. first, if he cast forth no seed at all, or less in substance than
is needful. Or, secondly, if the seed be vicious, or unfit for
generation : as, on the one side, it happens in bodies that are
gross and fat, the matter of it being defective: and, on the
other side, too much leanness, or continual wasting or con-
sutnption of the bodv, destroys seed : nature turning all the
matter and substance thereof into the nutriment of the bod}'.
Too frequent copulation is also one great cause of barren-
ness in tnen : for it atrracte;h the seminal moisture from the
ptones, before it is sufficiently prepared and concocted. So
if any one, by daily copulation, do exhaust and draw out all
the moisture of the seed, then do the stones draw the moist
liumours from the superior veins into themselves; and so
having but little blood in them, thev are forced of necessity to
cast it out raw and unconcocted. and thus the stones are vio-
lently deprived of the moisture of their veins, and the superi-
or veins and all the other parts of the body of their vital spir-
its : therefore it is no wonder that those who use immoderate
copulation are very weak m their bodies, seeing their whole
body is therefore deprived of the best and purest blood, and of
the spirit, insomuch that many who have been too much ad-
dicted to that pleasure, have killed themselves in the very act.
Gluttony, drunkenness, and other excesses, do so much
hinder men from fruitfulness, that it makes them unfit for
geiieration.
But among other causes of barrenness among men, this al-
so is one and makes thera almost of the nature of eunuchs
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 177
and that is the incision, or the cutting of their veins behind
their ears, which in case of distempers is oftentimes done;
for, according to the opinion of most pnysicians and, anato-
inisis, the seed flows from tlie brain by those veins behind ilie
ears more than from any part of the body. From whence it
is very probable, that the transmission of the seed is hinder-
ed by the cutting of the vems behind the ears, so that it can-
not nescend at all to the testicles, or may come thither very
crude and raw.
SECTION III.
Signs and Causes of Insiifficiency, or Barrennes in Women
Although there are many causes of the barrenness ol
women, yet the chief and principal are internal respecting
either the privy parts, the womb, or nenstruoMs blnod.
Therefore Hippocrates saith (speaking as well of easy as
difficult conceptions in women) the first consideiation is to
be bad of their species : for little H'onien are more apt to con-
ceive than great, slender than gross, white and fair than rud-
dy and high coloured, black than wan. those that have their
veins conspicuous than others : but to be very fleshy is evil;
and to have great swelled breasts is good.
The next thing to be considered, is the monthlv purgations,
whether they have been duly every month, whether tlie\ flow
plentifully, are of a good colour, and whether they have been
equal every month.
Then the womb, or place of conception, is to be consider-
ed. !t ought to be clean and sound, drv and soft ; not re-
tracted or drawn up ; not prone, nor descending downwards;
nor the mouth thereof turned away, nor too close shut up.
But to speak more particularly :
The first parts to be spoken of are the pudenda, or privities,
and the womb : which parts are shut and inclosed, by nature,
or against nature; and from hence, such in women are call-
ed rmpervatores, as in some women the mouth of their womb
continues conipressed, or closed up, from the time of their
birth until the coming down of their courses, and then, on
a sudden, when their terms press forwards to purgation, they
are molested with great and unusual pains. Sometimes these
break of their own accord ; others are dissected and opened
by phvsicians : others never break at all, which bring on dis-
orders that end in death.
All these Aetius particularly handles, showing that the womb
ITS ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
is shut three manner of ways, which hinders conception
And the lirst is, when the lips of the pudenda grow or cleave
together. The second is, when there are certain nieinbranes
growing in the middle part of the matrix within. The third
is, when (though the lips and bosom of the puritinda iTax ap-
pear fair and open) the snouth of the womb may be quite shut
up. All vvhicii are occasions of barrenness, as they hinder
the intercourse with man, the monthly course'* and concep-
tion.
But amongst all causes of barrenness in womrin, the great-
est is in the womb, v\ hich is the field of generation : and if
this field is corrupt, it is in vain to expect any fruit, let it be
ever so well sown. It may be unfit for generation by reason
of many distempers to which it is .subject : as, for instance,
over much heat, and over much cold ; for women wnose
wombs are too thick and cold cannot conceive because cold-
ness extinguishes the heat of the human seed, Inunoderate
moisture of the womb also destroys the seed of tnan, and
makes it inefiectual. as corn sown in ponds and n arshes;
and so does over much drvness of the womb, so that the seed
perjsheth for want of nutriment. Immoderate heat of the
woinb is also a cause of barrerniess; for it scorcheth up the
seed as corn sown m the drought of summer ; for immoderate
heat burns all parts of the body, so that no conception can
live in the womb.
V hen unnatural humours are engendered, as too much
phlegm, tvmpanies, wind, water, worns, or anv such evil
humours abounding conirary to nature, it causes barrenness,
as do all teims not coming down in due order
A woman may also have other arcidental causes of barren-
ness (at least such as may hinder her conception.) a<^ sudden
frights, anger, grief and purteriianon of n ind too violent
exercises, as leaping, dancing runiiina after copulation, and
the like. Rut I will now ad() some signs, by which these
things mav be known.
If the cause of barrenness be in the n>an. through over-
xnuch heat in his seed, the woman may easily feel that in re-
ceiving it.
If the nature of the woman be too hot. and so unfit for con-
ception, it will appear by having her terms very little, and the
colour inclining to yellowness, she is also very hasty, choler-
ic, and crafty ; her pulse beats very swift, and she is very
desirous of copulation.
To know whether the fault is in the man or in the woman,
sprinkle the man's urine upon a lettuce leaf and the woman's
urine upon another, and that which dries away first is unfruit-
ful. Also take five whealen corns and seven beans, put them
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS, ITS
into an earthen pot, and let the paity make water therein;
let this stand seven days, and if in that time they begin to
sprout, then the paity is fruitful; but if they sprout not. then
the party is barren, whether it be man or woman : this is a
certam sign.
Tliere are some that make this experiment of a woman's
fruitfulness ; take myrrh, red storax, and some odoriferous
things, and make a perfume of it: which let the woman re-
ceive into the neck of the womb through a funnel : if the wo-
man feels the smoke ascend through her body to the nose,
then she is fruitful, otherwise she is barren. Some also take
garlic and beer, and cause the woman to lie on her back ujj-
on it, and if she t\e] the scent thereof in her nose, it is a sign
of her being fruitful.
Culpepper and C)thers also give a great deal of credit to the
following experiienl: take a hanrful of barley, and steep
half of it in the urine of the man and the other half m the
urine of the woman, for the space of twenty four hours: then
take it out. an.'i put the man's by itself and the woman's by
itself; set it in a flower pot, or some other thing. where''let
it dry: water the man's every morning with his ov.'n urine,
and the woman's with hers, and that which grows first is the .
most fruitful ; but if they grow not at all, they are both natu-
rally barren.
Cure, if barrenness proceed from stoppage of the menstrua,
let the V OH'an sweat, for that opens the parts ^ and the best
way to swear is in a hot-house. Then let the womb be strength-
ened by drinking a draught of white wine, wherein a handful
of stinking arrack, first bruised, has been boiled: for by a
seen t iiiagnetic virtue it strengthens the womb, and by a sim-
pathetic quality, removes any disease thereof To which add
also a handful of vervain, which is very good to strengthen
both the womb and the head, which are commonly afflict-
ed together by sympathy. Having used these two or three
days, if they come not down, take of calamint, pennyroyal,
thyrve, betony, bittany, burnet, feverfew, mugwort, sage,
peony roots, juniper berries, half a handful of each, or so
many as can be got ; let these be boiled in beer, and taken
for her drink.
Take one part of gentian-root, two parts of cantaury, distil
ihem with ale in an alembic, after you have bruised the
gentian roots, and infused them well. This water is an
admirable remedy to provoke the terms. But if you have
not this water in readiness, take a dram of centorj', and
half a dram of gentian root bruised, boiled in posset drink,
and drink a draught of it at niE^ht going to bed. Seed oi
180 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
wild navew beaten to powder, and a drain of it taken in t'ne
morning in white wine, also is very good; but if it answer
not, siie must be let blood in the legs. And be ?ure you ad-
Qiinister vour (iiedicines a little before the full of the inoon,
Dr before the new and full moon, by no means in the wane
of the <iioon, if you do. you will find them ineffectual.
If barrenness proceed from the overflo-ving of the men-
strua, then strensithen the womb as you were taught before;
afterguards anoint the rems of the nack with oil of roses, oil
of Mivrtle, oil of quuices, every night, and then wrap a piece
of white baize about your reins, the cotton sid§ next the skin,
and keep the same always to it. But, above all, i recom-
mend tins iiiedicine to you Take comfrey leaves or roots,
and clown wound wort, of each a handful, bruise them well,
and boil them in ale, and drink a good draught of it now and
then. Or take cmnauion, cassia lignea, opium, of each two
drains, >iiyrrh, white pepper, galbanum, of each one dram;
dissolve the gum and opium in white wine, beat the rest
into powder, and make it into pills, mixing them together
exactly, and let the patient take two every night going to
bed; but let the pills not exceed fifteen grains.
If barrenness proceed from a flux in the womb, the cure
must be according to the cnuse producing it. or which the
flux proceeds from, which may be known by signs: for a
flux of the womb, being a continual distillation from it for a
Jong time together tlie colour of what is voided shows what
humour it is that offends : in some it is red. and that proceeds
from blood putrified : in some it is yellow, and that denotes
choler, in others white and pale, and that denotes phlegm.
Jf pure blood comes out. as if a vein were opened, some
corrosion or gnawing of the womb is to be feared. All these
are known by the following signs.
The place of conception is continually moist with the hu-
mours, the face is ill coloured, the party loathes meat, and
breathes with difficulty, the eyes are much sucillen, which
is sometimes without pain If the offending huuiour be
pure blf»od. then vou must let blood in the arm, and the
cephalic vein is fittest to draw back the blood ; then let the
juice of plantain and comfrey be injected into the won b If
phleg >' be the cause, iet cinnamon be a spice used in all her
meats and drinks: and let her take a little Venice treacle or
mithridate everv morning. I-et her boil burnet. mugwort,
feve>few, and vervain in all her broths. Also, half a dram
of mvrrh. taken every morning, is an excellent remedy
against this i^.aladv If choler be the cause, let her take bu
nage, buglos, red roses, endive, and succory-roots, lettuce
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. l«i
and white poppy seed, of each a handful ; boil these in white
wine till one half be wasted ; let her drink half a pint every
morning . to which half a pint add syrup of peach flowers and
syrup of chicony, of each an ounce, with a little rhubarb, ana
this will gently purge her. If it proceed from putrified blood,
let her be bled in the foot then strengthen the womb as i
have directed in stopping of the menstrua.
If barrenness be occasioned by the falling out of the womb
as sometimes it happens, let her apply sweet scents to the
nose, such as civet, galDanum, srorax, calamitis, wood of
aloes, and such other things as are of that nature ; and let
her lay stinking things to tne woinb, such as assafoetida, oil
of amber, or the smoke of her own hair, being ournt ; for
this is a certain truth, that the womb flies from all stinking,
and to all sweet things. But the most infallible cure, in this
case is: take a common burdoc-Ieaf (vvhicn you mav keep
dry, if you please, all the year,) apply this to her hear., and
it will draw the womb upwards in fits of the motner, ap-
ply it to the soles of her feet, and it will draw the womb
downwards. But seed beaten in a powder, draws the womb
which way you please, according as it is applied.
If barrenness in the woman proceed from a hot cause, let
her take whey, and clarify it : tiien boil plantain-leaves and
roots in it, and drink it for her ordinary drink. let het
also inject the juice of plantain into her womb with a svrmge.
If it be winter, when you cannot get the juice, make a strong
decoction of the leaves and roots in water, and inject that up
with a syringe : but let it be blood warm, and you will find
this medicine of great efficacy. And further, to take away
barrenness proceeding from hot causes : take of conserve of
roses, cold lozenges made of tragacanth, the confections of
tricantelia ; and use, to smell to, camphire, rose water, and
Saunders. It is also good to bleed the basilica, or liver vein,
and take four or five ounces of blood, and then take this
purge: take electuarium de epithymo, de suoco rosarum, of
each two drams and a half; clarified whey, four ounces:
mix them well together, and take it in the morning fasting:
sleep after it about an hour and a half, and fast four hours
after; and about an hour before you eat any thing, drink a
good draught of whey. Also lake lily- water, four ounces;
maudragar water, one ounce : saffron half a scruple . beat
the saffron to powder, and mix it with the waters, drink them
warm in the morning 5 use them eight days ti>gether.
Q
182 AiilSTOTLE'S WORKS.
Some approved Remedies against Barrenness, and to caust
FruiiJ'ubitss.
Takk broom flowers, srnallage, parsley seed, cummm,
mugwoit, feverfew, of eacli half a scruple ; aloes, half an
ounce; Indian salt, saffron, of each half a rlram ; beat and
mix them together, and put to it five ounces of feverfew wa-
ter warm, stop it close up, and let it stand and dry in a warm
place, and tins no two or three tinses. one after another;
then make each dram into six pills, and take one of them
every otner nighi before supper
For piirgnig .nedicine against barrenness take conserve of
beuedicta lax, a quarter ot an ounce ; depsiHo, three drams
;
electuarv de succo rosarmn. one dram : mix them together
witn feverfew water, and drink it in the morning betimes.
—
About tnree days after ihe panent bath taken the purge, let
her be bled, t iking four or five ounces in the mjdian, or
common black vem in the right font : and then give for five
successive navs. filed ivorv, a rlrain and a half in feverfew
water and during the time let her sit in the following bath
an hour together, morning and night. Take mild yellovy
saps, daucus, balsam wood and fruit, ashkeys. of each two
hanrifuls, red and white behen. broom flowers, of each a
handful: musk, three grains: amber, saffron, of each a scru-
ple boil all in water sufficiently ; but the musk, saffron, am
ber, and iiroom flowers must be put into the decoction, aflex'
it IS boiled and strained.
A Confection very good against Barrenness.
Take pistachia, eringoes, of each half an onnce ; saf?ron,
one dram : lignurn aloes, galingal, mace, coriophille, balm
flovers, red and white behen, of each four scruples : ivory
shavings cassia l)ark. of each two scruples : syrup of con-
fecred ginger, twelve ounces: while sugar six ounces: de»
coci all tnese m twelve ounces of balm water, and stir them
well together: then put to it musk and amber, of each a
scruple ; take thereof the qnantity of a nutmeg three times a
day : in the morning, an hour before noon, and an hour after
supper.
But if the cause of barrenness, either in man or woman, be
through scarcitv of diminution of the natural seed, then such
things are to be >aken as do increase the seed, and incite or
stir up TO venerv and furtner conception : which T shall here
set down, and then conclude this chapter concerning barren-
nets.
ARISTOTLE'S WOxaKS. J88
For this, yellow rape seed baked in bread is very good ; al-
so young fat flesh, not too tmich salted ; also saffron, the tails
of stinciis, and long pepper prepared \n wine. But let such
persons eschew all sour, sharp, doughy and slimy meats, long
sleep after meat, surfeiting, and drunkenness; and so much
as they can, keep themselves from sorrow, grief, vexation, and
anxious care
Tnese things fcillowing increase the natural seed, stir up
venery, and recover the seed agam when it is lost, viz. eggs,
milk rice boiled in milk, sparrows' t)rains flesh, bones and
all ; the stones and pizzles of bulls, bucks, rans, and bears;
also cocks' stones, lambs' stones, partridges, quails, and
pheasants' eggs .\nd this is an undeniable aphnrisn. that
whatever any creature is addicted unto, tbev move or incite
the man or woman that eats them to tne like ; and therefore
partridges, quads, sparrows, &c being extre nely addicted
to venery, they work the same effect on those men and wo-
men that eat them. Also take notice, that in what pan of
the body the faculty which you would strengthen lie.s, take
the same part of the bodv of another creature, in whom the
faculty IS strong, as a medicine. As for in-stance the pro-
creative faculty lies in the testicles: therefore cocks' .stones,
laiibs' stones, &c are proper to stir up venerv I wjli also
give you another general rule : all creatures that are fruitful
being eaten makes them fruitful tnat eat them, as crabs, lob-
sters, prawns, pigeons, &c The stones of a fox dried and
beaten to powder and a dram taken m the morning ia
sheep's ^oilk, and the stones of a boar taken in like mamier,
are very good. The heart of a naie qua.l earned about the
man. and the hear! of a fe.nale quail carriert about the wo-
man, caugeth natural love and fniitfulness t-et theti' also
that would increase their seed eat aoH drink of the best as
much as thev can for sine cerere et libera friget F'enu.- i* an
old proverb which is, " Without good meat and drink, Venus
will be frozen to death.
Pottages are good to increase the seed : such as are 'iiade
of beans peas and lupines mixed with sugar, French beans,
wheat sodden in brorh anniseed. also onions stewed, garlic,
leeks, vellow rapes, fresh mugwort roots ermgo roors con-
fected, ginger confected. &,c Of fruits hazel nuts, cyurus
nuts pistachia. almonds, and marchpanes thereof Suices
good to increase seed are cinnamon, galensial, long pepper,
cloves, ginger, saffron, assafostida ; a dram and a half taken
In good wine, is very good for this purpose.
The weakness and debilitv of a man's yard being a great
hiijderance to procreation, let him use the following ointment
to streugihea it; take wax, oi! of beaver, cod, marjoraai gen-
184 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
tie, and oil of coflus, of each a like quantity, mix them into
an ointment, and put to it a little musk, and with it anoint
the yard, cods. &,c. Take of house emmets three drams, oil
of white saffanum, oil of lilies, of each an ounce; pound and
bruise the ants, and put them to the oil, and let them stand
in the sun six days : then strain out the oil, and add to it
cuphorbium one scruple, pepper and rue, of each one dram ;
mustard seed half a dram ; set this altogether in the sun
two or three days, then anoint the instrument of generation
therewith.
CHAPTER II.
The Diseases of the fVomb.
I HAVE already said, that the womb is the field of genera-
tion ; and )f tnis field be corrupted, it is in vain to expect
any fruit, though it be ever so well sown. It is therefore not
without reason that I mtend in this cha|)ter to set down the
several distetnpers to which the womb is obnoxious, with
proper and safe remedies against them.
SECTION I.
Cfthe hoi Distempers ofthe TT'^omb.
This distemper consists in excess of hc^at : for as heat of
the womb is necessary for conception, so if it be too much,
it noursheth not the seed, but disperseth it? heat, and hinders
the conception. This pre'ernatural heat is sometimes from
the birth, and causes barrenneps; hut if it be accidental, it is
from hot causes, that bring the heat and the blood to the
womb; it arises also from internal and external medicines,
and from too much hot meat, drink, or exercise. Those that
are troubled with this distemper have but few courses, and
those are vellow. black, burnt, or sharp : have hair betimes
on their privities , are very prone to lust, subject to the head-
ach, and abound with choler: and when the distemper is
strong upon them, they have bnt few terms, which are out o^
order, being bad and hard to flow, and in time they become
hypochondriacs, and for the most part barren, having some-
times a frenKv of the womb.
Cure. The remedy is to use coolers, so that they offen""
not the vessels that must be open for the flux of the !?<'"« .
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 185
Therefore, take inwardly, succor}', endive, violets, water
lilies, sorrel, lettuce, saunders, and s}'rups anri conserves
made thereof. Also take conserve of succory, violets, water
lilies, burrage. each an ounce; conserve of roses, lialf an
ounce : diamargation frigid, diatriascantal, each half a dram
;
and with syrup of violets, or juice of citrons, make an electu-
ary. For outward applications, make use of ointnent of ro-
ses, violets, water lilies, gourd, venus navel, applied to the
back and loins.
Let the air be cool, her garments thin, and her food endive,
lettuce, succory, and barley. Give her no hoi neats. nor
strong wine, unless mixed with water. Rest is goon for ' er;
but she must abstain from copulation, though she may sleep
as long as she pleases.
SECTION IT.
Of the Cold Distemper of the Womb.
This distemper is the reverse of the foregoing, and equally
an enemy to generation, being cau.«ed b\ a cold quality
abounding to excess, and proceeds from a too coin air, rest,
idleness, and cooling medicines. It may be known by an
aversion tovenery, and taking no pleasure in the act of copu-
lation when the seed is spent; the terms are pblegii atic. thick,
and slimy, and do not flow as they should ; the won b is w in-
<iy, and the seed crude and waterish. If is the cause of ob-
structions and barrenness, and hard to be cured.
Cure Take galengal. cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, cloves,
each two drams; ginger, cubebs, zedoarv cardaimim. each
an ounce ; grains of paradise, long pepper, each halt an ounce;
beat them, and put them into six quarts of w me for ^jght
days; then add sage, inint, balm, motherwort, of each three
handsful : let them stand eight days more, men poor off the
wine, and beat the herbs and the sf)ice, and then pot'r on the
wine again, and distil them. Or you may use this; take rin-
nanion, nutmeg, cloves, mace, ginger, cuheb"^. carflsuium,
grains of paradise each an ounce and a half yaiengal six
drams, long pepper half an ounce, zedoary five drans : bn.ise
theii'. and add six quarts of wine ; put them into a cellar nine
days, daily stirring them ; then add of mint two handsful. and
let them stand fourteen days; pour off the wine, anri bnnsa
them, and then pour on the wine again, and distil them. ^ Iso
anoint with oil of lilies, rue, angelica, bavs, cinnamon, cloves,
mace and nutmeg. Let her diet and air be warm, her i. eat of
easy concoction, seasoned with anniseed, fennel, and thyme;
and lei her avoid raw fruits and milk diets.
Q9
186 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
SECTION III.
Of the Inflation of the Womb.
The inflation of the womb is a stretcning of it by wind,
called by some a windy mole : the wind proceeds from a cold
matter, whether thick or thin, contained in tiie veins of the
woinn, by which the weak heat thereof is overcome, and whicii
cither flows thither from other parts, or is gathered there by
cold meats and drinks. Cold air may be the producing cause
of it also, as womet> that lie in are exposed to it. 1 i>e wind is
contained either in the cavitv of the vessels of the womb, or
between the tunicles, and mav be known bs a swelling in the
region of the womb, which sometimes reaches to rhe navel,
loins, and diauhragin. and rises ano abates as the wind in-
creaseih or decreaseth. It differs from the dropsy, in that it
never swells so hign. That neither physician nor midwife
may fake it for a conception, let them observe the signs of
the women with child, laid down in a former part of this
work ; and if any sign be wanting, they may suspect it to be
an inflation: of which this is a further sign, that in concep-
tion the swelling is variable: also, if yon strike upon the
belly, in an inflation, there will tie a noise, but not so in case
there be a conception It also differs from a mole, because
in that there is a weight and hardness m the belly, and when
the patient looves from one side to the other she feels a great
weight which 'iioveth : but not so in this. If the inflation
continue without the cavity of the womb, the pain is greater
and more extensive, nor is there any noise, because the wind
is more pent up
Cuke. This distemper is neither of a long continuance,
nor dangerous, if looked after in time: and if it be in the
cavitv of the. womb, is more easily expelled. To which pur-
pose give her riiaphnicon. with a little castor, and sharp clys-
ters that expel wind. If this distemper happen to a woman
in travail, let her not purge after deliverv. nor bleed, because
it is from a cold matter: but if it come after child bearing,
and her terms come down sufficiently, and she has fulness
of blood, jet the sapsena vein be opened : after which, let her
take the following electuary ; take conserve of betony and
rosemarv. of each an ounce and a half; candied eringoes,
citron peel candied, each half an ounce: diacimium. diaga-
langal. each a dranj; oil of anniseed six drops: and v/ith
syrup of citrors make an electuary. For otitward applica-
tion mah« a catalplasm of rue, mugwort, camomile, dill, cai^*
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 187
jTiint, new pennyroyal, thyme, with oil of rue, keir, and ca-'
iuomile. And let the following clyster, to expel wind, be put
into the womb: take agnus, castus, cinnamon, each two
drams, boil them in wine to half a pmt. She may likewise
use sulphur, Bath and Spa waters, both inward and outward
because they expel wind.
SECTION IV.
OfVie Straitness of the Womb, and Us Vessels.
This is another effect of the womb, which is a very great
obstrtiction to the bearing of children, hindering both the
flow of the menses and conception and is seated in the vessels
of the womb, ann the neck thereof The causes of this
straitness are thick and rough humours, that stop the
mouths of the veins and arteries These humours are bred
either by gross or too much nourishment when the heat of
the womb is so weak that it cannot attenuate the humours,
which, by reason thereof either flow from the whole bod)',
or are gathered mto the womb. Now. the vessels are made
strajter or closer several ways : sometimes by infla nma-
tion, schirrous. or other tumours : sometimes by compressions,
scars, or bv flesh or membranes that grow after a wound.
Ttie signs by which this is known are, the stoppage Of the
terms, not conceiving, and crudities abounding in the body,
which are all shown hv particular signs : for if there is a
wound, or the secundine pulled out bv force, phlegm comes
from the wound : if stoppage of the terms be from an old ob-
struction by humours, it is hard to be cured ; if it be only
f.om tiie disorderly us» of astringents, it is more curable ; if
it be froai a sciiirrous, or other tumours, that compress or
close tiie vessel, the dist^ase is incurable.
Ci;uK. For the cure of that which is curable, obstructions
must be taken a'\ay, phlegm must be purged, and she must b*»
let blood, as will be hereafter directed in the stoppage of the
terms. Then use the foUowmg rnedic'nes: take of anniseed
and fennel seed, each a dram ; rosemary, pennyroyal, cala-
miut, betnuy flowers, each an nimcs : castus, cinnamon, ga-
lengal. each half an ounce: saffron, half a dram, with wine.
Or take asparagus roots, parsley roots, each an ounce; pen-
nyrovai. cala.uiiit, each a handful ; wall-flowers, gilly flowers
each two handsful : boil, strain, and add syrup of mugwort,
an ounce and a half. For a fomentation, take pennyroya',
l&a ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
mercur}', calaniint, marjoram, mugwort, each two handsful
:
sage, rosemary, bays, camomile flowers, each a handful ; boil
them in water, and foment the groin and bottom of the belly ;
or let her sit up to the navel in a bath, and then anoint about
the groin with oil of rue, lilies, dill, &.c.
SECTION V.
Of the Fallingof the Womb.
This is another evil effect o/the womb, which is both very
troublesome, and also a hinderance to conception. Some-
times the wodib falleth to the middle of the thighs, nay, al-
most to the knfies, and may be known then by its hanging out.
Now, that which causeth the womb to change its place is,
that the ligaments, by which it is bound to the other parts, are
not in order; for there are four ligaments, two above, broad
and membraneous, that come from the peritoneum, and two
below, that are nervous, round and hollow: it is also bound
to the great vessels by veins and arteries, and to the back by
lierves ; but the place is changed u hen it is drawn another
way, or when the ligamenis are loose, and it falls down by its
own weight. It is drawn on one side when the iiienses are
hindered from flowing, and the veins and arteries are full,
namely, those that go to the woinb. If it be a mole on one
side, the liver and spleen cause it ; by the liver veins on tlie
right side, and the spleen oa the left, as they are more or less
filled. Others are of opinion, it comes from the solution of
the connection of the fibrous neck and the parts adjacent
;
and that it is from the weight of the womb descending : this
we deny not ; but the ligaments tnust be loose or broken.
But women in a dropsy could not he said to have the v^'oujb
fallen down, if it came only fr-^ii looseness: but in them it
is caused by thesaltness of the water, which dries more than
it moistens. Now, if there be a little tumour, within or with-
out the privities, like a skin stretched, or a weight felt i;pon
the privities, it is nothing else but a descent of the womb;
but if there be a tumour like a goose egg, and a hole at the
bottom, and there is at first a great pain in the parts to which
the womb is fastened, as the loins, the bottom of the belly,
and the cs sacrum, it proceeds from the breaking or stretch-
ing of the ligaments; and a little after, the pain is abated,
and there is an impediment in walking, and sometimes
blood comes from the breach of the vessels, and the excre-
ments and urine are stopped, and then a fever and convulsion
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. %%9
ensueth, oftentimes proving mortal, especially if it happen to
women with child.
Cure. For the cure of this distemper, first put up the
womb before the air alter it or it be swollen or inflamed ; and
for tliis purpose give a clyster to remove the exrvements, and
then lay her upon her back, with her legs abroad, and ner
thighs lifted up, and head down ; then take the tumour in your
hand, and thrust it in without violence; if it be swelled by
alteration and cold, foment it with the decoction of mallows,
althaea, lime fenugreek, camomile flowers, bay berries, and
anomt it with od of lilies, and hen's grease. 1/ there be an
inflammation. Ho not put it up, but fright it in, by putting a
red hot iron before if. and making a show as if you intended
to burn it: bur first sprinkle upon it the powder of mastich
frankincense, and the like : thus, take frankmcense, niastich,
each two drams; sarcocol. sleeued in milk, a dram; mummy,
poiriegranate flowers, sanijuis draconis. each half a dram-
VVhen it is put up let her lie with her legs stretched and one
upon the other, for eight or ten days, and make a pessary in
the form of a pear, with cork or spunge, and put it into the
womb, dipoed in sharp wine or juice of acasia, with powder
of sanguis with galbanum and bdellium. Also apply a cup-
ping glass, with a great flaine, under the navel or paps, or to
both kidneys, and lay this plaister to the back ; take opopo-
iiax two ounces; storax liquid, half an ounce: mastich,
frankincense, pitch, bole, each two drams: then with wax
make s plaister or, take laudanum, a dram and a half; mas-
tich, and frankincense each half a dram : wood aloes, cloves,
spike, each a dram ; and coloured ambergris, four grains;
musk half a scruple; make two round plaisters to be laid on
each side of the navel : make a fume of snails' skins salted,
or of garlic, and let it be taken in bv the funnel. Use also
astringent fomentations of bramble leaves plantain, horse
tails. myr*les each twohandfuls; wormseed two handfuls;
pomegranate flows-rs half an ounce ; boil them in wine and
water. For an injection take couifrev roots an ounce; rap-
ture wort, two drams: yarrow, mugwort, each half an ounce;
boil them in red wine, and inject it with a syringe. To
strengthen the womb take hartshorn, bays, of each a dram ;
myrrh, half a dram ; make a powder for two doses, and give
it with sharp wine. Or, you mav take zedoary, parsnip seed,
crabs' eyes prepared, each a dram ; nutmeg half a dram ; and
give a dram in powder; but astringents ii-ust be used with
great caution, lest by stopping the course? a worse mischief
follow. To keep it in its place, make rollers and ligatures as
for rupture: and put pessaries into the bottom of the womb,
that may force it to remain. Let the diet be such as has dry»
190 ARISTOTLE'S V^^ORKS.
tng, astringent, and glewing qualities, as rice, starch, quincei,
pears, and green cheese; but let summer fruits be avoided;
and let her wkie be astringent and red.
CHAPTER III.
OfDiseasee relating to fVomeri's Monthly Courses.
SECTION I.
O/" Women's Monthly Courses in General.
That Divine Providence, which, with a wisdom peculiar
to itself, has appointed woman to conceive by coition with
man, and to bear and bring forth children, has provider) for
the nourishment of children during their recess in tne womb
of their mother by that redundancy of rhe blood which is na-
tural to all women, and which, flowing out at certam periods
of time (when they are not pregnant.) are from thence called
iemis and menses, from iheir monthlx flux of excrementitious
blood. Now, that the matter flow ing forth its excrementitious,
is to he understood only with respect to the redundancy and
overplus thereof, being an excren>enl onlv with respect to its
quantity; for as to its quality, it is as puie and incorrupt as
any blood in the veins: and thisappeers from the final cause
of it. which is the propagation and conservation of mankind ;
and also from the generation of it, being the superfluity of the
last aliment of the flesny parts. If any ask, if the menses be
not of a hurtful quality, how can thev cause puch venemous
effects: if they fall upf)n trees and herbs, thev make tne one
barren, and mortifv the other.? I answer, this malignity is
contracted in the womb; for the woman wanting native heat
to digest the superfluity, sends it to the matrix, where seating
itself till the mouth of the womb be dilated, it becomes cor-
rupt and mortified . which may easily be, considering the heat
and moistnessof the place: and so this blood being out of its
pjroper vessels, ai]d too long retained, offends in quality.
AKiSTOTLE'S WORKS, m
SECTION IL '
of Terms corning out of Order, either before or after the
usual time.
Having rn the former part of this work treated of the sup-
pression and overflowing of the monthly terms, I shall content
myself with referring tne reaHer thereto, and proceed to
speak of their coming out of order, either before or after the
usual time.
Both those proceed from an ill constitution of body. Every
thing is beautiful in its order, in nature as well as in morality
;
and if the order of nature be broke, it shows the body to b8
out of order Of each of these effects briefly:
When the monthly courses coine before their time, showing
a denraved excretion, and flowing sometimes twice a month,
the cause is in the blood, which stirs up the expulsive faculty
in the womb, or else in the whole body, and is freqirently oc-
casioned by the person's diet, which increases the blood too
much, making it too sharp or too hot. It the retentive faculty
of the womb be weak, and the expulsive faculty strong, and
of a quick sense, it brings them forth the sooner. Sometimes
they flow sooner by reason of a fall, stroke, or some violent
passion, which the parties themselves can best relate. If it be
from heat, thin and sharp humours, it is known by the dis-
temper of the whole body. The looseness of the vessels, and
weakness of the retentive faculty is known from a moist and
loose habit of the body. It is more troublesome than danger-
ous, but hinders conception, and therefore the cure is neces-
sary for ail, but especially such as desire children. If it pro-
ceed from a sharp blood, let her temper it bv a good diet and
medicines. To which purpose let her use baths of iron water,
that correct the distemper or the bowels, and then evacuate.
If it proceed froui the retentive faculty, and looseness of the
vessels, it is to be correctad with gentle astringents.
As to the courses flo^-ing after the usual time, the causes
are. thickness of the blood and the smaliness of its quantity,
with the st'aitnessof the oassage and weakness of the ex-
pulsive faculties Either of these singly may stop the courses,
but if thev all concur, they render the distemper the worse.
If the blood abounds not in such a qnantity as may stir up
nature to expel it, its purging must necessarily be deferred
till there he enough And if the blood be thick, the passage
stopped, and the expulsive faculty weak, the menses must
needs be out of order, and the purging of them retarded.
192 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
For the cure of this, if the quantity of blood be sjrjall, let
her use a larger diet, and very little exercise. If the blood
be thick and foul, let it be marie thin, and the humours mix-
ed therewith be evacuated. It is good to puige after the cour-
ses have done flowing, and to use calamint: and indeed the
oftener she purges the better. She may also use fumes and
pessaries, apply cupping glasses without scarification to the
inside of the thighs, and rub the legs, and scarify the ancles,
and hold the feet in warm water four or five days before the
courses come down, let her also anoint tiie bottom of her
nelly with things proper to provoke the terms.
Remediesfor disorders in Women's Paps.
Make a cataplasm of bean meal and salad oil, and lay it
to the place afflicted. Or anoint with the juice of papilaris.
This must be done when the paps are very sore.
If the paps be hard and swelled, take a handful of rue,
colewort roots, horehound and mint; if you cannot get all
these conveniently, anv two will do; pound the handful in
honey, and apply it once every dav till healed.
If the nipples be stiff and sore, anoint twice a day with
Florence oil till healed.
If the paps be flabby and hanging, bruise a little hemlock,
and apply it to the breast for three days ; but let it not stand
above seven hours. Or, which is safer, rusee juice well boil-
ed, with a little smapios added thereunto, and anoint.
if the paps be hard and dead, make a plate of lead, pretty
thin, to answer the breasts: let this stand nine hours each
day, (bi three days. Or, sassafras bruised and used in like
manner.
Recipefor procuring Milk.
Drink arpleni, drawn as tea, for 21 days. Or, eat often
anniseeds. Also, the juice of arbor vitae, a glass- ful once a
day for eleven days, is very good, for it quickens the memory,
strengthens the body, andcauseth milk to flow in abundance.
Directions for Drawing of Blood.
Drawing of blood was at first invented for good and salu-
tary purposes, alibough often abused and misapplied.
ARISTOTLE'S VVOtlKS. 2ilS'
To bleed m the left arm removes long continued pain and
beariachs. It ia also good for those who have got falls and
bruises.
Bleeding is good for many disorders, and generally proves
a cure, except in some very extraordinary cases ; and in those
cases bleeding is hurtful.
If a woritan be pregnant, to draw a little blood will give her
ease, good health and a lusty child.
Bleeding is a most certain^cOre for no less than twenty-one
disorders, without any outward or inward applications: and
for many more, with application of drugs, herbs, and flowers.
When the moon is on the increase, you may let blood at
any time, day or night ; but when she is on the decline, you
must bleed only in the morning.
Bleeding may be performed from the month of IVIarch to
November. No bleeding in December, January, or February,
unless an occasion requires it. 7"'he months of March, April,
and November are the three chief months of the year for
bleeding in but it may be performed with safety from the
8th of IVIarch to the i9th of Noven.ber.
To prevent the dangers that mav arise from the unskilful
drawing of blood, let none opan a vein but a person of expe-
rience andf practice. There are three sorts of people yotj
must not let draw blood ; first, ignorant and inexperienced
pretenders. Secondly, those who have liac sight and trem-
blmg hands, whether skilled or unskilled. For when the
hand trembles, the lance is apt to startle from the vein, and
the flesh be thereby damaged, which may hurt, canker, and
very much torment the patient Thirdly, let no women bleed
you, hut such as has gone through a course of midwifery at
college : for those who are unskilful may cut an artery, to thfi
.great damage of the patient. Besides, what is still worse,
tiiose pretended bleeders who take it up at their own hand
generally keep unenged and rusty lancets, which will prove
hurtful even in a skilful hand. Accordingly, you ought to he
cautious in choosing vour physician : a man of learnini: knows
what vein to open for each disorder ; he knows how much
blood to take as soon as he sees the patient : and he can givo
you suitable advice concerning your disorder.
R
ARISTOTLE'S
LAST LEGACY;
rULLT UNFOLDING
THE MYSTERIES OF N ^TURE IN THE GENERATION
OF MAN.
INTRODUCTION.
When the Almighty Architect of the world had formed the
heavens in the beginning and laid the foundationsofthe earth,
and had created a fair and beautiful world out of a rude
mass and undigested chaos, and by his powerful fiat had
brought into being all the several species of vegetables and
aniuials, and given even to tne plants and vegetables to have
seed in themselves for producing their several kinds of form,
and to the aniniais (which he created male and female) the
|)ower of propagating their species, and had adorned the
world with all these beautiful and glorious embelishments
tha' hisconsuminate wisdom and goodness saw fit and requi-
site for the wonderful guest he designed to bring into it. heat
last created man. as a microcosm or lesser world, to be lord
of this greater world, not with a bare fiat only, as he did the
r;!st of his creatures, but called as it were a council of the
sacred Trinitv anout it saving. ••
Let US make man in our
own imatje after our own likeness" &,c. as the divine his-
torian expresses: so that man, in his original, is a rav of the
Divinity, and the very breath of the Almigthy and therefore
it is said, •' God breathed into his nostrils the breath of life,
aod he became a living soul " Man being thus created, and
mads lord of the world, bad in himself at first both sexes;
for 108 text tells us, •' Male and female created he them, and
called their name Adam." Butivet still \darn was dividefl,
he was still alone : though every other living creature iiad a
jriate, he had none, though ha was lord of all : so that in
Farad isf> it>'^lf, he seemed to 1)6 unhapoy, wanting a meet
hsip ; and therefore his nuioificeut .Maker, resoh iv.g to niak9
iSS ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. ^
him completely happy, divides him from himself, thr*t b? a
more agreeable coiijunciion he might be united to hiniseU"
again . and so of a part of himself was formed five, whom
Adam having never seen before, by sympathy of nature pre-
sently called " bone of his bone, and Sesh of his flesh." And
Adam having thus found an help mate given him by his Crea-
tor, he became now completely happy . and bemg blessed by
the \lmighty, had this law also given him, to increase and
multiply, he being endowed with a natural propension there-
unto, and the woman having a plastic power given her by
nature for tbe formation of the embrvo. This natural inclma-
Uoa and propension of the sexes to each other, with the plas-
tic power of nature, is only tne energy of the first blessing and
command of the Almighty, and which, to this day, upholds
the world
The mystery of the generation of that noblest piece of cre-
ation, man. and the unfolding of that pUstic power of nature
jn the secret workings, of generation, and formation of the
seed in the womb, was the subject of the foregoing treatise ;
a subject so necessary to be known bv all the female sex (the
conception and bearing of children being that which nature
has ordained their province) that many, for want of the
knowledge, perish, with the fruit of their womb also, who,
had they but understood the secret of generation displayed in
that book, might have been still in the land of the living.
It is therefore for the use of such that this and the pre-
ceding treatbses were compiled: wherein the mysterv of gene-
ration is not only unravelled, and the abstruce secrets of na-
ture made kisown, but the obstructions anr) hindrances of
generation are declared, and proper remedies against all the
defecls of the womb most fully prescribed.
CHAPTER I.
OfVirginity, what it is, its Signs and Tokens, and how a Man
may know whether he marries a Virgin or not.
Thk great Maker of the Universe, who gives all creatures
life and being, and a power in themselves to propagate their
kind or species, even to the end of the world, has to that end
created them male and female: and these two of contrary
natures and qualities: for in this noble pair, viz. man and wo-
man, the man is hot and dry, the woman cold and moist: and
these two different qualities uniting are ordained by nature
fer the procreanon of child-'^en, the seed of ihp man being
AKISTOTLE'S WORKS. 197
the efiicient cause, and the womb of the woman the field of
generation, wherein the seed is nourished, and the embryo
conceived and formed, and in due time brought forth.
Since the woman then has so great a part in the generation
of man. I shall endeavour to show how nature has fitted her
for it : and because a knowledge of the disease (be it what
it will) is half the cure, I have already, in a foregoing part of
this 'vork. given a full descri[)tion of the several parts or mem-
bers of generation . that so. at anv time, if any part be af-
fected or our of order, it niav be sooner rectified.
And since the first state of woman is virginity : in speaking
of it I will first show wiiat it is, and then lay down some signs
and tokens of it, by which it may be known.
Virg iiity is the boast and pride of»he fair sex, though they
generally commend it to put it off, and that they mav the
sooner get a good husband, and thereby lose it: and I think
they are in the right of it : for '\f they keep it too long it grows
useless, or at least abates much of its value: a stale virgin
(if such a thing there be) being looked upon like an old al
manac. out of date. Virginity is the chief, the best, the
prime of any thing, and is properly the integrity of a woman's
privities, not violated by man. nor known by him, it being the
projierty of a virgin not to have known a man. But to come
a little more close, there is in the neck of the womb of young
maids a pendulous fjrnduction, called the hymen, which is like
the bud of a rose half blown, and this is broken in the first
act of copulation with a man, and from thence came the word
eU/ioro, or deflower, because the taking away of virginity is
oefiowering a virgin: for, when this rose bud is expanded,
virginity is wholly lost.
Certain it is, there is in the first act of copulation something
lliat causeth pain and bleeding, which is an evident sign of
virginity: but what it is, authors agree not; some sav it is a
nervous membrane, or thin skin, with small veins, which
bleeds at the first penetration of the yard ; others sav. 't is
four carbuncles, or bits of flesh, or little buds, like myrtle-
berrtes, and these are plump and full in virgms. but hang
loose and flag in those v/ho have used carnal copulation, be-
jii'i pressed by the yard; souie have oi.vprved a fleshy circle
a^'oiit the nymp/ios. or neck of the wo. b, with little obscure
v<:;ms, which make the membrane noi lo be nervous but
fiesliy.
There is no doubt but that the part which receiveth the
yard is not in women that have used a man. as it is in virgins;
and yet it is not alike in all, which have caused 'hat fiiversity
of opinions both among autiiors and anatomists, for this is
not fouad in all virgins. Excess of lust, or desire of a maxv
R2
?^>^ ARlStOTLE^S WORKS.
in pome, may break the hymen, or claustrum. virginale. So.-lPo
times, when it itcheth. they put in their finger, and so break
jt ; and sometimes the midwives break it in the birth. Some-
times ii is done by stopping of the urine, coughing, violence,
straininj, or sneezing and therefore, if there be no bleed-
ing at the first penetration, it is not alvvavs a sign of unchas-
tity; but where there is bleeding, it is an unquestionable
proof of virginity.
Leo Xfricanus makes mention of a custom of the Africans
at their weddings, which was this After thev were married,
the bridegroon and the bride were shut up in a chamber,
while the weddmg dmner was preparing; anH an old woman
stood at the cliamher door to receive from the hridegroom a
sheet having the bloodv tokens of rhe wife's virginity, which
she showed in triumph to all fhe guests, and then thev feasted
altogether with jov : hut if there was no l»loofi to be seen, the
biide was sent home to her friends with disgrace, and the
disappointed guests went sadly home without their dinner.
But not withstanding the African custom, J affirm, that some .
honest virgms have lost their maidenheads without bleeding,
a'ld therefore are not to be censured, as manv istioratit rjien
do, who. for want of this token, cause their wives to lead an
uncomfortable life all their days: those coxcombs (though
not cuckolds) fancying themselves to have horns on their
heads when it is not so
.Some make the straitness of the privities to be a sign of
virginitv. but this is no certain rule for much depends upon
the age, habit of bodv, and other circimiptances: though it
cannot but be acknowledged, that women who have iK-ed
carnal copulation are not so strait as virgins, yet this can be
no certain argument of virginity : for after repeated acts of
venerv. the privities mav be made so strait bv the use of as-
tringent medicines, that a whore may be sometimes taken for
H virgin and Culpepper mentions a woman that was marri-
ed, who, desirous to appear a virgin, used a bath of comfrey
roois, wherehv she deceived those who had to do with her.
Some there are who make milk in the breasts a sign of
lost virginity, not considering that there is a twofold milk, th?
one of virgins being a malady contrary to nature, the other
natural: the first is made of blood that cannot get out of the
womb, and so goes to the breasts, being nothing but a super-
fluous nourishment that is turned into milk bv the faculty of
the breasts, without knowledge of a man : the other is only
when there is a child either in the womb, or born ; vet the
milk differs very much, both in respect of the blood and rii-
versitv of veins that bring it to the breast ; and though
both are white, yet thai of virgins is thinnest, and less in
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. in
«^[Ualitity ; neUher is it so sweet. And therefore, if virgiiis
liappen to have such milk, they are not for that reason to be
deemed uncnaste.
Upon the whole matter, when a man marries, and finclg
upon Iving with his wife the tokens of her virginity, he has
all the reason in the world to be satisfied he has married a
virgin hut if, on the contrary, he finds them not, he lias no
reason to suspect her of unchastity . as if she were not a virgin
since the hymen, or clausirium virginale, may be broken so
iiiany other ways, and yet the woman be both virtuous and
chaste.
And thus much I thought myself bound to sav, in the be-
ginning, of the female sex. who are often suspected and ac,
cused of dishonesty, when there is no reason for it.
CHAPTER II.
JFhat a fVoman ous:ht to do, in order to Conception,
Women that are desirous to have children, in order there-
unto must give themselves to moderate exercise , for idlonesa
and want of exercise are verv great enemies to generation
work . those that observe it, shall tind that our citv daisies,
who live high and do nothing, seldoiir have children, or if
thev have, thev seldom live : whereas, the poor women, who
accustom themselves to labour, have many children, and
those lusty, ^^or need we wonder at it, if we consider the
benefit that comes bv moderate exercise and labour for it
opens the pores, quickerrs the spirits, stirs up the natural hear,
strengthens the bndv. senses, and comforts the limns, and
helps nature in her execrises, of v^'hich the procreation tiS
chilli ren is not ttie least.
iN'ext to moderate exercise, she must avoid all manner of
discontent, anri the occasion of it : for disconterrt is a great
rr.emv to conception, and contentment and quietness of ndnd
are as great friends to it : for contentment dilates the tierd-t
and arteries, whereby the vital blood or spirit is siiflicientiy
distributed throughout the bodv : and thence arise such af-
fections as please, recreate, and refre'^h the nature of man,
as hope, jov. love, gladness, and mirth Nor noes it onlv
romfort and strengthen the body, but also the operations and
imaginations of the mother works forcibly upon the concep-
tion of tne cnild : and therefore women ought to take great
care that their children may be well formed.
Anotber thing that women ought to do, in order to cok-
200 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
ception, !> to keep the womb in good order ; and to that end
see that the menses come down as they ought to do : if they
are discoloured, then they are out of order: but if the hlood
come down pure, then women will be very prone to conceive
with child, especially if they use copulation a day or two
after the mbnthly terms are stayed.
Another thing a woman that would conceive ought to ob-
serve is, that she use not the act of copulntinn too often ; for
satiety gluts the wo>ih, and uakes it unfit to do its office.
There are two things demonstrate this ; the one fs. thai com-
mon whores (who often use copulation) have seldom any chil-
dren ; the other is, that those women whose husbands have
been long absent conceive very quickh after their return.
And also the time of copulatiou ougnt to be convenient,
that there may be no fear or surprise . for tear hinders con-
ception.
Ai.d then let the lime of copulation be natural, and not stir-
red up by provocatives ; and observe also, that the greater the
woinan's desire of copulation is, the more subject she is to
conceive.
A loadstone carried about a woman causeth not on'y con-
ception, but concord between man and wife.
CHAPTER III.
Things necessary Jbr W9inen to observe after Conception.
WoMKN are very subject to miscarriages in the two first
months p.fter concept ^ou, because then the ligaments are weak
anH soon broken To prevent which, let the woman every
D'.orning drink a good draught of sage ale, and it will do her
abundance of good
But if signs of abortion or miscarriage appear, l?t her lav a
toast dipped in tent, in case muscadel cannot be gotten, to her
navel, for this is verv good or let her take a little garden
tansey, and having bruised it. sprinkle it with muscadel. and
apply it to the navel, and she will find it much better Also,
tansey infused in ale, like sage ale, and a draught drank every
morning, is most excellent for such women as are subject to
miscarriages: also take juice of tansey. clarify it, and let the
woman take a spoonful or two of it ; in such cases it will be
an excellent preservative against miscarriages.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 201
Aiso, let the air be temperate, sleep moHerate, avoid watch-
ing, and immoHerate exercise, with disturbing passions, loud
clamours, and filthy smells : and let her abstain from all things
which mav provoke either the urine or the courses, and alsi
from all sharp and windy meats: and let a moderate diet be
observed.
If the excrements of the guts be retained, lenify the belly
with civsters made of tlie decoction of mallows, violets, v/ith
sugar and coi/imon oil: or make broth of burrage, buglos,
beets, mallows, anc) take therein a little manna. But, on the
contrary, if she be troubled with a looseness of the belly, let
it not be stopped without the judgment of a phrsician: foi'
old uterine fluxes have a malignnnt quality in thei\i. which
must be evacuated and removed before the flux be staved.
CHAPTER IV.
Of the Pleasure and Advantage of Marriage, the Impropri-
ety of Unequal Matches, and the ruinous Effects of «n-
lawful Tjove.
We have hitherto been trenting of the generation of man,
which is effected by tnan and woman in the act of coition
and copulation. But this cannot be done lawfully but by
rhose who are joined together in wedlock, according to the
institution of the Oeater in Paradise, when he first brought
man and woman together: which being so. it necessarily leads
us to treat of the |)Ipasure and advantage of a married life.
And sure there are none wiio question the pleasure and
advantage of a married life, but reflect on its Author, and on
(he time and place of its institution. The Author and insti-
futor of marriage was no other than the great F.ord of the
imiverse, the Creato* r)f heaven and earth, whose wisdom was
infinite, and therefote knew what was best for us. and whose
goodness is equal to his wisdoii). and therefore instituted mar-
riage, as what was best for the man whom he had just crea-
ted, and whom he looked upon as short of that complete
happiness which he had designed him, whilst he was alone,
and had not a help-mate provided for him.
The titne of its instituti^m is no less remarkable: it was
whilst our first parents were clothed with that virgin purity
and innocence in u'hich they were created: is was at a time
202 ARiSTOTLE'S WORKS.
wherein they had a blessed and uiuiiterrupted converse and
coiTinumion with their great Creator, aiirt were coinplete in
a)l the perfections both of mind and body, being the lively
image of Him that created them : it was at a time wiien tiiey
could curiously survey the several mcomparable beauties an<l
perfections of each other without sin. and knew not what it
was to lust: it was at this happy time thai the Almighty di-
vided Adam from himself, and of a crooked rib made a help-
mate for him; and, by instituting marriage, united him unto
himself again in wenlock's sacred bands. And this must
needs speak very highly in conmiendation of a married life.
But we have first considered -
nly the time: now let ns
consider next what place it was wherein at first this marriage-
knoi was tn^d. and we shall find it was paradise: a place
formed by the great Creator for delight and pleasure: and,
in our usual dialect, when we would show the highest satis*
faction we take and give the greatest cfimiiiendalioii to a
place, we can ascend no higher than to affirm it was like a
paradise. There are manv curious rlelicacies and delights to
please the eve and charm the ear in the gardens of princes
and nohle'ien, hut paradise did certainly out- do them all;
the sacred !^criptures give this high encomium of it, " It was
pleasant as the garden of God !" it was. howevej. in the
jnidst of this paradise, the centre of delight and happiness,
that Adam was unhappy while in a single state: and there-
fore marriage may very properly be styled the paradise of
paradise itself
1 shall show you the love of a good wife to her husband, in
an illustrious example of a quetn in our own nation in for-
mer rimes.
King Edward the first, when he went to Palestine, for
the recovery of the Holy f and. in which expedition he was
very victorious and successful, took his queen along with him,
who willingly accompanied bin in hI! the dangers he exposed
hiinself to. It so happened, that after several victories ob-
tained bv him- which uarie him both beloved and feared, he
r.'as wounded by a Turk with an impoisoned arrow, which
all the king's physician^conchiried mortal unless son.e himian
creature would suck awav tl»e impoisoned blood out of the
v.'OMnd at the same tiii^e declaring, that it would be the death
of the person who did it. Upon this, it was proposed to se-
veral of the courtiers: but they all waived this dangerous piece
of loyalty: which, when the cjueen perceived that the king
must die for want of such kind assistance, she, with a brave-
ness worthv of herself, declared she was resolved to under-
take the cure, and venture her own life to save the king her
husband; and to accordingly siicked the poisonous matter
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 203
from ihe wound, and thereby saved the king; and the same
Divine Providence that inspired her with the generous reso-
lution, preserved her from the apparent danger as a reward
of her aflfection.
But that which renders marriage such a niorino, and makes
h such a bugbear to our nioderi- sparks, are those unhappy
consequences that loo often attend it; for there are te^v but
see the inauspicious torches Hymen lights at ever\ wedding,
what unlucky hands link in the weddmg ring, nothing but
fears and jars, and discontents and jealouses : a cur?e as
cruel, or else barrenness, are all the blessings that crown the
genial bed of many. But it is not inaniage that is to be
blamed for this : these things are only the effects of forced
and unequal matches. When greedy parents, for the >> keof
riches, will match a daughter that is scarcely seventeen to an
old miser that is above threescore ; can any one imagine that
such a conjunction can ever yield satisfaction, where the in-
clinations are as opposite as the months of June and Janua-
ry. This makes the woman (who still wants a husband, for
the old miser is scarce the shadow of one) either to wish, or,
may be. to contrive his death, to whom her parents thus,
against her will, have voked her ; or else, to satisfy her natu-
ral inclinations, she throws herself into the arms of unlawful
love ; which might both have been prevented, had the greedy
inconsiderate parents provided her with a suitable match.
A sad instance of which truth is as follows:
There lived in Warwickshire a gentleman of verv good
estate, who becoMiihg old, at the death of his first wife,
thought of marrying his son and heir, then at man's estate,
to the daughter of a neighbouring gentlemen, of an ancient
family and good estate, who approved of the motion, and
agreed to give five thousand pounds to his daughter upon her
marriage with the voung gontleman No sooner had the fa-
ther got a sight of the young lady but. fo.'getfing his son he
became suitor for himself; and to obtain her, offered as much
money for her. (besides settling a good jointure on her) as her
father had promised to give with her to his son This liberal
offer so wrought on the lady's father, that both by persuasions
and menaoCi he forced his daughter (who was unwilling) to
marry the old gentleman But being compelled to this une-
qual match, she never lived contentedly with him : for her
affections wandering after other men. she gave entertainment
to a young gentleman of 22 years of age, whom she liked
much better than her husband, being one more suitable to
her years. Then she became impatient for her husband's
death, and now thought every day an age to live with him
and therefore sought opportunity to cut off that thread of life
^04 AlUSiOlLE'S WORKS.
whicn she was of opinion nature lengthened out too long;
and to that end, having corrupted her maid, and the stable
groom, she resolved, hy their assistance, and that of her ina-
morato, to strangle him in his bed : which resolution (al-
though her lover failed her, and came not at the time she ap-
pointed him, recoiling at the dismal apprehension of a fact so
horrid) she executed by her servants ; ibr watching till her
husband was asleep, she let in those assassins, and then cast-
ing a long towel about his neck, she caused the groom to lie
upon him that he might not struggle, whilst she and her
maid, by straining the towel, stopped his breath. And now
the next thing was, how to prevent the discovery of this atro-
cious deed : and for that purpose they carried him to another
room, where a close-stool was placed, on which they set him ;
and when the maid and groom were both withdrawn and the
coast clear, she made such a hideous outcry w the house
wringing her hands, and tear ng her hair, and weeping so
extremely, that none suspected her : for she alleged, that
missing him some time out of bed, she went to see what was
the reason he staid so long, and found him dead, sitting on his
close-stool ; which seeming ve. ^ plausible, prevented all sus-
picion of his death. And bein^ thus rir* of her husband, she
set a greater value i\pon her beauty, and quite shook off her
former lover (perhaps because he had implicitly refused to be
an actor in her husband's tragedy) and coming apto fondon
made the best market of her beauty that she could. Rut mur-
der is a crime that seldom goes unpunished to the grave : in
two yea:rs justice overtook lier, and brought to light this hor-
rid deed of darkness. The groom (one of the actors in this
fatal tragedy, being retained a servant with the son and heir
of the old murdered gentleman, for whom the lady was at
first designed.) with some other servants attending him to Co-
ventry, his guilty conscience (he being in his cups) forced
him upon his knees to beg forgiveness of his master for the
murder of his father, and taking him aside, acquainted him
with the circumstances of it The gentleman, though struck
with horror and amazement at the discovery of so vile a fact,
yet gave the groom good words, but ordered his servants to
have an eye upon him, that he might not escape when he
vras sober, and had considered what might be the issue of the
confession he made : and yet, escape he did for all their vigi-
lance ; and being got to the sea side, was (after three attempts
to put to sea, being as often forced back by the winds proving
contrary) happily pursued and apprehended by his master,
and brought back a prisoner to Warwick^ as was soon after
the lady and her gentlewoman also, who were all justly exe-
cuted for that horrid raurder, the lady being burnt on Wol-
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS/ 205
i-ey-Heath, and the two servants suffering death at Warwick,
leaving the world a sad exaniple of the dismal consequences
ofdoating love, and of unequal matches; for had this lady not
been forced, through the desire of lucre in her parents, to
marry the old knight, but had been married to the son, as
was first intended, the old gentleman might have prevented
an untimely death, and the young lady have lived with inno*
cence and honour.
And though in many such like matches the mischief does
not run so high as to break forth into adultry and murder,
but the young lady, form a principle of virtue and the fear of
God, curbs all her natural inclinations, and is contented with
the performance of her husband (how weak soever it may
be, and cold and frigid) and does preserve her chastity so
pure and immaculate as not to let one wandering thought cor-
rupt it: yet, even in this very case, the husband, conscious
of the abatement of his youthful vigour, and his own weak
imbecile performances of the conjugal rites, suspects his vir-
tuous lady, and watches over her with Argus's eyes, making
himself and her unhappy by his senseless jealousy : and
though he happen to have children by her ("which mav vffkll
be, having so good ground to improve on) yet ho can scarce-
ly think they are his own : his very sleep is disturbed with
dreams ofcuckoldom and horns: nor dares he to keep a pack
of hounds, for fear Actaeon's fate should follow him. These
are a few of the sad effects of old men's dotage, and unequal
matches.
But let us turn the tables now and see if it be better on the
other side, when a young spark of twenty-two marries a
grandam of seventy years, with a wrinkled face. This, I
am sure, is most unnatural. Here can be no increase, unless
of gold, with oftentimes the old hag (for who can call her
better, that marries a young boy to satisfy her lecherous
itch, when she is just tumbling into the grave .?) conveys away
before marriage, to her own relations, and leaves the ex-
eectant coxcomb nothing but repentance for his portion.
^ ocket expences perhaps she will alow him, and for that
slender wages he is bound to do the basest drudgery. But
if he meet with money (which was the only motive of the
match, her gold being the greatest cordial at the wedding
feast he may likely squander it profusely away in rioting
amongst his whores, hoping, ere long, his antiquated wife will
take a voyage to another world, and leave him to his liberty:
whilst old grandam, finding her money wasted, and herself
despised, is filled with those resentments that jealousy, envy,
and neglected love produce : wishing and hoping each day to
20G ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
see him in his grave, though she has almost both feet in he?
own Thus, each day, they wish for each other's death,
which, if it come not quicklv, they often help to hasten.
But these are still excrescences of marriage, and are the
errors of people marryitig, and not the fault of marriage it-
self For. let it be what God at first ordained, a nuptial of
two hearts as well as hands, whoni equal years and mutual
love has first united before the parson joins their hands, and
such will tell voii. that mortals can enjoy no greater happi-
ness on this side heaven.
THE
MIDWIVES' VaDE MECUM:
CONTAINING
PARTICULAR DIRECTIONS FOR MIDWIVES,
NURSES, &c.
Those that take upon them the office of midwives ought to
take care to fit themselves for (hat ernployoient b\ the know-
ledge of those things that are necessary for the faithful dis-
charge thereof And such persons ought to be of the middle
age. neither too young nor too old and of a good habit o£
body, not subject to diseases, fears, or sudden frights. Nor
are the qualifications assigned to a good surgeon iti;proper for
a midwife,—viz. a lady's hand, a hawk's e\e, and a lion's
heart ; to which may be added activity of body, anrt a conve-
nient strength, wiih caution and diligence; not subjpc' to
drowsiness or impatience. She ought also to be sober, affa-
ble, courteous, chaste, not covetous or subject to passion, but
bountiful and cninpassionaie . and. above all. she ought to
be qualified as the Egvptian midwives of old. that is to have
the fear of God, which is the principal thing in every state
and condition, and will furnish heron all occasions both with
wisdom and discrenon.
When the time of mrth draws near, and the good woman
finds her *) availing pains begin to come upon her. let her
send for her midwife in time better too soon than too Jate,
anri get those things read\ which are necessarv upon such
occasions. When the inidw!f*- cones, let her first firirl whe-
ther the true tiine of her labour is cori>e; for hv not proper-
ly observing this, many a child hath been spoiled, and the
life of the mother endangered : or at least given double the
pain needful. For unskilful midwives, not minding this,
have given things to force down the child, and thereby dis-
turbed the course of her natural labour: whereas nature
works best in her own time and way. I do confess, it is
somewhat difficult to know the true time of some women's
IzbouT, they being troubled with pains long before their tru»
208 ARISTOTLE'S V»'ORKS.
labour comes, even some weeks before; the reason of which
1 conceive to be tlie heat of their reins: and this may he rea-
dily known by the swelling of their legs: and therefore,
when women with child find their legs swell much, they
may be assured that their reins are too hot. For the cure
whereof, let them cool the feins before the time of tlieir labour
with oil of poppies, and oil of violets, or water lilies by
anointing the rems of their hacks with them ; for such wo-
men whose reins are over hot have usually hard labours.
But m fhis case, above all the remedies that 1 know. !
prefer the decoction of them in water: and then having
stramed and clarified it with the white of an egg. boii it into
a syrup with us equal weight of sugar, and keep it for use.
There are two skins thux compass the cliild in the womb,
the one js the amnios, and this is me inner skin ; the oiher
is the allantois, and this tlie skin that holds ibe urine of the
child during the time that it abides in toe woi~)l» Koth
these skins, by the violent stirring at the clulo near the time
of the birth, are brokeii and then the urine and sweat of the
child contained in them fall down to the neck of the womb;
and this is that which the midwivescall the waters, and !« an
infallible sign that the b^rth is verv near: for the child is no
more able to subsist ui the womb after those skins are broken,
than a naked man is in the cold air These waters, if the
child come presently after them, facilitate the labour, by
making the passage slipuery , and therefore the Uiiriwife
must have a care fhat she force not the waters away, for
nature knows hetter the true time of the birth than she, and
usuallv retains the v/aters till that time.
SOME GENUINE RECIPES
"^
FOK
CAUSING SPEEDY DELIVERY.
A LOADSTONE held in the labouring woman's hand. Take
%vilri tansev. t)niise and apolv it to the woman's nostrils.
I'ake also date stones and heat thevn to powder, and let her
take half a dram of ttie.n in white wine at a lime.
Take parsley, bruise it. and press out the juice, and put
it un (beiiij so dipped) intf) trie mouth of the wo nb and it
will presently causes the child to come awav. ruough it be
dead, and tlie after hurden also; besides, it cleaiiseth the
woiiib, and also the ch'l'i ;u the wo'sib. of allii,ross humours.
Let no midwife ever force away a child, unless she is sure
it is dead I once was wlif^re a woiuan was iii labour, which
being very hard, her midwife sent for another midwife to as-
sist her. whicn oiidwife sendiuj^ the first down stairs, and de-
signmg to have tSie honour of delivering the woman herself,
forced awav the bodv of me child, and left the head behind
:
of which the vvo.uan was forced afterwards to be delivered
by a ;iian midlife.
After the child is horn, great care is to he taken by the
midwife m cutting the navel string, which tnough hv some is
accoimted but a trifle, vet it requires none of the least skill of
a midwife, to do it with that urudenc.-^ and judgment that is
feqiiisite. And that it m^v be done so vou rtin-r consider, as
soon as the child is free ri fro u its mother, whether it be weak
or stroni; but if the child be weak, nut hack geuth part
of the vital and natural blood in the bodv of the child by its
navel (for both the vital and natural soirusar^ communicated
by the mother to the child by its navel string .) for that doth
much recruit a weak child but if the child be strong you
may forbear
As to the manner of cutting the child's navel-string, let thft
ligature or binding be verv stronjj; and be sure not to cut it
(tffvety near the binding, lest the binding unloose. Ynu neail
S2
210 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
not fear to bind the navel-string very hard, because it is void
of sense, and that part of the navel-string which you leave on
falls of its own accord in a few days , the whole course of
nature being now changed in the child, it having another
way ordained to nourish it. It is no matter with what instru-
meni you cut it off, if it he sharp and you do it cleverly. The
piece of the navel-stnng that falls off, be sure you keep '\l
from touching the ground ; remember what I have before
told you concerning this matter, and if you keep it by you it
may be of use The navel string being thus cut off put a
little cotten or lint to the place, to keep it warm, lest ihe cold
enter the body of tlie child, which it will oe apt to do if it be
not bound up barn enough.
The next thing to be rione, is to bring away the after birth,
or secundine, else it will be very ('angerous for the woman.
—
But this must be done by gentle means, and without delay,
for in this case especially delays are dangerous . and what-
ever I have set down before a? goon to cause speedy delivery,
and bring away the birth, is good also to bring away the after-
birth.
And after the birth and after-birth, are brought away, if
the woman's body be weak, keep her not ton warm : for
extremity of heat doth weaken nature, and dissolves the
strength ; but whether she be weak or strong, let no cold air
come nearer her at first; for cold is an enemy to the sperma-
tic parts. If cold gets into the womb, it increases the after-
pains, causes swellings in the womb, and does great hurt to
the nerves.
If what 1 have written be carefully observed by midvvives,
and such nurses as keep women in their lying-in, by God's
blessing the child bed women may do very well, and both
midwife and nurse gain credit and reputation. For though
these directions may in some things thwart the comman prac-
tice, yet th^y are grounded upon experience, and will infalli-
bly answer the end.
But there are several accidents that lying-in women are
subject unto, which must be provided against ; and these 1
shall speak of next.
The first I shall mention are after pains, about the cause of
which, authors very much differ : some think they are caused
by the thinness, some by the thickness, some by the slimness,
and others by the sharpness of the blood ; but my own opin-
ion is, they proceed from cold and water. But whatever the
cause may be, this I know, that if mv foregoing directions be
observed, they will be very much abated, if not quite taken
away. But in case they do happen, boil an egg, and pour out
the yolk of it, with which mix a spoonful of cinnamon- water.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 211
and let her drink of ii ; and If you mix it with two grains of
ambergris, it will be better.
The second accident lying-in women are subject to is ex-
coriation in the lower part of the womb. To help this, use
oil of sweet almonds, or rather oil of St. John^s wort, to anoint
the part with.
Another accident is, that sometimes, through very hard la-
hour and great straining to bring the child into the world, the
lying-in vvorran coines to be troubled with the hemorrhoids
or piles To cure this let her use polypodium bruised and
boiled in her meat and drink.
A fourth thing that often follows is, the retention of the
menses; this is very dangerous, and if not remedied proves
mortal But for this, let her take such ntedicines as strongly
provoke the terms : and such are peonv roots, dittany, juni-
per berries, centuary sage savory, pennyroyal, feverfew.
The last thing I shall mention is, the overflowing of the
menses. This happens not so often as the foregoing but yet
FOinetimes it does ; and in such cases take shepherd's purse,
either boiled in anv convenient liquor, or dried and beaten to
po'A'der and vou will find it ver\ ^ood to stop) them.
Having thus finished mv Vade Mecum for midwives. before
I conclude I will add something of the choice and qualifica-
tions of a good nurse that those who have occasion for
them, mav know how to order themselves, for the good of the
children whom thev nurse.
First, then, if vnu would choose a good nurse, choose one
of a sangume complexion, not only because that complexion
is genarallv the best, hut also because all children in their
minority have their comulexion predominent. And that you
mav know such a woman, take the following description of
her.
Hf^r stature of the middle size, her body fleshy, but not fat
;
but of a merry, pleasant, and cheerful connteuance ; a fresh
ruddy colour, and her skin so verv clear that you mav see her
vein": t'.irough it. She is one that loves company, and never
care's to be alone : never s;iven to ang;er. hut much inclined to
plaving and singing: and, which makes her the fittest person
for a nnr,so. she verv much dplightsin children. In choosing
S'jch a one. you can hardly do amiss: only let me give vou
this caution, if vou cannot s,er one exactly of this description
[which you will find verv difficult ]
get one as near to it a? you
can. And let these rules further guide you in your choice.
1. Let her age be between 20 and 30, for then she is in her
prime.
2. Let her be in health, for her sickness infects her milk,
and her milk the child.
£12 ARISTOTLE'S "WORKS.
3. Let her be a prudent women, for such a one will be
careful of her child.
4 Let her not be too poor; for if she wants, the child mu3t
want too.
5. Let her be well bred ; for ill bred nurses corrupt good
nature.
6. If it be a boy that is to be nursed, let the nurse be such
a one vviiose last child was a boy. and so it will be more
agipeabje. ; hut if it be a girl, let the nurse be one whose last
child was a girl.
7. ff the nurse has a husband, see that he be a good likely
man, and not given to debauchery ; for that may have an in-
fluence unoii the child.
8. In the last place, let the nurse take care she be not with
child tierself for if so. she must of necessity either spoil her
own. or vours. or both.
To a nurse thus, qualified, you may put your child without
danger. And let such a nurse take the following direc-
tions, for the belter governing and ordering herself in that
station.
Approved Directions for JVurses.
1. Lf.t her use her bodv to exercise. \f she hath nothing
else to do. let her exercise herssif bv dancing the child : for
moderate exercise causeth good digestion ; and 1 am sure
good blood must needs make good milk, and good milk cannot
fail of making a thriving child.
2. Let lierTive in good air: tliere is nothing more material
than this, ft is the want of this ir.aket ^o manv ch.ildren die
in i ondon : and even those few that live are not of the best
constitutions, for gross and thick air makes unwieldy bodies
and dull wits: And let none wonder at this: for the opera-
tion of the air, to the body of man. is as great as meat and
drink, for it helps to engender the vital and anifnal spirits;
and 18 tlius the cause of sickness and of health, of life and
death.
3 Let her be careful of her diet, and avoid all salt meats,
garlics, leeks, onions, and mustard, excessive drinking of
wine, strong beer, or ale. for the\ trouble the child's body
with choler : cheese, both new and old, afflicts it with melan-
cholv, and all fish with phlegm.
4 Lei her never denv herself sleep when she is drowsy,
for by that means she will be more wakeful when the child
cries.
5. Let her avoid all disquiets of mind, anger, vexation, sor-
row, and grief, for these things very much disorder a woman,
and therefore must needs be hurtful to the milk.
ARISTOTLE'S WORKS. 213
^. If the nurse's milk happen to be corrupted by an acci»
dent, as sometimes it may be, being either too hot or too colci,
in such cases let her diet be good, and let her observe the cau-
tions which have already been given her. And then, if her
miik be too hot, let her cool it with endive, succory, lettuce,
sorrel, purslain. and plantain: if it be too cold, let her use
beverage, vervain, buglos, mother of thyme, and cinnamon;
and let her observe this general rule, that whatsoever strength-
ens the child in the womb, the same attends the milk.
7. If the nurse wants inilk, the thistle, commonlv called
our ladv's thistle, is an excellent thing, for her breeding of
milk, there being few things growing (if any) that breed more
and better milk than tha' riorh also the hoofs of the forefeet
of the cow, dried and ueaten to powder, and a dram of the
powder taken every morning in any convenient liquor, in-
creases milk.
Choice RemediesJor increasing Milk-
If a ntirse be given to much fretting, it makes her lean,
and hinders digestion, and she can never have store of milk,
nor what she hath be good. Bad meats and drinks also hin-
der the increase of milk, and therefore ought to he forborne.
A wo <ian that would increase her milk, should eat the best
of food (that is, if she can get it.) and let her drink milk
wherein fennel seed have been steeped. Let her drink bar-
ley water, and burrage. and spinach ; also goat's milk, cow's
milk, and la i,h sodden with verjuice. Let her also comfort
the stomach with confection of auniseed. caraway and cum-
min seeds, also use those seeds sodden in water: also take
barlej water, and boil therein green fennel and dill, and
sweeten it with sugar, and drink it at pleasure.
Hot fomentations open the breasts, and attract the blood,
as the decoction offennel, smallage, or stamped mint applied.
Or,
Take fennel and parsley, green, each a handful, boil and
Ftamp them, and barley meal half an ounce, gith seed a dram,
storax, calamint, two irams oil of lilies two ounces, and
make a poultice.
Lastly, Take half an ounce of deer's suet, and as much
parsley roots, an ounce and a half of barley meal, three
(Jrams of red storax, and three ounces of oil of sweet al-
monds ; boil the roots well, and heat them to pap. then mingle
the other amongst them, and put it warm to the nipples, and
it will increase the milk.
211 ARISTOTLE'S WORKS.
And thus courteous reader, I have at length finished what
1 designed, and what I promised; and can truly affirm, that
thou hasl here those recipes, renienies, and directions given
unto thee, with respect to childbeanng women, midwives,
and nurses, that are worth their weight in gold, and will as-
suredly (with the blessing of God) answer the end, whenso-
ever thou hast occasion to make use of thetn, they not being
things taken on trust from tradition or hearsay, but the reEult
and dictates of Eound reason and long experience.
END OF THE LAST LEGACY.
CONCLUSION.
Courteous Reader,
In the Works of the renowned and famous
philosopher, Aristotle, you have got laid be-
fore you a Collection of the best Observations
on the Secrets of Nature, that ever the World
was favoured with on that subject. Let me
now entreat you, who have read them,- and all
those who may hereafter do so, to mark well
what is therein contained, and thereby direct
your future conduct, which you will find to your
advantage. Whatever young and inconsiderate
persons may think or say of what is nerein con-
tained, it is absolutely necessary to be known
;
and, when reduced to practice, may prove the
happy means of preventing many fatal and la-
mentable consequences, which ignorance and
inconsideration produce. Farewell.
THE END.
