{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__baldwin___robert_dale_owen_unmasked.pdf","mytitle":"Robert Dale Owen Unmasked","mylang":"de"}
RO BERT DALE OWEN UNMASKED
•I
S 'j f m w
- MOWING HIS UNQUALIFIED APPROBATION OF A MOST
OBSCENELY INDELICATE WORK, ENTITLED,
u WHAT IS LOVE,
OK,
E V E R T W O M A N 'S BOOK.”
\ WORK, DESTRUCTIVE TO CONJUGAL HAPPINESS-REPULSIVE
JO THE MODEST MIND. EQUALLY OK MAN OR WOMAN,
AND RECOMMENDING THE PROMISCUOUS INTER­
COURSE OF SENSUAL PROSTITUTION,
A WORK,
ALSO APPROBATED BY THE PEN OF
1
?2J
L
L
\¥02S m W ;
THE AUTHORESS OF THE CELEBRATED
IffASHOBA ADDRESS,
« , 0 '
ADVOCATING THE INDISCRIMINATE AMALGAMATION OF THE
BLACKS AND THE W illTES-TH E CONTEMNER OF
W E D D E D DOVE AND THE SEVERER
, ^ OF DOMESTIC TIES.
-*V \
f
\ I r, /r ' '.-J W fR j= ¥ o r ft:
^ m W E T lf AND PUBLISHED BY CHARLES N. BALDWIN,
NO. 19 CHATHAM STREET.
AND SOLD, ALSO, AT THE LIBERAL BOOK-STORE,
NO. IOC NASSAU, NEAR ANN-STREET.
18S0,
>*S4
♦
THIRD EDITION OF
FANNY WRIGHT UNMASKED
BY HER OWN PEN.
EXPLANATORY NOTES,
r e sp e c t in g w n a t u r e AND o b je c t s o f t h e i n s t i t u t i o n a t
n a s h o b a . ANDOF t h e p r in c ip l e s upo n w h ic h it is f o u n d e d .
ADDRESSED TO THE FRIENDS OF HUMAN IMPROVEMENT.
IN ALL COUNTRIES, AND OF ALD NATIONS.
B Y F B A lfO B I W R IG H T ,
TO WHICH IS AFFIXED HER LETTER TO ROBERT L. JENNINGS,
ADVISING HIM TO LEAVE HIS WIFE AND FAMILY,
AND FOLLOW HER DESTINIES.
A FEW COPIES OF THE ABOVE WORK CAN BE HAD
AT THE BLANK BOOK k STATIONARY STO R E O F
CHARLES N. BALDWIN,
No. 19 CHATHAM-ST., AND ALSO, AT THE LIBERAL BOOK STOR1,
SO. 106 NASSa U-JTREET.
n k w -t o r k .
»
ROBERT DALE OWEN
UNMASKED.
S c a r c e l y had the unblushing effrontery by which that shameless
document the " Nashoba Andress,” been puMicly avowed by its au­
thor, Frances Wright, avowed too, with self complacency and grat-
ulation— scarcely had its immodest and outrageous principles ceased
to wound the chaste and virtuous mind, and shock the feelings of
sacred delicacy, ere the hallowed sanctuaries of our tiulce domums,
are obtruded on and polluted, by that worse than Nashobaism, by
those obscene and abandoned principles, contained in a work enti­
tled "W hat is Love, or every Woman’s book” This work pur­
porting to bear dale Philadelphia, is a reprint of a London publica­
tion, and the author deems it more than sufficient sanction, that its
libertine principles had been many years before publicly illustrated,
in the communities under the government and direction of the cele­
brated Robert Owen, the father of Robert Dale Owen, co-editor and
lit partner of Frances Wright, the author of the Nashoba Address,
and the loving correspondent of Robert L. Jennings, whom she
anxiously solicited to leave his ivife and children, in order to further
her visionary and licentious schemes.
With the Theological opinions of Robert Dale Owen, or Frances
Wright, as expressed in their public discourses, or in the pages of
the “ Free Enquirer,’’ these strictures have nothing to do. There are
hie good and the bad among all of religious or anti-religious opinions;
on these it is the province of the philosopher, and the Christian,
alone to judge—in this exposition we assume neither ; we assume
the character of a patriot husband and a patriot F a th er . Our ob­
jects alone are, to assert the violated rights of outraeed humanity,
and to hold him up to public scorn, who, in a public press, will dare
have the temerity to tarnish the purity, and wound the sensibilities
of virtuous wedded love ; who will publicly dare recommend, by
means too indecent to be related, the repression of offspring, that
first and dearest pledge of conjugal affection, that best and highest
source of conjugal felicity—who would, were his influence com­
mensurate with his will, convert our sacred domiciles into filthy
brothels, and change the tender pratlings of infantine innocence and
love into the indecent ribaldry of the libertine stews.
*
4
The generality of the readers of any periodical work, take but a
superficial and cursory view of some of its most important article
else surely the subscribers to the “ Free Enquirer” would long ago
have withdrawn their names from a work, two of its three editor
advocating, approving, and recommending, such filthy and drgra­
ding obscenity with which almost every pigrofthe “ Every Woman's
Kook” is stained - a work polluting me chastity of female affection
and that would sacrilegiously reverse the divine mandate “ Be fruit-
ful and multiply and replenish the earth”—would hint from iLr
bardic page, all those sublime ami tender effusions the delight o:
millions, because they have their sympathetic responsive throbs in the
human heart. What | cent’s bosoms are so ossified by the Malthu­
sian and Owenite selfishness, as not to glow with rapture when they
call up to their fond memories the beautiful lines ol the Caledon"
poet,
“ Meantimea offspring risen round.
And mingles both i.-.mr graces by degrees-
The lihmati blotsotu .'lows and every day,
Sflfl as a rol'» how »sonc new rlmtm,
T h u w«ivn a lustre ihttd tlu* m other's bloom:
Th«* ir.iant reason grows apace, and calls
F- the kind band of ait attiduous care ;
J> ghtfiilm^k ! to rear the »
• der thought,
7 .) leach t' e voting idea hrw in shoot.
To pour the fresh instruction o’er the mind.
To breathe the enlivening sp 't and In fix
The gen’rous purpose • i the glowing breast.”
Yes, were our legislators Malthuses and Owens, all the tende.
and frliciting throes of parental and filial aflecti.. would he banish"
from the earth, and this favored land, destined oy all living nature
to idooni and blossom as the rose, would be transformed into oru
unsocial community of Shaking Quakerism ; the dulcet strains
buoyant youth, and the shrill notes of infant mirth, would he beai.
no more, and after having jumped about to our nasal twang, for tnri"
score years and ten, a dreary blank would close the darkling seem
and the beasts of the forest, more wise than man, in obedience t
natures laws, would dwell in those habitations desecrated by unfruil
ful and licentious love. Rut soft ! let us not wrong these a^ti-pop;
lationists ; these advocates for a lawless promiscuous intercourse—
these debasing spoilers of woman'* loveliest charms—these inipuden
ohtruders into the sacred privacies of wedded love. Let us do them
justice. If that justice be at the expense of ttieir philanthropy and
the expense of their consistency, still let us do them justice. It
not to depopulate the w o r l d that these gentlemen have written, ol
no ! hot it is to prevent the P lrb fa n Bulan. The tender sensibili
ties of these generous souls are shaken and wounded at seeing tie
half naked, half famished sons and daughter's of poverty, and there
fore they would faiD derise and recommend that 'hr procreation
the poor be discontinued. Malthus having laid it down thatlhechi cl.
to population are three fold. .Mural restraint, nee and misery. R. I*.
Owen has selected the first, which rightly named is not moral, but iv
moral restraint; that is tat moral in tbs Owenite sense ol that restraint
and iMmoral in the means to be employed. Oh no ! these gentlemen,
the one possessing a good fat clerical living in England and the othT
a snug farm in Indiana, are secure from the hitter pangs of poverty
themselves—They may say, “ soul take thine ease, eat, drink and be
merry they may clothe themselves in “ purple and fine linen, and
fare sumptuously every day,” while the Lazaruses who feed from the
crumbs which fall from the table, they diktatorially say, “ dare you
sirs, to marry, or if you dare, we dare your wives to become moth­
ers—or. let them but adopt the plan we lerotnniend, and they shall be
as barren as your souls can wish ; thus in a few years poverty :>hall
be diiveu from the earth, aud wealth and happiness universally
shall reign.’’
Robert Dale Owen, whom we shall presently show, is desirous
of depriving the poor of the highest solace human beings are capa­
ble of enjoying, is professedly a friend to the laboring classes of so­
ciety, who constitute the poor; and, would we believe his public
expressions, and the Free Lnquirer, the poor have not a more zeal­
ous, sincere and able advocate, in their most righteous cause, the ame­
lioration of their condition. Is it not notorious, that both himself
and bin cu-editorn h a v e ra ise d th e m se lv e s u p W ith the re c e n tly formed
associations of the working mcni ami u w .*>
>i equally notorious,
that very many of the working men believe, that in him, and them,
they have warm aud honest and judicious fri- nds. Let our readers
peruse the following pages and he undeceived.
That Robert Owen the father, is a philanthropist, his sacrifice from
his New liarmony speculation of $100,000 is an unquestionable
proof. But are there no pecuniary losses, in the greedy endeavors
lor inordinate g«,,. t Was the property of New Harmony ever c o m ­
mon PR ifERTV 1 li ere there ever a community of interests in that
prop riy Was Roller. Owen himself ever a member of that com-
inun.ij o e will have he hardihood and temerity, to answer
these question ,u I > ■hrmative. As is ihe father, so is the son:
the uuier a philanthropist, the son a philanthropist ; but the philan­
thropy both of ihe father and the son, consist, more in specious pro­
fession tba. in beneficial ■
e.-.ry ; although we have no doubt, that
if Robert Hale Owen were now questioned outlie subject, that even
his endeavors to suppress the population of the poor, were from
humane and benevolent feelings. The poor! this is an indefinite
and inexplicable word Who are the poor? and who the rich ? In
the sense, however, intended, we have some cine to its leal mean­
ing, however that meaning may be affected by a more enlarged view
ol the subject. Two sensient beings, man and woman, however
strongly attached, however painful to their minds, aud injurious to
their health, are for ever to remain disunited—or, if united, are to
refrain from conjugal embraces, unless they can calculate, that in
S me ten or tw, he months hmc. they snail Intve the surplus means,
l o o , hai tture aud society will enable them to perform. Oh!
heai(i -s, cruel, demoralizing man ! Instead of lending the aid of
thy taicnts, to betlt r die condition of those who iequire ameliora­
tion, thou hast added to poverty th. b t’
.t ml of its pan^s, and
wombs fain deprive her sons and daughters of that which alone
makes then miserable pittance tin iron.1 la’ion and their joy.
The “ Daily Sentinel ’’too, published in this city, (the echo of
R. D. Owen’s sentiments, and, if report speak tree, that gentleman
U
is not altogether unconnected with the paper,) of the 13th of July,
among other things relative to that subject say3 :—
4
1 Each parent paying a moderate yearly TAX, say FIVE DOLLARS, to act as a
CHECK upon the 100 careless INCREASE of (amities.”
Well michf the “ Friend of Equal Rights ’’ express its indignant
surprise iu the following words .—
**We coafess that on perusing t, we experienced feelings which we know not how :o
describe. To have been acruitomeH &
»wc aye ever been to view with horror, so­
ciety CtiMt'iuted as it i», on prut* •)>
!«*§such ti n* the rim l.ib <
r and the iew enjoy ;
that the unproductive poises- ami product rs pine in iihxoj m
ii<
> physical wren lied*
m - ; that ibleura-ami profligacy m ugh li(•• abMirb whot mdusliy and virtue create
in low ; we say, to Iwve been arm .lu ntd in Innk u|X>tt all iln», with the horror in­
separable Irani the r.ouiec plain.n of such a *ta eo| !hmu>, was surely nuseiy enough.
Rut to see a new proposition brought forward, ami i hit •eimualy in engage the legis­
lative power of the nM»n, to repruis Ou mrroiat of population, not anumc the rich,
BUT AMONG THE lOOR, an ong that very eia*f who now bear all the burdens
of human society, as though those burden* were not yet snfliciently oppressive, oras
though they were intruders into existence upon a globe which was never made foi
them ; was surely aggravating those horrors iu no small degree.”
But lest our readers oup|»ri‘l this picture incorrectly drawn, or
too highly colored, we will as stated in our title page, unmask this
would-be poor man’s friend, by his own pen, premising only a very-
few brief but necessary remarks.
We have said, that many of the readers of a periodical
journal, take hut a cursory notice of some of its most important ar­
ticles ; hence, only, can «e rationally account lor the continuance of
the patronage of the Free Enquirer—We, ourselves, indeed, a con­
stant reader of that paper, had overlooked the articles we are about
to quote ; nor was it until we were informed of, and proved, the fact,
could wejiave supposed that Hubert Dale Owen, and Frances
"Wright, could approve and recommend, a work, which, with the ex­
ception of a few unohjeciionatile pas-ait**s, is couched in language
and conveys sentiments, which, a* a husband, and a lather, and a
su n , we dare not, we cannot quote.
But the subscribers and readers of th e “ Free Enquirer,” may
also, perhaps, be exonerated, as, from the information we have de­
rived from the most authentic sources, few of these were subscribers
to the “ New Harmony Gazette” by which the Free Enquirer is a
new series, in continuance, and it would he very easy to pass unno­
ticed, or take hut little cognizance of the passage I am about to
quote, and besides, the Gazette, with the greater part, was not at
hand to refer to the article alluded to. But this extract alone, would
have been sufficient proof of commendation ol that female degrading
work here spoken of.
“ 1 have already had occasion to speak of Carlile, in reference to a pamphlet end
tied '* Every Woman's book,” svriuen hy him, anil which has excited, Itoth in this
country and Great tlriiain, much rastV D ici and much inquiry Theopnnon Iliad
formed of him feom tlte perusal of that small purtion of hi- writings dial has fallen
into my hands, has heen confirmed nv the hueihly svriuen article which 1 here pub­
lish.'' [A letter of Carliles written ioa society in London ]
This extract is from No. 4 of the new series, date 19th Novem­
ber, 1829.
lhat Robert Owen, the Father (of New Lanark, and New Har­
mony celebrity,) is entitled to the merit of this female degrading
scheme which the son recommends, we have the authority only ol'
the author of “ Every Woman’s Book but, it is an authority ofan
unquestionable character, for with the exception of this mental ab-
eration, Richard Carlilestands unimpeached in moral rectitude*
aud we may safely rely on his veracity, when he says :
'* 8*81 '*'s n0<my plan, It was not sought after liy me*; it was submitted to my
coniideranon ; and I ain infotmed that it was introduced into this country [Ku-
gland] by Mr Owen of New-Lanark The story of its English nr British origin goes
tmis:—It was suggested to Mr. Owen, lhat in his new establishments, (at New-Har-
heallhy s,!Ue of ,he inhabitants would lend lo breed an EXCESS OF
Owe f • SI Tho ",”"er was illustrated and explained to iiim, so that he felt the
toreeof i,. Me was also told that on the Continent the women used some means of
presenting conceptions, which were uniformly successful. Mr. Oweu set out tut Paris
to discover the process.” Jc.c. p. 9.
That Robert Owen, as is here stated, went “ to Paris to discover
the pmcesa,” partially eorroboratod by the following article, writ-
trr, by hu son Robert Dale «>»„,. .,,u„hr,, the 50th No of
the “ New Harmony Gazette,” dated October 8th 1828: and we
quote the at dele entire, that no exonerating plea be set up, of
“ garbled extiat ts.” Tlie readei, and not the writer of these strict­
ures, is the find judge of that moral grade , f mind that could pen
the following demoralizing lines ; the reader, and not the writer of
the«e strictures, is the final judge, of the base degradation to which
they would reduce the female mind, and the pernicious consequen­
ces to which they lead, *
Ecce Homo! Behold the m an! Ecce Robert Dale Owen un­
masked by bis own pen.
“ REPLY TO \N ANONYMOUS C f H R G E . ”
” A’
.Menjinoerm the vvabash Iairgraph ” has been put mio my hands which
contains a paragrapn signed anonymously, to the folio., effect •
‘ A prospectusnl a wo.lt, .......... I•• Every Woman’s Book ” was handed
to Ml- w right, ai the elm* of one of he. Iectu.es a' Vincennes, and she was asked
if she were ike author •• bh- answered' «ays the wr ler. *• indignantly,” that ,ho
was not, that her writings should, as they mvar.ahly had done, carry her «,r
S
h0U
l11 nC
V
r' P""' “ * « ■»«
.1
,;,T* r r ,ll« cu,re»l” ,rt5"> of the Telegraph a,i,|, .. Bs regards the authorshio of
^°°k b0Und lle,icve’ "> probably without the knowledge of Miss Wright
thcprospcctua m quest, m was patxrin ox her press and was so marked Mr
I). Owen her co-editor must know this.” *
I do know it; equally without u knowledge, and without that of Frances Wright
n prorprrfux icosprmPd of our and .he name of the office was „ot attached
to it. I have for some tune lieen aware lhat a multitude of foolish reports have Iree.i
m circulation regard....'. very staple transaction, bat it „4, „o. m vmiem on m
nonce any of u™.. hod diey no. c„ „„ authentic lorm. Sm, , 1 2 " “
Z J ,Z PS' * bU,y b0"‘*S’ 3re “ CU™U
S ,u k"“'v ,1|CP»'“cula,s,P
I steli Z
One of our citizens came to me some tvccks aeo renursimo ns «... .. ,
^ a copy ol a work by Richard t’aride of llSSdon^cniitled "Every Woman’s
‘ ’j“.... .* r*{” *.<
) ,h*1 I had, and lent it to hint, lie then inquired if I would write
a prospectus for it and publish II atour office. I replied, ajltr consult,a- on Ihr
■ubjKtKtth Franca II rnriv.then on die eve of her departure lor Cincinnati! to
both requests ... .he negative, stating, as my reason, that I hough in
to publish the work nt p resen tand, that, if i iiad not thought so 1 should hare pub-
rsniPf y * T P * ch“ *fUr graerady, it is solTicImt lo rtaU. lhat “ . cloud of m ln«w,”
s s ^ : s«,7«fTny' - « * " * s S « »•
8
lubed it myself, and subscribed my name as publisher, i permitted him, however
10 rrlain the work on loan . reflecting, that, though I myself saw the inexpedient y of
its publication, 1 had no right to dietate in such a matter to another.
A day or two afterwards he brought me a prospectus in punt, the same to which I
have referred above. It had been printed without my knowledge, on the supposition
that I was milling it should it printed . nor did I see it at nil until it was struck off.
I mention this simply as being a fact ; nof at being afiu t o f any impatience. If I
had been expressly applied lo for permission, Xshould probably bai t grant, d i t ; but
1 should certainly have added the signature of the office. I should, indeed, have
disapproved the issuing such a prospectus as was issued ; but, seeing, that I admit no
one a judge over my opinions, so do lever most carefully refrain from constituting
myself, in any way, a judge over those ofothers, in word or deed.
Here, again, I desire not to be misunderstood ! / do not, by any meant disapprove
the uvrk in question ; and that I declined publishing it, was partly because 1 nm
not physiologist enough correctly to decide its merits, partly btcaute our printers arc
young Aoyj, and principally because I feared that the prejudices which are honestly
entertained against such a discussioo as it contains, are so strong as would probably
destroy its present usefulness. '
The work itself is hold and plain; dictated, as I sinceerly believe, by an honest
desire to benefit mankind : and more ; calculated to benefit mankind.
A number ofcopies ofthis book have been circulated in this country, and a still
greater number in Great Britain, lo this country it scirculated secretly; probably
to fall into the hands of tile thoughtless, or lo gratify the curiosity of tile licentious,
instead of tailing, as it ought, into the hanrfe <*f tnepbtranisiruput, of me pniiosophtr
of the physiologist, and aliove all. of EVERY FATinttn AND m otnvm o r a FA-
MII.Y;calling upon men and women to pause ere they incur tlie solemn responsible
tics of parents, and calling upon them well to consider what means they possess of
support, of ear*, of instruction for their offspring, before they bring that offspring into
existence.
The work was published originally undera somewhat different form, in the 18th
number of the 2d volume of the“ Republican," a periodical edited by Richard
Garble, and was reprinted by him in its present form. It has passed through six or
eignt editions; and its principles have been approved by men of tho first standing
and best talents in England.
James Mill, the celebrated political economist, alludes to its principles with ap­
probation m the article “ Colony" of the Encyclopedia Britanica, (see the third
volume of the supplement lo that encyclopedia, page 261.) They are also alluded to
in his Elements o f Political Economy; likewise in Place’s Illustrations o f thepriori,
pies of population. The work obtained however, its principal circulation, through the
medium of thousands of hand-bills which were distributed among the working class­
es in the most populous districts of England; and through the following circumstance,
which I believe is not very generally known.
The talented son of a talented father* a public character universally known and
esteemed, throughout ctviliaed Europe, but whose name Iwithhold because its publi­
cation might injure the man without benefitting the cause—bought up many hundred
copies of Carliles pamphlet, and, aided by a young friend, distributed them gratuit­
ously in the most crowded parti of London. Their doing so attracted the attention
of tho police, and they were brought before a magistrate. He inquired of them their
names, which they gave to his surprise ; asked them what could induce them to cir­
culate such a pamphlet, and upon their replying, calmly, but firmly,1
1that they had
been actuated solely by a desire to assist and instruct those u ho stood most in need
of assistance and instruction," they were quietly dismissed by the perplexed magis­
trate, who would not approve, and yet knew not how to condemn their proceedings ;
and who feared the effect, to moral as to religious orthodoxy, of publicly asaociaiiug
names of such high standing with principles so heteradox.
Here gentle reader; you have the unqualified approbation #f
that mass of filthy obscenity and female degradation contained in
that bane of domestic purity and pleasure, the “ Every Woman’s
Book.” The prospectus! was printed at the press of the “New H ar-
• This. we orf*K, wa* ooe of the ioqi of Robert Owen, perhaps the writer, (R. I). Owen,)
himself For who conltl feel a greater interest in th* duteminatioD of sueh priuciplrt, than
their footer father, R. O. ? And who more likely to •»<* their diuemmstioo tbwn R D. O. i
Still be i» antler*tood, on thit head, (at our native bom Americana tay.f we only “ c e n t.
f And probably th. work iltell . the article doet not dnlincUv tav *o, but R. D. O. banae
been naked to publi h it and intimating that the borrower of the book may do to if he pirated,
it it not impo*».ble (hat the wr>r ilaelf, m well m the protpectu*. w»* printed at the pf«u or
the - New Harmony Gazette ” )a fed, of what utility wa* the prospectus, without the pobli*
ration of the Book.
moay Gazette ” and although without the knowledge of R. D.
Owen, or Miss Wright, not disapproved of, nor condemned. Aware
of their opinions, application is made to the superintendent of their
printing establishment, who, fully apprised of his employers views
on the subject, hesitates not a moment, and the prospectus issues
from the press of the “ New-Harmony Gazette.”
And is there no latent consciousness of a corrupting taint in the
foul pages recommended ; no acknowledgement of its tendency to
injure the moral sensibilities of innocent youth, when the writer
says, that he and his co-partner declined the publication of the work
from their press, “ partly because their printers were young boys."
One word as to the genuineness or authenticity of the above copy
—•it is a verbatim et literatim copy of the original as published in
the “ New Harmony Gazette ” of Wednesday, October the 8th
1828, and in the same paper is immediately followed by an article
from Frances Wright, which we here, also, as entire and correct­
ly transcribe ; the only liberties we have taken with either, being
the italicising of a few passages which we think of importance,
that the reader may more particularly notice.
For the inhabitant! of Vincennes and general!) for all whom it may concern :
There are two niodea of writing at>of epoaking, which admit not of reply—the
mode abusive and the mode nonsensical. Both these modes being united in the
anonymous article headed “ A Godhead reigns" in the “ Wabash Telegraph," re­
ply to the article is doubly out of question—I allude to it only in reference to certain
mis-statements respecting myself, as my brother editor has alluded to it in reference
to certain mis-statements respecting himself.
The mode adopted by “ Anonymous," for railing in question my veracity, coming
under the head of the mode abusive, I shall have naught to do with it : my brother
editor has simply explained a circumstance of which 1 was necessarily ignorant,
and he no less ignorant—viz. that the prospectus of a work, whose publication we
had declined, was printed at our office ; a fact that he only knew after the prospectus
was issued, and that I only knew on my return to this place.
I must correct " Anonymous "in his application of the word indignantly lfmy
manner in the Court House at Vincennes while disclaiming the work attributed to
me. showed aught of indignation, it was *imply at the implied accusation of issuing
and circulating secretly a book conceived, however erroneously, to be immoral.
To the pure, all thing*ate pure, is as true as that to the wise, all facts are import­
ant ; and had I conceived that the public mind to be either pure or wise, / should
have contented conjointly with my associate Robert Dale (hcev, to the republication o f
the work [ “ Every Woman s Book "1 o f Richard CarlUe at our press. As I stated,
(it may be “ indignantly,") to the public of Vincennes, so do 1 believe the public at
large will bear me witness, "that 1 am notone who speak my thoughts in whispers,
or who do things in corners." The opinions which I conscientiously hold, 1 as
conscientiously declare. The truths which I believe of importance to my fellow
beings, I slate as boldly, as I hope I do it temperately. In taking up the cause of
consistent human liberty, which I believe to be one with human improvement. I had
every worldly interest to lose, and nothing to gain but the satisfaction of fighting
the battles of truth against all the odds of numbers, and all the force of opinion.
Thus serving the cause for itself, it is my custom to employ the meaus which ap­
pear to me the most judicious, consistently with truth and honor. While I never
say what I do not thiuk, so do I choose my time and season for saying all 1 think -
Unless, indeed, when asked for my opinion. In that case it is my rule to give it al­
ways folly, distinctly without circumlocutions or reserves. This was done in Cincin­
nati!, when I was publicly requested to explain my views on the subject of marriage.
As public, and as explicit was my answer. Should the following paragraph meet
the eyes of the inhabitants of that city, they may perhaps furnish a certificate to
their late Lecturer, showing that she really was not afraid *
*to communicate her
views in regard to marriage ” before " the atheist, deist, or sceptic," or even the
Christian; or even before any person or all persons who wished to understand her
views, on that important institution.
" It is worthy of notice, that, of all the many topics she touched upon, she did
not communicate her views in regard to marriage. She has done so long since, in
the *
*Gazette," and her expected millen>mn cannot be enjoyed, until this important
subject be uudentood. Did Miss W. fear that her extraordinary talents and elo-
10
queace, could uoi render her doctrine on this point, pleasing to the aihe»«, or deisi,
or even to the sceptic. Or. why oinit the interesting theme 1 0 she alone is brave
—but then, even the infidel father and mother, shocked at consequences’ would have
admired no longer.*’
Surely my anonymous adversary must H
-»#e been strangely at a loss for a bill of
attainder gainst »nv character, when he ch irged it with lear. But let it pass un-
chttllenpr t |t rttll mahe s»* |»»«*r an item in the list of imaginations, and fabrica­
tions, am1 ’
..old assertions, and modest Nippon.rions. and wise interrogations, and
wiser ex* irntione. with which the name of any and all of troths* advocates are
<oopled uat it should seem as little doorviug of a place in the catalogue of mar­
vel* as • were of the trouble of erasure
Thu *rh, not to the editors or correspondents of the “ Wabash Telegraph”
butto r cbireos of Vincennes; and to ailo f the public whom these Baiters may
concent.
Will Robc.t Dale n .t n like his co-partner France* Wright, (on the
tepublicaticn of ihe •• iV Soba Address ”) glory in his shame, by an
attempt a' • st'fkntinr.; i r rher, to divert public attention from the
odium ll uculratton of • ich inderrnt barbarism is calculated to ex­
cite, will »fast",i on the m in e s of the “ supposed” author of these
stricture ndcal 01 prubrious names 1 What matters it to a discern­
ing, moral pu'mc. ..beiliT (lie ,-.,'.trd aullior of those icmarks on lm-
portant facts, a Christian ” at ■
■. n-chrisltan,” whether he be editor
or no editor, or .». 1 ,v f irmer | blication of the merely ••sup­
posed" au'h,>r was conduced wiili violence or moderation. Such
subterfuges are H e tricks ol the sophist, unworthy and unbecoming
those, who in the language of Miss Wright, s me «heir opinions, “fully,
distinctly, without circumlocution or reserve Let R. D. Owen, with
the manliness lie avows, justify, if lie can, those dor trines and practices
tlie •• Every Woman's Hook'' contain, or make the amcVMe honorable,
liy a frank confession of his errors, and an honest declaration of repent­
ant guilt. Let this confession, and this declaration, be as public, and
ample, and explicit, as the nfienshe theme. With the bane, lei the an­
tidote from the same pen be spread out before the public eye, and he may
be assured that a intelligent and neoerons public will award that forgive­
ness which sincere penitence never fail* to deserve. But we opiuc,
that like the authoress of the " ftashoba Address,” like the affec­
tionate writer, of the loving epistle to her paramour Jennings,
Robert Dale Owen too, will affect to rejoice in the lepublicstion of the
above " R e p l y H e too, may trump up a grave conversation between
himself and a true qu ilcrr, and pi int in Roman capitals on the pages of
the " Free Enquirer,” ihe " II irh o f a friend forestalled by an enemy.”
He too, may express his "disappointment " when on peeping "behind
the mask ” that he "found instead of something new, nothing lesslamd-
iar.than ihe • Reply to an anonymous charge," Perhaps toe, ibis
“ Reply " like ihe afore mentioned teller, may be deemed by its anthor,
“ quite a good reply by Ihe way, and simple taking out the italics” as
any •*strait forward " author “ could dictate.” He too may say, that
he had thought its republic.alion, (together with the “ Every Woman's
Book ”) may he “ useful and that he has only neglected it because he
conceived the popular mind at present sufficiently occupied.” He too,
may think the " Reply, comprise most important truths,” and that he
will do his “ best to assist its circulation, and hold the pamphlet for sale”
at the office of the “ Free Enquiier."
Thai the marriage contiact, however simple in it* form, advantageous
its design, and pleasureable in its effect*, is to be lorn asunder and
thiown in mutilated pieces to the winds of Heaven, by Frances Wright.
Robert Dale Osen and Richard Carlile, and a promiscuous sexual
intercom se recommended, the " New Harmony Gazette,” the “ Free
Enquirer” and the ‘‘ Every Woman’s Book’’ bear ample and damning
testimony. Equally cettain is u, also ftora the same souices, that these
11
.u iw individuals would suppress the population ol the poor, by means
too indecent for the chaste and virtuous mind to dwell upon for a moment.
How then, can we obtrude the offensive passages of the obscene work,
recommended, before the refined and moral portion of this civilized
community. Already in the “ Nishoba Address." already in ihe two
documents inserted in this pamphlet, already, h ive we partially shocked
the tenderest ol human sensibilities, already have we pnitiady outingcd
the most exquisite of humiu feelings; but this was unavoidable—to ex­
pose and deprecate such lawless, and disgusting doctrines and practices,
allusions at least must be made to thusc doctrines and those practices.
O f two evils, we choose the least—we probe the wound to effect a cure
—we risk the evanescent blush which will mantle the cheek of female
innocence, to warn her of the licentious impuri ies of those, who it they
could, universal prostitution and libeitinc violence would sully and de­
stroy all the social virtues and tender charities, the brightest grins in the
diadem of human nature, and the highest sources of human enjoyment.
The speculations of Malthus, and our anti-population philosophers, re.
specling the means of subsistence, are worse than visionary, while every
maiket is glutted to overstirfeititig and millions of square miles
still to he cultivaind and to produce. But will die suppression of the
population of the poor, receive Ihe s.mctloii of any but the lordly or
ladity aristocrat f the sanction of the wealthy few, nid not that of the
impoverished many. And why. Is there not a latent fear, that if the
present state and institutions of society continue unirformed—if labor
saving-machinery increasingly continue* to supplant human laboi,that
the poor and their offspiing will lie fed and clothed, lawfully, if we have
a wise icgi-la ion. and by force if otherwise, from the treasuries and the
gra larics of the rich.
Theorists in all ages, from the religious fanatics who mutilated their
bodies for the sake of the *
• kingdom of heaven to Hie Mallimses and
the Owens of the present day, like young lf.inpih.il who swore eiein.il
enmity to the Romans, have sworn an everlasting opposition to Nature,
have waged an eternal war with her kindest and happiest gifts—have
manifested an unceasing solicitude to mar her fondest and must rapiu-
rous delights. And instead of searching for a panacea to remove exist­
ing evils, have easily devised impracticable or dcmoializing means to
prevent the procreation of sentient beings, lest llieii existence stand in
the way of. and check, aristocratical selfishness, and luxury and prido.
When Frances Wright, in her recent acknowledgement respecting
fbc‘‘ Nashoba Address," (see F. E. July 10. 1830,) stated that she had
neglected republishing that document, because she conceived that thrs
“ popular mind at present was sufficiently occupied," evidently meaning,
with political affairs, how can she reconcile this apology for its non re­
appearance, when, but two months before, when the popular mind was
equally as much occupied, in order to evade the charges of the mem­
bers of the Society of Friends in Wilmington, Delaware, (see F. E.
ISlh May 1830) sho says; “ The important subjects i treated in the
“ Nasboba Address," are not now before ihe public, and the generality
of men and women are at present, unequal to their discussion.”
What! not before the public in the pages of ihe "New Harmony Ga­
zette,’’ and " Correspondent ?" and was there such a mighty revolution in
(tie public mind, rendering it equal to its discussion in two short months?
Cettes however, Miss Frances, on finding the “ wish of a friend forestall­
ed by an enemy," makes a virtue of neccssiiy, and valiantly says if lie
hid not published it, ebe herself would; for although the generality of
men and women two months ago weie unequal to ti e discussion the ad­
dress comprises most important truths which she would do Iter best to as­
sist it* circulation, and hold the pamphlet for sale at the office ef the
12
'* I ire Enquirer." Hut, by tbe bye, as Httdibras humorously says “ He
dial lights and runs away, may live to fight another day so thia lady
of Nnshoba, contrives to be far on the rolling waves of the mighty
Atlantic, ere her prowess, her paper prowess, meets the public eye, and
this biavado and justification of an address respecting *
*an experiment ”
she had previously confessed, “ had in it more of righteous intent, than
practical wisdom,” (see F I*!. October 31, 49.) a work denounced by
herself as indicating more of righteous intent (the ignorant simpleton’s
plea when he thoughtlessly (ited the York Minster of England) than of
practical wisdom, •* within a fee months aflet declared to contain im­
portant truths and to merit an extensile circulation ! *
Should any of our readers suppose that Frances Wright in the article
quoted in this pamphlet, has nut gone so far into the subject of suppress­
ing tbe population of the poor as Robert Dale Owen and Richard Car-
lile, lei them carefttllv read tbe *
*Nasboba Address," and particularly
an article under the title of an •• interesting communication” in the 8th
No. of the F. E. July 22d 1829—in which among other things she says:
t am far from passing rem ire o„ individuals, who, *way«<t by existing prejm]'crc
no less than circumstance,, unexercised in v t f r-w rseei/, and blinded to real duty
by false Ic-sin, Sliderroneous habits, allow themselves to heeomt parents when they
cannot fulfil the parental dunes, and wlien each addition to a young family of un­
provided and uneducated nr ill educated children subtracts yet farther from the well­
being of the whole unfor unate circle, and adds another unit to the sum of human
suffering—I am far, I say, fiom judging in severity the thousands who thus err in ig­
norance. Il is, in all cases, Meacti on, and not the agent, to which C' retire than Idhal t
reference.
Should not all women in a similar situation consider wherher the can consistently
with rectitude give birth to children who *• must inevitably be doomed to a life of
ignorance and consequent vice and misery?"
But whence this inevitable doom ? Have not all the children born info
the world a lien upon ihe community for maintenance and education if
their parents be unable to educate and maintain them ?
Again she says:
Parents understand but little in any country the nature of their high responsibility ,
but in no country do I believe them to understand it less than in this. The French
have been generally, by English and American writers stigmatised as a peculiarly
immoral people ; and yet the French are extensively careful to timil their progeny
to the means of provision. The same with many other continental Europeans.
Does not this prove a community of feeling and sentiment with the
eldet Mr. Owen, who travelled on the continent of Europe to see tested
by actual experiment his depopulating scheme.
Further comment is unnecessary ; nor, without polluting our p ages
with the obscene ribaldty of the “Every Woman’s Book.” so highly ap­
proved and so strongly recommended by the high priest and higher
priestess of the Hall of Science, could we convey our detestationo f
principles fraught with to much inhumanity indecency and injustice.
Allusion has been already made to the cowardly subterfuge of Fran­
ces Wiight, on the recent publication of the celebrated " Nasboba A d­
dress," and her more celebrated loving letter to her “dear Jennings ”—
Let Robert Dale Owen, if he will, reaort to a similar scheme of defence.
An intelligent and moral public will not be deceived—(Jailing the “ sup-
posed " writer of these remarks, " Anti-Christian sectarian,” or th e
editor of a late violent anti-christian publication.” will be of no avail
with an impartial and thinking public. Facts will speak louder than
words; the safeguards to public morals will, in their estimation, be of
more worth than theological speculative opinions ; the securities to d o ­
mestic happiness of greater import than opprobrious names; and female
beauty and innocence, far more sacred than the blustering bravados of
16
“ right-eoua intent,” or the unfounded accusations of hypothetical "coa­
litions.”
L et him, if he will, impugn the motives of this “ unmasking let
him a'lempi to draw off ihe public attention from the deformity of the
picture, unmarked by hi* own pen, to the " supposed” author of its ac-
compai ying remarks ; let him. if he will, endeavor to divert the public
mind from the text to the comment—it is all in vain. The time has
long since g>>ne by that these juggleries would take effect; the nature
and tendency of principle*, not conjeclutal personalities, now occupy
the public mind ; tangible realities have displaced ideal imaginings ; and
demonstrable fact hath supplanted the dogmas of the sophist, and the
caauistic dicta of the learned lumber of the schools.
ADDENDA.
S i n c e the foregoing went to press, we have perused the “ Free En­
quirer ” of the 7th of August. (Vol. II. No. 41.) in which is an article
over ihe signature of ft. D. O (Robert Dale Owen,) in reply to the
atrictures of Thomas Skidmore, one of the editors of the “ The Friend
of Equal Rights part of which have been already quoted. In that teply,
R. D. O. positively denies that he has *• spoken of prudential restraint,
as a good thing to keep down the number»o f the poor," and saya—“ this
odious construction of my sentiments is equally unjust and unwarranted.
I have spoken of it a* a v itue in all human being*.'’ it were not a diffi­
cult matter, in conning over the file ofthe “Free Enquirer” to detect many
very gross and palpable contradictions and discrepancies; but we need
not now to travel out of the record of the 328th page of the 2d volume,
to discover as gross and palpable contradictions and discrepancies as ever
came from the pen of a writer perplexed with i puzzling and harrassing
subject.
•*Thrice ia he trtneJ who hath hi* quarrel juaf.”
Thomas Skidmore stated facts, and made such deductions from those
facts as every moral man. as every affectionate husband and father of a
family would make from such facts. These rational deductions form an
“ odious construction” and the bold expression of the indignant feelings
of outraged humanity is characterised as *
*rude, abus.ve and dogmati­
cal,” and he is insultingly told that “ he will never find any decent co­
temporary lo discuss” his principles with him, “ so long as his paper
retains its present” tone. Skidmore! whether thy principles be erroneous
or true, practicable or otherwise, (and they yet remain to be discussed.)
keep on the even tenor of thy manly way, unintimidated by the pre­
sumptuous insolence of the philosophical depopulationists. With honest
severity still, and always continue, to lash in the columns of thy paper,
the man or the woman who would break the marriage tie—deprive tho
poor of the highest source of human eujoyment, tarnish the purity of
female virtue, and would make the world one universal brothel of wanton
prostitution.
But R. D. O. denies having “ spoken of prudential restraint, as a
good thing to keep doten the numbers o f the poor." This is an “ odious
construction" of the following passages, again furnished by this incon­
sistent writer in the self same page with the disavowal and the charge.
The reader will judge between Thomas Skidmore and Robert Dale
Owen.
“ We have no right to bring young beings intoexistence for whose future welfare,
bothphysical and mental, we have not a fait prosper.: of omp/y providing.” fR. D
0. page:!28.)
14
Who are these but the poor f Again :
“ ----- whenever the heavy responsibilities of parents are about to be incurred, with-
outa CMWcsoumrsj. luui wnenparenis, we shall be able to meet anil fulfil theni by
educating our chil'ir*upAynra//v. morally, and mentally, asa regard for their future
happiness requires.” (R. I) O. nage 328 )
Who can want this consciousness, but the pnor ? Again. The obscene
and disgusting •* Every Woman’s Book” should tall into thehauds of—
EVERY FATHER AVD MOTHER Of A FAMILY—calling upon nwn and
women to pause on- they incur the solemn respon-ibdities of parents, and calling
upon them well to cu.,stder what reran., they port IJ y f support, of care, of instruc­
tion for their offspring, before they bring that offspriug into existence." (R. I). O. p.
328.)
Who are destitute of these means of support, tec. but the poor ?
And yet, with these .glaring facta, transcribed bv his own pen, in the
self same page, the writer has tht temerity to say, that—
‘‘H c . (Thomas Sk’dmore,) must know luile of my sentiments, or must bn especially
desirous of falsely slat ag them who insinuates Ouu I make ons mia of difference in
whet I conerdervirtue, in o>cricimsi lordting in the land, nr thepooreet beggar,or
(hat I would put forth one code of morals for the ooe, and another for the other.”
(R. D 0. p 328.)
If Thomas Skidmore has thus inrinuated, we will go farther than
Thomas Skidmore, and boldly assert, that if the above passages convey
the bona fide sentiments of K, D. O. he really does consider a difference
of virtue in the rich and the poor, and would *
* put fotih one code of
morals for the one, and another foi the other.”
h
