{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__oxley___celestial_planispheres.pdf","mytitle":"Celestial Planispheres","mylang":"de"}
THE
CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES,
on
ASTRONOMICAL CHARTS.
BY THOMAS OXLEY,
JORMEULY OF LONDON, AND MANY YEARS MATHEMATICIAN IN THE UNITED
' STATES OF AMERICA.
PART I.
SHEWING BY INSPECTION. OR ONLY BY DRAWING A
STRAIGHT LINE.
All the most useful Problems in Astronomy, in (he most Easy, Pleasing, and
Expeditious manner, by means of the Celestial Planispheres.
PART II.
A NEW AND COMPREHENSIVE SYSTEM OF
DIRECTIONAL MOTION,
ACCORDING to the PRINCIPLES of PTOLEMY and PLACIDUS,
Explained in the most Easy and Familiar manner, so as to be perfectly
understood by every capacity. Also,
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF CALCULATING NATIVITIES,
BY THE CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES,
FROM THE EQUATOR TO SIXTY DEGREES OF LATITUDE;
Whereby the most Laborious and hitherto Intricate Calculations are solved, by Drawing
a Straight Line, or only by extending a pair of Compasses, and the Arcs of Direction
are obtained with wonderful exactness, and as much can he performed in a few
Hours, as formerly required many Days. Illustrated by the Nativity of the
EMPEROR NAPOLEON.
PART III.
CONTAINING NEW AND IMPROVED FORMULA FOR
ASTRONOMICAL CALCULATIONS,
Also, for finding from the Trne Mundane Position of the Part of Fortune, its True Place
In the Zodiac both iu Longitude and Latitude, also. Hie True Method of finding the correct
Polar Elevations both of the Planets, and of all the different Houses of the Celestial Fi
gures, etc. and other interesting particulars in Directional Motion, never hefore Published.
PART IV.
(wHtCH IS ADDED BY PARTICULAR DESIRE,)
CONTAINING CHOICE ASTROLOGICAL APHORISMS
PROM PTOLEMY;
Also, the Signiiications of the Different Positions of the Planets, and of Directions from
the Celebrated W. LILLY ; so that a Purcnaser of these" CeleBtlal Planispheres," will
he enabled thereby both to calculate and to give a correct judgment on any Nativity with
out the help of any other book. To which is added the Author's New Theory of the
Predictive Science, being a most irresistible defence of Astrology,
Also, interesting Remarks and Calculations, on the
NATIVITY of KING WILLIAM the FOURTH.
With Ten Lar2e Copperplates, Most Accpratelt Enoraved.
Printed by F. B. Wright, Liverpool ;
Published by Davis and Dickson, 17, St. Martin's Le Grand, Newgate
Street, London ; Blackwood, Edinburgh ; Robinsons, and Grapel, Liverpool ;
and may be had of the Booksellers in general.
1830.
Cl Is
I
DEDICATION.
LOVERS OF THE ASTRONOMICAL SCIENCES GENERALLY,
IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE,
AKD PARTICULARLY
TO THE PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS
OP THE
MERCUR1I OF LONDON.
—0 0 0—
Learned akd In2enious Gentlemen :
It is now universally acknowledged, that an Invention which
saves time, and abridges labor, that simplifies difficult Sciences, or facili
tates abtruse calculations, is a most desirable acquisition : that the Work
which I now offer to your notice, combines in an eminent degree all these
useful properties, needs no argument to prove, and will be immediately ac
knowledged by every candid and ingenious person. The utility of the
Work will sufficiently speak in its praise I have only to add that I sin
cerely hope that it will afford you as much pleasure and satisfaction, as it
has cost me study and labor to carry to the great extent and perfection in
which it is now most respectfully dedicated to your service, by,
Learned and Ingenious Gentlemen,
Your very obedient servant,
and wellwisher,
THOMAS OXLEY,
Liverpool, Nov, 1830.
PREFACE.
We are informed by the Sacred Writings that in the
Primitive Ages of the World, men lived to the very
protracted ages of several hundred years ; but with very
few exceptions their lives appear to have been so uni
form and monotonous, their achievements so few, and the
works they performed were accomplished in so tedious
a manner, that we can have no doubt that we Moderns
pass through as great vicissitudes and even accomplish
more in the space of forty or fifty years than the Anci-
entsvdid in the whole course of their lives. For my own
part I am strongly persuaded, although our lives are
so much shorter than those of the Ancients, that our
faculties for the enjoyment of life are greatly increased,
and very far superior to theirs ; that our means of ac
complishing whatever we desire, whether for expediting
the works of labor, the enterprises of merchandise, or for
the acquisition of knowledge, are so multiplied and im
proved, that we can do more in a few months than the
Ancients could in the space of several years. Were it
necessary to enumerate Examples, I should only have to
mention the wonders performed by the Printing Press
and the Steam Engine; with these reflections in my
mind, and in this age of improvement, I should have
been surprised that the work which I now first offer to
in.
the Notice of the Scientific World, had not been brought
forward some years ago by soine ingenious person and
friend of Science ; but knowing as I do by experience,
that although it is so easy and pleasant to use the Pla
nispheres which I now offer for your service, to construct
them was a work of considerable labor aud difficulty,
which no doubt is the reason the work was never before
made public : for it appears that about thirty six years
ago, a learned and ingenious gentleman, Mr. Ranger,
of London, invented a Planisphere ; but what it was I
know not, having never seen it ; neither could I obtain
the least information of its construction, as I shall plainly
shew in the first chapter of this treatise ; I therefore
claim the honor of the invention of what I now publish,
with as much right and reason as Lord Napier did claim
the invention of his Logarithms ; and I may fairly add
that these Planispheres will be found as useful for the
purposes to which they are applied, as the Logarithms
are in their way : and moreover I have taken great pains
to render them generally useful both to those who Study
ouly Modern Astronomy, and to those who Study the
Elementary Philosophy of the Ancients commonly called
Astrology. The first mentioned will have a work wall
worth their purchase money, and in regard to the lat
ter, they will find the work of inestimable value. The
Author of the Planispheres well knows that the pub
lication of this work will expose him to the sneers of the
ignorant, and envy of the malevolent ; they will call
him an Astrologer, etc., but he regards them not ; and
it will be the signal for those who are troubled with
IV.
the Caccethes Scribendi to pour forth the torrents of their
venom, through the channels of various periodicals ; they
will glory in the opportunity, or the pretext it may
afford them, to display their rhetorical flourishes in de
claiming against the Science of Planetary Influences ;
but as I do not publish this work with the design of
offending any person, therefore T intend not to suffer
myself to be offended by any one. I do not wish to in
duce any one to believe any thing against his own opinion,
for as the Poet says,
"A man convinced against his will
Retains the same opinion still."
And I have often observed that those persons are always
the loudest in their abuse of Astrology who know
nothing at all of the Science, but the name only, however
learned they may be in other Arts and Sciences. I will
just ask such persons, Would they not think the conduct
of any person extremely ridiculous in setting himself up
for a judge of the operations of Surgery and of the Prac
tice of Medicine, when he was entirely ignorant of both ?
Neither must he imagine, however clever he may be in
other matters, that he can become a competent judge of
the Science by perusing Sibly's Astrology once over, let
all such persons know this truth ; and although a single
perusal may enable an Orator to praise or to condemn,
to tear in tatters, or to adorn with the flowers of rhetoric,
it nevertheless requires seme years of study, of prac
tice and of attentive observation to make a man a com
petent judge of the merits of any particular Art or Sci
ence.
I have further to observe that on one subject it ia
highly proper that both the friends and the enemies of
Astrology should be set right. I allude to what are com
monly called Astrological Calculations, when in fact
there are no Astrological Calculations ; for the Calcu
lations erroneously so called, are most evidently as pure
ly Astronomical as the taking the altitude of the Sun,
or of clearing the observed distance of the Moon from
the effects of Parallax and Refraction.
And as regards the predicting of events by the con.
figurations of the heavenly bodies, whatever opinions I
myself entertain on these subjects are founded on facts,
and upon many years study, calculation and observation,
and if I thought it proper or convenient I could produce
many well authenticated instances of various accidents
having been predicted for many years beforehand by
planetary configurations j but the one which I have re
corded in the ninth chapter of the second part of this
work, would weigh more in my mind in favor of the
Predictive Science, than all the bigotted and flimsy ar
guments that the Anti-astrologic Orators could bring
against it. But notwithstanding what I have just ad
vanced ; agreeably to my New Theory which is contain
ed in the concluding chapter of this book, predictions
derived from the positions and configurations of the
Planets may really come to pass, and that entirely inde
pendent of any planetary influence whatever j being
founded on principles strictly Mathematical.
The Author is too well acquainted with the ways of
the world, and the failings of mankind, not to know
VI.
well that whoever publishes any thing curious or useful
may certainly calculate upon having a host of enemies
and detractors ; the ignorant will be so through bigotry
and lack of knowledge, and the envious through want of
candor to acknowledge merit ; he therefore does not ex
pect to fare better than other Authors ; and he now
reiterates what he has before remarked, that he does
not publish this work with the wish to offend any one,
and therefore if after this avowal should any traduce
and disparage this performance, he will venture to pre
dict, that his publication will become a standard work,
and that these Planispheres will be had in request many
ages after the memory of his traducers shall have been
buried in Oblivion.
Vll.
RECOMMENDATIONS.
Mr. THOMAS OXLEY having favored me with a survey
of this Work when in Manuscript, having been myself a search
er and admirer of Elementary Philosophy for more than twen
ty years, I consider it a most masterly invention and as such
I do recommend it to all the real lovers of Celestial Know
ledge, as Witness my hand,
Monday, 27th Dec. 1829. J, MASON.
SIR,—1 have had the pleasure of seeing and examining
Mr. OXLEY'S grand Work on the Celestial Planispheres,
or a New and Easy Mode of performing all the Calculations
applicable to the Astral Sciences and of which I most highly
approve as being superior to every thing I have ever seen, and
as such I most strongly recommend this work to all who are
lovers of those Sciences, as Witness my hand,
JOHN WATSON.
To the Printer, etc. January 2nd, 1830.
Mr. THOMAS OXLEY having submitted to my inspec
tion a Manuscript and a number of Astronomical and As
trological Charts. Having been a searcher in the Celestial
Science for some years, I have no hesitation in pronouncing
the whole Work a most excellent invention, and as such I most
earnestly recommend it to all the real lovers of Urania.
The Work will facilitate Astronomical Pursuits, therefore
will be a most valuable acquisition to the Student in that Sci
ence, and to those who may wish to study Astrology as a
rational amusement, they will find every thing necessary to
make them adepts in so pleasing a Science.
P. S.—Please to put my name as a Subscriber on the list,
and I heartly wish it may be followed by numbers as it must
have been a most laborious undertaking, as Witness my
hand. THOMAS WILLIAMS.
Monday, January 4th, 1830.
Hood-street, Corner of St. John's Lane, Liverpool.
VIM.
Mr. OXLEY, having submitted to my examination when
in Manuscript, his New and Extraordinary Treatise and As
tronomical Charts, I have no hesitation in pronouncing the
whole performance a Mathematical Work of great merit, and
equally adapted to the use of the Ladies as of the Gentlemen,
and as such I most strongly recommend this Work to all who
are admirers of the Astronomical Sciences, as Witness my
hand,
JAMES FLANAGAN,
Jan. 1&th, 1830. Professor of Nautical Astronomy, etc.
Virgil-at. Liverpool.
To Mr. OXLEY,
Sir,
Having been favored by a
sight of the proofs of your forthcoming Work on Astronomi
cal Planispheres, I beg to express my approbation of the
great ingenuity displayed throughout the whole book. From
my knowledge of Astronomy, Navigation, and Astrology, the
former of which I have professionally studied above twenty
four years, and the latter art for my amusement during more
than seven years, I have no hesitation in saying, that the
principle of your inventions and discoveries now published,
may be applied with infinite advantage by all persons who
practise either one or other of the above arts. To Astrolo
gers your Planispheres and tables will be invaluable ; and by
removing the obstacles to the study of Planetary influence,
occasioned by the extensive computation hitherto necessary,
your exertions will go farther than those of any individual,
since the days of Placidus de Titus, to serve the sacred cause
of Philosophical truth. I wish you every success.
Your obedient servant,
R. J. MORRISON,
Lieut. Royal Navy,
Inventor of the Commercial Telegraph,
Liverpool, 28th Oct. 1830.
PART I.
CHAPTER I.
History of the Discovery of Planispheres, etc.
The Author of this work having' always been of a
studious disposition, and particularly fond of investiga
ting anything that was considered as curious and un
common, the Elementary Philosophy of the Antients
attracted his attention at a very early age, insomuch
that at the age of fourteen or fifteen years he could cal
culate a Nativity very correctly ; but as he did this only
with a view of satisfying his own curiosty and for the
love he had of investigating the truth of things, he
scarcely let any person know, that he knew anything
about it, practising it only as an amusement for his
leisure hours. But being soon convinced that the better
any one understands the mathematics, so much the bet
ter would he be able to make astronomical calculations y
10
this inspired him with a greater desire to pursue with
more diligence the study of the mathematics, so that his
other pursuits soon put it out of his power to spare any
time for elementary philosophy, owing to its requiring
so much time to make the astronomical calculations for
that science ; so that after he had gone through Simp
son's Euclid, and Mr. Keith's Plane and Spherical
Trigonometry, he formed an idea that he could dis
cover some more easy and expeditious mode of per
forming such calculations. With this notion strongly
impressed on his mind, he purchased the second edition
of Dr. Kelly's excellent Treatise on Spherics, with a
view of helping him in the discovery of what he so much
desired, but of the possibility of which he was not quite
certain ; for he found that the spherical projections
taught in the works just mentioned, would not at ar
answer the purposes that he desired, and when he had
nearly given up the pursuit, he was confirmed in his
idea of the possibility of accomplishing it, by meeting
with a few numbers of the Astrologer's Magazine and
Philosophical Miscellany, published in 179S ; in page
25 of which magazine, we find the following brief re
marks concerning Mr. Ranger, contained in the letter
of H. D. to the the Editor of that work.
" It gives me great satisfaction to see J. W. has
adopted the method of calculating Nativities invented
by the learned and ingenious Mr. Ranger, it being the
most concise and easy of any ever yet found out, and is
performed without the help of tables, with a very great
11
degree of accuracy ; I could wish to see it become uni
versal ; the inventor is a man of great abilities in either
astrology, physics, or the mathematics." And again, in
page 153, of the same magazine, in a letter addressed
to the Editor by a person signing himself Arithmos,
we find the following inquiry concerning Mr. Ranger's
invention.
" N. B.—H. D. in a former number, alluded to a
planisphere for astrological calculation, invented by
Mr. Ranger. I shall thank him if he will give me a
little description of it, and the manner of using it, and
where it is to be procured."
" ARITHMOS."
This inquiry by Arithmos most satisfactorily proves,
that whatever Mr. Ranger's planisphere might have
been, that it was kept a secret in the hands of a few
individuals. Which was exactly the case, when I was
most desirous of obtaining some information on the
subject, about sixteen or seventeen years after the pub
lication of the aforesaid magazine : for, on inquiry, I
was informed that Mr. Ranger was, (when living) a
gentleman in easy circumstances, and that the few in
dividuals whom he condescended to instruct, each paid
him a large sum for being taught the use and construc
tion of his planisphere, and that, consequently, it never
was made public. And I was further told, that there
were at that time in London, two or three gentlemen,
who would teach me their construction for a few gui
neas. I applied to them, and they told me that they
12
would instruct me in the method of using Mr. Ranger's
planispheres, etc., for the moderate sum oijive guineas;
but I thought five guineas too much to give ; particu
larly as I found that I should have the trouble of con
structing the instruments myself, whereas I would much
rather have had them ready made for my use. These
gentlemen were so extremely reserved, that they would
not let me see what kind of thing the planisphere was ;
but very dryly observed, that if I would pay down the
five guineas, they would immediately let me see a plani
sphere, and shew me how to use it. This determined •
line to decline receiving any instruction from them, as
I firmly believed that, by perseverance, I should myself
discover the construction of a planisphere, which would
answer all the purposes I wished.
I immediately set to work, and in about a month
completed the planisphere of the zodiac on a plate of
brass twenty inches long. I next projected four plani
spheres of the twelve divisions of the heavens uj.on paster
board, (which are still in my possession) the lines re
presenting the poles, or as they are commonly called
the cusps of the houses, were straight lines ; but when
I applied the planisphere of the zodiac to them, I soon
found that the straight lines, except in a very few cases,
would not give the proper degrees of the zodiac upon
the respective cusps. I then immediately concluded,
that not only the line representing the horizon of the
place, but also that the lines representing the other di
visions, must be curve lines ; and after a little more
13
trouble I discovered the nature of the required curves.
I then without delay constructed the curves, or poles,
for the ascendant, for the eleventh and twelfth houses,
for the latitude of London, in the next place, I pro
jected a planisphere with the said curved, and on apply
ing the planispheres of the zodiac to it, to my very
great satisfaction, every degree was given on the cusps
exactly as in the table of houses ! Thus I succeeded,
without any instruction whatever, in discovering a
planisphere, or as I may truly say that I had succeeded
in inventing a planisphere, which would answer to my
wishes. But there still appeared another difficulty to
conquer, that as the zodiacal planisphere, which I had
invented, would represent the longitude of the planets
in the zodiac without latitude, it now remained to intro
duce the planets with their proper latitude, etc. This
by means of spherical trigonometry, and the help of al
gebra, I soon accomplished, and the result was my in
vention of that part of the planisphere which I call the
quadrant of latitude.
This is a faithful detail of my invention of the plani
spheres which I now publish, and 1 believe there is no
candid person but will own that I am as much entitled
to the honour of their invention, as Lord Napier was to
that of his Logarithms, as may be plainly seen if you
refer to the account given in Dr. Hutton's Philosophi
cal and Mathematical Dictionary, under the article Na
pier ; you will find that Dr. Hutton has there stated,
" That one Dr. Craig, a Scotchman, coming out of
14
Denmark into his own country, called upon John Ne
per, Baron of Marcheston near Edinburgh, and told
him, among other discourses, of a new invention in Den
mark (by Longomontanus as 'tis said) to save the tedi
ous multiplication and division in Astronomical Calcu
lations. Neper was very solicitous to know farther of
him concerning this matter, but he could give no other
account of it, than that it was by proportional numbers,
which hint Neper taking, he desired him at his return
to call upon him again ; Craig, after some weeks had
passed did so, and Neperthen showed him a rude draught
of that he called " Canon Mirabilis Logarithmorum."
Which draught, with some alterations, he printed in
1614. It came forthwith into the hands of our author
Briggs, and into those of William Oughtred, from whom
the relation of this matter came." Thus we see that a
man of a studious mind and industrious habits from a
very slender hint, will proceed to the discovery and per
fecting of inventions of the most useful and curious
nature.
Having, as before mentioned, completed a plani
sphere for the latitude of London, it needed no argument
to convince me that much mope must still be done. To
render the calculation by the planispheres universal, it
would be necessary to have a complete set of poles of
elevation, or curves for describing the cusps of the
houses from the equator to every degree, as far as to
sixty degrees of latitude. But, in order to do this cor
rectly, it was requisite that a separate table should be
15
calculated to each degree of latitude throughout, and
thereby determine the measure of each ordinate of decli
nation corresponding to a given quantity of ascensional
difference in various parts of each curve, and thereby
determine the form and extent of every curve, or pole
of elevation, with the greatest accuracy. I completed
these and many other tables, which I found would be
necessary for carrying the planispheres to the utmost
perfection, in all, nearly a hundred tables, many of which
required great labor in the calculation : very few per
sons would scarcely believe what immense toil it has
been to construct these planispheres ; I shall now pro
ceed to give a short detail of the vast pains taken by me
in the operative department of this work.
I had found by experience, that by the usual methods
of projecting on paper or on pasteboard, however nu
merous the ordinates may be, or however carefully the
lines may be drawn through the points terminating each
ordinate, nevertheless, the line of curvature thereby pro
duced would not be so perfect as it ought to be. I
therefore discovered a very far superior, and in fact, the
only accurate method that can be used for obtaining the
various lines for the planispheres quite perfect, which is
this, I determined that instead of using paper or paste
board for the various projections, I would use plates of
sheet brass, about the twentieth of an inch in thickness,
made perfectly smooth and level. In this manner I
began with the planisphere of the zodiac, or ecliptic
slider, this I divided into a double set of parts, of three
16
hundred and sixty each, the ordinates of declination
were next set off, and then a line was drawn at more
than a quarter of an inch from where the ordinates ter
minate, and then by a particular mechanical process,
which did not bend or strain the metal, the superfluous
metal was cut off, and to complete the curve, by means
of files made expressly for the purpose, which were
made as nearly as possible to the figure of the curve,
the figure of the ecliptic was completed by filing away,
with the greatest care and circumspection, the remain
ing superfluous metal close to the points terminating the
ordinates, which points were as fine as the point of a
fine needle. After this, the zodiacal longitude of every
fifth degree was determined with very great care and
accuracy. By this process, the right ascension of every
fifth degree of the zodiac having been first calculated to
great nicety, the corresponding ordinates were very
carefully projected, from the equator to the extremity
of the curve, and thus the beginning and ending of
every fifth degree of the whole zodiac was determined ;
and lastly, each space of five degrees was again very
carefully subdivided by a pair of the very best and finest
pointed spring and screw divider-compasses that could
be procured.
A similar process and equal care was used in con
structing in like manner on plates of metal the patterns
for the sixty-four poles of elevation in which consists the
most valuable and also the most laborious part of my
performance. Some of these curves required sixty,
17
and some a greater number of ordinates in their projec
tion. In forming the planisphere of the zodiac, I de
termined its line of curvature by the projection of no
fewer than two hundred and forty ordinates of declina
tion. The zodiac alone occupied a whole month in its
construction, to say nothing of the great deal of time
and labor spent in preparing the necessary tools and
apparatus for the work, and to do the work more effec
tually, it was absolutely necessary to invent several new
instruments ; also a number of very accurately divided
scales, done on well planished and polished strong plates
of brass, which were divided by a machine invented on
purpose, at considerable expense and with great labor
for its construction. The construction of the aforesaid
metallic curves for the poles of the different latitudes,
and the scales they required, furnished nearly eight
months of incessant toil, exclusively of the time spent
in calculating .the tables made use of in constructing
them, and required upwards of sixty square feet of
metal.
The brass planisphere of the zodiac was made and
used for a pattern whereby to draw upon the copper
plate, No. 3, a firm and correct line of the curvature of
the ecliptic. In other respects, and with the exception
of cutting away superfluous metal, (which was not cut
away in plate, No 3,) this plate required the same
trouble and the same processes as were used in con
structing the brass planisphere. There were upwards
of twenty thousand trigonometrical calculations, etc., re
quired to obtain the tables used in their construction.
C
18
I had many years ago by the help of Callet's Mathe
matical Tables calculated the right ascension of every
degree of the zodiac to the nearest second in each. I
also calculated, by the same mathematical tables, a new
set of tables of ascensional differences also to seconds,
with the intention of constructing tables of oblique as
cension to seconds, for every degree of the zodiac, and
from one to sixty degrees of latitude ; but I have laid
aside this design, as I find, now I have completed my
set of planispheres, that they are superior in use to the
tables of oblique ascension, because the tables of oblique
ascension would only serve for the sun, or ecliptic, or
for a planet having no latitude. But the grand advan
tage of the planispheres is, that they solve, with equal
ease and certainty, and with much greater despatch, all
these phenomena of the planets, etc., both with and
without latitude, which are usually resolved with great
toil by the voluminous tables, given in some books of
astronomy.
This chapter is somewhat longer than I intended, but
it could not well have been shorter, either in justice to
myself, or to my candid and ingenious readers, who, be
sides being desirous of knowing the uses, may feel plea
sure in hearing the history of the invention, and in
knowing something of the methods used in construct
ing the planispheres ; and who will be candid enough to
acknowledge that, for so curious and useful a work,
which has from the beginning to the end, been many
years in preparation, which has cost me a large sum of
19
money, and has lastly required many months of actual
toil and incessant labor for its completion ; and taking
all these circumstances into their consideration, will I
believe, acknowledge that the author has taken every
possible pains to give satisfaction, and to render his
work attainable to the sons of science at a very moder
ate price.
CHAPTER II.
The Uses of Plates, Nos. ! and 2.
In these two plates are comprised the curves corre
sponding to all the polar elevations from one to sixty
degrees. It was at first the author's intention to have
given them all in one plate, but he found that where the
lines converge in approaching the equator, they would
have been so near together that it would have been dif
ficult to distinguish them clearly ; therefore for the
greater satisfaction of the ingenious student, he has
been at the additional trouble and expense of engraving
an extra plate. By these two plates, a number of in
teresting problems in astronomy may be solved with
very little more trouble than inspection, amongst which
are the following.
PROBLEM I.
Required to find the length of the longest day and
shortest night in all places between the equator and
sixty degrees of latitude.
EXAMPLE I.
Find the longest day and shortest night for Madras
in the East Tndies, whose latitude is 13° 4' North, and
also for the city of Edinburgh in Scotland, in latitude
55° 58' North.
21
Here we use the nearest degrees, viz. 130 and 66° which
are sufliciently near. We have only to look in plate, No. 1,
for Madras, and see where the tropic of © intersects the
curve for latitude 13°, and a perpendicular let fall from this
point of intersection to the equator on the evening side of the
planisphere, touches upon 6h. 23m., which doubled is 12h.
46m. the length of the longest day at Madras, and the Oh.
23m. is the time of the sun setting ; therefore if 6h. 23m. be
taken from 12h. there will remain 5h. 37m., which is the
length of half the night, which doubled gives 11h. 14m. the
length of the shortest night at Madras.
Now look in plate, No. 2, for latitude 56", and proceed in
the same manner, and you will find that the perpendicular
falls on 8h. 40m. which is half the length of the day, and
doubled gives 17h. 20m. for the length of the longest day ;
and I7h. 20m. taken from 24h., leaves 6h. and 40m. for the
length of the shortest night in Edinburgh. It may be proper
to remark that this problem contains in itself several other
problems, which for sake of distinctness shall be treated of
separately.
PROBLEM II.
Required to find the ascensional difference of the sun,
moon, or planet in a«y latitude not exceeding sixty de
grees.
RULE.
Find in the ephemeris, ( or by other means ) the declina
tion of the sun, moon, or planet, then take the scale of de
clinations, and lay it fiat upon either of the plates, No. 1 , or
2, as occasion may be ; let the equater of the scale of declina
tions exactly coincide with the equator of the planisphere, and
draw the scale backwards or forwards upon the planisphere,
until the given declination upon the scale shall touch the
curve for the latitude of the place, and perpendicular there
unto upon the equator of the planisphere, you will imme
diately find the ascensional difference sought.
22
EXAMPLE I.
Find the ascensional difference of the sun, or moon,
etc., when its declination is 20° North, in the latitude
of Edinburgh.
By moving the scale of declinations backward or forward
as before directed, until 20° on the scale shall exactly touch
the curve of 50° of latitude, and close to the edge of the scale
upon the equator of the planisphere, you find 32° and two
thirds, which is the ascensional difference sought.
EXAMPLE II.
To find the sun's ascensional difference when his de
clination is 2S° 28' (either North or South) in the lati
tude of Edinburgh.
By proceeding as before directed, you will find the ascen
sional difference is 40° very nearly.
PROBLEM III.
To find the time of the sun's rising and setting in
any part of the world, from the equator to 60° of lati
tude, the sun being in any given degree of the zodiac
on a given day, as found in the ephemeris.
RULE.
Place the ecliptic slider or planisphere of the zodiac, so that
its equator may coincide with the equator of plates, No. 1,
or 2, (as occasion may be) and bring that degree of the zodiac
on the edge of this slider, to touch the curve for the latitude
of the place, and the perpendicular which falls from that
point upon the equator of plates, No. 1, or 2, will shew the
time of sun rising on the morning side of plates, No. 1, and 2,
and the time of his setting on the evening side of the same
plates.
23
EXAMPLES.
It is desired to know what time the sun will rise and
set at Constantinople, in latitude 41° North, and also
at Edinburgh on the 17th day of May, 1880.
On the given day the sun's longitude is fc 26" 1', and by
bringing this degree of zodiac to the curves oflatitudes 41 and
56, the time of sun rising at Constantinople, will be found to
be 4h. 49m. in the morning, and his setting at 7h. 11m. in
the evening ; and at Edinburgh the sun will rise at Sh. 55m.
in the morning, and set at 8h. 5m. in the evening.
Note.—This result by the planispheres is the true times of
the sun's rising and setting at the respective places, but the
effect of refraction will make the sun appear to rise earlier in
the morning, and set later in the evening. This difference
between the true and apparent is various, at different times of
the year, and in different latitudes, the least difference being
2" 12", and the greatest, about 7 33", but it is not necessary
to regard it unless very great accuracy be required. Nei
ther is it necessary to calculate what the sun's declination
will be in the morning and in the evening, as the sun's place
and declination at noon will be a due medium between them,
or nearly so.
CHAPTER III.
Description and Uses of Plate, No. S.
This part of the work I call the ecliptic slider, or
planisphere of the zodiac, because the curved line on its
upper side corresponds to the twelve signs of the zodiac,
and represents the sun's path in the ecliptic, and each
sign is marked with the usual astronomical characters,
nr 8 n , etc. I have taken the pains to divide each sign
into thirty degrees, which are marked, 10, 20, and
every fifth degree is distinguished by a longer stroke
than the rest; so that every degree throughout the
360, will be easily seen, and the fraction of a degree
may as easily be found with sufficient accuracy, for all
the purposes required of this instrument.
To make this instrument the more useful and accept
able, there are two lines of right ascension engraven
upon it, of 360 degrees each ; the upper line of right
ascensions are right ascensions in time, or the line of
hours, because each degree is made to correspond with
four minutes of time, and fifteen degrees to one hour.
It is accordingly marked with all the twenty-four hours
and minutes contained in a natural day. The lower
25
line of right ascensions is upon the extreme edge of the
planisphere, divided and numbered so as to correspond
exactly with the upper line ; it will be found of great
use in measuring expeditiously the diurnal and semi-di
urnal, and nocturnal arcs, you may also instantly mea
sure off the arcs of direction, upon the genethliacal
planisphere by it, even more expeditiously than by a
pair of compasses, and for several other purposes as
will be shown in this treatise. The line called the line
of houses, will be explained in the second part of this
work.
The line marked January, February, March, etc., is
a line of unequal parts, and corresponds to the sun's
motion in right ascension for every day in the year, this
line will be found useful in a number of astronomical
problems, more especially in the genethliacal department
of the science it will be found of great utility, as it
serves as a universal scale of years, for turning the arcs
of direction into time, in the calculation of nativities, etc.,
as will be more fully explained in the second part of
this book.
Observe.—When the declination of the sun, star or
planet, and the latitude of the place are both of the same
name, that is, both North or both South ; and if the
declination of the sun, star or planet, be equal to, or be
greater than, the complement of the latitude of the place
to 90°. In this case the celestial object will not set, but
will continue to revolve above the horizon once in twenty
D
26
four hours, and is then said to be in the circle of per
petual apparition. But when the declination of any
celestial object is equal, or greater than the complement
of the latitude of the place, and of a contrary name,
then it will never rise, but will continue to revolve be
low the horizon, and ia said to be in the circle of per
petual occultation.
That the student may know by the planisphere when
either of these cases happen, a line of co-latitudes is en
graved upon the planisphere of the zodiac as far as for
60° of latitude ; and this problem will be solved, by ap
plying the sun or planet's declination, from A towards
B, on the scale of co-latitudes.
PROBLEM I.
To find the right ascension of the sun, or of a planet
without latitude, by the planisphere of the zodiac.
RULE.
The given degree of zodiacal longitude is immediately
found on the upper edge of the instrument, and perpendicular
thereunto on the line of right ascensions you will find the
right ascension required.
EXAMPLE.
Required the right ascension of the sun, or of any
planet without latitude, in SI, 4° 0'.
By observing 4° of SI, on the extreme edge of the ecliptic
and perpendicular thereunto on the right ascensions, is 12(5J°,
the right ascension sought.
N. B.—It is on the very extreme edge, that you are to
reckon the zodiacal longitudes, and not upon the same marks
any lower down.
27
PROBLEM II.
To find the right ascension of the moon, or any
other planet having latitude, either North or South of
the ecliptic.
RULE AND EXAMPLE COMBINED.
Being provided with a piece of paper about eight inches
broad, and two or three inches longer than your ecliptic sli
der, with a straight edged ruler, draw a line to represent the
equator, the whole length of your paper, (see the diagram of
right ascensions with latitude in plate, No. 10,) then take the
ecliptic slider, and let the equator of the slider exactly coin
cide with the equator drawn on your paper. While this is
fixed, either with a very fine pointed black lead pencil, or
with a steel drawing pen, (such as is in a pocket case of
mathematical instruments,) draw the curved line of the eclip
tic, and with the pointrel or a fine needle, make a dot in the
proper degree, etc., of the planet's longitude, and if there are
several planets which have latitude, as in calculating a nati
vity, let all their zodiacal longitudes be marked before you
remove the ecliptic slider, and then all of them will be done
almost with as little trouble as if there were only one. Next
take the quadrant of latitude, and place that end of the quad
rant marked <r , or ^ , exactly to touch the beginning of qp ,
or =«= , and also place that end of the quadrant marked © , or
yp, so that it shall exactly coincide with the beginning of © ,
if the planet be in the signs, <r , 8 , n , @ , ft, or tig ; but if
the planet's longitude be in £t , n\, t , y? , SS, or X , you must
place the end of the quadrant marked © or yp, so as to coin
cide exactly with the beginning of yp , and the end marked
<Y■ , or ="= , to touch the beginning of =o= , if the planets be in
=a= , m, or t ; but if in yp, «r, or K , then let that part of the
quadrant marked gs , or yf , be upon 0° 0' of.yp, and the other
rest upon 0" 0' y ■
28
The quadrant being thus fixed according to the planet's
longitude, you have only to bring the edge of the index of
latitude, close to the point marked off" for the planet's longi
tude, then draw a line about an inch long, both on the North
side and on the South side of the zodiac, (or line of the eclip
tic,) the line thus drawn is the line of the planet's latitude
from the ecliptic. Then by sliding the scale of declinations
along the equator, find what the planet's declination would be
if it had no latitude ; then find how much the declination in
the ecliptic is increased or decreased, by the planet's having
latitude, this increase or decrease may be immediately found
by the little table here subjoined, and an example will render
this quite clear. And observe, that when great exactness is not
required, the centre of the index or edge of the straight ruler
may be set to the 45o upon the quadrant of latitude, but when
great accuracy is desired ; place the index or edge of the ruler
in the manner directed in the notes at the conclusion of this
second problem.
A CONCISE TABLE,
To turn degrees of the moon or planet's latitude into de
grees etc., of declination.
0 o o 0
Long. 1 lilt. 1 Lat. Long, Long. 1 lat. 1 lat,
North. South.
Declin.
South. N'orth,
Dt's Declin. Deg. Deg. Declin. Declio. Deg,
Mil). Mill. Min. Mill,
0 er 55 55 SO 0 =& 55 55 30
10 55 55 20 10 55 55 20
20 55£ 55J 10 20 55| 55i 10
0 8 56 56J 0 trt o m 56 561 0 X
10 56| 57 20 10 50£ 57 20
20 57£ 58 10 20 57£ 58 10
0 n m 5f!j o a 0 / 58| 50| 0 sr
10 59£ 59J 20 10 591 59.1 20
20 59| 59£ 10 20 59J 59j 10
30 60 60 0 °e 30 60 00 0 yf
29
Observe. —That North latitude in v , S . n , 88, SI, «R,
increases tbe ecliptic declination of a planet; but south lati
tude decreases its ecliptic declination. And South latitude
in^.m, f , Vf, ssi, X■ increases the ecliptic declination of
a planet ; but North latitude decreases its ecliptic declination.
PROBLEM.
Required the right ascension of the tnoon in ^0° SI,
with 5° of North latitude.
Having marked off the moon's longitude, 20 Si, and drawn
through that mark the line of latitude as before directed,
(which though it requires a good many words to describe the
process, nevertheless to perform it is but a moment's work,)
now by sliding along the scale of declinations, you find the
declination of 20° SI to be about 14° 5-6ths or 14° 50' nearly
the ecliptic declination, and by looking in the foregoing little
table, you find that 1° of North latitude in 20° of SI, will give
56'| of declination, as 5tfJ is so near to 57', say 57', and 57
multiplied by the 5° of latitude, gives 285', or 4° 45' the in
crease of the moon's declination, and 4° 45' added to 14° 50',
give 19° 35', the moon's declination North, which marked on
the line of latitude by a dot by help of the scale of declina
tions, will represent the true place of the moon's centre in
20° SI , and with 5» North latitude ; and a perpendicular drawn
from that centre to the equator, will mark the right ascension
of the moon, which measured by the scale of right ascensions
engraved upon the straight edge of the planisphere of the zo
diac will be about 144° 1-10th.
Again, for the moon in 20o Leo, with 5° South latitude, by
looking in the little table aforesaid, you find that 1° South
latitude in 20o Leo, is equal to 57' of declination, which mul
tiplied by 5° as above, gives 4B 45', for the decrease of the
ecliptic declination, and this 4° 45' taken from 14° 50', leaves
10° 5', the declination of the moon in 20° Leo with 5° South
latitude, which 10° 5' marked by a dot as aforesaid, will shew
30
the place of the moon's center, and the perpendicular from this
center to the equator, will measure 140°8-10ths, or 140° 48',
nearly which is the right ascension of the moon in 20° Leo,
with 5° South latitude.
Having detailed in so simple a manner the method of
placing the planets on the planisphere, and of finding
their right ascensions, I shall in other parts of this work
he very concise, when it is necessary to speak on this
subject, observing, once for all, that when any thing is
said about measuring the degrees of right ascensions,
the diurnal, or semi-diurnal arcs, etc., it should be un
derstood as being done by means of the degrees upon
the straight edge of the planisphere of the zodiac, unless
it be plainly expressed otherwise.
The figures on the left side of the page, shew where
the center of the index, or the straightedge of the ruler
should be placed, if you wish to have the right ascen
sions to a great nicety, with latitudes as far as nine de
grees North or South.
For North Latitude in Northern Signs.
Deg. Deg. Deg.
87J For 9 N. Latit. to 0 of Arit»s, and 30 of Virgo.
57 For 9 N. Latit. to 15 of Aries, and 15 of Virgo.
21 J For 9 N. Latit. to 15 of Taurus, and 15 of Leo.
3 For 9 N. Latit. to 15 of Gemini, and 15 of Cancer.
For South Latitude in Northern Signs.
Deg. Deg. Deg.
87 J For 9 S. Latit. to 0 of Aries, and 30 of Virgo.
75 For 9 S. Latit. to 15 of Aries, and 15 of Virgo.
4 1 For 9 S. Latit. to 15 of Taurus, and 15 of Leo.
45 For 9 S. Latit. to 15 of Gemini, and 15 of Cancer.
31
For South Latitude in Southern Signs.
Deg. Deg. Dee.
87 J For 9 S. Latit. to 0 of Libra, and 80 of Pisces.
57 For 9 S. Latit. to 15 of Libra, and 15 of Pisces.
21 J For 9 S. Latit. to 15 of Scorpio, and 15 of Aquarius.
3 For 9 S. Latit. to 15 of Sagittary, and 15 of Capricorn.
For North Latitude in Southern Signs.
Deg. Deg. Deg.
87$ For 9 N. Latit. to 0 of Libra, and 30 of Pisces.
75 For 9 N. Latit. to 15 of Libra, and 15 of Pisces.
41 For 9 N. Latit. to 15 of Scorpio, and 15 of Aquarius.
45 For 9 N. Latit. to 15 of Sagittary ,and 15 of Capricorn.
When a planet is in any intermediate degree of lon
gitude to those mentioned in the four rule9 here given,
the index, or the edge of the straight ruler, can be
placed sufficiently near by estimation to the intermedi
ate mark or degree on the quadrant of latitude ; but
those who are satisfied with moderate exactness, will
most likely content themselves with always using the
index or ruler placed on the 45°, which is the average
mark.
3>
A TABLE,
To turn degrees of declination into equatorial degrees.
Deg. of Value in Differ Deg. of Value in Differ
Declin. Equal deg ence. Declin. Equat. deg. ence.
1 0° 47 47' 16 12» 39" 48'
2 1 34 48 17 13 27 48
3 2 22 46 18 14 15 48
4 3 8 48 19 15 3 49
5 3 56 47 20 16 52 49
6 4 43 48 21 16 41 49
7 5 31 47 22 17 30 49
8 6 18 47 23 18 19 49
9 7 5 48 24 19 8 49
10 7 53 47 25 19 57 50
11 8 40 48 26 20 47 50
12 9 28 47 27 21 37 49
13 10 15 48 28 22 20 51
14 11 3 48 29 23 17 50
15 11 51 48 30 24 7 50
K> 12 39 48 31 24 57 51
32 25 48
When the declination of a planet, etc., is known by
means of the ephemeris, or by any other means, the
above table will enable you to turn the degrees and mi
nutes of the sun, moon, or planets declination into de
grees and minutes of the equator, and this being done,
you may take the equatorial degrees and minutes cor
responding thereunto, from the diagonal scale, which I
have engraved upon the side of the quadrant of latitude,
by using a pair of fine pointed compasses, and in this
manner the declinations of the planets can be marked
upon the planispheres with surprising exactness.
33
EXAMPLE.
If a planet have 13° 15' of declination (either North
or South) let it he required to set off this declination to
the nearest minute, by means of the diagonal scale upon
the quadrant of latitude.
By referring to the foregoing table of declinations, you
will see that 13° of declination are equal to 10° 15' of the
equator, and that 14° of declination are equal to 11° 3" of the
equator, and the difference is 48' of a degree of the equator.
Now because the required declination is 13» 15', or \ of a de
gree more than 13», therefore \ part of the tabular difference
must be added to the smaller number given in the table, now
the tabular difference being 48', \ part is 12', and 12' being
added to 10° 15', the sum is 10° 27' ; so that 13° 15' of declina
tion is equal to 10° 27' of right ascension. Now the diagonal
scale upon the quadrant of latitude, expresses every sixth
minute of a degree of right ascension, viz. 6', 12', 18', 24',
30', 36', 42', 48', 54', and 60', therefore in the present exam
ple, look for the 10°, and place one foot of your compasses on
the line marked 10°, and extend the other foot of the compas
ses to the diagonal line, half way between the parallel line
marked 24', and that marked 30', and this extent will be
equal to 10° 27', of right ascension, which is exactly equal to
13° 15' of declination as required. Proceed in the same man
ner when you desire to set off any other declination, to the
nearest minute.
PROBLEM III.
To find the oblique ascension of the sun, moon, or
planet, or of any degree of the zodiac.
RULE.
Find the ascensional difference by the second problem
of the second chapter.
S4
Then, if the declination be north, the difference of the as
censional difference and of the right ascension will be the
oblique ascension. But, when the declination is south, add
the ascensional difference to the right ascension, and the sum
will be the oblique ascension required.
EXAMPLE.
In the latitude of London when the moon is in 20° of
ft, with 5° north latitude, let it be required to find her
oblique ascension?
' It has been shown by the foregoing problem, that the moon's
declination will be about 19° 35' north, now by using the scale
of declinations and applying 19° 35' upon that scale till it
touches the horizon of London, the perpendicular falling there
from upon the equator will show the ascensional difference to
be about 26° 6-10ths or 26° 36', and then by the last problem,
the right ascension was found to be 144° 1-10th, from which
subtract 26» 6-10ths and the remainder 117° 5-10ths or 117°
30' is the oblique ascension required.
PROBLEM IV.
To find the oblique descension of the sun, moon, or
planet, etc.
This is just the reverse of the last problem. Thus, when
the declination is north, add the ascensional difference to the
right ascension, and the sum will be the oblique descension.
But when the declination is south, subtract the ascensional
difference from the right ascension and the remainder will be
the oblique descension required. This is so obvious as not to
require an example.
N. B. These two last rules for oblique ascensions and de-
scensions are for places situated in north latitudes, and there
fore must be reversed for all places situated south of the equa
tor, as the Cape of Good Hope, etc. etc.
THE
eetesttai piatttspfcerea,
PART II.
A NEW, CONCISE AND COMPREHENSIVE
SYSTEM,
or
mnttiottal motion,
lOmilKIKC ALIO
A Complete System of Calculating
NATIVITIES,
BYTHE CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES,
Whereby the most laborious and hitherto intricate calculations are solved by
drawing a straight line, or simply by
EXTENDING A PAIR OF COMPASSES,
And as much is performed in a few hours, as formerly required many days.
JHufitratttt b£ tit jlattbitg of.
THE
EMPEROR NAPOLEON.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
The science of directional motion is in itself suffici
ently abstruse, and needs not to be rendered more so by
obscure language and difficult expressions ; and it is
much to be regretted that many authors of eminence,
both ancient and modern, have written in so learned a
style ; that is to say, so obscurely and abstrusely, that
they have rendered science a much more difficult attain
ment, than it would have been if expressed in easy and
familiar language. Eminent authors in general are re
markable for a want of condescension in their writings ;
they are generally desirous of giving dignity to the
subjects on which they write, by making use of high
sounding words and classical expressions, ill adapted to
the generality of readers, in fact, it does appear that
they are more desirous of being thought learned and
brilliant, than to be useful writers : and the very learned
and much admired Placidus, cannot be exempted from
this censure ; he was past all doubt an eminent mathe
matician and philosopher, and his works on directional
motion are written in so learned and profound a style,
as though they were intended for the use of mathemati
38
cians and for them only ; but to render a work on that
science more generally useful, it should be made more
easy and simple, so that any person well versed in com
mon arithmetic, might be able to understand the canons
and perform the calculations. There is also another
very great impediment to the perfect attainment of this
science, which is the absurd figure, or diagram almost
always used, and very improperly called a figure of the
heavens ; which figure consists ofa square and a number
of half squares, or triangles cornered and dovetailed into
one another like a mosaic pavement. In the name of
reason I would ask in what respect can such a tessalated
pavement be compared to a figure of the heavens ! The
orbits of the planets are nearly circular, the planets
themselves are globular, and the lines distinguished by
the names of ecliptic and equator, etc., are perfect circles.
How excessively absurd then must it be, to represent
the figure of the heavens under the similitude of a
broken pavement, or of a square of board made up of a
number of other squares, cut through their diagonals
and clumsily glued together again. Surely it could
never have been a mail of science who invented so
absurd a figure, but some sordid miser, with the view
of saving half an inch of paper. I have indeed heard
some careful persons say, when I have spoken to them
of its absurdity, that they thought it took less paper for
a squarefigure of the heavens, than for a round one :
but let us ask why the saving of a bit of paper should
be regarded, when it serves no other purpose than to
perplex and mislead the understanding ; for with the
39
square figure before the eyes of the student, it is im
possible to explain, in an intelligible manner, the positions
of the heavens, and the revolutions of the planets ; but
by using a circular figure, divided into twelve parts by
lines tending towards a centre like the radii or spokes
of a wheel, whereon to mark the degrees which occupy
the cusps of the celestial houses, and the circle in the
middle to represent the globe of our earth, the difficulty
immediately vanishes, and we may then explain in a
more easy and familiar manner, the mundane and zodiacal
motions, both direct and converse, as I shall now en
deavor to do in the following chapter.
CHAPTER I.
On thefigure of the heavens, and of the motion of
the planets, etc.
In the following figure, let the circle and space in the
middle represent the globe of the earth, then may the
outer circle serve to represent both the zodiac and also
that circle in which the planets appear to perform one
revolution round the globe in the course of twenty-four
hours, and the straight lines tending towards the centre,
will serve to mark the degrees of the zodiac, which oc
cupy each of the twelve divisions or houses of the celes
tial figure, and may be accepted instead of curve lines,
as the representatives of the poles of the houses, which
polar elevations do each correspond to a certain number
of degrees of latitude on the Globe of the earth. The
numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, etc., show the cusps or beginning
of each house, or division of the heavens. In this figure
the signs of the zodiac are purposely omitted, because
sometimes one sign, and sometimes another sign of the
zodiac, all of them in succession, occupy respectively
each and all of the houses of the figure : but to explain
this more fully, let the beginning of the sign <r be
placed upon the first house, or ascendant, then will the
1
. >-- I .......
-"•c .--•:, .
: -: ti..« i". .
- - >)"
-1 ,. * -
PLATE 1.
To face page, 40.
The Figure of the Heavens, and of the Motions of the
Planets.
South.
41
sign S occupy the cusp of the second, the sign n will
be upon the third house, and the sign ffl will occupy the
cusp of the fourth house, etc., so that the first sign of
the zodiac would occupy the first house of the figure, the
second sign would be upon the second.house of the figure,
and so in succession unto the twelfth sign of the zodiac,
and the twelfth house of the celestial figure : this would
be the position of the heavens to those persons who in
habit the countries situated under the equator or near it,
and are said to live in a right sphere, or in a sphere of
right ascension. But to those persons who live in places
far removed from the equator of the world, as under
thirty, forty, fifty, or sixty degrees of latitude, the signs
of the zodiac will appear to move obliquely, and they
will not be equally divided by the lines called the cusps
or polar elevations of the celestial houses ; for then it will
sometimes happen, that one sign of the zodiac will oc
cupy the cusps of two houses ; and again, two signs of
the zodiac will be found included in one house of the
figure : all this can be clearly shown by the celestial
globe, or by my planispheres ; but it is impossible to
give any proper idea of this matter by the absurd square
figure in common use, and this circumstance of inter
cepted signs is generally very perplexing to beginners
in this science.
MOTION OF THE PLANETS.
All the planets move in their orbits according to the
succession of the signs of the zodiac, from v to b and
from » to n, etc., and this motion of the planets in
F
42
their orbits is performed in a direction from the west
towards the east, being in the very reverse direction of
what is called mundane motion ; as to the planets being-
retrograde it is only an apparent motion occasioned by
the planet being seen under a certain angle from the
earth, for although a planet appears sometimes retro
grade to us on the earth, the planet is all the while
moving in its proper orbit, according to the regular suc
cession of the signs. But there is another motion which
though it is apparent only, as respects the planets them
selves, yet to us inhabitants of the earth it is to be con
sidered as a real motion j and this motion which is of
the utmost importance to be well understood in the
science of directional motion, is called the mundane
motion of the planets, and by this motion the planets
ascend in the east angle, and move on to the tenth house
or meridian, ( and their being upon the cusps of the
tenth house is commonly called their southing, ) and
from the tenth house they move by the same motion to
the seventh house, or west angle, and from the west
unto the fourth house, or lower meridian, and from the
fourth house, the planets move onward to the horizon,
or east angle ; all the varieties of mundane motion being
performed in the space of one natural day or twenty-four
hours.
After what is been explained and exemplified in the
first part of this treatise concerning the diurnal and noc
turnal arcs of the planets, it is scarcely necessary here
to remark, that the length of the diurnal and nocturnal
43
arcs of the planets depends upon their own declination
and the latitude of the place.
The student would do well to remember all the divi
sions of the explanatory figure at the beginning of this
chapter, as this will render easy every thing relating to
the method of calculating directions which will be found
in the following chapters : it may be well to add, the
whole diurnal arc or space above the horrizon is called
the upper hemisphere, and the whole space below the
horizon is called the lower hemisphere.
CHAPTER II.
Ofaspects and distances, etc.
OF ASPECTS IN THE ZODIAC.
An aspect is a certain distance of two planets : the
sextile in the zodiac is 60°, or two signs distant : the
quintile is 7*2°, or two signs and one fifth part of two
signs : the quartile is 90°, or three signs : the trine is
120°, or four signs distant : the sesquiquadrate is 135°,
or four signs and a half sign more : the biquintile 141°,
or the biquintile is four signs and one fifth part of four
signs : and the opposition is 180°, or six signs distant.
The conjunction is when two planets are in the same
sign and degree ; some authors do not call this an
aspect, but a position only.
OF THE MUNDANE ASPECTS.
The mundane aspects, are computed by the distance
of the houses from each other, thus in mundo the space
of two houses is the mundane sextile ; the space of two
houses and of one fifth part of two houses, is the quintile
in mundo ; the space of three houses is the mundane
quartile ; the space of four houses is the mundane trine ;
45
the space of four houses and half a house more, is the
sesquiquadrate in mundo. Oue fifth part of four houses
added to four houses, constitute the biquintile in mundo.
And the distance of six houses is the mundane opposi
tion. The same proportions hold good in respect to
the mundane motions of the planets, for when a planet
is two thirds of his semi-diurnal arc, or two thirds of
his semi-nocturnal arc, distant from the sun, moon, or
planet, they are then in mundane sextile to each other.
Two thirds of the planet's semi-arc, and one fifth part
of the said two thirds, constitute the mundane quintile.
The whole semi-arc is the mundane quartile of a planet.
The space of the semi-arc and one third of the semi-arc
is the mundane trine. The sesquiquadrate in mundo is
equal to the semi-arc, and half the semi-arc added to it,
or which is the same three parts in four of the whole
arc, diurnal or nocturnal of any planet, constitute its
mundane sesquiquadrate. The space of the mundane
trine with one fifth part of the trine added, is the bi
quintile in mundo, or which amounts to the same thing,
the biquintile is equal to four parts in five of a planet's
whole diurnal or nocturnal arc. The whole diurnal arc,
or the whole nocturnal arc of a planet, is the mun
dane opposition of that planet. Observe, that one third
part of a planet's semi-diurnal arc is the space of one
house of that planet, so also is one third of the semi-
nocturnal arc of the planet, and in speaking of the mun
dane aspects or mundane motions of the planets, the
word house is to be understood not as referring to any
particular sign of the zodiac, but only to one third of
the planets semi-arc, whether reckoned in hours and
46
minutes of time, or in degrees and minutes of the equa
tor. Thus, when it is said a planet is three parts in
five of one house above the ascendant : in this case one
third part of the semi-arc is taken and divided by five,
whereby we find out what is one fifth part, and the fifth
part multiplied by three, gives three fifths, or three
parts in five of the semi arc.
N. B. These remarks are not intended for the learn
ed in science but for the benefit of those who wish to
learn.
The explanations of the aspects here given being so
very explicit, might by some persons be thought quite
sufficient for every purpose : but to prevent the possi
bility of mistake in directing the Medium Celie, and the
Ascendant to the different mundane aspects ofthe planets*
( for they must never be directed to the aspects in the
zodiac ) it may be of service to show how the same is
applied to practice by pointing out the places of the
celestial figure, where the aforesaid distances of the
aspects fall, both from the Ascendant and Medium Celie.
But we will begin with the aspects to the Medium Celie.
Sextile. A planet on the cusp of the eighth or
twelfth house, or at the distance of two thirds of his
semi-diurnal arc will be in sextile to the Mid Heaven.
Quintile. A planet, when he is four parts in five
of his semi diurnal arc distant from the Mid Heaven. Or,
when three parts in five of one house, either above the
ascendant or above the west angle.
47
Quartile. When at the distance of his whole
semidiurnal arc ; or, which is the same, when on the
cusp of the ascendant, or on the cusp of the seventh
house.
Trine. When on the cusp either of the second, or
sixth house ; or, which is the same, when the planet is
one third part of his semi-nocturnal arc below the east,
or below the west.
Sesquiquadrate. When a planet is one house
and half a house more below the horizon ; or, which is
the same, when the planet is half of his semi-nocturnal
arc below the east, or west angle.
Biquintile. When a planet is two parts in five
of his semi-nocturnal arc from the Imum Celie, or fourth
house ; or, when he is three parts in five of his semi-
nocturnal arc below the horizon.
Opposition. A planet on the cusp of the fourth
house is in opposition to the Mid Heaven.
Ascendant. The aspects to the ascendant fall in
the following places.
Sextile. A planet on the cup of the eleventd, or
on the cusp of the third house : or, when a planet is
two thirds of his semi-diurnal arc above ; or, when two
thirds of his semi-nocturnal arc below the horizon, he
is then the sextile to the ascendant.
Quintile. When two houses and one fifth of two
48
houses either above or below the horrizon ; or, when
a planet is four parts in five of his semi-diurnal arc
above the horizon ; or when four parts in five of his
semi-nocturnal arc below the horizon ; or, which is the
same, when a planet is one fifth part of his semi-diur
nal arc from the Medium Celie on the east side thereof ;
or, when one fifth part of his semi-nocturnal arc from
the cusp of the fourth house on the east side thereof, at
any of these places on the eastern side of the figure, will
a planet be in quintile to the ascendant.
Quartile. When on the cusp of the tenth or fourth
house, or when a planet is at the distance of his semi
diurnal arc above, or when at the distance of his semi-
nocturnal arc below the horizon, he is then in quartile
to the ascendant.
Trine. When on the cusp of the ninth or fifth
house ; or when at the distance of two thirds of his
semi-diurnal arc above, or two thirds of his semi-noc
turnal arc below the cusp of the seventh house, a planet
will be in trine to the ascendant.
Sesquiquadrate. At the distance ofthree fourths
of a planet's diurnal arc from the ascendant above the
horizon, or when distant from the ascendant three
fourths of the planet's nocturnal arc below the horizon,
or which is equal to the same, when a planet is at an
equal distance between the Mid Heaven and west angle,
or when equally distant between the fourth and seventh
house, or when a planet is half his semi-diurnal arc
49
above the west, or when he is half his semi-nocturnal
arc below the west he will be in Sesquiquadrate to the
Ascendant.
Biquintile. When a planet is two parts in five
of his semi-diurnal arc above the west, or when he is
two parts in five of his semi-nocturnal arc below the
west. Or, when a planet is three parts in five of his
semi-diurnal arc from the tenth house towards the west.
Or, when a planet is three parts in five of his senii-
nocturnal arc from the cusp of the fourth towards the
west; he is then in Biquintile to the Ascendant.
Opposition. A planet on the cusp of the west
angle, is in Opposition to the Ascendant.
This explicit recapitulation of the places of the As
pects, will be of great service to enable the student
without hesitation, to compute the Aspects in the most
easy and convenient manner, for in the practice of cal
culating the directions of a Nativity, it will be found
sometimes most convenient to take the distances of the
planets from one angle, and sometimes from another,
angle of the figure.
Observe also, that the Mid Heaven or tenth, eleventh,
twelfth, first, second, and third houses of the figure, are
called the eastern or ascending part of the Heaven ; and
the ninth, eighth, seventh, sixth, fifth, and fourth
houses constitute the descending part of the Heaven,
or western part of the Heaven.
o
50
Further observe, that the distances of planets from
the tenth and fourth houses, is taken in degrees and
minutes, etc., of right ascension. The distances from
the Ascendant are taken in degrees, etc., of oblique as
cension, and the distances from the seventh house are
taken in degrees, etc, of oblique descension.
If a planet is in the eastern houses, subtract the
right ascension of the Mid Heaven from the right as
cension of the planet, the remainder will be the planet's
distance from the Mid Heaven. But if a planet be in
the western part of Heaven, subtract the right ascen
sion of the planet from the right ascension of the Mid
Heaven, the remainder will be the planet's distance ; or
briefly thus, the difference of the right ascensions of the
planet and Mid Heaven, will be the distance of the
planet from the Mid Heaven.
This last rule holds good equally with respect to find
ing the distances of the planets from the fourth house ;
but to make every thing clear, observe, if a planet be
in the Ascendant, in the second or third house, subtract
the right ascension of the planet from the right ascen
sion of the fourth house, the remainder will be the dis
tance of the planet from the fourth house. But if the
planet be in the fourth, fifth, or sixth house, then sub
tract the right ascension of the fourth house from the
right ascension of the planet, the remainder will be the
distance of the planet from the fourth house.
The distances from the Ascendant are taken in de
51
grees of oblique ascension ; subtract the lesser oblique
ascension from the greater, be that which ever it may,
and the difference will be the planet's distance from the
Ascendant.
The distances from the west, or seventh house, are
taken in degrees of oblique descension, by subtracting
the least from the greatest oblique descension, the re
mainder will be the planet's distance from the seventh
house.
It remains for us to speak of two other kinds of as
pects or distances, called Parallels.
PARALLELS IN THE ZODIAC.
The ancient authors called these Antiscions, but the
most modern authors call them, with much propriety,
Parallels of Declination, because when any planet ar
rives at a point of the zodiac, where he has the same
quantity of declination that some other planet has, he is
then in the Parallel of Declination of the other planet,
and is considered as deriving some influence from that
planet, it matters not whether both planets have North
declination, or both South declination, or whether one
planet be in the North declination, and the other in the
South declination, provided that both have the same
number of degrees and minutes, etc., of declination, as
the Parallels of Declination in the Heavens are the lesser
circles of the sphere, equally distant from the equator,
just in the same manner as are the Parallels of geogra
52
pineal latitude, on the globe of the earth. For exam
ple : in the Nativity of the Emperor Napoleon, the
planet Venus has 20° 9' of North declination, therefore
the sun or any other planet, when arrived in 20° 9' of
declination, either North or South, will then he in the
Parallel of Declination of Venus ; and so of any others.
Observe, when the declination of any planet is less
than 23° 28', (the greatest obliquity of the eclipticjthen
will there be four different places of the zodiac, where
the Parallels of Declination will fall from that planet,
two of these places will be in the Northern signs, and
two in the Southern signs of the zodiac, which places
may be easily found either by the common tables of de
clination, or by the Planisphere.
OF MUNDANE PARALLELS.
Mundane Parallels are proportional distances of the
planets from the cusps of the four cardinal houses, ac
cording to the semi-diurnal, or semi-nocturnal arcs of
the planets. Thus, when one planet is the distance of
one third of his semi-diurnal arc from the Mid Heaven,
and upon the cusp of the ninth house, he would be in
Mundane Parallel to another planet which was one third
of his semi-diurnal arc distant from the Mid Heaven,
and upon the cusp of the eleventh house, and in like
manner, planets have their Mundane Parallels to each
other, at every variety of distances, which distances are
thus found by the rule of proportion.
53
As the semi-diurnal, or semi-nocturnal arc of ouc planet,
Is to its distance from a given angle or house,
So is the semi-diurnal, or semi-nocturnal arc of another
planet.
To its required distance from a given angle or house.
Observe, that one third of the semi-arc, or even one
sixth of the semi-arc of each planet, may be used in
working the above proportion. Note, one sixth part of
a planet's semi-diurnal arc is called its horary time di
urnal, and one sixth part of its semi-nocturnal arc is
called its horary time nocturnal.
CHAPTER III.
OfPromittors, Significdtors, and Directions, etc.
PROMITTORS.
The Promittors are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Veilus
and Mercury, these are always Promittors or Planets,
promising the accomplishment of some event. Sol and
Luna have sometimes the name or quality of Promittors.
SIGNIFICATORS.
Are Sol, Luna, ©, Ascendant and Medium Celie,
Sol and Luna have, as before said, sometimes the appel
lation of Promittors, and as such, are reciprocally di
rected to each other, or to their own aspects, (or rays.)
The Promittors are the planets to which other planets
or Significators are directed ; and the Significator is the
Planet or Aspect to be directed.
OF A DIRECTION.
As an Aspect is a certain distance (as explained in
the preceding chapter,) so a Direction is the space which
the planet has to move onward, in order to complete the
Aspect : it is the calculation of these spaces, which con
stitutes the art or science of Directions,
55
POLES OF THE PLANETS.
When a planet is upon the cusp of the Mid Heaven,
or when upon the cusp of the fourth house, it has no
polar elevation, and would be directed by right ascen
sion ; but if it was either on the cusp of the Ascendant,
or cusp of the seventh house, then it would have the
same polar elevation as the place for which the figure is
erected, and would be directed to directions in the zo
diac, by tables of oblique ascensions, etc., calculated for
the latitude of the same place. But when a planet is
located any where between the Mid Heaven and the
east or west angle, or when situated any where between
the cusp of the fourth and east or west angle the planet
will have a polar elevation less than the latitude of the
place for which the figure is erected. Thus, for ex
ample, the latitude of London is 51° 31', and the pole
of the eleventh and third houses is 23° 48', and the
pole of the twelfth and second houses is 40° 53'. There
fore if a planet was either upon the cusp of the eleventh
or third house, his polar elevation would be 23° 48' ;
and if the planet was upon either the cusp of the twelfth
or second house, his pole would be 40° 53' ; and if in
any intermediate situation, then would the planet have
an intermediate polar elevation. Placidus and some
other authors say, that when a planet is within 3° of
right ascension from the cusp of the tenth or fourth
house, that we should direct the planet to the Aspect
by right ascensions. But I do not approve of what
Placidus says in this respect ; because, supposing the
polar elevation of a planet was only 1 ° of latitude, the
56
ascensional difference for the 30° of aries would be
0° 12', and for the beginning of cancer, 2(/ of a degree,
and should we direct, as Placidus would, by right as
censions, the error in the arcs of direction would be
0° 12' in the one instance, and 0° 26' in the other ; even
under the pole of 1 ° ; but under the pole of 2", the
error would be double. It is full as well to be more
exact, particularly when we have all the instruments,
or means requisite, and when it takes us no more trouble.
CIRCLES OF POSITION.
Some authors have, in some instances, confounded
Polar Elevations and circles of Position with each other,
as though they were one and the same thing. But
there is, or ought to be, a great distinction between them.
The Circle of Position of any planet is not the pole of
that planet, but it is a certain point upon the equator,
where the pole of the planet intersects the equator, and
may always be found by the following analogy ;
As the semi-arc of a planet, diurnal or nocturnal,
Is to 90° of the equator,
So is the distance of the planet in right ascension,
from the tenth or fourth house,
To the distance in right ascension of the planet's
circle of position, from the tenth or fourth house
upon the equator.
Now observe, that the difference between the planet's
Circle of Position's distance from either Meridian, and
the distance of the planet itself from that Meridian, will
be the ascensional difference of that planet, under the
planet's own true Pole of Elevation. (See Appendix.)
57
DIRECTIONS IN THE ZODIAC.
Of Direct Directions in the Zodiac,
Are the Directions in which the Significator is car
ried forward, according to the succession of the signs,
unto the completion of the Aspect, under the Significa-
tors own pole of elevation.
Thus, for example, in the Nativity of the Emperor
Napoleon, let it be required to direct the © to the sex-
tile of 9 in zodiac ; in this Nativity we find $ in 7° 1'
® and consequently the sextile of $ falls in "R 7° 1' >
now we must proceed to calculate the right ascension and
declination of "B 7° 1'» the place of this Aspect hav
ing been found, next find the ascensional difference of the
same under the Sun's own pole of elevation, and after
having found the ascensional difference, find thereby the
oblique ascension of this place of Aspect, and lastly, from
the oblique ascension of the sextile of 9 thus found,
subtract the oblique of the © under his own pole, and
the remainder will be the arc of direction of the q, to
the sextile of 9 in the zodiac.
Having erected the figure of Napoleon's Nativity to
the exact time given in Mr. Worsdale's publication of
the same geniture, I shall therefore direct the Sun under
the same pole as Mr. Worsdale uses, viz. the pole of
1.1° 43'. This direction shall be calculated by spherical
trigonometry in the following manner.
The Sun is in SI 22° 43' or 52° 43' from the be
ginning of ©. •
H
58
For the Right Ascension of the Sun.
As Radius, Sine of 90° 10.00000
Is to Co-sine of Obliquity of Ecliptic 23° 28' 9.96251
So is Co-tangent of longitude of Q from
Oo 0' ® 52° 43' 9.88158
To Co-tangent of Right Ascension from
0° 0' 25 55° 4' 9.84409
Now to the Right Ascension of 0° 0' 25 90° 0'
Add the Right Ascension of © from ® 55° 4'
The sum is the Sun's Right Ascension 145° 4'
Tofind the Sun's Declination.
As Radius, Sine of 90° 10.00000
Is to the Sine of Sun's greatest Decl. 23° 28' 9.60012
So is Co-sine of the Sun's Longitude from
0° 0' 9 S2» 43' 9.78230
To Sine of Sun's Delination North, 13° 57j' 9.38242
The Tangent of 13° 57|' is 9.39542
Tofind the Sun's Ascensional Difference.
As Radius, Sine of 900 10.00000
Is to Tangent of Sun's own Pole 15° 43' 9.44933
So is Tangent of Sun's Declination 13° 57^' 9.39542
To Sine of the Sun's Ascensional diff. 4° 1' 8.84475
For the Suns Oblique Ascension.
From the Right Ascension of the Sun 145° 4'
Subtract Ascensional difference 4° V
The Oblique Ascension of Sun under his
own Pole is * 141* 3*
59
The next place to find the Right Ascension, etc., of
"Jt 7° 1', the place of Venus's Sextile.
For the Right Ascension.
As Radius 10.00000
Is to Co-sine of Sun's greatest declination 23° 28' 9.96251
So is Co-tangent of Aspect's longitude
from Cancer, 67" 1' 9.62750
To Co-tangent of Right Ascension from
Cancer, «8" 45" 9.59001
To the Right Ascension of 00 of Cancer, 90° 0*
Add the Aspect's Right Ascension from
0° of Cancer 68» 45
The sum is the Right Ascension of the
Aspect, 1580 45
Tofind the Declination of the Aspect.
As Radius, Sine of 90» 10.00000
Is to Sine of the Sun's greatest declination
23° 28' 9.60012
So is Co-sine of the longitude from 0° 6*
Cancer 67» 1' 9.59158
To Sine of Aspect's Declination, 8° 57' 9.19170
The Tangent of Declination, 8« 57' 9.19725
For the Ascensional Difference.
As Radius, 10.00000
Is to Tangent of the Sun's Pole 15» 43' 9.44933
So is Tangent of the Aspect's Declination 8° 57' 9.19725
To Sine of its Ascensional difference 2° 32' 8.64658
6()
Fqr the Oblique Ascension of the Aspect.
From the Aspect's ltight Ascension 168" 45'
Subtract the Ascensional difference 2° 32'
Remains the Oblique Ascension of the
Sextile of Venus under the Pole of the
Sun 156,, 13'
For the Arc ofDirection.
From the Oblique Ascension ofthe Sextile
of Venus under the Pole of the Sun 156» 13'
Subtract the Oblique Ascension of the Sun
under his own Pole 141° 3'
The Arc of Direction of the Sun to the
Sextile of Venus in Zodiac 150 10'
To equate the Arc of Direction, and point out the
time of the accident or event.
To the Sun's Right Ascension at the time
of Birth 145» 4'
Add the Arc of Direction 15° 10'
160° 14'
Next find the degree of longitude in the zodiac which
corresponds to 160° 14/ of right ascension which is
equal to 70° 14' from the beginning of Cancer, this may
be done either by the Tables of right ascensions, or by
spherical trigonometry.
As Radius, 10.00000
Is to Co-sine of Sun's greatest declination 23° 28' 9.96251
So is Tangent of Right Ascension from
Cancer 70° 14' 10.44446
To Tangent of longitude from dancer 68° 36' 10.40(597
61
■which answers to 8» 30' of the sign Virgo, look in the Ephe
meris for the year of the Birth, in this case in the Ephemeris
for the year 1769, see how many days of 24 hours each the
Sun requires to arrive in 8° 30' of Virgo, and for every
complete day allow one year, and for two hours reckon
one month. By the Ephemeris for 1769, we find that the Sun
arrived at 80 36' of Virgo, on the 31st day of August, at 9 hrs.
P. M., being 16 days and about 11 hours after Birth, and
therefore points out the time of the accident to be 16 years and
about five months and a half of the Native's age.
The practice of equating the arc of direction by
adding the arc to the sun's right ascensional birth, and
finding the corresponding zodiacal longitude of the sun
in the ephemeris, which I believe to be the only true
method, was discovered and published by Placidus de
Titus, about one hundred and eighty years ago ; though
I am of opinion that the celebrated Ptolemy intended
this very method, his writings being very brief and ob
scure, no philosopher or mathematician but Placidus
only, had the penetration and sagacity to give us the
true reading of what Ptolemy had delivered on this sub
ject.
Observation. Had the proceeding direction been cal
culated by the tables of oblique ascensions, the work
would have appeared shorter to the eyes of the unexperi
enced, although in reality it requires both more time and
more trouble ; than by the method I have used ; but
whether we calculate by the common method, or whether
we work by spherical trigonometry, to calculate all the
directions of a Nativity is a work of vast labor and re
, 62
quires much patience, and whatever degree of exactness
we may acquire thereby in the calculations, it will
scarcely ever make amends for the trouble bestowed in
the process ; but my Planispheres will be found to per
form the calculations with wonderful expedition, and yet
sufficiently exact for every reasonable purpose.
The Directions in the zodiac may be calculated in a
manner nearly similar to Mundane Directions by taking
the distances of both the Significator and of the Pro-
mittor or place of Aspect from a given angle or house
of the figure, and finding the semi-arc, etc., of both the
Significator and the place of the Aspect and then work
ing by the rule of proportion as you would in calcula
ting a Mundane Direction, thus for
EXAMPLE.
Calculate the direction of the Sun to the Sextile of
Venus.
In the Nativity of Napoleon the Right
Ascension of the Mid Heaven is 112» 59'
Right Ascension of the Sun 145 4
Right Ascension of the Aspect 158 45
Therefore the distance of Sun from Mid
Heaven is 32 5
The Aspect's distance from the Mid Hea
ven 45 46
The Semi-diurnal Arc of Sun under Lat. 41° 40' is 102 46
Semi-diurnal Arc of the place of the
Aspect under the Latitude of 41° 40' is 97 57
(53
The proportion when stated may be either woTked
by the rule of three, but quicker by the tables of pro-
portional logarithms, thus.
If the Semi-diurnal Arc of the Sun 102° 46' log. 2.434
Gives his distance from the Tenth
What will Semi-diurnal Arc of the
Aspect
Sum of second and third logarithms
Subtract first logarithm
The answer will be the secondary!
distance of the Aspect from Mid V
Heaven )
Then from the primary distance of Aspect
Subtract its secondary distance
Remains Arc of Directions of Sun to the Sextile
of Venus in Zodiac 15 11
Which is one minute of a degree different from the Arc
as before calculated , a difference indeed not worth regarding.
N. B. In calculating the Directions in the Zodiac,
observe, when the Significator (or planet to be directed)
is posited in the descending part of the Heaven that you
must use the oblique ascensions of the opposite place in
the Zodiac of the Significator, and also of the opposite
place of the Aspect, which will produce the same result
as though you had calculated by the oblique descensions,
and is generally considered a more convenient process ;
however, it is right to observe, that when you work by
the oblique ascensions of the opposite place, it is requi
site to add 180° in each case, to the right ascension of
32 5 „
97 57 „
7.490
2.(143
10.133
2.434
30»35' = 7.699
ect 45° 46
30 35
64
the Significator, etc., and when the sum exceeds SCO",
cast away 360 and use the excess above 360°.
Of Converse Directions in the Zodiac.
This shall be exemplified by directing the Sun to the
body of Saturn in the zodiac, by Converse Motion.
(In the Nativity of Napoleon.)
The Pole of Saturn is thus calculated according to the
common method.
As J Semi-diurnal Arc of Saturn 36° 40' .6910
Is to the Pole oi* the eleventh 16 47 1.0304
So is Saturn's distance from the Mid Heaven 4 47 1.5755
2.6059
Subtract .6910
To the Pole of Saturn 2° 11' 1.9149
Note, for the true method of finding the correct po
lar elevations of the planets, when much accuracy is
required, see my own method as explained in the Ap
pendix. . - i. -. .-;.•--•
The Right Ascension of Saturn is 117.46
The Right Ascension of the Sun as before found 145.4
Tofind the Ascensional Difference of Saturn, under
his own Polar Elevation.
As Radius 10.00000
Is to Tangent of Saturns Pole 2° 11' 8.58121
So is Tangent ofSaturn's Declination 21 5 (north) 9.58606
To Sine of Saturn's Ascl. difference 0 51 (nearly) 8.16727
65
Tofind the Ascensional Difference of the Sun, under
the Pule of Saturn.
As Radius 10 00000
Is to Tangent of Pole of Saturn 2° IV 8.58121
So is Tangent of the Sun's Declination 13 67 9.39515
145» 4
0 33
144 31
117 46
0 51
To Sine of Sun's Ascensional Difference 0 33 7.97636
For the Oblique Ascensions.
From the Right Ascension of the Sun
Subtract the Ascensional Difference
The Oblique Ascension of the Sun is
From the Right Ascension of Saturn
Subtract Saturn's Ascensional Difference
The Oblique Ascension of Saturn under his own
Pole, is 116 55
For the Arc ofDirection.
From the Oblique Ascension of the Sun 144 31
Subtract Saturn's Oblique Ascension 116 65
The Arc of Direction of Sun to the body of Saturn
in the Zodiac, is 27 36
In Converse Directions in the zodiac as may be seen
by the preceeding example the Significator is directed
under the polar elevation of the Promittor j but more
correctly speaking, the fact is this, that the Significator
remains in his first position, and the Promittor is in
reality the planet directed, not by a Converse, but by a
Direct motion to the Aspect or Significator in the
zodiac.
GG
RULE.
How to direct any planet to Aspects in the zodiac
with latitude.
When any Significator, as for example, the Moon,
having latitude at the place of the Aspect, is required
to be directed to any Aspect in the zodiac, let her latitude
at the place of the Aspect be found by means of an
Ephemeris, etc., then her right ascension, declination,
oblique ascension, etc., must be found thereunto : then
take the oblique ascension of the Moon, ( or planet, ) at
the place she is in at the time of birth, from the oblique
ascension of the place of the Aspect as aforesaid, and
the difference will be the Arc of Direction required, under
the Moon's or planet's own proper pole of elevation.
CHAPTER IV.
The Calculation of Mundane Directions.
Provided that proper attention has been paid to
what has been delivered in the first and second chapters,
concerning the division of the figure of the heavens, the
Aspects and Distances, etc., it is the Author's opinion,
that the rules and processes contained in this chapter,
will be easily understood by the intelligent reader.
GENERAL RULES.
1st. The twelve houses being divided (see chapter 1)
into four quadrants, namely, from the cusp of the first
to the cusp of the fourth house, is the first quadrant.
From the cusp of the fourth unto the cusp of the seventh
is the second quadrant. From the cusp of the seventh
to the meridian or tenth, is the third quadrant, and from
the cusp of the tenth unto the cusp of the Ascendant or
horoscope, is the fourth quadrant.
Observe, when the Aspect is completed in the same
quadrant in which the planet is posited (at the moment
of birth) that the difference between the primary and
secondary distance will be the Arc of Direction.
6S
RULE II,
But if the Aspect be completed in a different quadrant
to that in which the planet is posited, then must the
secondary distance projected on the other side of a de-
determinate angle or house be added to the primary dis
tance of the planet on this side of the same angle or
house, and the sum will be the Arc of Direction required.
These two general rules contain in themselves a sum
mary of the method of Mundane Directions j but as 1
am desirous that every one who reads this work may
perfectly understand the processes of calculation, I have
added the following particular rules also ; all from my
own Manuscript Treatise, written about twenty years
ago, for the purpose of refreshing my own memory in
this science, however long I might have laid aside the
study and practice of it : and these Rules and Remarks
have completely answered the purpose ; for onjust read
ing them once over, I recollected every process as well
as if I had been in the daily practice of making such
calculations.
Direct Directions in Mundo.
RULE I.
The Significator's Arc, or double horary times are
placed first, in the second place is put the Significator's
Distance from an angle or house ; in the third place is
put the Promittors, double horary times, or arc (diur
nal if above the earth when the Aspect is completed,) but
the nocturnal double horary times, or arc, etc., must be
taken if the Aspect be finished below the earth : the
69
fourth number or answer is the Promittor's secondary
distance from the determinate angle, or house, whence
the Aspect is formed ; which is to be subtracted from
the said Promittor's primary distance, if produced in
the same quadrant in which the primary distance was
taken, and the remainder will be the arc of direction.
But if the Promittor's secondary distance be projected
in a different quadrant to that in which the said Pro-
mittor is found in the nativity, the sum of the primary
and secondary Distances will then be the Arc of Direc
tion required.
Thus by Proportion.
As the Significator's Double Horary times, or Semi-arc,
Is to its Distance above or below a certain House or Angle,
So is the Promittor's Double Horary times, or Semi-arc,
To the Promittor's secondary Distance above or below a cer
tain House.
RULE II.
Converse Direction in Mundo.
In the Converse Directions, the Promittor remains
at rest, and the Significator is carried on to the comple-
tion of the Aspect. The numbers of the Proportion
are thus disposed.
As the Promittor's Double Horary times, or Semi-arc,
Is to its Distance above or below a certain Angle or House,
So is the Significator's Semi-arc, or Double Horary times,
To the Significator's secondary Distance above or below a
certain House.
And if the Aspect be completed in the same quadrant
70
then will the difference between the primary and se
condary distance, be the Arc of Direction. But, if the
Aspect be completed in another quadrant, than that in
which the Significator is posited in the figure of birth,
then must the Significator's secondary distance project
ed on the other side of a determinate house or angle, be
added to the said Significator's primary distance on this
side of the same angle or house, the sum will be the
Arc of Direction.
The four following rules, enumerating each of the
houses of the Celestial Figure respectively, in which the
Mundane Directions are completed, will include every
thing that need be desired, in this department of the
science.
RULE. III.
Let it be remembered, the Mundane Motions of the
planets are all in reality performed conversely as re-
pects the houses of the celestial figure. Therefore the
planet which is really brought by a converse motion to
the proportional distance of another planet, if the said
planet so carried onward by converse motion, be posited
in the first, second, or third house, and completes the
Aspect above the horizon, then must its secondary
distance above the horizon, be added to the said planet's
distance (in oblique ascension) from the horoscope, and
the sum of the two distances will be the Arc of Direc
tion. But if the planet so posited in the first, second,
or third house, completes the Aspect in the first, second,
71
or third house, then will the difference between the
primary and secondary distance be the Arc of Direction
required.
RULE IV.
In like manner of any planet be posited in the twelfth,
eleventh, or tenth house, and completes the Aspect
while posited in the twelfth, eleventh, or tenth house,
the difference between the primary and secondary dis
tance will be the arc of direction required : But had
the Aspect been completed in the ninth, eighth, or se
venth house, then must the secondary distance from the
meridian towards the West, be added to the planet's pri
mary distance from the meridian, (on the Eastern side)
and the sum will be the arc of direction required.
e
RULE V.
If the planet, which is to be carried onward to the As
pect by its own converse motion, be posited in the ninth,
eighth or seventh house, if he complete the Aspect while
in the 9th, 8th, or 7th house, the difference between his
primary and secondary distance from the tenth or seventh
house, will be the Arc of Direction. But if any planet
be posited in either of the three aforesaid houses, if to
complete the Aspect the said planet be carried below
the horizon, then must the secondary distance below the
West, be added to his primary distance above the West,
and the sun will be the Arc of Direction required.
RULE VI.
If any planet posited in the sixth, fifth, or fourth
72
house, completes the Aspect while posited in the sixth,
fifth, or fourth house, then will the difference between
its primary and secondary distance from the seventh or
fourth house, be the Arc of Direction. But if, to com
plete the Aspect, the planet moves onward into the third,
second, or first house, then must the secondary distance
from the fourth be added to its primary distance from
the fourth house, and the sum will be the Arc of Direc
tion required.
By way of example, in the Nativity of Napoleon, let
it be required to direct the sun to the parallel of Venus
in Mundo, by direct direction.
The Right Ascension of the Mid Heaven, is 112° 59'
The Right Ascension of Venus, subtract 97 29
Venus's Primary Distance from Mid Heaven 15 30
The Right Ascension of the Sun, is 145 4
The Right Ascension of the Mid Heaven, subtract 112 59
The Sun's Primary Distance from the Mid Heaven 32 5
The Proportion is thus stated, and worked by the
Proportional Logarithms,
As J the Semi-diurnal Arc of the Sun 34° 16' .7204
To his Distance from the Mid Heaven
So is J the Semi-diurnal Arc of "Venus
To Venus's Secon. Dist. from the tenth
Subtract Venus's Primary Distance
And the Arc of Direction will be 18 31
32 5 .7490
36 20 .6950
1.4440
ubtract .7204
34 1 .7236
15 30
73
The Sun to the Sextile of Venus in Mundo, by
Direct Direction.
Here Venus will be as far from the cusp of the eighth,
in proportion to her Semi-diurnal Arc, etc., as the sun
is distant from the cusp of the tenth house in proportion
to his Semi-diurnal Arc, etc.
The primary distance of Venus from the cusp of the
eighth house, is found as follows :
To the Right Ascension of Venus
Add two thirds of her Semi-diurnal Arc
The Sum is
From which sub. the Rt. Ascension of the tenth
And the Distance of Venus from the eighth fa 57 10
In the present instance this is the most concise way
of finding the distance of Venus from the eighth, though
by no means the most natural : the most orderly method
would have been to have taken Venus's distance from
the West Angle by oblique Descension, thus,
The oblique Descension of Venus under Lati
tude 41° 40' 116° 31'
From which sub. the Ob. Descension of the
seventh 22 59
97° 29'
72 40
170 9
112 59
The Distance of Venus from the seventh, is 93 32
From which sub. J of Venus's semi-diurnal Arc,
or the space of one house of Venus 36 20
And the Distance of Venus from eighth, is 57 12
K
74
This exceeds the former distance hy two minutes of a
degree, a small error, which cannot be avoided when
the semi-arc is divided into six parts, the horary times,
nor even when divided into three parts, as some semi-
arcs will not admit of being divided by six, or by three
without the loss of a small fractional part, unless we
descended to the seconds and thirds of a minute, which
would be a nicety by no means necessary in these cal
culations.
Note, the last found distance is the most correct, or
the space of one house of Venus 36° 20' might have
been added to 22° 59' the oblique descension of the
West, the sum would have been 59° 19' the Oblique
Descension of Venus's eighth house, and this 59° 19'
taken from the Oblique Descension of Venus 116° 31',
would give 57° 12' the Distance of Venus from the
eighth house as before found.
The Proportion is thus stated.
As J the Semi-diurnal Arc of the Sun 34° 16' .7204
To his Distance from the Tenth 32 5 .7490
So is J the Semi-diurnal Arc of Venus 36 20 .6950
1.4440
Subtract .7204
To Venus's Secon. Dist. from the eighth 34 1 .7236
For the Arc ofDirection.
From the Primary Distance of Venus 570 12
Subtract her Secondary Distance 34 1
Arc of Direction of the Sun to the Sextile of
Venus in Mundo, Direct Direction 23 11
75
The Sun to the Parallel of Venus in Mundo by
Converse Direction.
The Proportion is thus stated, etc.
As J Semi-diurnal Arc of Venus 36° 20' .6950
Is to Venus's Distance from the Tenth 15 30 1.0649
So is J Semi-diurnal Arc of the Sun 34 16 .7204
1 1.7853
Subtract .6950
To the Sun's Secon. Dist. from the Tenth 14 37 1.0903
From the Sun's Primary Distance 32° 5'
Subtract his Secondary Distance 14 37
The Arc of Direction will be 17 28
The Sun to the Body of Venus in Mundo, by Con
verse Motion.
The Direction is thus calculated.
As & Semi-diurnal Arc of Venus 36" 20' .6950
Is to her Distance from the Mid Heaven
So is J Semi-diurnal Arc of the Sun
15 30
34 16
1.0649
.7204
Subtract .6950
14 37
32 5
1.0900
To the Sun's Secondary Distance
.Add the Primary Distance
The Arc of Direction is 46 42
It will be observed in this Direction, that the Direc
tion is finished in a different quadrant of the Figure to
that in which the Sun is posited at first, therefore the
Primary and Secondary Distances are added to pro
duce the Arc of Direction.
76
Of Compound Parallels in Mundo, commonly called
Rapt Parallels.
When two planets are both carried forward at the
same tim« by their Converse Motion, so that each planet
according to its respective Semi-arc, etc., is placed at
the same Proportional Distance as another planet is
placed according to the other planet's Semi-arc, etc.,
this is called a Rapt Parallel.
When this kind of Parallel is formed upon either the
tenth or fourth house, the Right Ascension of one is
subtracted from the Right Ascension of the other planet,
the difference is called the Right Distance, which re
serve. When the said Parallel is to the Horoscope,
then the distance between the two planets is taken in
Oblique Ascensions for the latitude of birth. If the
Parallel be made to the west angle, the planet's Dis
tances are taken in the Oblique Descensions of the same
latitude. The sum of both planets Semi-arcs, or a third
thereof, is used together with the Right or Oblique
Distance between the two planets, as in the following
example.
The Sun to the Right Parallel of Saturn.
From the Right Ascension of the Sun 145° 4'
Subtract the Right Ascension of Saturn 117 46
There remains the Right Distance 27 18
The Double Horary Times of the Sun 34 15
The Doable Horary Times of Saturn 36 4l
Sum of both Planets' Double Horary Times 70 56
77
From the Right Ascension of Saturn 117 46
Subtract the Right Ascension of the Mill Heaven 112 59
Saturn's Primary Distance
The Proportion is thus stated.
As the sum of both Double Horary Times 70° 56'
Is to the Double Horary Times of Saturn 36 41
So is the Difference in Right Ascension 27 18
4 47
.4044
To Saturn's Secondary Distance
To which add his Primary Distance
And Are of Direction is
Subtract
14 7
4 47
.6908
.8191
1.5099
.4044
1.1055
18 54
And by proceeding in a similar manner, you may
culculate any other compound Parallels of the planets.
I hope that the rules and examples here given, will be
found sufficient for enabling any ingenious person to
make similar calculations. It is not my intention in
this Second Part of this Work, to give any instructiou
concerning Crepusculine Directions, as I do not con
sider that doctrine sufficiently established by observa
tion and experience, as we see that Placidus himself has
only given four examples of it among the thirty remark
able Nativities which he has published.
CHAPTER V.
The Celestial Planispheres.
Having amply elucidated the usual modes of cal
culating Directions in a more explicit manner than was
ever before published, we now hasten to the principal
object of our performance the use of the Planispheres
in the calculation of Nativities.
How to Construct the Mundane Part of the
Celestial Planispheres.
Having provided yourself with a good flat and very
straight edged ruler, thirty inches long and about two
inches broad, of deal, or any harder well seasoned wood,
that it may not be liable to warp, but that it may keep
as straight as possible, it should be very thin on the
straight edge in order to draw a straight line with the
greater degree of exactness. The paper on which you
intend to construct your Planisphere should always be
a few inches longer than the Planisphere of the zodiac,
for if it be two or three inches longer at each end, so
much the better, as a little experience herein will soon
convince you ; the paper should be about eight inches
broad, and the stronger the paper is, the better, as it
79
will be less liable to warp than thin paper, and it would
be found of advantage to have the paper stretched and
fastened down upon a smooth level board j strong cream
coloured cartridge paper answers the purpose very well,
but those who perfer strong drawing paper will use it.
Your paper being prepared, take the strait edged ruler,
and draw a line perfectly straight upon the middle of the
paper lengthwise from one end to the other, this line is
to represent the equator of the intended Planisphere,
then draw another line perpendicular to your first line,
and which must be equally distant from each end of the
paper, this second line will represent the Mid Heaven,
Meridian, or tenth house, then at the distance of 180
equatorial degrees from the Meridian, to the right hand
draw a line, and to the left hand at the same distance
draw another line ; both these lines must be perpen
dicular to the line of the equator, these two lines which
in effect are one, represent the lower Meridian, Northern
Meridian, cusp of the fourth house, or Imum Celie,
which four names mean one and the same thing. Next
take in your compasses the greatest obliquity of the
ecliptic 23° 28', from the line of Declinations, with one
foot of the compass set on the equatre as a centre, set
off the Declination 23° 28' upon the three perpendicu
lars of the tenth and fourth houses, both above and
below the equator, marking the places by very fine dots ;
then to the length of the paper draw through these dots
a straight line parallel to the equator on the upper side
thereof, this will represent the parallel of the Tropic of
Cancer j draw also in the same manner a line parallel
80
to the equator on the lower side of it, this last line will
represent the parallel of the Tropic of Yf ; for brevity
sake, we will hereafter call them the parallels of s and
YP. •
Ofthe subdivision ofthese lines.
In the next place divide the equator into 12 equal
parts of 30° each, this may be done most expeditiously
by placing the straight edge of the ecliptic slider, close
to the equator of your intended Planisphere, and with
a needle or pointrel, mark the 1 2 points, each at 80°
distance from each other ; this done, consider what the
latitude is, for which you wish to construct the Plains'
phere ; in the present example, the Nativity of Napoleon,
the latitude of Ajaccio the place of birth is 41 f" North.
Look to the line of houses on the slider where is given
the measure of one house from 1° to 60° of latitude ;
place one foot of your compasses on 0°, and extend the
other foot unto 4If", and this will be the space of one
house for latitude 41§°, then with this space in your
compasses, set one foot of the compasses exactly on the
Meridian upon the parallel of s : and mark upon the
parallel of © (by turning over three times the foot of
the compasses) the spaces of three houses, do this, both
on the left hand and on the right hand of the Meridian,
and these points will be the points of intersection of the
Poles of the six diurnal houses. In like manner, set
off the spaces of three houses from the lower Meridian
upon the parallel of Vf, both towards the left hand and
also towards the right hand, and you will then have the
81
spaces of the six nocturnal houses, and the points of
intersection of their respective Poles. Next look in the
table of the Poles of the houses according to Ptolemy,
and by taking the proportions between those for latitude
41°, and for latitude 42% you will find the Pole of the
eleventh and ninth, the fifth and third houses is equal
to 16° 47' ; and in like manner 31° 3' for the Pole of
the twelfth and second, the■ sixth and eighth houses of
the fiVure : but for instrumental calculation it will be
always sufficiently near, and quite exact enough for the
purpose, to take the nearest whole degree of Polar Ele
vation ; therefore, the Poles of 17° and of 31», are
those we shall use. Now, from among my Planispheres
for the different latitudes, take out the three following,
viz. for latitudes 17°, 31° and 42° with these ; the curve
lines for the Cusps or Poles of the houses must be pro
jected in the following manner ; for example, to project
the Curves or Poles of the eleventh, twelfth, and first
houses, proceed thus,
1st. Take the scale marked Planisphere for 17° of
latitude, apply the equator of this scale to the equator
of the intended Planisphere, at the distance of 30° from
the Meridian, (on the left hand side of the Meridian,)
let the equator of the scale ou the curved side, coincide
exactly with the dot at 30° from the Meridian as a cen
tre, move the scale until the edge of the upper part
coincides also with the dot on the Parallel of « at the
space of one house from the Meridian, then to the cur
vature of the scale thus fixed, draw a line, and you will
Is
82
have the Pole of the eleventh house, as in the copper
plate, No. 6, which see.
Sndly.—Then with the scale marked Planisphere for
latitude 31°, and with the equator of this scale placed
on the equator of the intended Planisphere at 60° dis
tance from the Meridian, on the left hand side, place
this scale so that it may also coincide with that dot on
the Parallel of ©, which is the space of two houses
distant from the Meridian, drawing a line to the curva
ture of this scale, you will thereby have described the
Pole of the twelfth house.
3rdly Next, take the scale for the Ascendant, or
first house, in the present case use the scale for latitude
42°, set the equator of this scale, to the equator of the
intended Planisphere at the dot 90° distant from the
Meridian, making the other part of the scale to coincide
with .the dot marked on the Parallel of ss , at the space
of three houses from the Meridian, draw a line hereby,
and this line will represent the Eastern Horizon to the
Pole of the Ascendant or latitude of birth. To draw
the Pole of the other houses is a similar process to this
just described, and by well observing and examining the
Planisphere, Plate, No. 6, and by applying the proper
scales to each of the other houses of the figure respec
tively, will render this perfectly clear, and will better
explain it, than ten thousand more words could do ; this
is all that strictly speaking belongs to a Planisphere for
erecting the twelve houses of the Celestial Figure, and
83
by proceeding in a similar manner, you may construct
the Planisphere for any other latitude required.
Having now described the process for constructing
the Planisphere for the twelve houses, we shall next
show how to introduce some additional circles therein.
The most useful of these is,
The Circle of Semi-quartiles and Sesqui-quadrate.
This circle, see Plate, No. 6, is found in each of the
four quadra?its of the Celestial Figure, and is at a me
dium distance from the Ascendant and tenth house,
from the tenth and seventh, from the first and fourth,
and from the fourth and seventh house, and is of great
service in calculating all the Semi-quartiles and Sesqui'
quadrates, which are cast to the Ascendant, and to the
Mid Heaven, its proper Polar Elevation, and its dis
tance from the angles are found thus.
The Poles used for the twelfth and second houses were 31°
for the eleventh and third houses were 17
The difference of Polar Elevations is 14
Half is 7
Now this half of the difference of the Poles, viz. 7°,
added to 17°, the Pole of the eleventh and third,
ninth and fifth houses, gives 24°, for the Pole with
which you are to describe the circle of the Planisphere,
whereon the Aspects of the Semi-quartiles and Sesqui
84
^
quadrates to the first and tenth houses are formed, and
to do this, divide the space on the Parallel of Cancer,
between the Meridian and the intersection of the same
Parallel, by the line, or cusp of the first and seventh
house, each into two equal parts : mark a dot on the
middle point, and also at 45° from the cusp of the tenth,
upon the line of the equator mark another point or dot.
Next take the Planisphere or Pole for 24° of latitude,
and place its equator exactly on the dot at 45° on the
equator of the intended Planisphere, and let its upper
part be close to the dot upon the Parallel of Cancer,
then with your steel drawing pen or with a fine pointed
hard black lead pencil, draw the circle marked So and
SSn, in Plate, No. 6, do the same in regard to the
Parallel of Yf as you see done in the Copper plate.
The circle of the Quintile Aspects is found, by taking
j part the space of two houses upon the Parallel of
Cancer and Capricorn, and set off this distance from the
cusps of the tenth and fourth houses upon the Parallels
of Cancer and Capricorn, the circles of position upon
the equator for the Pole of the Quintile, is always 12"
of Right Ascension from the tenth and fourth : the Po
lar Elevation of the circle of the Quintiles may be taken
as being equal to two parts in five, the Polar Elevation
of the eleventh and third houses, always taking the
nearest whole degree, which will be sufficiently exact.
In the Nativity of Napoleon, the circle of the Quin
tiles is 15° distant from the tenth and fourth houses,
upon the Parallels of Cancer and Capricorn respective
85
ly, and its Pole of Elevation very nearly 7°, therefore
I have used the curve or Pole of Elevation answering
to 7° of latitude, in describing this circle on Plate,
No. 6.
Note. A supernumerary, but very important table,
is given in the third part of this book, whereby may
be found by inspection, all the proportions and the Poles,
for describing on the Planispheres, the circles of the
Semi-quartile, Sesquiquadrate, of the Quintile and Bi-
quiutils Aspects in Mundo, from the equator to 60° of
latitude.
N. B. In drawing any lines upon the Planisphers,
do not make use of a common pen, which would be an
infallible means of blotting and spoiling your projec
tions.
CHAPTER VI.
To Erect a Figure of the Heavens by and upon the
Planisphere, and how to place the Planets therein.
Having by the Ephemeris * or Almanac found the
Sun's longitude for the day and hour required in the
usual manner, the Right Ascension of the Sun may be
found thus, by the Planisphere of the Zodiac ; knowing
the Sun's longitude, the Right Ascension is marked on
the equator in the line perpendicular thereto.
Thus in the Nativity before us of the Emperor Na
poleon, the time is August 14th, 1769, at 21h 51' 40" ;
and the Sun's longitude then, il 22° 43' and the Right
Ascension of the Sun is 145° 4' ; therefore,
To the Right Ascension of the Snn 145° 4'
Add the Right Ascension of Time from Noon 327 65
The Sum is 472 59
Rejecting the whole Circle or 360
The Rt. Ascension of the Mid Heaven will be 1 12 59
which we will call 113° on the Planisphere, as it not
* N. B. White's Ephemeris is the very best that is published, for these
purpeses.
87
reasonable to suppose that a minute of a degree can be
shown upon this instrument, we mnst content ourselves
with larger fractions of a degree, such as the sixth, the
eighth, or the tenth part of a degree, either ofthe last
mentioned fractions being a much greater nicety, than
could well be expected ; but which can nevertheless
easily enough be seen by a good eye, and be readily
marked off by a fine pointed marker. Now place the
Planisphere of the Zodiac, or Ecliptic Slider, so that the
equator of the Slider may coincide exactly with the equa
tor of the Mundane part of the Planisphere ; in this man
ner slide the Ecliptic backwards or forwards until 113°on
the lower edge of the slide, correspond exactly with the
Meridian or cusp of the tenth house, while thus fixed draw
the zodiacal curve, or Ecliptic, upon the intended Planis
phere, and then observe what degrees of the Zodiac are
intersected by the different poles or cusps of the houses,
you will find © 21^° upon the cusp of the tenth house,
and about 24f° of & intersected by the Pole of the
eleventh house, which is therefore the cusp of the
eleventh house ; and by observing in the same manner
what degrees of the Ecliptic are intersected by the other
Poles of the houses ; we shall find nt 23° 9-lOths on
the cusp of the twelfth house, and on the Ascendant
or first house, we find the Ascending ^ 18°, and on
the cusp of the second house we find "R 15°, and on the
cusp of the third house is t 16^° very nearly, the op
posite houses have the same degrees of the opposite
signs.
Observe, that while the Ecliptic Slider is thus fixed
88
in its proper position, that besides drawing with a fine
pointed black lead pencil or steel drawing pen the figure
and curve of the Ecliptic, you should make a fine dot
and write the proper mark or Astronomical Character
at the beginning of each sign of the Zodiac, also mark
every 5th° and 10th° of each sign with a very fine dot,
and number each lOth0 thus 10. 20. but when very
great despatch is desired it will be sufficient to mark
the beginning of each sign respectively ; and in the latter
case write upon the cusp of each of the houses the de
grees and fraction of degrees intersected by them, and
the celestial figure will be completed ready for the in
sertion of the planets.
Advantages and Certainty in the Use of the
Planispheres.
Although by the use of Mathematical tables the re
sults may he had to degrees and minutes, or even to
seconds, yet the attention and labor, and length of time
required, are so considerable (that except as in the case
of Lunar observations to determine the longitude of
ships at sea, or of different places on land) that no de
gree of nicety in the results can compensate for such a
sacrifice of time and trouble,—there are indeed many
kinds of calculations, such for instance as the calcula
tions of Nativities, where great exactness is by no means
so desirable as certainty in the result, and great expe
dition in performing the process, even if the Arc be
brought with certainty to within a quarter of a degree,
80
it is, in many cases, quite sufficient. I for my own
part should have been satisfied with it, if performed in-
strumentally as by the Planispheres, on account of the
little trouble and time consumed therein, but these Plani
spheres will very rarely if ever be found to deviate so
much as a quarter of a degree, from the result obtained
by the use of Mathematical tables ; and in general we
may depend on them as coming within the eighth or
even the tenth part of a degree in the result ; indeed in
many instances these Planispheres in point of correct
ness are very little inferior even to the tables themselves,
as will be seen in bringing up the directions of this
Nativity ; with this great advantage, that it is nearly
impossible to commit blunders in the use of them.
Nothing could more happily demonstrate the certainty
in using them, than the erection of this figure of the
Nativity of Napoleon. After having finished that la
borious undertaking, the construction of all the Metal
lic Patterns for the Polar Elevations of the different
houses, etc., I was anxious to bring them into use and
to test their excellence and utility as soon as possible,
accordingly, very late one night by their assistance, a
Planisphere for Napoleon's Nativity was projected to
the same time as given in Mr. Worsdale's publication,
the cusps of the tenth, eleventh, first, second and third
houses were indeed very nearly the same as in Mr.Wors
dale's figure of this Nativity ; but when I came to exam
ine the cusps of the twelfth and six houses in my projec
tion, there was a wonderful difference, for I found very
nearly 24° of Virgo on the former, and very nearly 24°
M
90
of Pisces on the latter house, I concluded immediately
that I must have made some great mistake, because in
the figure given by Mr. Worsdale, there is exactly 20°
of Virgo upon the cusp of the twelfth, and exactly 20°
of Pisces on the cusp of the sixth house ; I said to my
self, " I must have committed some great oversight,
for surely Mr. Worsdale can never have made so gross
a blunder as to put the cusps of the twelfth and sixth
houses of the figure four whole degrees wrong ! ! " The
next morning I projected another Planisphere for the
same Nativity, the result was exactly the same as by the
first, and as I had never before found my Planispheres
to deceive me, I now concluded that I was right, and
that Mr. Worsdale, the pretended Ptolemy of our age,
was wrong ; but to assure myself of this, beyond all
doubt or dispute, I gave myself the trouble of calculat
ing immediately, the cusp of the twelfth house by sphe
rical trigonometry, and found thereby that the true eusp
of the twelfth house, was nR 23° 56' 20", and not 20°
of Virgo as Mr. W'orsdale had given it, so that the
Planispheres give the result true within four minutes of
a degree, or even less than this, while Mr. Worsdale
was wrong very nearly 4° ! !
How to Place the Planets in the Planisphere.
At this stage of the business, we suppose that the
longitudes and latitudes of all the Planets have been
either calculated from Astronomical tables, or by means
of an Ephemeris, and by making due proportion of the
91
Planets' daily motions, you have reduced their places to
the time of birth, and are therefore ready for introduc
ing them into their proper places, as soon as the Plani
sphere is ready for them.
At the birth of Napoleon, the Planets places, as given
by Mr. Worsdale, are as below.
lets, etc. Longitudes. Latitudes.
b 35 25* 4ff 0° 3' North
11 Tn, 15 9 0 53 North
<$ itR 12 2 0 58 North
0 SI 22 48
¥ SB 7 1 3 10 South
5 a 6 30 0 30 North
i) yf 28 47 2 59 North
R t 20 47
The Planisphere of the Zodiac remaining fixed in its
proper position, as before mentioned, the Ecliptic longi
tudes are to be marked as exactly as we can by making
a fine dot for each, in the manner directed in the second
problem of the third chapter, of the first part of this trea
tise, the Planets being thus introduced, it now remains
to shew the method of finding the Circle of Position of
any Planet, and from that to determine the Polar Ele
vation of the Planet. The Planets being placed in the
Planisphere according to the directions given in the
problem just mentioned, when measured by the equato
rial scale of the degrees, on the straight edge of the
Planisphere of the Zodiac, their Right Ascensions in
92
degrees and tenths of degrees will be found to be very
nearly as below.
h 117°8-10ths. $ 163° 8-10ths. $ 97° 5-1Olhs.
% 222 9-10ths. © 145 1-10th. $ 128 9-10ths.
5 300 3-10ths.
By way of example, we will find the circle of position
and the Pole of the Sun, in which processes, the little
table subjoined which shows the value of every 6' in
the decimal fraction of a degree, will be found useful in
these calculations.
Minutes. Decimal of a Degree
0 .1
12 .2
i;i .3
24 .4
30 .:.
36 .ii
42 .7
4a .U
54 .9
We must however not forget, that while we are
placing the centre of each Planet according to its Decli
nation, -that we must set off the said Declination, both
upon the perpendicular lines of the tenth and fourth
houses, then by help of the straight edged ruler placed
close to these points, draw a line so as to pass through
the centre of the Planet and 860° in langth, this line
will be the Parallel of Declination of the Planet, former
ly called the Antiscion, the Declination set off upon the
93
contrary side of the equator, will be the Contra-antiscion.
it is almost unnecessary to add that the Semi-diurnal
Arc of a Planet is instantly found by measuring upon
the Planets Parallel of Declination the space from the
Meridian to the Horizon, and its Semi-nocturnal Arc,
by measuring from the cusp of the fourth unto where
the Horizon is intersected by the Planet's Parallel of De
clination ; also, one third of its Semi-diurnal Arc is
shown by the spaee between the Mid Heaven and the
Pole of the eleventh, or ninth house upon the said Pa
rallel of Declination, and one third of the Semi noctur
nal Arc is in like manner found by the distance between
the cusp of the fourth and the Pole of the third or fifth
house upon the Planets Parallel of Declination.
RULE.
For placing the Planets upon the Celestial Pla*
nispheres in the most expeditious manner possible.
To do this take out the Declination of each Planet
from the Ephemeris, correct to the time of birth, by
duly proportioning the Planets increase or decrease of
Declination when necessary (this may generally be done
by mental proportion, or by the most simple process in
Arithmetic) in this way write down the Declination of
all the Planets, and also their longitude to the time of
birth ; this being done, draw the Parallels and Contra-
parallels of all the Planets' Declination as aforesaid.
Having made a dot or mark at the proper longitude of
each planet, upon the line of the ecliptic, apply the qua
94
drant of latitude as before taught, aud thereby draw a
line through each longitude marked, and where this line
intersects the Parallel of each Planet will be the centre
of the Planet as required.
Note. When this method is used, it will not be
necessary to take out the Planet's latitude from the
Ephemeris.
GENERAL RULE.
Forfinding the Polar Elevation ofa Planet.
When a Planet is within two or three degrees distance
from the Pole of any house of the figure, you may use
the Polar Elevation of that house to which the Planet
is nearest j but when a Planet is far from the cusp of
any house, take the difference of Polar Elevation of the
two houses, and say by the Rule of Proportion.
If one third of the Planet's Semi-arc, give the difference
of Polar Elevation between the two houses, what will the
Planet's distance from the least Polar Elevation give, and the
fourth number or answer added to the least Polar Elevation,
will give the Pole of the Planet.
This Rule is similar in principle to that given by
Placidus ; but is I believe, more intelligible than the
canon of Placidus. But the following particular Rule
appears best adapted to the Planispheres ; first find the
Planet's Circle of Position, and from that, the Planet's
Polar Elevation, as in the following Example.
95
To Find the Circle of Position of the Sun.
As the Semi-diurnal Arc of the Sun 102. 8
Is to 90° of the Equator 90. 0
So is the Sun's Dist. from the Tenth 32. 1
90. 0
1800
2700
102. 8 J 28890. 0 L 28°. 1' or 28"
2056 11 Kii h.
8330
8224
1060
1028
32 Remainder.
To the Sun's Circle of Position from the Tenth 28. 1
Which Subtracted from the Sun's Primary 32. t
Leaves the Sun's Ascensional Difference under his
own Polar Elevation 4. 0
This Example was thus worked decimally by arith
metic, to shew the utility of the foregoing little table,
the answer is true to a minute of a degree, although
had it differed three minutes of a degree, which would
be the greatest difference that can ever happen, it would
still have been sufficiently exact for our purpose ; the
same result might be had by the Sliding Gunter, thus,
opposite to 102.8 on A, set 90 on B, then opposite
to 32.1 on A, you will find 28.1, the Sun's Circle of
Position on B, as before, the same may be done upon
a good Carpenter's Sliding Rule.
96
To find the Sun's Pole, by the Planispheres in
Plates, No. 1 , and 2.
With the Sun's Declination 14" very nearly, on the
Scale of Declinations, place the edge of the Scale close
to 4°, the Ascensional Difference of the Sun counted
upon the Equator of Plate No. 1, or 2, observing that
the Equator on the Scale coincides with the other Equa
tor, take notice what curve of Polar Elevation is cut by
the Sun's Declination, in this example the Sun's Decli
nation will nearly touch the curve marked 16, there
fore the Sun's Pole of Elevation is 16° nearly. The
Sun's Pole will then be described upon the Planisphere
of the Nativity in the following manner.
To Describe the Sun's Pole upon the Planisphere.
With a sharp pointed pencil, or a fine pointrel, make
a mark or dot on the Equator, at the Circle of Posi
tion's distance from the Meridian, in this case the Sun's
Circle of Position is 28° 1-1 Oth distant, then from the
Planispheres for different latitudes, take out the scale
for the latitude of 16°, the Pole of the Sun, place the
Equator of this scale so as to touch the Equator of the
other Planisphere, close to the mark made for the Cir
cle of Position, and bring the other part of the scale
with its edge close to the dot made for the Sun's Cen
tre, while thus fixed draw a line to the curve and it
will be the Pole of the Sun upon the Planisphere as
was required.
97
The intelligent reader will here observe the utility of
the Planets Circle of Position's distance from the Me
ridian, in limiting and determining the proper Inclina
tion of the Pole of the Planet.
We will just observe that tbe Sun's Pole might have
been also found by the general rule, thus upon the
Sliding Gunter. Set 34° 3' the third part of the Sun's
Semi-arc, on A, opposite to 17j the Polar Elevation
belonging thereunto, on B, then opposite to 82° 1' the
Circle of Position's distance on A, you will find very
nearly 16 on B, the Sun's Polar Elevation as before.
Proceed in a similar manner in finding the Circles
of Position, and the Poles of any other Planet. We
have here given some variety in the mode of calcula
tion ; the student can use that which he likes best, a
little practice will render them all equally easy and ex
peditious.
Semi diurnal Arcs, etc., ofthe Planets.
I i i
h 110- 7 38- 7 4 97- 1 32- 4 ? 109- 36-3
% 75- 7 25- 2 0 102- 8 34- 8 S 107- 8 35- 9
Also the 5 'a Semi-nocturnal Arc is 106- 2, and J of it 35* 4;
very nearly, when measured upon the Planisphere.
98
TABLE
Of the Planets' Distances from the Tenth and Fourth
Houses, their Circles of Position, and their Polar Eleva
tions, in the Nativity of Napoleon.
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
Sun
Venus
Mercury
Moon
P. Fortune
Dist. from
4- 8 fm.
0 fm-
9 fm
1 fm.
5 fin.
9 fm.
3 fm
0 fm
70
50
32
15
15
7
78
Angle.
10th.
4th.
10th.
10th.
10th.
10th.
4th.
4th.
Circle of Pole of
Position. Elevation.
3- 9 H
CO- 4 81-
47- 1 25-
28- 1 16-
12-8 7-4
13- 3 7- 5
6- 2 3- 6
66- 1 33- 0
Scale of
Pole used.
2
31
25
1(>
7
fi
4
33
The numbers in the foregoing tables are expressed
in degrees and tenths. The Circles of Position and also
the Polar Elevations of all the Planets were calculated
in the same manner as those were for the Sun, and for
sake of brevity we have omitted the calculations of them
here ; the Planet Jupiter being so very near the cusp
of the second house, the Pole of the second, viz. the
scale for latitude 31°, was used to draw the line repre
senting the Pole of Jupiter. By applying the scales for
the different latitudes mentioned in the last column of
the foregoing table, to the Poles in Plate, No. 6, will
give the student a better idea of this business, than any
words could do ; but those persons who would wish to
have a perfect readiness and a clear understanding of
the Planispheres, will do well to project a complete
Planisphere in imitation of Plate, No. G, the Planets
being introduced to the Planisphere with their latitudes,
and thereby their declinations. Their Parallels of de
99
clination being drawn,^and the Poles of the Planets be
ing completed according to the Rules before given, the
Planisphere is now quite ready to calculate the various
directions, both Zodiacal and Mundane, in the manner
exhibited in the next Chapter.
CHAPTER VII.
Calculation of Directions by the Celestial
Planispheres.
I. By way of Example, let us direct the Sun to the
Sextile of Venus in the Zodiac.
It will be remembered that this Aspect (see Part II. and
Chapter iii. falls in tiR 7° 1', by placing the Planisphere of
the Zodiac in its proper position mark the place of the As
pect upon the Planisphere of the Nativity, which may be
done in a moment.
For the Arc ofDirection.
Draw a line from itji 7° Parallel to the Equator, until it
meets the Pole of the Sun, this line measured by the Equa
torial Scale is equal to 15° 1-6th, the Arc of Direction re
quired.
EXAMPLE II.
The Sun to the Sextile ofJupiter in the Zodiac.
From flR 15° 9', or tip, 15° 1-6th, draw a line until it touches
the Pole of the Sun (Parallel to the Equator) this line is
equal to 23° 6-10ths, the Arc of Direction required.
101
EXAMPLE III.
TXie Sun to the Body ofSaturn, in the Zodiac,
Converse Direction.
Upon- the Sun's Parallel of Declination from the centre of
the Sun, measure the distance where the Sun's Parallel in
tersects ti'ie Pole of .'Saturn, and you will find it a little more
than 27o (S-1Oths, the Arc of Direction required.
EXAMPLE IV.
The Stn to the SextUe ofSaturn in the Zodiac,
Direct Direction.
From 25°§' nji, draw a line Parallel to the Equator, until
this line intersects the Pole of the Sun, this line measured
will be found equal to 34° 6-10ths, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE V.
The Sun tc • his own Semi-quartile in the Zodiac.
Parallel to th e Equator from Libra 7°f, draw a line to in
tersect the Pole of the Sun, the length of this line will be
46° 5-6ths, the A re of Direction required.
EXAMPLE VI.
The Sun U > the Zodiacal Parallel ofMars.
■
Observe, where \ he Parallel of Mars intersects the Eclip
tic, measure thence unto where the same Parallel intersects
the Pole of the Sun , the distance is 17° 5-flths, the Arc of
Direction.
102
EXAMPLE VII.
The Sun to the Body of Mars in the Zodiac.
From that point where the Pole of Mars intersects the
Ecliptic, draw a line Parallel to the Equator until it touches
the Pole of the Sun, this line will be equal to 20° 4-10ths,
the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE VIII.
The Sun to the Body ofMars in Mundo, by
Direct Motion.
From the centre of Mars on his Parallel of Declination,
measure to the point intersected by the Pole of the Sun, this
line is equal to 20° 7-10ths, the Arc of Direction.
Note. This Direction is also the Direction.of the Sun,
to the Mundane Parallel of Mars, Direct Direction.
EXAMPLE IX.
The Ascendant to the Semi-quartile cf Mars.
On the Parallel of Mars, measure from his centre to the
line marked So, and you will find the distance 2°J, the Arc
of Direction required.
EXAMPLE X.
The Ascendant to the Sextile cf Mars.
On the Parallel of Mars from his centje to the Pole of
the eleventh house, is 18°J, the Arc of Direction.
103
EXAMPLE XI.
The Ascendant to the Trine of Venus.
From the centre of Venus (on her Parallel) measured to
the Pole of the ninth house is 20° 5-6th, the Arc of Direc
tion required.
EXAMPLE XII.
The Ascendant to the Sesqui-quadrate of Venus.
On the Parallel of Venus from her centre to the circle
marked SSq is 390, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XIII.
The Ascendant to the Trine of Saturn.
On rhe Parallel of Saturn from his centre unto the Pole
of the ninth is 41°£, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XIV.
The Sun to the Semi-quartile of Saturn in Mundo,
Direct Direction.
Take in your compasses the distance from the Mid Heaven
to where the Pole of the Sun intersects the Parallel of Saturn,
apply this distance upon the same Parallel from the circle
marked S □ towards Saturn, where make a mark, measure
from this mark to the centre of Saturn, the distance will be
25"£, the Arc of Direction required.
104
EXAMPLE XV.
Mid Heaven to the Body of Saturn.
From the centre of Saturn to the Mid Heaven is 4o8-10ths,
the Arc of Direction required.
EXAMPLE XVI.
The Ascendant to the Quartile of Saturn.
This Example is precisely the same as the XV. Example.
EXAMPLE XVII.
Mid Heaven to the Body of the Sun.
From the centre of the Sun to the Mid Heaven is 32o l-10th,
the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XVIII.
The Ascendant to the Quartile of the Sun.
This Example is precisely the same as Example XVII.
EXAMPLE XIX.
The Sun to the Parallel of Saturn in Mundo, Con-
verse Direction.
Upon the Sun's Parallel with one foot of your compasses
on the Mid Heaven as a centre, extend the other point of the
compasses to where the Pole of Saturn intersects the Sun's
Parallel, with this extent make a mark on the West side of
the Mid Heaven upon the Sun's Parallel, then from the
Sun's centre to this mark, will be about 36° 6-10ths, the Arc
of Direction.
105
EXAMPLE XX.
The Sun to the Parallel of Venus in Mundo,
Direct Direction.
On the Parallel of Venus from where it is intersected by
the Pole of the Sun, extend your compasses to the Mid
Heaven as a centre, with this extent make a mark upon the
said Parallel, then from the centre of Venus to this mark
will be 18°J, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXI.
The Sun to the Sextile of Venus in Mundo,
Direct Direction.
With the extent in your compasses found in Example xx.
place one foot of the compasses on the Pole of the Eighth, on
the Parallel of Venus, and with the other point of the com
passes mark this extent on the said Parallel, then from the
centre of Venus to this mark, will be 23° 3-10ths. the Arc of
Direction.
N. B. For the Directions to the Quintilc Aspects, ex
tend your compasses from the M. Celie, or from the Fourth
House, to the Circle or Pole marked Quintiles, and this ex
tent set off from the place where the Sextile Aspect was
formed, gives the place where the Quintile Aspect falls, and
in this manner the Arc of Direction of the Sun to the Quin
tile of Venus will be found equal to 37°7-10ths. very nearly.
Double the extent above mentioned, added to the place of
the Trine, will give the place of the Biquintile Aspect.
O
106
The Sun to the Rapt Parallel of Saturn.
We will shew the methods of working this calcula
tion several different ways. 1st. On the Gunter.
Opposite 70. 9, the sum of both Planets' Double Horary
Times on A, set 27. 3, the right distance on B,then opposite
31 7, the Double Horary Times of Saturn on A, will be
14.1, Saturn's secondary distance on B, lay off this 14.1,
from the centre of Saturn on Saturn's Parallel to the East
ward, and make a mark, the distance from this mark to the
Mid Heaven, will he 18° 9-10ths. the Arc of Direction re
quired.
2. By the Construction of a Plane Triangle,
Draw A, C, a line at plea
sure, from A, to C, mark of
70° 9-10ths. Equatorial De
grees, the sum of Double Ho
rary Times, and from A, to
B, draw a line 27. 3, the Rt.
Distance, in an angle taken
at random, to the line A, C,
then draw the line C, B,next
from A, to D, set off 36°
7-10ths. Saturn's Double Ho
rary Times, then with your
Parallel ruler, draw D, E,
Parallel to the line, C, B,
this will give, A, E, equal to
14° 1-10ths. the secondary
distance of Saturn from the
Mid Heaven as before.
107
Being desirous of drawing to the conclusion of my work, I
shall therefore omit some other methods of working Rapt
Parallels, this treatise being already extended beyond the
limits first intended.
EXAMPLE XXIII.
The Ascendant to the B»dy ofJupiter.
From the centre of Jupiter to the Horizon is 34» 1-5th.
nearly, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXIV.
The Moon to the Opposition of Mars in Mundo,
Direct Direction.
On the Contra-parallel of Mars where intersected by the
Pole of the Moon, place one foot of the compasses, extend
the other foot to the 1 mum Celie, take this extent and apply
it from the Mid Heaven towards Mars, upon the Parallel of
Mars, where make a mark, then from this to the centre of
Mars, is 44° 1-5th, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXV.
The Moon to the Opposition of Mercury in Mundo,
Direct Direction.
On the Contra-parallel of Mercury where intersected by
the Pole of the Moon, take its distance from the Imum Ce
lie, mark this distance from the Mid Heaven towards Mer
cury, upon the Parallel of Mercury, then from this mark to
the centre of Mercury will be 8»J, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXVI.
The Ascendant to the Sextile of the Moon.
From the centre of the Moon to the Pole of the Second
House upon the Moon's Parallel is 42° 7-10ths, the Arc of
Direction.
108
EXAMPLE XXVII.
The Sun to the Opposition of the Moon in Mundo,
Converse Direction.
On the Contra-parallel of the Sun, take the distance of the
Moon's Pole from the Fourth House, apply this distance from
the Mid Heaven towards the Sun, upon the Sun's Parallel,
and there make a mark, from this mark to the centre of the
Sun will be 25°, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXVIII.
The Sun to the Parallel of the Moon in Mundo,
Converse Direction.
Let the distance found in the twenty-seventh Example be
applied the contrary way, that is, from the Mid Heaven
towards the West upon the Sun's Parallel, where make a
mark, then from this mark to the centre of the Sun's will be
39° 1-6th, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXIX.
The Sun to the Parallel of Mercury in Mundo,
Converse Direction.
From the Mid Heaven upon the Parallel of the Sun,
extend the compasses to the Pole of Mercury, mark off this
extent upon the Sun's Parallel from the Mid Heaven, towards
the West, then from this mark to the centre of the Sun is
470|, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXX.
The Sun to the Body of Venus in Mundo,
Converse Direction.
Upon the Sun's Parallel from the Pole of Venus to the
centre of the Sun is 46° 7-10ths, the Arc of Direction.
^
109
EXAMPLE XXXI.
The Part ofFortune to the Quartile of Saturn,
in Mundo.
On the Contra-parallel of Saturn, take the distance of the
Pole of Part of Fortune from the Western Horizon, mark
this distance on the Parallel of Saturn from the Mid Heaven
towards the West, then from this mark to the centre of Saturn
is 34°, the Arc of Direction.
EXAMPLE XXXII.
Part of Fortune to the Sextile of Venus, in Mundo.
The distance from the Pole of Part of Fortune to the
West, mark on the Parallel of Venus from the Pole of the
Ninth towards the Eight House, from this mark to the
centre of Venus is 49° 8-IOths, the Arc of Direction.
CRITICAL REMARKS.
On the Preceding Arcs of Direction calculated on
the Celestial Planispheres.
The Author being desirous of making a fair com
parison both for his own satisfaction, and that of the
ingenious persons who patronise his work, measured
with very great care and exactness, the Arcs of Direc
tions in the thirty-two preceding Examples, by means
of very accurate scales, whereby he has found that the
21st Example is within 8' of a degree of the result given,
when the calculations are made by the tables j the 20th
Example is within 5' ; the 3rd and 23rd, within 4' ;
the 7th and 13th, within 3' j the 4th, 27th and 28th,
110
within 2' ; and the 5th, 6th, 9th, 12th, 14th, and 29th
Examples, each within 1' of a degree respectively, of
the Arcs that are given by the tables, and the other 17
Examples are the same Arcs exactly as found by the
tables. Since the Author has finished his complete
set of Planispheres for the Scales of Polar Elevations,
the results of calculation by the Planispheres, have ex
ceeded his most sanguine expectations, so much so
indeed, that he intends never to calculate by any other
method.
CHAPTER VIII.
To Project the Scale of Years, etc.
To do this by the Planisphere. First, draw a straight
line on or near the bottom of the paper on which the
Planisphere of the Nativity is projected, which line you
may draw to the length of 50, 60, or 70, or 80 Equa
torial degrees.
Next, consider how far the time of Birth is distant
from Noon-day, and through how many minutes of
zodiacal longitude the Sun moves in that time, call this
the daily equation of longitude which reserve and apply
in the following manner.
EXAMPLE.
In the Nativity of Napoleon the time in the afternoon
from the 14th of August, is 21h. 52', to which add in time
36' for the difference of Meridians, and the time at London
is 22h. and 28', in which time the Sun moves 54' of a degree
in longitude. Call 54' the equation, this added to the Sun's
longitude on the 14th August, gives the Sun's longitude at
the time of Birth, & 22° 43'. To the Sun's longitude on the
16th August, at noon, viz. SI 23° 45', add 54' gives Si 24° 39'
112
the Suu's place, two complete days after Birth. Again, oa
the 18th August, at noon, the Sun is in Si 26" 40', add 54'
gives Si 26° 34', for four complete days after Birth. Again
on the 20th August, 1769, the Sun Was in SL 27° 36', add 54,
gives Leo 28° 30', for the Sun's place six complete days after
Birth, answering to six years of the Native's life ; by pro
ceeding in this manner until sixty days after Birth, we obtain
thirty different longitudes of the Sun, which are made availa
ble for forming the measure of time, or Scale of Years for 60
years, in the following manner, viz. Having arranged the
thirty different longitudes in regular order in a table, then
take the Planisphere of the Zodiac, and fix it upon the
proper place on the Planisphere of the Nativity, while thus
fixed, with a fine pointrel, etc., mark each of the thirty longi
tudes of the Sun upon the Planisphere of the Nativity as
carefully as you can by fine dots, next, by means of a Tee
Square, or other proper Instrument, draw a perpendicular
from each of the longitudes (or dots) upon the straight line
draw near the bottom of the Planisphere, as aforesaid, these
thirty spaces will each of them represent the interval of two
years, again either by a pair of fine pointed compasses, or by
inspection, divide each space into two equal parts, then you
will have a measure of time or Scale for sixty years for this
Nativity, by which Scale of Years, the time corresponding
to the different Arcs of Direction's, to a quarter of a year,
or even to a month, may be instantly shown with a sufficient
degree of accuracy.
Another Method offorming the Scale of Years.
Supposing that you have not an Ephemeris for the
year of Birth, but only have a copy of the Planets'
Places for the Noon-day before Birth, and for the Noon
day after Birth, in this case, the following method will
be found sufficiently correct, and equally expeditioui.
113
Observe what degree of the Zodiac the Sun is in, at
the time of Birth, then look in any Ephemeris for any
year whatever, in which you can find the Sun's longi
tude to be the same within half a degree, as it is in the
Nativity you are calculating ; look in the same Ephe
meris for the Sun's longitude for every second day, at
Noon, as far as you desire to extend your Scale of
Years, noting down each longitude regularly on a slip
of paper, then, by aid of the Planisphere, or Tables of
Right Ascensions, opposite to each longitude of the
Sun, place its Right Ascension, next take the Equato
rial Scale, (marked on the straight edge of the Ecliptic
Slider,) and by help of it, mark each Right Ascension
respectively corresponding to the Sun's longitude before
mentioned, on a straight line drawn on the lower part
of the Planisphere of the Nativity ; subdivide each space
into two equal parts, and you will have a Scale of
Years equally as correct, as by the first method.
Or by the Universal Scale of Years.
To save the student the trouble of eonstructing a
Scale of Years for each and every Nativity, he might
wish to calculate, I have taken incredible pains to con
struct a Universal Scale of Years, this is added to the
Planisphere of the Zodiac. It is adjusted with great
care to the Sun's place for every day throughout the
year, for the second year after leap year, (18S0) so
that it will answer sufficiently near for our purpose for
any year whatever. When you wish to add the Scale
p
114
of Years upon the Planisphere of any Nativity, you
have only to bring the straight edge of the Planisphere
of the Nativity, parallel with, and close to the line
marked January, February, March, etc, keeping it fix
ed there, then with a fine pointed black lead pencil, or
a pen, make a mark upon the edge of the Planisphere
of the Nativity, to correspond with the marks for each
day after Birth, for as many days as you would have
years in the required Scale of Years, always observ
ing to begin with that day upon the Universal Scale of
Years, when the Sun's place was nearest to the Sun's
longitude at the time of Birth, or when the Sun is with
in half a degree of the same longitude as he was at the
time of Birth. By this means you may add the Scale
of Years for any Nativity in about two minutes time.
115
TABLE
Of the Sun's place for every Second Day after the Birth
of Napoleon, to form the Scale of Years for that Nativity.
Day of Month. Son's Longitude. Longitude Required.
August 14. ft 21. 49 + 54 ' SI 22.43 at Birth.
13. 22.47 >> 54
10. 23.45 >> 54 24. 29 = 2 Days.
18. 25. 40 >> 54 26. 34 „ 4
20. 27. 36 >> 54 28. 30 „ 6
22. 29. 32 >> 54 nn o- 26 ,. 8
24. «R 1. 28 >> 04 2.22 „ 10
26. 3. 24 99 54 4. 18 ., 12
28. 5.20 >> 54 6.14 „ 14
30. 7.16 M 54 8. 10 „ 16
Septem. 1. 9. 12 99 54 10. 6 „ 18 • •
3. 11. 8 >> 54 12. 2 „ 20 • •
5. 13. 5 >> 54 13. 59 „ 22 ..
7. 15. 2 >> 54 15. 56 „ 24 ..
9. 16. 58 99 54 17. 52 „ 26 • •
11. 18. 55 >> 54 19. 49 „ 28
13. 20. 52 >> 54 21. 40 „ 30
15. 22. 50 yy 54 23.44 „ 32 ..
17. 24.47 9t 54 25. 41 „ 34 ..
19. 20. 44 9y 54 27. 38 „ 36
21. 28. 42 >» 54 29. 30 „ 38
23. === 0. 40 99 54 £± 1. 34 „ 40 • •
25. 2. 37 J> 54 3. 31 „ 42
27. 4.35 >> 54 5. 29 „ 44 • •
20. 6. 33 >> 54 7.27 „ 46 • •
October 1. 8. 32 >J 54 9.26 „ 48 • •
3. 10. 30 »> 54 11. 24 „ 50
5. 12. 29 >> 54 13.23 „ 52
7. 14. 27 >> 54 15. 21 „ 54
9. 16.26 y9 54 17. 20 „ 56 ..
11. 18. 25 tJ 54 19. 19 ,, 58
13. 20. 24 it 54 21. 18 „ 60 • •
116
The Part of Fortune,
Or Lunar Horoscope, is placed in Napoleon's Nativity
at the same distance from the Ascendant, as the Moon
would be, if the Sun were placed in the very degree and
minute in which he now is, viz. Leo 22" 43', Ascending
in the Eastern Horizon and the Moon in Capricorn
28° 47' ; this distance in Oblique Ascensions by the
Planisphere is 184° 1-10tb very nearly under the lati
tude of 41° 40', its Circle of Position and Pole of
Elevation are calculated in the same manner as for the
Planets, as I have some remarks to make upon this
point in the third part of this Treatise, it is therefore
unnecessary to give any further instruction for finding
its Mundane Position, etc., in this part of the work.
REMARKS,
On Mr. Worsdale's Nativity of Napoleon.
As there have been Nativities Published by several
different Authors, some persons may be desirous to know
why I preferred Mr. Worsdale's calculation of this Na
tivity j my reasons were, that I understood that Mr.
Worsdale's Publication is in the hands of many persons
who study Elementary Philosophy ; and, therefore,
would serve very well as a criterion of the results of cal
culations peformed by the Planispheres ; and, also, that
Mr. W. has judged very correctly of the probable extent
of the Native's life, although he was mistaken as to the
nature or manner of the Native's death which he predicted
117
would be a Violent One, no doubt he, Mr. Worsdale,
hoped and wished it would be a violent death ; but I
would not for the honour of Napoleon's Imperial and
Royal Gaolers believe otherwise than that Napoleon
died a Natural Death I ! Yes, he died a natural death,
aged 51 years, and about eight months, which age cor
responds sufficiently near to one of the Directions cal
culated by Mr. W. viz. the Sun to his own Semi-
quartile in Zodiac, which comes up at 51 years and 7
months of the Native's age, these are my reasons for
having selected the time of Birth, etc., given by Mr.
Worsdale, and not the Gentlemanly language in which
he has drawn up his remarks on this Nativity. From
what I have seen of Mr. Worsdale's Astrological works,
he appears to be what we may call a clever Astrologer,
or a Ptnlomean ; I wish I could compliment him so far
as to pronounce him a Mathematician, Philosopher,
Politician, or even a man of candor. To be serious,
I should be ashamed of a man who could so prostitute his
talents by writing such a tirade of falsehood and ca
lumny, on one of the greatest geniuses, and on one of
the most meritorious characters that the world ever pro
duced. I would be very sorry to apply such odious
epithets to any of the Monarchs now in existence, though
many of them are far inferior, both in talents and moral
goodness, to the Emperor Napoleon, merely because
they might happen to be our adversaries, and because
they exercised their authority, with such talent and firm
ness of mind, as to baffle the perfidious attempts of their
«nemies, bent on the destruction of themselves, and de
118
gradation of their countries. As to Mr. Worsdale's
prognostication, that Britain would Reign Triumphant
at the end of the contest, is what I have heard many an
ignorant man predict, merely because he wished it to be
so.
Mr. Worsdale is very profuse ia the titles of Tyrant,
Murderer, Despot, Ambitious Wretch, Robber and
Plunderer, etc., which he bestows on Napoleon, such
language leaves us no alternative, but to conclude that
Mr. W. was, either an hireling writer, or, otherwise,
that, however clever he may be as an Astrologer, he
knows nothing of what appertains to the conduct of those
in the highest ranks of society, and is ignorant of the
Philosophy of the human mind.
Let us ask Mr. Worsdale what a man is fit for who
is destitute of ambition ; I will tell him, that a man des
titute of ambition is neither fit for a Monarch, a States
man, a General, an Admiral, a Colonel or Captain, etc.
a man without ambition will never become eminent in
Mathematics, in Medicine, in Painting, nor in any of
the Arts and Sciences ; in fact a man void of ambition
is only fit for a Scavenger or to be a day Labourer ;
let us just give Mr. Worsdale a gentle hint that it might
have been well if Mr. W. himself had had the ambition
to have become more proficient in the Mathematics, then
he would have known that there is a difference between
the Circle of Position, and the Pole of Elevation of a
Planet, and he would not have blundered four whole
119
degrees in each of the cusps of two houses of the figure
of Napoleon's Nativity.
As respects Napoleon, no doubt one of the most de
testable traits which Mr. Worsdale can discover in Na
poleon is, that Napoleon was a Tyrant without being
duly qualified by his ancestors : had it so happened that
Napoleon's forefathers had followed the same trade or
profession (of Tyrants) for ten or a dozen generations
before him, Mr. W. would never have complained of
the Murders and Tyranny of Napoleon, he would then
have been as duly qualified to hang or shoot a man or
as many men as he pleased, even if the men were Cap
tains or Dukes, as are our English Demigods of forty
or fifty thousand a year, to the exclusive privilege of
shooting the vermin called game, bred in their preserves
for the destruction of their tenants and poorer neighbors'
produce.
No doubt Mr. W. considers Napoleon as a Mon
strous Tyrant, because he made others respect the au
thority with which he was invested ; he was a great
Murderer, because he caused an emigrant Duke, and
some others, to be executed, because they tried to as
sassinate Napoleon, and overturn the Government then
existing in France, etc., he was a Bobber and Plunder
er because he enriched himself with the spoils of his
enemies, etc., this was certainly too bad that such an
upstart creature as Napoleon, should enjoy the same
privileges as are claimed by all other officers, whether
120
German, Russian, Turkish, Swedish, or British, of
fattening on the spoils of his enemies. Oh for the good
Mr. Worsdale ! the liberal minded Mr. Worsdale ! let
us ask him a question or two ; did Mr. W. ever hear
tell of British Soldiers and Sailors, Officers and Men,
receiving Prize Money—does Mr. W. know what
Prize Money means ? O yes, Mr. Worsdale will
answer, the English always have a right to Plun
der the French or Plunder any other nation ; but the
French have no right to Plunder the English ! ! Then to
crown all, Mr. W. informs us what a Monster Napoleon
was to murder his own men, yes, indeed this is the
worst of all, when a number of the French were infected
with that incurable malady the Plague, and were suf
fering under the most excruciating torment and agony,
Napoleon, the Monster ! he had the inhumanity to order
that the duration of their misery should be shortened
by administering to each sufferer large doses of Opium!
Oh what a Wretch, what a Monster was Napoleon, that
he did not let them languish a day or two longer, and
then they would have expired in indescribable agonies,
which would certainly have been much better than being
thus inhumanly put to sleep by Opium. Oh what dia
bolical deeds ! Oh what black atrocity, and rendered still
more atrocious by being perfectly Parallel with the
practice which prevails in Great Britain, of smothering
those persons who have the misfortune to be bitten by
mad dogs, and the custom of destroying those poor un
fortunate Infants, who are born with monstrous
shapes ! ! !
121
TABLE,
Of some of the Principal Directions in Napoleon's Nativity.
Arc.
o '
V. 11.
1 Asct. to S a of $ Mundo 2. 19 2 3
2 4. 47 5 0
3 4. 47 5 0
4 5 * if. in M. Converse.. 7. 42 a 3
5 5 8 § M. d. tl 8. 30 9 2
6 0 * 5 in Zodiac 15. 10 1U 5
7 Asct. a ? in Mundo.... 20. 50 22 8
8 3 8 $ M. d. c 22. 23 24 a
9 © * 5 M. d. d 23. 11 25 5
10 23. 36 20 9
C —Made General of the
I Armed force of France.
11 0 SSqD J) M. d. d 27. 14 29 9 7 Defeated la E#ypt, an'1
J returned home.
12 0 <5 T? in M. d. c 27. 37 30 3
13 Mid Heaven <5 0 32. 6 35 3 Crowned Emp. of France.
14 Asct. d % 34. 17
36. 33
37 8
2
15 0 Par. T? M. d. c 40 Great Danger.
18 37. 29 41 3
17 37. 41 41 5
18
19
Sun Par. J? M. d. d 39. 6
39. 8
43
43
0
0
In great danger of Death
Sun Par. 5 M. d. c by Slaughter, either civil
20 Sun Par. 5 M. d. d 40. 25 44 c or hostile, or hy himself,
>by tumults of the people
21 Sun R. Par. $ 41. 41
44. 12
45
48
11 or by HANGING or
22 7
STRANGLING.
23 Sun 4 ? in M. d. c 46. 42 51 4
24 Sun to S n 0 in Zodiac. 46. 51 51 7
25 Sun P. J in M. d. c 47. 14 52 0
26 Sun P. 5 inM. d.d 49. 31 54 5
27 M. Celie 4 £ 50. 52
50. 52
55
55
10
10
28
29 Sun S d © in Mundo 51. 23 56 5 "
The foregoing Table contains some' of the most emi
nent Directions in the Nativity of this wonderful man,
with the corresponding years and months of the Na
tive's age, equated according to the Sun's daily motion
in Right Ascension, those who desire a more numerous
Table of Directions may easily calculate them by my
Planispheres, or they may refer to Mr. Worsdale's pub-
Q
122
lication of this Nativity containing 106 quarto pages
wherein is giveu a very long Table of Directions, etc.,
only I would caution them against the illiberal prejudices
he displays in (almost) every page of his book. It will
be observed that some of the Arcs which I have calcu
lated in the foregoing Table, will be found to differ one
or two minutes of a degree from those given by Mr.
Worsdale, a matter of no very great importance, as this
would only make from one to two weeks difference in
the time cf the accident. It may not be amiss here to
remark that in the Directions especially of the Sun and
Moon, it must not be supposed that the Direction is
wrong, because the event may not have happened in
the exact month calculated in the Table, for it has been
found by repeated observation, that the Sun or the Moon
directed to the Aspects of, b , % , S , S , or 5 , the
event may anticipate the Direction, or it may not happen
so soon, by the space of from three, to six months. But
when the Sun and Moon are directed to each other, or
to each other's Aspects, this retarding or anticipating
may amount to six, or even to twelve months : the
reason of which is the great apparent diameter of both
the Sun and the Moon, each of these Luminaries being
rather more than half-a degree in diameter ; while all
the Directions are calculated for the centres both of the
Planets and of the Luminaries, but the one extreme of
each Luminary touches upon the Aspect or Direction
before the time calculated, while on the contrary, the
other limb or extreme of the Luminary continues in the
Direction or Aspect, and prolongs its effects beyond the
123
time calculated ; and I believe that I have discovered
that the Arcs of Direction are protracted or curtailed
by the effects of Refraction and Parallax ; to which may
be added the accelerating and retarding effects of the
Secondary Directions and Lunar Progressions.
These things duly considered, we find that the Di
rections, Nos. 16 and 17, correspond sufficiently near to
the time of this Native's marriage with the Arch-duch
ess Maria Louisa, and according to Astrology, are pre
dictive of such an event. While No. 18, the Direction
of the Sun to Par. h M. d. d. answers to the Na
tive's defeat in Russia and to his flight therefrom, etc.
And No. 20, of the Sun Par. Moon M. d. d. answers to
his first abdication of the Throne of France, and retir
ing to Elba. And the Direction No. 21, viz. the Sun R.
Par. $ , answers wonderfully both to the time and man
ner of his final overthrow at the Battle of Waterloo.
I must here remark, that the first great Aneretic train
of Directions, according to Mr. Worsdale, consists of
Nos. 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, and 22, in the preceding
table ; but Mr. W. placed great reliance ou the Sun,
R. Par. of $ , at 45 years, 1 I months, that it would
prove mortal to the Native, as being the most danger
ous and the most powerful. As before observed, this Di
rection answers to the Battle of Waterloo, and his sub
sequent surrender to the English, and although he was
not slain in battle, his political existence was then effec
tually destroyed, and his death accelerated, as was no
124
doubt intended, by his residence in the unhealthy climate
of St. Helena. But to speak according to the terms
of the Astral Science, the rays of a Benefic falling in
the train, this was the 23rd Direction, viz. of the Sun,
6 ? > M. d. d. which beginning to operate near the
same time as the last named Direction, saved his life,
until the Sun Hyleg or Apheta, came to the second
great Aneretic train of Directions, consisting of Nos.
21, 25, 26, 27, 28, and 29, of the preceding table,
in which, when the Sun came to his own Semi-quartile
in the Zodiac, (followed by five other malevolent Di
rections,) answers most admirably to the time of his
Death ! !
That sceptics may be confounded, I have placed Mr.
Worsdale's remarks and predictions opposite to certain
remarkable Directions, indicating his overthrow and
death, published sixteen years before the latter event
transpired ! by which they may see that there really
exists a Predictive Science, founded on regular and
methodieal rules and calculations, so that it is no mat
ter, whether the Planets do, or do not influence men's
destinies, as I have fully shewn in my New Theory ad
ded to this Treatise.
I will here remark, that there are very strong scien
tific reasons to conclude that the time of Napoleon's birth
as given by Mr. Worsdale, is the correct time ; while
the times given in Mr. Orger's, of High Wycombe, in
Mr. White's, of Bath, and in some other Publications,
125
are erroneous and consequently their calculations, etc.,
founded thereon, have proved incorrect and fallacious.
As it is well known to all persons conversant in such
matters, that even eight or ten minutes difference in the
time of birth, will in many instances make a great dif
ference in the Significations and Directions of a Nativ
ity, in addition to which the judicious artist will always
in framing his judgment, take duly into consideration
the rank, and situation of the Native's parents, and all
other circumstances which have a tendency to accele
rate, or to retard, to promote, or to repress any peculiar
trait of disposition, or turn of fortune, indicated by the
positions, etc. of the Planets in every Nativity. But
if the given time of birth be half an hour, or an hour
from the true time, what dependence can be placed on
any such Nativity, or upon calculations made thereon.
It is to the correctness of the time alone of Napoleon's
Nativity, that 1 impute the success of Mr. Worsdales
calculations and predictions, etc., and not to his scien
tific acquirements, for where any man suffers himself to
be ruled by such absurd prejudices, as those possessed
by Mr. W., it is utterly impossible for such a one to
give a just and impartial judgment on any Nativity,
especially of one that he considers an enemy, or even on
those of a different religion to himself, as witness his il
liberal remarks and predictions (concerning the Roman
Catholics, and other dissentients from our Established
Church,) annually put forth by him in Partridge's Al
manac. It is therefore not very surprising that Mr.
W. could not see, or that he would not acknowledge
126
there was any thing indicated in napoleon's Nativity,
but what was wicked and abominable ; so strong indeed
was his prejudice against the French Emperor, that of
all the violent deaths to which he said Napoleon was in
danger, Mr. W. manifested a strong desire that the
restorer of Monarchy in France, should have ended his
Royal and Imperial career by Hanging or Strangling !
But in this particular Mr. W. again discovers his
ignorance of the human mind, and of the maxims of
policy which influence the conduct of persons in high
life, or how could he for a moment suppose that the Mo-
narchs of Europe would shew so bad and impolitic an ex
ample to one of their own fraternity, what man but one
entirely blinded by prejudice, would believe that they
would ever sanction an act of public Regicide (even in
the person of Napoleon, ) and thereby lessen in their
subjects the esteem due to Royal Authority, when they
had so many other means of sending their antagonist,
the once great King and Emperor much more decently
to his quietis ! !
I have no hesitation in asserting, that if Mr. W. had
given an impartial judgment, he would have declared to
his readers that the Nativity of Napoleon was a most
wonderful intermixture of both good and evil.
The Nativity of Napoleon is in itself both a literary
aud scientific curiosty, highly illustrative of the verity
of the Predictive Science, as will be found upon exami
127
nation of it, by every intelligent and candid student, in
the science ; and let it be remembered that Napoleon
rose twice to the Imperial dignity, and twice he fell
from the same, etc. Mars, lord of his seventh house,
which is the natural Significator of his wife, is also
the Planetary representative of his irreconcilable enemies
the English, the Planet Saturn, with his signs yf and cr,
in like manner represent a great part of Germany, also
the Countries of Sweden and Russia. It is worthy
of remark, that the Directions of Mars to the Sun, or
of the Sun to Mars, the Sun being his natural Signifi
cator of his hopes, of his life, honor, and dignity, are the
most dangerous in the Aneretic train in his geniture, to
which the Moon by her opposition and other unfortunate
Directions, joins her evil influence with Saturn and
Mars, thereby indicating both the time and manner of
his downfall.—Now the Moon being lady of the tenth
house, which is astrologically the fourth from the seventh
house, represents his wife's father, the Emperor of Au
stria, who eventually proved one of the chief instru
ments in the ruin and dethronement of his son-in-law,
Napoleon. Many other remarkable circumstances in
this Native's life, are clearly pointed out in the Celes
tial constitution of his Nativity, and wonderfully attest
the verity of the Predictive Science ; there are indeed
some intelligent Artists who do not hesitate to say that
his Nativity shows that his wife, Maria Louisa, would
prove to him, what Delilah proved to Samson ; but for
the honor of Maria Louisa, and of the ladies in general,
I trust it was not so, and from my respect to the fair
128
sex, I do not say that it was the case. There are in
this Nativity sufficient examples of the verity of the
Astral Science, without calling in the aid of the last
mentioned circumstance.
As I did not profess to give an Astrological judg
ment, neither was it my plan, nor intention to give a
complete or long table of Directions, what I have done
is to exemplify their calculation by the Planispheres, I
have therefore calculated a Quintile 1 Hrection, although
Mr. Worsdale has not done so. As that professor pub
lished a large book on this Nativity, it was his duty to
have calculated alt the good Directions, as well as the
bad ones, but he has purposely omitted a great part of
the good, and expatiated upon the evil Directions and
positions in the Nativity of Napoleon !
PLATE 2.
Toftcepaje, 129.
a Singular Jtattiutg.
FIGURE I.
R. A. 172. 88
FIGURE II.
.. •'. •'
PLATT /
& &ir
CHAPTER IX.
A Singular Nativity. (See Plate 2, Figure \.)
This is the Nativity of a Young Gentleman, whose
Education I finished preparatory to his entering the
University of Cambridge, and the Son of a worthy and
opulent Gentleman, enjoying a princely fortune.
•
This Young Gentleman, as may be seen by the Ce
lestial Figure, possessed considerable talents, but was
of a very gay disposition. This Native gave me the
time of his Birth, soon after he was placed under my
care, as being at 6h. P. M. the date as in the centre
of the Figure, and stating that the time had been noted
down very carefully and might be depended upon as
being correct within two minutes, at the very utmost.
I did not let the Native know for what purpose I had
asked the time of his Birth, etc., as I never informed
him, that I knew any thing about the Predictive Sci
ence ; as it has always been my constant rule never to
offer my own private opinions, either to my Pupils or
their Friends, (unless when strongly requested so to
do,) I therefore erected the Figure of this Nativity en
tirely for the gratification of my own curiosity.
R
130
On his going to the University ; in consequence of
some questions asked me hy some very respectable per
sons, my very intimate acquaintances, I stated my firm
belief that he would never live to take a degree there,
as he would either die or be dangerously ill in the 24th
year of his age, the event verified my Prediction, for
when he was nearly 23 years old, he returned from the
University in a bad state of health, and his indisposition
continued to increase to the time of his death, which
happened on the 11th of December, 1827, when he
was within three days of being 23 years and a half
old ! !
This Native had an illness in his 16th year, and also
another illness when he was about 16 years and a half
old. At the time of his death, the Sun who in this Na
tivity is Apheta, came to the Rapt Parallel of Mercury,
unaided by any friendly Aspect of the Fortunes, the
Directions subjoined, although there are several others
of similar tendency, will sufficiently shew that at the
time of his death, and for a considerable time before,
the Native was under a train of Aneretic Direc-
b
tions.
Arcs.
Sun to Mundane Parallel of Mercury, Con
verse
Ascendant to Opposition of Mercury
Sun to Rapt Parallel of Mercury 24 18 death.
Sun to the Quartile of Saturn in Mundo,
Converse Direction
Sun to Opposition of the Ascendant
15° 59'
18 29
24 18
28 9
35 50
131
By this table, it will be seen that the Primary Direc
tions were of a nature to injure the Native's health, and
endanger his life ; added to which the Secondary Di
rections were of a malevolent nature, as will be seen by
the Lunar Progressions for 23 years complete, which
are calculated in the following manner.
Observe, that the length of the first lunation is used
to proportion the distance in the succeeding lunations ;
also, that in this Nativity, the Birth was 6 days, 18
hours, 51 minutes, after the time of the New Moon,
and the duration of the 24th lunation after Birth, was
29 days, 10 hours, and 47 minutes ; then by Analogy,
D. H. M. LOG.
As the length of a lunat. 28 7 37 = 29.3173 = 1.4671239
To time after new moon 6 18 51 6.7854 0.8315755
So is 24th lunation 29 10 47 29.4486 1.4690646
2.3006401
1.4671230
To 6.8153 Days = 0.8335162
which is equal to 6 days, 19 hours, 35 minutes, and which
added to the time of the 23rd New Moon, April, 18 days, 8
hours, 55 minutes, gives April the 25th day, at 4 hours, 30
minutes, P. M., 1806, when the Moon was in the same pro
portional distance from the Sun, as at the time of Birth, and
consequently it is the exact completion of the 23rd lunation,
and after the same manner may be found either the lunations
complete ; or by obtaining the part proportional, the lunar
132
progressions for any time after the exact lunations may be
found, by adding the parts proportional, to the time of the
exact lunation required.
The Sun in this Progression, (see PI. 2, Figure 2,)
comes to the Parallel Declination of Mars, in the Na
tivity, and Jupiter here in Capricorn is in o to Jupi
ter's own place in the Radix. Mars here applies to the
opposition of Saturn. And Mars in this Progression
applies also to the opposition of Jupiter, in the Nativity.
We also see, that the Sun who is Apheta or Governor
of life and health in the Nativity, is in conjunction with
Mercury, here Lord of the Ninth, the House of Sci
ences and Study, etc., and further, that both the
Sun and Mercury in this Progression, are posited in the
Eighth, the House of Death !
I have seen many Nativities of which the Lunar
Progressions foretold, in a wonderful manner, the sick
nesses and death of the Natives, and coincide surpris
ingly with the Primary Directions of the Nativity,
which strongly corroborates the doctrine laid down by
Placidus, that when there is a train of Malevolent Pri
mary Directions operating at the same time, with unfa
vorable configurations in the Lunar Progressions, that
the Native's life will be exposed to great danger.
I have not inserted the Part of Fortune in this
Young Gentleman's Nativity, which falls according to
the common mode, in about 23° of Aquarius, in the
Third, but by the Placidian Principles, or True Method,
this point falls in the Fifth House of the Figure.
133
I have declined giving any Astrological judgment on
this Nativity, on account of my great respect to the
Native's family, in which, I was the only tutor for five
years j and when I had concluded my engagement, I
was presented with a most handsome written Recom
mendation, similar to what I had brought from families
of the highest respectability.
THE
CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES,
PART III.
Containing some Additional Information, respecting the Use
of the Planispheres ;
ALSO,
NEW AND IMPROVED FORMULJE,
For those who are desirous of attaining the greatest possible degree of
accuracy in their Calculations,
BY SPHERICAL TRIGONOMETRY,
Comtaining Precepts for Calculating the Crespusculine Circlesfor any Latitude,
AND
Delineating them on the Celestial Planispheres ;
ALSO,
For finding the True Mundane Position of the Part of Fortune, with Rules
and Precepts for finding its True Zodaical Longitude and Latitude, with
the manner of demonstrating the correctness ef the same.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
The Author's New Theory, shewing that Predictions derived from the As
pects, and Positions of the Planets,
MAY REALLY COME TO PASS,
Independent of any Planetry Influence whatever,being founded on Principles,
STRICTLY MATHEMATICAL.
PART III.
CHAPTER I.
To Describe the Circles of Latitude, or Orbits ofthe
Planets, upon the Celestial Planispheres, etc.
First fix the Planisphere of the Zodiac, upon its
proper place on the Planisphere of the Nativity, and
when thus fixed, mark upon the Planisphere of the Na
tivity, the places of the Ascending and Descending
Nodes of the Moon, or of the Planets, whose orbits you
would delineate, and also at the distance of 90° from
each Node, make another mark to shew the place of the
Planet's greatest latitude, both North and South, next
find what the Planet's latitude will be for every 5th de
gree of the Planet's longitude, reckoning the same from
the place of the Nodes. Lastly, having found all these
different latitudes, find what the Planet's declination will
be, at each place, in the manner taught in Chapter, iii.
and Problem 2nd, of the first part of this Treatise,
make a dot at each declination, and by drawing a line
through all these dots, the orbit of the Moon or Planet
will be delineated upon the Planisphere.
N. B. In some of the Planispheres which I formerly
constructed, I introduced the Orbits of the Planets, but hare
since discontinued this practice, as it is not at all necessary
in calculating cf Nativities ; but I have given the method for
the sake of those who might be desirous to insert the Circles
of Latitude.
187
TO DESCRIBE THE CREPUSCULINE CIRCLES,
PARALLELS OF TWILIGHT,
UPON THE CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES.
AN EXAMPLE.
Let it be required to delineate the Orepusculine Cir
cles for Latitude /530i.
In the Tables of Twilight given in Placidus, and in some
other Books of Astronomy take out the Snn's Distance from
the Horizon, at 18° of depression, to each tenth degree of
the Zodiac, and if the Latitude for which you are construct
ing the Planisphere happens not to be the even degrees of
Latitude given in the Tables of Twilight, you add the parts
proportional which are due to your required Latitude, as in
this Example, the Latitude is between 53° and 54°, therefore
half the difference being added to the numbers given in the
Table for 53°, gives us what is required for 53°J. As under.
Table of Twilight to 58°^ ofLatitude.
<r o° 10* 20° 8 0° 10» 20°
31.20 32.33 34.33 37.43 42.43 6S.3fi|
Vf 0» 10° 20° as o° 10* 20° X 0»j 10° 20° 30°
34. 4984.84 33.57 33.4 32.9 31.23 30.4430.29 30.38 31.19
On the Northern side of the Equator of the Planisphere,
upon the Meridian lines, set off the Declinations belonging
T 0°, 10°, 20°, also « 0°, 10°, 20°, draw through these points
with a fine pointed black lead pencil, the respective Paral
138
lels * of Declination ; next upon the Parallel of <r °°■ by
help of the Equatorial Scale, on the straight edge of the
Ecliptic Slider, mark off 31° 20', both from the East and
from the West Horizon ; upon the Parallel of <y> 10° in like
manner, set off 32° 23', the space of the Crepusculine Par
allels for these points of the Zodiac, and also set off 34o 33',
and 27° 43', and 42° 43', and 53» 35', upon the Parallels of
Declination to which these distances do each of them belong ;
proceed exactly in the same manner with respect to each
tenth degree of the Southern Signs, contained in the fore
going little Table, having done so, join all these distances,
that is, draw a fine firm line through all these points with a
steel drawing pen and ink, when the ink is dry, erase the
black lead lines with india rubber, and the Crepusculine
Parallels or Circles of Twilight, will be completed ; and in
this manner, you may describe upon the Planispheres, the
Crepusculine Parallels for any Latitude, by setting off the
proper distances, given in the tables of Twilight, for the re
spective Latitudes. But should it so happen, that they have
not the tables of Twilight for the required Latitude of a cer
tain place, I have given precepts, in this Third Part of my
Book, for enabling the ingenious student to calculate, with
the greatest possible exactness, the Crepusculine Parallel,
by the Itules of Spherical Trigonometry.
It is almost unnecessary to add, that the Parallels of the
Sun's depression, for 3° 4° 5° etc, may be described by those
who will give themselves the trouble to do it, but as I do not
approve of Plaoidus's doctrine, respecting directing the Sun
under the Crepusculine Parallels, arid obscure spaces, I
consider that such mode of direction, not only stands in need
of confirmation, but involves itself in several absurdities.
* N. B. These Parallels of Declination may be immediately found by
means of the Planisphere of the Zodiac, by placing one foot of your compasses
upon the line of the Equator, and extending the other, to the given degree of
the Zodiac, perpendicular to that? foot of the compass, which is placed upon
the line of the Equator.
189
Many years ago, being desirousof making myselfthoroughly
master of the Placidian mode of direction, I went through
Placidus's Elementary Philosophy twice, each time calcu
lating the directions in the thirty rein ark able Nativities, con
tained in his work, making MS. notes and observations all
the while, and I paid particular attention to the modes of di
recting the Sun, when posited under the Crepusculine Pa
rallels, and obscure spaces, which caused me to write an Es
say, or Investigation, on this mode of direction, consisting,
in MS., of more than twenty pages, very closely written:
being too long to be transcribed into this Treatise (on the
Planispheres,) I shall endeavour to give something of the
substance of that Essay, in a few lines, which may suffice for
the present purpose.
" After thus investigating thoroughly all the various
circumstances and all the various Positions under which
the Sun can be placed, both under the Crepusculine Par
allels, and also in the obscure spaces, it does appear to
me very plain that Placidus's precepts for the application
of the Eastern difference are, in many respects not only
inconsistent, but impossible, I would think that an Equa
tion of two or three degrees at most, added to or sub<-
tracted from any Arc of Direction, ought to make it
coincide sufficiently near with the time of accidents, but
Placidus in using the Ortive, or Eastern difference, ap
plies an Equation of fifteen or sixteen degrees, such a
large Equation seems not ouly irrational and exceeding
all just bounds, but to apply it as he directs will some-
limes involve an impossibility, as I will presently shew.
Placidus directs, one way for applying the Eastern dif
ference when die Sun is in the Morning Parallels of
140
Twilight, but another way when the Sun is in the
Evening Parallels: I would ask Placidus, were he living,
for what reason he would make this difference in the
way of applying the Ortive distance ; I can see no good
reason for it, since the Sun's spaces in the Arc of Twi
light are the same both on the Morning and Evening
of a given day ? Now to shew that Placidus's doctrine
sometimes involves an impossibility, one Example will
be sufficient.
The Sun's Arc of Direction to the Quartile, of
Mars, calculated under the Latitude of Birth, 14° 0'
And the Eastern difference 15 35
Now Placidus directs, that in the Evening Crepus
cular, the Eastern difference shall be subtracted from
the Arc of Direction, calculated under the Latitude of
Birth. But tell me how can we subtract 15° 35' from
14o ? the thing is both absurd and impossible ; negative
quantities, as they are called, may do very well in Al
gebraical operations, but they are totally inadmissible
in Astronomical calculations of this nature. In the four
Examples given by Placidus to illustrate the Crepuscu-
line Directions, it is highly probable, that the times of
Birth were not correct, the following remarks in my
manuscript, confirm me in this opinion.
" It is also worthy of remark, that in the Nativity of
Gustavus Adolphus, King of Sweden, as given by the
celebrated Mr. Partridge, in his Defectio Geniturarum,
the time of this Birth, was 7b. 1 3m. Morning, and the
141
Right Ascension of Medium Celie 195' 22'. Mr.
Partridge directs the Sun as Hyleg, without having
recourse to Crepusculars, and Partridge's Arcs of Di
rection, agree perfectly well, with accidents and the
time of death ! ! "
I have a complete set of rules for calculating such
Directions, composed by myself, but which I shall
reserve until another opportunity: in the intermin, I
would most earnestly recommend to the Mercurii of
London, and to others curious in these Sciences to im
prove, or totally reject this department of the Placidian
doctrine by means of a considerable number of Nativi
ties, say forty or fifty very carefully calculated, in
which the Sun is in the Crepuscular, and also in some
of them in the obscure spaces, let the given time be the
correct time for this purpose, and not to depend upon
the times obtained by rectification.
CHAPTER II.
New and Improved Precepts and Formulae, for
the Use of these who are desirous ofa very great de
gree ofexactness, in their calculations.
In this chapter, I will give the whole of those rules
and precepts necessary, when the calculations for Nati
vities are performed by the rules of Spherical Trigo
nometry. Rules for the same purpose have been given
in different books which have been published, but they
are generally so encumbered with a magnificent display
of Mathematical Erudition, with continual references to
the different relations of Base and Hypothenuse, etc.,
and to the Orthographic and Stereographic Projections
of the Sphere, etc., that they prove but of little service
to the practical calculator, whose only object is to ob
tain the results or answers, in as little time as possible.
Any thing beyond this, is mere waste of both time and
labor. I would ask, What matters it to the practical
Navigator, who has to work a lunar observation, to talk
to him about the fluxions of Spherical triangles, or of
their minute increments, and decrements ? All that he
wants is a correct and expeditious mode of performing
his calculations.
143
There are but very few of the following Formula, but
what were actually composed by myself, about twenty
years ago. I have reduced them to such a practical
form, that any person who understands the adding and
subtracting of the Logarithms, Sines and Tangents, will
find them perfectly easy, and will make his calculations
correctly thereby, without losing a moment's time, to
consider of the different relations of the Base and Hy-
pothenuse, etc., but will do his work in a straight for
ward manner.
Note. Rad. signifies Radius, Tan. Tangent, and C. Tan.
stands for Cotangent, Sin. for Sine, C. Sin. for Cosine, Sec.
for Secant, C. Sec. for Cosecant, L for Arc or Angle, Dec.
for Declination, N. for North, S. South, R. A. for Right
Ascension, Ob. A. or O. A. Oblique Ascension, O. D.
Oblique Descension, A. X. Ascensional Difference, S. D. A.
for Semi-diurnal Arc, S. N. A. Semi-nocturnal Arc, Lon.
Longitude, Lat. Latitude, a from, — less, or subtract. Ob
serve. That in calculating by the following Formulae, all your
computations are reckoned straight forward, according to the
regular succession of the signs of the Zodiac, and according to
the regular increase of the degrees of Right Ascension, (and
not sometimes backward and sometimes forward as taught in
other books.) For example, if a Planet be in © SI or in llji
his longitude and R A are reckoned from the beginning of
Cancer, if in a ttj- or f the lon. and lat. are reckoned from
the beginning of Libra, and if in yp zs or x the longitude
and R, A. are reckoned from the beginning of Capricorn
144
FORMULA, No. 1.
Lon. and Lat. of a Planet being known, to find his
R. A. and Declination.
,-., ( Lon. and Lat. of ) same 90 — lat. = 1st L ■
Observe j of different } names 90 + iat. = 1st L .
As Rati.
T f Sin. lon. a <r or *s=
10 J C Sin. lon. a © or vf
So is Tan.
(1st L
To Tan. of 4th L
from 1st L leaves
23 28 9. 6 3 7 6 1 0 6
for 5 L
Then for the Declination.
C. Sin. 4 L
or Sec. less 10.
C. Sin. 5 L
C. Sin.
To Sin. of Dec.
(co-arc)
23 28 9. 9 6 2 5 0 7 8
For the R. A.
C. Sin. Dec. (co-arc)
or Sec. less 10.
C. S. in Lon. a y or &
S. in Lon. a © or yf
C. S. in Lat.
i
T C C. Sin. in R. A. a <r o
10 \ S. in R. A. a © or yf
145
FORMULA, No. 2.
Sun's Lon. given tofind his R. A.
As Rad.
C. Siu.
Tan. Lon. a ty or £t
C. Tan. Lon. a © or yp
23» 28'
„{
Tan. R. A. a <r or =e=
C. Tan. R. A. a © or yp
1 0.
9. 9 6 2 5 0 7 0
i
FORMULA, No. 3.
Sun's Lon. given to find his Decl.
As Rad,
Sin. 23» 28
t Sin. Lon. a <r or ^
( C. Sin. Lon. a sa or y?
To Sin. Decl.
1 0.
9. 6 0 0 1 1 8 1
FORMULA, No. 4.
Or Table of Results.
R A Decl. TanDec AX SDA J 1 SNA i
©
T?
%
tf
?
9
© —
146
FORMULA, No. S.
Sun's R. A. given tofind his Longitude.
As Rad.
C. Sin. 23o 28*
( C. Tan. R. A. i t or i
\ Tan. R. A. a e or yp
To
{S
Tan. Ion. a <r or a
Tan. Lon. a Can. or yp
1 0.
0. 9 6 2 5 0 7 6
FORMULA, No. 6.
05/. ^$c, tofind Ecliptic Longitude.
As Rad.
( C. Sin. O. A. a t or £=
( Sin. O. A. a Can. or yp
C. Tan. Lat. or Pole of House
To C. Tan. of 4th L
1 0.
If O. A. be less than 90o or above 270» + 23° 28' to 4 L
but if above 90° and less than 270° difference of 4 L and 23o
28' = 5 I. . Note, If 5 I be above 90" lon. will fall back
ward from the point O. A. was taken.
N. B. If 5 £. exceed 90° take Sine of its excess above 90»
for C. Sine of 5 Z.
C. Sin. 5 /
C. Sin. 4 Z
C Tan. O. A. <r or &
\ C. Tan. O. A. a ® or yp
rp ( Tan. Lon. aiy or &
\ C. Tan. Lon. a 25 or yp
147
FORMULA, No. 7.
Given the R. A. and Bed. of'©, or of a Planet, to
find its Zodiacal Longitude and Latitude
Observe.
If R. A be less than 180° it is North, but more than
180" it is South.
If R. A. and Dec. be both } Sum of 4 i- \ — fi £
N. or boil, S. fand 23° 28' 5
If R. A. and Dec. be ) Diff. of 4 L
one N. and the other S. j and 23° 2*a-5 /
Then, As Radius Sin. 90»
To
So ia C. Tan. Dec.
•7
( Sin. R. A. a <r or a
\ C. Sin. R. A. © or yf
1 0.
To Tan. of 4th I
+ or - 23, 28'
Sum or difference is 5 /
If 5 /■ exceed 90° the lat. is of a contrary name. But if
5 i- be less than 90°, the lat. is of the same name as the
Decl.
Qndhj, For the Latitude.
As Cosine 4th /
To Cosine 5th i.
So is Sine Decl.
To Sine of Lat.
Srdly. For the Longitude.
As Sine 4th Z.
To Sine 5th i-
i Tan. R. A. a Aries or :&
( C. Tan. R. A. a © or yp
To
V Tan. Ion. a Aries or =e=
j C. Tan. Ion. a Can. or yp
148
The Formulas, No. 1, 2, 3, and 4, I engraved on
one side of my astronomical book slate, and the For'
mulas, No. 5, 6, and 7, I engraved on the other side
of the same book slate. This slate is about 13 Inches
long, by about 9 Inches broad, exclusive of the frame,
it has two backs, or covers, made of well seasoned deal
wood, each cover fastened to the frame by two brass
hinges, and when shut, it is secured by two neat iron
clasps. On the inside of these covers, I pasted in MS.
several precepts, which though very useful, were not so
needful to be engraved on the slate, comprising all that
was requisite in Astronomical calculations. This slate
has accompanied me in my travels, for twenty years
past, ever half the habitable globe, and is as good as
ever, it was a grand auxiliary to me before I had con
structed my Planispheres, for by help of it I was en
abled to perform as many calculations in one hour, as
those persons could do in three or four hours, who had
no such thing, but were obliged to be referring continu
ally to the different cases of Right Angled, and Oblique
Angled Spherical Triangles.
FORMULA, No. 8.
To find what degree of the Ecliptic ascends ivhen
the O.A. is exactly 90° eitherfrom Aries or & .
As Radius Sine of 90»
To Sine 23 28
So is Tang. Lat. of Place
To C. Tan. of the Degree, &c. ascending
149
Note. If the O. A. was reckoned from Aries 90°
it will be the Co-tangent of Longitude backwards from
Libra, towards Cancer, or the Tangent of Longitude
from Cancer forwards towards Libra. But if the O. A.
was 90° more than 180°, that is 270°, then it will be
the Co-tangent from Libra towards Capricorn.
In using Formula, No. 1, when you enter the tables
of Sines and Tangents, to take out the Sine of Longi
tude, take out also the Co-sine of Longitude, at the
same time of opening the book, and place each in its
proper place in the Formula, on your slate. And when
you take out the Tangent of the fourth Arc, then take
out also the Co-sine of the fourth Arc, or its Secant
less 10, that is, the Secant less the Radius ; and when
you find the Sine of Declination, take out also the Co
sine of Declination, and also its Tangent, which Tan
gent write down in its proper place in Formula,' No. 4,
and then it will be ready to use for finding the Planet's
Ascensional Difference, etc. Observe the same method
in using the other Formula?, as it will greatly econo
mise both time and labor.
FORMULA, No. 9.
Tofind the Ascensional Difference.
As Radius, Sine of 90° 10.
Is to Tan. of the Planet's Decl.
So is Tan. of Pole, or of Lat. of Place
To Sine of Asc. Diff.
150
Precept for the Semi-diurnal Arcs.
If the Decl. be North, add A X to 90° the sum will be the
Semi-diurnal Arc, but if the Decl. be South, subtract A X
from 90°, the remainder will be the Semi-diurnal Arc. Then,
For the Semi-nocturnal Arc.
Subtract the Semi-diurnal Arc of any Planet from 180°,
the remainder will be the Semi-nocturnal Arc, or apply the
A X in the contrary manner to what is done for the Semi
diurnal Arcs, and the result will be the Semi-nocturnal Arcs.
Precept to Erect or Calculate a Figure of the Hea
vens by Spherical Trigonometry,
To the R. A. of the Sun add the R. A. in the time of the
Birth, &c. from the preceding noon day, the sum, rejecting
360° when it exceeds 360°, will be the R. of M. Celie.
Tofind the Zodiacal Longitude of the Mid Heaven.
Calculate this by Formula, No. 5. Then to find the Zo
diacal degrees upon the Cusps of the other Houses of the
Figure, proceed in the following manner. To the R. A. of
the M. Celie add 30 degrees, the sum will be the O. A. of
the 11th House, to the O. A. of the 11th House add 30 de
grees, the sum will be the O. A. of the 12th House ; to the
O. A. of the 12th House add 30 degrees, the sum will be
the O. A. of the Ascendant or 1st House ; to the O. A. of
the 1st House add 30 degrees, the sum will be the O. A. of
the 2nd House, and to the O. A. of the 2nd House add 30
degrees, the sum will be the O. A. of the 3rd House. You
may find in the Table of the Poles of Elevation of the Houses
what is the Proper Pole or Latitude of each, and then pro
ceed to calculate the degrees and minutes of the Zodiac upon
151
each Cusp, according to its Polar Elevation by Formula,
No. 6, or else by Formula, No. 8, and having found the
Cusps of the six Eastern Houses, the other six will be known
by placing upon them the same degrees of the signs opposite
to the Eastern Houses. The true Poles of the Houses and of
the Planets will be clearly explained in the next chapter.
CHAPTER III.
The True Polar Elevation* both of the Planets,
and the Houses of the Celestial Figure.
From my own manuscript Essay on the True Polar
Elevations written nearly 22 years ago, (being eight
years before Mr. Cooper in his Edition of Placidus,
favored the scientific world with his few hints upon
finding the Poles,) I had discovered that the Poles of
the Houses are subject to a small variation, according
to the difference of the length of the days and nights,
dependent on the Sun's Declination and Ascensional
Difference, differing at different seasons of the year, and
that the same principle holds good as respects the True
Polar Elevations of the Planets ; but that for general
practical purposes, it is necessary to have a fixed Table
of the Poles of the different Houses of the Figure, to be
always ready for use and reference. In the following
Table of the Poles of the Houses agreeable to Ptolemy's
division of the heavens, which I am convinced is the
only true one, as it agrees both with space and motion
in the heavenly bodies : I have made an improvement
by adding two additional columns, viz. of the space of
Three Houses, and of the space «f One House, for each
degree of Latitude, for the use of laying off the divi
sions of the Houses, on the Parallels of Cancer and
Capricorn on the Planispheres, with the greatest possi
ble exactness.
153
THE TABLE.
Lat. nth and 12th and Spac<, of Space ot Lat. 1 lth and1 12th and Space of Space of
Deg. 3d Poles 2d Poles 3 Houses 1 House Deg. 3d Poles 2d Poles 3 Houses 1 House
1
o '
0 20
o '
0 40
O o '
30 9 31
o '
11 25
o '
21 58
,
105 7
o '
35 2
90 26
2 0 40 1 19 90 62 30 14 32 11 52 22 47 105 44 35 15
3 I 0 1 59 91 IB 30 26 33 12 19 23 35 106 23 35 27
4 1 19 2 40 91 44 30 34 34 12 48 24 24 107 2 35 41
5 1 38 3 20 92 11 30 44 35 13 17 25 13 107 42 35 64
6 157 4 0 92 37 30 52 36 13 46 26 4 108 23 36 8
7 2 19 4 41 93 a 31 1 37 14 17 26 55 109 6 36 22
8 2 39 5 22 93 30 31 10 38 14 49 27 46 109 50 36 36
9 2 59 6 3 93 07 31 19 39 15 20 28 38 110 35 36 52
10 3 21 6 43 94 23 31 28 40 15 52 29 33 111 22 37 7
11 3 42 7 24 94 50 31 37 41 16 25 30 25 112 10 37 23
12 4 4 8 5 95 la 3146 42 16 59 31 22 113 1 37 40
13 4 24 8 45 95 45 31 55 43 17 36 32 16 113 53 37 58
14 4 44 9 26 96 13 32 4 44 18 13 33 13 114 47 38 16
15 5 6 10 8 9G 41 32 13 45 18 50 34 11 115 44 38 34
16 5 27 10 49 97 U 32 23 46 19 28 35 9 116 43 38 54
17 5 49 11 31 97 38 32 32 47 20 7 33 8 117 45 39 15
18 6 11 12 13 98 7 32 42 48 20 49 37 8 118 50 39 36
19 6 33 12 56 98 30 32 52 49 2133 38 10 119 58 39 69
20 6 55 13 39 99 6 33 2 50 22 17 39 11 121 9 40 23
21 7 17 14 22 99 36 33 12 51 23 4 40 16 122 25 40 48
22 7 41 15 5 100 6 33 22 52 23 51 4120 123 45 41 15
23 7 55 15 49 100 37 33 32 53 24 40 42 26 125 11 41 44
24 8 29 16 34 101 9 33 43 54 25 34 43 32 126 42 42 14
25 8 53 17 19 101 41 33 53 55 26 29 44 41 128 19 42 46
26 9 U 18 4 102 14 34 4 56 27 25 45 51 130 .4 43 21
27 0 43 18 50 102 47 34 15 57 28 24 47 0 131 57 43 59
28 10 8 19 35 103 21 34 27 58 29 26 48 13 134 0 44 40
29 10 34 20 22 103 56 34 38 59 30 30 49 26 136 16 45 25
30 11 0 21 9 104 31 34 50 60 3139 50 42 138 45 46 15
__ 9&5th 8&6th 9th& 5 8th & 6
u
154.
Tofind the true Poles of the Houses.
By Formula No. 9, find the ascensional difference of the
Sun's greatest declination 230 28, corresponding to the paral
lel of Cancer and Capricorn, for any latitude you desire,
having found the ascensional difference, divide it into three
equal parts : one third of the ascensional difference will give
the Poles of the 11th and 3rd, 8th and 5th Houses, and two
thirds of the ascensional difference will give the Poles of the
12th and 2nd, 8th and 6th Houses, by applying the ascen
sional difference according to the following Formula.
FORMULA, No. 10.
Tofind the Pole.
The Declination and Ascensional Difference being given,
As Radius, 10.
To Co-tangent of Declination
So is Sine Asc. difference
To Tangent of the Pole
If the Formula be used to find the Poles of the Houses,
use the Co-tangent of 23° 28' ; but if used to find the true
Pole of a Planet, use the Co-tangent of the Planet's decli
nation. Although Placidus has not condescended to inform
us how he got the Polar Elevations of the Houses, yet I am
of opinion, he must have calculated the Table of Poles con
tained in his book, and perhaps by a similar process to that
which I have so clearly explained above ; all that he has
thought fit to disclose on this subject is, that the Poles of the
Houses " may be had by doubling the Horary times of a
Star, and then refers to the Table of Poles which he has
given, but this amounts tp no explanation of how he got those
numbers, he appears to have thought that was too precious a
155
piece of information for him to communicate. The Sun's
greatest declination in the time of Placidus, was something
different to what it is now ; this I find makes a small differ
ence in the Poles, amounting in some instances, to about ten
minutes of a degree.
To find the Circle of Position has been already taught in
the 3rd Chapter of the 2nd Part of this work. Now, observe
that the difference of the Planet's distance, and of the Plan
et's Circle of Position's distance from the 10th or 4th House,
is the Planet's ascensional difference and declination as afore
said. Some persons that are clever Astrologers, etc., have
not known the difference between a Planet's Pole of Eleva
tion and the Circle of position, although they are two very
different things. In the Nativity of Napoleon, Mr. Wors-
dale states the Moon's distance from the 4th, to be 7° 17', and
that her true Circle of Position is 3° 28'. Now I state posi
tively that Mr. Worsdale is mistaken in this matter, h«r dis
tance is 7° 17', but the Moon's true circleof Position is 6» 11'
from the 4th, which gives her ascensional difference 1° 6',
her declination is 17° 23', which gives her true Pole 3° 30$',
and not what Mr. Worsdale says. So much for the blunders
of the modern Ptolemy, who wishes every monarch, elected
as the choice of any nation, to die a violent death ! !
CHAPTER IV.
Of the Part ofFortune or Lunar Horoscope.
This Point in the Heavens, where the rays of the
Sun and Moon are concentrated, or brought to a focus,
is still but imperfectly understood by the generality of
Students. Placidusr after the ancient Ptolemy, appears
to be the only Author who properly understood this
matter, but Placidus has expressed himself in so obscure
and difficult a manner, that it is requisite that another
Author should explain Placidus's principles, in a better
and clearer manner than he himself has done. I have
therefore submitted my own explanation and rules, for
those who may desire to understand this matter clearly.
Therefore,
In any Nativity, the Part of Fortune is always as far
from the degree and minute of the Zodiac Ascending, as
the Moon would be distant from the Sun, if the Sun
was placed on the very Point ascending, in degrees of
Oblique Ascension, the Zodiacal places of the Sun and
Moon in this finding of distance, being precisely the
same as in the Nativity. The Oblique Ascensions of
both Sun and Moon, being taken under the Latitude of
Birth ; hence :
157
Tofind the 0. A. of Part of Fortune.
Substract Oblique Ascension of the Sun, from the Oblique
Ascension of the Moon ; the remainder is the distance of the
Moon from the Sun, which distance add to the O. A. of the
1st House, the sum is the O. A. of Part of Fortune.
Note. If the O. A. of the Moon, be less than the O. A.
of the Sun ; add 360° to the O. A. of the Moon, and subtract
ion can then be made. •
Then to find the R. A. of'©.
If the ( North ) add < Ascl.diff. 1 to f O. A. ofthe
Decl. of 5 he ( South J take ( of the 5 . > fm. \ P.Fortune.
The sum or remainder, will be the Rt. Ascension of Part
of Fortune, having precisely the same Declination as the 5 ,
hoth in name and in quantity. And the Rt. Ascension and
Declination of this point being thus known, its Zodiacal Lon
gitude and Latitude may both be truly found by Formula,
No. 7.
EXAMPLE.
Required the true Mundane Position, and the Right
Ascension, of Part of Fortune, in the Nativity of the
Emperor Napoleon.
The R. A. of the Moon is 300. 16
Ascensional Difference, add 16. 10
Oblique Ascension of the Moon is 316. 26
Subtract the O. A. of the Sun 132. 18
Distance of the Moon from the Sun is 184. 8
Which is the Distance of P. Fortune from
the Ascendant
To which Add the O. A. of the Ascendant
The Remainder is the O. A. of P. Fortune
Ascl. Diff. of P. Fortune Subtract
Rt. Ascen. of this point is 10. 57
202. 59
387. 7
360.
Reject
27. 7
16. 10
158
And therefore its Mundane Position 77° 58' from the cusp
of the Fourth House.
We will now by Formula, No. J, proceed to 6nd the
Longitude and Latitude of ©, in Napoleon's Nativity.
The Right Ascension is 10° 57', and Decl. 17° 23' South.
As Radius • 10.0000000
To Sine R. A. a r
So is Co-tang. Decl.
10° 57' "
17 23
9.2786445
10.5043702
To Tang. of 4 L 31 14 514 =
23 28
9.7830147
Diff. is 5 L 7 46 514
5 Latitude
Thenfo>r thi (9.9319357)
As Co-sine 4 L
To Co-sine 5 L
So Sine Decl.
31<' 14' 514" (Co-arc)
46 514
23
0.0680643
9.9959837
9.4753271
7
17
To Sine Latitude 20
Lor
15 25 South
tgitude
9.5393751
(9.7149472)
For the
As Sine of 4 L 81° 14' 614" (Co-arc) 0.2850528
To Sine of 5 /. 7 46 514 8.1315716
So is Tang. R. A. a <r 10 57 9.2866245
To Tan. Lon. a 0» <r 0' = 2 53 25 8.7032489
Being the Part of Fortune's Zodiacal Latitude and Lon
gitude true to a second. Now to prove this Zodiacal Lati
tude and Longitude are correctly found, we will use them in
finding the R. A. and Declination, by Formula, No. 1, as
follows, in the Nativity of Napoleon, by the foregoing calcu
lations.
159
To the given R. A. of ©, 10° 5f, and Declination,
17o 23' S. the Zodiacal Longitude of © was found
2" 15' 25" of Aries, and ®'s Latitude, 20° 15' 25"
South.
It is now iequired to prove this Longitude and Lati
tude correct, by calculating the Declination and R. A.
from the given Long. 2° 53' 25" Aries, and Latitude
20° 15' 25" South. Thus,
As Radius 10.0000000
To Sine Long, a Aries 2« 53' 25" 8.7026327
So is Tang. 23 28 9.6376106
(From 1st L 110 15 25
To Tang. 4th L l15 I4 8.3402433
Leaves 5th L 109 0 11
UseC.Sin.complt.to180o=70 59 49 because it exceeds 90°
Or Sine of its excess 19 0 11 above 90°
For the Declination.
As Co-sine of 4th L 1° 15' 14" (Co-arc) 0.0001038
Is to Co-sine 6th £ 109 0 11 9.5127092
Co-sine 23 28 9.9625076
To Co-sine of Declination 17 23 9.4753206
For the R. A.
( Co-sine Declination
I or Secant less 10
Co-sine Long, a Aries
Co-sine Latitude
Co-sine R. A. a Aries
17° 23' 00"(Co-arc) 0.0203027
2 63 25
20 15 25
10 57
9.9994472
9.9722720.
9.9920219
160
It has hitherto been generally believed, that if the
Part of Fortune was found according to its Mundane
Position, that its place in the Zodiac could not be known,
this I have heard asserted by very expert artists, but
I have here shown the method, by which this can be
done with very great exactness.
N. B. In the foregoing Formulae and Examples, the
Logarithms of the Sines and Tangents, etc., are given
to seven places of figures besides the Index, seven
places are only required when you calculate to seconds
of a degree ; six figures or even five figures, as in the
common Tables of Logarithms, are quite sufficient,
when you calculate only to minutes of a degree. For
very accurate calculations to seconds, Callet's Stereo
typed French Tables are vastly superior to Dr. Hutton's
Tables. It is a disgrace to the English Mathematicians
that they have not a set of Tables, printed in England,
exactly the same as Callet's, with an English Introduc
tion.
CHAPTER V.
To Calculate the Oreputculine Parallels Illustrated
by proper precepts and an Example, etc.
PROBLEM I.
Having the time of the clay and night given, or the
Sun's distance from the Horizon, to find his
CREPUSCULINE PARALLEL OF DEPRESSION.
Knowing the Latitude of the Place, the Sun's dis
tance from the South Pole, the Angle at the Pole, the
Semi-diurnal Arc and the distance from Six o'clock.
To find the Angle at the Pole. Add the distance from
the Horoscope, to the Semi-diurnal Arc, the Sum will be
the Angle at the Pole.
For the time from Six o'clock. The difference between
the Angle at the Pole and 90°, is the distance from Six
o'clock. If the Angle at the Pole be less than 90°, then the
time is after Six in the Morning, and before Six at Night.
But if the Angle at the Pole be more than 90°, then the time
is before Six in the Morning, or after Six in the Evening.
Then observe,
1st. If the Angle at the Pole be less than 9©», the 4th
Arc must be added to the Sun's distance from the South
Pole. But ifthe Angle at the Pole be more than 90° then
subtract the 4th Arc from the South Pole, the Sum, or the
difference, is the 5th Arc.
X
162
2ndly. If the Sun's Declination be North, then it must be
added to 90", and the Sum is the distance from the South
Pole. But if the Declination be South, subtract it from 90»,
and the remainder is the distance from the South Pole.
The Analogy tofind the Sun's Depression is,
As Radius, Sine 90° 10-
To Co-tangent of Latitude of the Place
So is Sine of Sun's dist. from Six o'clock
To Tangent of 4th Arc
Then say,
As Co-sine of 4th Arc
To Co-sine of 5th Arc
So is Sine of Latitude of the Place
To Sine of Sun's Depression
Now to exemplify this Problem, we will refer to one of
the Nativities given by Placidus, viz. that of Gustavus
Adolphus, King of Sweden, the R. A. of M. Celie
S02" 27', and therefore the O. A. of Horoscope, was
292° 27', the Sun being in 27 * H> his distance then
from the Horoscope, is 20° 4.8', the Place of the As
pect to the integral degree 25° ~, to the 8 b in the
Zodiac. Placidus stated the greatest obliquity of the
Ecliptic at 23" 32', the Latitude of the Place of Birth
was 59°, North. These particulars being known, let
it be required by this Problem, to find the Sun's De
pression below the Horizon, to the integral degree of t
28°, when his distance from the Horoscope is 20° 48'.
163
In this proposed Example, the Semi-diurnal Arc of
28 t is 48° 33' its Declination 23° 31' South, there
fore the Sun's distance from the South Pole is 66° 29'.
Then,
The Semi-diurnal Arc 43° 33'
Distance from the Horoscope 20 48
add
Angle of the Pole 64 21
The difference between which and 90°, is 25° 39',
the distance from 6 o'clock ; now, since the Angle at
the Pole is less than 90° (per rule) the time is between
six in the morning and six at night.
As Radius 10.00000
To Co-tangent of Latitude 59» 9.77849
So is Sine of Sun's distance 25 39' from 6 o'clock 9.03630
To Tangent of 4th Arc 14 34
Add dist. from S. Pole 66 29
The sum is 5th Arc = 81 3
9.41485
Then say,
As Co-sine of 4th Arc 14 34 (co-arc) 0.01419
To Co-sine of 5th Arc 81 03 9.19193
So is Sine of Latitude 59 00 9.93314
To Si»e of Sun's depression 7 55 9.13926
Whence it is evident that Placidus in taking the Sun's
depression at 8', r ickoned it too great by 5 minutes of
a degree.
its*
PROBLEM II.
Having the Sun's Depression betow the Horizon to
find his Distancefrom the Horoscope.
In working this Problem there are given, the Sun's
ascensional difference, whereby is found the Semi-diur
nal Arc ; the zenith distance, the complement of the
Latitude of the Place, and the Sun's distance from the
North Pole, the part required is the Angle at the Pole.
Observe, if the declination be North, subtract it from
90°, the remainder is the distance from the Pole ; but
if the declination be South, add the declination to 90°,
the sum will be the Sun's distance from the North
Pole. For the zenith distance, always add 90° to the
depression.
Having by calculation found the angle at the Pole,
subtract the Semi-diurnal Arc from the angle at the
Pole, the remainder will be the distance from the Horo
scope required.
EXAMPLE.
In the Nativity of Gustavus Adolphus let it be required to
find the distance of xz 25° from the Horoscope, when its de
pression below the Horizon is 7° 55'. Now, observe the
declination of 25 ss is taken at 13° 14' South, and the ascen
sional difference 23° 2', and the Semi-diurnal Arc 66°.58.
OPERATION.
a
Complement of Latitude 31 00
Distance from the N. Pole 103 14
Distance from the zenith 97 55
Sum 232 9
Half 116 4J or 63° 55J'
Zenith distance subtract 97 55
X = 18 9J
165
As Radius, Sine of
To Co-sine of Latitude
So is Co-sine of Decl.
90
59
13 14
10.00000
9.71163
9.98831
To Sine of a 4th Arc 30 4 9.69994
Then say,
As Sine of 4th Arc 30 4 (co-arc)
} 63 55|
0.30016
9.95338
So is Sine of \ Sum's compt.
to 180°
So is Sine of X 18 9£ 9.49366
Sum of Logarithms
Half is Co-sine of
When doubled
41 38
X 2
19.74720
9.87360
Is the angle at the Pole
Semi-diurnal Arc subtract
83 16
66 58
There remains 16 18 the distance from the Ho
roscope which Placidus makes 16» 33', this is what he calls
the secondary distance under the Crepusculine Parallel.
From 0's primary distance to 28°/ =± 20° 48'
Subt. the secondary dist. of* 28 ss 16 18
There remains' the correct Eastern difference 4 30
But Placidus
From the primary distance of 28o $
Takes his secondary distance of 25 zz
Placidus makes the Eastern difference
20" 48'
16 33
4 15
So that the Eastern difference taken by Placidus is too
small by 15 minutes of a degree, no doubt owing to the inac
curacy of his tables, etc. When any person wishes for ex
treme exactness, they will, by the mathematical tables of the
Sines and Tangents, obtain their results with a degree of
correctness far superior to any tables given in Books of As
tronomy.
I(j6
Application of Eastern Difference according to
Placidus,
IN THE MORNING CREPUSCULARS.
The Sun posited in the Ascendant, the 2nd or 3rd
House, if the secondary distance be less than the pri
mary distance, add Eastern difference to the Sun's Arc
of direction calculated in the Horoscope, that is to the
Oblique Ascensions for the latitude of Birth. But if
the secondary distance be greater than the primary dis
tance, subtract the Eastern difference from the Sun's
Arc of direction calculated in the Horoscope, the remain
der is the true Arc of direction calculated in the Cre-
pusculine Circle, so says Placidus.
In the Evening Crepusculars.
If the secondary distance be greater than the primary
distance, the Eastern difference must be added to the
Sun's Arc of Direction, calculated in the Horoscope.
But if the secondary distance be less than the primary
distance, the Eastern difference must be subtracted from
the Sun's Arc of Direction calculated in the Crepuscu-
line Parallels, conformable to the principles of Placi
dus.
In the example given from Placidus of the sun to the
opposition of Saturn in the zodiac, this Arc of Direction
calculated in the Horoscope
Is 37o 36
The secondary distance being less than the )
primary distance, add the Eastern differ. S
The true Arc of Direction calculated in the ) .,
Crepusculine Parallels is 5
CHAPTER VI.
How to calculate Tables of Houses, for any Latitude
by means of the Celestial Planispheres.
That correct Tables of Houses for the different de
grees of Latitude, and of places situated in any inter,
mediate degrees, and parts of degrees, from the Equator,
to 60° of Latitude, are much wanted, is well known to
all persons any way conversant with the Astronomical
Sciences ; but the trouble of constructing a Table of
Houses, by any of the methods hitherto known, is so
very great, that scarcely any person can be found to un.
dertake it ; the consequence of which is, that there are
no Tables of Houses, on the principles of Ptolemy, ex
cept for London, and a very few other places. As for
the Tables of Houses, perhaps to the number of ten or
twelve, published by Mr. John Gadbury, about 150
years since, they are good for nothing, as they neither
agree with the times, nor with the motions of the hea
venly bodies, having been calculated according to the
erroneous principles laid down by Regiomontanui. Pto
lemy's principles which I follow, being the only true di
vision of the Heavens.
To shew at once how great the trouble of calculating
even one Table of Houses only, would be, by any of the
168
usual methods, it is only necessary to remind the reader,
that besides the two left hand columns of the Table,
containing the Sun's Right Ascension in degrees and
minutes, and the corresponding time from Noon, which
stand opposite to each integral degree of the Zodiac,
the Table consists of six other columns, containing the
the six Eastern Houses of the figure, for every degree
of the Sun's place in the Zodiac, and therefore, it con
tains 360 x 6 sa 2160 cusps, and out of each six of
them, five would require to be calculated by Formula,
No, 6, of the 2nd Chapter in the third part of this
work, and consequently would require the calculation of
360 x 5 = 1800 Oblique Spherical Triangles, besides
the writing down of the other three columns, which
three columns contain 360 x 3 — 1080 different num
bers, and all this trouble would be required, in order to
construct a Table of Houses, for any one place which
you might desire, and would require a long time for its
accomplishment. But by means of these Celestial
Planispheres, and by observing the following directions,
you will be enabled to construct a correct Table of
Houses, ( which will be found convenient to carry in
your pocket) for any place, all of which may be done in
half a day, or even less, by an expert penman.
A Specimen ofthe Head of thefirst page ofa
Table of Houses.
SOL IN ARIES.
A. R.
D. M
Time 10 tl
from Noon House. House.
H. M. Aries. D. M.
Degrees-
House.
D. M.
1st or 2 3
Ascend. House. House.
D. SJ. B. M. D. M.
169
Observe that D. M. stand for degree and minute,
and that between D. and M. it is usual to place the As
tronomical character for the sign of the Zodiac, which
occupies the cusp of each respective House, but it is by
no means necessary to calculate the cusps of the Houses
to minutes of a degree, the nearest integral degree being
in most cases sufficiently exact.
The second page of the Table is titled Sol in Taurus,
the third page, Sol in Gemini, and so in regular suc
cession for all the twelve signs of the Zodiac ; having
provided yourself with a book or paper sufficiently large
to contain eight columns, here shewn as an Example,
besides the head of each Table or page, rule thirty one
lines, in each page, and under the column of the Tenth
House, write 0", 1°, 2", 3°, etc. up to SO0 inclusively.
Having titled each page Sol in Aries, Sol in Taurus,
Sol in Gemiui, Sol in Cancer, Sol in Leo, Sol in Virgo,
Sol in Libra, Sol in Scorpio, Sol in Sagitarius, Sol in
Capricorn, Sol in Aquarius, Sol in Pisces, each in suc
cession, and having divided each page into eight co
lumns, and ruled them all as before directed, you may
then proceed to fill up and complete your Table in the
following easy, and expeditious manner.
Take the Planisphere of the Twelve Houses of the
Heavens, constructed to the Latitude of the Place for
which you would wish to form your Table Houses, and
begin thus, bring no degrees of Aries, that is the very
beginning of Aries, on the Planisphere of the Zodiac,
exactly to the cusp of the Tenth House, in this position
Y
170
let it remain, and observe what signs and degrees are
intersected by the Poles, or cusps of the 11th, 12th,
1st, 2nd, and 3rd Houses, and write down the same in
the proper columns in your Table. Next bring Aries
1° exactly to the cusp of the Tenth, and observe again
what signs and degrees are intersected by the Poles of
the 11th, 12th, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Houses, and write
them down in your Table, proceed in this manner
through every degree of the Zodiac, until your Table of
Houses shall be completed.
N. B. When by sliding the Planisphere of the Zodiac
from the left hand towards the right, upon the Planis
phere of the Twelve Houses, it happens not to shew all
the 6 Eastern Houses of the Figure, it will in this
case shew all the 6 Western Houses, viz. the 9th, 8th,
7th, 6tb, 5th, and 4th Houses, in this case, to fill up
the Table, you have only to write down the same de
grees of the opposite signs ; or, if you would have all
the Eastern Houses shewn by the Planisphere, you have
only to mark upon the Planisphere of the Twelve
Houses, with a fine pointed black lead pencil, the place
where sagittary ended, shift the Planisphere of the Zo
diac, and bring the beginning of Capricorn to this mark,
and being fixed as before taught, it will in this position
complete the Figure of the Heavens, and shew all the
Eastern Houses, which were before wanting. The
same method of shifting the Planisphere of the Zodiac*
must be observed when necessary in describing the line
of the Ecliptic or Zodiac, upon the Planisphere of any
Nativity.
CHAPTER VII.
Supernumerary Circlet of Aspects, etc.
In order to render this work more useful, and still
more acceptable, the Author has been at the pains of
calculating to the very nearest minute of a degree
throughout, a table, whereby the Circles of the SemU
quartile and Sesquiquadrate and of the Quintile, and
even the Biquintile Aspects, can be most easily and
expeditiously described upon the Celestial Planispheres,
on the parallels of © and Vf respectively, together with
the true Polar Elevations of the same. And let it be
remembered, that the Circle of Position's distance for
the Semiquartile and Sesquiquadrate marked upon the
Equator, is always 45°, and that of the Quintile 12° for
every latitude whatever, set off from the cusps of the
tenth and fourth Houses upon the Planisphere. After
so much instruction in the former part of this book, a
single example will be sufficient—Suppose it were re
quired to introduce these Circles into a Planisphere for
Port Royal in Jamaica, in 18 degrees of North latitude.
Look in the table of Proportions, and opposite to 18° of
latitude in the column marked S ° and Ssq. o you
will find 49° 3' the distance (from the 10th and 4th
Houses) to be marked upon the parallels of sb and of
Yf, the Pole for the same, as given in the next column,
172
is 9° 14', the proportion for the Quintile in the same
table is 130 5' to be marked upon the parallels of s and
YP from the 10th and 4th Houses as aforesaid, the true
Pole of the same as given in the table is 2° 30'. Next
mark upon the Equator the distance of 45° for the Semi-
quartile and Sesquiquadrate and 12° for the Quintile,
then with the Planisphere Curves or Poles of 9° and 3„
respectively, draw lines through the marks at the pro
per distances just mentioned, and you will have the
Circles of the Semiquartile and Sesquiquadrate and of
the Quintile Aspects as was desired. For a good illus
tration of this projection, see Plate No. 5, the* Plani
sphere for latitude 53° 30'.
Observe, That the Circle of the Quintiles, serves al
so for the Biquintiles, by setting off twice the propor
tional part of the Quintile from the point or place where
the trine of any Planet happens to fall upon the parallel
declination of the same Planet, taking care that the pro
portional part must betaken by your compasses from and
upon the Planet's own parallel. The aforesaid Circles,
described upon the parallels of Cancer and Capricorn,
will always give in the most easy and expeditious man
ner proportions for the Semiquartile and Sesquiqua
drate, and for the Quintile and Biquintile Aspects, and
their Arcs of Direction upon the parallel of any Planet
whatever. Suppose you would know the exact place
where a Planet is in Quintile to the Mid-Heaven, place
one foot of your compasses on the cusp of the 10th,
upon the Planet's own parallel, and extend the other
173
foot of your compasses to the place where the Circle of
the Quintiles intersects the same parallel ; set off this
distance from the Pole of the 12th House towards the
Ascendant upon the Planet's own parallel, and in like
manner set off this distance from the Pole of the 8th
House towards the 7th, when at either of the points
thus found, then will a Planet be in Quintile to the
Mid-Heaven. By taking the aforesaid distance in your
compasses and applying it from the Pole of the 11th
towards the 10th and also from the Pole of the 3rd to-
wards the 4th House upon the Planet's own parallel,
wjll immediately give the place where any planet will
be in Quintile to the Ascendant.
The Rapt Parallels may be worked with great facility
by means of the Circles of Quintiles in the second man
ner taught in page 106, provided that the Right Dis
tance between any two planets does not exceed in ex
tent the proportions for the Quintiles of both the said
Planets. Thus, it will be seen, by a little attention to
the instructions given in this work, that all kinds of
Directions both Mundane and Zodiacal, can be calcula
ted with great ease and expedition by means of these
Planispheres.
Observations on the Circles of Position of the
Planets.
Observe ; If a Planet be under the Horizon, and its
declination be North, then will the distance of its Circle
of Position upon the Equator be greater than the Pla
174
net's distance in R. A. from the 4th House. But if above
the horizon, with North Declination, then will the dis
tance of its Circle of Position on the Equator, be less
its Distance, in Ht. Asc, from the tenth House. Se
condly, If any Planet having South Declination be un
der the horizon, then will the distance of its Circle of
Position upon the Equator be less than the Planet's dis
tance in Rt. Asc. from the 4th House. But if any Planet
having South declination, be above the horizon, then
will the distance of its Circle of Position upon the Equa
tor, be greater than the Planet's distance in Rt. Asc.
from the tenth House.
175
TABLE OF PROPORTIONS,
For setting off the Circles of the Semiquartile and Sesquiquad-
rates, and ofthe Quintile and Biquintile Aspects, upon the
Celestial Planispheres.
Poleot Poleot Pole of
Lat. 8 a& Soft Quint. Quint. Lat. S a & S a Quint. Poleof
Ssq. d Ssq. D etc. etc. Ssq. D etc. Quint.
0 , 0 ' a ' 0 ? o , o ' 0 , o ,
1 31 52 33 16 50 14 I 4 38
2 45 26 I 0 12 6 0 14 32 52 52 17 30 14 6 4 49
3 45 39 1 30 12 10 0 23 33 53 11 1« 9 14 11 5 1
4 45 52 2 0 12 14 0 32 34 53 31 18 50 14 16 5 12
5 48 5 2 SO 12 17 0 39 35 53 51 19 31 14 22 5 26
6 46 18 3 0 12 21 0 48 36 54 1] 20 11 14 27 5 37
7 46 31 3 29 12 24 0 55 37 54 33 20 55 14 33 5 51
8 46 45 4 1 12 28 I 5 38 54 55 21 38 14 39 6 5
9 46 58 431 12 32 1 14 39 55 17 22 21 14 45 6 18
10 47 11 5 1 12 35 1 21 40 55 41 23 7 14 51 6 32
11 47 25 5 33 12 39 I 30 41 56 5 23 53 14 57 6 46
12 47 39 6 5 12 42 1 37 42 56 30 24 40 15 4 7 2
13 47 52 6 34 12 46 1 46 43 56 56 25 28 15 11 7 17
14 48 6 7 6 12 50 1 55 44 57 23 26 17 15 18 7 33
15 48 20 7 38 12 53 2 2 45 57 52 27 10 15 26 7 51
16 48 34 8 9 12 57 2 11 46 58 21 28 0 15 34 8 9
17 48 49 8 43 13 1 2 20 47 58 52 28 54 15 42 8 27
18 49 3 9 14 13 5 o 30 48 59 25 29 50 15 51 8 48
19 49 18 9 48 13 9 2 39 49 59 59 30 47 16 0 9 8
20 49 33 10 21 13 13 2 48 50 60 34 3143 16 9 9 28
21 49 48 10 55 13 17 2 57 51 61 12 32 44 16 19 9 50
22 50 3 11 28 13 21 3 6 52 61 52 33 45 16 30 10 15
23 50 18 12 1 13 25 3 16 53 62 35 34 50 16 41 10 30
24 50 34 12 36 13 29 3 25 54 63 21 35 57 16 53 11 6
25 50 50 13 11 13 33 3 34 55 64 9 37 5 17 7 11 37
26 51 7 13 47 13 38 3 46 56 65 2 38 17 17 20 12 5
27 51 23 14 22 13 42 3 55 57 65 58 39 30 17 36 12 40
28 51 40 14 58 13 47 4 6 58 67 0 40 48 17 52 13 15
29 51 58 15 37 13 51 4 15 59 68 8 42 9 18 10 13 54
30 52 15 1(5 13 13 56 4 27 60 69 22 43 S3 18 30 14 37
CHAPTER VIII.
Conclusion ofthis Treatise.
The Author's New Theory, shewing that Predictions
derived from the Aspects and Positions of the Planets,
may really come to pass, independently of any Planetary
influence whatever, being founded on principles
STRICTLY MATHEMATICAL.
Having in the course of ray studies, read almost every
work, of any note, which has ever been published, both
for and against the doctrines or principles of Astrology,
I was led by my own reflections to conclude, that, how
ever illiberal and unreasonable the enemies of Astrology
are, in denying in so positive a manner, the very exist
ence of the Predictive Science, that the friends of that
Science erred in the opposite extreme, by imputing every
event to Planetary influence, whereas, it was neither
requisite to account for the various accidents of life, by
imputing them either to mere chance, or to inevitable
fate, or to planetary influence, when in reality the Pre
dictive Science may depend upon very different princi
ples which have escaped their observation ; but which
I believe it has been my lot to discover.
177
To those conversant with Mathematical literature, it
is almost unnecessary for me to observe, that there are
many solutions and results of Mathematical calculations
which appear so very wonderful, and so far surpassing
the comprehension of the unlearned, as to pass with
them for the operations of magic ; the reason of which
is, that when men are ignorant, they are generally su
perstitious, and superstition whether in matters of reli
gion, or of science, will generally ascribe things to any
c -use, but the true one.
In the eastern parts of the world, particularly in
Egypt and Arabia, where the atmosphere is during a
great part of the year clear and serene, the beauty and
splendor of the heavenly bodies, and the rising, south
ing, and setting of the Sun, Moon, and Planets, could
not fail of attracting both the attention and admiration
of men, particularly those employed by night, in tending
their flocks and herds, in the very early ages of the
world. And as the heavenly bodies in performing their
revolutions, approach toward, and recede from each
other, and sometimes present certain phenomena, which
are very remarkable, at or near the time of these phe
nomena, some notable event, happening to themselves,
or to their wives, or children, or even to their cattle,
would be noted down, and being found to have taken
place, at or near the time of the celestial phenomena,
which had so much attracted their attention, they con
cluded because they could discern no other reason, that
there must be some influence in the Planets which had
z
178
brought to pass the circumstance or event, which had
occurred to themselves, or to some member of their fa
mily ; and accordingly as the accidents or events were
fortunate or unfortunate, they would regard some of the
Planets as their Evil Genii, and others of the Planets
as their Guardian Angels, * whose watchful eyes were
always observing, and whose splendid rays were ever
shedding an influence over, and ruling all their actions,
and their destinies.
Impressed with such belief as this, they would thus
add observation to observation, till a number of Apho
risms, (adapted to various circumstances, and different
configurations,) had been formed, whereby they might
endeavor to foresee and predict, the occurrence of si
milar events to themselves or to others. And in this
manner a system of Predictive Science has been built
up, even without its architects having the least know
ledge of the true principles, upon which they have built
their superstructure, but which I will endeavor to il
lustrate by arguments, drawn from some of the practi
cal Aphorisms of Astrology. Thus in the primitive
ages of the world, the Astronomers had observed that
the cardinal signs, occupying the angles of the Horo
scope, or celestial figure, the persons born at such times,
became eminent among their companions, or even rose
above the class of Society in which they were born.
Hence they concluded there must certainly be some par-
• For a confirmation of the correctness of the Aothor's opinion on this
point, see Ramsay and other old books of Astrology, where the Angels of the
Planets are mentioned by name.
179
ticular influence in such a position of the Heavens.
Many hundreds of instances of persons thus born, rising
to great eminence, have been recorded in different ages
of the world. I shall only name a few that are men
tioned, as Cicero, the Roman Orator, the Emperor Ves-
pasion, Oliver Cromwell, and the Emperor Napoleon,
etc. But it by no means follows that the cardinal signs
being upon the angles in their Nativities, that their
great rise in the world depended upon such positions,
nor that there was any connexion between them, as of
cause and effect. Here let it be remembered, that, in
the primitive ages, the Science of Astronomy, was
studied and practised, only for the sake of applying it
to the purposes of Astrology, and that the Ancient
Astronomers were all Astrologers, and that without
Astrology, we should never have had that sublime Sci
ence, Modern Astronomy, which above all books, and
all other learning, gives us the most enlarged and the
most elevated views of the infinite power, wisdom, and
goodness of the Omnipotent and All-wise Creator.
Well then, by way of practical illustration, let us admit
that one of those ancient Astronomers had observed
that the cardinal signs were on the angles in the Nati
vities of twenty persons, born under his own knowledge
or observation, and that eighteen out of the twenty so
born, rose to eminence, or were remarkably prosperous,
he would look upon it as almost certain, that persons
born under such a position, must rise to eminence, and
he would note it down as an Astrological Aphorism for
his future guidance, and in this manner, from the ob
180
servations of the Conjunctions, Sextiles, Quartiles, and
Oppositions of the Planets, and from other Celestial
Phenomena, and of events, happening at or near the
same times, he would form a collection of Astrological
Aphorisms, which would be handed down to his chil
dren or successors, from whom they would receive far
ther additions aud improvements, until a science or sys
tem of Prediction had been formed, which was applica
ble to all the accidents and events of human life.
But I believe, that I have discovered the true theory
of the Predictive Science, to consist entirely in the prin
ciples of the Mathematical doctrine of probabilities, and
if there be any difference in the results, it will be in fa
vor of the Predictive Science, for can it be supposed,
even by the most rancorous enemies of Astrology, that
there is not amongst the thousands and tens of thousands
of persons, who study and practise Astrology, many
men who possess as good reasoning faculties, and are
blest with intellectual powers equal to those of the most
learned, and most judicious of their opponents ? Can it
be supposed that they would be in the practice of mak
ing the laborious calculations, hitherto required, in Na
tivities, and that they would continue to give themselves
this toil and trouble, for twenty, thirty, or even forty
years in succession ? Let us ask, would they do this if
they did not find some, and not only some, but a very
considerable number of the Predictions founded on such
calculations really come to pass ?
In a practical point of view as regards the results of
181
the calculations made use of, it is a matter of no impor
tance to the Astrologer, or to the calculator, whether the
Predictions depend on Planetary influence as he believes
they do, or upon some other principles which he does
not understand ; it is sufficient for his purpose, that the
events do really come to pass, and of this every artist,
or student, who has studied and practised the Science
for a number of years, has had so many convincing
proofs of its verification, that he would not be made to
disbelieve the existence of a Predictive Science, by all
the arguments and by all the sarcasms of its enemies.
Now in order to complete the parallel which I have
drawn between the Science of Astrology, and the Ma
thematical Doctrine, or Science of Probabilities, in the
assumed case of the twenty persons born with the car
dinal signs on the angles of their Nativities, the Aphor
ism was verified in eighteen cases in the twenty, and
that it failed in two cases in the twenty, here we find
the ratio in favor of the verification of the Aphroism to
be 18-20ths or 9-10ths, and the ratio of its failure
2-20ths or l-10th, and therefore the probability tLat
any Native boru under such a position of the Heavens
will rise to eminence, would be nine times greater, than
that of his remaining in obscurity. And in like man
ner, we may reason concerning all other Astrological
Aphorisms. But I believe that the probability of Pre
dictions, founded on the Planetary configurations, being
verified, will be greater even than what the result would
be given, according to the Mathematical rules generally
182
used for calculating the pr obability of chances in any
game, etc., for reasons which I shall now proceed to
explain.
It is well known, that the motions of the Planets do
not take place by accident, neither are they governed by
mere chance j but they move by regular and determinate
laws, impressed upon them by their Almighty Creator,
and from which laws of motion they can never deviate ;
for although it is said in Astronomical language, that
the Planets have irregularities in their motions, this
ascribing of irregularity in the movements of the Pla
netary bodies, originated in the deficiency or inability of
the Astronomers themselves, to construct perfect tables
of the Planetary motions. The ancient Astronomers
knew nothing of the perturbations of the Planets, and
of some other important matters in the laws of the Pla
nets' motions, which have been satisfactorily cleared up,
and the proper equations determined, by modern disco
veries, and which prove that in reality there is no such
thing as irregularity in the motions of the Planets ; for
what were formerly called irregularities, are now proved
to occur regularly, under the same circumstances and
positions of the Planets, and therefore, there are no ir
regularities in the Planetary motions, but that they ever
continue to move according to the laws impressed upon
them by their Omnipotent Creator. This being satis
factorily proved, and admitting what is the fact, that
the Astrological Aphorisms were originally framed on
observations, that the various accidents of human life
183
happened at or near the times of some particular aspects
or configurations of the Heavenly bodies, or upon cal
culations founded thereon. Here we see that although
there may not exist any connexion between the events
of human life, and of the positions of the Heavenly bo
dies, as of cause and effect, nevertheless, the various
events having happened at or near the times of certain
configurations, etc., and that many times similar events
had been observed and noted, as occuring at the times
of similar aspects, or configurations of the Planets, and
as the Planetary movements and their configurations do
not take place by chance, but according to regular and
unalterable laws, impressed upon them at their creation,
hence it follows, that the Predictions derived from such
aspects and configurations, will have a much greater
probability of being verified, than the result which would
be given by the Mathematical rules of calculating tbe
probabilities of chances ; and, therefore, we need not be
sceptical as to the possibility of Predicting events from
the aspects and positions of the Planets, although there
may not exist any planetary influence whatever.
REMARKS,
On the preceding New Theory of the Predictive
Science.
It was at first the Author's intention in treating of
this New Theory to have brought forward many other
arguments in support of the views he has taken, but
this would have occupied three or four chapters more
184.
of this work, among others to have shewn at large,
that the principles acted upon by the Actuaries at the
different public offices for granting pensions, or annui
ties on the insurance of persons' lives, is in reality found
ed on the same basis as the doctrines of Astrology, viz.
upon the results of repeated observations ; therefore let
no illiberal minded critic misconstrue what the Author
has said about twenty persons being born under a cer
tain Position of the Heavens ; for many hundreds of
instances have been recorded in past ages, and many
thousands more might be collected, as having been veri
fied in the present age, should any person be willing
to incur the trouble and expense of applying to all the
various students and Professors of the Celestial Sciences
that are now to be found in all the various parts of this
United Kingdom, and they might be tabulated in the
same manner as has been done with the bills of mor
tality, at different places, by Mr. De Moivre, and by the
Mathematicians, Simpson, Dr. Price, and others ; but
if the sceptics are so sceptical as not to be satisfied with
out this being done for them, why not let them be at
the expense of appointing some person or persons to do
it for them, but let them not misunderstand, nor cavil
at what is said about the twenty persons born under a
certain Position etc., of the Heavens, which is only
mentioned by way of a popular illustration of the sub
ject, and not with any intention of building a Theory on
twenty instances when twenty thousand might be had
for the purpose, were it not for the trouble and expense
attendant thereon.
185
It was also the Author's intention to have introduced
into bis Essay several Algebraical Formulae, from the
very learned and elaborate works of the celebrated
Count De La Place,lmperial Geometer of France, where
in La Place has shewn the application of the doctrine
of probabilities to one of the most difficult and delicate
species of calculations, viz., to rectifying the Astronomi
cal observations taken by Astronomers during some
ages past, and this he has done in so admirable a man
ner, as to determine what modern Astronomers denomi
nate the long period of the Moon, comprehending a
space of 1 80 years, with such accuracy as most satis
factorily to account for all the anomalies in the Moon's
motions, even to the fraction of a second of the Moon's
place in the heavens, as has since been proved by the
most accurate actual observations of modern Astrono
mers. This wonderful task performed by Count De
La Place by means of the Mathematical doctrine of pro
babilities, bad before time completely baffled the united
efforts and talents of the celebrated Dr. Halley, Sir
Isaac Newton, Professor Machin, Dr. Bradley, Dr.
Maskelyne, and all Royal Astronomers and Mathe
maticians in Europe, who had attempted the same by
other processes and might perhaps for ever have remain
ed undetermined, had not La Place hit upon the happy
expedient of applying the doctrine of probabilities to the
Lunar Theory. Now, let us ask the sceptics, seeing
that the doctrine of probabilities has corrected the As
tronomical observations on the Moon, which have been
made during past ages, and has also determined her
2 A
186
actual place in the heavens to the fraction of a second .
why may not the same doctrine be as successfully ap.
plied to determine the events of human life, where the
calculations used are in most cases sufficiently correct
for the purpose, if the result come within fifteen minutes
or quarter of a degree ? If there be any sceptics so scepti
cal as to doubt of the practicability and the success of the
proposed application, we will make free to tell them
that however important they may be in the their own
estimation, that we shall consider their sarcasms and
their impotent and illiberal efforts to decry a Science of
which they are entirely ignorant, as being totally un
worthy of our slightest attention, or briefest reply.
187
POSTSCRIPT.
Upper Beau Street, Everton, Liverpool.
12 jancary, 1830.
Yesterday evening, my friend Mr. Thomas Williams
introduced to me at my house, an ingenious Gentleman and
admirer of the Celestial Sciences, Mr. Stephen Carmichael,
who shewed me some of Mr. Ranger's Planispheres, which
I very carefully examined, and I found the curve of the
Planisphere of the Zodiac to he a curve very different to
mine, the Radius of the Generating Circle in Mr. Ranger's,
being a quarter of an inch shorter than that of mine ; but the
extent of 23° 28' for the Sun's greatest declination upon Mr.
Ranger's, is three tenths of an inch greater than in mine. I
found Mr. R's Planispheres, that were shown to me, to be
out of all mathematical proportion whatever, for neither the
Sines, Co-sines, Secants, Co-secants, Tangents, nor Semi-
tangents, on the latter of which the construction of Plani
spheres on correct principles must most chiefly depend ; he
had only one curve, viz. that for the Horizon, and Mr. Car
michael stated to me, that he projected the Poles of the other
Houses of the Celestial Figure, also the Poles of the Planets
by straight lines, or by the same curve that he uses to describe
the line of the Horizon with !! and added, that Mr. Ranger's
Planispheres would give the Arc of Direction within about
half a degree of the truth !!! And to get the different pro
portions of the Aspects and Arcs of Directions, he uses a
Brass Triangle very nearly in the shape of the Roman Capi
tal A, divided at the base into thirty parts or degrees, with a
string stretched tight and reaching the whole extent of the
Triangle, which is about a foot in length, which is moved
backwards or forwards to measure the distances, In •hort,
188
Mr. Ranger's Planispheres bear bnt a very slight resemblance
to mine, and however pretty they may look to the eye, they
are miserably deficient in the main point, Mathematical cor
rectness. How should it be otherwise ?
I have shewn in the foregoing work, that neither one,
two, nor three curves could answer the purpose. Every pro
portion and every direction is got directly from my Plani
spheres themselves ; they do not stand in need of a Brass
Triangle to help them out ; any man, versed in the Mathe
matics, would see the difference in a moment.
%
THOMAS OXLEY.
THE
CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES,
PART IV.
(Which is added by particular desire.)
Containing choice Astrological Aphorisms from Ptolemy, also the Signifi
cations of the different Positions of the Planets, and of Directions from the
celebrated W. Lilly ; so that a purchaser of these
"CELESTIAL PLANISPHERES,"
will be enabled hereby, both to calculate, and to give a correct judgment
on any Nativity, without the help of any other book. To which is prefixed
an Original Introduction, with New and Correct Rules, for Rectifying
Nativities by accidents, never before published, also interesting remarks and
calculations on the Nativity of
HIS MAJESTY,
KING WILLIAM THE FOURTH,
ETC. ETC.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
The addition of this fourth part, as every intelligent reader
must be well aware, has greatly added to the expense of
printing this work : but, notwithstanding so great an increase
to the vast expenses already incurred, no additional charge
has been made to the purchasers, this work being sold at the
same price, as though it had consisted only of the three *
parts originally contained in the Manuscript, which was sub
mitted to the inspection and approbation of the Author's Sci
entific Friends and Subscribers, as it was his intention from
the commencement, that this work should have been entirely
Astronomical and Mathematical. He has since been induced
thus to sacrifice his own pecuniary interests to oblige a num
ber of his highly respectable Subscribers, who represented
to him that the addition of a compendium of Astrology,
would render this work a complete Multum in Parvo. He
further considered that some persons purchasing this work,
might not be in possession of any Astrological Books, nor
wish to purchase them, and that a compendium of the Astral
Science would be quite sufficient for them : therefore, the
Author of the Celestial Planispheres, does not offer the
Fourth Part of this Book as a complete System of Astrology;
but only as a selection from the best Authors on that Sci
ence ; of the most useful and most valuable Aphorisms for
giving judgment on Nativities ; extracted principally from
the Christian Astrology of the celebrated William Lilly,
and from the Quadrapartile of Claudius Ptolemy, these
works being very ancient, the language is also antiquated,
and some of the expressions extremely curious and very dif
ferent from the modern style of writing, as the intelligentand
candid reader will naturally expect.
* At first when the Author proposed publishing the Celestial Planispheres,
he only engaged to publish the substance of what is contained in the second
part of this book, shewing how to introduce the Planets into the Genethlical
Planispheres, and to calculate the Arcs of Directions thereby, and that there
should only have been five Plates given with the work, viz. those which are
now numbered, Plates No. 3, 6, 7, 8, and 10, he has since doubled the num
ber of Plates, in order to illustrate the three parts of the book superadded.
191
But for the satisfaction of such of his readers as may be
desirous of possessing complete Systems of Astrology, a list
of books on that Science is given at the end of this volume,
with the Publishers' names, and the prices of such as could
be ascertained. While on this subject it may be necessary
to mention that Astrology is an innocent, delightful, and
sublime study, and as diil'erent from Magic as light is from
darkness: this remark is added by way of caution, because
it is with deep regret we have observed, that two or three of
our modern Authors have very improperly introduced some
scraps of Magic into their books, which may cause some su
perficial and bigotted readers as improperly to conclude that
Magic and Astrology are one and the same Science, whereas
they are really as different as possible.
The Rectification of Nativities, by the Celestial
Planispheres.
Owing to the uncertainty of clocks and watches, together
with the negligence of the Midwives, or Accoucheurs innoting
down the times of birth, it very seldom happens that the times
given to the Artists are the true times of the Nativities ; it
is in consequence of this inaccuracy, that the Professors of
Astrology have invented various rules for discovering the
true times of Nativities from the given times, such as the
Animodar of Ptolemy, the Trutine of Hermes, the Rectifi
cation of the Angles of the Figure by the Mundane Parallels
of the Planets, etc., and the Rectification by Accidents. In
regard to the three first named methods, very little depen
dence can be placed on them, as they sometimes bring the time
nearer the correct time ; but in many instances they give the
time farther from the truth even than the estimate time itself
is; and as to rectifying the Angles of the Figure by bring
ing them to the same degree and minute as the Sun and
Moon, that is, by placing the Sun or Moon on the cusp of
one of the three prime Angles, viz., the first, the tenth, or
the seventh House, or by bringing the Sun and Moon to the
Mundane Parallels of these Angles ; or, by bringing the
two malevolent Planets Saturn or Mars to the cusps, or to
the Mundane Parallels of the same. This rule of Rectifi
cation involves in it so great a degree of absurdity, that I
have really been surprised that it should ever have been in
vented ; or after it had been invented, that any person could
be found so inconsiderate as to make use of it. It is even
contrary to Astrology itself; because, according to the prin
192
ciples of Astrology, persons born under similar Positions of
the Heavens scarcely ever live to years of maturity, and this
by my own observation, 1 know to be true, for out of a con
siderable number of Nativities which I have seen having
similar configurations, I do not recollect that more than two
or three lived to full age ; for such Positions have in them
so much of the nature of violence, as generally to destroy life
in infancy : but should they live to years of maturity, (which
as above mentioned very rarely happens) then would their
whole lives be little better than continued scenes of trouble,
vexation, and misery, brought on in a great measure by the
perverseness and obstinacy of their own disposition*. So
that we must regard it as a great mercy of Divine Providence,
that such persons do most generally die in their infancy, and
are thereby transferred from a life of trouble and misfortune,
to a world of bliss.
Secondly, agreeably to reason, truth, and observation, per
sons are born at every moment during the natural day of 24
hours, and consequently under every possible Position of the
Heavens ; but the absurd rule of which I am speaking would
not allow of this ; for Example, if ten persons were born in
the same town, and successively within the space of two
hours from first to last, and consequently, the Figures oftheir
Nativities very widely different, yet according to the Recti
fication by Mundane Parallels, the Artist would be con
strained to alter the given times of their births, and to assign
only one Figure of the Heavens for the whole of the ten ! !
And therefore, I leave it to every candid and philosophical
mind, and to every enlightened student in the Celestial Sci
ences, to consider how excessively irrational such a mode of
Rectification must be ! In fact there is only one method of
Rectification which can always be depended on, and that is
the Rectification by Accidents, and therefore this is the only
method I shall here exemplify.
The Rectification ofNativities by Accidents.
First note down the times of three or four remarkable ac
cidents or events, which have happened to the Native, and
find by the Planispheres, or by the Ephemeris, what the true
* A remarkable verification o f these remarks, is found in the Nativity of a
person now living who was Born 14th February, 1781, at 44 minutes past
2 o'clock in the Morning, where the Ascendant is afflicted with a Mundane
Parallel of the two malevolents Saturn and Man !
193
solar arc* of Direction will be, corresponding to so many
years and months of the Native's age; for each and for every
accident given, placing the true arc in each case in a line
with its corresponding accident or event.
In this mode of rectification the Ascendant is generally
directed for the accidents of the body, such as sickness, bro
ken limbs, etc. ; the Mid-Heaven is directed to the conjunc
tion or other aspects of the Sun, or Moon, or to those of the
fortunate Planets, Jupiter and Venus, or even to the aspects
of the Lord of the Tenth, for honors, dignities, and promo
tions in life, for the setting up in business, etc. Sometimes
the Sun or Moon, or whatever Planet happens to be the
Aphetaor Hyleg, is directed to the Semi-quartile, the Quar-
tile, the Sesquiquadrate, or the opposition of other Planets
for sicknesses and other accidents of the body ; but this last
named method of directing the Apheta is generally attended
with a great deal of trouble, because the Arcs of Direction
will be varied, or increased or decreased according as the
Polar elevation of the Hyleg is increased or decreased : and
for one nativity it will sometimes require that the Figure be
erected for five or six different times and sometimes more,
and the Arcs of Direction calculated for each time, and the
results compared together, still altering the time, and calcu
lating again until a time be found which will bring out the
Arc of Direction for the accident or event which shall be the
same as the Solar Arc required. About nineteen or twenty
years ago, I tried many experiments on this and other me
thods of correcting the Polar elevation of the Apheta, and
have discovered a method which saves the trouble of ihe five
or six erections of the Figure, etc., and generally determines
the polar elevation of the Apheta, which is required to give
the true Arc of Direction sought, by only erecting one, or at
most two figures besides that for the estimate time ; but in
most cases I have succeeded by erecting one additional figure
only besides that for the estimate time. The rule is this ;
having erected the figure according to the estimate time, and
having determined the Planet's Right Ascensions and Polar
Elevations, etc., calculate the Apheta's Arc of Direction to
"Seepages 60, 61, 111,112, 113, 114 and 115 ofthis book, where the me
thod of equating, or finding the true Arcs according to the Plaeidianprinciples,
is so amply illustrated that it is not necessary to give any instruction on that
subject in tnis part of the book, and that nothing might be wanting to gratify
the wishes of every student and admirer ofthese Sublime Sciences, in addition
to the Plaeidian scale of years upon the Planisphere of the Zodiac, the author
has also engraved another, adapted to Naibod's Measure of Time, and has ex
tended it to 100 years.
194
the aspect of any Planet which would give an accident of a
similar nature with that noted down, and observe that the Arc
of Direction may come out one, two, or three degrees, etc.,
more or less than the proper Solar Arc ; next erect another
figure, for four minutes, or eight minutes, or twelve minutes
either sooner or later than the estimate time, and having de
termined again the Polar elevation of the Apheta to this se
cond figure, calculate the aforesaid Direction over again, and
observe the difference between the first and the second Arc
of Direction, and also the difference between the estimate
time and the assumed time ; then by the process of Algebraic
Equations, you may determine immediately the time which
will give the true Arc of Direction, which is therefore the
true time of Birth. This rule is also equally applicable to
obtaining the true time of Birth by the various Mundane
Directions, Mundane Parallels, etc., when the accidents
correspond in nature with these Mundane Directions, or the
same may be easily performed by the following Arithmetical
Rule, which I have divested of all difficulty. It is taken from
my own Manuscript Copy, written for publication about 14
years ago, after having had it in use, and proved its correct
ness for upwards of five years upon a number of Nativities
which came under my own observation, and which in most
instances produced a rectification by altering the time one,
two, three, four, five, or six minutes only. But if the rules
of Rectification by the Trutine of Hermes, by Mundane
Parallels, etc., as commonly practised by Astrologers, had
been used, the Time would have been altered half an hour,
or even an hour or more !
THE RULE.
Accidents being given to correct the estimate time by, se
lect one of the principal directions corresponding to a remark
able accident, calculate the same, and observe whether the
Arc of Direction comes out greater or less than the Solar
Measure, The difference is the first error.
Let the Promittor's distance from a given House, or Angle
in the estimate figure, be called the first Position.
Make the Right Ascension of the M. Celie one degree
greater or one degree less than that of the estimate figure of
Birth, to which find the primary distance, etc., of the Pro-
mittor, and call this the second position. Then calculate the
given direction to this second position, observe whether the
Arc comes out greater or less than the Solar Measure, and
the difference is the second error.
195
Then opposite to the Promittor's Primary distance belong
ing to the first position, place the error of the second po
sition.
Opposite the Promittor's Primary Distance of the second
position, place the error which belongs to the first position.
Thirdly. Let the numbers of the distances, etc., of degrees
and minutes, be all reduced into minutes of a degree, so that
all may be integer numbers. Then, for the products multi
ply the positions by the errors which stand opposite to them.
If the errors be of the same kind, that is, if both the Arcs
of Direction are greater or both of them less than the Solar
Measure, take the difference of the two errors for a divisor,
and the difference of the products for a dividend.
But if the errors are unlike, namely, one Arc of Direction
greater, and the other Arc of Direction less than the Solar
Measure, then take the sum of the two errors for a divisor,
and the sum of the products for a dividend, the quotient will
be the Promittor's rectified distance (from the given House
or Angle) expressed in minutes of a degree. And this rec
tified distance being known, so likewise is the true time of
Birth by comparing the distance in the estimate time with
the rectified distance, allowing 15 degrees for one hour, and
for every single degree reckon four minutes of time, etc.
EXAMPLE
Of Rectification by Accidents.
Mr. Worsdale states, that the estimate time of Napoleon's
Birth as given by the Emperor himself to an Astronomer in
Corsica, was 15th August 1769, at a quarter before 10 o'clock
in the forenoon, or reckoning the time astronpmically it was
14th August, at 21 hours 45 minutes post meridian, in lati
tude 41° 40' North, and longitude 9» East from London, at
which time the Sun was in SI 22° 43'
and his Right Asc. 145 4
Right Asc. of time 21h. 45m. 326 15
Sum 471 19
Reject the Circle 360 00
Remains R. A. of Mid llennn 111 18
196
1450 4'
111 19
33 45
32 5
The most eminent event in Napoleon's life was beingcrown-
ed Emperor of France at 34 years and 5 months of his age,
the Solar Arc corresponding to this age is 32u 5', and the Sun
being the grand Astrological Significator of honor, dignity,
and glory, therefore the Mid Heaven directed to the body of
the Sun, will point out the time of his being crowned Em
peror, etc.
From the Rt. Asc. of Sun
Subt. Rt. Asc. of Mid Heaven
Mid Heaven <$ 0 Arc
But the true Solar Arc is
for the time he was crowned, etc.
The difference is 1 40
The difference is in excess of the proper Solar Arc, and
1° 40' answers to 6 m. and 40 seconds of time, which added
to the estimate time 21 h. 45 m. gives 21 h. 51m. 40 seconds
for the rectified time of Birth.
To perform this by the Planispheres, from the Mid Hea
ven upon the Sun's parallel of declination mark the afordsaid
Solar Arc 32° 5', then take the Planisphere of the Zodiac,
and slide it (upon the Planisphere of the Nativity) until the
Sun's centre, viz. Si 22°| comes exactly to this mark, while
thus fixed draw the line of the Zodiac as already taught in
pages 86 and 87 of the book, etc.
Equation of Time.
As it is absolutely necessary that all Celestial Figures of
Nativities, etc. be erected to true Solar time. It may be
well to shew how to reduce Clock time to Solar time.
RULE I.
When the clock is faster than the Sun, subtract the Equa
tion of time from the clock time, and the remainder will be
the true Solar time required. But when the clock is slower
than the Sun, add the Equation of time to the clock time, the
sum will be the true Solar time.
197
RULE II.
To reduce Solar time, or Apparent time, to Mean or
Clock time.
When the clock is faster than the Sun, add the Equation
of time to the Solar time, the sum is the clock time or mean
time required.
When the clock is slower than the Sun, subtract the Equa
tion of time from the Solar time, the. remainder is the clock
time, or mean time required.
The Equation of time is given for every day in the year in
White's Ephemeris, and in most Almanacs. The second
table in Ferguson's Astronomy by Dr. Brewster, is one of
the very best that I have seen for this purpose.
By neglecting to reduce the clock time to Solar time would
sometimes cause an error of so much as four degrees or more
in the Right Ascension of the Mid Heaven, and also make
the whole Figure of the Heavens equally erroneous.
Observe, that the clock time here mentioned, is that shown
by a clock which should have been set to mean time and con
tinue to keep it truly for a whole year together. Such are
the clocks made use of in the Astronomical Observatories,
and also the Chronometers used for finding the longitude of
ships at sea. But if your clock be set every day at noon, or
even every second or third day at noon by a Sun-dial, then
will the said clock shew Solar time. It may be well to re
mark, that neglecting the Equation of time in calculating the
Moon's zodiacal place from an Ephemeris, etc., will some
times cause an error of 8' or 10' in her longitude, etc.
Of the Difference of Meridians.
Our Astronomical tables and our almanacs being calcu
lated for the Meridian of Greenwich, (near) London, it is
necessary in erecting Figures of Nativities, and in making
other Astronomical calculations in places which are East or
West from Greenwich, that we should know what the cor
responding time then is at Greenwich (et vice versa;) the
difference of Longitude between any two places being turned
into time, at the rate of 15", etc., to an hour.
198
PROBLEM I.
The Time at Greenwich being given, tofind the
Time at any other place.
If the time at any place in East Longitude be required,
to the difference of the Meridians, add the given time at
Greenwich, the sum is the time required at the other place.
But if the place be in West Longitude, subtract the differ
ence of Meridians from the time at Greenwich, the remainder
is the time required.
PROBLEM II.
The Time at any place (whose Longitude is known,)
being given, tofind what the Time is at Greenwich.
If the place be in East Longitude, subtract the difference
of Meridians from the given time, the remainder is the time
at Greenwich ; but if the place be in the West Longitude,
add the difference of Meridians to the given time, the sum is
the time at Greenwich.
Observe, that tables of the Longitudes of places are to be
found in every book of Navigation, and of Astronomy, and
almost in every Geography.
OBSERVATIONS,
On the Placidian Principles ofDirection.
In the foregoing part of this book, the examples in Direc
tional Motion, are calculated according to the principles of
Placidus, who directs that the angles of the first and tenth,
should be directed to the Aspects of the Planets, by Mun
dane Motion only, not to the Zodiacal Aspects of the Pla
nets. Now let us ask those who are deeply versed in these
matters ; since we see that the Sun and Moon are directed to
the Aspects of other Planets both in the Zodiac, and in Mun-
do, would it not be equally rational to direct the Ascendant
and tenth House, to the Aspects of the Planets, both in the
Zodiac and in Mundo ?
199
I believe many examples might be given, of tbe propriety
©f directing the Ascendant and tenth House, in both the
ways here mentioned. And what can be more to the purpose,
than an example from the Nativity of an illustrious personage
now living, that of his present Majesty, King William IV.
According to Raphael's Astrologer of the nineteenth century,
the time is 21st August, 1765, at 54 minutes past 3 o'clock,
in the Morning, and R. A. of the M. Celie, 29° 15', and upon
the Ascendant, ft- 17° 28'. Saturn is in n 4o48', and there
fore the Zodiacal a of I?, falls in ny., 4° 48. If we direct
the Ascendant to nji- 4° 48', Saturns o in the Zodiac, the Arc
of Direction, is about 25o, which answers exactly to 27 years
and 5 months, his Majesty's age at the time he had the mis
fortune to break his left arm, on the 21st January, 1793. But
if we direct the Ascendant to the Quartile of Saturn, by Mun
dane Motion, according to Placidus, that is by directing the
Mid-heaven to the body of Saturn, the Arc of Direction will
be 33°£, which by the Placidian scale answers to the 37th
year of the Native's age, and consequently does not corres
pond with the time of that accident, but may probably point
out some other, which properly belongs to the tenth House.
Again, the rigid Ptolemeans and Placidians, will only di
rect $ and 5 for marriage in men's Nativities ; but accord
ing to common Astrology, the good directions of the Ascend
ant, or Lord of the Ascendant, to the Lord of the seventh,
will have signification of marriage both in men's and in wo
men's Nativities. In his Majesty's Nativity, Saturn is Lord
of the seventh, and the Sun is Lord of the Ascendant, ac
cordingly the Sun to the Trine of Saturn in the Zodiac, the
Arc of Direction is about 48°, and answers as nearly as can
be desired, to the time of his marriage at 52 years, 11 months,
the Solar Arc for the same being 48°J nearly ; the Ascend
ant 4 of $ , Arc 44°, which answers to 48J years, this latter
direction would influence the Native's inclinations towards
the event pointed out by © a T? . Although I have calcu
lated more than forty directions in this Nativity, I have not
yet found one of 9 or )) , that answers to the time like that
of the Lord of the Ascendant, to the Trine of the Lord of the
seventh. The Mid-heaven to the Mundane Trine of the D ,
Arc of Direction 60° 2-3rds = 66 years, will no doubt be
found to correspond within a few months, of his Majesty's
coronation, making allowance for the anticipating and retard
ing of directions, mentioned in page 122, of this work ; for
in the significations of directions, the M. Celie a 5 , shews
honor, fame, and preferment in life. And we may here re
mark, that this being a Nocturnal Geniture, and the Moon
200
having dignities in the tenth, and being moreover the condi
tionally luminary of the night, her Trine to the Mid-heaven
points out an increase of honor and dignity as naturally in
this Nocturnal Geniture, as would the direction of the Mid-
heaven to the conjunction, Sextile or Quintile, etc. of the
Sun in a Diurnal Nativity. This eminent direction of the
Mid-heaven to a 5 , is followed very closely by three other
eminently good directions, viz. Asct. * , %, (Mundo) Arc,
62° 2-3rds. the Sun to his own Sextile in Mundo, by Converse
Motion, Arc 62° 2-3rds. and Mid-heaven Quintile ? Arc 63°,
there appears to be something very extraordinary in these
three directions coming so nearly together, at about 68£ years
of the Native's age, and probably may indicate a pleasant and
prosperous time, both to the Sovereign and to the Nation, %
being Lord of the fifth House, her Majesty the Queen, may
bless the Nation by presenting them with an heir to the
throne, etc.
There is also a direction of an unpleasant nature operating
not far from the present time, viz. Asct. Sd ^ Arc 60°, and
which answers to 6o^ years nearly. But as the benevolent
directions are more numerous than the malevolent, there are
strong scientific reasons to conclude, that the good directions
will prevail, and that the S d £ , to the Ascendant, will pass
over without injury to the Native, as I believe it will ; and
therefore let us all hope and pray, that his Majesty who has
already shewn himself the friend of liberal institutions, and
the Protector of Civil and Religious Liberty, may yet live
many years in health, and in the enjoyment of domestic
felicity, and in promoting the prosperity and happiness of all
classes of his subjects.
In concluding this Introduction, I will now add a few
words of friendly advice to the Students and Professors of
the Astral Sciences, that they may
Avoid giving Rash and Inconsiderate Judgments on
Nativities.
If you meet with a Nativity, in which there is the Quartile
or Opposition of either of the Luminaries to Saturn or Mars,
do not be rash in giving your judgment on the same, because
that you may find one or two malevolent Aspects, do not
201
thence hastily conclude that the Native will die a Violent
Death ; for recollect, that the same Aspects do also signify
a severe illness or fever ; but duly take into consideration the
good Aspeets, the Sextiles, Quintiles, the Trines and Biquin-
tiles found in the Nativity, and also the good Positions of
the Benefics If and $ ; observe, whether % or $ be present
in the Ascendant, or, in the Tenth House, or in any good
Aspects thereunto, carefully consider the good as well as the
evil Aspects and Positions. It is for want of thus duly con
sidering both sides of the Predictive Speculum of human
life, that many Artists or Professors have by their hasty
judgment given rise to unfounded apprehensions and ground
less alarm in weak minds, whereupon many illiberal, igno
rant, and inconsiderate persons have taken the opportunity
to censure and disparage this Sublime Science, when the
Artist, or Professor only ought to be blamed : I do there
fore most earnestly request every Student and Professor of
the Predictive Science, not to overlook or neglect, but first
carefully to consider all the good, as well as evil Aspects
and Positions previous to giving judgment on any Nativity.
2 C
202
A TABLE,
For converting Hours, and Minutes of Hours, into
Degrees and Minutes ofthe Equator, and the con
trary.
Time. Deg. Time. Deg. Time. Deg. Time. Deg.
Hour 0 Min. 0 • Min. o ' Sec. o '
1 15 1 0 15 31 7 45 4 0 1
2 30 o 0 30 32 8 0 8 0 2
3 45 3 0 45 33 8 15 12 0 3
4 60 4 1 0 34 8 30 16 0 4
5 75 5 1 15 35 8 45 20 0 5
6 90 6 1 30 36 9 0 24 0 6
7 105 7 1 45 37 9 15 28 0 7
8 120 8 2 0 38 9 30 32 0 8
9 135 9 2 15 39 9 45 36 0 9
10 150 10 2 30 40 10 0 40 0 10
11 J 65 11 2 45 41 10 15 44 0 11
12 180 12 3 0 42 10 30 48 0 12
13 195 13 3 15 43 10 45 52 0 13
14 210 14 3 30 44 11 0 56 0 14
15 225 15 3 45 45 11 15 60 0 15
16 240 16 4 0 46 11 30
17 255 17 4 15 47 1145
18 270 18 4 30 48 12 0
19 285 19 4 45 49 12 15
20 300 20 5 0 50 12 30
21 315 21 5 15 51 12 45
22 330 22 5 30 52 13 0
23 345 23 5 45 53 13 15
24 360 24 6 0 54 13 30
25 G 15 55 13 45
20 0 30 58 14 0
27 a 45 57 14 15
28 7 0 58 14 30
29 7 15 59 14 45
30 7 30 60 15 0
This Table will be found of great use in a variety of As
tronomical calculations, particularly in erecting Figures of
the Heavens for Nativities, and for other purposes, etc. The
manner of using this Table is so obvious, as to need no expla
nation ; see its use exemplified in page, 86.
C0m$*tt!f}t$tt! ®f <B&tv®l®$$:
COMPRISIXO
THE ESSENCE OF THE SCIENCE,
To be found only in scare* and voluminous works, and which
the Student cannot procure but at a very high price.
■»♦«•■
Seven Planets move constantly in these twelve signs ;
their names, characters, and qualities, are thus distinguished.
fj Saturn . .
H. Jupiter . .
$ Mars . . .
0 Sol (the Sun)
9 Venus . .
3 Mercury
Cold and dry
Hot and moist
Hot and dry
Hot and dry
Cold and moist
Convertible, variable
B Luna (the Moon) . Cold and moist
The twelve signs of the Zodiac are divided into triplici-
ties, according to the four elements, fiery, airy, earthy, and
watery.
Fiery ~1 C <r Si t
iXj**—J si?
Watery J (. ss m, X
Fiery signs are said to ba in nature hot and dry ; airy signs
hot, and moist ; earthy signs, cold and dry ; and watery signs,
cold and moist.
They are also divided into moveable, fixed, and commas
signs, as,
<r © A yp moveabla
« SI ni ZZ fixed
n ttfl, f X common
201.
With relation to their fixed, common, or moveable quali
ties, they behold each other with a Q .
<r n SI ** t XX masculine
8 © rtn n\ Y? X feminine
58 Si in. ^ tqi £ signs of right ascension
"W jS? X V H n signs of oblique ascension
n X and the beginning of f are doubled bodied signs
93 tn, X fruitful signs
n Si «ft barren signs
They are divided into four parts, answerable to the four
quarters of the year.
Vernal <r « n to the spring quarter, hot and moist—
sanguine.
JKstival § Si iTR to the summer quarter, hot and dry—
choleric.
Autumn ^ tn, t to the harvest quarter, cold and dry—
melancholy.
Winter yf XX X the winter quarter, cold and moist—
phlegmatic.
The signs are also termed,
Mute » ni X
Humane n ttfi. XX
It should be observed that a planet in <r casts his dexter
* to xx, and sinister * to § ; his Q dexter to vj5, D sinis
ter to 2 ; a dexter to f , a sinister to SI, and his $ to ^;
and so of the rest.
The Signification ofthe Twelve Houses of Heaven.
The First House, or Angle, is called the east angle ascen
dant; or properly, in nativities, the horoscope, in the hour
of birth; and signifies the life, complexion, will, manners,
and understanding ; of the native it signifies the head and
face.
The Second House signifies the estate, fortune, property
and riches of the native. Also gain, gold, silver, and all
moveable goods without life. It is a succedent house.
The Third House signifies brethren, sisters, kindred, short
journies and voyages. It is a cadent house.
The Fourth House signifies fathers, houses, lands, immove
able property, orchards, tillage, hidden treasures, or things
under the earth ; prison, the grave, obscure places, and deso
late ; finally, the good report after this life, and the period
of all human affairs.
205
The Fifth House signifies kindred, joy, pleasure, gifts, de
lights, bravery, the riches of the father. All profit, by the
fourth house, playing, gaming, drinking and debauchery, is
a succedent house.
The Sixth House signifies servants, sickness, all cattle unfit
for labour, as sheep, dogs, hogs, fowls, and wild beasts ; also
hunters, gaolers, prisons, false accusations. Deseases of the
native, or sickness, signifies uncles, aunts, or the father's
hrother's sister, one's steward, tenants, and, in a word, all
small cattle and birds.
The Seventh House denotes marriage, wives, law-suits, con
tentions, controversies, and quarrels, common persons, and
all the men we deal with, &c, and this is the west angle. In
law-suits it is the defendant ; in war, enemies : and indeed
all kind of opposition ; also thefts, thieves, robbers, &c.
The Eighth House signifies death, sadness ; riches un-
thought of, as legacies, dowries, the estate or property of
those we deal with in trade, or partners, and all the benefit
of the seventh house. It is a succedent house.
The Ninth House signifies religion, long journies, and
voyages, ceremonies, faith, the great arcana of nature, all
arts and sciences, the law, clergyman navigation, kindred of
the wife, church livings, transmutation of metals, metaphy
sics. It is a cadent or falling house.
The Tenth House is the Medium Cceli ; it is the south angle
or mid-heaven, signifying kings, nobles, judges, princes,
governors, magistrates ; denotes honor, advancement, digni
ties, perferment, public offices, trade and mercantile employ,
commanders, the mother of the native, and all benefit of the
ninth house : also the father of the wife ; being the fourth
from the seventh.
The Eleventh House signifies friends and acquaintances,
hope, the things we wish and desire, companions, the advice
of friends, their council, their falseness or fidelity, all the
profit of the tenth house. It is a succedent house. It signi
fies praise or dispraise of any person ; it shews the support
and aid of those in power ; as to kings, their strength, war
like force, and treasure.
The Twelfth House signifies secret or private enemies,
prisons, captivity, slavery, or bondage, evil spirits, torments,
treasons, villainy ; all great cattle, fit for labor, as horses,
oxen, &c. it is a cadent, falling house. It denotes also suicide,
trouble of mind, tribulation of all sorts, and all the misfor
tunes of mankind.
206
Of the Quarters ofHeaven signified by the Twelve
Houses.
V East First is East
8 S. by E. Second — N. E. by E.
n W. A by S. Third — N. N. E.
North. Fourth — North.
a E. & by N. Fifth — N. W. by W
m S. & by W. Sixth — W. N. W.
A West. Seventh — West.
"I N. & by E. Eighth — S. W. by S.
-r E. & by S. Ninth — S. S. w.
yp South. Tenth — South
#**# W. & by N. Eleventh — S. E. by E.
K N. & by W. Twelfth — S. S. E.
Before any judgment can be given on a nativity, it is re
quisite to be known, whether the Native is of a long or short
life, I have therefore selected the following general rules.
Signs of Death in Infancy.
1. If the birth be precisely on a New or full Moon.
2. If the Moon be in conjunction of Saturn and Mars, in
the 6th. 8th. or 12th. House of the Figure, or in $ •
3. If the Moon be in quartile or opposition of Saturn or
Mars in the 4th. House.
4. If the Moon be besieged by the Sun and Mars.
5. If an Eclipse impede the Light of Time in the hour of
birth.
6. If all the Planets be subterranean, and neither the Sun,
Moon, nor Lord of the Ascendant essentially fortified.
7. If the two Malefics are conjoined in the Ascendant.
8. If an Infortune in the Ascendant vitiate the degrees
thereof, or by quartile or oppositions.
9. If the Lord of the Ascendant be combust of the Sun,
and at the same time Cadent and Retrograde.
10. If the Dragon's Head or Tail be in conjunction of
Saturn or Mars in the 4th.
These configurations, by long and invariable experience,
are found to destroy Life in Infancy, except the benefic rays
of Jupiter or Venus interpose, and by joining in the aspects,
modify and remit their malignant effect.
Observe that Mars hath greater power of destroying life
when posited in Aries and above the Earth, in a diurnal
Nativity ; and Saturn, when posited in Capricorn and above
the Earth, in a nocturnal Nativity.
207
Sign* of Short Life.
If the degree Ascending Sol or Luna are extremely afflict
ed, or either of them, it is an argument of short life, and
therefore it will be in vain to form long directions for such a
nativity. These points are said to be afflicted or unfortunate,
when either the conjunction, quartile or opposition of the
Infortunes vitiate their places, or when many violent fixed
Stars of the nature of the Lord of the 8th, ascend with the
degree ascending, or with the Luminaries.
The Moon besieged between Saturn and Mars, argues
Short Life.
Signs of Long Life.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be essentially strong, free
from the affliction of the Infortunes, not combust, nor retro-
gade, nor impeded by the Lord of the 4th, 6th, 8th, or 12th,
Houses, but increasing in number, light, and motion, it shews
Long Life.
If the Sun in a Birth by day, or the Moon in a Birth by
night, be strong, free from affliction, and assisted by the For
tunes, it shews Long Life.
Signs of a Violent Death.
You must first consider the Sun and Moon, secondly, Sa
turn and Mars, ann their signs, which are called violent, viz.
Aries, Scorpio, Capricorn, Aquarius, Libra, wherein Saturn
hath more signification unto Death, Mars to the kind there
of; thirdly, the 8th. House and Lord thereof; fourthly, the
Lord of the Ascendant ; fifthly, the fixed Stars of the nature
of Saturn and Mars, the principal whereof are Caput Algol
in 23. 27' Taurus, Oculus Taurus in 5. 43' Gemini, Hercu
les 20. 30' Cancer, Right Shoulder of Orion in 25. 58' Ge
mini, Cor Scorpio in 6. 15' Sagitarius, Chaelae in 11. 15'
Scorpio.
First, both the Luminaries in violent Signs, not both in
one Sign, but in divers which behold not one another, por
tend a violent Death.
The Lights are said to be in contiguous Signs, when the
Moon is in Aries, and the Sun in Taurus, or the Moon in
Aquarius, and the Sun in Capricorn, and so in the others.
Both the Luminaries with violent fixed Stars, and within
the distance of five degrees, threaten a violent Death ; the
Moon with Cor Scorpio, and the Sun with Oculus Taurus,
without doubt declare a violent Death ; and then most cer
tainly when the Lord of the Ascendant and of the Eighth, is
in conjunction with either of the Lights.
208
These Rules then hold good, and take effect, when the
Lord of the Ascendant or of the Eighth House, is in con
junction with one of the Lights; or when either the Sun or
Moon have dominion in the first or eighth House.
If either the Sun or Moon be in violent Signs, and the
other of the Lights with a violent fixed Star, it prenotes a
violent Death : but in this case it is necessary, that together
with this configuration, one of the Infortunes afflict either
Sun or Moon, or the Lord of the eighth.
Secondly, both the Luminaries unfortunated by Saturn and
Mars, so that one of the lights, and one of the Infortunes be
in a violent Sign, or with a fixed Star, portend a violent
Death.
If both the Luminaries be afflicted only of one of the In
fortunes, the other Infortune being impedited or posited in a
violent Sign, and having dignities in the eighth, it threatens
violent Death.
The Conjunction of Saturn and Mars in an angle, es
pecially in the Mid-heaven in a violent Sign, infesting only
one of the Lights, threatens a violent Death.
The Conjunction, Quartile Opposition, or mutual aspect of
the Infortunes in other Signs as well as in the violent, both
in Angles, one of them challenging power in the eighth,
portend a violent Death.
A malevolent Planet in the eighth, and the Lord of the
eighth afflicted of an unfortunate Planet by nature, who is in
a violent Sign, both the Lights or either of them afflicted in
a violent Sign, portends violent Death.
The Lord of the eighth in the Ascendant, and in his de
triment or fall, or in a violent Sign, or with a violent fixed
Star, and one of the Lights infested of either of the malignant
Planets denotes a violent Death.
The Lord of the eighth in his detriment or fall, afflicted
by one of the Infortunes, and together with this, either of the
Luminaries, or the other Infortune in a violent Sign, demon
strate violent Death.
The Lord of the first in a violent Sign, or infested of the
malevolents, and the disp.ositor of the Light of Time being
also in a violent Sign and afflicted, portends violent Death.
The Lord of the first in the eighth, being naturally an In
fortune and afflicted besides, &c. shews a violent Death. But
if he be not naturally a malevolent Planet ; but is in a violent
Sign, and impedited by the Quartile or Opposition of the
Malefics, it portends the same.
The Lords of the eighth and first House, being the dispo-
sitors of either Light, and either of them in detriment and
fall, and one of the Infortunes afflicting the other Light in a
violent Sign, these shew a violent Death.
209
The Moon in the 7th, in Signs where fixed Stars of a vio
lent nature are placed, viz. Taurus Gemini Cancer Sagittari
us, and in Quartile or Opposition of Sun, or an evil Planet
posited in the eighth, or having dominion therein, and hoth
being in Signs violent, these are arguments of a violent
Death.
But notwithstanding all the precedent Rules are to be ad
mitted, and you have a full signification of a violent Death,
yet Lilly saith if one of the Fortunes be in the Ascendant
and the other in the eighth, all fear of a sudden or violent
Death is taken away.
The Manner or Kind of a Violent Death.
(From Lilly.)
The Signification hereof, is taken from that significator
who doth most heavily afflict the significators of Death, or
hath principal authority and force in the places of the signifi
cators of Death, viz. of the Luminaries, the Lord of the As
cendant, Lord of the eighth, or of these Houses, commixing
with him the nature of the Sign, and sometimes of the House
of Heaven in which he is posited.
Saturn properly according to his own nature, denotes Death
by drowning, Shipwreck, ruin of old Buildings, and Poison.
Mars, by Fire, Iron, Thunder or Lightning, shot of Guns,
stroke of Horses, both of them by some Fall from on high,
or strangling.
Nature of the Signs in this Manner of Judgment.
Fiery Signs, Aries Leo Sagittarius, by Fire, Thunder,
Ligntning, Gun-shot.
Airy Signs, Gemini Libra Aquarius, Fall from on high,
Beheading, Strangling, and Hanging
Watery Signs, Cancer Scorpio Pisces, Drowning.
Earthly Signs, Taurus Virgo Capricorn, by Rain, Cassu-
ality or falls.
Human Signs, Gemini Libra Aquarius, denote Death by
a Man, as by Arms or violence.
Nature of the Houses.
Tenth House, death by command of the Magistrate.
Twelfth, by Horses or great Cattle, or privy Murders.
Sixth, by Servants, Slaves or Neighbours.
When two, three or more testimonies concur, be more con
fident, as Mars author of Death, in a fiery Sign, the Death
will be by Fire, Sword, &c.
2 D
210
But for the more perfect judging of the quality, and by
what means a violent Death shall come, I have collected out
of eminent Authors, together with my own judgment such
Aphorisms, as they and myself have found true by experi
ence.
Rules of Saturn and Mars.
Saturn in Pisces and the Moon in Virgo, or Saturn in a
watery Sign, and the Moon in Opposition to him, shews the
Native will die by Water, viz. be Drowned, or else die by
Drinking too much Wine.
Saturn in Scorpio, in Conjunction with Mars, and the
Moon in Virgo making application to them, declare the Na
tive will be suffocated or drowned.
Saturn in the watery triplicity, and the Sun conjoined with
him, either by Conjunction, Quartile, or Opposition, are
great arguments of Drowning, more especially in the eighth.
Saturn in the seventh, in Opposition to the Sun, or Moon,
shews death by Imprisonment, Sluttishness, Poison, Poverty,
Fear, torments in a Dungeon, or by some violent Fall, or in
exile, &c.
Saturn in the tenth House, in Opposition to the Light of
Time, declares death by the Fall of Houses, but if a watery
Sign be on the fourth, by Water.
Saturn and Mars in the Twelfth, imports death or danger
by great Beasts.
Leo, or Sagittarius on the C usp of the Twelfth ; and a
Planet unfortunate therein, signify the Native will receive a
fall from an Horse and so die.
Saturn in Sagittarius in the eighth imports the same.
Saturn and Mars in the seventh in a common Sign, and the
Moon in Opposition to them, declare death by a sudden fall.
Saturn in the seventh with the tS , declares hanging.
Observe, a benevolent Planet mitigates these judgments.
Mars in the seventh in Aries, Leo, or Sagitarius, imports
burning alive.
Mars in the seventh in feral Signs, such as Leo and the
last past of Sagitarius, declares death by ruins, or fall of tim
ber, or Houses, or from fall by Beasts, or Horses.
Mars in fiery Signs in Quartile to Saturn in Cancer, Scor
pio, or Pisces, denotes death by scalding, or hot water.
In each of these significations, you must have one, or both
of the Luminaries, in evil configuration, with him, or other
wise the judgment is but of small import.
Again, if the Lord of the Ascendant, or eighth be in op
position to the Ascendant, the Native will die violently.
211
If the Lord of the seventh, or eighth, be in the ninth in an
earthy Sign, and unfortunate therein, the Native will die by
some sudden misfortune.
If the Sun is joined to the Lord of the Ascendant in Leo,
and Mars hath no dominion in the Ascendant, or any good
Planet, posited in the eighth, the Native dies by Fire.
The same if the Sun be posited in the fourth, in a fiery
Sign in conjunction with the Lord of th« Ascendant, or eighth
House, and afflicted of the Infortunes.
If the Lord of Death be joined by body to the significator
of Life, or to the Lord of the Ascendant, or the Moon joined
to the Sun in Leo, or Sagittarius, with Mars aspecting them ;
or the Sun or Moon joined with a fixed Star of the nature of
Mars, the Native will be in danger of Death by Fire ; if Sa
turn instead of Mars beholds the Luminaries, the Nativewill
be suffocated with Smoke.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be unfortunated by the Sun,
or Mars, and Lord of the eighth, it declares Death by Fire.
All these I have found verified in many Nativities ; but
when none of these testimonies occur, the Native will die a
natural Death.
Signs of Riches and when.
If all the significators of substance, namely the Lord of the
2nd. Planet in the 2nd. if any, Jupiter, the 0, and its dis-
positor, be placed in angles, or the greater part of them, and
be also essentially dignified, it is an argument the Native
shall attain a. very great Estate, have plenty of all things, and
be necessitated in nothing ; and the more testimonies you find
of fortitudes or debilities, the more judgment must be given
of greatness or weakness of the Estate of the Native.
If moderately fortified, the Native shall not exceed or
want, or with Regulus, or Spica Virginis ; or the Fortunes
in good Houses of Heaven.
In this manner of judgment it is no matter whether the
Significators of Wealth and Riches be Fortunes or Infor
tunes.
The Moon fortunate in the Ascendant gives wealth and es
timation all the life long.
The Sun and Moon in a, Sun then in his exaltation,
neither of them afflicted by Saturn, or Mars, gives ample tes
timonies of a large fortune.
The same if both the Luminaries are in a to each other
from masculine Signs, and both in a to the © likewise.
Jupiter in the 2nd, and the Moon in the 1st, or Jupiter in
the Ascendant in his own dignities, and the Moon in the 2ad,
in her dignities, promise wealth.
212
The ® conjoined with the SJ or %, predicts an increase
of wealth.
Saturn dignified in a diurnal geniture in the 8th, in good
aspect with either of the Fortunes, gives an increase of sub
stance by the death of relatives or friends.
So also if the Lord of the 8th, is fortunate in some of his
essential dignities, and is placed in the 10th House, the Na
tive will have good fortune, and acquire an estate by the de
ceased.
If the dispositor of the © is in the 8th, and the Lord of
the Ascendant aspects him, wealth comes by deceased per
sons.
If Saturn is well posited, and essentially strong, and aspect
the Ascendant with a a , the Native becomes rich by lands,
orchards, fields and pastures.
If Saturn is Lord of the 4th House, or posited in the 4th
House, either in his House or exaltation, and is direct, swift
in motion, and in good aspect with the Fortunes, it foreshews
the Native shall acquire an ample fortune by managing quar
ries and mines where metals, coals, stones, or mineral are to
be obtained ; the more potent he is, the more gain may be
expected, and more evidently the effects will appear.
The Lord of the 4th House received by either of the Lu
minaries, or the Planet that disposeth of either of the Lights,
with mutual reception, imports abundance of wealth, by
means of mines, whether coal mines, quarries, lead mines,
etc., iron mines, or the like.
Jupiter in the 4th, in Libra, promiseth the Native much
wealth out of the bowels of the earth, by tin especially, and
argues a good inheritance, or personal estate from the father,
without doubt in this judgment, Saturn is most to be prefer
red when he happens to be in the 4th House, in Aquarius,
and Jupiter shall then be in Libra.
Mars in the 4th, House in Leo, and the Sun in Aries, is
absolutely very promising for the Native to deal in iron mines,
silver mines, or gold mines.
For to be fortunate in coal mines, or lead ore, it is requi
site that Saturn should be in an earthy Sign, in some good
aspect with the Sun, Mars and § , and be either in the 4th,
or having a good aspect to those Planets posited in the 4th.
The time when the Native may expect an increase of
wealth or the goods of fortune, is best discovered by the sig-
nificators, and ® , directed to benefic promittors, unto the 4 ,
* , or a of the Lord of the 2nd, or dispositor of the © , or
Planet in the 2nd, and their several aspects ; yet if any desire
to know in a general way, let him consider in what quarter
of Heaven he finds any of the aforesaid significators of riches,
213
as especially him tbat is most fortified ; for if he, or they are
placed, or the greater part of them between the Ascendant
and 10th House, then the Native shall have an Estate, or
augmentation of riches in his youth, if they are posited in the
Oth, 8th, or 7th, in his manhood, or at those years when be
is of full age, or from twenty-five, to thirty-five or forty ; if
if they are in the 6th, 5th, or 4th, then nearer to old age, or
after forty, and before fifty-five; if they are in the 3rd, 2nd,
or 1st, then towards the latter end.
In this judgment you ought well to consider whether the
Native may probably live many or few years, and according
ly to divide that time, and thereby point out the time of ac
cess to riches.
The significators oriental of the 0 import quickness, and
the time sooner ; but occidental of the © , nearer old age ;
retrograde Planets signify the same thing, viz. they retard ;
the Planets direct and swift in motion hasten the time.
Signs of Poverty.
All the significators of substance weak declare poverty.
The Moon in Conjunction with Saturn in an angle, though
the Native were ever so rich, yet shall he be reduced to
poverty.
The Quartile or Opposition of Saturn and the Moon de
stroys the substance,
The 8 in the 2nd destroys the Natives estate and fortune
be it ever so great, and he will be driven to many exigences
and wants; and Saturn or Mars retrograde, peregrine and
cadent, being in Quartile, or Opposition to the 2nd House
or its Lord, makes the Native perpetually poor.
The Moon combust and her dispositor unfortunate, or the
Place of the Conjunction, or Opposition oppressed of the in-
fortunes, and they cadent, the Lord thereof being an infor-
tune, and strong; or, Jupiter cadent, and his dispositor not
potent foreshews, the Native from a vast estate shall come
to great want.
Again, the Lord of the 2nd combust and © unfortunate,
usually portends confiscation of property, bankruptcy, and
ruin.
Oculus Taurus, Cor Scorpio, or Caput Algol with the ©,
or joined to his Lord, expresses loss of riches, and threatens
poverty.
Observe if the two malefic Planets Saturn and Mars, oc
cupy angles in the Figure and the benefics are posited in suc-
cedent Houses, the Native will experience adversity in the
early part of his life, but prosperity in the end.
214
Excellent Aphorisms forguiding the Judgment on
Marriage.
You are to consider with judgment all the Significators of
marriage, namely, the 7th House, its Lord, and Planet posi
ted in the 7th, how they are affected, principally the Moon
and Venus, if both these Planets be in barren Signs, viz.
Gemini Leo Virgo, and also in cadent Houses, viz. fith, 9th,
1 2th, or even in the 8th, these testimonies import either a
single life, or an averseness to marriage.
If the Significators, but especially the Moon and Venus,
are not so constituted ; see then, if either of them is weak
or little fortified, conjoined to Saturn, he being very potent,
Venus herself alone, not having the support of any Planet by
a good aspect, and if you find the Moon posited in a barren
Sign, or cadent House, or extremely afflicted ; these are ar
guments of no marriage, nor any desire thereto. But in this
judgment you must always understand that Saturn ought to
be very strong ; for if Venus and the Moon be more forti
fied than Saturn, then the preceding judgment holds not
true.
So when in a nativity you find Saturn mors elevated than
either the Moon or Venus, and no Planet assisting either of
them, you may judge the Native's inclination for a single
Life.
You must remember that the other significators of marriage
are also to be examined, viz. whether they be in barren
Signs, or cadent Houses, or much afflicted, and in Conjunc
tion with Saturn, and he well fortified ; for if the testimonies
of these significators agree with the affliction of the Moon
and Venus, without doubt the Native will then never marry.
The Moon in Scorpio, in Quartile of Saturn, he in Leo or
Taurus ; Moon combust of the Sun, and in Quartile or Op
position to Saturn, if she is in Capricorn, Aquarius, or
Libra, the Native never marries.
The Quartile or Opposition of Venus and Saturn helps
much to a single life ; the Moon as well as Venus being in a
barren Sign, and cadent House, and some of the other Signi
ficators either unhappily placed in bad Houses or unfruitful
Signs.
The Testimonies of Marriage are these.
The Sign of the 7th, a prolific Sign.
The Lord thereof fortunate, or a benevolent Planet in the
7th.
215
The Moon and Venus in fruitful Signs, and in the 1st, 5th,
"10th, or 11th Houses.
The Lord of the ascendant applying to the Lord of the 7th,
there being also equal reception between them, the Native
will desire marriage, and when you find these configurations
or the greater part concurring, they are suilicient arguments
the Native will marry, etc.
To know whether the Native will obtain his wife with ease,
or much difficulty, you must consider all the qualities of the
Significators of marriage, wherein if you find the greater part
of them fortunate Planets, or well fortified, he shall then
easily obtain his "Wife ; if they be weak, and are signified by
the Infortunes, then not without labor and difficulty : but if
they be all imbecile and ill affected, then shall he make love
unto many, and be as oft deluded, and in conclusion have
much difficulty in procuring a wife ; in whose nativity Venus
is not in some good aspect with Mars, that party shall sufl'cr
many inconveniences in his loves or affections.
Again, the nature of the Significators is to he considered,
for the benevolent Planets do promise happy success ; the
greater happiness the stronger they are. The malevolent,
usually much labor, although they are very powerful. I
have ever observed, that when Satnrn and Mars are in Op
position out of the 1st, and 7th Houses, or when Saturn alone
hath been near the Cusp of the 7tb, or when Venus hath
been in Leo or Scorpio, and not in aspect of Mars, or when
Mars hath been in Taurus Virgo or Capricorn in the 7th,
whether in aspect to Venus or not, that the Native had ex
traordinary difficulty to procure a wife, and married at last
upon a sudden, but yet prone to Women.
The Time of Marriage.
If all the Significators of Marriage, or the greater part,
and amongst these the Moon is oriental of the Sun, and in ori
ental quarters of Heaven, viz. 10th, 11th, 12th, 4th, 5th, and
6th Houses, then the Native shall marry in youth, or after
his more mature years, shall espouse a young woman.
If the Significators be occidental of the 0 , and in occi
dental quarters of Heaven, viz. 9th, 8th, 7th, 1st, 2nd, and
3rd, he shall either then very late contract matrimony, or else
in his youth marry a widow, or one very aged.
Besides this, observe the motion of the Significators, for if
they be direct and swift in motion, they declare marriage in
youth : but if they be retrograde, slow in motion, or station
ary, they prolong the time.
The more special time is best adjudged from the directions
216
of the degree of the 7th House, or Lord thereof, or of the >
or ? to the degree, or to the Lord of the Ascendant ; the
time of marriage is better discovered in my judgment, by di
rections of the Mid-heaven to the rf , * , a , or a of 9 , if
she was strong in the Radix, or to the same aspects with the
5 ; or by direction of the 0, direct and converse to the body
* > D . or a of 5 or § ; or by direction of 5 to any of the
premised aspects of the 0 or $ ; if the d is directed to n
or g of the 0 or $ , see if it does not fall in the terms of a
fortune, for if not, the direction will be of no force ; also
either the Mid-heaven, or 0, or < , directed to the * , or a
of the Lord of the 7th, or a fortunate Planet in the 7th, de
notes the time of Marriage.
Testimonies of the Number of Wives.
If all the Significators of marriage be in watery Signs,
which we usually term fruitful, for the most part they note
many Wives, or more than one ; the contrary, if posited in
Gemini, Leo, or Virgo.
Among all the Significators the 5 and $ give the most
evident testimonies, as having most power in Men's marriages,
so that either the 5 in the 7th, in any Sign whatever, gives
more than one Wife, unless she is extremely afflicted of l?
or the 0 ; I must confess I never knew that the Native failed
of having a plurality of female friends, (alias, a concubine,
or two,) when the 5 was in the 7th, but not always two
Wives, except she was potent.
The Moon conjoined to one Planet only, whether by pla-
tick or partile aspects, denotes only one wife ; where observe,
when she is thus joined to only one Planet, and is more strong
than the Planet with whom she is in aspect, the man outlives
his wife ; but if the Planet to whom the Moon is joined is
more powerful than the Moon, the husband dies before the
wife.
If the Moon is bodily joined to no Planet, consider how
many Planets, and they direct and free from combustion, and
not in their detriment or fall, do behold her with a partile as
pect, but so as the Moon apply to them, and not they to her,
(the 0 here is not considerable) from thence you may con
jecture of the number of Wives; you must consider the quali
ty of the Signs wherein the Planets are that aspect the Moon,
for fruitful Signs double the number.
If no such things appear as before mentioned, consider how
many Planets, direct and free from combustion, or the Sun
beams, are constituted between the Mid-heaven and $ , mak
ing progress from the Mid-heaven towards the Ascendant,
and so many Wives shall the Native have.
217
If those Planets so posited between the Mid-heaven and
<j> shall suffer by retrogradation or combustion, and yet be in
their essential dignities, viz. either House or exaltation, or
in mutual reception of such dignities, then you may account
those Planets in the number, tor Significators of a Wife, or
Wives.
When these rules hold not, or use cannot be made of them,
observe how many Planets behold the Lord of the 7th, with
a partile aspect, whether they be retrograde or combust, and
from thence determine the number of Wives.
The best approved method I have hitherto found by expe
rience is this ; consider how many Planets there are in the
Sign the D is in, she applying to them, and not separated,
so many Wives the N ative may expect ; if no such bodily
presence be, observe how many Planets, having dignities in
the Sign she is' in, do behold her with a partile aspect, so
many Wives may be hoped for, etc.
Observe this general rule about Wives, if the Significators
be weak, they argue Sweet-hearts and Wenches, or such as
he may woo for Wives, rather than marriage itself: again, if
the Moon apply to a Planet in a common Sign, it argues two
Wives: If she be in a fruitful Sign, and apply to a Planet
in a fruitful or bicorporal Sign, it argues three Wives : if
together with this aphorism, the Sign of the 7th be prolific,
and the Lord of the 7th in a common or fruitful Sign, it is
then without dispute the Native will have three Wives.
To know for whence or what Quarter the Native shall have
his Wife, observe thefollowing Rules.
The Significators of Marriage in the 9th or 3rd House, or
else peregrine, having no essential dignities, portend the Na
tive shall marry a stranger, and not one born in the same
county or country he himself was born in.
The Lord of the 7th in the 9th, or Lord of the 9th in the
7th, intimates he marries one not born near his own country
or place where his own birth was : yet she will prove a re
ligious, rich and virtuous wife, especially if the significator
be benevolent and well fortified : $ Lady of the 9th, in the
1st or 10th, gives a wife born in another country.
Aphorisms concerning the Position of Venus.
If ? be oriental, and in essential dignities, and % in as
pect with her, it prenotes the woman will be master.
Venus in the 2nd, argues the Native marries his wife for
wealth.
2e
218
Venus in the 6th, the Native marries a wife of servile or
low condition, etc.
Venns in the 4th, in Quartile or Opposition to Moon in
Aquarius, shews the wife to be light : if she be in Cancer it
portends the Native will be much given to lechery.
Venus in the 7th, the Native is long ere he marries, and
will love harlots.
Venus in the 1 1th, the Native will cohabit with a woman
having children.
Venus in the 10th, the Native marries a gallant, noble
soul ; if in aspect with Jupiter the more noble.
Venus in the 1st with Saturn, especially if in his own
house, or else in the House of Venus, renders the Native a
wife that is either dishonest, aged, or a very poor sneaking
wife.
Venus joined to Mercury in the 4th, or else in Mercury's
House, Saturn posited in the 10th, portend the Native will
marry a sordid woman, or of no quality : If she be at the
same time in any aspect with Mars, she is strangely evil,
and will be suspected of sorcery or poisons ; in Cancer or
Capricorn; it argues a whore; Moon in the fourth, and
Venus with Saturn in the tenth, the wife will have no chil
dren, either by reason of age, or defect of nature.
Venus and Saturn in Conjunction in the seventh, shew the
Native hath no faculty in, or is impotent to beget children.
Venus in Conjunction with Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury, gives
laborious wives, good house-wives, women affectionately lov
ing their husbands.
Mars with Venus denote the wife full of spirit, moveable,
an ill house-wife, prodigal, and that the Native is or will be
an adulterer.
Saturn mixing his aspect with Venus, increases licentious
ness, filthiness, immodesty; Jupiter fairness, cleanliness,
modesty ; Mercury varies many times for good or evil, as
dignified or unfortunate.
The riches attending his wife, or accruing by her portion
must be considered from those Planets whom I specified be
fore, viz. who did behold the Moon by any good aspect, or
were in Conjunction with her ; for if those Planets be be
nevolent, and essentially fortified, they declare a rich and
wealthy wife, well descended, etc. ; if they be malevolent
Planets and ill dignified, they argue the contrary.
But I must here give you this general caution, viz. that
you consider the quality and birth of the Native, before you
rashly pronounce a noble wife, or one well descended, for
let us admit I have a beggar's Nativity to calculate, and that
he hath Jupiter in Sagittarius, free from all manner of iin
219
pediment, to signify the wife he shall marry, I shall then de
scribe the person of Jupiter and his conditions, but 1 will
not say she shall be noble or gloriously born, but will frame
this judgment, that he shall marry a Wife so qualified, etc.
but one well descended, as unto his condition, perhaps she
may be daughter of some tradesman or farmer, etc. and this
unto him, is as if she was nobly born, considering the differ
ence between a beggar and a farmer, and as whereas being
signified by Jupiter, she ought to be rich, etc. without doubt
a Wife so signified, shall have some pretty portion from her
parents and friends, and shall raise this poor man and beggar
by this her marriage, to a better kind of living or subsistence,
'for the artist must not predict impossibilities, but to every one,
Quod capax, etc.
It must be remembered that this judgment of Lilly's in the
description of the Wife will only hold good in some cases,
for sometimes I have found that neither the Sign on the Cusp
of the 7th House, its Lord, or Planet posited therein, will
describe the person of the Wife, but have prefered that Pla
net who disposes of the Lord of the 7th, especially if it hap
pens to be the Moon or-Venus, all which must be considered,
and guide every judicious artist in his judgment.
But to return.—Generally, the Fortunes, or either of them
in the 7th, especially if strong, argue a wealthy Wife and
well descended : malevolent Planet* in that House denote
much trouble, if they be potent, perhaps the Wife may be
rich, but withall ill conditioned.
The Lord of the 12th in the 7th, or Lord of the 7th in the
12th usually predicts a poor Wife, ill-bred and of obscure
parents.
The Lord of the 7th in the 10th, or the Lord of the 10th
in the 7th, promises a good Wife.
The Lord of the 2nd in the 7th, or Lord of the 7th in the
2nd, promises the same.
Signs of a Good Wife.
The happy aspect of Jupiter to Venus or Moon, with recep
tion, in dignities equivalent, shews a wealthy Wife, and
marriage with a person of great birth.
The Lord of the 7th in the 7th, gives an honest simple
Wife.
The Lord of the 7th in the 8th if he be a fortune, argues
a rich Wife, and born to have an inheritance very ample.
Royal fixed Stars of first magnitude, near the Cusp of the
7th, if the Cusp thereof be also fortunate, these testimonies
argue a rich and good dispo?itioned Wife.
220
Signs of 111 Fortune by a Wife.
Malignant planets in the 7th very strong, denotes riches
with a wife, but not attainable without some scandel or trou
ble.
The Infortunes much debilitated in the 7th, denote Wives,
or a Wife very poor, of an abject and sordid eondition^and
birth
The Lord of the 7th in the Cth or 12th, or on the contrary,
the Lord of the 6th or 12th in the 7th, shews the Wife to be
either a servant, or very poorly born.
It is not good for the Native that either Saturn or Mars be
in the 7th unless the Fortunes aspect them, and be not cadent
from the House, for Saturn causes sorrow and travail in the
matter of marriage, and Mars shews their death and destruc
tion before the Native.
Venus in Quartile or Opposition of Moon signifies preju
dice by marriage.
Venus in the 2nd, in an evil aspect of the malevolent Pla
nets declares detriment by reason of the Wife.
The Moon Lady of the 7th and posited in the 8th, decreas
ing in light denies any great felicity in marriage.
Concord and Disagreement.
To know the mutual love and concord between Man and
Wife you niust consider the Planet or Planets shewing the
number of Wives, whether they be Fortunes, and behold the
Moon with a friendly aspect; if so, they do declare much
love, svyeqt spciety, and that perpetual gopd-will shall con
tinually between them. But if they be malevolent by nature,
and a D or 8 to 5 , they will fall out upon every slight oc
casion, nor will there be ever any perfect unity between
them.
If a benevolent planet aspect the 5 with an evil aspect,
the Native and his Wife shall then agree but moderately, yet
in more things they will accord.
If a malevolent Planet have a friendly aspect to the D ,
they will agree but indifferently, and will be subject to dis
agree in most things, for as the evil aspect of the Fortunes
hurt but little, so the benevolent aspect of the Iufortuues
tends to ill.
What I have said of the good or evil aspects in this matter
hath only relation to the Lord of the 7th and the ) , but not
to any of the other Significators.
The most assured means to know the agreement or disagree
ment of Man and Wife is, by comparing their Genitures to
gether, if they can be procured; wherein if you find the Sun
221
Ln the wife's Geniture, to be the Sign anil degree the 5
was in, in the Man's ; or if the D in the Wife's is the place
of the Sun in the Man's, it is a very good Sign of unity and
concord.
Or if the Significators of marriage are in * or a, they
shew unity and affection : and so contrary aspects, contrary
affections.
Good Planets beholding the Moon, or Lord of the 7th,
with a A> argues concord.
Venus with Saturn beholding Mars, there will arise jea
lousies between the Native and his wife.
Venus in the 12th, designs but ill-marriage ; if Saturn be
also in the 12th, the wife brings but little fortune.
Venus when she is in ill aspect with the Moon or the in-
fortunes, shews distention between man and wife, by reason
of lasciviousness, &c.
The Significators of marriage in moveable Signs, argues
instability in marriage, nor doth any great content arise from
thence.
Venus in a moveable sign, argues an inconstant man in af
fection, nor will he be content with one woman, especially if
the Moon or she be sa or yf ; Venus in a common Sign, ar
gues delight in Marriage.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in a common Sign, and
Venus unfortunate, the Native will not be content with one
woman. If the Moon beholds the Sun with a good aspect,
both of them in humane Signs, and one of the Fortunes as
pect either or both of them, the Native and his Wife will
agree well ; if the aspects between the Sun and the Moon be
evil, and an Infortune have a □ or g to one or both, they
perpetually disagree. The Moon decreasing in light, and in
<$ of $ in a moveable Sign, the Native's Wife never loved
him, but some other man.
Or if the Moon be Lady of the 7th, and decreasing in
light, and be placed in the 8th, the Native will receive no
felicity in matrimony.
Whether a Man or hit Wife shall Diefirst.
It is of the utmost importance to know whether the Native
or his Wife shall die first, and in this judgment you must
have respect to the significators of the Wife or Lord of the
7th House, if these be afflicted by the Infortunes, or posited
in cadent Houses, especially in the second, which is opposite
to the eighth, it denotes the death of the Wife, or long and
tedious infirmities.
The Moon only conjoined to one Planet, and so signify
ing but one Wife, if she be more fortified than the Planet
222
she is with, the Wife dies first ; if the Planet be better for
tified than the Moon, the Man dies first.
The Moon in the fourth, the Native's Wife or Wives will
die first.
When the Moon is separated from Mars, and applies to
Venus in the west, or occidental part of Heaven, the Native
shall have many Wives, but they shall die before him.
The Moon and Venus in 6 with Saturn in the 7th, argue
the death of the Wife, and much ado to obtain one.
Venus in the 4th, in evil aspect of Saturn and Mars, argue
the death of the Wife ; if therein she be in a moveable Sign,
the Native will have many Wives, but they will die before
him.
The Moon in the 7th, in ill aspect of the Infortunes, with
out the assistance of Saturn or Venus, the Wife dieth first.
Venus being occidental of the ©, peregrine, conjunct to
the Infortunes, or in a or 8 of them, signify the Wife will
live but a short space. Venus in (J with Mars, in the 12th,
denotes the Native will be a knave to his Wife, and use her
basely.
One of the Infortunes in the 7th or 4th, the Native shall
bury his Wife.
The Infortunes peregrine in the 7th, having dominion
therein, declares the Native shall see the death of his ene
mies and Wives.
The Lord of the 4th, combust or cadent, the Native's
Wives die before him.
The Lord of the 7th unfortunate in the 8th, denotes the
same.
Marriages of women are materially different to those of
men, for their Significators are the Sun and Mars, the 7th
House and Lord thereof, and the Planet or Planets in the
7th.
From the disposition of these Significators their quality
and position, we judge in the same manner as Men's Nativi
ties, accepting herein the Sun in the place of the Moon, and
Mars in the place of Venus; and here we must consider
whether the Significators be barren or prolific, or are in dou
ble-bodied or fruitful signs ; whether the Significators be
Fortunes or Infortunes, strong or weak.
The Testimonies ofMarriage are these.
If the Significator in a Woman's Nativity be fruitful,
strong in fortunate Houses, and in good aspect of the For
tunes, they then promise Marriage. But if the Significators
be barren, placed in unfortunate Houses, weak and afflicted
223
of the malevolents, they argue no marriage : Venus being oc
cidental in the 7th House, and Saturn in the 4th in a Wo
man's Geniture, argue the Woman hath no great desire to
marry, and that she is nothing delighted in venereous sports.
If the Sun and Moon be in masculine Signs, or in the
same masculine quarter of Heaven, or in one and the same
Sign, it being masculine, the Woman will be a Virago, will
not care for Men, and if she chance to marry, will prove a
refractory Wife.
The Significators applying to each other by benevolent as
pects, or being of themselves Fortunes, argue she marries
without difficulty, contrary aspects and Significators the con
trary.
The special time of Marriage is discerned by direction of
the Mid-heaven or Sun ; the general time by the Sun, for if
he be in (oriental Quadrants, he denotes marriage in youth
either to a young or old Man, or after their full age with a
young Man : if the Sun be in an occidental Quarter, he notes
it will be long before she marries, and then with an old
Man.
The number of husbands is taken from the position of the
Sun, who in a sign of one form, or in aspect with one orien
tal Planet notes she will marry but one. The Sun in a sign
of many forms or in aspect to many oriental Planets, shew
she will marry more than once.
The Sign of the 7th, the Lord thereof and the Sun, in a
common Sign, signify the woman shall have two husbands ;
either the Sun or Mars in a double bodied Sign, signifies two
husbands : Venus in a common or tropical Sign, and her dis-
positer also in such Signs, denotes more husbands.
Again, look to how many Planets the Sun is joined corpo
rally, in the Sign he is in at birth, partillyorplatick, so many
Husbands she will have. If the Sun is joined to no Planet
by body, see how many Planets that have dignities in the
Sign the Sun is in, do behold the Sun, the Sun applying to
them, they not to him, so many Husbands the woman shall
have.
From whence Marry.
If the Significators be peregrine, the Husband will be a
stranger ; or 0, in a woman's nativity, be in the 3rd, it de
notes the same.
To know what Manner of Husband.
Take the Sign of the 7th to signify the shape of his body,
the Lord thereof his conditions ; with reference to the aspects
224
the Lord of the 7th and the Sun have to the other Planets,
and this I ever found the most certain way ; if the Husband
is to be Saturnine, describe 1? , etc., if % , then do so for him,
and so in the rest.
But it must be remembered, in some cases I have found
that neither the Sign of the 7th, its Lord or Planet posited
therein, will describe the husband, but the Planet configu
rated with the Sun, or to which he applies, according to the
Sign in which he is posited.
if rich, contrary to the rules of the ancients I constantly
observe this way, to examine the strength of the 8th House,
the Lord thereof, and Planet or Planets posited therein, and
according to their position and fortitude, so I judge ; for if
these Significators be strong, and free from malevolent as
pects, they argue a rich Husband, and so on the contrary.
If the Lord of the eighth be in his own House, and angular,
I never fear the Husband's estate.
The agreement is discerned from the Significators of Mar
riage being in mutual reception, or in * or a to one another,
or in good aspect with the Fortunes, they then shew unity :
contrary aspects, and the Significators in the 12th, 6th or
8th, portend no concord.
Aphorisms for determining Issue.
The < and $ ln the 5th, and the Lord of the Sign and
Signs wherein they are, free from all manner of impediment,
denotes many Children.
Mercury being oriental, in good aspect with the Fortunes,
for then he participates of their nature, shews many Chil
dren ; but if occidental, and in configuration with the Infor-
tunes, he then denotes Barrenness.
Luna in the 5th promises Children, but if l? be therein in
the same House, they prove ill-conditioned.
If the Sign of the 5th, sign wherein the Lord ofthe 5th is,
and sign ascending be prolific, many Children are promised.
Venus in the ascendant, and % in the 7th, shews issue,
and from them much good to the Parents.
Jupiter in a to <, in humane or moist Signs, gives Chil
dren.
Moon and § with % in an angle, or in aspect from an
gles, signify many Children.
Venus and c in the 5th House, especially in a fruitful
Sign, give much issue, and declares the Children to prove
well.
All the Planets in fruitful Signs, give abundance of Chil
dren.
225
Infortunes in the house of Children, therein unfortunate,
if they be a little weak, the Native may have Children ; if
they be much afflicted or debilitated they will not live ; if
greatly they foreshew sterility.
Venus in the 1st or 7th, in 6 or 8 to J? , or in any com
municative dignities, i. e. he in her term, and she in his, or
if T? be in $ and $ in yf, it argues Barrenness to men, and
Abortion, to women ; or that what is produced, shall die ere
it has seen the light.
Saturn in the 5th, and the © in □ to % , denies Issue.
If Sol, I--. . or $ rule the Ascendant, 5th and 11th, with
out some good aspect of the Fortunes, or if they are in the
house of Children, and no Planet occupy that house, simply
they deny Children.
Sol with T? and $ in the 11th or 5th, aspecting the 5 ,
shew the Native will die without having Children, or if any
be born they die suddenly
Aphorisms shewing the Death of Issue.
Saturn and $ in the 5th and 1 1th, are arguments the Chil
dren of the Native shall not live long.
Sol having dominion in the 5th, joined to an Infortune
leaves not one Child alive.
Sol, \? , and g , in <J in the Mid-heaven, in a or 8 of D >
kills the Children.
Mars in 8 to % , either kills the children, or denotes an
ill-death to them ; so also doth % when in 8 to J? , he then
kills the greater part of them.
Mercury in the Ascendant, and J? in the west, declares
the children will live but a short time.
The Lord of the 5th, in the 8th, shews the Children will
die before the Father.
The Lord of the 5th in & with Infortunes, or with the
Lord of the 8th, or in evil aspect of the Infortunes, kills the
Children, etc.
Brief Observations informing Judgement from the Planet
that is Lord of the Ascendant.
1. If no Planet aspect the Lord of the Ascendant, then
judge by him, not considering the Sign he is in.
2. But- if he be retrograde, or in his detriment, or fall,
judge by the Sign he is in.
3. If the Lord of the Ascendant behold the Ascendant,
judge by the Sign ascending.
4. Lastly, if two Planets aspect the Ascendant, take him
that beholds it most partfle, or he that is in his own House,
before a Planet in his exaltation.
2f
22C
Note. These things are to be considered as well in the
conditions and qualities of the mind, as in the description
and make of the body.
THE NATURE AND QUALITY OF THE SIGNS.
Fiery Signs.
Incline Men to be choleric, hasty, furious, quarrelsome,
revengeful, proud, ambitious, importunate, hardy and rash ;
involving themselves in many troubles and misfortunes ; yet
they are mostly ingenious, but often changing their opinions
and pursuits.
Airy Signs.
Shew Men cheerful, affable, courteous, liberal, free-heart
ed, faithful, good-natured, and loving mirth, such as singing,
dancing, music, and all civil recreations ; of modest manners,
and of sound reason and understanding.
Earthy Signs.
Denote Persons of reserved thoughts, slow in speech, and
deliberate in all their undertakings, keeping close their
counsel and intentions. They also frequently prove to he
very fraudulent, covetous and suspicious, seldom forgetting
or forgiving injuries; often sorrowful and low-spirited ; loving
no ones esteem but their own ; for the most part prudent and
careful, but austere and surly in their manners and deport
ment.
Watery Signs.
Make Men cowardly, luxurious, wanton, mutable, dull,
and sluggish; with low, effeminate, whining voices, very tim
orous and fearful, having much deceit in them ; tiiey are
usually pretty much given to the rchools and nurseries of Ve
nus, which often prove a great injury to them, and sometimes
their total ruin.
THE NATURE AND QUALITY OF THE
PLANETS.
The Luminaries are to be considered as more powerful
and significant than the rest of the Planets; and therefore
any of the superiors in 6 with the 0 in ft, influences much
power and honor to the Native by virtue, of the 0, etc. So
if l? be in (5 with % in f , the House of % , then T? acts in
dependence to his dispositer. Any Planet strong in a good
House, is of good signification, but much better if the Pla
net be a fortunate one by nature.
227
A malefic Planet weak in the 10th House, denies honor,
if he beholds either the Cusp or the Lord thereof, by any
malevolent aspect, then many impediments or obstructions
prejudice or hinder the Native's advancement. Mars strong
in the Mid-heaven, usually portends military preferment,
dignity, or profession.
Saturn or Mars strong in a good House of a Figure, are as
discords in music, corrected to eli'ect a concord or harmony
in sounds ; for being well affected, they cause a perfectgood ;
though it be attended with difficult means or methods to ac
company it.
An Infortune in <J with a fortunate Planet is either im
peded or deprived of the good signified ; for though the for
tunate Planet be in his own House, yet he partakes some
thing of the nature of the Malefic, with whom he is conjoined.
Three Planets or more in <5 , act jointly and severally ac
cording to their respective natures, and to their heavenly
states, but principally according to the nature and state of
the most strong and ruling Planet. If an Infortune, (especi
ally T? ,) be placed between two Pb.nets which are in con
junction, he prevents or retards the good promised by the
other two Planets, the nature or kind thereof is discovered
by the House of heaven wherein such a congress is made.
Two Planets in reception, especially the Fortunes, (as %
in *± the House of $ , and $ in $ the House of "if. ) act or
disperse their influence in a most amicahle method, which be
ing benevolent by nature, their virtues are the more power
ful.
Many Planets in cardinal Signs in any Geniture, always
effect some great things ; if in one House, the Native receives
or suffers an excess of good or evil, according to the nature
of that House. The benevolent Planets, 7£ , £ , and § also,
retrograde in any Nativity, is of eminent import, adding to
the felicity of a Native, and this is the more powerful if they
are applying to the 6 of the Earth or rather © : but the re-
of T? or $ in angles, is ever attended with difficulties and
trogradation unhappinesses, from which positions I shall
always pray libera nos Domine.
WHAT IS A NATIVITY ?
A Nativity or Geniture is the exact moment of birth, or
time of a Child's coming into the world : at this moment the
Stars begin to act and operate in their influence upon their
new born infant, by the power or intervention of those Angels
who rule and govern the constellations than level with the
Horizon, or that ascands upon the horoscope. St. Jerome in
228
his comment upon the xviiith Chapter of St. Matthew, says,
great is the dignity of souls, from every man from his first
rising and appearing under the Stars in his Nativity, hath an
Angel delegated to him for his Custody or Safety.
From these configurations we are enabled to point out the
incidents of the Natives future life, but it is necessary that
the exact time of birth should be well ascertained, in order
to be correct and certain in these speculations. It is well
known that the celestial bodies are in perpetual motion, and
therefore every quarter of an hour must considerably vary
their position ; as does also different parallels from any one
given point of the Heavens ; and hence it is that the latitude,
as well as the true time of birth is absolutely necessary in
calculating or bringing up the directions of a Nativity. The
manner of calculating these directions has been taught in so
clear and easy a manner, in the second and third parts of this
book, that nothing more need be added of the kind in this
fourth part.
General Effects produced by each Planet in each of the
Twelve Houses.
Saturn in the 1st House or Ascendant, shews melancholy
with many sorrows ; if near the Ascendant, short life ; if at
a distance, innumerable troubles. In the 2nd, destroys the
substance. In the 3rd, hatred between brethren ; and danger
and loss in journeying. In the 4th, death of father and mother
before the Native ; loss of inheritance and friends. In the
5th, barrenness, death of children and disobedient ones if
living. In the 6th, much sickness, crosses by servants, and
losses by cattle. In the 7th, an ungovernable Wife ; short
and wretched life, with many public Enemies. In the 8th a
violent death and loss of legacies. In the 9th, many losses
by sea. In the 10th, dishonour, imprisonment, short life to
the parents, death by sentence of a judge. In the 11th,
despair, false friends, death of children. In the 12th, sor
row, trouble, imprisonment, and persecution by private Ene
mies. These are the common effects of T? , when significator,
and weak or meanly dignified.*
Jupiter in the 1st, gives a good happy, and long life, just
• Observe Saturn in the Mid-heaven in a Nocturnal Geniture, is the author
of Infelicity, a destroyer of Substance, and hindereth marriage and children,
chiefly if he be found in the place, Signs or terms of any malefic Star, but if
either of the benevolents (as Jupiter or Venus) behold him with a good as
pect, they take away his malignity, giving those things which Saturn denies,
being so placed by night, but Saturn by night is always evil, especially if un
fortunate in any of the Angles and signifies much evil to the Native, for he
killeth the wife, destroyeth the children and afflicteth the whole course of a
man's life with bitter evils.
229
and honest. In the 2nd, profusion of riches. In the 3rd,
friendship of brethren, and fortunate journies. In the 4th,
lands and inheritances, with an honourable life and end. In
the 5th, many obedient and virtuous children. In the 6th,
health and faithful servants, profit by dealing in cattle. In '
the 7th, an honourable marriage, a good wife, an honest wise,
discreet and virtuous woman. In the 8th, a natural death,
long life, legacies. In the JMh, a true Christian, ecclesiastical
preferment, prosperous sea voyages. In the 10th, preferment,
great and durable honors, and riches by trading. In the 11th,
much happiness, increase of riches, faithful and great friends,
the accomplishment of all his desires. In the 12th, profit
by cattle, victory over private Enemies ; this is to be under
stood if strong ; if weak the good will be much abated.*
Mars in the 1st House denotes shortness of life, quarrels,
scars in the head or face. In the 2nd, poverty, want, and
many troubles. In the 3rd, evil brethren, danger ill travel
ling, an ungodly person. In the 4th, short life to the Father,
strife between him and the Native, destruction to his in
heritance. In the 5th, wicked children, sickly and of short
life. In the 6th, fevers, bad servants, loss of cattle. In the
7th, quarrels, law-suits, public Enemies, sickness, an evil
-wife, a follower of lewd woman. In the 8th, a violent death,
loss of substance, poverty. In the 9th, changing of religion,
loss at sea by robbers, an atheist. In the 10th, troubles from
magistrates, sickness to the mother. In the 11th, false friends,
loss of substance. In the 12th, many private Enemies, im
prisonment, loss by servants and cattle ; this if $ be weak
and afflicted ; if strong there, these evils abate, and some
times, on the contrary good takes place, f
• Observe Jupiter in the 2nd House signifies possessions in foreign Coun
tries, and from strangers, especially if Mercury be joined to him by any good
aspect. But although Mercury be joined with Jupiter, yet if Saturn or Mara
behold them, it signifies mutability of estate, changing from good actions to
bad, and he that hath Jupiter so posited, all the term of his life will be various
and subject to mutability, sometimes abounding with riches, and at other
times cast down under the burden of poverty. In the 3rd, he is neither good
nor evil, but equally moderate, sometimes a helper forward to spend an estate,
and sometimes a gatherer together of riches. In the 4th, according to the
quality of the Sign shews to some discoveries of hidden treasure, and always
giveth to the Native a happy old age to the time of his death. But if the
Sun is in opposition to him he signifies the father to be noble and honourable,
but the Native will spend his estate in his middle age, and get it again after
wards.—Thus placed by night, he gives an indifferent estate, and in process
of time happiness.—In the 5th, he signifies great felicity and preferment ;—
In the 7th, by day, signifies wealth and long life, but in nocturnal Genitures,
he generally signifies wives and children, for the Native shall lose a dear
wife, and see the miserable death of son or daughter but in old age he gives
increase of estate.
t Observe Mars unfortunate in any Angle of a Geniture by day doth van-
230
The © in the 1st, gives honour, glory am! lung life. In
the 2nd, a How of riches continually, but a consumption of it.
In the 3rd, good brethren and jouwics, a stickler for his re
ligion. In the 4th, honour in age, a great, and noble inheri
tance. In the oth, few children, yet such as will be good
and virtuous. In the (ith, diseases of the mind. In the 7th,
sickness, yet a good wife and honourable adversaries In the
8th, a good portion with a wife, danger of a violent death. In
the 9th, ecclesiastical preferment, truly religious, gain by the
sea. In the 10th, greatness, honour, glory, and power, from
Kings, Princes, and noble women, much exceeding the
quality of the Native's birth, the friendship of eminent per
sons. In the 11th, great, noble and faithful friends, the ful
filling of ones hopes. In the 12th powerful adversaries ; this
if strong; if weak in many things the contrary..*
Venus in the 1st, gives health, but inclines to the pleasure
of women. In the 2nd, abundance of riches by the means of
women. In the 3rd, religious, loving brethren advantage
from travelling. In the 4th, an inheritance, and honorable
old age. In the 5th, many comely, obedient, and virtuous
children. In the (ith, sickness from woman kind, faithful,
pleasing servants, profit in small cattle. In the 7th, an ex
ceeding good and virtuous wife, a happy marriage, and hav-
ous ways afflict the Native ; ifby day Mnrs possess one Angle, Saturn another,
and Jupiter another, he signifies a violent death to the Native born under
their influence, and also shews them to be self Murderers.—If bv day Mars
possess one Angle and the Sun another, loss and death by five, if the Moon,
tl<oy foreshow a violent death, aud the mother to die a cruel death.
* Observe the Sun in the Ascendant scarcely gives any brethren : and by
night in conjunction, quartile, or opposition to Mars, signifies the Native will
kill his elder brother, and destroy all his own estate. In the 2nd, shews a
languishing body- a short and sickly life, and crossed with many troubles.
In the 3rd, signifies an evil death to the father. In the 4th, aspected of Sa
turn or Mars, foreshews the death of the father, destruction of the whole fa
mily and estate, yet he signifies a happy old ago, but the Native inconstant
in his affection towards his wife and children. In the 5th, shews the Native
will easily attain to all his desires, but if in connection or sextile with Venus,
he signifies great honor and dignity, aud although Saturn anu Mars be with
him or in aspect to him, it doth not much hurt the Native, because of the na
tural goodness of the ftth House, but is only hurtful to the children of tie Na
tive. In the 6th, without the assistance of Jupiter or Venus, gives great and
long sickness, and if Mars at the same time be in the Ascendant, he afflicts
the Native with hurt, or some wound by iron ; denotes the father to die a sud
den, evil death, and destroys the Native's estate. In the 7th, beheld by Sa
turn and Mars, brings much sickness and affliction, according to the malig
nancy of the afflicting Planet. In the 8th, in conjunction, quartile, or oppo
sition of Saturn or Mars, gives sudden death to the father. In the 10th, in a
diurnal Geniture with Mars in the 7th, and the Moon in any other Angle be
holding Mars, shews the Native shall suffer imprisonment, let him ever so
great. In the 12th, shews sudden death to the father.
23 1
ing but few enemies. In the Nth, a good dowry with a wife,
a natural death. In the Oth, ecclesiastical preferment, a real
religious man, prosperity by sea. In the 10th, honor and
preferment by the means of women, the favor of great wo
men. In tiie 11th, honorable and faithful female friends.
in the 12th, profit by great cattle, frej from the power of
private enemies ; this if strong: if weak, the contrary. *
Mercury in the 1st, gives noble thoughts, good invention,
graceful elocution, a lover of arts and sciences. In the 2nd,
proiit by arts, sciences, books, writing, and the like. In the
3rd, a Mathematician, swift and prosperous journies, a scho
lar, one of an excellent invention, crafty brethren, a moral
person. In the 4th, the getting of an inheritance by craft,
or deceit. In the oth, ingenious children. In Use Gth,theiv-
ish servants, diseases of the breath and brain. In the 7th, a
fomentor of quarrels, vexatious lawsuits; a discreet wife.
In the 8th, augmentation of estate by wills and legacies,
death by a consumption, more especially if in an earthy sign.
In the 9th, an incomparable artist, and one that understands
all sciences and curious arts, even the most obscure and oc
cult things, a finder out of many new and excellent inven
tions. In the 10th, liberal preferment, or a secretary to some
great person. In the ) llh, inconstant friends. In the 12th,
iiis private enemies will be but of little effect. This if Mer
cury be strong and not afflicted ; if weak, the good will
much abate- f
* Observe Venus in the 2nd House, by day, giveth many crosses, hinders
marriage, and gives sudden death to the wife. In the 3rd, she is fortunate,
if well aspected by Jupiter, the Native is religions, and marries one belong
ing to the Church. In the 4th, by night, in Cancer, Capricorn, Gemini, Sa-
gittary, or Pisces, she foreshews widowhood, and Ins:; about women. In the
5th, she is fortunate. In the 6th. in a feminine Geniture, shews the Native
shall have hard difficulty in labor, and usjdergo great peril in child-birth ;
but a benevolent Planet in the 10th, causes happiness and good fortune. In
the 7th, in Taunts, by night, gives a happy old age, but hinders marriage and
children. In the 8th, by dav, she hinders marriage, and sif;.iif:es the wife to
be barren and deformed if he marries, but if Mercury be with her. or malevo
lent Planets behold thein, by a quartile or opposition, or be with them, it
signifies destruction of estate, and death by a gonorrhoea- or apoplexy But
in the 8th, by night, signif<es riches to the Native, and great profit by the
death of women, and denotes a sudden death, but without terror or torment.
In the 11th, with the Moon by day, she gives wealth and good fortune to the
Native from his youth to the day of his death. Hut in the li>tl<, by night-
signif<es dailv trouble and grief to a woman- by reason of lust and unlawful
love ; if the Native be a man, she signifies him to marry his maid, or some
common whore, whereby he is without children, and by day, signifies doatli
to the Native through women- according to the nature of the Sign.
t Observe Mercury in the Ascendant in a diurnal Geniture in hi.'* digni
ties- signifies Philosophers, Grammarians, Geometricians, and such as study
celestial sciences. In the 5th, by night, he signifies profuse spenders of their
232
The Moon fortunate in the 1st, shews the Native will tra
vel, will gain superiority and rule over others, the favor of
Princes and noble woman, and great advantages thereby. In
the 2nd, sometimes riches, sometimes poverty, an unsettled
fortune. In the 3rd many Journies. In the 4th, gain by
travelling. In the 5th, many children. In the 6th, diseases
of the brain, good servants, and gain hy small Cattle. In
the 7th, an honourable marriage. In the 8th, danger of
drowning, but otherwise a long and healthful life. In the 9th,
travels beyond sea, inconstancy of religion, acquaintance with
arts and sciences. In the 10th, great honor unto the Native,
prosperity by sea voyages ; the favor of some noble Woman.
In the 11th, the friendship of great Ladies and noble friends.
In the 12th, the common people, will be his private Enemies.
This if 5 be strong and free from affliction; if weak and
afflicted the contrary.^
The Si in the 1st, shews honesty. In the 2nd, a good Es
tate. In the 3rd, fortunate Journies and honest kindred. In
the 4th, gain by land and travels. In the 5th, long life ;
estate, or that they are intrusted with, and snch as seldom keep any money,
he sometimes also signifies Geometricians and Astrologers. In the 6th, he
hrings great fortnne and highly advances him by learning, especially if ano
ther Planet he in the 10th. In the 10th, he gives the Native success in great
and admirable actions, and a grave, wise, benevolent, and faithful person,
and employed for great Men, etc. If Jupiter beholds Mercury by a sextile
or trine in a Nativity by day, or if Venus beholds him with the like aspect
by night. But if Mars beholds Mercury by either a quartile or opposition
be various ways hinders promotiom by some kind of offence, and often causes
banishment, or some great damage and loss, and if the Moon at the same time
hejoined to Mars it causes a violent death.
§ Observe Luna in the Ascendant by day, conjoined with the Infortunes,
and aspected of no good Planets, signifies a short life to the Native, and caus- •
es blindness through some sudden hurt or wound, if in conjunction with Sa
turn and decreasing in light, but ifjoined with Mars it signifies ruptures hae
morrhoids, and such like infirmities. In the 4th, by day, signifies an ignoble
mother, and her husband to outlive her ; but if Saturn he in any other angle
of the Geniture, and Venus in the West angle, it brings servitude or impri
sonment to the mother. In the 5th, by night, signifies the Native to have
many sons, and joy with or from them, but in a diurnal Geniture she giveth
many daughters. In the 6th, increasing in light, and well aspected by the
Fortunes, gives profit to the Native hy four footed beasts, and health of body.
In the 7th, in a nocturnal Geniture, in her essential dignities, increasing in
light, and well aspected by Jupiter or Venus, gives a happy old age, profit by
Woman, and a happy marriage, but if she is decreasing in light and oppressed
by the malevelent beams of the infortunes especially in a diurnal Geniture
she hinders marriage, and when she doth give a Wife, she is a Widow,barren
or very much deformed and ill-favored. In the 8th, she gives an Estate by
the dead and sudden death without pain or torment. In the 12th, in a noc
turnal Geniture she signifies long life.
These being the most material positions. I have here thought it requisite
to explain them more fully.
233
happy and virtuous Children. . In the 0th, health, good ser
vants, and profit in Cattle. In the 7th, an honest and virtu
ous Wife. In the 8th, shews many Legacies, and a natural
death. In the 9th, sincere piety, prosperity at sea. In the
10th, great honor and preferment. In the J 1th, prosperity
and riches, everlasting and faithful friends. In the 12th, open
Enemies. The position of the 0 gives substance from all
those signified by that House in which it is posited unless af
flicted by the Malifics.
General effects produced by the Planets in each of the
Twelve Signs of the Zodiac.
}} in Yf or zs, signifies wisdom, prudence and stability of
fortune. In t or X , a just man, and one that will be rich
and acquire unto honorable things. In <y< or \\\, a strong
body and furious. In SI, desirous of greatness and honor,
but seldom obtaining it. In y or as , a secret lover of wo
man. In n or trti, one that is studious of arts and sciences.
In =3 , infirmities of the breast and lungs.
IS. in yf or zz, signifies avarice and covetousness, living
always in fear of poverty. In f or X, infinite riches honors
and dignities, aud that among great persons, and clergymen.
In <v> or v\t the Native may rise to honor by war. In SI
shews honor glory, and treasure from Kings and eminent
persons. In 8 or 6, riches by women, or an honorable
wife. In n or tijj- a good rhetorician. In © increase of
substance beyond expectation, with honor and renown ; for
© is not only the exaltation of if. , but also a cardinal Sign
and the northern tropic.
$ in yf or zz, shews a lofty and magnanimous spirit and
wise. In $ or X it shews the acquaintance of Kings, Prin
ces and Noblemen. In <y> or n\_ , a great and ingenious wit,
mathematician. In SI, soreness of the eyes, danger of a vio
lent death. In 8 or £= , luxuriousness, a boaster, given to
falsehood, and a deluder of women. In n or tig, one inge
nious in arts and sciences, but covetous, knavish, and deceit
ful. In s , a wavering, furious, rash man, one that may ar
rive to honor, but will precipitate himself therefrom after
wards.
The © in yf or zz, shews a dejected forlorn man. In /
or X , one that shall attain honor and glory in the world, and
be a companion of Princes and noble persons. In <r or tn-,
a great and eminent man, a commander, captain, or general
of an army, a subtle, crafty, politic statesman. In SI, one
that may attain the height of honor, glory and renown, quod
capax, according to the quality of his birth, and also shews
2g
234
long life if Hyleg and in good configuration with the For
tunes. In x or fi, one that will rise or fall by the means of
women. In n or nj, a good engineer a soldier and mathe
matician. In s- honor by different women, by whom he
shall afterwards receive injury.
9 in y? or zs give hopes of honor and friends, many chil
dren, and old age. In f or X, short journies, imprison
ment, sickness or death. In <r or nt private or public ene
mies, and many journies ; as also a lover of different women.
In SI, a sincere lover of his friends and an affectionate pa
rent. In 8 or £±, a just and religious person, healthful and
of long life. In n or nji-, one covetous, but sickly, and al
though religious, yet an enemy to himself. In Cancer, a
traveller, and one that will arrive to great honor and prefer
ment.
3 in yp or zs, shews honor and travelling by sea, with
much pleasure, but sickness sometimes attending it. In f
or 5£ , lands, inheritances, an honorable wife, and good friends,
but one that does things to his own detriment. In <r or v\,
private enemies, many journies, sickness and a short life. In
SI, lands and inheritances, yet subject to private enemies and
imprisonment. In 8 or *±, much wealth and riches, travel
ling by sea, one religious with some sickness. In n or nji,
wit and ingenuity, knowledge of arts and sciences, honor and
renown, and a lover of children. In Cancer, many good
friends and many journies by land.
The ( in vf or sx, shews one religious, and having many
adversaries, as also sore eyes. If Sagittarius or x , a sickly
body, but one that shall attain honor, glory, renown, and the
favors of great men. In rp or ttt, a lover of friends and chil
dren. In SI, one that shall be very rich through his own in
dustry. In (j or i a great lover of children, and one that
shall have many friends. In n or ttR, inheritances, lands
and private enemies. In Cancer, happiness and long life.
General Effects produced by the Position of the Lords of
the Houses.
The Lord of the Ascendant in the Ascendant, shews a for
tunate and happy life, and one that shall overcome all his ene
mies. In the 2nd, wealth and riches by his own industry.
In the 3rd, many journies. In the 4th, lands and inheritance.
In the 5th, children, and one given to pleasure. In the 6th,
sickness. In the 7th, public adversaries, the Man will be an
enemy to himself. In the 8th, Legacies. In the 9th, one
religious, learned, and a traveller into foreign Countries. In
the 10th, honor, preferment and favor of Princes. In the 1ift,
friends. In the 12th, danger of imprisonment.
235
The Lord of the 2nd in the 2nd, imports great wealth. In
the 3rd, wealth by brethren and travelling. In the 4th, by
the Father. In the 5th, by gaming. In the 6th, wealth by
dealing in cattle. In the 7th, by Marriage and woman-kind.
In the 8th, by legacies. In the 9th, by the church, arts and
sciences, religion, and the sea. In the 10th, by honor, pre
ferment, trade, merchandise. In the 11th, by friends. In
the 12th, by great cattle. In the Ascendant, by birth or good
fortune.
The Lord of the 3rd in the 3rd, shews affectionate brethe-
ren, good journies. In the 4th, gain by travelling. In the
5th, pleasure in travelling, lh the 7th, thieves and robbers,
and sometimes the Native meets with a wife. In the Oth,
death in travelling. In the 9th, religious journies. In the
10th for preferment, trade and the like. In the 11th, for
study and improvement. In the 12th, imprisonment in tra
velling. In the Ascendant, for pleasure, and in pursuit of
useful discoveries. In the 2nd, for profit, wealth and riches.
The Lord of the 4th in the 4th, forshews a good estate or
inheritance, a father of long life. In the 5th, that the estate
shall go to the Native's children. In the 6th, that an estate
may be acquired by physic. In the 7th, that he may have an
estate with a wife. In the 8th, by some gift, legacy of wife's
portion. In the 9th, by merchandise, by arts and sciences,
or by the church. In the 10th, by some office, dignity, or
preferment. In the 11th, by means of a friend. In the 12th,
by dealing in great cattle. In the Ascendant, by inheritance.
In the 2nd, by purchase. In the 3rd, by travel and death of
brethren.
The Lord of the 5th in the 5th, imports strong, lively and
virtuous children. In the 6th, that his children, shall be in
dustrious to gain wealth, and probably by his servants. In
the 7th, that they will travel, and that the Native and they
will disagree. In the 8th, that they shall possess the mother's
dowry. In the 9th, that they shall be given to pleasure, and
go to sea for the father. In the 10th, that they shall be sick
ly, and follow the father's trade. In the 11th, that they shall
have many public adversaries, and prove enemies to them
selves. In the 12th, that they shall have many legacies, but
prove enemies to their parents. In the Ascendant, they will
prove religious and learned, and love their parents. In the
2nd, they will prove honorable and possess the Native's sub
stance. In the 3rd, that they shall have many friends, and
such as will be of their own kindred* In the 4th, that they
will have private enemies.
The Lord of the 6th in the Cth, foreshews sickness, yet
jnst servants. In the 7th, sickness by women and quarreling.
236
In the 8th, danger of a violent death and dangerous sickness.
In the 9th, sickness at sea. In the 10th, sickness from hard
labor and employment in some trade. In the 11th, by the
loss of some friend, or frustration of his expectations. In the
12th, by vexation of private enemies. In the Ascendant, by
irregularity of life. In the 2nd, by loss of some estate. In
the 3rd, in consequence of some journey. In the 4th, by loss
of inheritance, or disappointment in trades. In the 5th,
from vexatious children, and looseness of life.
The Lord of the 7th in the 7th, shews sickness or death to
the Native, yet a good wife. In the 8th, danger of losing
the wife's fortune. In the 9th, she will be a stranger to him
and a traveller. In the 10th, she will be honorable, and
possess a good inheritanse. Iu the 11th, she will be an en
tire lover of him and his children. In the 12th, she will be
his private enemy. In the Ascendant, she will be a very
great lover of her husband. In the 2nd, she will be the aug
mentation of his estate. In the 3rd, she will be a lover of
her husband's kindred, and desire to go beyond sea. In the
4th, she will be very honorable and the Native shall have
land by her. In the 5th, a lover of the Native's children.
In the 6th, she will be a great affliction to the Native her
self.
The Lord of the 8th in the 8th, shews the Native shall die
a natural death, and that he shall have a rich wife. In the
9th, he will be in danger of drowning. In the 10th, his
death may be by sentence of the judge. In the 11th, by the
conspiracy of some pretended friend. In the 12th, by con
spiracy of a private enemy. In the Ascendant, by the Na
tive's own irregularity. In the 2nd, by means of some mo
nies or goods. In the 3rd, either by the conspiracy of some
brother, kinsman, neighbor, or thief. In the 4th, by means
of the loss of an estate, or some grief. In the 5th, by drunk
enness or debauchery. In the 6th, by sickness. In the 7th,
by public adversary, or eminent grief.
The Lord of the 9th in the 9th, shews good sea voyages,
knowledge of arts and sciences, a religious person. In the
10th, that religion will be profitable and honorable, and the
Native shall be famous for his learning. In the 11th, church
dignity, and merchandise by means of a friend. In the 12th,
church lands, and that the Native will have clergymen for
his enemies. In the Ascendant, makes the Native truly re
ligious and learned, and a merchant. In the 2nd, riches by
sea, arts, sciences, and the church. In the 3rd, a sectarian.
In the 4th, gain by the church. In the 5th, one of a loose
religion. In the 6th, honorable church preferment, and yet
the Native may be a slave in his religion. In the 7th, an
237
enemy to the church. In the 8th, death or persecution for
his religion. *
The Lord of the 10th in the 10th, gives great honor, glory
and renown. In the llth, by means of a friend. In the 12th,
through an enemy. In the Ascendant, by the Native's own
industry. In the 2nd, by means of his money. In the 3rd,
by a brother, kinsman, or neighbor, or by travel. In the 4th,
by his father. In the 5th, by a wife's friend. In the 6th,
by means of a servant. In the 7th, by a wife. In the 8th,
by a wife's fortune, it may also signify a violent death. In
the 9th, by religion, arts, sciences, and navigation.
The Lord of the 11th in the 1lth, imports great friends.
In the 12th, private friends. In the Ascendant, friends in
deed to the Native. In the 2nd, such as shall augment the
Native's fortune. In the 3rd, such as are of his kindred or
neighbors, or as he shall find in travelling. In the 4th, his
father. In the 5th, some friends of his wife. In the 6th, his
servants. In the 7th, his wife. In the 8th, some brother's
servant. In the 9th, a clergyman, merchant, or lover of arts.
In the 10th, kings, princes, noble and great persons.
The Lord of the 12th in the 12th, denotes strong and pow
erful private enemies. In the Ascendant, such as are among
his own family or household. In the 2nd, some person en
vying his situation or estate. In the 3rd, kindred and neigh
bours. In the 4th, his father. In the 5th, his children. In
the 6th, his servants. In the 7th, his wife becomes an ene
my. In the 8th, some distant relation. In the 9th, some
merchant, foreign dealer, or dignitary in the church. In the
16th, kings, princes, or men in power. In the 12th, some
particular reputed friend.
General Effects produced by tlte Conjunction of the Planets
The conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter shews inheritances
of houses and lands, possessions, and many worldly profits
arising from cultivating the earth and tillage ; if Mars afflict
not, nor the evil beams of the Sun. If Jupiter is significator
the Native is mistrustful.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mars foreshews much evil,
the Native will be afflicted and vexed, shall undergo many
* If the Lord of the 9th he in the Ascendant, the Native will travel much.
If in the 2nd, he will gain by his travels. If in the 3rd, he cohabits with
strange women, and often shifts his residence. If in the 4th, his parents will
have some occult infirmities, and the Native will die on his travels. If in the
5th, he will have children in another Country. If in the 6th- he will gain by
his servants, and his cattle will fall sick on his travels. If in the 7th, he will
obtain a good and obedient wife. If in the 8th, the Native will be greedy of
procuring an estate, and for that cause will journey beyond the seas, etc.
238
troubles, and go through great difficulties. If you would
know the cause of the good or evil, you must consider the
House in which the configuration happens, and what House
the configurated Planets are Lords of, and accordingly judge
of the particular matter or accident, be it good or evil; for
things are much varied according to the various positions and
domination of the Planets, by which you must necessarily
vary those judgments.
The conjunction of Saturn and the Sun, shews the loss of
inheritance, danger of houses being burnt, the Native likely
to be cheated, to receive much detriment, and it may be,
lose all and become poor ; except a fortunate Planet be lo
cated in the 2nd House.
The conjunction of Saturn and Venus shews one libidinous
and that he shall marry a woman entirely of an opposite tem
per and disposition to himself, get dishonor among women-
kind, be unhappy in marriage, and lead by reason of his wife
a very disconsolate life. If Venus be significatrix, she is
much afflicted ; but if Saturn, then the conjunction is advan
tageous ; and this is to be observed in all similar cases.
The conjunction of Saturn and Mercury, shews craft, sub-
tilty, and policy, that the Native will dive into many secret,
deep, and occult things, find out mysteries, be covetous and
proud, mixed with a certain kind of gravity. If Saturn be
significator, the Native has a good elocution ; but if Mercu
ry, he has a great impediment in his speech.
The conjunction of Saturn and the Moon shews one poor
and obscure. If Saturn be significator, the man is change
able, seldom an hour in one mind, often doing things, and
then repenting of them again ; but if the Moon be significa
trix, he is grave, cautious, malapert, ever wise and conceit
ed, and for the most part wilful in all things.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Mars, if Jupiter be signifi
cator, makes the Native choleric, hasty, angry, proud, bold,
presumptuous and daring, gives him some martial command,
*nd glory and renown in warlike undertakings ; but if Mars
be significator, it makes him milder, religious, good, just,
gives him preferment in the law, or he becomes a priest, dea
con, bishop, or other dignitary in the church.
The conjunction of Jupiter and the Sun, if Jupiter be sig
nificator, he afflicts the Native severely, casts him into a deep
melancholy or despair, seizes him with a fever or frenzy,
brings the body to a consumption, and afflicts the estate with
considerable loss, even to his utter ruin and destruction ; yet
when by direction Jupiter frees himself from the Sun's beams,
these evils will cease ; but if the Sun be significator, he so
debilitates Jupiter, that the configuration can promise no
thing; yet it makes the Native religious.
239
The 4 of Jupiter and Venus, if Jupiter be significator, the
Native is superlatively happy (more especially if the <$ hap
pens in X the House of Jupiter, and exaltation of 5 ) he in
creases in wealth and substance, honor and glory, health of
body and tranquility of mind, having in general the love of
women-kind ; but if $ be significatrix, the Native has health,
beauty, and riches, attains to great honor and renown, is tru
ly virtuous, pious, and religious, and has generally ecclesias
tical or jurisprudential preferment. This is one of the most
happy, fortunate configurations that can be.
The conjunction of Jupiter and Mercury, if Jupiter be sig
nificator, makes the Native virtuous, wise, religious, of great
knowledge and of good elocution, makes a general scholar,
and gives him the knowledge of most arts and sciences ; he
may prove to be the ambassador of a Prince, or such like ;
but if Mercury be significator, the Native is solid, serious,
well disposed, and grave, pious, and religious, and probably
may acquire a good estate by merchandise, or some ecclesias
tical promotion.
The conjunction of Jupiter and the Moon, if Jupiter bo
significator, the Native proves a traveller, probably beyond
sea, he is generally of a changeable and mutable mind, and
although naturally of a very good humour and condition, yet
sometimes froward, pettish, and peevish ; if the Moon be sig
nificatrix, it gives riches and treasures, according to the Na
tive's capacity or birth, makes him wise, prudent, religious,
and honorable, give him the acquaintance of great and wor
thy men, clergymen and such like, and probably church pre
ferment.
The conjunction of Mars and the Sun, shews a hot and dry
constitution, danger of short life, and death by hectic fevers,
marasmus, or by fire or lightning; if Mars be significator, the
Native has the favor of Kings and Princes, and it may be
their frowns too, to his utter undoing ; he may rise hastily,
but perhaps to a precipice : if the Sun be significator, the
Native proves valiant and warlike, attains some martial com
mand or preferment, but if he goes into war he is killed in
the battle, or at best comes of wounded, or with the loss of
a limb.
The conjunction of Mars and Venus, if Mars be significa
tor, the Native is given up to women, and retains the ac
quaintance of such as have an infamous life and conversation ;
he is gentle, kind, and courteous, and though sometimes has
ty, yet of a good humor and disposition, so that his kindness
is oftentimes his undoing ; but if Venus be significatrix, the
Native is lustful, lascivious, a fornicator, adulterer, given
over to wicked and lewd courses, hasty, rash, proud, incon
240
siderate, quarrelsome, and running himself into many ha
zards, dangers, troubles, and losses.
The conjunction of Mars and Mercury, if Mars is signifi-
cator, he makes the Native talkative, pragmatical, a smatter-
er in learning, a babbler and deceiver, yet industrious for
the promotion of his own ends and designs, it gives no great
preferment, he may be a knavish apparator, cheating petty
logger, or pedantic pedagogue ; but if Mercury be significa-
tor, the Natives proves one of harsh manners and conversa
tion, of an ill life, a thief, felon, highwayman, murderer,
traitor, etc.
The conjunction of Mars and the Moon, if Mars be signi-
ficator, the Native is of evil manners and infamous conversa
tion, rises to no great preferment ; but if it should so happen
that the scale should turn, his advance may be by means of
some great lady ; but if the Moon be significatrix, the Na
tive is bold, rash, furious, adventurous, quarrelsome, given to
cruelty and base actions, may prove a thief, murderer or trai
tor ; seldom lives long, for this position declares a short life,
and that the Native may die a violent death by the means of
fire, iron, a fall, blow, wound, or by the hands of the execu
tioner.
The conjunction of the Sun and Venus, if the Sun be sig-
nificator, it makes the manners of the Native soft and efl'e-
minate, yet he is born to glory, and to do and perform great
actions ; he obtains the love of women, but associates himself
with such as are base, obscure, infamous, and much below
his rank and qualities ; if Venus is significatrix, it shews a
short life, one aiming at glory, but not attaining it ; the Na
tive is hective or consumptive, melancholy, meets with many
crosses, losses and vexations, lives not out half his days.
The conjunction of the Sun and Mercury, if the Sun be
significator, the Native is endowed with wit, ingenuity, arts
and sciences, understands languages, and the power of words,
and because Mercury delights to be under the Sun's beams,
not being thereby hurt as the other Planets, the Native has
excellent elocution, and proves a good rhetorician and logi
cian ; if Mercury is significator, he exercises all his wit, craft
and policy, for the accomplishing of high matters, and the
attaining of great things; he becomes the favorite of a King,
Prince, or great man.
The conjunction of the Sun and the Moon, if the Sun be
significator, though he generally gives a great spirit, and aim
ing at magnificent things, yet this configuration gives only
mean acquaintance, and the society of common people, makes
him mutable and changeable, and his fortunes as unstable ;
if the Moon be significatrix, the Native shall aim at noble
2-H
things but not attain them, many crosses shall befall him,
and his life shall be short.
The conjunction of Venus and Mercury, if Venus be sig
nificatrix, it gives a delicate beautiful body, endowed with
wit, ingenuity and eloquence, makes the Native courteous,
and complaisant, furnishes him with variety of arts and learn
ing, and is a configuration of very good import : if Venus be
Lady of the 2nd, it gives a good increase of fortune through
merchandise, or the study of arts and sciences; if Mercury
be significator, it makes the Native an orator, furnishes him
with courtship, soft and effeminate words, makes him plea
sant in all company, gives him the society and love of wo
men ; and if Venus be strong, of great ladies, in short it makes
him exceedingly happy.
The conjunction of Venus and the Moon, if Venus be sig
nificatrix, makes the Native mutable and changeable, a mere
Proteus, yet with a deal of pleasantness and satisfaction to
others, it makes him of many words, a great promiser, but no
performer, lofty, proud, conceited, and gives him profit by
the sea, and all lunar and moist commodities ; if the Moon
be significatrix, the Native is very effeminate, and courtly,
having a voluble tongue, free language, and excellent dis
course, inclined to the love of women, which if Venus be
strong, is only to such as are virtuous ; delights in music,
dancing, and merry company, never thinking of sorrow, or
laying any thing to heart.
The conjunction of Mercury and the Moon, if Mercury is
significator, makes the Native travel into foreign countries,
desirous to see new things, fashions and places ; gives him
favor and esteem among the ladies, and to be in great esti
mation among the populace, by means of whom he rises to
a good fortune and great prosperity in the world ; if the 5 is
significatrix, it makes the Native ingenious and a lover of
learning, seeking after the knowledge of most arts and sci
ences, chiefly the mathematics, geography, and navigation,
by which he attains credit and reputation ; he delights in
journies and embassies, being of a mutable and inconstant
humor and disposition.
General Effects produced by the Sextile and Trine of the
Planets.
The sextile and trine of Saturn and Jupiter, if Saturn be
significator, makes the Native wise, grave, sober, religious,
and endows him with riches and treasures of this life, gives
him the favor and acquaintance of the rich and great, or the
Native becomes a merchant and gains considerably by it ; if
2h
242.
Jupiter be significator, the Native is more propense to me
lancholy, is inclined to dig and delight in the earth, and fol
low husbandry ; some estate, inheritance, or houses may fall
to him ; and he may be promoted to some ecclesiastical dig
nity for his worth, learning, and virtue, however Saturn
shews cowardice.
The sextile or trine of Saturn and Mars, if Saturn is sig
nificator, his natural slowness and weariness turns into rash
ness and boldness, yet with a kind of temerity, he runs into
precipitate actions, and adventures ; it commonly gives mar
tial preferment : if Mars is significator, the rashness and dar-
ingness of disposition is much abated, and the Native is
guided by very deliberate councils ; if he proves religious,
(as such seldom do,) he is an absolute sectarian, following
pertinaciously the sentiments of his own mind ; it shews an
estate in land or legacies.
The sextile or trine of Saturn and the Sun, if Saturn is
significator, the Native has an austere countenance, light
brown hair, large bones, not very fleshy, stoops a little in go
ing, has a show of generosity and nobleness in his actions,
but passionate and seeking revenge, yet without any great
courage or valor if put to the trial, he probably may attain
preferment at court ; if the Sun is significator, the man is
more corpulent, yet with a very decent body, and a full
round face ; giving to boasting and ostentation, willful and
conceited, yet without any kind of malice, scarcely injuring
any but himself, by too much extravagant expence and pro
digality.
The sextile or trine of Saturn and Venus, if Saturn is sig
nificator, the Native is comely, having brown hair, a delight-
er in women's company, wasting his patrimony upon the fe
male sex, scarcely leaving any estate behind for his succes
sors, given over to pleasure and voluptuousness ; if Venus be
significatrix, the Native is modest, shamefaced, yet loving
his belly well, very affable and courteous, and inclined to
few vicious actions ; gains by the dead, from ancient people,
and from the fruits and profits of the earth ; he has a good
repute and conversation, and scarcely marries till after thir
ty years of age.
The sextile or trine of Saturn and Mercury, if Saturn is
significator, the Native is conceited, full of whims, plots and
contrivances, yet not often with effect, though carried on with
a great deal of ingenuity ; he loves curiosities, and is studi
ous, subtle and reserved ; if Mercury is significator, the Na
tive is peevish, discontented and dejected in his own mind,
has strange fancies, and is very willful, even sometimes to
his own ruin ; given to study arts and sciences, and finding
out many curious inventions.
243
The sexlile or trine of Saturn and the Moon, if Saturn is
significator, the Native is willful, very changeable of disposi
tion, subject to jealousy and mistrust, if Saturn be well for
tified the Native becomes popular and gains much wealth
and estimation by the common people ; he also gains the fa
vor of some eminent lady, and becomes famous in his gene
ration ; if the Moon is significatrix, the Native is cold by
nature, and of an ill complexion, inclinable to sordid and
mean actions, yet deliberate, and if he does ill, does it with
pre-consideration ; apt for invention, but very willful in all
things, conceited, so that he thinks nothing well done but
what he does himself.
The sextile or trine of Jupiter and Mars, if Jupiter is sig
nificator, it shews one of a noble and free disposition, bold,
valiant and honorable, attempting and attaining bra\ e and
honorable exploits, generous to his friends, obliging to hi3
enemies, yet desiring and endeavoring to rule, he is also re
solute and subtle ; if Mars is significator, the Native is of a
large soul, cheerful and merry, of a jovial disposition, active,
courageous, pious and very just, ennobled with valor, victory
and virtue, one of good fame, obtaining the favor and good
will of great and worthy persons.
The sextile or trine of Jupiter and the Sun, if Jupiter is
significator, it shews a strong, tall, well proportioned body,
of a fresh, ruddy complexion, a noble, generous, courageous
soul, and of a magnanimous mind, attempting and achieving
great and honorable things ; or becomes the favorite of some
King, Prince, or great person, and rises to the top of prefer
ment ; if the Sun is significator, the Native is born to honor
and glory, and quod capax, arrives to the highest of all world
ly felicities ; he is a man of great spirit, performing benefi
cent and honorable actions ; as Jupiter endows him with a
fund of treasure, so the liberal spirit of the Sun makes him
waste it by his too great generosity.
The sextile or trine of Jupiter and Venus, if Jupiter is
significator, gives a tall and complete person, of a loving,
pleasant, courteous disposition, kind to the female sex, of an
exceeding good nature, and the patron of hospitality ; it is
the aspect of love, concord, agreement, good fortune and
riches, the Native is prefered and rises to honor ; if Venus
be significatrix, the person is comely and lovely, one gene
rously disposed, aiming only at things brave, honorable, vir
tuous and good : it is the aspect of virtue and piety, of honor,
preferment and vast fortune in the world, the Native has the
acquaintance of persons of the highest- ecclesiastic order, and
probably attains the like preferment himself.
The sextile or trine of Jupiter and Mercury, if Jupiter i»
244
significator, it shews a just, virtuous man, ingenious, and of
a very subtle wit ; it is the aspect of eloquence, ingenuity and
learning ; the Native is affable, courteous, kind, mild, and
a general lover of learning, one who by his worth and virtue
may be the secretary or ambassador to some King or Prince ;
if Mercury is significator, it shews one very ingenious, and
whose wit is mixt with virtue and honesty, of a deep under
standing, profound wisdom, sound judgment, and successful
in any enterprise ; a person fit to be the councillor of a king,
or manager of the affairs of a kingdom, or commonwealth,
generous, free spirited and perfectly trusty.
The sextile or trine of Jupiter and the Moon, if Jupiter is
significator, the Native is naturally good, just and virtuous,
but of a very mutable mind, changing his opinion with the
least persuasion; it is the aspect of popularity and general
applause, and he becomes famous in his generation, and draws
after him the love of the common people ; he is loquacious,
highly conceited of himself, fortunate by water, and women ;
if the Moon be significatrix, it shews one of a generous, no
ble, just mind, aiming at high and honorable things ; he gains
by the church, and churchmen, and is an exact observer of
justice and truth, and a person who by his good nature would
oblige the whole world.
The sextile or trine of Mars and Sun, if Mars is significa
tor, the Native has rising fortune, proves great and eminent
in the world, meets with preferment at court, or has the fa
vor of some King or Prince ; it is the aspect of honor and
action, he is witty, ingenious and trusty ; faithful even to his
enemies, of a nimble wit, quick fancy, courteous and friendly,-
he may prove a General or Commander of an army : if the
Sun is significator it is the aspect of valor and victory, the
Native is of a great spirit and courageous, attains military
honor and preferment, loves warlike exercises, appears a
terror to his enemies, and rises far superior to his birth.
The sextile or trine of Mars and Venus, if Mars is signifi
cator it is the aspect of liberty and love, if Mars is out of his
dignities, the Native is vicious above measure, loves gaming,
women, and all manner of debauchery, he is ill-natured un
less among his own party, and spends his fortune upon
women, but if Mars is in his dignities it shews one witty, in
genious, a searcher out of mysteries, and one who shall gain
a considerable fortune in the world : if Venus is significatrix,
it is the aspect of pride, vanity and vain glory, the Native is
comely, bold, rash, fearing nothing, aiming at great things
and promising himself mountains, but perfecting little, and if
Venus is weak, the person is debauched, and guilty of many
lewd actions.
245
The sextilc or trine of Mars and Mercury, if Mars is sig-
nificator, it is t!ie aspect of confidence and craft, the Native
has a pregnant fancy, capable of any thing, prudent, bold;,
subtle, very ingenious, eloquent, and studious in arts and sci
ences, yet something hasty and subject to passion, which
being over he is good humored again : if Mercury is signi-
ficator, the Native is valiant, courageous, ingenious, a lover
of military exercises, physic, surgery and chemistry, and
may probably obtain a fortune by the fire, or dealing in
martial commodities, the Native has generally a good opinion
of himself.
The sextile or trine of Mars and Moon, if Mars is signifi-
cator it is the aspect of loquacity and mutability, the Native
gets by the common people, or by travel, often changing his
residence, he is furious and rash, but as easily persuaded
again to a complacent humor : if the Moon is significatrix
the Native is passionate, ambitious of honor, aspiring to great
things, and persuing them even to a precipice, and when at
tained they seldom continue with him, and the reason is be
cause of the mutability and changeableness of his own nature
and disposition, which beget a change of his fortunes.
The sextile or trine of Sun and Venus, if Sun is significa-
tor, it is the aspect of candor and generosity, the Native is
exceedingly good-natured, of an heroic disposition, having
nothing but gallantry in all his actions, he gets by women
and has the favor of some rich lady, by whom he meets either
with a good fortune or promotion, he is witty, ingenious and
of an active fancy : if Venus is significatrix, it is the aspect
of grandeur and magnificence ; the Native meets with pre
ferment at court or has the favor of some Prince, rises to
great honor and glory in the world, of a good disposition, yet
a little passionate, soon angry and quickly appeased again,
of a free disposition, lofty, and a little given to pride and
vain-glory, but a merry, sociable, good-humored person.
The sextile or trine of Sun and Mercury, if Sun is signi-
ficator the Native is proud, ambitious, conceited, yet very
courteous, and without any seeming resentment, passes over
slight abuses, lest the taking notice of them, should be any
prejudice to his grandeur, he is nimble witted, loquacious,
and very good at invention : if Mercury is significator, the
Native seems to rise in the world, entirely by his own wit
and ingenuity, and no doubt will attain to a'degree of honor
above that of his birth and quality of his ancestors. *
* These two aspects are never found in any Nativity, and only take place
by Direction of the Planets to these two aspects, and this holds good with
respect both to Venus, and Mercury, and the Sun.
24G
The soxtile or trine of Sun and Moon, if Sun is significa.
tor, it is the aspect of credit and fame, makes the Native emi
nent in the world, born to great actions, and to perform ex
traordinary undertakings amongst the common people, he is
cried up for a god among the multitude ; if he be a priest or
a physician he has avast number of followers, he is pleasant,
cheerful and good-natured : if the Moon is significatrix the
Native is proud, ambitious, coveting after honor and glory,
and generally born to enjoy a great measure thereof, but of
a changeable disposition, and if the Moon be weak he falls
into dishonor again.
The sextile or trine of Venus and Mercury, if Venus is
significatrix the Native is very comely, witty, ingenious, sub
tle and of good nature, seldom guilty of any dishonorable
action, a good orator, and of an aspiring fancy, yet seldom
bringing things to perfection : if Mercury is significator, the
Native is of an exceeding courteous nature, amorous, de
lighting in women's company, by whom he meets either with
fortune or perferment, he is wise, prudent, just, a lover of
learning, and endowed with many excellent parts, both natural
and acquired, but if Mercury is weak and out of his dignities,
the Native proves vicious instead of virtuous.
The sextile or trine of Venus and Moon, if Venus is sig
nificatrix, the Native will certainly arrive to honor, and be
made great or rich by means of some eminent lady, he also
has the estimation of the common people, and beeomes very
popular ; but is of an inconstant mind, by reason of which he
performs no great things, he is a comely, engaging person,
neat and genteel, and very apt to be taken with courtship :
if the Moon is significatrix, the Native is very effeminate
and amorous, of a gentle, obliging disposition, sober, just, and
having the love of most women he converses with ; but if the
Moon is weak and otherwise unfortunate the Native inclines
to vice.
The sextile or trine of Mercury and Moon, if Mercury is
significator, the Native is witty and ingenious, a lover of
novelties and all manner of new fancies and inventions, and
mutable and changeable in his mind, resolution, and all un
dertakings, a man purely given to the art of dissimulation,
though a pleasant companion : if the Moon is significatrix,
the Native dives into arts and sciences, is subtle, crafty, covet
ous, a lover of himself, reserved and a little melancholy, if
the Moou is strong he makes an excellent orator, a good ad
vocate, and may be a secretary to some Prince or nobleman ;
if the Moon is weak, the Native is a compleat master of the
art of deceiving.
247
General Effects produced by the Quartile and Opposition of
the Planets.
The quartile or opposition of Saturn and Jupiter, if Sa
turn is significator, shews trouble and vexation, if the man
be a sectarian he is persecuted by the clergy, molested and
tormented, if Saturn falls in the Asc. 12th, 11th, 10th, or 9th
Houses, the mischief falls in the fore-part of life, and the
Native through his own folly loses a great part of his fortune
or estate ; if Jupiter is significator, it is the aspect of unceas
ing troubles and miseries, the Native is a continual loser,
has great crosses, meets with contempt and disgrace, and was
he born to a prince's estate, would be in danger of becoming
a beggar ; the Native is of a poor low spirit, cross, peevish,
inactive, miserable and unfortunate in the world.
The quartile or opposition of Saturn and Mars, if Saturn
is significator, it is the aspect of cruelty and murder, the Na
tive is base, treacherous, envious, quarrelsome, rash, proud,
scornful, unsociable, ungrateful, and a very ill-natured per
son, he has a good store of wit, but it is only to do mischief
with, and he himself meets with many troubles by war ; if
Mars is significator, it is the aspect of treason and rebellion,
the Native is willful, melancholy, subject to many lingering
diseases, and will be in danger of an untimely death by falls,
blows, treachery or poison ; the Native also has an unhappy
father, from whom he in part derives his turbulent spirit,
which extremely hurts both himself and others.
The quartile or opposition of Saturn and the Sun, if Sa
turn is significator, it is the aspect of contempt and infamy,
it shews danger of a violent death, and probably by the hand
of justice, the Native aims at high and great things, but al
ways misses his expectations, for his very attempts are only
his ruin both of goods and estates, and may sometimes cost
his life ; the Native has a shew of boldness, courage and re
venge, but his valour is but a vapor ; if the Sun is significa
tor, it is the aspect of treason and cowardice, the Native is
inwardly very spiteful and malicious, false even to his dear
est friend, studying revenge only by ways occult and coward
ly ; he is willful, fearful and timorous, yet impudently boast
ing of great things far above his sphere, capacity, under
standing, or undertaking.
The quartile or opposition of Saturn and Venus, if Saturn
is significator, it is the aspect of infamy and vice, the Native
loves women, desires unlawful things, his carriage is rude,
his condition base, given over to lusts and pleasures of the
flesh, inclinable to nothing but vicious and sordid actions,
prodigal in his expences, wasteful to the consumption of his
248
fortunes : if Venus is significatrix, it is the aspect of deform
ity and baseness, the Native is of a poor, base, low, timorous
spirit, afflicted with the greatest of all misfortunes and cata
strophes, loses by the fruits and products of the earth, and is
indeed a gainer by nothing, it is the destruction of the Na
tive.
The quartile or opposition of Saturn and Mercury, if Sa
turn is significator, it brings many evils from mercurial men
and things, and from prosecution and law-suits, gives the
Native an impediment in his speech, and makes him stutter
or stammer, dulls the fancy, spoils the ingenuity, and makes
the Native wholly bent upon mischief, wickedness, deceit,
cheating and thieving; if Mercury is significator the Native
is unfortunate in all his actions, and perpetually poor, of an
evil, perverse, self-willed, envious, malicious, treacherous
disposition, and it may be a murderer, for Saturn stirs up
mercurial men to all manner of wickedness, he will be de
ceitful above measure, revengeful, of a dejected mind and
bringing nothing to perfection.
The quartile or opposition of Saturn and Moon, if Saturn
is significator, it is the aspect of travel and discontent; the
Native is of an iudifferent stature, dark or black hair, a dis-
proportioned body, sometimes crooked, a traveller, wanderer,
or vagabond, one having the ill-will and reproach of all peo
ple, and not undeservedly ; a mere deceiver, and subject to
great and manifold misfortunes from the vulgar : if the Moon
is significatrix, it is the aspect of jealously, suspicion and
mistrust, the Native is crooked both in person and mind, de
ceitful, malicious, strongly vicious, scandalous, and debauch
ed, he is afflicted all the days of his life with innumerable
troubles, crosses from adversaries, want of health, wasting of
his estate, poverty, death of his mother, a short life and
danger of a violent death.
The quartile or opposition of Jupiter and Mars, if Jupiter
be significator, it is the aspect of fury and ingratitude ; the
Native is furious, rash, adventuresome, quarrelsome, and
sometimes is vexed with malignant fevers, is in danger of a
violent death by a wound or blow ; a destroyer of himself,
running headlong into precipices, desirous of rule, resolute,
subtle, ill-natured, and perpetually ungrateful to all his
friends, forgetting all their kindnesses : if Mars is significa
tor, it is the aspect of atheism and infidelity, the Native
wastes and destroys his substance and fortune, he is bold im
pudent and audacious, of a proud, scornful, haughty, inso
lent humor, a despiser of piety, religion and moral honesty,
and is the abomination of all good men.
The quartile or opposition of Jupiter and Sun, if Jupiter is
349
signifioator, it is the aspect of arrogance and vain glory, the
Native is riotous and profuse, given to all sorts of excess and
prodigality, and loses his expectations ; this configuration
deprives him of all manner of honor and preferment, he is
noble, lofty and brave, but only in outward appearance,. and
does nothing but to be seen of men : if the Sun is significa-
tor the Native wastes his patrimony, is lofty proud and prag
matical, despiser of the church and religion, and a great lover
of pleasure and dissipation to his own infamy and ruin.
The quartile or opposition of Jupiter and Venus, if Ju
piter is siguificator, it is the aspect of lust and fornication,
the Native is given over to debauchery, more especially if
Venus' disposes of Jupiter ; if Venus is lady of the 2nd, the
Native wastes his estate and fortune, and will become indi
gent and poor, he follows base and lewd women, and gets an
infamous name in the world : if Venus is significatrix the
Native is proud, pragmatical, conceited, given over to carnal
pleasures, despiser of piety, virtue, honesty and religion* one
having a mere outside, a flatterer, deceiver, a waster of his
own fortunes and patrimony ; he will have many enemies in
consequence of his own evil ways, chiefly among those of the
church and people of an honest conversation.
The quartile or opposition of Jupiter and Mercury, if Ju
piter is siguificator, it is the aspect of strife and contention,
the Native will be involved in many troubles, perplexities
and controversies, have many law-suits and incumbrances to
his very great prejudice, and to the injury of his health as
well as of his estate ; he will be rash, humorsome, and very
unstable in all his ways, being generally deceived in all his
expectations : for Mercury thus afflicted, represents things
wrong to the imagination ; if Mercury is signiticator, it is the
aspect of impudence and folly, the Native is overseen in all
he undertakes, makes silly resolves and as foolishly repents
of them to his prejudice, a repining simple person, given
over to simplicity and absurdity, to his own utter undoing.
The quartile or opposition of Jupiter and Moon, if Jupiter
is significator, it shews a wasting and loss of substance by
many ordinary people, makes the Native mutable, foolish,
without resolution, and one full of words, without any depth
or reason in them, it shews also loss of credit and estimation,
and brings many popular evils on him: if the Moon is signi
ficatrix, the Native is perplexed with unequal fortunes in the
world, many crosses and afflictions befall him, false friends
and deceitful confederates ensnare him, his substance is made
a prey to merciless enemies, and himself the object of their
cruelty.
The quartile or opposition of Mart and Sun, if Mars i*
21
250
significator, it is the aspect of contusion and ruin, the Native
aims at great and high things, but falls at last into an abyss
of trouble and misery ; he miscarries in all his undertakings,
heaps upon himself torrents of sorrow, and forebodes a vio
lent death, which if the Sun is Lord of the 6th, 7th, or 8th
Houses, will be by means of a fall, or wound with a weapon,
but if Lord of the 10th, by sentence of a judge : if the Sun
is signilicator it is the aspect of vanity, fury and madness, it
shews danger of the loss of an eye, violent death, or death by
a malignant fever, the Native is rash in all his actions,
squanders away his substance, and makes his life and fortunes
miserable and desperate.
The quartile or opposition of Mars and Venus, if Mars is
significator, the Native is given to vanity, lustful pleasures,
and all manner of abominations of the flesh, gluttony, gaming
and drinking, he is treacherous, ill-natured, and very unfor
tunate, when he marries, he commonly marries a woman of
ill-fame, and is much given to boasting and ostentation : if
Venus is significatrix, the Native is infinitely wicked, a thief,
highwayman, or murderer, takes to all manner of vice and
mischief, unfortunate both to himself and others, given to
contention, and every kind of debauchery and wickedness.
The quartile or opposition of Mars and Mercury, if Mars
is significator, the Native is bold, impudent, base, treacher
ous, deceitful above measure, even to his dearest friend,
a despiser of God and all goodness, an unsettled, wretched
creature, a shifter up and down, a thief, and one that lives
by dangerous courses, one long retaining the sense of an in
jury, conceited, humorsome, difficult to be pleased, and un
fortunate in all things; if Mercury is significator, the Na
tive is guilty of many crimes, is of a very wicked and evil
nature, likely to be guilty of murder or robbery, a breeder
of contention and mischief, and a follower of almost every
dishonorable practice.
The quartile or opposition of Mars and Moon, if Mars is
significator, the Native is a perfect scold, given to railing
and base language in almost all his discourse, is ungrateful
and a forgetter of kindnesses, a wanderer, vagabond, detracter
from other men's worth, stupid; and of a servile life, unfor
tunate in all his undertakings : if the Moon is significatrix,
the Native will be in danger of losing one of his eyes, die a
violent death, or be subject to many troubles, crosses and
afflictions offortune and justice, he is subject to hurts, wounds
and other mischiefs, and is mutable, rash, passionate, prodi
gal, ambitious, malicious, treacherous aud subject to innu
merable miseries.
The quartile of Sun and Venus, if Sun is signifieater,
S51
the Native lives in a dishonorable repute, receives many great
troubles and misfortunes by means of women, he is bold, con
fident, proud, delighting in strife and opposition, unfortunate
in most of his actions, and coming off in most of his under
takings with dishonor : if Venus is significatrix, the Native
deludes himself with vanities and expectations of things
which will never be, he is angry, passionate, and given up to
pride, boasting and vain-glory, receives much hurt by great
men, and sometimes may be in danger of his death hy sen
tence of the judge.
The quartile of Sun and Mercury, if Sun be significator,
the Native is subject to many losses and vexations by the law,
or receives hurt by mercurial men and things, is unfortunate
and has an impediment in his speech, deceitful, and not to be
trusted : if Mercury is significator, the Native is of a middle
stature, dull, swarthy complexion, tanned or sun-burnt, with
light brown hair, full face and eye, high nose, choleric, proud
and insolent, a boaster, ambitious, highly conceited of himself,
and subject to the frowns of Princes and great men.
The quartile or opposition of Sun and Moon, if Sun is sig
nificator, the Native's fortune is mutable and unstable, he
falls into contempt and reproach among the common people,
and merits the hatred or displeasure of some great lady or
person, he is a deceiver cheat, or impostor : if the Moon is
significatrix, the Native is full faced, of a clear visage and
light coloured hair, very ambitious of honor, which flies from
him like a shadow pursued, one aiming at, and attempting
many great things without success, but meets with many
losses, crosses, and obstructions in his way to preferment.
The quartile or opposition of Venus and Mercury, if Venus
is significatrix, the Native is subtle, crafty, deceitful, and
given to thievery, he has an impediment in his speech, is of
dull understanding, self-willed, cross, and indeed a perfect
knave, one whose ill conditions and base mind, always keeps
him poor : if Mercury is significator, the Native is dishonest,
deceitful, slothful, given to indolence and ease, and delights
in the company of lewd women, a mere dissembler, and one
that spends his fortune in debauchery.
The quartile or opposition of Venus and Moon, if Venus
is significatrix, it shews mutability, strife, debate, quarrelling,
one of an ill tongue and a worse life, unfortunate in marriage
and children, one indolent and lazy, subject to poverty and
beggary; if the Moon is significatrix, the person is of an im
pudent, bold disposition, given up to lewdness, a mere vulgar,
sordid creature, a wanderer and vagabond, deceitful, and sub
ject to a multitude of misfortunes especially from and among
2.52
The quartile or opposition of Mercury and Moon, if Mer
cury is significator, the Native is mutable, in all his ways,
foolish, arrogant, void of reason and good manners, loquaci
ous and very much conceited of himself, he shall meet with
many troubles and oppositions, and that from the common
people, lose the favor of some noble women, and be reduced
to an abject state of poverty- the frowns of a Prince are not
so formidable as the hatred of the common people, for that so
precipitates a man into distress that it prevents him for ever
from rising again without some extraordinary assistance; if
the Moon is significatrix, let the Native take what care and
pains he will, he shall never do any thing commendable, it
signifies a defect in the tongue, and makes the Native in
every undertaking unfortunate, and for the most part exposed
to contempt and infamy.
And though it be admitted that a student may make great
advances in the knowledge of futurity, by acquiring an ade
quate comprehension of the nature and effects of the various
configurations of the Celestial Bodies, and of their particu
lar influences both benefic and malefic upon the human race,
and though we may by this means attain to know that such
and such events will certainly come to pass ; yet even this
acquisition in the science must be considered very incom
plete, without the ability of pointing out, by some fixed and
certain rule, the precise time when these events shall happen.
This grand acquisition is therefore not obtained by any
other mode, than by bringing up the arch of direction of
each respective Significator in the Natives figure of birth,
to the aspect which denotes each respective event ; and
this arch of direction is nothing more than the track or
circle in the Heavens formed by the Significator, in moving
from that particular point in the Heavens where found at
birth, to the precise point where he forms the aspect with the
promittor that indicates the event, which, upon his arrival
there, is to happen. It is consequently apparent that if this
tract or circle can be found, and its degrees and minutes ac
curately taken and reduced into common time according to
the motion of the Sun, which regulates all our accounts of
time, it will shew us at one view the exact time when the
event according to the common course of nature, shall in
fallibly come to pass.
The Signification of Directions.
Ascendant to the conjuction quartile or opposition of Sa
turn, these are very bad directions, producing many obstuc-
tions, as tedious lingering consumptions, green sicknes, a-
gues, rheums, coughs, if not death itself, a general dulness
253
or stupidity possesses the whole body, with vexations, mis
chief by old people, loss of reputation and estate.
Asc. to the sextile or trine of Saturn, whenever these di
rections occur in any Geniture the Native becomes more solid
and sober than formerly, he grows acquainted with elderly
people, and proves advantageous to him in commerce ; or
otherwise he is concerned in buildings, husbandry, wills, or
legacies of some deceased person ; it denotes gain advantage,
etc.
Asc. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Jupiter, either
of these directions indicate extraordinary respect, wealth and
prosperity, it raises credit, esteem and riches, prosperity in
all his affairs, and brings him into reputation with most emi
nent persons where he lives.—To a scholar it denotes some
degree of preferment, or some valuable benefice ; and if ca
pable may marry.—If Jupiter is strong in the radix it is more
beneficial.
Asc. the quartile or opposition of Jupiter, if either operates,
it denotes a distempered body, blood corrupt ; a pleurisy,
small pox or measels, it is attended with quarrels aud con
tentions, sometimes with Clergymen to his prejudice and
estate.
Asc. to the conjunction, quartile or opposition of Mars,
these are very evil directions, and indicate many miseries of
body, sometimes death, plague, boils, small-pox, bloody-flux,
giddiness, madness, public accusations, and sometimes sen
tenced to death : makes him quarrelsome ; he must not un
dertake duels ; it is attended with hurts from horses, iron,
stone, gun-shot, sword or fall ; if Mars is Lord of the Medi-
um-cosli it is attended with abundance of infamy ; and if
Lord of the 2nd, he wastes his substance in a strange manner.
Asc. to the sextile or trine of Mars inclines to delight in
the use of arms, or gives him some honorable post in a mili
tary employment, if a student he is addicted to Chemistry ;
in the nativities of women it frequently produces marriage,
especially if he is Lord of the 7th, and if Mars is Lord of the
2nd, it notably increases the substance.
Asc. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of the Sun, is at
tended with fame and reputation ; if lord of the 10th, it raises
to favor of some Prince, or noble person, it often produces
pains in the head, sore eyes, sometimes it lays open secret
concerns in life.
Asc. to the sextile or trine of the Sun, is very eminent, it
produces a great deal of felicity to any Native (who will be
famous,) as honor, profitable places, and employments; if
Lord of the Medium Cseli, gain and an increase of substance,
it makes him happy in all his affairs, and produces an honor
254
able marriage to either man or woman, if the Sun is dignified
in the 7th House.
Asc. to the quartile or opposition of the Sun, will involve
the Native in many troubles and vexations, he loses his em
ployments ; is basely degraded, he consumes his patrimony,
poverty attends him, quarrels, suits at law, subject to sore
eyes, if not to blindness, acute diseases often ensue, and if
the Sun is Lord of the 8th, death frequently happens.
Asc. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Venus, is good,
it denotes abundance of pleasure and felicity, he is generally
beloved of women, it propagates marriages, and rarely fails if
capable thereof ; he marries a virtuous wife, (if she is so sig
nified in the Radix,) or if formerly married, he may now ex
pect a child ; he finds his kindred very kind to him, lives
contentedly and is well respected ; it also increases his sub
stance, and in an eminent manner if Venus governs the 2nd
House.
Asc. to the quartile or opposition of Venus, denotes he is
careless ; addicted to voluptuousness and rioting ; grows
heedless of reputation, consumes his patrimony, and spends
his estate in drunkenness, whoredom, etc., whence proceeds
a ruined estate, obnoxious infirmities to his body, as surfeits,
French-pox, etc., with other disasters if married ; under this
direction jealousies often rise between man and wife.
Asc. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Mercury, in
clines to ingenuity, under either of these directions the Na
tive is industrious after learning, oratory, and the mathema
tics, he searches into occult arts and sciences ; he delights in
travelling, merchandising, or more than ordinary concerned
in contracts, bargains, etc., if Mercury is Lord of the Asc.
and strong in a Nativity, hardly any thing is too difficult to
be attained under this direction, therefore they generally
prove the very top of their profession.
Asc. to the quartile or opposition of Mercury, are very
mischievious significations, denoting many troubles, losses
and crosses, it stirs up adversaries against him, involves him
in controversies in law, he is often vexed, it denotes arrests,
informations, imprisonments, knavish lawyers, and cheating
servants, he is disturbed in his head or brain and sometimes
a phrenzy.
Asc. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of the Moon, these
directions will produce much felicity, success in fortune, and
content in mind, especially if the Moon is strong and well
beheld in the Radix, it produces acceptations among the fe
male sex, in conversation and courtship : and frequently pro
duces marriage ; in a masculine geniture it inclines the Na
tive to travel into foreign parts, but if it is to a conjunction
955
and the Moon Lady of the 8th, and posited in a watery sign,
it denotes death by drowning.
Asc. to the quartile or opposition of the Moon, denotes
diseases of the body, as phlegmatic watery humors, fluxes, or
rheum in the eyes, chiefly in the left, subject to surfeits
through gluttony, or too much drinking, in danger of robbing,
strifes and contentions attend him, with losses at sea, if he
trades there, matters generally go cross with him, and meets
with affronts and disgraces ; if to the opposition of the Moon,
it implies the same circumstances before mentioned, that is
if Lady of the 8th, and posited in a watery sign, it indicates
death by drowning.
M. C. the conjunction, quartile or opposition of Saturn,
these are malignant directions, injurious whenever they occur
to the name and reputation or any Native, he is arrested, im
prisoned, and ruined, if it falls in the 12th, or if Saturn is
posited there. If Saturn be Lord of the 10th, the conjunc
tion of Saturn then denotes advancement in life, but attended
with labor and difficulties, etc., the Lord of the 10th, to con
junction of 10th, is always good.
M. C. to the sextile or trine of Saturn, raises him to fame
and reputation, produces him the favor of sober and grave el
derly people, he gains money, grows wealthy, and if a trades
man, gives him employ ; however according to his capacity it
advances him into esteem and honor.
M. C. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Jupiter, raises
the Native in an eminent manner, or is favored from his su
periors, he succeeds well, it also gives him great comfort and
felicity with abundance of prosperity.
M. C. to the quartile or opposition of Jupiter, denotes vex
ation, he is plagued with lawyers, or clergymen, wastes his
substance by associating himself with cheating solicitors, pet
tifoggers, etc., religious people become his enemies, and all
things go cross and untoward.
M. C. to the conjunction, quartile or opposition of Mars,
shews a multitude of miseries to attend him ; if Mars rules
the 8th, it threatens death by sentence of a Judge, it also
plunges him into many misfortunes, both in body, mind, and
estate, he is engaged in quarrels, tumults and uproar ; if an
highwayman he is hanged for thieving ; if a tradesman he be
comes a bankrupt, and if a courtier he loses his place and
honor.
M. C. to the sextile or trine of Mars, promotes his reputa
tion, and gives him fame, or some martial exploit for fight
ing, fencing, and gains some preferment by war ; he delights
in hunting and such like diversions, it makes him exquisite
and ingenious in his profession and reputation, for he gain
256
thereby, and if Mars rales the 7th, he marries ; if a woman
her marriage is certainly effected.
M. C. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of the Sun, is a
glorious signification, for it raises the Native unto favor with
great persons, and prefered to honor, or an eminent place, he
rises in estimation among his neighbours ; it shews if capa
ble, an honorable marriage ; if he be a Prince he attains a
Kingdom, he is bountiful and performs much grandeur.
M. C. to the quartile or opposition of the Sun, under these
directions he is degraded, loses his office and preferment on a
sudden, with loss of estate by fire, his credit and reputation
is blasted, and if the Radix threatens a violent death, it will
be by sentence of a judge.
M. C. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Venus is a
pleasant signification, will produce health of body, content of
mind and an increase of riches and honor, and if capable mar
ries, during the time of its effects he is addicted to mirth and
keeping women's company, and is often raised thereby, he is
prosperous in his undertakings, and gives much felicity.
M. C. to the quartile opposition of Venus, this subjects
the person to ignominy and derision, with a breach in his re
putation, he is subject to lewd women's company, whereby
much strife and contention is produced, he becomes debauch
ed and lewd in his conversation, and is addicted to drunken
ness and other debaucheries ; if married it stirs up jealousies
and discontent between man and wife, and renders him ob
noxious to civil society.
M. C. to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Mercury in
clines the Native to study and learning, is curious to search
into arts and sciences as the law, logic, and various langua
ges, he undertakes something pertaining to writings or ac-
compts, and is employed in some embassy, or merchandising,
he performs some notable project, and advances himself by it.
M. C. to the quartile or opposition of Mercury, under these
directions he is plunged into quarrels and contentions, some
pettifogger or perjured informer vexes him ; he is per
plexed with law-suits, abused by fale accounts, lying reports,
and loses his credit and reputation by meaus of some mercu
rial person
M. C. to the conjunction of the Moon, excites him to be
fickle and wavering in his mind, he is inclined to marry, and
if capable certainly effects it if the Moon is Lady of the 7th,
it raises his fame and is applauded by common people, he
also travels into foreign parts, if the Moon governs the 9th
House.
M. C. to the sextile or trine of the Moon, these directions
are of the same nature as the foregoing besides he gains the
257
favor of some eminent Gentlewoman, and advances himself,
by this means he obtains some eminent employment ; he
thrives and is much respected, and well spoken of in general.
M. C. to the quartile or opposition of the Moon foments
differences, strifes and contentions, he falls into disgrace, and
disrespect, he is also abused by the vulgar or common peo
ple and loses his substance by trading at sea, commotions
and quarrels arise between husband and wife, loss of reputa
tion by the means of base women, and it is probable may do
something to deserve it, or to merit the displeasure of a judge.
The Mid Heaven to the pleiades, indicates many misfor
tunes, wranglings and contentions occasioned by women, with
sudden and unexpected controversies, sometimes murder, or
imprisonment, in some genitures sudden preferment, hut an
unhappy end attending it.
The Mid Heaven to the Praesepe will produce almost the
same effects as the Pleiades.
The Mid Heaven to Aldebarren denotes the Native is ad
dicted to many ingenious practices, has success in chemical
and martial performances, gains money thereby, and the con
versation of soldiers.
The Mid Heaven to Pollux promises good success in all
martial affairs, he gains honor, or among soldiers, he is am
bitious, imperious and addicted to quarrelling.
The Mid Heaven to the two Assellus promises advance
ment to a military employment, the Native is highly esteem
ed and respected, and gains honor by what he undertakes.
The Mid Heaven to Cor Scorpio, or Cor Leonis advances
the Native to power, and promotion by means of some emi
nent person, it is probable he increaseth his estate and pro
motes his reputation.
The Mid Heaven to Spica Virginis, produces a time of fe
licity, with some advancement in the Church ; if a tradesman,
success in his employ, unexpected honors and preferment are
confefed upon him.
The Mid Heaven to the South Ballance, denotes trouble
and loss of reputation on a sudden : if this Star happens to
be in the 11th, an acquaintance deserts him ; if in the 12th,
he is arrested and villified.
The Sun to the conjunction, quartile or opposition of Sa
turn shews many sorrows, troubles and contentions chiefly by
the means of elderly persons, his health is obstructed with
melancholy agues, black choler, &c., he is subject to falls
from horses, or high places ; pestered with thieves, or thievish
servants, and a general disturbance both in body and mind.
The Sun to the sextile or trine of Saturn signifies felicity,
and advantage to attend the Native in husbandry, buildings,
2k
258
or by conversation with elderly persons, it inclines him to
sobriety and gravity, he meets with success in his under
takings, and obtains wealth.
The Sun to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Jupiter,
denotes abundance of comfortand felicity, with health of body,
quietness of mind, and an abundant increase of substance,'
even as it were miraculous, it gives honor, office, or some pre
ferment according to his capacity; if a Clergyman, some
dignity in the Church ; it frequently produces marriage ;
sometimes, if capable, it blesseth the Native with a son or
much comfort from him, in short it raises the Native in an
eminent manner.
The Sun to the quartile or opposition of Jupiter shews
vexations to attend the Native, he is injured by lawyers, or
religious disciples who impede his affairs more especially if
Jupiter is Lord of the 2nd, but if Sun or Jupiter be Lord of
the Asc. it impairs health.
The Sun to the conjunction, quartile or opposition of Mars
is a malevolent direction-, it shews misery and vexation, sick
ness invades the body with acute diseases, as strong fevers,
small pox, measles, pestilential diseases in the head and eyes,
pleurisies, wounds, scalding, burning by fire, lighting, gun
shot, etc., in danger of a stab, or poison, and deprived of his
senses ; if Mars is Lord of the 4th, 6th, or 8th Houses, and
also afflicted it imports death by wicked persons, as robbers,
thieves and false informations.
The Sun to the sextile or trine of Mars denotes marriage
to a woman if Mars is Lord of the 7th, and the same to a
man ; if Mars is Lord of the 10th, it gives honor and prefer
ment, especially with arms or military concerns; it shews
courage and bravery, and brings him into reputation with
Kings and Princes, or eminent Commanders ; if he be a me
chanic he is successful in his employ, and is good to all de
grees of men according to their capacity.
The Sun to his own sextile, produces peace and felicity,
profit, gain, prosperity, and is advanced to dignity and re
nown, if the Radix corresponds therewith, and it also falls in
a benevolent House.
The Sun to his own quartile, indicates abundance of sor
rows, miseries, and many maladies are attending, which ren
ders him uneasy whereby he desires to be dissolved that he
may return to his rest.
The Sun to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Venus,
these directions indicate a time of pleasure and recreations :
he diverts himself in conversation with women, in plays,
music, dancing, banqueting and merriment, and not troubled
with cares except in love matters ; if Sun or Venus rules the
2.59
7th, he obtains an advancement of stock considerably ; it also
imports a sound healthful body, with marriage if the person
is single.
The Sun to the quartile or opposition of Venus, shews a
barren time, no hopes of issue that year, much difficulty to
obtain a wife ; it denotes contention with the female sex ; he
suffers an ill name, and loses his reputation by some means,
if not his estate ; it shews him to be very impudent, addicted
to lust and wantonness, so that he incurs infamy, scandal and
disgrace, the opposition seldom happens.
The Sun to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Mercury,
denotes a time of activity and business, the Native is inclined
to study, he is much esteemed and advanced for his abilities
and learning; it produces in him many admirable conceptions,
and is busy in accounts, purchasing books, etc., but if only
to the conjunction of Mercury, then he is plunged into law
suits and controversies, plagued with knaves, thieves, and
false informers, and also loss in travelling.
The Sun to the quartile of Mercury, denotes many accusa
tions or informations against the Native ; disgrace and odious
calumnies are thrown upon him, and he meets with opposi
tions in all his undertakings.
The Sun to the conjunction of the Moon, impairs the
health, he is oppressed with phlegm and too much moisture,
whereby the head and stomach is obstructed ; the eyes are
prejudiced, and sometimes blindness ensue, he is fickle and
wavering in his mind, inclining to travel and theft, and con
sumes his substance ; it is not good to marry under this di
rection, unless the Moon is well posited in the figure of birth.
The Sun to the sextile or trine of the Moon, raises the Na
tive's fame; makes him popular, being admired by the vulgar,
he advances by means of his acquaintance and employment,
he undertakes journies, or is sent on embassies, and is busy
in matters relating to women ; if capable, enters into the mar
riage state.
The Sun to the quartile or opposition of Moon, under this
direction he incurs the displeasure and malice of the common
people, or particularly women ; he meets with losses at sea
and land, is degraded and loses his employment; he is in
clined to idle, drunken, vicious courses, from whence diseases
ensue, as the small pox, measles, megrims, apoplexies, dis
tempers in his eyes, or a violent fever, and if married causes
great differences between him and his wife, and also liable to
be attacked by thieves.
The Moon to the conjunction, quartile or opposition of Sa
turn, afflicts the Native with phlegm, melancholy and other
cold diseases, as palsies, dropsies, quartan agues, apoplexies,
260
and sometimes fevers ; he is traduced and ill spoken of by
the clownish people, villified and cheated by servants, and
others be deals with, he also loses by cattle and husbandry,
and some weakness attends the eye sight.
The Moon to the sextile or trine of Saturn, denotes the
Native will thrive and obtain money by dealing with sober
people, and those that are of a Saturnine nature ; it is advan
tageous to be concerned in buildings, or tilling of land, and
also sea, coal, cattle, etc.
The Moon to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Jupiter,
denotes health of body, and a plentiful addition of felicity,
with ease to the mind, he becomes acquainted with persons
of a good reputation, both in Church and State ; it advances
him, if he is in a low degree, and increases his estate, all will
succeed and prosper in his undertakings.
The Moon to the quartile or opposition of Jupiter, denotes
vexations and crosses to overtake him, he is contentious with
Clergymen, or religious pretenders, or perhaps may imbibe
some strange heteredox principles in religion, which may oc
casion it ; he is degraded and suffers in his fame and reputa
tion, neither do matters succeed to his expectations.
The Moon to the conjunction, quartile or opposition of
Mars, foreshews mischief to the body and mind, and also in
his public and private affairs ; his body is afflicted with
choleric humors, a sharp fever, or some other malignant ma
lady, as the plague, French-pox, stone, or gravel in the kid-
nics, botches and boils, also in danger by fire, iron, or fury
of some beast ; sometimes it produces a phrenzy, or death
itself, all his concerns go cross, and his reputation is beset.
The Moon to the sextile or trine of Mars, excites the Na
tive to courage, valor and boldness; he is busy about mili
tary affairs, or with horses : these directions advance his for
tune, or if a military man, it gives him some preferment, if
a tradesman it denotes a good trade, and promotes his ac
quaintance, he overcomes his adversaries in quarrels, duels,
and law-suits; and in a masculine Geniture frequently pro
duces marriage.
The Moon to the conjunction, sextile or trine of the Sun,
denotes profitable and honorable acquaintance ; he advances
himself by the means of women, who are superior to him, it
sometimes gives marriage, and as he advances himself he be
comes popular, and is respected by most where he inhabits,
and is advanced to places of trust, or profit, in a Kingly Geni
ture these confer a Crown, and makes him happy in his sub
jects, it also shews a healthful constitution unless it be- to a
conjunction of the Sun, it then often produces a fever and
sometimes death,
361
The Moon to the quartile or opposition of the Sun, denotes
troubles and vexations are concomitant to the Native ; some
eminent person that had formerly been his friend, now be
comes his professed enemy, it behoves him to beware of popu
lar tumults and seditions ; he consumes his substance, and
loses his trade, or employment ; it also brings afflictions to
his body, as coughs, cholics, fevers, torments in the belly,
hurt to the eye sight, and the like maladies.
The Moon to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Venus,
indicates abundance of felicity, he delights in mirth and jolity ,
as plays, dancing, pastimes, wholly inclined to pleasure, free
from all cares except love matters, for it often imports mar
riage ; he is healthful in body, and all matters relating to
substance succeeds well.
The Moon to the quartile or opposition of Venus is an evil
direction, under which he gets disrepute and a scandalous
name; he is prejudiced by women, follows idle and lewd
company, leads a loose idle life, turns drunkard, wastes his
estate among debauched women, whereby he subjects himself
to abundance of infirmities, and all sorts of veneral diseases ;
sometimes marriage, but unhappiness.
The Moon to the conjunction, sextile or trine of Mercury,
denotes to the conjunction, he is engaged in disputes and
controversies, and if Mercury is weak, gains no credit, for
he is inclined to lying, and addicted to knavish actions, as
forging writings, etc., perhaps he proves an ingenious thief,
or pickpocket, but if Mercury is strong, he follows his studies
close, and is employed in writings, etc., if to the sextile or
trine he gains by merchandising, keeping a school, or the ma
thematics, in short he gains reputation by his study and dili
gence.
The Moon to the quartile or opposition of Mercury, de
notes trouble and controversy to attend the Native, he gains
much envy and malice with lawyers and solicitors : is con
cerned in cozening and knaveries ; in the law he declines
civil honest company ; is suspected and questioned about coin
ing of money, he is also pestered with law-suits, false ac
counts, etc., whereby his substance is much injured; and if
Mercury is Lord of the 4th, or 8th Houses, he is sentenced
to death, for other crimes, etc.
The © to the sextile or trine of Saturn, denotes an in
crease of estate by building, mines, and husbandry ; he gains
by elderly persons, or a legacy will be bequeathed him.
The Sun or Moon to the Twelve Houses.
To the 1st, discovers his private enemies, and gains upon
them, he is absolute, aiming at rule and command in his fa
mily.
26*
To the 2nd, is addicted to expences ; but if the fortunes
assist, it increases his estate.
To the 3rd, undertakes many pleasant journies.
To the 4th, busy in buildings, or in husbandry, and to good
purpose if the Fortunes are there ; but if the Infortunes the
contrary.
To the 5th, mirth and jollity.
To the 6th, gain by small cattle, and his servants, yet lia
ble to sickness.
To the 7th, quarrels and contentions are likely to incom
mode the Native.
To the 8th, busy about the wife's portion, or about the
dead, and sometimes it denotes the Natives own death.
To the 9th, is inclined to travel, and to cross the seas to
see Countries abroad, if the Sign on the 9th, be moveable
and watery.
To the 10th, advancement now offers itself, or propagates
his reputation, according to his situation.
To the 11th, gives new acquaintance, and his hopes meet
with success.
To the J 2th, denotes sorrow and a discontented face, he is
in fear of a person, or is abused by malicious persons, who
prove prejudicial to him.
>: '.n j; .v^iMevtrilBM
Judgments to be Inferredfrom Transits.
Transits of good Planets by good places or promissors,
signify good, but by evil places, evil ; and so contrariwise ;
and whatsoever we have before said of Directions, the same
things in an inferior degree, are to be understood of Tran
sits, with this difference, that whereas Directions signify the
good or evil to be eminent, Transits signify much smaller
matters of the same kind ; and whereas the force or effects of
a Direction lasts long, the effects of a Transit is generally
over as soon as the Transit, the one oftentimes lasting years,
the other but days or weeks at most.
But the Transits of the superiors, as Saturn, and Mars
ought well to be considered, for they never pass without ob
vious effects, which often lasts a whole year, let them be good
or evil : for if they be Lords of an evil House, or ill-posited
in the Radix, if they Transit the Asc. the conjunction, quar-
tile, opposition of its Lord, they threaten life ; if the 2nd, or
its Lord, the substance ; if the 3rd, or its Lord, journies ; if
the 4th, or its Lord, danger to the father, or loss of inheri
tance ; if the 5th, or its Lord, loss by gaining, and death of
children ; if the 6th, or its Lord, sickness or death of the
wife ; if the 8th, or its Lord, loss of substance, because they
263
cast their opposition uu to the 2nti ; if the 9th, or its Lord,
loss at sea, robbing by land, envy of Churchmen ; if the 10th,
or its Lord, the Kings displeasure if a Courtier, but loss of
trade if a tradesman ; if the 11th, or its Lord, evil friends,
or their affliction, the loss of hopes ; if the 12th, or its Lord,
death, and loss by cattle.
Observe also in the Ephemeris what day of every month
any of the Planets by their bodies pass by any of the Cusps
of the Houses of the Radical figure, or what degree wherein
any of the seven Planets, the ft, ti, or (g was in at the
birth : you must also observe when they behold any of those
Cusps, or the degrees wherein the Planets where, either with'
a sextile, quartile, or trine dexter or sinister, or opposition,
etc. The Transit of Jupiter or Venus by the degree as
cending of the Radix, imports the Native to be that day
healthful, chearful, very successful in his affairs and well dis
posed, for the Asc. signifies the actions of the body, etc., if
Jupiter or Venus transit the Cusp of the 2nd House, that day
is intimated an apt day to procure in monies, or to purchase
any commodity. If they or either of them Transit the Cusp
of the 3rd House, or behold it with a good Aspect, they
promise felicity that day from kindred or good neighbours ;
it also shews a favorable time to begin any journey. The
same must be understood ot the other Houses.
If Mars Transit the degree ascending, he moves the Na
tive to choler or passion for two or three days, or gives the
occasion whereby he is stirred up to wrath, etc.
If Saturn Transit the degree Ascending, he excites the
Native to gravity, soberness, melancholy, etc. ; and those
days of the year are generally reputed fortunate, when either
Jupiter, or Venus, or Sun, or Moon are in sextile, or trine
to the degree Ascending or Culminating, or to their own
places in the Radix, and those days are said to be unsuccess
ful, when either Saturn or Mars Transit the degrees As
cending or Culminating, or the places of Jupiter, Venus, Sun,
Moon, or ft , or beholds them by a quartile or opposition as
pect.
The Transits of Moon, discover all things whether good or
evil, which happen to a man daily, through the course of his
life; her application to, or transits of * 's and a's, shew
good ; of D 's and $ 's, evil, concerning all those things
signified by that House in which the Transit is made ; where,
if she be significatrix, the good or evil will partly fall upon
the things signified by her, according to the House she was
Lady of, or posited in the Radix ; but if not, the good or evil
will fall upon those things signified by the significator which
is Transited.
864
Judgments to be inferredfrom Rt'volntions.
The judgments of a Revolution are easy to be determined,
by considering in what House or Sign in the Revolution the
Radical Significators are posited ; for according to those Re-
volutional positions and configurations we are to judge. So
that if the Lord of the 2nd House be in the 3rd, it shews gain
to come either by travel, kindred or neighbours ; and if it be
also in sextile or trine with the Lord of the 3rd, in the Ra
dix the same ; if with the Lord of the 4th, by the father ; if
in the Medium Coeli, or in conjunction, sexile, or trine with
his Radical Lord, gain by trade, office, preferment, Noble
men, or eminent persons. Hence it appears, that the signi-
ficator of substance in a Revolution, is not Lord of the 2nd,
in a Revolution, but the Lord of the 2nd, in the Radix ; the
significator of lands is not the Lord of the 4th, in a Revolu
tion, but the Lord of the 4th, in the Radix ; the same is to
be understood of the rest ; but if the same Sign which As
cended Radically, Ascends in a Revolution, its effects will
be the more firm, because the Significators are the same ; the
like, if the same Planets which were Lords of the several
Houses in the Radix, be Lords of the same in the Revolu
tion though they possess not the same Sign.
Whatsoever good or evil is presaged unto the Native,
either by Direction, Transit or Revolution, we are to measure
the greatness thereof, according to the Radical strength of
the Significators, compared with their strength or fortitude at
the time of Direction ; where if they are Radically strong,
the good or evil will be great and permanent, and this is
more confirmed if they be also strong at the time of Direction
or Transit; if Radically weak, the good or evil will but
meanly manifest itself; and scarcely at all, if weak at the
time of the Direction or Transit ; but if Radically weak, and
strong at the time of the Direction or Transit, the effects
thereof may appear much beyond the expectations of the Na
tive, but will not be very durable.
PTOLOMY'S SYSTEM.
Having now introduced the Argolian system and briefly
explained the significaton of Directions, revolutions and tran
sits, it might here be of the greatest utility, to give the young
learner the rules laid down by the great Ptolomy.
Of the Space of Life.
Of the events which happen after birth, the chiefest is
about the space of life : for how shall any other event which
265
befals after the birth, be considered in him that doth not at
all arrive to that age of life? therefore the doctrine concern
ing the space of life is chief to all ; and this is not simple nor
easy, but is diversely taken from the dominion of the princi
pal places : and the manner which chiefly pleaseth us, is thus.
That the whole concerning the space of life, depends on the
Aphetic places, * rulers thereof and disposition of Anaretic
places.
Of the Prorogatory Places.
First, the Prorogatory Places are to be supposed those in
which the Star is that must assume the Dominion of Proro
gation, both the Sign which is about the Horoscope from five
degrees ascending above the Horizon, unto the twenty-five
remaining degrees, which being angular succeed, and also
the sextile Dexter of those thirty degrees which are of the
good Demon, and the quartile of the Mid-heaven above the
earth, and the trine, which is called God, and the opposite
of the west. And among these again are preferred as stronger
and more powerful, first, they which are in the Mid-heaven
above the earth, then, they in the east, next to those, they in
the Succeedant to the Mid-heaven, then the west, and last
ly, they which precede the Mid-heaven. For whatsoever is
under the earth, is not fit for such a dominion ; besides what
comes into light with the Ascendant.
Whatsoever House of the twelve above the earth, hath no
familiarity with the Horoscope, is not proper to be taken ;
and that which riseth before it which is called the evil De
mon, f seeing that it not only declines, but also hurts the in-
• The Aphetic, Hylegiacal, and Prorogatory places are the same ; the first
from the Greek, the second from the Hebrew, and the last from the Latin ;
and are the places whence the Apheta, Hyleg, or Prorogater ( which are all
one) is taken ; and the Anaretic Places or Stars, are such as are killing.
t By the good Demon is to be understood the 11th House; and by that
which is called God, the 9th House ; and that called the evil Demon, the 12th
House : and the degrees here mentioned are not those of the Ecliptic, but of
the Equinoctial or Equator, of which the Space of every one of the 12 Houses
contain 30, and so in the whole the 12 make up 3fi0, in every latitude.
Observe, the Prorogatory places are, first, from the S degrees next and im
mediately above the cusp of the Ascendant, to the 25 degrees next below it,
which may be computed by Oblique Ascension.
And as in the Ascendant, so a Planet in the 5 degrees next preceding the
cusp of the 2nd, (though actually in the Ascendant,) yet hath its influence in
the 2nd, and therefore those 5 degrees are not Prorogatory. The like is to
be understood of the 10th, 9th, and 7th.
But in the 11th House, the Prorogatory place doth not exceed the middle
of the House towards the 12th, which middle is easily computed by adding
half the Semi-diurnal Arc , to the Bight Ascension of the M. C and where
that ends is the middle of the llth House, and the part beyond that ia not
Prorogatory.
2l
266
flnence of those Stars that are in it flowing from them on the
earth, for it disturbs, and as it were destroys the thick and
dark vapor proceeding from the moisture of the earth, where
by they appear contrary to nature, both in color and magni
tude.
Of the Part of Fortune.
The © , or Lunar Horoscope is computed from the inter
cepted degrees between the 0 and 5 , and hath equal de
grees from the Horoscope, according to the following Signs.
This therefore, is always computed by night and day, that
what proportion and configuration the © hath to the Horo
scope, the same hath the 5 tu J, that it may be as a Lunar
Horoscope.
Besides what the Greek or Latin Translation of Alatius
hath here, concerning the Part of Fortune, Cardan adds,
" But we ought also to observe which of the Luminaries is
more than the other in consequence of the Signs ; for if the
Moon be, we ought to add towards the consequence of the
Signs, the number of degrees from the Horoscope ; but if the
Moon be towards the precedent more than the Sun, to sub
tract it." The meaning of, which is, that from the New Moon
to the Full, the difference is to be added to; from Full Moon
to the New, to be subtracted from the Horoscope.
Governor nf the Aphetic Place.
The four principal places to be taken as Governors of the
Aphetic, are those of the Sun, the Moon, the Horoscope, and
the Part of Fortune. Of these again let the Sun be preferred
by day, if he be in the Aphetic places ; if he be not, let the
Moon : if she be not, that Planet shall be preferred that hath
most titles of Dominion in the place of the Sun, the preced
ing conjunction, and the Horoscope ; that is, when he hath
dominion three ways or more, in one of the mentioned places ;
for all the ways of Dominion are five. But if there be none
such, the Horoscope shall be taken.
By night the Moon shall be preferred, if she be likewise in
Aphetical places, but if she be not, the Sun shall, if he be ;
and if he be not, that Planet which hath more Prorogatives
of Dominion in the place of the Moon, the preceding Full
Moon, and the Part of Fortune ; and if there be none such,
• r\r inn -^t£z %ti
Secondly, these things being premised when two or more significations
shall happen to be equally strong, and otherwise contend for dominion of
Prorogation, (as it sometimes happens) so that it is hard to judge who is the
true Prorogator that takes place first, that is in the Mid heaven, next that in
the Ascendant, then those in the llth ; next those in the 7th, and lastly that
in the 9th.
^
267
the Horoscope shall be taken, if a conjunction preceded : but
if it was a Full Moon, the Part of Fortune.
If both the Lights or the Ruler of the proper condition are
in Aphetic places, he shall be taken that is more principal :
but if the Ruler of the Lights possess the more principal
place, and hath Prerogative of Dominion in both conditions,
he alone shall be preferred to others.
The Ways of Prorogation.
The Prorogator being so determined, we ought to admit
two ways of Prorogation : one of which is made only on the
consequent Signs, under that which is called Actinobolia, or
a projection of Rays, when the Prorogator is in Oriental
places, that is, in the places from the Mid-heaven to the
Horoscope. This therefore we ought to assume, and not on
ly this which is to consequent Signs, but also to the prece
dent Signs ; according to that which is called Horimea,
which is when the Apheta is in places declining from the
Mid-heaven.
These things being so, there are interficient degrees ac
cording to the Prorogation which Is made to the precedent
Signs. The degree of the Occidental Horizon only is inter
ficient, because it destroys the Lord of Life. But the other
degrees of the Stars so occurring or testifying, subtract them
from, or add them to the collected numbers, until the Proro
gator is set : but observe also that they do not kill, because
they are not carried to the Aphetic place, but that rather to
their places.
The Benefics therefore add, and the Malefics subtract ; but
Mercury is adapted to those by whom he is beheld. The si
tuation of the degree of each, indicates the number of addi
tion or subtraction ; for how many shall be the Horary times
of the degree of each, such shall be the number of years ; but
by day, the times of the diurnal parts, by night, the nocturnal
must be considered ; but this ought to be observed when they
are in the Ascendant. * Afterwards to subtract according to
the proportion of distance, until they coming to the west,
nothing remains.
But the places of the Malefics, Saturn and Mars, kill ac
cording to the Prorogation made to the following Signs, when
they either meet bodily, or cast their rays from any where,
whether it be quartile or opposition, and sometimes in sex-
tiles, proceeding from Signs obedient or beholding, because
of their equipolence, and also a quartile configuration from
• But says Carden, when his numher is in the Ascendant it ought to be
Vept whole.
268
tlie following Signs to the Aphetic place; and also a scxtile
evilly affected, when it is in Signs of Long Ascension ; yea
and besides, the trine in Signs of Short Ascension, kill, as
will the solar place, if the Moon be Hyleg : and the rencoun
ters made in such a Prorogation kill or save, because such
occurses are carried to the Aphetic place direct.
These places are not always Anaretic, but only when they
are evilly affected ; and their Anaretic part is impeded, when
it falls in the terms of a Benefic, or if any of the Benefics
cast a quartile, trine, or opposition, to the very Anaretical
point, or to those which follow it. In Jupiter not above 12
degrees, and in Venus not above 8. Or if both the body of
the Prorogator and the occurrent part have not both the same
latitude.
Therefore when the Assisting or Anaretic Rays are found
two or more on each side, you must observe which is strong
est in power and number ; in number when some exceed
others in multitude ; in power when the assisting or killing
Stars are some of them in proper places, and others not ; and
chiefly when some of them are Oriental, and some Occiden
tal : for generally none of these that are under the Sun's
beams, are to be left either to kill or save, unless when the
Moon is Apheta, the place of the Sun afflicted by some Ma-
Iefics joined to it, and receiving freedom from none of the
Benefics, causeth death.
The number of years arising from the distance between the
Aphetic and Anaretic place, is not taken simply and indis
creetly, always from the Ascensions of the times of each Pla
net, but then only when the Orient possesseth the Proroga
tion, or some other which ariseth in the Oriental Horizon.
For there is one scope alone proposed to him that would na
turally consider after how many Equinoctial times the place
of the following body or ray cometh, to the place of that
which precedeth in the Geniture, because the Equinoctial
times equally pass the Horoscope and Mid-heaven, accord
ing to both of which, the likenesses of the local distances are
taken, and each time signifies a solar year.
Therefore seeing those things are so, it is fit when the
Aphetic and precedent place be in the Oriental Horizon,
that the Ascensions even to the meeting of the degrees be
taken for the Anareta after so many Equinoctial times cometh
to the Aphetic place, that is to the Oriental Horizon : but
when the Aphetic place is found in the Mid-heaven, we ought
to take all the Ascensions in a right sphere : in which As
censions each section passeth the Mid-heaven. •
But when the Aphetic place is in the Occidental Horizon,
we ought to take the Descensions in which each degree of the
269
distance is carried down, that is, in which the degrees oppo
site to them are carried upwards.
But when the Aphetic and preceding place is not in these
three mentioned limits, but in some space between the times
of these Ascensions and Descensions, or Culminations, they
do not carry the following places to the precedent, but others :
for the places are like the same which have one position, and
is in the same degrees in respect to the Horizon and Meri
dian: but this happens to them which are situate nearest to
one of the Semi-circles described by Sections of the Meri
dian and Horizon ; each of which Semi-circles according to
the same situation, maketh the temporal hours very equal.
Therefore, as it is carried by the same places, it comes to
the same position both of the Horizon and the Meridian ;
and maketh the times unequal and diverse, by the transit of
the Zodiac : and in the same manner according to the posi
tions of the other distances it maketh transits, by times un
equal to them ; but we have one method, that if the Apheta
and precedent places have an Oriental position, or Meridian-
al, or Occidental, or any other from the analogy of the times,
which are brought to the Aphetic places, we take the follow
ing place. The way is thus.
Taking the degree of the Zodiac which is on the Mid-hea
ven, and the precedent, and also the subsequent ; first, we
consider what position the precedent degree hath, and how
many unequal hours it is distant from the Meridian, and num
bering the Ascensions of a right sphere, which we find between
the considered and the precedent degree, and the Mid-hea
ven, whether it be above or under the earth, we divide them
into the number of horary times of the precedent degree,
either diurnal or nocturnal. But if it be above the earth,
diurnal ; if under the earth, nocturnal ; seeing the sections of
the Meridian are distant from the Zodiac, the same horary
times they are contained under one and the same Semi-circle.
Then we inquire after how many Equinoctial times the fol
lowing sections or place is distant so many equal temporal
hours, from the same Meridian as the precedent degree is
distant from it. And assuming these, we consider again, by
the Ascensions of a right sphere, how many Equinoctial times,
according to the position from the beginning, the following
degree was distant from the degree of the Mid-heaven, and
how many it was distant when it made the equal temporal
hours in the precedent; and multiplying these into the num
ber of horary times of the following degree ; if they be above
the earth, of the diurnal ; if under the earth, of the nocturnal ;
and assuming the times arising from the excess of both dis
tances, we have the number of years sought after.
270
Note here, that no Converse Direction kills but that of the
Hyleg or Prorogator to the Cusp of the 7th.
AH the Directions of the Hyleg to Mundane (not to Zodia
cal) Rays, which happen between it and the 7th, are to be
calculated, and the Arc of Directions to the Benefic's rays
are to be added together, and so are the Arc of Directions
of the Malefic aspects ; and the sum of the Benefic rays are
to be added to, but of the Malefic's subtracted from the Arc
of Direction of the Prorogator to the Cusp of the 7th, and the
result is the true Arc of direction, according to Ptolomy,
which most certainly kills, if no Benefic ray assist.
Of Riches.
We will take those things which concern possessive For
tune, from that point called the © alone, according to which
we cast away the distance from the Sun to the Moon from the
Horoscope, alike in things that are by day and by night.
This being supposed, we will take the Lordship, and consider
the strength of them, and their familiarity, and also of those
that are configurated with them, or elevated, whether they
be of the same or contrary condition.
They therefore which assums the Lordship of the ® , being
in strength, cause much riches, and chiefly when the Lights
give proper testimony to them. But Saturn will increase
riches by building, husbandry, or navigation ; Jupiter, by pro
tection, or by those things that were committed in trust to
him, or by priesthood ; Mars, by warfare and generalship:
Venus, by friendship and gifts of women : Mercury, by elo
quence and business.
Saturn having familiarity with the 0, and in configuration
with Jupiter, properly causeth hereditaments, and chiefly
when this is in superior Angles, Jupiter be:ng Occidental, in
a double bodied Sign, or expecting the Moon's application,
for then being adopted, they will be the heirs of others : and
if they which are of the same condition with the Lords, give
testimony of dominion, the possession will remain with them ;
but if they whioh are of the contrary condition are elevated
above the principal places or succeed, the possession will not
endure : but the general times is taken from the inclining of
the Stars, which produce the cause to the Angles and Suc-
ceedants.
If the Significator of riches be angular, the riches will be
acquired in youth ; if near the cusp, very early ; if in succeed-
ants, in middle age ; in cadents, late, and in old age. The
same is to be said if they be Oriental or Occidental in respect
of the Sun and the World.
271
Of Honor and Dignity.
We consider those things which concern dignities, and this
blessed part, from the disposition of the Lights, and the fa
miliarity of the Stars by which they are guarded. Therefore
if both the Lights be found in masculine Signs, and either
both or one of them angular, that is, the Sun by day, and the
Moon by night chiefly the conditionary ; and especially if
they have the Satellitium of the five Planets, the Sun being
guarded by Oriental Stars, and the Moon by Occidental,
they that are born will be kings :* and if the guarding Stars
be angular or configurated to the superior Cardinal House of
heaven, they will be great and powerful, as Lords of the
World, whose happiness and honor will indeed be greater;
if the Satellites make configurations Dexter ; but if other
wise thus it happens, that the Sun alone is in a masculine
Sign, and the Moon in feminine, and of the two one only being
in an Angle, they that are born shall only be princes, having
power of life and death. If the Luminaries being so in these,
and neither of the Satellites be angular, nor give testimony
to the Angles, they shall be great, but have particular hon
ors, as guardians, generals, or princely dignity ; but not hav
ing principality : and if the Lights not being in Angles, it
happens that most of the guarding Stars be angular, or con
figurated to the Angles, they will not give the more illustri
ous dignities ; nevertheless they will moderately excel in
civil affairs. If neither of the Satellites are configurated to
the Angles, they will be obscure, and not promoted to honor,
and if not one of the Lights be found either in a masculine
Sign, nor angular, nor guarded by the Benefics, they are
born to be extremely abject, and of a very unhappy mind.
Therefore, the general description of highness and lowness
of dignities hath such a speculation ; but an infinite number
of things in a mediocrity are to be considered from the mu
tation and variety which happens particularly about the Lights
themselves, and the Satellitum, and the dominion of the Sa
tellites, f For the Benefics assuming the dominion, or they
* That is to say, such as shall have rule and power extraordinary, or as
Kings.
t Tirst, In the proceeding part of this treatise I have told you, that the
Satellites of the Sun are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus and Mercury ; and
those and no other are the Satellites so often mentioned here ; and the Sa
tellitum and guards, are the concourse or number of them at any time re
specting the Luminaries.
Secondly, That though the Author here is very particular and positive con
cerning respective dignities, yet we are not to understand that hereby he
intends that all that are so born shall arrive to such dignities, nor that every
272
which are of the same condition, tbey will possess dignities
with greater authority, and will be more firm : but if the
Malelics assume the dominion, or they of the contrary con
dition, they will be of a lower order, and more uncertain.
And we observe the kind of dignities from the properties
of the Satellites : for if Saturn hath dominion he will give
rich and wealthly government. The rule from Jupiter and
Venus will be pleasant, full of gifts and honor. That from
Mars will be about expeditions, victories, and terrible to sub
jects. That from Mercury by understanding, prudence,
learning, diligence, and care of affairs.
Of the Quality of the Profession.
Although it would be absurd to expect to predict the exact
Trade or Profession of the Native ; you may nevertheless by
carefully observing the following Rules, be enabled to judge
in a general way of the nature of the Trade or Profession
the Native will be likely to follow.
The Lord of the Profession is taken two ways, from the
Sun, and the Sign which hath dominion of the Mid-heaven.
Therefore we ought to observe the Star that maketh Oriental
appearance next to the Sun : and that which agrees with the
Medium-coeli, either therein, or in familiarity thereto ; chief
ly when it respects the application of the Moon : and if one
and the same Star hath power in both respects, we take that
alone, for what is enquired after : and if it is not found in
both respects, but only in one of the two, that alone shall be
taken : but if one next appear before the Sun, and another be
in the Mid-heaven, and hath familiarity with the Moon, both
shall be taken ; but he shall be prefered who is the most
strong unto the dominion.
If none be found making application, nor in the Mid-hea-
one that doth shall be equal therein : for many who have such princely posi
tions, have also others that cut the thread of life before they can arrive
thereto, their respective significators are not of equal fortitude to support it ;
and if they were, the title to such dominion is not the same in all Princes ; for
the dominions to which some have title, is far short of what others have : and
though some by reason of the extraordinary power of their proper significators
of honor and dominion, do often invade the rights of others ; yet as such more
powerful significators are not so common as others ; neither are such invasions
as general as the particular titles of Princes to respective dominions. The
like is to be understood of riches, pleasures, wedlock, children, friends, and
enemies, travelling, or the like ; for though there may in the nativity be testi
monies very large for such matters, yet where there are other testimonies of
short life, it follows that where death thereupon accordingly ensues, that all
other externals naturally cease and are prevented.
273
Ten, lie that Tiath dominion of the Medium-coeli, we take the
proper sicillcator of the oQice, exercise, or study to which
the Native will ho agreeable tu apply himself ; at least when
wc knew the business is commodious to the situation in life ;
because some arc horn for idleness from the constitution of
their Stars : and the things which concern I' e Lord of the ac
tion is thus investigated.
And the kind of profession will be made known by the pro
perties of the three Stars, that is, when they have dominion
of the profession, viz. Mars, Venus, and Mercury, and the
Signs in which they are : for Mercury makes scribes, mana
gers of business, calculators, masters, dealers, exchangers,
diviners, astrologers, and those who live by learning and in ]
terpretation, and the stipends and gifts of others : and if Sa
turn give testimony to him they will be stewards to others,
or interpreters of dreams, or conversant in churches for the
sake of divination and enthusiasm ; if Jupiter gives testimony,
they will be limners, orators, sophisters, conversant with
great personages.
If Venus have dominion of the profession, she will make
those conversant with the scent of flowers, unguents, and
wines, colors, tinctures, spices ; as unguent makers, plaiters
of garlands, vintners, apothecaries, weavers, sellers of spices,
limners, dyers, sellers of garments ; and if Saturn gives tes
timony to her, she will make men dealers in things which re
late to pleasure and adorning, sorcerers, poisoners, deceivers,
and those that deal in such like : but if Jupiter gives testi
mony to her, they will be champions, hearers of armory, pro
moted to honor by favor of the women.
But Mercury ruling the profession, configurated with the
Sun, he will make those who work at the fire, as cooks,
founders, burners, breakers, workers about metals : but being
with the Sun, he makes shipwrights, carpenters, husband
men, stone cutters, cutters of wood, under workmen. If Sa
turn gives testimony to him, he makes seamen, emptiers of
vaults, feeders of beasts, cooks, butchers. If Jupiter gives
testimony, he will make soldiers, servants, tax gatherers,
inn keepers, custom gatherers, sacrificers.
Again, two being found rulers of the profession together,
if they he Mercury and Venus, they make musicians, causers
of melody, and they that are busied about instruments, songs,
and poetry, and chiefly when they change places : for then
they make stage-players, actors, buyers of men, instrument
makers, dancers, players on stringed instruments, caperers,
alias tumblers, workers in wax, painters : and if Saturn gives
testimony to them, he will make with those mentioned, those
that deal in women's ornaments : and if Jupiter gives testi-
2m
274
mony, they will be lawyers, employed in the commonwealth,
teachers of children, rulers of the commons.
If Mars and Mercury together he Lords of the magistry,
they will be makers of statues, of armor, engravers of holy
things, formers of animals, wrestlers, (Cardan says physici
ans,) surgeons, accusers, adulterers, evil doers, forgers of
writings : and if Saturn gives testimony to them, they will be
homicides, stealers of clothes, rapacious, thieves, stealers of
cattle, conjurors.
If Mars and Venus together take the Lordship, they will
be dyers, ointment makers, workers in tin and lead, gold and
silver, dancers in armor, apothecaries, husbandmen, physi
cians curing by medicines : and if Saturn gives testimony,
they will take care of sacred animals, be sextons, lamenters
and pipers at funerals, enthusiasts, conversant in mysteries,
lamentations, and blood : and if Saturn gives testimony, he
will make men sacrificers, augers, bearers of holy things, ru
lers of women, interpreters, and they who live by such things.
Moreover the quality of the Signs in which the Lords of
the profession be, confer the variety of the profession : for
they of the human shape conduce to all those sciences and
exercises which are for the use of man. But four-footed Signs
conduce to metallic arts, negotiations, buildings, smiths and
carpenters' art. Tropical and Equinoctial Signs, to interpre
tations, commutations, measuring, husbandry, and priesthood.
Earthy and Watery Signs, to arts conversant about water,
and by water, herbs, and ship makers, and also burying,
pickling, and salting.
Again, the Moon properly possessing the place of profes
sion, and having a course with Mercury from the conjunction
with.the Sun, in Taurus, and Capricorn, and Cancer, will
make diviners, sacrificers, diviners by basin ; in Sagittarius,
and Pisces, she makes mourners, and those moved by devils,
in Scorpio and Virgo, magicians, astrologers, speakers of ora
cles, having foreknowledge ; in Libra, Aries, and Leo, she
makes enthusiasts, interpreters of dreams and conjurors.
Therefore the kinds of profession is distinguished by these,
but the greatness thereof is manifested fron the strength of
the ruling Stars : for being oriental or angular, they make
the profession powerful : but occidental or declining from an
gles, makes them subordinate.
If the Benefics arc superior, they will bo great, gainful,
firm, glorious, and joyful. If the Malefics be superior to the
Lords of the profession, it will be mean, inglorious, unprofit
able and uncertain.
Saturn therefore bring.-th oppoiilion by rold, find mixture
of colors : (slowness and lukewarmnces, says Cardan ; ) but
275
Mars through boldness and divulgation ; and both arc opposite
to the perfection of the profession : but the general time of
increase or diminution of arts, is judged from the disposition
of the Stars, which cause the effect, which they have in the
respect of the Oriental and Occidental Angles. *
Of Marriage.
To what is said, followeth the discourse about the fit con
junction and living together of man and woman, according to
the law, which we ought thus to consider.
In men the disposition of the Moon shall be observed. For
when she shall, be found in the Oriental Quadrants, she
maketh men marry while young ; or to marry young women
when they are old : f and if she be in these oppressed by the
Sun's beams, and configurated with Saturn, she causeth that
men do not marry at all. Moreover, if she be in a Sign of
one form, and apply to only one of the Stars, she makes men
marry but once. If in a Sign Bicorporeal, or of many forms,
or apply to many Stars, (in the same Sign, says Cardan,) she
causeth many marriages ; and if the Stars which receive the
application, either by propinquity of place, or by testimony, %
are Benefics, they will get good wives ; but if the Malefics,
evil ; therefore Saturn receiving the application, he promiseth
laborious and austere wives ; but if Jupiter possesseth the ap
plication, grave and taking care of the house ; if Mars, bold
and refractory ; if Venus, cheerful and merry ; if Mercury,
wise and brisk; if Venus be with Saturn, Jupiter, or Mer
cury, she promiseth those that are advantageous ; lovers of
their husband and children ; but if with Mars, passionate,
unstable, and inconsiderate ; in men thus.
In women, let the Sun be observed instead of the Moon,
for he being situate in the Oriental Quarters, they will marry
young, or (Cardan adds, when in age) be married to young
men : but being Occidental, they will marry late, or to men
aged or stricken in years ; and if he be in a Sign of one form
* The east Angle signifies the beginning oflife, the west Angle the end,
the Mid-heaven the middle part, that is, from 30 to 40, or thereabout ; and
signiScators accordingly disposed in the radical figure, will produce their ef
fects in time conformable .
Cardan in his comment on this part says, the Planet mailing Oriental ap
pearance, must not in this case be above 30 degrees from the Sun, and that if
2 or 3 Planets be so taken, that which is nearest the Sun must be elected be
fore others, provided he can be well seen.
t Cardan addetl), if she be in Occidental, he will marry late, or when
young to an old woman.
t That is, have dominion in the place.
276
or configurated to one Oriental Star, he will cause that they
will marry but once. If in a double bodied or of many forms,
or configurated to many Oriental Stars, he will give many
husbands.
Saturn configurated to the Sun, will promise husbands
modest, rich, and laborious : Jupiter, grave and magnanimous ;
Mars, violent, without natural affection, and unruly ; Venus,
neat and handsome ; Mercury, one who procures what is ne
cessary for life, employed in business. If Venus be found
with Saturn, dull and timorous : with Mars, quick, amorous
and adulterous ; with Mercury, she will give those desir
ous of boys.
They are called Oriental Quarters in respect of the Sun,
which precede the Oriental and Occidental Sign of the Zo
diac : in respect of the Moon, they form the New and Full,
to the Quarters : the Occidental are opposite to these Quar
ters.
When therefore both the Genitures of the Man and "Wife,
have the Lights so configurate with agreement, that is, being
sextile or trine to each other, their living together for the
most part continues, and chiefly when the agreement is with
change, (that is, with mutual reception,) and the duration
will be more firm, when the husband's Moon agrees with the
Sun of his wife : but if the position of the Lights be in Signs
inconjunct or opposite, or in a square, the living together
will be dissolved on light occasions, and they will be finally
estranged from each other.
If the Benefics behold the configuration of the Lights which
they make with agreement, the duration of their marriage
shall be honest, pleasant, and profitable : but if the Malefics
behold the configuration, it will be quarrelsome, contentious,
and hurtful.
So likewise when the Lights are not well configurated with
agreement : if the Benefics give testimony to these, the mar
riage shall never be cut off, but receive conciliation and res
titution : but if the Malefics give testimony to the disagree
ing position, th« marriage will be dissolved with scandal and
disgrace. Mercury alone being with the Malefics, the disso
lution shall be for public disgrace, and if Venus be found
with them, the divorce shall be for adultery, sorcery and such
like.
But they who in the other manner contract together, are
considered in both genders from the Star of Venus, agreeing
with Saturn, or Mars, because these meeting the Luminaries,
they will be discerned living together with familiars, and with
near relations or kindred ; and it will be according as Venus
shall be affected towards the others ; for if she be affected
277
towards Mars, it will be with those of a younger age ; seeing
they each one have exaltation in mutual Trigonal Signs. But
if she be affected to Saturn, it will be with those of older age,
seeing they hare House Trigonal to each other : whence Ve
nus with Mars manifestly produces amorous affection ; and if
the Star of Mercury be with them, it will not be without di
vulgation. *
If she be found in familiar and promiscuous Signs, as Ca
pricorn and Pisces, she causeth contracts with brothers and
relations : and in men if Venus be with the Moon, she caus
eth them to join to two sisters, or relations ; and in women if
she be with Jupiter, (Cardan says the Sun) she causeth them
to join to two brothers or kinsmen.
Again, Venus being with Saturn, causeth that the living
together be pleasant and constant; and if Mercury be with
them, they will be profitable ; but if Mars be there, unstable,
hurtful, and jealous. After the same manner, if Venus shall
be configurated with them, agreeably the contracts of matri
mony will be with those that are of equal age. If she be
more Oriental, that is easterly, with young men or women ; if
more Occidental, with older men or women. If Venus and
Saturn be found in promiscuous Signs, that is, in Capricorn,
and Libra, the intercourse will be with kindred : but this con
figuration of the Stars on the Horoscope, or Mid-heaven, if
the Moon concur, the men with their mothers, or aunts,
or mothers-in-law; but the women with their sons, or
their brothers son's, or their daughters husbands. If instead
of the Moon, the Sun concur in the said configuration, and
chiefly if the Stars are Occidental, the men will associate with
their daughters, or their sons wives ; but the women with their
fathers or their uncles, or their daughters husbands.
If the mentioned configurations, not being in Signs of one
kind, f are found in feminine places, they wholly affect to lust
and immodesty ; as if they be found in the fore parts and lat
ter parts of Aries, and the Hyades, the Pitchers, the last
part of Leo, and the face of Capricorn : and if the mentioned
Stars, that is Saturn and Venus, be in the two chief Angles
* Ai Mars in Capricorn the triplicity ef Venus, and Venus in Pisces the
triplicity of Mars. Or Mars in Pisces the exaltation of Venus, and Venus in
Capricorn, the exaltation of Mars. So Capricorn and Libra are common to
Saturn and Venus, for Venus in Libra hath House, aad Saturn triplicity ; and
in Capricorn, Saturn hath House, and Venus triplicity ; and so are said to be in
promiscuous Signs.
t That is, not in Masculine er Feminine Signs, but opposite, which are
alike in the Sex, but contrary in Nature, and those that are ruled by places of
a contrary nature, as Capricorn, ruled by Saturn and Mars ; Pisces by Jupiter
and Venus.
/
273
of the east and Mid-heaven, they will make the affections al
together open and public : but being in two last Angles, the
west and the north, they will make eunuchs and barren, and
without passage.
The things which concern men in marriage, we consider
from Mars, for if he be separate from Saturn and Venus, aid
ed by the testimony of Jupiter, he maketh men pure and
modest in their conduct, and disposed only to what is natu
ral ; when found with Saturn alone, and he in strength, they
will be dull and cold. If Jupiter and Venus be configurated
to both these being together, they will be easily moved on
to amorous actions, but continent, and refrain themselves, and
avoid the shame. If Saturn (and Cardan says Jupiter) being
away, Mars be with Venus alone, or if Jupiter be with her,
they will be lascivious, taking all manner of pleasure : and if
one of the Stars be Occidental, and the other Oriental, they
will be disposed to both what is natural and what is not so,
but not above measure. If both the Stars be found Occiden
tal, they will be unnatural in their desires. If the Sign be
masculine, to men of all ages.
Further, if Venus be found more Occidental, he will asso
ciate with mean women servants and externals ; if Mars be
found Occidental, with more eminent gentlewomen, and mar
ried folks. So it is concerning Men.
In women, let Venus be observed, for she being configu
rated with Jupiter or Mercury, makes them sober and pure
in their conduct : but having familiarity with Mercury, Jupiter
not being with them, she will make them prone to lust, but
contain themselves, and avoid the shame. Venus being con
figurated to Mars alone, will make them lascivious, and very
amorous: if to both of them together or configurated, if the
Star of Jupiter shall be with them, they will be more dull :
Mars being under the Sun's beams, they will associate with
servants, mean persons, or externals : but if Venus be under
the Sun's beams, they will associate with more eminent and
genteel persons, and the Stars be in Feminine places, or con
figured after a feminine manner, they will be only prone to
be passive : if they be disposed after a masculine manner, to
be active also. Saturn having familiarity to these configura
tions, (and he in feminine Signs, adds Cardan) contributeth
to the greater filthiness : if Oriental and Masculine, obnoxi
ous to infamy and reprehension by reason of detestable lust :
if helped by the Star of Jupiter, to the greater modesty ; Mer
cury, to the actions being more notorious, dangerous and open.
Cardan here adds, and so if the Signs be feminine, to wo
men. If both be matutine, they will desire boys.
279
Of Children.
It follows after these that we pass to the treatise concern
ing Children. Therefore this observation is to be taken from
the Stars that are in or configurated to the Mid-heaven, or
the succeedant, which they call the Good Demon. If there
be not any Stars in that place, or configurated, you ought to
observe the opposites.
The Moon, and Jupiter, and Venus, are assumed for givers
of Children; the Sun, Mars, and Saturn, are assumed for
sterility or paucity of Children : but Mercury being common
to both, contributes according to that to which he is configu
rated ; giving when he is Oriental in the east, but taking
away when he is Occidental in the west.
Therefore the Stars that are givers of Children, being so
disposed, and by themselves, give one child ; but in double-
bodied Signs, or in feminine, they cause the generating of
twins.
So also being in fruitful Signs, as ss ; n\, X, they give
two or more. If they be of a masculine nature, because of
the configuration to the 0 , and because of being in mascu
line Signs, they will give males; but if of a feminine nature,
females. If they be overcome by the Malefics, or be found
in barren places or Signs, such as SI and itji, they will give
children, but not for good or vital. If the 0 and tbe Male
fics possess the said places, that is the Mid-heaven and the
succedant of the Good Demon, if they be in masculine or
steril Signs, and have not the Benefics superior, they shew
utter want ' • children : but if they be in feminine or fruitful
Signs, or aid d by testimony of the Benefics, they give chil
dren indeed, but such as are hurt and short-lived.
Both conditions f being configurated and having respect to
prolific Signs, there will happen a rejection of children ac
cording to the excess which the Stars giving testimony have
in each condition, either of all the children, or of a few at
most, as they are found more powerful by being more Orien
tal, or more angular, or more elevated, or more succedant.
Therefore, if tbe Lords of the mentioned Signsbeing givers
of children, be Oriental, or in proper places, the given
childred will be famous and glorious. If Occidental, or not
in proper places, they will be obscure and mean.
t That is, if the Malefics have Dominion, and the Benefics give Testimony.
By the Good Demon here mentioned, the Author intends the eleventh
House, ; and by assuming the Horoscope of each Star of those that give chil-
dreu, we aro advised to make the degree in which such Star is, the degree as
cending ; and having made the figure of Heaven conformable to the Ascen
dant, to judge it as though a nativity to the respective children.
280
Moreover, if they agree with the © and lloroscope, they
will make thein beloved by their parents, pleasant, and heirs
of their goods. But if they be found unconjoined, and dis
agreeing, they will be rebellious, odious and hurtful to their
parents, and will miss the inheritance of their subtance.
Moreover, if the Stars which give children are agreeably
configurated among themselves, they will make them lovers
of their brethren, and respectful to each other.
And such is the general consideration of children, but in
those particulars which follow, we ought to assume the Horo
scope at each Star of those which give the children, and ob
serve and judge the other dispositions as in a nativity.
Of Travelling*
Things which concern travelling we consider from the position
of the Luminaries to the Angles of both, but chiefly of the
B : for she being Occidental * and declining from Angles,
causes Travelling, and change of places. And sometimes $
himself Occidental or declining from the place of the Mid-
heaven causes the same, when he hath an opposite or quartil*
aspect to the Luminaries. If the © also falleth in Signs
which cause travelling, the whole life, conversation, and
actions will be spent in a foreign country.
Moreover, when the Benefics beholds the mentioned
places, f or succeed, the travelling life will be famous and
profitable, and the returns will be quick, and without hin
drance. But if the Malefics behold or succeed, the travelling
will be hurtful and dangerous, and the return difficult ; but
we ought every where to assume the temperatement, and ob
serve the stronger of the made configurations.
For the most part if the Lights fall to the inclining of the
Oriental Quadrants, the travelling will happen to be towards
the east and south parts, but if in the Occidental Quadrants,
the peregrination will be towards the north or west.
Moreover, if the Signs which cause travelling be of one
form, either in respect to themselves, or the Stars which hare
the Lordship over them, travelling will be rare, and not
without some leisure ; but if they be doubled bodied, or of
two forms, they will be continual, and in many times.
Jupiter and Venus being rulers of the Lights, and the
places which cause travelling, the travelling will not only be
without danger, but also pleasant ; for by the Governors of
those countries and concourse of friends, he is sent away with
pleasure, the constitution of the air, and the plenty of neces
saries favoring.
• In the seventh Honse.
t That is, place of the Sun, Moon, and Part of Fortune.
281
If Mercury be joined to them, there will be an addition of
gain, gifts, and honors.
But Saturn and Mars possessing tin Lights, especially if
they are opposed mutually to them, they will cause great
dangers and unprofitable travelling. Hut being in moist
Signs, they will produce dangers by ship-wrecks, or by de
sert and unaccessible places. In fixed Signs, by precipices
and contrary winds. In tropical and equinoctial Signs, by
want of necessaries, and a sickly constitution of the air. In
human shaped Signs, by robbers, ambushes, and thefts. In
earthly Signs, by the increase of wild beasts, or earthquakes.
But if Mercury concur, the danger will occur through accusa
tions, and creeping things and casters of venom.
The reason of these peculiar judgments, whether they will
be gainful or hurtful, is taken from the difference of that
Planet which gives the cause ; and the cause of the compre
hended places, works and possessions, power, and dignities is
to be considered according to the first and principal consti
tution ; but the signification of the times appear from the con
figuration meeting in succeeding times, that is to say, from
directions.
Some are of opinion, that what is said of the Lights is also
to be understood of <J and the ®. But though they are al
lowed to cause travelling, and shew the success of such tra
velling; yet the Luminaries alone and only do point out the
quarter towards which the peregrination shall be.
The Signs said to cause travelling, are the Signs in which
the aforesaid Significators of travelling are found.
Of the Quality of Death.
It remains that we speak of the quality of death. And we
know this from what has been said in the discourse about the
space of life, how death will happen, the ruling place being
Oriental or Occidental.
For if death happens by the Orientality, or occurse of the
beams, the place of the occurse ought to be observed, and ac
cording to that judge of the quality of death. If it be Occi
dental, consider the Occidental place, for such as they are
which rule the mentioned places ; or if none rule then such
as before others are carried to these places, such ought we to
esteem the deaths, the configurating Stars concurring, and
also the quality of the mentioned killing places, and the na
ture of the Signs and the Terms.
Therefore Saturn possessing the dominion of death, * caus-
eth death by chronic distempers, phthisics, fluxions, colliqua-
* That is, the causer of the Quality of death.
2n
282.
tions, agues, spleen diseases, dropsies, chyliac and hysteric
distempers : and in a word those arising from abundance of
cold.
Jupiter, by quinsey, inflamation of the lungs, apoplexy,
cramp, and cardiac affections, and in some, they which hap
pen with vehement breathing, its disorder and stink. Mars
causeth death by continual fevers, semitertians, sudden strokes
and nephretic affections, spitting of blood, and hemorrhage ;
by abortion, birth, and St. Anthony's fire ; and in a word,
they which arise from abundance and ametry of heat. Venus
by affections of the stomach and liver, ring worms, bloody-
flux, putrefactions, fistulas, and giving of poison ; and in a
word, those which proceed from abundance of moisture, or
throngh want or wasting thereof; but Mercury, by madness,
extacy, melancholy, falling sickness, falls, coughs, spitting
affections, or those which happen simply through much dry
ness or want thereof : but thus they die naturally, when the
rulers of death are in their proper and natural quality, and
none of the Malefics concur.
But violent and remarkable deaths happen when both the
Malefics are Lords of the Anaretic places, or, are joined,
square, oppose, or otherwise evilly affect both the Lights, or
the Sun alone, or the Moon, or both ; for then the mischiev-
ousness of death proceeds from the congress of the Malefics ;
but the greatness of the death, from the testimony of the
Lights.
Its Quality is known from the rest of the aspecting Stars,
and the Signs containing the Malefics.
Saturn therefore squaring or opposing the Sun, contrary to
condition, in fixed Signs, causeth death by suffocation, by
tumults of the people, by hanging, or strangling. In like
manner he doth the same if he be Occidental, and the Moon
follow. If he be in beast-like formed, either Signs or places,
he causeth to perish by wild beasts. And if Jupiter favours,
and is infected by the Malefics, it will be in public and cele
brated places, sometimes by condemnation to die; if he be in
the west opposing either of the Luminaries, the Native will
end his life in prison ; being configurated to Mercury, espe
cially about the serpents which are in his sphere, or if found
in earthy Signs, they will die by poison.
And Venus being joined to them, death will occur by poi
son, and the treachery of women ; in n\ or X ,* or in moist
Signs configurated to the Moon, he will cause death by water,
being suffocated and drowned. If he be found about Argo,
by shipwreck. If he be in tropical or equinoctial Signs, and
instead of the Sun, Mars be there, he will cause death from
falling. If they culminate, death will happen by precipita-
* Some sav Virgo or Pisces.
283
tion from on high ; Saturn therefore will cause such things
being configurated with the Luminaries.
Mars squaring or opposing the Sun or Moon contrary to
condition, in Signs of human form, he will cause death by
slaughter, either civil, hostile, or by himself.
If Venus give testimony to them, death will ensue by wo
men.
If Mercury be configurated to them, death will happen by
robbers, evil doers, and pirates. If he be in mutilate or im
perfect Signs, or with the Gorgon or Perseus, or Caput Me
dusa*, he will induce death by beheading, or cutting off' of
members ; being found in in. or f , he will cause death by
medical cutting, burning, or contractions ; if he be found in
the Mid-heaven, or opposite to the Mid-heaven, he will cause
death by crucifixion ; and chiefly if found about Cepheus and
Andromeda. If he be found in the west, or opposite to the
Horoscope, he will cause death by burning of fire ; in four-
footed Signs, by falling and the breaking of limbs.
If Jupiter be evilly affected, or deprived of all his digni
ties, give testimony to Mars, death will happen through the
anger of Princes and Kings, and condemnation. If the Ma-
lefics especially agree together, and so oppose any of the said
places, they make the cruelty of the death the more ; but the
quality of death and the dominion, will offer near that which
is in the Anaretic.
Death happens in strange places when the Stars which
possess the Anaretic places fall from Angles, and especially
when the Moon either is found with, or in square, or oppose,
the said places.
It is here evident, first, that Ptolemy, whom the general
ity of Astrologers by one consent, have acknowledged to be
the Prince and principal of their profession, had not the least
regard to the 8th House, or its Lord, for the cause and qual
ity of death ; as taught in vulgar astrology ; but, in all vital
nativities to directions, either direct by which the Anaretic
point is carried to the place of the Givers of life, or converse
by the Hyleg's being carried to the west Angle, which alone
of all converse directions hath power to cut off' life.
Secondly, in such nativities as are vital, one direction, how
malevolent soever, rarely kills; but in all or most nativities
whatsoever, there is required a train of malevolent directions
to concur to death ; for it hath been most admirably proved
t>y the laborious Partridge, in his Opus Reformatum et De-
fectio Geniturarum, even but one single direction, though it
be a d or g of the Benevolents, intervening among such
trains of malevolent directions, at the Anaretic point, gene
rally preserves life, ( that is directions of the malevolents)
concur so together without the aid or intervening^ of the Ue-
KevolenU, they fail not to destroy life.
284
Thirdly, in such trains of directions, the author here dis
tinguished! between the killing Planet and the causer of the
Quality of death ; for one Planet doth not give both. The
foremost of the malevolent train is the killing place, and
shews the time of death ; but the following directions, though
Benevolent, shew the quality. If tbe train fall all together
and none follow, for the quality observe those which precede,
though at a distance and Benevolent also ; for though the
Benevolent contribute to the preservation of life as atorsaid,
yet they frequently specify the disease which is the cause of
death. And with these our author tells us concur the confi
gurating Stars, the quality of the Stars and Signs, and the
terms in which their Lords happen.
Fourthly, in violent deaths the Genethliacal positions of
the Lights are to be observed, and how the Malefics affect
them, and are also concerned by directions in the quality of
death.
Secondary Directions.
By Secondary Directions, we are to understand those con
figurations and familiarities of the Planets which arise daily
from the time of birth, and are applied to the prediction of
events that are come to pass in the same succession of jears
from the birth, as correspond with those days. For example,
all aspects of the Stars, both to the Luminaries and cardinal
Houses, that happen on the first day after birth, are applied
to the first year : those of the second day after birth, to the
second year : those of the third day, to the third year : and so
on in progressive rotation, as far as this speculation can ex
tend.
In the management of these directions we are principally
to observe what configurations the Moon has to the other
Planets : for if she be joined with Benefic Stars, or irradi
ated by their good aspects, or even by the good aspects of
the Infortunes, it denotes a happy, healthful, and prosper
ous year to the Native, in nature and quality peculiar to the
principal significator in each configuration, and to the Houses
and Signs in which they fall in the radical figure. But on
the contrary, if the Moon be joined to malevolent Stars, or
irradiated by them, or in parallel declination of the Infor
tunes, it forbodes to those years pointed out by tlie days, in
which these evil configurations happen, great afflictions either
in mind, body, or estate : and if a primary direction should
correspond with them, of the same malignant nature, a com
plication of temporal misfortunes \, ill most probably ensue.
In the consideration of these directions, we are particularly
to attend to the critical days and climaclcrial years, for at
those times the good or evil configurations of the Planets are
most powerful in their operation. If upon either of those
occasions the Moon be found in a or 8 to the place in \\ liich
28.5
she was posited at the liruc of birth, and an evil primary di
rection of the signilicutor of life correspond therewith, Death
is then at the door, or at that time very much to lie feared,
even in the strongest constitutions, or however healthy they
may appear to be when they begin to take effect.
And so likewise if the Sun or Moon in the secondary di
rections, are afflicted by the malignant rays of inauspicious
configurations, with an evil primary direction, with which
both the Revolution and Transit agree, it is considered an ir
revocable indication of death to the Native.
A Table of the Essential and Accidental Fortitudes and De
bilities of the Planets.
Essential Dignities.
In house, or reception by
house 5
In exaltation, or reception
thereby
In Triplicity
In Term
In Decauate or Face
Accidental Fortitude.
Essential Debilities, or Fall.
In Detriment
In Fall
Peregrine
5
4
6
In the Ascen. or 10 house 5
In the 7, 4, and 11 houses 4
In the 2nd or 6th houses 3
In the 9th house 2
In the 3rd house 1
Direct 4
Swift in motion -
Saturn, %, Mars, Oriental 2
Venus, 5 , or ) Occident. 2
Free from combustion
Moon increasing
In partile 6 with % & $
In partile a to % & $
In partile 6 with si
In tne terms of if. or $
Conjunction Spica Virgin
In Hayz
Conjunction Cor. Leonis
Moon increasing
Besieged by % and Venus
Accidental Debilities.
In the 12th house
In the 8th or o'th house
Retrograde
Slow in motion
Sat. Jupt. Mars, Occident
Venus & Mercury Oriental 2
Moon decreasing 2
Combust of Sun 5
Under Sol's beams 4
Besieged of Sat. & Mars 5
In partile 6 of Sat. or Mars 4
In partile $ of Sat. or Mars 5
In partile 6 with iS 4
In cd of Saturn or Mars 4
In terms of Saturn or Mars I
Con. with Caput Algol 5
In Cazimi* 5
* See observations on Cazimi in the Terms of Art.
oo
<
4
22
s
I
s
i
fa
3
X »l A =s n « nr
M ■
a
2
x'
\r
27
Sat
l>( Sat
H 2
2 2
2
2
D
22
2 S
D
N m
d
n
22
D
V
2
2
i)
or
Lord-
of IhePlauei- Hou-e-
of
S222-
2
22 8
3
Sat
21 22
-5 2
-5 R
- m
- S
2 t2OD. Exalta-
2
2
Sat
Mer
2
2 S
2 2
2
Sat
Mer
2
m
S
2 2
2 222
2
m
S
2 2
2 l2e-,
Tr2al
2c2
2
2 Sat
2 2
6 J
2
2
a
Sat
6 22
7
2at
6 M
6 22
7 2
2 2
6
2
-2 M2
-2 22
-2 2
2 2
2 2
11 2
-- 22
-- 2
-- 2
-2 22
-5 V
12
Term-
of
tbe
Pla2et-.
22
- 2
- 2
2 22
2 V
2- 2
2 2
-2 2
-9 22
2- 2
2- 2
22 22
2-
2
2
2
25 M
25
Sat
25 22
27 22
24 Sat
22 2
25 V
27
Sat
25 Sat
2
2
2
2at
- 2
-
Sat
-
2
-
Sat
-
2
- 2
-- 2
-
Sat
-
M
- 2
-
Sat
-
Sat
2
2
2 2
2 M2
-- 2
2 m
2 2
2 Sat
2
2
2 2
2 22
-0 2
2 The
Pha-e-
ef
the
Pla2et-.
2
- 22
- 2
- m
- 2
- Sat
-
2
- 2
- M2
- 2
- m
- S
-
2
- m
- S
- Sat
30
V
- 2
- 22
- M
- m
- S
- Sat
-
V
-
0 5 5 $ $ 11 h % S 9 O |
% 9, > 0 $ $ 8 f?
XI
<2
3
t»
0
•S.S
fc~
i
287
Astronomical Character*, etc. Explained, as used in this Work,
and Engraved on the Copper Plates.
<Y, Aries,
8 Taurus,
n Gemini,
Cancer, & Libra,
ni Scorpio,
f Sagittarius,
Vf Capricorn,
22 Aquarius,
X Pisces.
SI Leo,
Virgo,
I7 Saturn, g Mercury,
If. Jupiter, 0 Tellus, (the Earth)
$ Mars, 5 Luna, (the Moon)
0 Sol, (the Sun) Si North Node of 5 or Dragon's Head,
0 Venus, 0 South Node of J) or Dragon's Tail.
& Conjunction, a Trine,
S □ Semi-quartile, SSq or SSqa Sesquiquad-
* Sextile, rate,
Bq. Biquintile,
8 Opposition.
Q. or Quint. Quintile,
D Quartile,
P. or Par. signifies Parallel. P. Dec. Parallel of Decli
nation. R. P. or R. Par. Rapt Parallel. Observe, that the
Astronomical mark for each Planet engraved in a small cha
racter near the line of the 4th House, upon the Planispheres
indicates the said Planets Parallel of Declination, the letter
C, being joined to the Planetary mark, shews the Contra
Parallel of Declination of the said Elanet, or Planets. M.
d. d. for Mundane Direct Direction, and M. d. c. for Mun
dane Converse Direction. A mark or character for the Se
mi-quartile, may be easily substituted, by making the mark
for the quartile with a straight line or dash of the pen drawn
right through it, and the Sesquiquadrate, by making the p ,
and drawing two of the horizontal lines a little longer than
the perpendiculars, so that it will look like D and half a □
added to it And the Quintile.by O with a 5 in the middle.
And the Biquintile, by making a dash of the pen on one side
of the a .
Note. The Astrologers account the Semi-quartile, the
Quartile, the Sesquiquadrate, Contra-anticision, and Oppo
sition of any, and of all Planets to be bad, or unfortunate.
The Sextile, Quintile, Trine, and Biquintile, good and for
tunate. The Conjunction, and also the Parallels loth Zodi
acal and Mundane, are accounted good, with good Planets,
but unfortunate with evil Planets.
288
ASPECT,
An Aspect of a Planet is either Platick or Partile. A
Partile Aspect is, when two Planets behold each other in the
same degree and minute ; but a Platick Aspect is, when two
Planets behold each other within the half of their Orbs.
For instance, if the © be in 2« 10' of <r , and $ in 10° 20'
of n , they are said to be in Platick * , and if they are with
in 12» 30' distance from a Partile Aspect, they are still with
in half of their Orbs, for half the Orb of the 0 is 8° 30' ; and
half the Orb of $ is 4°, their sum being 12° 30.
A Table of the Planets Orbs. Planets Mean Motions.
h 10 0^
\ h 0 2 0
% 12
°l| V 0 4 50
$ 7 30 Orbs before $ 0 31 27
0 17 0 >and after any 0 0 59 8
9 8 0| Aspect.
9 1 36 8
S 7 30 \ 1 3 4 5 33
3) 12 30^; 5 13 10 35
This Table of Mean Motions is agreeable to Le Lande's
Astronomy. But Dr. Sibly erroneously states the Mean Mo
tions oi Mercury and Venus at 59' 8" each. I have given
both, and the Artist can use that which pleases him best.
TERMS OF ART.
If Inch ought to be well understood by every Person who
Studies the Celestial Sciences.
Accidents. Signify the remarkable chances, or events
that take place during our lives. Alcochoden. The giver of
life. Almuten. Lord of the Figure. Apheta. Giver of life.
Anareta. A cutter off, a destroyer. Aphorism. A general
Rule. Application. Of Planets three, namely. First, when
a Planet swift in motion applies to one that is more slow,
they being both direct; this is called direct application. Se
condly, when they are both retrograde; this is deemed an ill
application Thirdly, when one is direct in motion, and the
other retrograde ; this is no good application, but not so bad
as the last ; this is called a retrograde application. Aspect.
To behold. Azimene. Lame or weak. Besieged. Is when
a Planet is between the bodies of Saturn and Mars. Catlent.
Falling or weak. Cadent Houses. Are the 3rd, 6th, 9th,
289
and 12th. Cardinal Points. The Cusps of the 1st, 4th, 7th,
and 10th Houses. Circles of Position. See pages 46 and
173. Cardinal Signs. Are <r, ©, ^ , YP- Cazimi. Is
when a Planet is within sixteen minutes of the Sun's centre,
in longitude and latitude, this was formerly considered a for
titude, but the most rational and philosophical among modern
Astrologers account Cazimi to be a debility the same as com
bustion, for indeed it would be absurd to imagine that a Pla
net would be weakened by being 8° 30' from the Sun, and
that he should be strengthened by beiLg within 16' distance.
Combustion. A Planet is said to be Combust or Scorched,
when he is not more than 8° 30' either before or after the Sun.
Commanding Signs. Are the first six. Common Signs. Are
n , "R, t , X • Cosmical. Stars that rise with the Sun.
Cusp. The beginning or first point of a house. Daily, or
Diurnal Motion. The progress a Planet makes in 24 hours.
Debilities. Certain affections of the Planets, whereby they
are weakened. Decanate. Is one third of a Sign, or 10°.
Declination of a Planet. Is its distance north or south from
the line of the equator. Decumbiture. The time a person
falls sick Detriment. Loss or damage. Dexter Aspect.
Towards the right hand. Digit. The twelfth part of the di
ameter of the Sun or Moon. Dignities. Advantages where
by a Planet's virtue or power, is increased. Dragon's Head.
The Moon's north Node. Dragon's Tail. The Moon's' south
Node, being the two points where the Moon's orbit intersects
the ecliptic. Dispositor. Is the Planet that disposes of
another Planet, thus, if Mars be found in Taurus, which is
the House of Venus, Venus is in this case the Dispositor of
Mars, the same must be understood of all other Planets. Dy-
sis. The 7th House. Elongation, A Planet's greatest dis
tance from the Sun. Emersion. The coming forth out of
shadow or darkness. Epact. The Moon's age at the begin
ning of the year. Ephemeris. A diary or day book of the
Planet's motions. Epicyle. A little circle whose centre is
in the circumference of a greater circle. Epocha. A root or
beginning. Erect a Figure. Is to calculate ordelineate the
12 Houses aright for any given time. Face. The third part
of a Sign, or 10°. Fiery Triplicity. See page 203. Fixed
Signs. See page 203. Fortitudes. Power or influences of
the Planets made stronger, by being well posited. Fortunes.
The two benevolent Planets, Jupiter and Venus. Frustra
tion. Is to be understood, when a light Planet applies to the
aspect of another more ponderous, and before that aspect is
accomplished, the ponderous one meets with the aspect of
some other Planet. Fruitful Signs. Are Cancer, Scorpio,
and Pisces. Genitnre. The moment of time an infant is
2o
290
brought into the world. Mundane Parallels. Are equal pro
portional distances of the Planets (according to their Semi-
arcs) from the cusp of any of the angles of the figure; one
Planet remaining before the cusp of any angle, (or of its op
posite angle,) and the other Planet being placed after it,
when the direction is finished. But in Mundane Oppositions
when the aspect is finished, both Planets will remain before,
or both will be placed after the respective angles of the figure
from which their distance was taken.
Horary Question. A question asked at a certain hour, and
for which time a figure of the heavens is erected. Haiz.
When a masculine and diurnal Planet in the day is above the
earth, or a feminine nocturnal Planet in the night time is un
der the earth. Imun Cell. The bottom of Heaven, or the
4th House. Increasing in Light. Is when a Planet is de
parting from the Sun. Infortunes, or unfortunate Planets.
Are Saturn and Mars. Ingress. An entrance upon or going
into. Joys of the Planets. Certain dignities happening to
them. Latitude. A Planet's distance either north or south
from the ecliptic : in geography it is the distance of the equa
tor, from the point right over head, also, the elevation of the
pole above the horizon. Light of the Time. Is the Sun by
day, and the Moon by night. The Lights. Are the Sun,
and Moon. Light. A Planet is said to be light, when his
motion is quicker than that he is compared with. Longitude
of a Planet or Star. Is its distance from Aries; but in geo
graphy, the distance from the first meridian. Lord of the
Year. Is that Planet which has most fortitudes in a revolu-
tional figure. Lord of the Geniture. Is that Planet which
has the greatest strength in a person's nativity. Lord of the
Hour. The Planet which governs the twelfth part of the day
or night. Masculine and Feminine Planets. Masculine are
© , I? , If. , and $ ; the feminine are p and $ ; but § is
sometimes of a masculine, and sometimes of a feminine na
ture, according to the Planet he is joined with. Matutine.
Belonging to the morning. Medium Celt Mid-heaven, 10th
House, or angle of the south. Mutual Reception. When
two Planets are each in the House of the other. Moveable
Sig?is. Are <r, qs, & , yf. Mute Signs. Are «B, tti X.
Natural Day. The space of 24 hours. Nativity. The true
time of any person's birth, also, the figure of heaven erected
to that moment of time. Nodes. Signify the Dragon's head
Q , and tail & . Northren Signs, or Commanding Signs. The
first six are called so. Obeying Signs. Are the six last Signs.
Oblique Ascension. Is that degree and minute of the equi
noctial which rises with any given point of the zodiac, or that
rises with the centre of the Sun, Moon, Star, or Planet. Ob
291
lique Deseension. Is that part of the equinoctial which sets
with a given point of the zodiac, or that sets with the centre
of the Sun, Moon, etc, Occidental. Belonging to the west,
the 7th House is called the west angle, in astrology ; also, a
Planet that rises, and sets after the Sun is said to be Occi
dental. Oriental. Belonging to the east ; the 1st House is
called the east angle, in astrology ; a Planet rising and set
ting befere the Sun, is Oriental. Opposition. Is when two
Planets are 180 degres distant. Peregrination. Is when a
Planet is posited in a Sign wherein he hath no essential dig
nities, neither by house, exaltation, triplicity, term or face ;
as a stranger or one out of authority. Pole, or Pole of Ele
vation of a Planet. £s answerable to the latitude under
which it must be directed by Oblique Ascensions, or Descen-
sions, when you direct it to the aspects of other Planets, see
the II. and III. parts of this treatise, particularly pages 55,
and 56. Primary Planets. Are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Ve
nus, Mercury, and Herschel. Primam Mobile. The first
mover, or tenth sphere in the old astronomy. Prohibition.
Is when one Planet is applying to the conjunction of another,
and before this is accomplished, another Planet conjoins the
former, and in this manner forms a Prohibition. Promitttrs.
Planets that promise to bring something to pass. Prorogator
of Life. The same as Hyleg. Querent. An enquirer, or
one that asks a question. Quesited. The person, or thing
enquired after. Reception. Is when Planets are in each
others dignities, whether in house, exaltation, triplicity, term,
or face. Refranation. Is when one Planet applies to the
aspect, or body of some other, and before he can complete
that aspect, he becomes retrograde. Rectify a Nativity. Is
to bring the estimate time to the true. Retrograde. Is when
a Planet apparently moves backward in the zodiac, as when
a Planet appears to move from b into <r , and from ir into
X,etc. Right Ascension. Is the degree and minute, etc.,
of the equinoctial reckoned from the beginning of v. Revo
lution. In astrology, signifies the return of the Sun to the
same degree and minute he was in, at the moment of birth.
It also signifies a figure of the Heavens, calculated or set for
the very moment the Sun returns to the same point of the
zodiac he was in, at the time of birth. Astrologers form a
general idea or judgment of the events of any particular
year, by the revolutional figure for that year. Separation.
Is when two Planets have lately been in aspect or conjunc
tion together, and have now separated or gone from it. Sinis
ter Aspect. Towards the left, or according to the succession
of the Signs of the zodiac. Slotc in Motion. Is when a Pla
net's diurnal motion is less than the mean motion. Succeed'
292
ant Houses. Are the 2nd, 5th, 8th, and 1 llli. Sun Beams.
A Planet is accounted under the Sun Beams, till he be 17°
distant from him. Swift in Course. Is when a Planet moves
more than his mean motion in 24 hours. Translation. Is
when a light Planet separates from a ponderous one, and im
mediately applies to another, superior ; and so translates the
nature of the former to the latter. Vespertine. When a Pla
net sets after the Sun Violent Signs. Are Aries, Libra, Scor
pio, Capricorn, Aquarius. Void of Course. Is when one Planet
separates from the body or aspect of another, and applies to
no other whilst he is in that Sign. Watery Triplicity, Are
Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces.
To assist the Student here is added the General Infltiences of
tht Planets, according as they are strong or weak in any Na
tivity.
The Planets when strong in any Nativity are considered
as being more fortunate in their influence, but when weak they
are said to have an unfortunate influence. Thus when the
Planet Saturn is strong and well dignified, he influences men
to be grave, steady, and laborious, to be good Students, or
those who accumulate wealth by business and industry. But
Saturn when ill dignified or weak influences the disposition
to be wilful, covetous, and malicious.
Jupiter when strong and well placed incites men to honest
principles, to be pious, modest, wise, diligent, and liberal.
But Jupiter when weak, renders men prodigal, unfaithful,
weak in judgment, and regardless of themselves and their re
lations. Mars when strong, makes men valiant, generous, but
hasty and careless of riches. But when weak, he inclines
men to tyrannical actions, to thieving, murder and sedition.
The Sun when strong in the Figure of a Nativity, inclines
the Native to be magnanimous, valiant, provident and desire-
ous of fame and honor. But when weak he inclines to pride,
arrogance and domineering over others, and given to vain
boasting. Venus when strong in any Nativity inclines the
Native to be of a quiet, even and friendly disposition, loving
mirth and cheerfulness, and one that will be prudently amor
ous. But when Venus is weak and afflicted with cross as
pects, the Native will be inclined toriotous, profligate and lewd
company, and to be a frequenter of places of ill fame. Mercury
when strong inclines the Native to learning, to genius, Arts
and Sciences. But when weak Mercury inclines to boasting,
293
flattery, weakness of intellect and to base and mean practices.
The Moon when strong in a Nativity, inclines to ingenuity
and politeness, but to be of a wavering disposition, though
very peaceable. But when the Moon is weak, or ill digni
fied, she inclines to idleness, sloth and drunkenness, to waste
and extravagance. The aforesaid influence of any Planet
will be the more considerable and worthy of remark ; if the
Planet happen to be the Lord of the Ascendant, or as it is
called the Natives Significator, and in order to form your
judgment correctly of the Native's disposition etc., you must
blend these Rules for the Planets with the Nature and Quali
ty of the Signs in which the Planets are posited as given in
the 226th page of this book.
The descriptions of persons in stature and compelexion, is
here purposely omited for several reasons.
1st. Because such descriptions are very apt to mislead the
the inexperienced Student : as the description of the person
can seldom be truly given by the Planet or Significator,
being simply in any particular Sign of the Zodiac ; but much
consideration, judgment and experience is required to weigh
correctly how the description ought to be varied by the Sig
nificator being in Conjunction or Aspect with other Planets.
2ndly. I have already given upwards of a hundred pages
more in this book than was promised in the Prospectus ; and
if the bulk of this book were to be increased it would be im
possible to afford it at the stipulated price, on account of the
vast expense incurred in Engraving and Printing so many
large Copper Plates as accompany this book.
ON JUDGING OF NATIVITIES.
Previous to giving Judgment on any Nativity, it is neces
sary to find the amount of the Essential and of the Accidental
Fortitudes and Debilities of the Planets, as they are expres
sed in the foregoing Tables, in page, 285, which may be
easily done, by ruling a piece of paper with seven columns,
and at the top of the columns write the character for Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon, then
rule a sufficient number of lines across the paper, and in the
column of each Planet write down each Essential and each
Accidental Fortitude belonging to it, add them together :
proceed in the same way to find each Planet's Essential and
Accidental Debilities, subtract the smallest sum from the
greater, and the remainder is the total of Fortitudes, or of
Debilities, whereby you are to be guided in forming your
Judgment on a Nativity.
294
Lord of the Ascendant, or Ludy of the Ascendant : the
Planet which is said to rule that Sign of the Zodiac, which
is ascending in the east is so called ; thus, if Aries or Scor
pio ascend, then Mars is Lord of the Ascendant, if Libra or
Taurus, then Venus is Lady of the Ascendant, if Gemini or
Virgo ascend, then Mercury is Lord of the Ascendant, if
Cancer ascend, then the Moon is Lady of the Ascendant, if
Leo ascend, the Sun is Lord of the Ascendant, if Sagittary
or Pisces, then Jupiter ; but when Capricorn or Aquarius as
cend, then Saturn is called the Lord of the Ascendant, or the
Planet which has the principal signification of the person and
disposition of the Native, and is therefore generally distin
guished by the name of significator ; and what is said about
significator in page 238, and 239, etc. of this book, means the
Lord of the Ascendant. This must be well understood and
attentively considered, otherwise the student will judge of
nothing correctly in this science.
It is also necessary to observe, that Lilly and all the an
cient Astrologers, were very harsh and positive in their apho
risms. But instead of saying in a positive manner as the an
cients did, that such a thing will happen, I would advise the
student in giving Judgment, to say, that such events are like
ly to happen : and consider impartially both the good and the
evil indicated by any Nativity, and thus carefully avoid rais
ing unreasonable expectations of prosperity, nor create un
easiness by predicting misfortunes that are never likely to
happen. These are the observations and advice of the Author
of the Celestial Planispheres, who wishes every student of
the Astral Sciences to be guided by just reasoning and pro
bability.
As the Signs which happen to be posited in or upon the
cusps of the other Houses of the figure, are called the signi
fies!tors of such Houses, it may therefore be well to make this
subject to be easily understood by all who desire to be con
versant in this Science, and with this view, the Signs and
governing planets are arranged in regular order.
Signs.
Governing Planets.
Signs.
Governing Planets.
Suppose in a certain Nativity that Aries was upon the As
cendant, and Capricorn upon the tenth House or Mid-heaven,
in this case Mars is called the Lord of the Ascendant, or sig
nificator of the Native ; and Capricorn being on the Mid-
heaven, Saturn is therefore called the Lord of the 10th House.
T 8 ii © SI n
$ ? 8 5 0 §
-H-
tt1 t yp *+** X
? $ X h h %
295
The same rule holds good in respect to all the other Houses
of the Celestial Figure, and the Signs which may happen to
occupy them, with their governing Planets, which are called
the Lords or Rulers of such Houses, If two Signs occupy
any House, then that House will have two significators, etc.
Observations on Ptolemy's Quadrapartite.
All persons who have attentively studied the Astrological
Works of Ptolemy, well know that his aphorisms for judging
Nativities, agree most wonderfully with facts and observa
tion. But king Ptolemy being a successor of the Pharaoh's,
and the native of a warm climate, was like Moses, who had
been adopted by Pharaoh's daughter, skilful in all the learn
ing and wisdom of the Egyptians, he thought it no harm when
speaking of Nature, to speak of it as it really is, he spoke
out plainly, he never thought of throwing a veil over Nature
or her works, as we do in this enlightened and modest age,*
in this age of purity in which we are really ashamed of the
forms that the God of Nature has bestowed upon us ; to such
an extreme are these matters now carried, that it is next to
impossible to write any thing on Natural History, on Medi
cine, or Astrology, without offending these modern prudes of
both sexes. I have therefore taken considerable liberties
with the words of Ptolemy, by substituting many words and
expressions different to those of Ptolemy, but preserving the
same sense as much as it were possible. The reader of this
book who may not have seen the Quadrapartite, may refer to
Moses's Book of Leviticus : for Moses and Ptolemy both
speak of the same things, and their language is just on a pa
rallel in point of delicacy. Those modest persons who love
Expurgated Editions, will no doubt approve of the liberty I
have taken in expunging such expressions of Ptolemy. But
those who love to have both the words and sense of an anci
ent Author, will be angry with me. I do not expect to please
every body, I have done what I thought was right in this re
spect, and with this conviction on my mind, I bid defiance to
all snarlers, to all cavilling criticisms.
• This being the age of wonderful discoveries and improvement, both in
Sciences and in Morals, a Philosophical Wag has lately asserted that in addi
tion' to Missionary and Temperance Societies, a New Society has lately been
formed in the British Metropolis, called ' the Modest Society/ which is nu
merously attended by Old Maids, and by Saints of the opposite sex, who all
ashamed of the unseemliness of the Modus Operandi of Nature, have in their
collective wisdom and pure modesty, offered a large premium to any person
thatshall discover a method of perpetuating the human race, by a similar pro
cess to that used by gardeners in producing pine apples or asparagus ! I
296
A LIST OF THE MOST APPROVED BOOKS,
ON THE CELESTIAL SCIENCES.
1. The Astrologer of the Nineteenth Century, by
Raphael, in Octavo, about 1326, 11 Is.
2. Raphael's Manual of Astrology, in Octava, Lon
don, !828, Price 10s 6d.
These two Works contain a number of Remarkable Na
tivities ; of George IV., of Duke of Wellington, of Lord By-
rom, and many other eminent characters of the last and
present Age, etc. etc. Their Author Raphael, is a gentle
man of great talents and scientific acquirements, and is well
known not only in the British Empire, but in the United
States of America, and everywhere in Europe,' etc., for the
wonderful verification of the extraordinary predictions during
ten or twelve years past, contained in his elegant Annual the
Prophetic Messenger, particularly for the prediction of the
death of her late Majesty, Queen Caroline, the Invasion of
Turkey by Russia, and lastly in the Prophetic Messenger for
1830, the death of George IV., of the Revolution in France,
and the Dethronement of the Bourbons, etc. etc., quite suffici
ent to confound all sceptics and adversaries of the Predictive
Science, except those who are sunk in infidelity or in gross
and obstinate ignorance.
3. "White's Celestial Intelligencer, London, 1811,
Price 10s.
4. Cooper's Edition of Placidus de Titus, in Oc
tavo, London, 1816, 11 Is. '
5. An Edition of Ptolemy's Quadrapartite, in Oc
tavo, 11 Is.
I have not seen this Edition of Ptolemy, and do not know
the date of its publication. Nos. 3, 4, and 5, are published
by Davis and Dickson, 17, St Martins Le Grand London.
6. Sibley's Astrology in 2 vols, quarto, 1st Edition
in 1785, 21 12s 6d.
It has been several times reprinted. It is the largest of
all Modern Books of Astrology, but not the best : Dr. Sibley
297
was ignorantof Mathematics, and did not well understand the
Works ofPlacidus on Directional Motion, and in consequence
Sibley's book is full of blunders, his calculations were very
erroneous, particularly in calculating the Part of Fortune ;
and he mistook Mundane Oppositions for Mundane Parallels,
et vice versa. In fact his book is a strange medley contain
ing more than 600 pages of matter out of the 1124 pages, that
have not the least connexion with, nor resemblance to As
trology, the only good thing in Sibley's Work is the Intro
duction, and that in its way is certainly excellent.
7. Wilson's Astrological Dictionary, in octavo,
Price 11 Is.
This is a very useful book.
8. Lilly's Christian Astrology, small 4to, London,
1647, sells at 31 3s.
9. Partridge's Opus Reformatum ; or a Treatise of
Astrology, in 2 parts, quarto, London, 1693.
10. Partridge's Defectio Geniturarum ; or the Re
viving and Proving the True Old Principles of Astrolo
gy, in 4 parts. London, 1696.
It may be proper to remark, that No. 8, 9, and 10 of this
list, are undoubtedly the very best books of Astrology, that
ever were Printed in England : but owing to their extreme
scarcity, the Booksellers ask such exorbitant prices for them,
as places them beyond the purchase of any except the wealthy
Student. From the bulk and quantity of matter contained in
these three books, I conclude that each of them is intrinsi
cally worth from a Guinea to 25 Shillings, and as there are
no Copper Plates in any of them, there being nothing re
quired but what might be performed by the Letter Press, I
believe it would prove a lucrative speculation to any Printer,
who would reprint them at the price I have just mentioned,
as their well known excellency is so great, that there is not
an Astrologer in the United Kingdom but would purchase a
copy of each at that price, so that an immense number would
be sold, particularly of Partridge's Work which treats in so
clear and able a manner on the doctrine of the Hyleg or
Apheta, whereby he teaches to calculate and determine with
wonderful precision, the principal events and duration of hu
man life.
2p
298
The following in this List are purely Astronomical.
11. La Lande's Astronomie, in 4> vols, with his
Tables, Paris, 1792, Price 61 16s 6d. 4to, 3rd Edit.
12. Vince's System of Astronomy, 3 vol. 4<to,
71 7s. Cambridge, 1792.
No. 11, and 12, contain the best Astronomical Tables for
calculating an Ephemeris of the Planets Motions, and which
will find both their Longitude and Latitude equally as they
are given in the Nautical Almanack, or in White's Epheme-
ris.
IS. Ewing's Practical Astronomy, with Tables for
calculating the places of the Sun, Moon, and Planets,
octavo, 10s. Edinburgh, 1799.
This last book is as correct as Nos. 11, and 12, of which
it may in some degree be considered an Epitome ; the first
Epoch of Mean Motions is for 1761 , and the last year for
1841, and these for the new style only, whereas to be uni
versally useful the best Modern Astronomical Tables, ought
to be applied to Epochas for both the new and the old styles,
and extended for some thousands of years, both for years
past, and for years to come. A book containing all these re
quisites might be produced at the price of 18 or 20s. and could
not fail of becoming a great favorite with Astronomical Stu
dents.
I intend as soon as convenient, to publish a Treatise, shew
ing the application of the Celestial Planispheres, to various
useful Problems in Navigation, elc.
Also, as soon as possible, I shall proceed to complete and
publish a new and very easy System of Practical Algebra.
This Work is completed to the end of Quadratic Equations,
the principal Rules are given under the form of Poetry, that
they may be more easily remembered. When completed,
this Work will contain all the higher Branches of Algebra,
illustrated in the most easy and familiar manner. It would
have been published some time since; but has been laid aside,
nearly three years, in order to proceed with the completion
and publication of the Celestial Planispheres.
New Astronomical and Astrological Ephemeris.
It is respectfully hinted to the Editor of White's Epheme
ris, that if he should not think good to be more attentive to
the accommodation of the Astrological Purchasers of his
299
Annual, by inserting the mutual and Lunar Aspects of the
Planets, and by giving the Geocentric Longitudes and Lati
tudes of the Herschel, that a Mathematician, resident in
Liverpool, will publish for the Year 1832, and for following
years, an Astronomical and Astrological Ephemeris, with all
the requisites aforesaid, and which ought in justice to the
Scientific Public, to be found in such a Work.
The Purchasers of the Celestial Planispheres may con
gratulate themselves on being put in possession of so com
plete a Work at so reasonable a price, which is allowed by
some of the Gentlemen Connoisseurs in such matters, who
have subscribed for the same, to be worth three times the
price it is sold for ; and as a proof of their satisfaction, in
stead of One Guinea the subscription price, * six of them have
paid the Author a Guinea and a Half for each copy, in acknow
ledgement of the industry and talent displayed in the com
pletion and publication of this Work, which contains nearly
double the quantity of matter originally proposed ; the fourth
part of this Work contains more real and useful Astrolo
gy that can be found in five hundred pages of Dr. Sibley's
large quarto book ; and, as they have truly observed, this
Work has not its Parallel in any Nation nor language what
ever.
The use of these Celestial Planispheres is so easily under
stood, that the Author's Son, who is not Thirteen Years of
Age, can use them with the greatest facility from only one
hour's instruction in the same.
Directions concerning the Copper Plates.
All the Plates should be kept as even and as flat as possi
ble, and, as well as any Planispheres which may be con
structed by help of them, should be kept in a clear dry place,
as free from dust as possible.
Plate No. 3. The Planisphere of the Zodiac, before it can
be used must be cut with a pair of good sharp scissors, ex
actly and carefully, to the extreme outline both on the curved
side, and also on the straight edge and ends thereof. In
order to preserve the divisions (of which there are nearly two
thousand) as clear and as distinct as possible, the Purchaser
can varnish it with clear white copal varnish ; but before any
varnish be laid upon it ; it should have the surface covered
completely over with clean and clear gum arabic water,
spread very lightly by means of a camel's hair tool, or brush
which is two or three inches broad, the brush should only be
passed once or twice over, for fear of injuring the Print;
when thus gummed over it should be laid aside until per
fectly dry, and when dry it may be varnished as before men-
* See the last page.
300
tioned. But this should be done previous to cutting away
the superfluous paper.
Plates Nos. 7, and 8. Should be pasted on good solid
pasteboard of a moderate strength, this would be best done
by a Bookbinder, who could paste them on without creasing
them, or without injuring the impression, and would also
press them quite smooth and even. When they have been dried
for 48 hours, cut out each pattern carefully to the outline,
and you will then have thirty two pieces or sixty four patterns
of curves, whereby you will be enabled to construct Planis-.
pheres for any and for every degree, or intermediate point of
Latitude, from the Equator to Sixty Degrees of Latitude,
both North and South.
Plate of the Quadrant of Latitude, viz. Plate No. 9, upon
the index line with a fine pointed needle prick through each
degree, or through each fifth degree, (if very saving of your
labor) mark where the point of the needle passed through
with a steel drawing pen and ink, and draw an index line on
the back of the paper, cut away carefully all the superfluous
paper close to the outline, the Quadrant of Latitude will
then be ready for the various uses, described in the first part
of this Treatise.
Those persons who wish to have the Circle of Twilight
upon the Planisphere of London, can mark it thereon im
mediately by means of the Crepusculine Circle given in Plate
No. 7.
Those persons who wish to be very exact in making and
using the Planispheres for Nativities, etc. should have the
paper upon which the Planisphere is drawn, laid upon a
smooth board, and stretched quite smooth and even, and
fastened down at each end in the manner of a drawing
board. The Author has two boards thus made each ten
inches wide, and 32 incheslong, with a couple of brass hinges
at the back, and two clasps in front, so that they fold up like
a book, and serve for two Planispheres at once, which serve
also to keep them clean and free from dust.
SOI
CONTENTS.
PART I.
Page.
Dedication < ....... . 1
Preface 2
Recommendations of this work 7
Chap. I.—History of the discovery of the Planispheres, etc 9
Chap. II.—Uses of Plates, No. 1 and 2, and to find the rising and setting
of the Sun, etc 20
Chap III,—Description of Plate, No. 3, or Planisphere of the zodiac,
and finding the right ascensions of the planets, both with and without
latitude, etc '. 24
PART II.
Introductory remarks 37
Chap. I.—On die figure of the heavens, and of the motions of the pla.
nets, etc 40
Chap. II Of aspects and distances in the zodiac 44
Mundane aspects 44 to 50
Parallels in the zodiac 51
Mundane parallels 52
Chap. III.—Of promittors, significators, and directions, etc 54
The poles of the planets 55
Circles of positions of the planets 56
Calculations of directions in the zodiac 57
Equating the arc of direction, and finding the time that
an event will happen 60
To calculate directions in the zodiac by a process similar to
mundane directions 62
Of converse directions in the zodiac 64
To direct any planets to aspects in the zodiac, with latitude. 66
Chap. IV.—The calculation of mundane directions 67
Direct directions in mundo 68
Converse directions in mundo 69
Examples of mundane parallels 75
Of compound or rapt parallels 76
Chap. V.—Calculation of Nativities by the Celestial Planispheres 78
How to construct the mundane part of the Celestial Plani
spheres 78
Of the subdivision of these lines 80
The circle ofsemi-quartiles and sesquiquadrates 83
Circle of quintiles, etc , 84
Caution to avoid blotting the Planispheres 85
Chap. VI —To erect a figure of the heavens by and upon the Planisphere 86
and how to place the planets therein 90
Advantages and certainty in the use of the Planispheres .... 88
General rule for finding the polar elevation ofa planet 94
To find the pole of any planet by the Planispheres, and to
describe the same upon the Genethliacal Planispheres. ... 96
Chap. VII.—Calculation of directions by these Celestial Planispheres.. 100
Chap. VIII.—To project the scales of years, etc , 111
Lunar horoscope or part offortune 116
Remarks on Mr. Worsdale's Nativity of Napoleon 116
A table of principal directions in Napoleon's Nativity,
with Mr. Worsdale's predictions in the margin. 121
302
page.
Remarks on the retarding and anticipating effects of di
rections.. 122
On the predicted defeat and death of Napoleon, etc 123
Chap. IX. Singular Nativity of a young gentleman, whose death was
correctly predicted by the Author of the Celestial Plani
spheres, with 2 plates 129
PART III.
Chap. I.—To describe the circles of latitude of the planets on these Plani
spheres 136
To describe the crepusculine circles, on the same 137
Chap. II.—New and improved precepts and formulas in spherical trigo
nometry, for the use of those persons who are desirous of
very great exactness in their calculations ■ . 142
Formula No. 7, giving the right ascension and declination of
the part of fortune, or of a planet, to find its true zodiacal
longitude and latitude 147
To erect or calculate a figure of the heavens by spherical tri
gonometry 150
Chap. III. —Of the true polar elevations both of the planets and of the
houses of the celestial figure 152
An improved table of the same for the Planispheres 153
To find the true poles of the houses 154
Chap. IV.—Of the part of fortune or lunar horoscope 156
Offinding its true mundane and zodiacal places, etc 157
Chap. V.—To calculate the crepusculine parallels, etc .« 161
Chap. VI.—How to calculate tables of houses for any latitude, by means
ofthese Celestial Planispheres 167
Chap. VII.—Supernumerary circles of aspects « 171
Proportions of the same to be marked upon these Plani
spheres .175
Chap. VIII.—The Author's new theory of the predictive science 176
Postscript 187
PART IV.
(Added by particular desire.)
Being a compendium of Astrology 189
Absurdity and fallacy of rectifying Nativities by mundane parallels. . . . 191
New and correct rules for rectifying Nativities by accidents 192
Rules for the equation of time ■ 196
Of the difference of meridians 1 97
Observations on the Placidian principles of direction, with calculations
and remarks on the Nativity of King William IV 198
Probability of an heir to the throne, by the same 200
Friendly advice to Astrologers 200
Essence of Astrology 203
Nature of the signs and of the planets 203
The signification of the twelve houses of heaven 204
Signs of death in infancy 206
Signs of short life, and of long life 207
Signs of a violent death f 207
Manner or kind of a violent death 209
Rules of Saturn and Mars for the same 310
Signs of riches, and when 211
Signs of poverty 213
Excellent aphorisms for guiding the judgment in the marriages of
men ..,, , 214
30S
page.
The time of marriage 215
Testimonies of the number of wives 216
Aphorisms concerning the position of Venus 217
Signs of a good wife 219
Signs of ill fortune by a wife 220
Concord and disagreement 220
Whether a man or his wife shall die first 221
Rules for the marriages of women 222
Of children 224
Of the death of children 225
Nature and quality of the signs and planets 226
General effects of the planets in each of the twelve houses 221!
General effects of the planets in each of the twelve signs of the zo
diac 233
General effects produced by the position of the lords of the houses. 234
General effects produced by the conjunction of the planets 237
General effects produced by the sextile and trine of the planets . . 241
General effects produced by the quartile and opposition ofthe planets 247
The signification of directions in Nativities, or the nature of the
events likely to be produced thereby 252
The Sun or Moon to the twelve houses 261
Judgments to be inferred from transits 262
Judgments to be inferred from revolutions 264
PTOLEMY'S SYSTEM
Of the space of life 264
Of the prorogatory places 265
Of the part of fortune 266
Governor of the aphetic place 266
The ways of prorogation 267
Ofriches 270
Of honor and dignity . . 271
Of the quality of the profession 272
Of marriage 275
Of children , 279
Of travelling 280
Of the quality of death 281
Secondary directions 284
A Table of the essential and accidental fortitudes and debilities of
the planets 285
A Table of the essential dignities of the planets, according to the
Great Ptolemy 286
Astronomical characters, etc., explained, as used in this work, and engra
ved on the copper plates 287
Quality of directions as good and bad 287
Aspect 288
Orbs and mean motions of the planets 288
Terms of art 288
To assist the student is added the general influences of the planets, ac
cording as they are strong or weak in any Nativity 292
On judging of Nativities 293
Significators or lords of the houses 294
Observations on Ptolemy's quadrapartite 295
A list ofthe most approved books, on the celestial sciences 296
New astronomical and astrological ephemeris 298
Directions concerning the copper plates 299
Address 304
Acknowledgement 304
304.
ADDRESS.
' All Letters to the Author of the Celestial Planisphers
(post paid,) and directed to the care of Mr. F. B. Wright,
Printer, Castle Street, Liverpool, Lancashire, will meet with
immediate attention.
N. B. No Letters received unless Postage be Paid.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
The Author of the Celestial Planispheres returns his most greatful acknow
ledgments to Mr. John Watson, to J. H. Esq, Islington, to a Ma9ter of Arts,
and to three other kind Patrons, that were among the earliest Subscribers,
and who, as a testimony which they hear to the merits of this Work, have
voluntarily paid the Author a Guinea and a Half each, being the full price of
the Book ; their Names or Initials will be distinguished by an Asterisk being
placed opposite thereuato in the Printed List of Subscribers, which List is in
tended to be forwarded to them in due time.
Before reading this Work yon are requested with your pan to correct the
following typographical errors or omissions.
Page 47, line 2t, for eleventd, read eleventh ; page 59, for Oo 6'ofCancer,
read Oo 0' Cancer ; page 59, for difference, read difference ; page 61, line 12,
read, the Sun's right ascension at birth ; page 75, in the direction of the Sun
to the body ofVenus, the sum 17853, viz. of the logarithms of the second and
third terms has been omitted ; page 76, for Right Parallel, read Rapt Paral
lel ; page 83, line 7th, for sesquiquadrate, read sesquiquadrates ; page 87,
line 25, for, the Ascending, read then Ascending; page 91, for Mercury, Leo,
6» 30', read Mercury, Leo, 6° 20' ; page 111, for add, read subtract, and for
22h. 28m. read «lh. 16m. ; page 140. instead of C. S. in Ion. read C. Sin. Ion.
and instead of S. in Ion. read Sin. Ion , and for C. S. in Int., read C. Sin. 1st. ;
page 109, example 32nd, read, The distance from the pole of Part of Fortune
to the west on the C. P . of Venus ; page 169, line 26th, read Table of Houses ;
page 174, line 3rd, read, be less than ; page 204, line 24th, read, and sinister
Sextile to Gemini ; page 227, in the last aphorism the lines got transposed
when in type, and should read thus, Are applying to the conjunction of Part
of Fortune : but the retrogradation of Saturn or Mars in angles, is ever attend
ed with difficulties and unhappiness, from which positions I shall always pray
the ' Lord deliver us.' Next line to the bottom, read, then level with ; page
282, line 30th, read, death by suffocation ; page 286, line 2nd, for plants,
read planets.
Observe, that etc. is used instead of &c. throughout this book.
F. B. Wright, Printer.
