{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__thomson___historical_sketch_of_the_thomsonian_system.pdf","mytitle":"Historical Sketch Of The Thomsonian System","mylang":"de"}
V i ’— -------------- /
HISTORICAL. SKETCH
/
OF TUE
BOTANICAL PRINCIPLES,
.AS ORIGINATED BY SAMUEL THOMSON, AND CONTINUED
“ By what unaccountable perversity in our frame does it appca
'.bat we set ouisclves so much against any thing that is new 1 Can
any one behold without scorn, such drones of pnygicians, that aftei
the space of so many hundred years’ experience and practice of theii
{ircdccessors, not one single medicine has been detected, that has the
east force directly to prevent, .o oppose, resist and expel a continu
cd fever! Should any, by a more sedulous observation, pietend t(
make the least step towards the discovery of SUCH remedies, their
hatred and envy would swell against him as a legion of devils against
virtue: the whole society will dart their malice at him, and torture
him with all the calumnies imaginable, without sticking at any thin*,
that should destroy him root and branch. For he who professes to be
a reformer of the art ofphytic, must resolve to run the hazard of t»ar ,
tyriom ofhis reputatinn, life, and estate."
OF THE
PRACTICE OF MEDICINE
ON
BY HIS COADJUTORS.
BY JOHN THOMSON.
Dr. Hervey, Discoverer ofthe
CirculationoftheDlooi
J1LBJUVY;
PRINTED BY B. D. PACKARD ASO CO
1930.
2
Samuel Thomson has cured and relieved many, where
other physicians could not, without being a regular diplo­
matized physician. I am indeed so disgusted with learned
quackery, that I take some interest in honest, humane and
strong minded Empiricism; for it has done more for our
art in all ages, and in all countries, than all the universities
since the time of Charlemagne. Where for goodness sake
did Hippocrates study earth, air and water, man and his
kindred vegetable? In a word he read diligently and sa­
gaciously the great book of JYature, instead of the little
books of man, as Thomson has.
D oct. BENJ. WATERHOUSE,
Late Professor of Matcna Medica and the Theory and
Practice of Physic, Harvard University, Mass.
This certifies, that the preparing and compounding the
medicines, which Doctor Thomson claims as his own in­
vention, I believe to be new and useful.
Wm. INGALLS, M. D.
Boston.
The principles which you have laid down in your Guide
to Health, appear to me to be the most rational and consist­
ant thing which has ever reached my knowledge, in relation
to the healing art.
CALVIN MORRILL, M. D.
When I first knew the value of this beautiful and excel­
lent system of Practice, I thought it a pity that there should
be any restriction on it, and that Congress should pur­
chase the right and make it public. But observation, re­
flection and experience soon convinced me that the medical
faculty, aided by others, would soon prevent the people
from being materially benefitted by it, as they are generally
too idle to practice successfully in this way, and its benefits
would be lost to the world.
HORTON HOWARD, M. D.
Ohio.
H ISTO RICAL SK ETCH , &c.
T O T H E P U B L IC .
F riends and F ellow -C itizens,
THE testimonials contained in the following pages are
respectfully submitted 10 you, in proof of the propriety and
utility of the botanical system of practice, as pursued by the
subscriber and his coadjutors.
The use of poisons as medicines, has obtained such an
ascendency in the public mind, that it will be considered the
influence of enthusiasm or ignorance that should prompt an
individual to oppose the practice, or expose its evil tendency.
But let the consequence lie what it may, being deeply im­
pressed with the deleterious effects of such poisons on the
human system, and conceiving it a bounden duty to express
to the public my honest sentiments upon the subject, I am
induced to lay the following documents, referring to my sys­
tem, before it. They speak a language which can neither be
misunderstood nor evaded. They speak of circumstances
which have transpired within the recollection of all, and of
facts which can be attested to by hundreds of witnesses.
It might not be amiss here, for me to give a short histo­
ry of the rise and progress of this system of practice, as
discovered and applied by my father, Samuel Thomson,
from the time he first applied Botonic medicine, and the
reason which induced him to make such applications.
It is now about forty years since this uewsystem of prac­
tice was first ushered into existence. The principles were
first discovered accidentally.
In the early part of life, iny father received a deed of 150
acres of land from his father; when at the age of twenty-
one, my father being young and ambitious, purchased 150
acres more of adjoining land, of my grand sire, which would
place in his possession i300 acres. He now principally de­
pended upon his own industry for a support of himself and
family. He laboured early and late, and having a young fami­
ly, who were subjects of much disease, as well as my moth­
er, who had been several times at the point of death, made
jt necessary that he should call a Doctor often. The dis­
tance being five miles to the residence of the Doctor, my
father conceived the idea of having him remove his family
4
jii to one part of his farm, in order that he might be near
in case of necessity. During tiic time the physician resid
ed on the farm, five patients in the family, which he had
pronounced incurable, were restored to health by my fa
¡her. This was the first time the mother of invention held
forth her hand to assist him in relieving the sick, The
means which he had recourse to, were the same which are
now cried down as quackery, kc.; steaming and the use of
the Lobelia Inflata; together with the capsicum were first
used in these cases. And the restoration of the patients
to health, was attributable, in a great measure to them. He
then thought, if he must restore his family to health, after
they had been abandoned to die by the doctors, how much
more feasible would it be for him to restore them from the
first stage of disease, without the trouble and perplexity
which he was put to, by having the doctors reduce them.
From that time forward he attended his own family, and
lias reared as robust a family ol children as any in the state
of New-Hampshire.
The neighbours perceiving the beneficial effects of his
practice in his own family, began to call npon him to attend
their families, when they were sick; and he was generally
successful in residing them to health, in a very short time ;
but the means by which they were restored, were so simple,
that his labours could not be worth any thing. The inhabi­
tants, notwithstanding they considered his labors so com­
pletely simple and valuless, could not refrain from employ­
ing him, from every section of the country; which took
his time from his farm, which suffered much for the want
of his attention. His practice was most generally attended
with success : at the same time he received no compensa­
tion for his labours, which reminded him of the adage, “ that
a prophet could expect no honor in his own land.” He then
formed ihe resolution of leaving home, and to seek employ
in some distant part of the country, where he presumed his
labors would be more properly appreciated than at home.—
He accordingly left New-Hampshire, and went to the state
of Massachusetts, where he commenced practice, and so
successfully, that the jealousy of the doctors was excited,
in so much that he was persecuted, even to the defence ot
his life.
One Doctor French went before a justice of the peace,
who was a physician and an enemy to my father, and made
oath that he had probable grounds to suspect, and did sus­
pect that Thomson had murdered sundry persons during the
year past, whose names were unknown to him, the com
$lainant; upon which a warrant was issued against my fa
5
thcr, and lie was thrust into prison, in Newburyport, where
lie was confined in a dungeon, before a bill of indictment
had been found against him. upon the oath of said Doctor »
French The cell in which he was confined, was so far
beneath the surface of the grouud, that the filth ran front
the vaults above, which rendered the air so obnoxious, that
Doctor Shepherd, who came to see him, said he must leave
him, as he would not stay in the cell one week for all New­
buryport. He was confined with a man who had been con­
demned to solitary confinement for one year, for an out­
rage committed upon a girl of six years old. My father’s
incarceration commenced on the 10th day of November,
1809. at a time when the weather was very cold, and he had
no fire, and not even the light of the sun, or that of a can­
dle: aad to complete this scene of misery, during the first
night, he felt a crawling over him, which created a cutane­
ous irritation, which he could not account for, when upon
enquiring of his fellow sufferer the cause, he said it was
lice, and that there were enough to shingle a meeting-house.
The first kind of food which he received, was the nape of a
fish, with a dry crust of Indian bread, which was too hard
for his teeth to master : this, together with an old tea-pot
of mustv colfee, had to serve him untift S o clock P. M.,
when this disgraceful stock of eatables was again replenish­
ed. A Mr. Osgood, a particular friend of my father’s, and
a member of the society ol Friends, came to visit him ; and
when he witnessed the deplorable situation which my father
was in, he wept like a child. Mr. Osgood asked and ob­
tained liberty to furnish my father with a bed. which render­
ed his situation more comfortable: before this, his bed and
bedding consisted of an old straw bunk, with a woollen
blanket which had never been washed, which was every ar­
ticle of furniture the cell consisted of: not even a table,
chair or stool, of any kind, was allowed him. In a few days
Judge Rice, from Kitten , Me., came tosee him, and brought
withhim a lawyer. Upon consultation, thdV advised mv fa­
ther to petition to the Judges of the Supreme court, to hold
a special court to try his cause, ns there would be no court
held by law, at which he could be tried, until the next fall;
and as there could be no bail for an indictment for murder,
he would have to lay in jail nearly a year, whether there was
anything against him or not. This appeared to be the po­
licy of his enemies, from the time of Ins confinement;
probably thinking, from the bad condition of the cell, to­
gether with the unwholesome provisions with which he was
supplied, he could not possibly continue a year ; and it was
;be opinion of his friends, that he could not possibly live
6
but a short time, if the prison remained in its tiien presont
disgraceful state of uncleanlincss, and the ends of his ene
tnies would be fully answered.
Judge Pearsons consented to hold a Special court, on
the 10th day of December, to try his cause, which was one
month from the time of his confinement. During which
time the weather was very cold, and not being allowed any
fire, together with what he suffered fiom the filthiness of
the prison, his extreme suffering may be more readily imag­
ined than described.
My father’s friends were such, principally, as had been la­
bouring under diseases of a protracted nature, and had been
abandoned by the regular physicians as incurable; after
which they were restored to health by him. They visited
his prison daily, and furnished him with good and whole­
some provisions, as soon as they had been made acquaint­
ed with the kind with which he had been furnished ; so in
this respect his sufferings were not so extreme from hun­
ger, as they might have been, bad he been among strangers.
Having pursued the path of duty which he conceived was
allotted him by bis Maker, his mind was as tranquil as could
be expected, considering the bad state of the prison.
On the morning of the day which was appointed for him
to be removed to Salem for trial, he Was taken out of the
prison by the jailor, who gave him water to wash, and he
was permitted to eat his breakfast by the fire, which was the
first time he had seen any in thirty days. He could not
bear to sit near it, as it made him faint. As soon as he had
eat his breakfast, iron shackles were put upon his hands,
to confine him while he rode to Salem, a distance of twen­
ty-six miles, the going being very bad, and the wether se­
vere. On bis arrival, he was delivered over to the jailor,
who confined him in an upper room of the jail, which was
quite comfortable, when compared with the den which he
had left. He soon learned that Judge Pearsons was sick,
and had put off his trial for ten days. However, he was
not without friends, as Elder Bowles, a Baptist preacher,
whom he had cured of a consumption, Capt. Russell, and
several of his old patients, whom he had cured, visited him,
and saw that his situation was as comfortable as the place
would admit. On the 20th day of December, 1809, the Su­
preme court convened to hear his trial, at which Judge
Pearsons presided, assisted by Judges Parker and Sewall,
as assistant jndges. After he was arraigned at the bar, he
was directed to stand up, to hear the indictment which the
grand jury, upon their oaths, had fbund against him ; which
was in the common form, that he had with malice afore-
7
thought, without having the fear of God before his eyes, but
moved by the instigation of the devil, did murder and kill
Ezra Lovett, with Lobelia, a deadly poison. , To this in­
dictment he pleaded not guilty. The jury were called and
sworn, and the trial commenced. Doct. Howe was called
on the part of the prosecution, and he produced a sample
of the poison, which he stated to be the root of the Lobe­
lia. He said that my father had given it to Lovett, and that
he called it coffee. The sample was handed around for the
court to examine, and the people generally appeared to be
afraid of it. At length Judge Rice took it and eat it, which
very much suprised the court. The Solicitor General,
with marked astonishment, asked the Judge if he intended
to poison himself in presence of the court, to which the
Judge replied, that it would not hurt him, should he eat a
peck of it.
Doctor Cutler was called upon to inform the court what
it was which Doctor Howe had so positively sworn to be
Lobelia. After tasting and examining it, he said he believ­
ed itto be marsh-rosemary, which was the fact, and he de­
clared it to be a good medicine. Jon Leman was next cal­
led as a witness on the part of the commonwealth, against
my father. He stated, that being out of health for two
years, that he had been troubled with a pain in his breast, and
that he was so bad that he was not able to work, and that
he could get no help from the doctors, and that he applied
to the prisoner at the bar, who had cured him in one week,
and that was all he knew about him. After examining seve­
ral other witnesses, Judge Pearsons appeared out of pa­
tience, and said he wondered who they had for a grand jury,
who could find a bill on such evidence. The Solicitor
General said he had more evidence which he wished to bring
forward. Doctor French was then called upon and sworn,
and as he had been the most busy actor, during the whole
of the business, in getting my father indicted; as by his
evidence, (my father was informed,) the grand jury had
found their bill against him. It was expected his evidence
would be sufficient to condemn him at once, but it turned
out like the rest, to amount to nothing: he was directed to
state what he knew about the prisoner at the bar; he said
the prisoner had practiced in the part of the country where
he resided with good success, and that his medicines were
harmless, being gathered by the children for the use of the
families. •
The judge was about to charge the jury, when the Solici­
tor General arose, and said that if it was not proved to be
murder, it might be found for man slaughter. The Judge
8
said, “ you have nothing against the man,” and'again expres­
sed his astonishment that the grand jury should find a hill
on such evidence. The jury being charged, gave a verdict
in about five’minutes ol NOT GUILTY !
Thus was a fellow-citizen indicted, imprisoned, and tried
for his life, by a set of malicious villains, solely because he
was a powerful rival to them in their practice, and whose
crime consisted in effecting cures upon those patients which
they had abandoned to die. The same spirit of malicious
revenge has followed the practice by regular physicians,
wherever it has been established. The author has had a
goodly share of the same kind of persecution from the
physicians of this city. My father has spent the Hour of
his life in toil and perplexity, he has sacrificed his health
and property in propagating a system of practice, which
bids fair to lie of the greatest temporal blessing, which is
possible for man to conceive of, in this life, which is the
preservation and restoration ofhealth. It is estimated that
100,000 persons in this state make more or less use of the
vegetable medicines, prepared from my father’s directions,
and it is also calculated that about 1-3 of the people of the
state of Ohio, besides a great number in the states of Penn­
sylvania, Massachusetts, New-Hampshire. Vermont, &lc.
So rapid has been its progress, in this state, that the
faculty have become alarmed for the safety of their fabrick,
and have sought and obtained legislative aid, to secure
monopoly, so much afraid were they, that this system of
Quackery as they please to cfril it, would get the pre-emin­
ence. It is well known to an enlightened public, that any
system which is not capable of supporting itself without the
aid of the arm of the law, has a poor foundation (or its ba­
sis, and must ultimately come to nought. One thing, the
faculty may remember, and that is, a root is in a rapid state
of progression and lias already very seriously undermined
their superstructure, and notwithstanding they may continue
to have, as they have had, by legislature aid, the power to dic­
tate to the public, what physicians they shall employ; this
oppression is of short duration, as the people have become
sensible of the servile state into which the physicians would
wish to have them reduced, and have become alarmed, and
have presented petitions, which contain signatures to the
amount of between 45 and 50,000, which are now before the
legislature. How long will the people of this state have
their physicians dictate to them, by law, what medicines
they shall use ? It makes no difference how great a quack
the pretended physician is, he is palmed upon the public
without reference to merit or ability, if he has studied a.
9
certain period, without any experience in practice,
which is to be acquired by experiments upon his patients
Where is the person who would wish to be a subject to one
of these young practitioners, who had never had the privi­
lege of administering a dose of medicine to a patient under
the eye of his master, since they are licensed to use Arse­
nic, Mercury, Niter, Opium and all other deadly poisons
which it is possible to select from the vegetable or mineral
kingdoms? Is there any thing in a diploma that will stay the
deadly poison of Arsenic, in the hands of a physician any
more than in the hands of an assassin? Surely not. But.
should the physician use the poison and distrov his patients
it is done legally, and he is clear of all law and reproach,
when it would be murder should the assassin do the same.
But should the physician come from another state, he is
treated nearly in the same manner as the assassin in this
state. Doctor Warren studied and received his diploma
in the state of Massachusetts, he came to this city and com­
menced practice, in the course of which he gave one John
Hogle a dose of Arsenic, which terminated his existence in
a very short time, and Warren was indicted, tried,'*and1sen­
tenced to solitary confinement, in the Albany county jail, for
three years. The learned judge in the course ol his charge
to the jury, stated, that if Warren had been a practitioner
in the eye of the law, the laws of this state would have had
no jurisdiction over him, but as he hail received bis com­
mission to kill, from the state of Massachusetts, and had
committed the very deed here, he was not guilty ol man­
slaughter, but of a misdemeanor, and received his sentence
as before mentioned, the punishment of which are synony­
mous.
In October, 1824, I first came to this city, and com­
menced my practice, and in forty days, I had administer­
ed relief to many, in whose cases the medicines prescribed
by regular physicians had entirely failed. 1his seems to
have had a powerft.il eftect on the physicians; whether it
was nil alarm for the profits of their practice, or for the pub­
lic weal, is left for the reader to judge. Be that as it may,
so great was this effect, that one of them (probably by the
direction of the rest) wrote me a letter, warning me to leave
the city, or expect a prosecution; which this tool, as I af­
terwards found him to be, said, would otherwise be com­
menced against me. However, I did not see tit to comp y
with this modest request, and yet have escaped prosecution
to this day: They did not profess to find any fault with my
practice, but the reason assigned, was, that I had not en­
tered my diploma in the office of the County Clerk, agreea
10
bly to law. In my reply to this letter I informed them that
my system of practice was secured to my father by patent,
and I, as his heir, cl imed it as heritage property, and as
an Agent, sought protection under that patent. But judge
of my astonishment when this learned man informed me,
(for the first time that I every heard of it,) that whatever
privileges might have been given to my father, ‘‘could not
be entailed on bis children.” Verily, this was the first time
that I ever was told that a parent had not the privilege of
giving his property to his children, if he thought proper to
do so ! Several other pompous things were said by this
man of Esculapbm lore, which 1shall not trouble my readers
by repeating to them.
When I first can e to this city, and commenced a suc­
cessful course of practice, I often applied steum in cases
of obstructed perspiration, and when rightly applied, it
opens the pores and produces an agreeable warm glow
through the whole svstem. to the comfort ol the patient and
the probable overthrow of the disease. And had I been a
savage from the wilderness, going about seeking whom I
might destroy, instead of alleviating the sufferings of my
fellow beings, my opponents could not have made use of
much worse language against me. It was said that I steam­
edmy patients to death, and destroyed them in divers other
equally ridiculous ways. But mark, reader, the wonderful,
the astonishing, the magical effect of a name, in converting
this powerful combination of the elements, from a dark,
malignant, horrible spirit of death and destruction, to a be­
nign cherub of life, of health and of happiness! The name
of the “ Alhavu MEDICATED VAPOUR BATH,” which
is the new fashioned name for STEAM, among us, has ta­
ken from it all its ferocious and deadly qualities, and ren­
dered it the choicest favorite of those identical physicians
who a few days since, when it was only found in the simple
annals of Thompson’s practice, denounced it as arrant
quackery and the awful engine of “ murder most foul!” In
the hands of regular physicians it is loudly proclaimed a
specific for almost every complaint, while in the hands
of its original advocate it was the very quintessence af all
evil! What a misfortune to me, that I could not have
discovered and applied this useful, this all-powerful name,
before!
In addition to the contumely which has in various ways
been heaped upon me by these regular physicians, they
have styled me a “ Steam Doctor,” “ Quack,” “ Murder­
er, ’ kc. Now if I have merited these epithets, while I
hare been performing cures upon patients whom they had
11
given over to die, what term will be most suitable for then»
since they-have adopted a portion of my practice ?
A few days since a lady was taken very ill. A doctor
was employed, who attended her some time, but she still
continued to grow worse, and to use the language of the
husband, “ his medicine was last hurrying her tothe grave.”
He sent for another, whose medicine had a rather more
salutary effect, though it did not remove the cause. The
husband, not willing to limit his exertions to save his wife,
applied to a third, who refused to go ; for, s.-id he, “ three
Doctors are enough to.kill a woman at any time.” He cer­
tainly spoke more truth than he was aware of; and if three
will kill, each one must bear a third part in the transaction.
It is my belief, that if medicines have a tendency to kill,
they never will heal; or, in other words, that an instrument
of death cannot be tortured into an instrument of life.
Physicians, when called upon to attend a sick person,
should endeavour to assist nature to throw off the disease
instead of giving him medicines that are treated in his
stomach as a common enemy, which nature is obliged to
struggle as hard with to throw off, as she does with the dis­
ease. This principle of giving a medicine to cure a sick
person, which would kill a healthy one, I could never re­
concile with philosophy, reason, or common sense.
I will now advert to the qualities which I think medicine
should posses, in order to remove disease and restore the
patient to health, after referring to the essential component
parts of the human system. We find man to be composed
of the four elements. Earth and water are the solids, and
air and fire the fluids. The two first of them arc the com­
ponent parts, and the two last keep him in motion. Heat
is life, and cold is death. All constitutions are alike, ex­
cepting in regard to their comparative strength. It is by
keeping these elements in a proper temperature that we en­
joy good health. It is a deficiency of this vital heat, or life,
that causes disease. As soon as this heat partially absents
itself, the vacancy is filled with cold. The remaining
warmth struggles to throw it off, and produces a coat, can­
ker, or fever, on the atomach and tongue. And as our ex­
tremities receive their support from the stomach, through
the glands or conductors, this coat becomes drawn in, and
obstructs those organs of the stomach. This is generally
called “ obstructed perspiration,” because the conductors
which convey moisture and nourishment from the stomach
are completely stopped. Then the effects are seen. The
patient grows hot, or feverish and dry; his flesh wastes
away; the surface or skin begins to die or turn pale; and
12
in fact the whole machine is out of order; the gastric jut*
ces and gall are continually augmenting in the stomach ;
the stomach becomes sour, and many times the heart-burn,
and other complaints, set in, and costiveness, or inactivity
of the bowels, follows; and unless these obstructions are
removed, the patient will languish and die. The question
is, how is this to be effected? First, give medicine to re­
store the deficiency of heat. Second, a medicine to take
the coat or canker from the glands. Third, take an active
emetic to throw the whole mass from the stomach. Fourth,
take bitters to restore the gall, which has become torpid
and weak, in proportion to the rest of the system. When
this is done, the patient is clear of fever, and is well in eve­
ry respect, excepting the debility which the disorder may
have produced.
In time of disease, nature requires a powerful assistant
to aid her in throwing off the malady, and one that will not
prove an enemy to her, when she most stands in need of a
friend. If the remedy is an innocent one, if it can do no
good, it remains silent, and produces no bad effect. This
is the case with all the medicine I make use of. It will
never do harm, if it does no good ; but I do not promise
thatit will invariably prove efficacious ; for there are doubt­
less many cases where diseases are so situated as to place
their cure beyond the reach of human power.
But let the reader observe the difference between botani­
cal, or active medicine, and mineral, or inactive ones. We
will suppose a person to be severely attacked with bilious
cholic, and has cold chills, with severe pains, which are a
sure indication that the system is powerfully attacked by
her great enemy, the cold—that the vital spark is materially
reduced, and brought into a state of inactivity—in a word,
it is bent deathivards. What shall we do? Shall we give
medicine that will assist nature in throwing of the disease ?
Or shall we administer such medicine as she must be com­
pelled to throw offtci/fethe disease, and that with a doube
exertion, if she should prove strong enough ? If, being
much weakened by the disease, she does not prove strong
enough, she must inevitable fill under it. Hear and reflect
on what the physicians frequently say, that sucn or such a
poor patient has so many doses of physic, or calomel, in
them ; and if that cannot be removed, they must die. So, if
the disease does not kill the patient, the remedy must!
God forbid that I should ever be guilty of using such medi­
cines! We are complete machines, and the Doctor should
he the repairer. His remedies should be such as to keep
'he elements in a proper temperature, or the machine in
13
such repair as to wear out only with old a»e. The reme
-lies we ought to apply are such as will restore ihe delin­
quent element or power, and while restoring that, to neither
destroy nor derange any other part of the machinery as
we know calomel and other minerals will. Food and medi­
cine shoujd harmonize with each other. The latter is to
prepare the stomach for the reception of the former and
Consequently they should agree. When the patient is’tak­
ing medicine, then is the time the appetite should be satis­
fied, in order to nourish the system, and thus assist nature
in conjunction with the medicine, to conquer the disease-
and if your medicine is congenial to nature, the food you
take to satisfy the appetite, will never distress you. The
simple reason why a person is compelled to diet, while tak­
ing calomel, and other minerals, is, that the digestive or­
gans become, in a measure, useless or inactive, or are
deadened so much, that when the pangs of hunger call, and
are imprudently satisfied, it has frequently cost the patient
his life.
Let us, therefore, study nature, and endeavour to see
what she most requires. Every man who has a hundred
acres of land, has remedies sufficient thereon to cure all
the diseases which he will ever be liable to, that are curable
And. reader, this medicilTe is innocent, and is that which
the God of nature has provided and intended for the cure
of the maladies with which frail humanity is afflicted. Let
us, then, try the virtues of Vegetable Medicine, andjearn
to doctor ourselves, without being beholden to Botanical
Doctors, Apothecary Doctors, or Doctors of any other
description. Remember the words of holy writ, to this ef­
fect: “ The Lord hath created medicines out of the earth,
apd he that is wise will not abhor them.” If you do this,
candid reader, you will save yourself much pain, distress
and vexation, (for I candidly believe that it is as easy to re
lieve our diseases, in their first stages, as it is our hunger,)
besides enriching yourself by retaining the money which
you will otherwise squander in Doctors’ bills, loss of time,
and many other disadvantages which you will have to en­
counter. That the happy era may soon arrive, when this
doctrine will be adopted, both in theory and practice, is the
ardent wish of the public’s humble servant.
Albany. January, 18d0. JOHN THOMSON.
P. S. It was very justly remarked by a gentleman froma
neighbouring state, in relation to the medical law of this
state, that New-York hadfreed her Slaves, and en-
¿laved her Freemen.”<4Zjft
• O
TO THE READER.
The author having given a superficial narration of the
rise and progress of this new system of practice, together
with his theory, it was thought highly necessary that thero
should be some specimens of its practical utility subjoined,
which, by uniting the theoretical with the practical part,
the system would be rendered perfect, if the principles
Were philosophical; which must be left for the reader to
judge, after having past the ordeal of his investigation.—
It may be proper here to remark, that the patients who
have been attended by the subscriber, were such, general­
ly as had been abandoned by the regular physicians as
incurable; and the success which he has had in restoring
them to health, under his father’s system of practice, by
the statements subjoined, will most clearly appear.
For the opinions of the honourable the committee which
was appointe^by the Assembly of the state of New-York,
to investigate the subscriber’s practice, as a specimen of
the Thomsonian system, he will*ever feel grateful. The
indefatigable exertions of these gentlemen, in their inves­
tigation of said system, rendered them worthy of the hon­
ourable vocation to which they had been called, and an
honour to the judgment of their constituents. Judge Ditn-
mick had a brother and a nephew who were physicians,
and kept their office in the same room with him; and from
his being long accustomed to seeing his brother prescribe
for his patients, had rendered his habits of thinking dia­
metrically opposed to my method of practice: but see his
written opinion, after about three weeks examination of
the patients, personally, who gave the certificates in the
city of Albany, the results of which he reported to the
committee.
General Metcalf, having a son-in-law who was a physi
cian, which certainly could not render his opinion any
more favorable to my method of practice, if he believed
in bis, as he expressed an opinion decidedly against me
in the commencement of his investigation. Mr. Edger-
ton declared that he was opposed to me, in his written
opinion, all of which is most respectfully submitted for
public investigation.
It is most earnestly desired, that if there should he any
pprsons who do not believe the statements contained in
these, certificates, that they would call on the subscriber,
who will cheerfully accompany them, as he did Judge
Dimmick, with a book in hand, and they may examine
the patients who gave the certificates, personally; also,
relative to their making the certificates. Judges Eld-
ridge and Soper examined the patients in the same man­
ner as did Judge Dimmick: their opinions are subjoined
It is the subscriber’s wish, that should there be any thing
in this work which is calculated to render the investiga­
tion of his practice unfair, in relation to the regular prac­
tice, that it shall be removed as soon as the, clause or part
is pointed out to him; as he *is determined to hav every
obstacle to a fair and impartial investigation removed; as
he is not unwilling to have his practice tested with any of
the regulars in this state. «
JOHN THOMSON.
THE OPINIONS OF THE HONORABLE THE
COMMITTEE.
We pretend to no knowledge of the virtues of this much
talked of system of medicine. the opinions of Messrs.
Dimmick" Edgerton, and Metcalf, are very favourable, and
the high respectability of their characters entitles them to
an attentive perusal.—Daily Advertiser.
Albany, April 20, 1828.
D oct. J ohn T homson,
Sir—In answer to your request as to my opinion upon
the merits of your system of practice, 1 cheerfully sav, that
I believe it will eventually take the preference of all other
systems of medical practice. My prejudices, habits, and
education, all were opposed to your system ; but after the
careful and laborious examination I have given it, 1am satis­
fied that you will succeed, and in the judgment of the can­
did and liberal part of the community, share their protection
and confidence. I hope you may continue to do well, perse­
vere in your efforts to benefit the human family, and to add
to the stock ofpractical knowledge, that the rewards of hon­
est industry may await you.
I am respectfully yours,
BELA EDGERTON,
Member of Assembly, and Chairman.
10
I certify that I was a member of a committee of the As
seinbly, to whom was referred sundry petitions, praying
for a repeal of certain provisions of the Revised Statutes,
regulating the practice ofphysic and surgery, so as to allow of
what is called the Thotnsonian practice. And that it appear
ed by the petitions and other papers presented and refer­
red to the committee, as well as from the testimony of seve
ral persons, residents of the city of Albany, who attended
the committee personally, that the practice of Dr. Thomson
had in many instances proved highly beneficial; and there
was no evidence submitted to the committee, to show that
his practice .'fed proved del^erious in any case.
' A. M******.
Albany, April lltli, 1828.
* Albany, April 19th, 1828.
S ir—Incompliance with your request.and with a wish to do
justice to the public in relation to the effects ofwhat is called
the “ Thomsonian system of practice” on the community, I
feel myselfjustified in saying, that having been one of a com
mittee offive, appointed by the Assembly of the state ofNew-
York, to inquire into and report to that house on the sub­
ject, 1 have made particular examination so far as I could
find time and opportunity, during three or four weeks in the
city of Albany. But my inquiries have not only extended to
the examination of various individuals, from different parts
ofthis state where that system is in use, but I have also exam­
ined about twenty-five families, or the heads thereof, in the
city of Albany, where considerable use seems to have been
made of that method of curing diseases. I am sensible, that
from education, from habits of thinking, and from my inti­
mate connexion with regular physicians, I approached that
examination with strong prejudices against every species ol
quackery and empiricism. But of this species of quackery,
i had no knowledge before. I first read Dr. Thomson’s
certificates ofgreatcures, with all that indifference which men
generally do, when they expect imposition or deception is
about to be played off upon them. On examination, however,
of all, or nearly all the cases certified, as having taken place
in the city of Albany within a few months, in the latter part
of the year 1824, and the fore part of the year 1825, I found
them fully supported by statements made by the respective
families, or heads thereof. I also found many particulars of
those cases stated, which in my opinion, adds much to the
importance and striking features of them, which do not ap­
pear in the short statememts made of them in these certifi
cates. I also endeavoured to find out, if possible, by inquirv
17
of various individuals, as well of the enemies of the system
as the friends, anil those who were indifferent on the subject,
what cases, ifany existed, of injurious effects arising from its
use ; and although l found some three or four, in which dark
surmises and suspicions seemed to have been set afloat
in the community, in every case which I was able to trace, I
did trace, by examination of the friends of the persons thus
supposed to have been injured by,or fallen victims to such
practice; and could find no reason to believe or suspect that
any injury had been done to the patient, but more or less re*
lief thereby gained. It is also due to Dr. Thompson to say,
that in every case wherein suspicions have been indulged, it
appeared that the patient had been pronounced by the regu­
lar physicians incurable ; and that such opinion had been giv­
en in nearly all the cases, amounting to some forty or fifty, of
which I heard derailed the particulars; and in some of which,
to use the language attributed to the regular physicians,
“ it was as impossible to restore them to health as it was to
create a new world.” After such an examination, and ma­
turely reflecting thereon, I think if neither rash nor indis­
creet to say, that judging from the effects of his practice in
the city of Albany, however much regular physicians may,
as I am sure they will, carp at the expression, and speaking
after the manner of men, or if you please, according tq hu­
man reasoning, it has snatched tenfrom the grave, where it
lias hastened one to it.
What may be its particular effects in other parts of the
state, or when not administered by Dr. Thomson himself, I
am unable to state. The persons thus examined appeared
respectable, intelligent, and candid, and generally expressed
their great opposition to, and want of confidence in Dr.
Thomson’s practice, before they had tried it, and were indu­
ced to make the trial in consequence of the desperate na­
ture of their cases, and with a belief or hope that no injury
could be done thereby. With your theory or principles, I
Pad little to do ; the effects of your practice was the principal
thing sought for by me, a* by your fruits, I was resolved to
judge you, and however much may be the obloquy which the
declaration of a favourable opinion of your practice may
call forth from the learned, not only against quacks, but the
supporters of quacks, i freely take upon myself the respon­
sibility of subscribing to the above.
Your obedient servant,
A. DIMMICK,
Member of Assembly.
•*
18
P. S. Most of the individuals thus examined, had Tamil)
lights, upon which they placed a very high value ; and one
gentleman, whose respectability and candour are very high
in public estimation, declared he would not be deprived of
the knowledge for 1000 dollars. I also examined two gentle­
men from Nantucket, who spoke most distinctly of the re­
spectability and credibility of the persons whose signatures
appear attached to Dr. TVs certificates of his practice in
that place. A. D.
JUDGES ELDRIDGE & SOPER’S OPINIONS.
Albany, April 29, 1829.
S ir,— While we were members of the Legislative body
in 1829, numerous petitions were received in favour of the
Thomsonian system of practice of medicine ; but from the
unfavourable accounts which we had seen in the prints, to­
gether with the force of education, we were induced to be­
lieve it a system of quackery. Having never seen anv pa­
tients, who had been attended by Dr. Thomson himself and
being favoured with an invitation, we resolved to embrace the
opportunity, and accompanied him one afternoon, when we
saw and heard detailed, accounts of twenty-five or thirty who
had been restored to health from the last stages of disease
afte*- apparently all other remedies had failed. If the state­
ments which we heard were facts, which we have no reason
to doubt, as the people appeared to be respectable and can­
did, we should think this system bids fair to become of ines­
timable value to mankind ; and therefore has our best wishes
tor its prosperity and success.
Respectfully yours, he.
J. B. ELDRIDGE
_ ^ A. D. SOPER
To Dr. John Thomson, 102. North Pearl-street
C E R T C F ÏO A T Ü S .
(No. 1.)
. Albany. October 28 1825
This may certify that I have been afflicted with ulcers m
my left side, dyspepsia and dropsy, and a complication of
distressing complaints too numerous to mention Four
years I had gradually declined, often seeking reiief from
medical assistance, and as often obliged to hear the painful
reiteratmn that my diseases were incurable. At length mv
tvhole system became so disorganized that I could neither
19
cat, drink, sleep, nor enjoy in any degree the comforts of
this life. Having, therefore, given up all hopes of recove­
ry, and daily expecting to bid adieu to all that earth holds
dear, Dr. John Thomson came to this city, and having had
some previous knowledge of his btrtanical profession, to
him I made speedv application, hoping that he might pro­
duce something that would give a temporary relief. Accor­
dingly, on the 10th day of October, he commenced his atten­
dance, and in the short space of ten days I was reduced, in
size, ten inches, could lie down on my left side and rest qui­
etly, which I had not been able to do in two vears before.
I have continued to improve in health ever since, so far that
I enjoy my food and repose in a very good degree, believ­
ing the dropsy to be totally eradicated, dyspepsia cured, the
ulcers healed, and the cause principally removed. It is
true that I am not as strong, and cannnot endure fatigue or
hardship as well as I could before I was sick, but whenever
I take cold, or from any other cause begin to feel any pain
or disquietude in my side or stomach, the medicine which 1
have heretofore made use of is sure to prove efficacious.—
I therefore feel a disposition to recommend Dr. Thomson’s
medicine and practice to all, believing it, from my own ex­
perience, to be good and salutary in removing all kinds of
diseases with which the human family is afflicted.
SARAH SCOVEL,
No. 12ft, State-street.
The above statement, in regard to my wife’s case is cor­
rect. ' JONAH SCOVEL, Jun.
(No. 2.)
Albany, March 17, 1829.
This may certify, that I was attacked wi<h bleeding at the
lungs, and a cough, in October 1820, both of which contin­
ued until the present winter, when my system was so gene­
rally debilitated that I was unable to do any kind o( labour.
The least trifling exercise would start my lungs a bleeding,
insomuch that 1 have frequently lost a pint of blood before
it could be stopped. At this crisis, I had no earthly pros­
pect but that I must share the fate of my lather, mother, two
brothers, and one sister, who had fallen victims to the same
complaint, which terminated in a consumption. Thro’ the
medium of one of our public journals, I heard of Thomson
&, Coffin, botanic physicians, of Albany, to whom I made
immediate application, and commenced taking their medi­
cines the 17th of February, and at this date (17th March,) If
20
consider myself a well man. My longs, tr all appearance,
are as strong as they ever were, and what appears to me
more astonishing is, that this complaint, under which I have
been labouring lor about 82 months, and which was con­
sidered by the doctors and my friends¿ncurable, should be
removed in the short space of less than 20 days, and leave
me in the quiet enjoyment of perfect health. Reference to
John B. Van Benthuysen, 25 Division street, Albany, with
whom I boarded.
JOHN COCHRAN.
(No. 3.)
The following certificate was written by Judge Diramick,
from the verbal testimony of Mr. Gladding:
A lba n y , March 12th, 1828.
This may certify, that I was three years ago taken with
a pain in my stomach, and throwing up of my food, and
general derangement of the organic system. I employed
many Doctors, among whom were Doctors Fay, Edson,
Phelps, Danfortb, Craig, Dubois, Burnham and Paige—
all in the state of Vermont, where I then resided. They
attended me through the summer and winter, in all about
one year. 1was then reduced so much 1 could set up but
a few minutes at a time, and was given over to die by
them all, excepting Dr. Dubois; but his medicines did me
no good. My brother, in this city, heard of my situation,
and came for me, that I might be placed under the care of
the most distinguished doctor of this city. I was so weak
and reduced, that I was brought all the way in my broth­
er’s arms. Doct. Mc.N. attended me about five weeks.—
He said my whole svstem was disordered, and that there
was no action in my stomach and bowels, and that my liv­
er was very much decayed. At the expiration of that
time, he told me 1never should get well—accordingly left
me to die. [ was so much reduced, that my backbone was
plainly and distinctly felt by placing a hand on my bowels.
I, by accident, heard of Dr. Thomson, as having effected
great cures, and was anxious to have him called in; with
much apparent reluctance on the part of my brother, he
was called in accordingly, and administered to me. And
such was the effect of his medicine, which I declare in the
most unequivocal terms, that in five, and certainly not to
exceed ten minutes, I felt quite comfortable and easy. I
continued its use, and in one week’s time I walked out
without help, which I had not before done in six months,
in six weeks I walked about a mile: and in three months
21
I enjoyed better health than I had done in three years.
Dr. MciN. then declared that Dr. Thomson had done more
than he could do, and that no apothecary medicine could
have any good effect upon me. I am now in good health,
and am ready to state the above facts under any circum­
stances.
STEPHEN GLADDING-
We certify that we were well acquainted with the above
facts, set forth by our brother Stephen Gladding, and that
they are true-
H. HULETT
MARIA HULETT,
No. 50 Liberty-street
(No. 4.)
Albany, November 4, 1825.
This may certify that one of our children was taken sick,
and we employed one of the first physicians in this city;
but notwithstanding Ins unwearied exertions to relieve the
child, it died in one week after. The second was taken ill.
Its complaints seemed to baffle the skill of the physician—
it lingered some length of time and died likewise. The
third, and last, being taken more violently than either of the
former, we thought it best to try some other remedies.
We accordingly sent for Dr. Thomson, who came, and re­
lieved the child immediately, which was more than we expec­
ted, or could expect from the violence of the disease and
the effect the apothecary’s remedies had on our other
children. The child has had several serious attacks of dis­
ease since, which Dr. Thomson’s medicine has proved
equally efficacious in removing. Accordingly, we think the
system superior to all others which we have had recourse
to, and as such lend our names to vindicate its utility.
NATH'L. WHITE,
ELIZABETH WHITE,
No. 16 Hamilton street
(No. 5.)
A lbany, September 1st. 1825.
This may certify that 1have been complaining with the
gravel for nearly six years, and I was in very great dis­
tress for the principal part of that time. In addition to
this distressing complaint, I had the liver complaint and
dyspepsia very bad. The first mentioned disease continu­
ed to grow worse, (notwithstanding 1 had the attendance
of eleven regular physicians, who were eminent in their
profession,) in so much that I was confined to my bed
nineteen months, and for seven months was obliged to
submit to the most painful instrumental operatious. The
distress I underwent at tirm is more easily imagined than
described. My limbs were so contracted from the tortures
of my complaints, that I had not walked a step in nine
months; and as 1 was plated in bed, so I had to remain
until I was removed by my attendants, (being perfectly
helpless,) from one side to the oiher. 1 had entirely lost
the use of my system below the pit of the stomach—my
head and hands I could use. My physicians had given me
over to die, and indeed 1 was of the opinion myself that I
could not live long, when I heard of Dr. Thomson, and at
the request of my friends he came to see me, and adminis­
tered his medicine; since which I have not undergone but
one instrumental operation. I continued to improve in
health so much, that when Dr. Thomson discontinued his
attendance, I was able to earn my living by my own in­
dustry, and capable of going about town, which I alto­
gether ascribe to the beneficial effects of his useful medi­
cine.
LAURA CROSS,
No. 67 Beaver-st
(No. 6.)
This may certify that my health had been very poor for
about six years pror to May last. In the Spring of 1826 I
had a severe attack of the influenza, which left me with a dis­
tressing pain in mv breast, the severity of which was such,
at times, as to prevent me from labouring for several months
together, at last I was attacked with a severe cough, which
reduced my strength and flesh so much that I was obliged
to quit my business; by the advice of a friend, I was in­
duced to try Doct. Thomson’s medicine, which I commen­
ced to take ori the 12th of May last, and in one week 1
was as clear of the cough and pain as ever I was in my life,
nor have I experienced any symptoms of said complaints
returning, and at this date consider my health better than it
has been betore for more than six years. The numerous
remedies which 1 had applied, together with the advice and
attendance of several Physicians had no good effect upon
me.
DANIEL B. W ALLS
Albany, December 28, 1829. No. 59 Church-st
Albany, November 18, 1829.
This may certify that my little daughter received an inju
ly in her back when two years of age, and notwithstanding
she was attended by two of our most skdltul physicians she
continued to grow worse. She lost the use of Iter limbs
her health was very bad, !.er pain and distress was so great
as almost to deprive tier of anv rest. In that situation ;
they pronounced her incurable. We then applied to I)r.
Thompson ; he attended, and in one month’s time her pain
was entirely removed, and her health was completely re­
stored.
I likewise, became possessed of a family right, and have
administered the medicine on various occasions, and have
invariably found it to have the desired effect. I am much
pleased with the system of practice and can cheerfully re­
commend it to my fellow-citizens as being the most safe
and salutary remedies I have ever applied, and in vindica
tion of which I hereby place my signature.
ALEX’r. McHARG,
No. 479 South Market-street.
(No. 7.)
(No. 8.)
Albany, October ¿8, 1829.
This may certify that my daughter was taken with the in­
flammatory rheumatism, and that I employed two of the first
physicians in this city, but notwithstanding, she lay five
weeks in the most agonizing distress before she found any
relief. My son was taken with the same complaint, and
worse at times before he got relief than my daughter was,
when we applied to Dr. Thomson, who relieved him imme­
diately. This was on Tuesday, and in three days lie walked
one mile, and the next week was able to work. When Dr.
Thomson first attended him, be was confined to his bed, his
ffesli was so sore that lie could not bear to be moved in any
wav I think there is a great contrast between the prac­
tice of Dr. Thomson and that of the regular physicians in
the treatment of the same complaint; the former gave im­
mediate relief, the latter gave not a shadow of hope for five
weeks. I can, therefore, recommend Dr. Thomson’s
practice as being the most salutary remedy that has ever
been applied in my family, for this complaint.
PP ' THOMAS FITZSIMMONS.
Arbor Hill
24
Bern, November 29, 1825.
’This may certify that my son-in-law was taken with the
•rheumatism, three years ago, and was attended by three of
the most eminent physicians in our quarter, to no advantage.
I at last had given up the hope of his ever getting any
better. When Dr. Thomson came to Albany, I applied to
him, and my son-in-law found immediate relief. I have
witnessed its success in many other violent attacks of dis­
ease where I think the patients must have died had I not
been acquainted with Dr. Thomson’s medicine and system
of practice. I am decidedly of opinion that his medicine
is the best that can be made use of in a family. I would,
therefore, respectfully recommend to the public in general,
to throw aside the mask of prejudice, as I have done, and at
least, become acquainted witli the virtues of these inval­
uable medicines.
STEPHEN W ILLES,
Late member of the Assembly.
(No. 9.)
(No. 10.)
N orwich, Orange Co. May 14, 1829.
This certifies that I was attacked with bleeding at the
lungs, which was attended with a cough, about a year since ;
and notwithstanding the remedies which I applied, I continu­
ed to grow worse until this spring, when by accident I saw
the account given by Mr. Cochran, of Columbia Co. of the
cure which was effected on him by Doct’s. Thomson and
Coffin, induced me to repair to Albany, and try their reme­
dies, and the twenty-first day after my arrival at Albany, I
started for home in good health.
MOREAU BARNEY.
(No. 11.,)
Albany, May 26, 1829.
This may certify, that our son was violentIy<seized with
a cough, and pain in his side. We applied to two of the
first Physicians, as we considered, in this city, but they both
said there was no help for him, as he was in the last stage
df a consumption, his whole system being swelled, and a
yellow tinge on the surface, they said he might live a few
days, but their medicines would ultimately hurry him out of
the world. One of the physicians said the internal parts
of his system were nearly destroyed. In this critical situa-
ion we were induced to call on Doct’s. Thompson Coffin
25
without the least prospect of his being cured; but thought
if he could be made comfortable it would be a great satis­
faction ; they attended him about 5 weeks, and to our sur­
prise his bodily health is now better than it has been before
for 2 years, and in fact we consider him radically cured.—
They commenced their attendance the 16th of Dec. 1828
SAMUEL MATTHEWS,
ABIGAIL MATTHEWS,
218, South Pearl-st.
(No. 12.)
Albany, Dec, 19th, 1825.
This may certify that my wife had been troubled with a
pain in her left breast for four years. During that time she
had the attendance ol three of our city physicians to no ad­
vantage. She at last gave up all hope of recovery from their
prescriptions. Soon after this Dr. Thompson came to this
city ; she applied to him and his medicine had so good an
effect that the pain was removed in a very short time. She
now enjoys her health better than she has for five years.
The medicine having had such a beneficial effect on her, J
l was induced to purchase a family right. From what I have
seen of the effects of the medicine, in various cases, I am
led to helieve it the best that can be used in a family. What
renders the medicine more safe in the hands of the people
at large is, that all deleterious vegetables and poisonous
minerals are excluded from it.
NOAH LOUGEE.
No. 469 South Market-street.
(No. 13.)
A lbany, Oct. 25th, 1825.
This may certify that I had been afflicted with the liver
complaint and consumption, and was attended by two of
the first physicians in this city, the most eminent of whom«
told me, that if the calomel which he then giving did
not benefit me, I could not live over the month of March.
This was in December, 1824. I continued to grow so
much worse, that I was confined the greater part of the
. time to my bed, for two months; and it was the general
opinion, that I was in a deep consumption, and that 1 could
Bot continue but a short time. About this time Dr. Thom­
son was recommended to me, and was accordingly employ
S
ed. The medicine which he administered gave me imme
diate relief, and I have enjoyed good health for the last
six months.
The above is a correct statement, as far as my recollec
tion serves me.
ELIZABETH RUSSEL,
No. 133 Washington-st.
(No. 14.)
Albany, Nov. 5th, 1825.
This is to certify that I have been troubled with dyspep­
sia for nine years. My food distressed me so much, that
at times I could neither lay down nor take any kind of
rest for twenty-four hours together. I suffered so much
from my food, that I was compelled to abstain from eating,
as much as possible. 1applied to three physicians, but all
to no purpose. The remedies they prescribed for me rath­
er aggravated than relieved the distress. I concluded
there was no help for me, until the last winter, when Dr.
Thomson effected for me a final cure. I was likewise, last
winter thought to be in a deep consumption, and was con­
fined to my bed in consequence of the debility occasioned
by a distressing cough, and did not myself, nor did my
neighbours entertain an opinion that 1could long survive.
But by the use of Dr. Thomson’smedicine, (which 1 know
to be the best 1ever have made use of for the above men­
tioned complaints,) I am once more restored to health.
SARAH GOODWIN,
No.67 South Pearl-street.
(No. 15.)
A lba n y , Oct. 24,1825.
This may certify, that my daughter took a violent cold
in March, 1824, which had such an effect on her, as to
produce a high degree of derangement. She was in a
distressed situatiorrfor seven months, during which time
we had the advice and attendance of two of the first phy­
sicians in this city, but to no advantage. I began to des­
pair of her ever being any better. It was the public opin­
ion that she soon would have the consumption. At this
time Dr. Thomson was recommended as having relieved
some who had been in a similar situation. I accordingly
seut for him, and in twelve days he relieved her entirely:
27
and I feel perfectly safe in recommending his system of
practice to all, who may be thus afflicted. Various other
violent attacks of disease with which she has been afflic­
ted, have been immediately removed by this invaluable
system of practice.
LUCY HANNA,
No. 5 Montgomery-street.
(No. 16.)
, A lba n y , Nov. 29,1825.
1his may certify that my daughter was taken sick in
October, 1824, with the bilious fever. We employed two
of the first physicians in this city, but she continued to
grow worse, in so much, that in February following she
appeared to have a confirmed consumption, which symp­
toms were attended with a severe pain in her side, and a
violent cough, which had reduced her to a mere skeleton.
^ this critical situation, 1 sent for Ur. Thomson, when
she began to mend in forty eight hours after his attend­
ance. Hercough and pain in the side left her, and now
she enjoys good health, which was far beyond our expec­
tation at that time. We think that Dr Thomson’s medi­
cine is the best we have applied to our daughter for a con­
sumption, which it was undoubtedly believed she had.
JOSEPH PEIRCE,
IRENE PEIRCE.
Patroon-street.
(No. 17.)
A l b a n y , Sept. 29th, 1828.
This may certify, that 1 have been troubled with vio­
lent convulsion Jits f*>r nearly eight years. I have had the
advice and attendance of several physicians, but all to
no purpose. I had nearly given up the hope of ever being
cured, when I heard of Dr. Thomson, of Albany, to whom
I made application; and in about thirty days I found my­
self better than I had been in five years, believing my
fits to be entirely cur-d. Several other tceakly and trou­
blesome complaints, his medicine has succeeded in remov­
ing, which I had been labouring under for a great length
of time.
ABIGAIL LAWSON.
28
Alba n y , December, 24th, 1829.
This may certify, that my brother Frederick Goodridgc
had been laboring under a complication of diseases for five
years. His complaint was a decay in his left sidte, which
had fallen away considerable, from which lie suffered ex­
cruciating distress: also, he had apain in his breast, with
a bad cough, which had attended him for upwards of two
years. So seveie were his difficulties, that he, as well as
his friends, believed him in a consumption. He was at­
tended by Dr. Twitchell, a celebrated physician, of Keene,
N. H. Also, Doctors Wells & Robbins, Bellows Falls,
Vermont; and had the advice of Doctors Steel and Porter,
at Saratoga Springs; from which attendance and counsel
he received no benefit, but was gradually wasting away
His left side became numb, and the circulation of the
blood in it had nearly become extinct, or so much so that
his left hand had a deadly white appearance, while the
right one was quite florid. He came to Albany in Au­
gust last, and commenced taking Dr. Thomson’s medicine;,
and in three weeks he was restored to better health than,
he had enjoyed in four years.
I have also been labouring undei diseases of various
kinds; such as weakness of the stomach, dyspepsia, and
pain in my right side, for four years. 1 have applied nu­
merous remedies, without effect, and after my brother had
found relief, I commenced taking Dr. Thomson’s medi­
cines, and in six weeks I enjoyed better health than I had
done before in four years, which continues to the present
time.
A. GOODRIDGE,
No. 276 North Market-street
(No. 18.)
(No. 19.)
A lba n y , Oct. 27,1825.
Experience has taught me that Dr. Thomson’s system of
practice is superior to all other remedies which 1have appli­
ed to cure a consumption, which complaint, three regular
physicians in Quebec pronounced me to have, and said that
they knew of no remedy for me, excepting the West-In­
dia climate. Having a very bad cough, and failing very
fast, I was confident, without immediate assistance, I could
not live long; accordingly I set out for the south, and
when I arrived in Albany, was recommended to try Dr.
Thomson, who relieved me immediately, so that I was
•able to work at my trade, which I had not been able to dG
29
before he saw me, for six months. I have found his medi
cine to have no other lha . a bene^cial effect, both upon
myself and many of my acquaintances.
JOHN GOLDER,
No. 83 vVashington-sireet.
(No. 20.)
Albany Oct. 28, 1825.
This may certify that my family have been subject to much
sickness at various riines and I have employed six regu­
lar physicians, but we have never experienced such saluta­
ry relief from their prescriptions as we have in the year
past from the use of Dr. Thompson’s medicines, in cholic,
fever, dysentarv and rheumatism. Our little daughter was
taken with a bad cough, her appetite failed, her flesh became
much wasted, her fare, hands and feel became much swol­
len, and bore a yellowish aspect; and she had the appearance
of a person in the last stage of a consumption. There
was not one who saw her at this time, hut what said she
could not live long; but she was restored to health by the
Use of Dr. Thompson’s medicine.
From what experience has taught me, i believe I shall
make use of no other medicine in my family as long as Dr.
Thompson’s is accessible.
CHARLES WHITNEY,
No. 70 Washington-street.
(No. 21.)
A l b a n y , N ov. 1, 1826.
This may certify that I had been complaining with the
Jyspepsia for three years, and had the attendance and pre­
scriptions of various physicians, but to no effect. 1at last
applied to Dr. Thomson, from whom 1have received more
relief than from any other source, and think I should re­
commend his medicine to my afflicted friends, who may be
so unfortunate as to be afflicted with this distressing com-
ffla,nt' CAROLINE ALLEN,
No. 656 South Market-street.
The above is a daughter of mine, and the account giv-
dn by her, I believe to be correct.
HORACE ALLEN
3*
(No. 22.)
Albany, N ov. 3d, 1825. ’
This may certify that I have been troubled from my youth
with various complaints : they have seriously afflicted me
for several years past. I applied to seven physicians, by
whom I was attended separately for a long time, to no advan­
tage. I at last despaired of ever recovering, until Dr.
Thompson came into the place, when I thought I would
make one effort more, knowing his system ofpractice to be
botanical I sent for him. He attended about one week,
from which attendance I received so much benefit that 1
bought a patent right, and have made use of the medicine
occasionally, and I now enjoy better health than I have done
before in twenty years. I think his system of practice su­
perior to all others which I have made use of in my family,
and as such place my signature to state its utility.
TIMOTHY GLADDING,
No. 79 State-street.
30
(No. 23.)
A lba n y , August 31«t, 1825.
This will certify, that our infant child was taken with
(he croup last December. We employed a physician, and
notwithstanding his unwearied exertions to relieve the
child, it continued to grow worse, in so much, that the
day previous to our sending for Dr. Thomson, both our­
selves and neighbours bad despaired of its recovery, and
did not think it would live six hours. Its lungs were so
badly affected, and its stomach so much swollen, that its.,
breath had become nearly extinct. Dr. Thomson came
and piescribed to so good effect, that the child now enjoys
good health, which was far beyond our expectations at the
time.
G. V. S. HOFFMAN,
SARAH HOFT MAN,
No. 123 North Market-street.
(No. 24.)
A lba n y , Dec. 15,1825.
^ This may certify, that I have been in possession of Dr.
Thomson’ssystem of medical practice for more than two
years, during which time I have repeatedly administered
his principal medicines, both to myself and family; and
from its innocent and salutary effects, I am constrained to
give it the decided preference over any mineral medicines
31
that has (to my knowledge) been made use of in my fami­
ly. I believe it well calculated to promote health, and
apparently to prolong the lives of the human family.
HORACE MEACHAM,
No. 33 Maiden Lane.
(No. 25.)
* A lbany, Dec. 17, 1825.
Dear Sir,
In answer to your enquiry, whether I have been bene
fitted by the use of your medicines'? I will briefly slate,
that having been for more than ten years under the neces­
sity, at times, ^taking more or less medicine, to obviate
the effects of iTOigestion, 1have, for the Iasi three months,
employed your prescription for that purpose, and from the
benefit already experienced, am induced to believe it may
effect a cure.
Yours, &c.
B. D. PACKARD,
Dr. J. T homson. No. 71 State-street
(No. 26 )
S aratoga Spr in g s , Nov. 10, 1825.
This may certify that I had been complaining for seven
years. My complaints were of such a nature as to distress
my head and stomach very tnuen. I had applied to four
physicians in our county to no advantage, being unable to
work and I at last despaired of ever recovering, when I
heard of Dr. Thomson, in Albany. To him 1made speedy
application, and was relieved in one week. In a month I
was better than I had been in six years, and am now able
to do considerable labour. 1have likewise used the medi­
cine in my family in several cases, ana find it superior to
,„y that i have eve, rcaJe uSe of b e f ^
(No. 27.)
A lbany, Oct. 25th, 1825.
This may certify that I have been afflicted for twelve
years past with consumptive complaints, and had the ad­
vice and attendance of six regular physicians, from whom
1have received no relief, and at last was so reduced that
I did not expect to live, which was the geueral opinion oi
32
£eople who saw me. At this critical moment I applied to
>r. Thomson, and was relieved immediately. This wa6
about the first of August last, and 1now enjoy better health
than I have before in eight years.
My daughter has been afflicted for five years with a
polypus in her nose. For three years the left side had
been entirely closed, and she suffered excruciating dis­
tress for the greater part of the time. 1 applied to one of
the first physicians in this city. He gave her some snuff,
which had no effect. He then said she must have it ex­
tracted with hooks; but having seen one person who had
suffered all the inside <f his nose to be pulled out, it made
me shrink at the distressing thought. 1 was at length re­
lieved of all these dreadful anticipationvby Dr. Thom­
son’s making a perfect cure of it, in two weeks, without
distressing her in the least.
PETER BA#DER,
No. 5 Pine-street.
(No. 28.)
Albany, October £5, 1825.
This may certify, that I have experienced immediate
relief in various c -mplaints, by the use of Dr. Thomson’s
medicine, particularly in the nervous headache, cholic and
ague. It has been very useful m my family, for the dis­
eases common to the climate. Many of my friends and ac­
quaintances have made use of his medicines while board­
ing with me. 1 wo cases, of long standing, 1was witness
to. The first was Mrs. Gidevan, from the city of New-
York. She told me that she had been attended to by thir­
ty-four of the first physicians in that city, and that they
had generally given her up to die of the consumption.__
Having heard of Dr. Thomson, she came to Albany, and
commenced taking his medicine. For the first ten or
twelve days she appeared to improve, but was subject to
violent fits. In the course of four weeks, however, they
Were cured; and she was enabled to return to New-York
*ro.^e^ er than she hau been for eight years before.
The second case was that of a Mr. McDonald, from Corn­
wall, Upper Canada. His complaint was rheumatism in
Ihe head.* He said he had been attended by four of the
trst physicians in Montreal, without experiencing the
east relief from bleeding or blistering, the usual remedies
n such a case. He then sought relief from the use of the
vaters at Saratoga Springs; but was not benefitted. He
33
there met with a friend, who advised him to repair to A1
bany, and try Dr. Thomson’s medicine. He has used it
and was entirely relieved of his complaint, in the short
space of thirteen days. *
W ILLIAM BISSELL,
No. 23 Pine-street.
Having heard of the case of Mrs. Gibevan, I called to
see her, and what she told me was in substance the same
as the statement given by Mr. Bissell.
PETER BAUDER
(No. £9.)
,, At.rany, 31st October, 18£5
iJu. Thompson.
Sir-— Having a desire to be as instrumental as possible ii>
relieving my fellow sufferers, in time of distress, I send
you this my certificate, which you may make public if you
think proper, showing that you was the me .ns with ihe assis­
tance of a kind providence, in relieving me, who hut a short
time since was lying on a bed of sickness.
f or a number of years past I had been in a very delicate
health, in so much that I scarcely knew what it was to enjoy
a well day. My case growing worse daily, I called several
of our physicians, who attended on me punctually, bur to no
purpose. I was reduced to such a way that 1 could noi be
raised ip any way to receive nourishment, without fainting.
I gave up all hopes of ever recovering—this was likewise
the opinion of my attendants. At this critical juncture 1
was called on by a friend who persuaded me to try Dr.
Thompson, who, lie said, had done a great deal of good in
this city, in restoring many persons to health who were in
as bad a situation as I was, if not worse. Willing to try
every effort, though with little hope, I sent for him. When
lie came he expressed an opinion that I was dving. or very
near death. I asked him if lie thought he coiild afford me
any relief; he answered me he would make a trial, it I would
dismiss the physicians who then attended me. 1 did so.__
He commenced with his practice, and in the course oftwen-
ty-four hours, I was, to my great surprise and the surprise
of those who attended me, much better than 1 had been
for four weeks previous. He attended me very punctually
lor six days; and my old complaint which had hung on me
for several years, was entirely removed, after this he admin­
istered to me mediciue to remove the pains in my breast,
ivjiich had so good an effect as perfectly to relieve me.—.
34
Several of my acquaintances have been relieved in the saint
extraordinary manner through the means of those medi­
cines, after the failure of apothecary remedies. The value I
place upon such practice can be more easily imagined than
described.
ELIZABETH REYNOLDS, •
No, 17 Van Schaick-street.
(No. 30.)
Albany, November 1 , 1825.
This may certify, that I have employed Dr. Thomson,
as a physician, in my family, for a short time, from whose
attendance, both myself and wife have received much
benefit. She has not enjoyed her health so well in twelve
months. In acute disorders, hi» medicine has proved itself
superior to all other remedies whic h I have ever seen or
heard of. My wife was taken with the cholera morbus,
and was in great distress from Friday night till the next
Monday morning, and could find no relief, when she sent
for Dr. Thomson. His medicine relieved her in about
thirty minutes, and by twelve o’clock she was enabled to
attend to her business. I have never heard of a person be­
ing relieved so soon of this distressing complaint, and
think I have abundant reason to prize his invaluable reme­
dies.
DANIEL ADAMS,
No. 121 Slate-street.
(No. Si.)
Albany, November 14, 1825.
This may certify, that there has been several severe at­
tacks of disease in my family, and that 1 have employed
five regular physicians, at various times, from whose at­
tendance very little or no benefit was derived. My wife,
in particular, was in a distressed situation for eight or ten
years, and was attended by the most skilful physicians of
our acquaintance, but found no relief. Last winter I em­
ployed Dr. Thomson. His prescriptions have had so hap­
py an effect, that my wile, at this time, enjoys her health
better than she has before in ten years. I was so well
pleased with the effect of the medicine on her, that I have
made myself acquainted with his system of practice, and
have witnessed its beneficial influence, not only in my own
family, but on other persons of the first respectability, who
are ready to attest to the same. The medicine is perfectK
harmless, and may be used with perfect safety by any rea
solvable person. 1 believe it to be, when properly used
superior to any remedy now in use.
JOSEPH BULL,
No. — Hawk-street.
(No. 82.)
, . Albany, Dec. 2, 1828.
Irom what experience has taught me, I can certify, Dr.
1 homson’s medicine has been of much more service to me
in removing consumptive£omplaints from my system, than
any other medicines which 1 have taken. The benefits
which I have experienced from the use of these valuable
medicines, and the effects which I have observed tbem pro­
duce on others, induces me to believe them superior to the
mineral medicine usually given by physicians. I also con­
sider them the safest and most efficacious remedies which
can be used in a family.
ELIZA PAUL,
No. 33 Union-street.
* The above statement in regard to my wife, I believe is
correct.
NATH’l. PAUL,
Pastor of the African Baptist Church, Albany.
(No. 33.)
A lbafjt, November 3 , 1825.
Heretofore I have been among the disbelievers in the
utility of Dr. Thomson’s system of practice. Pure neces­
sity at length obliged me to apply to him. 1 was violently
attacked with the bilious cholic, and was in so much dis­
tress that 1 could not place n.yself in any position that
would afford relief. I had been in this state for none length
of time, before I couid persuade myself to call on Dr.
Thomson. My excessive distress compelled me to go
somewhere. Dr. Thomson living the nearest, I went to
hinrln great agony, and asked him if ho could relieve me.
He gave me medicine which relieved me in about ten mi­
nutes. I got rid of iny prejudice with my pain. Since
that time 1 have seen the good ejects of his valuable medi­
cine in many case9.
SAMUEL P. SMITH,
' No. 136 State-street.
36
Several obstinate cases of Sail-rheum have been effectual­
ly cured. Also, many cases of Consumption, pain in the
sides and breast, have been cured; A gue and Fever, seve­
ral cases of which have been cured the season past in one
week, without injury to the constitution ; L iver Complaint,
cured with vegetable substances, and leave the system vig­
orous and strong, unless the constitution has been broken
down with mercury Two cases where suicide had been at­
tempted, one from taking arsenic, the other from opium, both
of which have been cured, and both residents of this city;
and several cases of Dyspepsia and Dropsy have been effec­
tually cured. P alsy relieved, but not cured.
(No. 34.)
(No. 35.)
We, the subscribers having been in possession of Doct.
Thomson’s system of practice, or Family Right for sev­
eral years past, and having made use of his vegetable medi­
cines in our families for said length of time, do believe them
to be the most simple and efficacious remedies which have ev­
er reached our knowledge in relation to the healing art.
We have witnessed the salutary effects of these valuable
medicines in desperate chronic diseases with astonishment;
in consequence of the medicine being destitute of deleteri­
ous properties, they can be used with perfect safety in the
hands of the people. The theory is simple, and all that
is necessary to prove its utility is the application of the
medicines agreeable to the directions ; every person within
our knowledge who has had a desire to become acquainted
with the virtues of the medicines of this valuable system of
practice, have become perfectly satisfied of their great
utility.
E. B. HUBBARD. Hudson-st.
ALEX’R McHARG, Rose-st,
NOAH LOUGEE. Liberty-st.
HORAE E MEACHAM, Pearl-st.
TIMOTHY GLADDING, State-st.
B. D. PACKARD, State-street,
CHRISTOPHER RUBEY, N. Market-st.
BENJ’N. HOFFMAN, State-st.
SAM’L. WILSON, Washington-st.
NATHANIEL WHITE, Hamilton-st.
JONAH SCOVEL, State-st.
STEPHEN WELLS, Beaver-st.
Albany, March 1829.
CERTIFICATES FROM NANTUCKET-.
In addition to the preceding documents, (which are
deemed sufficient to satisfy the most incredulous,) I have
thought proper, in the conclusion, to introduce a few cer­
tificates from Nantucket, out of a great number in my pos­
session, to show that the virtues of my medicine and prac­
tice have been justly appreciated elsewhere.
JOHN THOMSON.
I examined two gentlemen from Nantucket, who spoke
most distinctly of the respectability and credibility of the
persons whose signatures appeared attached to Dr. Thom­
son’s certificates of his practice in that place.
JUDvÆ D1MM1CK,
N. B. Sec page 18, P. S.
Being acquainted with most of the persons whose names
appear attached to the certificates of Dr. Thomson’s prac­
tice in Nantucket, I certify that they are entitled to
credit, as persons of respectability and moral probity.
STEPHEN BAIL Y,
Pastor of the First Parish in Nantucket
^ ' (No. 36.)
' - Nantucket,June 1st, 1823.
Doct. J. T homson,
Sir>_Yon enquire of me relative to the benefits
which have been derived from the use of your medicines
in my family. 1 answer with pleasure; and with joy and
o-ratitude do I place my signature to vindicate the utility
ef so valuable a system as yours has been proved to be in my
family. I have been subject to an unusual share of sick­
ness in my family, and have employed the first physicians
in skill and experience, as 1 thought, on the island, until f
had lost three children, at the ages of man and woman­
hood. Their complaints were the typhusfever. I never
had the consolation of seeing one of them relieved during
their sickness for a moment, until relieved by the cold
hand of death. The first one taken was a son, at the age
of 17 He lingered out a shocking existence, raring: dis­
tracted, under the care of Docts. G. & M. until be was re,
relieved by death. His distress was through his head,
4
38
back, and in his stomach. The exertions of these physi
cians were unwearied, but unavailing; for he had not re
lief for one moment, until his exit into eternity, which was
seven days from perfect health. The second, a daughter
at the age of twenty, was taken precisely in the same man­
ner as the first; and the reader may more readily imagine
than describe our feelings, when we were obliged to yield
her to her Maker in four days. Nor did the strong arm
of death resi here: the third was seized—a son at the age
of 19, with the same disease as the former. He continued
writhing in indiscribable distress for eleven days, when
welcome death come and put an end to his sufferings.___
The next month following the fourth was attacked. I
now began to be in despair, thinking there was no cure for
the complaint. But after the last one had died, Dr. Thom­
son was recommended as having performed some great
cures, and i resolved to send for him, should 1 have anoth­
er attacked. Accordingly, when the last one was taken,
a daughter at the age of 1 G, he was employed, and his
medicine relieved her distress immediately; and in six
weeks she was well of the same difficulty which had baf­
fled the skill of the most eminent physicians in the place
on my other children. in two weeks from the time she •
was taken, the fifth was attacked, and the same kind of
treatment restored him in five weeks. In about three
weeks horn this lime, the sixth was taken, and was cured
in four weeks, likewise a daughter was cured during this
time, of the bilious fever, and a son with the jaundice com­
plaint. What was most surprising to me, was, that Dr.
Thomson did not administer a medicine but what had the
desired effect, to relieve within 30 minutes, to either of
them; and I am firmly of the opinion, that three of my chil­
dren that are now living, would have been in their silent
graves, had it not been for Dr. Thomson, and his method
of practice; or had we employed for them, the physicians
who attended those that died. I can truly say, that when
these medicines fail, in such casesas those in which we have
used them, I shall have no faith to try any other remedv.
without it is for the satisfaction of friends.
GARDNER COFFIN.
(No. 37.)
™ . ... , Nantucket, June6th, 1823.
lxns certifies that my wife had been complaining for
several years with indigestion, and throwing up her food
She employed Docts. B. & G , who attended her for a great
;39
length of time. Her stomach, for live years, was in such a
weak state, that it was with difficulty that she kept down
food sufficient to keep her alive. She tried every remedy
which had been recommended for her complaint, without
effect; and at last was induced to try Dr. Thomson, who
attended her for a short time, and at this date her health
•'s better than it has been in seven years
OWEN CHACE
(No. 38.)
TI . . . . . . Nantucket, June 6th, 1823.
1 do certify, that 1 had been subject to to the lumbago or
rheumatism in the loins, small of the back, and in the bow­
els, for nine years. The distress which I suffered at times,
was so excruciating, that my groans might have been heard
at some distance from the house; and my friends were fre­
quently obiigeil to hold me in bed I had beer, subject to
these distressed spells, upon an average,about once in three
weeks,during the nine years; and 1had employed Docts. B..
G., C. and M., whose directions were closely attended to,
anil their remedies applied, until 1 was convinced that they
had no tendency towards removing the cause, or giving re­
lief for a moment; neither did I know of any relief for said
complaint, until March, 1822; when 1was attacked as se­
vere as ever I was, when 1 sent for Dr. Thomson, who re­
lieved me immediately. He at'ended me for three weeks,
for some other complaints, and I have not been troubled
with the lumbago since. It appears to me that I rather die
au easy deatn, than again have another of these distressed
spells.
TAMOUR RUSSELL.
The above account, set forth by my wife, is correct.
JEDDEDIAH RUSSELL.
(No. 39.)
Nantucket, June 6th, 1823.
This may certify, that I had been complaining for one
year with a bad cough, and pain and soreness through the
breast. I applied to two of the most skilful physicians in
the place, as fears were entertained that I was in a con­
sumption. I made a thorough trial of their medicines,
40
without experiencing any relief, and then employed Dr
John Thomson, who made a cure of my complaints in one
week,
JOHN W. OLIN
(No. 40.)
N a n t u c k e t , June 3rd, 1323.
I hereby certify, that 1 had a child that was in a con
sumption for six months, and his flesh had nearly all left
him. During this time we employed several of the facul­
ty, but to no purpose. We then employed Dr. Thomson,
and to our great surprise, the child got well, to the aston­
ishment of all who saw him. Our friends would say,
“ Why do you give him medicines, as he cannot live; and
what little time he did stay, it should be in peace, if he was
mine.
I was taken with the cholera morbus, and was in as dis­
tressed asituation as ever 1 knew a person to be in and live,
for four hours; and it appeared to me that I should not
have felt more, had I been pierced with daggers; when we
sent for Dr. Thomson, who came and relieved me in twen­
ty minutes. I have made much use of his medicines in my
family, and do believe them the most useful of any we have
ever had recourse to, for all the complaints to which my
family has been subject.
ROWLAND POLLARD.
(No. 41.
The subscriber certifies, that Dr. John Thomson has
practiced a short time on his son Charles; whereby he re­
ceived great benefit, and has enjoyed good health for more
than six months. He had been out of health between two
and three years, and had been attended by several gentle­
men of the faculty, but received little or no benefit from
any one, until Dr. Thomson began with his method of
practice, which in my opinion is good.
GRAFTON GARDNER
Nantucket, June 9th, 1823.
(No. 42.)
Nantucket, June 2d, 1823.
This is to inform all whom it may concern, through
whicu I hope many may be benefitted, that Dr. John
41
Thomson has practiced in my family, to civ perfect satis
faction, and to the very great advantage of his patients.—
He has restored two of my family to health, one of wham
had the typhus fever, and the other the w ooping cough;
whose lives were entirely despaired of by the physicians
who were employed previous to Dr. Thomson.
JOHN G. COFFIN
(No. 43.)
N a n tu c k et, June 7th, 1823.
This is to certify, that 1 had a severe pain in my side
for twelve months; and fur thref' months, I was unable to
do any kind of labour. I employed Doets. B. and M., who
attended me for four months, but to no purpose, as 1 found
no relief. I then applied to Dr. John Thomson, who made
a perfect cure of me in one week. Knowing this com­
plaint to be prevalent among sea-faring men, and other
hard labouring people, 1 take the liberty to recommend
his course of treatment to them, as the most sure guide to
health, from such complaints as those which 1 have been
afflicted with. I was also attacked with ttie biliousfever,
and Dr. T. restored me to health in a very short tune.
JOB TURNER.
(No. 44.)
N antucket, June 3rd, 1823.
This may certify, that 1 was attacked with the inflam­
matory rheumatism through my back and hips, and employ­
ed Dr. M., who attended me tor a while, but to no pur­
pose. I then applied to Dr. Thomson, who came in the
morning, and attended me throng!) the day, and at night
I cou'd set up, and walk as well as ever I could, without
pain, ami the next day I went out. Before this attack, I
had been subject to the rheumatism for several months, but
have not had an attack since Dr. T. attended me W hen*
1
lie first came to see me, I had been confined to the house,
(but not to the bed, in consequence of the extreme pain
which I was in, which forbid my laying down,) for one
week, and all the rest I got was setting in my chair. Dr
Thomson relieved me in 25 or 30 minutes, in so much that
I went to sleep, which I had not been able to do in one
week before.
PETER RAY.
4*
42
N a n t u c k e t , June 3rd, 1823.
This may certify, that I was taken with the rheumatism
m »he legs, and so up to my hips, the pain of which was
very severe. 1 applied to Dr. B., who attended me one
week, but to no effect. It appeared to me that I could not
continue long in this state, and wished for other assist­
ance, and accordingly, employed Dr. S., who attended me
four weeks, when 1 was much worse than I was when he
commenced attending me. I then employed Dr. Thom­
son, who relieved me more in one half hour, than these
other medical men did, during their whole attention of
five weeks, and in two weeks was restored to health.
JOHN MURRAY
(No. 45.)
(No. 46.)
Nantucket, June 5th, 1823.
This certifies, that myself and wife were both taken
with the cholera morbus in one night; and to such a de­
gree, that our stiength was completely prostrated, from
extreme distress, vomiting, purging, &c., when we sent
for Dr. Thomson, who relieved us both in a very short
time. I never heard of a person being relieved in as short
a time as we were, who was as severely attacked.
ELISHA RAYMOND
(No. 47.)
Nantucket, June 2d, 1823.
This may certify, that our little daughter Susan, at the
age of two years, was taken very ill, and our family phy­
sician, Dr. G., was sent for, who observed that she had ta­
ken a great cold, which, in his opinion, would have its
turn and wear off'; but waiting for this much desired
change for two days, the patient was nearly consumed.—
We then sent for Dr. Thomson, who gave his medicine.
« and in five days the child was well and about the house;
which medicine I believe to be most excellent.
ROBERT COGGESHALL.
(No. 48.)
N a n t u c k e t , June 13th, 1823.
This certifies, that I have had the rheumatism for about
30 years, at intervals, and have employed, during that
•ime, Docts. G., M. and S., who attended me separately
43
i'or some length of time, but without any advantage. The
disorder appeared to have its course, nor have 1 k *wn of
any relief for it, until this last winter, when I was >evere-
ly attacked again, and then sent tor Dr. Thomson, who re­
lieved me immediately. Sulfice it to say, that dur ng the
30 years which 1 have had this complaint, I never va* re­
lieved so soon before; and I think all those who have this
disorder, cannot find a more expeditious, certain and -afe
cure.
GEORGE POLLARD
(No. 49.)
N a n tu c k et, June 4th, 1823.
This will certify, that Dr. John Thomson has attended
both my wife and self, and has proved himself more skil­
ful in removing very difficult complaint, especially in
the former, than did Dr. B., w^o attended her several
times previous to Dr. T’s. being called. I would recom­
mend his medicine, as being safe and salutary, from expe­
rience; and in vindication of which, l here place my sig­
nature.
ABRAM B. HOMER
(No. 50.)
N a n tu c k et, June 3rd, 1823.
This certifies, that in 1809 1 was bound from here to the
Brazil Banks, on a whaling voyage, when, from hard la­
bour, I was attacked with a severe pain in my side. The
distress was so severe, that I was off duty,at intervals, for
the voyage. When we returned to Nantucket, 1 employ­
ed Doct. G., who attended me a while, hut to n» purpose.
The pain increased so much, that 1 could do but very lit­
tle labour; but having a family to support, I was obliged
to go to sea again; and on my to way the coast of Africa,
on another whaling voyage, in the brig Ocean, when she
was taken by the English, and carried into the cape of
Good Hope, where 1employed a celebrated English physi­
cian, of whom 1 had various prescriptions, and with great
diligence did 1 attend t>. his directions, but all to no purpose.
I was carried from there to England, and put on board of a
prison ship, and from thence to Dartmoor prison, and in
1815 I was exchanged and returned to Nantucket, where I
employed Doct. B., who attended me a while, and then ap­
plied to Doct. M., who attended me about two months. I
Then commenced withDoet. E., who recommended merett*
44
rial plasters, drawing blisters, &c. This plan was follow­
ed up rigidly, until I was satisfied that I received u<> bene­
fit; when I was obliged to relinquish the course, believing
that I should never be any better. In the winter of 1822,
I heard of Doct. Thomson, whom 1 employed I had then
been troubled with the pain for twelve years, and not a
moment could I say that I was easy. The first medicine ho
gave me relieved me for one week entirely. He attended
me twelve days, and I am now so far recovered, that I suf­
fer no inconvenience from that difficulty.
VALENTINE COFFIN.
(No. 51.)
Nantucket, 6th mo. 2 nd, 1823.
This may certify, that my wife, Lucretia Macy, had been
complaining with weakly and nervous complaints for ten
years, and was confined to her room and bed principally
tor that length of time. Her stomach was in such a state
of acidity from indigestion, that ev-'ry thing she took
down soured immediately. Doctors G., B..& M. attended
her separately, for the principal part of the time, but to
little or no purpose. She at last gave up doctoring, Re­
lieving that it was of no service to her. She had not been
been able to take the least quantity of animal food, or the
juice thereof into her stomach, for a great length of time,
without setting her into excrutiating disiress. When Dt!
Thomson) came among us, she thought, as his method of
practice was new, she would try it ; and in a very short
time, his medicines put her atom ch in such order, by re­
moving the dyspeptic effections, that her food ha« not dis­
tressed her since; and she can now take as strong food ns 1
can, and enjoys her health better than she has done before
in nine years. It is now about thirty months since Dr. T.
attended her; I can therefore recommend his medicin«es to
such as have complaints similar to those of my wife, as safe
and efficacious remedies.
PELEG MACY, Jr .
(No. 52.)
Nantucket, June 9th, 1823.
in the year 1810,1 was taken with a bad pain in my side
which brought on other weakly complaints. My difficul­
ties were so severe, that I have not been able to do any
thing of any consequence until this spring. In the first
place I applied to Doct. G. who attended me in all about
iò
two years. Doct. C. was next employed, who attended
me about two months, but all to no purpose I continued
to grow worse, insomuch, that in 1818 1 was seized with
violent fits. It appears to me that human nature Ì9 not ca­
pable of enduring much more distress than I did with this
shocking compLint. I then sent for Dr. S., who attended
me four weeks, but without effect. I now began to be in
despair as to ever being any better, until this l. st winter,
when I heard of and employed Doct. Thomson, who at­
tended me three months, which placed me in a better state
of health than I have enjoyed before in twelve years. I
suffer no inconvenience from the complaints which I had
prior to his attendance.
When I think back on my past sad condition, and com­
pare it with my present state of health, I can hardly real­
ize that I am the same person. From not being able to do
any kind of labour for twelve years, and three months at­
tendance restore my bodily health, insomuch that I can
do any thing ttiat any person can, is something more than *
I could expect.
I think the people generally are not sufficiently acquain­
ted with tliis invaluable system of practice, and as such
shall take the liberty to recommend it to the public.
. NANCY COLESWORTHY,
GEORGE C. COLE8 WORTHY
(No. 53.)
Nantucket, Nov. 19tli, 1822.
We the subscribers having made use of Dr. Thomson’s
modicines, in our families, to our satisfaction, do not hesitate
to recommend them as superior to any we have heretofore
made use of; and wo have not known of any person who
has made a fair trial of the same, to disapprove of them. As
Dr. 1 1 ******* is solicitous to make it appear that the Lo­
belia is poison, we deem it our duty to counteract his attempt.
As wc have made use of the plant to our thorough sat­
isfaction, and know it to be perfectly safe, particularly when
taken with Dr. T ’s. other medicine, and civen by a skilfal
hand. We cordially recommended them to the public, as
nroper for complaints common to this climate.
NATHANIEL RAND,
GARDNER COFFIN,
GRAFTON GARDNER,
ZOPHAR HADEN,
ROB*r. COGGESHALL,
46
ALEXANDER COFFIN,
REUBEN WEEKS,
ABRAHAM POLLARD.
DAVID WORTH,
JOHN B. NICHOLSON.
DAVID U. GILES,
SILVA NUS RUSSELL,
. GILES SANFORD,
WILLIAM JOY,
ZEBDIAL COFFIN,
S A M ’l . BURNELL,
GEORGE MACY,
CHRISTOPHER BURDICK,
JOHN G. COFFIN,
DAVID JOY, Jr.
Being acquainted with most of the signers of the precpd
ing document, we certify that they are entitled to credit, as
persons of respectability and moral probity.
STEPHEN BAILEY,
P astor o f the F irst Presbyterian Church, N antucket.
SIMEON BALCH.
Preceptor o f the Academy.
The following article was written by Dr. Benjamin Wa
terhouse, and published in the Boston Statesman.
EMPIRICISM TRIUM PHANT!
Or Dr. Samuel Thomson's Steam ing P rocess, practised
by the “ regulars,’’ in Boston.
M r. E ditor,
In your paper of the 2 1 st inst. I noticed, with pleasure,
an advertisement of “ M edicated Vapour B a t's,” as estab­
lished in this city by D r. Reynolds, ami therein said to be
“ a recent invention” by Mr. Charles Whitlaw, B otanist, who
has been patronized by the nobility and gentry in Eng­
land in a remarkable liberal manner This led me to turn
to the second edition of Samuel Thomson’s narrative o f his
life and practice, where I read as follows: (between pages
164 and 166.)
It is a matter of much gratuLtion to me, and a balm
fbr all my sufferings, that my system o f practice is fast gain
n
ing ground in all parts of the country. A number of gen
tlernen, eminent foi their scientific researches and useful­
ness in society, have become adv mates for the cause; and
although they may not be perfectly converted, so as to
give up all their former opinions, yet allow that the sys­
tem is ingenuous ana philosophical, and that the practice
is new and useful. In introducing my new mode ofprac­
tice to the people of this county, I have never ught t e pa­
tronage of th'- great, and the success it has met, has been
altogether owiiig to its ow merit.,, A man by the name
of Whitlno has lately introduced what he calls “ his medi­
cated vapour bath.” --
“ It seems that this Mr. IVhitl w, from what I can learn
from Ins publications, about six years ago, went from this
country to England, and there introduced a new system of
practice, and became celebrated in curing all kinds of
scrofulous diseases of the glands by means of his method
ol applying steam, and the use of decoctions from Ameri­
can Vegetables. How he got his knowledge, or what first
induced him to fix upon this plan, I know not; but it
seems, as far as I can understand him, that ha has adopted
my system of practice, as far as he has been able to get a
knowledge of it. He says something about gaining his
knowledge from an Indian in Ibis country; but this is too
stale to require any notice.”
“ One of the great principles upon which my system is
founded, is. that all disease originates in obstructions in
the glands, (obviously, to include the capillary system,)
and if not removed, becomes scrofulous; and that the only^
remedy is to remove the obstructions, by steam and ot e)
hot medicines. And in all my practice, for nearly forty
years, there has been nothing I have succeeded more com­
pletely in, than in the cure of scrofulous complaints.”
“ It appears that Mr. W itlnw has met with great suc­
cess in England, and that he has had the support and pa­
tronage of many of the first men in the kingdom, (and
among them the Duke of York.) who have liberally con­
tributed to the support.of an asylum for the cure of the
poor, and that his saccess has given universal satisfaction.
And it also appears that he has met with abuse from the
medical faculty, both there and in this country. This was
to be expected, and is the best evidence of its utility.”
“ I feel no enmity towards those who are benefiting oth­
ers by my discoveries; and it gives me much pleasure to
think that I have been instrumental in introducing a new
system o f medical practice, by which I feel confident so
48
* UiUch benefit will be derived, by diminishing, in a great
measure, the sum of human misery. But 1 think those
gentlemen who have gained any knowledge of my prac­
tice, for which I have suffered so much for introducing,
(see his narrative and Juege Parson’s report, in Th/ing’s
collection,') ought, in justice, to allow me some credit fo r
the discovery.”
It must be very satisfactory to our unassuming country­
man, Thomson, to see his practice, with the improvements
which IVhitl w has made in the snug mode o f conveying the
steam, spreading far and wide in England, and now estab­
lishing in Boston, after receiving the British fiat. Mr.
Thomson used hot stones to raise his steam, as they could
be easily obtained, and at no expense; whereas a steaming
apparatus would have been both costly and inconvenient
in our remote country towns. But what will the regular
physicians say to th»ir brother Reynolds, in degrading the
dignity of the profession, in adopting the practice of
Quack W hitlaw, who took the practice from Quack
Thomson, who was tried for his life, sixteen years ago, at
Salem, fo r the very practice now cried up in Lai don, and re­
flected back to Boston with no small eclat, and while his
poisonous plant Lohelia, is sold by the Apothecaries, in
powder and in tincture, which they ignorantly call “ ’In ­
dian tobacco.” How will the learned Massachusetts
Medical Society get over this?
^From all things, and from what we have just seen in the
Eastport Sentinel, respecting the “ischiatic notch” in the
M assachusetts General H ospital, it would seem that D octor
craft, alias Surgeon craft, alias bone-setting craft, is insome
danger. ^ W itch craft has long since been shaken loose,
and carried down the stream of time, into the ocean of ob­
livion; and M edical craft, unless it hold on with all its
claws, will go down there likewise.
PHILO-ECCLECTIC.
49
The report of the honourable the committee, Messrs
Dickson, Hammond and Buckman, came to band too late
to receive its proper place in this book; but the desire I
had for the insertion of so able a document, has induced
me to enlarge the work 1 2 pages beyond its contemplated
size. Messrs. Hammond and Buckman will receive my
thanks for the impartial manner in which they conducted
their investigation of the Botanic system of practice, in the
city of Albany; also, for furnishing me with their written
opinion.
Feb., 1830. J. THOMSON
OPINION OF MESSRS. HAMMOND & BUCKMAN
A lbany, Feb. 7th, 1830.
Doct. J ohn T homson,
Sir,—Being the majority of a committee appointed by
the Assembly of the state of New-Y<>rk, to whom was re
ferred the petitions and documents relative to the practice
of Botanic Physicians, with power to examine the ef­
fects of said practice on community we, agreeable to the
authority vested in us, accompanied v°n, in the city of Al­
bany, on the 25th ult., when wo heard ihe verbal testimo­
ny of the persons whose signatures appear attached to the
following certificates, commencing on the 18th page of
this book, viz: 1 , 2 , 3, 4, 5, b. 7, 12, 13,15, 21, 22, 23, 24,
26, 29 and 3 3 , and to our surprise, not only found the state
ments made in their respective certificates fully supported
by each and every individual, but many particulars in re
lation to their diseases were also related to us by ihe pa
tients, which, in our opinion, would have added much to
the importance and striking features of those certificates,
had they been embodied in the formation of the docu
ments. The persons thus examined, appeared respectable,
intelligent and candid. We therefore have the strongest
evidence to believe, that your practice has been ofinesli-
liable service in rescuing from the grave, numbers of per­
sons who had been pronounced by the regular physicians
incurable. We also saw several persons whose friends
had died while under your care; and who gave you much
credit, for having made them more comfortable while they
lived, than could be done by other physicians who attend
ed prior to you. In conclusion, it is our opinion, as well
50
as the opinions of the committees* who have preceded us
that if any person deserves to be protected by law, you are
one.
EPHRAIM HAMMOND.
A. BUCKMAN.
No. 110.
IN ASSEM BLY,
Feburary 6, 1830.
R E P O R T
O f the Select Committee, on the petitions in favour oj
B otanic Physicians.
T he Select Committee to whom were referred several
petitions of many of the citizens of this state, some of
them praying that botanic physicians may be allowed to
practise medicine and receive a reasonable compensation
for services rendered; others praying that John Thomson
and David Tower, may, by a special act of the Legisla­
ture, be licensed to practise as botanic physicians, beg
leave respectfully to
Re p o r t :
That, in the revision of the laws in the year 1813, the
Legislature, in revising the act to incorporate medical
societies, for the purpose of regulating the prictice of
physic and surgery in this state, declared that nothing in
that act contained, should be construed to extend to debar
any person from using or applying, for the benefit of any
sick person, any roots, barks or herbs, the growth or pro­
duce of the United States; thereby leaving those usually
termed botanic physicians, at liberty to practise and re­
ceive a reasonable compensation for their services. And
thusthe law remained until the adoption of title seventh
of chapter fourteenth of the first part of the present Re­
vised Statutes, (vol. 1 . p. 451,) by which it is provided,
that no person snail practice physic or surgery, unless he
shall have received a license or diploma from one of the
incorporated medical societies of this state, or the degree
of doctor of medicine from the regents of the university,
or have been duly authorised to practise by the laws, or
received adiploma from some incorporated college of med­
icine or legally incorporated medical society of some
* Seefrompage 15to 18.
51
other state or country; and such physician from any othei
state or country, not entitled to practise, unless he has
filed a copy of his diploma with the clerk of the county
where he resides, and exhibited to the medical society of
that county, satisfactory evidence that he has regularly
studied physic and surgery according to the requisitions of
the ninth section of said title seventh; and that the presi­
dent of every county medical society shall give notice, in
writing, to every physician and surgeon within the coun­
ty not already admitted to the society, directing him, with
in sixty days after the service of such notice, to apply for
and receive a certificate of admission; and if he shall
neglect to apply for such certificate within the time pre­
scribed, his license shall be deemed forfeited, and he shall
be liable to all the provisions and penalties of the laws of
this state in relation to unlicensed physicians. And by the
twenty-second section of said title seventh.it is provided,
that evety person not authorised by law, who, for any fee
or reward, shall practice physic or surgery within this
state, shall be incapable of recovering, by suit, any debts
arising from such practice; and shall be deemed guilty of a
mi demea or,punis able byfine or imprisonment, or both, in
the discretio of t e court by which eshall beconvicted.
Botanic physicians, who use r.r apply for the benefit of
any sick person,even any roots, barks, or herbs, the growth
or produce of the United States, are, therefore, by the ex­
isting statutes not only deprived of the aid of the law in
the collection of debts arising from their practice, but are
liable to be both fined and imprisoned; such fine resting
wholly in the arbitrary discretion of the court, and such
imprisonment may be in the counry jail for any term not
exceeding three years. Such statutes are deemed by the
petitioners harsh and severe, and they pray a repeal or
modification thereof. Your committee are of opinion that
this house would never consent to act as a board of cen­
sors, to license individuals to practice medicine; and that,
.therefore, the only important question presented, is,
whether any alterations in the provisions of the said sev­
enth title can consistently be made, with a due regard to
the bests interests of the public. Tbe decision of this
question will depend on the dangers and evils to be ap­
prehended, or the benefit to be derived, from the practice
of unlicensed physicians. The most skilful and the most
deserving of the botaaic physicians h.,ve been termed
charletans and empirics, and represented as too ignorant
to be employed in the cure of diseases. It must be admit­
ted, that the physician eminent in science, who has studied
52
with diligence and with care,anatomy, physiology, patho­
logy, botany, and chemistry, and all the sciences con­
nected with his profession, and who has analyzed the min­
eral arid the vegetable kingdoms, and who has reduced
his learning and acquirements to practice, must ever be
considered a much abler proficient in the healing art, than
the unlettered empiric who has acquired his knowledge
from observaron and practice only. Yet, as there are
many gradations in knowledge, and great diversity in the
talents and a quirements of licensed physicians, there is,
in the minds of your committee, great doubt whether
much greater dangers are not to be apprehended from the
practice of the le«st informed of them, than from the
practice of the botanic physicians. Man has always been
subject to pain and disease, and in ihe infancy of the
world, for alleviation or for cure, must h, ve looked to the
medicinal virtues of the vegetable kingdom; and his own
necessities must have rendered him curious and observing,
and his curiosity and observation must have rendered him
knowing and learned in the healing qualities of roots and
plants. Every man was ihen an empiric, and his own
physician.
In the progress of time, one would become more ob­
serving and learned than his neighbors, and be called on
to act as their botanic physician And it is a well-known
fact which we learn from natural history, that the plants
are as various as the diseases of the different climates; and
that every country contains roots and plants whicli yield
a remedy for almost every disease incident to that country.
We learn, that in the early days of Egypt, and in the he­
roic ages of Greece, there were men celebrated for the
cure of diseases; and we read in Homer, of the heroes on
the field of battle, staunching the bleeding wounds of
their companions with a bitter root.
Hippocrates, the father of medicine and the idol of his
time, was an empiric: his only instructors were observa-
tionand experience, and the only book in which he read
was the “ great book of nature.” In the language of an
eminent professor of medicine, “ air, earth and water,
man and his kindred, vegetables, disease and death, and
all casualties and concomitants of humanity were the
pages he studied. E ery thing that surrounds and nourish­
es, were the objects of'his attention and study.” Rome
and other ancient states and empires, had their physicians,
eminent in the healing art, and endeared to all who knew
them : yet to these eminent physicians, anatomy was com­
paratively unknown. They were unacquainted with the
53
circulation of the blood, and ignorant of the science of
chem stry; atid if now living, would be wholly incompe­
tent t<>p<i«s an examination before one of our boards of
censor They would, consequently, be treated as empirics,
and visited with all the pains and penalties inflicted on un­
licensed physicians. And yet,ari we prepared to say that
ail those eminent physicians who flourished tor a succession
of centuries, the pride and iuols of their times, only added
to the pain»,the maladies an<i the miseries of man, and were
worthy to be punished with fines and a dungeon?
If we believe they alleviated pain, and by contributing
to health, added t<>the stock of human happiness, may we
not suppose that the empirics of our day, the botanic phy­
sician, who. though not deeply read in books, has studied
much rlie book of nature, the nutritious and the poisonous
qualities ->f the vegetable kingdom, may do something for
hi* species? m y alleviate pain and cure disease?
And may not the unlettered as well as the lettered man
upon beholding the plants of the garden and the field ex­
claim in the language of the poet, who had never read
Linnteus or studied medicine,
*
■ Within the infant rind of this small flower,
Poison hath residence, and medicine power?”
It is a remark of an eminent and learned physician of
our commercial metropolis, that “ the Flora of North
America is astonishingly rich in remedies. There is no
doubt in my mind,” says he,“ that in more diseases than
are generally acknowledged, vegetable simples are the
preferable remedies.”
Two of your committee have visited many of the pa­
tients of Mr. John Thomson, one of the persons named in
said petitions, being respectable citizens of the city of Al­
bany, and conversed with them in relation to his prescrip­
tions and practice, and are assured and convinced, that his
practice has been productive of much benefit, and eminent­
ly successful, in many instances, in the cure of diseases.
It has been said, ¡hat “ any alteration of the law, would
bear with great injustice on the licensed physicians, who
had spent their time and money in the pursuit of medical
science.” _
This your committee submit, is asevere reflection on the
intelligence of the public. For if the physician is distin­
guished by his superior intellect; his superior virtue and
attainments in medical science; a discerning people will
discover it, and he will receive the rewards of an exten­
sive and successful practice, which be would never obtain
5 #
54
by binding and imprisoning his humble opponent. The
strife of the professional man, ennobled by genius and tal­
ent, and exalted by virtue, is generous and noble, and he
seldom fails of his reward, and he needs not, he asks not,
the aid of severe laws to ensure it.
It has been said that the botanic physicians “ ought not
to be licensed, to trifle with the lives of iheir fellow crea­
tures.” Your committee submit, that it is not expedient
to attempt, by legislative enactment, to add to nature, and
increase the attachment to life, and render stronger that
natural affection, implanted by God himself in the bosom
of the parent towards his offspring, which is often stronger
than even the attachment to life itself. The free unbias­
ed selection of his physician, either for himself or family,
is deemed one of the dearest privileges man enjoys. And
if by harsh and severe laws, he is deprived of the services
of a physician whom he prefers, and is thereby led to be­
lieve, that by the loss of such services, his own life is with
greater rapidity hastening to its close, or that he has been
deprived of a child he dearly loved, with what feelings
will he turn over the statutes, and with what horror will
he behold the members of that profession, by whose agen­
cy perhaps, and in whose favor, such a law of exclusion, of
privilege and severity, was passed.
It has been said, there “ ought to be more severe enact­
ments for ihe protection of the community, against these
bold and heartless depredators,” the botanic physicians.—
Your committee have searched, with some industry and
care, and can find no statute of Great Britain, or any oth­
er state or country, of equal severity, with the last clause
of the said twenty-second section, of said title seventh.—
The only law which they can find bearing any resem­
blance to it, is a statute of Virginia, by which any slave,
free negro, or mullatto, is forbidden to administer medi­
cine, under pain of death: Provided, That if such medicine
is administered without any ill intent, or is not attended
with any bad consequences, such slave to be acquitted on
the trial, and not extending to any slave administering
such medicine, with the consent of the owner of the slave,,
and the consent of the master or mistress of the family;
nor to any free negro or mullatto administering such medi­
cine in any family, with the consent of the master or mis­
tress thereof. But our statute punishes the unlicensed
physician, where his intention wasgoud; where the medi­
cine was administered at the request, and with the con­
sent of the patient; where it produced no bad consequen­
ces, and effected the intended and expected cure. It not
55
only punishes the unlettered empiric and the botanic phy­
sician, but the man of learning and science in hi« profes­
sion. He may have obtained diplomas from the medical
school of Leyden and Edinburgh, and from every medical
college, and every legally incorporated medical society in
the old and the new world, beyond the limits of this state;
he may stand the very first in the first rank of his profes­
sion, and if he becomes a practising physician of one of the
counties of this state, and neglects for sixty days after no­
tice, to unite himself with the medical society of the coun­
ty, his license is forfeited, he is in some respects, deemed
an outlaw, may be convicted of a misdemeanor, fined and
sentenced to a dungeon. 80 that our free white male citi­
zens, learned and unlearned, are treated with greater se­
verity by our statute, than are the free negroes, or even the
slaves of Virginia, by the laws of that state.
Your committee fully believe, that an attachment to life
and a reverence for letters and science, can never be in­
creased by pains, penalties and imprisonments; and they
are unanimously of opinion, that the said seventh title re­
quires some modification, and they see no reason why the
botanic physicians should not be placed in the same situa­
tion that they were by the revised laws, of the year 1813,
and they particularly recommend the repeal of the last
clause of the twenty-second section, of the seventh title,
of the fourteenth chapter, of the first part of the Revised
Statutes, and have instructed their chairman to bring in a
bill accordingly.
All which isrespectfully submitted.
JOHN DICKSON,
Keb. 6th, 1830. Chairman.
LETTERS* A!V*> EX TRA CTS.
<'opij of a letter from the celebrated Dr. Waterhouse,formei
ly lecturer on the Theory and Pratice of Physic, in C-'m-
bridge University, to Samuel L. MitchiU, M.D. tf L. L. D-
C a m brid g e, Dec. 19th, 1825.
My Dear Sir: , , . , c
Mr., alias Dr.,Samuel T.mmson, who has the honor ot
iktroducing the valuable Lobelia to use, and fatty proved
ilsefficacy and safety, will deliver you this. He has cured
and relieved many of disorders, which others could not,
without being a regular diplomatized physician, and dared
56
to be a republican in a hot bed of federalism; for which he
has been shamefully ill-treated, even to persecution.
I have aided anu assisied Thomson, from a firm belief
that his novel practice has been benefit ial to numbers, and
that it may be placed among improvements. If he be a
quack, he is a quack suigeneris, for he proclaims his mode
and means. Had John Hunter, whom I well knew, been
bom and bred where Samuel Thomson was, he would have
been just such another man; and had S. T. been thrown
into the same society and associations as J. H., he would,
in my opinion, been his equal, with probably a wider
range of though«'; but both men of talents, and orignahty
of thought.
I am, indeed, so disgusted with learned quackery, that I
take some interest in honest, humane and strong-minded
empiricism; for it has done more for our art, in all ages
and in all countries, than all the universities since the
time of Charlemagne. Where, for goodness sake, did Hip­
pocrates study?—air, earth, and water—man, and his kind­
red vegetables—disease and death, and all casualties and
concomitants of humanity, were the pages he studied----
every thing that surrounds and nourishes us, were the ob­
jects of his attention and study. In a word, he read dili­
gently and sagaciously the Great Hook of Nature, as
Thomson has, instead ofthe little books of man.
How came your Legislature to pass so unconstitutional
an act as that called the a ti-quack law?—such as the Par­
liament of England would hardly have ventured on?—for
who will defie quackery? Were I sufficiently acquainted
with your excellent Governor Clinton, I would write to
him on the subject. You New Yorkers are half a century
behind us in theological science, and your quack bill looks
as if you halted also in physic.
By what I have seen and learnt of Mr. Thomson, I wish
him success, and the notice of the eminent and the liberal
in the profession, and with this view 1 give him this rapid­
ly written letter to Dr. Mitchill, and am with an high de
gree of esteem and respect his
Steady friend,
BEN’j . WATERHOUSE.
To Dr. John Thomson.
_ New-York, 18th Dec. 1824.
Srr—
I remember very well, that about the 5th of November
you called upon me, in company with Dr. Everett, and
57
presented me a copy of your father’s “New Guide to
Health,” with a narrative of his life and disc«.verie*.
1 consider biography as one of the mosi entertaining and
instructive branches of history; and that of Dr. Samuel
Thomson especially worthy of being read by medical men
I congratulate him on his escape from the tna.s ami diffi­
culties m which he has been involved, and on retaining
the animated front and features, exhibited in > r. Wil­
liams’portrait of him. I hope that he may long continue
to enjoy the rewards of good service, tfce qua turn meruit,
and the mens sibi cunscia recti.
The Flora of North Amer'ca is astonishingly rich in
remedies. There is no doubt in my mind, that in more
diseases than is generally acknowledged, vegetable sim­
ples are the preferable remedies. Who knows, but iu
time, >hese native productions of the field and forest, will
so enlarge and confirm their dominion, as to supercede the
employments of other medicines.
Be kind enough to accept the assurance of my esteem
and regard; and when you write to Dr. W. Ingalls, to pre
sent him my compliments.
SAMUEL L. MITCHELL
fou'M B us, (O.) 4th Month 23d, 1827.
Dr. J ohn T homson.
Respected Fne d.
T hou art no doubt, by this time, informed, that I have
yielded to the solicitations of thy father, to take an tin
limited agency of his business,in diffusing the knowledge
of his system of the practice of physic.
I have studied and practiced physic from early life, as a
neighbour and friend, without ever receiving or wishing
to receive, (that I recollect,) to the value ol a cent; ex­
cepting the satisfaction of having frequently relieved my
fellow creatures in distress. I have been much solicited
by my friends of the faculty and others, to devote my time
principally to the practice of physic: But the more 1have
become acquainted with the most celebrated physicians,
the more 1 have been assured that they have wandered,
generally, from the true ground, in quest of medicines to
prevent and cure diseases. I have long believed that a
bountiful providence had furnished, in every country,
which seems to have been designed for the habitation of
men, (or from whence he can draw his support,) with the
most natural and suitable medicines, in the forests, the
fields, or gardens, &c. The nature of the medicines which
the faculty, generally, as well as myself, have placed most
58
¡reliance on, I have long known to be so deleterious in their
nature, that I have considered them as a kind of necessary
evil, (if I may so speak,) seemingly necessary, because we
have known nothing better; and that the practice of the
ablest physicians of the faculty, h. s been like wandering
in a labyrinth, or daik and gloomy maze!—1 have always
most heartily despised every thing like quackery, whether
ignorant or learned—have always been in the habit of
communicating, freely and cheerfully, all the useful
knowledge I possessed—have frequently, in a friendly
manner, called the most eminent physicians, quacks, to
their faces; and have long believed, that in every country
theyare very oppressive, especially on the poor. I had fre­
quently heard of steam doctors, and some accounts of the
mischief they had done in New-England, New-York, &c.
and though! it might be well if they were all confined in
some penitentiary. J intend publishing, for the satisfac­
tion of my numerous friends and acquaintance, a particu­
laraccount of my conversion to the Thomsonian practice—
a practice which from principle I was zealously prop gat­
ing, fearlessly, so soon as I had proved its value; long be­
fore 1 had any intention or wish to have any agency in it,
in a pecuinary point of view: because I had no doubt
that it was incomparably better than any thing else known
to the ablest physicians in any country. It was with
much reluctance that I agreed to take the agency; and
should not have yielded to all the solicitations ot thy
father and my friends, but from the consideration that my
large acquaintance m the United States, might and proba­
bly would enable me to diffuse the knowledge of this
beautiful and excellent system, more extensively, and ren­
der it a much greater blessing, in much less time than it
probably could be by any other person who would, under
existing circumstances, be induced to take it.
When Ifirst knew the value of the practice, 1 thought
it a pity that there should be any restriction on it, and that
Congress should purchase.the right and make it public
Bnt observation, reflection and experience soon convinced
me, (long before I consented to take the agency,) that un­
der such circumstances the medical faculty, aided by the
prejudices of others, would soon prevent the people from
being very materially benefitted by it; for they are gene­
rally too idle to practice successfully in this way. JVLst
of them would use it in some instances privately, with but
little success, whilst they would rail against and defame
the practice. I have no doubt its benefits would be lost
¿o the world I am well assured that unless we can and,
59
do make it an object' for respectable persons, to go from
neighbourhood to neighbourhood, from state to state and
from country t« country, and demonstrate to the satisfac­
tion of the public thai it is immensely valuable, and attend­
ed with no danger; its benefits and blessings will be lost to
the world, and the medical faculty will continue as they
long have done, in every country, perhaps for ages yet to
come, to grind down and oppress the poorer, and those
who are in m derate circumstances—that many of them
will continue to be a curse instead of a blessing. There
are indeed honourable exceptions amongst the regular-bred
doctors; and two of them, Doctor Platt of Columbus,
(when we are doing almost the whole of the business, as
our neighbours tell us,) and Doctor Hand whom with my
consent, our governor, Allen Trimble, has been made ac­
quainted withthe pracice. Both Platt and Hand, men of
much science, liberal minded, much celebrated, and both
by example and precept, in good faith, recommending the
practice. It will be pleasing to thee to learn, no doubt,
that our amiabb- governor, by the assistance of the books
and medicines and instructions which thy father and my­
self gave him, when we were together, has, without hav­
ing seen any demonstration from any of our practitioners,
cured his wife, whose life had long been despaired of, was
given over as incurable by several eminent physicians,
who had for six years been striving in vain to cure. This
he assured me himself; and that with bis little lot of med­
icines we gave him, bis wife and her mother had cured
two other females of dangerous disorders, which the doc­
tors could not cure I am thy assured friend,
HORTON HOWARD.
N. B Through the instrumentality of a particular
friend of mine in Baltimore, who is well acquainted with
President Boyer, and who is a particular friend and fa­
vourite of Boyer’s, I am making arrangements to diffuse
the knowledge of the Thomsonian ¡System in Hayti, un­
der the patronage of its President asaforesaid, and to pro­
cure assoon as may be, a supply of the best medicine from
him, that the Haytian republic affords. 1 am preparing a
Dutch and French translation of our system, as soon as 1
.•an spare funds for the purpose.
INDEX.
The figures set opposite to the diseases,
number of the certificate in the book.
Ague and fever, 28, 34.
Breast, pain in, 6, 12,18, 34, 39.
Back, injury m, 7.
Cough, 2, 6,10, 11,14, 16,18,19,20, 39.
Consumption, 2,11,13, 14,15, 16, 18, 19,20,
Croup, 4, 23.
Cholic, 20,28, 33.
Cholera Morbus, 30,40,46.
Cold, heavy, 47.
Cough, whooping, 42.
Dyspepsia, 1,5, 14, 18, 21, 25,26,34,51.
Dropsy, 1, 34.
Dysentary, 20, 29.
Female complaints, 1,5, 13,14,15, 16,17,29, 31
Family right, 7,22, 24,31,35,53.
Fever, billions, 16, 36,43.
-------, typhus, 36, 42.
Fits, convulsion, 17, 28, 52.
Face, swelled, 11, 20. -
Food, throwing up, 3, 37.
-------, distressed with, 1, 3,5,13,14, 17, 22, 25.
Gravel, 5.
Headache, nervous, 28.
Influenza, 6.
Insanity, 15, 36.
Indigestion, 1,3,5,14,16, 21, 22, 25, 26, 29, 31,
Jaundice complaint, 36.
Lungs, bleeding at, 2, 10.
Liver complaint, 3,5\ l3, 34.
Lumbago, 38.
Nervous complaints, 51,52.
Polypus in nose, 27.
Palsy and numbness, 18,34.
Rheumatism, inflammatory, 8, 38, 41, 44
----------------, chronic, 9,20,28, 45, 48.
Stomach, pain in, 3.
Side, pain in, 11,16,18, 34, 4B, 50, 52.
----- , decay of, 16
Stomach, weakness of, 18.
Salt-rheum, 34.
Suicide, 34.
Ulcers in stomach, 1.
Weakly complaints, 17,22,26,29, 31,41,51,62
referto the
27, 28, 32.
[39,40
,37,51,62
26, 29, 31,
[61,52
37, 41, 51.
[52
