{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1831__anonymous___proceedings_of_the_antimasonic_state_convention.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings Of The Antimasonic State Convention","mylang":"de"}
. AN ABSTRACT ..
OF THE
PROCEEDINGS
oF TJI$
·.a,X'l'IMASOXIO S'l'A'l'II OON'Vllll"l'IO•
1\
OF
MA.SS_.\CHUSETTS.
1.l#tltJtu jf anttdl Tb«U,
'
BOSTON,
MAY 19 & 20, 1831,
BOSTON:
PRINTED AT THE OFFICE OF THE BOSTON PRESS,
FOR THE l'lJBLISHINO COIIIMITTEE.
1831.
Digitized by Google
. .. ~ ... .
........ * •
.. ...: .. .
. ..
. .. . .... .. ..
Digitized byGoogle
. .. . ., .
. .••. ... .
·..· :,:··.- ..
MAIIBAOlllrm,1''1'8 OOXVIIK'l'IOX.
TIJllRst>AY,MAY 19, 1831.
l . . , .· >'.-.. . ~.
~- CoNVENTION
oF DELIXl'Arts,elected . in confo,:mity tq a
·re-commendation of the Antimesonic Stal~ ·Cdmniittee ·df Massachu-
setts assembled this day. at Flneuil aa _
U,'iil the City of Boston,
_
11greeuble to p·rev1ous arrangements. · 'Two "hundred and forty--
five members were present. . · · ···
Tlfe Convention- was-called to order b'y Hon. 'GEOllGE
"
omoRNE,
the oldest member from Suffolk. .
On motion, ·it was
Voted, That Messrs. km.11saWalker of Suffolk, 11ndWilliam B.
~reed of Essex, be a Committee to receive and examine the c:i'e'-
·cJentials of the Delegates to this Convention.
The following gentlemen were nominated and elected Officen
·of the Convention.
Hon. TIMOTHY FULLER, of Middlesex, Pruide111.
Gen. ·STEPHEN
P. GARDNER,
of Worcester,~
boct. ABNER PHELPS,
of Suffolk, V, p end f.
Gen. EPAPHRAs
HoYT,of Franklin, ice r e,i 1•
M1cAHH. RUGGLES, Esq. of Bristol, J .
JOHNBuRIUot:,of Bristol, l
Col. GAJU)NER BuR'IIANK, of Worcester, JSecretariu.
TH011AsW. WAIU>, Jr., of Worcester,
NATHANIEL
F1sHERAM*,
of Suffolk,
Voted, Thnt this Con"Ventionwill now attend prayers, and that
tlte Rev. Mr. Goffe-,of Worcester, be requested to 'officiate.
That Benjamin F. Hallett, Esq., orRho~e Island, be_invited
to a seat as an honorary member.
That a- Committee of one from each County, to wit,_;,
MeSBrs. Hall, of Suffolk, Oliver, of Essex, Ames, of Plymouth,
Brinley, of Norfolk, Bowman of Middlesex, Bennett, of Bristol,
Starkweather, of Hampshire, Hoar, of Hampden, and Wells, of
Franklin, be a Committee to invite snch gentlemen of their respect-
tive Counties as are present, to take seatsas honorary mem~rs 'd(
'this Con'venHon. i
M2292'10
Digitized by Google
✓
........
. ...,·• . .
. ·: .~.
: ....
: :·. . ·..
. .. .. ...
MASSACHVSETTS ANTIMASONtC CONVENTION,
That a Committee of five, to wit,-Messrs. Rice, of' Wor-
cester, Bailey, of Norfolk, Barnes of Suffolk, Gifford, of Bris-
tol, and Breed, of Essex, be chosen to propose rules .and orders
for the government of this Convention.
That the Antimasonic State Committee be requested to report
on such matters as they may deem pertinent to the cause of Anti-
tnasonrv.
Doctor Abner Phelps, Chairman of said Committee, then made
the following
REPORT.
Ma. PaESmENT,
AND GENTLEMEN OF TUE Coll'VENTION,
In complia.nce with your call on the State Committee, J am di-
rected to answer. . ·•·
The patriotic citizens of Massachusetts are here assembled by
their Delegates . No cominon occurrence; no trivial event; no
ambitious project, has occasioned it; Intelligence and cool delib-
eration counteract and forbid 1mnec~1ary excitement. But this nu-
merous and punctual attendance from distant Counties; this vener-
able appearance and cro1vded auditory, evince. public sentiment
upon a subject worthy of grave contemplation. ·
We have coml} up to Faneuil Hall, which our Fathers conse-
crated to Liberty. Here was inspired American Independence;
/,ere it was fostered in its Cradle 1 and herewere roused those mighty
energies which strangled the BRITISH
LioN.
We enter this place to day, with holy devotion, and anxious so-
licitude, as we humbly trust, for the political salvation of our coun-
try. We come " to conBUltt1pon the commongood, seek redreu qf
'Dl!rong1
and grie,;ances suffered'' from Secret Socutie,.
Wrongs the most cruel and criminal have been committed, and
multiplied grievances arisen, that can he no longer endured.
On looking round for the cause of these evils, we are struck with
astonishment and alarm at the disclosures. So much has been pub-
lished already, that your Committee apprehend a brief statement
of facts will, 11tthis time be most acceptable to the Convention.
✓
. The Suffolk Committee were first appointed by a numerous
body of their fellow citizens in August, 1829, "lo investigate the
flature, principle,, and ttndency of FREEMASONRY."
No member of
the Board had ever been initiated. They felt the kindest feelings
towards many members of the Fraternity; and they still cherish
those feelings. They entertained a sincere desire to -discharge
their duty without injury to any man, impartially and faithfully to
the public. Had considerations of a private or personal nature
been suffered to operate on their minds, thtly would have declined
the labour, expense and difficulties of the investig11tion.
Variom1 methods were rcsorte,I to, hy influential members of the
~ Fraternity, to induce oll, or nearly every individual of the Commit-
tee to withdra.w. A specimen, or two, may be mentioned, merely
to show· the character of the opposition. Some were told that the ·
Institution i~ very charitabl~, ve1·y ancient and honourable, the
\!.nl'ldm:ii~
of rglig_i
_
<>ll;that the good, the wise, and the great of all
ages bad belonged to it. That Washington, Franklin, and Lafayette
Digitized byGoogle
MASSACHUSETTS
ANTIMASOl\'IC
CONVENTION. 6
\\•ere masons. Would they, it was asked, belong to a bad Institu-
tion ? Others were told that the greatest and most respectable men
in the nation, civil and military, learned divine!t, pious clergymen,
and other highly esteemed citizens were now Masons. "Please,''
said they, "look at their characters, and judge of the lnstih:ition of
Freemasonry .. There's no need of any inquiry; there surely is
no necessity forfurther investigation."
To this, in substance, was replied, '' These things may be so;
the Institution may he very ancient; but every good system is ben-
efitted by close examination. The public, however, seem to
demand, at least, probable evidence that Freemasonry is very an~
cient. If it has existed from .Anno Lucis, as it pretends, or from ·
the days of Solomon, or from the time of St. John, or from any
other period previous .to-the last century, there must be evidence
of the fact. One would suppose some ancient history must have
recorded it; customs and ceremonies alluded to it; and that ancient
relics, masonic plates, inscriptions and emblems from foundations of
old monuments, castles and temples must now exist to demonstrate
it. And further ; great and good men have no doubt been made
masons. We admire their characters, and will inquire whether
they became initiates from what they before knew of the lnstitu- ':>-"
tion, or from what they were previously told by interested men:
whether Freemasonry made or tended to make them great and
good? and in proof, whether such men, generally, have been the
most thorough Lodge-going Masons? Or, whettier, after a short
acquaintance with the secrets and mysteries of the order, they have
not ceased to attend ? For if so, this NEGLECT
from such .MEN,
must
be ·evidence against the concern. We cannot suppose that \Vash-
iogton, Franklin, or Lafayette would have neglected a good Insti-
tution.
Such suggestions as these were by no means satisfactory to indi-
-vidualsof the Fraternity. The Masons appeared to dread more
than any thing an investigation of their Institution . Sometimes,
intimations were thrown out, calc~lated to operate on the fears of
· the Committee. They were told of the great numbers, the tre-
mendous power and influence of the Fraternity : that Boston con-
tained 6000 Freemasons, and the United States more than 350,000:
that if the Committee proceeded, a host of enemies would rise up
against them: that DESPERATE
FELLOWS
were in the INSTITUTION!
and
it could not be put down ! '' Toil and labour cannot affect it. No
man can stand before it." With ~ignificant looks and gestures, they
said, "Your bu_
siness and occupations will be injured. Your inter-
ests and prospects will be cut off; a civil w:ir will be created;
there will- be blood! Your characters and reputations will be
rninecl."
"If such," said. the Committee, "be the I'OWER
and n1sros1T10N
of FTeemasonry, there's no hesitation-n·e give ourselves to the r»:ork-
-we-.,ill make the attempt, and try In K" through it.-lt is the CClllSe
ef
our commrrn country and of fll(l11kind. lfwefall, let it be so: ifwe
are-sacrificed, it will be 011 the altar nf pptriotism. Tms lr.sTJTUTION
Mll'ST BF. EXAMINEJl
1 ITS CTATF.S
THROWN
OPEN-ITSCOVERING
'l'Al(EN
OFF
-ITS WAILS TAKEN
nowr-: TIU:: P.R0AJ1
l,J(;HTOF 0AYI.ET INTOITS
Digitized byGoogle
6 IIASSACHUsr.r-rs .lffTIJfASONIC CON\fF.IVTION.
MYSTERIOUS
VAULTS:
ITS PRISONERS
SET FREE,ANDITS DAJl1'
SECRETS
EXPOSED."
With these resolutions, and these warnings, the Sulfolk Commit•
tee commenced THEUNDERTAKING.
They were aware of their
responsibility. Their CHARACTERS, public and private, known for
near half a century, and again confided In on this occasion, had
nothing to do with the controversy. They left every thing to the
care, candour, and discretion of their fellow citizens. However
dear their characters might be to them, they early resolved to take
110 notice of any attack upon that quarter. It would only divert
attention from "the nature, principle, and tendencyof Freemasonry,"
to personal altercations, irrelative to the subject. There was
much to be done : there was no time ; their numbers were too
few, to stop and dress the wounded, (should such there be,) in the
beat of contest.
Measures were immediately taken to elicit " the truth, the ~bole
truth, and nothing but the truth," respecting Freemasonry. An
office was procured, a Masonic and Antimasonic Library com-
menced, and a correspondence opened with gentlemen of high
standing in various parts of the country.
On the evening of the 8th of September, t8i9, twelve days after
the Committee were appointed, was held, what has been denom.
lnated, from its numbers and respectability," THE GREATMEETING
ATFANEUIL
HALL." The information communicated, and the elo-
quence displayed, on that occasion, will be long remembered. The
most appalling disclosures were made. A number of high minded
·and honourable seceding Masons came boldly forward, and bore
testimony to the truth of what they had seen and heard. They
testified that Freemasonry is the same in Massachusetts as in the
State of New York ; and this was in part confirmed by the noise
'end riotous conduct of some of the Fraternity present.
A Resolution, c~lling a State Convention on the 30th of Decem•
ber following, was there passed by an immense majority.
The effects of that meeting were highly beneficial to the cause,
'though the conduct of Masons was much more orderly than on sub•
'Sequent occasions. They appeared then to act more without COD•
-cert, and not so much by superior authority.
Arrangements were soon after made in the several Counties fot
\he State Convention, and numerous indications were given that
information was only wauted to induce the people to act with
•promptness and decision.
Among the correspondence of the Committee which followed,
may be mentioned the very able and valuable letter of Sheriff'
Su»NER. No man in this community stood higher in the esteem,
'Orenjoyed more sincerely the confidence, love and respect of the
public, than the SHERIFF
oF SuFFOLK. His benevolent feelings;
his commanding talents, and unimpeachable character, had secured
for him, as was supposed, an elevation too consecrated for malice
to attempt. But no sooner was this letter published, than the oft'·
·spring of malevolence, slander, and defamation were let loose from
the Lodge-room. They aimed at his .fair fame but they " bit a
nle :" they spit their poison but againl!I the wind to recoil on them·-
Digitized byGoogle
IIIASSACHVSETTS ANTllll'ASOPIIC CONVENTION. 7,
selves. His own merited elevation they could not reach 1 or breathe
the pure atmosphere in which he lived.
The same remarks apply to another distincuished gentleman in
the County of Worcester, Col. PUNY MERRICK."
He stood in public
~stilnation and regard with Sheriff Sumner. But his powerful and
convincing- letter to the Committee of that county, was no
sooner published, than the same furies were .sent forth from the
same place to destroy him. They made the attempt, and sorely
have Masons regretted their presumption. They have been dis-
mayed at the lightnings of his eloquence, :md sti-uek down with the
thunderbolts of truth. It has beamed upon their unaccus-
tomed eyes, and upon Masonry, such a refulgence, that they are
uqahl~ to look up or retreat. They lie prostr,ite, in despair of
reaching him. He is calm and serene, moving on in public favour,
wi~hout a cloud" to the clear upper sky."
The researches of the Swfolk Committee, relative to the anti-
quity of Freemasonry, have been highly satisfactory. They have
examined for themselves extensively, l!nd sought assistance from
tl;le highest sources of information in the country, with a belief that
much depends upon a correct decision of the question. They have
discovered no book on Freemasonry written prior to 1723 ; ten years
previous to its establishment in Boston, and near 300 years after
the discovery of printing. But in order to render this sub.iect
mor&1!1ltisfactory,
the Committee proposed the following question
to the President and Professors of Harvard University, and al~o to
the President and Professors of the Theological Seminary at An-.
dover:-
" Is there any known history to justify the llelief that Specula-
tive, or Freemasonry had existence prior to the last century?"
After more than a Q)Onth,the following letter was received from.
ipe President of Harvard College, who is a Ma1on. ·
Harvard UniT1er1ity,Cambridge, Dec. 5th, 1829.
To the Gentlemen of the Suffolk Committee.
GENTLEMEN,-1 have received, and· laid before the Faculty of ·
~arvard Univer11ity,your letter, requesting an expression of their
sentiments on the question, "Is there any known history to justify
the belief that S~culative, or Freemasonry had existence prior t~.
the Jast century?' Jn reply, I have the honour, by reque,t of the
F:aculty, to ,tote, that they have no knowledge of any such history.
On ioq1dry of the Librarian of the University, and on examining
t}aeCatalogue of Books, no such has been found. The subject is
one, however, on which the members of the Faculty profes.<1
to have
~o precise information, it having never before been presented to .
them as an object of interest and inquiry.
Should any books in the College Library be found to be impor-
tant for your purposes in the coarse of your investigation, they wiJ.f,
without doubt1 on application, be placed at the command of any
personengaged under your authority, in the research you have.
instituted. ·
Ver:,t respectfully, Gentlemen,
I am your obedient servant,
JOSIAH QUINCY,
Pre,ident of H.4rvnrd Univernty.
Digitized byGoogle
8 MASSACIIUSl:'l'TS
AN'J'lMASONIC
CONVE.IITION.
In answer to the same question, the Rev. Leonard Woods, D. D.
Professor of the Theological Seminary at Andover, writes,-" I
have never seen or heard of any evidence of any kind or degree,
in support of the pretended antiquity of Freemasonry; and I sup-
pose the same is true of all others. What then can we do con<Jist-
ently with reason and common sense, but to withhold our belief."
The Rev. PROFESSOR
STUART
writes:-
" Gentlemen,-In answer to your inquiries respecting any traces
of the history of Freemasonry in ancient times, l reply, that it has
not been my lot to find any thing of this nature in any hook that l
have ever perused, either in any of the Asiatic or European lan-
guages. I take it lo be a point conceded by all literary men, that
no such traces exist in any ancient record whatever. The pcetence
that Freemasonry was known in the time of Solomon is refuted by
the internal evidence ·which Masonic books themselves contain."
WHERE,your Committce ··wo!]ld ask, can a question, on any sub-
ject relating to antiquity, .be more fully and satisfactorily settled;
in this country, than at- the olde8t and most extensive libraries?
WHOcan better decide, wbat those libraries contain, than the nu•
merous and learned professors and presidents, who have spent their
long and laborious lives in their perusal and examination? Who
can better tell the ancient manners and customs of nations and indi-
viduals, tribes and confederacies, than the great masters.of oriental
languages and literature? Is it to be supposed that all the great
and learned men of antiquity, could ham belonged to a society of
such exalted excellence as Freemusons pretend theirs to be, with-
out its being so much as once mentioned, or even alluded to? To
your Committee the thing is incredible. The inquiry has not been
as to the time when operative Masonry began, more than any other
mechanical employment . But WHEN
WERE
THETOoLS
of an operat'lve
Mason first used, " as FREEAND
ACCEPTED
MASONS"
say, "for themore
noble and glorious put·pose." Whe1ldid Speculative, or Freemason-
ry, as we now see it, commence? When were·Hs "ancient land-
mai-lts" fir:st fixed, "which," as they say," no man, or body of
men, has power to alter?" Were they fixed by the wise King
Solomon? We have the best evidence the nature of the case ad-
mits, that all antiquity for 56 centuries is aileot on this subject.
What prevented such "a noble and meritorious Institution, palron-
ized by Prophets, .!lpostles,and Wise Men," from ever being once
spoken of or mentioned in writing? Was it because it flid not t:J:•
ist, or was it because all antiquity was ashamed to mention it?
Why, again, we ask, is all antiquity silent on this subject? Why
is there no mention of splendid Masonic Processions, the Laying of
Corner Stones 1 and the deposit of Plates, previous to the last cen-
tury? And where arc those plates? Amidst all the ¥ast ruins of
so many ages, and so many countries, not one is known to ~ave
been discovered. 'l'he future historian will
have ample materials
to prove the existence of Freemasonry from 1717 to the present
time; and, from present appearances, he will be able to show the
cause of its destruction.
For these, and similar reason8, your Committee most fullyconcur
in the accurate and wel~ drawn conclusions, of that learned and
Digitized byGoogle
:.u.ss
..
u::mrsETl'S.lN'n'IIU'SOmc
cotnuno&
•
wst~uished citizen, Henry D. Ward, Esq., of New York, on tlde
subject, '~That Freemasonry did fl.ol<eXill prior rodie last century .n
The important TRUTH that follows irre&istibly and oonclusively te
this, that Freemasonry, with all its pretensions, is a l!IODEM rorua-
£RY, and, of cour1e,AN IXFAMOUS lMPos1'uas. What other c;oncluaiolll
~an be drawn? A deed, a note, a bond, or any ether iastrument
Jorged, is not only declared null and void, but its author, bis aidert
and abeitors are subject to infamous punishmeut. Like a epurioue
~oin, Freemasom·y is proved a ~ounterfelt. Many, with pure mo-
tives, have heretofore given it cuJTency; but now it is detected and
~xposed, every honest man will assist in nailing it to tlaeceaoter.
·After the Suffolk Committee had ascertained tfae tnatb, and.the
whole truth, as to th~ origin of the Masonic Institution, prepan-a-
11onswere made for the First Antimasonic State Convention -of
Ma!!Sachusetrs. That body a1s~mbled in this Hall, -oa the :SOtla
ol
December, 1829; and c-onsi!!ted
-ofabout 200 me111bt!n,
from-eiglrt
,counties of this Commonwealth. They proceeded in great llar-
mony, and their doings have been well recei-ved, and ex.telllively
useful to the public.
That Convention took measures to dlft"use lofermaflon, an4
-appointed various committees for that purpose. They Resot•~
that the gentlemen composing " the Suifotk Committee.,, be "the
5tate Committee," with 'power to--carry into effect -
the objects .of
that body. ·
Among the numerous disclosures made to your Committee,••
the deposition of Mr. Samuel G. Anderton, •Ofthis -city. The hn•
portance of that document is such, that it demands the cleleetecre-
tiny. About six or eight months before, a gentlemen.ofundoubte4
veracity and respectability, stated, that his aeighbour,Mir.An4e11-
ton, a Knight Templar, and a man with whom be had been .Jong
acquainted, told him, in conversation -on the sub.ject of Freemuoa-
ry, that" he once saw something in the Lodge-room, that indueec!
him, on going to sea, soon after, to throw his apron, and all his
masonic certificates, overboard, and that he had :Dot-been:jua
Lodge-room since. But that Mr. Anderton refused lo teU ,whatit
was." After the death of Mr. Artemas Kennedy, of MUton,a seced-
ing Knight Templar, who was found dead," al low'IIIGter•a.rk,'"Oil
the morning of the 27th of February, 1830, a11d11n41er
ciroumstan•
t;es, which created sp-ong suspicions, in the min& ·af':many, that he
was murdered by persons unknown, Mr. Anderton -informed the
gentleman before alluded to, of the Belfast Murder, of which.he
was an eye witness ; and that be was ready and desirous $' making
an affidavit to the same. H& also stated in a p11bUc
meeting, at
:Merchants' Hall -soonafter, the substance of his narrative. Inquir-
ies were made, and a committee ,raised Immediately, to investigate
his character for truth and ver-.tcity. l-Iis uniform .character was
that of a frank, openhearted, honest seaman. No one could be
found, who ever doubted his word, or ever beard bis ehar-.toterftr
truth and veracity called in question. His deposition, dated on the.
15th of March, and several reports on bis character, and the evi•
dence that bas since appeared in support of hi.I testimon;r, ar•
before the public.
2
Digitized byGoogle
IUSSACH1JSE1'TI
.lNTULlSONIC
CONVEt.1101',
Mr. Anderton has fared as other seceders have ·done," who have
gone the way before him." Every attempt has been made t<r
weaken and destroy the credibillty of his testimony. But in this
respect, nil the efforts of the Fraternity, hitherto, have only tendecl
to strengthen and confirm the truth of his statement. Many facts
yet remain to be brought out respecting that horrid transaction.
Several witnesses are known, but the fear of masonic vengeance
from the brotherhood, prevents them, as yet, from giving their
testimony. At present, your Committee consider it proved beyond
a reasonable doubt, that WILLIAM
MrLLER,
ef Belfast, Ireland, was
MURDERED
in·a RoYALARCH
CHAPTER
oF FREEMASONS,
as sworn to by
Mr. Samuel G. Anderton: that his "dead body" was seen ••on
Lime Kiln Dock, the next day, by a concourse of spectators," as
sworn to by Mrs. Agnes Bell, who says she "touched it with her
foot :" that the teetimony ofthese two credible, and eye witnesses,
has been corroborated by the statements made by eight or ten
other persons now in the United States, bat then in Ireland',-and
that no witness has yet appeared to disprove any part of this tes-
timony. Masons at Belfast have denied it, aofar a,they were con--
cerned. But their statement will be found, on close examination,
to be a quibble upon words, and, in several important points, con-
firmatory of Anderton's testimony.*
At the April and May elections for 1830, Antimasonry in Massa-
chusetts again appeared at the polls. In the Senate, composed· of
iorty members, were TI!REE
Antimasons, and from twenty to twenty-
five members in the House, out of four hundred and ·fifty-one. The ,
meritorious services of these patriots are remembered. But the
conspicuous part taken, the eminent talents displayed, and the pow-
erful effect produced by ONEreverend' and honorable gentleman in
the Senate, cannot he forgotten; His name need not be mentioned,
for it is engraven on our hearts, and is destined to live in the his-
tory of our country. He has led the forlorn hope of Antimasonry
in Massachusetts, and gone up over his enemies in triumph. He ·
has poured destruction along the ranks of the Fraternity, marshalled'
for bis overthrow, and put them to flight. He has destroyed the
bonds of their obligations, and freed many from their allegiance to-
masonic tyranny. In proportion to his eminent services, have all
the formidable engines of falsehood and srander been brought out
against him. But the blamelessness of his life, and the purity of
his character have been his protection. He has the honour- of first
moving in the Senate" A PRoRIBITJON
OF EXTRA JumcIAL OATHs,"
of maintaining his ground ; of overwhelming the champion of the
order, and of fearlessly vindicating the liberties of his country.
The part taken by Samuel French, Esq., of Berkley, In the
House, was highly honourable, and has been duly appreciated by
the intelligent citizens of the County of Bristol, in their late eleo.-
tions to the Senate ,
And ·the honour of stripping the MoNBTER,
Freemasonry, of its,
false guises, wlien introduced to the House, by the Grand Lodge,.
is justly due to those talented gentlemen, Messrs. Lav.ell and Brig-
ham. ·Like giants, they spared not till- its naked deformity was,
disclosed.
• See the laatablereport of the BostonInvutigating Committeeon chia111bj,c1
•.
Digitized byGoogle
lUSSJ.CHUSl:TTS .a.NTIMASONIC CONVENTION'. n
lo compliance with a Resolve of the last Aotimasonlc Conven-
lion of Massachusetts, the State Committee transmitted the follow-
ing documents to the Grand Couucil, the Grand Encampment of
KnightsTemplars, the Grand Chapter and Grand Lodge of_this
Commonwealth. The following was addressed to the Grand En-
campment·:
Bo.,ton,Ju11e1.tt,1830.
"Gentlemen,-By a Resolve, passed by the AntimasonicConven-
-tion of Massachusetts at Funeuil Hall, on the 1st of January last,
the undersigned Committee were directed respectfully to lay before
you the following Resolutions of that body. The performance of
this duty has hitherto been deferred from a belief ·that the present
month of June would afford the most convenient •opportunity for
the several Grand Ft'aternities to consider and act upon. <theseRe-
solves. The Grand Encampment of Massachusetts, &c., Is to assem-
ble, for the first time, as is understood, since the Convention. Reg-
ular communications are to be held, and a general attendance of
gentlemen expected. If, under these circumstances, the Grand
Encampment should, in their wisdom, return an answer which
11houldtend to allay public excitemeat in this. Commonwealth, it
·-would,no doubt, be duly appreciated by the Convention.
With a high respect for many ·members of the Grand Encamp-
ment, al! Individual gentlemen, and with no personal feelings against •
-any one, the Committee beg leave to subscribe themselves
Your moat,obedient servants,
.ABNER PHELPS, DANIEL WIW>,
JoaN D. WILLIAMS, HENRY GAssrrr,
GEORGE ODIORNE, .JoBN P. W.RITWJ:LJ..,
BENJA.JUN W. LAMB, JoNA.THA.N FRENCH,
WILLIAM MARSTON, THOJliS w..I.LLEY.
ls:tAcPoRTER,.11.tsutant
·Secretary.
"In Convention, at Faneuil Hall, Boston, January 1st, 1830, the
following Resolutions were adopted.
.Ruol'Oetl,That all Societies should be open and amenable to the
public, and that the existence of any Association, whose objects,
-principles, and measures are secret and concealed, is hostile to the
spirit of our free Institutions.
Re,ol'Ded,That the disclosures of Freemasonry made by William
.Morgan, by the Le Roy Convention, and by Elder Bernard, and
others, show the system to be selfish, revengeful, and impious, and
its oaths to be dangerous Jo our private rights and our public
interests. -
Ruol'Ded, That there is evidence befntie this Convention that
Royal ;8,rcfa
Freemasons, impelled by a sense of their Masonic obli-
gations, have robbed their country of the 1ervice1 of a free citizen,
that the ID5tltution retains within its bosom the men who have
done this violence, and that the Grand Lodge of New York has
~ntributed of its funds to pay the expenses of the same, and that
Chapters and subordinate Lodges have also approp~iated l_lberally
of their goods' to 11upportthe perpetraton of kidnappini and
allegedmurder. •
•
Digitized by Google
It 11.tSSACtniSE'l'TS ANTIJIASONIC CONVF.NTTO!f.
Ruol-o,d,That the system is one anc1indivisible, whether con-
risling'
ortbree degrees or .fifty, that it is erected on the same foun-
&Uon, constructed in the same form, inhabited by the same spirit,-
and goyemed by the same Jaws; that the ac:ls of exalted Free-
masons,and of Lodges and Chapters in one State, are the respon-
lil>le act.I o( tlle- woole system in the United States, and that it is
properto make Freemasonry answer for the conduct of its coneti-
tated autllorlties wherever they are situated.
Raolv,d, That In "fieW of the premises, we respectfnUy requesf
the Grand Fraternities of Freemasons in the State of Massachu-
aetta, to dufillonipthe Grand Lodge, the Graml Chnpter, and the
OJ'Mld
Encampment ofthe State of New York, which hold in their
muQDk: embrace the perpetrators of the violence upon William
M..-gan.,
and either to deny the trnth of the above named disclo-
turu, or to renounce the !l)"stem,and the oaths of Freemasonry,
which hue ·been palmed upon the honest Freemasons of the
pre9t?ltl generation, as the fneurite work of the wise king Solomon,
iind o( their tutelar, St. Joho.
Raolvtd, That the Antimasonic State Committee be directed to
fumh!h
each one of the Grand Officers of the Grand Lodge and ·the
Grand Chapter, and the Grand Encampment, and the Grand Council
efthe Freemasons in this State with a copy of these Resolutions,
• particularly urging thie our earnest request, and that when this
Convention adjourns, it be to some·day convenient to reeeive their
anawer,In the hope that the wisdom of their reply will relieve the
poblic mindof any 11Dxiety
respecting the Institution of Speculative
Freemasonry. ·
R,,olvtd, That in the &pinionof this Convention, the oaths im-
posed by Freemasonryare, in ·a very high degree, profane, and
entirely destitute of any moral obligation, or legal binding force."
The abo..-e was enclosed in the following letter to the Encamp-
ment:
BoJton,June 2, J830.
Jobn J; Loring, Esq., Grand Commander of the Grand Encamp-
ment of MassachuseUa and Rhode Island.
Sir;-1 am directed by the :Committee within named, to request
you to lay the enclosed communications before the Grand Encamp•
meot ef Knights Templars of MllSSaChuseUs
11ndRhode lelimd, at
their ne:1tmeeting, over whom you have the honour to preside,
fortheir .deliberation, and respectful consideration.
lo the performance of this duty, be pleased to allow me to anure
you, With the highest respect,
That I ~m your most obedient servitnt,
ISAAC PORTER, -
AlaietantSecretary ofthe Antimaaonic
State Committee of MalSaChusetts.
After the meeting of Knights Templars, these documents were
retumed through the medium of the Post Office, without . note or
ieomn1t11I. Other similar communications, of the same date, were
addrewed,
with appropriatetitle!!, to .llbraham .fl• ..7!ame,andJoupb.
Digitized by Google
MASSACHllSETTS .U,Tllr!ASONIC CONVENTION. 13
Jenkin,, of this city, and to Samuel Clark, of Princeton. But from
neither of these has any answer been received. The public will,
no doubt, inquire, and determine, the true cause of Tms SILENCE, on
the part of the whole Fraternity of Freemasons in Massachusetts.
The charges of kidnapping and murder in the State of New York,
by Freemasons, in conformity to masonic law, and in obedience to
masonic government, have been legally substantiated. That same
government and that same law, extends over this Commonwealth,
with equal authority, and equal binding force. It is Freemasonry,
lure and every where the same. Under these circumstances, wlto in
in Massachusetts was not liable every hour, by night or by day, to
have a father, a brother, a friend, a connection, or a neighbour,
kidnapped and murdered? No one was safe ! The people became
alarmed. Various meetings were called, and Delegates assembled
to deliberate. They unanimously and respectfully laid before the
authorities of the masonic order, the cause of their complaint.
They spoke by their Committee, in the name of the people, and
respectfully requested the Fraternities of Massachusetts, in sub-
stance, TO DISFELLOWSRJP MASONIC KIDNAPPERS AND MURDERERS, DIS•
fROVE THE DISCLOSURES, OR RENOUNCE THE SYSTEM AND OATHS OJ'
FREE1U.SONRY; The objects of that request were honestly to ascer-
tain .TUETRUTH,
AND THE WHOLE TRUTH,
whether the people of Mas·
sachusetts were safe from violence and outrage : whether the ma-
sonic government, its officers, and through them, the great body of
adhering Freemasons in this Commonwealth, apprO'Ved or disap-
pr<TDedof the outrages in the State of New York. There, Freema-
sons bad been proved guilty of kidnapping and murder, of arson
and perjury, of obstructing the course of justice, and of screening
the guilty from punishment; and here, in Massachusetts, no objec-
tion is made to it, no murmurs are heard from the brotherhood ! v
They acquiesce with fraternal feelings, continue fellowship with
the guilty; greet them as brothers," good men and true, worthy
and well qualified;" sympathize with "the Western Sufferers;"
hold themselves bound " to conceal and never reveal ;" " to fly to
their assistance;" · 44 to extricate them from difficulty, right or
wrong, murder and treason not excepted;" suppress the truth ;
labour to muzzle the press; pour contempt and ridicule on the
men, who honestly inquire into these transactions; create disturb-
ance and riot, to prevent the people from hearing information ; and
when respectfully questioned, they are silent, and give you no
answer. But " Grand Master" Joseph Jenkins, in his address to
the Grand Lodge, says, " If our Institution is ever to be abolished,
it must be done by ourselves; none else are able to do it, and cer-
tainly none elae are competent to decide whether it should be
. abolished or not. Therefore," he says, '4 I would advise these
:volunteers in the crusade against us, to give up the work ofsuper-
erogating, [supererogation,J and leave Masons to manage their
O'WD affairsin their own way." (! ! !] Very modest! "Volunteer
,aai,ice!" And it remains to be seen, how .far the pe~ple of this
country will follow it, since they have discovered how ".Masons
manag.e
their iufairs,"whenthey do it'' in their own ia,ay."
Digitized byGoogle
✓
MASSACHUSETTS ANTIMASONIC CONVENTION.
lo proof that Freemasons in this State have no intention to re-
linquish their Institution, one fact may be ~tated. At their meeting
in June, or soon after the Grand Lodge recelved the communica-
tions of your Committee, they voted to erect a building estimated
to cost !•l0.,000, in this city, for their accommodation. The corner
stone was laid, with a well knownfalsehood engraved on the plate,
on the 14th of October last, and the building is now in a state of
forwardness. The masonic procession, on that occasion, did not
much if any exceed 900, as counted by some of your Committee, a.nd
other persons. But the number published in the Masonie Mirror
was 2267. Other very exaggerated accounts, as to the number oC
persons in the procession, appeared io other papers. In proof of
the falsehood engraved on the plate, your Committee beg leave to
refer to their publlshed correspondence with Governor Lincoln
and the honourable Mayor of"this city.
The last Fourth of July was very happily improved by a number
of orators., whe dist1nguished themselves, and rendered an impor-
tant service to the cause of Antimasonry, on that occasion. A con-
tinuance of this practice is respectfully recommended. All that
appears necessary to insure a complete triumph of the cause, is a
·general diffusion of correct information. This alone has been the
-0bject of your Committee. The exhibitions of Masonry by Mr.
Avery Allyn have been highly important. His valuable publica-
tion merits the patronage of the public. And had purity of char-
acter, modest and unassuming manners, and amiable deportment,
afforded any security aga1nslthe violence and abuse of the order,
Ml'. Allyn would have escaped. But be has done much, and suf-
fered much in the cause. He has been again and again assailed by
masonic mobs ; twlce stabbed by the masonic dagger, and fifteen
times vexatiously arrested under process of law, from masonic
malice, without the courage of once bringing him to trial. Such
ls the ample testimony of adhering Freemasons themselves ·in favour
,ofthe correctness of Mr. Allyn~sdisclosures.
Another gentleman, distinguished in the cause, whose services
ln disseminating information by lectures, but whose presence on
this occasion forblds t'he mention of his name, [Samuel D. Greene,]
'has been e~tensively useful. He was a member of the Lodge
uom which Morgan was taken, was on the spot at the time when
lthe outrage was committed ; gave the .information which saved
Col. Miller; was a member of that band of patriots, THE LE RoY
CoNVENTioN,
and from that day to the present, has been zealously
11preadingimportant intelligence upon ·the subject. He has done
much, and has been assailed by vindictive malice accordingly.
But his character ao.dhis statements have stood the test of critical
.investigation.
" The rigb,t or the people peaceably to assemble, c·onsult upon ·
the common good," give and receive information, is setured in our
Bill of Rights, and is one of the most sacred privileges offreemen.
It is the right of free discussion. 111this is necessarily included
the right to preserve order in such meetings. The right to assem-•
ble, without the right to preserve order, would be nugatory. This
ri1ht, like the sun in the heavens, is the great centre in tbe system
Digitized by Google
Jl.ASSACHUSETTS
.ANTlMASOlilC
CONtENTlolll'. f&
orfreedom, about which all other rights revolve. It prese'tV,:P-,
regulates, and controls the whole. The very existence of aU
our free institutions depends i!pon its salutary influence. And that
ma11,who would deliberately destroy FREEDOM
OF Drscuss1ON,
or
aid and abet the same, mus( necessarily be considered an en-
emy to the liberties of his country. But Freemasonry has openly
and publicly attacked this all important RIGHT
ef the people, by vio-
lence and outrage. It has endeavoured, for more than four and a
half years past, to destroy it. When the people have been peace•
ably assembled in various States, in different places in those States,
in many towns within this Commonwealth, and even u·-
itfiin these11talu,
for the great PURPOfiE
of discussing SUBJECT~"
in which the LIBERTIES
OFTHEIR
COUNTRY,
and all they held DEAR
ON EARTH
were deeply inter-
ested; they have been assailed, either by vexatious prosecutions,
masonic mobs, riots, noise, or confusion.
The first engine made use of was under the ostensible form of
law. All the first public exhibitors of Freemm;onry were vexa-
tiously prosecuted. 'l'he system was uniform in nil the States.
Warrants were issued by Jpasonic magistrates, and served byma-
sonic sheriffs, to put dow"r1
and prevent free discussion. No law
had been violated but the laws of Freemasonry, and for this reason
trials were very sehlom had. . Witness the daring violation of the
rights <ifthe people at Lynn, at Reading, and at Millbury, where
honest Jacob Allen exhibited." the Charita Me l11stitutio11
!" Mr.
Allen was repeatedly arrested but discharged after vexation and
expenses . His services were highly beneficial at an important
period, and entitle him to favour.
'J'.he next attempt of the order to destroy the right of FREEnu;-
cu~IoN was to disturb public meetings by noise and riots, or to
attack them by masonic mobs. The former course we have seen
abandoned simultaneously all o\'er our country. Two masonic
prosecutions only are recollected since the General Communications
of the Fraternities in June last ; and those in places where little
was before known on the subject. But now masonic riots, noise,
mobs, and confusion, are the orders of Freemasonry. Your Com-
mittee are forced by facts to this conclnsion. The well kno\m
faces of Freemason!:!seen in those riots, the active part taken by
many members of the Fraternity ; their son~, connections, and de-
pendants, the open declarations made, and the threatening language
used by them on those occasions, are but parts of the evidence . ..
- "Secrecy" and "obedience" are required by the (laths of Free-
masonry. If" summoned" "to go on a Mason's errand," and that
errand be to create disturbance in a public meeting, or join in a riot,
"within the length of their cable tow," Mason!! are sworn, under
penalties of death, to OBEY
. Under these circumstances, your Com-
mittee respectfully recommend the lN'lUIRY,How
far Freemason,
themaelves, who ,till adhere to'their blood stained Institution, 011ght to
be held responsiblefor RIOTS,
where Freemasonry i1publicly exhibited,
or iu nature and principles discussed.
' Can it be supposed that the!e mobs and riots, this noise and con-
fusion, would have taken place, where Freemasonry was the sub-
ject under consideration, without being instigated and encouraged
Digitized byGoogle
•
IIIA!SACHUSET'l'S ANTIMASONIC CONVEltl'JOl'r•
by zealous members high in the government of the ordert
Whence this sympathy for a Secret .Society, in some Individuals,
who acknowledge their ignorance of its nature and principles 7
Would they, ,mir¼fiuencedby the Fraternity, manifest such solicitude
to suppress inquiry into a secret association of no public or private
utility ? Would they join in masonic MOBS, expose and disgrace
themse/i:es in ruoTS, merely to prevent an honest investigation of
the truth? Such a supposition appears contrary in its nature to all
those known principles and motives, which usually govern the ac-
tions of mankind.
But Masons exprees great confidence In the JJlrmanet1ce of their
order. They say, "the present attempt to overthrow it will utterly
fail;" that," it will only rouse the energies of the Institution, and,"
that, "after the present trial, Freemasonry will increase beyond
all former example." That such results followed the disclosures
<>fPrichard, in 1730; of Smith, in '62, and of Robinson ;md Bar-
ruel, in '97, cannot be denied. And such, no doubt, would agaia
be the result, were the present contest conducted in the same
manner as at each of those periods. Much was then done with a
view to destroy the Institution. Books, aitd pamphlets, and even
the sacred desk, teemed with the subject. But all in vain. The
Fraternity then, as at present, relied upon the same weapons.
Prichard and Smith were assassinated; and the character of every
man, who presumed to question the nature and principles of Free-.
masonry, was visited with the grossest calumny and falsehood.
The cry was raised then, as at present, " Let Freemasonry alone-
it is all published : it will die of itself. You are going too fast:
don't take it to the polls." Unfortunately for mankind, th.eae mis-
taken sentiments, uttered from pure motives, but with little knowt-
•
edge upon the subject, and less reflection, prevailed. The time
of trial to the Fraternity was short; the excitement pa."Sed over;
Masonry revived; its initiates increased. They went up over all
-countries, "like the pestilence which walketh in darkness, and the.
destruction that wasteth at noonday."
The NECESSITY
of taking this SUBJECT
to the BALLOT
Box, of car-
rying it into all• our ELECTIONS
and APPOIN1'11ENTS
has thu, b~en three
aiimesproved by EXPERIENCE.
What then are we to expect from such
-a course? At the Polls Freemasonry may be met in all its Protean
shapes. Like an arrant impostor, it always assumes some other
name than its own. All its false pretensions may there be stripped
-0lf. Its nature, principles, and oaths will be discussed at r:tH'1J
,election, and thus the real character of the Institution will be hung
'Up to be gazed, at a,ad abhorred, from generation to generation. And
who can justly complain of such a measure ? It is a peaceable,
legal, and constitutional mode of resistance. .Jlnd there i, CAUSE
J'OJL
·J\ESlSTANCE.
The t.A.wsof our CouNTRYhave been 'Diololed and ,et
-aside; JUSTICE
has been trampled under foot ; and the GoVEJ\NMl!lllT
ITSELF has been chained as a CAPTIVE
to the Ca of M.tsoNJ\Y ! W.ho
but a slave, a poltroon, or a traitor, is ready to exchange
the government and laws of this country for the odiou9 and
secret despotism, and laws of Freemasonry? If the Masonic Fra-
ternity, who have done H,and sworn allegiance to the Muon.ie
Digitized by Google
.lt.u&\C8l18E'J"n .&NTUIASOl'llC .COKVENTIOH,
Eapire, ,It is no reason why the rest of the people should not re-
sist. If ndhering Freemasons choose to support the Government
and Laws of the Masonic Empire in opposition to the Laws and
Government of these States, they can· surely have no just reason
to cry ••persecution" and ••proscription," if the people withhold
thelr suffrages from them, until they abjure masonic allegiance
and return to their allegiance to the Republic. The horrid crimes
committed by the Fraternity, in obedience to their oaths and obli-
gations, are still unavenged. In vain have the people applied for
justice. Again and again have they solicited the courts of law for
near five years for relief. In vain have they reasoned with ma•
sonic magistrates and officers, and urged them to perform those
civil duties intrusted them by the people. But they have refused
or neglected to perlorm those duties. They have acted no further
than Mn!lonryis concerned, and only for the benefit of the Craft.
Where, then, the injustice of refusing to vote for such men, even
If they were not Masons? But the power of suffrage is sovereign,
and belongs to the people. No man can justly claim it as a right.
Wherever suffrages can be claimed as a right, or controlled by a
secret society, the people are not free.
The cause we espouse.has been driven by necessity to the BAL•
WT Box. It is an open appeal to Pusuc OPINION,
for redress of
wrongs the most aggravated, after all other means have beeu ex-
hausted In vain, short of•• the last re,ort if injured t1ations." Anti-
masons have not taken this course " without counting the cost."
They are aware the contest may be Jong; that it may continue
during the present century and the next. But.even this circum-
stance alone Is sure to accomplish the destruction of Freemasonry.
Already the number of new initiates to the lodges "have become
very sel<lomand far between." Like an army surrounded and cut
o.fffrom all recruits, the number of Masons must necessarily dimin-
ish, so long as the present cont!st continues. A GREAT
NATIONAL
PArRTY, OPPOSED TOALL
SECRET
Soc1ETJEs,
and founded on the pure,
J)lltriotic principles of Antimasonry, will be very likely to outlive
the last l\fasonic adherent. Antimasoury never tires. Invigorated
at the Ballot Box, at every election, it will .become immortal.
Jt invites public discussion, while Masonry shrinks back with guilt
andshame from im·estigation. Succets or defeat at an election on
our side, is equally sure to add to our numbers. Truth, patriot-
um, and all those sacred principles of virtue, " which hold the
elements of the moral world together," are on our side ; while
erlmes of blood, falsehood, and deception, without any thing to
ave, are on the other.
Antimasonry has no use for any office seeking, selfish, time serv~
•iog'politician. An Antimasonby profession merely to obtain votes ;
but a Mason afterward in practice. No use for•• three, six months,
or three years men :" but for men engaged for life, ••and their
l&mneholda
:after them." Men who will make no truce or comprom-
iae ·with any men-Clay men, Jackson men, Working men, Young
men, m-any·other party, or set of men, while they support odMr-
ing Freemato1rt, thefr aideri er abettcl\f-antl who are determioed ti>
3 .
Digitized byGoogle
MUS.\C8U8£TTS .tNTfif.UOl!ltC
COl!IVP'Jrl'IOlr.
• 1 1ink or 1D1im,live or die, aurvive or peruh.," to free oar deg'l'!Nkcl
country-our insulted go,·ernment and laws-, from the dominioit,
tntluence, and slavery of FREEl!ASOXRY.
Bnt the confidence of Masons in the permanence of their Inttitu--
tlon, is founded more especially, in the organization and extent o(
the order. Freemasonry, as a whole, constitutes a eeparate, inde-
pendent1 etrongly organized government of itself. It extends over
nil countries; each nalion u a PROVINCE,
11n1l
the WHOLE
ia termed.,
""fHE HOLY EMPIHE! ! Well may such a discovery excite
astonishment and alarm! Secret in its operations, as if situated io
the vast cavity of tile globe, its subjects are in all places of butl•
aess, in many places of trust, in most places of po,ver. It baa io
a great measure aecnred the PRESs: and that mighty engine,
instead of being directed against FREEMASONRY
and it, cRuu:s, hu
either tamely acquiesced, or been directed against the rights and
liberties of mankind. This empire was established by the cele•
brated Frederick, King of Pru~sia, or by his infidel associatee.
Frederick was the tirst II MoST SUBLIME
THRICEPUISSANT
SoVEREIGII
OF SovEREIG:i.s." Or by others; "THRICE PUISSANTSovERF:IGlf
GRAND
MASTER
." The organizaHon of" Tm: Ho.1..Y
EMnRE"is one
of the most curious rnMasonry. Each nation we have ~id Is a
province, and is governed by Soyereign Gr.md Inspectors General,.
whose number; according to Berm1rd, and other writer&, mny aol
e:rceed nine. They nre appointed for life, with power to appoint
their successors, and are the Sovereigns of Masonry.
Jt appears on masonic 11uthority, that the Grand Consistory o{
Sublime Princes of the Hoyal Secret, were convened at Paris on
the 27th of August, J76I. At that Grand and Supreme Council of
the Most Puissant Sovereigns, the King of Prussin presided by hie
deputy, Chaillon de Johnville. That aygust body gave high pow•
ers to Stephen Moren, who appointed Henry Andrews Franken
" Deputy Grand Inspector Genel'!I, Knight of Kadosh, &c. &c.
over all Lodges in the New World."' Franken 1~pointed Moaea
Michael Hays, a well known Jew, who for a number of years re-
sided in Boston, nnd ,ns several times elected Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.
By the term '' deputy," it would seem the highest powers ol
Masonry in this country, are under the jnrisdiction of foreign
powers, the same as a Lodge in Demerara is under the jurisdic-
tion of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts . [See Major Russell'•
affidavit.]
Doct. haac Auld, in 1825, was Sovereign Grand Commander of
the Supreme Council of Sovereign Grand Inspectors General of the
United States of America. Frederick Dalc.ho, Past Grand Com-
mander; Moses C. Levy,-Treasurer General of" 1'HE HoLY Eir-
Pllll:."
Your Committee allude to these facts, that the whole subject
and e1.tent of Freemasonry may be brought into view. They teel
unable to e1.press their astonishment and alarm, that J00,000 meo9
within these United States, bOOOof them in this Commonwealt~
tbould be found, who have ,ecretly sworn allegiance to this Mr
Digitized byGoogle
IU18.t.CHV81i:TTS
.t.lfTIJUJ!ONIC
CONVElfTIOlf,: 19
aoalc Empire! Do these men, wM still adhere, consider their
malODicoaths paramount to all other oaths, masonic laws parn-
mount to all other laws, and obligations to Freemasonry above
their obligations to their country? Many, no doubt, entertain
those mistaken sentiments. Infatuated men! They are objects of
4Ur compassionate ~ympathies. They have been brought so sud-
~enly from darkness to the strong light that now beams upon Ma-
soni·y, that no wonder they are unable to endure it. But is this a
cause of anger or resentment? Far otherwise . 'Let us comfort
them-not trith o'flice till they can see-bnt encourage them
that they will see. Tell them what others see. Administer the
light to them as they are able to bear it, nm) all will be well. The
sole objects of Antimasons witl be achieved. The Masonic Insti-
tution will be destroyed, liberty will be preserved, and •Freema-
1ons as men and good citizens brought hack to their country.
Your Committee beg leave Id congratulate this Convention upon
the cheering prospects before them. The good cause is progress-
iag over our whole country. 'l'he doings of the National Conven-
tion nt Philadelph ia, in September last, have had a farourable
influence. The number of Antimasonic votes bus increased at the
rate of near twofold every twelve months, a gain honourable to
the people of these States, and believed to be unparalleled in the
history of nationaI parties. But this ratio of increase cannot be much
longer expected on account of the large and respectable numbers of
Antimasons now in the United States. Should the number of their
vote!!amount to 500,000 the present year, [ 1831,] it ought, in the
opinion of the undersigned, to equal every reasonable expectation.
But a knowledge of the ABoi.rrNATIONS
OF FREE."I\IASONRY
h1 not
confined to this Uqion. It is spreading over the American Conti-
nent. To the NoRTHand the EAsT,the Ba111su PROVINCES
are
awaking to the subject . In a number of places already, elections
hnve been carried on Antimasonic principles. And nmong our
sister REPUBLICS
at the SovTH,and even in OLD SPAINrTSELF,
a
Spanuh edition of l\foRGAN
has been circulated and eagerly sought
for. Antimasonic publications have been taken tt> various parts of
Europe, and even to Asia, many times by foreigners, sometimes by
Mtions,and i~ one instance, as your Committee have been cred-
ibly lnforniecl, twenty seven numbers of the "BosToN FREEPRESS"
were obtained by an Englishman and sold at LIVERPOOL for one
dolla-r each. These facts are mentioned merely to she,v that
the cam1ewe advocate is spreading over the whole :E;mpire of
Ma~onry.
Your Committee beg leave, in conclusion, to express the tleep
eense of obligation they feel themselves under to the several Coun•
ty, Town, Ward and District Committees, who have assisted them,
and especially to those private seceders, who have daringly volun-
teffd, at so much risk and sacrifice, to remainfor a most important
«nd patriotic purpoae.
Information i• loudly called for. And there is every encourage-
ment that perseverance, steadiness, moderation, but firmness, under
the blessing of that Almighty Being, who watched over our fathen
Digitized byGoogle
MAIIACHUSETTIANTIIIUSONIC CONVElfTION.
in the days of their tribulation,. will SRve our liberties, eeeare-
equal privileges to the people=:
of°these States,-the only object of
all our toils, sufferings, and dangers.
Ordered to lie on the table'.
ABNER PHELPS,
GEORGE ODIORNE,
JOHN D. WILLIAMS,
WILLIAM MARSTON,
JACOB HALL,
THOMAS WALLEY,
BENJ . W. LAMB,
HENRY GASSETT,
DANIEL WELD,
BENJ. V. FRENCH,
JNO. P. WHITWELL .
Voted, That the Committee on rules and regulations present
their report. Whereupon it was presented nnd adopted.
That this Convention now adjourn, till 3 o'~lock, P. M.
-
'l'HURSDAY AFrERNOON, 3 O'CLOCK,
Convention met according to adjournment.
On motion of Mr. Goffe, it was
Re,oltied, That that gentleman , together with Messrs. White,
Colburn, Sanborn, and Farnsworth, be a committee to inquire
whether intelligent Christians or c.h11rchescan knowingly fellow•
ship with Freemasonry, or its adhering members, without becoming'
necessaries after the fact ; thus pm·ticipating in the horrid crimes
of which the Masonic Institution is proved guilty-which was com•
mitted.
On motion of Mr. Gibson, of Suffolk, it was
Re,olved, That Messrs.Gibson, of Suffolk, Churchill of Norfolk,
Chaplin, of Middlesex, Hobart, of Worcester, and Hard), of Mid-.
dlesex, be a Committee to take into consideration t6e state of the
public press, and report thereon to this Convention.
Voted, That all Committees appoi11tedherealler in this Conven•
tion consist of rive members.
Voted, That the rules and regulations of thi;; Convention be read
from the Chair .
Voted, That it be a standing rule of this Convention that Com.
mitteea have leave to retire and consult on the business allotted
them without a formal order therefor.
On moti~n of the Hon. John Bailey, of Norfolk, it 1Va:
Resolved, That Messrs. Bailey, of Norfolk, Reed, of Bristol,
Clark, of Middlesex, Odiorne, of Suffolk, and Lazell, of Plymouth,
Digitized byGoogle
11.l~SACHIJSE'M'S ANTIMASONTC CONVE!fTION.
be a Committee to consider and report what measures are proper.
to be recommende,I to the people of this Commonweatth, to guard
the eq11alrights of its citizens, and secure the faithful administra-
tion of justice.
On motion of l\Ir. Walker, itwas
R£sol-oed,That Messrs. Walker, of Suffolk, Barker, of Essex,
Henry, of Worcester, Starkweather, of Hampden, and Pierce, of
Suffolk, be a Committee to take into consideration the correspond-
ence of the State Committee with th.e Masonic Fraternities in this
Commonwealth.
Voted, That any me~ber of -th~Conven(ion, may prop~se the
names of gentlemen whom he,'mi1ywish to-take a seat in this Con-
vention. ·
Voted, That Messrs. Allen :Partridge, of Norfolk, Avery Allyn, of
New York, Abijah Blanchard, of Suffolk, Allen Newhall, of Wor-
cester, Jacob Allen, of Braintree, Ar.temas Lane, of Monson, and
Mr. Ransom, of Vermont, take ·seat.s in this Convention as honorary
members .
ME:ssrs.Jos. W. Bennett, and Jos. A. Hyde, of Bridgewater, and
Hiram i\fanly, of Easton, wer.e proposed by' the Committee as
honorary members. ·
On motion of Mr, BigelowI of Middlesex, it was
Resolved, That Messrs.. Bigelow, Green, of Suffolk, Buffum, of
Essex, Carey, of Worcester, and Curtis, of Plymouth, be a Commit-
tee to embody, and report to this Convention, what facts have been
disclosed in the recent trials of the Morgan conspirators in the
State of New York, and what new evidence has been elicited in re-
lation to the oaths or obligations and ceremonies of Freemasonry.
On the motion of Gen. Hoyt, of Franklin, it was
Resol-ved,That a Committee of one from each of the Counties of
the Commonwealth, represented in this Convention, to wit,-
Messrs. Hoyt, of Franklin, French, of Suffolk, Gardner, of Worces-
ter, Webb, of Norfolk, Durfee, of Bristol, Yale, of Middlesex, Sloan,
of Hampden, Starkweather, of Hampshire, Turner, of Plymouth,
F. S. Ne,vhall, of Essex, be appointed to nominate Delegates to
Rttend the United States Antimasonic Convention, in Baltimore, on V
the 26th day of September next, and that the whole number nom-
inated in the State be equal to the number ofSenators and Repre-
sentatives in both houses of Congress from Massachusetts.
On motion,
Voied, That all reports made by Committees to this Convention,-
be laid on the table for consideration.
The Committee on the Rev. Mr. Gotfe's resolntion made a re-
port by their Chairman, which was laid on the table, agreeable to
order. ··
The following Report was read to the Convention, and ordered
to lie on the .table. ~Y a _
sµJisequent resolve it was referre~ to the .
Digitized byGoogle
tt IUAACHUl&TTS ANTUUI01'1C COM'f'ENTJOW,
Pobhshlng Committee, to be disposed of as they should deem pro-
per. The Committee, after a careful examination, believe it to be
a valnable docnment and deserving of extensive circulation, and
therefore pnbli~h the same, with the doingi. of the Convention,
although this report was not formally adopted by that body.
'!'he Committee nppoinled by this Convention, to inquire,
'whether .intelligent Christians or churches can knowingly fellow•
ship Freemasonry, or its adhering members, withont becoming nc•
cesaaries, after the fact, and participating in the horrid crimes of
which the !\fasonic Institution is now proved guilty;' havin!l'taken
the subject into their serious considerntioil, ask leave to submit the
following
.· · REPORT,
Your Committee feel themselves fully authorized to assume it as
1tn undeniable fact, thnt the recent disclosures which have been
made of the forms, ceremonies, principles, oaths, pennlties, nod ten•
dencies of Freemasonry, are correct It is now, indeed, much too
late to call in .question, or even to doubt, that the dark mysteries of'
the Lodge Room arc laid open to the view of the world. This has
been done by those who have personally explored the inmost re-
cesses of the mystic temple, and even worshipped in Its holiest
places. And since they have been laid before the public in almost
every form, attested by hundreds ood thousands of credible wit•
ne1111es
; hy judicial records; by the testimony of'adhering Masons,
and sealed by them in the blood of Morgan and others, no candid
man need be ignorant, and no intelligent Christian or church ought
to be Ignorant of them. Ignorance on this subject Is highly culpa-
ble, and nothing but the'madntss of-folly can deny their truth .
On the ground, then, of the truth of these disclosure!',your com-
mittee proceed to say, that they are totally upable to discover how
any under,tanding Chrutiat1, or any church of the Lord Jesus Christ,
organized on Gospel principles; octunted by a Gospel spirit, and
walking by Gospel rules, can, consistootly with their duty, hold nny
fellowship whatever with the Masonic Institution, or with its ad-
hering memben1 and supporters. In past timcs,when the nature
andoperations of that mystic society were enveloped in darkness,
and its deluded members trumpeted its praises in every ear, as em-
brncing every thing great and good, as a scientific, moral, nnd char-
itable institution, deecenrled from heaven, and the handmai,J of re-
Ugion, if not religion itself, both Christians and churches bad some
excuse for passing it by unnoticed. But now, since the veil of se-
crecy has been removed, nnd the whole arcana of th_eLodge-room,
Chapter, Council, Consistory, &c., with all their follies and crimes,
have been revealed and exposed to the puhli,; gnze, the plea of ig•
norance can no longer avail. There is now no cloak to cover their
sins: but every adherent and defender of that unholy cause, shows
himself an accomplice in all the guilt and atrocities with which tbe
Masonic Institution stands justly charged. 'l'o be guilty of fraud,
perjury, murder, arson, or any other crimes, it is not necessary that
•. penon actually commit those crimes. If he approve qf aflll ju,-
ff/1 them when committed by othen, end bold IDhis aflectioDSand
Digitized byGoogle
M,HSACBllSETl'I AIITU(ASOIOC CONVENTI01',
leUomhip the perpetrators of them, he thereby becomes an acr.e,.
,ary to those crimes, if not in a lel{al, yet certainly in a moral nod
religious view: he voluntarily makes himself a partaker of other
men's sins, and stands ,instly condemned by all the rules of morality,
justice, truth, and the Christian religion.
This we are not unapprised is a bold assertion, and may involve
many otherwise respectable men, in n guilt of which, perhaps, they
are little aware; and we should not dare thus puhliclv to advance
it, were we not con,•inced of being sustained by the plainest dic-
tates of morality, common sense, and the oracles of God. If he
who sees a thief and consenteth with him, is considered in the eyes
of the omniscient Judge, as guilty of theft, shall he be accounted
innocent who countenances, justifies, nod conceals the most atro-
cious crimes? Shall he be considered as blameless who consent, to
the unlawful shedding of human blood? Shall hebe uncondemned
who justifies and approves of other men's sins, and holds fello,v-
ship with those who he knows are gt1ilty of deeds of darkness, of
which it is a shame to speak? By no means: he thereby involves
himself in tht_:!
. s~ameguilt. .If this be so, what nn accumulated load
of guili be~pon the whole mnsonic Institution, nnd upon all
those Christians and churches who retain in theit- fellowship, and
admit to their communion, the obstinate adherents of that blood
stained order! They bring upon themselves the blood of Morgan
and oil those martyrs who have fallen sacrifices to masonic ven-
geance, nnd though, by deception and falsehood,. they may escape
punishment from men, yet how shall they escape the righteous
judgment of God ? ·
Let the two Institutions, the Church and Masonry, be compared
and contrasted in their origin, nature and spirit, and the conviction, it
seems, must fasten itsell~ with noiron grasp, upon the understanding
and conscience of every fair minded man, that there ought not, and
cannot be any real sympathy or harmony between them. They
IU'edirectly opposed to each other in every respect, and there is
no common principle upon which they can meet or harmonize.
They, therefore, who attempt to blend them, (and they are not a
few,) and make them the same or kindred Institutions, and the one
a helper or handmaid of the other,attempt an impossibility. 'They
might as well mingle light with darkness, or fire with water, and
make them the same or kindred elements.
What is the Church? It is a holy society, incorporated by the
God of heaven, sustained by his power and grace from the begin-
ning of the world to the present time, and destined to flourish for-
ever in the world of glory. It is the kingdom of heaven upon
earth; the temple of the living God, or habitation of the Spirit;
and the School of Christ, .in which immortal souls, by spiritual.cul-
ture, are trained up and prepared for their heavenly inheritance.
The church is the pillar and ground of the truth ; the salt of the
earth; the light of the world, and the glory of Jehovah; the ful-
oe.uof him that filleth all in all.
On the other hand,-What is Masonry ? It is an earthbom Insti-
tution; self created, by a company of brick layers and stone cut-
-la.r.a
: fOMledin l:.oDdoll,
June 24, 171'7: uplleld by terror-pro-
Digitized byGoogle
MASSACIIUSF.T'fS AN'l'IMASONIC. CONVEN'rtON,
1111g11ted
by deception ; guarded by a sword ; shrouded in darknea,;
covered with crime~; stained with blood; filled with blasphemies,
and breathing forth a spirit of vengeance and destruction against
all who renounce their allegiance to this mystery of abominations .
Masonry, in its whole length and breadth, is as .llnti-Christian as it
is Anti-republican. Its tendency is to corrupt, and, ultimately, to
undermine and destroy all our civil and religious institutions, and
lo spread infidelity, despotism, and misery through the earth.
Such being the nature and spirit of the two Institutions, what
fellowship can there be between them? They are diametrically
opposed to each other, and arc as wide asunder as heaven and the
kingdom of darkness. The strong and pointed interrogatories of
un inspired apostle almost fail to express the utter impossibility of
any companionship between them. "Be not unequally yoked
together with unbelievers; for wh'lt fellowship bath righteousness
with unrighteousness? and what communion bath light with dark•
ness? and what concord hath Christ with Belia!? or what part
bath he that believeth with an infidel? and what agreement bath
the temple of'God with idols?" ·
'l'he church of Chrh1t never desired or sought aur1connection ol'
fellowship with Masonry. It is a kingdom not of tlm world; pecu•
liar in its nature, spirit, and object: high, spiritual, and holy, and
therefore cannot be mingled with the in&litutions of men without
corrupting its principles, defiling its purity, and so far defeating the
sublime and glorious designs of its creation. But Masonry has de.
sired, and sought, and actually obtained, to a lamentable extent,
a union with the church. To give Itself a sanctified appearance
in the view of the world, .that it might disarm suspicion, and better
attain its own selfish oujects, it has stolen shreds and patches from
the livery of Heaven, to hide its native deformity, and thus com-
mend itself to the friends of God and the Redeemer. To accom-
plish his own destructive purposes of deception and ruin, Satan
,can easily tr:rnsform himself into the appearance of an- nn·gel of
light, and even present himself before the Lord, nnd among his faith•
fut subjects and worshippers. And, under the same delusive ap•
pearance, he has insinuated himself into the churches of Christ,
and seduced many of his disciples and followers to join in the un-
hallowed orgies of his midnight assemblies . Fur many years after
the origin of Masonry, out few if any of the members of the lodge
were found in the churches of Christ. The Institution was then
considered as ct>nnected with the black arts of m;.igic ·and witch-
craft, and .holding an intimate communion with the Prince of Dark-
neas. But not many years since the Grand Lodge, moved by sug-
gestions from beneath, opened the doors of all the t<ubordinate
l,odges for the gratuitouaadmission of the ministers of religi1J11
to all
the mysteries and privileges of the Craft. Prompted by a Vllin
curiosity, enticed by the trappings of the harlot, and the flattering
eneomiums passed on Mosonry, and doubtless Ly the selfish hopea .
of personal advantage and distinction, they degradingly submitted
to the hoodwink and halter, crowded into the mystic temple, which
ill full of dead men's skulls, and all uncleanness; aud there-O hor
rid t penonaJly bouod themselves by the most ava;e impreeatious
to promote its ioterests, and forever concealall ita aboinioatio.ia.
Digitized byGoogle
MdeACHVU'l'TI .t.N'fDl.f.tONI(. Coifvu'TIOK,
The putors of churchet being thus gained, an appearance of
•nctity was thrown around the Institution, which gave it a credit
and currency with serious people, which It had never before ob-
tained. Encouraged by the example of their Christian leaden, -
the officers and members of churches followed in their train,
and thus swelled the ranks of the fraternity. Multitudes around
them, emboldened by such examples, viewed tbe1nstitulion with a
favourable eye. ·They argued that the Institution must be good,
or so many great and good men-ministers, professors, and others,
never would have joined and supported it, and therefore they
preued forward t<>
its unhallowed embrace, where they were bound
by the strong cords of iniquity, and where they were taught the
sublime science contained in Boaz, Jachin, and Mah-hah-bone-ancl
many of them the sublime mysteries of Jah-bvh•lun and Ma-h,r-
•ha-lal-ha,h-baz• .
This satisfactorily accounts for the unenm pied spread of Ma-
sonry through our country of late years ; and .also shews ver,
clearly how the masonic Institution has crept into and defiled the
Church. The same persons are members of both Institutions, and
thua form the connecting link between the Church and the Lodge.
They usually hold a good standing in both institutions. They are
fellowshipped in both parties, and in this way the Church and the
Lodge are drawn iot.
o coOlmunion with each other. Thus the
church becomes polluted, and by suffering this unholy connection ·
to exist, she brings upon herself the guilt and cri~es of which
Masonry now stands fully convicted. With all the light now shed '
into the dark caverns of the widow's son, and the mysteries of
iniquity there performed, and exposed to public vie.w. The church,
by her connivance at such abominations, becomes accmary, and
lavolves herself in all the blasphemies, perjuries and crimes whicls
aow characterize the wunderwlirking brotherhood. By such a
connection the church is defiled, her glory is tarnished, her disci-
pline is obstructed, her. energies are pa_ralyz,lf,and she is made
the mere tool and s11pporterof the lodge. While men slepLthe .
enemy sowed these tares, but now, in the light of day, they ought
not to be suffered to grow. They most be rooted up or t~ ,-har-
vest will be blasted. . ..,·.'
With what holy Indignation mustthe Great Head of the Church
look upon this unnatural alliance, surreptitiously formed between-
hisholy kingdom and the kingdom of darkness and sin! No won,
.ter he frowns upon his churches, and sends delusionll,·'divisions
heresies and strife into their sacred enclosures, and unless they
awake,and separate themselves from this abomination, still sorer
jttdgmeots may be n:pected. And what an awf'pl responsibility
rests upon those minuter1 and Christian profe..uor,who have sworn
allegiance to a foreign dominion, and etHIadhere to a system of
JOvemment and Jaws, paramount, in their view, to the authority
and government of Christ ! They have profaned the oame and
polluted the sanctuary of the Lord. Their example has decetMd
tdtddestroyed many, and they hn.ve brought the stain of blood
tnto the laallo".eci abodes of purity and love. By theiT condu~t
Olwiiist
•is wo11oded
::i t4le It~ ot hts ptofeqed fdends, a.ndh11
•
Digitized byGoogle
✓
•
•
td NABUCHtJSETTS .ANTIMASONIC CONV£1CTIO1f,
·holy name and religion greatly dishonoured, An enlightetJed
community, seeing their inconsistency in endeavouring to sustain
both the church and the lodge, are naturally led to conclude there
Is nothing valuable tn that religion which they profess; and are
thus hardened in their unbelief and sin. The ministers and mem-
bers of churches who have bowed the knee to that image of jeal-
eusy, are now the main pillars which support the masonic build-
ing. Let tltem not merely 'IJlithdraw,but du,olve their connection
with that secret assembly, and in this enlightened age, the whole
mystic fabric would 8oon crumble to its base. By their obstinate
adherence to an institution so degrading and wicked, they are an-
~werable for all the mischiefs which Masonry has done and will
do, and deserve lo be rejected and disowned by the church and
the world;
But in the presenf !!late of thing,, and as matters now stand,
what are the churches to do? How are they to acquit themselves
from blame, and be rid of the evil which now presses so heavil:,
upon them? These are important queries, and demand a plain
and explicit answer; and happily the answer is at hand, and the
path of their duty is obYioue. Every organized church possesses
In herself the power of her own purification and preservation. The
sword of the Spirit is in her own hands, and under the direction of
her Lord, she can and ought to separate from her body every
incorrigible member of the masonic fraternity. She is invested
with the power of diacipline, which affords an ample remedy for
this great nnd sore evil. In the spirit of meekness and brotherl,-
Joye, let her institute a process of Chrj$tian discipline with every
brother who iii a member of the lodge, and call him te !'ll~ccouot
for his conduct. There is no want of just ground for complaint.
The institution of Masonry affords numerous points of Scriptural
discipline and final excision, and if, after due process and forbear•
ance, be prove obstinate and irreclaimable, let him be separated
from the body and turned over to his own company, and even if
the offender be the pastor of the church, "let him be dealt with,
and impeached before a tribunal of his peers. His sacred office.
ought not to screen him from the just censures of the church. But,
if unhappily, as is sometimes the case, a majority of the church be
Masons,or under masonic inllnence,so that the proce~s of discipline
be arrested, and its end defeated, and the guilty protected, let the
minority, after dµe deliberation and consultation, peaceably with-
dra'IJI, in· obedience to the divine commands. " Wherefore, come
out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, ancl
touch not the unclean thing.-Have no fellowship with the un-
fruitful works ofdnrknesti, hut rather reprove them .-Be not a par.-
taker of other men's sins; keep thyself pure." It is importa~t
that Christians do this; otherwise by partaking of their sins, they
will also be made partakers of their plagues. . .
We nre not insensible that discipline upon this suhject, 1!1trod11ced
into Hie churches an<lcarried to its ultimate resuJts, would create
_gre1tt
e;:,;citem
.Cflt.in the community, and be attended with many ,m-
'J)leasant aad troublesome things. The _angry J>nsaiQns
of th~ whple
masonic fraternity, and of their oh;;
.equious minion~, wo111dhe__
c,s~
'
Digitized byGoogle
114.SUCRUIIETl'S 4lffl)µIONIC .CONVI.NTio•.
~lted,-tlJe cry .of persecution would be raised, and much alterca-
tion, division, and ·disturbance might ensue. But what if all this,
and more than this, should be the case, shall the churches be still,
and neglect their duty, b.ecause Satan will rage? Shall they suf-
fer that idolatrous Jezebel to touch and to seduce the servants of
God, because the senseless clamor of persecution and proscription
will be raised? The fearful and unbelieving may flinch from their
duty through dread of Q1Jnsequences,b11tlet the righteous be bold
as a lion in the discharge of duty, and leave all consequences with
God. What great reformation in morals, politic&,or religion, was
ever effected in the world without opposition and disturbance 7
Excitement on such a subject as this is good and commendable.
An apostle has said, " It is good to be zealously affected always in
a good thing." And what better thing can awaken the zeal and
engage the warm efforts of Christians, than the purification of the
churches from the pollutions induced by masonic connection 7 Ex-
citement in this case is not to be dreaded or shunned. Like the
winds, thunders and storms in the natural world, they would purify
the moral atmosphere, and conduce to the health and vigor of the
body of Christ. .
Whether the time has yet come, and the public mind is suffi-
ciently prepared for the commencement of this great and necessary
work in this region, may be a matter of doubt. Of this every
church must judge for herself. But that the time mud come, and
will aoon come, when the unholy connection between the Cburd1
and Masonry will be totally dissolved, there can be no 41uestion.
The good work of separation has already begun in l{arioill!pal'tsof
our land, and among several denominations of profeued Christians,
and it muat and will progress, until every adhering Maeon shall be
excluded from the pulpit and the church, and no more be ordained
~r admitted as members of the body, .who hold any communion
with that mystery of abominations. 0 happy day, when the
church, purified from her present guilt and defilement, shall shine
in all the beauty of hoHness, and" look forth as the morning, fair u
the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners."
All which is humbly submitted.
On motion,
Voted, That the Committe~ on Nominatlons be instructed that
this Convention expect no gentleman of that Committee will deem
bis membership any excuse for bis not being named as a Delegate
to the United States Antimasonic Convention.
On motion of Benjamin F. Hallett, Esq., of R. Island, it was
Reaofoed,
That Messrs. Hallett, and Walley and Pike, of Suifolk,
be a Committee to examine a pamphlet herewith presented, be-
lieved to have been designed and published in cypher, by Masons,
11t1a guide for Masters of Lodges to procure uniformity In the worli:•
tug of the first three degrees in ·M;asonry,and that they report to
thia Convention how far the same confirm11
the disclosures that have
Digitized by Google
ta MdUCKt11ETTI AIITUt.UOJIJC 00~
~en made, touching the firat three degrees, together w1tb the11"'
opinions on such other original masonit documents as may be pre-
■ented for their consideration.
On motion,
Voted, That the standing rule■ and regulation■ of tbi■ Conven-
tion be 10 modified as to allow the Committee on Mr.·Hallett'•
Re■olutlon to consist of three inatead of five. ·
On motion of Doctor Porter, of Suffolk, It was
Re,olv,d, That Messrs. Porter, Cutter, of Mlddle11ex,
Breed of
Easex, Ward, of Worcester, and R. French, of Bristol, be a com,.
mlttee to take into consideration the alarming evil■ and threaten•
ing dangers to our republican institutlona from the exietenee and
continuance of an adherence to the maeonlc obligatione by eome of
our fellow citizens connected with the masonic Institution, with
lnatructions to report measures for their prevention, for the con-
eideration of thi1 Convention.
On motion of l\h. Walker, of.Boeton,
Ruol-oed, That when this Convention adjourn, it adjourn to
reaasemble at 8 o'clock, A, w.,tomorrow.
Adjourned.
PitlDAY, M.t.Y 20, 1831.
The Convention reauembled at 8 o'clock, accordlnf to adjourn-
ment.
Rev. Mr. Sanborn was requested to offer prayers in behalfof the
Convention.
Proceedinga of yesterday read. .
On motion of Mr. Rice, ofWorceater, it wae·
Resolved, That Messra. Rice, Clough, of Suft"olk,Ricbardeon, of
Brlatol, Munroe, of Middlesex, Woodbury, of Franklin, Pool, or
Plymouth, Pratt, of Essex, Mann, of Norfolk, and.Dawes, of Hamp-
■hire, be.a Committee of Finance to raise (unda for defraying the
Incidental expenses of the Convention, and for aiding the Suffolk
Committee in diffusing information on the subject of Flteemuonry.
On motion of Mr. Rice ofWorcester, ·lt was
Ruolved, That the thanks of tbia Convention be ezpressed to
the Hon.. RICHARD RUSH, of Pennsylvania, for bis able and
patriotic exposition of the character and effects of Masonry, and
that the President and Vice Presidents of this Convention addn•
him a letter to that effect In their behalf.
On motion,
Voted, That the Committee on the Nomination of Delegates 1a
the United St.ate■ Antimasonic Convetrtion 'be in■tructed to report a·
Ji■t of namea for anExecutive Antimasonic State Committee.
Digitized byGoogle
IUSU.CHUIETTI A.lfTIIUSONIC CONVENTIOH.
On motion of Hon. Mr. Gardner, of Worcester, It-was ·
Ruolved, That Messrs. Thacher, of Norfolk, Hallett, of R. T.,
Whitney, of Suffolk, Reed, of Bristol, and Oliver, of Essex, be a
committee to report on Resolutions expressing the views of this
Convention relative to the masonic Institution. .
The Report on Mr. Bailey's Resolution. read and laid on the
table.
The Report by Mr. Goffe, relative to Church Membership, was
•--<✓
taken JJP,and. its recommitment -moved. Mr . Hallett, of Rhode ~
Island moved that the committee be instructed to report that it Is
inexpedient to act upon that subject. After discussion,-
the Report
was recommitted generally. ·
Mr. Goffe; from that committee, subsequently reported a Re-
solve, "That the said Report be revised by the Chairman, and re-
ferred to the Publishing Committee to be appointed by this Con-
vention.
. Mr. Bailey's Report was called up, adopted, and committed to
the Publlsblng Committee. .
REPORT.
The Committe~, appointed to consider and report what measures
it is'proper to recommend to the people of this commonwe11lth,
to
guardthe equal rights of our citizens, and the faithful administra-
.tlon ofjustice,-have -attended to the duty assigned to them, with
that candor and justice, they trmt, which it , always becomes one
class of citizens to bring to the consideration of questions, connec-
ted with the rights, and interests, and feelings, of another class.
- Your Committee would not knowingly recommend any measure,
which would Infringe those rights, or which would, beyond what
the public welfare demands, interfere with those interests and
those feelmgs. They believe that justice is at the basis of aU
goodcharacter, and all wise government : and while they are un-
willing to see fostered in our community an Institution; the
genel'al tendency of which is to operate unjustly against themselves
and other citizens not connected with it, they do most sincerely
wishto avoid the slightest shade of injustice, either in their repre-
tentations of that Institution, or in the measures which they may-
tecom1neodto be adopted in self.defence arainst its encroachments.
Their appeal would be~not to the excited passionsand sinister cal-
colatlons of individuali, but to the good sense, calm judgment, and
enlightenedconscience of the public.
. Undtr such fmpre88lou, your Committee wouldsuggest,,
that the
tellowlngmeasures·be recommended to the people of this com-
monwealth:
1. . That the people, In giving their suffrages at t&epolls, should
expreastheir disapprobation of the masonic institution.
Whether this should be done by withholding altogether their
IWliages
fromiCtmemben~ or by a discrimination among them, .on
tlre•groundofa weakeror ;monger adhesion to its,principles, and-
Digitized byGoogle
30 ll.48SACHUSF:TT8 ANTIMASONIC CONVli:NTIOJr.
of more or less uprightness of general character, must be len to the
judgment and conscience of every individual citizen. There are
those among us who think that this discrimination should be made ;
while others believe, that the object of us all, the abolition of the
Institution, cannot be effected but by withholding all support from
its ndhering members, whether this adhesion be more or le88strong,
or their characters, otherwise, more or less unimpeachable, and
believe, too, that this is perfectly fair and just, since a continued
adhesion to masonry is a condition wholly voluntary, and termina-
ble at will. ·
We are not forgetful, that this measure, whether in its more
rigid, or in its more mitigated form,·has been censured as intole-
rant. It has been pronounced to be wrong, to bring the queeU-on
of masonry into political toncems at all; that " political ·anti-
masonry," _asIt has been called, is inconsistent with the benign and
tolerant principles of our government, \Vhich guarantees to all,
equal rights.
This objection your Committee believe to be wholly groundless;
and they are confident of satisfying every candid mind that it is so.
It Is Masonry, and not Anti-masonry, that infringes equal
rights. Masonry, by its tremendous oaths, requires certain of Us
members to aid each other in any difficulty, and to eir:tricate each
other fromthe same, whether right or wrong; and furthermore, to
keep secret what is given as such, murder and treason not eir:cepted.
Obedience to these oaths most palpably infringes equal rights.-
And It is to abolish these oaths, that Antlmasonry exertB itself.
It Is therefore not Antlmasonry, but masonry, that Infringes equal
rights.
But bow does-bow can a resolution not to vote for a man, in•
fringe equal rights? No man bas a right to an office, when the
people, in whose gift It is, choose to confer it on another. We call
the people of this country sovereicn; and they are so. But in
what does this sovereignty consist? He is a sovereign, who Is
bound by no law but his own sense of right and wrong. How then
are the people of this country sovereign? It is· in YOTING. Here,
In this act, lies the eminent sovereignty of the people. In their
speech-fn their commercial transactions-in the varied business
of life-they are not sovereign. They are not sovereign when
they enter a court of justice, in a case of litigation ; they are not
left to the sole direction of their own sense of right and wrong, but
are compelled to submit to the laws of the ltlnd, as applied to their
case by the judgment of their peers. But in the act of voting, the
people are truly sovereign : for it they are accountable to no
human tribunal. No man therefore has a right to demand the vote
of another. To the sovereign judgment of the people, every candh
date for office stands or fa!Is.
By this it is not intended to be denied, that a vote, though a
sovereign act, may be an illiberal one. It is illiberal, when It is
withheld from a candidate for nn inru.fficient
rea,on. But if the
reason for it be sufficient, there is no illiberality. Take an enm·
pie. One citizen detenoioes -to vote for no one who is opposetl to
the present administration of the geDeral government, 4Ptith~r
Digitized byGoogle
°KAIJ8ACHVSETT8 ANTUU8ONIC CONVENTloJII. 31
determineswith equal tirmness to vote for no one who is in favor ot'
tt. Now if the former in truth believes, that the administration Is
one of unequalled wisdorn, virtue, aod hooor-aod if the latter ln-
ecioaltruth believes that it is the most weak, selfish, and profli-
gate, that ever deluded a confiding people-can either be caUed
illiberal for bis determination respecting his votes? ·
The question then reverts-are the objections to Freemasonry
,ufficient to authorize this mode of opposition to its extension and
power? We say it is. Freemasons say it is not. But they surely
will allow us the same right of judgment, which they exercise
tbemseh•es. -We say it is sufficient, because freemasonry is an in-
stitution productive of not one valuable result, beyond what might
be easily obtained without its existence ; and is at the same time
liable to great and most pernicious political abuses, to say nothing
o_f
the moral character of its oaths and injunctions.
.But it is, say some, "proscription." This is only a change of
the term, and scarcely needs a distinct notice. We may however
be permitted to remark, that the term proscription is applied to the
acts of agovernment. The case under consJderation is totally dif-
ferent. The chief executive magistrate of a republic is not a .tove·
reign. He is but a ,ervant of the real sovereigns, the people. ..\o
executive act istherefore distinct it its nature from the act of voting.
The voter, acting as a sovereign, is bound to consult only his own
sense of right. The chief magistrate, acting for the people, is
bound to consult their wishes and rights. It is no more proscrip-
tion, to oppose political masonry at the polls, than it is to oppose
any political party, whose course nod principles we think injurioua
to the public good.
But the censure thrown on H political Antlmasonry," is sasceptible
of a more complete and triumphant reply. Antimasonry was not
"political,'' till after Masonry had become itself political; till it had
entered ••the holiest of holies" of onr political ark, and profaned
it by its own political abominations. Political Antimasonry was
not known till after the abduction of Morgan. Soon after this ab~
cluctioo, prosecutions were commenced against the supposed culprits.
And how were these prosecutions met? Masonic influence baffied
every step. Witnesses were .secreted; others were mute; and
others again took on themselves the fearful weight of perjury.-
Sheriffsandjurors were faithlesa to their civil oath, tbnt they
might keep faith witb..tbeir lawless masonic oaths. Such proceed-
iPgshave, up to this day, veiled in legal darkness the last scene of
aoqvestiooable murder. And if at times the scales ofjustice have
l,een freed from the profane haads that thrall their movements, and
sentenoehasbeen passed on some minor offence in the dark series
of wickedness, even here masonic countenance and sympathy and
foods,.have ,come in to the relief of the offender, and the defeat of
j:ustice.
Thua was Masonry itself 44 political," before Antimasonry was
such. But will it be said that these were judicial proceedings, and
therefore not political? Is then our judicia.ry DO part of our politi·
cal system? Is It not mther the-most dear; the most important, the
Digitized byGoogle
3i MASSACHUSETTS
ANTUIAIONIC
COWVUITlOM.
most sacred part of the system? It unquestionably Js. Polltlca1
.Masonry then was prior to political Antimasonry. It was from this
exhibition of Masonry, that many of the enlightened citizens of
New York, seeing a canker at the very heart of their political •1•·
tem, determined to apply the only remedy that promieed the least
success. Other remedies had failed. This alone remained. Aa
Masonry had thus become manifestly political, they resolved to op-
poae it politically-to verify the words, that " they that take the
sword, shall perish with the sword.'~
If further proof were needed, that Masonry ,vas political .before
Antimasonry was so, we find it in the published confession of DJ:
Wrrr Cu11ToN,
the High Priest of Masonry; who, before the out•
rage on Morgan, declared " that Freemasonry u ,ometimu peroerted
and applied to the acquisition of political pcs,er." This is confirm•
ed, if confirmation were needed, by the testimony of Hiraiq B.
Hopkins, that in 1825, before the abduction of Morgan, Sheriff
Bruce avowed to him that he (Bruce) was bound as a mason to sup.
port a mason in preference to him, (Hopkins) who was, then, not
a mason.
On this one confession of Mr. Clinton, political Antimasonry may
rest its entire justification. The acknowledged use of masonry u
a political engine, fully justified opposition to it at the polls.
To these considerations might be ndded some recent facts, prov-
ing the strong political character of the order.
At the election in New York in November last, we have the
testimony of a mason, that tnat!onsdevoted themselves " to the dark
work of political management and intrigue"-" Masons, adjusting
their plans in lodges, and pledging themselves secr.eUy threugh the
country, by written Instruments."
In the recent elections in our own State, we haTe abundant proof
that Freemasonry is political. The "National Republican" oom•
ination (so called) of Representatives in this city, is a striking in•
stance of its influence. The term ••National Republican," we
understand, is used to designate the friends of the late National Ad·
ministration, and the opponents of the present. In all party nom•
inations, it is a well known object to embrace as many subordinate
interests as practicable, in order to concentrate the greatest possible
strength. The Anlima!lonic party in Boston numbers about 800
votes. We$ the slightest movement made to unite these votes
with the so called National Republican votes? Notthe slightest.
On the contrary, there wasa most pointed mark of reprobation set
on them. In the late representation there was one individual, who
stands prominent among the opposers of F-reemasonry, and who is
at the same time one df the most respectable and public-spirited
citizene of the community. This gentleman'arname was dropt; and
lo such a way as to leave not a doubt, that it was done through
the influence of Masonry. A principal citizen, It is eaid, seeing
the strong impropriety of .the ommion of such a name, enquired
the cause; and \VIIS told it was done by "a• 01Jer,ig#tt." But this
plea i, n.ot lrue. If it had been true, there wasan occasion presented
for correcting the oversight. After the urst trial, seven vacancies
•
Digitized byGoogle
IIAl!N-CHliUT'ra 41ITUUION'IC COll1'UTI01', II
remaJne,d; and seven candidates were nominated for them. Wa1
tlat1~n tllen taken up? No.. Though three new caodldata,
out o(the seven, were required, this" oversight" wu too precioua
to be disturbed. By the same "oversight" as at first-that is, b7 ,
find and inveterate purpose to put down the oppoaen of Muonry-
thls most respectable citizen WRS again put by ; 1howlngmoat
clearly, thi,t the falsely called National Republican nomination,
wa11
in truth eootrol!ed throughout by the Influence of Masonry.
These facts are stated, as mere illustrations of the political char-
acter of Masonry. The proceedings lo other portion, ofthe State,
lo the late election, speak the same language most unequivocally;
but further facts are superfluous. Who then can doubt the propri-
ety, 'when Masonry is thus proved to be political, of meeting It.-
its own political ground, ,mdbreasting it-calmly, judiciously-yet
firmly, and uncooquerably Y
Having dwelt at ~ngth on this point, your Committee l'Vould
very briefty suggest some other measures to be recotnmended
to
the consideratk>n of the people of this Commonwealth.
i .. That membership of the masonic fratemity, should -bemade,
by statute, a sufficient ground for challeogioc a juror, wbeo ~
party is a mason, and the other Is not. .
Our Fathers, both in this country, and lo that from wbtch we
have mainly descended, took earnest and continued care to prete"•
tJie inestigaable privilege of trial by jury pure, and free from the
contaminating infl11ence of passion aud interest. It has beenre·
oont\y established, by the legal testimony of ma10ns
themtelY.et,
that Royal Arch Muons take an oath to aid a brother when lo any
tlifficulty, and extricate him from it if within their power. Thi•
-Oathis plainly· inconsistent with that of the juror, to do impartial
jultice between man and man. • Jn other degrees of Masonry, oaths
a.re administered, which may often, if not necessarily, eway the
judgment of the person taking them from that equity of purpos~
which marks u pure and impartial jury. The taking of such oatha,
th.en, is a fit ground of challenge, and should be so declared bf law.
:,. That es:tra-judicial oaths be made by 1tatute penal .
The preceding measQl'emight be adequate to the protection of
juries from sinister bias.•
.· But by the same testimony a■ has been
just cited, it has been legally established, that In one degree of
.Masonry, at least, an oath is taken to keep a brother's secret, riven
as each, inviolable, murder and treason not excepted. This oath
dutroys the purity of the very fountain of justice, by jtl ~Hiation
of evidence. A witness who has ta-kenth1' oath, and obey• it, Is
induced, under certain circumstances, to violate his civil oath, and
·
abetthe acquittal and escape of the most ~lood-stained criminal.
Such vicious oaths should never be taken; and the taking or ad-
:111hustering
of them should be made penal by law.
,. . . 6
---- --=
D
c:.:
'a
=
'"zedbyGoogle
M.llHCHt/SETTI .lllTlMASONIC C01'Vl!:NTIO1',
4, That the patrooage of the people be exteoded to such
presses, as give to the public the facts connected with the princi-
ples, operations, and tendencies of Freemasonry.
It isa remarkable-it is even an alarming fact, that R large por-
tion of the newspapers of our country preserve a death-like silence
on this certainly important subject. Why is this doae ?_ .These
papers are political, and this subject is, now at least, confessedly
politicaL Do they pursue this coarse on other political questions?
No. If "nullificntion" be threatened in the distant State of South
Caroliou-ifthe Cherokees be treatal unjustly by Georgia-if a veto
be put on a road in Kentucky-if a ootorious alien swindler be
Irregularly arrested in aoy portion of the Unioo-we hear of these
things from day to day, from month to month, and through length-
ening years. But the lawless abduction of a free citizen of an ad·
joining State-his cruel iocarceration, and his atrocious murder-
the efforts of justice to punish the outrage, and the endless and
successful labors of the fraternity to baffle these efforts-till at
leogth, despairing of preserving to the country the sanctity of the
lAwsby any other resort, .two hundred thousand citizens of various
States have r.esolved to accomplish the overthrow of a society,
whose oaths consecrate and whose shield protects such daring
wickedness-all this has been proceeding in its course, year after
yeiir, and yet the readers of many of our newspapers, if their know·
ledge of the events of the day is limited to the facts furnished by
these columns, are almost as ignorant of the question which thus
agitates a large portion of our wide republic, as they are of the
persons, habits, and contests of the beings inhabiting another planet.
And why is this? It is because Mo80flry will, it. Its devotees
well know that this Ignorance is their power. Were all the facts
of the case spread before the public, can we believe that the apa-
thy which .DOW' prevails to a great extent, wpuld still prevail? No.
Many. an honest man, who is kept io ignorance of these facts, won-
ders why -any one should trouble himself abou~ :Masonry. He
knows that a neighbor of his is a Mason, and that that neighbor is
an excellent citizen and an honorable man. But he does not know,
or does not recollect, that this excellent citizen and honorable man
entered the pale of the institution before he knew its character and
tendencies, and that a host of obstacles prevent his retreat. He
may dislike its forms, despise its frivolities,, mock in his heart at
its pretentions, and sicken at its nothingness ;-he may even abhor
Us impieties and shudder. at its wickedness; and yet the fearful
oaths he has taken-the possible infliction on himself of the bloody
penalties -attached to their l'iolation-the ·apprehension, notwith·
standing the extraordloary charity and brotherly kindness of the
institution, of having his business deranged, on which· perhaps a
family depends for sustenance-and even the shame that would nt·
tend an acknowledgement before the world,' that he had been the
dupe of a wort)iless and unholy institution-all combine to deter
him from quitting a position where, one would think, an intelligent
mind and a good heart can never find satisfaction. To stand still,
or evea to advance, he finds easier than to retreat.
Digitized by Google
•
WilUCHUSli'.'M'S 4NTUUSON1C: C:ONVJtNTtOK.
Now, is the good character of some of the members-and many
of good character we admit with pleasure are found-any proof
that the Institution itself isgood? And yet such is the eaiiy infer•
ence of many an honest man, from whom a knowledge of the char-
acter of freemasonry is withheld . He sees not, he knows not, any
thing wrong in Masonry, save its foolishtitles and parades. When
therefore he hears of an .!J.ntima
son, he is at a loss to comprehend
his motive for opposing so frivolous an association. But when a
Mason whi!lpers in his ear, that the Antimason has no other object
than an offece,our honest citizen swallows at once the falsehood,
and inveighs against Antimasonryas a sellish and hypocritical spirit,
a persecutor ofgood men, and a disturber of the peace of society.
lt is for -
the purpose of practising such deceptions, on the public,
that Masonry seeks to hush to silence the press; directly, where
-itis In its own hands, and by threats where it is not. And its .suc·
cess has been great. It is then for the people to speak. It is for
them to say, whether they will patronize a press, which withhold•
from the public important political facts. '!'heir language, when
uttered, will be heard; and it will be obeyed.
Mr. Bigelow, from the Committee on the Trials of the Morgan
Conspirators, &c., made a report, and was reading it, when a mo-
~lon was made to adjourn.
Adjourned to 3, P, M.
Fa1DAY Al'TERNOON, 3 o'cLOCJt.
The Coaventioo reassembled according to adjournment.
Mr. Bigelow resumed and concluded his report, which wa■ laid
en the table.
Re,olved, That a committee be appointed to report to this Con-
vention what facts have been disclosed, in the recent -trials of the
Morgan Conspirators, in the State of New York; and what evl-
1lence has been elicited in relation to the oaths, obligations, and
ceremonies ofFreemasonry .
The committee appointed under the foregoing Resolve, have
attended to the subject matter therein contained, and ask)eave to
submitthe foJlowiog
REPORT,
In the lnve!ltigationof this subject, your committee are strongly
impressed ,vith the conviction, that the masonic Fraternity embrac- •
ea two classes, which arc, and ought to be, distinctly designated.
The one consists of the vlrtuons, high minded, and patriotic mem•
hers, whose declarations and generAI conduct assure us that they
Digitized byGoogle
IUBUCRUII.TTI .U'MJU.IO!UC CONVl:NTIOJ'I'.
do not entertain the most profound respect for the obligations and
ceremonies of the order, and who believe they have other and
higher dutle1 to perform ·than those resulting from masonic oaths
and obligations.
The other clau embraces those ,vho adhere with great zeal,
pertinacity, and exactness to the oaths, obllgation11,
rules and bye-
Jaws of the Institution; believe them paramount to all others, and
"'govern themselves accordingly." .
Your committee, in order to show the binding effect of masonic
oathe, on a part of the Fraternity, and their contempt for the au-
thority of our Judicial Courts, ask the attention of the Connntion
to a number of trials held in New York in the year 1830. The
first to be noticed is the case of Calvin Cook, a seceding Mason,
-ys.Harvey Cook, a Mason. ..
In this case, Er1Ut111
Duy being called as a witness, and asked i(
he was a Mason, peremptorily toltl the Court that "'the)' would not
be able to get any thing out of him about Masonry." The court
decidedthat the question wa1 proper, and the witness must answer
it. He then testified that he had taken 17 degrees in Masonry.
He was asked if he had taken the usu11l
oaths or obligations, from
the Entered Apprentice's up to the Royal Arch. He refased to
ao5wer, though told by the court he must. Said " he considered
his masonic obligations binding, and would not violate them for
any court." As to o~eying signs, summonses, and tokens; flying to
the relief of one giving the grand hailing sign of distress; also as
to aiding, assisting, and extricating a companion from difficulty,
right or wrong, he wholly refused to answer, and said he could not
without criminating himself. He would not answer as to keeping
the secrets ofa brother, murder and treason not excepted; and told
the court, he considered his masonic oaths superior to the oath be
bad just taken before the court I ·
Sylvanw Cone was next called, lo whom the same.questions were
put, as to Day, also some others, and he wholly refused-to answer,
altho.ugh_
told by the court that they were proper, and he must an-
swer them; and said, 41 You un't a going to get me into the trap
Mr. Day was in," (that is, swear to tell the truth, and then can't do
It ,.,lthout revealing the secrets of Masonry,) you cnn't catch me so."
1 Elisha M. Forbe, was sworn. He then said, " I'll tell anything
that is'nt Masonry, but anything that is, I won't." He was asked
as to keeping all secrets, helping out of difficulty, promoting polit-
ical preferment, obeyin~ signs, summonses, &c., and peremptorily
1:efusedto answer any 01 them.
"John T. Carr, Sam"el T. Bush, Samuel Cook,and Luther Ba"Din
1tubbornly refused to be sworn." ·
Nathaniel Glover testified, that he '' did take an oath, which,_
upon reffection, he wa!Isatisfied, was designed, and directly calcu-
lated to set the laws of God and man at defiance. ·
... In the trial of Ezekiel Jewett, in 1830, one of the Morgan con-
spirators,Or1amus Tur11er,
refused to answer questions, for which
the court imposed.a fine of 1'2.SO,and ordered him to be Imprisoned
30 day1 for snch contempt.
Digitized byGoogle
Jf.ASSACHVIETTI ilTl.lU.IOl'ill~ COBVENTION,
"John Jac/c,on, who \Vent to the magazine with Giddins, while '
Morganwas in it, had a non mi recordo for almost every question.',
"Eli Bruce, Sheri.If, and John Whitney, both refosed to be
sworn,and Whitney was fined iiso, and each were imprisoned
~ days. ·..
We next notice the case.of.- --- v1. ---- •.
The case was this. .The plaintiff sold defendant Bernud's Light
on Masonry for SI &O,warmnting tlkJi.the hook contained the se-
cret&.of Masonry. A Mason told defendant it did not contain Ma-
sonry, and when plaintiff caUed for the purchase money, defendant,
on account of the deception, refused payment ; whereupon plain-
tiff" brought this action.-Among other witnesses summoned was
Benjamin E,io,, Grand King of the Grand Royal Arch Chapter of
the State of New York, who being sworn refused to answer the
questions put to him. The court told the witness he must answer.
The witness then said, '' No court can impose upon me an oath to
make me violate any previous promise or obligation; therefore, I
will answer no more questions."
The committee cnnnot help remarking, that the Grand King, &c.
is a high officer in the masonic ranks, and likely to understand and
give the true co1M1truction
to the obligations he had both taken 11nd
administered. This construction upon a most important point be
baafumished ; and an intelligent communitv will, it is believed,
make the appropriate comments.
. Were not all these witnesses sworn to tell the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth? And <lidthey not refuse to tell
the truth when thus sworn 7 And have they not been guilty 0£
perjury in so refusing? And what but their masonic obligations led .·
(o the commissionof this offence?
· Yet Masons still deny that the obligations and principles of their-
. lostitution interfere with the administration of justice. To your-
committee, this denial of a fact thus fully proved, appears to ·be-
required by the following part of the oath of an Entered Apprm-
tice Mason, viz.: " I< &c. do hereby solemnly swear, that I wilt
always hail, ever conceal, and never reveal, a11ypart, or parts, art,_or.·
arts, point orpoint,, of the secret~," &c. ·
Since the commencement of the year 1831, several persons,-
baving been previously indicted for participating in the conspiracy;
for the forcible abduction of William Morgan, have received their-
trials before a Special Circuit Court, in the State of New York.
The facts elicited on these trials cannot fail deeply to interest
every patriot and friend to the good order, peace, and well being-
of society. They exhibit Freemasonry in a garb, if possible, more
appalling and odious than heretofore. The great difficulty of pro-
curing the attendance of witnesses in these, as well as in the for.
mer trial11,
of those implicated in the unlawful abduction, confine•
ment and murder of a fellow citizen, owing to the secret interfer•
ence of those who have sworn to protect a companion in difficulty,-
" aad extricate him from the same, if .intheir power, whether be
be right or wrong," Is just cause of alarm to a free people, and is
aufficient to fix a stainupon the principles of any institution, that
Digitized by Google
38 IUIUCBVIE'M'I ilTULUOIJIC COlfVUTfOII',
ages cannot remove. The dangerous inftuence of the masonic ob-
ligations, bas been so fully verified in the1e trials, that longer to
doubt this fact must be considered unreasonable scepticism. The
palpable perjury of witnesses, to protect and shield their unworthy
associates in the conspiracy, furnishes. incontestible proof of the
horrihle influence and tendency •of the oaths administered in the
Lodge and Chapter upon the minds of a portion of the Fraternity.
And what renders . this circu1'stance the more appalling is, that
their influence extends not merely to the Ignorant and unlettered,
but to men of education, of high standing and respectability ; men,
who but for these unfortunate associations, might have occupied
and adorned the highest._
stations Jn.society. .
In the trial of Elisha Adams at J,ockport in the State of New
York, in the month of Fel,ruary last, indict~.d for an assault and
battery, and false imprisonment of William Morgan, the following
among many other important facts were disclosed! That a free
fellow citizen of Batavia, in the State of New York; was seized by
a band of Freemasons, in the day time, and transported in a close
carriage more than one hundred and fifty miles; his arms bound,
a handkerchief over his eyes, and confioed in the United States
magazine at Fort Niagara. The first. night' after his seizu1-e,he
was lodged in the gaol at Catiandaigua, thence taken and by force
transported to and confined in the magazine. Here he remained
from the 13th of September, l826, tlU the night between the 18th
and 19th, when he was removed privately and sunk in the river
Niagara. Most of the facts proved in this are substantially the
same as developed in the former td~s of the Morgan conspindors.
An extensive concert was proved to have existed previous to thi•
outrage among the Lodges, Chapters ·and Encampments in Ne,r-
York and Canada; a variety of plans were proposed and discussed
for the fulfilment of their unlawful purposes, In which Masons of
•
the highest standing took an aetive part. Among these were Judges
of the Courts, Lawyers, Clergymen, Physicians, Generals and Sher-
iffs. 'rhe testimony .of Ed,vard Giddins, John Jackson, Eli Bruce,
end JamesA. Shed, (all implicated in the conspiracy and abduction
of Morgan, by their own testimony,) if entitled to credit, proves the
facts of the conspiracy, the abduction, the confinement in the mag-
azine, and subsequent murder, beyond a doubt.
'l'he judge, in charging the jury, said,'' The defendant, if guilty
al all, was guilty of an as@aultand battery, and false imprisonment
of William Morgan, and of a conspiracy actually carried into etfect.
And the guilt or innocence of defeadant depended on the testimony
of Edward Giddins, John Jackson, Eli Bruce, and James A. Shed.
That if Giddins and Shed are to be believed, no doubt remained of
the guilt of the defendant. That Shed's testimony corroborated
Giddins' on material points. If Giddins was not to be believed,
Shed's te1timony, if entitled to credit, was ample evidence to make
out the conspiracy. And although great efforts ,vere made to Im•
peach Giddins, his moral character seemed 'to be beyond reproach.
It was indeed conceded that his character for truth and veracity
was unimpeachable." The court also stated that the testimony
Digitized byGoogle
lf.\99ACHtl8ETTi .ANTllCAIONlC CONl'Ell'l'lOII.
of'-J3ru:ce
and Jackson in part corrohornted that of Giddins nnd
Shed. Of Shed, Judge Nelson said," He was free to admit that
the frank manner in which he confessed his own participation ifi
1;be affair, inspired the court with confidence· in his testimony."
-
t:leven of the jury, on retiring, immediately agreed that the defend-
ant was guilty ; but William Wilson, of Lewiston, a Master Mason,
would not agree to convict him, and the jury were dismissed.
In the trial of Parkhurst Whitney, Noah Bench, S. M. Chub-
buck, Timothy Shaw, and William Miller, before the same court,
°fora like offence, the facts proved were substantially the same as
in the case of Adams, with some additions. It was proved that
George Garside, a butcher, from Canada, and a Mason, requested
an introduction to a Mason of high standing; that he might obtain
permissi0
onto put Morgan to death. Also, that when Morgan ar-
ril'ed al Niagara, a person, one of his keepers, called up the ferry·
man, to whom he said," We have got the damned perjured rascal,
bound, hoodwinked, and undergunrd." That water was a@kedfor,
as the poor wretch was almost famished, and complained that the
handkerchief (over his eyes) hurt him intoletably. Morgan was
~sied ·if·he did not know that he deserved death, and that it was
their duty, m _Masons, to take his life. Several modes of destruc-
tion were proposed during his confinement, and·he was informed,
t)lat" they would send to the GRAND
LoooEthen sitting at JERtrli'-
m, te'know what to do with him. 'l'hat William Miller suid he
could prove from Scripture that it was right to put Morgan to
death, and quoted a passage for that purpose subsequently : aod
aftertbe
19th, J ll'a1Utsaid they had murdered that man. GARSIDE had
r4!questedthat Morgan might be brought te the Canada side and.
Hed to a·tree, and said, " I will .fi11.,d
· a man who will put a ball
through him·; or take hi!,i out in a 'boat and m1.Jce
him walk a plank ;
or take him d011Dn
to low trater mark ~d inflict upon him the penalty
of hujlrit obligation." After Morgao was dead, Garside said to one·
of the witnesses," We caught a bass t'other night, by which he
was understood, destroyed him. Kia,~and JEWETT requested Giddins
to walk the bank ofthe riyer~ and ii hef°:md the_body he would know
tUtl Moton -o.•hat
to do 'WUhit. K°lig saada Knight Templar came·
~ the East, who declared he~ame to put the quietus upon Mor-
gan; and 'sbew bis-authority. King informed him he was too late;
it was all over, and he mighJ return. It was testified, also, that
Morgan ,vas, by.agreement, to be sunk with a stone or weight.
That ther~ were stone weights with rings at the fort; one of tl~ese
·
T/ifUjithed
out ofthe river next sea,on. The Masons olfered Giddins
imy 8llm of money to quit the country and •not discloi1e; that he·
proposed to receive i2000; the es:pense of removing his family and
have his debts of about $800 paid. Masons said the lodge funds
had been much exhausted, and they could rai.se only $2&0,which,
~ eaough
., Giddins told them they ,,ere a band of cutthroats
and midnighfllffMSins, with whom he would have nothing more
to .do. - Adams told Giddins that the money was or would be raised
by the GRArm
LoooE. There was testimony in the case that Eluha
Adam,, the defendant, said, he concealed himself under a lime·
house near the eddy ; that he discovered a boat tlrere from Cao•
Digitized byGoogle
M..UUCJl'VSCTT8 ANT.JIU.8O.l'IIC CONl'F.lil'llQII', .
ada. He saw three men come down th~ hill with Morpo ;-
~
went into the boat and he snwno more ofthem. The next season
when they were dragging the river for -
the body, Garlide sai'.~,
"They will get him, for t.heyare dragging in the very spot; .t,llere
Is the place we put him. Of the defendants, two, Shaw and Mil•
ler, were acquitted, as to the others the jury did not agree. '
In the case of the People vs. Shepherd and Maxwell, tried at
the same court, Jona. K. Barlow testified that he attended a meet-
ing of the Chapter at Batavia, in August, J826, when the book that
Morgan was expected to publish was mentioned. He stated that he
had attended two or three previous meetings upon the same sub•
ject. A committee of the Chapter, who said they had been to
Rochester, Buffalo, and Canandaigua, presented their report, ana
asked to whom they should present their bill to be audited. They
were told by the High Prie11t to present it to the auditing com-
mittee. The reporter, while reading, was stopped by the Rev.
Lucius Smith, the High Priest, 1mdordered not to proceed as there
might be traitol'.8present. No other name was mentioned in the
report but l\forgan's. The committee stated that they assembled
the companions al Rochester, and informed them what Morgan was
about to publish. On hearing this the High Priest pulled off his
coat, stripped up his sleeves, and said," Bring me the man who
dares to do that thing, and I will show you what to do with him."
At the time the report was presented, all were cautioned to be dis-
creet, careful, and to keep what was said. At this meeting, Judge
William Mitchell was exalted to the Royal Arch degree.
William Mitchell was next called as a witness, and confirmed the
testimony of Barlow.
After the trials had closed, the Special Counsel for the people
made a report to his Ex<:ellency the Governor of New York, in
which_he ea_ys,••The ..informationthus elicited is sufficient, 1 trust,
to sat1sfy the public mind as t.
o .the ultimate fate of Morgan; that
he was taken to the Niagara river in thE:night, about the 19th of
September, ( 1826,) and there supk. There is no ground to believe
froD)Information which has come lo my knowledge, that there is
110walive, and wHhin the jurisdlttion of any of the United States!.
any one ex.cept Elisha Adams, who was present at the death or
Morgan. The £estimony of Loton Lawson, John Whitney, Ell
Bruce, and Isaac Farwell, on these trials, hue established beyond
the possibility of doubt or contradiction, the forcible abdu<;tion of
Morgan, nod the continuity of such force from the goal at Canan-
daigua to the magazine at Fort Niagara; and also rep~lled the .pre-
tence heretofore set qp by the conspirators, that Morgan went
voluntarily . 'l'he witnest', Lawson, who first seized Morgan, and
who claimed to have obtained such consent, was constrained to ad.
mit, upon the stand, that there was no ground for such a pretence ."
Thus we perceive that the laws are set at defiance by the authors
cf an audacious and bloody co_
n11piracy
. Where masonic efforts are
concentrated, ·oar Judiciary, the pride and boast of the country, ia
inefficient and wholly unequal to the exigency . In these transac-
tions have been displayed some of the true principles and power. of'
Masonr.-,. The agen1a, embracing men of ~ducation in all tae
Digitized byGoogle
.<
IUa.t.CBVUTTS .UTDIAIIOIOC C0lffU110Jr. ♦I
teamed pro(essron9, ncted in strict nccordnnee with the literal end
reallonnhle construction of the masonic oaths nnd obligations. .
The attention of the Com·ention is solicited to one more trial,
held in New York in April last.
This was an nction IJrought by the plaintiffs, Ovel'!leers of the
J'oor of New Berlin, in the County of Chennngo 111. Harlow C.
Witherell for rxhihiting the fir9t seven degrees of Masonl'y, al the
ho11seof Lodowick Crandall. The trial was before a Magistnate.
'.l'he defendant',; coumiel called for a jury, which Leing !IUmmonecl
nod returned, wr.i challenged by delendant's counsel on the ground
that the Constable was a Mc11on,
some of the juror, were Masuri,,and
one of the plaintiffs.
They offered to prove that the masonic 'Obligations nre of
11acha nature as to disqualify its members front acting impartially
in a case of this kind. The Court decided that witne~9es might be
called te · show the interest exitoting between the constaule and
the ma~onic plaintiff, and th,e nature of the masonic obligations.
Edward C. William, te!!titied that he is n Free-mason of three
clegreei>,knows Do,,ning and Simonds to be Masons from report.
Juhn Pike testified that he is a Mason, and knows Simonds Is a
Mason of three degrees, a:nd Do-wninga Royal Arch Mason.
Willi""' C. Oremle,,f te,ititied that he is a l\Jnsonof three degrees,
hns taken the oath o( a Master Mason substantially as It is in Ber-
nard's Light on l\lasonry, and has beard the same obligation; in
substnnce, found in that hook, admini!llcred a number cif timPs in
lodges; was agitated when he was initiated ; has ret1ected deeply
on the nature of the oath; it· wa~ the nature and tendency of the
oath of a Master Mason that led him to thnt ret1ection; that the
oath was improper; and coultl go no farther. First and second
<leirecs were substantially ns in Bernard's book.
Cros1-e.wmined. Witness sayl'I,he is opposed to masonry, i~. nli
Anti-ma~on in principle, nnd watt so before the abduction of Mor-
gan. The oath binds a Matton to keep cert.,in secret11; believed
the masonic obligations would cont1ict with the laws of the country
an.I the duty he owed to those laws; the pf'nalty of the l\'lnster
~famn's del,{ree is •·to have hil,>
body se,,f'red In two" &c. and his
lite ta~e'.l, ,h .Julclhe reveal the t'?.cr~ls, f maso 1ry; was told before
his initiation, that there Wt'fe gre<1t
privi e;:e, in. masonry; led on
step hy step, knew nnt the peirnlty until the la~t; wato blindfolded,
&c. when he was initiated. A Master Matoonswears not to viol,1te
the ch,,stjty of a Master 1\1:i!!'on's
wife, mother, si~ter or dnughter-,
knowing them to he 11uch; ;md thinks this obligation a privilege
el~e,,here; joined the lodge he thinks In 181& 01· 1816; the lec•
tures •inc:ulc;ite moralily; 11epm1tefrom the onth~, they nre goocl.
'fhe 011thil
and penalties were not expl11inednway to him in the
lectures or in the lodge. To the question hy the ph,intiffs counsel,
where did you get your masonry? in the Anti-masonic Alman11c,
in the Papers, or in Bernard's hook? Witoe,s answered, "In ajust
nnd lawfully constituted lodge."
. 'fhe pl11intiff:1
counsel not wishing to go further Into the question
the -array was quashed 1,y the Court, and a new venire inued to.
6
Digitized byGoogle
,.
• •uucHVHTTS AJITIMAfetU:C CONV£NTI08',
anotherCom-table "7ho returned a jury less objecttonable. The-
jury being empannelled, plaintiffs coun11elstated the nature o( the
;roaecotion and the grounds on which they claimed a verdict; that
Witherell's exhibition was an idle show and came under that pro-
?fsion of the statnte which prohibits idle shows, such as commoo
showmen, mountebanks or jugglers, usually exhibit; that masonry
was a distinct socrety, unlike other societies. They first caUed
Ilia M. Calkin, who testified that he ,vas at Crandall's on the , 7th.
and saw the exhibition of Witherell as advertised in the handblll.
Witne~ said he had seen several performances; but never s11,'t'
common showmen, mountebanks or jugglers give such an exhibition.
Plaintiffs counsel then called Jeremiah Phillips who testified that he
~aw Witherell's exhibition; a man was blindfolded, broughtinto the
room, with drawel'\ and slip on, 11hirt partly on, rope round his
eeck, Jed round the room a number of times, and knelt down.
',,:Cro11·exami11ed.He said that point of the compass was pressed
to his naked breast; man had 1m npron oo ; oath admini!tered ;
prnyers were repeated ; when candidate was brought to light, mas·
ter of lodge exclaimed, "and God said let there be light and there
w111 light;" and at the same time the bnndage was jerked off the
eyes of the candidate; and men clapped h11ndsand stamped togetb·
er ,on the floor, &c. be also g-dvethe leading points on the ceremo·
ales of the Royal Arch degree. Here the counsel for plaintiff's
rested their cause. ,
,. In opening the defence the counsel denied 4hat Witherell'• exhr
'bjtion came under the clanse in the statute which prohibits the
exhibitions of common showmen, mountebanks or jugglers, and
stated that it was a true and genuine exhibition of Free-masonry
and relied npon the proof of this fact for the acquittal of the de·
fondant.
. •i,a M. Calkin, 1 testified particularly and minutely to the exbi'bi-
tion and confirmed what Mr. Phillips had S11id.
Williom C. G,reenleaf was called, and plaintiffs counsel objected
~ having masons called to pro,·e their secrete and ceremoniee,
which was, argued by both sides, and overruled by the Conrt. The
witness then stated that the three first degrees were exhibited
.. described hy Phillips and Calkins; were generally correct, and
the same as he bad.seen in lodges at different times. He has been
told by mr.sons th;it Jachln and Boaz was masonry; knows that
alterations have been mada in that work; thinks masonic ceremo·
nies "solemn mockery," as the bible was used in the lodge.
, Gen. J1uguatu, Welch, (Sheriff of the county) testified that he is
a Royal Arch Mason, that the door is tyled by a man with a drawn
sword,to keep off cowans and tavesdroppers; candidate is nearly
di.-ested of his clothing; has drawers on, neck naked, cable-tow
r,ound it, bandage over his eyes, is Jed around the room, kneels at
the altar and takes the oath ; thinks it is in the obligation not to
speak evil of a brother master mason, but to apprise him of all ap·
proaching danger, if in his power; to obey signs, summonses, &c.
to keep a worthy master mason's secrete, murder and treason ex-
cepted and they left at my own election; to aid and auiet all poor,
indigent master masons, their wives and orphans ; if any part of this
Digitized byGoogle
Dll.t.CHUsrrrB .t.11-TULde>lOC:
OONV&lfTIOS..
obligation iSr-Omitted the candidate swears that he will hold hitmelf
amenable thereto -rehen i1iformed; Hiram .B.bi.ff is represented ., ui
killed and buried ; search is made and he is found, a sprig of c~ssia
by bis head; brethren attempt to raise him; first and second .g.ri-p
fail; ,the third ( lions grip) raises him. In the Mark Mast.el'J.
degree, a mark is pretended to be put on the candidate; ma-llet.,
chissel, and a bowl stafoed in imit ation of blood is produced; chissel
is applied .near ,the hreast and a blow given with the maU~t •
.
Jn one degree the master resigns his place to the candidate, , a.nd
other offices become ,vacant; the lodge is thrown into great cpn.f.u:
sion and noise; candidate is ridiculed for assuming a slatiol) for
which he is not qualified, Penalty in the master mason's degree is
"to liave the body severed in two in the midst and divided to the
north and south, the bowels burnt to ashes, ,rnd t.he ashe s scatle .rea
to the four winds of heaven," &c, lo the Roya l Arch degree th~
witness testified that he took the following oaths, .viz. "I will not
give the grand omnific Royal Arch word which I shall hereafter
receive, in the chapter or out, except in the presence of two .c.o
.m-
panion Royal Arch masons, myself making three, 1mdthen by thr~,e
times three uu,der a living arch not above my breath;"-" I ,will
not regeal the ineffable characters belonging to this degree, ~r
retain the key to them in my possession, but destroy it whenever
it comes to my sight." Witness thinks he swore the follow ing-, ''J
wi\l ·not wrong this chapter nor a companion ofthls degree to ,.the
value of anythin g, knowingly myself, or suffer it to be done by .oth-
ers if in my .power to·preveut. " "I will nQt be at the exaltation
of a candidate to this degree, at a .clandestine ,chapter, I knowing it
to Le such; I will not assist or be present at the exaltat ion. of a
candidate to this degree, who has not regularly 1·eceived.the degree
of Entered Appre ntice, Fellow Craft ., l\'.laster Ma.son, Mark Maste~,
Past Master and Most Excellent Master, to the best .of myknowl,-
edg.c and belief; I will not assist or see me.re or less than ti}.ree
candidates exalted at one and the same tim e ; I will not be present
at the forming or openin g of a Royal Arch chapter, unless there
be present nine regular Royal Arch Masons ; Tl;iat J will not speak
e-vil of a companion Royal Jlrch Mrr,,on, neither behind his back nor
before hisface, but will appri .ze him ef all approaching danger if i1
~
rr,y powe.r; I .will not strike a companion Royal Arch Mason ir,1
anger so as to draw blood; 1 will support the Constitution of ihe
Genera\ Grand Roya,! Arch Chapter of the State unde r which this
Chapter is held, and conform to all the Lye-laws, rules and regula·
tions .of this or any other Chapter of which I may become a mem-
ber; I will obey all regular signs, summonses, or tokens given,
handed, sent or thro wn to me, from the hand of a companion Royal
Arch Mason, or from the body of a lawfully constituted chapter of
such, provided it be within the length of my cable tow ; " 1 will
aid and assist a companion Royal Arch Mason when engaged in nny
difficulty, and espouse his cause so far as to extricate him from the
same, if in my power, whether he be right or wrong, " which was
explained by being told his duty was, to get him away out of the
difficulty or quarrel if he could ;-that a companion Roya l Arch
M.uon'11 secrets, g _
it'CO me in chftli'e ;is such, a1;1
d 1 ~nowing theJ¼l
Digitized byGoogle
f4 Jf4AACIIVIETTS "'1fflJI.UUIC COSVU'J'rOJr,
t.ohe tuch, 11h111l
remain 111secure nnd lnvi.olate in my breHt at in
his o,vn, illurder and Trt.'1$UII,iot e:crepted; witness bPlie,•e11 he
took the following: " I will aid and nssi~t all poor, indigent Hoyal
Arch Mnsons, their widolT!I 1mdorphans," and believes the penally
was 11sfollows: "All which I most solemnly promi!1e and swenl'
with a firm anrl steady re$olution to perform the same, without any
eqni\'ocation, ment;1l re!!<ervation,or BP.If evnsion of mind whatever,
liinding mJ11elf under no leSllpenalty, than that of having my skull
tmote off, nnd my brains exposed to the scorching ray11of the sun,
1ho11hlI ever knowingly or willfully, vioh1te or transgress, any parl
of this my solemn 011th or obligation, of a Hoyal Arch Mason. So
help me God and keep me steadfast in the performance of the
tame." In the Royal Arch ceremonies, the candidates have to go
11nder the "living arch," formed by two rows of l\ln,0011joining
hands; some one ,mys in :t. low tone, "stoop low brother, sloop
low;" · 1hf'y then lo,ver their hands, and the candidates .nre brought
down on their hands and knees; as they crawl through, thPy ai·e
told they must pass through rogge,I wnys; and chairs nnd other
obstacles nre·put before thPm to climb over. There is a repre-
untation of the destruction of Jernsalem, at which n great noise is
made; also a representation of the burning b,,,h; and in one p·1rt
qf-the ceremony this que8lion is put: " Are you a Hoyal Arch llfa_
-
100 ,,, . Which am1wer i~, " I am that I am." ·
John Pike, (a ju~tice of the peace) testified that he became n.
Mason about 14 years ago; is a Royal Arc;h ancl has taken 15 de-
grees, in masonry. Part of the Master Mason's onth which has
been.read is correct and a pnrt is not. The s11bstance
is the sanui,
and knows of no iclea materially different from the book. l have
taken the substnnce of this obligation: ••.Furthermore do I promise
and swear, that I will not give the grand haili11gsign of clistres11,
except I nm In real distress;or for the henctit of the cr-.ift when
at work; 1111d
1l1ouldI ever ,ee that sign given or the word accom-
panying it, and the person who ga,•e it, appearing to be in distress.,
J ,viU fly to his relief nt the risk of my life, should there he a
greater probability of sn\'lng his life than of losing my own." I
have Mvorn not .to wrong the lodge or a brothe1· of this degree
to the value of one cent knowingly ; nor to he at the initiating of a
,oung man in his nonage, 1111athE:ist, irreligious libertine, idiot or
\10man; and "to npprize a brother Mnster Mason of apprOl\Ching
danger; that II Master Mason's secrets, given me lfl charge as
inch; nod I knowing them to he such, ~hall . remain as secure 1tnd
ln,·iofable in my breast ns in his own, .when communicated to me,
murder nnd treason excepted ; nncl they left to my own election;
to aid and assist all poor nnd indigent Master !\Jason's, their w.ive!l
•ind daughters. The penalty is to have my hody severed kl two
In the midst, and divided to the north nnd south, my bowels burnt
to ashes, nod the ashes scattered to t.he four wintls of Henven. 11
In the ceremony in the lodge, the master exclaims, ••nnd God
eaid let there be light and there wa<1light," at the same titne the
~ndage o\'er the eyes of the candidate is quickly pulled olf; tliere
is l\ clapping of hands and stomping of feet on the floor; n smnfl
~ was round my n('c~ when I \'fllS irrit.:\ted. ln 1he Marl&
Digitized by Google
JililSACHUSETTI All'TmASOl'flC
: C:01'Vl:1"Tl<l1',
Mn!iter's
degree a tnnllet nnrl chl,el nre m1eilto mnrk the· e:mdi-
clntP.; 11 bowl Is proch1cPrlns ii' to cntch the hloocl, and hns l'ome-
times thP. appearance of being stained with bloocl. The chisel is
rtaced ·near the hreast ancl n hlow given with the mallet. In
an other drgree there is a repre!lentntion of killing Hiram Ahiff,
lie is h11riecl,nnd aftr.r consi,lnahle search i~ found with a sprig of
('a!l«inhy his head; is raised from the gra,•f'. &c. 1'he ol,ligatio,,a
of the Hoyal Arch, as stated hy Ge11eml Welch, are substantially
correc:t. 1 ha,·e taken the obligation "to aid and ns~i~tn compan-
ion Royal Arch mason, when eng,1ged in any difficulty; ancl es-
pouse hi;i causl', so liir as to extricate him from the same, if in my
power, whether he he right or wrong." This was exph1ined when
takf'n all Ge11erul Welch has te11tilied. I took the following ol,lig:t•
tion: "that a companion Hoyal Arch Mason's secret", giv<'n me in
charge as s11chnncl I knowing them to be such, shall remain as
secure :md inviolaMe in my breast 11sin his own, J'J;/11rdu"n,I Trea-
inn 11fJ/ cxcepte,I." The penalty is the same a!I wns stated hy Gen.
'\Yelr.h. To the qurstinn in some par·t of the ceremonie~, are ·you
n Royal Arch Mason? the nnswer is in the language of God to
J\fosf's, " I .im that I am." The question in the ceremonif's ••who
comes there?" was put sc\'en times. In the Hoyal Arch dPgree
the candidates pass under n living arc.h made of hand!', so low that
they have to crawl. On a cross examination, witness SaJ(S l:i~
believes he is not compelled as n witness or juror, l>yhis oath ancl
charges together, to f,1vor a brother mason; chat·gcs arc consider-
edto explain the duties of a mason.
Rouse Clark testifiecl that he is a free mason, but don't know
how m1my clegrees he has taken; is a Royal Arch ancl higher.-
Here the co11nsclfor plaintiff's admitted that Clark wonld swear to.
the snme oliligations m; Messr;:. Welch and Pike hacl sworn to, nnd:
~;1rnestly entreated conn~el for defendant to examine no further.
A few q11es1ionshowe\'er were pnt ancl answered. Que~tion, ha,·o
you taken the following obligation in the Master's clegrre: ""F11r-
thermore do I promise nnd swear, that a Master Mason•s secret~,_
given me in charge as i,uch, and I knowing them to he such, shall
remnin as secure and in\'iolable in my breast as in his own, when
communicated to me, murder imd tr«•asonexcepte1l, anti th,y l~ft to.
"'Y tlection." A11s,ver, ••1 have tnken one simih1r to th11t." l· ·
have taken one to as~ist a compnnion Royal Arch Mnson, -a•httht>r
lie
be rixht ur u·mng; it was explained as stated by Gen. Wt>lch. ( ·
)~ave tal:en the following in substnnce in the Hoyal Arch ohligniion,
•• Fnrlhermore do I promise nnd swear, that n compnnion Hoynl
Arch !\foson's !lf'cret~, given me in charge as such, nnd I kfloWlng
them to be such, shall remain a!Isecure anc1im·iolahle in my breast
ns in his own, .Murder a11d 'l'renson 1101 r,rcepted. Being cross-ex-
amined, said "he thinks the char}fcS and lecture, are moral. ·An•·
other witness was calied but the Court 11aidit wns unnecessary to,
,ro for1her, as the testimony was not controverted hy the pfaint11fs,
'l'he cause went to the Jury about 6 o'clock, A. M. on 1'h11rsday,
who r.etired, and not being nble to agree were discharged about 9,
flv~,being in fuvor of acquitting defendant, and on~ for convieling.
Digitized by Google
.ff IUIUCIIVN'l"IW A!ffllUIOJl'JC CO!fY&lfffOlf.
The ·tomm1tteedeem the foregoing trial important, not beeause-
of the disclosure of any new facts fo regard to the masonic obliga•
tions and ceremonies, but from the circumstance that the facts were
proved by adhering members of the fraternity, who are friendly to
.the Institution; and are the same as published and confirmed by
eeceders. These Masonstoo, the witnesses, were of high standing
among the fraternity and in the community, and no attempt was
made to impeach their credibility. And whoever shall hereafter
read the disclosuresof masonry and the evidence of their truth, and
a.
till doubts as to their genuineness, will be entitled to the sympa•
thy of their more fortunate fellow citizens, who are blessed with
-soundminds, or ranked among the apologists for outrage upon life
.andliberty.
Mr Hallett, from the Committee on a Pamphlet in character and
.cypher, &c. presented a Report, which was read and laid on the
.table. A part of the accompanying pamphlet was read, as tran•
.acribed from the original.
The Committee to whom·was referred a pamphlet publl■hed in
.characters and cypher, purporting to be a publication put forth by
adheringMasons, beg leave to
\ REPORT.
That the pamphlet in question, which is here,.-lth presented as
• part 01 lhi,i Report, Is without title or date, and consl!ts of ao
Ingeniously devised system of abort hand, by omitting consooao~
Inverting their order and the occasional uee of arbitrary signs, with
other guards against detection, sufficient to render the decypber-
ing of the work hardly possible, without the aid of the disclosures
that have been made of the· lectures and obligations of the three
lint degree@,whie~ are fully comprised in this publication. It
therefore might have been put forth, ut the time it is believed to
hue been devised, with perfect confidence that through it the
eecrets of Masonry could not become intelligible to the world,
though your Committee infer from certain references to the devi-
eers of this and similar syiltems of rendering the ma~ters of lodges
brightMasons, thnt it was not seconded with approbation by the
higher orders of the Fraternity.
'l'be evidence on which the Committee found their belief that
dais pamphlet contains original Masonry in the three first degrees,
M administered in the New England lodges, is circumstantial, but
of a nature that must convince every cnndid mind. Such circum-
atantlal evidence is as conclusive as positive testimony, and on It
rests the proof of the origin of the most celehratetl works of an•
tiqulty, and in a great degree, the authority of the Scriptures
themselves.
Your Committee have the fact, th.at thi11pamphlet wns the
p.roperty of an adhering Mason, a citizen of Providence, R. J. who
ai&:Iat sea, and that it was found among his papers after bis
Jle.eease,
tUeral years before the abduction of William ·Morgan*
Digitized byGoogle
11.AD.\CHVl&Tff .urrnr.t801'JC COltYUTIOlf. 41
and of eouraebefore Antimasonry had an existence. This fitct
might be directly substantiated, but from the circumstance that h
requires a presentation to the public of the names of females, who
would naturally shrink from such an exhibition. Independent of
this fact, the internal evidence of age, in the appearance of the
type, letter, &.c.a criterion by which a printer or antiquarian would
fix the age of a work with nry tolerable accuracy, is entirely Slit•
lsfactory, that the origin of the publication must be carried back to
a period often, fifteen and perhaps twenty years. It could also be
ahown that a Past Master of a lodge in Rhode Island, a warm ad-
hering Mason, has repeatedly admitted, on examination of the work;
that he had seen it in the l<>dge,over which he presided, in 1820,
and that he believed it to be genuine Masonry, as it was adminis•
tered in that lodge, but that no person, not a mason, ,vould ever
be the wiser for it. We have also satisfactory evidence of the
fiact, that another i;:opyof this work is in the possession of an ad•
be ring M11son,of Newport, R. I. by woom it has been shown to
gentlemen in that town, and pronounced by him to be genuine Ma·
110nry,devised for the purpose of enabling Masters of lodges; to
whom alone the Key was entrusted, to perform the ceremonies
and administer the oaths with accuracy and uniformity. Your
Committee therefore, on every principle of evidence, are satisfied
of the fact that this work was published several years before any
Inquiry had been made in this country, affecting the character of
Freemasonry.
Having thus fixed the period of publication, beyond the origin of
the present Investigations into Masonry, it is obvious that the book
in question must have been published from one of hvo motives--
Either by adhering Masons for the purpose of affording aid In de-
livering the lectures and administering the oaths, and thereby pro-
. dacing uniformity in the work of the lodge room-or, that it was
published by the enemies of Masonry, for the purpose of disclosing
the secrets of the Order.
The last of these grounds is wholly untenable from the consider·
atioo that had the author of the work intended to disclose the real
or pretended secrets of the order, he never would have been at the'
)abor and expense of publishing it in a form as unintelligible to the
uninitiated as were the symbols and devices which had already
been published and approved by masonic chapters and lodges.-
To disclose the secrets of Masonry, out of the lodge room, could
DOttherefore, by any plausible construction, have been the design
of a publication so carefully shrouded in mystery, as to render it a
aealed book to the uninitiated.
The only possible conclusion then to arrive at, is that the work
was designed and published by Masons, and for the use of MasoDI.
The Committee challenge a refutation of this position by the ad-
vocates of the Order, for which purpose the work in question Is
offered to the examination of members of the Fraternity. That
the work has not been generally known by Masons, (excepting
perhaps, Masters of Lodges) is presumed from the fact that your
Committee have met with no 1ecediog or other mason, not a Mu-
ter of a lodge, who professes any acquaintance with the cypher.
Digitized byGoogle
48 x.uuCR'CUn's
A1'ffltlio1rte eolfn:mw.
One seceder, n Past Mn11terof n lodge In Rhode Mand, h:11recog-
nii-.e,I the work as a g-uide by which masonic oaths were adminis-
tered, and Masters of lodges lirightened in their duties.
A "trong e,·i,li>nce ,,f the authenticity of thi,:i work, has been clc-
rived hy IC'sling the effect of a repetition of its oath!<upon adherin!(
· masons. Many who have t'heltered themsel\'f'!! hehincl the !<li!l'ht-
e!lt variation in term~, to deny the whole obli~ation as cited from
Bernard, in p<'remptory phrase, have @hrunk from the test of the
·oath when presented to them from what yonr Committee woulcl
designate by way of distinction, "THE MASON:!
OwN Boox." Jn
no in~tance within our knowh•dge, has iin adhering Ma~on denied
the term~ of the oaths as transcribed from this hook. Shouhl it he
ol jcded lo the authenticity of this book, that Its pnhlicalion hy
Mason!', won hi he a violation of the Entered ApprP.ntice11oath, not
to cut, carve, print, &c. the an!lwer is plain, that the same ohlig,,.
lion wonld apply with eqnal forte lo the Monitor of Wehb, the
Chart of Jeremy L. Cross, and the whole collectinn of Masonic
MirroNI, Charts and F.mhlem~, pnhlished umli>r the express sanctiun
of the higheiat ma!'onic hodif'S In this country.*
Mavin,; thns fairly f'stablished the masonic origin and authenticity
of this work, the next is, what doe>\ it 1lisclose, ancl how do the
st1tements here given hy adhering Mn~ons correspond with those
given by seceding Masons? On this point the work in question is
entir<'ly ~atisfactory nnd conclush•e, a!' will he seen hy a translation,
herewith prese11ted, of the three til'$t lectures in the three first
degree11.· It will be found that while e,·ery substantial point in the
ohligation, is here expresi;ly confirmed, there nre r<'peated varia•
tions in language and nrrangement, from the discloiiures made by
other sources of information, such as mn!lt inevitahly occur, in or.ii
repetition!', for which the Ma~lers of different lodges rely upon
memory alone.
It is remarkable that in nll the ll'ctures here gh·en, there is nilt
the slighte,,;t allusion to the ci\'il laws, nor is th~ canditlate any
where asked, as in the lectures given hy B<'rnaril, whether he is
willing to take an oath that will not interfere with his civil and
religious duties. On the othe1· hand he is taught in the lectures
that "he must be prepared to J;1y down his life r.,ther than to
revr.al any of the 11ecretsof Freemasonry that havf! heen communi•
cated to him." 'Ihe significnnt :1ll11sionlo the penalty of the ohli·
gation in thP. first section of the ApprP.ntices Lf'cture, is unolht>r
eddence of the understanding of the camlidate that his lifo mu11the
forfeited by a disclosure of the !lecrets of Masonry. 'fhe Sf'!fishand
exdnsh·e nature of the ln!ltitution is made apparent hy the answers
in two of the lectures, in which the candidate states that his motive
in becoming a ma~on was, " that he might obtain wnys the better
to support Mm~elt:"
In all the oaths as here given, the candidate 11wf!11rs that he will
not only abide by and support the Constitution of the Grnnd Lodge,
but will abide by and support the GENERAL
REGVLAU0NS
OF MA•
"Masonic Chart, J. L. Croes, p. 159.
Digitized byGoogle
)USSACHllSltTTS AWTUIASONIC CONVE1'TJ01', 49
soNP.Y. These general regulations, we have the highest masonic
authority for saying, are uniform throughout the world and not
!lucceptible of change. Of course then the New England Mason
swears to abide by the general regulations of Masonry in New
York, which prompt and justify the murder of a citizen di~closing
the secrets of Masonry, and require of jurors and witnesses to pro-
tect s11choffenders in direct violation of their civil oaths.
Another consideration of some importance, connected with this
representation of · Masonry by Masons, is that it doubtless gives in
the three tirst degrties all the morality and science comprised in
those degrees. 'rhis would be the most important point to impress
upon the minds, if the Institution really were what its advocates
pretend . As to the morality embraced in the statements in this
book, your Committee are wholly unable to discover it. ·On t~
contrary, a selfish principle, and an utter disregard .of civil !'elations
arid duties, are the leading principles recognized in both the oaths
and lectures. The information developed is doubtless highly im-
posing. After the repetition of mumeries more childish than tbe
most frivolous plays of infancy, the candidate is brought to light,
and the prodigious discovery made that one point or both points of
the compass are bare, according to·bis advance in this wonderful
science. He is also taught with the solemnity becoming so momen-
tous a matter, bow to tuck up or how to tuck down his apron ; · and
here his.discoveries end. The curtain of science falls upon his as•
. tonished and·disappointed sight; and he must' go through new
terrors and follies, and Incur new expeoses before he can have fur•
ther light shed on his benighted mind.
The Committee would here close their suggestions with the
remark that in their opinion the work they have examined fully
and circumstantially establishes the fact that. the three first de-
grees of the Order are faithfully revealed to the world, by seced-
ing Masons, and that the information of the disclOSl'lresin ith'ese
degrees, by this evidence drawn from Masonic authority, is strong
collateral evidence that the disclosures made by them of the ad-
vanced degrees, are equally correct. The fact that Masons and
their adherents deny to this day that the secrets of the three first
degrees are before the public, while their own Book, in their own
figures and devices convicts them of misrepresentation, furnishes
fair ground for the belief that they are equally disingenuous and
reckless in denying the truth of the disclosures in the advanc:ed
degrees.
- Aonexed to this Report is a correct translation of the three first
Lectures, comprised in the pamphlet .under consideration, all of
which is submitted for the disposition of the Convention.
•
A Report from Mr. Walker, Chairman of the Committeeon the
correspondence between the Antimasonic State Committee aadthe
Masonic Fraternity, was read and latc:J
on th~ table.
7
Digitized byGoogle
JIASACHVIETTI A'NTUUIOIQC COln'£KTtolt.
REPORT,
The Colll'tllittee appointed to take into cooslderatfon (be corres,
pondence of the Antimasonic State Committee with the Masonie
Fraternity of this Commonwealth, having given such attention to
the eubject as the brevity of the lime allotted them will permit,
a!Jkleave to report. That in compliance with certain resolutions
adopted by the late Convention holden in this place, the State
Committee (as a·ppears by their reportr suhmitted to this body,)
addre,sed the Grand-Lodge, Grand Chaple, Grand Encampment and
Grand Council of Freemasons, communicating the said resolutions
11ndrespectfully and urgently reque11tlngtheir attention 10 the same.
•ro this reasonable and as your committee belh!ve; very becoming
petition, these Masonic Fraternities have oot yet condescended to
p11yany deference, or return any answer whatever. This result,
however, much it might, from the nature and spirit of the Masonic
ln11tltuti()n,
have been anticipated, Is yet, as your Committee feel,
to he most sincerely and deeply regretted.
A fond, though a faint hope was indulg.edthat the Masonic Fra• '
temHiee,. impelled by a eense of justice to an outrnged pob¼ic&enti·
ment, of deference to the violated laws of the•r country, and of a
decent respect to the Convention wol.?!dhave deigned to give some
explanation of their conduct, or at least, if they feel themselves in-
nocent, deny the charges, which were preferred against them.
The petition though couched in the most 1·e,pectful terms has
been treated with insult, and all our expectations of R fair and hoo-
orable defence of their conduct are destroyed.
The great objects of the first Convention were an investigation
of the facts and circumstances, respecting the nature and tendency
of the Masonic Institution, both in its theoretical organization and
practical effects. That investigation resulted in the belief exprea·
aed in the resolutions alluded to, and the only measure adopted by
that body was to present the petition to which, we refer. This
wasthen, and is undoubtedly still thought a proper measure . It
was in character wifh the spi-rit of the timet1, and in accordance
with the prdctice of our fore·fathen when suffering tmder oojUlt
oppression. ·
To remonstrate against an arhitrary and unconstitutlona:JeserciN
of power, to protest against an infringement of their dearest right,,
and to petition for a l"edress of grievances bas ever in this republic:
been considered, not only the right, bot the duty of a free people.
This we have done, Lut our petltrons, like those presented by our
patriotic sires at the foot of Royal insolence, have been treated
with contumely and neglect, and the Masonic Bodies of this Com-
monwealth MVe practically declared that the voice of an offended,
injured and suffering people, as expre~sed by their representatives
in Convention assembled, is beneath their notice and unworthy their
regard.
That the Masonic Fraternities of New-York in their associated
capacity, planned, Instigated and executed the abducti-on'OfWilliam
Morgan does not admit of a doubt, and that they nide:dand assisted
Digitized byGoogle
IU.IUCHUSETTS AlfTIIU,SO!fJC COlfVJ:NTION. 61
the perpetrators by their funds andinfluence to escape the just re·
tribution of violated law, is equally true; That these facts are
known to the Masonic Fraternities of this Commonwealth cannot
admit of a reasonable doubt, it seemed, therefore, of great impor-
tance that the public should know, whether the Maso'llsof this
State could under these circumstances continue their fellowship
with those lodges, immediately and directly engaged in the most
attrocio us conspiracy, that ever disgraced the annals of our own, or
any o!her civilized -community. A single outrage upon personal
liberty, or a solitary murder may in itself be con~idered a circum-
atanceof but small importance when it occurs in the ordinary way
by the hand .of a highwayman, or midnight assassin, but when ex-
fel!siveassociations of men in their collective and official character
do)vitlfthe utmost deliberation and preconcert and in fol.Iview of
tlie nature of the act, with u perfect l.mowledgeof ciy.i)law.,and In
open defiance of civil authority presume to ta.ke upon themselves
the daring responsib_ilityof such flagrant iniquity, it be.comes nn
eyent of most portentous character, and deserves to be regarded
.with universal solicitude and alarm ; end your committee think
.wilh the Hon. Mr. Rush, that" Morgal)'s ,cause is no common one.
lt is of great and inspiring magnitude-looked at by itself It may
be called detached and little, by those who little know how to
think, ~re determined not _
to think.# But properly weighed by
its principles as wel,I as :itsfacts, it is momentous as well as appal-
ling. It is no case for county Courts but for the Nation. That is
t.-beproper tribunal.'' .
lri the ha·P»Yconstitution of oqr ·tountry a safe and sure remedy
for ell political evils is provided. A power is left with the pe.ople
In the exercise of which they can without the aid of the bayonet,
or the shedding of human blood, redress their wrongs, nnd preserve
their liberties, laws and institutions. '£he right of elective fran·
c-hiso, furnishes · a powerful 1rnd efficient weapon, wherewith to
Jevel all oilrig_hteouscombinations, and a saving energy is found in
the strong and resistless voice of public sentiment. expres!!ed at the
:0.ALLOT Box. Your committee are deeply impressed with the con-
viction that the conduct of the Masonic Fraternity of this State in
the case referred to, forms an era in the history of our cause, and
mdicates that flew and more vigorotft measures must be adopted and
pursued to exterm .inate t.he dangerous power and influence of an
ln1tituti on, which regards not tbc laws of our country, or the re-
monstrances of .our citizens.
.Mild and quiet measures have been tried, they have been un-
laeeded, and 011
.r puny efforts have only excited the contempt of
she Brotherhood. Inflated with their imaginary Invincibility they
Jiaugh to scorn our feeble attacks, proud in their boasted strength
tliey bid defiance " to a world in arms." One power there is whic~
alone ciin make the oppressor tremble, and break the sceptre of
Jals
_unrighteous dominion. That power is the right 11ndprivilege
which every free citizen enjoys of recording his opinion at the Bal·
let Box, to rhat, and to that alone do we look, as a1fo1,'ding
a aafe,
and certain antidote for the inaidiou, poison, ,vhich Masonry
Jlas!o succenfully inn.teedInto the body ~lltl~. That al~pe ii •
Digitized by Google
11411.lCHVll!!TTI AIITDU~C CONVElfflOlf.
safe remedy for the nameless evils, which this ant~·republlcen insti- .
\utlon has brought upon our otherwise favored-and happy country .
.A.II which is respectfully submitted.
On motion of Mr. Peckham of Worcester, it was resolved, that
be State Antimasonic Committee be requested to inquire how
many Justices of the Peace and other civil officers of this Common-
wealth are adhering Freemasons, and to report thereon through
the press at a future time. • -
Mr.Rice of the Financial Committee offered a report, which was
read and accepted.
Dr. Porter of the Committee, " to take into consideration the
alarming e"'.i~.and threatening dangers to our republican inlltitutiom
from the existence ofan adherence to Masonic obligations," offered
the following report which was.read and laid on the table.
REPORT.
"When in the CQnrseof human events," the accus(omed safe-
guards of society are.destroyed, the usual guarantees for the se-
c;w:eenjoyment and protection of life, liberty, character, and the
pursuits of happioes.s are impaired, and an appeal to the laws of the
land administered by the constituted authoritieii, for the protection
and defence of injured innoc;ence is fruitless and unavailing. When
the crimes of murder, arson, kidnapping, perjury nod vi_olence go
unpunished, and the guilty go free, when the temple of justice is .
profaned by perjury, and the ermine of the judge menaced by con·
temptuous and mule witnesses, when the legal administration of
public juatice is paralyzed and all confidence in its protection is
gone, when the temple of justice may well be represented by the
".irgin weeping and leaning on its broken columns and pouring forth
her lamentations in vain over its ruins.
When the press, which has been in time past, called freedom's
~otinel, is palsied and dumb, no longer giving the alarm from free·
dom's ,~atch·tower, or if uttering a word, it is the traitorous signal,
ii>this case, " All is well." •
In this alarming state of our boasted free country, clearly and
fearfully exemplified, in the events which have transpired antece-
dent and subsequent to the forcible abduction and atrocious mur-
der of William Morgan, n native citizen of.Virginia, a former Cap-,
~ain of a military company in the army of the United States, an(\
fighting its battles at the memorable victory of New-Orleans in
\ 81&, and in I822 then residing at the village of Batavia, in the
/i,tate of New-lork, and entitled to the prote'iliiiilnof its laws. 'lhe .
fruitless attei;npts, hitherto after upward of f•years diligent; pa~
tient, persevering efforts of its prosecuting officers, backed with all
tlle.aid that legislative and executh•e influence would give. But
$till all hos been Impotent, and justice has been obliged to cower
before the menace, the power and in611ence of \l secret power,
Digitized byGoogle
IUIUCRVSETl'S .un'DIAIOl'11C CONVl:IITtO•.
which is above the law, and the prosecuting authorities, and which
now insultingly, and arrog,rntly proclaims its triumph.
When we see a man, the murdered victim of his remorseless and
unrelenting persecutors, and all the exertions of the administrators
of public justice coutemned, despised and thwarted by a proud, ar·
rogant, vindictive, guilty and powr;rful aggressor. Our sympathies,
our best feelings are directed to the honoredfew, who arise to pro·
tect the rights, avenge the wrongs of feeble oppressed humanity.
Thei .r cause animates the best and holiest feelings of the human
heart. It is then that the spirit of man, assumes its elevated pre-
tensions, a tone truly ethereal. It is then, that men of in(lcpendent
minds, fearless honesty, and moral courage, of energy and decision
bursts the bands of diffidence, uncertainty and despair, and regard-
less of personal considerations, move onward to the discharge of
their duties to their fellow men and their God, and pay their hom-
age, only to the immutable pi:inciple of truth, justice and mercy.
Animated with the con~ciousness of the justice of their cause, of its
con$anguinity with every tie, that can bind man to his fellow man,
they look down from their proud elevation, with the most profound
conternp~ on the guilty aggressor.
Taking counsel from these feelings and sentiment@, inspiring an
ardent wish, to preserve •our free institutions, and to transmit thei;n
to our posterity, in the same purity and simplicity, as we have re·
ceived them from our fathers, as a sacred trust only as a life estate
and to be used without waste or destruction.
We have endeavored, uninfluenced by fear, favor or affection,
and without pr ejudice, calmly and dispassionately, to trace the.
causes of the alarming evils which exist in our land, which has de·
graded our natioa al character, polluted our land by the shedding of
innocent blood, and defiled the temples of justice, and made the,
forms of law the sanctuary and protection of crime, which causes
waters of bitterne ss to flow through our streets, instead of those of-
rigbteousness, justice and truth, which bas destroyed the confidenc~.
of our citizens in the security and protection oftbe laws. With these,
views, we have carefully watched the progress of events, in the.
State of New-York, the ,seat of this unparalleled outrage and mur·
de,:, the trials befo,:e the courts, the conduct of Freemasons, both
there and here, the sympathies and feelings, emphatically express-
ed, on many occasions too distinctly to be soon forgotten. And with-
out the foar of offending, or the wish to inflict pain, or injury on
the persons, charac ters or feelings of any individual of the Masonic
Institution. We shall proceed to give our views of the cauaeof
these alarming evils and threatening dangers, and the only remedy,
that will dry up the fountain of these bitter waters, and give secu·
rity and stability to our republican Institutions, and confidence in.
the secure, equal an i partial administration of justice, and ren-
der the laws of equa l peration, over every description of persons,
high or low, rich or poor, powerful or weak, and'' a terror to evi\
doers, and a praise to those that do well."
It needs but little arg ument and statement of facts, to demonstrate.
these threatco{ng and alarming evils. We will state those which,
Digitized byGoogle
IUISACHC8ETT8 AJl'TUU.IONIC CONVl:NTIOB,
have been developed, and are established past contradiction. A
murder has been committed, a most foul, aggravated and premedita -
ted case, the murderers as principals and accessaries before the fact,
not n few, men of character, influence and standing, the deed not
done in a moment of passion and of frenzy, hut cool, premeditated,
caleulating and prepared for, wilh much meditation and counsel,
and perpetrated by men of high standing in society, as well 11s
with
the order, composed of Clergymen, Lawyel'tl, Physicians, Magis-
\.., trates, Sheriffs, sworn to preserve the pence, and execute the laws,
the outrage ending in as an inhuman II murder as ever was record-
ed in the annals of crime in any country, and perpetrated by the
most blood thirsty handitti. The outrage was continued for a num-
ber of days, c~tending and continued through a number of counties
inhabited nof hy wild men of the forest, hut by a dense and high spir-
ited and enlightened population. And this violence, requiring the
aid, concnrrence and assistance of many indh•icluals, the names of
many hundreds, stand before the world implicated in the knowledge
of this violence and murder.
'l'he murdered victim stands confessedly by Masons themselves
accused of no crime, known to 011rlaws, his only offence wrts, his
lifting the frightful ,·eil froµi mystery, wickedness und folly.
Every one implicated, as princip al or necessary before the fact,.
are · 1indeniably masons. Every one implicated, as accessary after
the fact; every one, who aid~, a~sists and sympathizes with the
guilty, gh·ing them aid and comfort, are members of the order.
Whence is it, and how is it, that murder, which is so terrible a
secret, that it will out at lost, and can ~arcely be kept in the con-
fines ot one guilty breast, should so Jong have remained 11ecurein
the guilly bre.tsts of so many, as must have been cognisant of this
atrocious deed? What magic charm hns blinded the eyes, has
eeared the conscience, that usual unerring secret monitor, and made.
them so blind and so callous to all the enfl•eatjes of suffering, ex-
piring hum11oity-11ndso to change the usual sympathies and feel-
iogi1of men? It is a solecism, which the disclosures of the masonic
obligations, the mock miracles, the solemn mockeries in their pro-
fane mysteries, in the mystic conclaves and the infatuation and
fanaticism thereby engendered, with their barbarous penalties and
their too frequent secret execution, can alone solve. In these secret
concla,·es the initiates are ta.ught to believe the masons are a
peculiar, select nnd chosen people, the order patronized from times
of old, by prophets, priests and kings, the order faithful to ench
other on all occasions, '' right or wrong, murder and treason not
excepted." That the masonic oath and obligations are paramount
jlnd superior to every other oath and ohligatioo, and their secrecy
ls protected and enforced on every mason, by ancient immemorial
.mage nod custom, that no violator ever goellunpunished-,that
the sword of justice pursues and pierces the heart of every traitor
-tothe masouic order, and that no man will be suffered to live, who ,
Jaunfaithful to his masonic obligations, and that the tongue of shin- ~
.der, abu~e and vituperation will pursue him, during his whole ·
~tural life, wherever he may go, and when dead,_ his memo?
Digitized byGoogle
MAS$ACHVSF.TTS
A:lfT.IKASONIC
CO!fVENTI011f. 66
sJiall rqt, and no trace or remembrance :or him be -left with his
fello\Vmen and with masons especially. That offences against the
laws, committed to promote the interests of the order, are virlues in
the masonic brother, and entitle him to the appellation of" worthy,
faithful and true ." It is to the influence of this infatuation; and of
an adherence to these obligations, and the gross fanaticism and infat-
uation pro_
duce_
d by their pernicious influence, over the mincls of
masons, that the usual . sources of charity; brotherly love and the
forgiveness of injuries deeply implanted in the breast . of man, by
that God "in whom we live, move and have our being, " have heen
dried np. And all its purifying waters changed to those of bitter-
ness, wrath, envy and evil feelings.
It is through the pernicious influence of these masonic obliga-
tions, which prevented the whole body of the citizens, in the
neighborhood of the outrage and: violence, from rising en masse,
and indentifyi ng themselves with the constituted authorities and
exerting their utmost efforts for the suppression of the outrage and
the detection and condign punishment of the _
aggressoi:s. It was
that influence which caused lrea.,on in those sworn lo afford protec -
tion to the persecuted victim, which caused them to look 1Vithcom-
placency on this high handed violence, or the insulted and trampled
majesty of the laws, and to commit perjury, as regards ·their oaths
of office and duties as citizens. It was that influence, which has
rendered witnesses base 1rndperjured, or mute and contemptuous ,
before the cour ts in the trials of the guilty offenders. It was that
Influence, which has rendered futile all the forms of indictment and
prosecution on trial before juries, some of whom adhered to these
obligation~, whereby the.guilty have gone free. It is this inflti-
ence, which has made the trial h-ya jury a mere mockery, and the
administration of justice has thereby been impeded and obstructed ,
It has been that influence, which has renclered men guilty of inten-
tional perjury, in attempting to sit on the jury when they felt
,vithin their own hearts, the force ~f their masonic obligation, "to
extricate a broth er mason from difficulty,_right or wrong," and
which constrained them to become unfaithful to their o:ith to their
country, "to decide without fa',or, affection or partiality between
the prisoner at the bar and the people, according to the law and
the evidence." It has been that influence, which has bound the
press, the usual herald of fre edom, in its magic spell, its servile
chains, which has preven ted the knowledge of this high-handed
offence and violence, on the liberties and life of Willi.lm Morgan,
from flying like lightning through our country, and in a moment,
electrifying the people of these States from Maine to Missouri. It
was this influence, which caused a fear of creating an excite -
ment among the people in favor of the wrongs of oppressed hu-
manity. It was this influence, which enshrouded the public mind,
through the silence of the press, with masonic "caution, silence ,
secrecy and darkness." It is that influence, which now operates
on many of our public presses , and which has prevented the whole
facts, in the cases elicited judicially in the late New York trials,
from being brought home to the knowledge of every person in the
Digitized byGoogle
&6 Jli88ACHVSETTS ANTIIUSONJC COKVEIITIO!f.
community. In what country do we Jive, in Asia or America?
This state of things ~mclls strong of 'l'urkish despotism, where
no enqnirv is made inlo the executions of the Grand Seignor--
none durst enquire. Each is contented to hug his chains, provi-
ded they are made of silver. No murders must be enquired into,
no secret ;md mysterious deaths developed, no missing coses re-
ported, but the sovereigns ofmasonry are excited, I-esttheir servile
vassals, the hewers of wood and drawers of water of masonry-,
should be disturbed in their quiet and peaceable drudgery. No
sorrow-, no sympathy discovered for the unfortunate victims. No 1
they are arrogant and authorita_tive-, they must not be enquired
into, they are but "mere hoaxes" and " humbugs."
While so many of our citizens act under this delusion, many
the servile adherents, the willing vassals of thiSI worse than Asiatic
dominion of masonry. What can be done to arrest the evil and to
preserve the liberties of our country from being prostrated, before
its secret fearful influence and power, leaving us only the name and
the forms of freedom, while, the substance, the reality, leaving only
the shadow, is gone forever, being stolen away by night by the
mystic conclave of the sworn brotherhood, responsible to no known
public open tribunal foi• its decrees, its decisions, its secret execu-
tions and its crimes.
The remedy that we would propose is, we think, the only sure
'Corrective of these alarming evils, the only effectual preventative,
against these threatening dangers. It is in the hands of the people
to be effected by them, quietly, peaceably and constitution111Jy,
in
their primary assemblies, and solely at the BALLOT
Box. The cor-
rect, enlightened and careful use of the right of suffrage there
possesses a redeeming spirit, which is capable of restoring health
end vigor to our Republican institutions. Let our citizens, that
would live and die freemen, repair to this Ark of refuge, for our
)>oliticalsafety, and there enregiste! their irrevocable decree, that
a,i adherence to the masonic obligation, in any man, disqualifies hini
for any office ef trust, power, itt_fiuenceor emolument, i1l the gift ef
the people. Public sentiment so expressed, will carry wirh it force,
sanction, validity. It will extract the teeth from the monster ma-
sonry, and def)rive it of the power to inflict the poison of its fangs.
This course must eventually arrest the evils ofrnasonry and accele-
rate the downfall of the institution, whose great object has been,
to obtain unfair advantages for its members, by signs, grips, words,
and tokens, and will put an extinguisher on all such sinister hopes
and wicked expectations.
The masonic obligation by the patriotic exertions of William
.Morgan, the unfortunate victim and attester of their truth, and duly
authenticated by the masonic Institution, of its " own free will and
accord," with its own blootly seal, and the dis.iosures of the highe_r.
degrees, by others, influenced by his praise worthy example, are
before the world, their fearful import, alarming spirit and tendency,
have been judicially established, and their correctness fully proved,
and too distinctly illustrated by the practice and crimes of the ·
faithful adherents of the order, to need further illustration. Those
who in thedark, and as the sworn brotherhood say, of their '' own
Digitized by Google
IUSIM,CHUSETTS ANTDUSOllic c~.
ll-ee will and accord," went into the secret concla-re, and took-
these oaths, may now in the open day come out and not remain the
partakers in the sins of the institution, sustained, emancipated and
disenthralled by enlightened public sentiment and correct moral
feeling, without having their motives impugned, or their characters
assailed; except from masons, wffosemasonic censures are praises;
and whose masonic praises are censures and disgrace.
And if there are any high-minded, virtuous men; who, on a full
examination, should hesitate, we would entreat them to consider
this subject, candidly, carefully and discreetly. Wby should they
continue to lend their names to an institution, sought for by them
to gratify no sinister motives, or to acquire unfair advantages? What
utility has the institution ever been to any country during its age
of 114 years, throughout the civilized world? If it bas been ever
to any individual a shield, might it not with equal facility have be.;
come a two edged-sword? Has it not been in most republics, states;
kingdoms and empires, in Europe and the new republic of Mexico
in South America, a source of constant broil, sometimes between
different lodges of the charitable brotherhood? Has it not caused _
trouble and vexation to the rulers and magistrates, much caution
and . vigilance in most of them, and an entire and complete inter-
diction in others? Will all its boasted charities, its moral lectures;
a mere pretence, be but as the dust in the balance, compared with
the positive evils of this institution ?
We well know that the unusual situation in which we are
placed; by the secret usurpations of masonry, the proposed measures
and responsibilities we must assume in discharging faithfully our
duty to our country, and as the tax or price on the enjoyment of
the continuance of its freedom are imposed on us, by no ordinary
considerations, the measures proposed will cause offence to man:,
individuals, and incur the vengeance, malevole_n.!)e,
angry passions;
the slander and abuse of the adherents of the order; capable of be~
ing directed and managed by the efforts of a few, and possessing all
the means of acting in concert and in secret, of " striking and con-
cealing the hand," these are well understood and estimated.
But we can make no surrender of personal honor and indepen-
dence, truth and patriotism, to accommodate the blind servility of
the masonic empire. _ Who gave it dominion over us? We can
make no sacrifice of the duty we.owe our country, our children
and our God, to gain the favor or the smiles of any of the servile
adherents to masonic obligations, ceremonies, wickedness and
folly.
The safety of our republic is the supreme law. And with an
e,ye steadily fixed to preserve the independence of our countcy,
the freedom, the spirit and the principles of its republican institu-
tionti, to secure the equal, impartial and prompt administration of
justice, the purity of our elections and all the rights of free, un-
biased suffrage, :weare determined, through evil report RDdgood re-
port> to put forth our utmost efforts to effect, peaceably and con-
stitutionally, according to the laws, the entire abolition of muoncy
in our country, at whatever hazard to our lives, fortunes, or chat'- ,
8
Digitized byGoogle
b8 JUIMCBIJISI TI AIITUI.UO!QC COnuTtOlr .
acter, which may be incurred from the . efforts of the vassalsof
masonic despotism.
In taking this course at the ballot box, dictated andapprO't'ed
by
a fullconsideration of the errors and loSl}esoccasioned by·a relaxa-
tion of an adherence to the great !!P.timasonic
principle of masonic
disqualification for office, we ea~stly entreat our fellow citizens
to examine the subject, and act according to the dictates of truth
and reason, regardless of personal considerations, and make one
genernl effort, one and all to sacrifice all pel'tlonal feelings on the
altar of patriotism, and by one mighty effort, to shake from us, this
degrading influence and dominion-the approbrium, which hll8
affixed a bloody stain on our republic, which all the waters of Niag-
ara's famed flood can never wash out.
We have every reason from past History to encourage us, that
truth will triumph over error. Where are the Eleusininn myste-
ries? They are all revealed in History, in the same chapter with
its debaucheries, its crimes and folly. Where are the disciples of
Manicbeus, their temples and proselyting mystagogues scattered
and extended over the whole civilized world for several centuries?
Gone, forever gone. Their oaths, signs, words aod tokens, now
only exist in History as an evidence of the delusion and crimes of
those errorists.
Some may object that the exercise of the proposed measure at
the Ballot Box will exclude men, perhaps som~ friend or relative,
who is considered honest, meritorious, and above the influence of
nn,vorthy motives of any kind or nature. To this we would reply,
that all general rules and principles are liable to exceptions, but
these exceptions must not form the general rule, that very few
citizens, worthy and well qualified for places of power aod trust,
who will examine the subject, will be wanting in their duty to
their country on this occasion. If they a-ill not ezamine the subject,
they" d_
o not add to theirvirtue, knowledge;" if they are impelled
oypersonal considerations, interests or'. fear, to come out and act
with decision, they are '' weighed in the balance and found want-
ing" in manly courage, independence, public spirit, to be qualified
to be the watchful and vigilant guardians, to take care " that tbe
republic receive no deh!iment." If they choose to adhere to mason-
ry, "it is of their own free will and accord." The calm duties
of retired life are more suitable to their feelings and seotiment1>
and the republic will be the gainer, by reforming the administra-
tion of the selfish, sordid, the vacillating, time-serving character.
and bring i.ntothe senice, the uncompromising, the able, watch-
ful ancleffective guardians of public liberty and Freedom, men, ''who
dare to be honettt in the worst of times. In collecting soldien for
active service, no one should complain if he was passed by, be-
cause he had broken a limb by accident, or by incautiously " taking
a leap in the dark." In this age of wonders and period of revolu-
tions in Europe, and when our own institutions are assaulted by
a secret power, arrogantly claiming the power and ability, that
••..-hetber for good or for evil, we must take it as it is," "it must
he permitted to manage its own affairs IDits own way," and th&
"world •inlted in arms cannot put it down." A power so high it
Digitized byGoogle
lWIB.LCHVIE'M'I .t.NTUUIOIIIIC CQ~~•
cannot be reached, but peradventu~, its foundations are not. 10
deep but that they, by valor, perseverance and diligence, may be
approached and sapped. For this effective service, the republic
want vigilant, faithful, active, vigorous men, working _
men-n .
o
drones, lame, halt or blind. 'l'hose who have '' taken a leap in
the dark," and have become shorn of their locks, by the masonic
harlot, and deprived of their effective power, can make no com-
plaint, nor have cause to make any if they are passed by and
neglected by the people.
We would entreat our fellow citizens to exert themselves to ex-
tend the information and to strive to enlighten the public mind on
the nature, tendency, spirit and principles of the masonic obliga-
tions. We do know many high-minded and honorable men, who
have long been convinced of the gross imposture, and have abhor-
red its.,aths, Its ceremonies and crimes, but their lips were sealed,
through fear of the mystic, sworn, infatuated brotherhood. They
are looking with impatience for the manifestation of public senti-
ment, sufficient to shield them oo. their open avowal from the
vengeance of the order, their slander aild rage, and for thein:hll-
dren's sake, they cannot now incur the great personal sacrifice at-
tendant on the loss of their business, and the derangement of their
business concerns, the certain coo1equences of being faithful to the
country, which is treason to the masonic empire, to be followed
with the most condign punishment, followed and pursued by all
the adherents of the order, and sure to pursue -
them wherever they
may go. 'l'here are in the secret conclave, leaking vessels, who
confidentially give secret information of the movements -
of the
secret conclave, and the wonder-working of the operatives on this
Babel of wickedness and folly ; In this way they are rendering
essential service and are making expiation and atoneme~t for their
past instrumentality in assisting to raise the elevated and danger-
ous monultlent, founded in the sand, and by assisting in taking it
down and exploring its secret, winding labyrinth, they may much
assist to bring the poor deluded inmates to the light, and· restore
them to their country. And this monument now tottering and
threatening to fall, and overwhelm in its ruins, not only the wonder-
working deluded operatives themselves, hurried on with their
work, labor and refreshments, and insensible to their imminent
dangel'!I,but likewise dangerous to those attracted to its vicinage
by ardent curiosity or the wondering gaze of stupidity, promises
much through their continued a&ilistance,
to be quietly taken down,
and save its deluded inmates, workmen, and their friends, from
danger and harm.
And in this seuon of alarm, or
danger and trial, may e'ferJ good
citizen endenvor to Instil into the public mind an elevated moral
feeling, a correct enlightened public sentiment, that the people
may become awake to the dangers that threaten, and the means of
escape, and incited to put forth their utmost exertions, by all lawful
means, to fortify as many brave and patriotic hearts as possible,
to do all that men can do, for the preservation of our country.
And with a firm reliance on the Godof our fathers, His continued
.fa:vorand ble•inJ on all our lawful endeavon In the cause o/
Digitized byGoogle
lUSIACHUSETTi ANTDUSO.ifIC CO!fYUTION.'
rlgbteoli8Dess, justice, truth and mercy, we may yet -hope our
" magistrates may be a terror to evil doel'!Iand a praise to those
who do well," and our country the residence of freemen, the
"sylum of the oppressed, the avenger of the wrongs of injured and
persecuted innocence, and " a name and a praise throughout the
whole earth."
All which is respectfully submitted.
General Hoyt, from the Committee on-the nomination of a li11t
of
l)elegates to the National Convention, offered a Report which waa
read and accepted. ·
REPORT.
The Committee appointed to nominate Delegates to the .United
States Convention, to he holden at Baltimore, on the 26th day of
September next, beg leave to report the followinglist, viz:
Sµfi'olk-Abner .Phelps, Henry Gassett, AmasaWalker.
Essex-Stephen Oliver.
Middlesex-Nahum Hard_
y, Alpheus Bigelow.
Plymouth-Nathan Lazell, jr .
Norfolk-John Bailey, Joseph Morton.
Bristol-Micah H. Ruggles.
Worcester-Pliny Merrick, Gardner Burbank.
Hampden-Samuel B. Barlow. ·
Hampshire-Justus Forward.
Franklin-Epaphras Hoyt.
The same Committee, appointed to nominate a list of names
for an AntimasonicState Committee,
:Jt,EPORT,
That the faithful and able services of the present State Commit-
tee,, entitle them to the thanks of this Convention, and the Com-
mittee nominate them as the State Committee now required to be
appointed, to serve until others are chosen.
All which is respectfully submitted.
The State Antlmasonic Committee, first appointed January Jt
1830, and again this 20th day of May, 1831, are, ·
Dr . Abner Phelps Jonathan French
John D. Williams William Marston
George Odiorne Daniel Weld
Henry Gassett Jacob Hall
B. W. Lamb Benjamin V. French
Thomas Walley John P. Wh~twell.
Digitized byGoogle
11.&SUCllffa'l'TII AKTDIAIGIIIC CQlffUTJOX. e1
On metion,
JTotetl,
That the Antimuonic State Committee have power to
fill vacancies in their own body.
On motion,
Yoted, Thnt should any vacancies occur In the State Delegation
·to the National Convention, they shall be filled by the State Com- ·
mittee.
Mr.Gibson, of Suft"olk,from the Committee on the Press, offered
a resolution,
That the Antimasonic party ought henceforth to withhold their
patronage from newspapers and periodical publications, whose
avowed or secret object is to disseminate masonic principles, and
which refuse or neglect to-give the public authentic information of
the inftuence of Freemasonry in defeating the operations of the
Jaws,and interfer ing with the equal rights of citizens.
Adopted unanimously.
On motion of Doctor Porter of Suffolk,
Ruolved, That a committee, to wit. Meesrs. Pqrter, Paine, Ames,
.Gibson and Farnsworth, be chosen to take into consideration the
expediency of establishing a State Antimasonic Tract Society, with
Auxiliary branches, for the purpose of distributing information oo
Masonry throughout the several counties and towns In this Com•
monwealth, and report thereon to this Convention.
Mr.Bigelow's Report was called up and accepted, and commit•
ted to the Committee for Publication to publish such parts aathey
ma! think proper .
On motion,
Yoted, That the Antimasonic State Committee be a Committee
of revision and publication, in behalf of the Convention.
Doctor Porter, of the Committee to consider the subject of an
Antimasonic Tract Society, made a report which was read ancl ac-
cepted.
REPORT.
We have viewed with regret the want of systematic and well
prganized attempts to diffusea knowledge of Freemasonry, Its sin-
ful oaths, unlawful obligations;barbarous penalties and impious and
blasphemous ceremonies, among the American people. Nothlng
but the universal spread of this information is necessary, to dry qp
this prolific fountain of error, so debasing to the purity of moral
,entiment, "so dangerous to the soul& of men," and to the equal
enjoyment and participation in the rights and prMlegea of Freemen .
Much bas already been done to enlighten the public mind, at the
expense of philanthropic individuals, in publishing and distributing
rratultously tracts and pamphlets.
· But much more may be done, by concentrating the efforts of all
the friends of rational freedom, by creating funds which shall be
raised from small contributions among the people, which, pourlnt-
tbeir streams int9 a reneral reservoir, will enable • Co~ee tq
Digitized byGoogle
• KUUCEUl&TTI AIITIIUaOJflC -CIGtffaf'l10••
1tereotype 1uch important publicatlo111,1ach as the •~lga-
tlons and penalties of the aeveral degrees offreemasonry, as shall
be found most necessary to instruct the people., in the nature, tea-
dency, and spirit of the masonic institution. For it is vain to think
that ••Freemasonry will die of itself." It is to much allied to the
selfish desires of the human heart to expect this. And we never
can be safe, as a Nation, from its influence, even if drinn from this
land by the united voice of the people, loaded with the language of
scom and execration, while it continues to exist among other Na-
tlons, with whom we have intercourse. If in onr day and g~ner•-
tion the victory is achieved, the moment the sans of men slumber
and sleep, it will again steal on their confiding security, and silent~
overspread the land, like an overwhelming flood. Therefore it
it all important, that the present generation should be taught, oae
and all, the danger of Secret Societies, and an abhorrence of the
oaths of Masonry, and prepare them to teach it to their child~•,
and so from generation to generation.
The course is ·dictated from the necessity of the case, as the Preas
of our country is in a state offactitious dumbness, and is either silent
on the subject of masonry, or lends an influence unfavorable to the
promulgation of truth and the detection of error. To supply this
lamentable and alarming deficiency in the usual channels of com-
111unleating
knowledge, and to produce unlon of feelillg nnd.sentl-
,menton this subject, your Committee ·recommend, for the cOlllid-
eration of this Con\"ention, the raising a Publishing Fund, by con-
tribution, under the direction of the Antimasonic State Committee,
/or the purpose of combining the means and efforts, to extend the
knowledge of the designs and the deceptive arts of Freemasonry
into every part of this Commonwealth, and to assist our fellow
.citizens in other parts of the United States engaged in this National
.cause
.
..bollwhich is respectfully submitted.
Mr. Thacher from the Committee on Resolutions made a report
-,vhich was read and accepted. ·
RESOLUTIONS.
·Re•ol'Oed,
That our civil institutions, and our political and religious
;ights are based on truth, which never shuns the light, nor aeeks t0 i:onceal
its operations-therefore those associations or combinations which bind
by oath to eerpetual secrecy, and seek the covert of night, cannot be
,congenial mth the spirit and fundamentalprinciples of a Republican Gov-
,ernment.
· Be1ol11etl,
That the Constitu{ion of Masonry, as it exists in this coun-
try, .(foundec;I
upon its oaths of secrecy andof allegi<lnce
.toa power un-
knowflto the laws; sanctioned as are those oaths by barbaroU1Jandsan-
tuima~ypenalties,) ~ntially establi~ a distinft, independen!, a~ ir~
apoDSJble
government 10 the heart of th11 Republic-tlterefore; i.tS orp>u-
_zationand existence are ia direct OppoilWOJl ,to ,tlae Cooatitut,ion;d'the
.Uriited State$.
B•lud, That -~alous adherinr .Muona,h11vm, sworn unqualiffed
.U.~ce to, 'J">'We'f
of _
tb •bon dacriptiml ;•IOIon, Ii .they peiat ·,U·
Digitized by Google
IU.91.1.0JWRTTI .f.llJ'l'UUIOJQC COXVUTlQJr.
~wledging that alleci~ do thereby disqualify themselves for the
faithful and impartial discharge of any officeof power or trust, under our
National or State governments. ·
Ruowetl, That the rites and obligations ofFreemaaonry, aa they have
been disclosed by Recedingmasons, and proved in courts of law, by the
mo8t conclusive testimony, are subversive of the rights of humanity and
the equal operation of the laws; opposed to the principles of moral vhtue,
andpeculiarly adapted to foster and protect crime.
Re,olvetl, That as Freemasons have sustained and are sustaining their
diidinct and independent government, chiejf:gby that frimchia1e
which our
political institutrons guarantee to our ou,n citizenB who acknowled,e alle-
aiance
to butonehuman power, therefore, it is not only lawful but the
imperious duty of citizens faithful to the laws and the constitution, to use .
their franchise (which they have not alienated) in order to check and ulti-
mately suppre11sthis secret political domination.
Whereas Freemasonry claims b be religious, while its fundamental
principles are opposed to the precepts of the gospel, IUldthe duty we owe
to our country, therefore
He,owed, That this Convention view with r.egret and. disapprohation1)•
the.direct or tacit encouragement rendered to that institution by many of
the Clergy and other m~bers of tbe Christian Church, iq almost ever
religious denomination.•
Buolvetl, That as uo Lodge, Chapter, or Encampment, Grand Lodge,
Grand Chapter, or Grand Encampment, has expelled, censured or di►
countenanced any individual or individuals, of the numerous members of
thoee bodies, who have been tried or convicted of conspiracy in the abduc-
tion of William Morgan, followed by his murder, by such members or
their brethren ; therefore we have the right, in strict justice, to charge
the.abduction andmurder of that citizen upon the Masonic Fraternity.,
as the legitimate operation of tliel principles of the Order to which they
~he~ .
Buoluetl, That this Convention duly appreciates and highly approve•
the meritorious services of those members of the Massachusetts Legisla-
ture, during its past seasion, who oppoeed the attempts of the Masonie
Jnatitu tion to obtain an extension of"Legislative patronage.
• The estentsiYe
communion o( tb8 Methodist Epi1COpalChurch and the wholeSc,.,
ciety of Frienda are free from thil imputation. The former do not admit of Freema-
.,,.ry
in their Clerey or Churchu : and the letlAlr for many yean1, have madea COIi•
Dexioa with the Muonic Society an invariable cauae of ucluaion from·tbeir meeti111••
On motion o{ Mr. Walker of Sofl"olk.
Ruolt,,cl• That the thanks of this Conventton be presented to the
Hon. the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of BOlfao,for the use o(
Faneuil Hall on this occasion.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. Odiorne of Sufl"olk,
Yot,cl7 That the thanks of this Convention be pre■ented to .
tfle
Hon, TDIOTBY
FULL&,
for tbe able and dignified manner io wblelJ
be bas·preeided over it• deliberation-.
Digitized byGoogle
64 IUl8.lCR11R'M'S A1'TUU80NIC COlfVENTieA'. ·
Mr tULLEl\ rose and addressed the Convention, in subsbmce ai
follows:
GENTLJi:]U;N OF THE CONVENTJON,-
.The honour of presiding in this truly patriotic and respectable auem-
bly, being equally unsought and 1mexpected, would not fail to iDSpireon
my part a high sense of obligation, to discharge the duties of the station ·
with fidelity and zeal. The harmony of action which has been so emi-
r nently displayed by its members, the natural result of the laudable and ex-
alted objects; which we assembled to accomplish, has rendered thoae du-
ties easy to myself, and I am gratified to believe, that they have been wit-
nessed with favor and approbation by the Convention.
In expres..
..ing my thanks .for the expression by your vote of that appro- ·
bation, permit me partir.ularly to acknowledge the kindness of the hon-
ourable mover; and to add my earnest and devout hope, that you will
experience in returning to your constituents and to your homes, the de,.
light and satisfaction of having essentially contributed, by your disinter-
ested labours, to the emancipation of our country from a great and invet-
erate evil. M11yyour future efforts, encouraged by the good and virtu-
ous, be finally crowned with complete suC<'ess,and receive the unfailing
reward of generous sncrifieesand persevering fo.boursfor the happiness of
mankind.
On motion,
Vottd, Tbatthe doings of this Convention be committedto the
State Committee, to be revised and p~b,lishedunder their direction~
Prayer by the Rev. Mr Thacher of Norfolk.
The Convention adjourned sine die.
Digitized by Google
LIST OF DELEGATES
TO THI!:
MASSACHUSETTS AN'flMASUNIC CONVENTION,
.John D. Williams
George Odiorne
Jacob Hall
Dr. Abner Phel[)I!
Henry Gassett
William Marston
Daniel Weld
Jonathan French
Benjamin W. Laltlb
Benjamin V. French
John P. Whitwell
Thomas \Y alley
Joel Thayer
Ephraim Hall
Ebenezer Clougl1
Israel Ames
Thomas Barnes
Dr. Isaac F. Applet:m
Amasa Walker
Nttthaniel F. Ames
Dr. Isaac Porter
$ilas Pierce
Amos Farnsworth
Noah Lincoln
Simon K. Hewin1
John Sullivan
Jonathan Carleton
David Tilden
-
Samuel D. Greene
Thomas A. Davi11
Israel Martin
Richard S. Roberts
George Sutherland
John Reed, Jr.
Samuel Gulliver
Aaron Lincoln
Luther Short
John Burrage
William Coffin
Micah H . Rugrleo
Asil P. French
Philip R. Bennett _
Luther Lincoln
9 ·
SUFF'.GLK COUNTY
Horatio N. Crane
Stephen Child, Jr .
Sargent S. Littlehale
Martin Packard
C11lebStimson
Daniel Gregg
Otis Tilest.on
Daniel Ballard
Edward Smith
Isaac F. Rowe
,James Pike
William Simondai
Ezra Chamberlain
Moses Whitney, Jr.
Aaron Bancroft •
George Williams
Joshua Norton
Thomas Warren
George W. Adams
James Cheever
JO<!iahHait
George Gibson
Daniel Dickinson
Joseph Urnnn
John Marsh
Sam·uel Stimson
Amos Wood
Stephen Bate!!
Nathaniel Budd
Benjamin Sweetser
Paniel Wild, Jr.
Newell Withington-· -
-~
BRISTOL COUNTY.
Eddy Lincoln-.
Rodney French
Moses Richardson
Jonathan Peck
Charles A. Morton
Joseph Durfee, Jr.
James Dickerman
Sampson Perkins
Simeon White, Jr.
A bnu B. Giffi>N
Digitized by Google
JlillACHUlltTTS .IJITDIASOlflC COJivENTIOlf.
PLYMOUTH COUNTY .
Isaiah.!Iden
Henry Soule
WilliamMorae
Joseph Chlitllherlain, Jr . .
L. Smith
John B. Turner
Samuel Tolman, Jr .
Horace Ame.,
.Micah Pool
Abner Curtis
Elijah Kingman
Lysander Howar6
Elijah Amee
John Hoar
ffAMPDEN COUNTY
HAMPSHIRE COUNTY.
Jonathan Davis
Rev. Augustus B. Reed
Nathaniel Tower
Martin Kingman
Charles Starkweather
WORC~'I'ER COUNTY.
Rev. Joseph Goff
Gen.Caleb Burbank
Joseph Cloyes
Jonathan Cary
John Hobart
Asaph Rice
Lovett Peters
Thomae ,v.WaTd, Jr .
Stephen P. Gardner
H . Rock\vood
Gardner Burbank
Abel Goodall
Charles Boardman
John Johnson
Silas Henry
Zebulon Cary
Robert Peckham
NORFOLK COUNTY .
Hon. John Bailey
Col. Edward Foster
Oliver Davenport
Henr_y G. Durell
Otis ShC'pard
Isaac Howe
John Heath
Samuel Langlev
Nathan Smith·
1''rancia
Brinley
Aaron D. \Villiams
Mark P. Smith
Gilman Hook ·
Ebenezer Wild
Dr. Appleton Hows
Lemuel Humphrey
Asa \Yebb
Christopher W1:bb
Vini!on Tirrell
Ahner W. Paine
Richard Clapp
Pliny Binghatn
Herman Mann
Abner Ellis
John Guild
JosephClarke
Danit.>1
Chickerinr
AeaphChnrchill
S.eth D. Whitn~y
. JJseph F:Jlis ·
Joseph Mortorr
Joseph Porter
Moses Thacher
Ebenezer Blake
Lebeus Porter
Elisha A. Jone&
Samuel Allen
Charles Packard
· Noah Curtia
Abner Willet
Micah Orcutt
Thomas Taylor
Micah White
.Seth Mann
Zenaa French
Elijah Ad..ms
Isaac Horton
Joseµh Downtc11
Jedediah Tucker
Tisdale Drake
D.R. Lathrop
Luther Metcalf
Lemuel D. He,vi1111
Joseph Bugbee
Enoch Hewitt
Aaron 1\.lason
Christopher Slocumb
Hammond Rogers
Henry J. Turner
Sr.cpben Sanford
Digitized byGoogle
:iu.NACB11aTTI 4lffl.lUIONIC COll'l'UTIOlf.
FRANXUN COUNTY .
Epaphras Hoyt
Noah Wells
Michael ~l'Clennan
David Purrinaton
Rufus Day
William Smith
Isaac Woodbury
Jonathan Brown
EphraimWilliama
Ectmund Langley
MIDDLESEX COUNTY.
lrad Fltch
.Abijah Munroe
Charles Gordon
Edwin Munroe
•.\braham R. Thompeon
Timothy Fuller (President)
Francis Bowman
Samson Tarbell .
F. A. Staples
William Chaplin
John B. Merriam
Ebenezer Smith
Cyrus Smith
Eliab Parker, Jr.
Peter Sanborne
Amos Evans
Ambrose Kingman
Nathan Adams
Nathaniel Jaqueth
Rufus Straton
Stephen Pope
David 'fnttle '
Charles B. Davia
Timothy Johnaon
Josiah Bacon
Joseph Bacon
Elijah Adamt
Dr. N. Cutler
Burrage Yale
James Steel
John Clarke
George Coolidge
Thomas Barnea
Nahum Hardy
Amos Harrington
Ephraim Stetson ·
Alpheus Bi(elow, Jr.
ESSEX COUNTY.
Winthrop Newhall ·
William B. Breed
~hen Oliver
Jonathan Buffum
Jonathan Stone
William Pbillipe
AID08King
William»-ett
F. S. Newhall
Joshua Hawke
Benjamin Coleman
Stephen Barker, !ld
M. C. Pratt
James Pratt
David Fuller
Whole numberpresent245.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
8'7
B. F. Hallett, of Provideace, R. I.;Luther Metcalf, Medway, Mau.
Allen Partridgl!', Bellingham ; Stephen s_anford, - ; Avery Allyn~ .r
of New York· Abijah Bloodgood, Boston · Allen Newell, Brookfield; ;/
Jamee Allen, Warren Miller, Lockport, N. f.; Artemu LaQe, Munaon; .
Mr. RanlOD,
of Vermont-11.
Digitized by Google
' .
>
.4.PPENDIX"
LETT.ER TO MR. RUSH.
BosTox, 21 Mu, IBSI.
Boie'. R1c11.uo Rusu-
.sir-The Convent.ion of Delegates fro'1}the various parts of this Com- ·
monwealth, lately a&llembled~ this city to adopt auch measures as inigh\ ·
oonduee
to the suppression or counteraction of~uma,onry, have deputeQ:
the undersigned, as their organs, to express to you the high sense enter ...
tainedby themselves and bv the numerous class of their fellow citizens,
whomthey represented in ·that body, of your powerful and eloquent ex-
position in your recent letter, ol t_hesame portentous ev!I. The. infatua-
tionof a numerous body of men m a free ce.intry and m an enhghtened ·
ltate of society, which could trample upon the rights of humanity and
ei1encethe voice of reason and the suggestions of conscience, so far as to
shedthe hlood of its victim, is by your pen depicted in colors so glowiog, ·
u to impress conviction upon every mind. •
It must inspire our fellow citizens through the Un~on, with increasina
confidence in the ultimate success 11s
well as in the rectitude of their caute;
1Vhenthey find the1T\se.lves
sustainoo. b3 the sagacity, learning, andsperi-..
ence
of the most eaunent statesmen and scholars of our country: , lflhe -.
·
Prt11
has been bribed or awed into silenr.e,arid has suffered tbe community
~ slumber in delusive security with an enemy lurking among them and·-.
olandeatinely seizing the strong holds of tlleir liberty ; it is to the.wiadom,
,!Id virtue, and eloquence of those, whose counsels nave bitherLo alwa;pi-"
\Jeen
heard with deterence and followed with success, that the people musf·
look to enlighten and to guide them. ·
While we recoil with hortor at the depravity and wickedneas, which
--1totbe immolation ofa devo~ maff;)'i'9Yil. horde of desperate ruffians,
•tirated by a fraternity arrogatm11
so itself. the privil~es of despotia
pewerover it.Ideluded subjects; and ~lieve with you, that violations of..
private,and
penonQI r~ht IE-8'flagrant would in the glorious era·ofiui: :i
fariy·history, even in tJie absence of other grievances, have kindlecf·thti ··
:1:
lame ofr~olu-tion ; J>f'Fmit
us to advert to othermu, which have lo~ ·"
pialed,though but partially perceived by thecommunity 1 in'Which w-,··
:~~
-
live, and which have arisen and grown UJ>
in the' exuberant soil of~ · _..
~nry. Not to men\,ion the prod.gal wp,e of time, nor the'COnsump-_
~on of the mean• required, for purposes of Charity, in vain display or
V convivial indulgen~ we cannot but regard the process of induction and
initiationthrough the various degrees of the craft, as unfolding a seriesof
ceremonies, equally puerile and degrading. These are objections to the or-
der ofmasonr_y,which are chiefly confined to the membera themselves, and
to their familiei. There are others, which reach the whole community, and
which tend to contaminate the streams of social intercourse, and to poison
~ sources of confidence and integrity in every port. In every city ·and
villqe the com!>inedsupport and patronage of an affiliated
corps, known
WHeh oth~r by conr,erted signals of recognition, but unknown to allbeside,
Digitized byGoogle
69 .J
acliu, ill co~ert a&uil!6t the unconscious nmks !)f their ~119w
c~ .. ~
muet speedily produce ·the most striking rel!ults, in elevating .the _objectsof .•
, v
their prererence to.office and wealth, and in dep1essing their competitors
in the same proporthm.
Such a course of action _and such results have long been discernable
through the wide extent" of masonic influence. Nor-is it .doubted, that
advantages of the nature alluded to have been among the Htrruigeatallure- - .
ments, especially to youthful and aspiring candidates, to t1eekits protection . -:,
andi\s aid in the acquisition of patronage and promotion, to the e:x;clusion ·
of others of equal or flllperior pretensions, but whose .merits have thus ,
been .le!tto languish in obscurity and despondence. The strong te~ , ."7'. "
tion jhus held out to sei~ethe fruit without the labor of its cultivation has . .;,
probably been the chief incentive to the votaries of the order. The tedi-.
ous repetition ofsenscles! forms and the endurance pi degrading mummeriea
would never have been submitted to hy so many aspirants, from mere
t:Urionty to explore the vaunted mysteries of the craft, without the stimu-
lus ofbene6~, m;>recertain and substantial. Here too we may easily
discern .the real n,iagnet, which even now sustains and holds together the
congr~ga~ in~ of freemasons through our land, overcoming the strong
disapprobation daily more a11diblein the utterance of public opinion. Of
public,cipinlCID:
tpasonry hllllno fear ; for its decrees ma'lOnry has no res-
pect. ~rraye4 in panoµly or mysterious temper, shrouded in impenetra-
ble s1,creey,surrounded hy thousands of blind adherents, and in posses-
11ion
of the .atrong holds ·ol power and p/itronage-; she hurls defiance and ~
threa4lns destruction to her assailants. " She fears nothing from violence;
for she basevery means to counteract, defoat and punish it."
To int4ni1te the possibility that masonic oaths and obligations have en•
tered the halls of justice, and minglec.!their abominations in the purity of
its adµµnistration, has been thought too bold a suggestion. And surely ." .
the quiet of society must be fatally disturbed, if the suspicion is awakttn-
.
ed, that the security of our property, and our lives is to be sported with by
auch pernicious influe~s. Yet certainly the murderers of one victim
pave been screened by those influences. Hence it is evident the danger
exists, and hence the vigilance of all, who seek their rights in Courts of
Justice, isjn_eyita.bly ~r-01,1sed,
and their eye anxiou.sly roves through the
fj.st of those, who are to determine the controversy, Beyond the imme-
diate limits of the scenes alluded to in a sister State, these dangerous ten-
dencies of masonic obligations have not been equally obvious, perhaps to
very great extent may not have existed. Yet henceforth tho,e corrupt
trials, sanctioned as the-y1:1eem
to be, certainly not,disavowed, by the fra~
~rnity, must infuse the poison of their example through the entire sphere
of its influence. The danger is neither.imaginary nor trifling; and even
the jealousies, engendered by the morbid condition of communities whertt
masonry blends its uncongenial principles with the elements of society,
must materially weaken the veneration of the public for judicial dicisions,
andtqus endanger one of the strongest pillars of our happy institutiona;
With the deceptive character of the pretensions ormasonry to acien-
~ifieexcellence and to extraordinary cha1ity, tlie public have been made
fully !l.:_guaioted
by the disclosures of some of the most candid and ·respec-
table of1ts members, who have had the courage to abjure their allegiance.
These compRratively harmles& boasts, and even its puerile ceremonies
and i~ ridiculous pageantry, we willingly leflveto be quietly practised and ..,
enjoyed in the recesses of the Lodge. But the evils we would avert or
exterminate, and to which we have before alluded, are of such a nature,_
that the fabric oJ society is endangered by their countinuance. Gladly
will we hail the day, when masons shall renounce their exclusive privileges.
andabjure the oaths and obligations which conflict with their duties a
Digilized byGoogle
1.&'1'TD TO llfl\. a.via.
citi1-en1
IUldchriatit1111.Their fellow citizens would receive them ,vitlt
cordiality, and rtatore them to their c-..onfidence
and esteem. Hitherto
aecedera
from their ranks have encountered the hatred and obloquy of the
whole order, by their intrepid and virtuous course. 'fhe independence
and courage required to form and execute a resolution to secede, can only
befound in a few superior minds. Without donbt the great majority of
the fraternity, less interested and less prejudiced ttian their privileged and
exalteddignitaries, would be easily induced to relinquish the·ties and the
trappings, with which they find themselves encumbered. But the arts
andexertions of the few inflame their pride and their prejudices, by
misrepresentinr our eflorta and cha1ging us with proscription and perse-
cution. We trust, however, the day approach(:'$ when the public voice
■hall be 80 load and so unanimou11, that the .infatuated and spell-bound
devotees of masonic delusion shall be awaken1!d to reason, and shall joy•
fullv flyfrom the dangers which beset them, to the long deserted ranks of
their fenow citi1-ensand friends.
fn the pleasure and satisfaction at such a result of their ·1abors, the op-
ponents of masonry will forget the unmerited reproaches so often repeated,
of being disturbers of'the quiet ot their neighbors, promoters of quarrels,
" fomenters ofjealousies, selfishly ambitious of honor and office, and what•
ever else the desperation of masonic zealots now alleges against them. It
will be for them a high reward to see their present adversaries liberated
from the meshes of a mischievous delusion, and their country relieved from·
aninveterate evil. This pleasure will be greatly heightened by the reflec-
tion that in effecting their object they have coincided in the views, and in
• humble degree contributed to the success, which yourself and other
eminent and highly gifted citizens have been 80 conspicuous in aceom-
plitthing.
We tender you, Sir, in behalfof the Convention, the assurance of our
hi,rhrespectand conaideration.
TIMOTHY FULLER, Pruittent .
STJ:PHJ:N P. G.+.aD!fJ:a, }
ABNJ:B PHJ:LP■,
Er.a.raau HoYT,
Mic.+.H H. Ruoat&a,
Yau Prui4«rtte.
Digitized byGoogle
MR. RUSH'S ANSWER.
YoRK, PEtorNSYI,VA.NJA, Joruc 30, la:ff.
Gelllumen :- Your commuuicatiQ.D dated the 91et of May, and bearing . ths
Boetoupoet-mark of the 21st of this month, reached me on the 911th instant,
which 1 mention as it will account for what might otherwise seeiu a long In•
Lerval between it&date and this acknowledgement.
The favorable sentiments which, as Delegates of a Convention lately usem-
bled in Boston from vari0\18parts of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to
• adGpt measures for the suppression of Freemasonry, you have been plP.ased to
expreaaof the views which l have given to the public upon this subject, yield
me a very aolid,salisfaction. They naturally and powerfully tend to conftrm
in my own mind the soundnees of those views. They demand all my acknow-
ledgements, which I beg leave to tender to :vou, fully and sincerely. You
have yourselves presented views of the subject, other than those which I took,
that are full of importance. The subject indeed is of great extent, and may be
u11efullydiscussed under a variety of aspects, as different minds may be differ•
ently affected townrds it; nnd thus the aggregate of separate contributions
will in good time make up the entire volume of liirht with which it ought to be
eucompaased.
In the letter which has drawn forth your obliging communication to me, It
was my object to hold up the dan11;ersof Masonry as seen in the contest it hu
waged with the LAw in Morgan 's case, and the victory it has won . That part
of the subject, nnd, in direct connexion with it, the enalavement of so great a
portion of our Newspaper press to Masonry, were those upon which alone I
111eantto dwell. l thought these points plain :tnd pnctical, nnd the ground
under each so elrong, that it was impossible not to stand firmly upon it. As
further reflPction leads me to think it still stronger than nt first, and as I have
uow, in addition, your valued approbation, besides that of others of my fellow
citizens whose approbation cannot bat be flattering, I will claim your indu),
ience whilst 1 throw oat a few more ideas under the same heads, and perhaps
_ incidentally upon some othere. It is of the Law of which I chiefly desire to
•~ak, in its coonexi011 witb Masonry, bec•ose it is of the utmost moment that
,its troe doctrines should be understood. Not only do all our civil rights · de•
pend upon the true nnderatanding of them, but also our public liberty. First
howeYer, of the PreSll.
The thraldom of the press was evinced by Its general silence under the foul
deed of lHoriian'• abduction and murder; or by the ab•ence of that decided in•
dignation with which it ought to have followed it op, such as the press is aore
to manifest in other cases where great crimes are perpetrated; or, whnt wu
..
more disreputable still, ·by not unfrequently treating the whole subject with
lnity, making it the occa~ion of coarse ribaldry and unseemly merriment.
The friend■ of the preu will have cause to blush, as often aa thiJ part of lte
history in our country is recalled . They.will feel shame in recollMtlng, that
when the liberty nod life of n citizen wera struck down by a conspiracy of H•
traordinnr_y boldness and malignity, an immense majority of the American
press, u far as I had any means of knowing, to repeat tbe expression of my
fol'IOer letter, ifit spoke at all, ~·ould not ,peak out; thnt a~aiust all its nature
and habits. it grew tame ; or even if at first, to save appe:it·ancos, it did make
l!Omedemonstrations, and shown guarded indignation, that it soon ~rew in,
becoming indifferent, becoming blind 1 to an unspeakabll) outrage,.Jhttt it knew
to be still unuenged. lo fact, that it laid down its Tigilance, ita intelligence
and its spirit, at the footstool of Freemaeonry. More reprehe118ible than all:-
that, reversing its true duties,jt abaolntely exerted its spirit and launched forth
its virtuous horror only against thoee who embarked In the pursuit of justice; by
, ..braodin1 that pureajt u an 'unntceuary" e:R:itement;" and that finally, In ef.
kct, it passed over-the neee-ry c:msequeuce.• of ita meuored step apin1t
~•~ <'rime.ill the i,.ginning--to thaside of the oft'e11dingpa,ty, wll•re now it i•
Digitized byGoogle
7! MR. RUSH's ANSWER.
·11eenin full jui.:111position, admini~toring to Masonry the comfort which it
needa in this remarkable fellowship. Such, In a word, has be-en the coarse of
the preu. Often, in other times and countries, It bu been silenced by arbitra-
ry will, or bought up by corrupting gold; but In thi:1country, it has been be-
etrodden by Muoory . Servitude under any circumstances; is homiliatin1;
but in the lowest depth, there is a lower deep; and thnt our preaa aboold ban
bowed down in worship to this Idol, is the step into that deep. A late writer
on the" Principles of Morality,'' Dymond, who1e early death thoee who et and
bijih in letters ia Brit~m deplore as a public loss, whilst discussing the -.ubjeot
of new,paper,, utters this striking opinion; "'th/Jt tlttro an sOYnet1'e4li,,l,t,
editor, who do luJrm i,athe toorld, to an u .tent in comparilon toitlawhieh roKer-
'ill and trea1on are as nothing ." l give the pusage in llis o\Vn empljatic
word.. lfthia searching writer, as he has been called,-he waa of the society
of Friends am! an honor to that society ,-could have witnessed in the United
States the 1ubject100 of a large band of editors to Masonry, he would not BONI•
ly have revoked hi:1opinion. On the contrary, aatoniahment and di1guit ·muat
line t11kenpos5"tion of his bosom at perceiving bow the p'reas in a· co-cmtry
-
proud ofita freedom, could have come under such a yoke; and, being under
it, how it could p;!,SS from ob:1urd1tyto absurdity, at one time losing it.se1f i_
n a
confusion of !he understanding, at another in a tornado of passion, in attempts to
e.xcuse itself for not doing ils duty· to the public under an event as authentic as
ever arose in any country, for drawing out all its honest and most uncomprom•
ising indignation.
The National lntelligencer of the 11th of this month, now lies before me.
Thfa newspaper has long heen published in the capital or the Union . For llie;h
and various .merit, lido not believe thnt it is e.xcoeded by any journal iii thi1,
er in aoy country. Its conductors do honor to a profession as noble and usi:ful
in its honorah!e exercise, as it is mischievous and unworthy in ita abuse. l!:lo-
vated in mind, they never, whatever their own views of subjects, fall to' state
fairly the views of those from whom they differ, and never to my remembrlillc.e
hue they, in the whole course of their career, soiled their columns with porsoll"'
111
indecoru-ms. Yet, what do my eyes behold 1 This paper, candid asit is, fe,itb-
fnlly as it desseminatew all other information, ably as it discuaaes all other fl\fea-
tions, will not touch that of Antimasonry. lt \~ill not perollt it!!elf" to be'fnlfnl.
m.ntal in fomenting an excit~mcnt, whicl,, pr-e'Dailingei:tfflli'oel!Jilt 1ome 1'01'U
of the country, had its origin ~n tltc in.dignation justly e:r.citedbyt/10 abduction
aonM y,ars ago, of a person by.the name of Morgan!" -A 'Pftt!Olf 13Y 'l'HE !U:JIUI:
or MoaGAN ! ! Tbns do theae experienced editors speak 'ofthe 'case H lf it
were still new to a large put of their oomeroua readers; ·wbieh 'probably, Wall
the fact. It e.eemsto have been the first time that they had meddled wit'b it,
end it is intirr,ated that their press will meddle with it no more. la not tbia
enough to shock us? Will more proof be called for, 'etcept by the Infatuated;
of the bowing down ofthe press before the unseen, wide-sweeping seourge af
the Masonic Institution ? The estimable citizens no less than acco,nplished
edit.ors
to whom, and to whose proH, I here venture to allude iri furtherance ol
\he principle 1 have in hand, may be well a1111ured
that it Is done in not the
..Jigbte,t spirit of personal disesteem. They are themselves, I dare to say,Jin-
aware of the controlling influences under which they Jabor; they do not ·per-
ceive how tbey breathe them in with ·the 1ocia\ atmosphere ; how they are
dripping with the delet1,riou1 damps of Masonry, without knowing how they
come, 1111y
more tloan the damp" of the night. - ·
As to the LAW,never in any age or no.tion·waa it more completely laid ptot•
trate by any power, than masonry has done ii in the case of Morgan. u·this
be not enough to cOllsign it to reprobation in a free state, there Is nothing eke
that will. We have been wont to telk of the law being sovEREJG!f wttil · u•;
but it i• MASONRYthat is sovereign, as things now stand. This is no uncon>
eidered a11ertion. I shall procetd to the proof, with a eonfidenc• than wJ;ich
the human mint! never would be juetified in feelio,: more, 011 any moral propo'-
aition. It rests on evidence ttrong aa adalnalit, 'though it be 'nt>t all technical
evidence . It rests on p1inc1ple•co-extensive with tbe civilized world; prillci-
ple• out of which empires- have arisen, and will ariee again. Did our' lkllier1
-of ''76-
coosult Gilbert'• law of eridence, cwthe chapter in Hawlrlna;
t6 kuo'W'
if
· •very act of -oppN11Jioaaplilat -them co11ia' be technically ptoYetl in dN'rt 1
Digitized byGoogle
IIIJl, IWSll't illWEJ\.
Dill the Enflilh of 1688,or the French of !Mt July, ataad upon.-uch dQCU'ipef
The poblio safety is not tboe to bo cavilled away. 1Li• not, ae Lord Chathaqa
Nid, to depeRd upon-books with Ule leave• turned down in dop ear,. Every
8QCl:el8ive
day, that finds the murder of Morgan unavenged, marks a continua•
tien ef .the wtrage which the longer existence of Masonry in our country, ear•
lies with it; as the Masone who committed it, or who knew of it, still elude
puniahmenl by clinging to their Masonic obligations, which they bold -&o be
1M1periOT
to the law. Though it be even admitted, that this ariae1 from illna-
tio.iemia them, which perverts the true intention of the Muonic obllplion 1
aociety equally suffers and is equally outraged. When the inltitutioa, aft'eet•
lag tn complah1 of" pcrsuution," exclaims," pw.nis/a
the guilty, bMtnot tJu ill•,
110c•J1t,"it faUe into a mockery, which aJfronts society anew; for it illthe Yer'f
.Ma110nic
obligation ltaell, which never would have place but for the lostitutioa,
that eoablea the guilty to elude the law. Whan, too, the Institution, rea,ing
lte presumptuous crest to a parallel with Christianity, tells u1 that cri111eaoom•
mitted in the name of the latter 11renot allowed to recoil upon religion, .and
elaims tor Masonry the same indulgence, it advance, a claim more audaeioua
~an absurd; a claim that no uubiassed mind will noticti, unlen to remark
upon its greater sacrilege than sophistry; as ii the onths, and grips, and my••
leriee, and titles, and the whole train or anticks, in alliance with which Muon•
ry finds it indispensable to perform her charities, were all of sacred origin ; all
ju_re diiiino, like the claim of monarchs of old lo their thrones. The lhougbw
ehuch a parallel, make Masonry doubly hateful, showing that it ie blown up
by impioue inflation; that not content with causing murder upon earth, it i&
for mounting up afterwards into heaven.
But il8 pretensions to religion form a Lranch of the diacunion into which I
did not go, nor do I desire to go , The only concern that society at large CID
boe with Masonry politically, is on the ground of its doing a.poeitlve injur7
to ,ooiety. What its predilections may incite it to cherieh in theory or eaaot
J■ practice, within its own walls, those outside need l)Ot care about. L~ It
employ itself as any other benevolent, or festive, or theological brotherhood, II
any or all such it constitutea, with its own duties and pastimes, u long BI it
kMpe within ita-own limit,. But the line must never be passed. It esiate
permilliYely, under the license of society. The oontiou.nce of its <?barter;
dependaupon its innocent conduct. This most be unequivocal and invariable.
There muat bo no exception collaterally, any more than direclly. The m<J4
.
~ it ie diacovered that person• belonging .to thi1 brotherhood can con11pi~
lrfalnat tbe liberty a'nd life of a citizen who bad broken no law ot the land, bul
mtirely IOIDeof its own edict•, and when these persone can escape deleetioa
by perflUarlingthemaelvea that the voluntary oathe and other eelf-a91u111ed
·eb.
ligations which bind them to the brotherhood are of higher authority than the
law",no matter under what mistaken notions of those oaths a11doblicationa
the1 act, from that moment the whole Institution, from which auoh rank d.tu• ,
1iane and tremendous perils proceed, aaeumes a new relation to 110oiety
. _h le
piaced Inthe attitude of an ag&'ressor. It rides over the Jawa. It i1 .p.illy;
eon1truotively if you will, but obviously and legally guilty. It atande r~pon• .
•Ille for the blood ol acitizen. In vain it may allege that its precepts mcul•·
cate obedience to the laws, whil1t its ignol'&ntor wieked members Yiolatetliem
throngh a feeling which the Institution generates, in their D1iod1at leeat.
The cr1 that it is" per•~utad,'' is a contradiction to common 18~18- It caa-
fto longer claim protection like other bodie11
of men,.united for tbe1r own/ur•
,-,. Society and such an Institution cannot exist 10 eafety together, an •
&h•
latt.,r must give way, The first principlea of ,ociety, all the securities tits&.
k~epit from flying uunder, stamp this reuoning with tnt1h. It epriop froa
the 1ll'lt Impulses of the mind, and Is ratified by the covenant■ of enr:, eode.
No lawyer, no judge, no publicist, In whatever clime he rnay live, ani.u ha
•odel'lltanding be subdued by Maaonry, ean gainaay ita foree. The malter le
arm, _
erable for the aervant, the 1uperior for the interior, ~e part,y par'l!l°uat-:
fer him who acts under influence. The very dog uncha1~d, who does ~JorY.
In &hestreets, fixee liability upan the owner , T_heeeare pnmordial ~ _of
J.ri,prudence, loeall}' and an1Yersally, They lie at the foundadon of tndlrid·
ul, IOOial,and poliucal eafety, No ,overnmenta, no communiti•, cioneof~
linlll of oi'ril life, coold bold together a day without theit shield. 'l'her ..
10
Digitized byGoogle
...
JIil. RVSR'I Alf1Wll1.
the ceioent of eaola wlthtn it.aelf,and vf all to each other. Let it aot N ,aid
that the reaponsibility is for civil rnisconduct, not crime. This i1 a distlnctiOD
that can 11vallMuonry nothing. Nobody dreams of indlcti111 innoeent Ma-
eonafor the mu.rder of Morgan ; but only of putting an end to the lnllitutioa
for \he 1utm:ient reason that guilty Masone took hi~ life throurh an ignoraut
aiaunderelaoding or corrupt perversion of their ties to that laatitution. It ia
tbia that bring• legal guilt home to the lo1tit11tion,on the queetion now raiaed
M between iwelf and society. It 1how1 the Institution to have been the IIIIOV•
tni spring to the crime ; the Influence paramount that instigated it; the au,-.
rior pow11r, I do not aay that commanded-thie is not neceaary to the uru•
ment-but that caru,d the crime. Here ia enough, (unle• indeed this fun1u•
of human device, this mere craft of man, is to go 011 with ita claim to co-equal-
ity with Chrlatianity,) quite enough, to bring it under -the broad conservati"
maxim of the law to which l appeal. We mu,t look at the maxim in ita high•
est reason; not merely aa one to be pleaded in a court of common law, but
deaigned, in the far wider range ofita dignity and juetice, to throw ita protea•
tion a.er mankind. We make Masonry amenable to it, in the only way In
which the American people in their collective capacity, can apply ita savlllf
efficacy ; viz : by insisting that the Institution which caused I.he crime, bi
diiloolvcd. Tho great coroner of 1he nation-such would the prees have been
on this emergency ii it had not shamefully deserLed its poal-holding an in•
que,t .over the dead body c,fMorgan, could render no other verdict, if the ver-
dict covered the whole ground, than that he came to hi•d111tb by Muons, oa4
througA Ma,onry. If the verdict were qualified by aayiog the bad 1pirit of
.Ma10ory, 1101 its good, what difference would this make to the nation, 1eeing
that Muonry, in some form or other, was the source ol the whole tranaaction.
To the nation therefore is Masonry, upon the sounde•t priociple1 of Ja..-, ac-
countable for hia death. The sa{ety of the people is THIii SUPREIU LAW,
which will disdain all shadowy distinctions in a ca11eof this magnitude and
eo~ern. It i1 from Muonry that the Commonwealth hu received detriment
in the destruction of a citizen, aud the old custom of Rome should be revi,od .:
die people muet take care that it receives no more. · .
Thi• conservative maxim of jurisprudence, I, eeen in its broadeet application
when in force between nation and nation. The entire family of indotpendelat
nationP, acknowledre its indi,putable validity. Hence ,rovermenta,JLDd coue-
qnently nation,, are held re1ponsible for :i. mere indigmty offered to the penoa
of a eitizen of another nation, although the nation, collectively within who•
!imits the indi1nity ma)' have been committed, be free from all Imputation ~f
&11-.intentfonal
guilt, Hi1tory abounds with such facta, and with accoantl of
ware,followed up to the overthrow of nations, growing out of them, I miJbt
mention, •• a very freah illueuation of the reneral doctrine, the course JUlt
panned by France in deapat.ching a aqnadron to the Tap, lo av-.. the da•
,rndinr treatment 1hown to a French subject In Litbon, although it would .ap-
pear to hue been denied that the Porturueae Ki_n4r
(Don Miguel) bed aivea
ID1 Hnctlon to the outrage; for the French Mm11ter'• note of reclama:.ion~
doe, not undertake positively to say that it bad bis aanotion. Had Litboil ovea
beeo bombarded and its innocent inhabitants suff'ered, it would be ootblna
more than we have seen, in eff'eot, in analagou9 casea among independent aa•
tiona. Yet Masonry, in defiauce of all thia, in defiance of the abaorbin1 and
tranecendant nature of pnblic rights, whether u claimed and exerciNd eo iia•
•ari.bly by 1tate1 within tbemaelvea, or internationally, affeclll lo tbmk .lh&l it
i• not to answar for an offence committed by the immediate member• of it.a.on
body, tutin, from. a ,pirit inj•asd into them by that body. The latter lnf""1·
nt make• the cue far stronger than the one just cited, or any other lik•IY to
occur between States ; not to mention other enormities in the cue of Morf'II
that recoil de jur,, and, aa we shall see presently, de Jacto too, upon \be
Lodg•. But what am I eaying ? Why do l forget myeelf? With gowrnsnenca
maaonry 'IJillbold no parallel ; with nations it will bold no parallel ; nollaiag
but Christianity is its compeer ! The Lodge and the Church. are ever In c..
Jeatial glory coupled. Christianity is not anawerable for the bad deed, ef
Christians; therefore, muoory must not be answerable for the bad deed• of
mllOl!a ! Such 18 tbe con,urnmate blupbemy of maeonic logiclt. Someth!lu,
tilde~, it will 1toop, a little. It will tran1iently condeteencrto eoapaN itNY
Digitized byGoogle
MR. RUSH'S ANSWER. 76
with the Senate of the United Shtea; or, being fond of old thi1.1g1,
to the old
ReYOlutionary
Congress. It i• in the matter ot ,ecrecy, that it thua comes be-
low it•. heavenly a&pirations. The comparison pnrportl, that as nations senie-
t1mes tran■act their affairs with cloaed doors, the 1111tion
of Freffllaaona have
aleo a good righfto close theirs eternally, with the auperad<lition, en bagatelle,
of eternal oaths, and penalties, lest they come to be orened.
Let us look into the moving spring of all this sell exaltation. It may not
lie so mnch below the surfac.i as that common penetr~lion cannot easily ,:et to
it, it it will but be exerted . I am unwilling to tran•gress upon your kiudneu
b1 makinir my letter too long; but the suhject is full of interest.
The public have so long been familiarized t~ the name of Freemasonry, and
It urges its claims upon the public so imperiously, that we have not yet learned
to treat it as it deserves to be treated ; that is with nothing more nor less than
justice. Through the same cause, its own sensibilities have got into th., wont
atate of morbidness, ao as to be vulnerable to the slightest touch. W rappin1
itself up in Its exclusiveness, it has no ear for the truths of this world. Jt
seems as if neither its understanding nor its moral faculty, could be reach~d
by them . It asks a standard by which to be judged applicable to no associa•
tion of individuals of subordinate and secular ore;amzation, in existence. If
this standard be denied, it puts forth complaints of hardship , and anon falls ID•
to paroxyam1of fury , as if the foundations of the world 1rere struck at;
Assume& the God, _. .
Aff'ects to nod,
And seems to shake the 1phere1.
Thi■ i8 eyer ill magisterial port. Remote ages are invoked, and name• of re•
DOWD among the quick and the dead ; the cardinal virtues are marshalled H
te1timonial1, beaming like the fires of Elusis, to overpower the scepticism or
9llence the contumacy of all who presurr.e to breathe a doubt against its puri•
ty or -raise a finger againat its away. It is fit says Bacon , that we aometlmet
burn incenae where bad odour• have been raised. So it is with masonry.
Thousands who join It by crosaing the threshold of a lodge but once in their
liH1, becanu they find that once anough, know no more of what pane• thtre
afterward1,th,n _
or what i1 going on in the region• to which Uly!llle1 de■ce!ld·
ed. But by setung out these namea, by dwelling .upon bye-gone centur~
and unrolling the faded catalogue of its other merits, which the uninitiated are
to take upon ·the credit of its own kniehts in buckler, It seeks to draw aside the
un.\eratanding from a scrutiny into i1s more recent achievement,, and all itl
exiating deffrts. It may be profitable to detach oursel•es, for a moment, from
tbeee demands upon our reverence and look at the case before u1 under I
ehange In the outward circumstanc•• • but of none whatever in the real 1ub•
lta~e. This moJe of viewing It, may open an a,-enue through which the
jodgment can paea, without the common hindrance,, to riaht conclusion• on
the character and deeds of Masonry .
Let ue 1•ppo99 then, that a new society had been forqied In the United
8tates about five years ago, under a-name before unknown to u1, and mod•
elled, we will aho say, after one abroad ; for e.rample, in Con1tantinQPle.
For c:onvenleace, we will give it a name. We will 1uppose it to have been
called, " The Brethren of the S.n and Moon, componimu of t/&•Star,, and
K1li6At•
of the eriwu,m turban . Let ue euppose that aome of the memben of
tbie -lety; a dozen we will say , had, with the aid of certain sign~ knowa
among themselvea, and to all moslema, but of which others knew nothmg, laid
a oonepiracy againatthe liberty and life of one of011rpeople and destroyed both,
torbreakin~ aome &fita own aelf-created rules. Our sapp011ltioninclu~e• the
Idea of ■ecrecy, as fundamental to their rules; and _
it ref'lrd• the society U
compoeed of Americaru u well u foreigner■. Let u1 further and lastly •np•
po,e, that these titled and turbaned aa9ociators had th11m,by virtue of certain
eabalisttcal vows that boun°dthem to their eociety and to each other with an
•neTflYu if Inscribed on the banner of the prophet, continued to defy,. for fun
fe\lr year■ out of the five of the 1oclety'• existence, all our conrta and Juries to
-•iet them of this conspiracy and murder, although their guilt wu 10 fta•
crant
that no intellirnt mind would think of doublinJ it :-what ,rould not
b&Yebeen the C..linc of the people nary where .,.imt auch a eoclet7, 811d
Digitized byGoogle
MJ\, BUSH'S ANBWEJ\,
,rhat lawful u1ean» would have been left untried for it.o 1uppre1aion? Sow,
here la the case of Morgan and Masonry, simply butaub1tautially stated • .The
only defect is, that, for brevity's sake, I concede too much to Masoury in .the
case auumed. ' ·
And, ia th,·re any thing in the masonic society !hat should exempt it from
the fate 10 which such a new-born society would hdve been exposed? 'What
is it that gives to the former, privil~g"• beyond any other association of men,
Uiat we ahou'd not honestly and fearlessly deno1mcc It, and h·ample upon it,
H its own adl111rentstrample up,m !he lnw ? What is the meaning of the
atatutes of premunire, of w~lch the horn-books of:he law give us an account?
Do we not know, th•t the essen<'Cof the off~nce at which thoy were levelled,
c:on1isled in lntrodu<'ing into the lnnd a power above the law ; eomethil!,: that
prevented its fair execudon? And has not masonry done this very thina in
More;1n's case? \\ ho will say that prohibitory statute• might not be enaclild
agaiust the Institution in New York? There would have been little b'tl!ita•
tion, we may be assuied, in bringing the Turkish society, the case nf which I
have put, under the sharpest penal legislation, ii it had not been made to di■•
avpear under more tmmediato bursts of pnhlic detestation. And on what plea
1hould masonry escape? Its antiquity? This i• precisely the @trongtst reasnn-
for putting it down. Ancient nbusts ure sure to be the most formid•ble, in
every community disfigured by their existence. They make a claim to Sllnc•
tity on thia grouud, like the English rott<'II borough aystem, and work evil the
more fatally under every -form. Time is a power which the artful play off
upon the credulity of mankiud. Do we requi'fo the proof"? How else could
it have happened, that masonry has stood even to this day in a country like
9ura, whilst induli;ing itself in pageantries and taking to itself titlPs, that have
aot only been banished from European countries, but that eurpn•• all Asiatio
es-.;geration, an<Ihave heen forced lo seek refuge in the un~ivHi:iedor ruffi81l
testH ofauch courts as Timbuctoo and .\lgic,rs? Positively, lhere ia an flJ:OON
bi them, I picture of elabofate burlesque, revolting to all rationaT1ty,anq t-bat
mi1ht well startle the fabled Momus, could he raise hi• visor to behold them-.
The explanation is historical, but where ia my longer the excuse, whatevel'
the more recent date ofit1 regular formation in Britain? Masonry roae up- ia
Europe, in times full of barbarism . It has remained at cncbor, surrounded bf
iu prejudice■, whilst the current has borne the rest of society onw.a1·d,enliehl•
eninR it in all ways, but in none mo1·e than in getting rid of mysticism alld
J)omposity, not only in government, but in all the concerns of life. To theae
two atlribul1>smasonry clings with an especial tenacity. She would have ti\e
world imagine, that the charity which other societies can -dispenae with a
,imphcity befitting thi3 virtue, and which Heaven teaohes every man to
l>e11tow
with open palm upon his hrother man, though he be no brother IIIUOII,
~uat all be performed in conjunction with mimic signs, the memorial! of a
rude and iyrannousage. _ It wa,snn age when the strength of the human un-
!lerstanding wu displayed by its belief in astrology ; when freedom wu
abown by the vassalage of the common people ; and when bnrnns and bitlhopa
Jot being able to write their names, made thflir significant marks instead
thereof; after the fashio11, we may suppose, of some of the s1ill eodurin,:
!Ymbols .if freemasonry ! Such was its peculiar .age, such the advancement ol
1otellect, such the condi\ion of civil liberty in the atmosphere of which it i~
baled ita nutriment . An appropriate and beneficial psttern, for moulding \he
principle, an,! wacming the affections of Amer ican republicans!
The follies over which time throws its mantle in the case of this Institution.,
•r•egregious and grotesque. Any mind that will contemplate .them in tbe
'
•b•tract _
rather than lhe concrete, must get awake to their exorhita,icy •• Bui
the_•! m11!'ht
I,~ ovedooked perhaps, on the principle of leaving all lll'!D to.Iha
f,u111on
of tl\e.1rown tastes, did not lime do much more for masonry. Jtaa.wftll
l_i_?ar
becomes a cover for its downright enormities . This is a ,tron1r exp!'.119-
lll~>n,but not too strong-not strong enough-as what l am now to Jtate
wall prove. The fier.ds who actually took the life of Morgan , have not..
•• we know, lo thi3 hour been discovered ; but some of -
the bi'oU1er,
b0;8dwho had a himd in the conspiracy , have been convicted 11ndsent -tll
J'fl'!On, Will it be credited, th.at theae convicts are etill pemiittad _
to m~a.
~ear membership in the New York Lo,lgea' Thi• i, thefau. Thef ,.,. tlte
Digitized
byGoogle
-P""ioD• ot'..feleny in the jail, and of muonry out of It; one day conSOr\lnr
with the brotherhood-of malefactors ; the next, with their own brotherhood!
You, gentlemen, are probably aware of thi1 fart. I derive it not from the
antimHonic neW9papera alone, but, recently, tbroue:h other channels; for at
6nt ( tllonght there must be t10rnemistake, and abatained from mt1ntioning it in
mr.
former letter. It ■eerned too much for beli11f. Would not lan11aagehave
failed to convey the aPn•e of uninrsal indiitnation, had any other eociety thal\
that of ancient freemasonry fallen into ■uch conduct ? Would not any oilier
have been bl.. 1ed by enry toneue, every pen, every pre88, in the nation~
w tbe pre111ea
devoted to masonry answer. But how many of them have
bl1tSODed
to the world this muonic enormity? Perhaps they have not known
ol It? beni,;bted sentinel~, they are always in ignorance! Perhaps they wait
for the technical evidence? rautiou1 ■entinels, they are never loo quick in
6rin,r! no, not at masonry, for the world; but O how prompt, bow •aliant,
how 1errible, the dischar1:e at it• foes! how the trumpet of war ■ounds ! how
the clan■ uaemble ! how the tower• of the Lodge-univenal are manned !
what li1nals are given out! what chivalry is poured forth! how
Masonic drtlma,entbinin■tic,
Are beat with types, inste:ulof a-slick.
The lut conflagration itself seems appro!lcbing when masonry i• threatened.
This i• all in virtue of its antiquity. Its liege ~uhjects bow down in homap,
and b11ing" ungirt and unco,·ered" after the olden time, pledre to their Idol
"life and limb and terrenne honor." This i, ancient masonry. 1 his i• the
ln1titation that rlaims respect for its antiquity, reverence for its purity, and
aupport because it is. "persecuted;" the Inetitutioa that takes convicts to its
arm,, receives them into its holiest places! If a Jnvenal abould rise up a•
mong as, here is a masonic aceae worthy of immortal verae, or there i~none
• 1uoh to be found in the satirea ofthe Roman bard.
A few more reflections, and I will conclude. .When maeonry calls the name
ofWaabington to Ila aid, it commit~ a profanation rivalling, in it1 way, the
murder of Morgan as a public crime. It is difficult to speak of it and maintain
a proper decorum ; aaif that matcbleN patriot and hero, he who founded our
aepablic and therefore eve It Its laws, .who led us through the countleN trial,
al a NVen yean war without a ■ln,:le violation oflhe law, a■ If he, could be
han lived to eee the day when a band of conepiratoni from tb11brotherhood
would ferocionsly murder a citizen and then defy the law, under oath• and
■alvoes which hut for masonry they never would have dreamed of,-aa if be
would not have been the very first to uproot all its foundations, could be have
wltne•ed thie spectacle . As surely as he always vindicated the eupremacy
of the law, 80 surely would he have given up masonry when he found it stronr•
er than ·the law. As surely 11S be tore to piece• bis oath of allegiance to.
George Ill. that once bound him to monarchy, so surely would he hilve given
to the winds all the extra-judicial and bombaetical oaths that once bound hid\
to rna!'Onr1.. There are some persons belonging to this Institution, who cannot
or who will not reason upon the aubjoct of it; but from enlightened and can-
did maeons we may hope otherwise; and before the great body of the public
we have a right to 111:pect,
that it will be conaidered and treated like any other
eource of danger to the public. ltR charity, like all other virtue, would sur•
vive the stroke of death, and find other channels through which to dilJ'uae i&a
rolief among the son, of men. Above all, mallOflry is out of place, in the
United States . It is a bideou• exotic. It is foreign In its original conception,
and in all it■ present habits. Ita complication and conr.ealmenr1 are not
American, nor its ceremonial, nor any part of its hyperbolical nomenclature.
An Atmo~phere of polittcal freedom anrl openne~a, ia not its element. It haa
nothing fairly to do here, and as its spirit ia active, it will be doing mischief,
The wonder is, that it should have existerl as long u it has done under in1ti-
tutlon9 80 totally oppo1ite in genius, to its entire creed and operations. It i1
too nclu1ive, too demanding, too lnten,e in its sy111patbie1 wilbin it1 own
orbit, to have (avor with a people jealous of all movement, apart from theiF
own body, where no oaths tie down, no mysterie• darken the path o( conduct,
Jt hu eeeaped the hand of American reform cblefly becau1e, to the bulk of the
people, it bi■ remained unknown ; but now that a atupendoq~ crime arlpt
Digitized byGoogle
'78
110ciety
cnmmlttat tlaro146lt.
t111U011ry,
and remainln1 unpun~ tlt.,,o11p ,u .
.afU'y, hu inesonbly fastened public ecrut[ny upon the lnstit11tioo, 1111
n11m•
berlett other inc.on,;ruities with oor system, political and social, are driven one
after another from their lurking places, and the glory of ita o•erlhrow it ie
hoped, will he added to the many other vir.tories of American ,;ood -,99, over
ancient abuses. May it be 1wept from our )Qnd, like the rotten borouib
1yate111
from Enirland; which, in it■ time, has had as stout defeudere. Tbe prlvi•
)ege11of such a rdic of other dlly■ u old Sllrum , the ultra 11ristocracy used to
■ay were u valuable there, ae some amongst us would have it believed th-
of the lodir:eare here; but u they are about to have their jubilee in En1tland
for the extirpation of the one monster, let us have ours for the extirpation of
the other. Each celebration would atteat the triumph of rea,on over fully,
tyranny, and cran; and their 1imultaneous echoea, could they be beard
toretber, would alike redound to the honor as well as durable adnnta,e al
both N ation11.
I have the honor to remain with rreat respect, your obedient Nnant,
To TBB Hn1r. TIMOTHY FULLER,
Prtaidcnt, and
STJCPB&ll
P. G.a.aon:a--Aa1na PRELP■-
JiJ,.a.Pa1u.1 HoYT and M. H. RuooLEs, E1quire■,
Vic•Pr~1id,nt1 of th, 4nti"""'onu Qinotlllio11
of M~hvutu .
RICHARD RUSH.
Digitized byGoogle
