{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1831__raphael___raphaels_witch.pdf","mytitle":"Raphaels Witch","mylang":"de"}
an Tim
0
/’^y ///r . ^A/z/m'/ ry^//i
iFJi£miLBr:LC
TeS^COLOrREIj> IJ>ESXG^S
^
— oj>Tcm‘rnn, —
'
BY Bo cwbIEshayjk c? tbb Ari'iion.
ANJ> A
r(«rE OF 3:a .sic BY klewitt*
' ITti/f
.'
yf r/iiii/I sM'fip/- rttrn-/i‘ser.v />T fil!',lf'/' -ffi/rtfit/t
A,. , V „.r,A-r //„ „Tt>. ItA;- frJtdCErwABILinXH'/lfW, /,r,,rf
f//r If/f/i/rr>/i.T h‘ //>vr ttf /h-.tl .rif/At. 'Trs yr ty/ro npr// f/ir flr.f.f rt/if/
Irl Atr -rlirt/if/r/- t/t .
— ST£ILXE .
li 0 rf 'x> 0 'pf.
'^"TLLT^lM fHARhTDX
I'A TEltXOSTEU H O T 1
'.
'KAJVIA.E& mmi OK 7)K.UlJi OF I'Hik
.shrih'lirl.
;'"r.Kiiss
ATIU<S.
•ms mxifacjii, ~pnm&% m
'![:nm jiaiiituT fivf, fmj»('.KFfj> Bkkmcek oy Uai'U. i
MEOiC*-
j
I
This Book is adapted to lay about in drawing-rooms—to be read
in gardens and groves—to ornament the boudoir—to be con-
sulted in every mood of mind and temper. For, singular as it
may seem, not a thought can arise, nor a wish originate, but
the LADY-WITCH OF RAPHAEL will easily solve and
satisfy. It removes ennui and low spirits, by cheering the heart
— brightening the ideas, and alluring to virtue, happiness,
and bliss.
When the FAIR ONE descends to her breakfast table, it will re-
veal her dream of the previous night—when surrounded by her
friends in the evening, it suggests subjects for thought “jocose
and right merry," and infuses a spirit of mirth and joy, most
delightful to the imagination.
The Publisher is indebted to a Lady in Waiting in Ordinary on
Queen Adelaide for the minute oi her Majesty’s Birth —(the
nativity, of course, is cast by Raphael); and for the suppressed
Prophecy of Napoleon, to a Parisian friend.
8500 purchasers of the Prophetic Messenger, for 1831, have
stimulated the Author and Publisher to make the Lady-Witch
generally attractive.
Music by J. Blewitt, Esq. is composing for the Poetry in
this Volume, which is Copyright.
This Book is the same that was advertised under the title of
“ The Book of the Future,” and “ The ancient Book of
Destiny.”
The colouring of the scenes has been confided to Mrs. Browne,
the Miniature Painter, 2, Leicester Street, Regent Street; and
Mr. Paxton, Fleet Street.
London, 1831,
a
CONTENTS.
TEN COLOURED SCENES.
Scene 1.-Raphael in his Study; and a Passage in the Life of
the Astrologer.
Scene 2.—Raphael in Italy.
Scene 3.—A fair and beauteous Vision.—The Enchantress of
the Waters.
Scene 4. —The Necromancer.
Scene 5.—The grotesque Dance'of Gnomes, Elves and Sybils.
Scene 6.—The Sylphs and Fairies in Moonlight Gambols.
Scene 7.—The Vision of Love.
Scene 8.—The Witch of Pompeii.
Scene 9.—The awful Fate of Pompeii.
Scene 10.—The Vignette Title.
Literary Matters.
Raphael’s Magic Mirror, a Key to the Ten Scenes.
Dedication to Queen Adelaide ....
Announcement of a new Work, to be called “ The
Indies,” by Mrs. Charlton Wright
Gipsies iv
Introduction to Raphael’s Lady-Witcii i to v
The method of consulting the Lady-Witch ix
Examples of the working of the Questions xiv
Pleasing Method of consulting the Oracle, whereby a large Company
may readily read the Pages of their future Fate, without Calculation xvi
The Table of Mystical Numbers ib.
A Table of the Moon’s Age, in 1831 and 1832 xviii
Note of the Editor xxi
THE ORACLE OF RAPHAEL’S Lady-Witch xxii
Note to the Reader xxiv
The thirty remarkable questions in Raphael’s Lady-Witch,
by the Oracle of Pythagoras, the most wise philosopher . xxv
Pagc
. . . i
Sybil of the
iii
5
CONTENTS.
Page
HELVETIUS 2S
Nine hundred answers to all manner of questions . 2g to ii8
The Nativity of King William the Fourth, from the Prophetic
Messenger for 1831 119
The Nativity of our most gracious Queen Adelaide . . 122
Signior Gualdi at Venice . ........ 126
The Vision I2i
An Hebrew Melody, “ Yes, he has said the Day shall come,” with Four
Pages of Music, expressly for this Work, by J. Blewitt, Esq. . 132
The Cabbalistical Alphabet of the Stars, and Metliod of deriving Ora-
cles from Names 135
Alphabet of the Stars . . 135
“ Raphael,” means “ Be famed of Man” 13*^
“ William,” means “ Ah! you reformed the English Throne” 139
“ 1793,” means “ Revolutions in Europe” 140
“ 1836,” means “ Death to Sovereigns,” and “ a Noble Ruin” . ib.
The Alphabet of Truth 141
To know if thy gentle fair be true ib.
To know if truth be spoken ib.
The Tablet of Good and Evil Numbers 142
The Alphabet of Good and Evil ib.
Ancient divining Tradition 143
The First Foot ib.
The Evil Eye 144
A divining Mentor ib.
The Moon-dial 145
Remarkable Prophecy of the Emperor Napoleon, a suppressed Chapter
from Las Cases’ Journal 147
Wild and striking Story 150
Truth and Fiction 152
The Enchantress 153
All Letters to RAPHAEL, Me Astrologer, are requested to be addressed,
(post paid), to Mr. R. C. SMITH, Matliematician and Astronomer, No. 75,
Castle Street East, Oxford Street.
6
A KEY TO THE DESIGNS IN THE ‘‘ LADY-WITCIP'
;
OR
RAPHAEL’S MAGIC MIRROR,
Vision of va0t Cimf0,
Scene 1.
—
Raphael /.v his Study; and a passage in
the Life of the Astrologer.
* * *
It was night ; the moon shone gaily over tower and
steeple, and brightly lit the vast metropolis : her refulgent beams
illumined the nocturnal hemisphere with an unusual splendour,
which streamed full in goodly rays upon the casement of the
astrologer’s study, where Raphael sat poring over the fates of
Kings, Emperors, and distinguished individuals ; a number of
whose horoscopes had in long succession been unrolled before him
—an unusually complicated configuration of the planets, visible
in the Nativity of an Illustrious Personage, of great renown and
public note in the present day, had occupied the astrologer’s
thoughts, perhaps, rather more than usual : and as Raphael strove
to unravel the dark web of futurity, by means of those lucid orbs,
which Heaven presents to the eye of science, as the alphabet,
wherein the fates of mortals are written, with the finger of destiny :
while thus employed, he perceived, of a sudden, an unusual de-
gree of splendour, illuminate the chamber wherein he sat.—The
astrologer arose : a deep and awful silence reigned around, it was
the hour of midnight, a mystic solemnity appeared visible in the
“ weird ” quietude of the hour : the astrologer paused, and, struck
with the ominous aspects of the time, proceeded to gaze upward
to the blue vault of heaven, in admiration of those myriad bright
and shining orbs that lay expanded in an azure sea of celestial
glory above him. —In the east, arose the silver moon, “ night’s
fayrie queene,” sailing through the firmament in the mild radiance
of her matchless grandeur ;
tranquil and serene, as if mocking the
pitiful toiling and wordly turmoil of sublunary mortals. In the
zenith, high over head, shone brilliantly the orb of Jupiter, dazzling
a 2 7
eaphael’s magic mirror.
tlie sight with a ray of almost solar effulgence : the evening stai>
the gentle “ poetical ” Venus, sunk gradually in the west, as if
about to leave a world, like ours, of sorrow and care : while the
fiery, red, and glowing orb of Mars, with expanded disc, lower’d
frowningly in the south-eastern quadrant. A thousand stars,
gemmed and decked the midnight scer;e : a scene which earth’s
highest, earth’s brighest, earth’s mightiest monarchs, would vainly
strive to equal amidst alt their pomp and power and majesty 1 Well
might the immortal Byron sing ;
“ The stars are forth, the moon above the tops
Of the snow-shining mountains.—Beautiful!
1 linger yet with nature, for the night
Hath been to me a more familiar face
Than that of man : and in her starry shade
Of dim and solitary loveliness
I learn’d the language of another world.
I do remember once, that in my youth.
When 1 was wandering—upon SMc/t a ?iight
I stood within the Coliseum’s wall,
’Midst the chief relics of Almighty Rome:
The trees which grew along the broken arches
Waved dark in the blue midnight, and the stars
Shone through the rents of ruin; from afar
The watch-dog bayed beyond the Tiber: and
More near, from out the Caesars’ palace, came
Tlie owl’s long cry; and, interruptedly.
Of distant sentinels the fitful song
Begun and died upon the gentle wind.
Some cypresses beyond the time-worn breach
Appeared to skirt the horizon, yet they stood
Within a bow-shot—where the Caesars dwelt.
And dwell the tuneless birds of night, amidst
A grove which springs through levell’d battlementsy
And twines its roots with the imperial hearths.
Ivy usurps the laurel’s place of growth :
But the Gladiator’s bloody circus stands,
A noble wreck, in ruinous perfection !
While Caesar’s chambers, and the Augustan halls
Grovel in earth, in indistinct decay.
And thou didst shine, thou rolling moon, upon
All this, and cast a wide and tender light.
Raphael’s magic miruor.
VVliich softened down the hoar austerity
Of rugged desolation, and fill’d up.
As ’twere. anew, the gaps of centuries;
Leaving that beautiful which still was so.
And making that which was not, till the place
Became religion, and the heart ran o’er
With silent worship of the great of old !
—
The dead, but scepter’d sovereigns, who still rule
Our spirits from their urns.
—
’Twas such a night 1
'Tis strange that I recall it at this time:
But I have found our thoughts take wildest flight
Even at the moment when they should array
Themselves in pensive order.”
—
Even while the astrologer contemplated the goodly scene above
him, the features thereof changed : the casement and walls of the
chamber disappeared : and instead thereof, the astrologer found
himself seated under the ruins of an ancient monastery, an antique
building, crumbling with age ; the usual apparatus of his study,
his telescopes, globes, &c. &c., were certainly around him, but
every thing else wore a far different appearance ; instead of the
resplendent rays of the Lunar planet, the moon was in the wane,
and scarce a star shone in the benighted horizon. The astrologer,
wonderstruck and thoughtful, surveyed the scene with feelings of
solemnity, but unappalled. While thus occupied, a burst, as of
distant thunder, resounded through the expanse: a fiery meteor
exploded in the horizon; and there appeared the form of a beau-
tiful angel hovering in the hemisphere : her sylph-like countenance,
shone forth with the grandeur of celestial loveliness ; while her
extended arms sustained an open volume : in astonishment, the
astrologer paused, to read the mystic sentence written on this
volume of fate :
approarl^, MapIDarl, antr lir))oltii t!jf
Cran^artiotts of former Cimee.”
Scene 2.
—
Raphael in Iialy.
fleeting as the shades of twilight, when quickly they disappear,
before the radiance of the morning sun ; so faded this scene from
9
tlAPUAEL*S MAGIC MUinOR.
the astrologer’s view : and he found himself within the precincts
of a gothic building—the oriel window—the carved altar-piece
the sculptured effigies—and grotesque works of past centuries,
were around him : while through an open casement he discerned
the gay and smiling groves of classic Italy.
“ Where the soul wanders,
To meditate amongst decay, and stand
A ruin amidst ruins, there to track
Fallen states and buried greatness, o’er aland
Which was the mightiest in its old command,
And is the loveliest
The commonwealth of kinds, the men of Rome ;
And even since, and now, fair Italy !
Thou art the garden of the world !”
Clothed in the costunie of the country, Raphael seemed im-
bued with another being, as he apparently inhaled the soft and
sunny airs of this classic land ;
gradually then the vision changed,
and the astrologer beheld himself standing by the sea-shore, where,
{Scene 3.) —A fair and beauteous Vision
awaited his approach. It was that of a majestically formed and
exquisitely proportioned female: one of whom the poet sings :
Cf)c i2nc!jantrf00 of 2i2ifater0»
“ Methought I lay
Watching the zenith, where the milky way
Among the stars in virgin splendour pours
And travelling my eye, until the doors
Of heaven appear’d to open for iny Aight,
I became loth and fearful to alight
From such high soaring by a downward glance
So kept me steadfast in that airy trance.
Spreading imaginary pinions wide.
When, presently, the stars began to glide,
And faint away, before my eager view ;
At which I sigh’d that I could not pursue,
And dropt my vision to the horizon’s verge;
And, lo ! from opening clouds I saw emerge
The loveliest moon that ever silver’d o’er
10
Raphael’s magic mirror.
A shell for Neptune’s goblet : she did soar
So passionately bright, my dazzled soul,
Commingling with her argent spheres did roll
Through clear and cloudy, even when she went
At last into a dark and vapoury tent
—
Whereat, methought, the lidless-eyed train
Of planets all were in the blue again.
To commune with those orbs, once more I rais’d
My sight right upward ;
but it was quite daz’d
By a bright something, sailing down apace.
Making me quickly veil my eyes and face :
Again 1 look’d, and, 0 ye deities.
Who from Olympus watch our destinies !
Whence that completed form of all completeness ?
Whence came that high perfection of all sweetness :
Speak, stubborn earth, and tell me where, O where
Hast thou a symbol of her golden hair?
Not oat-sheaves drooping in the western sun ;
Not thy soft hand, fair sister 1 let me shun
Such follying before thee—yet she had.
Indeed, locks bright enough to make me mad ;
And they were simply gordian’d up and braided,
Leaving, in naked comeliness, unshaded.
Her pearl round ears, white neck, and orbed brow;
The which were blended in, I know not how,
With such a paradise of lips and eyes.
Blush-tinted cheeks, half smiles, and faintest sighs,
I'hat, when I think thereon, my spirit clings
And plays about its fancy, till the strings
Of human neighbourhood envenom all.
Unto what awful power shall I call ?
To what high fane ? —Ah ! see her hovering feet,
More bluely vein’d, more soft, more whitely sweet.
Than those of sea-born Venus, when she rose
From out her cradle shell. The wind out-blows
Her scarff into a fluttering pavilion;
’Tis blue, and over-spangled with a million
Of little eyes, as though thou wert to shed.
Over the darkest, lushest blue-bell bed
Handfuls of daisies.”
Raising her magic wand over the troubled waters, the Enchan-
tress pronounced some mystic words, with deep solemnity, and of
a sudden, with the lightenings speed, arose, in the hazy distance,
11
hapuael’s magic mirror.
partly shaded, and partly surrounded by a halo of a misty nature,
dim and obscure as aerial beings may be presumed to appear, a
form in beauty invincible, fairer indeed than the fabled houris of
Mahomet. The beauteous vision, so strangely invoked from the
bosom of ocean, thus sang, in accents of angelic harmony, the
following lines
Raphael, student of the spheres,
Mortal list, the vision hear;
Thou, to whom the stars unfold
Many a mystery quaint and old 1
Thou, to whom the book of fate.
And the mystic future state.
Is familiar, and each deed
Spirits practise thou canst read ;
Now to thee a boon 1 offer.
Snatch’d from out of magic coffer;
’Tis a mirror fair and clear.
Wherein mysteries will appear!
Look therein, and then behold.
Wonders ne’er by mortal told !
Signs and spells, and words of power,
I bequeath thee in this hoor
These thou shalt to mortals tell.
Search these Raphael ! Fare thee well !
The vision ceased her ethereal chant : melodious sounds, as of
distant music, soft and heavenly, surpassing earth’s sweetest me-
lodies, accompanied the departure of the unearthly pageant. It
faded into air; and Raphael, left alone, proceeded in silence and
awe to peep into the
IfHagic ifBirtor, mxXt it$ Scenes Uiere :
Scene 4.—The Necromancer.
*********
Dark and sombre were the clouds that flitted athwart the fitful
horizon : the astrologer beheld before him a wide extended plain,
bleak and dreary : scarce a tree, a herb, or sign of vegetation was
visible ; the Alps, with snow-clad summits, arose in the dis-
12
kaphael’s magic mirror.
tance ; touching as it were the very heavens : of a sudden a furious
storm arose, the overwhelming avalanche came thundering down,
and smoking with the fury of an elemental war : while ruin on
ruin attended its fleet and boisterous, yea, maddening career.
—
But the splendour of day succeeded to the horrors of the night
:
and the astrologer was astonished at beholding the interior of a
Bannered Hall, rude and massive in all the barbarous pomp of the
ancient chivalry : in the centre stood an ancient magician—gloomy
were his looks, and awful his brow, as he read forth his fearful
incantation. There he stood, and beside him were his implements
of magical skill: his mystic book, his charmed lamen, the wizard
lamp, the wand of might, the elixir of life, the demon phial, the
ponderous and heavy manuscript, filled with strange hieroglyphical
characters : and before him was traced in fiery characters the mag ic
circle ; wherein already had the w'ondrous power of the aged
recromancer invoked into temporary existence a creature of the
world of visions. Gossamer clad and ethereal were her garments,
and commanding were her gestures. Fixing her eyes on the astro-
loger, she summoned him thus ;
—
Raphael, once I summon thee,
Hy the mystic planets three !
And I thus incite thee tjcice.
By the miglit of magic voice !
Raphael thrice I thee invoke,
By the mystic words here spoke !
And I tints do thee proclaim
Great in astrologic fame;
Haste with me, behold the doom
Of a once imperial throne
I iasten Raphael, ’tis the hour
Wherein mighty sprites have power !
The mighty necromancer struck his magic wand thrice on the
floor, and the vaulted roof re-echoed to the sound ; with a voice
of thunder he pronounced the charm that scatters spirits ! and
even while the astrologer gazed, in especial wonder at the beau-
teous Sylph, the vision vanished
13
hapiiael’s magic mirror.
Scene 5. The Grotesque Dance
OF
ISlbee, anti
Tlie astrologer beheld, and all in the mirror of the enchantres
was dark obscurity ; of a sudden a single star, as of the evening’s
precursor, glimmered afar off in the gray-blue haze of the horizon :
but quickly the moon arose, and altliough in the boding wane,
yet her beams lit splendidly the nocturnal landscape ! While the
astrologer looked thereon, in deep attention, a well known scene
presented itself to his eager view ; it was England, his own
“ Merry England,” the land of his birth, that he beheld : and
quickly, as if hailing the approach of the greeted scenery, the
moon broke forth with an almost supernatural lustre : indeed, so
truly glorious, that Raphael contemplated the scene with a feel-
ing of delight ; for who can decry the solemn grandeur of such
a picture
When toil and care with day is ended,
When by the silent night befriended,
When stillness reigns, and sleep has prest
His signet on all eyes at rest ;
When Cynthia's pale and silvery light
Glides softly o’er the path of night;
When high the stars are seen to play,
Glittering o’er the ethereal way !
When Zephyr, with expanded wings.
Floats lightly on the calmed air,
And Philomela lonely sings.
Time softened notes of sad despair ! —
How sweet to wander, by the light
Of the pale moon, on such a night ;
To give the mind to fancy’s sway,
To take a glancing broad survey
Of every scene, in every age
That stands enrolled on memory’s page :
Now filled with joy —now sunk in woe.
As calm reflection gives to view
The deeds of good or ill again
The scenes of pleasure, or of pain !
H
Raphael’s magic mirror^
Such were the feelings of the astrologer, as he viewed the calm
and tranquil reign of the nocturnal wanderers, that glittered in
their paths of fire above and around him : but silence was soon
broken : for quickly came floating on the charmed ear the mixed
sounds of some mysterious revelry : wild shouts rent the air : bursts
as of joyous laughter, but of a character totally unearthly, per-
vaded the exclamations of a group that the astrologer perceived at
a slight distance off. Strange were the gambols, and grotesque
the movements of these unknown revellers ; who, beneath the
crumbling towers of a gothic ruin, which the astrologer had fre-
quently visited in a remote quarter of England, “ held high was-
sail.’’ No less strange and motley were their aerial-formed vest-
ments : some were clad in flowing robes, and some in such pecu-
liar originally designed trappings, that the astrologer, as he gazed,
could not refrain from joining occasionally in the loud and hearty
laughter, which made the welkin ring:
These midnight festivallers seemed to notice the astrologer with
peculiar reverence, and one of them came forth from the rest,
singing in a style that would have set half our modern vocalists
raving to imitate, the following song, melody, or whatever the
reader may choose to term it
:
Now soaring fancy’s quickened sight.
Pierces through the gloom of night,
The future touches with her wand.
And fairy scenes at her command
Mysterious dance before the brain.
So pleasing, and not idly vain ;
Then hope with bright and sparkling eye
On lightsome wing, comes hovering by :
A glory plays around her brow
That gilds and brightens all below ;
She wraps the soul in visions fair.
Bright with pleasure, free from care.
Bids the future days appear !
Then gives the eye to pierce the gloom
That sullen frowns upon the tomb;
And guides it upward to the skies.
And tells the sou! that it shall rise
Above tlrat bright and starry sphere
Aaphael's magic mirror.
To live in bliss angelic there !
VVhen Zephyr with expanded wings
Floats lightly on the calmed air:
When Philomela lonely sings
Time’s softened notes of sad despair!
When this melody was concluded, a female sybil of extraordi-
nary form, clad in a flowing robe of crimson hue, that rivalled the
transparency of the most subtle colours, which the utmost skill of
chemical art could produce, and wearing a high and sieeple-
pointed cap, advanced from the rest, singing this farewell chorus,,
in which each gnome and aerial being seemed with one accord
most gladly to join :
The crescent moon beams.
The evening star fades ;
The moining star gleams.
And dim twilight invades !
And we must away !
F.lves and goblins, in wassail.
Shout, all hail to thee, Ftaphael
Farewell, seer! Adieu!
Adieu ! Adieu !
As the last sentence was sang, or rather chaunled, the motley
group became gradually more and more indistinct, till, with the
last adieu, thin, thin air only, and an empty space, was before the
astrologer : but he continued to gaze in the magic mirror : and lo !
there soon appeared a far more beauteous vision or masque than
even the foregoing.
Scene 6. The tUllJ in Moonlight
Gambols.
Now how fair and goodly was the spectral scenery : how thrice
enchanting the view that burst forth on the gaze of Raphael-
A gay and cheerful group (many in number) of fascinating, yea
bewitching maidens, clad in garments of a thousand hues, be-
decked in a splendour, matchless and unattainable by earth’s
highest monarchs, occupied the centre of the radiant landscape.
Some flew joyously in air; some reclined; some danced on the
16
UAPHAEL’S magic MIRRORk
verdant turf ;
and some held garlands of the laurel, the arbutus,
and the immortal amaranth. A cluster of greater beauty, earth’s
sons never saw : earth’s most favoured mortals never witnessed.
For a while, these lovely sylphs pursued their gay and innocent
gambols ; then suddenly they approached with their verdant
crowns, and all paid homage to the astrologer : while one, more
lovely if possible than tlie rest, thus sang, accompanying the
melody by her golden lute, the following S0llQ[«
wliich never mortal man, save the astrologer, has yet heard :
—
When the moon shines bright,
When the stars give light,
When the meadows are green.
When the glow-worm is seen :
Wliile mortals are sleeping.
And Raphael is peeping:
Aloft at the sky !
Then we fairies appear.
And roam far and near.
Till the day-star is near!
Sometimes we hide
In the cowslip's bell
;
Sometimes we frisk
O’er hill and dell
;
Sometimes we dancC
In the gay moon-beam.
And ever we haunt
Each grove and stream !
Midst the witch’ry of night,
VVhen the moon shines bright.
When the stars give light
;
When mortals are sleeping
And Raphael is peeping,
Aloft at the sky ?
Chorus. Then we fairies appear,
And roam far and near
,
Till the day star is near;
Who so merry.
Who so gay,
As the fairies in their holiday i
b 2
1 ?
Raphael’s magic mirror.
While this singular song was singing, a silver cloud, which
shaded the moon for an instant, suddenly became dark, and the
scene gradually acquired a gray, misty, indistinct appearance :
when the following lines were chaunted, as if in haste or tremor :
But see, but see !
The shadows flee !
And so must we !
Farewell, Raphael,
To the fairies wassail ! ! !
With what regret the astrologer looked on and perceived
the gentle and courteous songsters vanish ;
with what sorrow he
heard the last harmonious cadence faint, die away, and at length
cease, may be readily imagined by those of his readers whose
souls hold high converse with the “witcheries” of unseen mys-
teries ;
by the poet and the sympathetic, who are accustomed to
look beyond the hateful world of iron realities in which we breathe,
to another and a brighter sphere. But the astrologer’s regret was
soon superseded by a new pageantry, of which, even the distant
view as the fair train approached, made every sense Raphael pos-
sessed reel with ecstasy. It was even as follows :
Scene 7 .
— ITi^ion of Uoije.
The astrologer cast his eyes upon the magic mirror ;
and be-
hold the goodly scenery of our terrestial globe had become trans-
formed into a new and novel vision ; tree and field, and glade,
and every sign of vegetation, were faded into a colourless expanse ;
the eye in vain gazed and roamed over the far -stretched horizon,
in order to discover any of the peculiar features of our mother
earth : but a mighty spell had been rehearsed over the pageantry
of the hour ;
time and place, yea space itself had yielded : and
lo! the boundless regions of the ethereal hemisphere unfoldfed a
new wonder! followed by a flock of fleecy clonds, white as the
newly-driven snow, and yet pellucidly transparent, appeared a
group of delicately-winged zephyr cherubs ; some fanned the
southern breezes that wafted themselves across the celestial at-'
18
Raphael’s magic mirror.
mosphere, into a gentle wind ;
others sported joyously in the silver
moon beams ;
and some fled sportingly at the lucid meteors that
at times shot athwart the sky : for sky it was, and nought else that
the astrologer beheld. But a sympathy, melodious as that fabled
to have been sung by the charmed harp of Orpheus, rang through
the starry summit, and was re-echoed by a thousand voices, soft
and harmonious as music’s sweetest soul could utter ; enchant-
ment was in the hour: Fascination in the visionary beings that
now met Raphael’s astonished view :
O IjOve !
—Heaven s sweetest boon! bestow’d
To cheer our dreary Pilgrim road
That with a changeless fervour glows
’Midst burning sands or Polar snows
—
Without thy soul, enchanling power.
Joyless was Eden’s brightest bower;
In vain its roses shed perfume
O’er fields of ever during bloom
Every hope was sear’d and blighted,
Every bliss was rf/i-united.
And Paradise was half unblest,
Till infant love became a guest
Where angel beauty never smiled.
The fairest spot on earth were wild
For love alone, our home endears.
Love softens e’en the grief of tears.
Like erring creed of moslein faith.
Whose houris soothe the pangs of death ! ! !
The Queen of Love, Venus the fair, and thrice beautiful Venus',
reclined on a golden cloud, that like a burning chariot of some
fabled monarch, sailed through the starry zone in refulgent gran-
deur. Graceful, and languishingly tasteful were the movements
of the bright ethereal goddess ; around her were sportive, laughing
and rosy-faced Cupids ; some brandished their tiny, but fatally
pointed arrows, bent their bows, and carolled in celestial glee;
others flew nimbly with hymeneal torches, that flashed a light
almost beyond mortal sufferance to endure, so dazzling were their
beams : In another part of the heavenly landscape were a group
of snow-clad nymphs in starry vestments ; one fair hand held a
19
Rapua.el*s magic mirror.
scroll of Prophetic announcements ;
another exhibited an astral
Horoscope ; pointing to which, the nymph sang exquisitely the
following harmony
Love's mystic Song.
Love ! who can liope tliy power to fly,
Or think to ’scape thy darts;
When thy own wings the plumes supply,
Which speed them to our hearts.
Then thee ’twere madness to defy,
Thous’t for each heart a chain :
With life from thee we cannot fly,
With deatli we freedom gain.
Love’s smile is like the morning beam,
That sheds its light of life around,
When stealing forth with quiet gleam.
From silver clouds, in crimson crown’d.
But oh ! the beam, Love, in thine eye.
Excels the morning’s waking light;
’Tis like the music of thy sigh,
And WOOS the heart to pure delight.
Yes ! ’twas that smile, that melting tone,
Which made my heart so much thy own 1
The rose of morning sleeps in dew ;
’Tis rock’d by Zephyr’s lullaby:
’Twill slumber on, ’till wak’d by you.
With summer smile, and balmy sigh.
Oh ! then twill rise in envied bliss.
And boast to its companion fair,
Its perfume is —thy fragrant kiss.
Its tint—the blush thou lov’st to wear.
Yes ! dearest Love, this heart doth own.
It lives, it throbs for thee alone !
How long this exquisitely-sang madrigal lasted, the astrologer
was scarcely aware, for so perfect were the musical tones of the
heavenly songstresses, that the minutes flew by unheeded ;
and
the exquisitely wrought picture of celestial pageantry had nearly
faded from the astrologer’s view ere he was fully sensible of the
fact : But other scenes of a far more solemn and momentous na-
ture now awaited his recognition ;
these were, first.
20
Raphael’s magic mirror.
Scene 8.—€f)e 21iSiitc1D ot Dompeii.
The astrologer contiued’to look in the mystic mirror, and the
scene appeared to be cast in a far distant land ;
at 6rst, the indis-
tinct outlines were difficult to recognise : but there came suddenly
on the astonished ear the blast as of a mighty trumpet ;
far and
wide echoed and re-echoed the sonorous clangour, with a sound
that might well have aroused the dread sleepers of the marble
sepulchre : it ceased, and the following mystic couplet was chaunted
by some supernatural voice, for no mortal being was visible : even
thus ran the adjuration :
Thou, whom mortals term “ the Seer,”
“ Raphael !” the astrologer
List, while I invoke a scene
Of those days which once have been !
While the fated scenes I show
Of eighteen hundred years ago !
The astrologer was struck with profound admiration, in deep
and silent expectation of the extraordinary scenes he was soon to
behold, when a hoarse and deep-toned voice muttered forth, as
if in anger, the following spectral invocation:
Spirits subtle, spirits vast.
Rise from out the watery waste ;
Spirits, 1 summon ye by the power
Of the mystic Trigons four !
By this mighty scroll here spread :
By these mystic secrets dread ;
By the charmed spell of power :
By the awful midnight hour !
Spirits subtle, spirits vast.
Rise, and hither come in haste :
By the glorious sun :
By the silver moon ;
Haste ye—haste ye :
And come !
Spirits subtle, spirits vast.
Thus I summons ye—in haste !
21
Raphael’s magic mirror.
A sound as of many waters succeeded.—The astrologer gazed
in speechless astonishment at the expanded prospect; for before
him appeared a mighty city ;
tower, and citadel, and fane and
temple glittered in the sunshine : but the scene was again Italy
fair cloudless Italy : The astrologer could not be mistaken, for in
the distance smoked and fumed (and ever and anon roared)
Vesuvius, the awful volcano, whose threatenings so seldom were
futile, but generally attended with dire destruction to those cities
that stood within the full reach of its horrid lava. But the astro-
loger’s eyes were chiefly directed to the vicinity of the sea, where
the sad spectacle of a dreadful shipwreck appeared not far distant
Loud howled the winds, and the frail bark struck furiously on
the rocky coast, shattering herself into a thousand pieces ;
groans,
cries, and bowlings succeeded, which might have rent a heart of
adamant. The astrologer, overwhelmed with sympathetic sorrow
at the miseries of his fellow-mortals, wept bitterly.
1 1 was the dusk of evening ;
the astrologer looked again in the
enchanted mirror, and he beheld in the suburbs of the city, before
him, a lofty tower, the interior of which was filled with astrolo-
gical and curious instruments, used by the ancient sages for cal-
culating horoscopes ! Upon the summit of the tower, a female
of exquisite perfection in form and stature, with a countenance
grand and majestic, stood surveying the bright fires of Heaven,
as they glared forth with unwonted splendour. While, at the foot
of the tower, a dense and countless multitude sought eagerly for
admittance to the Temple of Destiny.—But still, alone, and in
silence, amidst the boisterous throng, the beauteous sybil pur-
sued her mystic calculations.
Thus spoke the Prophetess, the “ Fair Witch of Pompeii,” as
she was wont to be termed by those of her own nation :
—“ Mortals !
give ear to the language of the Heavens ! Attend ye to the decrees
Raphael’s magic mirror.
of fate ! —Scarcely shall yonder moon thrice rise gloriously in her
orbit, scarcely shall the goodly beams of yon bright star shoot
forth thrice in fair refulgence, ere, Pompeiians, })t
tranlJlf.—But stay I alas !
ye wandering orbs ! what mighty
woes, what terrific disasters, do ye now denounce ?—The star of
the fiery and cruel Mars is in opposition to Saturn, who is Lord
of the House of Life, and a furious Comet glares fiercely in the
Mansion of Death : while the Crescent Moon is on the cusp of the
Ascendant
:
—Alas, I tremble ! for the awful fiat of these dreadful
orbs presage too truly Of IDfSitfUftiOll, illtU
Dratf) ! !
!”
—The Prophetess ceased : and all was silent.
Scene 9.
THE AWFUL FATE OF POMPEII.
****** ***
It was apparently once more the dreary hour of midnight; the
astrologer watched anxiously for the fulfilments of those fearful
presages, foretold by the female sage ! The countless thousands,
who had heard the oracle of destiny interpreted by the Prophetess,
were wrapped in those fatal slumbers, which were so soon to be
changed for the sleep of death ! An unearthly stillness, an ominous
silence, reigned throughout the vast and populous city : but a
pale livid light overspread the heavens : through which, each
fair star shone flickering ; the moon, as if unwilling to witness
the scene of terror, seemed shrouded in a clouded haze, and
the mantle of death seemed already cast by a mighty hand
over the starry heavens : But still in the west shone forth the
portentous comet, bearded and blazing with a fearful intensity.
The astrologer, accustomed as he was to the phenomena of
the heavens, beheld the sure presages of the threatened evil
with an awe bordering on terror : still, however, he gazed ; and
still the same frightful omens met his view ! But in an instant a
23
RAPHAELS MAGIC MIRROR.
loud bellowing and rumbling sound, as if of distant thunder, to
which the roaring of ten thousand parks of artillery were com-
paratively insignificant, resounded through the expanse ;
and
bright and awful flashes, as of a demon light, emitted a fearful lustre
to the tremendous battle of the elemental squadrons, that, like a
cruel army of demoniacal fiends, waged war with mankind, and
seemed as if about to annihilate the fairest works of God’s creation I
Louder and louder sounded forth the deep-mouthed thunder ;
crash succeeded crash, till one more awful than the rest fol-
lowed: the astrologer looked, md lo ! the burning lava burst forth
in one wide fiery sea; while cascades of molten and glowing ore,
resistless in their progress, bounded over hill and crag! Onward
still rushed and boiled and raged the furious element, till the
fair trees and groves that surrounded the foot of the volcano ig-
nited, and burnt furiously in the vast blaze of destruction ;
illumin-
ing each tower and citadel with the splendour of the meridian Sun.
The astrologer now beheld the city before him once more peopled
with the living thousands of its inhabitants, who, alarmed at the
dire and awful fate that awaited their proud habitations, vainly
strove to avert their dreadful doom : but a tremendous shower
of ashes obscured the firmament : the glowing lava roared yet
more furious and resistless, till the fiery billows overwhelmed each
tower and temple and dwelling ;
then w'as one loud, wild, and uni-
versal shriek sent forth by the wretched inhabitants, that rent
the air with a hideous agony, the agony of the dead, the dying,
and the living entombed—y/ear/h/ to think of—horrible to hear ! ! !
it- *n^***»**
The astrologer once more beheld ! and »lll
if Us*******
24
TO HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY,
QUEEN ADELAIDE.
May it please Your Majesty
:
One, who has devoted his life to the pursuit of knowledge, in every
shape and form ;
one who, disdaining the false sophistry of the sceptic,
and unawed by the world’s dread laugh, has dared, in defiance alike of
custom and dictation, to unrol the mouldering records of ages long
past, and times now no more—who has also unremittingly laboured to
defend those ancient mysterious sciences, which profess to tear away
those dense and sombre clouds that envelope the future—and who has,
by his exertions in the cause of truth, procured the name and attri-
butes of that science (which was, but a few years since, a word of re-
proach) to be sounded and reverenced in each town and village of
your royal dominions ;
such a one,
EVEN THE ASTROLOGER
now craves the humble boon of your august attention.—It is true, that
were “ The Lady-Witch ” but possessed of half those admirable
qualities, which, as
OF A MIGHTY NATION,
Your Majesty is known to possess, the fascination of men’s minds
and attentions would amply repay the toil of the writer : but despairing
of this, the Astrologer presumes, with unfeigned humility, to lay this
little Publication at the feet of the Royal Adelaide, the illustrious
and admired Queen of Great Britain, &c. &c. &c. and the beloved
Consort of
2I2HilUam tte dFouilf)*
A
“ Years cannot touch those mysteries; I could now
Arch this highball with fire, or sudden blood;
Cover your floors with vipers. 1 have power
To summon shrinking spirits from the grave ;
To bring the hungry lion from his spoil
To make the serpents worship at my feet;
To fling the eclipse’s mantle round the moon,
Turning her light to blood,—nay, bind the spell
So strong upon the fountains of the air.
That all the stars should sicken, and, unsphered.
Throw midnight in confusion ; or foretell.
In blazonry like day, thy fate and fortunes.”
Catiline.
IN 1831 WILL APPEAR, UNIFORM WITH
“ RAPHAEL’S WITCH,”
X NEW WORK, TO BE CALLED
Setiil of ttje
And music softly, sweetly wild,
Is in her tone
—
The distant voice of some lov’d child
Singing alone,
As resting from its joyous play
By a bright streamlet far away.
I gaze upon her—not in love.
For love is vain 1
The spirit to its home above
Returns again ;
And hers has wandered here
To dwell awhile—and disappear!
1 gaze upon her—not in grief.
But half in gladness.
And feel it is a kind relief
To my life’s sadness.
To whisper, as she passes, thus
—
" Sweet Spirit, thou art not of us
!"
EDITED BY
Mrs. CHARLTON WRIGHT.
WI TH NUMEROUS COLOURED DESIGNS, BY THE BEST ARTISTS.
Every possible interest and fascination will be thrown around
this Volume, and several lively Airs, composed by J. Blewitt, Esq.
will be introduced.
Paternoster Row.
Gipsies.—Their white teeth, their long black hair, on which
they pride themselves very highly, and which they will not permit
to be cut off, their lively black rolling eyes, are, without dispute,
properties which must be ranked among the list of beauties, even
by the modern civilized European world. They are neither over-
grown giants, nor diminutive dwarfs : their limbs are formed in the
justest, proportion. Large stomachs are as uncommon among them
as hump-backs, blindness, or other corporal defects. When Grisellini
asserts that the breasts of the Gipsy women, at the time of their
nursing, increase to a larger size than the child they give suck to,
it is an assertion destitute of proof, and just as true as many other
arguments he adduces to prove the Gipsies are Egyptians. Proba-
bly he may have confounded himself, by thinking of the Hottentots,
that circumstance being true of them, though not of the Gipsies.
Every Gipsy is naturally endued with agility, great suppleness and
the free use of his limbs. Grellman's Dissertation on the Gipsies.
INTRODUCTION
TO
The site of the city of Pompeii, the foot of Vesuvius, which rises
with majestic grandeur in the midst of a plain, was called by the
ancients Campania; its walls were once washed by the waves,
but the sea has since retired to some distance. Although evidently
of Greek origin, nothing certain is known of the earlier history of
this city, the foundation of which is attributed to Hercules. The
Oscans, Cumeans, Etruscans, and Samnites, seem to have been the
successive possessors of those delightful plains, where Nature has
lavished, under a pure and unclouded sky, every luxury that can
procure enjoyment to man ;
but which too often, unhappily, ener-
vates his frame and debases his mind. Pompeii, with many other
cities, underwent various reverses during the Punic and Social
wars. It was besieged by Sylla, and, at length, yielded to the
power of the Dictator. After the time of Augustus, it became a
colony, when its history merges in the more important annals of
the Roman empire.
“ Could Nature’s bounty satisfy the breast,
The sons of Italy were surely blest;
Whatever fruits in different climes are found,
That proudly rise, or humbly court the ground
;
Whatever blooms in torrid tracts appear.
Whose bright successor decks the varied year;
VVhatever sweets salute the northern sky
With vernal lives that blossom but to die;
These, here distorting, own the kindred soil.
Nor ask luxuriance from the planter’s toil
;
While sea-born gales their gelid wings expand.
To winnow fragrance round the smiling land.”
Placed on an insulated elevation, formed of the lava, and, by
some, thought the summit of a volcano, on the borders of a sea
celebrated for the beauty of its shores, at the entrance of a fertile
A 2
Vi INTRODUCTION TO RAPHAEL’S WITCH.
plain, and watered by a pure stream, Pompeii offered a position,
strong in a military point of view, and favourable to commerce;
nor was its situation less enchanting from being surrounded by
villas, which, like so many gems, adorned the neighbouring
declivities of Vesuvius.
The Pompeians, according to Seneca and Tacitus, were sur-
prised in the midst of their tranquil existence, in the month of Fe-
bruary, a.d. 63, by a terrible earthquake and eruption, which caused
considerable
_
damage. As soon as the inhabitants had recovered
from their consternation, they began to clear away the ruins, and to
repair the damage sustained by the edifices ; a fact that is evident
from the quantity of parts wanting in many of the buildings, even
at this time. The taste, however, seems to have become mate-
rially corrupt, and purer details are covered by stuccoes, composed
in a barbarous style. After an interval of sixteen years, during
which several shocks were experienced, on the night of the 23rd of
August, A. D. 79 (according to Pliny), a volume of smoke and ashes
issued from the mouth of the crater of Vesuvius, with a tremendous
explosion ; after rising to a certain height, it extended itself like a
lofty pine, and, assuming a variety of colours, fell, and covered
the surrounding country with desolation and dismay. The inha-
bitants, terrified by repeated shocks, and breathing an atmosphere
no longer fit to support life, sought refuge in flight ;
but were suf-
focated by the ashes, oppressed by flames of fire, or overwhelmed
by the falling edifices. Some skeletons which have been found
show the futility of the attempt in many instances. Here, a mas-
ter seeks for safety, and is arrested at the threshold of his door by a
shower of ashes ;
he carries in his hands keys, coins, and precious
ornaments, and is followed by a slave, bearing vessels of silver and
bronze : —there we discover the skeletons of a group of females,
one of whom is adorned with gold trinkets, and the impressions of
some of the forms remain traced upon the ashes. At length, after
four (laijs of impenetrable darkness, light reappeared—but sombre,
as when an eclipse obscures the brilliancy of the sun’s rays.
Herculaneum, which lies about nine miles distant, was destroyed
at the same time; but being imbedded in a compact volcanic mat-
ter, it is covered so as to render its excavation a matter of extreme
difficulty ;
and its being situate under two villages and several
INTRODUCTION TO RAPHAEL’S WITCH. vH
palaces, precludes the possibility of continuing the researches al-
ready begun. The lighter ashes, which cover Pompeii to the
depth of about eighteen feet, render this city of easier access, al-
though the accumulation on the roofs of the edifices caused the
destruction of the upper parts of the buildings. Some of the an-
cient inhabitants who had escaped the dreadful calamity, appear to
have returned, and excavated in some parts, but were forced to
leave their city, immersed in hopeless ruin, and devoted to obli-
vion for many ages.
The decomposition of the volcanic matter which took place, in
the course of time produced a rich soil, peculiarly favourable to the
cultivation of vines, which, trained up the stems of poplars planted
in groves for that purpose, hang in graceful festoons, and pro-
duce a beautifully picturesque effect.
After a lapse of fifteen centuries, a countryman, as he was turn-
ing up the ground, accidentally found a bronze figure. This dis-
covery excited the attention of the learned, and the government
immediately appropriated to itself the right of further researches ;
which, however, it did not commence till the year 1748, about
eighty years after the first discovery.
The excavations were prosecuted with little energy till the arri-
val of the French, who cleared away the greater part of that which
is now open. The return of the King suspended the works for a
time ;
but they were resumed, though with less activity. This is
to be regretted, as the progress of excavation is so slow that the
present generation will reap, comparatively, few advantages from
the discoveries.
The public are for the most part aware of the fact, that an im-
mense number of manuscripts were discovered while excavating
these ruins — and a great portion of which were unrolled, by a
chemical process, by the late Sir Humphrey Davy. It was while
conversing with the enterprising traveller Belzoni, a few years ago,
that I accidentally discovered he had a perfect copy of one of
these in his possession ; which I subsequently obtained, at, how-
ever a very considerable expense, upon his decease ; it having fallen
into the hands of a rapacious publisher, who seems to have spe-
culated upon the emolument he would derive from its promulga-
tion. Fortunately fox me, (and I trust also for my readers), my
vHi iKTnoDucTioN TO raphael’s witch.
arfTuments were backed too well by the “glittering coin,” to allow
this Cerberus of the literary Styx to refuse the temptation of
immediate gain, when contrasted with the contingencies of author-
ship and public patronage.
Gentle Reader, need I say that the aforesaid manuscript forms
the groundwork of the following pages. Of course modernised
and altered to suit thy refined intellectual taste ;
for to such only,
to those kindred spirits who hold converse with the refined enjoy-
ments of the anticipated future, are the following pages offered.
But remember, Gentle Reader, THAT RAPHAEL’S WITCH
IS A LADY-WITCH —not the uncouth and horrid being
which some may conjure up to realise the horrors of the midnight
legend, and shake the soul with unearthly terrors, but rather
THE BEAUTEOUS SYBIL, wlio allures and attracts to health, con-
tentment, and cheerfulness. — Who seeks not to imbitter the
present misguided apprehensions of the future ; but, on the
contrary, to impel mankind forward by insensible means to
HEALTH, HONOUR, AND HAPPINESS. —Sucli, Gentle Reader, will
no doubt be thy impressions when thou hast perused the interesting
compilation I now lay before thee. —The Oracle is plain —but
emphatic —concise but copious. Try then, Gentle Reader, thy
Jalure fortune
Time, mighty vaunter ! thou, of all the race
That strive for glory, o’er thine acts can raise
A monument that never falls ;
and place
The ruins of a world, to mark tliy ways !
Each otlier conqueror’s memory decays.
To heap the pile, that comments on ^Aj/iiamc,
Thy column rises with increasing days,
And desolation adds unto thy fame
RAPHAEL’S WITCH.
THE METHOD
OF
(»ton0iilting tf)e
Compiled chiejlp from the Original MSS.
“ >TariOU6 are tf^e ait0, and manifold the methods of
divination both lawful and unlawful, (some holding fair and true
agreement with the rites and canons of Holy Church, and others
holding foul communion with the Powers of Darkness) by which
the sages of yore made prognostications of the future ! Of the first
most lawful and veritable art, the philosophers of old were wont
to descry in the wonders of the Starry Firmament the fate of
mortals, even as it were in a clear mirror. And divers and mani-
fold goodly presages did they draw from the aspects and signs of
the heavenly intelligences. This no man can deny ; albeit some
are found ever ready to gainsay, and account as churlish and vile,
that divine art ! But remember thou, into whose hands these
writings of mine may fortune to fall, that, as there are found
none who can truly avouch for the human perfectability of any
magistery, ait, or science whatever under the goodly canopy of the
starry firmament, even so, verily, there are none to be found
who, after a diligent search in the mysteries of the Astrologer’s
art, could in a fair and impartial manner decry its truth. Never-
theless there are many who still doubt! and these are the reasons;
namely, that all men are not fated to believe in foreknowledge.
it may be avouched, that of all other arts, which
espy into the future, the canons of astrology are most to be
ESPOUSED ;
since it is even allowed, by divers good men and true
in every age, that by the mysteries of the Horoscope the Astrolo-
X Raphael’s witch.
Mode of Consultation, ^c.
gers can foretel the exact destiny to which mortal man is predes-
tined, and TO WHAT fate he is allotted. By these mysteries
are the eyes of mortal man expunged from their gross and filmy
impediments, so that he can with truth read rightly the marvels
of his fate, and whether or no he is doomed to be the football
of fortune, or the favourite of those occult and mystical influences
that divers unbelieving mortals are wont to term chances. Albeit,
it is manifest that were chance alone to rule over all things, then,
forsooth, would the goodly frame of this beautiful universe run
mad to confusion ;
and then might men erect temples to her
honour, and thus pull down the might and majesty of the Heavenly
Builder
O Mortal, ih&t ALL THINGS are
fated to thee ;
but perchance in {wo divers, different, and diverse
ways; the first, comprehending the major events of thy life, as the
full goal of thy career ;
the exact pinnacle of honour to which thou
shalt attain; the fate of thy nuptial alliances; thy life and death !
These are inevitable, and verily not to be eschewed, gainsayed, or
turned aside, or in any way or manner altered from their course,
any more than the art or will of mortal man can stay the over-
whelming waves of the mighty ocean, the solemn roarings of
the deep-mouthed thunder, or the resistless blowing of the furious
whirlwind! But as all things differ in nature, cause, and primitive
origin, even “ as one star differeth from another in the heavens,"
so there are manifold events dependant on thy will, and active
agency, as the lord of all which the earth affords thee. These
thou mayest alter, as far as thou knowest, and so derive full goodly
cognizance and delight from the knowledge of thy future fate.
Albeit the utmost of thy knowledge, after all thou hast done, is less
than a drop of water in a bucket when compared with the vast
accumulation of the fathomless ocean.
for manifold weighty reasons, the Art of As-
trology is rendered difficult ;
such as the darkening and obscuring
of the sun, by a cloudy and nebulous sky, by which means the Astro-
loger cannot discern the shadow by his astrolobe, nor by the dial
of hours and minutes. Moreover, the imperfection of time, the
Raphael’s witch. XI
Mode of Consultation, 4'C*
clepsydra (or water-clock) being subject to error, because the
flow of the water will, from divers causes, proceed irregularly ;
and
many like and similar impediments will naturally present them-
selves, to render the Canons of Astrology full difficult, and hard
to essay or bring into practice.
maifee tip for the ancient philosophers
have sought out and recorded a number of subtle and curious arts
;
such as the art of Pyromancy, or Divination by the Element of Fire.
Geomancy,ov Divination by the Hand on the Surface of the Earth.
Dactilomancy, or Divination by Rings, made when the Sun entered
Leo, and the Moon was in Gemini, or else the Sun being in Gemini
and the Moon in Cancer, her own house, and Mercury also in
Gemini ;
and these were made of gold, silver, copper, iron, and
lead, working many marvels.
ifttOrrOPCr they made use of divers subtle and curious Sorti-
legies, by books and numbers ; as also the art of Chiuomancy, or
prophesying from the Lines of the Hand. Onimancy, or divining
by Sight. SciOMANCY, or divination by Shadow's. Chrystal-
LOM ANCY, by the Chrystal Stone. Clidomancy, by the Book and
Key; and Sephromancy, or divining by Ciphers.
Many of these are lost, and many are too tiresome and tedious
to mention ;
moreover, some of these require full manifold watch-
ings, observance of vigils, and customs that make waste of the
body, and some few are also unholy and unlawful; not being
free from those superstitious ceremonials which the Holy Church
in her wisdom condemns.
C!)nffove 10 it, O Man, that I have hereafter laid down,
for thy special observance, an art more facile in itself, yet agreeable
to reason ;
of a lawful and therefore beneficial tendency, namely,
the Art and Mysteries of the Oracle of Numbers, as transmitted
from generation to generation, even from the days of Pythagoras,
• Although the “ clepsydra,” or water-clock, was commonly used
among the ancients for various purposes, it appears from Mai Han, a La-
tin writer, (who lived about a.d. 490.) that there was also a clepsydra
in special use as an astrological engine.
XU Raphael’s witch.
Mode of Consultation, 4‘f.
the most wise philosopher of ancient days. Truly may I repeat
to thee of its goodly conceits and its manifold subtlety, seeing that
the wisest of mortals have placed credence therein. And more-
over, full many of high renown, and of warlike gestures, have
been nothing abashed at consulting its sortileges; and verily
there are few, who may make trial thereof, but will turn away
satisfied.
Consider thou well, therefore, of what thou wouldest be admo-
nished by the Oracle; and then, while the thoughts of thy
MIND BEND EARNESTLY TOWARD THY WISHES, mark thoU down,
on any convenient tablet, (or substance)ybur unequal lines of diver-
sified points, abstaining from counting them till the whole is
finished, and the matter concluded, so as to leave the number in
each line to the doctrine of Chance, which nevertheless will be
found to have a curious and subtle meaning; for thou wilt
REMEMBER w'ell, as before observed, that all things are fated ;
and these lines are in number four, alone, because all things
are subject to the dominion of the four cardinal and mighty
elements.
Count thou fairly these points, and mark well their numbers,
taking right particular care not to err therein or to be careless, and
go next to the wheel of letters and numbers, and take out
the number of the letter or letters corresponding to the initial or
first letter or letters (if more than one) of thy proper name;
then add these numbers together—that is to say, the total number
of the points in the four lines, and the number of thy name to-
gether. But in this be watchful; /br in the correctness thereof de-
pends the “ Secret” and mystery of the whole.
Lastly, add to this number the number of the age of the
MOON, namely of the Days the Moon is old w’hen the question is
asked ;
and, having accounted or added the whole together, sub-
tract therefrom 30 as often as thou canst, and the remainder is the
NUMBER OF THE ORACLE. But if nothing remain when 30 is sub-
tracted, then 30 is the number thou seekest after.
When thou hast found the number of the oracle, thy labour
in the matter is as it were brought to a Conclusion, for thou hast
Raphael’s witch. xm
Mode of Consultation, ^c.
nothing more to do but to look for the number on the top of the
Oracle, and in the first column to the left hand, for the question
thou seekest after. Then, by moving the figure of thy left hand
gradually along in a line with that question, and placing the finger
(or a ruler, or any other instrument) on the top of the oracle upon
the number, in the angle directly underneath it thou wilt find a cer-
tain letter of the alphabet, which tells thee the page of the oracle
(in the book) ; and by referring to that page, and noticing the sign
or hieroglyphic underneath thy number, (and finding out the
same in the pages of the book) thou hast the answer to thy ques-
tion written down.
Lastly. But note always to take heed that thou dost not work
on a rainy, cloudy, or a very windy season, or when thou art
angry, or thy mind busied with many affairs, nor for tempters or
deriders, that thou mayest renew and reiterate the same question
again under the same figure or form—^/or that is error."
THE READER IS REQUESTED TO REFER TO THE
FRONTISPIECE FOR
THE MYSTICAL WHEEL,
OF
NUMBERS AND LETTERS,
WHICH CONTAINS ALSO
FIVE CURIOUS SCENES,
MOST INTERESTING TO ALL WHO WISH TO PEEP
INTO THE FUTURE.
B
XlV Raphael’s witch.
Mode of Consultation, 4f.
EXAMPLES
OP
WORKING OF THE QUESTIONS.
The four lines of points are made in this manner, as it were at
random
Kuinber of Points.
1 I I I I I I I I I
i I I I I I I I
8
I I I I I I I I
8
1 i I I I I I 1 I I l.-ll
37 Total No.
Supposing a question were asked by one whose initial was G. :
Go to tlie wheel, and under the letter G is the number 21 ; add this
to the number of points 37, and it makes 38 ; and supposing the
number of the moon's age were 19, add this to 58 ;
and the sum
is 77 ;
thus :
Number of Points .... 37
Number of letter G ... 21
Age of the Moon 19
77 Sum Total.
* From this take avvayl _
twice the nuiyber 30 J
And the remainder is. . 17, which is the number of the Oracle.
Supposing the asker had inquired the 15th question, namely,
“ What shall be the asker's fortune in marriage, if a male?" Refer
to the Oracle, and in a line with the 15th question in the left
hand column, and underneath the number of the Oracle 17, you
will find in the angle the letter A, and that shows the page of the
Oracle in the book, and the hieroglyphic under No. 17. is
* If you divide by 30, take the remainder, which is the same thing.
Raphael’s witch. XV
Mode of Consultation, 4'C.
turn to the Oracle A, and in a line with the character or sign
^ ,
is this answer :
“ The asker xoill marry a prudent and clever female, a stranger,
from the west, dark but comely, and a female thou wilt love."
Or were it the 16th question, “ What shall be the result of
things lost or stolen ?" Refer to the Oracle, and underneath the
No. 17. is the letter B, (in a line with the 16th question in
the left hand column) and the sign is still ^ . Turn to the
Oracle B. and this is the answer
:
“ If the thing is lost only, search in high and lofty places or
where books or papers are kept; if it be of a theft thou seekest, it
is one of tender age."
The moon’s age may be at all times known by Moore’s Alma-
nac, or any similar Calendar ; but to obviate every difficulty, the
Editor subjoins a table of the Moon’s age for the next two
years, beginning with January, 1831. The second column shows
the Days the Moon is old, opposite each day of the Month.
There needs but little more to be said respecting the truth or
untruth of the oracle ;
let the reader make a fair trial of its merits,
and judge for himself. The only liberty taken with the foregoing
introductory mode of consultation was to substitute, in the allusions
made to the Pagan worship of those days, that of the more modern
religion of recent times.
To those who object to the work, as being composed of trifles,
I would answer, I have myself learned, by many a rude rebuff, to
know that there is no such thing as a trifle in this world
;
all
IS OF CONSEQUENCE. ALL MAY BE OF IMPORT !
Curious arts in times of old,
Whereby wonders were foretold !
Presages of days long past,
By which horoscopes were cast
;
Mystic science, ancient lore.
Wild and strange beliefs of yore;
Wondrous arts of sage and seer.
All are found embodied here 1
XVI Raphael’s witch.
Mode of Consultation, S^c.
PLEASING METHOD
OF
<Hton0uUing tf)e (Oracle,
WHEREBY A LARGE COMPANY MAY READILY READ THE PACtS
OF THEIR FUTURE FATE, WITHOUT CALCULATIONS.
Since in mixed companies it may be found difficult to form the
number of points as heretofore shown, and as Raphael’s chief aim
is invariably to
“ Combine instruction with delight,
Mankind the easier to excite
the following method is given, as equivalent to the foregoing in
correctness, and much more easy :
THE TABLE OF MYSTICAL NUMBERS.
1 7 8 30 10
9 2 13 12 11
15 14 3 16 17
21 18 20 4 19
22 23 26 25 5
27 28 29
*
24 6
Therefore, when you wish to ask a question, refer to this table,
and choose either of the numbers contained in the different squares
thereof, which run from 1 to 30, and let this number serve, in-
stead of making the points.
To this number, add the Age of the Moon, on the day the
question is asked, and the number answering to the initial of your
Christian name, and add them together ;
when this is done, subtract
Raphael’s witch. xvn
Mode of Consultation, SfC.
away 30 as often as you can, or divide by 30, which is the same
thing, and take the remainder and look in the table, and you will
find the answer as before shown.
EXAMPLE I.
A person enquires the event of “ a Suit at Law,” which is the
17th question. Let the tables of numbers be referred to, and let
a number be chosen, suppose this to be No. 2.
To the number chosen 2
Add the initial of the name G 21
Number of the ]) ’s age 23
46
Subtract 30
16 Remainder.
Go to the Oracle, and in a line with question 17, under 16 at
the top, is found the letter B, this is the page where the answer is
recorded ;
the sign for No. 16. is
$ ;
and the answer is this :
“ In the
beginning observe the omens : he who expects to gain, shall lose !
but, as the hour in which thou askest this is evil, evil-minded persons
will vex thee.
By this simple means a large party may enjoy an almost end-
less fund of cheerful amusement, by running round the 30 ques-
tions and their 900 answers, ad libitum; which Raphael trusts
will disperse the usual gloom of the winter’s evening, and by
enlivening the social hearth, dispense witn .jiany other more du-
bious and less interesting subjects of conversation. The most
fastidious may try these Oracles — the most devout fear no harm
therein. While the curious will derive an ample fund of gratifi-
cation, which few other subjects can afford. Reader, why waitest
thou? — Consult the Oracle !! ! To one of thy judicious reason*-
ing it will be a real pleasure.
xviii RAPHAEL S WITCH.
A TABLE
OF
iUoon’0 age
For
THE TEAR 1831.
JAN. FKB. MAR. APR. may. J UNB JULY. AUG. StPT. OCT. NOT. DEC.
X X X X X X X X X X*
G C c c z c z c c C b
S
V QI
V
s O) 01
s oi o;
S
u.
s
01
S
oi
s
u.
m
a
o
<
y>
(/)
>>
ce
<1
tfi
V
>*,
?C
a
<
c/>
<r.
ce
Q
<
ifi
F\ a
< (A
a
<
(/>
A
(0
CO
D
<
V)
A
(A
cc*
c
<
1
Pays
f
<
cn
tf)
>\
a
o
<
CA
cn
c Pi
¥>
ee
o
<
jn
1 19 1 20 1 18 1 20 1 20 1 22 1 23 1 24 1 26
27
1 27 1 28 1 29
2 20 2 21 2 19 2 21 2 21 2 23 2 24 2 25 2 2 28 2 29 2 30
8 21 3 22 3 20 3 22 3 22 3 24 3 25 3 26 3 28 3 29 3 1 3 1
4 22 4 23 4 21 4 23 4 23 4 25 4 26 4 27 4 29 4 30 4 2 4 2
5 23 5 24 5 22 5 24 5 24 5 26 5 27 5 28 5 1 5 1 5 3 5 3
6 24 6 25 6 23 6 25 6 25 6 27 6 28 6 29 6 2 6 2 6 4 6 4
7 25 7 26 7 24 7 26 7 26 7 28 7 29 7 1 7 3 7 3 7 5 7 5
8 26 8 27 8 25 S 27 8 27 8 29 8 30 8 2 8 4 8 4 8 6 8 6
9 27 9 28 9 26 9 28 9 28 9 1 9 1 9 3 9 5 9 5 9 7 9 7
lo 28 10 2S 10 27 10 29 10 29 10 2 10 2 10 4 10 6 10 6 10 8 10 8
U 29 11 30 11 28 11 30 11 1 11 3 11 3 11 5 11 7 11 7 11 9 11 9
12 30 12 1 12 29 12 1 12 2 12 4 12 4 12 6 12 8 12 8 12 10 12 10
13 1 13 2 13 1 13 2 13 3 13 5 13 5 13 7 13 9 13 9 13 11 13 11
14 2 14 3 14 2 14 3 14 4 14 6 14 6 14 8 14 10 14 10 14 12 14 12
15 3 15 4 15 3 15 4 15 5 15 7 15 7 15 9 15 11 15 11 15 13 15 13
16 4 16 5 16 4 16 5 16 6 16 8 16 8 16 10 16 12 16 12 16 i4 16 14
17 5 17 6 17 5 17 6 17 7 17 9 17 Ci
17 11 17 13 17 13 17 15 17 15
18 6 18 7 18 6 18 7 18 8 18 10 18 10 18 12 18 14 18 14 18 16 18 16
19 7 19 S 19 7 19 8 19 9 19 11 19 11 19 13 19 15 19 15 19 17 19 17
20 8 20 9 20 8 20 9 20 10 20 12 20 12 20 14 20 16 20 16 20 18 20 IS
21 9 21 10 21 9 21 10 21 11 21 13 21 13 21 15 21 17 21 17 21 19 21 19
22 10 22 11 22 10 22 11 22 12 22 14 22 14 22 16 22 18 22 18 22 20 22 20
23 11 23 12 23 U 23 12 23 13 23 15 23 15 23 17 23 19 23 19 23 21 23 21
24 12 24 13 24 12 24 13 24 14 24 16 24 16 24 18 24 20 24 20 24 22 24 22
25 13 25 14 25 13 25 14 25 15 25 17 25 17 25 19 25 21 25 21 25 23 25 23
26 14 26 15 26 14 26 15 26 16 26 18 26 18 26 20 26 22 26 22 26 24 26 24
27 15 27 16 27 15 27 16 27 17 27 19 27 19 27 21 27 23 27 23 27 25 27 25
28 16 28 17 28 16 28 17 28 18 28 20 28 20 28 22 28 24 28 24 28 26 28 26
29 17 29 17 29 18 29 19 29 21 29 21 29 23 29 25 29 25 29 27 29 27
30 18 30 18 30 19 30 20 30 22 30 22 30 24 30 26 30 26 30 28 30 28
31 19 |31 19 31 21 31 23 31 25 |31 27 |31 29
Raphael’s wnoii. XIX
A TABLE
OF
iJfloon'0
FOR
THE YEAR 1832.
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. 1 MAY. JUNE. JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
£ si .c 1
^ JZ JZ X X X X* X
C
c
0 C c C C c
<*.
0
it)
>
c c c c
c
(O
>1
tu
C
>
*0
<n
<
(/)
c
(T
4)
bt
<
</>
c
tfl
4)
ei
C
tf)
0
1/1
4)
<
V)
c
cn
tL
<
(fi
0^
bt
< c
>
4)
U
<
tfl
Vb.
0
(/)
>.
4;
&/
<
jf>
c
cn
4J
0
(/>
>>.
bjo
<
(A
c
«r
0
Cl
<
Q Ft a Ft c Fi e Ft 0 c c c c Ft D Ft Q Ft
1 30 1 1 1 30 1 2 1 2 1 4 1 5 1 0 1 8 1 9 1 10 1 11
2 1 2 2 2 1 2 3 2 3 2 5 2 e 2 7 2 9 2 10 2 11 2 12
3 2 3 3 3 2 3 4 3 4 3 6 3 7 3 8 3 10 3 11 3 12 3 13
4 3 4 4 4 3 4 5 4 5 4 7 4 6 4 9 4 11 4 12 4 13 4 14
5 4 5 5 5 4 5 6 5 6 5 8 5 9 5 10 5 12 5 13 6 14 5 15
6 5 6 6 (; 5 6 7 6 7 6 9 ( 10 (1 11 6 13 6 14 6 15 6 16
7 6 7 7 7 6 7 8 7 8 7 10 7 11 7 12 7 14 7 15 7 16 ?
17
& 7 8 8 8 7 8 9 8 9 8 11 12 B 13 8 15 8 16 8 17 8 18
9 8 9 9 (I
8 9 10 9 10 9 12 9 13 9 14 9 16 9 17 9 18 9 19
10 9 10 10 10 9 10 1
1
10 11 10 13 10 i4 10 15 10 17 10 IS 10 19 10 20
11 10 11 11 11 10 11 12 11 12 11 14 11 15 n 16 11 18 1! 19 11 20 II 21
12 11 12 12 12 11 12 13 12 13 12 15 12 16 12 17 12 19 12 20 12 21 12 22
13 12 13 13 i3 12 13 14 13 l4 Il3 16 13 17 13 18 13 20 13 21 13 22 13 23
14 13 14 14 14 13 14 15 14 15 14 17 14 18 14 19 14 21
22 \l
22 I4'23 14 24
15 14 15 15 15 14 15 16 15 16 15 18 15 19 15 20 15 23 15'24 15 25
16 15 16 16 16 15 16 17 16 17 16 19 16 20 16 21 16 23 16 24 16 25 16 26
17 16 17 17 17 16 17 18 17 18 17 20 17 21 17 22 17 24 17 25 I7l26 17 27
18 17 18 18 18 17 18 19 18 19 IB 21 IS 22 18 23 18 25 18 26 18 27 18 28
IS IS 19 19 19 18 19 20 19 20 19 22 19 23 19 24 19 26 19 27 19 28 19 29
20 19 20 20 20 19 20 21 20 21 20 23 20 24 2(1 25 20 27 20 28 2029 20 30
21 20 21 21 21 20 21 22 21 22 21 24 21 25 21 26 21 28 21 29 21 1 21 1
22 21 22 22 22 21 22 23 22 23 22 25 22 26 22 27 22 29 22 30 22 2 22 2
23 22 23 23 23 22 23 24 23 24 23 26 23 27 23 28 23 1 23 1 23 3 23 3
24 23 24 24 24 23 24 25 24 25 24 27 24 28 24 29 24 2 24 2 24 4 24 4
25 24 25 25 25 24 25 26 25 26 25 28 25 29 25 1 25 3 25 3 25 5 25 5
26 25 26 26 26 25 26 27 26 27 26 29 26 30 26 2 26 4 26 4 26 6 26 6
27 26 27:27 27 26 27 28 27 28 27 1 27 1 27 3 27 5 27 5 27 7 27 7
28 27 28|2S 28 27 28 29 28 29 28 2 28 28 4 28 6 28 6 28 8 28 8
29 2- 29 29 29 28 29 30 29 1 29 .3 29 3 29 5 29 7 29 7 29 9 29 9
30 2i 30 29 30 1 30 2 30 4 30 4 30 () 30 30 8 30 10 L30 10
31 30 31 1 31 3 31 5 31 7 31 9 31 II
XX Raphael’s wiich.
Mode of Consultation, ^c.
In the preceiling tables, the second column show the moon’s
age for any given day throughout 1831 and 1832 ;
which will
render the calculations of the questions wonderfully easy.
Thus, for example, on the 3rd January, 1831, a person whose
initial is B, inquires, “ Is it good to travel or voyage?"—Ques-
tion 25.
Make four lines of points thus:
1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M 1
.. 13
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
12
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
.. 13
48
Add the moon’s age on that day. . . 21
Number of the letter B
71
From this take away 30 twice, or divide by 30, and the re-
mainder is 11.
Look to the Table of the Oracle, and in a line with the 25th
question, under the figure 11 at top, is the letter E. and the sign,
is tct: The answer is this, (which the Reader will readily find,)
“ Slow and tedious, saturnine omens proclaim to he the tread of
thy footsteps.—Beware the turbulent and tempestuous ocean."
A number of other examples might be here given ;
but the Editor
deems tlie foregoing amply sufficient for any thinkhig person to
recreate himself : a little attention to the subject, and the matter
in hand, being all that is necessary.
O Liberty ! can man resign thee,
Once having felt thy gen’rous flame?
Can dungeons, bolts, and bars confine thee,
Or whips thy noble spirit tame?
Too long the world has wept, bewailing,
That falsehood’s dagger tyrants wield;
But freedom is our sword and shield,
And all their arts are unavailing.
RAPUAEl.’S WITCH. XXI
Gentle Reader, — 1 now present thee with the Oracle of
“ Raphael’s Witch,” wherein thou wilt find, in a clear and ob-
vious manner, the answer to whatever question thou inquirest ;
and
thus wilt thou in a short period be enabled to inform thyself and
friends how far the Oracle coincides with the truth. The signs and
questions are 30 in number, but the answers are no less than 900,
which are presumed to be a variation sufficiently correct for thy pur-
pose. And thou wilt remember, that the same question for the same
party should not be tried twice upon the same day. For whatever
error may arise in the verity of the Oracle, rest assured, it is chiefly
in the mind and method of the operator, not in the Oracle.
THE ORACLE
OF
00
C
.2
1 2 3 4 5 6 / 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
to
(D
S
O’
r b n 25 a ni Vf WA S
No
1 A B c D E F G II I J K L M N 0
2 B C D E F G II 1 J K L M N TT p
3 C D E F G H I J K L M N O p Q
4 D E F a II 1 J K L M N G P Q R
0 E F G 11 I J K L M N O P Q R S
G i’ G n I J K L M N O P Q R S T
7 G H 1 J K L M N O P Q R S T V
8 il I J K L M N O P Q R S T V U
9 1 J K L M N O P Q R S T V U W
10 J K L M N 0 P Q R S T V U w X
11 K L M N O P Q R S T V U w X Y
12 L M N 0 P Q R S T V U X Y Z
J3 M i\ 0 P Q R S T V U \v X Y Z a
14 N U P Q R S T V u w X Y z a- b.
15 q P Q R S T V U w X Y Z a b c
16 p Q R S' T V U w X Y z a b c d
17 .Q R S f V u W X Y z a b c d A
18 R S f V U w X Y Z a b c d A B
19 s' T V u \v X Y Z a b c d A B C
20 T V u w X Y z a b c d A B C D
21 V u w X Y Z a b c d A B C D E
22 u w X Y z a b c d A B C D E F
23. w X Y z a b c d A B C D E F G
24 X Y Z a b c d A B C D E F G 'H
25 Y z a b c d A B C D E F G II I
26 z a b c d A B C D E F' G 11 I J
Wr—
cl b c d A B G D E F G 11 I J K
28 b c d A B C D E F G H I J K L
29 c d A B G D E F G H 1 J K L M
30 d 'a B C D E F G H 1 J K L M N
THi: ORACLE
OF
CK
a
o 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 21 25 26 -1 28 29 30
CO
O
3
<y ? ? o D 83 ?3 •X- A © + * ^ X
No.
1 P Q R s T V U W X Y Z a b c d
2 Q R S T V U ~w X Y Z a b c d A
3 R S T V U vv X Y Z a b c d A B
4 S T V U w X Y Z a b c d A B C
5 T V w X Y z a b c d A B G D
6
\' U w X Y z a b c d A B C D E
F
7 U W X Y z a b c d A B C D E
8 W X z a b c d A B G D E F G
9 X Y z a b c d A B C F) 1-: F G H
10 Y Z a b c d A B C D E F G H 1
11 Z a b c d .V B C G E 1-
G II I J
12 a b c d A B G D E F G H 1 J K
13 b c d A B C 1) E F, G li
J. J K L
14 c d A B G D E F G 11 1 .1 K L M .
15 d A B G I) E F G 11 [ .1 K 1. M N
16 A B i; 1) E F G 11 1 J k L M i\_ O
17 11 C G K F G li I .1 K 1/ .\l X" G P
18 C 1) K 1'
G 11 1 J k E -M N () P (i
19 D 1-', 1’
G 11 1 J K L M \ G 1’
Q R
20 E F G M I .1 K L M N G P Q. R S
21 F G ll' I J Iv L M \ G P Q 8 T
22 O 11 I J K L M N G P K 8 T V
23 II r J K L M X G P (i R 8 T U
24 1 J K L M N G P Q R 8 T \'
U w
25 J K L ,M N G 1'
Q R S r U W X
26 K L M N G I' Q R 8 T \'
U u X Y
27 L M N O 1’
Q R S 'r
\'
u \V X Y Z
28 M \ G P Q R S T \ i; w X Y Z a
29 X O P Q R S T V u W' X Y Z a b
30 () P Q R S T U w X Y Z a b c
XXIV Raphael’s witch.
The Reader is desired to note well that the annexed list of
Questions will likewise answer for thrice their number, if rightly
managed ; thus, if a certain person should inquire, Shall lever
be rich ?’’ this will be answered the same as the first question. Or
if one ask, “ Of life and healthV' indefinitely, the 6th question wilt
always serve, let the question be put in whatever shape it may";
also should the success of any one in life generally be inquired, the
7th question will serve. Thus may a judicious person learn to vary
the questions in a very decided manner ;
which will increase the
interest of the work. The initials of the name will also serve for
a hundred different purposes.
' I
rj7E JF'irTim^ jfY
't'nr. AK-ntoi.ar.ru
MIliBOK
RATHAEl^
tInZ',
\Y\
z § u:ssi£‘2 oi^rs
J £ri/te ^.r/vy .rfut// /ir /i>f/rt^f^r/^
J tmf. f^ir //>//ifi/.r />/^rtn^y
S .FCcA' -f/irf// fTfriyrT
(* O' f/tr' Kr borfi /oTity
_ or yr/torr I*/f\'
•^rr' ft//ft Z fit
The ('AliAt.lSTlCAL AU’IIABET,
miEIUCBY M.EVY IJIDDEX
s/s( jurrs aiu: i>is( on:red.
.!. .
'O'ro'Ffo/^/^, •i'if/// .
•t j- fiinf'f'.'
-i-/lft/f
/n .i-fn^v OF'
’.i'Xfr.i' /ir*‘-F^n^ '7/ /)/////!.
tjf*” ^fr" ,tyf///.p /'/' f//f
in £rft/iyrjfr7'/if^F/ff/'J>e'.v
e/rt/Vf fhrf7ift(f77- . ,
J4: inutrJi/ty ifi/7 /Frtjyf n/ f/iy
ir. .a,
a.
aC^Xt'Fttir Ff/ifi Onr//itr.r
i.. „
f
' ft> n ttt’f'/ '
'trrf -rny /iu/7i//e- //> F/ff.r
^f/Ooti fV 7>v/jv/ fif
*'
>
i'7(t .Fft/r
2<V% fji//\rt/F/- .r//47// F/tf
ovr
200!]K)< >
Tlli: I.ETTf'.KS
OP T(i !-. ST.U^S.
rjiwxT
THE
THIRTY REMARKABLE QUESTIONS
IN
BY THE
ORACLE OF PYTHAGORAS,
The most wise Philosopher.
Questions.
If the asker shall be fortunate, or unfor-
tunate, in this world ?
1
2 What ages of the asker’s life shall be the
best in fortune^^
3 If the asker shall attain to his heart's desire
4 To know the initial letters of any person's
name unknown ?
5 If a sick person shall amend or relapse ?
0 If the asker is born to long or short life ?
7 To one not knowing their horoscope, what
is their sign, star, and planet
;
and their
consequent destiny ?
'
8 If a promise made to the asker shall be ful-
filled?
9 Whether the asker shall have gain in the
place where he dwelleth ;
or if better to
remove therefrom?
10 If the asker's friend be trusty and true?
11 If the asker’s present ill-fortune shall turn
to good hereafter ?
12 What are the signs of the weather, at any
time ?
XXVI THE THIRTY QUESTIONS IN RAPHAEL’S WITCH.
Questions.
13 If any particular day shall prove fortunate?
14 What day in the week or month shall prove
of the greatest note in the asker’s
horoscope ?
15 What shall be the asker’s fortune in mar-
riage, if a male 7
16 What shall be the result of things lost or
stolen ?
J7 If the asker shall gain or lose in a suit at
law ?
18 What shall be the asker’s fortune in mar-
riage, if a female ?
19 If the asker shall be fortunate in his family ?
20 If a friend now absent is fortunate, or in
trouble ?
21 Whether the asker has most friends or
enemies ?
22 If a wager or game at play shall be won ?
23 To what part of the world should the
asker bend his steps ?
24 Is there any change in the asker’s horo-
scope this year ?
25 Is it good to travel or voyage ?
26 What has fortune in store for the asker in
the next seven years ?
27 Shall the ship at sea be safe or lost ?
28 In what magistery, business, or calling, shall
the asker prosper ?
29 Is an intended adventure fortunate ?
30 Of tioo combatants or adversaries, which
shall conquer?
WUtc^f
OR THE
ORAC£i£
OF
NINE HUNDRED ANSWERS
TO ALL
MANNER OF QUESTIONS.
‘
Helvetius was a disbeliever of the Philosopher's Stone, and
the universal medicine, and even turned Sir Kenelm Digby’s sym-
pathetic powder into ridicule. On the 27th of December, 1666, a
stranger called upon him, and after conversing for some time about
a universal medicine, showed a yellow powder, which he affirmed
to be the Philosopher’s Stone, and at the same time five large plates
of gold, which had been made by means of it. Helvetius earnestly
entreated that he would give him a little of this powder, or at least
that he would make a trial of its power ;
but the stranger refused,
promising, however, to return in six weeks. He returned accord-
ingly, and after much entreaty he gave to Helvetius a piece of a
stone, not larger than the size of a rape-seed. When Helvetius
expressed his doubt whether so small a portion would be sufficient
to convert four grains of lead into gold, the adept broke off one-
half of it, and assured him that what remained was more than suf-
ficient for the purpose. Helvetius, during the first conference, had
concealed a little of the stone below his nail. This he threw into
melted lead, but it was almost all driven off in smoke, leaving only
a vitreous earth. When he mentioned this circumstance, the
stranger informed him that the powder must be inclosed in wax,
before it be thrown into the melted lead, lest it should be injured
by the smoke of the lead. The stranger promised to return next
day, and show him the method of making the projection ! but hav-
ing failed to make his appearance, Helvetius, in the presence of
his wife and son, put six drachms of lead into the crucible, and as
soon as it was melted, he threw into it the fragment of philosopher’s
stone in his possession, previously covered over with wax. The
crucible was now covered with its lid, and left for a quarter of an
hour in the fire, at the end of w'bich time he found the whole lead
converted into gold. He requested Porelius, who had the charge
of the Dutch mint, to try the value. Two drachms of it being
subjected to quartation, and solution in aqua fortis, w'ere found to
have increased in weight by two scruples. This increase was
doubtless owing to the silver, which still remained enveloped in the
gold after the action of the aqua fortis. To endeavour to separate
the silver more completely, the gold was again fused with seven
times its w'eight of antimony, and treated in the usual manner
but no alteration took place in the weight.’
l£(aplbae(’!ii mittt.
A.
Sign. \
I
r
By these omens, the asker shall be fortunate in this
world ;
he shall have rich abodes, fair habitations, and
enjoy the luxuries of fortune.
0
Doubtless he who faces the oriental quadrants shall be
the favourite of Mars, and conquer his adversary.
n --
Propitious signs and auspicious omens are around
thee ;
but one alone tells of delay ; therefore be cau-
tious.
$
The watery Trigon, influences these peculiar omens
;
choose the sea, ships, or dealing in fluids, if thou
wishest to prosper.
The ship has been driven about in a tempestuous sea
;
the deep waters gathered around her —yet she is
still safe.
A wedding and a banquet to which thou art invited.
Three evil mischances : a funeral, (but perchance not
near in kith or kin,) a hazardous journey, and a jovial
boon.
-n.
By land, there is safety; mark it well. Peril not thy-
self by the deceitful element ; avoid also the waning
of the crescent moon; her horns are omens of
danger.
A removal, perchance sudden and unexpected ; a full
ample variety of employment; albeit part may prove
tedious. But lo! there is also the sign of a kind
friend.
c 2
30 Raphael’s witch.
Sign, A.
t
f
Travel to the eastern quarters of the globe, or travel not
at all ; eschew and shun the occidental and western
parts. The other parts are indifferent.
W Fortune, is thine! what more wouldst thou ? But still
thy intentions even now are doubtful.
AVV
VVM
Six are for, but four are against thee; therefore the
hidden mysteries of numbers proclaim /rtends.
The absent has lately changed residence ;
stars of evil
import have prevailed of late, and news will reach
the asker shortly.
These portend rather a small progeny, but out of which
two fortunate offspring are allotted thee.
n
A slow and irksome courtship, but a quick marriage to
one of tall stature, portly and handsome, erect'and
free in carriage—one who is rather fortunate.
S
Doubtless the longest purse belongs to thine enemy; but
if false witnesses are kept aloof, fear not.
?
Search diligently—a female is concerned in the matter,
if omens are to be believed ;
and if it be of theft thou
askest, otherwise if of a loss, search where females
frequent.
5
The asker will marry a prudent and clever female, a
stranger from the west, dark but comely, and a female
thou wilt love.
0
Sunday will be the day of thy greatest weal; Friday
the most sorrowful day of thy life.
D
Some of these numbers are inauspicious and frivolous
some too are evil : let the asker be on his guard, for
unalloyed fortune is not now his lot.
8
A fertile season, dry and pleasant; if thou inquirest of
a day only, it will be wet ; if of a month, pleasant.
Sign.
Raphael's WITCH. 3l
A-
8
There is a change visible in the future ;
within three
months hence it will be manifest, and a greater change
follows it.
* Beware of those who are reef-haired : Mars and his
omens forewarn of deceit, rancour, and subterfuge.
A
To remove at present would but increase the manifest
portents of thy evil star — that orb whose influence
thou hast so felt of late. Beware.
This rather foretels some secret wile, snare, or artifice
designed to mislead. Fate speaks negatively.
cf
Born under Capricorn, assuredly, in the morn of thy
life, expect mischance. Thy meridian, too, is painful,
and replete with cares ;
thy evening of life alone
happy.
©
It were better not to inquire further in this matter ;
for
before thou readiest the crisis of 42 years, perils
must be borne ; bear them with patience.
+
Here are ominous and mysterious tokens of relapse ;
change the physician; and avoid the danger if thou
canst.
<
The name thou seekest after is of some length (in syl-
lables) ;
I or H begins it ; it is of unfrequent occur-
rence.
X
An omen is here given, that unless manifold cares be
taken, will cause a delay, if not a dilemma, and a
remarkable difficulty to arise.
By the deep mysteries of these oracles it is foretold
that thy fate shall be evil at twenty-two, and perilous
at thirty : but temperance and fortitude assist in pre-
serving life.
B.
Sign.
r
Tlie age of thy youth is fraught with manifold perils,
many disasters, and some calamities; three narrow
escapes ; and a few years of fickle fortune before good
arrives.
0
The denouncements of these signs are prophetic of a
fate replete with vicissitudes and changes.
n
The tallest of the two, either in combat, personal or by
proxy, shall overcome; and the weaker shall become
afterwards his chosen friend.
These numbers the moon governs. Jtisa happy and
true presage of success.
a
Deal thou in the produce of the earth, or merchandize,
in the produce of the regions far distant, and thou
wilt be enriched.
The ship is either now in some fortified haven, or free
from those dangers the early part of the voyage por-
tended.
Five long and tedious peregrinations at least, are al-
lotted thee ; three of which will be on the liquid
elements ; and thou wilt twice attend the ceremonials
of Death.
m
Beware of Mars. Scorpio is ever a presage of deceit
and danger: defer thy desires for a period, if thou
wouldest have a fair chance of success.
Raphael’s witch.
B.
33
t
A solar fair person, tall, yellow or brown hair, and in
high life, will ere long become thy bosom friend.
Vf
To the south, south-east, (high places) lays thy fortune.
. Shun the water, and its vicinity ; but dwell near lofty
and rich edifices.
Wos
Perchance, as these numbers are fortunate, it may
;
but
there will strive one with thee ! of whom thou
shouldest beware,—an enemy under the garb of a
friend.
The star and sign of thy horoscope is obscured ;
for a
season thy fate is cross and untoward.
Immersed in the deep waters of tribulation, he has lain
on the couch of sickness for a season ;
albeit for a
time his troubles may vanish.
%
Certes, thy offspring shall be both thy joy and thy
sorrow ; and one of thy lineage will be a chieftain or
noble.
<?
Twice speak the signs of wedlock’s vows ; one of thy
choice will be a saturnine dark man, the other fair and
comely; a stranger.
?
In the beginning observe the omens : he who expects to
gain, shall lose ! but, as the hour in which thou askest
this is evil, evil-minded persons will vex thee.
?
If the thing is lost only, search in high and lofty places
or where books or papers are kept; if it be of a theft
thou seekest, it is one of tender age.
o
The asker will love many, deceive some, but peradven-
ture will meet his match in wedlock after all
!
])
The third day of the month will ever be a day of evil
fortune to thee ;
and Sunday is governed by thy evil
genius, yet it shall be the most noted day in thy life.
34
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
B.
3
Albeit signs of fortunate numbers are chosen : this day
is evil,—be watchful and discreet. Mark well what
happens.
8
Is it of to-day or to-morrow thou askest ? if so, rain is
in the air. If thou inquirest of a future period,
expect in summer thunder, in autumn hail, in winter
frost, in spring gales.
*
Doubtless it shall ;
behold the friendly sextile, the
sign astrologers in their mystic calculations allow as
the forerunner of wealth.
A
Few in number and rare are this \
5
|^ld’s friendships ;
yet some real good is either at hand or near occurring.
In the next moon thou wilt be surprised !
Remove not till three times the silver moon has belted
with her glorious refulgence the azure canopy ; then
remove quickly.
In part it may, but divers medleys and interruptions
will happen first ;
moreover this is the more certain,
if thy birthday was on an eclipse.
©
Arks is thy constellation, at thy birth the vigorous sun
shone glorious—in his allotted path, thy star too was
free from malign rays—it bodes prosperity.
+
Know thou, 0 mortal, before thy horoscope can be
judicially counted as to length of years, sickness
awaits thee.
**
A crisis ;
yea two are past already. What say the signs
of heaven ? The moon and Venus give hope.
X
Inquirest thou of a lover ? if so, the letter thou seekest is
0 ;
if of a thief thou seekest N. or R. A short name.
***
Orion, and the Trine ! whatever thy thoughts may mis-
give, the oracle speaks of good fortune—likest thou
the omen ?
Sicn.
c.
T
Whoever thou art that now consultest these oracles,
take good heed thou art not too ardent in thy wishes,
there is a mischance at hand.
0
Between the ages of fifteen and twenty-two, thy life is
vivid in scenery, fair in prospect, but subject to ma-
lignant stars. Between thirty-five and forty, it is
good.
n
The inquirer has herein sought after that, of which he
had better not ask further particulars for a season,
otherwise he may be vexed thereat.
25
Both shall in a manner lose ;
but the roundest in visage
is more favoured than the other, moreover thou wilt
be annoyed thereby.
a
Three perils cross the adventurer. He will be near
giving it up—then valorous—but success is doubtful,
for a given time.
In bartering, he will often lose ;
his sign speaks of gain
by the rich ;
perhaps he may not gain in business by
his own exertions.
This is a sign of safety, as also of news within a very
short season, and of false alarms first.
TR
A total change in thy business, livelihood or pursuit,
as also three accidents by fire—blows and bruises
;
one year of the seven, however, will be remarkably
fortunate.
rapuael’s witch.
c.
36 Raphael’s witch.
Sign. C.
t
Begin thy journey in the increase of the moon and on a
Monday; by so doing, succe s will attend thee. If
thou fakest a voyage, expect alarms.
yf
There will be, both at the fall of the leaf, and in the
shortening of the days, and thou wilt take a journey,
or change thy habitation.
Vw«
Towards the highest part of the regions wherein be so-
journs, and east or by east ; but shun the vicinity of
the water; for these configurations are doubtful.
One will assuredly play false, therefore be on thy guard
stake not too freely ;
play not at random ; some of
the omens are mischievous enough !
At present, thou castest the omen of rancour, malice,
and of adversaries seen and unseen. Remember
%
If thy hand has made the signs arightly, thy friend is
surrounded by mirtli and jollity.
s
One of the house will be skilful in war or surgery
another will travel into far countries; generally
speaking, thou hast thy desire herein—be thankful.
?
Disappointed in thy virgin love, thou wilt for years
mourn over thy ill-fated career ;
yet cheer up, brighter
scenes await thy wedded state.
5
Either false witnesses will rise up against thee, or thou
wilt be foiled by want of testimony—therefore take
great caution.
G
One of the thieves justice shall overtake, yet thou wilt
scarcely recover the lost or stolen goods ;
the thief has
quitted thy residence, and is at a distance.
3)
To marry one he has never seen, if now single, but if
already married, his fortune will be subject to changes
in the matrimonial state.
Sign.
Raphael’s witoh.
C-
37
Q
The asker will find Tuesday to be the most pernicious
day of his life ;
but the seventh day of the month is
his day of choice fortune.
8
Be advised, whoever thou art that consultest the oracle :
defer thy designs on the day thought of. Harm is near.
*
If thou seekest of a day, know it will be clear and fine,
if of a certain season, the omens denote a mild, gentle,
and fruitful season. Plenteous enough.
A
Who shall gainsay it ? Who deny it ? Lo ! here are
abundant testimonials ofsuccessful and happy changes.
Though his mind may waver and doubt, he affects thee
as yet truly, his cause is thine : anger him not.
A removal, well contemplated, would answer ;
but go not
till the next moon wanes in the heavens, or fear some
evil to follow.
©
If of money, it will scarcely be. If of an offer of friend
ship, it may. But he promises more than it is given
him to yet perform.
+
A constellation arose at thy birth, wherein four stars of
might bore rule : Gemini owns thee, and thy destiny
is to be famous and renowned in thy day and genera-
tion.
**
There are four, yea five, dangerous periods that may
bend aside the thread of thy brittle existence. Yet
temperance and sobriety, joined to watchfulness, are
preservers.
X
Even while the question is asked, the disorder changes;
but in three days hence comes the crisis.
V v.v
If thou consultest the oracle regarding thy future partner
in this transitory life, it is S. If of theft P, and in
either case, it is a name sounding boldly, if not un-
couthly.
AAA
D.
/
antut).
D.
Sign.
r
If thou seekest to know the name of one thou art ena-
moured with, it begins with T, and is of several
syllables. If of any other name, it says L is the
letter.
6
Quiet and peaceably he may not ; but after some strife
he may. But let the asker not be too elevated ; the
omens are not decisive.
n
There is much trouble in thy horoscope, even at this
present time. Much has already also past : more is
to come ;
but thy middle age is fortunate.
s
Lo ! here is a sign of a nature blended and fraught with
marvellous denouncements. It tells of poverty near
thee ;
then of a sudden elevation in thy fortunes.
SI
The fairest of the two loses in this combat ; the dark
one, is backed by powerful’friends, and the encounter
will end curiously enough.
The omens of thy fate bespeak the right road to good
fortune, but an enemy will cross thee.
Let him deal in books, pictures, the charms of music,
the witcheries of the harp, the lute, and the goodly
and gay professions governed by the star of Venus.
Three perils attend the ship : one by pirates or rob-
bers,—one by fire or lightning,—and one by the
watery element.
Uaphael’s witch, 39
Sign. D.
t
A faithful friend : four times to wear the trappings of
woe—trouble by a female of kin—a desired aid—
a
journey—a wound—a powerful enemy, and a rich
present.
Vf
Begin the voyage when the moon is in this sign, Capri-
corn, which the art astrological will teach thee, and
thou mayest safely ride on horses, or go in ships.
ww
vv^
There are three changes : one in thy residence—one in
thy family—and one caused by death.
To low and watery places, rivers, sea-girt islands ;
to
the south and south-west ; to great cities under the
rule and sway of powerful monarchs.
Observe the omens ;
a cross destiny at this moment is
thine ;
if thou winnest, it will end in a future loss.
Thou hast more friends than foes just at present ;
but of
old it was the reverse ! fickle /or^wne is now thy friend :
use the jade as she deserves.
s
Since the absent left, some sudden peril crossed his
path ;
a few moons ago troubles and cares were rife
near bis abode : even now it is ratber an evil sign.
?
In thy family the star of Venus bearing rule, will cause
a maiden to be born of great beauty : but the good
fortune of which thou askest is to come.
She will be courted by three fair suitors, but will wed
one of a dark visage, tall and well proportioned,
eyes of jet or hazle hue ; a clever person.
G The verdict of the judge may be for thee, but, to speak
the truth, there are but few signs of profit.
3)
Gone over water, if stolen, and will never be recovered.
If thou seekest things mislaid, search in closets, places
where water flows, in wells or sewers.
ItAPHAEL^S WITCH,
40
Siffii. D.
S3
To wed one he will prize highly, but love lightly : to
have a bountiful favour of fortune atone period of his
life in wedlock.
The most remarkable day of thy life will be Saturday ;
the 14th day of September, and 3rd of July, are
denoted to be each peculiar for weal and woe. Thy
evil day is Monday.
*
If thou wert serious in thy wish to divine the future,
when thou inquirest, know that fortune is favourable.
A
A cloudy and obscure air : if in winter thou askest,
sleet; if in spring, the windows of heaven shall pour
down torrents j
if in autumn, whirlwinds ;
in summer
clouds and rain.
Ere the lord of thy ascendant ceases to be obscured by
the powers of evil, thou wilt suffer greatly.
c?
Great deceit appears manifest either in the making of
this omen, or in the friend of whom thou inquirest.
It is as well to be watchful.
0
The angle of the earth is afflicted, wert thou to see the
horoscope of the hour. Try thy fortune yet again,
before thou quittest thy dwelling.
+ Greater part of the promise shall be kept, and more than
this, something not promised, shall be given.
**
Taurus and the furious Bull, is allotted thee in thy fate
but other stars in the firmament foretel a life replete
with changes : now fortified—now elevated—anon
depressed—then a change.
X
The perils of the first jive years, the third seven years,
and the fourth year therefrom, are doubtful—and in
in thy 33d year, fate is silent concerning thee.
***
Within four days shall be a change ; but if the sick be
not careful, there will again be a relapse.
mtm*
Sign.
E.
T
The sick is in manifest jeopardy, but will escape ;
the
3rd and 7th days hence are critical; the 15th day
decides the matter.
0
Inquirest thou of a thief? if so, three names doth he
bear; the name of the chiefest is begun with C. If
the asker inquire of a lover, E. is denoted. A short
name.
n
The bright messengers of the canopy above thee beam
down joyfully on tliy request; rejoice in due season:
it is thy lot to succeed.
25
It would seem that the signs in thy nativity run cross
and untoward every seventh year ;
but thou wilt enjoy
a full store of this world’s wealth hereafter.
a
Fortune, and the gay sunshine of a cloudless prosperity,
will be thine, ere thou quittest the frail mansion of
thy earthly tenement.—But also many enemies.
Both will rue the woeful aspects, under which they com-
bat; yet the slightest is the skilfullest; the shortest
of the two, fate will vanquish.
Jl.
Thy desires are elated, perchance over much ; trust not
too much to this omen, for it is full flattering.
Ill
By dealings in drugs, potions, and the art chemical, he
will prosper ;
and by degrees amass a heap of the
precious metals.
42 RAtllAEL’s WITCII.
Sign. B-
t
Thrice hatli the frail bark been in imminent hazard, and
one more danger, is even now, near her; yet the pla-
netary omens are fraught with deliverance.
w
Two years of unsettledness, wherein thou wilt roam and
wander. Thou wilt woo, weep, and marry. But
beware the third summer hence.
'AW
VWH
Slow and tedious, saturnine omens proclaim to be the
tread of thy footsteps.—Beware the turbulent and
tempestuous ocean.
K
Several changes will befal the asker ;
one month hence
he will be surprised and gladdened. The year brings
increase of cares, but is gainful.
Travel not far from the land of thy nativity ; this omen
runs evil, malignant, and perplexing ;
avoid the north-
ern quarters.
It is given to thee many times to be a winner; and, if
thou wert serious in thy ponderings when thou castest
this lot, play boldly, fortune succours thee.
c?
Askest thou this ? Why, then, the presages of the oracle
are tokens of thy horoscope, foretelling many vigorous
many bitter adversaries, but thy star is the victor.
?
Reclining on the couch of peaceful ease, the friend is
even now blessed with many approvals of fortune.
Three of thy family shall shine as stars in their day and
generation : one is mercurial, learned and studious.
O
After rejecting a host of admirers, to marry one who will
be a light to her feet and a lamp to her path; he is
even now not far off.
D
Fickle is thy fortune; an adversary shall vex thee, of
whom thou knowest nought as yet. But change thy
present measures.
Raphael’s witch. 43
Sign. IS.
S3
Part will be recovered, if stolen.—If lost or mislaid,
search in the apartments where sleep refreshes, or
where the repose of the body is attended to.
Verily, the asker will be most wofully outwitted by the
caprices and whims of the fair and gentle sex, ere he
marry.
*
Friday is the day he will most repent of in his whole
life : Monday, the day the asker had most need of
heeding—and the eighth day of the autumnal equinox
(end of Sept.) his brightest time.
A
Harmonious aspects, doubtless, are in part near thee ; the
lunar lot thou hast chosen is a good one.
1
In winter the ground shall be bound as it were with
the sinews of iron, through frost and inclemencies ;
in other quarters of the year more pleasant.
c?
Evil may happen before prosperity arrives, but there is
a great and remarkable aspect hereafter.
©
Inquirer, as true as thou art thyself, yet after a season'
a difference will arrive.
+
Remove thy mansion, occupation, or pursuits, within
three months hence, and go towards the south. There
seems a lot here of great changes.
The signs of the hour speak of fulfilment, unless this
question is asked when the lord of thy ascendant is
combust of the Sun, which the pages of thy horoscope
thee.
X
The Sun, who, to-day shone in the glorious firmament,
is thy planetary genius; imitate thou his steady
career ; for thy nativity foretels many great adventures.
***
Many accidents beset thee ! once the fire, once the fury
of a ponderous beast, once, yea twice, thou wilt be in
perils by the hands of man. Yet thy life may be long.
Sign.
F.
r
At times it is fated to the asker to have the career of his
“ Lord of life ” beset with perils, but there is no fear
sadden termination thereof.
0
When the Bull has influence, and the Pleiades bear rule
in the house of sickness, recovery is delayed, but the
aid of one skilful will preserve life.
n
If the inquirer seek to be acquainted wiih the name un-
knov/n of the wedded partaker of his earthly career,
V. or W. is the initial letter. If the inquirer be sin-
cere, he speaks the same often.
s
Crosses are to come, three or four hindrances, but if the
desire be of wealth, friends, or aught save of love, or
wedlock, it is decreed to be fulfilled.
Q,
Tliis presage being governed by the lunar position, on
such a day as thou askest the question, it denotes that
thou art born to inherit the glittering treasures of
wealth in old age.
A mansion of Mercury, a lot of the Moon, and a sign
wherein ^’enus has also some influence, is generally
a forecast of a lucky adventurer.
The darkest in hue shall beat fairest ; but both sliall
be severely wounded, and one, much in danger.
Til
Some of the omens are deceitful, being under the rays of
Mars; and consequently there is still a doubt for a
season how far it will succeed.
Raphael’s witch. 45
Sign. F.
t
Let the asker seek for some office, or employment, under
the government of the country ;
there is a chance of
success. But let him avoid speculative projects.
vr
The beginning of the voyage will be unsuccessful, the
middle part more prosperous, but the lot portends
rough weather, storms, and dangers, to the ship at sea.
Vw»
A wound or blow in the head ;
death of a relation
;
sickness in the family ;
three removals ; one tedious
journey ;
a legacy ;
and a noble friend.
Begin the voyage on a fortunate day and it will be safe
;
and for travelling by land, cast also the lots ere thou
settest off, and mark well the beginning.
There is, doubtless ;
but here are signs of that portent,
that will cause thee to wish there had been none.
1/
Travel eastward thou wilt gain, westward and thou wilt
lose. Albeit thou wilt travel to either part. But
avoid hilly mountainous regions.
(?
It will go contrary at the first, but if the arts of cheating
be not practised, the*asker may win.
?
By the aspects of Venus, thy friends will l>e of the soft
and gentle sex, but at present thou hast need to mis-
trust those who flatter thee.
?
His fate is various, diversified, and subject to the fickle
frowns of fortune ; and the asker will have news
shortly of the absent.
G
Some of his offspring are born to be rich, some to roam
to far distant lands, some to rise to renown in their
native country. Thou hast cast a happy lot.
D
To marry one bred up to the sea, or a rover by pro-
fession, fair-haired, comely, well-favoured ;
born to
enrich thee in money and goods.
eaphael’s witch.
p.
46 eaphael’s witch.
Sign. p.
8
Three times will thy evil star prevail, but the fourth
time, thou wilt obtain the mastery.
Iflost, they are sunk deep in the earth, or fallen into
sewers, quagmires, or foul places. If stolen, thou
wilt not recover them, but the thief will be ruined.
*
He will woo and espouse one from a distant land, beau-
tiful, virtuous, and respected as a damsel of worth.
Even as the star of love, thou hast now chosen.
A
A sickness near unto death will seize thee on a Friday ;
Wednesday is thy fortunate day. The ninth day of
the moon will be a day of dread. The first of each
month favourable.
Ill reports, detractions, and slanders, are mixed up with
this omen, be on thy guard that thou pursuest nothing
unworthy on that day.
c?
If of a day it is thou askest, it will be wet and rainy ;
if
of a season of the year, tempestuous.
©
Let the asker avoid all useless speculations, if he would
wish his fate to amend ;
the symbols of the oracle are
not free as yet from grounds of alarm.
+
Although a cross frustrates, yet the friend after a slight
disturbance may be esteemed true.
•x-x-
Reflect once more, and give thy present condition a fair
and candid trial, before thou removest: there are
better signs approaching, and not far off.
X
Of a verity, if the asker hath not requested a thing be-
yond ability to be performed, it will be so, although
the signs are ominous of some difficulty.
-x-x-x-
Behold the unanswerable signs of a lunar destiny ;
born
under Cancer, thy fate shall be often perplexed with
the tricks of fickle inconstant fortune.
l^apftacrs laitfl).
G.
Sii?n.
T
By these mysterious omens, the sign Libra bears rule,
over thy mortal destiny : thy fate tells of the hazards
of chance, a rise beyond thy expectations, a pompous
name, and the gifts of wealth.
0
If the 42nd year be passed by without a mortal peril, it
may be thy lot to enjoy a length of years beyond
that of thy family.
n
The most critical time is already past, and already do
the rosy harbingers of health await his destiny.
s
If the asker seeks to know whom they shall wed, 0. is the
letter, and the name is long, and one seldom or rarely
spoken : if the question is of theft, it is E.
a
If of gold, silver, or the gifts of fortune, the asker shall'.
if of love, marriage, or pleasure, he will not : or, if he
does, will repent it.
Fortune will favour thee with her choicest boons in thy
middle age, but beware of the 33rd and 41st years of
thy life : doubtless an evil star claims them.
-A.
What is thy fate, 0 mortal I even in its gayest moods
but uncertain as the wind : and were I to tell thee of
the past, little but evil has happened ;
yet, the Lord
of thy ascendant is a fortunate planet.
The most cowardly of the two shall win the fight ! for
when fortune rules, “ The race is not to the swift,
nor the battle to the strong.”
Raphael’s witch.
G
48
Sign.
t
If thy adventure relate to war, or battle, the sign is a
choice one, and auspicious. Not so much in love ;
but if it relates to the golden idol, which men wor-
ship, it is good, yea, flattering.
Vf
By mysterious or secret arts, by learning the mastery of
difficult things, and by contending w'ith manifold
difficulties, thou wilt gain.
VW.
It were well for the bold mariner who guides this bark
to shun well the rocks and quicksands, that this omen
declares to be near the course of the vessel.
K
During that period, thou wilt be twice elevated, thrice
cast down, once near imprisonment; thou w’ilt attend
a scene of sorrow, and a marriage banquet, and gain
much money.
h
Is the asker be a believer in that which he seeketh? if so,
the lots of his fate are woful ;
he should avoid both
travelling and sea voyages.
'll
It is to be hoped thy benevolent planet, who now bears
dominion, is gradually receding from those malignant
aspects that of late hath afflicted thee.
(?
In travelling thou art unlucky; but travel, if thou must do
so, to the north ;
and keep near dry and level lands,
and dwell near manufactories, or fine mansions.
1
1
?
Goodly and bright does the star of Venus survey thy
endeavours ;
but if thou askest of thy own self, at play
thou wilt win but little.
?
Thy acquaintance is great, it wall be still greater ;
but he
who seeks for true friends, seeks for the stone of the
philosophers—and who has ever found it ?
O
The friend is about returning ;
this is a sign of news, and
he is moderately well circumstanced.
D
Twice, and twice only, wilt thou have reason to praise
this oracle, which tells thee thou wilt be fortunate.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
G.
49
She will not marry any one she has yet loved, but a per-
fect stranger to her at present ; a fair, slender man,
and she is destined to happiness in wedlock.
8
Villany and treachery are visible in the dim prospect of
the future; inquirer take heed! or thou will be as-
suredly wronged.
*
Some part thereof thou wilt recover; unless the thief has
carried them across a running water. If thou hast lost
aught, and inquirest where it is, search around thee.
A
A sweet ingredient cloys; a bitter one gives disgust; but,
when properly blended together, may prove both pleas-
ing and wholesome. Thy fate in wedlock is thus read.
Saturday is ever the most eventful day of thy life,
and in the month of November a certain^//!/! day will
be the hinge of thy destiny.
c?
It may prove rather the reverse; for while the asker
deems himself secure, a turmoil will happen : it were
well to shun the evil.
©
Rigid and frozen will be the air, if in spring—if in winter,
thick fogs shall shut out the goodly orb of light : if in
summer thou askest, rain is at hand ; in autumn,
fair weather.
+
Wisdom brightens the stern brow of poverty ;
and the
asker may by patience bear the present with more
tranquillity, since the future promises much.
**
As are honey and gall, so is his friendship; now faith-
ful, anon doubting ; then friendly ; and thou thyself
waverest in thy thoughts toward thy friend.
X
The asker had better remove at a convenient season ; signs
are here of ill fortune around the place of his abode.
Confide not too freely : something is certainly doubtful in
the question thou askest. If it be the promise of a fair
damsel given thee, thou wilt even repent its fulfilment-
E
Bapfiaere sizaitct).
Sign.
H.
r
There may be some doubt herein ; for either the asker is
not sincere, or he credits not the Oracle ;
seek thy for-
tune some other time.
0
The planet Mercury is thy natal star; the sign Virgo is
thy horoscope ;
in thy house of life shone a bril-
liant orb ; it foretels riches and honours.
n
The asker is of delicate health, or of frail constitution :
but the omens here given, speak fairly for the future.
If 37 be passed, he will see 62 years.
s
A relapse at first ;
then better health ;
then a worse and
more critical period. Perchance the sick and the phy-
sician agree not.
a
If the asker inquires of theft, the thief’s name is long in
syllables, beginning strangely, as with Y or Z. And
if it be asked of one whom thou wilt wed ; it is A.
Thrice may the asker give it up, or be near the relin-
quishment of his project, before the inconstant goddess
will favour him.
£Tu
The inquirer will be well off in early youth, and in old
age attain to many tokens of wealth. The age from
30 to 35 is full remarkable.
1»l
Ambition will at times possess his whole soul ; to that
idol will he sacrifice much, if he be di male. If it be
a female that inquires, love is her foible ; but either
will be fortunate, after troubles past.
Raphael’s witch. 51
Sign. H.
t
The taller of the two will overcome his adversary, if they
fight ; but here are signs of frustration, as if suddenly
sprung up, that may change the matter.
Vf
Delay it for a time, till three times the queen of heaven
has run her luminous round through the starry canopy,
if thou wouldest ensure success.
v*.v\
Vw«
By dealing in light portable articles, by the pursuit of
the law, the profession of religion, or by those affairs
wherein those of rank will aid thee, seek thy fortune.
K
There has been rough weather, if this sign speak true ;
and some hidden mischance attends the Captain, or
the chief person in the ship.
h
A most unexpected change in thy pursuits—three times
to witness the death of those dear to thee; the birth of
children (if of proper age) ; but if single now, marriage.
X
The excellence of the omens here allotted to the inquirer
bids him do away with all fear or alarm. The star of
Jove befriends the inquirer.
c?
There will be one, before one moon wanes ;
two others
ere the year wanes; and even now the asker has
something of import in his destiny.
?
To the west, if he means to cross the ocean ; if it be
meant to travel inland, to the south-east. Let the
asker dwell near places of banquets, merry-makings,
and good cheer.
When thou espiest Mercury to govern in the lunar oracles,
be assured there are many mean to cheat thee.
G
It were difficult to say, for of a truth thy fate has many
crosses in it : and were thy nativity to be cast, the
Seer would doubtless find many enemies at hand.
D
Changeable as the moon, whose lot thou hast fortuned
to cast ; thy friend has felt his destiny of late.
52
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
H.
SB
Thou wilt have a daughter, who will wed nobly, or
beyond lier sphere of fortune, judging from that of
her birth : and thou wilt, with few exceptions, have
thy wishes therein.
8
To marry one in public life, whom thou hast either
known or seen, and who will be a proper husband to
thee, and who will advance thee in life.
*
By proper attention to the hands of justice, thou mayest
win, even although thy adversary is more powerful in
law than thyself.
A
If thou hast lost or mislaid what thou seekest for, look
in places high above the ground. If thou seekest
after that which is stolen, a female was the thief.
The signs here chosen denote a laborious and painful
life in the marriage state ; but shouldest thou marry
twice, thy destiny might be mitigated.
c?
Thursday is his fortunate day. The 16th day of the
month will prove of the greatest consequence in his
life and actions.
©
A proportion both of good and evil fortune is certainly
to be expected, when such are the omens, the asker
by care may remedy a part.
+
If in summer, rain in the fall of the leaf, wind in the
winter, severe cold; in spring, hail and frost. But if
of a day thou inquires!, it will be serene.
**
Contention and discord are hereby denoted ;
but there
will hereafter be a change from ill to good fortune,
and a powerful one.
X
Hypocrisy and dissimulation will frequently be thy lot
when thou countest on thy friends.
Remove quickly, there are signs of gain, by so doing
but delays are dangerous. This, however, is a mutable
omen.
Bapfjart's
I.
Sign.
r
Even while the inquirer seeks to know his fortune
herein his mind changes ; the lot is too inconstant to
depend upon. Try again, at a more convenient
season.
0
If the promise is from a female, if it tell of the charms
of love, or of the witcheries of amorous intrigues, it
will. If of money, or true friendship, doubt it.
n
Born under the noble star of Jupiter, thy fate leads thee
to great and mighty doings : thou wilt achieve much,
yet enjoy but little. Thy sign is Sagittarius.
s
I'his is a sign of a weak constitution, subject to the in-
ternal affections which are difficult to cure. Yet the
inquirer will reach a proportionable age.
a
There is danger! let the physician take heed: some-
thing is evidently amiss in the treatment of the sick.
T. is the initial, if thou seekest the name of thy
future partner. If thou inquirest relative to a t^iief,
L. is the chief name; and it is a name frequetitly
spoken.
£L
Three crosses will happen first ; the fourth attempt will
bring success. But there is a bitter enemy in the way
of thy wishes.
m
The best part of thy life will be in seven years hence ;
thy past life, these omens declare to have been evil,
vexations, and often crossed by fortune’s frowns.
54 Raphael’s witch.
Sign. I
t
That remarkable inconstancy which shakes the character
of man in his passions, pursuits, and cares, will ira-
bitter great part of thy life ;
but thbU wilt be the owner
hereafter of gold and silver.
Vf
A surprise awaits the inquirer relative to the combat-
ants, for he who is expected to lose the day will win.
vw\
Wfs
Partly so. The horoscope of thy fortunes claims the
mastery ; but there are a few difficulties in the way, if
the matter is entrusted to others.
Let the inquirer choose some public occupation, wherein
the community at large have to do with, or let him
sell the juice of the grape.
A luckless lot hast thou here invented ; at this very mo-
ment the ship is in great danger.
1/
A scene of great joy.—Three jovial adventures.—
powerful friend.—Marriage, if capable of it.—Birth of
children.—A long voyage ;
and one year of ill fortune.
This is an omen of storms and shipwrecks, of piracy and
thieves. Take heed, begin not thy journey this
month.
?
There is ; the asker will taste of the joys of love or wed-
lock ;
there are other omens of several changes of a
flattering hue, some more flattering than real.
?
Let the asker travel not for full three years hence ; then
let the asker travel towards the south, and let him
reside usually near marts of merchandize.
0
One described by Saturn, a dark man, will dodge thy
steps, and a pale or red-haired man will cheat thee.
Thou art not fortunate in games of hazard.
D
Inconstant and mutable, even as the moon, is thy fate in
this matter ;
and thou knowest this by experience.
Sign.
RAPHAEL S WITCH.
I.
55
Q
Fortunate he may be, but a mighty change approaches
—it is at hand it approximates—it is even at the
door. Let the inquirer mark what will happen.
8
He will have a troublesome family that will require all
his exertions to provide for. But one of his progeny
will be rather fortune’s favourite.
*
She will wed a witty discreet person, one who will be
at once her joy and plague ;
whom she will love, but
at times vary with, and he will be highly respectable,
perhaps a fair man.
A
The signs of the asker’s horoscope may give him a great
advantage over his adversary : but there are omens of
deceit in writings, oaths, and promises.
If thou hast mislaid any thing, search near fire-places, in
jars, shut-up things, and deep receptacles, if it be small
and precious. But theft, under this omen will not be
recovered.
c?
'I'o marry one whom thou wilt love and admire, who will
be discreet ;
but possessing many qualities that will
cause thee to have less freedom than thou hast at present.
©
On a Wednesday thou wilt find the most remarkable
event of thy whole life ; and thou wilt be fortunate on
that day, and unfortunate on Thursday. Thou wilt
have good cause to remember one of these days.
+
If thou askest of money, it will; if of a marriage, intrigue,
or a scene of pleasure of any kind, expect the con-
trary : but if thou seekest aught else, it is dubious.
**
If thou askest of a particular day, it will be contrary to
thy wishes, whatever they may be ; and understand the
same of any particular season of the year.
X
There is a vast and continued change in three years
hence ; another better by far to come hereafter.
***
Trust not every friend ;
but if thou art sincere thyself
when thou castest this lot, thy wishes are fulfilled.
Siffn.
J.
T
The friend thou seekest after, is in accordance with
thy own fate, and at present he is true ;
but this will
not affix or affirm the future, which may alter.
0
Hadst thou not better think thereon more seriously ?
there will be a change, assuredly, if thou remainest.
n
Full fain would the Oracle inform thee of its agreement
with thy wishes, but here are symbols of care, thought,
delay, and perchance of some deceit in the matter.
$
Born under Scorpio, Mars is thy star. Thy fate reads
thus : one, whom fortune will play many frolicsome
adventures with ;
who will be rich, but at the same
time poor; honourable in reputation, but void of
real friends.
a
In the 22d, 35th, 41st, and 42d years, expect maladies ;
in the early part of life, accidents ;
in the middle part,
casualties ; but a fair chance of long life lays before
thee.
The state of the sick is dangerous for three days hence ;
the third week hence decides the whole matter.
If thou askest of a lover, the initial is R. the name is
one of frequent occurrence. If of any other unknown
party, it is D., and a quaint or strange name.
Ill
When the bright fires of the firmament shine forth above
thee, on the seventh day hence, something materially
affecting thy wishes wdll happen.
Sign.
t
Vf
RAPHAEL S WITCH.
J.
57
After 40 thy planet wanes ;
therefore make thou the best
of her gay and favourable gifts before then, that thou
mayest not die in obscurity.
A destiny inconstant as the elements ; a fate now steeped
in sorrow; now fraught with the flattering ephemerals
of joy ;
now rich ; now depressed ;
but never poor ;
is thy mortal lot.
Three times shall a peace-maker essay to part them ;
but
if they fight, blood will be spilt, and the shortest win.
The signs above are on thy side ;
Jove and his omens
are flattering ;
if thy adventure be of aught but love
thou wilt succeed to a wonder.
In none on thy own account ;
but seek rather some
place, office, or inferior situation : or thou mayest gain
by churches, vaults, biers, graves, and dreary man-
sions.
V-
Even while the vessel sailed on her path through the
foaming billows, a mighty star reigned in the heavens
;
it spake of safety. The heavens are powerful.
If married, a son and a daughter—if single, marriage
—
two funerals—a narrow escape—a false deceitful friend
—an honest adviser—six months of good fortune.
All things go contrary to thee, in this respect ;
by land,
perils will attend thy steps ;
by water, a sudden alarm ;
therefore be careful.
Be on thy guard, and take advantage of what fortune
offers ;
and there will be ground for rejoicing ; but
some imprudence may mar all.
G
To the East, if by land ;
to the South, if by water: but
thou art not fortunate in travelling for several seasons.
One shall face thee, who will cheat and lure thee to thy
loss ; be on thy guard ;
omens of evil fortune are even
now around thee ; escape them if thou canst.
58
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
J.
Q
This foretels friends—three in number ; one dark, and
tall—one fair, near thee—one female. But a private
adversary, even at this instant, afflicts thy natal
planet.
8
He is in danger from enemies, and subject both to trou-
ble of body and mind ; but will escape them.
*
Some of his family will be born to power and command ;
some more unfortunate ;
but none born to any parti-
cular calamity, though subject to cares.
A To marry one both tall and handsome ;
a person from a
far distant part, who will be a fortunate man.
There are three adversaries in this case ;
one whom thou
least expectest; and a delay will arrive therein to vex
thee ;
be therefore of good cheer.
Those things which are lost, are lost totally, and will
never be recovered. If thou askest of things stolen,
thou wilt hear further of it.
©
To marry a dark female, dark eyes and hair ; one born
at a remote distance ; who will live with thee a long
time, and bring thee money.
+
Thursday is the most noted day : Sunday the worst day
Friday the best in fortune : and the fifth day of the
moon thou wilt ever remember after a certain age.
** Possibly it may ; there are certainly some good tokens
visible in these omens ;
although dubious.
X
If the inquirer ask the question of a particular day, of
which he seeks to know the weather, it will be plea-
sant : if he seeks to know of any quarter of the year,
the omens are rather doubtful as yet, till the next moon
commences.
Assuredly the mysterious tokens of thy mortal fate speak
X X X' loudly of better fortune.
K.
Sign.
T
Three times must the Lord of thy ascendant change his
malevolent aspects ;
seven weeks will go by without
any change ;
after that, there is hope.
0
Behold well these signs, they are changeable ; some few
are better ;
but the result of thy wishes herein, of a
truth, are far from promising.
n
Remove thou canst not at present ; some time must needs
elapse ere thou wilt have the requisites : but these
omens promise fairly enough.
95
After divers causes of disappointments, after several
secret anxieties, it will.
a
When the planet Saturn and Aquarius governs in the
horoscope, thy life is diversified : thou wilt, however,
be enriched by the labours of other persons.
There are signs of a delicate constitution, somewhat visi-
ble, but still the “ Lord of life” gives a better prospect.
j\.
There will be a speedy relapse, but within a month all
signs of sickness will be gone, if the omens are true.
If the inquirer seek after the name of a lover, or one
whom they wish to marry, it is /, or E, and a long
name, seldom spoken in conversation, and easily
sounded : if of a thief he inquires, the initial is V. or
ir. and a long name.
Raphael’s witch.
K-
GO Raphael’s witch.
Sign.
K.
t
There are still a few fortunate aspects left thee, one of
which speaks that thou shalt.
0
Ill luck will reign from 20 to 25 ; better luck from 28
to 30 ;
evil and malignant from 32 to 40 ;
afterwards
the aspects are plausible and flattering.
WAA
VWit
Beginning in trouble, even until the asker’s middle age,
fate will cross and gainsay his endeavours ; but, after
all, assuredly riches and dignities are thy lot.
It is to be doubted whether or not the battle wall take
place ;
if it does, the frailest will win.
The aspects are of a saturnine kind, which ever imply, a
fate most perplexing ;
and the adventure will therefore
happen accordingly.
1/
By bargaining in those goods or chattels, which the rich
use and employ most generally ; and if not, follow the
train of a powerful noble ; thou art fortunate.
c?
In the midst of a deep, deep sea, shall a storm arise,
and a whirlwind shall astound the hearts of the bold-
est seamen.
?
Love—marriage—friendship—three noted events, in any
one’s life : moreover, thou wilt four times remove ;
twice travel ;
once have damage by fire ; lose a rela-
tive ;
be elevated, depressed, and hail thy good for-
tune.
In the House of dangers arises this lot : take heed thou
art not robbed ;
look well after thy purse, person, and
companions. It is a commixt omen.
o
As for a change, there will be one within a month hence
two before three months ;
and a greater hereafter, in
a short space of time.
D
The asker had best reside near watery places, or near
rivers, or the sea : in travelling and removing great
part of his life will be spent.
Raphael's witch, 6l
Sign. K-
Q
Even on thy winning, there are signs of thought, care,
disappointment, and, perchance also, sorrow.
8
Many private enemies are thy lot, through the whole
career of this sublunary life ;
but afew friends are now
visible in thy horoscope : cherish them.
*
Of late, trouble was his share ;
but now the star of his
better destiny arises in the hemisphere.
A
Twice will the goddess of fortune visit thy dwelling and
each time will one of the offspring experience the ap-
proval of her smiles ; the omens are certain.
To be terribly mortified, chagrined, vexed, and crossed
therein is thy lot : but thou wilt afterwards marry ;
of which be assured the Oracle speaks truth.
Petty troubles and jarrings will arise in the affair ; and
it may be also a false ivitness, for some of the omens
are malignant, tedious, and irritable.
©
If thou searchest for lost things, seek near a door, stand,
or shelf raised above the ground, or where but little
light is—near iron. If thou askest concerning a theft,
the thief is a youthful person, small legs, quick in walk-
ing; full of business and talk ; and not a common thief.
He will marry a prudent, sensible person; fair, gray
eyes, one born near thee, met by chance ; with rich
relations, who will despise or contemn thee.
**
The longest day in the year will be one of the most noted
days in thy fate ;
but Monday is prosperous for thee
in thy adventures, business, and designs.
X
Some of the signs speak affirmatively
:
probably in love
or friendship ;
the Oracle may be the forerunner of
some prosperous event.
***
Askest thou of the morrow, or of a certain day near at
hand ? If so, it will be cloudy or rainy ;
if in other
respects, thou askest of a particular season of the year,
I say the air will be foul, cloudy, and unwholesome.
F
Mapfiael'is aeitrt),
Sign.
L.
r
In winter, clouds, rain, and darkness : in summer, fine
and clear weather, but stormy at intervals : in autumn,
thunder: in spring, thunder, clouds and hail.
0
The next month changes it, yet it may not be for any
good ;
but hereafter it will be so.
n
Thou hast backbiters and slanderers : these, the signs of
the oracle tell plainly, are not far from thee ; but thou
hast one faithful friend, which is a rarity.
25
If a removal be undertaken, let it be quickly; for it is
evident, by these signs, that delays herein will foment
strife and breed dissensions.
Q,
Even while thou inquirest, the promise may be either
broken, or so put off as to vex thee.
Thou art under the constellations of the Ram and the
Fishes, and Venus owns thee. Thy fate in life will
cause thee to travel, to traverse distant lands : to see
strange kingdoms, and to return to thy native land in
prosperity.
j\.
Many of the lots here pointed at are signs of weakness :
health is the surest guide to long life ;
but it would be
too flattering to thee, to speak of the duration of thy
existence.
n.
The sick will be in extreme danger, and some ill treat-
ment may affect the perfect cure.
Sign.
Raphael's witch. 63
L.
t
If of a lover thou seekest, E. is the letter, a short name.
If of a thief, here are assuredly two concerned ;
one
whose initial is T., the other B., and the names arc
uncouth.
Vf
For a little season the heavenly orbs wax cross, and per-
verse omens will thwart thee ;
but despair not, all will
be as thou wishest hereafter.
Vr*s
Between the ages of 19 and 22, if thou art a female who
consultest the oracle, fortune will prove perverse, if a
male, imprisonment may be near ;
but after 35 is the
best season of thy life ;
but beware of 39.
K
By the gifts of fortune, without thy seeking, thou wilt rise
to wealth, which thou wilt afterwards perchance lose.
They will not fight ;
and were they to do so, death would
claim both.
On the third day hence, the signs of the oracle denote a
variety, or perchance change of intentions ; in the in-
crease of the next moon it will be decided.
c?
In laborious trades, where others will be employed ;
as
also in the handicrafts of life, and useful arts ; but
there are signs of humble life, for many years, first.
?
It must have been in a lucky hour the ship began he
voyage, for the star of Venus ruling, gives pleasure,
gain, and a safe return, after a delay.
?
A voyage—two accidents—one by fire, one by the fall of
a ponderous weight—a death to vex thee—five jour-
neys—a change of friends—two years of good fortune,
and many surprises.
o
1 1 is—but seek not for gain ; these lots are those of safety,
but not of profit, or of enriching thyself by any pro-
cedure of the kind.
D
In one moon hence, evil fortune will be manifest; but
there is a great change ere the year ends, and a re-
moval, or travelling.
64
Sign.
eaphael’s witch.
L.
S3
Due east, if he wish for gain—due north, if for health-r
.but choose generally sea-port towns.
&
There are failures, falsehood, cheating, and foul play,
too visible in the lots ; to speak of gain—beware !
* There is a powerful friend in authority approaching
hut nevertheless, enemies are quite manifest.
A
A short time only has elapsed ere he was in grief and
trouble ;
but the signs are changed of late ;
and there
are better omens visible.
One of thy offspring will be born to vex thee : two of
them may thrive in the world, but thou art not fortu-
nate, generally speaking, in thy family.
To marry without money, but even that after manifold
crosses and vexations, and to be a widow.
©
In this sign there are tokens of bribery, or falsehood,
that will materially affect thy interests ; be as much on
thy guard as thou canst.
-+
If lost, they will never be found ;
if stolen, part may be
afterwards seen, but never recovered. The thief was
cunning, and all traces are lost.
**
To marry a virtuous female, but with a lack of money?
and the friends will be averse to the match. The in-
quirer has seen and conversed with his future wife
already.
X
Wednesday shall be the most noted day for good fortune,
Saturday for evil—and the seventeenth day of the
month will prove a day of great note.
***
Three or four testimonials of the stars augur favourably,
but a spiteful foe may go nigh to hinder it
;
yet after
all, it will be successful.
Siiin.
M.
T
Be not faint-hearted : when the goodly stars that shine
above thee, in crystal splendour, proclaim a run of
good fortune, it is thine to seize the lucky moment.
0
In winter, hoar frost and deep snows—in summer, thunder
and hail ;
in spring and autumn, tempests. If however,
thou asketh of a certain day, it shall be bright and
clear.
n
In deep anxiety, if thou askest this question, the oracle
is a right joyful earnest of the thing therein thou hast
most at heart.
s
He is discreet and capable of firm friendship ;
why doubt-
est thou his truth ?
a
Be careful of hazardous enterprises ; of foolish conceits
—
thus speaketh the oracle ;
have due caution, therefore,
as to whither thou wouldest bend thy steps.
It will be forgotten, or not fulfilled ;
for the omen here
chosen is dubious.
-n-
Born under Taurus and Venus thy natal star, thy fate
is of a very peculiar kind : first thou wilt travel; then
have troubles in thy house and family ;
then wilt thou
enter into some public business ; and thou wilt rarely
ever be rich in substance.
TTl
This denotes perils by water and poison, and a dangerous
time in thy 34th year j after which, seek further.
66 Raphael’s witch.
Sign- M-
t
Flattering are the appearances, and may go near to give
health ;
but there is still some doubt, if not also a
sign of some coming danger.
Vf
If thou askest of an admirer, it is F., a name of an in-
different length, and often spoken in thy hearing. If
of a thief thou askest, it is 0., and a long name, or
one not often pronounced in conversation.
ww
VW>
This prenotes losses, crosses, and anxious cares : in such
a case, the wish may be doubtful.
A sign herein denotes the inquirer to be unfortunate, for
the two years next succeeding ; but in less than four
years hence, he will thrive ;
and after 42 will be pros-
perous.
The signs of evil stars, that bore rule in his horoscope, are
of long continuance; sorrow and care is his lot; and
the manifold omens deny riches.
1/
That combatant who is facing the south when the fight
begins will gain the victory.
c?
There are omens herein of trouble and care, and the
asker must beware of getting into dilemma’s, by want
of due caution and vigilance.
?
By dealing in ornamental goods ;
by buying, selling, and
manufacturing small articles, or any ingenious line,
wherein engraving or painting is used.
?
This is an ominous sign of stormy winds, furious tempests,
and dangers to the ship.
G
Long journeys—a promotion in life, which will stir up
enemies—a year of misfortune—a dangerous malady
—a funeral—a banquet or nuptial feast—danger by a
fall—once only, fear of imprisonment—the indulgence
of fortune.
D
This signifies danger of drowning, if the asker change
not his present intentions ; by land also there will be
many mishaps.
Siftn.
Raphael’s witoh. 67
M.
S3
There are two changes, one for good, the other for evil
:
the asker will have an eventful year ; some part thereof
will prove troublesome.
83
Let him stay all his life near the place of his birth ;
and
tempt not the dangers of travelling.
*
There are more signs of loss than of winning just now ;
and the inquirer had best take heed.
A
This denotes two friends; one dark, elderly, and in
humble life : the other, fair and better off : but the
signs represent, at present, more persecution than
friendship.
Doubtless in heavy trouble, for these signs are the fore-
runners of calamities, and of annoyances in evil reports,
news, and cross purposes—letters may soon arrive.
By such signs as these, the asker is admonislied to be
more than usually circumspect in his offspring’s welfare.
©
To marry thrice, if the asker be a female under 30 years
of age, one husband a plague to herself and her friends
;
one wealthy, but plain featured : one, a beloved and
esteemed character.
+
A dark, cross, envious, saturnine man will be the cause
of thy losing the suit.
If thou seekest after things lost, search in jars, pots, or
close pent-up places, or in vaults and cellars: if thou
seekest of stolen things, the thieves are at a distance.
X
Let the asker beware, that he marry not in early life : if
he does, fortune will cross him in every direction : if
he be a widower that ask, he will have his match in
wedlock.
***
Saturday is the most fortunate day in thy lot; and thou
wilt depart this mortal life on that day : but the ninth
day of the month will be of great import in thy fate :
and on the day of thy birth thou wilt always be un-
fortunate.
Mapf)afl*0 mim.
N.
Si{^n.
r
Thursday is thy chief day, both in adversity and pro-
sperity. Search well thy past life, thou will find it
so. The wane or decrease of the moon will be al-
ways evil to thee, and so will be the month of January
in almost every year of thy mortal existence.
0
Do not be so sanguine in thy anticipations ;
fronti nulla
Jides, —all is not gold that glitters.
n
In summer, fine clear weather; in winter, mild and
warm, (but good for naught save the charnel-house) ;
in autumn, torrents of rain ;
in spring, showers : if
thou askest of a day, it will be pleasant.
Does the asker know aught of the changes which await
him? It seemeth not to be the case; but there is
good hereafter.
Q
Thy friend is as true as thou couldest wish ;
but take
care that thou triest not his spirit overmuch.
nje
Remove thou canst not early enough to seize the first
of those favourable aspects that, even now, thy horo-
scope would show, were it cast by a skilful astrologer.
_A_
It is folly to trust too much, and a sign of a narrow
mind to trust too little ;
be on thy guard, there are
doubtless signs of deceit, but not overpowering.
Born under Mars, both Aries and Scorpio bear rule.
Be careful to bend the sails of thy desires to a good
harbour, and be cautious of the rocks which are to
be met with on the passage. Thy fate is a remark'
able one—strange and marvellous.
Raphael’s witch. 69
Sign. N.
t
Thy disposition threatens to imbitter thy existence, and
well nigh curtail thy mortal sojourning in this vale of
probation ; curb this, live temperate, and there is hope.
Vf
Relapse ; therefore look well after the physician ;
it
may be there are blunders.
Does the inquirer breath forth the wishes of lovej if so,
the initial of the enamoured is L. ; a short name. If
the asker seeks to know aught else, it is V. or U.
Hope, the dulcet deceiver of the human heart, will still
urge on ; but there are many impediments in this.
In the morning of life, happy ;
in the noon appears a
sombre cloud: yet a rainbow of hope surrounds thy
fate for a season. But the middle age is best.
1/
Does not the inquirer remember, that avarice is the pas-
sion of vulgar souls—and liberality the natural inclina-
tion of great ones? Then why seek riches ? Yet I tell
thee the oracle allots thee many years of good fortune.
The strife will be cruel in which they engage, and one
may bite the dust, should they fight — and one thou
thinkest least likeli/ to do so.
?
The inquirer has the goodly star ofVenusto protect him,
and a little caution will ensure him adequate successj
at least equal to his deserts.
5
By keeping stores of papers, books, or writings, or by
the aid of the talents, being evidently under the go-
vernment of the planet Mercury, and as such a clever
person in mind, talent, invention, and mental powers.
o
This Ls an omen of boisterous and stormy weather, which
will give great dangers ;
but a planet shining now in
the heavens will protect.
])
Sickness and disease—three funerals—one wedding
—
two births—seven powerful changes—a gross fraud
—
a loss by theft—an alarm by fire —an adventure!
70
Sign,
Raphael’s witch.
N,
a The asker must take heed, and there will be safety.
8
There are four changes—one of residence—one of friends
—one in money—one in pursuits.
*
If he travel, let it be inland, and near mountains and
hills ;
if he voyage, avoid the salt water : if thou
choosest residence, choose them in high parts of
towns or cities.
A Be not murmuring nor repining, for there are signs of
winning herein, and of good fortune.
The unlucky quartile is ever by astrologers, in their
mystic calculations, a sign of bitter enmity : take heed
that thou art not the dupe of evil wishing deceivers.
cf
Deeply in trouble ! for here are the signs of great and
manifold heavinesses and cares, mingled moreover
with many unlucky forebodings.
e
Some of his family will rise to be rich in money and
goods ;
some will lord it over him ; some go faraway ;
but one will comfort him.
+
To marry a dark, tall man, hazle eyes, brown hair, who
will be the heir to w'calth.
A friend will forsake thee ;
an enemy rise up suddenly j
a heap of cares must be undergone before the bright
omens of thy fate and destiny appear in the future
therefore thy suit is troublesome.
X
Stolen things, if it is those thou seekest after, are gone
too far away to be recovered ;
but if it be of lost things
thou askest, search tliine own closet, or a secret place.
***
To many disappointments he is fated; but manifold
omens there are, afterwards, of success ; and he will
enjoy his desires herein, after delay.
O.
Siitn.
r
The star, governing wedlock in thy horoscope, tells of a
great adventure in love, and a surprisal in marriage
;
but thou wilt be lucky therein, which is saying a great
deal.
0
Monday arid Friday should chiefly be fortunate to thee;
but when the moon is in Taurus, (which an astrologer
will tell thee) then is thy prosperous and auspicious
season.
n
Perhaps the inquiry is vain ;
if not, the asker is hereby
denoted to be fickle, and not sincere ;
try once more,
at a convenient season or hour.
s
If thou askest of a day, wet
;
if of any season of the year,
the weather will prove unpleasant, and contrary to thy
mind, wishes, and desires ;
whatever these may be.
a
It may; but there is an aspect arising in thy house of
credit, that augurs something untoward, first 't
The friend is good conditioned, and not easily will he be
persuaded to relinquish thy friendship.
-n-
This is an omen of good and faithful friends, which may
cause thee to change thy intentions.
This is a threatening symbol, ominous of wiles and de-
ceits : the asker must form his own judgment, and
take care that he ask not “ mountains, where even
mole-hills” are to much.
Raphael’s witch.
O.
72 Raphael’s witch.
Sign. 0.
t
Libra is thy constellation, Venus thy star; thus runs thy
fate : once near imprisonment, but saved by a sudden
stroke of fortune ;
twice high in reputation ;
two down-
falls in thy fate ;
a series of evil fortune ;
once in
power, and, after all, never rich.
V/
Somethingherein points to a peculiar and strange destiny
to be near death between 32 and 43 ;
and if the in-
quirer gets past that epoch, he will be long lived.
WA
The ensuing moon, which even now shines dimly in the
horoscope, will bring a change.
K
Does the inquirer seek to know of a thief ; if so, B. is the
initial letter : if he or she seeks concerning lovers or
espousers, it is D., and a short name, often spoken.
Beware of thy actions—look well to thy desires—here is
an evil omen—be on thy most circumspect guard, for
signs of trouble are dimly seen in the distance.
1/
The party inquiring will be either rich in youth, or before
any great age is attained : and the stars will many
times be on their side in a marvellous manner.
s
Labours, travails, cares, and dissimulations are hereby
denoted to often beset thee ;
and a world of difficul-
ties ;
but thou wilt overcome thy adversaries finally.
$
A female influence is visible by this sign ; one will ap-
pear shortly that shall stronger than with bands of
steel bind hand and foot the combatants—to peace, not
fighting.
?
Thrice does an omen of a fitful nature thwart thee in thy
designs ; ere it will be as thou thinkest.
0
Working in metals—dealing in the fruits or produce of
the earth : or in gold, silver, and steel : or adventuring
in merchandize, will enrich thee.
D
Furiously w'ill the storm both rage and howl : deep and
dark will be the abyss over which the vessel is held as
by a single thread of fate but she will return safe.
Sign.
kaphael’s witch. 73
0.
S3 Many surprising events, and some good ones also.
88
Travel not at all, neither voyage, if thou seekest either
health, wealth, or safety : a danger crosses thy horo-
scope.
-X-
There is none of any evil import, and if there is any at
all, thy friendly star will protect thee.
1
A
Westward—eastward —southward—but not northward
—
if thou wishest to know where to pitch thy tents, the
oracle is fair for low lands—close towns—well peopled
—and for the habitation of those who reside near rivers.
Won, sayest thou? if the witch’s oracle speak truth, ex-
pect rather a loss first.
Ill thy horoscope, were the astrologer to cast it, he would
perceive configurations, foretelling enemies, and
but few, very few, of real friends.
©
Thy friend is about to travel or return from where he is,
and then thou wijt know.
+
Three of these numbers are omens of sorrow ;
and yet
one is so exceedingly happy, that thou wilt assuredly
be fortunate in the chief part of thy family, both soon
and hereafter.
-x-x-
To marry a rich old man, if she chooses, but let her be-
ware of marrying a youthful spendthrift ; to which her
thoughts and inclinations will bend.
X
The suit will be postponed, and some doubt will arise
relative to the cause of the weakest party; but tbe in-
quirer stands at present well wdth the omens.
•X~X^
Search near cellars or cisterns ; if it be of lost things
thou seekest; but if of theft, thou wilt hear tidings
herealter : but if thou hast lost gold, silver, or metal,
it will never be recovered, nor redeemed. *
P.
Sign.
T
if thou seekest after stolen things, give up thy search,
thou art over-reached in the matter ;
if of a loss, or
missing article, search where fires are, or where fuel is
kept, or near brick walls.
0
This shows the party to be a fickle-minded, and too
general a lover ;
one who will have many fair chances^
but few real opportunities of marrying well.
n
Friday will be that day—moreover the eleventh day of
the month will be a particular feature in thy fortunes.
$
The omens here given are not over-fraught with good,
but imperceptibly something may arise to alter thy
fate.
Q.
If thou askest of any particular day, it will be dry; if
thou seekest to know of the season of the year, in
summer, say it will be neither wet, dry, nor fair, but
a mixture of all these ;
in wdnter, hazy and chilly ;
in
spring, lowering ;
in autumn, stormy.
The constellation which now reigns, bespeaks a change,
and for the better, in a month hence ; and afterwards
a bitter disappointment.
This is a flattering sign, it tells of untruth ; but there is
a doubt whether or not it be the person thou inquirest
concerning or another.
n
Remove not ;
give the dwelling thou inhabitest another
and a more fair and lengthened trial.
Raphael’s witch. 75
Sign. P.
Both the promiser> and the thing promised, are here in-
dicated to be fleeting, and may possibly not happen.
Vf
Gemini the Twins: Mercury thy star ;
thy fate is thus
defined : to be immersed in labour and cares when
young, and happy in old age.
VVA
The party will have many narrow escapes of death in
infancy—youth—mature age—and yet outlive them.
X
Recovery is certain, by such omens as these, wherein
the noble star of Jupiter bears rule and influence.
If thou askest of a lover, or one thou wishest to wed, it
is E., a long name, or longer than ordinary. If of a
thief, it is P, and a short name.
V.
The asker shall, in very good truth, attain to that which
he now seeks after, and speedily.
(?
Rough and stormy between 15 and 22; active and
changeable between 23 and 28 ;
flattering between 29
and 31 ;
truly unlucky between 32 and 33; very pros,
perous many times afterwards, and more especially
between 40 and 45 years old.
?
This denotes afflictions through women, pleasures, and
the joys of prosperity, that will once cast thee down,
but thou wilt afterwards rise again.
y
Lying, falsehood, and bribes will pass between the par-
ties, and one will flee from the other, and that one is
the best able to conquer.
O
Consultest thou the “ Witch ” in sincerity, or doubting f
If the former, it will prove as thou wishest.
])
i
Inheritances will enrich thee ;
but in general dealings,
in bartering, buying, and exchanging, and in travel-
ling, thou wilt enrich tl-.yself.
Raphael’s witch.
P.
70 Raphael’s witch.
Sign. P.
Q,
On the day the ship set sail there were signs of great
and manifold storms and tempests, but on the 3rd
day lienee the danger will be no more.
28
An illegitimate offspring, or untimely intrigue—a short
but severe sickness—three journeys—one voyage
two clianges in thy calling—a heavy loss of money
a huge labour—an infirmity—a persecution —a friend
—a funeral—and great gains.
*
To travel by land, there are no signs of any particular
evil but what thou mayest overcome: but by water
the aspect is ominous.
A
A few moons hence, the star of thy fortunes will enter
a more serene and less cloudy hemisphere, that, to
say the least, bids thee hope.
Due north ; but if not tliere, north-west—avoiding the
south, and south-east. But it would be highly im-
prudent, with these symbols of ill-fortune, to travel.
c?
The Oracle denies winning : Say rather thou wilt lose.
Better is it to gamble not at all.
©
One false and deceitful symbol rises suddenly in thy
horoscope, have due caution :
“ Enemies ” are the
Witch’s reply to thy question.
+
A seeming stroke of fortune, apparently evil, may be
acquired by this lot, but the trouble is soon no more.
** it may be spoken with truth, that the asker will; and
one of his offspring will be renowned or potent.
X
Look well, fair lady, to thy intentions ;
the course of thy
love will resemble that of a shallow brook, which,
dashing over numerous impediments, is yet thwarted
by a mountain. But a prudent husband is thy lot
after all harm is past.
It w'ould be well wert thou to seek some means of
agreement in this matter.
Kiipfjacl’s aaiitr!).
Q.
Sijrn.
r
Let the asker greatly beware of the deceitful dealings ol
those who may be his responsible advisers in this
affair.
0
Ifthouaskest of a thing lost, search in low, obscure,
hidden places, in jars, cupboards, vaults, &c. If it
be of a theft thou seekest, seek no further, thou art
doomed to be a victim.
n
To marry one who will bring money, a fair, elegant fe-
male ; but to have domestic broils, discords, snares,
and impediments in the way of happiness.
25
Wednesday is one of the most remarkable days out of the
the whole seven ;
and on that day, at a certain period
of thy life, something will happen that will fix thy
future destiny.
a
This is not fortunate in money, but it is good in friends,
pleasures, and amours.
Wet and windy in summer; in autumn, cold, cloudy,
and cheerless ;
in winter, rigid with frost ; in spring,
severe. And if of a day thou askest, it will be
stormy, especially if the question be asked when the
moon is waxing horned.
-n-
First more of evil—then a cessation—but it will be
some time yet before it changes.
Expect for the worse—and hope for the best; Then
draw a middle line between the two—even so is the
truth in this matter.
^8
Sifjn.
Raphael’s witch,
Q
Remove, and quickly ;
within three months there will
be some remarkable event happen in thy dwelling,
and it is of this thou art forewarned by the Oracle.
Vf
Despair not, neitlier be lifted up with foolish joy; the
promise is doomed to be in part fulfilled; but were it
all fulfilled, thou wouldest not be satisfied.
vwv
wv*
Leo and the Sun, so says Raphael’s oracular “ Witch.”
Be of good cheer, thou wilt rise to renown, note, and
great esteem, first amongst thy kindred ;
many will
envy thee, but few reach the pinnacle of thy fate.
Gold and silver, too, are thy portion.
K
It must be avouched that these numbers, and the liaiar
lot they are drawn from, do not prophesy long life
But a life well spent is the main matter.
V
^2
Doubtless this omen is threatening ;
the Oracle is cross
and evil-predictive ;
but try what medicine can avail
the sick.
'U
N., if thou askest of a lover; Y. or V. if of a thief : In
either case it is a strange name, seldom spoken.
After five cares, and three heavy mischances, the desire
will be fulfilled partly. But one described by Mars,
a bigot, or wrathful man, will thwart thee.
1
?
After 43, and before 22 ;
and thou wilt owe thy rise in
life to many mysterious circumstances.
?
Thus speaks the Witch, joined to thy horoscope ; in thy
house of substance : at the hour of thy birth an omi-
nous star overwhelmed thy destiny : but even now it
recedes in its orbit, and thou wilt drink of the cup of
joy : First, however, fate is thy foe.
o
The solar man, tall, fair, pompous, and good looking, is
the victor ;
but a tumult will arise first.
D
Fickle and vain are the numbers here cho.sen, from which
the Oracle is composed : the Witch is not for thee.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch. 79
Q.
Q
Fortune will favour him mostly in private life
;
yet he
will be prosperous in the useful arts, and in handi-
crafts. But by all means avoid the briny element.
83
Seek not in this matter too deeply ;
this is an evil and
ominous sign ;
danger is abroad!
*
First, to be worse off by far than at present—suddenly
then the asker’s fortune will change : then a relapse
—
a journey—a severe and grievous malady—a death of
one related, as also of five friends or acquaintances
—
a nuptial feast—a foe—and good fortune, after all.
A
If the asker set offon a fortunate day, and choose the best
opportunities, he may go safe as to purse and person.
One may happen ;
but it is not in this year of thy life,
that fortune will favour thee.
East and eastward—seeking to reside in inland, dry, and
populous tosvns : avoiding the perils of places adja-
cent to the element of the water ;
and if he travel, let
it be east or west, but in no other quarter : and he
had better not travel at all.
©
This is the sign of fortune ; but so formed, that few or
none can benefit in the said game but swindlers.
+
What says the oracle ? Three friends are certain, and
one bitter, backbiting,'slandering enemy. Thou hast,
moreover, a rival. Do not be off thy guard.
** The omen bespeaks safety, success, and surety.
X
There appears many an emblem, ominous enough of some
sad diversity, as it relates to thy family. It were better
not to seek after this matter till some more conve-
nient season. Perchance the oracle is dubious, or
thou art not sincere.
To marry an expert and ingenious man, whom thoulovest,
and who will love thee, but beware of jealousy.
Uapftad’s jiElittf),
R.
Sign.
T
This is a sign when such a lot appears, (especially if the
moon be going to the full) of a prosperous marriage
with one tall or good-looking, and a favourite of the
female sex.
0
Vexation and sorrow will perchance annoy thee, but there
are some signs of latent success, unless false witnesses
rise up against thee.
n
More than one thief did this deed, if thou inquirest of a
thing stolen, and part thereof will be recovered ; but
if the inquirer ask of a loss, search in high and lofty
places for it.
23
There are but few signs of marriage visible at all, as yet
be on thy guard against the fair lures of Venus, whose
enticements, if unlawful, are ever roses surrounded by
thorns.
a
Sunday and Friday will be the most noted days in thy
fate; the latter the most eventful. thirlecnth day
of every month thou doest well to avoid.
The inquirer will have some trouble in this matter, be-
fore the wish he harbours as to this day is fulfilled.
n.
Snow and sleet, and piercing winds, if in winter ; if in
spring, unusual rains : but if in summer or autumn,
warmer than generally happens : if of a day thou
seekest, it will be pleasant.
Ill
This denotes undoubted good hereafter, after a series and
succession of particular cares and adversities.
Sign.
Raphael’s WITCH. ’81
R.
t
He who asketh in sincerity, may expect truth in his friend,
witli such significant omens as tliese.
Vf
The asker must not depend upon this omen in this affair,
or he will be subject to alterations, which he will not
like. Try the oracle at another hour.
VVi^
The star of Saturn bears rule, which astrologers ever
allow as a sign of great disappointments.
Born under Mars and Capricorn, thy destiny will be
fulfilled when the oracle prophesies many sudden
strokes of great good fortune ;
travelling, and a title or
eminent name.
The dictates of reason join with the laws of the stars, to
bid thee pursue a path of temperance and sobriety ;
and to eschew and avoid evil riotings—and length of
days may then be thine.
%
Whatever appearances may portend, the oracle of Ra-
phael’s deciphering presages health.
If the inquirer seek after the name of the future partner
of his or her career, through this tempestuous life, it
cannot be said, for there are three competitors ;
but if
the inquirer ask of a thief, the name is long, and be-
gins with 0.
? Conspiracies will be organised, but the asker may.
The first seven, the second and the fifth seven years, are
the best in fortune, counting from thy birth.
o
Throughout the asker’s life, the paths of content and sor-
row are entangled and interwoven together, yet reason
and virtue may happily guide through the mazes of
fortune.
D
The lots are doubtful, but the tallest is likely to be the
victor, after irresolution and delay.
82
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
R.
Q
Difficulties are near, but not utter or irrevocable dis-
appointments : and some of the numbers are fortu-
nate.
8
This lot is evil, saturnine, and melancholy —perhaps the
querist broods upon some misfortune ;
therefore let
the question be asked at some other and more fit
season.
•X"
This is a sign of storms and tempests, but the stars will
protect and ensure a safe voyage.
A
A great prejudice by reason of women—a tedious jour-
ney—a sudden rise in fortune—a burial—a wedding
—a noble banquet—if wedded, a birth—if single,
marriage —a great loss—a removal—a fear of loss by
theft or fire.
Evidently not; the signs, to say the least of them, are
quite ominous.
Travail—danger—sorrow and care—are the chief por-
tents of this lot ;
but there will be a change.
©
Keep chiefly in the populous parts of towns and king-
doms : if thou roamest, return to the same spot.
+
Gaming and pleasure are sometimes successful ; but
there are herein signs of trouble.
**
One enemy ;
a dark person is most bitter; but this is
balanced by a friend, tall and fair : two supporters of
thy credit are near—and thy lot is to overcome foes.
X
Something remarkable thou mayest be assured is even
now happening, or on the eve of happening to him.
***
The “ Witch ” will herein, however fascinating her words
may appear, speak in the affirmative.
s.
Sign.
r
Bold and adventurous, even as Mars, who rules this
omen, is ever found to be ;
so will be thy offspring, or
the greater part of them, and fortunate in the main.
She will find it more difficult than she at present ima-
gines to meet with unalloyed happiness in wedlock.
n
Provided the querist hearken to the oracle, and consult
the advice of the wise, he may gain.
s
Search for any thing lost in some place near ornaments,
or in repositories of apparel ; if of stolen goods thou
askest, they will scarcely be recovered.
The yoke ofHymen will at times press with leaden weight
upon his destiny, even if it should be thickly gilded ;
but contentment helps towards happiness.
Every fourth and fourteenth day of the moon will be
either sorrowful or anxious enough ;
and the most re-
markable day in the querist’s fate is Monday.
It is to be hoped the signs are inclining to good fortune.
m
In the winter, sleet, storms, inundations, and tempests ;
in spring, hail and blighting winds ; in summer, clouds,
tliunder, and unhealthy weather, poisonous to the
health of the community ;
in autumn, serene. If, how-
ever, thou askest of any particular day, it will be against
thy expectations.
84 Raphael’s witch.
Sign. s.
t There are evident signs that it will.
Vf
It cannot be doubted but that he is, although the oracle
will not avouch for his remaining so.
VWv
VWk The inquirer mustnoi remove.
If the promise were made in the wane or decrease of the
moon, and were of a secret nature, it will.
Aquarius a.nd Pisces, Venus, Mercury, and Jupiter, as
also Saturn, are allotted thee as the Genii of thy fate;
thou wilt have a fortune of a marvellous kind, and
there is little doubt but thou wilt be rich and noted in
life, after heavy calamities.
There is a singular malady within three years of the pre-
sent time, but thou wilt be long-lived.
c?
Doubts and caution are hereby implied, and one in the
house of the sick will partake thereof, and there is a
danger to come ;
but recovery.
?
M.—If the inquirer seek in relation to marriage, and a
name of mean length : if of theft thou seekest, it is
undoubtedly a short, uncouth name, and R. the
initial.
?
If the desire be aught wherein Mercury rules—as the arts
or customs 'of life, removals, journeys, changes, and
such like—the asker will.
O
Between the ages of 32 and 45 years, and the very be-
ginning and extreme of life.
3)
This may be questioned ; for so mutable is this omen,
that it is doubtful whether he will ever amass
riches.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
S.
85
ss
The omens here drawn forth by the diviner are, the signs
of the dark combatant being the victor.
&
Laborious enough it is, and requiring all thy thought-
ful industry.
*
Wealth will come to thee but slowly, and trouble quickly,
in any business ;
but by the sea and merchandize thou
mayest prosper : But beware of loans.
A
The ship has been in extreme jeopardy—there are sick-
nesses, if not deaths aboard—a contrary wind —
a
hidden rock, or unseen impediment ;
but fortune fa-
vours the vessel.
The asker will receive many a boon of fickle fortune ;
but in spite of the favours of the soft and gentle sex,
let him not steel his heart against the voice of pity.
The other signs foretel a nuptial—an exceeding long
and perilous voyage—and changes.
c?
To travel is unfortunate, and to cross the furious ocean
worse, for a certain period, till the signs change.
©
Fate, fortune, and destiny ;
in each there will be changes
;
and moreover the asker will be very unsettled.
+
By travelling due east, the inquirer will gain love
—
friendship—and, if the signs speak truth, a gentle help-
mate : by travelling north, misfortune.
V V
AA
Assuredly these signs are prosperous, either in this or
something equivalent.
X
Even now are the omens more successful and flattering
than of late ; and thou hast most friends.
V V V Fickle as the changeful moon has been his recent for-
tune; but thy friend purposes to return.
AAA
T.
Sign.
1
I r
1 Lately, and even at present, the signs have portended
rather a troublesome season : but it changes.
0
A beautiful daughter—a male, who will rise so high in
wisdom, as to rank with princes—another, who will
be rich in money and goods—will spring from thy
destiny.
1
n To meet with a gay and gallant admirer, who will tor-
ment her, and afterwards she will marry wealthy.
$
The sign here chosen exhibits the symbols of infinite
trouble and extraordinary ill-luck in the matter.
SI
Stolen things are likely to be yart recovered ; but if the
question be asked of lost goods, they are out of thy
house.
1
A general lover—a flatterer—and an admirer of himself,
rarely are ever gainers by Hymen’s altar. Inquirer, be
faithful to the object of thy choice, who will be worthy.
1
!
i
£2:
This may, in a general point of view, be attributed to
Monday but the 21st day of the month is remarkable
for some extraordinary and marvellous change in thy
destiny.
in.
The signs being those which bear the impress of evil,
extraordinary precautions are requisite.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch. 87
t
Clear and open, in general ;
especially if the asker seek
the fate of a day, week, or short space of time, but if
he ask of a particular season, it is doubtful.
y?
In three months hence it will change, and again, in the
next three years, thrice for the better.
<iVM
vw«
A constellation bears rule in thy divinations, which is
the oracle of fidelity.
K Remove, in a short season, and go westward.
If a dark man promised it, it will not ;
neither can it be
fulfilled, if it was of or concerning money matters
;
but this is a sign of firm and steadfast adherents.
What says the oracle? Born under the solar and jovial
constellation : Aries and Taurus arose in thy horo-
scope, or culminated in thy meridian. Thou wilt live
long, acquire a name, wealth, and reputation ;
but thy
early years are thrice doomed to a singular peril.
s
It is certain that there are evil testimonials here. The
“ Witch” forbears to speak further—seek this know-
ledge hereafter.
? A benign and friendly planet promises health.
5
If the inquirer seek to know aught of wedlock, or of an
amorous friend, I. or J. is the letter; but if of a theft
it be inquired, it is S., and a tediously-spoken name.
o
Conspiracies or fraud are visible ;
but there are yet many
signs of success.
])
Thy friendly star looks smilingly between the 30th and
40th years of thy life ;
but before 22, and after 40,
take heed : the fates are not propitious.
88 eaphael’s witch.
Sign. T.
Q
Doubtless it is thus given to the asker to eclipse his
contemporaries, outlive his relatives, and die rich;
yet struggles and toils are visible in his earthly career.
S
A bloodless fight, if they come to blows ; and Plutus,
with his coins, may overcome Mars, with his weapons.
* It is—three omens hath the “ Witch ” in thy favour
A
By the skilful bartering of moveables, by the appropria-
tion of other men’s money, and by articles of luxury,,
the asker would enrich himself : he is a fortunate man.
Loud and furious will be the concussion of the raging
elements : the terrors of the tempest, mingled with the
cowardice or fears of her crew, will arrest her pas-
sage.
cf
Scenes of peril, danger, and loss : then comes a friendly
star, and aids thy endeavours ;
after this thou wilt be
a terror to thine enemies ; but the signs show sickness
—to sum up all, the next seven years will be a trial -
scene in thy life.
©
If the inquirer choose an auspicious hour, and a safe
vessel, he need not fear : but this lot is not good for
travellers on foot or on horseback.
+ Twice fortune allots a change—once good, and once the
contrary, evil.
To whatever part of the globe fate directs thy steps, the
oracle tells of amassing money.
X
When engaged deeply in play, remember the caution of
the oracle : deceivers are near thee.
Y Y Y
A skilful unravelling of fates mysterious riddles, proclaims
u friend to be in the ascendant : but also several ran-
corous opponents.
AAA
Bitptael's ffllitctj.
V.
Sign.
T
At best the aspects of thy affairs are but deceitful ;
and
thou doest well to remember the caution here given.
Be vigilant in whom thou confidest.
0
In trouble; for the oracle is replete with dubious testi-
monials, and one of which even assumes a threatening
aspect.
n
In the inquirer’s family fortune will run variously
;
neither flattering nor depressing; although at times
inclining to either.
s
Three times will the barbed arrows of Cupid pierce
thy delicate bosom ;
but out of those, scarcely one will
be returned by a corresponding flame : yet thou wilt
wed well.
SI
A bribe, or treachery is here portended ; and, moreover,
there is a doubt if thy cause is conducted well.
nj
Of lost things, it may be avouched, that a diligent search
will discover them, or a chief part tliereof; but in
theft an irreparable loss is certain.
To marry early ;
follow his spouse to the sepulchre ;
then wed, and win a fortune thereby.
Tuesday is his or her fortunate day ;
and the eleventh
day of the moon will be a noted day, eventful and
singular, both in good and evil.
H 2
00 Raphael's witch.
Sign. V.
t By a strict attention to certain particulars, it may.
w
If the inquirer seek to know of any season of the yearr
it will be dry and pleasant ;
if of a day, it will be the
reverse ;
generally, this is a satisfactory sign in sucb
matters.
VMA
VVA
It will be some time first, for there are omens of evil
aspects about thy dwelling.
In general, this is a hypocritical and dissembling sign ;
it foretells fear of annoyance, where the asker should,,
on the contrary, rather expect friendship.
The asker is controlled by a mighty power ; the impress
of which is even now on his fate ; therefore a removal
must be done cautiously.
Benevolent constellations which now reign will ensure
a fulfilment.
s
Cancer, or a lunar influence prevails over thy horoscope p
thou wilt travel far and near, roam and return, fre-
quently in distress, but never overcome.
?
Twice will the insidious attacks of disease in early
life make desperate ravages on thy constitution ; but
if the asker escape 42, he will be safe.
? The complaint will change.
0
If the inquirer seek the name of one who stole any
thing, it is F., a short name ; but if the inquirer ask
aught of love, wedlock, or friendship, the letter E. is-
uppermost in the omens.
})
By a cross constellation, denoting either a rival or a
secret adversary, there will be impediments.
Raphael’s witch. 91
Sign. V-
Q
Losses from 22 to 28 —gains from 30 to 35: Persecu-
tions, foes, and trouble, for the next seven years. But
it is the inquirer’s lot to enjoy a happy old age.
8
The paths of content and sorrow are astonishingly blended
in thy career; but reason and virtue may happily cause
thee to glide through them ;
yet assuredly thou wilt
feel fortune’s frowns.
•X*
The red-haired, being under Mars, who now beholds the
lunar omen with a friendly sextile, will give him
success.
A Let not thy desires herein be inordinate: if thou askest
of a money matter, thou wilt succeed well.
Dealing in the fruits or produce of the earth, or in the
sale of light portable articles
c?
Alas ! This, at best, is but a very evil omen ; and the
portents thereof denote storms and tempests at sea.
e
The deaths of three relations ; a particular elevation, by
means of a very unexpected circumstance—a journey
four changes—three evil
—
one good—a legacy—and
victory over enemies.
+
The inquirer being now under evil influences, will have
need of caution and precautionary measures.
**
Assuredly something of a change is at hand : the Lord
of thy ascendant receives manyfortunate aspects very
quickly.
X
Westward, if for gain—eastward, if for honour or fame :
and the whole bias of the inquirer’s fate turn on a
certain journey, at a future period of life.
*** A conspiracy is made against thee ; be watchful, and on
the alert.
Uapfiaers mitctf.
Sifrn.
U.
T These lots are certainly fortunate.
6
Acquaintances, and numerous ones, are visible in thy
fate ;
but few friends.
n
Thy friend proceeds cheerfully to fulfil the destiny allotted
him, and is in good health.
s
These configurations are ever portentous of a fortunate
destiny relative to offspring.
a
What prophesies the “Witch?” The yoke of Hymen
is to be imposed upon her by the soft hands of love
can it be doubted that she will contentedly bear it?
vj>
This is a sign of confusion in papers or writings : be
watchful in thy proceedings ;
there is one owes thee a
grudge.
Search for lost things in apartments where the mistress
of the house frequents, or if in the country, in high
lands ; but stolen things are irrecoverable.
After tasting of the sweets of love, and partaking of the
bitter waters of disappointment, he will wed an highly
intelligent, accomplished female.
Sign.
nAPHAEL’s WITCU.
u.
93
t
Sunday may be predicted as more remarkable than any
other ;
the inquirer may either wed on that day, or have
something happen of infinite consequence.
w Fickle and versatile omens proclaim fear of evil, and of
annoyance.
Should the party inquire of a certain day, it will be
either stormy or obscure : if he ask of the winter sea-
son generally, it will be extremely frosty : if of spring,
fair and mild : if of autumn, rainy : if of summer,
cold and heavy.
It is to be hoped that it may.
A saturnine lot, when added to the lunar cycle, is ever
a woful testimonial.
1/
It is better to remove, and within two months from the
casting of this oracular figure.
(?
iVo^, if it were of money ; or if of love, and a female ask
;
but if a male inquires, it is full jovial and joyous for
the smiles of Venus.
?
J.eo may be the sign ; but both Mercury and the natal
Sun bear testimony ; thy fate reads thus—at times for-
tune’s favourite: at others, her football: thou wilt
roam through restless scenes, travel, and experience
numerous vicissitudes : albeit, thou wilt bear in mind
that wisdom brightens the brow of poverty, while
•
ignorance is the more deformed for being set out with
gold.
5 This lot must not be depended on.
O A recovery is certainly near at hand.
D
T. if of wedlock, love, or marriage. D. if of any other
person, whatever thou askest.
Raphael’s witch.
U-
94
Sign.
Q Possibly the inquirer may.
8
Be not thrifty over much ; it is not given thee to be rich
as yet, for many years.
*
Nothing is beyond the reach of genius, when pursued by
perseverance ; science opens for the industrious a
path strewed with roses.
A The darkest of the two shall unequally sustain the com-
bat for some time, and be then vanquished.
Fortune puts a negative on the matter.
In travelling, or by the exertions of his talents in the
public walks of life, and by the wants of the rich.
© Thrice the ship will be in imminent danger; and once
nearly lost.
"1“
An irregular train of events ;
some flattering enough ;
some the reverse—a journey by land—change of ha-
bitation—trouble by a scandalous falsehood—gain by
the death of some one ;
many gifts —many losses
many crosses.
•x-x- It is both good and safe.
X There is one approaching—take due advantage of it.
V v.v. The asker may travel southward, but v/ill ever do best
settled in one plac?.
’AAA
WUtcfi.
w.
SiiTil.
r
Westward, avoiding the sea, and places where navigable
rivers and large bodies of water are.
0
It may; but afterwards take care ; those who play at
hazard are rarely winners in the end.
n
The signs are certainly portentous of enemies and ad-
versaries.
$
Three months at least hath the friend been pursued by
the ambuscades of a frowning fortune.
a
son born to be rich—two others skilled in the cus-
toms of life—and divers lucky events are allotted
the inquirer or in his family.
v$
The bond of wedlock will unite her to a man so worthy
of her esteem, that she cannot fait to be happy.
n.
If the suit come before the judge in the present moon?
thou wilt win.
in.
Stolen things are not to be discovered—lost things will
be found.
96 Raphael’s witoh.
Sign. w.
To meet with all the happiness that an union formed on
sympathy can afford ;
and this world cannot give
more.
Vf
Wednesday is the inquirer’s best day ;
Thursday the
most noted ;
Saturday his day of evil fortune. The
first day of the new moon also is evil to him.
Vvv« This is a sign of good fortune.
In winter, great floods, heavy rains, and fogs ;
in sum-
mer, a moist air; in autumn, tempests; in spring,
hail and frost : but if thou askest of a day, it will be
cloudy.
T2
This is generally the sign of a poor condition, and
danger by enemies ; but there will be a change.
'H
When this lot appears, there is an end to doubts, what-
ever may be the suspicions.
c?
It is dangerous and unsafe to remove.
?
The promise will, if a female gave it ; but if one of the
male sex, it is not so certain.
5
Virgo is thy sign; Venus and Mercury lords of thy
horoscope : vainly will many of the paths to opulence
be opened before him ;
his prospects are fair ;
they
are many ; but some he will not embrace.
O This lot is an omen of long life.
D
More than one relapse is prognosticated, and the sick
is improperly treated.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch. 97
W-
Q
If the asker seek to know aught of love or wedlock, the
letter is R. ; if of any other person, as a thief or other-
wise, it is W., and a name in common occurrence.
S This ever is the oracle of trouble.
* The favours of fortune will be manifest between the more
youthful and the mature age.
A
There is more satisfaction in bearing honest poverty,
than in meanly toiling for riches : fame and public
love are but delusions : yet thy fate is, after all, well
enough.
The shortest and the stoutest wins the day.
cf
Of a truth the oracle is clouded, and these are the evident
signs of some misfortune.
0
By keeping public edifices, by dealing with the rich, and
by working in metals, silver, gold, and such like.
+
There are many dangers will surround the ship, and
death may scent the victims of his spoil from afar.
**
An intersection or cross in his fortunes, which will cause
much murmuring and repining: a sickness—a bad
beginning, but a good ending—manyjourneys—many
changes.
X
The day of the week ought to be attended to in this case
since Friday will be best for the asker to shun.
*** A very great change—thou art about to have a some
thing of great import happen.
I
Itiapliaerg SBitcf).
Sign.
X.
r Thy fate is at present unsettled, and prone to change.
G
Eastward and southward, avoiding the other parts of the
globe, and let him dwell near rivers.
n
The inquirer, by the exertion of a little diligence, may
win.
25 The oracle speaks of friends.
The absent purposes returning.
The asker, if a male, will have a family born to rise to
the heights of fortune, and to be also famous in their
day and generation : if a female ask, the oracle is
doubtful.
She is so irresolute in her choice, that it is to be feared
she will at last make a bad one : therefore let her
friends choose for her, in order to avoid, or at least
not to deserve her threatening fate.
ia
After a multitude of hopes, fears, scorn, and reproaches,
he may.
Raphael’s witch. 99
Sign. X.
t
Of things stolen, part only may be ever heard of—if thou
searchest for things lost, they will not be found.
Vf
Provided the inquirer knows how to value his helpmate,
and loses not in vain dissipation abroad the advantage
he may reap at home : in such a case, he will be happy
in wedlock.
WNA
WVH
Thursday may be pointed out as being, of all days, the
most remarkable day of the inquirer’s life.
K
Diligently examine once more what thou intendest, and
use what measures thou canst to cause success.
Snow and ice, in winter: heat and thunderclouds, in
summer: in autumn, cloudy weather: in spring,
serene ;
but if the inquirer seek of a day only, it will
be w^et.
X
As surely as the stars this night will thickly sow the
azure canopy of heaven’s fair field, it will.
s Subject to heats of passion, and yet true.
?
There is some good to be derived evidently from a re-
moval ; but remove in the increase of the moon.
This omen rather speaks of some hindrance in the affair,
unless it were something scientific or mercurial.
o
Libra may be the sign, or Aquarius ;
both are of the same
Trigon, and undoubtedly Venus predominates : the
inquirer will neither pine in want nor live in affluence
;
but it is to be feared that his excellent parts will be
of more service to others than himself ;
yet he may
remember, that to keep men on a level, great geniuses
are curbed by poverty : and the rich by ignorance.
D Moderately so, if sincere.
I
100 Raphael’s witch.
Sign. X.
Si Shortly the omens change.
8
If the inquirer seek after the initial of his or her future
enamoured or wedded partner, it is C. ;
if of a
thief, E.
* Something very favourable is implied.
A After 32 years of age, fortune favours thee, and thy old
age will not be spent in penury.
Tlie exalted rank to which he will raise himself, may
happily hide his nothingness from the eyes of the public
hut he will otherwise pass his life in a perpetual vicis-
situde of prosperity and adversity :
yet, after long
peregrinations and troubles, he is fated to meet at
home with peace and content.
c? The dark-haired is victor.
© It may perchance produce money.
+ In any light, easy, and genteel business.
There are no doubt indications here of storms and tem-
pests; hut a safe arrival is destined.
X
Want of health will endanger his talents and virtues, of
being buried in obscurity ;
but he must remember that
patience will relieve sorrow : after this, the “Witch”
presages prosperity.
*** There are few or small fears of harm.
Sign.
Y.
r
Travel not, nor voyage, for three weeks’ hence, there ap-
pears an aspect of danger, loss by theft, and personal
casualties ;
especially should the inquirer travel on
an evil day.
0
Be not too sanguine—there is—this is a sign of loss of
friends, trouble, mischance, and then good luck.
n
If the asker be really sincere, travelling is ever fortu-
nate for him, and the quarter of the globe is of little
importance.
s Envious persons are near ;
but it may be done.
a
This signifies the friendship of a great person, and at
the same time, denotes a secret foe.
Harassed and perplexed by fickle fortune.
Distrust not the oracle—thou wilt.
111
Can she doubt of her success in love^ when Venus has
presented her with a magic girdle ? Yet let her bear
in mind that, with these personal attractions, she may
yet be miserable, if prudence fails to direct her
choice.
I 2
l02
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
Y
t The trial is ambiguous, and a foe will press thee hard.
Vf
Search for things lost in closets or cupboards, or behind
some place or article of household goods—stolen things
are not to be recovered.
Vw«
Nought can save him from the rock of disappointment,
with which the ocean of human life is interspersed.
Wednesday is his day of weal; Friday of woe. The
fourteenth day of the moon most remarkable of all the
days in his sublunary career.
Perilous, if not unfortunate, it is sure to be ; and the
asker must act accordingly.
Snow and sleet in winter : cold, even in summer : but
in spring and autumn fruitful, calm, and pleasant.
c?
Many turmoils, many of the snares and jeopardies of
this strange world must happen first.
?
The ‘‘Witch” gives thee the star of love, Venus; iota.
sign that it is even as thou wishest.
? It were better to change either habitation or business.
o Part will, part will not.
])
Scorpio, and the fiery Mars, says the oracle ; a sign that
the asker will have a very remarkable life, and gain
great store of money and goods ;
but all got with
difficulty.
g2 The oracle is ambiguous—try again.
Raphael’s witch. 103
Siatn. Y-
8 Faint indeed are the hopes of amendment.
D. if of love, friendship, or wedlock ; if of a thief thou
seekest, it is L. and a long name.
A
The stars promise success ;
and when the golden letters
of heaven’s fair alphabet say so, who shall gainsay
it?
Sudden, unaccountable, and strange will be full two-
thirds of thy mortal career; the other part happy and
felicitous ; wherein fortune will in vain try to mock
thee.
c?
Were the asker to judge of himself, his answer would
be evasive, for many troubles have been his lot, and
more are to come. But he must remember all things
have their limits of duration, and he may yet enjoy
the goodly sunshine of success.
© The combat cannot take place this season.
It may be, provided it be not pursued too slowly ;
for
delays are generally the chief obstacles to ultimate
success.
**
The clearness of the asker’s understanding fits him for
inhabiting the labyrinths of the law ; but he must re-
member that honesty is the best guide through the
intricate paths of life. The asker may also do well
as a merchant.
X Safety amidst perils, such is the Witch’s” answer.
*** Many totally unexpected changes.
Sign.
z.
r
To one single, of either sex, marriage. To married
persons increase of family —funerals —banquets —
voyages —removals —a tedious lawsuit —a year of
total misfortune — <//ree years of great changes — an
office or title.
0 The signs of this oracle are rather dubious.
n
Such indeed there is, but not yet; delay appears in the
oracle ;
and much fear or alarm first.
£ North or northwest ;
by the sea or rivers.
a Evidently this foretells cheating and fraud.
It is diligently to be noted, that thou art either insincere
when thou askest this, or incredulous ; the answer is
not therefore attainable.
,TL Protected by the orbs above, he prospers.
m
A son and a daughter will be born thee, one learned,
one beautiful ; one only of these will fortune
favour.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch, 105
z.
t
Even thus ; she will love too well to be beloved ; the
delicacy and nobleness of her sentiments cannot be
duly rewarded : her fair heart is doomed to be pierced
with the shafts of ingratitude ;
but let her beware of
inconstancy.
Vf Assuredly ;
stand in dread of loss.
vsv\
Vws
Lost things are on high shelves or places ;
diligence
may aid thee to find them : stolen things are doubt-
ful in the recovery.
Impetuosity is his peculiar characteristic ; this if he be
not guarded, will be the bane of his happiness in
love, if not in wedlock. Let the “ Witch’s” words
prove of use as a warning.
Thursday is the most noted day, but not the best : the
lunar motions, the inquirer will do well to observe,
the increase of that orb is the best ;
viz. from the new
moon to the full.
When Jupiter rules, as he does here, there are few or
any doubts of it.
c?
Thou hast raised a lot which belongs verily to a spirit of
evil ;
the “ Witch” forbears the particulars; except to
tell thee oifoul weather.
$ Why not ? The omens are favourable, if not auspicious.
?
An exalted soul seldom meets upon earth with its por-
tion of felicity ;
and thus real friendship is rare.
o Do nothing hastily, nor without thought.
D The lot of this divination is deceitful.
106
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
Z.
Q
Aquarius, Saturn, and Mercury are predomimtors f
money is thy lot, in heaps and masses : but let the
asker reflect, that the steps he overleaps to ascend the
summit of his wishes, must be painfully measured
back, in case of a fall.
8
This remarkable malignant conflux of omens indicates
but a moderate age.
There will soon be a change.
A F. if of a lover or wedded partner thou askest ; in other
cases, T.
Manifold crosses seem predominant.
This is a lot which the “ Witch” prophesies will indi-
cate perpetual troubles in early life ; but age opens
a more prosperous scene—perhaps it may give
wealth.
©
Let the asker remember, that he who breathes only to
accumulate riches, and glories in amassing huge heaps
of the glittering coin, renders useless that wealth on
which thousands might subsist.
-f-
One described by Mars will win ;
viz. short and cor-
pulent, ruddy complexion.
**
Suddenly an obstacle will arise, which thou must sweep
away ; then hope for success.
X
In skilful trades; iu dealing with the rich, and attend-
ing to the wishes of the wealthy : Also in travelling,
voyaging, and visiting distant lands, and by foreigners.
I
Evil news may arrive before good ; but there is little
causes of alarm.
Sign.
a-
r
This portends rough tempestuous weather, fatal to the
voyagers of the sea ; but in this instance fortune may
preserve the gallant vessel thou inquirest after.
0
Part of the time will be spent in trouble and labour,
part joyful and happy enough.
n
This planetary omen, the “ Witch” sends thee, as an
earnest of success in either.
s
Within five months the “ Witch” unravels the omens
of a change in thy mortal destiny.
a Westward and southward.
It will be as well to defer any game of chance for a
limited season ; say three moons.
This lot denotes, first, a very kind and gentle {it may be
amorous) friend, if a female asks the question ; if a
male ask, let him beware of secret enemies.
TTl Most probably in heavy griefs.
108
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
a.
t
Thrice, at least, will thy offspring experience a complete
run of good fortune.
Vf
Before she engages in wedlock, let her remember, that
the moon (her symbolical significator) receives light
from no other planets but the Sun alone : let her de-
sires of pleasing neither be inordinate nor apathetic,
and she will wed happily.
vw^ The Witch predicts success after trials and toils.
K
Stolen things are divided amongst many thieves, and
either spent or irrecoverable. If the asker seek after
lost goods, they are hidden, and difficult to find.
h
Let the asker remember, that a mutual confidence helps
to make easy the weight that a tyrannical passion adds
to that yoke, and so guide his conduct, that he may
reap felicity ;
for he has a fortunate sign in his horo-
scope.
Monday ;
and the seventh day of the month.
c? Quarrelling or discord is rather to be expected.
?
In whatever quarter of the year thou inquirest, expect
pleasant weather.
It will ;
but know that there are evil, vexatious, and un-
profitable events first.
O Magnanimous and haughty, but true.
])
The lot is two changeable for thee to stay long in one
place, therefore bewnre.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch. ]09
a.
S3 It most probably will.
n
Leo and Sagittarius, Sol and Jupiter bear power and
dominion ;
the asker is qualified for many attainments,
and will make a noise in the world : but part of his
life is doomed to be spent in trouble.
* If beyond 34 years of age, the asker is long lived.
A A felicitous aspect promises health.
If thou seekest after the initials of a lover, it is S. ;
if of
a thief, F.
c?
There is no disorder so difficult to cure as presumption ;
it baffies the skill of even wisdom herself: be careful,
therefore, not to desire too much.
©
Many are thy adversities between the ages of the twen-
tieth and the thirty-third year.
+
There cannot be a doubt of the inquirer being born to
surprising good fortune.
**
Of the combatants, the tallest will lose ; but there is a
doubt as yet whether they will fight.
X It may succeed, but thou wilt first nearly give it up.
)fX-X-
By working in glass, fire, chemistry, or ingenious and
skilful trades, or as a teacher of others: for these are
the oracles of thy obtaining wealth by thy own ex-
ertions.
K
iozatttfj.
b.
Sign.
r
The querist will be an adept, and prosper in almost
every business he undertakes ;
but he had best deal
in substances produced from the earth.
0
This is a violent sign, which the oracle interprets as fore-
telling great danger to the ship.
n
A particular, and almost total change in thy profession
or pursuits—travelling—the death of many relations
—losses by theft—sickness—recovery of past losses
—an office or rise in life—great credit—many dis-
heartenings—many advantages.
® This is a sign of a quick and speedy voyage.
a There are two—one good, one the contrary.
Northward, or north-east; it seems by this oracle that
the asker would prosper ;
and in country places, or
the suburbs of large towns or cities.
TL This is an extremely doubtful omen.
in.
There never was greater danger of false friends; whom,
the “ Witch,” says, are the worst enemies.
Raphael’s witch. Ill
Sign. b.
t Afflicted, or certainly in trouble.
Vf
One of thy lineage will attain a title, and another will
travel to far distant lands.
With the purity of the lily, and the freshness of the
rose, can her triumph over the hearts of mankind be
doubtful ? Let her virtues deserve to be compared to
the unchangeable and everlasting amaranth, then her
triumph is certain : and wedlock her greatest happi-
ness.
In this suit there is fear of a loss, perhaps by some hid-
den treachery or bribery.
This is an omen of ill-luck in all things, whenever the
oracle presents it.
V.
He will have a partner, who will be the means of en-
riching him, and prove the joy of his life.
Friday will be his day of malignant fortune, and so will
be the 17th day of the month.
? It would seem that fortune may favour thee.
Sultry in summer—mild in winter—cold in autumn
—
and stormy or tempestuous in spring.
o
It will, and better than expected ;
and the time will not
be long before the credence thou placest in the
“ Witch” shall be rewarded.
D
Thy friend wavers : but kindness towards thee is visible
in the omens of the hour.
112
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
b.
Q
It were better by far to stay than to remove ;
of this the
inquirer may rest assured.
8
In a trice, something remarkable will happen, that may
cause thy wishes herein to alter.
*
Leo and Virgo conjointly bear rule ;
thy destiny runs
thus : beloved, yet hated : rich, but poor : the wonder
and the scorn of thy day and generation : during thy
thrice-eventful life ;
till years roll by.
A
This aphetical lot would confirm the judgment of an
astrologer, were he to calculate thy lot by the arcs of
the planets, and predict length of days : but remem-
ber thy horoscope must betray many dangers.
This is a very inauspicious omen.
c?
B. if of a lover or husband, the inquirer seeketh : F. or
G. if he inquire of a thief,—a name often mentioned.
© If in money, who can doubt it.
+
First, know that the whole of thy early life is vexatious :
the whole of thy mature age unprofitable : thy middle
age thrifty and productive : seize fortune by the fore-
lock ! Be wise
**
Were the “ Witch” to tell thee thou art born fortunate,
lucky, and prosperous, wouldest thou believe her ?
Verily it is even the case ;
believe, or disbelieve, as
thou listest.
X The fight will be fatal to neither.
*** There are very doubtful signs shown here.
Uapljaers ffljlitttf).
Sign.
c-
r
Askest thou the “ Witch ” in sincerity? If thou dost,
take the reward of frankness
—
success.
0
By dealing in apparel : household furniture : sale of
lands : and care of the goods of other men.
n The waste-howling wilderness of waters has a peril un-
seen : but the vessel will escape it.
$
Improvement of purse and person—marriage or love in-
trigues; many strange adventures.
Assuredly it may ;
but these are signs of slowness.
up
More than one, perhaps more than two : and one will
surprise even thyself.
J\,
Northward, and near hilly mountainous parts : but avoid
the sea.
m
A cheat or cutpurse will confront thee, but be of good
cheer : thy friendly star protects thee.
Raphael's witch.
114
Sign. C.
t
Thou hast but one tried friend, at best : therefore be on
the watch against deceivers.
Vf
Partly in either : for the signs are mixed in nature, and
rather ominous also.
vw
VVA
The oracle, even now, favours thee : fate allots thee a
pleasant surprise herein, hereafter.
To wed one who will be both the plague and the joy of
her life.
Of a truth, the heavenly tokens which the ‘‘
Witch” has
raised, in obedience to thy wishes, are malefic, and an
evil planet governs the hour.
V
If of lost things thou seekest, search in chests or coffers
—if thou hast lost gold or silver, in vain it is to ex-
pect discovery or recovery.
c?
Roaming from fair to fair in his youth ; he will be in-
constant ; but he may wed well, in due season.
?
Tuesday the worsl, Wednesday the best day, in thy natal
horoscope, which rules thy fate.
?
If for business, travelling, or quick and hasty things, it
will be so.
O
If thou seekest of a day, rainy ;
if of any particular sea-
son of the year, unwholesome : strange weather for the
time.
D
There are many changes approaching ere long ;
when
fortune favours thee, take heed not to be backward.
Raphael’s witch. 115
Sign. C-
S This is a sign of truth and constancy.
83
By no means act hastily in this matter : a removal can-
not be recommended : the oracle is evil.
Something will partly frustrate or cause delay ;
but it
may yet be fulfilled.
A Chiefly Libra—Venus governing : thou wilt rise in life,
and then fall
—
recover, and die a monied man.
It is a truth most sacred and undeniable, that the dic-
tates of reason ever point out that life to be the long-
est which is best spent and employed.
Unless the medical adviser be skilful, the sick will
.scarcely recover.
©
II. if the inquirer seek to know aught of a lover, wife,
or husband. N., if of any other matter.
+
j
The asker may, but there is need of activity.
The sacrifice of pleasure or of welfare must take place
in youth, and thrift in either, is a passport to w'ealth.
X
Most fortunate
;
indeed to a degree that may astonish
thy present contemporaries ; but ill-fortune first.
Tlie one described by Venus, viz. : the best-looking will
win ;
but perchance, they may agree, without fighting.
d.
Sign.
T
This is a sign of bloodshed and treason! whoever in.
quires, had better defer bghting — Mars rules the
hour.
0
A few impediments may arrive, but not enough to cause
misfortune.
n
By quick, active, and ingenious trades: by books, ac-
counts, buildings, arts of dexterous management,
&c. &c.
s
There are storms and tempests visible in the horizon of
the horoscope ;
but fate wills a safe return.
Q.
First to sink in the deep mire of adversity : then to have
a reaction : to gain and lose : to be elevated, esteem-
ed : subject to a sudden caprice of fortune : but in
the end thou wilt be lucky.
nj^
Choose as fortunate a day as thou canst, and all will go
on favourable : except a slight delay.
-TL
One approaches, but it is to the second thy eyes will be
directed, as most auspicious.
111
Southward, near watery places, rivers, and the sea, or
near reservoirs of the aquatic element.
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
d-
117
Jupiter befriends thee, thou wilt win; but play not
again ; fortune is a curious dame, and requires much
wooing.
Vf A mixture certainly of either, but most friends.
•VSA
A doubtful omen ;
he may be in perplexities.
Divers horoscopes bring different fates, for the stars rule
all things
;
but this oracle is on thy side — be
thankful.
Let her avoid the quicksands of passion, or the rocks of
ill-fated love will mar her hymeneal enjoyments.
% The stars are certainly /or the asker.
c?
Lost things are totally gone ; and to seek for stolen things
is but a folly, when this lot is raised.
?
A general lover (let it be remembered) rarely ever meets
happiness in wedlock : but if thou wilt woo fairly, thou
mayest wed happily.
Monday and Friday are the most eventful days.
o The solar lot is generally auspicious.
])
Uncomfortable or gloomy, if in summer: if in spring
windy ; in autumn and winter, fair and fruitful.
118
Sign.
Raphael’s witch.
d-
Q Ill-luck lasts not for ever ; therefore be comforted.
83
The “ Witch,” who disdains to quibble, or equivocate,
tells thee to take warning, and not confide over much.
* It is better to stay a little while longer.
A The benevolent Trine well ensures success in this.
Virgo, and Venus with Mercury, Almutans, born to travel
afar, and roam to distant lands ;
thou wilt return and
live happily in the land of thy youth, and acquire
money in great plenty.
c?
The Alchocodon, were the astrologer to cast thy horo-
scope, would predict long life, but once perilous.
0 Signs and tokens appear before thee of amendment.
+
W. or V. if of the future partner fate allots thee ;
and
such a one thou hast already seen : if of tlieft, it is A.
** Thwarted first : fortune will yet help him.
X Assuredly the Lord of thy house of Wealth will be
clearest of evil arcs in thy latter age.
***
Many times will fate run so cross, that the inquirer wilt
deem himself most unlucky; but the “Witch” pre-
dicts a most fortunate lot—happy prosperous, and
lasting.
Raphael’s witch. 1 19
THE NATIVITY
OF
mm 2l2aUUam Jfourtt)*
From the Author's Prophetic Messenger for 1831 .
2S°. 10'.
The time of Ilis Majesty’s Birth is taken from the Astrolo-
ger’s Magazine, vol. ii. page 279. It is there stated by “ Mer-
curius,’’ a celebrated Astrologer of the last Century, to be 3h.
.54 m. A.M. I have altered it but six minutes in order for recti-
fication, which whether right or wrong, cannot materially change
tt)O0r rmarfeatile ptfsiagr^ iPtJirt) UirtT 00
flparlp pjrittftt on tibf of tf)f SiraOrn^
at the instant this Illustrious Personage first drew breath in this
sublunary region.
I take the arc of direction for the attaining the sovereignty of
these realms to be the ascendant to the mundane sextile of Jupiter^
or, in other words, the time when Jupiter came to the cusp of the
eleventh house of Heaven.
120 haphael’s witch.
It is thus calculated :
The right arc of 1/ is
From this tublract -j of this semi-arc .
From this subtract the R.A. of the
heaven J
The remainder is the arc of direction. . .
e
130 29
38 26
92 3
28 10
63 53
This equated by the Table of Time answers to 64 years
and 10 months, the exact period wlien the native came to the
crown of Great Britain and Ireland, &c.
There are many very singular configurations in this horoscope
well worthy the attention of the astral student, who would take
the pains to calculate the past “ directions ” of this illustrious
native’s life, and compare them with the history of the times in
which he has lived. I shall, however, call the attention of my
readers chiefly to the positions and aspects of the horoscope itself,
not having space sufficient to comment upon the more minute
particulars.
The S'WHf lord of his ascendant, his presiding planet, is strong
and powe?'Jul in the eastern angle, in his own Celestial House,
and Significator both naturally and symbolically of
honour and greatness, in conjunction with a warlike
star, and each in mundane parallel to This configu-
ration alone foretell a crolun, and singular victories in
vuar anij tattle ; at the same time that it disposes the 7nind
to courage, promptitude, and valour : not, however, unmixed with
extraordinary powerfulness of the passions. But these, the strong
sextile of the Moon to Mars and Sol, give sufficient mental ener-
gies to master and overcome ; while Mercury, being in conjunc-
tion with Venus, is a testimony of a love for music, poetry, paint-
ing, the fine arts, a finely-organized sympathy of feeling, and active
benevolence.
The circumstance of the i^oon in tibf
the house of journeys, and Mars lord of the ninth arising, is the
astrological cause of the native’s former naval career, and for those
journeys he has taken and will yet take. This configuration gene-
rally imbues the mind with a strong love of the curious, the original,
the strange, and the diversified. It gives a fondness for travelling,
Raphael’s witch. 121
voyages, and changes ;
while the Moon opposed to the beams of
Herschel, exhibits the trait of 3111 to Uiftatton
and controul in any shape whatever. It is also to the strong as-
pects of Mars and the Moon that the Illustrious native owes his
popularity amongst that much calumniated class of his subjects
(but nevertheless the most powerful)^ “ the people.” The sex-
tile of the Moon to the Sun is, however, quite strong enongh to
give a sufficient sense of dignity for exercising the regal functions.
The position of ^StUVll in the 10th house is much amelio-
rated by the zodiacal and mundane sextile of ^jlupitCt^t who,
ruling the 8th house, signifies by symbolical allusions the legacy of
the crown which the native has attained; while Saturn bearing
dominion over the 7th house of Heaven, readily accounts for the
peculiarities attendant upon the former matrimonial events of the
past life. Jupiter also ruling the fifth house, the house of issue,
foretels honour, dignity, and wealth to the offspring. The other
portents of this planet, his share in the house of death (his govern-
ing the 5th and 8th houses), &c., are verified by those circum-
stances which have actually frustrated the lawful heirship to the
throne in a lineal succession.
The 7th house also has designation of the august native’s public
foes, and, of course, the national enemies. Now, Saturn
firing angular in tfjr irnitfi, will scarcely suffer this
Monarch’s reign to pass over without a provocative to warfare
;
but as Saturn is weak, and the Sun in this horoscope fortified,
England would be victorious should a war take place. It is not
permitted for me to publicly reveal the future fate of kings or
princes, neither do I wish it, as it might act prejudicial to a
number of persons ;
but as his Majesty is well known to be a
“ plain-spoken man,” and a lover of truth, I may, perhaps, venture
to say, that the 66th, or ensuing year of this illustrious native’s
life, will be noted for grrat anfi important cf)angc0.
Students in the art will perceive the approaching ingress of Saturn
over the Radical Sun in the spring of the year 1831 . Of its effects,
let the scientific judge, but assuredly they will be remarkable. I
shall conclude, by expressing my opinion as an astrologer, that
the confidence of the English nation in their Sovereign is by no
means misplaced.—Prophetic Messenger for 1831.
L
122 Raphael’s witch.
THE NATIVITY
OF
©utr mosit grattoue ©ufftt aiiflaiiiF.
“ Skt/ of Wild beauty ! In those distant ages,
Of which time hath left scarce a wreck or a name !
Say ! were thy secrets laid bare to the sages —
Who held that the stars were life’s annals of flame?
Spirit, that ruleth man’s life to its ending,
Chance—Fortune—Fate ! answer my summoning now !
The storm o’er the face of the night is descending;
Fair moon, the dark clouds hide thy silvery brow !
Let these bring thy answer, and tell me if sadness
For ever man’s penance and portion must be?
Doth the morning come forth from the birth-place of gladness
Is there peace—is there rest, in thine empire, or thee ?
L. E. L,
Raphael’s witch. 123
The increasing credence given to the “ Philosophy of the
Heavens,” by the most intelligent characters of the present day,
forms a particular feature even in that liberal dissemination of
knowledge, for which the nineteenth century is so remarkable, and
it exhibits a striking contrast to the sneers and sarcasms which at-
tended the votaries of the celestial science (a science which no
less an authority than the celebrated author of VVaverley calls a
UHlliur only a few years back, when reason and
knowledge were at variance, and bigotry the order of the day.
Thank heaven, however, these times 110 lOll0CT CXt0tJ the
spark of science which a few ages since merely glimmered in the
vast obscurity of a distant horizon, is now become fanned into a
generous flame : and thousands are daily cheered and invigorated
by its genial warmth 1 England, too, proverbially the land of the
free, possesses ItOU) a monarch who stands first as the great re-
former of the age : and the patron of every liberal or truly philo-
sophical sentiment.
“ As the sun,
Ere it is risen, sometimes paints its image
In the atmosphere ; so often do the spirits
Of great events stride on before the events;
And in to-day already walks the morrow.”
Her most gracious Majesty was ushered into this mortal life by
a singular train of resplendent and goodly orbs : the constellation
of the celestial twins (Semitti, and the noted asterism ©rion,
ascended swiftly in the orient, as the illustrious native first inhaled
the “ breath of life 1” The planet iriflftfUri) was Lord of the
ascendant: her influential star; and he was posited in Virgo, the
sign the sages of old pronounce to be his highest dignities :
(XiTltCtl and beholding the “ House of Life ” by a
friendly trine *. this planet may well be taken as a true 0yml)ol
of the singular dignities to which the fair native has arisen, by
becoming the wedded and beloved consort of the first Monarch in
the world
!
“ Ye stars 1 bright legions that before all time
Camp’d on yon plain of sapphire, what shall tell
124 Raphael’s witch.
Your burning myriads, but the eye of him
Who bade through Heav’n your golden chariots wheel?
Yet who earth-born can see your hosts nor feel
Immortal impulses—Eternity?
What wonder if the o’erwrought soul should reel
With its own weight of thought I and the mortal eye
See FATS within your tracks of sleepless glory lie?”
To these prophetic announcements Of (which a
tradition says was foretold at the princely infant’s birth by an an-
cient sage) may be added the singular conjunctions of the Sun,
Herschel and Venus, in Leo, “ tf^t as the
astrologers of old term it, in their mystic volumes; near the
famous fixed Regulus, of the first magnitude—and how
true and scriptural the art of astrology is, may be here most plainly
exemplified : for is not the fair Queen of these realms,
“ ^tav of fa^fjioit? ”
The leader by courtesy, etiquette,
and right of the fashionable hemisphere ? No doubt, also, but the
illustrious female here spoken of has a fair fund of genius and
intellect, as well as female elegance of exterior, since Mercury is
fortified, and the moon in Cancer, her own house, and lucid
sign : from which she beams forth with unwonted refulgence ;
this
never fails to illumine the mental faculties, by irradiations of
skill
;
yet Saturn, by his malefic aspect to Mercury, may, at times
afflict, but not overpower ;
giving feelings of solemnity, solitude,
and sadness; to which the illustrious native, I may be bold to
say, is propense, amidst all the splendours of the queenly circle
in which she moves—At such times gaiety is but “ a gaud,” and
the glittering pomp of earthly state a mere flitting unsubstantial
bauble !
“ Metbinks we must have known some former state
More glorious than our present: and the heart
Is haunted with dire memories, shadows lelt
By past magnificence !—and hence we pine.
With vain aspirings, hopes that fill the eyes
With bitter tears for their own vanity 1
Remembrance makes the Poet
—’lis the past
Raphael’s witch. 125
Lingering within him, with a keener sense
Than liis upon the thoughts of common men,
Of what has been—That fills the actual world
With unreal likenesses of lovely shapes.
That were, and are not
!
and the fairer they.
The more their contrast with existing things !
The more in power, the greater is the grief.
Are we then fallen from some nobler star,
Whose consciousness is an unknown curse,
And we feel capable of happiness
Only, to know it is not in our sphere ?”
The position of Saturn in tht* twelfth house also, denotes many
secret and private enemies : but ti^e lUttill 0Ult, as well
as Venus and the Georgian star in Sextile to the benevolent
Jupiter, which latter planet is near the famous ^l*etUrU0, are
testimonials of honor and greatness : equal, if not superior to
most females who have sat on the throne of the British dominions.
There are many other extraordinary fulfilments of starry lore to
be seen in the horoscope ;
such as the singular agreement of the
natal figure with the horoscope of London, both being under the
constellation Gemini ; which wilt be considered by Astrolo-
gers as a remarkable verification of that branch of the art, which
assigns to certain celestial signs, the government of particular
regions and countries, after the maxims of the ancient sages.
Moreover, the sign culminating, is a sure trophy of
renown ; and the JtlOOlT in the cardinal sign of the summer
solstice ; each are so many tokens of $Ure illlJ 1Udtttife0t
goon fortune, according to the predictions of
RAPHAEL,
The Astrologer of the Nineteenth Century,
l2
126 Raphael’s witch.
3^igniot <Sual5i at Vtxiitt.
SiGNioR Gualdi resided at Venice some months, in 1687,
though nobody knew lyAo or what he was! during which three
things were remarked in his conduct. The first was, that he had
a small collection of fine pictures, which he readily showed to any
body that desired it. Tlie next, that he was particularly versed in
all arts and sciences; and spoke on every subject with such rea-
diness and sagacity, as astonished all who heard him. And it was
in the third place observed, that he never wrote or received any
letter ;
never desired any credit ; or made use of bills of exchange
but paid for everything in ready money, and lived decently,
though not in splendour!
This gentleman met, one day, at the coffee house, with a Vene-
tian nobleman, who was an extraordinary judge of good pictures.
He had heard of Signior Gualdi’s collection, and in a very polite
manner desired to see them, to which the other very readily con-
sented. After the Venetian had viewed Signior Gualdi’s collec-
tion, and expressed his satisfaction by telling bim that he had never
seen a finer, considering the number of pieces of which it con-
sisted ;
he cast his eye, by chance, over the chamber-door, where
hung a pictnre of this stranger. The Venetian looked at it, and
then upon him.—“ This picture w'as done for you. Sir,” said he
to Signior G. ;
to which the other made no answer, but by a low
bow.—“ You look/’ continued the Venetian, “ like a man fifty,
and yet I know this picture to be of the hand of Titian, who has
been dead one hundred and thirty years! How is this possible?”
“ It is not easy,” said Signior Gualdi, gravely, “ to know all
things that are possible; but this is certainly no crime in
my being like a picture drawn by Titian.”
The Venetian could not forbear speaking of this to some of his
friends, who, in order to see the picture and person, went to the
cafb about the time that Signior Gualdi was wont to come there ;
and not meeting with him, one of them^ who had often conversed
with him,' went to his lodgings to inquire after him ;
when he
heard, to his astonishment, that Signior Gualdi had set off, an
hour before, for Vienna ! !
Raphael’s witch. 127
Here we essay to break a lance
In the fair fields of old romance !
And seek the mouldering cave and cell
Of demons, ghosts, and goblins fell
!
Of shield and lance, and plume and scarf,
Phantom and spectre ;
elfin dwarf;
And wizard, with his wand of might.
The fairy, and the sylphid sprite.
With all the host that shun the light
!
Of magic feats and elfin glee;
And all the pomp of gramerie !
Of necromantic charms and spells;
The wild and wondrous; Raphael tells ! !
!
An adventure lately occurred to me of so strange a nature, that
I will recount it to ray readers. You must know, that a few weeks
since, being fatigued with the attention 1 had bestowed in reading
a book of wondrous lore, I went out with the intention of taking a
walk, to dissipate the extraordinary imaginations with which my
mind was filled. For this purpose I went into the midst of a little
obscure wood, where I had walked for about the space of a quarter
of an hour, when I suddenly felt myself raised imperceptibly in
the air by some unknown means, of which I could not divine the
cause ;
and it appeared to me that I travelled through the ethereal
regions of space with great velocity. How far I went by this
singular conveyance, I really know not ; but at last I suddenly
stopped, and was on my feet again, apparently in the midst of a
desert, of which I knew not a single path; I resolved, however,
to penetrate further, and to explore its paths ; and also, if possible,
take cognizance of the place ; but my endeavours were vain ; for
some unseen hand rivetted my feet to the spot, and I found it
impossible to remove from where I stood. At last, feeling myself
greatly tired and harassed, I fell on my knees, when a sudden
astonishment overwhelmed me, for I found myself passed at once
from day to midnight. I saw the stars shine forth in the heavens
above me with a faint blue light ; the moon was apparently at the
full, but evidently much paler than ordinary. While I stood
128 Raphael’s witch.
gazing witli astonishment, it was suddenly eclipsed three times,
and thrice did it pass from its wonted circle ; the winds were para-
lysed, the waters were silent, and even the animals had apparently
but that movement left which was merely necessary for them to
tremble
The gloomy and awful horror of a frightful silence seemed to
reign universally, as if Nature herself awaited the coming of some-
thing wonderful ;
and I mixed my own fears with those which
even the horizon appeared agitated *, when, of a sudden, by the
clear moon light, I saw emerge from a cavern a tall, venerable,
and aged man, of dark and scowling complexion ;
his eyebrows
were bushy and arched, his eye terrific, and his beard thrown
back behind his shoulders ;
he had upon his head a crown of
vervain, and on his back a girdle of heath May :
placed just by
his heart, and attached to his robe, was a bat in the agonies of
death ;
around his neck a jewel charged with seven precious stones,
each bearing the character of the planet under whose dominion it
was subjected. This mysteriously-attired man bore in his left
hand a triangular vase filled with dew, and in his right a wand of
alder, cut in the spring, and headed with a mixture of the seven
metals ;
he kissed the threshold of his cave, and loosed his san-
dals ;
pronounced in a low tone some obscure words, and by
walking backwards, got near to an aged and blasted oak, at five
paces from which he stopped, and dug in the earth t/iree concentric
circles. Instantly Nature, as if obedient to the orders of the mighty
necromancer, formed her.«elf, in agony, the figures that he wished
to trace. He then graved the names of the spirits presidents of
the age, of the year, of the season of the month, of the day, and of
the hour ;
this done, he placed the vase in the middle of the
circle, he uncovered it, and placed one end of the rod he bore
between his teeth; he turned himself towards the east, laid down,
and slept.
In the middle of his slumber I perceived five of the seeds of St.-
John-wort fall into the vase ! —He arose and took them, —he placed
two in his ears, one in his mouth, the fourth he threw in the water,
and the fifth he cast beyond the circle ;
scarcely had it passed from
his hand, when I saw it surrounded by ill-omened animals: he
touched with his wand an owl, a fox, and a mole ;
they each entered
the circle, with a piercing shriek ! He opened their stomachs
Raphael’s witch. 129
with a brazen knife, and extracted their hearts, which he enveloped
with three leaves of laurel, and swallowed and burnt unholy per-
fumes in a lengthened space of time.
He then deposited a virgin parchment glove in a vessel filled of
dew and blood ; he placed the glove on his right hand, and after
sevemi unearthly howls, his eyes closed, and he began the invoca-
tion. .
While rehearsing his charms, it appeared to me that his lips
scarcely moved, and yet I heard in his throat the sound as of many
voices. He then ascended from the earth about half a foot, and
ever and anon he looked attentively at the nail of the index finger
of his left hand. While doing this his face was inflamed, and
seemed greatly tormented. After several unutterable convulsions,
he fell with a groan on his knees ;
but immediately that he pro-
nounced three magical words of a necromantic oration, I perceived
that he became stronger than man ;
he bore without flinching the
shock of a tremendous wind that blew with the might and fury of
a powerful hurricane against him ;
it endeavoured to force him
from the circle; and while so doing, three orbs seemed to turn
incessantly round him : this prodigy was followed by a shower of
hail, red as molten iron, and it was succeeded by a torrent of fire,
accompanied by such awful claps of thunder, that they seemed to
shake the very poles
!
At last a brilliant light dissipated these sorrowful meteors ;
and
in the middle appeared the form of a youthful man with his right
leg placed on an eagle, and his left on a sphynx ; and he gave to
the magician three phials which were filled with an unknown
liquor.
The magician presented him with three hairs ; one taken from
the front of his head, the two others from his temples. The
phantom, then struck him on the shoulder with a small wand
which he carried, and having so done, he immediately vanished !
Soon after this the day appeared, and I was seeking to return to
my residence, when the necromancer looked me in the face, and
approached the spot I occupied ;
and although his steps seemed
slow and measured, he was immediately at my side : he then
placed his hand on mine, which felt so cold that it remained for a
time as frozen.
130 Raphael’s witch.
While this was done, I saw that neither his eyes nor lips moved^
and in profound silence he conducted me across damp and weCdy
grounds to the ruin of an ancient building, where it seemed as if
ages had been employed for a thousand years in levelling the bat-
tlements with the earth; As soon as we were in the interior, the
charm of silence was dissolved, and he spoke thus; “ Congratulate
thyself,” said he, in turning towards me, “ that thou hast contem-
plated, face to face, the sorcerer Agrippa, whose soul is (by metem-
psychosis) the same that once animated Zoroaster, prince of the
Bactrians
“ For the space of an age that I have disappeared from among
mortals, I preserve myself here by the means of potable gold, in
an eternal health that no illness can interrupt. Every twenty years
I take a portion of this medicine, which restores me to a state of
youth, and regenerates my body. If thou didst consider the three
phials that the King of the Salamanders presented me with, thou
wouldst have seen that the first was full, the second contained the
powder ofprojection, the third the oil of talc. As for the rest, thou
must be obliged to me, for I have chosen thee from amongst all
other mortals to witness those high and mighty mysteries which I
celebrate every twentieth period that the lamp of heaven has ran
round his circle in the zodiac.
“ It is, I tell thee, by my charms that I send when I please
sterility or abundance. It is by those I excite wars, in kindling
disputes among the genii, who are the governors of kings and
emperors. Moreover, I teach to shepherds the wolfs paternoster
to diviners the method of the charmed sieve j
and I cause the
will-o’-the-wisp to run the race of mischief. I excite the gos-
samer-clad fairies to dance gaily in the gaudy moonshine, and the
elves to roam and gambol in despite of priest and incense. The
gambler I cause to search the four-leaved plant under the felon’s
gibbet; at midnight I send spirits from their graves, to accomplish
the vows they made in their lifetime.
“ Moreover, I cause the candles made from dead men’s fat to
burn for robbers, that the victim may sleep while they commit the
midnight murder. I give to some the enchanted coin, which
returns to the purse when its duty is done. To others I give
those magic rings which enable them to travel whole leagues in an
baphael’s witch. 131
instant by the aid of familiar spirits. At other times, in merriment
and frolic, I cause all things to be upset in a house ; my invisible
agents throw about the bottles, trundle the plates, and play catch-
ball with the glasses, although nothing is broken, and no one seen.
I teach old men to cure fevers by words and charms ; and I wake
the villager, at the Eve of St. John, to gather his herb, fasting and
in silence! Sorcerers I empower to become weir wolves, and to
change their forms to that of a beast. I wring the necks of those
who, reading without knowledge in the necromantic art, force me
to come and give me nothing; and I return peaceably from those
who give me an old shoe, a hair, or a straw. 1 inform necromancers
of the method of destroying their enemies, by making an image of
wax in the planetary hour, and pricking it or casting it in the fire;
thus causing the original to suffer what the charmed model, by
sympathetic influence, undergoes. To shepherds I make known
the charm of the magic knot on the rival’s marriage day. I cause
magicians to feel blows as if they are struck with an alder stick.
Lastly, I am the devil Vauvert, the Wandering Jew, and the Demon
of the Forest of Fontainebleau.”
After these strange and wonderful accounts, the magician disap-
peared ; the colours of the objects lost themselves, as it were,
in the misty distance ;
and I found myself seated in my study,
but overwhelmed with astonishment and fear at what I had
undergone. I then perceived that this long vision was but a
dream ;
and that, falling asleep while reading my book of
ancient rites and magic ceremonies, a dream (that insensible and
obstinate monitor of a future state) had made me see in vision the
marvellous tale I have told the reader.
Spectres dress’d in magic might,
Thus oft attend the dreamer’s night;
Some in woe, in sorrow clad,
Angels glorious, Spirits bad,
Dreadful, liorrible, and gay,
Thus pursue the sleeper’s way.
Vanishing at break of day.
Does the dreamer quit this sphere,
Hoams he in the atmosphere,
Spirit free as free from fear.
Or is all phantasy that’s near?
Sceptics say ! This problem bold
Puzzled many a sage of old.
132 Raphael’s witch.
YES! HE HATH SAID THE DAY SHALL COME.’
AN HEBREW MELODY, FROM THE PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
jihisic by J. Blkh'jtt, Esquire.
“ Thine heart is sad, thine heart is sad !
And thoughts ot sorrow vex thy soul
But Judah’s God can make thee glad,
And burst the clouds that round thee roll.
Thy broken spirit shall be whole.
And light and joy arise on thee.
To end thy daik captivity !
For all things own his wondrous sway.
In heaven, or earth, or ocean wide;
And sun and shower, and ni;;ht and day.
Praise him as their Almighty guide !
Even the cold grave in vain would hide
Our sins and sorrows from his sight.
Whose arm is power, whose eye is light.
The sun blight, and the sickening moon.
And hurtful demons he shall chaso;
*
Then fear not, since the Lord shall soon
Awake thy tongue to gladsome lays.
Tuning thine heart unto his praise 1
And from his treasured blessings shed
A double portion on thy head 1
Soon shall the wintry storms be o’er.
And all the floods and rains be past;
The vines shall blush with grapes once more.
And flowers upon the earth be cast.
And, for the sad and howling blast,
Onr land shall hear the turtle’s voice.
And the glad time when birds rejoice.
Yes ! he hath said the day shall come
When Zion shall in glory reign ;
When shouting to their beauteous home.
Her scatter’d tribes shall march again ;
When from the mountain to the plain
Shall Salem’s banners be unfurl’d.
And David’s sceptre rule the world 1”
The above Melody having been much admired in my annual Work,
“ The Prophetic Messenger” for 1830, my Publisher has requested
the celebrated Composer, J. Blewitt, Esq., to adapt the annexed
Music to the words. The air should be played with considerable pathos,
and feeling, in order to give it the true harmonious tone, necessary to
duly appreciate the poetry.
1
p »
g^lad, And burst the clouds that round thee roll. Thy
fTi I «ni
'pin Allegro
it 1* P
V' ^ ^
bro._ken spi rit shall be ssliole, And light and
J
(fj
J J Ir.d^
a Te?npo
r~".r r f r
^
j°y a --rise on thee, '^'o enri thy
M
=C£
i
P =iC= te:
^ il
^ «L
dark cap., ti vi ty.' Thine heart is
m
M r"' I M «« LU
sad.
K y ... _.. 1
thine heart is s
O
ad]
l^S
1
iiL±±
-I j t-,. p 1
J
4
For all things own his wonHrciis sway,
In heaven, or earth, or oeean wide;
And sun and shower, and night and day.
Praise him as their' Almighty gnidel
Kven the eold grave in vain wotild hide
Our sins and sorrows from his sight.
Whose arm is power, whose eye is light.
Thine heart is sad, thine heart is sadi
Soon shall the wintry storms be o’er.
And all the floods and rains be past;
'.riie vines shall blush with grapes onee more.
And flowers upon the earth be east.
And, for the sad and howling blast,
. '
‘l
Our land shall hear the. turtles voiee, " '
r'
And the glad time when birds rejoice.
Thine heart is sad, thine heart is sad I
»
I
t
YesI he hath said the day shall come U
When Zion shall in glory reign;
When shouting to their beauteous home.
Her scatter’d tribes shall march again;
When from the mountain to the plain
Shall Salem s banners be unfurl d.
And David’s sceptre rule the worldl
'I’hine heart is sad, thine heart is sad!”
|
1
vl
Raphael’s witch. 13.3
THE CABBALISTICAL
of tfto ;5tar$,
AND
Method ofderiving Oracles from Aames.
Sapiens ipse finget Fortunam sibi.
—
Senec. Trag,
The ancient philosophers, who were accustomed to dive deep
into the mysteries of nature, held an opinion that the fates of indi-
viduals, and their various fortunes in life, were to be plainly dis-
covered in the names or appellations assigned to them by chance
or fortuitous circumstances ; which chance, however, they also held
to be also a secret fate that “ no man could gainsay or alter.”
The remarkable inconstancy which shades the character of man
in his pursuits, passions, and cares, raised in the speculative minds
of the ancient Greek philosophers a system of this peculiar divina-
tion, or, as they termed it, “ divine or empyreal wisdom.”
The Island of Delos had been many ages famous for its temple,
where the oracular responses had often given Greece, and the adja-
cent nations, laws, peace, and war. Nothing of moment was done
without first consulting the oracle. In private, as well as public
affairs, the temple was constantly visited ;
insomuch that it was
found necessary, after a while, to open another, for the particular
purpose of answering such questions as the infinite vicissitude of
human affairs required. Accordingly, a magnificent temple was
seen to rise aihidst the shade of a beautiful vale, and upon the
same altar was seen placed together the images of .-ffortuiif
and It was soon industriously reported throughout
Greece, that these two goddesses were reconciled together for the
benefit of mankind ;
that Fortune answered all those who came to
consult her upon the secrets of futurity ;
and that Pallas, under
the symbol of Wisdoin, advised them how to avail themselves of
that knowledge. It may be easily imagined that nothing was
omitted in the rites of this new worship that could inspire reve-.
M
134 Raphael’s wirtii.
rence and awe in the multitude, wlio were better pleased for seeing
those regulations suited to the then fashionable system of thinking
of that time.
According to their system, the temple was only opened during
the first several days of each season, when none were admitted into
it but those whose years answered to the reigning season, it being
decided that the spring of life ends at twenty-one ; the summer at
l^orty-two ;
the autumn at sixty-tliree ;
and the extremity of winter
^
which closes the scene, at eighty-four. The questions to be asked
were modelled, or rather dictated, by the priests, who always
suited tliem to tlie age, sex, and condition of the persons who came
to inquire : and who, after having delivered their own answers in
the name of the goddesses of Fortune and Wisdom, kept these
oracles upon record, as well as the ceremonials of the day.
They, in fact, divided the twelve times seven years, which seem
to be allotted to mankind, into four portions or stages ;
ascribing
to each a different share of those internal agitations which seemed
before confusedly interspersed in the whole course of our existence.
A variety, so much like the vicissitude of the seasons, furnished
the poets with sublime images; opened a large field for the per-
spicacity of astrologers to exert itself, and inspired some renowned
sage of those days with a design calculated for the public amuse-
ment. It was such an one who first classed the oracles and their
answers in a manner comprehensible to the general inquirer, and
capable of being used without the superstitions of pagan worship.
It is from a fragment of these interesting records that the fore-
going pages were compiled ;
the greater part of which, as before
said, was found in the ruins of Pompeii. The refinement of
modern manners and customs, the difference of situation with
respect to the various improvements and regulations of tliese times,
have occasioned some little alterations, but which cause not the
least material deviation from the sense of the venerable original
Manuscripts.
It is to be presumed that we shall not be more difficult in point
of judgment and taste than our ancient masters the Romans were,
who preserved with veneration the works of the Greeks ;
or, that
at least, we shall not find so much fault with our masters in the art
of thinking, as not to make our advantage of these oracles as the
Raphael’s witch. 13.5
Grecians did, since the application thereof is both facile and
interesting. And the reader will remember that it is equally true
with the axioms of morals as mathematics, that what was good sense
and truth a thousand years ago, remains still the same, and ivill be
found so a thousand years hence-
We have sufficient reasons to deplore the loss of the greatest
part of this precious monument; but the greater part of what
Raphael has discovered thereof, the reader has in this little book
had laid before him. The remaining part is the
of tl^c
for which let the reader refer to the engraved copper plate drawing,
and he will find the developement
—
Pythagoras, the great Grecian
sage and astrologer, of whom Ovid thus sings;
—
“ Here dwelt the man divine whom Samos bore,
But now self-banish’d from liis native shore.
Because he hated tyrants; nor could bear
The chains which none but servile souls will wear.
“ He, though from heaven remote, to heaven could move.
With strength of mind, and tread the abyss above !
And penetrate, with his interior light.
Those upper depths which nature hid from sight.
And what he had observed, and learnt from thence,
Lov’d in familiar language to dispense !
“ The crowd with silent admiration stand.
And heard him as they heard their gods command.
While he discours’d of heaven’s mysterious laws.
The world’s original, and nature’s cause !
And what was God, and why the fleecy snows
In silence fell, and rattling winds arose!
What shook the steadfast earth; and whence begun
The dance of planets round the radiant sun :
If thunder was the voice of angry Jove ;
Or clouds, with nitre pregnant, burst above.
Of these, and things beyond the common reach.
He spoke, and charm’d his audience with hisspeec’h !”
13G Raphael’s witcu.
This celebrated sage is said to have invented, or rather discovered
and classed, the mystical powers of numbers under known appella-
tions, of which the present is one of the most striking and curious
instances.
The ancient Jews also held three kinds of cabbala, the principal
of which was the gematrie; which, like the present, consisted in
taking the letters of a Hebrew word for ciphers or arithmetical
numbers, and explaining every word by the arithmetical value of
the letters whereof it was composed. They also affirm the cabbala
to be a mysterious kind of revelation, transmitted by oral tradition
to those of our times ;
serving (they say) for interpretation of the
books of nature and scripture. Thus R. Jac. Ben-Ascher is said
to have compiled most of the cabbalas invented on the books of
Moses, before his time. The cabbala is by some also termed the
acromatic philosophy of Moses, and tlie generality of the Jews prefer
this science even to the scripture; comparing the former to “ the
sparkling lustre of a precious stone,” and the latter to “ the faint
glimmering of a candle.” They tell us also that the secrets of this
•science were discovered to Moses on Mount Sinai; and that these
have been delivered down to them from father to son without
interruption, and without any use of letters ;
for to write them
down is what they are by no means permitted to do. As usual,
therefore, there is a dispute amongst the learned as to the origin of
these mystical numbers.
The reader will readily understand the method of drawing forth
oracles from the of ^tar0, when he is told
that to every letter of the alphabet there is a certain number, or
arithmetical value appended, by which each letter of any indivi-
dual’s name, or other cognomen or appellation, must be valued.
Then, by summing up the whole, and comparing it with the sum
of other words, so that no letter shall be omiltted, or over or under-
rated, till the whole is completed.
A few examples will suffice to give the reader a key to this most
intelligent amusement.
Take the word Zadkiel, the name of the spirit attributed by
the ancients to Jupiter, and you draw out these oracular words,
a great '
Tims
iiaphael’s witch. 137
The letter Z stands for.
A stands for.
D stands for.
K stands for
I stands for,
E stands for
And L stands for,
500
1
4
10
9
5
20
The sura of the whole is 549
In the sentence drawn therefrom, the value of each word being
taken, is as follows:
—
Behold a great alchemist.
B 2 a 1 g
7- a 1
e 5 r 80 1 20
h 8 e 5 c 3
o 50 a 1 h 8
1 20 t 100 e 5
d 4 m 30
Sum . .193 i 9
Sum.. .89 —
—
s 90
t
Sum.
100
.266
Add these severally together
;
89
1
193
266
Sum. .549
This is exactly the sum or value of the word Zadkiel
;
and wliat
makes it more remarkable is, that a gentleman who is by the rules
of the astrological science born under the sign Sagittarius, and by
the ancients under “ Zadkiel,” is one of the very few amateurs
and believers in “ the Hermetic Science” which the present cen-
tury witnesses.
Take another instance in the author’s literary appellation,
“ Raphael.”
M 2
138 Raphael’s witch.
From this is derived the sentence,
lie fam’ti of man.
Thus, B 2
e 5
f 6
a 1
m 30
d 4
o 50
f 6
m 30
a 1
n 40
Total sum ..175
Number of the letters in the
word
R 80
A 1
P 60
II 8
A 1
E 5
L 20
Sum. .175
If any one should accuse the author of egotism, he will please to
observe that the numbers of the letters in this oracular sentence,
a?'e exactly to a unit the same as in the word which they are
derived therefrom ;
so that if any egotism is visible, it lays in the
oracle itself, not in the interpreter.
Another example is in the name of our gracious Queen
“ Adelaide." From this is derived the sentence
which is happily enough illustrative of the homage to which the
queen of a mighty nation is entitled. The process will convince
the incredulist.
Number of the Name.
A 1
D 4
E 5
L 20
A 1
I 9
D 4
E 5
Number of the Oracle.
B 2
e 5
II 8
a 1
i 9
1 20
d 4
Sum. .49 Sum . . 49
Raphael’s witch. 139
Tlie next oracle is very striking, as it coincides with one of the
most remarkable events in the annals of the united kingdom, if
not the most remarkable of any that have occurred ;
namely, the
connexion of His Most Gracious Majesty William the Fourth
with Reform. The number of letters in the name William is
1489 ;
and from thence is derived the sentence,
ilf)! i)oxi reform’ti C1^rot«!
Number of letters in Number of letters in the oracular sentence.
the name William. A 1 R 80 T 100 E 5 T 100
W 1400 h 8 e 5 h 8 n 40 h 8
I 9 f 6 e 5 g 7 r 80
L 20 9 o 50 1 20 o 50
L 20 r 80 113 i 9 n 40
I 9 y 400 m 30 — s 90 e 5
A 1 0 50 ’d 4 h 8
M 30 u 200
Sum ..1489 650 255 179 283
— —
Ah 9
You 650
Reform'd 255
The 113
English 179
Throne 283
1489
This will be thought the more remarkable, when it is remembered
how eventful the reign of each William has been for changes to the
British government: thus, William I. conquered England;
William 111. came in at the revolution of 1688; &c. &c. My
readers will, no doubt, ponder well on these singular and curious
particulars.
I shall conclude by giving the oracles of two remarkable years,
which are perhaps more worthy of remark, prospectively and
retrospectively, than either of the foregoing.
140 Raphael’s witch.
The first is that of the noted year in historical annals, 1793.
The year wherein Revolution upraised its banners throughout
Europe ;
in which the French King Louis XVI. was beheaded
;
the reign of terror prevailed in France, &c. 8cc. What will my
readers think when I tell them the number of the aforesaid year
contained the sentence, Hlebolution0 in ^iftivope ! !
!
Behold, however, the oracle developed :
—
R 80 i 9 Total sums of letters :
—
e 5 n 40 Revolutions 1344
v 700 in 49
0 50 — Europe. 400
1 20 49
u 200 — 1793
t 100 E 5
i 9 u 200 which minutely to a single unit, answers
0 50 y*
A 80 to the date of the year in which they took
n 40 o 50 place; a marvellous coincidence, (even if
s 90 p 60 sceptics will not allow it to be anything
else) and worth reflecting upon
!
e 5
1344 400
The last I shall mention is the oracular denouncement of the
year 1836 ;
from which sum is derived the singular sentence,
UDeatlD to anO a NotJlc Huiit i
i
This oracle is drawn out thus :
—
In the word Death the number of the letters is . . 118
In the word to 150
In the word Sovereigns 1076
O
I n the word and 45
In the word a 1
In the word noble 117
In the word Rum 329
Sum total. .1836
ftAPHAEL’s WITCH. I4i
f'fje Crutlb*
A B c D E F G H I J K L M
10 2 22 4 14 6 10 7 18 18 10 11 12
N 0 P Q R S T u V W X Y Z
4 14 6 16 8 18 10 2 2 4 12 4 14
Gentle Reader, wishing to add to thy amusement as well as thy
instruction, and presuming that some parts of the foregoing maybe
too grave or serious for all occasions, I have kept a corner in my
little book for thy sole entertainment. The foregoing is taken
from a very ancient MSS., entitled “ a Key to Agrippa,” which
is, in fact, a book of really “ wondrous lore.” I trust, therefore,
gentle Reader, thou wilt receive these gleanings (from musty
manuscripts) greetful.
TO KNOW IF THY ‘‘GENTLE FAIr” BE TRUE.
“ Take the woman’s name, and her mother’s name, and account
the sum by every letter throughout ; add the same together, and
add 15 to the same; then divide by 9; and, if the same produce an
even number for the product, she is “ faithful and true to thy
love ; but if uneven, slie loves some other swain ;
and thou art
cautioned “ to beware of rivals.”
TO KNOW IF TRUTH OR A LIE BE SPOKEN.
“ Write the name of the party, and of the day he or she told
it, and add the number thereof when summed up, together, and
divide it by 7 ; if the product be odd, it is untrue ;
if even,
true.”
The reader will please to observe, that what is meant by the
“ even product,” is this, that the number should be divisible, with-
out any remainder
;
and the “ odd product,” when the number
cannot be divided without a remainder.
142 Raphael’s witch.
Cafilet of iiSooO anlr iSbil Kumfifrft*
GOOD NUMBERS.
1 2 3 4 7 9 10 11 13il4 16 17 19 20 22
23 26 27
EVIL NUMBERS.
5 6 8 12 15 18 1 21 J- 24 25 28 29 30
Cl^e of 0oolr anO iSbil.
A B c D E F G II I & J 1
K L M
4 6 26 18 12 4 21 28 11
I
16 12 19
N 0 P Q R i
S T U&V W X Y Z
11 9 12 '
27 12 4 6 9 18 12 2 3
To know if a certain thing shall take place or not: Take choice
of any number under 30, (which you may do by choosing a num-
ber out of the table, page xvi.), or it may be done by a throw of
the dice; and then take the number which stands for the first letter
of your proper name, and add to this the number of the day of
the week on which the question is asked, and gather those num-
bers into one sum, and divide by 30, and seek the remainder;
for if the remainder fortune to fall in the good numbers, the thing
shall take place, or the wish shall be fulfilled ;
but if it fall in the
evil numbers, it shall not.
The numbers of the days of the week are :
—
Sunday. Monday. Tuesday. 1
Wednesday.
106 52 52
1
102
Thursday.
31
Friday.
68
Saturday.
45
Raphael’s witch. 143
And if ye would know whether ye shall enjoy your love or
not? Take the number of the first letter of your name, the num-
ber of the planet, and of the day of the week; add them together,
and divide by 30, as ye did before, and take your remainder: seek
in the tablet of numbers, and if it be in the good numbers, ye shall
have your request ;
and if in the evil, contrarywise not.
The number of the planets are —
o ])
w'ho rules who rules who rules who rules
Sunday. Monday. Tuesday. Wednesday.
34 45 39 114
who rules who rules who rules
Thursday. Friday. Saturday.
78 45 55
From Cattan’s Geomancie, a rare Black Letter Book of 1591.
ancient iJiUining Cratiition.
It is said, that “ if any person beginning life, wishes to know
concerning his or her future success therein, let them refer to
the 49th (Jhapter of Genesis, and choose any verse at random in
that chapter, commencing with the 3rd verse, and ending with the
27th verse. The verse so chosen ivill “(it is said)” be typical of
his or her future fate, character, and actions ;
provided it is done
with sincere and anxious thought.
“ This was set dowiip, for causes more than one,
Tlie world believes no more than it hath seene:
When things lye dead, and tyme is past and gone,
lilynd people say, “ it is not so, we weene.”
It is a tale devisde to please the eare,
•More for delight of boyes, than troth to beare :
But those that think, this may a fable be
To author’s good, 1 send them here from me.”
Chauctr.
144 Raphael’s witch.
Zf^t dFiv0t dFoot,
A Christmas Tradition.
Our Scottish seers place implicit confidence in the “ First Foot”
of a Christmas morn, which is that of the first person who crosses
the threshold ;
if this is a male, they prophesy “ good fortune all
the year round if Oi female, they predict evil.
Zf)e fbil iSjjc,
The reputed consequences of the “ blink of an ill ee,” are either
death, or some horrible debility ;
and our Scottish neighbours are
firm in their belief, in the power of certain persons to inflict this
“ weird wish” on those they “ overlook.” For this, there are cer-
tain preventatives, such as “ rolling a red silk thread round the
finger or neck, or keeping a slip of rowan tree, (mountain ash) in
the hat or bonnet and last, not least, there is a certain “ gruel^
thick and slab,” which is reckoned efficacious in averting the
“ Skaith.” At this day, even in the thirty-first year of the 19th
Century, an old women in Falkirk earns a comfortable liveli-
hood by the sale of “ Skaith-saw,” the magical potation to pre-
vent witchcraft.
^ Uibining Jttrntor.
The resolution and explanation of the following experiment,
Raphael bequeaths to the curious sceptic who disbelieves all be-
yond his own sphere of cognoscity.
To know the hour of the night without looking at a time-piece
;
and to cause any vibration you wish, by a thread and a ring, ad
libitum.
Take a thread of any convenient length, and sling thereto, at the
end, a shilling or ring, (or my aristocratical readers may place, a
sovereign, or any other coin they please, by means of a loop ;
then,
resting your elbow upon a table, hold the other end of the thread
betwixt your fore-finger and thumb, observing to let it pass across
the ball of the thumb, and thus suspend the shilling into an empty
ItAPIIAEL’s WITCH. 145
goblet. Observe, your hand must be perfectly steady ;
and if you
find it difficult to keep it in an immoveable posture, it is useless to
attempt the experiment. Premising that the shilling is properly
suspended, you will find that when it has recovered its equilibrium
it will for a moment be stationary; it will then, of its own accord,
and without the least agency from the person holding it, assume
the action of a pendulum, vibrating from side to side of the glass,
and after a few seconds vvill strike the hour nearest to the time of
the day ; for instance, if the time be twenty-five minutes past six,
it will strike six j if thirty-five minutes past six, it will strike seven,
and so on of any other hour. It is necessary to observe, that the
thread should lie over the pulse of the thumb, and this may in
some measure account for the vibration of the shilling , but to
what cause its striking the precise hour is to be traced, remains
unexplained ;
for it is no less astonishing than true, that when it
has struck the proper number, its vibration ceases, it acquires a
kind of rotary motion, and at last becomes stationary as before. It
will moreover strike any number you may think of, or wish it to
strike, which is certainly a curiosity worth observing.
TBfft iWooU'Dial;
For Raphael's Country Readers,
“ My copper-plate, with almanacks
Engrav’d upon’t, and other knacks;
My Moon Dial, with Napier’s bones,
And several Constellation stones.”
The hour may be ascertained by the shadow of which the moon
casts upon the sun-dial, the age of the moon being known (which
is easily learned from the Almanack); thus, if the new moon
happen in the morning, the present day is considered the first;
but, if it happen in the afternoon, then the succeeding day
is counted from. The moon’s age is to be multiplied by four, and
divided by five ;
the quotient must be either added to the hours
which the shadow indicates upon the sun-dial, and the sum gives
the time sought, or the hour shown by the moon upon the dial
is subtracted from the quotient, and the remainder is the hour re-
quired. The first is the course to be pursued when the shadow
N
146 Raphael’s witch.
falls on an hour of the afternoon, the latter when upon an hour of
the forenoon.
Examples to illustrate.
First, Suppose the moon to be ten days old, and the shade it
casts upon the sun-dial is half-past two, or that the shadow cast
by the moon falls upon the place which that of the sun occupies
at half-past two ; the moon’s age, 10 days, multiplied by 4, pro-
duces 40, which divided by 5, gives 8. Eight o’clock, then, is the
hour when the moon was in the meridian ;
to which add 2^, the
number the shadow of the moon reflects upon, and 10|, or half-
past 10 o’clock, the hour sought will be produced.
Second, Suppose the moon to have been 18 days old, and the
shadow cast by it upon the sun-dial to have marked 11, this time
is subtracted from the hour when the moon was in the meridian ;
thus, moon’s age, 18 days, multiplied by 4, produces 72, which,
divided by 5, gives 14|, or 2 hours 24 minutes past midnight, at
which time the moon was in the meridian on that day, from which
the hour reflected upon by the shadow must be deducted. The
shadow shows 11 o’clock in the forenoon, or 1 hour before noon,
which, deducted from 2 hours 24 minutes, gives 1 hour 24 minutes
past 1, the hour sought.
Wonderful are all the ways of Providence ! six months ago the
Holy Allies, with their brethren and satellites, had all continental
Europe apparently at their feet. They were rioting in the inso-
lence of uncontrolled power, and glorifying themselves, like Bel-
shazzar, in the fulness of their security, little heeding the signs of
the heaven which were fraught with ominous denouncements, vvhen
all of the sudden the expulsion of Charles X. came upon them,
like the hand-writing on the wall, to tell them that their days were
numbered, and that the empire was about to depart from them.
They can no longer throw themselves on beds of down, saying,
“ soul, take thine ease.” There is a spirit abroad that haunts
them ;
they feel that they must sleep on their arms like soldiers
going to battle. They have followed the counsels of their own
will hitherto; but the firmness of them, now begins to look for-
ward to a day for accounting—not to say, retribution.
Raphael’s witch. 147
REMARKABLE PROPHECY
OF THE
#mp^rot* ilapoleon^
AS RRGARDS ENGLAND, FRANCE, RUSSIA, AND OTHER
EUROPEAN STATES.
Being a suppressed passagefrom both French and English
editions of Count LAS CASES' JOURNAL.
“ In less than fifteen years, from the present time,” said the
Emperor to me one day, as we stood viewing the sea, from a rock
which overhung the road, “ the whole European system will be
changed. Revolution will succeed revolution, until every nation
becomes acquainted with its individual rights. Depend upon it,
the people of Europe will not long submit to be governed by these
bands of petty Sovereigns,—these aristocratic cabinets. I was
wrong in re-establishing the order of Nobles in France; but
I did it to give splendour to the throne, and refinement to the
manners of the people, who were fast sinking into barbarism since
the revolution. The remains of the feudal system will vanish be-
fore the sun of knowledge. The people have only to know that
all power emanates from themselves, in order to assert their rights
to a share in their respective governments. This will be the case
even with the boors of llussia : —yes. Las Cases, you may
live to see the time,—but I shall be cold in my grave,—when
that colossal, but ill-cemented empire, will be split into as many
sovereignties,—perhaps republics,—as there are hordes or tribes
which compose it.”
After a few more reflections, on the future prospects of Europe,
His Majesty thus continued : —
“ Never was a web more artfully woven over a nation, than that
horrible debt which envelopes the people of |£U0liinl3* It has
been the means of enriching the Aristocracy beyond all former
}48 Raphael’s avitch.
example, in any country ;
whilst it has, at the same time, ensured
as many fast and powerful friends to the government—as there are
individuals who receive interest for that money so extravagantly
squandered to crush liberty in other countries. But even that
must have an end : —some accidental spark will ignite the com-
bustible mass, and blow the whole system to the devil ! If this
mighty debt were due to foreigners, these cunning islanders
would not bear the burthen an hour ;
but would, on some pretext,
or other, break with their creditors, and laugh at their credulity :
—but they owe the money to individuals among themselves, and
are therefore likely to enjoy the pleasure of paying the interest for
generations to come. too, has got a debt :
—these
Bourbons think to maintain themselves on my throne, by borrow-
ing largely of the present generation, in order to lay heavy taxes
on the next and all future ones. But I know the French people
too well to suppose that such a system can be long tolerated. I
know that they have too much natural affection for their offspring,
to entail upon them a national debt, like that of England, however
artfully incurred.—No, no ! my subjects are too sharp-sighted to
allow the property accumulated for their children to be mortgaged
to pay the and for invading them, and
for the restoration of the vielle cour de imbeciles, who now insult
them. They will, after a time, make comparisons between them
and me: —they will recollect, that the expenses of my government
were defrayed by imposts during the year:—that my wars fO0t
jFranrr nolfjing:—that I left her not one napoleon in
debt :
—but, that I enriched every corner of her territory. Such
comparisons will not be favourable to the Bourbons:—the French
will cast them and their debt from their shoulders, as my Arabian
would a stranger who should dare to mount him. Then, if my
son be in existence, he will be seated on the throne, amidst the
acclamations of the people :
—if he be not, jfriutfc will go back
to a republic ;
for no other hand will dare to seize a sceptre which
it cannot wield. The Orleans branch, though amiable, are too
weak,—have too much of the imbecility of the other Bourbons,
—
and will share the same fate, if they do not choose to live as simple
citizens, under whatever change takes place.”
Here the Emperor paused a few moments ;
—then, waving his
Raphael’s witch. 149
hand, he exclaimed, in an animated tone,— his dark eye beaming
with enthusiasm of inspiration ,
—
“
once more a Re-
public, other countries will follow her example :
—
and will all join in the crusade for liberty. They
will arm against their sovereigns, who will be glad to make con-
cession of some of their rights, in order to preserve a minor au-
thority over them as subjects. They will grant them representative
chambers, and style themselves constitutional kings, possessing a
limited power. Thus, the feudal system will receive its death-
blow : —like the thick mist on that ocean, it will dissipate at the
first appearance of the sun of liberty. But, things will not end
there : —the wheel of revolution will not stand still at this point :
—
the impetus will be increased in a tenfold ratio, and the mption
will be accelerated in proportion. When a people recover a part
of their rights as men, they become elated with the victory they
have achieved ; and, having tasted the sweets of freedom, they
become clamorous for a larger portion. Thus, will the States and
Principalities of 4!5Ut*OPf be in a continual state of turmoil and
ferment,—perhaps for some years,—like the earth, heaving in all
directions, previous to the occurrence of an earthquake : at length,
the combustible matter will have vent ;
—a tremendous explosion
will take place. The lava of bankruptcy will over-
spread the iSuropean OTotili, —overv/helming kings and
aristocracies, but cementing the democratic interests as it flows.
—Trust me, Las Cases, that, as from the vines planted in the soil
which encrusts the sides of and the most
delicious wine is obtained ; —so shall this lava, of which I speak,
prove to be the only soil in which the Tree of Liberty shall take
firm and permanent root. —May it flourish for ages! — You
perhaps consider these sentiments strange, unusual : they are
mine. Tjoiuftoft
i
was a Republican ;
but ,jFtTtP.and the
Opposition of (!0UTOpe. made me an EMPEROR! ! I I am
tww a Spectator of the Future * * * *
150 Raphael’s witch.
OTillr anlr gttifeing Storj)*
ORIGIN OF THE STAKE DRIVEN THROUGH THE BODY IN CASES
OF SUICIDE.
It was a favourite fancy of the Norsemen, tliat, in many
instances, the change from life to death altered the temper of the
liuman spirit from benignant to malevolent ;
or, perhaps, that
when the soul left the body, its departure was occasionally sup-
plied by a wicked demon, who took the opportunity to enter and
occupy its late habitation.
Upon such a supposition the wild fiction that follows is proba-
bly grounded ;
which, extravagant as it is, possesses something
striking to the imagination. Saxo Grammaticus tells us of the
fame of two Norse princes or chiefs, who had formed what w'as
called a brotherhood in arms, implying not only the firmest friend-
ship and constant support during all the adventures which they
should undertake in life, but binding them, by a solemn compact,
that after the death of either, the survivor should descend alive
into the sepulchre of his brother- in-arms, and consent to be buried
along with him. The task of fulfilling this dreadful compact fell
upon Asmund— bis companion Assueit having been slain in battle.
The tomb was formed after the ancient northern custom, in what
was called the age of hills,
—
that is, when it was usual to bury
persons of distinguished merit or rank on some conspicuous
spot, which was crowned widi a mound. With this purpose a
deep narrow vault was constructed, to be the apartment of the
future tomb over which the sepulchral heap was to be piled.
Here they deposited arms, trophies, poured forth, perhaps, the
blood of victims, introduced into the tomb the war-horses of the
champions, and when these rites had been duly paid, the body
of Assueit was placed in the dark and narrow house, while
his faithful brother-in-arms entered and sat down by the corpse,
without a word or look which testified regret or unwillingness to
fulfil his fearful engagement. The soldiers who had witnessed this
singular interment of the dead and living, rolled a huge stone to
the mouth of the tomb, and piled so much earth and stones above-
Raphael’s witch. 151
the spot as made a mound visible from a great distance, and then,
with loud lamentation for the loss of such undaunted leaders, they
dispersed themselves like a flock which has lost its shepherd.
Years passed away after years, and a century had elapsed ere a
noble Swedish rover, bound upon some high adventure, and sup-
ported by a gallant band of followers, arrived in the valley whicli
took its name from the tomb of the brethren-in-arms. Ihe story
was told to the strangers, whose leader determined on opening
the sepulchre, partly because, as already hinted, it was reckoned
a heroic action to brave the anger of departed heroes by violating
their tombs ;
partly to attain the arms and swords of proof with
wliicli the deceased had done their great actions. He set his sol-
diers to work, and soon removed the earth and stones from one
side of the mound, and laid bare the entrance. Eut the stoutest of
the rovers started back when, instead of the silence of a tomb, tliey
lieard within horrid cries, tlie clasli of swords, the clang of armour,
and all the noise of a mortal combat between tw'o furious cham-
pions. A young warrior was let down into the profound tomb by
a cord, which was drawn up shortly after, in hopes of news from
beneath. But when the adventurer descended, some one threw
him from the cord, and took his place in the noose. When the
rope was pulled up, the soldiers, instead of their companion
beheld Asmund,the survivor of the brethren-in-arms. lie rushed
into the open air, his sword drawn in his hand, his armour half
torn from his body, the left side of his face almost scratched off,
as by the talons of some wild beast. lie had no sooner appeared
in the light of day, than, with the improvisatory poetic talent
which these champions often united with heroic strength and
bravery, he poured forth a string of verses containing the history
of his hundred years’ conflict within the tomb. It seems that no
sooner was the sepulchre closed, than the corpse of the slain
Assueit arose from the ground, inspired by some ravenous goule,
and having first torn to pieces and devoured the horses which had
been entombed with them, threw himself upon the companion
who had just given him such a sign of devoted friendship, in order
to treat him in the same manner. The hero, no way discounte-
nanced by the horrors of his situation, took to his arms, and
defended himself manfully against Assueit, or rather against the
evil demon who tenanted that champion’s body. In this manner
Raphael’s witch.
J.52
the living brother waged a preternatural combat, which had
endured during a whole century, when Asmund, at last obtaining
the victory, prostrated his enemy, and by driving, as he boasted,
a stake through his body, had finally reduced him to the state of
quiet becoming a tenant of the tomb. Having chanted the tri-
umphant account of his contest and victory, this mangled con-
queror fell dead before them. The body of Assueit was taken out
of the tomb, burnt, and the ashes dispersed to heaven ;
whilst that
of the victor, now lifeless, and without a companion, was depo-
sited there, so that it was hoped his slumbers might remain undis-
turbed. The precautions taken against Assueit’s reviving a
second time, remind us of those adopted in the Greek islands, and
in the Turkish provinces, against the Vampire. It affords also a
derivation of the ancient English law in case of suicide, when a
stake was driven through the body, originally to keep it secure in
the tomb.
Crutl^ anH dFirtion.
Til’ Enchantress came, she came in power.
Mistress of that transforming hour;
» She breath’d a wild mysterious lay,
And sang and smil’d their hate away.
O’er Truth’s fair form a robe she threw
To clothe her with attractions new,
And pluck’d from fictious pinions gay
The vainer, gaudier plumes away.
Then bade her reassume her pride.
And soar as lofty, not as wide :
Each paus'd, each strange affection knew.
And wondered whence their hatred grew
Felt fresh delight, beheld new charms.
And sunk into each other’s arms.
Since, then, together will they stray,
And sing the same impassion’d lay
The flower that Fiction’s garden drest.
Blushes on Truth’s celestial breast
;
The wires that Truth has strung rejoice
In unison with Fiction’s voice
They seek the same romantic groves.
Each loves the haunts the other loves;
They rlimb the steep, explore the dell,
Together roam, together dwell.
Raphael’s witch. 153
0ttciiantrf!S!S*
“ Mysterious agency !
Ye spirits of the unbounded universe !
VVhom I have sought in darkness and in light,
—
Ye, wlio do compass earth about, and dwell
In subtler essence. Ye, to whom the tops
Of mountains inaccessible are haunts.
And P'arth’s and Ocean’s caves familiar things;
I call upon ye by the written charm
Which gives me power upon you,
—
Rise ! Appear !”
Manfred.
f'REDERicK Charlton and William Palmer were sons of
two of the vvealtliiest merchants of London. They were intimate
friends, and had lived logetlier familiarly from childhood-
The former of them had weak health, and was of a meditative
mind ;
but William was vigorous, bold, and active. When they
were nearly arrived to years of maturity, Frederick was sent by
his father on a tour to Italy, partly on account of his ill heaWi and
enfeebled constitution, and partly at his own urgent request to be
allowed to travel in a country renowned for so many classical and
beautiful recollections. lie returned to his native birthplace after
an absence of tliree years ;
but his health, so far from being esta-
blished, was even worse than before ; while his spirits were ener-
vated to a degree that totally altered his character from its previous
habit of calm and equable serenity. He seemed, to his friends,
as if broken down by some mysterious and overpowering cata-
strophe, and burdened with some terrible secret; but though he
appeared often to attempt disclosing to his friend the cause of his
affliction, he never had resolution enough to proceed.
After a few weeks, William was obliged to depart for the Hague,
on some commercial business of his father’s, and while in one of
the principal cities, his affairs compelled him daily to frequent the
exchange. On one particnlar occasion, after having transacted
the business of the morning, he loitered for a moment, and looked
around him. After carelessly surveying many of the groups of
154 Raphael’s witch.
shrewd but heavy faces which encircled him; he remarked one in
which' there was a countenance so very peculiar as instantly to
arrest his attention. It bore the marks of age, but was unusually
expressive, and apparently intellectual. The paleness, and even
delicacy, of the features, consorted well with the dark gray of the
hair, and of a long beard. The eyes were deeply set, and sunken
in the sockets as if with years ;
but black, sparkling, and restless.
The dress of the party was not otherwise remarkable than for its
richness, and for a slightly oriental disposition of workmanship
and colour.
William looked again and again at this remarkable personage,
wondering who he might be ;
till, at last, the singular being whom
he scrutinized, turned his gaze towards the young Englishman,
and after wandering up and down before him several times, fixed
his eyes strongly upon William’s face, and thus met his glances.
When he had thus marked Palmeij he suddenly disengaged
himself from those persons to whom he had been speaking, and
coming up to him, bent his eyes fixedly on William’s countenance,
at the same time addressing himself slowly, and in excellent
English, he uttered these remarkable words :
“ You look as if you
could wield a sword ;
I can furnish you with a better one than
ever was handled by man,’'
Immediately, upon saying this, without seeming to wait for an
answer, he turned and left the exchange. William, struck with
an unaccountable curiosity, followed ;
while the old man walked
steadily forward through several streets till he reached a large and
apparently handsome house. He opened the door with a key, and
after passing through several silent and solitary apartments,
reached a small chamber in the interior of the building, which was
surrounded by ebony cabinets curiously carved, and of extremely
ntique appearance.
He unlocked one of these witli great solemnity, and took from it
a naked scimitar of oriental workmanship and singular splendour.
William proceeded to examine it, and laid on a table a bag of
coin which he had just received. The weapon was short, narrow,
and extremely curved ;
while its surface was completely covered
with a myriad of faint blue lines, intersecting and crossing each
RAPHAEL S WITCH. 155
other, over the whole blade, except in one part, where an
inscription in some unknown character was traced upon it in
letters of gold ;
and it had an intense, indeed an almost over-
powering, fragrance.
The youth made a motion or two with the sabre, while wielding
it, to ascertain its poise, “ and then,” said he, “ it felt and looked
well.”—“ The like of it no man could have forged, who has lived
these thousand years,” answered the ancient.—“ I wish I could
try it,” said William.—“ You shall,” replied the merchant; but
in the mean time you must taste some of my wine, which, I can
assure you, is almost as old as my weapon. Here, slave!”—he
elevated his voice a little
—“a flask!” A moment afterwards, a
tall Nubian entered the room, bearing, on a small golden salver, a
narrow flask of purple glass, and two curious cups of precious
materials, adorned with jewels.
William laid down the scimitar, and drew off his gloves, while
the old man filled the cups with the liquor, that appeared rich
and brilliant; and his guest was about to put one of them to his
lips, when, to his astonishment, he saw his entertainer suddenly
raise the blade, and cut off with a slight blow the right hand of
the black
!
The sufferer, however, did not wince. The old man stooped
down, lifted the bleeding member, and held it up to Palmer, as if
to show him the smoothness of the cut, when he recovered from
his astonishment, and springing upon the merchant, grasped the
hilt of the scimitar. He then held it over the head of the cri-
minal, and was exclaiming “ miscreant !” when his antagonist
smote the blade out of his hand with a blow of his staff, and, while
he turned to recover it, disappeared !
The youth pursued him through the door by which he thought
he had escaped ; but after traversing through several rooms, found
himself in a vestibule opening to the air. The door had closed
behind him, and he could not unfasten it. He therefore departed
at the opposite entrance, determined to obtain assistance, and
punish the outrage he had witnessed.
He had now gained a road running between two walls, and it
was not till he had wandered for a long time that he found himself
in a part of the city which he knew. He described the singular
156 Raphael’s witch.
person in whose company he had been, and was told, that he
commonly went by the name of the merchant Levi, but nobody
knew where he lived ;
and, on endeavouring to retrace his steps,
he found that he only lost himself. Nor, after several day’s search
through the city, and its suburbs, could he discover any thing like
the street or the house to which he had been so unexpectedly
taken.
lie had left his bag of gold upon the table, and had of course
no means of regaining it ;
but the scimitar still remained to him,
stained with the blood he had seen shed, and preserving all its
strange yet delicious odour. He endeavoured to turn his attention
to other subjects, but the form and eyes of the merchant haunted
him ;
and he sometimes sat for hours looking at the curious and
valuable weapon, so extraordinarily procured, and the dark crim-
son stain upon its blade.
Levi was not again seen, during the residence of William in
that city. The youth did not remain there, however, more than a
few weeks after the adventure with the merchant.
When he returned to London, he found his friend reduced to
greater weakness of body, and misery of mind, than before ;
but
he still seemed too feeble and irresolute to explain the nature of
tliat tremendous sorrow which was evidently dragging him into the
grave. On one particular day, in order to divert the scene, they
went together in a boat upon the Thames, in a calm and lingering
loveliness of sunset. The great city, with all its spires, and lines
of beauty, and masses of dusky wealth, lay serene and majestic in
the yellow glow ;
and the sails that bore the boats along the water
were reflected amid the sparkle—as the purpose which carries on
a man through his career maybe uncertainly but gracefully imaged
in the spirit of the woman he loves.
While they swept beneath the halls and towers of Westminster,
William recounted to his friend the singular occurrence which
took place in the Hague. The languid and indifferent patient,
looking earnestly at his companion while the tale was told, at last
whispered ‘ You shall knoxv all,' and in the moment was seized with
strong convulsions. He was very quickly calmed and restored,
but he still seemed too much agitated to enter upon any painful
disclosure. Tne next day it was judged necessary to send him to
Raphael’s witch, 157
a village a few miles from London, as the only chance of re-
covery.
After this occurrence, William had occasion to visit one of the
oldest portions of the metropolis. He had entered a long and
winding street, the houses of which were generally out of repair,
tall, grotesque, and squalid. Several of the fronts were adorned
with old and dirty carvings, and various draperies of second-
hand clothes and household linen were suspended at the doors
and windows.
The lowest part of these dwellings were shops for micellaneous
and nauseous-looking eatables, also for bones, rags, old iron, broken
and worm-eaten furniture, and ancient psalm-books and new bal-
lads. The male proprietors were generally in the interior of their
dens; but unwashed children rolled and quarrelled in the kennels,
and half-dressed, slipshod women conversed and swore on the
pavement, or showed themselves at the upper-windows bawling to
their neighbours, and occasionally emptying into the streets
the unsavoury contents of cracked basins and jugs without
handles.
After Palmer had advanced a few paces up this avenue, he
was stopped by a crowd collected round a mountebank, the fortu-
nate owner of a bear and three monkeys. The latter animals were
dressed as a lawyer, a policeman, and a clergyman, and the tempta-
tion of such a spectacle had proved irresistible to all the black-
guards, that is, to nine-tenths of the population of the whole
neighbourhood.
The youth wished only to make his way through the mob ;
and,
after trying to pass at all its outskirts, he determined to force him-
self forward along the houses at one side. He got on readily
enough at first; but he was soon obliged to touch on the shoulder
a broad-backed man with one eye, who impeded his passage, and
to request him to move aside. This the fellow refused with an
oath, and told him to keep his ‘hands off.’ The ruffians round
the place heard the dialogue, and all the eyes were turned upon
William and his doughty opponent, A dozen voices were raised
to encourage the rudeness : and, in the midst of the disturbance,
it occurred to the youth for an instant that he had caught the
glance which had arrested his attention on the Exchange of
0
158 Raphael’s witch.
Amsterdam. However, he obeyed his first impulse without much
reflection on his situation, and threatened to punish the insolence
which interrupted him.
His antagonist, while William’s arms were impeded by those
around him, seized him by the collar, and flung him headlong
against the door of a house near which they stood. He was hurt
and stunned by the fall, and did not hear the roar of laughter and
triumph which followed his dicomfiture.
The old man whose look he had thought he recognized, rapidly
made his way to him. He was dingy and squalid in his dress ;
and it would have been hard to believe that the wretched, mendi-
cant-like being was the wealthy merchant Levi. He signed to two
mean-looking men who followed him, and they lifted William,
and carried him to one of the poorest abodes in all the street.
The house actually looked as if falling to ruin, and the shop con-
tained scarcely any thing either of furniture or merchandize. The
old man made the others lay the youth upon the counter, and then
close the door behind them.
This occurred in the afternoon, but Palmer had not reached
home long after he was expected. Messengers were sent to seek
him in all directions, and returned without any tidings. At last
his father applied to a magistrate. He inquired strictly whether it
were not possible that the youth might have absented himself with
his own good-will ;
and his suspicions seemed much increased when
he learned that he had taken away a considerable sum of money
to settle some large accounts. The father was additionally ago-
nised by these conjectures, which the well-known character of
William made in his eyes utterly ridiculous, but which, never-
theless, brought with them a certain sting. Yet he could not re-
fute the opinions of the magistrate, and v:as only able to express
his thanks for the diligence with wdiich the official personage
caused the young man to be traced, and the apparent interest
which he took in the affair.
So far as they could discover, he had kept the nearest route to
his destination ;
and they at last traced him into the street in which
he had been stoped by the crowd. Inquiry was made at the houses
round ;
and, after some difficulty, they learned that he had been
taken into the shop of Josias, for so the old man was called. The
Raphael’s witch. 159
shop was shut up, and no light appeared in the front of the half-
ruinous house. They knocked repeatedly and violently ;
and at
last the anxiety of the father had begun to manifest itself in a de-
mand that the officers would force an entrance ;
but at this mo-
ment a harsh and angry, though feeble voice, was heard asking
their purpose.—The officers mentioned the authority by which
they acted ;
and, after withdrawing many bolts, the heavy door
opened slowly, and the old man was seen with a scanty rushlight
in one hand, and carefully guarding it from the wind with the
other.
‘
What do you want with a poor man like me, at this time of
night?’ he began: but the father interrupted him—‘ My son, my
son !
—where is my son ? villain !’
‘ Villain, forsooth ! I should like to know where your son
—
since the young m.an is cursed with so foolish a father—would
have been now but for my care ? I found him almost dead, con-
veyed him hither, and restored him to strength at my own charge,
and to the loss of my time—and now you must bring your tip-
staves to my poor house, to take away my character !” With these
words Josias was about to close the door ; but the officers pushed
it open, and one of them seized the old man, while the father and
the two others proceeded to examine the premises.
The miserable shop, the window-less closet behind it, the suc-
cessive stories of unfurnished and decaying rooms, up to the gar-
rets, which admitted the weather at many a rent —the cellars in
which they found nothing but a brazier of lighted charcoal, with
a small pipkin that was placed upon it, and a few utensils lying
by it,—all were diligently searched, and in none could any trace
of the youth be discovered—and scarcely any property more
valuable than the few relics of dress and furniture which were
displayed in the shop.
While this search was going on with the aid of tights purchased
in the neighbourhood—Josias sat quietly on the floor at the en-
trance, after the oriental fashion, and seemed to be half asleep,
though close observation might have traced a slight sneer in the
lines of his mouth. The only peculiarity that was remarked in
the house, except its extreme poverty and disrepair, was a small
pair of gold tongs, richly chased, and with the hands beautifully
160 Raphael’s witch.
enamelled, which was found by the side of the brazier in the
vaults, and seemed intended for arranging the fire.
The father and his attendants were departing, when the old
man said, with a tone of quiet sarcasm, ‘ And will you give me
nothing for the care I have taken of Mr. William Palmer V
‘
Ila ! how knew you his name
‘ Perhaps he told me. But we are both merchants, though in
different lines; and all merchants should know each other’s
names.’
He stepped forward as he said said this, and held the light up
to his own features, while he said to the father O’f William
—
Did you ever hear of Joseph D’Arville ?
The merchant looked at him, and exclaimed, ‘ Good Heavens !
can you be he?’
Josias did not answer, but said, ‘Thank you, gentlemen, for
your visit,’ and shut the door upon them.
The astonishment of Palmer was not without a cause. The Jo-
seph D’Arville, whose voice and features were thus suddenly re-
called to him in the person of the wretched Josias, had been
considered some twenty years before the wealthiest merchant in-
London. He had appeared suddenly in England, had engaged
in the most extensive and adventurous transactions, and had
seemed to make enormous profits by every thing he attempted.
With Palmer himself he had engaged in some considerable affairs,
and had been largely the gainer. But after a year or two of
this splendid and singular career, during which he had become
the creditor of kings, and almost the founder of empires, he
vanished as suddenly as he had appeared, and none could speak
more certainly of his fate than of his origin. It is not wonderful
that Palmer startled when he found him again in misery and de-
gradation so complete, that he had never before conceived its
possibility.
**•*«**«»
William recovered slowly from the stupor into which he had
been thrown. His first sensation was that of being dazzled and
bewildered ;
as he obtained the use of his senses, and collected
eaprael’s witch.' l6l
^is mind, he perceived that lie was surrounded by an array of
gorgeous magnificence.
lie was habited in a loose wrapper of purple silk, and stretched
upon a couch of the softest texture. The walls of the large and
lofty apartments were covered with embroidered velvet, and
mirrors framed with embossed silver, and the ceiling was painted
by a master hand. The whole was lighted with two tall candela-
bra ; and a smoking censer dispersed its rich fragrance through
the atmosphere. The temperature was kept deliciously cool by
jets of icy water mingled with otto of roses, which fell into
basins of precious metal, with a faint, tremulous, and lulling
melody.
William had swooned in the purlieus of London, and woke in
the very centre of fairy-land. He raised himself to look around
him, and put aside the hangings of his bed, which surrounded
him with a rosy halo, like the ethereal vapours which encircle the
setting sun. Ilis touch shook the little silver bell that was sus-
pended to the curtains, and, at the sound, several pages seemed
to glide through the tapestry of the chamber. They brought with
them the robes of a Sultan ;
and while Palmer lay in dreamy
amazement on the couch, they clothed him in the glittering gar-
ments ;
but they merely sprinkled his curling dark-brown hair with
essence, and left it in its natural beauty. They then served him
with dried fruits and rich wine, and instantly disappeared, with-
out a sound, through the folds of the hangings.
They had scarcely vanished when the drapery at the back of
the bed began to open, and enabled the youth to look into what
seemed a corresponding apartment. Its furniture was of different
patterns and colours from that of the room in which he lay, yet
even more voluptuously splendid. But the object which princi-
pally attracted the attention of William was a couch placed
directly opposite to his own. On it reclined a lady apparently
asleep. Her garment was a robe of white silk, which left partly
open her gently-heaving bosom. White slippers covered her feet
;
but, between them and the lower folds of the dress, her slender
ankles were visible, crossed over each other, and encircled with
bands of ruby. Her head lay upon her arm, which slightly in-
dented the crimson pillow : and the careless profusion of her
o 2
162 haphael’s witch.
long black ringlets was embraced round the forehead by a string
of pearl.—Her face was bent rather downward, and seemed as she
slumbered a kind of tranquil glory in the midst of so fair a picture.
The eyes were closed and hidden ;
but the long lashes, like a veil
which excites by the mystery, gave hint of the secret brightness ;
and the whole countenance was composed into the placid and
faultless beauty of some flower sleeping beneath the moon.
William would have sprung from his position to hang upon
that delicate hand, which drooped so gracefully from beneath the
dimpled cheek, and so meekly sustained the massiness of a pre-
cious ring; and he would have clung to those smooth and rounded
lips, so sweetly and timidly parted by her regular breathing ; but
there was something overpowering in the sight of such a creature,
while she appeared to dream of Paradise without being conscious
that any eye beheld her.
Even while he looked, she stirred. Her breast palpitated more
rapidly : she sighed and opened her eyelids ;
and the youth be-
held her eyes, though they did not turn towards him. Their large-
ness, expression, and perfect brilliant blackness, completed the
luxurious and enrapturing prospect. She sat up, drew round her
a broad red mantle, and took, from a little table near her head,
a lute bestudded with devices of jewellery. She drew her fingers
carelessly over the strings, and produced a few broken but ex-
quisite snatches of music. She then swept the chords into a
strain of more continuous sweetness—while she sung :
When shall 1 love ? I cannot doat
On gold, or silk, or gems ;
My heart from kings is too remote
To grnsp at diadems.
All sweets are mine the lip to please,
All hues to charm the eye;
Whate’er to give my craving’s ease.
Earth’s treasure can supply.
The ear, the touch, the smell to feed.
Comes all of rare delight;
And yet, while joys to joys succeed,
I weep in nature’s spite.
163
Raphael’s witch.
A wish, a hepe, is on my soul.
In silence and in power,
A dream no tliou^lit can e’er controul,
A spell that sways each hour.
Then come, unknown, but promised! give
My longing spirit rest;
And while, beloved ! thou mak’st me live,
Live thou my bosom’s guest.
And thou my inmost life shall be,
Till both our days are done;
The throbs that beat in thee and me.
Shall melt and thrill to one;
And in that fond and fresh embrace
Which blends our bosoms’ trembling;
No shame shall dim my joyous face.
For love ne’er needs dissembling.
While the lady uttered the last words, the youth sprang for-
ward and clasped her hand, and flung himself on his knees before
her—she blushed all over, even to the snowy ankles, while he
spoke ;
but he did not long implore before her head sank upon
his shoulder, and he pressed her to his beating heart.
Time had no measure in these enchanted chambers. Where he
was deprived of his scythe, he would have lost the balance of his
attributes, had he even retained his sandglass. Except in such
voluptuous moments as those during which William first beheld
the lady, much of queenly pride was mingled with her womanly
passion. Amid her feasts and her music, there was a stately
tenderness which enhanced the devotion of the youth by giving
additional importance to his mistress.
But Isidorah, for so she was called, speedily turned his atten-
tion to other subjects than love or revelry. She initiated him ifito
the studies of those sciences which, as she said, had given her the
power of surrounding herself with the splendour in which he saw
her.
164 Raphael’s witch.
Robed in a long drapery of crimson, with a golden tiara on her
imperial brow, and stretched upon a pile of cushions, while the
youth was placed neer, but below her, she said to him,
—
“ It does not become me to make protestations of affection,
like the miserable maidens of tbe crowd, wfio love, confide, and
are deluded. I have done enough to prove my passion, because
I know the truth of yours. But I now tell you that I have power
greater than you believed could be possessed by our race—for of
your race I am. Believe, fear not, and you shall feel what Isidorah
can accomplish.”
She touched with an ivory wand one of the basins into which
the jets of scented water fell, and produced a slight harmonious
ringing, which seemed to float and eddy in the air till it died
upon she walls. Josias entered in a dress which might have
adorned a king; and Isidorah said to him, “ Slave, prepare the
cavern.”
After a few moments, while the young man toyed with her
taper hand, and looked at the magnificent ring which it adorned,
she gently pressed his head towards her side, where a white flower
was placed in her zone. He smelt the rich and dreamy odour,
and in a second lay asleep beside her. She spoke some words in
some strange tongue, and at the next instant they were transported
to a cavern surrounded by rocky mountains.
*»«*«»***
William was stretched upon a tiger-skin, spread over the rock
near the edge of a narrow platform which impended above a deep
abyss. Through this, but several hundred yards below, a torrent
roared turbulently in the darkness, and as far above their heads
the crags were pierced by a small hole, the only visible aperture,
which opened out among the volcanic and thunder-smitten peaks
of that desolate region.
Between the youth and the precipice a small vessel of fire was
smoking, and this supplied the only illumination ; for the light
above was no more effectual than that of a star. They were alone ;
the fair lady stood beside her slumbering lover and lifted her
wand, while she exclaimed.
Raphael’s witch. JOS
Spirits of power, spirits of ill,
Yield to the voice that can sway you still
;
Haste from the round world’s farthest caves;
From the ruin’d spheres ye have turned to graves.
From the heavenly walls that ye vainly siege;
From the depths where ye wait on your mighty liege;
From his throne who e’en sorrow in hopelessness smothers ;
From worlds half his own, and but halt another’s.
I need you to do, and bid you to fly
From the prisons of flame, from the wastes of the sky.
When Isidorah had finished her incantations, she flung aromatic
combustibles from a chased casket on the fire. The fragrant
smoke rose thickly, and rapidly rolled upwards, till it filled the
vast and broken cupola, and floated over the precipice into the
black depths, where the subterraneous river thundered. Gradually,
dark andfiendish eyes were visible through the white vapour
;
some
appearing to sweep downwards from the top, some to rise from
the abyss, some to grow out of the surrounding granite. The
smoke became dappled with various colours, the air grew close and
stifling, and fragments of grotesque and terrible shapes became
visible on all sides, and seemed to fill and pile the vast interior of
the mounain. As the spirits camefloating or rushiog around her,
choruses of voices from different quarters, and at various distances,
successively chaunted such snatches of wild unearthly poetry as
these ;
From caves and clouds.
From Cl lls and shrouds.
From worlds of ice where the storm is dumb;
From forest and fen.
From nook and glen.
With a leap, and a swoop, we come, we come !
’Tis ours to have the ocean billow.
And we sleep on the hurricane’s thunder pillow.
We’ve broken the rudder, we’ve snapp’d the mast,
Ho! ho! ’tis merry to ride so fast
;
And ’tis merry to ride.
While they sink in the tide.
IG6 Raphael’s wucu.
For the priest may go whine at his lenten dinner^
When we drown in the deep wave the shriftless sinnef;
Ho, ho ! ho, ho !
llusli high I rush low !
And laugh, while we quaff, at the cave of the niountuin.
The lava that bubbles from hell’s deep fountain.
When a death-doing pestilence breathes in the air.
And a comet comes forth with a burst and a glare
;
You may know that a mig^hly one sits in its tail.
And urges it on like a storm driven sail.
So hot we troop’d,
And shriek’d and whoop’d
From the dens where secret things are wrought;
And hither we past.
With a flame and a blast.
For vve heard thy charm, and we knew thy thought
!
Mistress ! we dreaded thy angry eye.
And we broke from the corners of chaos and sky ;
Ten thousand years we have whirl’d and spun,
W ith headlong glee, round stars and sun !
We come in power, we come in fear.
And, woman of night ! we are here ! we are here !
Four rods were fixed upright at the corners of the skin on which
the youth still slept. These Isidorah lighted, and they burned
slowly amid the hubbub and the smoke, while the undaunted lady
looked around her, and took up the demoniac chaunt
:
Mingle the cup, whose sweets brought low,
The first of men to shame and woe;
Mingle the cup whose draught made fall
The morning star from his heavenly hall
!
The cup of the gods, whose sweets to quaff
Life would shudder, and Death would laugh !
Pour but a drop on the mouldering bones^
And they waken with frenzied looks and tones.
And the dust is chang’d to a thing of power.
And the worm of the grave is a king for an hour
Spirits of w'isdom, and spirits of sway ;
Ye whom the planets and hills obey ;
Raphael’s vvncii. 167
Bring dews from the founts of tlie great abyss,
And foam from the oceans that bnrn and hiss.
With word of knowledge and mystic sign,
Mingle and strengthen the demon wine;
And make it a mightier flood than sweeps
From the gates of Eden to Tophet’s deeps.
Tliere v;as a deep hollow near her feet in the platform of dark
rock on which she stood. A bright liquor began to bubble from
its centre, and took, while it rose, a thousand different colours, as
if the wealth of some mine of all the most precious jewels had
been fused by volcanic fire; and ruby, sapphire, diamond, and
emerald, flowed forth with interwoven, yet distinguishable splen-
dour. The liquid burst strongly upwards, and sparkling with its
native light, it soon overflowed the basin, and then streamed in a
little cataract down the edge of the precipice. The lady spoke
:
Spirits, away; the task is done;
Spirits, away; the power is won ;
Away, away.
To the realms ye sway ;
’Tis mine to deal with the child of clay.
While the smoke melted away, shrieks, and shouts, and wild
choruses of unearthly laughter, mixed with thunder and crashes,
and the sound of deep toned and shrilly instruments, and a tramp-
ling and rushing, and the sweep of hurricanes, the anarchy of all
the hosts of hell pealed round the mountain dome ;
and there
burst upward for some minutes through the narrow orifice a
stormy rout of mingled clouds and stars, As the last fragment of
the demon tumult escaped from the cavern, a flash came down
towards the sleeper, and, breaking past his face, aroused him.
He awoke with a dim and turbid consciousness of supernatural
dreams, and looked vaguely and doubtfully around him; but,
before he had recovered his comprehension, Isidorah had filled a
small cup with the wfine of the new-sprung fountain, and offered it
to her lover. lie took it, and drank; while the lady dipped her
wand into the basin, and the spring sank, hissing, and eddying, into
the clefts of the rock.
Into how much of misery was William hurried by that intoxi-
168 Raphael’s witch.
eating draught ! and how deeply did he afterwards curse his law-
less passion for the beautiful but tremendous being, whom he had
so strangely encountered
!
It was a week after Palmer had first seen Isidorah, a week of
which he had kept no measure ;
for it had flown by so rapidly that
it seemed but a few hours, and had yielded enough of concentrated
delight to furnish enjoyment for a century of ordinary existence,
lie was in the midst of a small and thickly wooded park. The
ground was varied and broken, covered with a short, silky herbage,
and traversed by venerable elms and chesnuts.
He was wrapped in a large cloak. A dark cap shaded his
throbbing forehead, and his hair stood in disordered elf locks
round his glaring eyes, lie knew not how he had reached the
spot; he was scarcely aware of his own existence. But he was
driven forward by a desperate power within him ;
and his whole
being seemed frenzied by the fumes of that dark fire which the
unholy draught had kindled in his bosom. There was but one
feeling, one remembrance, which absorbed him, the sound of Isi-
dorah’s voice, whispering low clear tones,—“ Bring me his heart,
or return to me no more !"
He never bethought himself where he was or what was the nature
of the fearful enterprize on which he was intent. lie only saw,
he only felt, that by some inexplicable necessity it must be
accomplished, and accomplished now. lie did not long delay.
Among the recesses of the park, a little spring gushed forth in
the midst of a narrow area of moss, among fern, and wild flowers,
and hawthorns. Here lay, beside the gurgling waters, a pale and
wasted youth. A dark coloured doe, with her soft and glancing
eyes, stood beside him, and ate the green leaves from his hand.
Of a sudden she lifted her head, and started aside, and in another
moment was hurrying to a distant part of the woodland, scared
by the hasty tread of Palmer. In the next instant, Frederick
Charlton, his former friend, half murmuring the name of “ Zianthe,”
lay a corpse beside the fountain, which was crimsoned with his
blood ;
and over him stood his murderer, holding the scimitar of
Raphael’s witch. 169
Levi, from which large red drops fell thick upon the turf. He
had none but a vague and uncertain sense of recognizing Fre-
derick. When he struck the deadly blow, it was not his earliest
and dearest friend whom he slew, but only a wretch who was
feared and hated (he knew not wherefore) by his beloved Isidorah.
The madness of his brain deprived him of remembrance, and
almost of consciousness.
He stooped, with hasty and eager hands, to fulfil the horrible
injunction of the lady. He tore open the dress of Frederick, and
found in his breast a small written paper; and this he threw aside
as worthless. Between it and the heart of the youth, a dark
engraved stone, set in gold, was hung by a twisted chain.
No sooner had Palmer laid his finger upon it, than he started
back, raised his hand to his forehead, and shuddered violently.
The power of the talisman had recalled him to his former mind ;
conviction and misery burst upon his conscience ; he knew that
he was an assassin, and that Frederick, his former companion,
was his victim. He clasped his hands, and knelt motionless and
and silent beside the corpse for many minutes ; at last, he looked
fearfully around him, and closed for a moment his trembling
eyelids.
He touched one of the dead hands which he had so often
clasped in friendship, and put back the bloody hair from the dis-
figured and ghastly forehead ;
but he could not endure to look
upon the witness and consequence of his crime, and his grief broke
out in a tremendous paroxysm. After a long period of horror, his
mind was fixed into its purpose ; he had again lived through the
last week of his existence, and had, in thought, laid open, even to
the rottenness of their core, its absorbing wonders, its delirious
gratificatio.as, its fearful delusions.
He rose, and gazed around, and, having thrown over the corpse
of his friend his own dabbled cloak, turned to leave the spot of his
crime, and to execute the stern atonement he had resolved upon.
His foot struck against the papers which he had flung by before;
and, when he had looked upon the cover, he saw that it was
addressed to himself. He secured the packet, and rapidly pursued
his way.
He soon reached the great city ;
and it was his first business to
p
]70 Raphael’s witch.
find some of the lawful authorities, to whom he told the murder
he had committed, and described the residence of his accomplices,
Isidorah and Josias. He was committed to prison, and persons
were sent to seize the old man and the lady. They easily found
the hovel of the squalid pauper Josias, and, having made him pri-
soner, pi oceeded to look for the palace which had been described
by William. He did not pretend to know the mode by which an
entry could be obtained from the ruinous house of the old man to
the magnificent apartments of Isidorah ;
but, by long examination,
they found a thick and iron-bound door, leading out of the under-
ground vaults. Josias readily gave them the key, and after consi-
derable difficulty in applying it to the rusty wards of the lock, and
turning the clogged hinges, they gained admittance to a passage
beyond. This led them into a large and ancient building, which
seemed not to have been inhabited for years. The windows were
all built up, or carefully closed with dusty shutters ;
no fragment
of furniture was visible, except that, in one lofty and dilapidated
chamber, the remains of an old oaken wardrobe were fastened to
the wall ;
and in this was found the dress which had been worn
by William, when he fell into the hands of Josias. They could dis-
cover no other traces of the strange occurrences which Palmer
spoke of.
The old man was put into confinement; and it w^as remarkable
that, though he had before appeared an aged indeed, yet a hale and
not superannuated person, he now had all the look of extreme and
unexampled longevity. His face seemed to become suddenly
shrunk and haggard ;
his eyes lost all their mobility and bright-
ness ;
his hair was white, instead of darkly gray ; and his feeble
limbs could tio longer support his shrivelled and withered body.
That evening he sent for a celebrated Rabbin, who was admitted
to his cell ; and they spoke together long and earnestly in the pre-
sence of one of the officers of the jail. They talked in Hebrew,
and he could not, therefore, understand their communications;
but he could observe in the tones and gestures of Josias many
fearful signs of guilt and horror, such as his eyes, accustomed to
all the aspects of criminality, had never before encountered. He
rolled himself upon his pallet; at moments of what seemed his
confession, he shuddered and closed his eyes ;
and then, again.
Raphael’s witch. 171
he clenched his hands and smote his forehead, or rent away large
locks of his white hairs.
When he had gathered strength from a few moments of ex-
haustion, he gnashed his teeth and raved, till his voice again sank
into hoarse groans ;
and again he burst into hasty and passionate
narrative. The Rabbin sat beside him on the floor; and the feeble
light revealed to the jailer his awe-struck and astounded, but
benignant .and compassionate, countenance ;
while he occasionally
interposed with exclamations or inquiries in his own venerable
language, and sometimes wrung his hands, and looked upwards,
as if in terror and supplication.
About midnight, however, so much of horror was accumulated
on that narrow bed, and the chance of doing any further good was
so desperate, tliat the venerable Jew rushed out of the prison to
spend the remainder of the night in secret prayer. Josias, Levi,
Joseph D’Arville, or whatever may have been his real name, did
not long survive the departure of the Rabbin ;
and the terrific
howl, sinking into a long, deep groan, in which he drew his dying
breath, rang for many days and nights in the ears of the physician
and the jailor.
William Palmer was now in a dungeon, without hope or conso-
lation of any kind ;
yet he was composed and thoughtful : his
mind, which had been subdued by Isidorah before he knew that
he had danger to encounter, was able to cope with even the most
terrible remembrances of insanity and guilt, when its power was
called into action. His view of his own situation and criminality
became clear and vivid ;
and he looked completely through tha^
vast and glittering phantasmagoria, of which nothing was substan-
tial and permanent but the weakness, shame, and sin. His eyes
filled with tears when he thought of his mother, his father, and his
murdered friend ;
and, as if battling with these for the supremacy
of his soul, came to his memory the haughty and splendid presence
of Isidorah, with her brow of pride and glance of power. He
drove her from him with the strength of terror ; but she returned
to his thoughts in all the gentle and voluptuous beauty of that
first sweet interview. He knelt and prayed for mercy and sup-
port; he strove against the delusion, and it fled from him.
After some time, he grew calm enough to read the manuscript
of Frederick. It was dated at the country-house, in the park of
172 Raphael's witcik
which William had found him but four days preceding that on
which he was now perusing it. It ran as follows
:
“ The Confession of Frederick Charlton.
“ The subsequent pages are designed as a legacy to my dear
friend William Palmer. I feel I shall soon die
;
and this writing,
if I have strength to finish it, wilt explain to him the cause of that
affliction which will have brought me to the grave.
“ I am now living in a spot which is quiet, green, and beautiful.
It is a great delight to escape from a city into such a place as this,
where, surrounded by trees, and treading upon turf, I can just see
enough of the pinnacles and domes of the distant town to remind
me of the ‘ smoke, and wealth, and noise’ I have left behind
without forcing me to feel its painful and sordid influences.
“ Through the smoke of London I cannot distinguish the ends
of existence. Jostled by its crowds, I could not fix upon those
ends a steady view. Life seems composed of no materials but
contention and money-getting, and the hot excitements which
alone can stimulate the weariness of over-laboured avarice and
over-goaded rivalry. I throw myself down upon the sod, and
look upon the forest and the sky; gradually the picture of our
being gains clearness, unity, and arrangements. Objects and
means acquire their due colouring and proportion ;
and I begin
to feel that the mind is more than the external world, —more than
an instrument for acting upon the world’s elements ;
that it con-
tains the revelation of its own purport and destiny ;
that it has a
title to reign instead of serving, and possesses in itself the attributes
of royalty, which attest its right. Above all, as the beauty of
creation sinks into my mind, and I become more calm and more
far seeing, some of the bitterness of remembrance passes away,
and the wound is less burning where the iron has entered into my
soul. But I must not waste what time is given me in these
musings and saunterings of an exhausted spirit.
“ I had been more than two years in Italy, when I went to
spend a summer amongst the mountains of the Abruzzi. I
obtained admittanee to the house of a comparatively wealthy
peasant, and established myself in a little chamber, which I hired
for some months. In that wild country I passed my time among
books, of which I had brought with me a small store, and in wan-
Raphael’s witch. 173
dering through the neighbouring valleys. I sometimes extended
these expeditions to a considerable distance ; and on one occasion,
when I was several miles from my temporary home, I found, at the
extremity of a little glen, a beautiful fountain springing in the midst
of a thicket of old trees, from a marble basin, which was shaded by a
half-raised arch. The water kept the ground covered with a soft
and brilliant turf ;
and, a little way down the stream, some broad
water-plants floated their green islets on the rippling current. A
spring in the grounds of the house from which I now write a
little reminds me of the spot. It then seemed to me the very
place which some spirit of the fountain would, in other ages have
delighted to haunt with her beauty.
“ L frequently returned to the beloved and solitary retreat ;
and
I have sat upon the edge of the mossy basin, or lain upon the turf
beside the stream, till I believed for the moment that I saw the
fair form and gleaming eyes of the Naiad, half starting from
beneath the waters, or mingled with the shadows of the trees, and
her sweet faint voice was whispering music amid the gurgling of
the stream.
“ Long and often did I dream thus wildly, till I almost believed
myself one of those Nympholeps, among the caves of Citharon,
who atoned, by the visions and ecstacies they endured, for having
been blest by revelations of supernatural loveliness. And severely
indeed have I atoned for that which resulted from these imagina-
tions, though, I fear, far less deeply than I ought and must.
“ I had flung myself, one glorious summer evening, beside the
rivulet, a few paces below the fountain, and was indolently and
luxuriously watching the hues of sunset dying above the ridge of
the hills into a deep purple, and the moon seeming to open its
white leaves, like some delicate night-flower in the tranquil
firmament.
I thought I h^ard a slight rustling come down the breeze amongst
the flow of the waters; and turning my head, there stood beside
the basin the realization of all I had ever sighed for or believed in,
a being fair enough to be indeed the immortal genius of the lovely
shot and delicious hour in which I beheld her. She stood with
one hand upon a cornice of the broken architecture, and her head
was a little inclined towards the waters. A careless chaplet of ivy
surrounded her long dark hair, and her person was encircled by a
p 2
174 Raphael's witch.
large veil, airy and soft as twilight, of which she might well have
personified the star that then began to glitter beside the moon.
Their rays shone brightly on the ring she wore on her white
finger.
“ When I saw so beautiful a creature standing silent and lonely
in such a place, I started, doubtedj and trembled. Could it be
that she was really the ethereal existence I had so often imagined,
or was I deluded by my own intense fancy, or was she merely an
ordinary daughter of the dust ? After a few seconds, I resolved to
address her ; and, would to heaven that, before I spoke to her, the
skies had poured down all their lightnings to divide us, or that
God had sent his destroying angel to smite me from among the
living!—T spoke; and from that moment my doom was fixedi
She replied with the graceful and passionate eloquence, than which
Satan never invented a deadlier means to lure us to destruction.
Our eyes met; and I felt in her dark and glittering gaze a power
which I had never before encountered. From that moment I sur-
rendered all to her; affections, conscience, reason, freedom, all
that is most peculiarly our own, and which is corrupted and
perishes when it is put under the dominion of another.
“ We met frequently, and I persuaded Zianthe, for so the lovely
fiend was named, to become my wife.
—
She spoke of the customs
of her youth, the language of her mother, the traditions of her
fathers ;
and I consented to wed Zianthe with rites far other than
Christian. Even now I do not know what was the tongue in
which some demon minister of her purposes spoke, while in secresy
and darkness I heard pronounced among the trees at the fountain
the mystical, daring, and potent impieties which were to bind me
for ever to Zianthe. But I forgot all that conscience and reason
had for a moment siiggested to me, w’hen I could press to my
heart the delicate and voluptuous enchantress, and think that a
being so fair, so eloquent, and so accomplished, had now become
my own—a part of my very nature.
“ The palace in which she dwelt, for it was a palace raised in
the wilderness, now supplied me with a home. It was an exten-
sive pile of beautiful architecture, built in the noblest Roman
taste, and adorned with the most graceful and classical kind of
luxuries.' The floors were Italian marble ;
the sculpture from the
RAPHAEL'S WITCH. 175
old Athenian chisels ;
the frescoes of the walls were seemingly by
the greatest of the Florentines ;
and the apartments in which I
passed so many impassioned and delicious hours, contained several
pictures from each of the chief schools of art, and they the master-
pieces. The pavilion in which we principally dwelt was orna-
mented by couches and tables of the most perfect beauty ;
but
above all, Zianthe’s loveliness and genius, which always presented
themselves in an aspect such as that of a voluptuous Sibyl, or an
inspired Aspasia, lent to her habitation a very atmosphere of
antique elegance and romance.
“ Why do I dilate on the mere details of the chambers in
which I dwelt with her, but because I fear to arrive at that part
of my narrative which must open out her true character, and the
frailty and guilt of her paramour ? For about a month we had
spent our time in roaming amongst those hills, or to the fountain
where we first had met, or in listening to the melodies' with which
Zianthe accompanied her wild but most delightful lays of the
loves of gods with mortal maidens, and of the passion of men for
nymphs of the green earth, and spirits of the stars. She sang with
a power, a meaning, and a sweetness all her own. Gradually her
songs and her conversation changed their character; and, mingled
with their snatches of picturesque romance and sunny pleasures,
came intimations of much darker powers and natures being at
work in the universe ;
of the dominion of knowledge over the ele-
ments of things, and the vulgar laws of duty ; of the wisdom whose
glittering wreaths may be snatched from the foreheads of the con-
stellations to encircle the brows of mortality ;
of man warring with-
out impiety against God, and without guilt allying himself to the
rebellious seraphim. At first, I trembled; but Zianthe could
unite her guilt to so much of gratified curiosity and prosperous
ambition, to so many graceful accompaniments, and such precious
and hidden knowledge, that, when evil was thus offered to me as
the bond between myself and the loveliest of created existencies,
like the devils, and our first parent, . . .1Jell headlong!
“ She administered to me a draught which, as she asseverated^
was to give me strength of brain and mind sufficient to endure thg
revelations wherewith I was to be favoured. It scorched my heart
and maddened my reason ;
and of all that happened afterwards I
have but a turbid and chaotic remembrance. I have, however, a
1^6 Raphael’s witch.
vivid recollection,—it is more than recollection,—it is as if I, at
this moment, beheld her rising from her marble seat, and flinging
back her long hair, braided with flowers of enchanted virtue,
while she looked upwards to the stars, and then bent her eyes on
me. They were bright as those gems seen through the black
translucence of the infernal river, precious hoards fallen from the
hands of myriads of misers and c^ueens, who could not carry into
another world the wealth of this.
These beautiful orbs seemed to expand and deepen, till they
appeared to beam out from her face into my soul a larger and a
stronger spirit than belongs to human nature ;
while Zianthe said,
in her most thrilling accents, ‘
Believe not, my beloved and chosen,
that what you deem the laws of the universe are impassable bar-
riers to the wise and the determined. They are omnipotent,
because men make them so. Attempt to overleap them, and they
seem but as the mounds of crawling ants, the structures of the
blindly-working niole, which are stepped over without being per-
ceived by beings of loftier stature. And for what are the wretches
made who refuse to fulfil their high and glorious destiny, but to
be the instruments of our nobler enterprize ? or what matters it,
if, in being our instruments, they chance to become our victims ?
Power—power is the one purpose of existence ; and you shall see
to what degree of it the bold and persevering may attain.’
”
“ I have no clear impression of what followed ; had any such
remained in my mind, it must ere now have made me a chained
and drivelling madman. But they are confused images sufficiently
horrible to shake me, even while I write, as with a mental earth-
quake, and drench the paper before me with the cold sweat of
agony and despair.
“ I have a dim recollection of standing suddenly among the
vast Cyclopean relics of ancient Posidonia, of mighty shadows
rising amongst the columns, and sitting enthroned upon the spots
which were once occupied by idols : and of a gibbering and flame-
eyed messenger who sprang headlong from the crimsoned moon,
bearing a torch to kindle an impious sacrifice, and yelling a wild
chorus amid the night-blast to the dismal chaunt of Zianthe, and
of the giant shades who then towered around us.
“ I can also recall the picture of the glen in which we first had
met, made desolate by fire and hurricane, the fountain gushing
HAPUAEl’s witch. I77
flames and blood, and the wide firmament paved with the faces
of demons.
“ But through my remembrance of these things, there runs also
the crushing consciousness of deeds, which good men could not
believe, and scarcely the most guilty would execute. Oh God !
canst thou forgive the wretch against whom the blood of the inno-
cent, and worse than blood, calls aloud for vengeance? My life
seems curdling in my heart, while I think that she has lain in my
bosom who instructed her miserable vassal, Leon, to beguile me
into wielding that scimitar, a weapon which, for thousands of
years, had been the chosen instrument of crime, and which, from
the moment I touched it, became, in my weak hand, the engine of
unutterable atrocities.
“ These days of agitation and evil were mingled with periods of
unimaginable joy, w’hen I plunged away from the dark and foul
pursuits that she prompted, into the delight of Zianthe’s love.
Yet I tremble to think of them even for a moment, and can only
recur with melancholy pleasure to that earlier time wheu we met
beside the stainless fountain, or she sang to me in the cool alcove,
and I was absorbed in the enjoyment of that virgin heart, which
she seemed to yield to me with such innocent confidence !
“ It was a sultry autumn afternoon. Zianthe was reposing
until sunset should cool the air; but I could not rest. I wan-
dered forth from the apartments, where she lay upon cushions
spread along the marble floor, and turned my steps towards the
Naiad’s fountain. The water welled forth with a gentle continuous
murmur ;
and, rippling out of the basin, wheeled fresh and spark-
ling over the pebbles.
I entered beneath the arch, and was surprised to see a man
stretched upon the ground among the fern and flowers. He was
an aged pilgrim, wrapped in his mantle, with a crucifix pressed to
his heart. He was quite dead. In a niche before the spot on
which he seemed to have been kneeling, was an ancient and
decayed image of the Madonna. I had never seen it before.
The recess had been blocked up with rubbish, and the poor old
man had spent the last hours of his life in again bringing it to
view. Even on the colourless features of the dead pilgrim, there
was an expression of gentle and pious satisfaction ;
and he had
178 Raphael’s witch.
clasped the crucifix so very closely, that it would have required
rude violence to disengage it.
“ I remained for many minutes kneeling ;
and, before I rose,
my eyes fell upon the water in the marble basin beside me. I
started, and almost screamed ;
for, reflected in the bright dark
surface of the fountain, I saw the face of Zianthe, as if she were
standing at a little distance behind me. It was indeed Zianthe.
Her countenance was now as beautiful and bright as ever : the
little poniard was in its jewelled sheath, and her right hand held
a rose, which seemed that moment plucked from a bush beside her,
for the branches of the shrub were still quivering.
“ The incidents of that afternoon left behind them a strong
impression ;
but I was still haunted by the mild piety of the pil-
grim’s features, and by the demoniac foulness of Zianthe’s ;
if,
indeed, for I still doubted, the latter was any more than a fancy.
That night, while she slept, I took from her neck a talisman,
which I now wear, and which 1 shall keep with me till death. I
bequeath it to my friend William Palmer. It will secure him
frem the wiles of Zianthe, if, in that or any other form, she shall
attempt to make him her victim, I knew it would save me from
any but the human effects of that vengeance, and which I was
about to encounter in its most deadly malignity ;
and had resolved,
if my suspicions should prove just, to escape from her dagger by
flight. Her necromancy could not touch the wearer of this
talisman.
“ I seized a casket, which I knew she treasured with peculiar
care, and the violation of which, a legion of fiends were bound to
punish. It contained papers ;
nearly all of them were illuminated
with symbols which I could not interpret: but a few were in
Hebrew, x\rabic, Greek, Italian, and English; and these gave me
ample information. Their dates ran back for about three thousand
years. They all referred to one mysterious woman. Each paper
related to some one whom she had deluded by her artifices.
I now saw that Zianthe, whose maiden beauty, when I first
heheld her, seemed scarcely to have reached to womanhood, had
been the the chief tempter in every age of the world’s history.
The bewitcher of the idolatrous despots of Babylon and Nineveh,
the fairest of tlie Greek Hetaerae, tlie Sybil of early Italy, the beau-
Raphael’s witch. 179
tiful destruction of Roman pontiffs and English kings. In the
earliest ages of the earth, when her childhood grew among the
tents of patriarchs, she had been beloved by the chief of the fallen
spirits. —The giants, their offsprings, perished from the world
;
but this beautiful being retained the price which the Angel of the
Morning Star had paid for her return of his passion :
perpetual
youth, unequalled loveliness, supernatural power, such as never
belonged to any other among mortals, were all held by the tenure,
that of those whom she should tempt, no more than one in any
single century should escape from her power. If the contract
should be broken, not the Prince of Air himself could rescue her
from instant and horrible perdition.
“ I had taken the papers to a large window, through which the
coolness of midnight came to my burning brow and labouring
bosom ; and I had placed a tall lamp beside me to supply light
for a further examination. The rivulet I so much loved, and have
so often mentioned, increased by its longer course to a considerable
stream, flowed beneath the chamber, and its dark surface reflected
the lamp and my own haggard and eager countenance. I looked
for an instant at the waters, and again I saw behind me the
scowling and partial ferocity which had before imaged in the
fountain, and again the dagger gleamed in the hand of Zianthe.
The talisman would save me from her spells, but not from her
poniard. I dropped the casket and the papers; and, while she
gave a shrill loud yell, at seeing how I had been occupied, I
leaped from the casement into the stream.
“ I soon regained the land, and set out rapidly for the coast.
After considerable delay and difficulty, I reached Pescara. A
poor dumb hoy followed me into the town, beseeching, by gestures,
that I would give him an alms. I gave him a small purse of silver
money. When I reached the shore, I found a little vessel about
to sail toward the north.
“ I instantly engaged my passage, and was on the point of em-
barking from among a crowd of idlers, when I heard the shouts of
a score of persons at my ear. 1 turned, and thought that I dis-
tinguished the eye of Leon ; but at my feet lay the dumb beggar,
bleeding from a gash in the arm. It seemed, that at the instant I
was leaving the shore, a hand had been seen to raise a scimitar
from amid the crowd which surrounded me. It was aimed at my
180 Raphael’s wjtch.
head. The boy jumped between, pushed the murderer back with
one hand, and caught the blow upon the other arm. It had very
fortunately struck obliquely, and the wound was not dangerous.
With the usual inefficiency of Italians in such circumstances, the
bystanders took no trouble to intercept the retreat of the assassin ;
and I made my way to the vessel.
“ I reached England in a few weeks, the miserable man I now
am. The indistinct and turbulent memory of my crimes agonises
every hour of my existence. But I fortunately shall not long have
to await that final judgment which can alone give me peace in
return for long and bitter repentance. The gifted and seductive
creature, to whom I owe my wretchedness, I have never heard of
since 1 fled from her poniard. This much is, at alt events, certain,
that her own destruction must be the result of her failing to destroy
every one who may encounter her, before the close of the century.
“ If she shall ever seek to attempt my friend, he is thus fore-
warned: —Betterfly from fortune, country, friends, and become a
beggar and an outcast, than meet the fascination of Zianthe !”
*•
Too truly hast thou spoken, O my friend 1” said William, as
the manuscript fell from his hand. He died in prison before he
could be brought to trial for the murder ;
but his previous rebel-
lion against Isidorah, and deep repentance, supposing that she and
Zianthe were but a single wonderful being, must have been the
overthrow of her dominion, the loss of her brilliant attributes, the
consummation of her destiny, and the utter perdition of all that
was once so beautiful and so mighty.
The scimitar could not be found
;
and William was unable,
when on his death-bed, to recall the slightest remembrance of it,
after he had made it the instrument of his tremendous crime.
Courteous Reader,
Thus do I conclude my "Lady-Witch/’ and should it meet thy
satisfaction, and thus repay the great expense of my worthy publisher, thou
mayest hope to see another series of the same nature, but still original and
curious, in the ensuing year. I greet thee well, kind Reader, and beg thee
to remember the following line^ of the Poet
:
“ In every work regard the writer’s end,
Since none can compass more than they intend;
And if the means be just, the conduct true,
Afiptause, in spile of trivialfaults, is duef—Raphael.
THE END,
Printed by Cunningham and Salmon, 119, Fleet Street.
ROWLAND’S ODONTO, OR PEARL DENTIFRICE,
Recommended by the most eminent of the faculty as the
mildest, yet the most salutary and efficacious Dentifrice, that was
ever discovered, forming an efficient vegetable White Powder,
composed of ingredients the most pure and rare, selected from
Eastern soil, and a never-failing remedy for every disease to
which the Teeth and Gums are liable, eradicating all deleterious
matter, at the same time healing, strengthening, and firmly fixing
the Teeth in their sockets, realizing a beautiful set of Pearly Teeth;
and on the Gums operates as an antiscorbutic, restoring and sus-
taining their healthy appearance, and gives fragrance to the breath.
Price 2s. 9d. per Box, duty included.
Each Genuine Box has the Nante and Address on the Government
Stamp,
“ A. ROWLAND and SON, No. 20, HATTON GARDEN.”
Sold by them and most Perfumers and Medicine Venders.
Royal Poet.—Louis, Ring of Bavaria, has published lately a
volume of original poetry, but differing highly in principle as well
as rank from his brother bards : his Majesty assigns the profits
of the work to a public charitable institution.
TRANSLATION, BY A LADY OF RANK.
His worth my pages shall illume.
Who brightens female beauty’s bloom ;
The cheek that erst was pale to view.
Who tinges with rich roseate hue.
Arrays devotion to excite,
Neck, hands, and arms, in dazzling white.
And prone is firmly to engage
The traits of youth in latest age !
—
Now scarcely needs the name be told
Of whom who can such art unfold
—
Rowland !
—
And still less need to eulogize
Those items the discerning prize.
Of every grade, in every soil
—
Kalydor and Macassar Oil.
Discrimination. —The present Shah of Persia patronizes
Rowland’s Macassar Oil and Kalydor, to which he was induced
by the circumstance of his favourite Sultana having lost through ill-
ness her ample tresses and radiant complexion. Both, however
were restored by resorting to those justly celebrated specifics, which
are now confirmed in estimation by the entire female nobility of
the Persian Empire.
The following Books are published by
WILLIAM CHARLTON WRIGHT,
LONDON.
1. —The PROPHETIC MESSENGER, forl827, 1828,1829,
1830, and 1831. All bound together in one volume, with five
Hieroglyphics; and the Nativities of Carl Maria Von Weber.
—
2. The Duke of Wellington. — 3. The late Mr. Canning.—4.
Young Napoleon.—5. King William IV. Price 14s. 6d.
2. —The BOOK OF SPIRITS. By Raphael, 8vo. boards,
price 6s. 6d.
3. —A KEY TO THE EXHIBITIONS, AMUSEMENTS,
NEW BUILDINGS, &c. IN TOWN, entitled LONDON
LIONS, for COUNTRY COUSINS AND FRIENDS ABOUT
TOWN. A Description of 72 of the Improvements in the Metro-
polis, with 24 Views.
4. —The MERCANTILE ASSISTANT, CHEQUE-BOOK,
and INTEREST TABLES, half-bound, as a Book of Reference,
Price 9s. By Mr. Wright, Senior.
PrepuTing for Publication,
BY THE AUTHOR OF THE PROPHETIC MESSENGER,
1.—THE MENTOR OF LIFE!!!
Or, Raphael's Familiar Physician.
Being a little work which contains the most approved rules
and practical Receipts for the enjoyment of health, the preserva-
tion of the constitution, and the attainment of long life: as also
the cure of those various diseases to which the human frame is sub-
jected. Containing also, the best and most approved rules of the
ancient Astrological Physicians for gathering herbs, and dis-
pensing medicines, under planetary influence.—^The whole being
familiar to the most ordinary capacities.
2.—RAPHAEL’S MAGIC PEN.
Or a plain and easy system of Short-hand and Secret writing,
whereby, in a few hours, the reader may become versed in the
truly excellent method of writing with unequalled brevity, per-
spicuity, and dispatch ;
with a lithographic plate of the characters
made use of in Stenography ;
Raphael’s Secret Cipher ! &c.
