{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__white___the_unobstructed_universe.pdf","mytitle":"The Unobstructed Universe","mylang":"de"}
THS
U:J{013STRUCTSD
U:J{IVSRSS
'By Stewart Edward White
NEW YORK
E. P. Dutton and·Company, Inc.
Copyright, 1940, By
STEWART EDWARD WHITE
All Rights Reserved
Printed in the U. S. A.
FIRST PRINTING SEPTEMBER 1940
SECOND PRINTING SEPTEMBER 1940
THIRD PRINTING OCTOBER 1940
FOURTH PRINTING OCTOBER 1940
FIFTH. PRINTING NOVEMBER 1940
SIXTH PRINTING NOVEMBER 1940
SEVENTH PRINTING • DECEMBER 1940
EIGHTH PRINTING DECEMBER 1940
NINTH PRINTING FEBRUARY 1941
TENTH PRINTING FEBRUARY 1941
ELEVENTH PRI NTING • MARCH 1941
TWELFTH PRINTING • MARCH 1941
THIRTEENTH PRI NTING • JUNE 1941
FOURTEENTH PRINTING • JUNE 1941
FIFTEENTH PRINTING • OCTOBER 1941
SIXTH.NTH PRINTING • OCTOBER· 1941
SEVENTUNTH PIUNTIN& • APan. 1943
EIGHTEENTH PRINTING • JUNE 1944
Jl'INXT:EBNTH PllIKTIXQ • MOVlDIBU 19'4i
TWENTIETH PRINTING • NOVEMBER 1946
The author has also written
THE BETTY BOOK
" ... I can only state that I find an honest report, of first hand and
unquestionably genuine experience, had by sincere intelligent per,
sons moved not by emotional excitement but by sober scientific
interest, embodying a system of spiritual truth as sane as it is
sublime."
John Haynes Holmes in The Saturday Review of Literature
''Nothing more important has been received through mental me.
diumship in many years.''
-The Journal of The American Society for Psychical Research
ACROSS THE UNKNOWN (WITH HARWOOD WHITE)
"To the open minded seeker of truth, it is a thought-provoking
book, for the sincerity and veracity of the authors is beyond re-
proach." -The Worcester Telegram, Mass.
"Across the Unknown is one of many recent attempts to explore
the spiritual realm. On the whole it is the sanest and the clearest
presentation of the subject that has come to this reader's attention.
It is especially noteworthy for its sound psychology and whole-
some philosophy." -The Daily OklahcmuM
PUBLISHED BY E. P. DurroN & Co., INc.
CONTENTS
PART I
Chap. I, TWO CHINESE BOXES Page II
Chap. 2. AGAIN I BEAR WITNESS Page 14
Chap. 3· ONLY ONE CHINESE BOX Page 20
Chap. 4· "THIS IS YOUR HERITAGE" Page 32
Chap. 5· THE CIVIL ENGINEER AND THE Page 38
BLUE SLIPPERS
Chap. 6. WE SET OUT Page 49
Chap. 7· ONLY ONE UNIVERSE Page 58
Chap. 8. WE WORKED OVERTIME Page 68
Chap. 9· WE MAKE THE GLOSSARY Page 79
PART II
Chap. IO. CONSCIOUSNESS, THE ONLY REALITY Page 87
Chap. I I. FOUNDATION STONES Page 96
Chap. I 2. _
ORTHOS AND THE ESSENCES Page 105
Chap. 13 TIME Page 112
Chap. 14. SPACE Page 119
Chap. I 5· MOTION Page 132
Chap. 16. FREQUENCY Page 140
Chap. 17. CONDUCTIVITY Page 147
Chap. 18. RECEPTIVITY Page 159
O...an. 19. ANNE SUMS UP Page 164
PART III
Chap. 20. MATIER - ARRESTMENT Page I69
Chap. 2 I. PARALLELISM OF LAW Page I85
Chap. 22. INTENT, EVENT AND EGG-WOMAN Page I89
Chap. 23. BETIY'S WORLD: ITS FLUIDITY Page 202
Chap. 24. BETTY'S WORLD: ITS SOLIDITY Page 2II
Chap. 25. THE HOMELY NECESSITIES Page 2 I6
Chap. 26. HOW BETTY HANDLES SPACE Paae
b
222
Chap. 27. THOUGHTS ARE THINGS Page 232
Chap. 28. DO YOUR JOB! Page 238
Chap. 29. THE CONTINUITY OF EXISTENCE Page 246
Oup. 30. IMPLICATIONS Page 25I
PART IV
Chap. 31 WHAT IT ALL MEANT TO DA~Y Page 26I
Chap. 31. THEY SHALL BE COMFORTED Page 293,
GLOSSARY
PAGE 307
APPENDICES
PAGE 310
PART I
CHAPTER I
THE TWO CHINESE BOXES
ONE Thursday evening Joan returned from a trip to the
city very much vexed with herself. I was visiting Darby
and her over along week-end, and so was present to hear
her plaint.
"I hate to be a fool," was its gist, "and I hate doing silly
things; and I like to plan tJ-iings out and then do them;
and I am a careful shopper, and I hate to buy things I
don't want -"
"Tell us about it," Darby and I urged.
"Listen," said she. "I went to town this morning with
a careful list of errands to do. The first one was at a shop
over on Fifth Avenue; and to get there you take an A.ve-
nue bus from the Hudson Tube, near the Penn Station -
right to the door."
"Well?" said we.
"I found myself on a cross-town bus," wailed Joan
disgustedly. "I always take the Avenue bus - never the
cr0ss-town. Yet there I was! And they don't even leave
the station from the same place. And that isn't the whole
of it!"
"Go ahead," we encouraged.
"I went to the end of the cross-town line - I thought
J~might as well - prepared to walk the five blocks to my
shop. At the end of the line there's a big department
store - I almost never shop there. I hadn't been there for
years. But I thought I'd walk through it to the Avenue
instead of going around by the side street. I'd hardly got
inside when I caught sight of a red box being trundled off
on a floor truck along with a load of other stuff. No rea-
:12 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
son why I should be interested in red boxes, but I just
had to chase after that one. And was I disappointed when
the truck got away from me down an elevator! I even
hunted up a floorman and shot a volley of questions at
·him. He told me the box must have been one of the
Chinese chests they had been having a special sale on;
and he directed me to what they had left. They were
good-sized camphorwood chests, covered with pigskin
and painted with various designs and colors. I went and
bought one," said Joan bitterly.
"Weren't they attractive?" I asked, puzzled by the
bitterness.
"They were most attractive," she admitted. "But I
have camphorwood chests. And" - her voice rose in em-
phasis - "in all this house theres not a place where I
could put another camphorwood chest - or any other
piece of furniture for that matter - without everybody's
falling over it every time he went from here to there. I
have about as much use for a camphorwood chest as
Tabs has for two tails!" Tabs being the family cat.
Darby and I shouted.
"That isn't the worst," said Joan.
We became quiet, in expectation.
"You see," said Joan, who was now beginning to en-
joy her own narration, "none of the chests was red. The
one I bought was yellow. And that red color - the color
of the first one I saw, on the truck - somehow I couldn't
get that particular shade of red out of my mind. No, said
the salesman, the merchandise on the truck was all sold
goods. No, there were no more red ones. You'd think
that would have satisfied me, wouldn't you? Not at all.
I insisted they must have a reserve; I insisted on seeing
the department manager; and finally I elicited that there
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE IJ
was a reserve, but I couldn't see it. Just the same, I kept
at them, and I did see it - they must have thought me
crazy! And there was a red one. And I bought that! I
bought two of the dratted things! Now I ask you! And
tomorrow they'll b~ out here in Orange Center clutter-
ing up everything! Well, they'll go back bright and early
Monday morning, I can tell you that! I can't imagine
what got into me!"
Neither could we - not until the third evening.
Nor will you - not until the third chapter.
CHAPTER II
AGAIN I BEAR WITNESS
l.
ABOUT six months before Joan bought her two unwanted
Chinese boxes in New York - at eight o'clock, on the
fifth of April, 1939, in a little foNhill town of California,
my wife Betty died. And immediately I had gone out of
the house to face the overhanging mountains and my own
emotional and intellectual conflict.
Some twenty years of exploring with Betty beyond
the known frontiers of present consciousness had !ifted
from me most of the conventional ideas as to death. I had
come to have no faintest feeling of it as final and ir-
revocable separation. Nevertheless, I found on April 5,
1939, that the even greater number Of years - thirty-
1ive of them - spent with her close companionship in ex-
ploring the odd and wild comers of this, our earth, had
sharpened rather than dulled my sense of the immediate
separation. We had been more closely knit together than
most. During those years of companionship, crammed as
they were to the brim with journey and adventure, from
then unknown Central Africa to the wildest of Alaska,
we were apart only three times: twice when I was on
African expeditions inadvisable for her, and throughout
my service in the first World War.
Now, in the conventional phrase, I had become a man
who had "lost his wife." The loss was more than that of
personal companionship, close and warm as that had al-
ways been. It was also the loss of the one I had long
recognized as the more important member of our work-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED ~Js-;: V ERSE 15
ing team. When I left that little house, in the California
foothill town, to stand alone in the moonlight, beneath
the stars, it seemed to me that my part of our greatest
adventuring - that in the Unknown - had calamitously
ended. For I honestly believed it impossible for me to
carry it forward alone.
You see, in addition to our other, and richly abundant,
activities, Betty and I, since March 17, 1919, had been
exploring another land, that unseen land of mystery from
which, it used to be said, "no traveler returns." We
doubted that. Betty had visited that land, and had re-
turned, many times. It was her report::; of these, her ex-
plorations, which made up the body of the work I now
felt so impossible without her, and so untimely broken
off.
We had accomplished something, we thought; and
what we had done had already found print in four books;
but it had seemed to us both that there was still a strong
lead onward to something culminating, something Betty
had not yet reached. So she fought hard to stay; and I
fought hard to keep her. And it had looked like a win-
ning fight until the very last.
2.
The four books were these:
Credo, a preliminary volume issued in 1925, in which,
without revealing its actual source, I presented the prac-
tical aspects of the philosophy received psychically
through Betty from "the other side";
Why Be a Mud Turtle?, 1928, in which I reported
further teachings of the same philosophy that seemed to
me so applicable to modern living that it was actually
[16 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
unfair to withhold them from our growingly complicated
world - but again without explaining the origin of the
conGepts;
The Betty Book, 1937, in which I threw my hat over
the modern public's materialistic windmill and wrote
frankly of "the excursions of 'Betty,' a psychic intimate-
ly known to me and of absolute integrity, into the world
of 'other consciousness,' and of the communications re-
ceived by her ... in a condition of trance or otherwise
• . . from forces which I have ventured to call 'the In-
visibles.'*" But even so, it was only my own hat I threw.
I refrained from stating in so many words that "Betty"
was in reality Elizabeth Calvert Grant White, my own
wife.t
Just after Christmas, 1938, the fourth book, Across
the Unknown, was finished and the manuscript shipped
to its publisher. Here there was no attempt to conceal
the identity of Betty. Indeed, the flood of enthusiastic
and demanding letters that increased rather than dimin-
ished month after month following publication of The
Betty Book had at last convinced us of the truth of what
t~e ~nvisibles had told us repeatedly, from the very be-
gmrung:
"The message is what is important ... the message and
the fact that we are able to give it: not you."
1·
Thus it was that communication with the Invisibles,
disincarnate earth-entities, had been of daily occurrence
• From the introduction tci The Betty Book.
t See Appendix I (Who's Who in America Reference Service, January
1940).
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE J.]
in Betty's and my home. I had taken down in my own
brand of "shorthand," and then typed for record pur-
poses, several thousand single-spaced pages of teachings
so received. From these several thousand pages, contain-
ing well over a million words, I had written my four
books acclaiming the intellectual reasonableness of the
continuity of life - the going forward of the individual
I-Am after natural death.
And then, very soon after the last proofs had received
the author's corrections, Betty died. What happened out
on the hillside under the trees that April night I have told
elsewhere. That record still stands. While Across the
Unknown was actually in press, I added one short chap-
ter entitled "I Bear Witness." I repeat a portion of it here
because I can tell it no better:
"You know the cozy, intimate feeling of companion-
ship you get sometimes when you are in the same room;
perhaps each reading a book; not speaking; not even
looking at one another. It is tenuous, an evanescent thing
- one that we too often fail to savor and appreciate.
Sometimes, in fact, it takes an evening or two of empty
solitude to make us realize how substantial and impor-
tant it really is.
"Then, on the other hand, you know how you draw
closer by means of things you do together. And still more
through talk and such mental interchanges. And most
of all, perhaps, in the various physical relationships of
love and marriage.
"Now when you stop to think of it, all these latter
material contacts, right through the whole of life, are at
root and in essence aimed at really just one thing: that
rare inner feeling of companionship suggested feebly in
the sitting-by-the-fire idea. That is what we really are
18 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
groping for in all friendly and loving human relations,
hampered by the fact that we are different people more
or less muffied from each other by the barriers of encase-
ment in the body. '
"Well, within a very few minutes that companionship
flooded through my whole being from Betty, but in an
intensity and purity of which I had previously had no
conception. It was the same thing, but a hundred, a thou-
sand times stronger. And I realized that it more than com-
pensated for the little fact that she had stepped across,
because it was the thing that all our physical activities
together had striven for, but - compared with this -
had gained only dimly and in part. Why not? Actually
it was doing perfectly what all these other things had
only groped for. So what use the other things? and why
should I miss them?
"Does this sound fantastic? Maybe; but it is as real and
solid as the chair I am sitting on. So much so that I have
never in my life been so filled with pure happiness. No
despair; no devastation; just a deeper happiness than I
have experienced with her ever before, save in the brief
moments when everything harmonized in fulfillment.
"And furthermore it has lasted, and is with me always.,,.
Now, more than a year later, I can in all honesty re-
peat: "It has lasted, and is with me always/' The experi-
ence of that night was charged neither with the exulta-
tion of emotional belief nor the quiet sureness of intellec-
tual knowledge. There was just a quick dissolving of my
conflict; for Betty had not gone - sbe was still with me.
There was left me no doubt as to her Presence with me
on the hillside.
That presence has continued, not all the time, but
normally so. I go into a room; she may or may not be
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 19
there. I stroll about her garden; she may or may not walk
with me. But many times throughout each twenty-four-
hour day she is there, her vivid personality enveloping
me, and not only me but even strangers visiting in the
house.
It was Betty who, when here, created easy, friendly
hospitality in our home - not I. She it is who still creates
it; for Betty is still living. This I know. Not as I live, but
with me in "the one and only universe." She has given
me a thousand proofs of it. And through another psychic
- Joan of the Chinese boxes, about whom much more in
the following pages - a whole new c:oncept of possibly
scientific thought including a unique, and I think illumi-
nating, terminology.
Betty calls it a "divulgence." The few physicists or
metaphysicians to whom I have submitted various por-
tions are all agreed, with normally professional reserva-
tions, that it is "important." One, less normally profes-
sional than the rest, let himself go.
"I don't care how or where you get it," he said. "This
is definitely a step forward - a system of anticipatory
thought. At the very least it will give us laboratory fel-
lows new premises to work from and new hypotheses
to work toward."
Perhaps. Betty called it onlv a divulgence.
Divulgence ofwhat? Of The Unobstructed Universe
where Betty went after her body died and concerning
which, its ways and means, methods, laws, habits, work,
triumphs, failures - indeed, its very place - she, through
Joan, has since reported back to me.
CHAPTER III
ONLY ONE CHINESE BOX
1.
FoR nearly six months, then, after her death, Betty and I
continued living in "the one and only Universe" with,
however, a barrier of verbal communication between us;
she on her side and I on mine.
I hope I have made it clear that she had most decidedly
"come back" in the most satisfying form possible, for
me at least. Nor was my experience unique to myself.
From all over .the country I received letters, many of
them puzzled, some of them even from people who had
met Betty but casually and many years ago, trying to
tell me about their feeling of her presence with them.
"I found myself happy and twinkling, for no reason
at all. I had a merry sense of Betty - out of a clear sky
- apropos of nothing. No heartache - just a merry and
impudent nudge." - "I did not think I could stand it.
But all evening I had a sense of Betty, and a feeling of
peace that I had not thought possible." - "When I think
of Betty I can't possibly pump up any feeling of desola-
tion. She's just there" - this with a sense of amazement.
-"It was an astonishing experience of amazing power....
I just called to her, and instantly she was there, and with
a voltage that swept me right out of myself."
That sort of thing. And so much of it, and from such
scattered sources, and from so many people who had no
use for, or no knowledge of, "psychics." Explanation of
fortuity and coincidence began to look rather absurd.
But Betty appeared as yet to have nothing to say, in
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 21
words. This might seem rather curious to anyone familiar
with the type of work she had been doing for twenty
years. That had involved her penetration into the higher
consciousness, the state of being in which, presumably,
she now dwelt; and her reporting back to me her experi-
ences and findings. That was "communication from the
other side." Also we had slowly come to know and trust
a small group of friends who - incidentally to the friend-
ship - were gifted, as Betty was gifted, with her peculiar
sensitiveness or talent. If anyone could "come back," as
they say - and by that they generally mean come back in
conversation - it certainly should be Betty.
Furthermore, a good many people wrote me, or asked
me, whether I had "heard from Betty," and were both-
ered when I told them I had not - not in the sense of
their inquiry. I was not bothered. On the contrary, I
came almost at once to appreciate the wisdom of her
course. For the very moment the ordinary and custom-
ary "message" was offered, that moment the brightness
of her present demonstration must be - even if ever so
slightly - dimmed. Admit my conviction that it is actual-
ly Betty speaking; admit my acceptance of authenticity
as respects the body of the "message" received, there must
always remain in my mind some slight question as to
detail - how much is Betty; how much is the subcon-
scious of the psychic?
To be sure, it can be, and is, sorted out in time. We had
found that to be true. But, unless she had something im-
portant to say, how could mere spoken words add to
what, apparently, she was now trying·so successfully to
do?
22 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
2.
In this frame of mind I flew East, in the early part of
September, 1939. It was my first visit for many years.
Though I had crossed the continent nearly a hundred
times, I had never ceased to consider it inordinately wid~
and the journey inordinately time-consuming. Well, I
reflected as the plane touched earth, we have at last done
something about that! In 1884 it had taken me nearly a
week to get to the Coast from Chicago. Here I was in
Chicago for breakfast, and I had left San Francisco after
dinner the night before! Time and space were no longer
the barrier they had been. A trite enough reflection. But
unknowingly I was hitting the keynote of my next big
adventure.
My purpose had to do with a novel just written and
in the process of publication, and with renewal in person
of certain friendships that the said space and time had
not been able to affect. These were many. Among them
was that of a man and his wife who, twenty years ago,
had published a book that has had a profound effect, in
that it introduced certain new concepts that have become
so integra1 with our body of thought that they are today
used as building blocks in many an intellectual structure
by people who have never heard of the book or its
authors. T he title of the book is Our Unseen Guest, and
the concepts of which I speak will appear naturally in
the course of what follows.
Now we get back to the Chinese boxes. For the Joan
of that bizarre episode was the Joan of Our Unseen
Guest. The authors had elected to call themselves Darby
and Joan - and still so choose to conceal themselves.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 23
Twenty years ago they were, and still are, both profes-
sional people. They could not - or thought they could
not - risk the possibility of such controversy as, almost
invariably, has raged about outstanding mediums. And
theirs was no pseudo-aponymity. Even today there are, I
suppose, not a score of persons who are aware that Joan
possesses her special talent; and of that number not half
have any first-hand experience. The privileged few real-
ize that she is one of the greatest psychics, if not the
greatest, in the world today.
Such a statement requires a moment to explain why I
make it.
As to method: Joan·works blindfolded from a state of
trance, into which she enters instantly and completely at
the signal of Darby's touch on her wrist. However, she
is not "unconscious" in the sense of helplessness or im-
mobility; she is not "asleep." At times she even moves
about or does things apparently required of her. I have
seen her, for the demonstration of some point being
made, perform an intricate dance, accurately and surely,
through a room crowded with furniture, though she was
as usual heavily blindfolded. Invisible entities talk
through her, and then her own personality is completely
absent; but on occasion she also reports in her own right
what is shown her or told her, in which case, of course,
apparently she participates. Nevertheless, on returning
to her normal state she never has the slightest recollection
of anything that has been done or said, and she has no
sense whatever of the passage of time. This latter was
once amusingly illustrated to us. She had been "out" for
perhaps five minutes when it became necessarv to make
certain arrangements before we could actually begin
the work in hand, so Darby brought her back.
24 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"How long has it been?" she asked.
Somebody in mischief told her "about three hours."
She accepted this so unquestioningly that she was
much concerned because, as she supposed, she and Darby
had missed their last train home! We had to show her
the clock before she would be convinced that only five
minutes had elapsed.
This perfection of abeyance, so to call it, is remark-
able, but not unprecedented. But added to it are certain
qualities that justify my estimate, such as honesty of
character; total absence of egotism; an eager desire to
help, to play the game; a fine mind and intelligence; and
a fastidiousness of social selection in ordinary life which,
we have been assured, is of enormous assistance to the
Invisibles in keeping their channel clean and free of the
extraneous that clutters up so much of this kind of effort.
"The point is this," we were told, "Joan is selective.
She is so in her social and intellectual interests. So there
are some individuals here whom Joan welcomes, and
others she does not. Joan accepted Stephen,"" who came
to her out of the thin air, just as she would have accepted
him if she had met him on earth."
Betty and I had first met Darby and Joan at the house
of Margaret Cameron,t in 1922. With them, and Mar-
garet, and another psychic, Mrs. John Palmer Gavit,:!:
we conducted the remarkable series of experiments in
demonstrating and verifying the "second body" - beta
body, we called it - described in an appendix to The
Betty Book. In the next sevente.en years we had with
• The personality who gave most of the material for Our Unseen
Guest.
t Author of The Seven Purposes.
t The "Mrs. Gaines" of The Betty Book.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 25
Darby and Joan but two other contacts: once when
Betty went East without me, and once when they visited
us at Burlingame for two days. Nevertheless, in spite of
so few meetings, and in spite of the fact that Betty and
Joan were doing diametrically opposite kinds of work by
different methods, the two of them had always "clicked."
And they always felt that, somehow or another, they
were destined to do more good work together. But they,
no more than Darby or myself, realized how perfectly
they were being trained, each in her own way, to com-
bine their methods in one triumphant effort when the
time came.
These two were among the friendships I had come
East to renew. Nevertheless, my interest was not in the
possibility of getting in verbal touch with Betty. I must
repeat, I did not need verbal touch with Betty. I would
not seek it, unless I were convinced that she really had
something to say beside greeting and chit chat! and my
opinion then was that her serious work had been rounded
out, had reached its culmination. So I wrote it down in
the chapter "I Bear Witness," added to Across the Un-
known after she had died. "This [the demonstration of
her presence], I now believe, is the 'great blossom' of
which tl\e Invisibles spoke; the final significance to which
all of Betty's twenrr years of work was to lead. Here is
her concrete proof of one reward that can come to those
who follow in her footsteps, her final evidence that her
instrument of twenty years' forging is strong enough to
stand the supreme test." Unconsciously I think I was just
26 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
a little afraid of weakening the perfection of that demon-
stration of her actual and continuing presence: I was
inclined to let well enough alone.
My first evening with Darby and Joan swept that
particular fog out of my head. Betty had something to
say: and she said just enough to prove to us that all of
her previous work, and all of Joan's previous work, and
before that the work of Margaret Cameron - who was
one of the first Americans to make a nation-wide psychi-
cal stir outside professional research circles - were really
a necessary preliminary foundation to what she was go-
~g to be able to tell us now, from her present point of
view.
In all this business of alleged communication across the
border, the question of identification has always been the
focus both of investigation and of opposition. When a
man calls you up on the telephone, saying he is John
Smith, and the matter is important, you want him first
of all to prove to you that he is who he says he is. The
best way he can do it is to tell you something that only
you and he know. That, transferred to psychical re-
search, is what is called evidential material, or simply
"evidential."
So important it is, from the point of view of research.
that the great bulk of psychic investigation has been in
the direction of obtaining and analvzing evidential. The
task has proved to be one of extraordinary difficnltv; and,
speaking by and laqre. vour researcher is delighted if,
out of a great m::iss of m::iterial. he can winnow an oc-
casional bit which. with reasonable interpret::ition, can
be considered air-tight. When he gets such a bit he pub-
lishes it in a fournal ratheF triumphantlv.
Betty began talking to me quietly, fluently, with as-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 27
sured and intimate knowledge of our common experience
and living. There was n© "fishing" and no fumbling.
That part of it became almost ridiculous, it was so easy
for her where with usual "psychical research" it has been
so difficult.
Here, in this first evening, she literally poured out
a succession of these authentications. She mentioned
not one, but dozens, of small events out of our past, of
trivial facts in our mutual experience or surroundings,
none of which could by any possibility be within Joan's
knowledge. Many of them, indeed, were gone from my
own memory, until Betty recalled them to me. And all
of them - except just one - clean-cut, air-tight, without
need of interpretation. A dyed-in-the-wool psychic re-
searcher would have gone mad with joy over such a
demonstration, which would have furnished him enough
material to have lasted him for the next seven years!
Darby was taking the notes. He has not my verbatim
"shorthand," and confined them mostly to what he con-
sidered significant in what Betty was saving, which was
why his script missed the "evidential." It sounded un-
important to him. I myself was so amazed - and excited
- that it did not occur to me to write anything down.
So most of it was lost, as far as record goes. That does not
matter. Betty's purpose was merely to authenticate for
us herself - and incidentally her command of Joan -
in order to bespeak our attention to what was to follow.
That for me - and for Darby when afterward I ex-
plained to him the appositeness of what had sounded to
him like chit chat - was done so thoroughly that from
that evening on we could not doubt that we were hear-
ing from Betty; and that Betty had something to say.
Not without accusing our own plain common sense.
28 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
It would be possible to gather some of these scattered
bits together, and the reader is certainly entitled to some-
thing beyond my simple statement. But such a compila-
tion would be fragmentary, and in addition would de-
pend largely on my own assurance of its factual char-
acter. Therefore I will not make that attempt. But for-
tunately there were three other incidents of "evidential,"
quite as brilliant and as detailed, involving others outside
our little group of three, which did get recorded. These
I shall narrate - and that at last brings us back to Joan's
outrageous purchase of the two Chinese boxes she did
not want.
"Well!" Betty began with a chu~kle,* "I did have a
terrible time in town! No, not a terrible time - I had a
lot of fun - but I had to work hard to get Joan to take
the wrong bus so she would go to that store and see the
truck with the gadget on it. I saw one in Chinatown t
once, but it cost seventy-five dollars, and this one was so
cheap. You'll have to lend me the money for it, Stewt.
I wanted something that Millicent +had had in mind for
a long time; and I wanted it for the color and the birds;
but Joan bought the wrong one, so I had to make her buy
another. Tell Mill it is for the color and the birds. When
we were little girls we used to be fond of watching cer-
tain birds.
"The boxes are in the game room, unpacked; and one
of them, the yellow one, nobody wants. Joan had de-
cided to send both back; and she was so amazed at her-
• It may be as well to state here that all speeches quoted from any
Invisible are verbatim unless otherwise stated. I have a shorthand
adequate for that purpose.
t In San Francisco.
:I: Betty's sister, who lives in a New York suburb.
THE UNO.BSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 29
self; and she didn't know what she was doing; and gen-
erally when she shops she knows what she is doing; and
ever since she's been wondering why on earth she bought
them, and what she was going to do with them.
"Tell Mill she will find the red one just as useful, to
keep her furs in, as I found the tricky little leather dress-
ing case that she gave me. Ask Joan if she will please
give you four small gliders to put on the bottom. She
has them in a small drawer. I think Joan is going to in-
sist on - No, she isn't. [paying for them, perhaps?] The
yellow one is to go back. The store got them from a
Chinese ship in port, and bought the whole cargo, and
that is why they were cheap. I wanted the birds for
Mill; there were others with flowers, but I wanted the
birds."
Now here was something! Three things we could
verify at once, and did. The statement as to the reason
for these boxes being on special sale was true. They were
part of a cargo refused by the original importer and
bought by this store to use as a "come-on" special: this
fact, however, was already known to Joan. The refer-
ence to the furs might have significance in that I had
recently given Millicent Betty's furs: a fact that was not
known to Joan. The promise of the gliders we investi-
gated at once. A search of the tool drawer, where such
things would ordinarily be kept, disclosed none; but
finally "in a small drawer" in the kitchen we turned up
six of them. Two were large, and four were "small." But
of course Joan's subconscious might have had recollec-
tion of them.
All interesting, but not conclusive. So at the earliest
opportunity I went to see Millicent.
"Mill," said I, "what's your favorite color?"
30 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"Well," she laughed, "you know I'm part Spanish, sa
I'll have to confess it's red."
"Any particular shade?"
She had a small box of Chinese lacquer, and instanced
that. So far, exceedingly good.
"Have you had particularly in mind wanting anything
like a Chinese camphorwood chest?"
"Yes," replied Millicent promptly. "When I was on
the Coast with you in 1936 Betty and I s:iw one in China-
town. I was crazy about it, but it was much too expen-
sive. But later I thought it over, and I wrote her asking
where I could get one - I must have written her three
or four times, but somehow she never answered my
question."
"Well, she's got it for you now," said I, and explained.
"But there's something else. She said, 'Tell Mill it is for
the color and the birds,' and she emphasized that, and
added something about watching birds when you were
little girls. Anything special about that? I suppose all
children watch birds."
Millicent stared at me, for a moment unable to speak.
"Every spring," she told me solemnly at last, "every
spring Betty and I used to climb up in the trees on our
place, and sit very quiet for hours and hours to watch
the birds build their nests ! Why, I think that's
wonderful!"
I agreed.
"Now, there's just one other point,'' said I. "How
about the leather dressing case? Did you ever give her
one that could be described as 'tricky'?"
"You must have seen it," was her reply. "It had a sort
of double top, so you could get at the mirror and toilet
articles without opening the suitcase part."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED U:HVERSE 31
"Of course I've seen it," said I. "But I did not know
you gave it to her."
I returned to the city. Barely had I entered my hotel
room when the telephone rang. It was Millicent, very
much excited.
"Did you notice what kind of birds they are - painted
on the chest? They are swallows!"
"What of it?" I wanted to know.
"Why-why-" gasped Millicent, "it was swallows we
u~d to watch building their nests. That's why we
climbed the trees - to get level 'vith the eaves!"
CHAPTER IV
"THIS IS YOUR HERITAGE"
I.
I HAVE said that, in view of Betty's "pervading-presence"
demonstration, as it might be called, I was not eager for
communication from her through a psychic "unless she
had something to say." I meant that not only as far as
personal messages to me were concerned, but in a broad-
er sense and a wider application. For the world is full of
books substantiating the existence of the unexplained,
and I was no longer interested in generalities.
But that first evening with Darby and Joan convinced
me, as already stated, that Betty did have.something to
say; something quite the opposite of generalities; some-
thing not only for those who, in the shock of personal
loss, have struggled with the weariness of grief, but also
something for those who, in the dismayed bewilderment
of seemingly unwarranted failure, out of their despair
ask that final, most disheartening of questions: "What's
the use?"
And so, before I set down further evidence of Betty's
authentication of herself, and of the individuality and
continuity of that self, I think I should tell you why
Betty had something to say; why - to quote her - "I am
permitted to bring you this divulgence," at this particu-
lar time. And also to tell you something of its present
aim and need.
"My very dear," Betty began one evening as if she
were dictating a letter, "naturally what I have to say is
directed first to you. But any truth that is of comfort
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 33
and surety to one man may be of comfort and surety to
other men. Always this has been so. Not that all can
share your present .experience - this sitting down, here
in this pleasant room, and listening to my thoughts
framed in my. own words, though relayed to you by
the voice of another woman. That experience is not for
all, nor is it needed by all. What the all - all people -
need is a new presentation of the truth in the light of
their own times and the terms of their own knowledge;
so that each may seek truth's comfort for himself, and
find it - if he will.
"The world calls me - us here - dead. But sometimes
people, unable to endure the thought of such a blanking
out, speak of a loved one as having 'gone on.' That idea,
the act of gomg on, is more correctly true. It is ttue that
we are 'changed'; but so is man in his earth experience
changed from a new-born child to adulthood. And not
only is he changed physically, but his perceptions are
changed, his power of assimilation, his control of himself
and of the things of earth about him.
"It is so that I am changed - so all we 'dead' are
changed; glorified with our own immortality. Even as
you, too, will be glorified. We have indeed gone on be-
yond the comprehension of your present earth percep-
tions; but so is man beyond the comprehension - even
the sight perception - of that new-born child. Of course
it takes only a little while before a baby begins, as they
say, 'to notice.' It is the sarn~ with you. You, the World
- so small a child in Time's duration of the Universe -
only notice us as yet. But just as the noticing of a
child brings a feeling of personal comfort and stability
to him, so would the world's acceptance of Immortality
bring back stability and comfort to mankind. Individual-
34 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
ly and socially. Indeed, it is only so - only by a re-
establishment of the old faith in the continuity, the
worth-whileness, the purpose and responsibility of life -
that people or nations can regain stability.
"Stability," she repeated. "Stability is what you have
lost and are now seeking to regain. Not security. Secur-
ity is material. Stability is spiritual. Stability is the soul,
the character of peoples. Given that, man or nation
makes its own security. But stability - real foundation-
rock, unwavering stability - no man can have without
faith in immortality. Why? Oh, my dear, my dear!
Earth-life would have no point, would be too much to
ask of man, without immortality!"
What was she driving at? For what does she hope?
However difficult - or not - may be found the intel-
lectual concepts as elaborated in later pages, of their emo-
tional stimulus and purpose she leaves no slightest doubt.
z.
The old order of things has collapsed, says Betty. In
some parts of the world, as in Europe, that collapse has
been so complete that it seems everything of the old has
been destroyed or lost. Elsewhere, as in our own country,
much of the staunchness of the old order is still intact;
but it is becoming increasingly obvious that even here
readjustments are inevitable. The same elements that
brought about the catastrophe in the Old World are at
work in the New, and will proceed to the same con-
clusion if we continue fatuously traveling the same road.
What brought about this collapse?
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 35
"Loss of faith in the present fact of immortality,"
Betty states bluntly.
She does not mean, she carefully explained, a conscious
attitude of agnosticism or denial. We may still profess
belief in a vague and remote "heaven" to which eventu-
_
ally we shall go. But belief is not faith; and it is only
faith - faith in the same sense that we accept the in-
evitability of death itself - that can transfer the field of
our practical endeavor out of the present moment. When
the present moment - the earth span of life - is all that
concerns us, then the emphasis of all we think and all
we do at once bases on materialism. We know that mod-
ern civilization has been drifting toward that point of
view, whether we are frank enough to admit it or not.
More and more we have been tending toward writing
off everything but the gain of the day. We deny the
claim of the future; we are increasingly indifferent to
the coming generations. We are emphasizing rights rather
than obligations; those obligations that a real faith in im-
mortality must impose.
When humankind gets far enough away from the fact
of immortality, said Betty impressively, it has to come
back. Or perish. And the only way it can come back is
to cease looking outside itself and search within.
"Furthermore," she told us, "any coming back always
means a new pattern."
Yet if men redesign the pattern on materialistic lines
alone, the same result must follow. The worth of the
new pattern must depend on the basis of its establishment.
"That," savs Betty, "is dependent on the free will of
men. Your wills are free. This is your heritage and your
glory."
Now to America, she insists, is entrusted the chance to
36 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
fu a new and better pattern. Why are we so entrusted?
Why have we the job?
Because our nation's pattern of government was orig-
inally laid down closely in accord with a reality of con-
sciousness which we call evolution. That is the structure
of the universe; various degrees of development, high,
low, and in between. Each must work freely in its own
, capacity toward the development of the whole. Leave
out the word "freely" and you have totalitarianism. Put
it in and you have democracy. In our beginnings we
functioned pretty closely to that ideal. And still do;
though we have backslid somewhat.
But democracy is not a form of government. It is a
pattern for government. It is the union of all the parts in
the common good of all, with - to repeat - complete
opportunity for each individual to do that which he
can do; but only to his capacity, though to his full ca-
pacity, and with no obligation to do more - or less!
"Neither the 'more' nor the 'less,'" said Betty, "may
set the pace for all."
In this sense the democracy of our Republic was, and
is, the nearest paralle~ reflected in government, to the
Reality of Consciousness. By which is meant the mode
or law of the operation of Consciousness. And this is
why, says Betty, the responsibility has fallen on us, the
United States, for the set of the new pattern.
Now, she demands, how are we going to do it? Surely
not on the old material basis that has collapsed in Eu-
rope; not on the basis of each day for itself and devil take
tomorrow. Must we not dig down into the consciousness
of men and lay bare the only rock strong enough to sup-
port the many-storied and varied superstructure that to-
day's science has made ours?
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 37
"But what is that rock?" we demanded of Betty.
"Recognition of the creator as greater than the thing
created," she answered promptly. "Acceptance of the
Oneness of Consciousness as a whole. Realization that
man's thoughts and activities are a real and vital part of
the scheme of things, having their effect on the Whole
as well as ·on himself. Not only here and now, in his own
little segment of the universe, but on out in an eternal
continuity. Immortality! Not as some vague and distant
possibility! But you - here - now! This is the thing you
must recapture as an immediate and working principle
if the new pattern is not to crumble as has the old."
Such, Betty told us, is the purpose of her divulgence.
"I must make reasonable," said she, "the hereness of
immortality. For you as well as me, and for me as well
as you. Man has always had some conception of the there-
ness of immortality. And the thought was good - fertile
in aspiration and inspiration, pregnant with comfort and
content. But the new thought I would bring to you is
better. For the hereness of immortality, once you under-
stand it and accept it, will make what has seemed to you
vague, entirely and triumphantly real."
I shall have more to say of this when the unfolding of
her divulgence is finished.
•
------
CHAPTER V
THE CIVIL ENGINEER AND
THE BLUE SLIPPERS
l.
BETTY'S sister, Millicent, had always accepted Betty's
psychic work simply because she believed in Betty. But
the acceptance had been more acknowiedgment than be-
lief. The Chinese box episode had startled her; but back
in her mind, I suspect, lingered the thought that if all this
were really so, in all its implication, she would before
this, somehow, through someone, have had word from
her husband, who had died suddenly several years ago.
I must confess that I myself wondered a little why Betty
said nothing of the one thing most important to Millicent.
"I was not ready," said Betty a week or so later. "I
wanted to do it all in one fell swoop."
Then she began to "show Jaim pictures," as we call
that process. Joan is .made to see things, which she de-
scribes. Only later do we know whether they mean any-
thing or not. At the time they generally sound like a
confused jumble to us, but I take everything down faith-
fully, for you never can tell! Betty "showed pictures"
for about twenty minutes. Then Francis, Millicent's
husband, dictated a short letter to her. This took about
two minutes. It was an affectionate note, such as any
husband might have written to any beloved wife. With-
out the authentication crowded into the previous twenty
minutes it could have meant little or nothing.
Betty was fairly satisfied.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 39
"Some is good, and some isn't," said she. "But some is.
When pictures start - Joan being very susceptible to
pictorial vision - it is hard to segregate her own mem-
ories from our impingement on her subconscious. That is
why, in getting this, there will be some you may not
understand."
In consequence of this cautious remark, when I took
my notes to Millicent next day, I did so with no very
keen anticipation of more than the usual proportion of
"hits"; and hoped that enough would be recognizable to
her to give her some measure of comfort and conviction.
The result was amazing. I certainly should have been
wholly satisfied with less.
"Now, the first thing Joan said," I told Millicent, read-
ing from my notes, "was this: 'There is a man here. He
has a watch chain across the front of his vest, and there's
a sort of dingle-dangle thing on it. The watch ticks too
loud, and it lies on a table by the side of the bed.' How
about it? Of course he had a watch chain, and -"
But Millicent cut me short. She was staring at me and
gasping a little.
"Why, Stewart! Why, Stewart!" was all she could
say. After a moment she recovered herself and could ex-
plain. It seems that Francis was about the last man she
knew to cling to an old-fashioned thick "turnip" watch,
because it had belonged to his grandfather; that it had a
chain so unusually long that, on his death, it was divided
in three for the three boys and made for each of them
a perfectly adequate chain; that a heavy seal - a "dingle-
dangle" - depended from it. Furthermore, Francis tried
to keep the watch on a table by the side of his bed, but
abandoned that because its ticking kept him awake. It
did, indeed, "tick too loud."
40 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
That short sentence had certainly proved full of meat.
Presently we went on to the next.
"This is good enough, but by itself it does not mean
much, I think," said I. "It simply reads: 'Boots he has:
with his trousers tucked in.' Might be a son of identifi-
cation of Francis as a civil engineer.''
"It means a lot more than that," Millicent assured
me.
It seems that, when Francis was building the docks at
Bordeaux, during the last war, he had bought a pair of
French half-boots that had pleased him so much he actu-
ally used to bring them out to show dinner guests what
proper engineer's foot-gear should be; and on the slight-
est excuse he would put them on and tuck his trousers
in them to rake leaves or otherwise work around the
place. That bit we agreed was rather splendid; for it was
not only correct, but it meant so much more than I had
guessed.
"'Something about a Surrogate court.'" I read the suc-
ceeding sentence of my record. That was a hit; for Fran-
cis had left an involved estate that had only recently
been settled to the point of attention by the surrogate.
H owever, I took up the next without expectation. " 'Oat-
meal,' Joan said, 'something about eating oatmeal.' Of
course there's something about eating oatmeal - in any
family with children,'' I remarked, and was about to pro-
ceed. Millicent burst out laughing.
"Oh, that's good!" she cried. The children ate break-
fast alone. Francis was a great stickler on oatmeal for
the children - many fathers are. The children grumbled
and balked on the subject of oatmeal - many children do.
All but the youngest. His face, and his plate, were always
bright. But - when housecleaning time came around,
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 4X:
behind every picture on the wall were discovered great
dabs of oatmeal!
Joan had next described - and illustrated - "someone
who put on their nose-glasses this way." Before reading
this I asked Millicent to put on her glasses. She dupli-
cated Joan's performance. Subsequently I asked other
members of the family to show me "how Millicent puts
on her glasses," and received the same demonstration.
" 'Don't forget the creek: musm't forget that!' " I con-
tinued. I confess that looked to me like a clean miss.
None of the various residences of the various members
of the family were within miles of anything that could
be described as a creek.
"Could I ever forget the creek!" cried Millicent
fervently.
Francis, as has been mentioned, was a civil engineer,
engaged in heavy construction - like the docks at Bor-
deaux and a good deal of New York's waterfront. His
estate included a lot of heavy machinery, dredges, pile
drivers, barges, and the like, which had worried Milli-
cent for years. She was unable to get rid of them; she
paid taxes and storage on them. And they had been kept
all these years in an inlet of the Flushing marshes known
by name as The Creek.
Now followed a number of small, less striking refer-
ences which it would be tedious to analyze in detail. For
instance, "A portrait. There's an old portrait." Now,.
every family has old portraits. But Millicent told me that
a portrait of Francis' grandfather had somehow got sep-:
arated and had gone to a collateral branch of the family,
and that it was only after a long search and much trou-
ble that he had managed to buy it back. Another was a
simple insistence on the number seven. It seemed that
42 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
Francis died just seven years ago; a fact not recalled to
my mind even by the mention of the number.
There were, however, two more statements that hit
Millicent hard, bringing her both to laughter and to tears.
" 'Street car,'" I quoted Joan, "'the episode that oc-
curred on a street car. I think,' said she, 'the boots, and
Lhe watch and the portrait, and the creek and what hap-
pened on the street car are important.'"
Here is where Millicent laughed. In the old days of
ferry boats, said she, Francis was accustomed to go to the
city each day with a neighbor, whose temper was some-
what peppery at times. One day - on the street car -
this neighbor was rudely jostled, and promptly broke a
paper bag of apples over the offender's head. Result: a
near riot, and a family warning when anger threatened -
"remember the street car!"
The other statement: "This man says to tell Millicent,
'the child that never got born is here with me. Little
girl.' "
A little girl had been born indeed, but never breathed.
"It was the only time in all his life I ever saw Francis
cry,'' said Millicent. . .
I knew nothing whatever of this fact until I heard it
then.
"Betty is laughing and nodding her head,'' Joan had
concluded. I should think she well might. Joan knew
nothing of Betty's sister: she did not even know Milli-
cent's last name.
This looked to us like a pretty close hundred per cent,
when we got together to analyze my report from
Millicent.
Betty had shown - "on the screen" - and Joan had
described twenty-three distinct pictures. Of these eleven
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 43
were brilliantly striking; six were exact but of lesser im-
portance; the other six were not recognized, but might
have been apt; none could be categorically denied as
certainly untrue. I think anybody familiar with the
methods and difficulties of psychical research would have
pardoned us elation over somewhat of a record in the
way of "evidential." It must be reflected that none of
these matters was in either Joan's or my subconscious
mind. She was wholly unacquainted, either in person or
by hearsay, with Millicent and her family: I had never
known or heard of any of these particular things.
With this authentication for Millicent's conviction, the
letter from Francis was then dictated. It began with the
address "Old Lady" (which Joan unnecessarily assured
us was a term of endearment!), which, said Millicent,
was his common form of reference to her. And that
might be considered as evidential number twenty-four.
Of only one did Millicent profess complete and blank
ignorance. That was the description of a house. Joan
had given it in detail. "A big house," she had said, "built
when they had square towers, and full of great heavy
furniture." She spent a lot of time on that house, men-
tioning the arrangement of its rooms, and the porches,
and much of the furniture. A hat rack especially held
her. "There's a joke about it," she had said. "Some chil-
dren played around it." And a very important coal scut-
tle; and a lot more.
"It may be Francis' boyhood home/' said Millicent,
but doubtfully.
We let it go at that, but months later I had a chance
to check with one of Francis' immediate family. That
house was a clean miss. And - believe it or not - that
fact pleased us! It had looked to be all good. Betty had
44 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UN.IVERSE
said: "Some of it is good, but some isn't." And we needed
a miss to verify Betty's remark.
2.
And now, before leaving this particular subject, I
want to go back to that first night of Betty's verbal com-
munication with me through Joan. It will be recalled
that I said the evidential she piled up especially for me
with such .fluency and ease was clean-cut, air-tight and
without need of interpretation - except fust one item,
"the blue slippers." That meant nothing to me.
It was an astounding record for a conversation lasting
almost three hours. As I look back and remember the
minutiae of it, the whole performance assumes ever great-
er and more significant proportions, for I do not believe
any two camate people could sit down together and
reminisce for that length of time without one of them
making a slip. And in this case I was a yes-man only.
Betty necessarily led the conversation, and in every in-
stance it was she who said, "Do you remember ..." and
supplied all details.
Her one miss, so far as I personally am concerned, was
when she announced, "I never thanked you for bringing
my blue slippers."
"What blue slippers? Where did I bring them?" I
asked. "I don't remember."
"You will!" she replied confidently.
Nevertheless, I did not, and the slippers annoyed me,
because I had remembered many things quite as incon-
sequential. Only recently, in California, was that refer-
ence tidied up.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 45
Twice again, at intervals, she prodded me about the
blue slippers. Still, all I could remember concerning the
slippers was her own three references to them - each
pointed enough to make me realize that in this instance
my memory, or hers, had failed. I racked my brains try-
ing to remember, for, with this solitary exception, Betty's
record of evidential personal communication with me had
been perfect. I did not want her achievement even so
slightly spoiled! But I could not conjure up the haziest
recollection. The slippers were out.
' The last week in February, 1940, before starting the
work of putting this book together, I cleaned up a num-
ber of matters entrusted to me by Betty. Among them
was the typing and delivery of several letters she had
dictated, through Joan, to various friends. One of the
letters was to her favorite nurse who had accompanied
her home from a hospital siege in 1937 and stayed several
weeks in the house. Betty had nicknamed her Johnnie
and the two women had become very good friends.
I left Johnnie's letter till the last. Betty had said when
she dictated it, "Johnnie thought I was a nut. At first
she thought I was crazy. I knew it all the time. I said to
myself, 'Well, I'll show Johnnie!'"
I had not seen Johnnie for many months. Beyond
Betty's comment that Johnnie had thought her "a nut"
I had no idea what Johnnie's attitude might be toward
psychic phenomena. I did know that her training and
experience had, of necessity, given her a pragmatically
scientific and probably thoroughly materialistic outlook.
Her job is to fight disease and death. She does it mag-
nificently, never wavering for an instant. But when
death comes, so far as Johnnie's training is concerned, the
job is done.
46 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
From the context of the letter I knew it would be
either highly evidential or - probably - a complete dud.
It was full of specific and intimate personal detail. And
I had not forgotten the specific and detailed description
of the "house with the square towers" presumably in-
tended for Millicent that turned out to have no signifi-
cance. This house and the blue slippers were, before my
going to see Johnnie, the two outstanding marks against
Betty's incredibly high batting average.
As I say, I did not know Johnnie's attitude toward
psychic phenomena. Neither did I know if - broad-
minded though she might be about it - she knew any-
thing of the technical. difficulties of communication or
the technique of sifting out "evidential." In other words,
if there were inaccuracies in the letter, would she - as
my experience has taught me most people of her highly
specialized training do - ditch the whole incident and in
the back of her head write down Betty even more defi-
nitely as "a nut." I mailed the message, however, but
anticipated an impending visit from Johnnie with a good
deal of diffidence, I must admit.
One of the things that bothered me was an emphatic
statement by Betty: "The child will get well." What
child? Johnnie is a surgical nurse and more or less spe-
cializes in adult patients; or such was my understanding
when she was taking care of my wife.
However, "the child will get well" proved particular-
ly and peculiarly evidential. In fact, a great part of the
letter was evidential, as Johnnie, no matter what her per-
sonal attitude on psychic phenomena, was quick hon-
estly to admit. Some she failed· to recognize, but her
sharp and ruthless analysis of the detail of the letter was
to me exceedingly saci:;factory. Far more satisfactory
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 47
than any polite acceptance or e~asion would hav_e b~en.
So I told her something of Betty s other commumcations
and finally of the blue slippers as the one personal thing
I could not identify.
"I can," said Johnnie promptly. "When Mrs. White
was in the hospital in San Francisco she asked you to
bring her a pair of slippers from Burlingame - from
home. And I'll never forget how she laughed and laughed
over the ones you brought. You picked out the fanciest
high-heeled slippers she had, and what she wanted was
bedroom slippers, not style. But I can't remember the
color."
Later in talking with Reider, who does everything
nobody else does in my household, I told him of having
.seen Johnnie and of the slipper incident as amusing.,
fortunately withholding the color angle. Reider has been
in my employ for more than ten years. He has a memory
for detail that never fails.
"Why, I remember that!" cried Reider. "You came
home from the hospital with a list of things Mrs. White
wanted. You got them together and I made them into a
package for you. Among them were her blue slippers.,.
"Blue? Are you sure?" I wanted to shout, but refrained.
"Certainly I am sure,'' said Reider: "I rather wondered
at the time what Mrs. White wanted with her blue slip-
pers. It is too bad that you can't remember yourself, sir.
But several times Mrs. White sent home from the hospi-
tal for things and I made them into bup.dles for you to
take to her. I would hardly expect you to remember
what was in the bundles, sir."
Hardly expect me to remember....
I departed for my study in haste and pawed througn
the records to re-read Betty's three references to her blue
48 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
slipper$. And found that she had not wanted me to re-
member! That she deliberately had chosen something
she knew - or hoped - I would not remember!
"Too bad" that I couldn't remember? It was glorious
that I hadn't-and still couldn't remember. With Johnnie
and Reider to remember, those blue slippers are just
about the best piece of "evidential" a man ever had.
CHAPTER VI
WE SET OUT
l.
IN WHAT follows Joan will be referred to at times as "the
receiving station" or, more briefly, "the station." To
avoid possible misunderstanding on the part of the read-
er, as well as to give a fuller comprehension of this term,
it should be explained.
Back in 1916 when Joan - accidently, like Betty -
discovered she was psychic, transmission of the Morse
code by wireless signals had come into its own, but
radio as we know it today, and its now familiar termin-
ology, were still several years away. For the general
public this long-distance projection of the human voice
without wires through the mechanism of broadcasting
"stations" and millions of "receiving" sets all came after
1920.
Yet even in 1916 Stephen was calling Joan a "receiv-
ing station." Occasionally, Darby tells me, he used the
word "psychic" but never the more popular word "me-
dium" - not once in all the hundreds of pages of notes
comprising the Stephen records. From the published por-
tion of these records, Our Unseen Guest, I quote:
"The process of communication," says Stephen, "is
more like the transmission of a wireless message than
anything else in your experience. Our term, receiving
station, is very good, not because it is metaphorical, but
because it is the exact opposite of metaphorical."
Betty, for the last twenty years of her earth life, had
been a receiving station - a much more prolific station
50 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
than Joan. For, after the rounding out of Stephen's phil-
osophy, Joan had only at long intervals and for short
periods invited communication. All her adult life she has
been a busy woman, with a personally satisfying - and
exacting - job to do. Not for seventeen years,* had she
done any really sustained psychic work. I knew this.
And after Betty's death Darby had written me that,
though he had hoped to reach Betty through Joan, he
had been unable to do so.
"We have so seldom tried for communication in recent
years," he explained. "Not that Stephen or Anne ever
fail to appear when we do try. But they are old stand-
bys. We have not been able to contact Betty. Joan says it
must be because she herself is rusty."
Joan was not rusty. But I think Betty's failure to
speak through her until I went East six months later in-
clined us to agree with Joan's suggestion that she might
be rusty. I wanted to see Darby and Joan in any case, be-
cause, as I have explained, we are friends. But that first
night in their home I really hoped we would not try to
get in touch with Betty. Suppose we failed! Darby,
whose experience and backgmund have trained him in
the habit of controlling troublesome situations, kept our
after-dinner conversation going pleasantly enough about
the novel I had come East to see made ready for the press.
But he did not fool me; and Joan, quite unlike herself,
was openly nervous. How deeply distrustful of her tal-
ent, how downright fearful she was of the possible dis-
turbance failure might cause in my acceptance of Betty's
voiceless but continued Presence, I had no conception for
a week or more. Parenthetically, that particular fear was
• See Appendix of The Betty Book.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 51
unwarranted. Nothing could disturb that Presence: it
is too actual and vivid.
Joan confessed her anxieties days later and only after
Betty had suddenly thrown an entirely new slant on the
importance of evidence.
I have told how quickly and cleverly and abundantly
Betty piled up proof of her identity that first night. Dar-
by and I certainly needed no more "evidential." Never-
theless, from time to time, in our subsequent sessions, she
would suddenly ,and unexpectedly slip in another bit.
We told her, at last, not to bother.
"You don't understand," Betty explained. "We do
not do it only for you, but also for the protection of the
station. To assure her, in her subconscious, and after-
wards when she sees the record, of her own integrity as
a station, and that she is really giving the right message.
Do you think that if Joan felt for one instant that this
was not I talking, she would ever again go 'out' for me?"
-;,.
You will remember I said that in that initial evening
Betty convinced me of two things: her identity, and that
she had something to tell. The foregoing chapters are
intended to cover the first. But before we go on to the
second I want to say that I well know mere evidence is
little good except to those at whom it is personally di-
rected. Curious, but true!
We accept, as part .of our mental equipment, "facts"
of which we know nothing whatever, merely on the
testimony of some physicist, or astronomer, or medico,
52 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
or traveler, or whatnot, as to what he claims he has seen.
We haven't seen them, but we believe them. Yet we -
as a race - remain unmoved by equally specific and sup-
ported testimony, as to what they claim they have seen,
of such men as Sir William Crookes, Flammarion, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Richet, down to the bewildered - but
stubbornly honest - chiefs of police so often lugged in-
to research of psychic phenomena on the naive assump-
tion that they must be particularly qualified to detect
fraud. We haven't seen; so we don't believe. Same kind
of testimony, by same type of witnesses. If we simply
must explain to ourselves, we say they've gone a little
dotty, and let it go at that!
Probably that is as it should be. This type of evidence
may be intended only for the person to whom it i's direct-
ly addressed. It may be the job of each to search out his
own experience; or have it seek him out when he is ready
for it. The only real and satisfactory "evidential," in the
long run, is not the testimony of phenomena, but of
ideas. Darby summed that up well in the last paragraph
of Our Unseen Guest.
"We believe," he writes, "Stephen is real, not because
of the tests, convincing as they have been; for these, it is
conceivable, might be explained away. That the tenilS
of his philosophy should have come to us as though out
of the air, with us ignorant of their meaning until Ste-
phen elaborated them into a connected and dignified
metaphysical system, seems a test unlikely - as far as we
are concerned-to be explained away. Yet granted it were
- still would Joan and I be compelled to accept the rea-
sonableness of Stephen's message. And that the philos-
ophy should be reasonable and the phenomenon a de-
ception is a contradiction which, to use Stephen's words,
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 53
Joan's mind and mine are not 'nimble enough' to enter-
tain."
With that I agree heartily. Your own persuasion should
await the completion of what Betty had to say. The
"evidential" of the preceding chapters was not narrated
to convince you: merely to show you the manner by
which we personally were convinced. Now, in c;irder to
show how •Betty managed to persuade us that she had
indeed something to say, it might be well to set down
the high lights of the first few evenings.
After Joan had gone in trance that first night, a long
pause ensued. Then a whisper: "Yes, yes." Suddenly
the voice came through clearly.
"Where shall I begin?" it said. ''You see, Stewt,• Joan's
all clogged up with emotion, and I can't ... She wants to.
She wants to let me have her mind to use for you. I
think the best thing is just to begin the job, and that will
quiet her down and give me a better chance.
"You see, the thing I have to do now is what I did
before, only from the other end. I have to come back and
tell you how I come back. That's my job: that's what I
have to do."
The facility abruptly failed. In such cases a question
often helps. An earlier "message," purported to have
come from Betty to a friend, and relayed to me, was that
she was "working on the subject of pain, its nature and
the technique of handling it." I asked about that, mere-
ly to get things going again. It worked.
"That is a very definite part of what I am doing," she
resumed. "We are all of us working so hard on people
• In a manner of speaking, this was the first bit of "evidential," though
it was not particularly important. Only Betty had ever called me
that; and - as far as we know - Joan had never heard it.
54 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
who are coming over suddenly now. [This refers to the
fighting in Poland. S E W] Our friend the Doctor is
helping on that. He and I are working together. It is all
confused here now: so many coming suddenly, and they
don't know what has happened to them.You see, to peo-
ple like you, and me when I left you, who know the
facts of. the very narrow no-man's land between what
you call life and what I now call life - well, we can aid
those who come out to help us m going over, and meet
them all clean and glorious and sure. Always those who
go naturally are met and told what the change is, so that
there is no disconcertion on their part. But those like you
and me, we can help of our own volition and knowledge.
We are not only spared the surprise of finding ourselves
suddenly in another sphere, but we ourselves can wipe
out the tensions of our memories."
Her reference to working with "so many people com-
ing suddenly now ... not knowing what has happened
to them," while those "who go naturally are always met
and told," is an old story. Most of the books on psychic
experience, especially those published during or immedi-
ately following the 1914-1918 World War, carried this
same statement, endorsing the age-old plea of the Litany:
"from battle ... and sudden death, Good Lord, deliver us."
Betty's new and reassuring thought was how we -
"people like us who know the facts of the very narrow
no-man's land" - can meet death, sudden or natural; how
we can rejoin our friends on the other side "all clean and
glorious and sure" and "wipe out the tensions of our
memories."
This last seemed important to us; and very comforting.
It struck Darby as especially so, and he made a contri-
bution.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 55
"A long time ago," said Darby, "soon after a medical
friend of mine died, I was talking, through Joan, with
him about his own passing. And among other things he
said this:
" 'Birth is the mystery, not death. And did you ever
stop to think that if a child about to be born could be
awarely conscious, how confused it would be, and how
afraid of the strange new world it had to face?' How
about it, Betty?"
"Your friend was right," she replied. "Of course death
is much simpler than birth; it is merely a continuation.
Earth is the horning place for the purpose of individu-
alization. That is one of the things I am to tell you about
later."
Nor could we persuade her at this time to explain
further.
"No," she said firmly. "I could not make you under-
stand yet. What I am being permitted to tell you has a
pattern - a well-thought-out, step-by-step pattern. It will
be easier for all of us, if you do not disturb the pattern."
I asked another random question, with the same object
in view: to keep things going.
"Do you see and feel the physical sensations of my
world that I see and feel?" I enquired. "If so, do you
get them through me? Or on your own?"
"I have all the senses you have, only more," she
answered.
"Then," I persisted, "you can actually share a physical
sensation with me, as smelling a flower, or seeing a land-
scape?"
"Of course. And I've done it. All that you have I
take, and I want it. And I can induce a sensation in you.
"But our next job together," she continued, " is phil-
56 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
osophy, though my study of pain is important. You see
our last book* tells about how I went 'out,' how I came
into contact while I was still living on your side, how
anyone can teach himself to come in contact, to some
extent at least, with this side. Now I must evolve a
method for telling how we come back, how I do it, so
that you can receive more easily. You have learned how
to project your consciousness into my present state of
existence and draw sustenance from it; but you do not
know how to permit us, on this side, to project ourselves
back to you. I did the one thing there; now I must do
this here.
"If Joan knew just how to let me come, it would be
perfect. We will try to make progress as fast as we can.
I want you to be with me; I want to - Oh darn!" she
interrupted herself as the station fumbled. "If Joan and
I can only work together until I can rub out the wrinkles
in her brain - it's all here to be told. It requires a keyed-
upness from the spiritual side; a calmness from the physi-
cal._
fYou have to be spiritually alert, physically passive.
But that alertness is peculiar. If you are too spiritually
alert you get keyed up to the point where you are not
dominated. It is under high tension that visions are seen
- Angels of Mons, and so on. But what I am talking
about is the day-by-day means of natural normal com-
munication with me, and me with you."
That certainly sounded interesting enough, aside from
all the personal and the evidential, from which I extract
these excerpts. At the next opportunity I reverted to
her statement as to her senses.
"You said, or implied, that you received sensations
• Across the UnknO'W'TZ.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 57
from our physical world. Do you get them actually
through the contacts with it of your present body - what
we used to call the beta body* - or do you get the
idea of contact first? Do I make myself clear?"
"Clear as mud," laughed Betty. "But I'll tell you how
it is, I do touch you, and sometimes you feel me, de-
pending on whether your sense is keyed to it. My touch
of you to me is just as real as ever. We are real. We are
entities. I am."
"In psychic literature," suggested Darby, "we are al-
ways reading about the 'density' of earth conditions that
it is necessary for the discarnate to penetrate for the
purposes of communication, and we get the idea some-
how that you do so with difficulty, something like a man
under water. Doesn't that affect your other contacts with
our world - "
"The density is not for us," she interrupted. "It's the
density for you. We can see you. There is an earth den-
sity that is factual that you can penetrate only under cer-
tain circumstances - emotion, shock, trance, and so on;
and then there is a spiritual density created by the minds
of people."
"Then your own faculties are not dulled by it?" I
pressed the point.
"No. Take a radio: the announcer is in full possession
of his faculties, he is not dulled or fuzzy. But there may
be static to spoil reception. The limitations of relation-
ships between the two worlds are for the_!11.ost rt-lim-
ited only in your world.!Vour world and mine are the
same, only you are not ccSnscious of mine. I see both." ,..,/
• See The Betty Book.
CHAPTER VII
ONLY ONE UNIVERSE
1.
"LISTEN!" Betty paused. For a breath there was utter
silence in the room. Then - "Listen," she said again.
"There is only one universe."
Darby's eyes, lifting from the notes he was taking, met
mine. Here, indeed, was a new concept if Betty meant
her statement to include herself as well as us.
Granted a Hereafter as a necessary accompaniment
of immortality, where was its place? Most moderns, I
think, have discounted the pre-medieval imagery of a
Heaven set above the clouds with golden streets and
golden harps in the hands of gold-crowned angels. Yet
my own ideas on the subject, I suddenly discovered, were
pretty nebulous. Betty existed. I had no slightest doubt,
emotional or intellectual, as to that. She had come back
to me on the hillside not thirty minutes after she had
died, :flooding me with her presence and personality.
Since that night she had done the same thing repeatedly;
again and again and again. Now, speaking through a
receiving station, she had come back to identify herself
by means of specific statement of veridical facts.
She had corne back. For twenty years her Invisibles
and mine had been coming back; but - coming back
implies "from." From what? A mode or state o{being?
Or from some place, some where?
Darby voiced my confused bewilderment.
THE UNOBSTR~CTED UNIVERSE 59
"Don't get that," he said shortly. "What's the impli-
cation, only one universe? Are our universe and yours
one and the same? Do you mean what you say literally?"
"Literally," she replied. "This divulgence is an effort
to get at the relationship of our two worlds. The immor-
tality theme has been developed; you believe in im-
mortality. Until actual laboratory work is ready, you
have to go on faying the foundations. For instance, you
have to have a goal and a premise to work from. If I can
only tell you how we come back; chart some kind of a
course to be followed later scientifically. I want to get
over to you iri terms of mechanics the possibility of the
two worlds being the -same. There is only one universe."
"Possibly two viewpoints of it?" suggested Darby.
"Many," she admitted. "But the only viewpoint we
are interested in now is yours and ours. Only one uni-
verse: two viewpoints is just your perception. I want to
make you understand, first, the reality of my existing in
the universe of which you are not wholly conscious. I
want you to understand, secondly, the possibility of my
existing in a universe of which you are fully conscious.
And the third job is the actuality. I want to make you
understand that I do exist, and in a one-and-only universe,
wherein you too live, but amid the world's obstacles.
What I am really trying to say is that I live in the uni-
verse yot.: Jon't see, and also in the one you do see,
Therefore, I live in the whole universe."
"And as a corollary, to show that a great many things
supposed to be lost by separation are not really lost?'' I
suggested.
"The only things that are lost are those apperceptions
controlled by your senses - and not those entirely.
"One of the things that makes it seem to you, in your
60 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
existence, that my universe is not your universe is Fre-
quency."' Let us examine the subject of frequency.
"I called frequency to Joan's attention when she was
mending the electric fan. She could hear the hum. She
could look through the fan and see the door case back of
it. The fan was running so fast that so far as her vision
was concerned it had lost its solidity. My co-existence
with you is analogous. If the frequency were different
for your human focus, you could see me. As it is, you
look through me. I am nqt there.
"Now suppose you cast your mind back to my efforts,
when I was with you, to project my consciousnesses be-
yond my then universe. What I was doing was to project
my consciousness beyond my then limitations. The limi-
tations of human existence vary according to the indi-
vidual. The mode of existence of certain individuals is
farther out into the whole. Grant that, and you immedi-
ately grant that you have a shifting line, an unfixed
horizo~ even in your own universe."
I asked some question, irrelevant, unimportant, un-
recorded and forgotten.
"Again that is beyond the point I am trying to make,"
said Betty reprovingly. "I insist that you stay for the mo-
ment in your own natural habitat, and grant, in it, a
shifting horizon. It is already malleable in your life. I
am speaking of the shifting line of your existing universe
for the individual. You live in that universe. You work
in it. How different do you suppose that universe is to
you than it is to a child? The application is that there is
no division - neither for you nor for me. If you can dis-
• ''Frequency" as Betty used it had a definite technical meaning which
will in due course appear. In this connection. however, the context
makes it sufficiently clear.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 61
cover the frequency, you can reveal my universe. That
would not mean that you could inhabit my universe. It
would only mean that you would know that I am in-
habiting it."
Something like loo1cing at fish in an aquarium, one of
us suggested half humorously; you can see them, but you
can't live with them. Betty was inclined to accept this.
"Let's get back to the child," said she. "You know
how a child develops its five senses. Touch is the first;
hearing is the next, and so on. Now there is a shifting
universe."
"You said your frequency is different from ours," I
observed. "Do you have to leave your natural frequency
to come in touch with our physical world?"
"We do not have to," was her ·unexpected reply; "no
especial effort. The only change of frequency required
of O" is in order.to apprehend more fully our own new
existence.''
2.
All this was, naturally, of extraordinary interest to us,
and opened up many fresh avenues of thought.
We recognized the :importance of the concepts com-
ing from Betty - Betty who had authenticated herself
beyond question. Betty had got us that far. But our ac-
ceptance of her universe ~d ours as one, was something
dse again. With the body of the world's opinion, as ex-
pressed in religion, literature and art - to say nothing
of science - against us in this matter, it was difficult for
Darby or me to assimilate Betty's idea of her one and
only universe.
We sweat over it. We argued it between ourselves and
02 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
with Betty. It stayed over our heads for several evenings.
And then .finally we got it. Betty herself had given us
the key for logical understanding, but we had not recog-
nized it. We had failed as "conceiving stations." And
here, by the way, is a term much used by all our In-
visibles.
As Betty explained it, a conceiving station has two
functions.
"I know what I want to get over,'' said she, "and I ex-
press it. But how can I tell how much I have conveyed,
unless I get a reflection back from your minds? What
can I read of your comprehension from blank silence?"
The second function goes a little further. The con-
ceiving station must not only comprehend what is said,
but he must on his own hook develop implications as
they occur to his habit of mind, and report them back
and discuss them. Many times these contributions are
negatived or drastically modified by the communicator;
in which case they are valuable as clearing misconcep-
tion. More often, through restating Betty's concept in
other terms, they indicated full comprehension. Rarely -
but often enough to gratify - we actually carried to
conclusion premises she had started. Then Betty was
jubilant, as over the brightness of a precocious child.
Therefore a conceiving station, unlike a receiving sta-
tion, must know his subject, or at least he must be able
to learn it. First or last, he must comprehend the mean-
ing of the material coming through. Unless there is an
alert and adequate conceiving station, the value and im-
portance of what comes through the receiving station
is generally lost.
"Photography,,, Betty had said in the midst of one of
our boggings-down, "you ought to understand the one-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 63
ness of your universe and mine through photography ..."
Joan likes to hear the records read after each session.
As she says, it's all she gets out of our parties! On such
an occasion the three of us were discussing the evening's
work. It had been very full of meat. Betty, not impa-
tient but persistent, was hammering bigger and better
ideas at us constantly. And our failure to comprehend
her only one universe was holding everything back.
"Stewart,'' asked Joan suddenly, "what was it Betty
said the other night about photography? Could the anal-
ogy be there?"
I don't know whether the great illumination burst over
Darby or me first. But out of our ensuing debate was
evolved this:
Take a black and white photograph - it registers a
reality. Take a color photograph - and it registers ex-
actly the same reality, but - a reality beyond that de- i
picted by the black and white. "
The illustration proves nothing, of course. Neverthe-
less it helped us to understand how there might be two
different appearances of one and the very s"ame thing.
The color picture is only an extension -"" a more detailed
and accurate registration - of the identical scene origi-
nally photographed in black and white.
Assuming that we here normally live in the black and
white universe, it is now entirely possible (Betty's word
and emphasis) for us to imagine a "color" universe in
which she might live. So there you have apparently two
universes; one black and white, one in color, but never-
theless the same.
"So analyze them as you will," said Betty, "they are
only two appearances or aspects of the same thing. There
is only one universe."
64 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
3·
It soon became evident, however, that her aim, and
the aim of those with whom she was working, was even
more ambitious.
"Now, Stewt," said Betty one evening, "you remem-
ber when my consciousness was voluntarily projected
into this unobstructed universe,* I brought back to you
examples and imagery to explain phases of living: I was
given here a pattern for earth-life development. Now my
job is to bring back to you - and I mean bring - a pic-
ture of the existence in which I now have my being.
"All the concepts that I have been assigned to bring
to you," she repeated, "must be based on the fact that
there is only one Universe. The next step is your recog-
nition of the shifting, even in your consciousness, of the
dividing line between the obstructed and the unob-
structed universes. Next is your realization, of what your
scientists have admitted, that th~re exists - in the only-
one-universe of which you are part - much that your
senses cannot detect, but which you have proved to ex-
ist by means of instruments invented by man. This un-
obstructed universe of mine is part of your universe,
just as your obstructed universe is part of mine."
"We must," she insisted, at a later session, "say, over
and over, there is only one Universe. That is the funda-
mental premise. We have established the reality of con-
sciousness, and the continuity of the individual division
of consciousness. That was done long ago. Now. and
more than ever, for a laboratory starting point, a pre-
• She means her work as exi;ilained in Th~ Betty Book and Across the
Unkn=.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 65
mise, a goal to be proved, we must rationalize for a rea-
sonable mind the second great reality, that of the only
one Universe. The great difference between you and me
is in our awareness-mechanism; and even that awareness-
mechanism is fundamentally the same: the difference is
not so great."
"Awareness-mechanism" is a term much used by our
Invisibles when Betty was here, working with them.
Later, through Joan, Betty made out a glossary of terms
which she wished for complete accuracy in this present
divulgence. "Awareness-mechanism," she defined, "is that
equipment of self-aware consciousness whereby the in-
dividual perceives that which is objective to him."
In view of her statement that she was to "bring a
picture" of her state of being, I was a little curious as
to why her Invisibles in all her twenty years' work
while she was here had always so steadfastly refused to
tell anything about the conditions of life there; and,
furthermore, had never permitted Betty to attempt any
descriptions of her exploration. How does that come, I
now asked her.
"Two reasons," said she. "First, you were not ready
to receive explanation. Second, there was never before
just this combination. I mean a hookup like Joan and
me. You see, I put in many years of projecting my earth
consciousness into the universe as a whole. Most of my
understanding that I brought back was in the termin-
ology of earth symbols. I did not then know how factual
that terminology was; how good it was for one side as
for the other."
"I want to ma~e this as all-inclusive and simple as
possible," she told us on still another occasion. "My work
has always been an explanation of reality. It is now. But
66 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
the purpose of this further exploration of reality is not
to broaden communication between the obstructed and
the unobstructed universes. It is not to make the picture
of my existence so attractive as to create in earth con-
sciousness a longing to come here. Each individual is put
into the world to do a job; and he comes here best and
happiest only when it is completed; after he has gath-
ered to himself as nearly as possible his requisite of work
and experience. The purpose of the present divulgence
is to restore in earth consciousness the necessity of in-
dividual effort, and the assurance that the effort will not
be wasted. The only assurance of this is a return to the
belief in immortality.
"A second purpose is to instill into earth consciousness
the oneness of the whole. This broadens your ethics and
restricts your morals. Both have been too loose for the
comfortable living of mankind. Incidentally, one of the
causes for the instability you note in peoples, individuals,
society, thought, art, is the ultra and sudden ease of com-
munication in time and in space. The use of radio, the
automobile and the airplane is not stabilized. They
have been too rapidly developed and perfected tor the
assimilation of society in general.
"Knowing these things even better than you, it could
not, therefore, be our purpose to do more at this time
than reestablish on the basis of your present knowledge
- and t-l,e needs of your present knowledge - the faith
in the validity of self that is tottering. So much for your
general reader.
"For the special reader, vour scientist in his research
laboratory, ~e do hope to promulgate ideas upon which
he can build toward us an actuality of truth. That does
not ·mean that the man in the street, going about his
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 67
business, could be in constant communication with us,
either see or hear us. It is the acceptance of reality that
we seek for the sake of the return of the individual's
self-respect.
"It is only through the application of the reality of
law, the acceptance of responsibility by the higher qual-
ity, the recognition of the need of the lower qualities for
aid in their individual fulfillment of their work and obli-
gations, that the world can settle into a true evolution-
ary process. It is important not only for you, but for
us, that this occur."
I hope the reader must agree with us that as a pro-
spectus for exploration all this was sufficiently attractive:
that Betty had, indeed, something to say.
CHAPTER VIII
WE WORKED OVERTIME
1.
ON THE strength of all this I modified my plans. As many
of my week-ends as I had not previously engaged, I
spent with Darby and Joan. Occasionally I managed an
overnight in the week itself. Finally, I extended my stay
East to its last possible limit in order to visit them. Dur-
ing those last days we worked every evening, and on
Saturdays and Sundays we could manage two and some-
times three periods. In this manner, all told, we finished
off with exactly forty work sessions.
We worked hard; no question of that. Betty had new
and big concepts to get over: and she had not only to
state them, but to make us comprehend them. To accom-
plish this she encouraged talk, argument, and contribu-
tion on the part of Darby and me - the "conceiving sta-
tions." Darby did much more than could I. There were
moments when the job of getting down verbatim some
pretty rapid talk, and at the same time endeavoring to
absor~ enough meaning to evolve some slight contribut-
ing intelligence of my own, made me feel as though I
were trying to take in the whole of a three-ring circus.
Some of our offerings proved helpful: many of our mpst
gorgeous deductions and theories, that looked perfect-
ly all right to us, Betty turned down flat - and continued
calmly along the line on which she had started. Reading
the records later, as a whole, I can see how ludicrous it
was. She gave us scope to frisk all over the intellectual
landscape, but herself proceeded straight and undeviat-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 69
ing toward her objective. Or, to change the :figure, she
played us as a fisherman plays a trout: gave us plenty of
line, but reeled us in at last to where she wanted us. A
good method. It cleared our minds of what isn't so!
Usually each session lasted from two to two and a
half hours. At the close of each, Betty - oh very polite-
ly! - dismissed Darby from the room. "You see," she
explained quaintly. "I must change myself back, for
Stewt, from a schoolma'am into a gal." Then for ten min-
utes or so she would talk to me of personal things. So
intimate to ourselves, at times, was some of this that at
first I could not quite avoid a slight uneasiness.
"I Imow it seems strange to you to be talking this way
with this woman present," said Betty. "But she is not
present. She is a thousand miles away! She goes so will-
ingly and sweetly," added Betty appreciatively.
These little private talks - if I had stopped to think of
them that way - fairly bristled with the most brilliant
"evidential." But I did not wish to think of them that
way. They were just talks with Betty, about our own
affairs.
2.
I have used the term "what Betty had to say," merely
because it was she who actually said it. She did not pre-
tend - indeed she specifically disclaimed - that this was
all her own effort. She was always referring to others
with her, who were directing and advising as to the
course of the discussions.
"I don't know; I'll ask," she would say when we
asked soi:nething outside her own knowledge. "Those I
70 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
am working with suggest -" she would preface some
advice. And occasionally, when she got into difficulties,
or perhaps by way of epitome, one or another of these
collaborators - or directors - would speak in his own
person. But briefly. There was "Anne." for example.
Anne is a personality who, along with Stephen, immedi-
ately began communicating through Joan once the latter
had discovered her psychic powers. She was a Scots-
woman of, probably, about the sixteenth century. Her
broad dialect is archaic, interspersed upbn occasion with
pure Gaelic, and, until one's ear becomes accustomed to
it, far from easy to follow or understand. Anne, or "the
Lady Anne" as other Invisibles usually refer to her, did
not appear in Our Unseen Guest, though she had much
to do with that book's making. But because she is so
beloved by Betty, and indeed by all of us who know her
- on this side as well as there - Anne is to be included
in these pages.
"The Lady Anne is a very great personage,', Betty
assured us. "I don't suppose you people really appreciate
- I didn't - what an honor it is to have an individual
like Anne take so much trouble. And she is so funny!"
Anne's wit is brilliant; her tolerance and wisdom pro-
found with the simplicity of broad and unemotional
thinking. Nevertheless I shall not attempt to reproduce
here either her repartee or dialect.
"Anne knows much more than I do," Betty told us,
"but I was selected because Joan and I were nearly of
the same frequency while I was there; because I have
so recently come over, and therefore am in closer touch
with you and your ways of thinking; and, finally, be-
cause I worked so hard at it while I was there, that I
developed certain qualifications.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 71
3·
"The only difference, really, between our worlds is a
difference of frequency," Betty continued.
The gap between has never, as yet, been mechanically
bridged. That is to say, the highest frequency we have
mechanically produced or isolated is lower than the low-
est frequency of Betty's state of being.
"You see," said Betty, "when I was there with yo~
I was very close in degree to Joan. I am stepped up now
higher than she."
In order to communicate through Joan, explained
Betty, she must first of all close this discrepancy; "step
up" Joan's frequency to a meeting point with her o~
so to speak. That was roughly it, but the statement is
not exact. Nor was it made exact; but a glimpse was af-
forded by the illustration of striking a note on a piano
and getting vibrations on all the other octaves of that
same note.
"The only reason," said Betty, "you cannot exist and
operate in the entire universe, as I do - for I operate in
your universe as well as in mine - is because you are not
able to step up your frequency. That is the basis of Joan's
talent; she can, upon occasion, step up her frequency.
But it is not a constant with her, which is why she isn't
living with me here now.
"And further," Betty amplified, "Joan can also per-
mit me to help step up her frequency." There seemed to
be considerable technique to that.
·~A station's ability to release subconsciousness and be
stepped up in frequency is a talent," she repeated. "It's
a part of that person's make-up, like any talent. You all
72 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
have it to a degree, the simplicities of it. Everybody is
more or less 'psychic.' Some know it; some don't. Darby
is a good conceiving station, Stewt is a combination. Joan
is a super receiving station. During communication I use
the released subconscious of the station, and its store-
house to produce my message. It's a talent on my side,
too. In a way we have 'mediums' here. Certain of us
can communicate with more facility. I have to contend
with the frequency of Joan's physical body, just as she
does to communicate with me. That is a resistance. In
many cases the deflection is so great you get no com-
munication at all."
All this was really aside from the line of the philoso-
phy Betty was then trying to get into our heads. Never-
theless it interested us enormously. We were curious as
to what made the wheels go round. We often wanted
to know things that had little to do with the presenta-
tion of the argument, and generally were squashed by
the simple statement, "That is aside from the point I am
trying to make" - expressed with the finality of Queen
Victoria's "We are not amused." But this question of
the technique of communication was an exception. Betty
was willing to touch on it, from time to time. Perhaps
she was indulging the children. Perhaps she felt its un-
derstanding would add to the reality of the situation. I
do not know.
"You said a while back that you 'used the released sub-
conscious of the station and its storehouse,'" I reminded
her one evening. "Of course we have known that you
people over there pick a station for its vocabulary. Do
you also pick a station for its content of knowledge of a
subject?"
"Rather for its potentiality of knowledge," she amend-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 73
ed. "Joan has no metaphysics, but it was possible for
Stephen to give his philosophy through her because the
potentiality was in her mind. So I do not think we shall
have much difficulty in getting the present divulgence
through her. Of course, there is here a profound and
sort of consecrated eagerness to receive. Every time.
I come I realize how much she wants to open her mind
to the use we want to make of it."
"Now as to this attuning of your frequency and hers,
one to the other. Do you tune hers up and yours down?"
I asked. "And when you meet us, as you say you do, do
you tune us up and yourself down?"
"I do not tune down my individual frequency to meet
you," she replied with dignity. "I do stimulate yours,
and I deliberately use a complementary frequency on
this side to meet it. It happens that my frequency and
yours and Darby's and Joan's are very close. But Anne's,
frequency is away beyond mine. I am telling you how
she does it."
"What is this complementary frequency?" I asked.
"It is the frequency on my side that is exactly equal to
your own on your side. It is lower than mine. But there
is a degree here that is an exact complement of Joan's,
but it is lower than I am now. I have to be able to manip-
ulate that frequency in order to complement her.
"Suppose," said Betty, surrendering at last to our per-.
sistence, "we first take up the procedure from your end.
Now, here is Joan, with a talent for receiving impres-
sions outside the ordinary world impingements. She goes
about her business all day, having her share of hunches,
but no more than the average person. Then we four get
together.
"Now, one of the reasons Joall is such a good station_
74 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
is because she can be turned on and off by somebody
else. ln her case, by Darby's touch on her wrist."
Something of the sort seems to be the case with pro-
fessional mediums - I epitomize Berry's statement here:
they have their "signals" for entering the peculiar state
of communication. Some have a crystal ball, or tea leaves,
or playing cards, or the singing of hymns - there are
dozens of devices. The ancient soothsayers used the en-
trails of sacrifice.
"Nevertheless" - I resume the verbatim report of
what Betty said - "in none of their cases is there that
little peculiar device, like clicking on and off a radio,
that we have here. When Darby touches her wrist, that is
merely a signal - a command-impulse from him for her to
release her subconscious - that I comprehend in response.
"Now suppose we describe that subconscious as a mag-
netic field of a certain degree of attraction. If we were
,dealing with pure physics, you would at once recognize
that a like field could send to it or receive from it any
impulse.
"Now, operation of the field on my side is just as
much a gift as is the opening of the field on your side.
Nevertheless, even failing that operation, impressions do
get through, but neither clearly nor correctly."
"And that presupposes also the possibility of leaks
through from other sources," suggested Darby.
"Yes. We have here a magnetic field. And there are
other magnetic fields of approximately the same tuning.
That is why, in the middle of a perfectly evidential and
correct message, you will get words we, or the station,
have not been able to edit out. As we learn better to con-
trol the field, and as the station learns better to edit, you
get less and less of that.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 75
"When Joan is in this communicating state - that is,
while her magnetic field is opened - anything you say
registers, and because she knows it at the time, she is
able to edit. Nevertheless her memory is blocked off.
Now, when I get in the communicating state, through
her - when I begin to work my complement field here -
I am in a like state. That is, not precisely like, but
comparable. And I've put myself so in tune with her
senses that I get back a most pleasurable reaction to them.
That is why I like to hear you address me audibly,
though it is true I can pick up from the entire field, on
which you two [Darby and S E W] impinge."
That is, she could "read" our thoughts and mental
questions.
"Now we're on the subject," said I, "how about this
mind-reading business? Suppose I am making a mental
comment to you. How literally do you take that from
my mind? Exactly, or only in gist?"
"I get more than the gist of your comment. I get
your exact words when there is a direct communion be-
tween you and me. When there is a station, I would not
only have to get your words myself, but in most cases
I would have to get enough of the sense of your ques-
tion into the station's mind to be able to answer it through
her."
"It has been stated, quite often, that in your world
you communicate with one another mentally, what you
might call telepathically," I continued. "Is that true?
It doesn't sound very sociable."
"We have voices. We can communicate with each
other mentally, but we use words over here simply be-
cause it's easier. There is a little more technique to get-
ting it out of the mind. Just as there is to getting it out
76 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
of your mind, to carrying on a mental talk with you.
And of course my awareness-mechanism has to be more
acute in getting what you think than when I converse
with another individual in my state."
There is, she explained, a "communication band" of
frequency, common to all.
"It isn't important," said I, "but there's a current idea
in occult circles that every time we think of you people,
you are aware of it and have to respond -"
"I should say not!" Betty's scorn was vast. "If you
thought you really had something to say, of course we
would come," she relented.
"Now," she finished off that aspect of the subject, "I
want to call your attention to one fact. In this type of
communication we are using now, you have never had
to contend with a lower degree."*
"Am I to understand that the control of this station
by a lower degree than the station is practically impossi-
ble?" I wanted to get this clear.
"Yes, it is. Let's go into it more deeply. Just how
much effect on your actual mentality, your think tank,
not your emotions, would the meanderings of a child
have in influencing judgment? Little, or none. It's ex-
actly like that."
It is true that all this series of dissertations proved
astoundingly free from what we call "coloring" - the
interposition of the station's own subconsciom; and of
what we call "interference" - presumably from outside
entities. We remarked on that one day.
"Oh, I can handle this woman," said Betty, almost
smugly.
• Of outside interference.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 77
I think she must rather have hoped that all this would
settle our minds so we could get on with the main job.
And, after all, our minds had to be settled. It is part of
how we worked, and that is one reason why I include it
in this chapter. Another reason is that I think it inter-
esting.
"Now look here," I challenged, "you've got me scared.
If you people can enter our minds at will, pretty soon
I'm going to be afraid to think And you say you can
go anywhere in our world 'because to you it is not an
obstruction.' Where's our common ordinary privacy?
Irvin Cobb's goldfish in a bowl has nothing on us."
"Certain things you call traits of character and con-
vention have a different meaning here than there. They
are enormously intensified. Such things as honor, hon-
esty, self respect, and the like," said Betty.
"Does that intensification impose on you an actual in-
ability to intrude, as a locked door with us?" I wanted
to know. "Or is it merely voluntary?"
"There are certain things you could not do - that you
need no conscious inhibition to keep from doing. You
never would think of them. Murder, for example. Then
there are, in addition, conventions that perhaps you have
consciously to think about. You might break a conven-
tion, and then you'd be sorry. Such things do go farther
on our plane. They are all of them protective."
"How about lower degrees without the full sense of
honor, privacy, and so forth, of the higher degrees? I
instance not reading a man's diary. True of us; but not
perhaps of the tvpical landlady of fiction."
"One of the difficulties on earth is that you have ideal-
ized truth out of your social set-up. Yet you have your
prisons. T he reason you have so many of them is because
78 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
you have pennitted the lower degrees to run amok,"
she replied.
"How do you keep them from running amok over
there?" asked Darby.
"In the first place," said Betty, "laws are obeyed here.
The recognition of law is imperative. Law is a thing here.
It operates. And here we all understand that if we run
up against a law, we bump. The breaking of a law here
has a different reaction on the individual consciousness
than does the b1eaking there. And it's not done."
"These lower degrees are then unable, by their nature,
to invade privacy?" was my question.
"It is the very nature of things that makes them un-
able."
CHAPTER IX
WE MAKE THE GLOSSARY
BETTY early began to have trouble with terminology.
The ideas she wanted to convey were exact; and our
habit is to use words inexactly. Her ideas were new; and
they deserved new terms. However, at first she used
those with which we were familiar, and eased us out of
them only when by their means she had penetrated our
dm~cy. .
As an example, for some time she distinguished her
universe and ours as unlimited and limited. "It is all one
universe," she insisted, "but yours is limited."
That did all right for the first rough exposition. "But
we are not without limitations," she later reflected.
"They are not limitations of your kind of matter, but ..."
Then for a while she switched to "restricted" and "un-
restricted"; but this would not do: she admitted she
did have the restrictions of her state of being. Finally
she settled down to "obstructed" and "unobstructed";
and was satisfied. So was Anne.
"And," the latter pointed out, "you will remember
that at the very first Betty said there is the obstructed
and unobstructed universe." This was true - as a phrase
- but we had forgotten it.
We had the same difficulcy with the word "constant."
It took us some time to learn, by the context of the
record, that Betcy used it in the sense of •tconstantlv ac-
companying," as an inte~ral necessitv of beinQ'. But its
stricter connotation is mathematical. It wm1ld mean
"fixed" to most people, and that was not what Betty
wanted at all. "Substantial" - standing under - had too
·
so THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
many connotations: "Co-efficient" - analyzed down to
its derivatives - was good enough; but no reader would
stop to analyze. He would simply take its mathematical
significance1' and let it go at that. So we had to search
still further.
And in another connotation Betty used "constant"
for a while in such phrases as "constant time," "constant
space." On Darby's suggestion we substituted "abso-
lute." That was a comfortable enough fit for the founda-
tion ideas. But later it could not contain them. Betty be-
came more and more dissatisfied, as did Darby.
"We..have to ditch the word 'absolute'," said she at last.
" 'Absolute' connotes static; and ours is not a static
world; it is in evolution. We have had to use terms at
first that were absolutely gray-headed. That is why we
had to get the word 'orthos.'"
That was a brand-new word Betty had managed to
coin some days before, and had defined for us, after a
fashion, but whose real intended use Darby had "con-
ceived" only now. We had been fumbling, with much
give and take of discussion for her conception of "con-
stant time," or "absolute time," and finally in despair
fell back on "third time" - the other two being ordinary
sidereal or clock time, based on astronomical movements,
and psychological time.*
" 'The Greeks have a word for it!' " quoted Betty.
At the moment we thought that a flippancy, nor did
we change our opinion when, later, she repeated.
"You remember last week I told you 'The Greeks
have a word for it,' " she insisted. "Strip down - as you
5tripped down your word 'essence> - esse, to be. The
Greeks had a word for it."
• The argument will be develop~d in its proper place later,
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 81
She tried to tell Joan, and have Joan repeat it to us -
a method sometimes effective when there is verbal dif-
ficulty. Joan produced eras, and in her capacity as a re-
ceiving station stuck to it in face of derisive hoots from
both the conceiving stations. This, we protested, was
no love story; nor one of rhose love-light-and-sweetness
cults! Or was it? No, it wasn't.
For the time being Betty gave it up and went on using
"constant" and "absolute," but always with dissatisfac-
tion. Finally she got it over, through Joan, in automatic
writing; a method Joan very rarely employs, and at
which she is not particularly good. It was orthos;* a word
which, audibly, sounds sufficiently like eros to one who,
like Joan, knows no Greek.
Like all new words, it had to have not only meaning,
but connotation poured into it before it could become
medium of exchange. That came later for us, and will
for the reader come later in this book. But it soon became
sufficiently obvious, as our especial terminology accumu-
lated, that we would have to go in for definitions.t
And that, for Darby and me - the conceiving stations
- turned out to be genuine labor. Betty seemed to think,
and probably justly, that it would be good for our un-
derstanding if she let us do the defining. She reserved
the right of veto - and exercised it. And let us try and
try again, with an occasional kind hint or suggestion -
seldom more than that - until we had hammered out
something satisfactory. It was really funny. W e had so
many bright ideas, and were so enormously pleased with
ourselves, and were so flatly sat upon! Definitions of
• Greek - straight, true. As orthodox, orthochromatic, orthopedic, etc.
t See Glossary at end of book.
82 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
half a dozen terms would leave us, and the evernng,
exhausted.
"Now formulate and define orthos," Betty challenged
us.
Before we begin, I beseech the reader not to try to
make head or tail of this now. It will be discussed - and
I hope clarified - in Part II. I quote here, only as
amusing, an example of what we were up against in
making these definitions.
"Well," fumbled Darby, "you have said that orthos
is 'the elemental reality'; 'it is not synonymous with
consciousness'; 'it does not include the obstructed uni-
verse aspect.' 'Orthos is the elemental reality of the unob-
structed universe' - but really consciousness is the ele-
mental. By its derivation, 'orthos' is 'the true.' If space
and time and motion are, as you have implied, appear-
ances set up in the obstructed universe, then orthos is
that of which they are the appearance.''
"Orthos - from the Greek for true - is the ultimate
from which all appearances of the universe emanate,"
contributed Betty.
"Is it fair to say that orthos is the unobstructed uni-
verse, the frame, the concept of die unobstructed uni-
verse?" asked Darby.
"It would be fair enough," conceded Betty. "Orthos
is the unobstructed aspect of the entire universe."
"Then," said Darby, "I'd say that orthos is the field
of operation of consciousness and its co-existent essences
in the absolute."
"But," objected Betty, "why did we coin the word
'orthos'? Wasn't it to get rid of the word 'absolute'?"
"Orthos is the field of operation of consciousness and
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 83
its co-existent essences in its unobstructed aspects,'' was
my try at it.
Betty ignored this one.
"One of the subjects we want to talk about is the
fourth dimension - the possibility of it, not its reality;
you can't get the reality," said she.
"But," objected Darby, "you have said that orthos is
in trilogy.* Add a fourth? Unless it is consciousness it-
self." Darby was doubtful. So was I.
"Well, if you add any fourth dimension tonight, I'll
lose consciousness," I observed.
This joke was not appreciated. We returned to the
job. After much anguish we evolved this:
"Orthos: the operation of consciousness through co-
existent essences in its unobstructed aspect."
Betty passed this. "The next is 'orthic,'" she said.
"'Adjective: pertaining to orthos,' "I proffered glibly.
"Congratulations! A perfect definition, and right the
very first time," said Betty ironically.
In this mailller, was our glossary compiled.
• A trilogy of Time, Space and Motion. See discussion in P!lrt TT.
PART II
CHAPTER X
CONSCIOUSNESS, THE ONLY REALITY
1.
ALMOST a quarter of a century ago Stephen, through the
same station Betty is now using, developed an original
philosophy which many people, among them I, have felt
made rational - or at least more rational - the continua-
tion of the individual after death.
Early in Betty's divulgence I realized, as did Darby,
that her own work of the past twenty years, as recorded
in The Betty Book and Across the Unknown, and that
of Margaret Cameron as detailed in The Seven Purposes,•
as well as the philosophy of Stephen of Our Unseen
Guest, were of the same piece as her present effort - per-
haps a groundwork and preparation for her present effort.
Indeed, it was Betty herself who later suggested that her
current thesis, while inclusive of the·pragmatic and ethi-
cal teachings of The Seven Purposes, was so definitely a
metaphysical extension of the Stephen philosophy as to
make a resume of his earlier thought imperative for the
present reader's best understanding.
"It is felt here," said she, "by intelligences who, when
operating in the obstructed universe, had much to do
with stimulating public thinking, that this particular book
on which we are working should pretty much encompass
the whole teaching. We mnst get from Darby and Joan
permission to restate the substance of their publication,
and build this presentation on a combination of what
• See Appendix n - The Seven Purposes.
•
88 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
Joan received and what I received, as a foundation to
what Joan and I are now doing together."
Therefore, at Betty's behest I epitomize briefly Ste-
phen's concept, which rested on the following:
There is but one reality. It is all-inclusive, but in de-
grees. Its highest expression on earth is consciousness, the
self-aware I-Am of man. Consciousness, in degrees, is the
one and only reality.
This is not a statement of subjective idealism. It is as far
from that as from materialism. For as Stephen phrased it:
"Your men of books and laboratories... all seek to find
a fundamental in their favorite attribute of reality. The
idealist has made mind supreme... the materialist has
made matter supreme. The truth is that both mind and
matter are ...attributes of one that is greater than either."
To that "greater than either" he gave the name of its
highest expression - Consciousness.
Betty developed this thought for a visitor unskilled in
metaphysics.
"What is your reality?" she asked. "What do you
know, beyond question? Take this room. Are you sure
these walls are green? Maybe your eyes trick you. Maybe
these walls are gray - just as one of your friends has al-
ways insisted! Take the salt in the soup last night. Maybe
there wasn't too much - nobody else thought so - maybe
your taste tricked you! Take all of your sense-perceptions
- any of them can trick you! So what do you know? Just
one thing. You know that you are. That is your reality -
- consciousness. Consciousness is the one and only
reality."
"You know the people you love," the visitor objected
doubtfully.
"How do you know them? What do you know of their
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 89
I-Am? Of course you know that they are entities in your
obstructed universe. But the only thing of which you are
absolutely sure, what you know in any specific dot of
time and space, is I-Am. Everything else you know is in
relation to your I-Am.
"Consciousness," said Betty, hammering home Ste-
phen's basic concept, "is the only reality."
2.
Next, the Stephen philosophy undertook a qualitative
and quantitative analysis of consciousness - exactly as
a chemist might undertake a qualitative and quantitative
analysis of elements and compounds - showing that here
on earth evolution advances from a quantitative aspect
only. In other words, so far as earth evolution can be
noted and measured by science, a set pattern is followed;
we get higher and higher developments of the earth spe-
cies, but in any observable span of centuries no new
species occur, no new genera. One can breed better dogs,
bigger or smaller dogs, curlier or smoother dogs; but al-
ways they are dogs. Yet science also knows that in the
various ages of the earth's history new genera have ap-
peared. Man, for instance, the genus homo.
Where from? Monkeys? Or a common ancestor of man
and monkeys? That is one theory of evolution. But even
to the most convinced Modernist - the believer in evolu-
tion as opposed to the rapidly decreasing group of Funda-
-mentalists who dispute evolution - the suggestion of an
ape ancestry just won't click. Somewhere along the line
there's a missing fact as well as a "missing link"! How-
ever, back in 1916 Stephen had said:
90 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"Your science knows but half of evolution."
Granting the truth of evolution's quantitative devel-
opment here on earth, what about evolution's qualitative
development - those periodical appearances in this world
of new genera and new species, or even of new v:meties
in those species so radically different as to cause science,
unable to account for their source, to call them "muta-
tions"? ·
Postulating earth-life as quantitative evolution, Stephen
proclaimed the other "half of evolution" to be qualitative.
Thus he established for Consciousness - the one and only
reality - two planes or, better perhaps, two modes; quan-
titative evolution, or life here as we know it, and qualita-
tive evolution, or life there as he knows it after what we
call death. His plane, or mode, of consciousness, he said, is
qualitatively free; quite as our earth plane, or mode, of
consr.iousness is quantitatively free or, at most, subject
only to such limitations as result from the .fixed quality
of individuals and species.
On the basis of evolution, then, and evolution's own
need to account for its mutations, the Stephen philosophy
asserts a qualitative plane or mode of existence as an inevi-
table necessity for the development of these mutations.
Again:
1. Evolution was accepted by Stephen as a fact or
law:
2. The whole of consciousness, the fundamental
reality, is in evolution:
3. The earth manifestations of consciousness are in
evolution quantitatively only:
4. It follows that the qualitative aspect of conscious-
ness can be in evolution only on its own plane -
a someplace beyond earth-life.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVE R S E 91
And in this "someplace," said Stephen, exists all con-
sciousness not observable at any given period on earth,
since no particle of consciousness can be lost.
He further asserted that the fact that qualitative con-
sciousness is limited in its evolution to its own plane ac-
counts for the fixed quality of the earth species - man as
man, tree as tree, gold as gold, electricity as electricity.
But we must not forget that Consciousness is the fun-
damental - the one common reality, despite all mani-
festations and attributes.
"The consciousness of the weed is no different in kind
from that which manifests itself as an electrical current,
and the consciousness manifested by the electrical current
is no different in kind from that which manifests itself
as what you call inanimate, inorganic matter. Conscious-
ness is. It is the one and only reality, alike always in kind,
though its degrees are many," stated Stephen.
In fact, there are degrees within degrees. To illustrate:
Man is born into this quantitative world out of the
man-degree of quality, not the tree-degree, nor the dog-
degree, nor the electrical-energy-degree, nor any of the
other manifold degrees, but out of his own human-degree.
Nevertheless, though the individual man is born man, his
capacity as an individual varies greatly from that of his
fellows. In the man-degree of quality itself there is a pro-
cession of what we might call sub-degrees, accounting
for individual diJferences.
So man, like any individualized bit of consciousness,
comes into this quantitative world with a fixed degree of
quality. H e is born man, and he can't change that; but he
is also born with a degree of quality individual to himself.
This, too, he can never chanQ"e - his capacity for doing,
for understanding, for becoming. But he can fulfill that
92 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
capacity; he can win for his individual consciousness a
degree of quantitative development proportionate to his
quality.
There is nothing complicated about this thought. We
know it already. Nobody would contend for a moment
that Tony in the ditch and Einstein in the laboratory are
of the same degree of quality. So when a man is born, he
is a man because he is born from the human quality of
consciousness; but he is born his kind of a man because
he comes from his own particular sub-degree within that
quality, bringing with him not only an unalterable hu-
manness but a fixed individual capacity. So what can he
do? Obviously, he can develop quantitatively. He can
fill his capacity, - or come as near filling it, or as far from
filling it - as his free will chooses. In any event, he does
so by doing his job, undergoing experience, and assimi-
lating that experience. In other words, by living earth life.
The manner in which he lives it determines how high a
mark in his capacity he makes. And, incidentally, in any
human being there is more capacity than his best efforts
are likely to fill. He won't spill over!
g.
This, in distinction to quality of consciousness, Stephen
called "accumulation of quantity of consciousness." T hat,
of course, is terminology; and, like all terminology, must
be broken iu before it becomes an easy fit for the mind.
Stephen broke \t in by the use of simple illustrations:
"Take a common field daisy," said he. "It will, in its
earthly character, always be a daisy, though by cultiva-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 93"
tion it may be made a thing of many petals, of intricate
life. So it is with the individual."
Tony in the ditch can go to night school, and support
his crippled parents, and get to be quite a man; or he can
stay in the ditch and arrive at old age pretty much the
same Tony. Not quite. There is no one but accumulates
some quantity. Both a Tony and an Einstein, each accord-
iag to his quality, can, and do, grow here on earth intel-
lectually, morally and socially. Each builds what we call
character. A.TJ.d we know that the extent of that building
depends upon the personal initiative of each, on his in-
dividual free will.
For this quality-quantity thought concerning man is as
old as the ages. Remember the "Parable of the Talents?"
How to one man had been given five, and to another two,
and to a third one? And how the five-talent man accumu-
lated another five, and the two-talent man another two,
while the one-talent man - burying his in the ground -
did not even try? And the Master commended the first
two "servants" in the same words, equally, though the
five-talent man had returned with ten talents and the two-
talent man with but four. Only the one-talent man did
the Master rebuke, because he had not even tried. Each
of the first two had made the most of his individual capac-
ity; each of them had fulfilled his own degree of quality
quantitatively.
4·
And now to this bare outline of Stephen's teaching
must be added two more major ideas, both stated by
94 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVhRSE
him but left, apparently, for development by Betty these
many years later. The first:
"Form is an attribute of consciousness... all manifesta-
tions of consciousness have form ...in qaalitative evolu-
tion as well as quantitative evolution" - in the unobstruct-
ed as well as in the obstructed .universe.
This is a comfortable thought because here on the
quantitative plane we are so used to form. All that we see
or perceive has form; all that we cannot see, but nonethe-
less have learned to measure or use, has form. We our-
selves have form; an electrical impulse has fo.rm. We can-
not see qualitative (unobstructed universe) form - but
neither can we see all quantitative (earth, obstructed uni-
verse) forms - air, for instance. However, Betty will tell
us more about that.
The second proposition to be noted now is what Ste-
phen called Parallel Law. .
"There are two great glimpses," said Stephen. "Evolu-
tion is one of these. With this truth your world already is
familiar.... In inorganic matter, evolution finds one ex-
pression; in the reproductive process of life, another; in
the intellectual and moral phases of human endeavor, still
another. . . . But always it is the same law, its varying
manifestations parallel each other. Now here where I am
there are laws, just as natural as yours...which parallel
the laws, evolution included, of the earth-plane."
"Do you mean," Darby asked (back in 1916), "that
spiritual law is simply a more complex expression of ma-
terial law, and that the law of your plane is but a parallel
of the natural or earth-plane law?"
"Parallelism, so defined," Stephen replied, "is the sec-
ond of the two great glimpses, the greatest really of all
glimpses. If earth scientists will...interpret psychologi-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 95
cal laws on the basis of so-called material laws, they will
lift the assurance of the existence of my plane out of the
field of mystic. belief into that of reasonable fact."
And there, for the time being, Stephen left Parallelism,
despite his having called it "the greatest really of all
glimpses." Perhaps it was left for Betty's more precise
development.
One more of Stephen's terms seems pertinent - plural-
istic monism. It's a serviceable handle for thinking, though
just another way of saying "many in one" or, for that
matter, "e pluribus unum." The United States, for ex-
ample, is one nation, manifested, however, in forty-eight
states. The oneness of consciousness is a fundamental of
the Stephen philosophy, but just as fundamental is his
insistence that consciousness, being in evolution, mani-
fests itself in degrees and in individualizations within
those degrees. Thus it is on earth, and thus it is, said
Stephen, throughout all of consciousness, qualitative as
well as quantitative. Herce pluralistic monism.
"A reasonable peg, in the light of your own knowl-
edge," said he, "on which to hang your faith""" - faith
in immortality.
But between the immortality of his qualitative-plane
in some afterlife and the mortality of our quantitative-
plane in this life Stephen left a wall; a wall between two
planes - one here, the other there.
Now, twenty-four years later, Betty, having died,
"comes back" through the same station to proclaim that
"there is only one universe." Her job, we were given to
understand that first evening she spoke to me through
Joan, was to try to break a hole in Stephen's walL
• All quotations of Stephen are from Our Unseen Guest, published by
Harper & Brothers, February, 1920.
·.
CHAPTER :XI
FOUNDATION STONES
l.
"CoNscrnusNEss," said Betty, "is the starting point for
everything." A familiar statement to us; yet of such im-
portance that she thought it worth returning to so often
that we began to make jokes about it.
"Consciousness -" she began one evening.
"-is the one and only reality," Darby and I supplied
in chorus.
"- as I have told you over -" she continued unper-
turbed.
"-and over, and over, and over, and over," we finished
for her.
Nevertheless she was not deterred from saying it again.
That is true in the cosmological aspect; in other words,
consciousness is the everything. Beyond consciousness is
nothing. Back to consciousness all manifestation can be
traced. On the acceptance of this concept will depend
the later development of Betty's argument.
It is also true as to us individually. We do not need
much reflection to see that this is so. Betty made that
clear in her little homily to our visitor unversed in philo-
sophical enquiry. With us she established it as basic con-
cept Number One.
Consciousness is the one and only reality. \
>
2.
Then she beat over again the ground she had covered
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 97
in introducing us to her own first new concept: that there
is only one universe.
"All the new concepts that I have been assigned to
bring to you," she insisted, "must be based on the fact
that there is only one universe."
As a premise to start from, we had to accept more o.r
less uncritically her initial assertions concerning the ob-
structed and unobstructed aspects of this universe. She
said that we lived in the obstructed, she in the unobstruct-
ed phase. She pointed out that we are obstructed by mat-
ter - "you bump," as she put it, up against a stone wall; it
obstructs you and you have to climb over it or go around
it. You bump up against space - linear distance obstructs
you and you have to employ some means to get from place
to place. You bump up against time; you say, "I haven't
time to do" thus or so, and you mean that the fixed dura-
tim. of an hou.r or a day or a year is obstructing you. You
bump up against motion; some rate of speed, slow or fast,
is continually obstructing you. You bump up against
thought, people's ideas; every day they are hindering,
limiting, obstructing you. We could cite examples in-
definitely. There is no question but that we live and op-
erate in an obstructed universe.
"Even so," Betty said, "you have an actual, present
perception of my unobstructed universe. You will be
amazed to find how much of my universe is in your
present knowledge."
This, of course, was really her basic thesis: that there
is an unobstructed universe, and that it interfuses with our
own; that, furthermore, even our obstructed aspect is ob-
structed only to us, and not to her. So really her major
arguments in proof belong with such extended discus-
sions as we shall encounter in her detailed analyses of
98 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
time, space, motion, matter, and so on. But from the be-
ginning she did take time to point out to .
us that right in
the midst of our obvious obstructions are many things
we know about, or take the word of specialized science
concerning, which to us as human beings are not ob-
structions.
"You know," said she, "that all about you, all the time.,
are colors, sounds, energies - even infinitesimal floating
particles of organic as well as inorganic matter that you
never perceive; of which you go about your day wholly
unconscious. When you stop to think, you acknowledge
the fact of a radio wave - and you might have walked
through one. But it did not obstruct you. So for you it
just wasn't there. H you will only think, you will find
that already you know quite a lot about an unobstructed
universe. At least you know that there is a whole physical
world, or field, of measurable and usable actuality which
causes you no inconvenience and of which you are not
normally aware. Even with you now there is an unob-
structed universe beyond your ordinary obstructed uni-
verse, and with it you deal every minute of your days."
And so we drop in place her second foundation stone.
There is only one universe. One universe, of which
there is an unobstructed as well as an obstructed phase.
And as a corollary: unknowing, we already, to some ex·
tent, inhabit the unohstruc~ed aspect.
The next basic concept is what, for convenience at
first, Betty called parallel law.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 99
You will remember that in the foregoing review of
Our Unseen Guest Stephen was quoted as saying that
Evolution and Parallel Law were the "two great glimps-
es," and that parallel law, or parallelism, was "really the
greatest of all glimpses." Nevertheless, Stephen went no
further than to assert that all known earth laws are par-
alleled on the invisible plane. Betty approached her own
development of this idea with caution.
"My words are heavy: I have to weigh them," said
she. Then, after a pause, apparently for consideration,
she began:
"The law of parallels, which Stephen promulgated, is
more concrete than at that time it was possible for either
the receiving station or the conceiving station to embrace
mentally. You have no familiar attribute in the ob-
structed universe, that is not paralleled with a coinciding,
operating attribute and law in the unobstructed universe.
That is important. Now let's chew on that."
We chewed on it, to some purpose evidently, for some
days later she returned to the subject - with much di-
minished heaviness!
"The deeper we get into the thing," said she, "the
simpler it becomes, because, as I told you, there is only
one law. All you need do is to take your limited law and
project it out into an unlimited operation. What under-
standing of limited law I brought with me has made it
possible for me quickly to adjust myself and project my-
self into understanding of, and cooperation with, the un-
limited aspect of the same law. You must stress parallel-
ism. Reach out along the limited laws you best under-
stand, to meet me.
''What you call natural law is just a reflection, so to
speak, of the orthic law governing my unobstructed uni-
,
100 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
verse. There is only one universe, one reality. The only-
one-universe is pluralistic, as consciousness, the funda-
mental reality, is pluralistic. My aspect of the universe is
unobstructed. Your aspect of the universe is obstructed.
But there is no condition or fact that we have here that
is not at least foreshadowed in your world.
"Now your laboratories are constantly discovering
new manifestations, new laws. Every one of those laws
has a parallel here, and every one is useful to you and to
us. All the laws and manifestations discovered on your
side are operating on our side. And on our side are many
laws and manifestations you have not discovered and do
not sense. Years hence all this will be told again in the
terminology of our laws yet to be discovered by you.
"But" - and here was the important point - "it is not
a case of actual parallelism at all. It is actually an extension
in operation of the same law, that's all. If we are going
to use the word 'parallel', we must make it clear that it
is not a case of two different laws. Of course there are
laws operating here that you have not discovered. When
they are all discovered, it will indeed be one universe. I
can't tell you about them, for there are no words yet.
The reason Stephen used the word 'parallel' was because
the entire universe is, as far as you are concerned, divided
into the obstructed, or your world, and - in your hopes
at least - the unobstructed, or my world. For him to
have said that there is only one law that extends through
the entire universe would have been incomprehensible.
The thing I want to make perfectly clear to you is that
every law in the universe, that you comprehend or that ·
you do not comprehend, whether it operates within or
without your apprehension, extends through the entirety
of the universe. There is no law here that is not potential-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE IOI
ly discoverable in your world, though of course there are
many not yet discovered."
The same law works in both aspects of the universe.
The thing she wanted to get to us next was that con-
sciousness, individualizing itself, dividing into the count-
less entity manifestations that make up the entire uni-
verse, operates in trilogy - in threes. In that no occult
significance of numerology was intended. It was merely
another way of saying th:i,t the universe is three-dimen-
sional; though ordinarily the term means to us only
length, breadth and thickness. Betty needed to extend the
field covered by that term.
As often happened, she sprung the idea on us suddenly,
and then, little by little, here and there, in the course of
many sessions, gave it contour.
"First, I want to establish the word 'constant' as de-
fining an ever-present and inclusive aspect," she began.
We immediately objected. "Constant," we reminded
her, has been given an inflexible mathematical meaning
by the physicists.
"It means fixed, unchanging, invariable in intregal cal-
culus and such," explained Darby.
"I am not familiar with intregal calculus," replied Betty
rather scornfully. "Neither is Joan. But there are those
here who tell me that you are right. What I am familiar
with is the everyday use of the word - the vernacular
use. When I said to anybody, 'It rained constantly for
two days,' I meant that it rained without interruption for
102 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
two days; and I was so understood. I have to use words
- Joan's words. The noun 'constant' means to her what
the adjective means in her everyday speech - ever-
present without being fixed. It could drizzle or pour for
two days, and yet constantly rain. Ever-present, but not
fixed. In no sense fixed."
She was emphatic about the meaning not being fixed.
So after much discussion we added "co-existent" to our
growing terminology. It was a word, we found, that Betty
herself had used back in our fourth session. And the rec-
ord reads, "Note the new terminology I am using." This
sentence was thrown into a long paragraph of dictation
as a parenthetical phrase. We had not noted it; a failure
that had caused us endless mental gyrations. But we had
caught it in time. Betty's "three-dimensional" universe
is far from fixed. It is most emphatically in evolution.
But it is co-existent with Consciousness.
"Now if you have that meaning in mind," she con-
tinued, "I will discuss with you the co-existent trilogies
of your obstructed universe. You have, for instance, sol-
ids, liquids, gases: earth, air, water." She rattled off at
least a dozen more, merely to illustrate, as a sort of "come-
on," but too rapidly for my "shorthand." "In the trilogy
of space you have reduced it to the prepositions - from,
at, to. Time is yesterday, today, tomorrow. All through
your three-dimensional universe runs trilogy, scientific-
ally, materially, psychologically, even mystically. There
are the three Graces, three Fates. It took the great psy-
chic, Christ, to propound the thought: 'Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost; these three are one.' In any case, the trilogies
of length, breadth and thickness and of yesterday, today
and tomorrow are ever-present co...cxistents of your ob-
structed universe."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 103
The obstructed universe - our physical universe - op-
erates in trilogies.
The immediate application she desired to make of this
concept was:
The obstructed universe - our physical universe - op-
erates in trilogies. But - so does the unobstructed uni-
verse. So does consciousness itself.
And for this basic operation or accompaniment of con-
sciousness in her unobstructed universe, Betty, out of the
thin air, coined the term trilogia, to differentiate from
the trilogies of our three-dimensional earth experience.
"You have your trilogies in your everyday life. Better ·
call the eternal verities of consciousness 'trilogia' instead
of 'trilogy, ' " she ruled.
Soon she was putting new content even into our
everyday word "trilogy"; while her own new term "tri-
logia" became fraught with very special meaning. To
illustrate:
Consciousness as we know it in the obstructed universe
operates through that trilogy which we accept as Time,
Space and Motion.
Consciousness as Betty knows it in the unobstructed
universe operates through the trilogia which consists of
the essences of Time, Space and Motion; these essences
are Receptivity, Conductivity and Frequency, respec-
tively.
From the nature of these essences, and from the inter-
action thereof, comes all of what we know - and do not
know - of the universe. To understand that process.
104 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
however, we b·ave to get a notion of what they are in
orthos, and not of what they are as we ourselves expe-
rience them. Remember that orthos is "the operation of
consciousness in its unobstructed aspects." In other words,
we must attempt to understand Betty's time, space and
motion; and build from there.
CHAPTER XII
ORTHOS and the ESSENCES
To approximate comprehension of Betty's time, space
and motion - or our own, for that matter, if her divul-
gence be true - we must acquire some mental picture or
acceptance of orthos.
This is not easy. It was particularly hard for Darby
and me, because both of us were still pretty well mired
in Newtonian physics. Furthermore, despite Betty's, as
well as Stephen's, repeated assertions concerning evolu-
tion as a fact rather than a theory, there remained in our
mental background an established something that was ab-
solute and therefore unchanging and unchangeable.
But as Betty led us further and further toward her un-
obstructed universe we realized that her statements -
from which we could not move her by a whole battery
of arguments - implied the opposite of what our world's
intellectuals have been accepting as the most logical rea-
soning, from the pre-Christian days of Plato down to the
materialism of the exact mechanics of our own twentieth
century. We had been taught to think in terms of abso-
lutes, real ones; and here was Betty knocking philoso-
phy's favorite measuring stick out of our hands. Con-
sciousness, the reality of the entire universe, is in evolu-
tion; what is in evolution can not be an "absolute." And
that, staunchly maintained Betty, was that. Dogmatic,
unshakeable, flat!
Not that she rejected a Supreme Degree of Conscious-
ness. She merely pushed it back, out of the finite, into the
infinite. Infinity we do not, cannot, understand, for the
supreme degree is beyond our comprehension.
:106 THE UNOBSTR•UCTED UNIVERSE
In attempting a discussion of this, while Betty was still
here, the Invisibles had told us that we must keep steadily
in mind the realization that the supreme degree is beyond
earth understanding actually, and that, while we here are
privileged to examine all consciousness for the simple rea-
son that we ourselves are individual bits of consciousness,
and therefore within us is th~ potential capacity of under-
standing, we must do so from the finite aspect.
In this concept rests the thought that reconciles com-
pletely Betty's attitude, as outlined above, with her nat-
urally profound religious faith.
Within this frame of the finite, then, she had set up
time, space and motion as the great eanh trilogy. That
we do operate in this trilogy is self-evident, once that fact
is called to the attention. There is nothing else in which
we of eanh can operate.
Next she proceeded to project these three familiars of
our universe into her universe, by "stripping down," as
she called it, our accepted characteristics of each and thus
arriving at their essential properties. It is with these essen-
tials, she told us, that her unobstructed universe deals.
And here is where her term "essence" came in; "stripped
down" to the meaning of its Latin stem esse - to be.
These essences, the great trilogia of her unobstructed
universe, correspond to the co-existent trilogy (time,
space and motion) of our obstructed universe. Each of
these essences will be explained separately in a chapter
all its own. Nonetheless, and though they were defined in
the preceding chapter, they must be restated here as the
basic conception of onhos - restated even as Betty re-
stated them "over and over" for the labored understand-
ing of Darby and me.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE I07j
1. The essence of Time is Receptivity.
2. The essence of Space is Conductivity.
3. The essence of Motion is Frequency.
4. The co-existent trilogy of the obstructed universe
(Earth) is Time, Space and _Motion.
5. The co-existent trilogia of the unobstructed uni-
verse (Betty's) is Receptivity, Conductivity and Fre-
quency.
Those five statements are of the greatest importance -
and to be remembered.
For a long while - it seemed long in our struggle to
encompass her ideas, though, as I have said, actually she
put over her entire concept in but forty sessions - Betty
allowed our three-cornered discussion of receptivity,
conductivity and frequency to advance not only on the
supposition of their being the essences of time, space
and motion; we were also allowed to consider them the
"absolutes" of time, space and motion. As she said after-
wards it was the only way she could get her wedge
into our brains! Something like the theory of giving a
fellow enough rope... !
Anyway, one night in the midst of a rapid and succinct
discussion Darby suddenly right-about-faced.
"I don't like the word 'absolute,' " he announced. "It's
too static."
Then came one of those abrupt, meaningful pauses -
the station seeming to be held in a sort of suspended ani-
mation - that we have come to recognize as heralding
something of special significance. We waited. The sta-
I08 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
tion remained immobile. To this assertion of Darby's,
Betty apparently had no response. Certainly her silence
did nothing to help him out. So we waited some more.
"Say," he ejaculated at last. "Why can't we use the
word 'orthic' instead of 'absolute'?"
Whereupon Betty went off into a series of triumphant
chuckles. It was Betty's owp satisfied - and satisfying -
laughter, not Joan's.
"Good! Good!" she cried. "You've got it yourselves
now! That is why we had to manufacture the word
'orthos.' We had to ditch the word 'absolute.' Absolute
does connote static, and mine is not a static world. It is in
evolution.''
Of course we had been told that "over and over and
over." Nevertheless...
"I suppose," said Darby to me, "we should try to con-
ceive Betty's unobstructed universe, not in terms of our
time, space and motion, but in terms of receptivity,
conductivity and frequency. That is her approach to
time, space and motion." ·
"Approach to nothing!" Betty came back at him be-
fore I could answer in the midst of my mad "shorthand"
scramble to get everything down. "Time, space and mo-
tion are the result; they are appearances, if you wish, in
your obstructed universe of receptivity, conductivity
and frequency as they truly operate in orthos. You re-
member how we gave you the word 'orthos' because in
the original Greek it means true. It is only a word, of
course. But it means - really - the condition or state of
qualitative consciousness in my unobstructed universe,
just as sidereal means the condition or state of quan-
titative consciousness in your obstructed universe. Don't
forget: orthos means true. All this while we have
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 109
had to argue from your perceptions of time, space and
motion toward the true. That is all right. But to get it
clear, so that you fully understand, it also should be ar-
gued from the true - orthos - toward your perceptions
of the true."
We let this soak in for a moment or two in silence.
Then -
"Maybe we ought to try for a sort of mental picture
of orthos," I ventured.
"Maybe you had," acquiesed Betty dryly.
And so we started at it all over again; but this time
from her top down instead of from our bottom up. I can
be no clearer than to repeat the give and take of our
questions.
DARBY: Just what is meant by your Greek word,
orthos? Do you thereby express the complex of the so-
called trilogia, covering all its co-existents from all as-
pects?
BETTY: Yes. Orthos is the true, the correct and the in-
clusive.
DARBY: It seems to me we must use it with one content.
Does orthos cover the complex of the essence of space,
the essence of time, the essence of motion?
BETTY: Yes.
DARBY: Does it also cover our obstructed universe as- .
pect of the three?
BETTY: No.
:110 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
DARBY: It is not synonymous with consciousness?
BETTY: No.
DARBY: It is then a word coined to cover the reality, as
seen from the unobstructed universe, of time, space and
motion? ·
BETTY: It covers the constituents of consciousness.
DARBY: By it we mean the complex of all the three con-
stituents - the trilogia - of the unobstructed universe?
BETTY: It exists in the unobstructed universe, not in
the obstructed universe. Orthos is the true, correct con-
dition of my unobstructed universe: the one standard
thing, the norm, of which all else is but a reflection. This
does not mean that orthos is other than in evolution. It is
in evolution. That which is true and correct as a norm can
grow. But it can only grow correctly, undeviatingly, true
to itself. Also orthos is a fundamental reality, while mat-
ter and force and all the things you play with in your
chemical and physical world are the results only of vari-
ous juxtapositions of the co-existents.
The last sentence of Betty's seemed to bring orthos
right down to our obstructed universe. But this she would
not allow. Nor were we to think of orthos as "heaven,"
though the old idea of fulfillment and unspoiledness as a
condition of heaven, she assured us, is a "great glimpse."
Glimpse was a favorite word of Stephen's and he used it
in our everyday meaning of seeing or understanding a por-
tion or part of a thing or a fact without encompassing its
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 111: ·
complete tru_!h or whole. So I think we might go this far
- the conditions of orthos and "heaven" are the same:
unspoiled, undeviating as to observance of law, correct
and true.
Betty was satisfied that we had the idea at last. It
seemed simple enough then, and we were inclined to be
apologetic for having been so slow. But this, too, she
would not allow.
"Everybody has to go over and over a path to make a
beaten track," she assured us. "What we are after is the '
beaten track, the visible trail that neither the rain nor the
wind nor the growth of nature can obliterate. The only
actual beaten tracks in the obstructed universe are con-
ceptive ideas. These we are now creating. Good night."
Conceptive? Was there such a word? There was not.
But on looking up the noun from which it must be
stemmed I found other unusual adjectives, such as con-
ceptional, coined by no less great contributors to thought
than our own William James and George Frederick Stout
of England. They, too, evidently felt the need of new
words to express new ideas.
CHAPTER XIII
TIME
I.
"Now I think we should begin to clarify the subject of
Time," began Betty. "There are three kinds of time:
sidereal or clock time; psychological time; and then a third
or orthic time, which we are to discuss. Sidereal time is a
fixture of your universe; it depends on movements of
planets, and is measured by calendars and clocks. Psy~ho­
logical time is more flexible. It is your inner sense of time.
You, for yourself, can more or less control your sense of
sidereal time by your psychological time. If you are hap-
py, and busy, an hour is short: if you are cold and un-
comfortable, an hour is long."
But, if we will, she went on to point out, we can often
take any given hour and make it long or short. We can
fill it with distraction, interest or amusement; or we can
just sit still and be bored. In that fashion we do control
sidereal time by means of psychological time. But the con-
trol, we must admit, is fragmentary and partial.
"In our universe we can - partly - control psycho-
logical time," acknowledged Darby, "but that does not
actually change sidereal time.n
"No," agre'ed Betty. "What I said was that in the ob-
structed universe the individual, by means of his psycho-
logical time, can control his sense of limited periods of
sidereal time."
"That's all right," Darby pursued his point, "but he
doesn't control sidereal movements, or the clock. H e
merely gives content to time."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 113
"He is controlling the kind of time in which he exists,"
said Betty. "Your psychological time is really the time in
which you live."
This, on reflection, we had to concede is profoundly
true. Our lives are not, in retrospect, measured by years,
but by the content of those years.
2.
We in our obstructed universe have sidereal time and
psychological time. Sidereal time is our measuring stick
or constant - mathematical constant, that is; and, as far
as we are concerned, we may be said to control it -
partially - by psychological time.
"Now," said Betty, "I have in my unobstructed uni-
verse orthic time and psychological time. And I control
orthic time in a similar manner, by means of psychologi-
cal time. Only there is this difference: Your command
of psychological time is only partial, as you will admit;
mine is more nearly complete. In other words, I am freed
from sidereal time; and I am not dominated by psycho-
logical time, but employ it in controlling the time of
my own state of being.
"In your use and my use of psychological time there is
a parallel. That is what I mean when I say that our psy-
chological time we take with us, and we use it to control
our ·orthic time.
"Orthic time is the reality. Sidereal time, which is a
reality to you, is only an attribute of matter: it is an
obstruction.
"One thing more - psychological time, by which
the other two are modified, is the only variable for me
114 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
just as it is for you. Both sidereal time and orthic time are
'constants,' in that they do serve as a basis of comparison
as well as of mathematical calculation. Both are in ev-
olution; but their evolutional process no more disturbs
either your - or my - use of them as a norm than the
movement of the earth upon its axis round the sun dis-
turbs your physical equilibrium. In other words, sidereal
time is 'constant' enough to serve your present individual
awareness mechanism and the present evolutional status
of the obstructed universe - a norm enough 'fixed' by
the ordered movements of the heavenly bodies to serve
your mathematical purposes. In t:le same way, orthic time
is a fundamental co-existent of my state of Being. These
facts - and especially the nature of orthic time - account
for certain discrepancies and deviations that your labora-
tory workers find in their scientific research and which,
so far, they have not been able to explain."
There followed a quick interchange between Betty and
Darby. .
"Please note that I am using the word 'constant' in the
mathematical sense," he said. "In that sense sidereal time
may be said to be a constant. Is orthic time, fully encom-
passed, also a constant?"
BETfY: That is true for the Supreme, in infinity. And
sidereal time for you is an infinite constant - a concept -
but that's all. It works as far out in your time as ycu can
go, but -
DARBY: Yes, but our sidereal time is also a stabilizer for
our psychological time. What I want to know is whether
you - not the Supreme, but you - have a similar stab-
ilizer.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE I 15
BETTY: Orthic time is a stabilizer for us, of course. But
your sidereal time is only a constant in the universal sense.
Mathematically, you can work it out that way; but you
don't ordinarily do so.
DARBY: Then your orthic time is a mathematical con-
stant in a corresponding universal, that is, impersonal,
sense? Without such a constant, subjective experience on
your side would be a madhouse.
BETTY: Certainly! There would be no common de-
nominator.
The importance of this exchange seemed to lie in this:
that, as sidereal time is a universal constant at our option,
and not by our habit, so orthic time is a mathematical
constant to Betty at her option, and not necessarily by her
habit. In other words, in asserting the constant character
of orthic time we must also realize how ephemeral in our
own mode of thought is the constant of sidereal time.
Also of importance is Betty's statement that we can apply
the constant of sidereal time only as "far out as we can
go." Beyond our reach it becomes only a mathematical
concept, not to be verified by cases.
~·
Now the thing that enables us to manipulate our psy-
chological time, Betty insisted, is the fact that we have
actually an inner awareness of orthic, fundamental time,
in our state of being in the obstructed universe, though
we do not recognize it as such.
-~----~- - - --·---------~-
116 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERS!!:
"Indeed," she asserted, "contrary to your accepted
conception, orthic time is better understood by you in
your obstructed universe than any other of the universal
laws that control the entire universe. What I mean to say
is, that this time in which I exist, is not only shared by
you, but can be conceived by you from your own expe-
rience - I was going to say fringes of experience. I told
you that your psychological time is really the time in
which you live. The time that is most ingrained, how-
ever, is orthic time. That is the time we have here."
That was a pretty bold statement. We protested that
we understood nothing whatever abou:: orthic time, ex-
cept its name, which as yet was meaningless to us. Betty
replied that she did not expect us to understand it; but
that she did want us to recognize the feel of it - of time,
just time, divorced of sidereal aspects.
"A child knows nothing of clocks. Nevertheless he has
a sense of time. You are trained to sidereal time," said
she. "As a child is born into the world, it brings with it
the acceptance of time - just time. Certainly it has no
conception of a longer or shorter period ot sidereal time.
while psychological time is still but one of its potential-
ities as a human entity. This initial knowledge - instinct,
if you like - is of my time. Orthic time. Even an idiot,
deprived of controlled mental activity, has a realization
of orthic time. He knows he exists - in time. It is purely
instinctive, because it's a co-existent of Being. It is Being;
an ever-present time; without beginning and without end.
Of course it is a difficult concept to your modern thought
because the reality has been lost through your personal
experience; just as, before you, it had been lost through
the racial experience which is your earth inheritance.
"That is the price of civilization. Man has educated
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 117
himself out of inherent wisdom - 'eaten of the tree of
knowledge' - and now by the sweat of his intellectual
brow he must search out the truth for himself again. And
being, you remember, 'only a little lower than the angels,'
man will find the truth, since truth is here to find in my
unobstructed universe; in orthos.
"But," she returned to her line of argument, "you have
another aid in your understanding of orthic time, and
that is sleep. Things happen in sleep without time re-
lation."
"I have no difficulty with eventless time," said Darby.
"I have the feel of that, but ... the time you suggest,"
continued he, "would have to be felt in one's inner core as
a time that is distinct from orabove the feeling ofduration!
The sort that recognizesBeingasa constant,notavariable."
"Yes," assented Betty, "it has no division, neither by
hours nor by memory of events. The cat, the dog, the
new-born child live in that time. This time - while we
are conscious of it, and you at least recognize it - is still
for you an X. A child is perfectly conscious of it, and he
must develop before he gets out of living in that time.
Yet you have always projected your individuality over
into my time. You are always doing it; everybody does.
Recognizing, to use your terms, the constancy of Being.
That is the time your scientist would tell you has neither
past, present, nor future. It is a co-existent. Whenever
they tap that, it is there."
"Getting a notion of time's collapsible quality through
the instantaneous transmission of radio may be a glimpse
of how these people act in this third kind of time," sug-
gested Darbv.
"Let's get together," urged Rettv, "becanse this time
business is the common factor between us. It is the one
118 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
place we can meet with understanding. You can be aware
of my time much better than you can have an aware-
ness of my kind of unobstructed space. Space, as you
know it, is a series of obstructions."
All she expected of us, at this stage of her argument,
was that we should have the feel of it. Later, she promised
us, we should know what it is all about.
CHAPTER XIV
SPACE
I.
THE next job proved quite an assignment. We were to
gain a feeling of space similar to what we had come, at
least partially, to sense as a feeling of time. And after that
of motion. Of their character, that is, in our obstructed
universe and in Betty's unobstructed universe - sidere-
ally and orthically, in short. These three, the great trilo-
gia, said Betty, were the basic concepts of her new divul-
gence. Once we possessed them - and that means posses-
sed - she promised us plain sailing and fascinating land-
falls of new adventure in this strange land of hers. But
we must, we simply must, do the drudgery of building
these three concepts into our mental structure. So we
heaved a sigh and tackled space.
This was, as Betty had predicted, a much more difficult
subject than the last.
"You can be aware of my time much better than you
can have an awareness of my kind of unobstructed space.
I have already conceded that space, as you know it, is a
series of obstructions,'' she said at the start.
"That's right," agreed Darby, "no obstructions; no
space. Science measures from one limit - one obstruction
- to another."
"Sidereal space is divided and obstructed as is sidereal
time. They are alike. What about your psychological
space? You must have it, ~well as psychological time,"
commented Betty.
120 ·fHE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"I suppose," mused Darby, "that the difficulty in get-
ting the feel of pure space lies in the fact that we have no
instinct for it as we have for time. We can easily feel an
eventless time. We do not feel as easily, if at all, placeless
space. Could you give me the same feeling of placeless
space as I have of eventless time?"
"Well," Betty attempted, "the whole difficulty is that
two things have happened. First: long before you were
born it had been discovered that your material earth, in-
stead of stretching out flat to infinity, was round and
turned back on itself. So you have the knowledge, as far
as sidereal space is concerned, that if you go far enough
on the earth's surface, you will come back to the place
you started from. On the other hand, you can never re-
turn to any of your starting points in sidereal time.
"The other difficulty is that your sidereal space is not
only measured obstructively, but it is measured muscu-
Iarly. You.cannot sit down inactive, and without motion
of some kind - either by your feet, or the feet of a horse,
or an auto or a ship - have a definite spot in space come
to you. In your universe, for that spot in space and you
to come in contact, you have to have a motion. On the
other hand, with sidereal time you need do nothing about
it ~tall. Ten o'clock will arrive for you, whether you lift
a finger or not;'Your office will not arrive for you, unless
iYour body, in some kind of motion, covers the miles.
"Now those are the two h:mdicaps you have to over-
come in comprehending orthic space. So it seems to me
that the best way for you to try to get it in your mind is
to look out and up into the universe where you have, as far
as your personal experience is concerned, no muscular ob-
structions and no limitation. The trouble is that you have
been educated out of your sense of orthic space, and
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 12 I
have not yet caught up with your sense of orthic
time."
"On the round earth you deal with two dimensions
only," objected Darby, irrelevantly, I thought. "I don't
see how plane, or even solid, geometry will help."
"Oh, I used the image of the globe only as an illustra-
tion of a difficulty," returned Betry with a touch of im-
patience. "But remember this - you had the feeling of
orthic space originally; only you were educated out of
it - even more so than in the case of orthic time. Still, [
recognize your problem, so let's try time-space, and see
if that will help. That is one of the new playthings of your
mathematicians, isn't it? It is a makeshift, but at least it
expresses their dissatisfaction with their present working
hypothesis and a groping after a new."
2.
Now I felt we were getting somewhere. Hooking time
and space together made a new springboard. All three -
time, space and motion - are hooked together, Betty
somewhere reminded us; they are the trilogical co-
existents of consciousness. In our experience they are
more or less set apart from each other, and for analysis
and understanding must be completely separated. But
now she recalled to us what she had said some evenings
before about the malleability of time and space, even
with us. And of what Stephen has told us. He had popped
in for a moment when Betty was floundering a little.
"What Mrs. White wants you to understand," he had
said, "is rliat recent discoveries have made it possible for
you to have a better understanding of our time ratio than
122 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERS::lt
any other of our shared characteristics," and promptly
withdrew. ·
"To what discoveries was Stephen referring?" I asked
Betty.
"He meant the radio and the various new light beams
as affecting the ratio of time and your geographic space,"
she answered. "You have, because of them, a new ratio
·between your time and your space."
"In other words," I contributed, "the same amount of
time does not measure the same amount of space."
"That's it!" she cried enthusiastically. "So many hours
between New York and San Francisco instead of so many
miles! You listen to a baseball game over the radio. It is a
fact that you hear the crack of the bat on the ball before
the people in the grandstand do; you are 3,ooo miles
away, and the people are within sight of it. Just as you
have always been able to see the puff of smoke before you
heard the gun fire. This suggests that your preconceived
ratio of time and space, even in your own field, is variable.
malleable, and is in the process of reestablishment.
"You know that we here, to use your terminology,
travel far - call it spatially; yet you call me, and I can
immediately come. The wave - conductivity - that is
used by you now to transmit vibrations resulting in sound
at the receiving end of a radio, is a part of our natural
habitat. With your radio you are isolating, for a single
use only, a medium in which we dwell. This is your next
'glimpse' of the relativity of time and space, something
you yourselves are using. Now, since man has developed
a mechanical thing through which, by turning a couple
of knobs, he can make a new ratio actual, it ought not to
be too difficult to conceive a different ratio of time and
space for us."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 123
"You must be able to slow down and to expand or
otherwise to control that ratio in order to make it usable,"
I suggested.
"We can control time and space relative to our indi-
vidual needs, precisely as you do," Betty agreed to this.
"Man has himself developed a control. You can speed up
or slow down, not to the same degree as ourselves, but
much more than you were able to do even two decades
ago. You are beginning to control the ratio of time and
space - sidereal time and geographical space. Your spatial
conception of yesterday is not your spatial conception
now. So you see that, even with you, there is a variability
and malleability of space. Nevertheless the geografhical
actuality is the same. It is variable and malleable only be-
cause of your new time-space ratio.
"Now we have here a parallel. These parallels are so
important. Our orthic time and orthic space are in rela-
tionship to each other, as are your sidereal time and geo-
graphical space. You are able to control to a higher and
higher point the time consumed to cover your space. We
control our psychological time more fully than you. By
the use of our psychological time we control our orthic
space. It is simple here; but they tell me it's important for
scientists, for it will change the whole idea on your
plane!'
"One of the first things you told us," said Darby, "was
that our best approach to an understanding of orthic time
was our sense of psychological time, which proves to be
true. I feel that for us to get the feel of orthic space we
shall have to explore psychological space even as we did
psychological time. So why not broaden our conception
of psychological space?"
''Well," assented Betty, "we'll take the stretch of road
124 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
from the foot of that hill to the postoffice. Now try to dis-
associate any idea of time from this. We take your car.
We drive up. We are there, and of course you have
covered the ground to get there. But what is your recol-
lection of it? It may be a complete blank.
"But wait until it snows, and you slip, and you slide
back on the hill, and you start again. Now what will be
your recollection of the same sidereal distance - leaving
out time?'~
"Or," I suggested by way of supplement, "suppose
yourself in a brown study during the journey. Suddenly
you find you are there. You have no sense of either space
or time in getting there."
"Yes," Betty accepted this,
~·
We agreed that we had at least a working glimpse of
psychological space.
"I have such a big job. I have to make you understand
this afternoon," Betty sounded a trifle helpless, "the ac-
tuality of space, plus its indivisibility, as respects the ob-
structed and the unobstructed. In other words, your space
and my space are the same. Their point of indivisibility
is in orthos, of which you are somewhat conscious. In the
obstructed universe the line of demarcation varies back
and forth."
She cast about for some moments for a starting point.
"When you look at the stars you know that they are;
and they are so far awav that there is actual space you
cannot possibly travel, which only light can travel."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 125
"That isn't orthic space - unobstructed space," one of
us objected.
The thought attempted seemed to be that we could not
get at such space to handle it mechanically, as we handle
the space within our reach.
"Of course it is obstructed, in a way," she admitted.
"But to your comprehension it just looks like out."
Darby had an idea.
"Does orthic time, perhaps, debunk space completely?
Is it possible that space might be a phenomenon only of
sidereal time: and to an extent, of course, of psycholog-
ical time? In the upper reaches of ourselves we do
find a sense of orthic time; but we find no corresponding
sense of orthic space. That suggests that there is no orthic
space."
It was a grand idea, and if it could have been adopted
into our philosophy it would certainly have simplified
the universe. At the moment both Darby and I took it as
adopted, for Betty merely remarked: "I have told you
that space is a series of obstructions. Now our space is
your space. You have manifestations that are obstruc-
tions to you. Those same obstructions, to you, are not ob-
structions to us. There is only one universe." This was
one of those delphic statements that can be taken either
way, and closed that session.
"I ask you to use your own minds to aid me in clari-
fying," began Betty, next session. "I want you both to
attempt to conceive a limit to space. Or could you con-
ceive time and space as being the same thing?"
"Pretty difficult. The rate of motion is one thing, and
that equals time: the direction of motion is something
else, and that equals space." Darby and I both thought
up to now she was talking of our space. In our conception,
126 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
at that moment, that was all the space there was! Darby
had debunked orthic space. Nevertheless there must be
a parallel.
"We agree that obstructions make our space in our ob-
structed universe. What analogous to obstructions makes
your space in your unobstructed universe?" I voiced this.
"I don't want to disturb your sense of the reality of my
unobstructed universe," Betty was hesitant. "Well, let's
reduce the problem to the walls of this room. Suppose
that inside this room were all the space in the universe,
and we're all here. All this space is created for you by
obstructions - that is, the chairs, the desk, the lounge and
so on all make distance points of so many feet apart.
"Now the contour - the limitation - the boundary -
of this arbitrarily restricted space is as real to me as to
you. I am being and thinking in it. Yet inside this space
these things are to me no obstruction.
"Suppose you took the infinity of the universe. The
universe as such contains all the stars, nebulae and so on.
You call that the universe. Your limited conception and
perception of it is all made up of obstructions. But there
is orthic space, just as there is orthic time, and we are all
Being in it."
"Hold on!" I cried. "I thought Darby abolished orthic
space!"
"Your difficulty is this: despite the fact that you have
divisions of sidereal time, those divisions are not material
things. So you tiave retained a qualitative conception of
orthic time. Now your earth experience with space is
materially obstructive. Your own physical habitation,
your body, is itself an obstruction; and that obstruction
is in tum hampered and obstructed by those form attri-
butes of lower c<;
msciousness that make your material
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 127
matter. Because you bump into that, you cannot con-
ceive of my space as easily as you conceive of my time.
You cannot have either time or space or motion alone in
your obstructed universe. But by the same token you can-
not interchange one for the other. Each stands on its own
feet with you, and so do they with me."
Darby threw up both hands; another bright idea gone
wrong!
"Very well, let's restore orthic space," he conceded
resignedly. "We live in a spatial universe based on ob-
struction; she in an unobstructed universe where space
is not relative!"
"Darby," she consoled him, "the thing you were grop-
ing for and misstated was that you know matter is the
form attribute of consciousness and as such it is an ob-
struction with you. We have defined your space as a
series of obstructions. But these are only form attributes.
They are not obstructions to me. Space exists for me in
essence."·
"And are there no boundary lines?" asked Darby.
"Points only."
"Do they serve the same spatial purpose as our obstruc-
tions do - as markers?"
"Of course they do. But I have told you that in my
universe we do not have obstruction. We do have space.
Space with us is no more static than with you. It expands
and contracts, according to its ratio with time. Let's dis-
cuss."
Darby was doubtful.
"To hook up space with obstruction in such a way as
to contrast it with your space without obstruction is not
accurate, because you must have the thing that causes
ns to think we have obstruction," he objected.
128 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"Correct," approved Betty. "The degree of your
awareness of my orthic time is the measure of your in-
dividual awareness of the unobstructed universe, or of
the actual indivisibility of the universe as a whole. Space,
as you conceive it, is the antithesis of space as an actual-
ity. My space is the actuality; your space is only a con-
ception. Living not only in the unobstructed universe,
but in the obstructed universe as well, since they are
one and the same of a whole, I manipulate what you call
space - and I call conductivity - by means of what you
call time - and I call receptivity. Nevertheless, our space
is an existent of Being. It is no less a fact than your space.''
We agreed that our gallant philosophical attempt to
abolish space, per se, in the unobstructed universe had
failed. Betty had space; and as she dwelt in the unob-
structed universe - in orthos - it must be orthic
space. But what was it? We had no feel of it. That,
said Betty, was exactly what we must try for, rather than
complete understanding - the feel of it. As with orthic
time. She back-tracked to a previous discussion, when
she had pointed out that we had "contracted the space"
between New York and San Francisco from nearly a year
by ox cart to less than a twenty-four-hour day by plane.
And I had contributed:
"Continue this contraction to a logical conclusion. It
has been brought about by the removal of obstructions.
Contract it, bv the same process. .bevond all obstruction,
and vou would have your placeless space."
"Try this," she suggested. "You put in a telephone call
THE UNOBSTRUQTED UNIVERSE 129
to San Francisco. You hear the voice. Where is the space
between New York and Pittsburgh, and Cleveland, and
Chicago, and Denver? It is not there."
"Then the nearer to complete instantaneity of time
you get, as with radio, the nearer you come to instan-
taneity of space?" I asked.
"In other words," Darby caught up the thought, "if
you postulate two separated places in any given field, as
the broadcasting and receiving apparatus of radio trans-
mission, then in that particular field - radio transmission-
the two places instantaneously become one place."
"Or any other field, with a high enough degree of fre-
quency. It's the extension of that field in frequency that
is going to establish the existence of the universe as one,"
cried Betty, jubilant.
As a conceiving station Darby was going strong, as his
next contribution proved.
"Take the psychic condition," he suggested. "Observe
Joan - the feeling of obstructed space seems lost with h<::r~
How about that, Stewart? Did Betty seem to experience
that when she was working here?"
"No sense of space. 'I'm just there,' she often said that,"
I replied.
"In your subconsciousness there is no awareness of
sidereal space," Betty now helped further. "Take even
your own thoughts. You can picture in your mind's eye
any familiar place, or even an imaginary place, without
any relation to sidereal space at all."
"Any different feeling of space in flight? Of leaving
sidereal space?" asked Darby.
"Definitely." agreed Betty. "You leave the obstruction
of the earth. Of course there are atmospheric obstruc-
tions, which on earth you knew nothing about. But grant-
130 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
ing that, and assuming a smooth easy flight, you have! a
definite sense of having eliminated obstructed space. You
have a sense of being yourself a part of space. If you fly
high enough, and don't look down, and don't observe the
obstructions - which are divisions of your habitual space
- you get the sense of the identity of yourself with
space, just as you have admitted a sense of your identity
with time."
"I believe I can carry that illustration a little farther,"
I interposed. "As you have said; our space is made by ob-
structions. The more obstructions we manage to remove,
the nearer we come to a sense of orthic space, since, oy
definition, orthos is a condition of no obstruction. N ow
let's make your flight a night flight between Salt
Lake City and San Francisco. We are enclosed in a dark
cabin. The only space we know anything about is the
little space in that cabin. We and that space are near
enough the same for the argument. There are practically
no obstructions, as far as we can sense. We assume a
smooth flight. Indeed, the only obstruction of which our
senses can be aware is the slight sound of the propeller
against the air. So - as far as we are concerned - we are
all the space there is. Nevertheless we start at Salt Lake
City, and find ourselves in San Francisco. We have passed
a lot of sidereal space. But without sensing it. The only
space we have sensed is the space in the little cabin, but
that is practically identical with ourselves. How is that
for a feeling of something like orthic space?"
For once I had made good. Betty acclaimed this en-
thusiastically.
"I asked you to use your minds," she cried. ''Now
here's one other illustration of stripping down space.
Take the last message of Edward VIII, when he abdicated.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 131
That voice was heard more widely than any other in all
of history. As he spoke in London, people in every por-
tion of your world heard his voice, simultaneously. There
was no sidereal space."
We did not have to understand it fully, as yet: that
would be attempted in later discussion. It is sufficient for
now if we get the feel of it, she reminded.
CHAPTER XV
MOTION
I,
"ONE of the great glimpses of the mad scientists," said
Betty, "is perpetual motion. That is one of the truths that
man has glimpsed and attempted to accomplish, but
failed; the dream of the mad inventors - perpetual
motion!
"For motion is a co-existent of Being. There is motion
in everything that exists. Time and space are co-existents
of the reality of Being. I am: Time is: Space is. If there
is Being, there is Time and Space. And if you have the
Time-Space combination, you are by way of having
Motion."
Here we were again, back at "the new plaything of
your mathematicians" - Time-Space.
"All right," said Darby. "We accept time-space, hy-
phenated for the sake of the argument. Let us suppose an
object in motion between two points. In a sense, that is
only another way of saying time-space. Now we speed
up the motion. Exactly in proportion to the speeding up,
we shorten the time and contract the space. Thus we
telescope time-space."
"Exactly," said Betty. "But just what does that mean?
We have learned that both time and space are malleable.
Already your obstructed universe commonly measures
the distance between two points (space) by so many
hours (time). What makes that measure possible?"
"Motion," we agreed.
"But not what you call the rate of motion,,, warned
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 133
Betty. "That is something else again. That is the specific
measure, what you can count. But it is just motion that
makes the count possible - motion; the last, and the first
of the three inseparables:'
.a.
Now we have here also a trilogy of aspect. We have
motion-in-relation, with which we are most familiar: we
have psychological motion, a fact which we did not ap-
prehend until almost the end of the divulgence, and
motion-in-itself, that is, orthic motion.
When I finally sat down to study the record as a whole
- after the returns were all in, so to speak - I realized
that in the discussion of motion Betty had deliberately re-
versed her method of procedure. In dealing with time and
space she had used the same sequence, beginning with our
everyday sidereal experience and then leading us on
through our psychological feel and understanding, into
her unobstructed universe aspect or onhos. But with mo-
tion she plunged us directly from sidereal motion into
orthos, deferring discussion of psychological motion till
close to the end. We had not much noticed this, and when
we did we thought it an oversight, though by that time
we felt we had arrived at a fairly clear conception of
orthic motion. So, while not sensing any great need for
a discussion of psychological motion, still we asked for it
just to keep the record intact. And Betty was more than
re~~~ I
Naturally we were prepared for a discussion of psy-
chological motion on the analogy of psychological time
and psychological space. But Betty had her own view-
134 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
point, the difficulty seeming to be that any exposition en
those lines would be just a repeat of psychological time
and psychological space as she already had explained
them. It was, therefore, somewhat of a jolt when she
pried out of us the idea that thought itself might he psy-
chological motion.
I doubt if we could have accepted that as the next step
beyond the in-relation-to, measurable motion that is so
major a part of our hour-by-hour living. I think she, and
those working with her, knew this; which is why Betty
went about the subject of motion in another way.
Motion-in-relation, we can dismiss in a few words. It
is the ordinary motion we know; and, as Mr. Einstein has
emphasized, it exists in any object only as related to some
other object. •
"There is atomic motion," Betty opened the subject
of orthic motion. "You don't see it, but you know about
it. That is not orthic motion. And celestial motion. Neither
is that orthic motion, for it is relative - measurable; al-
ways you relate it to something else. But it is in the con-
cept of celestial motion as an inescapable, always func-
tioning characteristic of the heavenly bodies that we may
find a stepladder for the understanding of orthic motion."
"All right," said Darby, "we're pretty familiar with our
measurable motion. So trot out your stepladder. Let's see
if It will reach to orthos!"
·"Well," continued Betty, "can you imagine anything
that is not in motion in the universal sense? The earth
turns, the grass grows, light travels, wood decays return-
ing to dust, water evaporates into vapor and vapor con-
denses into dew. Something happens to carbon and you
may g~t coal that can be turned into heat and gases, or
you may get a diamond hard enough to cut glass - bril-
THE UNOBSTR·UCTED UNIVERSE i35
Iiant enough to set in a king's crown! You in your ob-
structed universe are aware of something that impels, en-
ergizes - even sustains. A sort of purposeful core com-
mon to all that you, know.
"Y "h l" d" di .
ou see, s e comp ame , every wor use m your
language is so surrounded by meanings you have attached
to it, that it is almost impossible for me to explain. Now
don't take this too literally," she begged, "but back of
the motion you know - measurable - has to be the im-
pulse, that aspect of consciousness which is motion; a
motion ba:ck of the motion that manifests. Now the high-
est expression of orthic motion in your obstructed uni-
verse is life. Yet if there were no time or no space, life
could have no form.* Perhaps if I said orthic motion
is the evolucional impulse, that would suggest something
to you."
"Speaking of time and space," Darby took a new tack,
"assume an auto running at a hundred miles an hour.
Speed it to two hundred, and then four hundred, and so
on up. Its motion is measured against time and space. Now
speed it up to infip.ity and it has nothing to be in relation
to: it comes close to 'absolute' motion. Would that be
orthic motion?"
"It is possible," supplemented Betty, "even in your
universe, to speed up such things as a motion picture or
a wheel so high that you cannot see them. They have
gone beyond your sense of sight. It is possible to speed a
twanging wire so fast that its sound goes beyond your
sense of hearing. As distinct from obstructed manipula-
tions, orthic motion is the fact of motion as you know
• More fully explained later. But, briefly, if there were no space foer
a thing to occupy, and no time to give it duration,. it could not exist
as an entity.
136 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
it in the lower degrees. One reason why the concept is
difficult is because motion per se is something which you
yourselves can create, operate and control - and thereby
make it relative. It is an obstruction, as space was a mus-
cular obstruction. But you use it. It is too familiar to you."
"It is even worse than that," complained Darby. "We
have to analyze space quite consciously to see its relativi-
ty. But motion is the acme of relativity in our minds. It is
immediately relative; we do not have to analyze it. In
fact, we know it only as relativity. And I don't think
merely adding speed answers the question."
"But conceive of yourself," prompted Betty.
"Myself," Darby slowly reflected a.loud, "distinct from
my members. Is that myself in motion? I haven't the feel-
ing of it."
"Have you the feeling of being static?" countered
Betty.
"In my inner self, yes."
"How about your relationships; to your mind, to the
whole of consciousness, of which you are part?"
''Well -" Darby shook his head.
"Take it on the basis of a physicist's knowledge. What
creates any motion at all? Why is motion?"
''It is a postulate of physical science that everything
moves straight ahead until it is deflected or stopped."
Darby obeyed. "Then it simply reacts and you have a
resolution of forces, a change of direction but no actual
foss of motion."
"How is this?" I proposed. "Take it from the other
end. Motion is Being. And it is orthic motion that starts
all obstructed universe motion."
"Getting warmer," encouraged Betty.
"We might say, then, that what we call motion ordi-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 137
narily is after all just a segment, a little slice, of a universal
orthic motion," contributed Darby.
Now it was my turn.
"A while ago," said I, "we conceived of a moving pic-
ture running at normal rate; and we gradually speeded
it up. Then·we noted that we completely altered the
ratio between time and space as depicted on that screen.
It took the actor less time to cross the stage-set, and
therefore it became not so far across - space was less.
And vice versa. Remember?
"Now speed it up until it completely blurs out into
nothing. What have we got? No picture: just motion.
Apparently there's no space or time in it at all. There,
by way of illustration, i5 a glimpse of motion, orthic
motion.
"Now start from there and begin to slow it down
again. What are we accomplishing? We are bringing
back space and time to the screen. In other words, we
are bringing motion into relationship with time and
space. And because of that fact it differentiates from
pure motion into limited motion. And it has entered the
obstructed universe."
"I knew we would get it over!" cried Betty in high
jubilation.
It was, as I said, much later that, reading back in the
records, we discovered there had been no concise dis-
cussion of psychological motion. So remembering Betty's
law of parallels, Darby asked:
"We have had psychological time and psychological
space. It logically follows that there should be psycho-
logical motion. Is there? Tell us something about it."
"Yes," said Betty, "there is. The highest expression of
it in the obstructed universe is your awareness of self.
r38 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
You know, for instance, that you were yesterday; you
are today; and you expect to be tomorrow. The con-
tinuity of the I-Am."
"That is to be distinguished from time?"
"Possibly I should have said, 'of the I-Am's being.' You
see, the I-Am is made up of frequency, which is the
essence of motion."
A point, indeed, toward which science has reached in
reducing all the material with which it works to protons,
electrons, neutrons - all rates of motion.
"What you have said," commented Darby, "is that
psychological motion is that rate of motion which one
recognizes as his own vibration; recognizing also that
back of that is the orthic rate of motion that one knows
is the I-am."
"Take the subconscious activity of your own body,"
suggested Betty; "that is motion. Your sense of it could
be as psychological as your psychological sense of time.
Let's start there. .
"Psychological motion is of complete importance be-
~ause the individual's way back into orthos is through
his own frequency. His recognition of psychological
motio~ therefore, is of greater importance than his
recognition of psychological space and psychological
time. It is through that recognition he touches the Whole
and becomes a part of the Whole in his own sense of
it."
"Would James's* old phrase 'stream of consciousness'
mean anything here?" Darby enquired. Betty assented.
"Actually we recognize ourselves as distinct from that
-flow," he continued.
• William James, American psychologist and philosopher, x&p-1910.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 139
"You recognize yourself as an individual station in
that stream," Betty amended.
"I recognize myself as distinct from the flow," insisted
Darby. "I am close to orthic in that distinctness."
"As you consider the psychological importance of
what you call the stream of consciousness, your own
awareness will not only become more acute and indi-
vidualized, but it will also become more consciously a
part of the Whole, or the universe, or orthos. Because,
you see, it is that which stays put. The only change
that happens to it is its relation •to ~ace and to time.
Your own rate of motion, vibration, is yours."
"In the phrase, 'my thought'-" began Darby, and
stopped short. "Why," he cried in sudden illumination,
«thought itself is psychological motion!"
"That was very bright of you," Betty applauded.
"That bald statement will do for our purpose now,
though it should be much elaborated - the statement
that thought is psychological moti01J."
CHAPTER XVI
FREQUENCY
WE TOOK uf time first, then space, then motion, not as
indicative o relative importance, but only for logical
convenience. However, in dealing with their essences it
will be best, I think to reverse our order of procedure.
This was, in a way, Betty's own idea of a point of de-
parture. At our very first meeting she popped in the
word frequency, all by itself, without relation to any-
thing else; but her emphasis made a paragraph of it.
"Frequency - frequency!" said she, and let it go at
that.
"Frequency of what?" I asked when, days later, she
repeated.
"Of consciousness, the one and only reality. It is what
controls. Consciousness is in evolution. Therefore it is in
various degrees. Each degree has its frequency. That
frequency is a - well, I'll have to call it a sort of mag-
netic energy. It is a vibratory emanation of the vital
force; the thing that is; the individual rate."
"Apparently," observed Darby after we had discussed
this matter a great many times, but loosely, "we're going
to use the word frequency a lot. I'd like to know just
what frequency is."
"Frequency," said Betty, "is the essence-"
"Don't say 'of motion,'" interrupted Darby. "You
have told us that. And anyway, such a definition is mere-
ly restating motion in th~ terms of one of its charac-
teristics or properties."
"Frequency is the essential characteristic or property
of motion," insisted Betty. "I am not talking about rate
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 141
of motion, which is the property or characteristic of
motion most familiar to you in the obstructed universe.
What I am talking about is that essence of the orthic
trilogia which results in motion.
"Your individual frequency and your degree of con-
sciousness are related," she continued. "There is, for ex-
ample, a degree in the evolution of consciousness that
· we will call treeness; and in manifesting it becomes a
tree. Now to that there is a corresponding frequency.
And you have an electrical spark, and that is a degree
of consciousness, and to it you have a corresponding
frequency. There is an actual difference in vibration.
Motion is. Frequency is an essence of consciousness, an
actuality. What you call motion is really only one aspect
of frequency."
She refused to consider vibration a synonym.
"Take the simplest thing we can call a frequency.
Take a tuning fork. Its prongs move in space at a tem-
poral rate." Darby was groping.
"That is motion, as you know motion," said Betty.
"The motion is simply the motion of the fork," con-
tinued Darby. "The frequency is the number of times
the tine moves in relation to sidereal time. It makes a
frequency in the air; a high tone is rapid, a low one is
slow. Or take the pendulum of a clock. It is in motion.
Now, the essence of the motion is frequency. The pen-
dulum swings back and forth so many times in a given
amount of time. The radio wave is no different. Any
object, moving back and forth in space at a certain rate
of time, equals frequency. Now, from that definition
how can we build up the larger conception of fre-
quency?"
"You remember," obliged Betty, "that I told you the
142 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
old hooted-at idea of perpetual motion was one of the
great glimpses. The entire universe is in perpe~al mo-
tion. All manifestations are the results of various degrees
of frequency. To use your own terms, the rapidity of
molecular frequency ·is one thing; the rapidity of light
frequency is another; the rapidity of that frequency
that manifests itself as life, as you know it, is another.
My body that I have here is very close to pure fre-
quency. It has frequency, true; but it is in orthos."
"The division into time, space, motion, I gather, is
only for our understanding. Actually they are only
aspects, there is no sharp division between them?" sur-
mised Darby.
"Not in the orthic," agreed Betty.
"Time and space," Darby pointed out, "more or less
stand on their own legs: we can conceive of them sep-
arately. But when you get to motion and frequency,
they won't stand by themselves. You must have time and
space or you can't have motion."
"Oh, yes, you can!" asserted Betty. "Because you
are frequency. Go back to matter as a stress point. Con-
ceive that the stress point of matter is an arrested fre-
quency. The matter can be taken apart into flame,
or smoke, or gas - all frequencies. There you have the
material concept of frequency in a pluralistic universe.
"But step from what you call matter into what you
call life. There you have your essence, the self, the I-Am
frequency. You see perpetual motion is a fact in the
sense of perpetual frequency."
"You mean to say that a frequency can exist without
spatial or temporal -" Darby was incredulous.
"Yes," she interrupted positively, "if consciousness is
the one and only reality. It has aspects. It has essences
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSF 143
in those aspects, manifested in the obstructed universe
as motion, space, time. Your trilogies are inseparable in
actuality. That I have told you."
"Frequency means to me motion in time," insisted
Darby.
"Frequency means to you a rate of vibration, a setting
of particles or things or your body into juxtaposition.
But what is yourself?" probed Betty.
"Myself? The entire of my awareness of the outside
and inside world," returned Darby.
"That is good. You have defined your awareness by
an outside and an inside world. But what is your aware-
ness?"
"I think I'll redefine self as my inward feeling of
being as distinct from any feeling of awareness at all,"
amended Darby.
"That is much better. This feeling of being is cog-
nizant of a physical limitation. You know that Being is
housed in a body. You learned that; somewhere between
birth and eariy childhood. Now this self that can take
cognizance of an inside and an outside world we might
define as Being. That Being is because a cert;lln fre-
quency has been arrested, and in the arrestment creates
a human person with the essence of self that is Being. It
is in that frequency that your 'aliveness' of consciousness
to all things is."
We let it go at that for the moment, but we did not
consider the concept tidied up, for Darby returned to
it at the next session.
"Frequency has been defined as the essence of mo-
tion," he began. "Part of our difficulty may be that we
have accepted that, but we haven't related it up to con~
sciousness. What we are talking about is frequency of
144 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVE'RSE
consciousness, not of motion. Frequency is the unit of
consciousness in motion."
"Consciousness is in motion," agreed Betty.
"And from the viewpoint of frequency, motion lS
the phenomenon," suggested Darby.
Whereupon Betty threw up her hands and Anne took
a try at it.
"Take a seed in the ground," suggested Anne. "Now
that seed bursts its shell and a shoot appears. But for that
to happen to the seed it has to have the potentiality of
grass, or a flower, or a tree, or a weed. Now that po-
tentiality is its frequency."
"That means that frequency and quality are at least
closely related," said Darby.
"What is that thing in any seed that bursts the shell?"
Anne was not to be diverted from her line of question-
ing. "You know that there is a stir there. What word
would you use to describe that thing-in-itself?"
She was referring to Kant's "ding-an-sich" over which
Darby and Stephen had held maiiy a battle royal.
"My answer would be motion," insisted Darby stub-
bornly.
"But,'' said Anne, "the motion does not start until
after something else has occurred. Something must impel
the motion. Frequency is more than a characteristic of
motion. Motion results from frequency "
"Betty told us that,'' said Darby.
"She did," agreed Anne. drily.
"What you are postuhting is that what you call fre-
quency is a non-phvsical thing beyond motion - or cer~
tainly beyond motion as we know it," he argued. "And
you can't use a phvsical terai like frequency to describe
a non-physical thing."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 14·5
"An ye wad be doin' as ye be told," Anne came
back tartly, her dialect broader than ever under her bit
of impatience, "and strip the word down - clear down
as Betty asked you - you would not find the term fre-
quency entirely physical."
Then she relented and did the job for us.
"The word frequency," said she, "suggests motion
to you over and above any other meaning because of its
modern use in physics and especially in connection with
electricity. Now, any term used to describe the essence
of motion must suggest action. But it must do more
than that. If you will make an analysis of the word fre-
quency and clothe it with all its various connotations
you will find - what modern use has discarded - two
old meanings of the word which make it fit the present
need quite perfectly. The adjective 'frequent' still car-
ries them, though the noun 'frequency' has lost them.
.
These two meanings are 'habitual' and 'persistent.' Habit-
ual and persistent motion gives you -sufficient content of
frequency as an essence of the orthic trilogia."
"Well!" said Darby.
But before either he or I could begin discussion of
just how much this idea of habitual and persistent action
clarified our understanding of orthic motion Betty was
back again.
"Impetus," she popped at us. "Remember, Stewt, how
I always was bringing back - using - the word 'im-
petus'?* Well, I recognized what it meant then, but I
couldn't explain it to you fully - not without this whole
new interlocking concept of orthos and its essences.
• When as a receiving station here she was getting the material for
The Betty Book and Across the Unknown. See both for her original
use of the term.
146 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
And I couldn't get that until I really came here! Another
way of saying it would be that frequency is the habitual
and persistent impetus of orthic motion."
It was my turn to exclaim, "Well!"
"Frequency is the eternal motion that never stops, and
of which you are a part," Betty went on swiftly. "It is
your bit of qualirv: it's your I-Am. You are that fre-
quency of consciousness that is a man; oxygen is that
frequency of consciousness which is oxygen; a tree is
that frequency of consciousness which is a tree.
"It is difficult for you because you are the frequency;
because the thing that is you is an arrestment of mo-
tion. Your duration of motion, your frequency, makes
you what you are, just as another arrestment of fre-
quency makes the tree. Frequency is the potentiality of
immortal individualism. Everything is in motion. That
is why consciousness and the universe are in evolution."
CHAPTER XVII
CONDUCTIVITY
1.
BETrY made her approach to discussion of conductivity
as the essence of space through Sir Oliver Lodge's ether
of space. Until recently, as the reader knows, that con-
cept has been considered sufficient and satisfactory to
cover transmission of the finer vibrations - such as light
- through depths of space where our ordinary well-
known vehicles, like atmosphere, are lacking. A wave
or vibration theory demanded some medium of trans-
mission. The ether was invented by synthesis of all
properties of matter necessary for such transmission, and
a rejection of all other properties whatsoever. As a syn-
thesis, of course, it is a highly theoretical assumption,
that forced acceptance because it seemed to be the only
thing that could cover the case.
The e~her of space is, I think, still acceptable to a
large proportion of present day physicists. At any rate
it has not suffered any hundred per cent of rejection by
the orthodox. But it is seriously questioned; especially
by the mathematicians. The iconoclasts have as yet no
satisfactory substitute; but they have established their
case sufficiently for uneasiness; sufficiently for the crea-
tion of an impression that there may be a catch some-
where in this ether business.
The first intimation that our Invisible friends might
share the latter view, was merely in the wording of a
statement on quite a different subject. This was away
148 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
back, in the course of one of our very early discussions
on time.
"Time in your universe is in relation to your indi-
vidual consciousness," Betty was saying. There followed
considerable give and take wherein Betty tried to get
into our heads the handling of psychological time; and
was talking of the scientific discoveries that ought to
help us to understand.
"There is a gentleman standing here," she said finally.
"He thinks he might help."
The "gentleman" promptly obliged.
"Your scientists have accepted an hypothesis called
ether as an actuality," said he, and proceeded with an
illustrating statement relevant to the subject in hand.
But what particularly struck both Darby and me was
the caution of the opening phrase: "Your scientists have
accepted -" Why the qualification? We fell into dis-
cussion of the scientific schism outlined in the opening
of this chapter.
2.
"I think," began Betty, "the next subject for discus-
sion is conductivity. You were speaking of the postula-
tion called the ether, and of its present rejection by a
certain school of scientists.
"The ether idea, as I understand it, is that in things
like light and radio a series of vibrations are set up that
travel, and produce another series of vibrations that a
receiving end is tuned into.
"The difficulty with the ether postulate is that it is
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 149
conceived as a material, from the obstructed universe
standpoint."
Scientists had to have, she explained, some vehicle of
transmission: so they began with the material they
knew, and from it stripped away all the qualities which
either they did not need for the purpose, or which were
actually antagonistic to the purpose. Such as friction and
weight, for instance. But they still, as Betty said, kept
it material; though they fined-out that material as thin
as they possibly could. ·
"Don't you see," Betty pointed out, "that in thus
discarding properties of the obstructed universe they
are actually endowing it with the characteristics of my
state of being in the unobstructed universe? They are
making it as nearly unobstructed as they can!
"It's a great glimpse; but, being endowed with non-
obstructive properties by science, it belongs thereby to
the unobstructed universe. Consequently it cannot be
material in the sense your obstructed universe conceives
it. We must find a new name, because if we call it 'ether,'
we get into the old wreath-hung terminology.
"This all-pervasive something is a co-existent of con-
sciousness."
Now there, thought we enthusiastically, was in itself
a great glimpse! And so simple! But we nee&d the
implications.
3·
"It is perfectly possible for a vibration originating in
San Francisco to be registered in New York, and for it
to pass through this room without your being aware of
150 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
it,"continued Betty,after a pause."Consequently you can
see that the frequency of that vibration is higher than
your awareness-mechanism can register. Now I employ
frequencies that are still higher.You have not yet brought
into general use a vibratory registration, from a mechani-
cal standpoint, that can pick up my frequency. But it is
reasonable that, if there are registerable frequencies be-
yond your awareness-mechanism - which man's inge-
nuity has mechanized - there are also frequencies be-
yond his present mechanization. It is perfectly true that
so far it is he who has created - by.means of isolation
and utilization - the frequencies beyond the human
awareness mechanism that he picks up mechanically. But
it is also true that if a conductor were not there to carry
those frequencies, he could not pick them up."
"It is, then, to a high degree, through the unobstructed
universe they are transmitted?" I surmised.
"Exactly," said Betty.
"The difference between the radio wave you employ
and the frequency we employ in parallel to it is that
ours goes in a straight line: there's no conceivable ob-
struction to it. If you threw a ball, and there were no
obstruction, by anything - gravitation, air, resistance,
anything - it would go in a straight line. But the fre-
quency of the thrown ball in motion is not high enough
to escape these obstructions. So it falls to the ground.
Radio, infinitely higher than the ball in frequency, is
still not high enough to escape obstruction: therefore it
is curved. And your present mechanisms can register it.
"The medium I postulate for conductivity is entirely
unobstructed, and is therefore to be distinguished from
the old theory of ether, 'which still has trailing to it a
materialistic conception."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 151
Darby summed up the scientific problem.
"The scientist," said he, "accustomed qnly to the con-
cept of material conductors, but forced to postulate a
conductor beyond known material, was obliged to en-
dow his ether with properties beyond his physical knowl-
edge, but still conforming to his materialistic conception
of conductivity. Later certain scientists experimented for
gravitational drift, with light, but found none. There-
fore they discredit ether, and say the wave itself is all
there is to it."
"Motion is a co-existent of Being," interpolated Betty.
"That co-existence is a fact. But remember always you
are conditioned by an obstructed universe."
"Displacement of waves in water is up and down, not
forward. Do these higher vibrations, radio waves - of
which we are talking - displace this new ether of yours
through which they pass?" Darby went on.
"No, they go through it."
"But water is displaced up and down," objected Darby.
That, said Betty, is because water as a medium is an
obstruction. The wave is obstructed because its fre-
quency is low.
"Take the vibration of sound," she said. "You can
measure on a machine* the up and down movement of
the air. But, again, air is an obstruction. Your body
frequency is so low that you bump against a tree; but
the radio frequency is high enough to go through the
tree. The higher the frequency, the less the obstruction."
"And the higher the frequency the less the disturb-
ance of the medium?" Darby carried out the thought.
"This 'new ether' of yours: what is that in your unob-
• She is referring to the cathode ray projection on a screen of sound
as a line of light.
152 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
structed universe, what's the parallel to the purpose of
the old ether? What function does that new ether serve
in your unobstructed universe?"
For the time being Betty accepted without demur this
suggestion, and this terminology, of a "new ether" to
substitute for the old. She even used it herself. But as
soon as possible she discarded it. It was for her a provi-
sional hypothesis, so to speak, to avoid confusing us.
"It is," she answered Darby's question, "the medium
for the conduction of frequency. The idea of e_
ther was
a great glimpse. But, just as your physicists thought it
should have obstruction,·and found out it didn't, so now
they find that fact pointing to an unobstructed con-
ductivity. That medium exists. At the same time, in your
universe - which it pervades, as it does mine - there is
obstruction in the frequencies of lower degrees. You
yourselves can get vibrations so high - you have already
created them so high - that they cannot be recorded or
obstructed. When you can make a record of them, they
are obstructed.
"We have communication with each other here. We
have a parallel of sound. You can't hear us, and the rea-
son is because our sound frequency is above your ob-
struction and hence your recording.
"We have destroyed the old ether - which I insist
is a great glimpse. We are now postulating something
that pervades the entire universe. It is the universal con-
ductor. It is by means of that conductivity that you get
light."
"-and all above the frequencies that can he conducted
by matter?" I supplemented.
"Yes. One step further: so far the obstructed universe
has not been able to record frequencies high enough to
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 153
proceed in a straight line, that is, unobstructed frequen-
cies. You will. The whole trend is that way. All lower
frequencies are curved, but such things as X-ray, radio,
and so forth, are far less variable than, say, the recorded
sound of the voice."
4·
''Well, take sound," said Darby. "There's something
that is conducted merely through atmosphere. In a
vacuum the sound of an alarm clock simply doesn't
exist."
"Not for you: but it's there. Your registration of
sound is through your bodily senses. I could hear your
alarm clock in the vacuum," stated Betty.
"Hold on," objected Darby. "Sound is a vibration
conveyed by means of waves through the medium of
air. Seems to me no ether is necessary; air is enough."
"Only the low vibrations are recorded in the atmos-
phere," Betty made a distinction. "Radio waves pass
through the body, but the body does not record them.
The atmosphere has a quality of obstruction. It is of the
obstructed universe. Above that you cannot breathe,
you do not exist. Sound exists, if you could register it."
Your own science, she protested, postulates that vibra-
tion, per se, continues.on out indefinitely - or infinitely.
Sound is vibration. On what medium does it continue
when it reaches the limits of the atmosphere? A different
one?
"Do you conceive that at the limit of the atmosphere
the vibrations change cars?" she asked quaintly. "Or did
they not start on the same vehicle that is to carry them
on out?
154 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"The atmosphere, or any other physical medium, is
not the primary conductor of a frequency. If that were
so, how, for instance, could the light of the stars, which
you know emanates from far beyond your atmosphere,
be conducted? It is an obstruction that brings that fre-
7uency into the registration possibility of the obstructed
universe. Without what you called the new ether, no
conduction; without the material, the obstruction, no
registration by your universe.
"So while the atmosph~te does conduct to you the
frequencies you can pick up, and while the atmosphere
is a necessary medium for your present registration of
those frequencies, the sound in the vacuum is created.
You stop hearing a tuning fork before it stops vibrating."
"Are you saying that, even though the transmission
seems to lie in the atmosphere, it is even there conducted
by the new ether, and that the phenomenon in the denser
medium is a coincidental phenomenon?" Darby wanted
to be sure.
"The sound you are making in this room is conducted
over the atmosphere just as a telephone conducts over a
material thing. But were it not for the all-pervading
'new ether,' the various types of material things like at- .
mosphere could not register as they do. The atmosphere
is required because you are still in the obstructed uni-
verse. But you have in your universe also the 'new ether,'
just as you have in yourselves the beta bodv. The 'new
ether' is what makes the atmosphere a conductor."
!·
Our minds were not quite yet ready to abandon the
idea of some material medium. Betty wanted to extend
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSI: 155
her provisional hypothesis of the "new ether," one step
forward.
"It is," she said, "an all pervading absolute. But that,"
she added, of the latter word, "is your terminology, and
so is the word 'ether.' However, I want to get into your
minds the fact that this 'new ether' of yours is a co-
existent of consciousness itself. A constituent," she added,
"of the orthic trilogia. It is through it that our parallel
laws operate throughout both the obstructed and un-
obstructed universes."
A day or so later Darby expressed himself as some-
how uneasy about this whole 'ether' business; and I
agreed that neither was I satisfied. This confession Betty
greeted with a crow of delight, as at a symptom of men-
tal convalescence.
The very next day Joan was given the 'essence' idea;
and ether went out for keeps. We do not need it, or any
other medium of conduction, for the simple reason that
the essence of space is conductivity. Wherever there is
space, then there must be conductivity; it is an inherent
part of Consciousness, the all-inclusive reality.
6.
We took a long breath when we got this. But we were
a little puzzled that it had not been said before. The
simple statement would have avoided a lot of brain-fag
on our part, and not a few of our interim misconcep-
tions - with which, by the way, I have avoided over-
burdening this narrative. For instance, at one time -
instead of the basic trilogia of receptivity (time), con-
ductivity (space), and frequency (motion), we had one
mtime-space, 'ether,' and motion.
156 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"This new material rather seriously revises material
hitherto received." Darby was perhaps a trifle critical.
"How come?"
At the moment he was talking to Stephen who, it will
be remembered, came occasionally to help out.
"It was necessary to build up the concept," explained
the latter. "If you will go back in the records, you will
find that it has been done step by step, founded on your
accepted knowledge. For instance, at first it was neces-
sary to permit you to explore the time-space concept in
order for you to encompass our thought at all. However,
you will admit that it was not entirely satisfactory to
you. As far as the ether was concerned, that was a con-
fusion between the communicator and receiving station.
The communicator knew perfectly that conductivity is
the essence of orthic space, but to get the thought through
the station she had to accept the old terminology of
physics in the mind she was using. You must admit that
we have been able to correct the erroneous statement
quickly, and through the receiving station herself. Do
not let her, in her conscious mind. be distressed over the
understandable and quickly rectified mistake. Besides, it
was not wholly a matter of error."
7.
"You tell us that the essence of space is conductivity.
Let us see how that functions. Conductivity implies
something conducted. What is condu<.:ted ?" Darby
opened a new phase of the subject.
"Various degrees of frequency," replied Betty.
''You must," she postulated, "conceive conductivity as
variable. Suppose we take a pipe ten inches across and
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 157
ten feet long. That would give quite a flow of conductiv-
ity. Now attach to the ten-inch pipe another, also ten
feet long, but only eight inches across. Keep on doing
that, reducing the diameter two inches at a time, until
finally we get down to an infinitesimal opening, perhaps
a molecular space. But it still has conductivity.
"It is obvious that, in addition to the bulk of any given
ten-foot section of the pipe, there must be an intensive
capacity, a degree of capacity. That is, it may have a
slow or a rapid intensity, or a condition that is either
heightened or lowered in sharpness and efficiency; for it
is quite possible that through the smaller bulk of a given
section there might be a more potent flow than through
the larger bulk of another, according to what degree of
frequency is conducted. For instance, in your physical
world the flow of water through a ten-inch conductor,
or pipe, would not have as potent a result as a flow of
electricity through a two-inch conductor, or cable.
Therefore you can see that conductivity, as such, per se,
is variable. Conductivity itself is in degrees. You must
not forget the basic concept. All consciousness is in
evolution, hence in degrees. So, therefore, must be all
its component parts - all its essences.
"I am hunting for a simple analogy. Suppose we take
a road, any road. In your world it is a conductor. It is a
space, and it alwavs runs between points. It has loca-
tion. The road is a direction. It constitutes a beaten path
in your operations. Over this road people walk, ride on
horses or bicycles, in slow-moving trucks, in fast-moving
automobiles. In addition to that, this road often gives
direction for a varied number of manifestations of mo-
tion, each of itself an entity, each producing a result, and
each result .di fferent.
158 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"The road, even when there is no visible motion on it
and it is blank in the landscape, is still in and of itself
a road. It possesses the potentiality of permitting things
to pass over it.
"The purpose of the road is for easy travel and for
the concentration of motion. Rather than going out on
the sides, people go on the road. Now, this road has more
than one lane of traffic; and since it has telephone wires
and water mains, it has various types of traffic. One of
the characteristics of the road is that traffic goes both
ways. This also is an essential characteristic of the es-
sence of space; you go backward and you go forward.
Here again, in your own living, you have a manifesta-
tion of the malleability and variability of conductivity.
It is true that it is not the road itself that removes back
and forward, but it is its characteri~tic that anything
that comes into juxtaposition with it can move back or
forward - or stand still. The fundamental potentiality
of the road is conductivity. If nothing moves on it, the
potential is not used. But it is there.
"Conductivity is the essence of Space."
Wherever is Space, there, by the nature of its essence,
is Conductivity.
CHAPTER XVIII
RECEPTIVITY
THE BARE statement..:....that the essence of time is receptiv-
ity - conveyed little or nothing to us. The explanation
of mere meaning was much simpler than of the other
essences. The extensions in implication were tremen-
dous. To tell the truth, we did not follow them far. That
may be for the future. Betty had a quip she used when
we showed signs of getting off the reservation.
"Sufficient unto the day is the wistlom thereof," she
paraphrased.
The first lead was given by Joan, speaking in her own
person. Betty was "showing" her things, and she was re-
porting back. She did this conscientiously, but apparently
without much comprehension.
"Motion," she told us the results of what she was
shown, "has to have space to go around in. It is possible
for motion and space to have juxtaposition, but, if not
registered in time, the result is not an actuality. I don't
get that.-lf it doesn't get registered in time, it doesn't get
itself born. Everything has to get born, all consciousness,
to get quantitative development. It makes no difference
whether it's an electric spark, or a baby, or a tree, or a
mouse - everything has to be born."
The material world, both Betty and Stephen agreed,
,would probably give us the best hint.
"The easiest example is matter," observed the latter.
"Let us reduce matter, per se to, say, gold. To you the
gold is a form attribute of that degree of consciousness
160 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
representing gold-ness. It is, to your .sense-perceptions,
visual. It is also tactile. You can feel it. You can measure
the weight and thickness of a piece of it. You can melt it
down and transform it into articles for your use. In other
words, on your plane, it is quantitatively malleable and
subject to your will. But the quality of gold-ness is always
there.
"Now, whatever you do with the gold- whether you
make it into a coin or a bit of jewelry - it remains ob-
jective to you. Your awareness-mechanism is aware of
it. It is received in time, because it is in time that it, and
its relationship to you, occurs. Your awareness of it from
beginning to end is a thing of duration, exactly as would
be your use of an electric current or a radio wave. As
such it is observed, operated and established in your in-
dividual consciousness."
"You have in physics," Betty took up the exposition,
"a law known as the indestructibility of matter. This
covers energy. As to the indestructibility of matter and
energy, you have the law pretty well understood. You
can reduce your matter into various compounds; or strip
it down to its elements; or you -can bring two chemicals
together .and dissolve them into gas. But your scientist
has learned that nothing is lost in connection with the
element with which he works.
"All these things, all matter, all events, all thought, all
ideas are received in time. It is because of tbe receptivity
of time that you bave the law of indestructibility."
"Matter that you see is a good symbol." She started
to adopt Stephen's approach several days later, but
switched quiet~y to one of her own which carried us
straight to a broader viewpoint. "Man is the highest form
of consciousness manifested in your universe," she began
THE UNOB'STRUCTED UNIVERSE 161
again. "He has the creative impulse, just as.consciousness
has the impulse to born things for the purpose of evolu-
tion. He makes things - whether a thought, or a cathe-
dral, or a method, such as the way to use a radio wave -
and he puts them into time. They are received in l'ime.
They stay in the obstructed universe, and other entities
of consciousness use them and profit. Then man comes
over here. The whole aspect of those things changes
when he is here. They are no longer obstructions to him,
though he did create that obstruction. Consciousness,
per se, itself, the whole of consciousness, by its juxtapo-
sition does the same kind of creation. I'm going to leave
that now for you to think about."
"Time is, with us," she continued later, "just as con-
sciousness is; space is; motion is. The trilogia is ever
present _
with us - what we operate in. But it is in time
that all the three-dimensional things of the obstructed
universe are held and become realities. It is in time, too,
that they exist, rather than m space and motion. They
do have those. essences; but they really exist in time."
"Time" - this was Anne taking a shot at it - "could
be called passive. Motion and space are more active.
Time does not create. Motion-frequency and space-
conductivity - the balance of motion and space - they
are the creative two of the trilogy. Yet they could not
focus were it not for the actuality and the reception of
time."
We were getting a pretty good idea of what was
meant. Nevertheless Betty went back to her law of inde-
structibility.
"You have a saying that 'thoughts are things.' They
are, in this way: they are received in time, and so are in-
destructible. You are having a bad dose of that in the
162 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
world right now - retarding thought - and it's pretty
much indestructible, and you've got to overcome it. If
you ever think a thought or say a word, it is in time, and
you cannot take it out. That law of indestructibility of
matter goes clear through.
"You people haven't made much of my statement that
the indestructibility law is possible ~ecause of the es-
sence of time, which is receptivity," she complained, "but
your physicists are going to!"
"Well, all right," agreed Darby. "Granted that things
are received in time, it seems to me that things are also
received in space. The physical world is 'received' in
space; it exists - for tis at least - in space. Tell us what
is not received in space. How much do we reserve recep~
tivity for time?"
"I suppose one answer would be that psychological
frequency is not received in space. Your thought is not
received in space, but it is in time. We have told you
over and over that thoughts are things -"
"-and over, and ove.r, and over, and over," we·gave
her our usual chorus.
"- and over." Betty was undisturbed. "There are
psychological influences received in time and not in
space. Ideas. Theories. As I said, you're getting quite a
dose of that right now. Take history. The facts and con-
ditions resulting from 'wars and rumors of wars' - any
happening - remain in time, though the acts as incidents
have vanished from space. What is your present? A con-
dition created by the happenings - and thought being a
thing, it, too, is a happening - received in time in the
past. And on top of this past you, in your present, are
conditioning the future. All that you think and do is
receive'd and remains in time, t~ough your physical bod-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 163
ies and acts vanish from space. Research, invention, ma-
terial catastrophes, like earthquakes uncontrollable by
your free-will, or the beneficence of a season producing
big harvests - all are received in space as incidents that
pass. It is in time that they remain - to condition and
influence your present and the present of all coming
generations.
"Receptivity is the essence of Time."
/
f
CHAPTER XIX
ANNE SUMS UP
WE HAD now, apparently, surrounded Betty's basic con-
cepts. And this gave her, and Anne, and the others work-
ing with them in the background, enormous satisfaction.
Indeed, they pulled off· a sort of jubilation, and told
us we should "keep the feast of the Fourteenth of Oc-
tober as the birth with you of the reality of immortality."
"I will be talking to you a bit," said Anne.
"In the first place, consciousness is the one and only
reality in both universes. In my universe and yours there
is consciousness possessed of awareness-mechanism. With
you it is entities, with form attributes. With me it is
entities, with form attributes. You live in your world,
you work with your world, you conceive your world. I
live in orthos, I have to do with orthos, I conceive orthos..
Orthos is only a word: world is only a word. There is
but one universe.
"You have in your world what you term sidereal time,
sidereal space, sidereal motion. These constitute the co-
existent trilogy of your world. All that you have, has to
do with them. You operate with them. Each has its own
essence - motion, frequency; space, conductivity; time,
receptivity. They are in degrees, and are therefore vari-
ously manifested. But they are in your world.
"Furthermore, they are in your world as obstructions.
The world is an obstructed state. That is what makes it
the world.
"In orthos we have orthic motion, orthic space, orthic
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 165
time. We operate in them. Consciousness operates in
them, in our state, precisely as consciousness operates in
your state. The only difference is that you operate in
degree-manifestations that constitute obstructions, and
we in degree-manifestation which overcomes your ob-
structions. Your world is our world. Your laws are our
laws. The only difference is that our individual devel-
opment, of our consciousness as a whole, is orthic.
"In other words, you exist in a world and we exist in
orthos. You have the same degree-rnanifestations, after
a fashion, in your world. The awareness-mechanism of
th~ bug is to your awareness-mechanism as yours is to
mme.
"Do not try to make the conceptions difficult. They
are very simple. They are O'llly extensions of.your O'W1l
acceptances.
"Now, you well.know that there are about you things
of which you have no sense perception; indeed, of which
you are in no way aware. Of many of them you will
be in time aware; or those who come after you. For,
just as you are reaching after the awareness-mechanism
that is beyond your sense perceptions - by invention
and research - so are we reaching down with invention
and research.
"Postulate orthos merely as a convenience in termin-
ology. Orthic motion, orthic space, orthic time, are all
contents of each individual consciousness as they are of
the whole of Consciousness. If you will examine your
own bit of individual consciousness, you will find this
true. It is so, through the great trilogia, that you gather
to the real You all that you take in.
"The vital difference between the world in which you
exist and the orthos in which I exist is your conception
166 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
of matter. This is true, because matter is always an ob-~
struction to you, though degrees obtain in this case too.
Some are not so great an obstruction as others: there are
solids, liquids, gases."
Anne ended abruptly. She did not proceed, as of.le
might have expected, to discuss what she had called
our "vital difference" - matter.
"Well," said I to Betty finally, "you have your three
central concepts. What are you going to do with them?"
"It is the meeting of the three that creates the objec-
tive in your universe,'' said Betry. "I think we should
find out how that is."
PART III
CHAPTER XX
MATTER - ARRESTMENT
'·
WE HAVE, then, Consciousness, and in it three basic as-
pects - Receptivity, or Time; Conductivity, or Space;
and Frequency, or Motion. These are the co-existents
of Being.
"They," said Betty, "are the actualities we live with,
work with; as do you. They are just as necessary to
our operations as to yours. You can't do anything with-
out time, space and motion; nor can we. Consciousness
controls your fundamental trilogy - time, space and
motion - just as consciousness controls the essences of
our trilogia - receptivity, conductivity, and frequency.
We here, because we are free-willed I-Am entities of
consciousness, control - no, let us be more accurately
correct and say manipulate - our trilogia. You there also
manipulate your trilogy, but not as much - not to the
same extent - as we do. However, the three great co-
existents of consciousness are constantly, enduringly, un-
interruptedly with me precisely as they are, and as you
know they are, with you.
"The three," said Betty, "are co-existents in their own
right. And the orthic trilogia of them is a co-existent of
consciousness. The term 'co-existent,' it will be remem-
bered, was defined as an all-enduring and inclusive as-
pect.
"Consciousness," she summed up, "is the one and only
reality. The great trilogia is orthic time, space and motion.
This trilogia is the co-existent - or constitutes the three
r 70 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
co-existents - of consciousness. All are observable and
operate in the obstructed universe, and all three are co-
existents of your obstructed universe. All the familiar
things, occurrences, beings and happenings of your ob-
structed universe are subject to the great trilogy co-
existent of consciousness; time, space, motion. That is all
there is. Now discuss it."
"I want to avoid the danger of setting out these three
co-existents as actual entities," said Darby. "And also of
setting them out as mere attributes, in the heretofore use
of that word. It helps me to free them of these concep-
tions by considering length, breadth and thickness - m
amlogy only. By them I mean nothing separate from the
ohiect under observation. Hence I mean no entity, per se.
NPit-her a mere propertv - attribute in that sense - of the
obiect. I me11n a mental conception I have of the aspect
of thinQ'S onlv. Cannot we conceive of length, etc., as
abstracted, as it were, from the ob1ect? So, too, with con-
sciousness: in one aspect, we conceive it as spatial; and in
still another aspect as receptive and in another as mov-
ahle. The co-existents comprise an aspect of things,
rather than an entity." '
"Go back to my definition of a co-existent," advised
Bettv, with vast irony. "Didn't I say aspect? 'Co-existent,
an all-enduring and inclusive aspect,'" she quoted herself.
''By Tove!" Darby was both astonished and dashed.
''You did say aspect, didn't you!"
"The three are co-existents of consciousness, but only
co-existents," continued Betty. "You see, consciousness
is the realitv. It is with you: it is with me: it is. It is the
power, the impetus, the thing that is, the Being. The co-
existents of consciousness are what consciousness operates
in. Consciousness is in motion; all the time. They - the
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 17.1
trilogy - are not attributes; but various iuxtapositions of
them make various kinds of attributes. Now, in the light
of this talk, could you define matter for me?"
We tried various definitions of matter, but none of
them proved to be."in the light of this talk."
"Taking into account what your physicists have dis-
covered and are postulating," said Betty, "would not
matter he defined as a trilogical length, breadth and thick-
ness of orthic motion?"
We aQ'reed that it might; but added that she'd better
exphiin what it meant.
"But, how does the physicist define matter? As charges
of force in motion. Now read my definition of matter.
The phvsicist does not understand yet, quite, the actual-
ity of his so-called force in motion. It is orthic motion.
Matter is the form attribute, in the obstructed universe,
of nrthic motion."
Well, anvway, we ag-reed, time, space and motion are
always with us, and we have to have all three; and mat-
ter is somehow an attribute of orthic motion. And orthic
motion is reallv frequency. So matter is really a product
of frequency. That's all right; our own physicists tell us
that.
2.
But before we go on to Betty's exposition of Matter
there are three terms properly belonging to this portion
of her "divulgence" which should be called to the reader's
attention and defined for the sake of clarity.*
They are:
Arrestment: An incidence of frequency, conductivity
•See Glossary.
172 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
and receptivity that results in individualization in the ob-
structed universe.
Juxtaposition: The manner·in which frequency varia-
bly collides with 'conductivity and receptivity to result
in an arrestment producing manifestation.
lntraposition: As juxtaposition is the manner of arrest-
ment, so intraposition is the status of relationship that ob-
tains so long as that arrestment holds.
"I wish," said Betty, "that you could talk this out with
some one of the bright youngsters at any of the electric
research laboratories. It would mean something to him
when I said that the radio beams, waves, electricity, light,
all of which you are beginning to handle, are degree mani-
festations of only one realitv; and that the hig-hest mani-
~estatio~ of that reality, of which you are actually aware,
is consciousness.
"As to matter in the unobstructed universe, it is a ques-
tion of frequency. Matter - and by matter in your world
I mean obstructions - in the obstructed universe is also a
question of frequencv. This is all very difficult even for
me to understand. Individuals here, who in the ohstructed
universe made a special study of physics, tell me that your
matter, like our matter, is a question of frequency."
All right, we agreed to that.
"Matter, and force and all of the thinf!S you handle in
your chemical and physical world are the result of the
juxtaposition in orthos of the three co-existents," stated
Betty. "Matter, the form attribute of consciousness, is a
frequency of orthic motion; conducted in orthic space;
and received in orthic time. For earth percention, regis-
tration results as the consequence of obstruction."
"It always finds expression in one of these co-
existents?" we asked.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 173
"In all of them," amended Betty. "They interlock. Be-
tween the essences of the trilogia there is always a ratio
of interdependence. Fix this fact of interdependence in
your minds. When you take your obstructed universe and
strip it down to the scientific, in so far as your material
trilogies are concerned, and metaphysically, in so far as
your psychological trilogies are concerned, you will find
that everything is based on the great co-existent trilogia
- orthic time, orthic space, orthic motion.
"Now the trilogy is the same with us as with you. It
is motion, space, and time. With us it exists in orthos as
frequency, conductivity and receptivity, and does not
constitute an obstrUction. With you it exists as an obstruc-
tion. It is this obstruction that you see, that you use. You
yourselves are obstrUctions.
"Now it seems to me that it would be a good thing if
we took some of these intrapositions in orthos and ana-
lyzed them. Suppose we take electricity, or water, or
gas, or anything."
"I don't quite see yet what you are driving at," said I,
"but let's take something simple - like water."
"All right," she agreed. "Water is one of your trilogies.
It is a solid, fluid, gas trilogy. Now there is one common
aspect, or one common terminology, we have to accept
in connection with the three essences of the three co-
existents in any discussion of matter; and that is fre-
quency. And it is variable. In a chemical laboratory, if
you combine more of one acid with less of another acid,
you get one thing. But if you use less of the one and more
of the second, you get another thing. The manifestation
that results in water - H20 is your symbol - operates
the same way.
"It will be a long time before science has gone far
-- 174 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
enough in the measurement of the frequency of motion
and the conductivity of space to be able to segregate the
essence of each to the point where they can tell how much
of frequency and how much of conductivity results in
the one case in water, and in another, earth, and in an-
other, air. But you see that they are degree-manifestations
of the same thing, only with different frequencies."
Darby caught here a possible point of confusion.
"You mention, or at least imply, a frequency not only
of motion, but of space," said he. "You said before that
frequency is the essence of motion. Was I wrong in think-
ing frequency the exclusive property of motion?"
"Frequency is the essence of motion," replied Betty,
"conductivity of space; receptivity of time. But matter,
as you know it - in any form - is a degree-manifestation,
in time, of some balance between frequency and conduc-
tivity. It is no more split than is consciousness."
"Let's get this quite clear," said I. "Would you say
that for the functioning of these essences they must b6
intermingled proportionately?"
"The orthic trilogia in the obstructed universe has to
interoperate in it~ essences."
"And," I continued my surmise, "the nature of the
functioning is dependent on the ratio of each that is used
in the interoperation?"
"Yes. If frequency comes into juxtaposition with con-
ductivity at one point, you get one thing; if at another
point, you get another thing."
"Here's a frequency that is electrical, a volt," Darby
contributed. "If it collides with a copper wire, a good con-
ductor, you get a certain amperage of current. If with dry
wood, a poor conductor, you get appreciably nothing."
"Illustrating Betty's last statement," said I, "if you send
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 175
your electricity through a copper wire, you run a motor.
If you send identically the same current through an iron
wire, you get radiant heat."
"Good!" she cried "The thing we've been trying to say
is that the orthic trilogia is all you have to operate with;
it's all there is. Certain juxtapositions of these essences pro-
duce different types of energy; force, matter, and so fonh.
That is the way the essences function."
We had the subject pretty clearly, as far as our own
obstructed universe is concerned. How about her state
of being? Did the same principles obtain there?
"In this universe of ours," Darby worded this ques-
tion, "we never have frequency of motion except in time
and space. Now, in your universe is it otherwise? Is there
frequency of orthic motion without its being in orthic
time or orthic space?"
"No. You see, there is only one law,'' replied Betty. "It
is the meeting of these three in your universe that creates
the objective. The obstructed universe is for the purpose
of birth, of the individualization of consciousness. All mat-
ter is born in your universe. Nothing is lost. Individuality
is not lost; though in its lower forms matter can be
burned, turned into gas, or what have you.. Yet it is all
kept. It is the highest form, the soul, that goes on undi-
vided. But we have the same universe.
"Carry back into orthos the concepts from their intra-
positions in your world. You must see that some place
between that intraposition and orthos there is a point at
which your awareness-mechanism stops registering them.
176 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
That point is variable with different people, and it is con-
trolled for the human consciousness by the senses. You
know how the senses vary in individuals - artists seeing
color and form, musicians hearing sound. That can be
shown mechanically, but we have no physical laboratory,
so all we can do is to state the law to you. But after we
have done that, it can be placed in the knowledge of men
by means of a physical and chemical laboratory; and then
science can extend the law, follow it through."
"Then you have 'matter' - or at least what corre-
sponds to matter?" I asked.
Decidedly, Betty assured us; but added that she was,
in the present discussion, more or less restricting the term
to physical matter.
"Our matter is the essence of form, which is an accom-
panying attribute of consciousness individualized. Just as
I am now the essence of my previous individuality. Esse
- to be - essence. Our matter is not an obstruction to us.
"You have accepted the beta body.* I had it when I was
visible to you. Then when the I-myself left my physical,
or alpha, body, it was the form attribute of rnv conscious-
ness - my beta - that went on with me. That form at-
tribute exists in the unobstructed universe.
"Your scientists have accepted the law of the inde-
structibility of matter; but I say to you that this law is only
a corollary .of the indestructibility of consciousness. You
have long known that all consciousness has form. It is a
fact. Now, matter in the unobstructed universe is the
essence of a form attribute. It is not broken up, as on your
side. Primary entities are indivisible. Matter, as you know
it, is not a primary entity: it is made up of primary en-
•See Glossary.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 177
ti.ties. My physical body was made up of a lot of little
cells. My beta body is single, atomic.~ All matter is
atomic here, and of course it has form."
"Does such matter furnish points in space, as does
ours?" asked Darby.
"Points in space; but not stress points, not arrestments.
"My awareness-mechanism registers and verifies an un-
limited concept, which is my matter. Your awareness-
mechanism registers and verifies a limited concept, which
is your matter. Your matter, therefore, being limited, is
an obstruction. Mine, being unlimited, is not an obstruc-
tion."
It is only, she said, a difference in rates of frequency.
We have that relativity in our own universe, even before
we escape into unobstruction.
"For instance, you know perfectly that there are vibra-
tions so rapid that none of your senses can segregate them,
and yet they remain obstructions. An example: you could
cause a flywheel to be turned so fast that you could not
see it, but if you put your hand against it the hand would
be cut off. In other words, the obstruction is still there.
This is true also in your simple understanding of an elec-
tric current. You can find plenty more such examples of
the relativity of frequency. Moreover here we have mat-
ter which, because of our ratio of time and space to fre-
quency, is not to us an obstruction; any more than, from
a solid standpoint, gas - ;hich you utilize - is an ob-
struction to you. Nevertheless you do use gas. Now, by
this I do not mean that our matter is formless. All con-
sciousness possesses the attribute of form, irrespective of
• Betty's use of the word is not scientific, but follows Webster -"not
cut. indivisible."
178 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVER SE
what its frequency is in ratio to either the obstructed or
the unobstructed universe."
She went into that aspect more fully later.
4·
"So," said Betty, "the co-existent of consciousness that
you call motion, I call frequency. Individualism, in the
material world, is caused by an arrestment of frequency.
Thus all manifestation that is man has a common fre-
quency. You do not raise or lower your own frequency.
The manifostation that is a tree is the arrestment some-
where else along the line of frequency. The arrestment
is what makes individuality."
"I don't like the word 'arrest.'" I interpolated, "and
I don't believe you mean arrest. That means 'stop short.'
If a frequency is to remain a frequency, it's got to wriggle
a little."
"By arrestment I do not mean stoppage," said she. "The
potentiality of evolution is still in the arrested frequency.
It is held in suspension."
"It functions, but it functions in proportion, or at the
rate of its suspension," suggested Darby.
But she dung to the word, possibly because she could
find no other; with, however, the qualification to keep in
mind. "Call arrestment a suspension of potentiality, if
that pleases vou better.''* she·conceded.
Later. however, she gave us the idea of "arrestment"
as "a slldden interruptio
0
n in prog:ress," which is the defin-
ition of the verb "to check" ~t the same time indicating
that it is in the sense of this svnonvm of the verb "arrest"
that she used the noun "arrestmerit."
• See Gloss:iry.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 179
"Aside from frequency," she resumed her argument,
"take the supposition that matter is a rate of vibration. As
there is only one reality, and since matter is one thing and
you another, you and matter must have different rates of
vibration. The essence of both matter and you is con-
sciousness. The differentiation between you and matter
is the rate of vibration, or frequency.
"My beta body is of my frequency. My stepping up
process, as far as I am concerned at the moment, is the re-
lease of my beta from the lower frequency of my human
body. The only reason you cannot exist and operate in
the entire universe, as I do - for I operate in our uni-
verse as well as in mine - is because you are not able to
step up your frequency."
"Matter, you tell us, is an arresrment of frequency,"
interposed Darby, "that is, an incidence of motion, space
and time. So is consciousness of man. There must be some
difference between these two arrestments."
"Assuredly. There is a ratio difference. It's a mathe-
matical progression. Both are manifestations of conscious-
ness. I don't want to use the phrase 'rapidity of vibration';
that gives a false picture. But man is a higher frequency
than the matter he observes. He is closer to the orthic
than the matter he observes. In this frequency band, that
is conducted through space and registered in time, are
innumerable very high frequencies that man is trying to
observe. Not so high as his own frequency, but very close
to his own."
5·
"Betty has encouraged two viewpoints," observed Dar-
by reflectively. "The first is that the difference between
180 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
her time, space and motion and ours is a difference of con-
cept, a difference of aspect; and the second is that more or
less she lives in an actual space, time and motion." ·
"Both are true," Betty assured him. She paused. "Now
I want to do this carefully. We will take first the differ-
ence between my time, space and motion and yours, as to
our individual concepts of them. It is.difficult because you
deal with the material result of receptivity, conductivity
and frequency, and l deal with the actuality, the essence,
the real receptivity, conductivity and frequency. Now
there is no less receptivity, conductivity and frequency
in your time, space and motion than in mine. But you deal
with an arrestment of it, which is the obstruction that
makes your obstructed universe, and I deal with the ac-
tuality."
"That is to say, with the unarrested actuality?" asked
Darby.
"Yes."
"The fact that I am an arrested -" began Darby.
Betty chortled over this phrasing. , '
''Well, I have had no ticket!" she chuckled.
"The fact that I am an arrested frequency - " repeated
Darby, determined not to be put upon.
"As long as you're not frequently arrested," prodded
Betty.
"The sentence of the judge," Darby yielded to the
conceit, "is a certain concept as to time, space and mo-
tion. Now you, as yet, are an unarrested frequency."
"I told you I had no ticket - as yet." Betty was un-
subdued.
"So actually you roam the world quite free of my mis-
conceptions." Darby was not to be deflected. "It occurs
to me that time, space and motion are all concepts of re-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 181
lationship. Now, if our universe were not one of plural-
istic monism,*.there would be no need for time, space and
motion. If there were just consciousness, and it were mo-
nistic only, and not in evolution, then there would be no
time, space and motion. The point I'm trying to make is
that time, space and motion are concepts of relationship
between the individual parts of the whole."
"And something else. Fill it in," urged Betty.
"Can't. Think tank empty," confessed Darby.
"They are .really the relationships between the orthic
and the obstructed aspects of consciousness."
"Come again; don't get it!" cried we.
"How can I make you understand? In the obstructed
universe all of the individualistic particles of conscious-
ness that are manifested arrive 'Yith a set quality. This
quality, as you know, is of varying potentiality with re-
, spect to each. You also know - now - that each unit of
this varying potentiality is itself, in a generic sense, an
arrested frequency. In the material world this arrested
frequency, that is manifested either as organic or inor-
ganic matter, has the potentiality of gathering what we
call quantity.
"In terms of science, quantitymeansphysical or material
growth. In the spiritual sense it is a growth of character,
say. The thing to keep in mind is that each of these indi-
vidualities or entities of which you are cognizant is an
arrested frequency, the essence of motion.
"Now I said to you that you, the observer, are cogni-
zant of these arrested differences as entities. How come?
Only because you have - yourself being an arrested fre-
quency - established, by your own consciousness, the
• See Glossary.
18i THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
measuring stick of the great trilogy on earth. It is you
who have made a mile, created a clock, observed the vary-
ing positions of the stars.
"It is your knowledge and use of time, space and mo--
tion that links together the two universes into one:"
6.
"About this arresting of frequencies: what does the
arresting?" I asked.
"The juxtaposition of different degrees of frequency
in space and time," Betty replied. "You could perhaps
illustrate it by algebra. Z plus Y plus Z equals a stone.
X plus 2Y plus Z equals a weed. 2X plus Y plus Z equals
a flower. And so on. X is a frequency; Y is conductivity;
Z is receptivity."
"That describes a process, but does not say what does
the arresting," I objected.
That was rather stupid of me, I now see. She had just
said that juxtaposition had to do with it. But the question
at least gave her material to develop the subject further.
"Here is a line coming down on a slant this way: call
it receptivity," said she. "Here's a line coming down on
a slant this way: call that conductivity. And here's a line
slanting in still another way: we'll call that frequency.
Now all three are in evolution. They are of consciousness,
and consciousness is in evolution. If the lines of frequency
and conductivity strike receptivity together in one place,
one manifestation occurs. If you move the angle they
make so it strikes in even the slightest deviation from the
first angle, then you get another manifestation. But al-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 183
ways all three must come together at.a single point. They
are variable, malleable and in evolution."
"Then would you say that frequencies coming into
time and space are arrested by the very nature of that
situation?" I enquired. ·
"No. It occurs because there is a stress point created
by the juxtaposition of the three. Varying angles of in-
cidence; various stress points."
"Then could you say that when the three get together
it is in their nature to create a stress point?" I carried my
suggestion a step further.
"Take an icicle." This was Darby. "It is none the less
water with all its potentialities. Yet it is arrested. What
caused that?"
"Being arrested means that definite, concrete, measur-
able form is being given. In the·obstructed universe. That
is the horning place: It is only arrested for a certain pe-
riod. If heat comes to your icicle it will return to water,
then to vapor." .
"What happens to receptivity when an icicle is
formed?" asked Darby. "I should say it is considerably
slowed down."
"As is also conductivity and frequency," added Betry.
"That is why you have your icicle. Your orthic trilogia
comes into arrested juxtaposition. Which is what I was
saying."
"W ell," said Darby, "I must say your statement about
conduction of sound was a good one! * I want to point
out that it is immensely helped by the arrestment con-
cept.
• "The atmosphere, or any other physical medium, is not the primary
conductor of frequency. It is an obstruction "that brings frequency
into the registration possibility of the limited universe."
184 T~E UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
''Now there's another thought that occurs to me. What
is conducted: frequency. What is received: frequency.
When frequency is conducted and received, we observe
motion. Certainly that constitutes a unified field. A uni-
fied field is what Einstein and all those fellows are after."
/,
I t::HAPTER XXI
J
PARALLELISM OF LAW
So YOU see - was Betty's thought - the processes and
laws and methods of creation work the same for both the
obstructed and the unobstructed universe. This, of course,
is only to be expected; and is really what we were talking
about when we discussed parallel laws, and the like.
She carried us on a step further. She - and those with
her in her state of being - live, not in one aspect only of
the universe, but in the entire universe. It must follow
logically, then, that she must be in our obstructed uni-
verse as well as in her own unobstructed aspect. Such, she
assured us, was the case.
"Naturally!" said Betty. "Once you accept the un-
limited action of the co-existent trilogia, you tear down
completely any real wall between an obstructed and an
unobstructed universe. Founding his researches on this
formula, the scientist can go forward to prove, not only
that supposed limited laws are in reality unlimited, but
to discover many new laws and project their operation
and beneficence into your limited field.
"One of the most important things, as I told you, is the
parallelism of our laws. There is only one set of laws; but
they are conditioned in two ways. Now, just to see how
well you are getting this, I'll ask questions. The laws are
conditioned in two ways. How? For what?"
"As to the material they work on, and the intention,"
I suggested.
"That's it. The material is the obstructed aspect; the
intention is the unobstructed aspect."
Stephen, on one of his rare visits, made an epitomiza-
186 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UN IVERSE
tion that led up to this same topic. He covered much pre-
vious ground, but I include it all here, as refreshment of
the subject.
"Consciousness is the reality," he began. "It is in de-
grees. It pervades the entire universe. Because it pervades
the entire universe it has both quantitative and qualitative
development. Evolution is a fact. Consciousness is in ev-
olution. The highest expression of consciousness meta-
physically is man.
"Now the manifestations of consciousness in the uni-
verse are in degrees because the whole of consciousness
is in evolution. The degrees are the evolutional advances
of consciousness. Consciousness being in evolution, and
consequently in degrees, is individualistic. The individual
manifestation, no matter what the degree, is an evolu-
tional expression of consciousness. The entire universe is
in degrees of expressed consciousness. What is an ob-
struction for one degree of consciousness may not be an
obstruction for another degree. This law proceeds beyond
my present knowledge.
"What you call earth, material matter, the obstructed
universe, exists for the individualization of various de-
grees of consciousness. In a word: birth.
"Now, we gave you a new term - orthos, which is the
Greek word for true. The term orthos simply means
the true, co-existent characteristics of the reality, con-
sciousness. We have told you that there is an orthic tri-
logia; in other words, three characteristics of conscious-
ness that always obtain. These three are orthic time,
orthic space, and orthic motion. They are - whether you
realize it or not - the three greatest familiars of your ob-
structed universe; and also of the entire universe.
"We have chosen the word 'essence' as a term in this
'T H E UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 187
new txposition, to be used in its basic meaning. The es-
sence of orthic time is receptivity; the essence of sidereal
time is receptivity. The essence of orthic space is con-
ductivity; the essence of sidereal space is conductivity.
The essence of orthic motion is frequency; the essence of
sidereal motion is frequency.
"The new thought that has been growing in your minds
is the fact that the three essences of the orthic trilogia -
receptivity, conductivity and frequency - have been
manifested in the obstructed universe as time, space and
motion, precisely as consciousness itself has manifested
in the obstructed universe as man, energy or force, and
organic and inorganic Il)atter. Or, in reality, life and1
matter.
"Every manifestation of consciousness operates in the
trilogia essences. Your laws, which before were termed
parallels, are in reality an extension to the obstructed
universe from the unobstructed universe of the same law.
However, there are many laws operating in the entire
universe not yet discovered by individualistic conscious-
ness in the obstructed universe. There is a whole field
yet to hr: developed."
The disconcerting conclusion we drew from these and
similar discussions was that there is no such thing as an
obstructed universe - except for us! And when Betty
says she lives in our universe as well as her own, she is
just being polite. She "lives in the entire universe"; she
told us that often enough. We live in it too, after a
fashion, much as a blind and deaf man might live in our
world. We are obstructed because we are ourselves ob-
structions, as one might say, so long as we are here on
earth.
"But," insisted Betty, "this unobstructed universe is
188 THE UNOBSTRUCTEU UNIVERSE
part of both of us. The difference between your existence
and my existence is that what is an obstruction to you is
not an obstruction to me; and that you could not, in your
present state, eliminate the obstruction."
All right: we agreed we would admit all that. Never-
theless, here we were, considerably obstructed; and after
ah we were the ones she was trying to make understand;
and it is a condition, not a theory, that confronts us. Some
time before, we reminded her, she had expressed the pur-
pose, among others, of getting to us the actual interfu-
sion of her state of being and ours. Perhaps we could best
get at that by knowing more about her present state of
being. ·
CHAPTER XXII
INTENT, EVENT AND THE EGG WOMAN
l.
WE ENJOYED considerable idle-curiosity give-and-take
from time to time.
"Do you play games over there?" I asked, half jok-
ingly. "Or is your work so much like play that you
don't need games?"
"Of course we play games! ·We're human!" said
Betty.
"What kind of games?" I was skeptical. "Trying to
see who can hurl the best frequency?"
Betty refused to joke. She considered.
"Well, not unlike your games - in principle. We
tackle something just a little too big for us."
That sort of thing was both interesting and amusing
to us. We did not want to press details, but there were
certain things having to do with fundamentals of Betty's
present state of being that we desired mightily to .ex-
plore further. How does she handle her time and space,
for instance? We had already gathered that, to her, both
were highly malleable: and we had been given certain
analogies, as has been set forth in. Part II. How com-
pletely could she escape from that trilogy of time, space
and motion by which we are constrained?
She could not escape completely at all, said she.
"Neither motion nor space could impinge on your
awareness-mechanism save iri ratio to time. The same
190 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
thing is true of me. The potentiality of all of these three
is in consciousness. All I can tell you is that they operate
in the two worlds,"· she answered. "You must keep clear-
ly in mind the difference: that the obstructed universe
has a limited frequency, and that the unobstructed uni-
verse has an unlimited frequency. But it is the same fre-
quency. It operates in the same way. You have a fre-
quency that permits your senses to be aware of the en-
tire universe, up to a certain point. That point varies with
the individual. Our frequency in the unobstructed uni-
verse is the frequency beyond the highest point reached
by that variation.
"Let us take time in your own universe. Examine the
various conceptions of time held by individuals in your
own universe. What is time to a dog, to a child, to you?
It is different to each. Time, in your obstructed universe,
is in degrees. The nearest that you can now conceive of
our orthic time, space and motion is your psychological
time, space and motion. They are obstructed only by
your degree of conception."
Her "degree of conception," she implied, is higher
than ours; hence her psychological command is greater.
This thought was at first a trifle obscure, though it af-
forded a glimpse.
"You manipulate time, space and motion - after a
fashion - in your obstructed universe," she pointed out.
"So why should not conductivity, receptivity and fre-
quency be subject to manipulation?
"Our method of contracting* time is our individual
attitude toward it. What may be a long time to another
in my degree, may be a short time to me, and vice versa.
• And expanding?
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 191
We, because we want a given period to be long or short,
make it so. Various persons in your degree of conscious-
ness approach this power."
That gave us another idea, or rather another glimpse,
but the subject was still not at all clear.
"The trouble is that you are measuring time," said
Betty. "You get up in the morning. You have a sidereal
day before you. For some reason you wish it were the
end of the day. You don't want to endure the hours. In
order to pass them quickly you put into them content
of interest. You have to cover the sidereal measurement
of the day. Twelve hours have to be filled - a duration.
Our time is not divided in that fashion. But we can ex-
tend it in that fashion! I can live here, hour by hour,
with you. Or if I want to leave vou and !!O home and
come back to the sidereal time I left, I can do that. You
can't. You have only psychological control of time, that's
all.
"You have developed in your world a greater control
of space, mechanically, than ym1 have of time. We have
here a control of time comparable to that control vou are
developing of space. I realize that your control of space
is only a time measure, but it is not the time of which
you get final mechanical mastery; its the space. Our
mechanics are yours - frequency.
"The best thing I can do to make you understand our
apprehension of time is to liken it to a map. It is there.
We encompass it. Time, whose essence is receptivity, is
experience. It is all the empirical knowledge laid out for
us to use. That does not mean that it is static. The future
is there too, and if we have the impulse to pick out of
it some particular potential, we can do so. The future
is to us much as the past is to you. You can go back in
192 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
history or emotion or·research or memory, and pick out
any bit of empirical knowledge that you think will'serve
you.
"Now, in addition to this aspect of time as a measure,
you use time as a duration. So do we. But because we
have the psychological control of the map - we can see
all over it - we can pick out what we want, just as you
can go back over it and pick out what you want. We
can control the duration of it. Without your knowledge,
you do the same, to some extent. You do it psychologi-
.cally. One of the reasons why it is possible for me
'to be telling you these things today is because in the
past couple of decades your man-degrees of conscious-
ness have so much advanced in the control of the rela-
cionship between time and space.
"We can go backward or forward in time in the un-
obstructed universe. Time is. That is probably where
the Old Testament writers got their idea of a God in the
heavens, and the last is first, and rolling out like a scroll,
and all the rest."
This too was at least thought-provoking; and it raised
a lot of questions. We agreed with Betty that we would
probably understand it better if we would go into it in
connection with her kind of space, but some of those
questions clamored_in our minds for immediate discussion.
There was Betty!s statement, tossed out in passing, as
it were. "ff I want to leave you and go home and come
back at the sidereal time I left, I can do that. You can,t."
And her remarks as to her command of knowledge of
the future seemed to carry implications of predestina-
tion, of fatalism. And where did the power of prophecy
come in on that? I had had some queer experiences with
prophecy lately.
THE UNOBS1RUCTED UNIVERSE 193
~.
The matter of what might be called Betty's fleet-
footedness did not prove to be as difficult as we had
feared. Betty left its solution to us; and we managed to
wangle it out. She approved of my'final statement as at
least sufficient.
"Between the sentences of this very conver~tion," I
proffered, "are a few seconds of sidereal time, a very
brief period, nevertheless time. However, this is sidereai
time; and it is brief only by sidereal measure. In orthic
time, however, it is sufficient for whatever purposes you
desire to accomplish. By means of your control of psv-
chological time, and your ability to fill itwith content, you
are able in it to give yourself 'elbow room,> so to speak."
That would do for the moment, said she. Later Ste-
phen added something.
"The essences - receptivitv, conductivitv, frequency
- are the reality," said he. "Sidereal time, sidereal space.
sidereal motion are the manifestations in the obstructed
universe. That is what explains the malleability of time,
space and motion. That is what Mrs. White was trving
to tell you. Yet she didn't know how she could stretch
or contract time, space and motion. She doesn't. But she
does stretch and contract receptivity, conductivity, fre-
quency. She knows how to do that. She told you she
used her time psychologically. A little unfortunate; yet
it's a key to understanding."
The matter of predestination, free will, prophecy
proved even more interesting. It came very much into
.
194 THE UNOBST RUC TED UNIVERSE
the front of our minds through an experience that Betty
urged upon me. Taking time off, I had been visiting
friends down on Long Island who had invited in1one eve-
ning a physicist and his wife who, like themselves, shared
my interest in psychic matters, academically at least. The
special reason for the invitation was that I might be told,
first-hand, of alocal psychic whom the physicist hadvisited
several times from a research viewpoint, and about whom
he and his wife had told my friends. His name for this
psychic was "the Egg W oman," and though his reports
of his experiences and findings with her were unusually
interesting, they were in the main an old story to me.
I long had been a member of a psychical research group
in California and as such had "investigated" mediums all
up and down the Western Coast.* So under these cir-
cumstances, and as it was not particularly convenient
for me to visit the Egg W oman, I stored the evening
away in my memory as a pleasant social experience and
supposed it so written off.
However, when I next talked with Betty she insisted
that I make the arrangements required to interview this
psychic. Therefore, on. a subsequent visit to the Island,
my friends, nothing loath, drove me some distance into
the country to visit the Egg Woman. The wife of a
farmer, she proved to be what is usually called a "fortune
teller." My friends made quite an occasion of the trip
- "going to have our fortunes told!"
We found her a personable Welsh woman, very self-
possessed, quiet, and sincere in manner, with extraordi,
nary dark eyes. She needed the self-possession, I thought,
for the house was filled with the noise of children and
two radios going at once. Fortune telling was a side line
• See The Mystery of the Buried Crosses by Hamlin Garland.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 195
with her. She had no assumptions or trappings. She took
us each singly, in turn, into her dining room. There she
presented me with a glass half full of water, a raw egg
and a spoon. Under instruction I broke the white of the
egg into the water, and stirred it with the spoon. She
looked into the glass and "read,, the pattern made by
the white of egg. That was her form of tea leaves, crystal
ball, playing cards. It was her "signal."
She encouraged the taking of notes; and she was re-
markable, for of course she had never seen any of us be-
fore, and had no slightest idea of our identity. Her state-
ments were very definite: they required no interpreta-
tions. But the most interesting phase, as it turned out, was
the accuracy of her predictions. She made a number of
, them, categorically; and as most of them were cast to
occur in the fairly immediate future, they could be readi-
ly cliecked. All such turned out to be correct. Some are
still in the future - supposedly. While she gave neither
my friends nor me anything of world-stirring impor-
tance, she certainly impressed us as possessing a definite
gift, of its sort.
But I was still wondering why I had had to see the
Egg Woman. The reason soon developed.
"I think,'' began Betty, the first evening I was back
with Darby and Joan, "it was sug-g-ested that we talk
about fate, and the conversation at dinner" - I had been
recounting my experience with the Egg Woman - "put
in Stewt's mind the glimpse that is to be found in the
old doctrine of predestination. Suppose you begin by
asking- questions."
''Well,,, obliged Darby, "Stephen says ~hat your
greater knowledge of cause and effect perrmts you to
make better predictions than we can."
196 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"I told you that we looked over all time like a map.
The contours of the map we see. For instance, one of the
contours of the future is evolution, a growth toward per-
fection. We know, for example, that in the immediate
future in the obstructed universe, there will continue to
be apparent deflections of growth and a seeming retard-
ing of perfection.
"Your will is free, and you can choose according to
your quality. My will is free, and I can choose accord-
ing to my quality. I don't know that you call it precisely
picking out the future. It is perhaps that I set myself to
assimilate an aspect of the future that I am aware I need.
"The truth in the glimpse of predestination is the fact
that the individual quality of one born to earth is fixed;
and that it must return back to its own quality when it
comes here. That much is law, and if you wish to call
that predestination, you can."
"Could you," Darby expressed the thought that was
troubling us both, "expand the concept of the future in
view of our new ideas as to time? We gathered that
orthic time is rather collapsible; that you could pass on
into the future more or less at will. It is accessible by
some orthic law you can operate and we cannot. I find
in my time feeling, as such, that it is more or less future-
less and pastless. If you include that, it does give you
somewhat of an insight into the future. If you can see
that a thing is going to happen, what can you do about
it? That's predestination."
"Cause and effect," said Betty, "is one of the laws of
time, just as it is one of the laws of motion. There are
those here now who could tell you things that are Q'oing
to happen. They have prov.ed it. It is done in time's
~nee, receptivity.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 197
J'Take yottr own experience. You get up in the morn-
ing. Your intent is to go to the office. You foresee your
arrival at the office. It's perfectly true there are things
that could deflect that intent. And it is true you have to
operate certain things in your present to make that future
event become present. Nevertheless, you do foresee the
event. That is a very simple example. You can wilJ it
not to take effect. There can be extraneous deflections that
can stop the effect. That is a condition of the obstructed
universe. Predestination is, with you, onlv a Q'limpse. Tt
is much more than a glimpse with us, thouQ'h it is not a
complete reality. Ask another question: she's Jost it."
"You can see this room as it is. Can vou see it as it will
be two weeks from now?" propounded Darby.
"Yes, conditioned by certain wills."
"Whose wills?"
"Yours, first, because this room happens to belong to
you."
"At some unpredictable hour, something is going to
change this room. Have you the ability to see that
change?" asked Darby.
"Yes," she claimed.
"Does that extra ability of yours have to dowith a prop-
erty of time, of which you are cognizant and I am not?"
"Yes," Betty assured him.
"Can you go farther into that? Or can you only say
that it is your appreciation of more causes than I appre-
ciate? Or is it in the nature of your sense of time, and
not of cause and effect?"
"It is in the nature of my sense of time. But I must
insist upon your also understanding the evaluation of
small events and the malleability of them, in contradis-
tinction to great purposes."
198 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"By that do you mean that.small events are more easily
disturbed by small causes brought about by free will
than larger events? The latter are too big to be affected
ordinarily by small divergencies of free will? Therefore
the prophets might have more luck with the latter," I
suggested. I was only partly right; but my question did
lead directly into the kernel of the matter.
"The intent in time is one thing. The event in time is
another," stated Betty; and paused to let that sink in.
"You foresee your future, for the most part, by the
event," she went on. "You condition your future on the
present event. We look forward into time in both ways.
We are cognizant of the event, but we immediately relate
it up to the intent. Some of you, too, do that - a little,"
she conceded. "Some people have that broader sense of
the meaning of events, as it were, the broader evaluation
of the event.
"The evolution of time we see. That you call the'in-
tent. It is perfectly clear to us. We see also the event as
it is conditioned by the wills of men. But we, knowing
the intent of time, which is the future, can follow that
conditioned event beyond your present, and see how it
relates itself, individually, to the intent."
"I think we need some illustrations," said Darby. "How
is this? Here is a river. That is the intent of time. Here
is a log.floating in the river, an event. You know there's a
log jam down the river. The intent of the river will re-
main. You know that this log, both of itself and as im-
plicated with the other logs of the jam, is not going to
alter the intent of the river; and that ultimately the jam
will break, and the event-log will be absorbed in the in-
tent of the river. So that if we were to ask Betty when the
jam is going to break, she might make an inaccurate pre-
THE UN.OBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 199
diction. But if we ask her if it is going to break, she will
prophesy truly, for she knows the intent."
"That's.good," Betty approved.
"Or take another example," said I. "Before they started
work on the Golden Gate Bridge you could predict ac-
curately that there was going to be a concrete pillar on1
the Marin shore. That was in the intent of the bridge;
and you knew that a bridge was intended. And that in-
tent would -not be affected by the small divergencies and
exercises of free will, as in a strike, or being lazy, or
sabotage, or what have you. But those things would seri-
ously affect your predictions as to the event of when the
bridge would be finished."
"The whole point is to differentiate between the event
and the intent. And to consider the juxtaposition of the
two," agreed Betty.
"The prediction of the intent depends on the sense of
time; of the event, on cause and effect. Is that the differ-
ence?" I asked.
"I think that the intent is in time, and the events are
the way stations along the stream," answered Betty.
"The intent does control the event to a certain extent,
but the event is more controlled in the obstructed uni-
verse by the free ·will of man. But you cannot control
the intent by the will."
"Then," said Darby, "intent could no~ be implicitly
relied on because of the conflicting intents of different
intruders.."
"You mean the intents of various degrees of conscious-
ness," Betty particularized. "The only intent that really
governs is evolution. It is the primary characteristic of
receptivity, of time. It is true that there are various in-
tents, including individual intents, but the intent of quaJ-
200 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
ity of consciousness is more in a straight line than the
intent of quantity of consciousness. Even in your ob-
structed universe you have intents of time, as well as
events.
"Intents might conflict with each other, you say. What
you mean is this: a high degree of consciousness-quality
can set in motion an intent. A lower quality can also set
in motion an intent. This is so because both are free
wills. But the difference here is that the intent of con-
sciousness is one thing; and the intent of an individual -
any kind of an individual - is only an event.
"When you get consciousness <livided into individuals,
the intent of the individual may run counter to the evolu-
tional intent. The difference between us and you is that
with us events are more closely identical with .intent.
"We can see into the future as far as intent goes. We
can see event on the cause-and-effect basis with a broader
vision than you. We can see the event in intent; that is,
we might. But what's the use? A leaf falls off a.tree,
but what of it? It is unimportant, because it does.not in-
terfere with the intent of the tree at all. ·
"Now the Egg Woman" - we were back to the Egg
Woman at last - "is what you might call a near-sighted
prophet. That is, while she does see, partly, the short-
range intent, it is mostly cause and effect she sees. She
does not predict far ahead accurately. But her close-
range stuff is so good because there the causes and effects
are pretty well laid oHt, with only small chance of out-
side modifying or interfering event happening in so short
a time. Besides, cause and effect gain more solidity, im-
munity, against outside interference as they approach cul-
mination. A good deal as a stream gains acceleration and
strength as it nears the edge of the waterfall."
•.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 201
Later Darby had an idea by way of illustration.
"Here's a thought on that future stuff," said he. ''I
look into a mirror in the adjoining room, and I see in it a
picture on the wall that I do not see actually. And I
won't see it actually until I get up and go into that room
and look; and all of that action is not now, but in the
future. Time, the mirror, does show me the intent of the
picture, but not the event - until it comes into the
present by my wallcing into the other room."
,
CHAPTER XXIII
BETTY'S WORLD: ITS FLUIDITY
l.
WHEN Betty and Joan worked together as stations, back
in 1922,* each used her own method. Betty went ex-
ploring, in her o'vn person; Joan stepped aside from her-
self to permit the Invisibles to say what they had to say.
Betty often - when both were in trance - tried to in-
duce Joan to join her, but Joan had always refused. Her
few tentative excursions did not please h.er: and the in-
terchange of persuasion and objection was sometimes
very funny.
In rough outline, Joan adhered to her old method now.
But with, apparently, a difference. Heretofore she had
been "taken away" merely. Now she was "taken away,"
as usual; but was also herself under instruction.
"Joan," Betty confided to us, "has for the past three
weeks been going to the same school I have been going·
to."
"I've been here lots of times, but it's only since Betty
came to stay that I've been able to be part of the pattern,''
was Joan's· first comment. "I have to learn to do what
Betty did. If I can do it, with her to explain, I can tell
you how it's done.
"This wandering around over here with Betty is so
confusinQ'," she complained, "because it isn't any differ-
ent.Now, if it·were only a kind of down-under-the-water
place! But it's no different."
"Well, who said it was?" retorted Betty.
•See Appendix of The Betty Book.
THE UNOB S TR UC TED UNIVERSE 203
"You know, I've been here before!" Joan repeated.
"It's so familiar. I didn't know what the difference was.
I'm finding out. - The only difference is the degree of
frequency. I just have more power over here than I have
back with you.
"There are a lot of funny things. - I'm watching peo-
ple. I'm not like them yet because I have to go back. I
can only stand on the sidelines and observe."
Betty displayed an almost inordinate pride over this
first success of Joan's. The experience was not often re-
peated, or at least not often reported back to us; and was
usually intended more to clear our understanding than
to ·convey anything recordable. . ·
"Joan is here with us," Anne suddenly interrupted
Betty's discourse one day. "Would you like her to tell
you what she sees?"
"Very much!" we responded heartily.
"I've always wanted to travel; and now I can travel,"
began Joan. "I can go.anyWhere I want to go. There are
no obstructions.
"It is hard to make you understand the difference. The
only difference I can see is freedom, liberty and reality
in the things we fight for on earth.
':One of the thirigs that interests me moseis the beauti-
ful bodies the people here inhabit.. My body is tied: I
have to go back, I cannot stay. But if·anyone likes light
and color - the bodies of these people shine with. light
and color.·1 recognize them by their light and color, be-
cause the inten!)ity of their color and of their light shows
their frequency. You can almost tell their degrees that
way. Certainly you feel the radiance of their individual-
ity. They are very beautiful.
"I'd like to tell you how I see Betty; how she is witll
204 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
me here. She looks just as she looked in her garden, ex-
cept that she shines, and there is a soft rosy glow from
her, and it is warm and sweet, and very, very comforting
to feel. It is friendly and kind, and there is great strength
in it. Her color is a beautiful new color I have never seen
anywhere else. I cannot describe it, for it is out beyond
the color-frequencies we have words for. But it is made
up of gold, and rich deep rose, and a sort of heavenly
blue, and it pulsates around her.
"That old saying, 'the music of the spheres,' is true
too; and it's the voices of the people around me; and
Betty's voice is a dear, singing, laughing voice~ Every-
one here who knows her adores her; and she is accumu...
lating to herself a great deal of power and graciousness
and strength because of the work she is doing.
"Why!" cried Joan, "it seems that we, you, all of us
who have close ties here, can do a great deal to help them,
just as they help us! Betty says I help her, and you help
her, oh, so much! She says you are doing the earth half
of her work.
"This place where I am doesn't look any different.
It's just here. The only difference is that nothing ob-
structs. There seems to be a fluidity to endeavor, to
space, to time, to everything. It flows, some way. The
only difference is that it is unobstructed."
"But," she added, "jt strikes me as a place where they
haven't any solids!"
2.
"You want to know how I operate in my conscious-
ness, which is just beyond yours," Betty took up the
story. "We have postulated that there is only one uni-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 205 .
verse. For purposes of evolution this universe has been
divided into quantitative and qualitative aspects.•
"First let me get into your minds firmly the idea that
your world is my world, and your matter is my matter.
Now, just as in maturity you handle an automobile dif-
ferently than does a boy learning to drive, so do we here
differ from you in our handling of the same fundamen-
tals handled by you. I am going to have to eliminate details
because I am afraid of confusing you, but I am going to
try to tell you as nearly as I can what my world is like.
"In the first place, when you come here, one of the
things that astounds you most, as Joan said, is the lack of
difference. Over and over Stephen told Darby that one
of his first jobs here was to meet boys who died sudden-
ly in the war, without the little interim between the two
consciousnesses, and explain to them what had happened
and where they were."
Of course Betty had already told us, incidentally, a
good deal concerning her state of being. The reader has
had some of it in Part I of this book. And a great deal
more came to us at the very first, in unrecorded con-
versation, when Betty was giving assurance of her actu-
ality. So I then wrote out a little epitome, addressed to
her, of what, up to date, we thought we had been told,
and the conclusions we had drawn from it. Here is the
epitome:
3·
"In your body you have, through its perceptions the
same relationships with your world as we have with ours.
"But your body is not multicellular, not compo~ed of
•See Chapter X, Consciousness, The Only Reality.
206 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
numerous entities; it is integral, and expresses only your
individual entity.
"You are able to see and touch our world. You experi-
ence the same reactions, subjectively, as you would
through your physical senses. However, you add some-
thing to what you have perceived in the flesh; you 'see .
also beyond it.'
"You understand us when we speak aloud to you. I
gather that an unspoken message consciously addressed
to you is likewise heard. I understand that you do not
read thoughts not addressed you; but also you could do
so if necessary or desirable.
"The 'density' so much talked about as being between
your wo.rld and our world is a density affecting our re-
ceiving function. Its penetration by you is a job. But
the idea that it is dulling to you, that it hampers you as
a drug might, is incorrect."
4·
The basic difference between her world and ours was,
apparently, one of obstruction. What, exactly, did she
mean by that~ And what were the implications?
"Just what I said," was Betty's attitude. "Matter is an
obstruction to you; it is not to me."
"Well now," said Darby, "the desk there is no obstruc-
tion to you. I suppose you can walk through the desk.
You must then be of matter so attenuated that you leave
on the desk's substance no trace. I was wondering -"
"You can send an electric shock through the desk, or
an X-ray, and leave no mark," Betty interrupted.
"The consciousness of matter is a very low degree,
and it is at the command of the consciousness of man,"
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 20i
said Anne. "It is even more at our command in the un-
obstructed universe. However, there are limitations here.
"You must not forget that we enjoy your earth gar-
den. There is truth in the statement that God walked in
the garden in the cool of the evening. We love your
earth and its beauties and grandeurs. It is very pleasing
to us, and we see more of it than you, and so we love it
that.much more. It is a wonderful place, even in its ob-
structed aspects; and unobstructed, it is heaven to us who
developed our quantity there."
· "Do you actually see the desk, iust as we see it who
are here in this room, in our physical bodies?" we nagged
Betty.
"Let me talk to myself," she requested. After a mo-
ment she began to talk in a low voice, with pauses be-
tween each sentence, as though she were actually doing
things, and checking on them as she went along.
"I come into this room. I am living in the entire uni-
verse. However, I see the desk. If Joan went to the desk.
it would be an obstruction to her. To me it is not. Of
course, I can't live in those limitations. I cannot refocus
my frequency to recover the old desk. But I could use
that desk in my way."
''Explain a bit," urged Darby. "What is 'your way'
with a mundane desk?"
"Well," Betty tried to explain, "the form attribute of
the desk is what is real to me. Now, the form attribute
of the desk, naturally, to you has a certain use. I could
do all those things, if I wanted to."
"Then," queried Darby, "your use for the desk corre-
sponds to our use for the desk, as your beta* corresponds
to the beta of the desk. The desk is an alpha in relation
• See Gloosary. .
208 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
to my alpha body, just as it's a beta in relation to your
beta body?" ·
"Our 'intent' is exactly the same, as relates to the desk;
but our 'event' of use is different," said Betty. "The in-
tent is the making and storing of records. We make and
store records. And even with you there are various in-
tents for desks. Stewt has a desfr for writing- one kind of
creative work; Darby has a desk for another kind of
creative work."
We abandoned the desk as our illustration. Long since
Betty had warned us against what she called "edt;cating
ourselves beyond understanding"; which is a good phrase
to describe a very common human fault. And Jlso she
had warned us that we must expect no clear and detailed
account of her world. Indeed. that warnin!! had been
given us manv times by our Invisibles when Betty was
workinQ" on this side.
Focusing down to exact description was what Betty
called "f!ettinQ" Oliver Lodf!ish," in £·eference to the state-
ments about brick houses, cigars, and such things in Ray-
mond.* Too literal a translation of a parallel, ;aid Betty.
"Sir Oliver is a very great and comprehending physi-.
cist.'t said she. "He understood in part what Ravmond
was trying to tell him, but he did not get it clear."
The best we could hope to do would he to Q"et the
principles of her life rather than the concrete details.
Ttried a new tack
"Y011 sav that your hodv is 'just as I used to know it,'"
saiil T. "That. also, is difficult to unde~tand. What pos-
sible use could you have for such a body?"
"I am as I used to be - you'd know me as you used
• Raymond or Life and Death, by Sir Oliver Lodge; George H .
Doran Co., 1916.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 109
to know me -" Betty's voice was doubtful. "I don't be-
lieve I can make you understand. It's that law of paral-
lels again. My body functions for me - according to
my needs-"
"Your development is qualitative,'' suggested Darby.
"Haven't you new functions and faculties for that devel-
opment?"
Betty approved the question, but felt we were getting
Oliver Lodgish again. So we veered off from that.
"Now,'' Betty returned to the original subject, "I said
that your matter is no obstruction to me. Neither is my
matter, to me. But, neither is my matter to you. Now
chew on that."
Darby had a horrible thought.
"Good Lord!" he cried. "When we run against each
other I don't know who rambles through whom!"
Betty laughed. ·
"The fact is, we don't ramble through each other,"
said she. "Entities, primary entities, are fndivisible. Your
body, the 'temple of the body' that you - the You, the
I-Am, the Being - inhabit for a period of sidereal time,
is divisible; for it is made up of innumerable low degree
entities of consciousness.
"I am not telling you anything you do not know. Our
primary indivisible entities could not go through each
other. I am calling all this to your attention for the bet-
ter apprehension of the indivisibility of your conscious
entity and my conscious entity."
5·
The only difference, she reminded us, is the difference
of frequency. Recall her homely illustration of the fly-
210 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVE R SE
wheel moving so fast - moving with a frequency so
raised that its spokes are invisible, so that we see right
through them. "That is the only reason you cannot see
me," she had said. "And there is a corollary difference in
the mechanism of awareness.
"You remember what I said about the 'density' many
people suppose we have to penetrate in order to reach
you. There is a question in Joan's mind about that. When
I used to visit here" - she was referring to her penetra-
tion of the higher consciousness when she was still on
earth - "when I used to visit here, you will remember
that I used the word 'density' to describe a condition, a
difficulty of un9erstanding, a degree of obstruction.
Now, that is what density is. It is not an obstruction in
the sense that your matter is an obstruction, but it is a
lower frequency than we here operate in, and it is a con-
dition of the obstructed universe that sometimes makes
it difficult for us to communicate with you. But it is not
matter, per se. It's a lower frequency. We have to tune
it up to get through it to communicate with you."
"Then it is not a thing that hampers you in going
about in our surroundings?" I asked.
"No. It is psychological, as it were. It's not matter. It
has to do more - a sort of border line between your
subconscious and our .actuality. If you will go back in
our old records you will see, with this new understand-
ing of frequency, what the Invisibles meant years ago
when they talked to us about 'density.'"
I
CHAPTER XXIV
BETTY'S WORLD: ITS SOLIDITY
"YEs," said I, apropos of Joan's statement as reported in
the previous chapter, that to her the unobstructed uni-
verse looked like a place where ~here weren't any solids,
"that's a good point. You said you wanted to bring - and
I mean bring, said you - a picture showing the oneness
of the two universes; and that they are parallel; and all
that. Well, I'll state flatly that our universe is to us
solid. I've bumped my head on it. And that solidity is
due to the fact that things are an obstruction to me. But
you live in an unobstructed universe. What do you do?
Just float?"
But Betty would have none of that floating business.
In fact, I think she was a little indignant about it. The
accusation that she was in any respect a "disembodied
spirit," a "shade," or a harp-playing angel, always
aroused her. "But I tell you, we're h,uman!" she would
protest. .
"What is your idea of where I am now, anyway?" she
challenged a visitor, on one of the rare occasions when
we had added to our number.
"Why-" stammered the visitor, "I just:: think of you
as suspended, somehow, in space."
'
1
1 am right here," she was most emphatic. "There is
only one universe. There is no other 'heaven.' It is only
that you can't see me. Your eyes are not attuned to the
color, your ears to the sound. I am in an unobstructed
phase of the one and only universe, that is all. It is only
212 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
that my I-Am is separated from the obstruction that was
my body. My world is your world plus."
"Your world vibrates at a higher frequency than
mine?" asked the visitor.
"Yes, it does," admitted Betty. "Just think that it is
only that you can't see me; can't hear me, unless the tal-
ent of someone like Joan lets me express myself through
it."
"I have thought of you as a higher octave. Are you
always near us?"
"Where else would I be?" Betty was almost impa-
tient. "Space is not what you think it is. It is only your
idea. Space is conductivity. You know from science that
there are a lot of things io. this room you can't see. An
ordinary camera would see some of them. My awareness-
mechanism is higher tuned than yours. That is part of
my being in the unobstructed universe."
And that's what we wanted to know about. "The ob-
struction of this chair," Darby pointed out, "is what
keeps me from falling into the cellar."
"It's so simple," replied Betty, "but sometimes the
simplest things are the hardest to explain. Of course it's
a matter of frequency; that is, the relationshio between
frequencies - the frequency of what you call matter as
a solid, and our own individual frequencies. Your rela-
tionship in frequency to the frequency of your matter
is what makes it a solid to you. - I think I'll have to get
a clearer explanation for you.
"Here is this world as you know it. You walk on the
earth: it supports you. I walk on your earth, and yet I
do not need it to support me. Your earth is there because
it is a nexus of certain frequencies. It exists for both of
us. You cannot walk on your water. I can. But that is
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 213
because the relationship of my frequency to the fre-
quency that is water is different from yours. My universe
and my degree of consciousness is yours, only the aspect
is clifferent."
Apparently, then, solidity per se is a ratio between
frequencies. As far as we are concerned, according to
Betty, the denser the solid, the lower the frequency. And
it is the ratio our own frequency bears to the frequency
of the matter with which we are in contact that de-
termines its character as a solid; or not, as the case may
be. There are a lot of things in our own material world
that are perfectly real, but are not solids to us.
"Suppose you are on a mountain," said she. "You see
the clouds below you. They are objective. They have
form, color, substance, and they screen from your sight
everything below you. Yet you are aware that there is
a world of action below the clouds. To the bodily you,
and to your actual knowledge, those clouds are no ob-
struction. They are an obstruction to only one of your
five senses - vision. You can eliminate that by project-
ing your body through the seeming obstruction by the
act of walking down the mountain path.
"Or take a rock. You can see a rock, but you can't
penetrate it. What can penetrate it? Solids can't; fluids
can't; certain gases can't. But certain frequencies can.
They can go through and be registered on the other
side, without disturbing the rock's form attribute, in your
consciousness. Like electricity or X-ray, or some similar
force. Light cannot penetrate it. And yet your scientists
and mathematicians use light as their yardstick of mo-
tion - frequency."
But, said Betty, she does not use light as her yardstick.
"Light," she de.fined, "is merely a degree-manifestation
214 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
in space. You know that both .quality of consciousness
and quantity of consciousness are in degrees; and you
know that they have degree manifestations. Light is one
of them. Now we take consciousness as in man as our
yardstick, and that is a higher frequency. And I, in
my present state, in orthos, as the highest frequency, can
go through the rock. I am unobstructed by your matter."
All of which was interesting, but it did not meet our
question as to her kind of. solidity - if any.
"Now, if my frequency is great enough for matter to
be nonobstructable," Betty sailed serenely on, "why
does it not follow that this same frequency is great
enough to be unneedful of support? I can walk on your
matter, but the aspect of that matter is changed to me
because I see it and deal with it in its essence, in orthos.
"Now I have told you that the individual in the ob-
structed universe has an alpha a.nd a beta body. You can
touch and feel your alpha body. It has a form attribute,
as has all consciousness. The beta has a form attribute.
This beta is so closely allied to the alpha in the obstructed
universe that it would be recognizable to you, could you
see it, and it is merely the extension into your obstructed
universe of that degree of frequency that is the indi-
vidual. I have begged you not to try to push this so far
beyond human understanding as to make all of your
hypotheses ridiculous. All the facts that you know in
the obstructed universe are in the unobstructed universe.
There is only one set of laws: only one universe.
"I have my landscape. If I wish to sit beside my stream
on my bank of flowers I can, by my handling of fre-
quencies, produce an aspect of my matter that will give
me a perfectly good support."
"Somewhat like a man in water?" I suggested. "He
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 215
can float on the water, by taking certain measures; or
he can sink down through the water by taking certain
other measures."
"That's all right, as far as it goes," conceded Betty.
"The thing that bothers you is that you consider matter
as an obstruction, and as a solid. Matter isn't a solid; it
isn't always even an obstruction to you. Matter may be
solids, liquids, gases. You do not handle them the same
way, and they do not affect you the same way. Are you
near enough satisfied?
"The whole thing is a matter of relative trilogia," she
added. "There are instances, therefore, in your everyday
world experience of an approach to the essences of orthic
motion, space and time. As Anne said to you, everything
is fore-shadowed; it is a projection. Now it is easy for
you to imagine the projection of many of your mundane
laws into my awareness of the universe. It is not so easy
for you to imagine the projection into your awareness
of common ordinary laws in which I operate, but which
you either have not discovered or are just beginning to
sense. As, for instance, the thing they call now the radio
wave; and the new stepping up of light frequencies
through mechanics. Those are commonplaces with us."
CHAPTER XXV
THE HOMELY NECESSITIES
l.
THis explanation of solidity was clear enough for the
purpose at that time. It has become clearer since, the more
we have thought it over; and that, I surmise, will be the
reader's experience.
"All right," we agreed. "You have showed us that you
live in a world that is solid to you - or of which you can
make a solid aspect when you so desire by, as you ex-
pressed it, your handling of frequencies. And you have
repeated in emph<isis the old idea of parallels - or rather
the idea of the identity of law in the two universes, yours
and ours. In view of that parallel you must have the same
basic necessities as ourselves. We don't want to force you
to be Oliver-Lodgish, and indulge in exact descriptions,
but could you discuss your form of such things as sleep,
food, shelter, communication with each other? In prin-
ciple at least."
"Well," said Betty, "what is sleep? Sleep, for the hu-
man body, is refreshment, replenishment of frequency.
Not of the beta body - which, for a while, inhabits a so-
called natural body - but for replenishment of the mate-
rial body in order that it, being of a lower degree, may
maintain the requisite ratio of frequency for your inhab-
iting it. All consciousness has its frequency. Now, in the
intimate contact of the frequency of the beta body with
the frequencies of the natural body, the lower frequen-
cies drain on the higher. They·have to maintain a definite
ratio."
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 217
''Is sleep, then, a stepping up of frequency?" asked
Darby. "If in sleep we are more sensitive to the influence
of the unobstructed universe, is that because sleep raises
our frequency? Or are we more sensitive then?"
"No," replied Betty "Your frequency is not raised, but
your receptivity is, because the contact between the fre-
quency of your material body and of your spiritual self
is lessened during sleep. That is, your physical body is
maintaining itself without your conscious aid.
"You have rest," she continued; "so do we. The very
idea of frequency implies go-stop, go-stop. You have two
types of rest required: psychological rest, and the rest of
the physical body which is dissociated from the I-Am.
Our form attribute - which we had there and now re-
claim - the beta body, has to be replenished, to rest, just
as you psychologically rest; but not in the long, stated,
static periods you have established for the lower degree
you inhabit."
''We are unconscious while taking that sort of rest: we
sleep," said I. "Are you?"
"Our awareness-mechanism is never dissociated from
our form. One of the characteristics of mv rate of fre-
quency is ·a closer association between the I-Am and the
form attribute. My form attribute is so much a part of
me that it came along with me when I died. You could
cut off a leg or arm from the form attribute I left behind,
and I could still have inhabited it. But because my form
here is integral, there could be no similar division of it."
''What is your form of rest, if you are not uncon-
scious?" I asked.
Betty was doubtful. "If I said suspension of frequency,
it would give you a false impression. Why not a suspen-
iion of projecting frequencies?" she ventured.
218 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"A withdrawal of contacts," suggested Darby.
"I really do as you do, only in a higher form," decided
Betty. "I withdraw into my inner consciousness, and stop
radiation. It's a sort of limited static; a little:; space of static
in frequency. You have it in sleep."
;,t,
"Now let's take sustenanc~," she proposed•. "You eat
food. By that I mean you absorb matter of a lower fre-
quency than that of your natural body. Now, we have
form, and we have to maintain form, the balance of fre-
quency. You do it through air, food, water, sleep. We re-
plenish our frequency, but not through any kind of food
you are talking about."
She did not seem to be able - or inclined - to go
further with that.
"After all," contributed Darby, "it isn't the actual food
we seek. It's rather the stimulus of our bodily frequency
by means of chemical reaction. The chemical formula is
a frequency formula, not an inert material formula. That
gives us a line. They do it with a frequency formula com-
parable to the chemical-reaction conception of food.',
"Absolutely!" agreed Betty.
~'So much for food and sleep," said I. "How about shel-
ter? Or don't you need it? I mean something comparable
to our mechanical shelters, such as houses."
"Our universe, like yours, contains lower degrees of
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 219
frequency which we want to avoid. We have our insula-
tions."
"Do you have insulations of different kinds for different
purposes, as we have homes, churches, dugouts?" asked
Darby.
"We are so much closer to the essence of consciousness
that our form attribute does not need the same shelter as
yours. Ours is a type of insulation from lower degrees
of consciousness that would impinge on our own con-
sciousness unhappily."
"Well, has this insulation a form attribute, like a
house?" I persisted.
"Now you're trying to get me to be Oliver-Lodgish
again!" protested Betty. "Just as matter is a form attri-
bute of consciousness, so is my insulation a perfectly real
thing to me. It is an individual thing, that belongs to me.
It's a condition."
And after all, in principle, that is all our own buildings
are for; insulation against lower degrees of frequency we
want to avoid, the frequencies of cold, wind, rain.
4·
And finally this matter of communication with one an-
other, we ventured. There is, said we, a strong suggestion
that you do so mentally, by a kind of telepathy.
"No, no," protested Betty. "I've told you of that be-
fore. We have a voice. Your voice - in ordinary physics
- is nothing but an impingement on your atmosphere
that sets up vibrations - frequencies - that produce what
you call sound. We have exactly the same thing in a high-
er frequency. So high that, like the last vibrations on the
220 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UN !VERSE
tuning fork, you do not hear us speak. That is the only
reason in the world I can't talk to you direct."
"Do you use lower frequencies for communication
with each other there, as we use lower frequencies here:
air, pencil, or what have you?" I asked "Or do you tune
in to each other~s..frequency; or to a common communica-
tion band, so to speak?"
"The latter," she replied.
"So you employ lesser frequencies than your own for
such things as -" I began.
"I am here," she broke in "I have a form animated by
frequency, like yours. It is a higher frequency. Your ob-
stacles are not obstacles to me.
"Instead of our having to create clothing mechanically.
for instance, we do so by a diversion of frequency. We
can create directly by an impingement of our frequency
on a lower degree of frequency. We use degrees. Color
is a manifestation of a certain degree of frequency. I
want it in my clothes. I don't make the color. I impinge
on that particular frequency, and call it to my fre-
quency."
"Are you taught how to do this?" I wanted to know.
"Yes, we have to be taught. I can't tell you that I hit
a key or touch a string to do it. It's a selective impulse.
I start an impulse with a psychological selectivity."
"You fix your mind on a frequency you know, and
give it an imp11lse:i"
"The impulse is there," corrected Bettv. "It is already
in frequency. What I do is to direct the frequency, and
I do impel it.
"I don't think I can take you any farther into my mode
of life," she doubted. "You have come so far in al-
ready, that to particularize is only confusing now, to us
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 2ZI
both. You see there won't be much use in my trying to
give you anything more in that connection, because you
have so much you have not digested. It would be like
overloading your stomach."
We yielded, of course.
"Well," said Darby apropos of nothing, "we've got
one thing you haven't got, anyway."
"What is th,
at?" demanded Betty.
"Antique collectors," he said, still prodding.
"We've got 'em: lots of them."
"What antiques are there over there for them to col-
lect?" jeered Darby. .
"Outmoded empirical knowledge," retorted Betty.
Darby abandoned that. "How's the cosmos?" he asked
lazily.
"Gathering no moss," flashed Betty.
"Well, you must miss something over there," contin-
ued Darby, who is a glutton for punishment. "What is
it? The days of the week? Three meals a day?"
"No." Betty turned serious "The only thing I miss is
the use of the five. senses in the obstructed univ~rse for
the expression.of my love for people who are still there;
and of course if I had that, I wouldn't be here. I miss their
not recognizing me, not hearing my voice, not feeling
and seeing me when I'm there. And of course I am there.
I miss your response. And that is all."
CHAPTER XXVI
HOW BETTY HANDLES SPACE
l.
WE HAD already gone through a considerable course of
sprouts on the general subject of space, as the reader saw
in Part II. But certain aspects of relationship were still in
the air. Sometimes over a quarter of the span of the earth,
Betty appeared to have "gone to find out" the answer to
some question, and had returned within the compass of
minutes. How did she do-it? Her discussion of her han-
dling of time gave us a clue, of course; but we wanted to
pin the subject down. What is her space? Where? How
does she "handle" it?
"In the sense of extension, your space is our space.
Space is a map too. Again our ability to 'collapse' space is
due to higher frequency."
We had found it wise, in these discussions to keep a
dictionary handy; and we had early discovered that
nothing less than the unabridged would do. Darby
reached for it.
"The dictionary•says," he read, "extension; a drawing
or stretching out. Distance, a standing apart, separate.
Is your idea of space, not one of the distance between two
obstructions, not the standing apartness of two obstruc-
tions, but rather of an elasticity?"
"Space isn't elastic," disclaimed Betty. "Conductivity
is. You see, it is conductivity of space we deal with rather
than the limitations of sidereal space."
"Your measure of space is conductivity?" I asked, for-
THE UNOBSTRU C TED UNIVERSE 22 3
getting for the moment that she had told us just that -
"over and over."
The frequency of an electric spark is naturally high;
and conductivity, for it, is also high. The frequency of
a physical body is comparatively low, and the conduc-
tivity of space, for it, is correspondingly lower. You and
I cannot get there as fast as does the electric spark, but we
get there a lot faster than we used to. Why? Because we
employ frequencies to supplement our own. In plain
words, by our inventive faculty in removing obstruction.
Or in concrete example, by means of motor, telegraph,
airplane, radio.
"Until a few years ago air was an obstruction to man,"
said Betty "He could not go through it except on the sur-
face of the earth. The earth was his only medium of tra-
versing space. Now you have eliminated that obstruction.
W hat did it? W hat is i~ that keeps a plane that weighs so
much suspended and projecting itself through the air?
The air was never an obstruction to a bird, or water to a
fish. But both were an obstruction to man, until his in-
genuity built ships, and later planes. In removing ob-
structions through his own efforts, man makes his ob-
str;1cted universe ever nearer like to my unobstructed
umverseo
"The whole point is that, gradually, through your
science, you are controlling more and more obstructions.
You are reaching up into my universe; By means of ex-
tending your understanding and use of the law."
"Frequency implies a time element as well as a space
element," said she on another occasion, "Naturally, it has
to have space to move in; and if you call it 'frequent' it
must be occurring again and again, and that requires time.
Now, we are able to manipulate the ratio between these
224 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVE R SE
things; and by means of that manipulation - which is a
manipulation of frequency - we can give our state of
being its spatial contours.
"It's a matter of will, and concept, and filling it. We
will to fill it. You have granted you can handle your space
to a certain extent. We handle space psychologically in-
stead of materially.
"Now suppose I tell you what I do. I want to go home
and see if the leaves are raked up in my garden." Ensued
a pause. "All right; I have been home, and I am here again.
You have part of the mechanism I have in controlling
space - the wish, the desire, the will."
"But we have to overcome actual obstruction, and you
don't?" I objected.
"We have, in a way, to overcome the same thing she
overcomes - our own concept of time and space; and
the reason we have to have mechanical means 1s because
we have to overcome a certain conception of time and
space," interposed Darby.
"You have overcome your conception by means of
such things as radio, for example," supplied Betty, "but
you also have obstruction, and obstruction because of
its material nature, must be overcome mechanically. Ours
is an unobstructed universe; and therefore we have no
need of mechanics."
"You live in orthos," Darby pointed out. ''Yet you say
your time and space are malleable, collapsible, more or
less. If so, your time and space are variable."
"They are in manipulation; not in essence," modified
Betty.
"Suppose," she suggested, "we reduce the problem to
sidereal space. The linear space between two points is
actual. In the mathematical sense it is a 'constant.' In the
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 125 .
psychological sense it is a variable. The essence of that
space, mathematically, does not change. Psychologically
you can change it. Mechanically it becomes space-time,
and is changeable. Just as space and time operate for you,
so they operate for me. I am not great enough to change
the essence of time, space and motion; I can only re-
adjust myself to them."
"I assume that I have time, space and motion so I can
orient myself in a pluralistic universe," said Darby. "I see
my universe through time, space and motion in their re-
lationships. You must do the same."
"But my concepts are more closely allied to the trilog-
ical essences of the orthic," added Betty.
"The fundamental with me is relationship of the three,
one to the other. To what extent does the question of re-
lati.onship enter into your state of being?" asked Darby.
"I can no more get away, in being, from the trilogia,
than you can get away, in being, from the trilogy," said
Betty.
"Never," she warned emphatically, "question the real-
ity of time,'Space and motion. They are. Just as your own
individual concept of time, space and motion is malleable,
so is mine. The reality of time, space and motion is in the
entire universe. The essence of them in orthos - or the
qualitative universe - is free, or unobstructed; and in
the quantitative universe they are obstructed, for the pur-
poses of individuality. But they are no less actual, and the
essence is no less present. When the beta body is released
from the obstruction of the physical body, it is true that
your aspect, or your conception, or your understanding,
or your vision or use of time, space and motion becomes
unobstructed. It is further true that the ma1leability of
the time, space and motion concept of your own world
•
226 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
which you operate, is extended for me in my present be-
ing. In other words, your recognition of a psychological
time, a psychological space and a psychological motion
extends over into my reality." •
"Does it follow then," Darby asked presently, "that
your time, space and motion are only nearer approaches
to orthos than ours?"
"Let me see - I don't want to mislead you," Betty hesi-
tated. "The unobstructed universe is in reality orthos,
and we inhabit it, yet we too are in degrees. The ob-
structed universe is in degrees exactly as is the unob-
structed universe. It is a law. All laws operate with us as
they operate with you. I am many degrees beyond you.
But don't misunderstand me: I am unobstructed. That
gives me a comprehension of, a touch with, orthos that
you have not.
"The thing you must always remember," she reminded
us, "is that all consciousness, all awareness-mechanism,
individualized, is in degrees. It isn't that we don't have
matter: we do. We all have form; and matter is nothing
but a form-attribute of certain degrees of consciousness.
And it varies in form acc01;ding to the degree. Our aware-
ness-mechanism apprehends. A certain degree manifests
to your awareness-mechanism as a solid. But not to mine,
as you consider a solid, because with you a solid is an ob-
struction. This is because of the orthic quality of time
and space and motion with us."
~.
"There is a little point of puzzlement in that degree
thing as manifesting in an individual frequency," inter-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED-UNIVERSE 'i.27
posed Darby. "You say I cannot become aware of your
world because my personal frequency cannot be stepped
up to that point. But another time you told us that there
are certain personal frequencies here on earth that are
actually higher than the lowest personal frequencies there
with you. There's a discrepancy in idea there."
"Not really," returned Betty. "It is a question of degree
of consciousness rather than of frequency. Your degree
may be as high as mine, but your frequency is arrested,
held static - as is your quality - in the obstructed uni-
verse. It is arrested by your earth-body frequency. The
I-Am frequency is much higher than the earth-body fre-:
quency. Yet the two are combined in the obstructed
universe for the purpose of individualization.
"The handicap is simply the handicap of the combina-
tion of the alpha and beta bodies."
"Yes, I can see that," agreed Darby. "Now, here's an-
other thing that occurs to me. When all obstruction is
removed, there's a lot emptied out. My typical day, for
instance, is occupied with handling obstructions. I'm
largely engaged in overcoming resistances. I get out of
bed, and from then until I go to bed again fully eighty
per cent of my time is occupied in moving matter, in
one way or another. You don't have to do that. You
have eighty per cent more tilne to fill up. If I had eighty
per cent more time, I simply would not know what to
do with it. You have a lot to fill up when they emptied
out for you the content of y0ur human senses."
"Emptied out the content of my human senses!" Betty
repeated the phrase. "That just isn't true! We bring them
with us, only intensified."
Darby still indicated that something must be done about
.. that extra eighty per cent of leisure.
228 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"Would it mean anything," suggested Betty, "if I said
we fill up the gap caused by the lifting of obstructions by
means of our increased acuteness of perception. Our range
of registration is so much wider."
"I think I see it," I ventured. "If you take a two-hour
walk in the country with a dull person totally uninter-
ested in nature, it seems forever; but with a naturalist, say,
who knows all about the birds and pretty flowers and
things, those two hours -"
I did not need to finish.
"That's it!" cried Betty.
A stray word brought up another loose end of thought.
It really grew out of one aspect of the discussion on space.
In the course of it, one of us propounded the question
that someone invariably asks - about life on the other
planets, or elsewhere in the physical cosmos.
"What I have be'en told," Betty replied, "is that there
are other degrees of consciousness on other planets - on
the other solar planets-but not quite comparable to man.
They are homing places like earth for other types of con-
sciousness, but what their degrees are I don't know."
It seemed to me it ought to be simple for her just to go
and find out. Hadn't she command of space? But appar-
ently that did not work.
"It has to do with frequency. You see, we come from
the earth; and while consciousness is only one in the en-
tire universe, sidereal and solar, there are varying degrees
of frequency: and because I am I, I too have my limita-
tions. It would seem possible for me to visit the sun, but
I am not ready to do so because my degree of frequency
is not yet suitable."
''Well, how about tackling the planets, then?" I sug-
gested.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 229
"I think that has to do with light," said Betty doubt-
fully, "I know it has to do with coldness, with that fre-
quency. I do go beyond your frequency in sight and
sound and obstruction, but I am still close to you, com-
paratively. Let Anne talk about it. It's confusing to me."
Anne obliged.
"This is difficult for your understanding, and I don't
think it will mean much to you; but I'll try," said she.
"Too much detail would confuse your judgment. There
is much I do not myself know.
"This is true: that in all the universe there are mani-
festations of degrees of consciousness. Many of them man-
ifest as what you call light and heat. These constitute
your solar system. We have told you that the entire uni-
verse is constituted of obstruction and unobstruction; and
that both are operated by the same law. You can call it
parallel law, or extension of the law. On all these planets
there is manifestation of degrees of consciousness. On
some of them, I have been told, there is manifestation
equal to man: that there have been such, equal to man;
that there will be others equal to man."
We gathered that Anne was talking of sidereal planets
in general, and not merely of those in the solar system.
"The attraction of the earth's frequency holds those
of us who developed our quantity on earth," she con-
tinued. "The other night you were talking to a scientist,
and he told you that if you had two currents going into
a bed of mercury, and you put one pole of frequency in
one end and the opposite in the other, they would draw
together. That is what happens to the obstructed and un-
obstructed universe that is surrounding this particular bit
- earth.
"All con'Sciousness is in degrees. I apprehend that the
lJO THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
sun and its other planets ue degrees of material conscious-
ness of such a type that the beneficence of the sun's heat
develops lower degrees of consciousness, where the heat
of light strikes.
"But I would be misapprehended if I tried to tell you
anything about it. The frequencies are so different that
we are held to our own yet. That is why we are so near
to you. We call this an unobstructed universe, but it
is psychologically limited. There is a difference."
"Limitations of your own individual development of
consciousness," I sunnised. "We here, when you get right
down to it, are developed by our overcoming of the ob-
structions that characterize our obstructed universe. Since
we acknowledge the parallelism of law, you must have
something analogous, m order to develop. Do limitations
of individual development supply that resistance to you?"
"Our limitations here have to do with ourselves, and
are mainly psychological," said Anne. "They are inside
of us? - well, yes and no. There are 'obstructions' of fre-
quencies and degrees. I shall go on into a further degree
of consciousness, but I must graduate to it. Our resis-
tances are for development, as are your obstructions. W e
grow by overcoming, just as you do. You have to over-
come definite obstructions, physically, materially. And
also you have to overcome mass psychology.You have to
overcome now this ideology that is growing up in a strip
of Europe. It is a more definite obstruction than a moun-
tain range would be.
"I would not have you think that in this mode of exis-
tence here there is lack of understanding of psychological
obstructions caused by deliberate planning. T he obstruc-
tion here is in the degree - the lack of development of
the degree; and our job is to bring it up. W e are still so
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 231
close to you that such an obstruction with you also re-
tards us; and we can garner here much quality by aiding
you to overcome it. W e do this also individually. I heard
Betty say last night that you were carrying on her work.
That is true: but also she is carrying on yours, and there-
by she is gathering to herself strength and influence and
understanding and wisdom. It is a good word: wisdom."
"I understand," said Darby, "that you deal in two types
of frequency - your own, and others outside which you
employ for specific purposes. Those outside might be
compared roughly to our electric or radio waves. They
are no obstruction to you; but are they not more analo-
gous to our conception of the material than are those fre-
quencies which are your own?"
"Aye," agreed Anne.
''We are not conscious of doing anything of the kind,
but do you not, out of your own frequency, develop what
might roughly be called forces, which you manipulate?"
Darby continued.
"Aye. What about thoughts, force of character, deci-
sions? You develop them. They are frequencies, and are
more potent than many other frequencies. Thoughts are
things. The hardest thing to wipe out of your world is
an idea."
CHAPTER XXVIl
THOUGHTS ARE THINGS
''I AM glad Anne brought that up," said Darby. "I suppose
the statement has come to us fifty times, not only from
Anne, but many others. Just how literally is thought
'real' - is it literally a 'thing'?"
We discussed that matter, pro and con, without getting
much of anywhere. But some days later, Anne abruptly
began the evening.
"I am here," she announced. "I would talk to you for
a bit on the reality of thought. I have nothing new to tell
you. Many a time we have told it to you, but we will try
to point it up into an apex of understanding. I will ask a
question; and it is not rhetorical. What, above all other
things in the obstructed universe, continues after the in-
dividual who promulgated it has been dissociated from
the material frequencies which were his body, and him-
self passed into the unobstructed universe?"
"Oh, we'll grant that it is thought," admitted Darby,
a little wearily, "but that does not answer; it just re-
states."
"Thought," said Anne, "is an attribute of conscious-
ness. Being an attribute of consciousness, it has frequency.
It is received in time; and, according to its creative po-
tency, it remains in time."
"It is," Darby pointed out, "received in time; but it is
not received in space. In that respect it differs fr?m or-
dinary material things. Yet you are continually telling us
that thoughts are things."
"Thought is as much a substance as electricity and such
things that you deal with," asserted Anne. "There is a
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERS B 233
statement I will make to you, that I have not made. It
must be apparent to you that you live ill two aspects of
the obstructed universe. You have sidereal experience;
you have psychological experience; and you have em-
pirical knowledge of both. This is what I would tell you:
that the psychological experience is and remains realer,
more comprehensive, than the sidereal. And you can un-
derstand your psychological experience more basically,
minutely. You feel more the actuality and reality of it
than of your sidereal experience. Why? Because the psy-
chological experience is that which is most closely related
to the I-Arn, whose form attribute is your beta body, and
which carries on forever; the I-Am which is the core of
you, the purpose of consciousness expressed in the in-
dividual."
Darby accepted this.
"Would it be correct, then, to say thought is a fre-
quency, just as electricity is?" he asked.
"Aye," agreed Anne.
"Then thought is a force, rather than a thing," I argued,
"and manifests itself as a thing only through its action.
Like electricity."
"You cannot use the word 'force' as that word is used
by the modem world," Anne objected. "We want to
avoid that word. I gave Betty very strict instructions not
to use that word. There is a borderland, a no-man's land,
between the obstructed and the unobstructed aspects
where is all that which Stewart calls force. That you
realize and manipulate, but its form attribute you cannot
see."
"Then I am to understand that electricity, per se, has
a form attribute to its own?" I wanted to get this extraor-
dinary statement cleared.
234 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"Aye," Anne assured me. "You know it by its potency.
You diverge the.potency into different works. It is pre-
cisely the same with thought; only, instead of the thought-
frequency coming out of no-man's land, it is your crea-
tive agent, and it is there you are like what you call God
- or the devil!" added Anne quaintly.
"There is form," she continued. "All consciousness has
form. It is not true that all consciousness is associated with
other consciousnesses, as man with his body. Life: yes.
"There is a differentiation between what man controls
and what he cannot control, or recreate. For instance,
you can call electricity out of 'nowhere,' and pass it into
a wire, then dissociate it from the wire, and pass it back
again. You can dissociate the I-Am from the alpha form
attribute, but you cannot pass it back again. That is so
with all life, as you call it."
"Your statements are reasonable," admitted Darby,
"but our question is still not completely answered. You
say, 'thoughts are things.' Marbles are things, and every-
body knows what that means; and I can put one in my
pocket. And it may be lost or roll into a corner, and I may
never see it again. But it goes on being a marble. I have a
thought. It isn't a thing in the sense the marble is a thing,
and it doesn't last. You seem to say that all our thoughts
keep on having registration somewhere. I have lots of
thoughts of no importance for registration.''
"Your own thoughts are of importance to you," said
Anne. "The stream of electricity and of thought are only
comparable for the sake of illustration, and not really
near enough alike forthat. But the individual thought is
not unlike a spark of electricity that flashes up. It can't
spark outside its own source or substance."
"The electricity eventually and inevitably grounds
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVE&SE 235
back to its source," Darby followed the analogy. "Does
my individual thought similarly ground back into the
'substance of thought,' the source-thought?"
"Aye," said Anne.
"So that when you, speaking morally, continually tell
us that thoughts are things, you literally mean our
thought is indestructible?"
"Aye," said Anne.
"Do my unexpressed thoughts have objectivity?"
"They have more objectivity in you than they have in
the general reservoir." Anne modified this. "When your
electric supply is flashed without application, you call it
a waste of energy."
"Is there not," I put in, "a parallel in our quality-
quantity idea? Thought is in evolution: no doubt of that.
Is not the individual thought a contribution in quantity,
so to speak, to the quality, which is the source-thought,
or substance of thought, or whatever you want to call
it?"
"Aye," Anne agreed to this.
"Just to sum up" - this was Darby - "thought is a
frequency analogous to an electrical frequency. Just as
a fortuitous spark finds its way into the body of electrici-
ty, so even the unexpressed thought finds its way ob-
jectively back to the body of thought. And, like the for-
tuitous spark, might not add much."
"It gains its dynamics by expression, by manifesta-
tion?" I surmised. Anne assented. Darby went on.
"But," said he, "the fact that the thought was not ex-
pressed would not break down the potential of its ob-
jectivity." . . d f . d . . h . '
"You say that 'a certam att1tu e o mm IS mt e air.
You speak true," said Anne.
236 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"That might be explained by the process you are de-
scribing," conceded Darby, "but on the other hand, mod-
ern methods of communication are so widespread and
rapid-"
Anne interrupted.
"I grant the communication, ~mt I do ~ot gr~nt ~hat it
need be in words. If one man m an audience 1s discon-
tented he may infect a whole audience, though he never
opens his mouth. Man never has realized the importance
of thought. I will give you a key. How far does your
thought go?"
"Without limit; no, limited only by my degree," re-
plied Darby. Anne continued:
"There is a definite frequency that goes out from the
minds of men of which they have not taken full cogni-
zance, and that is thought. As a man thinketh, soi~ he. But
I would go one step further and say: as a man thinketh,
so is his surrounding habitation, so is his influence on the
other frequencies he comes in contact with. Especially
human frequencies. Especially those of lower degrees
than his own.
"You go to your daily work with a glad heart and a
free mind, happy in your consciousness, and the day
starts with a snap, and you affect everyone. On the other
hand, you do not feel so good, and down goes the whole
day; and those in contact with you get the reflex. Th::tt is
a definite application of your frequency, for it's a thing.
A man can have private moods of his own, certainly -
like sorrow - but this is true: that every time you over-
come, you have strengthened your frequency, and you
have gathered unto yourself a bit more of the source
material, and the thing that is You. Thought is a reality.
Its potency in your world is very great - as you of this
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 237
generation should well know. He who seeks wisdom,
either as a protection to himself or as a service to others,
must first of all recognize the objective validity of
thought."
CHAPTER XXVIII
DO YOUR JOB!
/
1.
"You started out to bring us a picture of your state of
being," I said. "I'm willing to acknowledge itrs a pretty
good picture. But it is not complete; and that incomple-
tion is dangerous."
How was that? Betty wanted to know.
"It's too attractive. You've talked so much about your
lack of obstruction, and your high-wide-and-handsome
manipulation of space and time, in contrast to our ham-
pered state of existence, that you are apt to discourage
the average man here so he'll be inclined not to bother
any more. He'd rather just sit down and wait. Or any-
way, he'll lose his zest. That's a state of mind they had,
more or less, in the dark ages; and which great masses of
people have now in India and the East. And it doesn't
work. I don't believe that is the effect you desire."
It certainly was not. Betty applied herself very seri-
ously to getting rid of that possibility of misconception.
What is the earth for? Certainly not a mere waiting
room. And certainly, if wilfully we use it as such, we
shall not become an easily and pleasantly functioning
part of her unobstructed universe. If we want to keep
really attractive that picture she had drawn - we must
earn the privilege. We have responsibility.
"Why," cried Betty, "the fact that you are a bit of
individualized consciousness is itself a responsibility. The
old saw that a chain is no stronger than its weakest link
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVE R SE 239
is true as far as it goes. The chain may indeed break
there, but it can be mended. The point is, no one should
want to be a weakest link - the cause of a need for
mending. We all know that in ordinary living, right-
ness does have a certain reward, and that there are pen-
alties for the breaking of any law. In the greatest actu-
ality, consciousness, of which each of us is a part, that is
the truest of all. Consciousness is in evolution. There is
no way an individual bit of I-Am can stop it. Each bit
has to grow sometime: it has to keep up with the evolu-
tional law. Consequently, the more quantity one attains
in the obstructed universe, the more beautifully he will
be able to go on in the unobstructed universe. Indeed,
just that accumulation of quantity is the reason a long
life is desirable. That is why we have to look on suicide
as cowardice. The suicide is the fellow who is not will-
ing to accumulate as much as possible.
"In older civilizations, :where they have a closer un-
derstanding of the indivisibility of the universe, old age
is greatly honored and much desired. As Stephen told us
years ago, there is a germ of truth in any belief that has
· survived over long periods. The ancestor worship of the
Chinese is a recognition, from one point of view, of the
accumulation of quantity given to the whole of con-
sciousness on entering the unobstructed universe. Too
great stress cannot be placed on the responsibility of the
individual, not only in connection with the whole, but
especially in connection with his own I-Am."
"Quite true," I agreed, "and you have expressed the
idea before. But it is, to the average mind, too much of
an abstraction. It will get mental assent, but mental as-
sent to an abstraction has not nearly the effect of a punch
in the nose. If you could tell, concretely, what's going
240 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
to happen to the fellow who lies down on his job, you'd
be getting somewhere. There's considerable virtue in
this hell idea as an inBuence."
"Free will creates its own hell with t'1e widening of
the arc of understanding," said Betty. "No person of
any sensitivity at all lives in the obstructed universe
without having acquired, by maturity, some regrets,
either slight or deep, though generally those regrets come
only momentarily, in flashes. However, they should make
it perfectly possible for anyone to understand the acme
of regret that is the portion of the individual coming to
this place of perfect understanding who has either
shirked or passed by his earth opportunities.
"There is a very definite reality in 'hell' and 'purga-
tory,' not precisely as the theologians have it, perhaps,
but a reality. Butno one comes to the perfect understand-
ing without the necessity of a time of readjustment, and
wishing he had done .:lifferently, and a girding of his
loins for going on in the evolutional process which he
cannot escape, and does not want to escape, because it
is the law. So it is ever good to pray for the easier gird-
ing of the loins, at least, of those who have gone on into
the perfect understanding. Why? Because the universe
is one. You pray for us: we pray for you. You can be, in
a sense, our guardian angels, as we are yours.
"He who comes here without his full accumulation
of quantity, cannot quickly assume control and manipu-
lation of the law of the unobstructed universe. It is here
exact!y as in adultland. A child who is well trained steps
into manhood well trained, and can leave childhood
behind."
"Well," said Darby, "take a man who does all sorts
of wrong on earth. How does he get by so easily over
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 241
~here? How does he so soon get control, and so readily?"
"The answer is, he doesn't; he can't. That's his hell."
"Then actual unhappiness dues exist on your side, in
certain cases? It must," reasoned Darby.
"You see, consciousness is its own judge. So there
must be individual unhappiness - until that consciousness
is appeased."
That, she explained further, is one of the great differ-
ences between her state and ours. A fundamental in her
state - whether of saint or sinner - is a tremendous urge
to go on. Some of us here lack that; others may have it,
but can ignore or smother it. That is impossible in her
world. It is a basic instinct, even more peremptory and
compelling- than our own basic instincts, such as self-
preservation, sex, hunger, thirst.
"It is the same for all," said Bettv, "so peace and rest
and ease do not come to those individuals as easily. They
have to acciuire.it, to make up for what thev did not do
there. Furthermore, instead of going forward quickly
into a hi!!her degree with its higher perceptions and plea-
sures, they have to linger in that low degree in which
thev were. Yet in them the urge is strong. They suffer
- from frustrated unre. And when they get.here, regret
is no momentarv fl~sh, to be thrust down, as on earth."
Darbv returned tt- the original topic.
"In the obstructed universe there are material values
that can be obtained by stealth and cunning," he pro-
vounded, uand if a man gets away with it, he has at
least the satisfaction of actual possession. In the unob-
structed universe there are no such values. Aooreciation
of that fact is part of the quick illumination of those
who go over there? Here's a fellow who robs some other
person, on earth. He goes there. He is quickly illumin-.
242 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
ated. Now, what restitution can he make to the man he
robbed, still on earth?"
"Sometimes he can make restitution. But more fre-
quently he cannot; not in the obstructed universe. I
know such a man, and he spends his entire existence
futilely trying to rectify, in the obstructed universe, a
mistake he made there. In consequence, he was not only
retarded when he came, but he is continuing to retard
himself."
"Suppose both the wronger and the wronged are now
in the unobstructed universe?" asked Darby.
"That is a happier circumstance. That is where the
'seventy times seven' forgiveness thing comes true. They
both understand: they both are free."
2.
I had, apparently, brought up a good point. There is,
said they, no stability to "spiritual development" unless
first a foundation has been established for it by adequate
accomplishment of the ordinary things of the life in
which we find ourselves. We may think we are making
progress for eternity by "withdrawing ourselves from
the sordidness of life." We may imagine we are getting
somewhere by cultivating assiduously our "higher na-
tures," either by our own inner meditations, or by fol-
lowing the practices of some religion or cult. And, in-
deed, we may gain by such conscious effort - but only
if we have first done thorouf!hly and adequately the
ordinary commonplace job of living out what is thrust
under our noses. That is what we are here for. And it
makes no ,great matter how sincere are our "higher" in-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 24)
tentions. Betty had scant patience even with those who
piously and consciously devote themselves to "service,"
if by so doing they leave their own backyards cluttered.
"When you make a cult out of service," said she, "you
have eliminated service, and created nothing but egoistic
satisfaction. And egoistic satisfaction is a straight road to
self-adulation, and that leads to attempted dictatorship."
We raked these coals over pretty thoroughly. Charity
building up vested interests; altruism so focused on cor-
recting one corruption or negative as to undermine hard-
ly acquired positives - both were uncompromisingly
criticized.
"The s.implicities of truth have been for too long over-
shadowed by idealistic thinking," said Betty. "That type
of thing establishes vested interests for itself, and then
rationalizes and propagandizes for the sake of protecting
them. I am not talking about any such colossal systems
as have sprung up in Europe. I am speaking only of the
comparatively uncomplicated social systems of your own
particular way of living. I am not denying democracy.
Nor education, nor charity. I am urging them. That is
what this whole divulgence, this philosophy, is about!
But t am also urging a recognition of the inevitable and
undeviating laws of consciousness! an acceptance of
them, and a responsibility to and for them.
"After all, if consciousness is in degrees, it is in that
manner that it has to operate, and it is in that manner it
must evolute. You 'can't make a silk purse out of a sow's
ear'· but a saw's ear is of itself a verv beautiful and soft
thidg. As I said, the world has gone haywire over ideal-
istic thinking, It's the same story as that of the Jews mod-
eling a calf out of gold, and then being so enamored of
the apparent realism of their creation that they set it up
244 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
and worshiped it as God. Your idealistic thinking has
run along the line of trying to force what you consider
growth on all degrees of consciousness.
"Now I submit, Darby, that that man who was here
tonight [a mechanic, who had been called in to make
household repairs] is gathering more quantity unto him-
self b.y going his own free-willed way according to his
degree of quality than if he had permitted you to force
on him the reading of books he could not understand,
the possession of things he could not afford, or atten-
dance at the opera that would entertain him about as
much as Chinese music would entertain the three of you.
There has been too much holier-than-thou stuff, and not
enough recognition of the genuine adequacy of growth.
"Socially, democracy is the closest thing to real evolu-
tion. And it worked very well in this country as long as
it operated on the degree method. And whose fault is it
that it seems to be falling down? It is the fault of the
higher degrees of quality, because they have become so
taken up with their own creations - their golden calf -
that they have shirked their i:esponsibility.
"You are your 'brother's keepers'; and that goes for
high, low and in-between alike. No man - no man," she
emphasized, "be he born with great or small quality -
his individual potential ability - can get away from this
fact."
"Now," Darby reverted, "take the person who has
fostered or allowed in himself a gradual growth or ac-
cumulation of petty griefs, envies, angers, unkindly judg-
ments, intolerances toward his associates, amounting
finally to a complex that actually makes a character?
How is that resolved in the unobstructed universe?"
~'Those are the negatives that must be eradicated in
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 245
'purgatory,' if you want to call it that. Such a.person
must come to a complete understanding, complete self-
lessness, complete love. And by his own effort. Except
it might be made a little easier, as we here help each
other.
"It is only the emotional things that really count.Ifpeo-
ple are big enough to live right emotionally, the concrete
things can be overridden. Because - and I want you all
to get this - because nothing that happens to an indi-
vidual is as important a~ what that individual thinks
about it."
CHAPTER XXIX
THE CONTINUITY OF EXISTENCE
I.
0cCASIONALLY, after a period of good hard work, Betty
was willing to indulge our curiosities a little. But only
by way of dessert, as it were. "W hat do you want to
know?" she would ask. Generally these talks started on
a more or less frivolous note, but were likely to lead into
serious discussion.
"How about dogs? Have you got dogs in your world?"
I asked.
"Of course I have my dogs; and I love them," she
replied.
"Then they continue on individually as you do? As
dogs,! mean."
"The individual is immortal. He or it brings back to
its degree its accumulation of quantity, thus raising the
degree level. Too bad if, when the degree level is raised
high enough to require a new form, there should be no
more dogs born!"
:.Well, some dogs have been over there so long they
ought to show the effects of change, if there is any. H ow
about Moses' and Aaron's dogs?" asked Darby.
Betty chuckled. "Why, I don't even know where
Moses and Aaron are!" said she.
z.
This was one of the occasions when our trivialities led
into something more serious-minded. l3ett:y:'s confession
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 247
of ignorance must have bothered her, for the next ses-
sion she returned to the subject in the first part of the
evening.
"I couldn't find Moses and Aaron," she began on a
facetious note, "so I went off on a still hunt for Sha-
drach, Meshach and Abednego. And I've been told things.
Some of them I don't myself quite understand. You see,
I went to school and tried to learn some of the things
you want to discuss. We were talking about the con-
tinuity and persistence of the individual. It's an old story
that all religions that survive have glimpses of funda-
mental truth, which through the years become distorted
into dogma. One such glimpse is purgatory. The con-
ventional purgatory does not exist. What does exist is
the life immediately beyond death on your plane. Dur-
ing this particular life - my present life - there is very
little difference or change.
"Now, the best illustration for the progression of life
here is your own. Your life is in stages - early childhood,
boyhood, young manhood, middle age, old age. They
are all steps, and they are all different. Each one is de-
pendent on its preceding phase and what has been ac-
complished by and during that phase. My present phase
of life, just as yours, is not my last phase. I shall go on
again; I shall evolute; and I shall do it as an individual.
"You have been thinking about the persistence of the
individual through all eternity in all its degrees; and you
were talking about personality, and the difference be-
tween the two. Personality is not a strong enough word
for my side of the wall. Mere personality can linger and
remain potent in your obstructed universe even after the
individual has passed to my plane. The personalities of
Napoleon, Henry VIII, Plato, Caesar, Confucius, Lin-
248 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
coln - and thousands of others - were so vivid and so ex-
pressive of their times that they have remained in the
world and in the minds of men.
"Now, it is true that all individuality, on being sepa-
rated from its lower degree habitat in the obstructed unL
verse, comes back to the qualitative degree out of which
it was born into the world for the accumulation of quan-
tity. And it is also true that in this very close-to-you
phase of life in which I move and am, there is very little
difference. But even on your plane all consciousness is in
degrees.
"The lowest degrees of consciousness come back to our
plane without much individualization. An electric cur-
rent is not much different here or there. The difference
between your matter and mine is obstruction there and
not here. The thing that does persist individually on this
plane is that type of consciousness that on your plane has
acquired volitional reasoning.
"By that I do not mean instinct only; it goes on
through, I don't know for how long. Probably to a cer-
tain point of development, rather than for any specific
length of time. But only the volitional reasoning creature
comes back to its degree as an individual. An amoeba
does not come back as an individual. It hasn't the voli-
tional reasoning power, and is absorbed into its degree.
The amoeba has its degree here, and it has its purpose,
but it does not manifest quite the same here; is not in-
dividually immortal, the way I am. For that you have to
get closer to the man-degree. Dogs - my dogs are here -
they do have fairly high development of volitional rea-
soning.
"As for me, when I shall go on into my next life, I do
not know. They tell me it will be something comparable,
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 249
but not quite as I know it here. I know there are future
manifestations of consciousness, but I do not know their
characteristics. I know I shall go on. I have had the ex-
perience of transition. You have not. When they say to
me that I am going to experience further transitions, but
that I am only going to experience something familiar to
my being, I believe what I am told. There is an ultimate
or supreme degree of consciousness."
"What is the highest degree of consciousness of which
you are cognizant?" I asked. "Are there any of which
you are not cognizant?"
"I know there are degrees of which I know only a
little more than you know about me. I don't think there
are any of which I am not cognizant," stated Betty.
"Then I gather there are degrees of consciousness with
which you have not come in actual contact," said Darby.
"You say there are none of which you are not at least
cognizant. What is the content of that cognizance? Have
you seen them?"
"I have seen some of them. Some not. I believe what
I am told of them, as you believe what you are told of
the South Pole, though you have never been there.
"I do not understand all the process, and I do not be-
lieve that even questions will make it clear, but I do
know that for an ungraspably infinite period the indi-
vidual man, created in the image of the consciousness
that has reached man's estate here, will go on as an in-
dividual. 'God made man in His own image,' " Betty
quoted. "Human consciousness, the height of individu-
alized consciousness, reveals itself in a form that is a copy
of the actuality which is the consciousness itself."
"All consciousness is limited by its degree until it
evolves into the supreme," said Anne.
250 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"How many are there - in the supreme? How many
have reached the supreme degree?" asked Darby.
Anne indicated that this did not, as yet, concern even
her; Betty adding that the whole question was so remote
we need not concern ourselves about it either. "Sufficient
unto the day is the wisdom thereof," she quoted again,
"and, anyway, I don't know enough about it to tell you."
CHAPTER :XX:X
IMPLICATIONS
I.
So FAR as a system of philosophical thought was con-
cerned the "divulgence," Betty indicated, was complete.
We drew a deep breath and relaxed.
"I suppose," mused Darby, "that Betty might sum it
all up - in effect, I mean - by saying: 'There! That's
how it is. That is how you do live with us, removed only
an inch from us. Or at least that is how you could live.'"
"Well, yes," Betty conceded, "but that's the emotion-
al climax. The real climax is, that here is a reasonable ex-
planation of an unobstructed I-Am, and its habitat. And
the startling thing is, that it is not merely logical; it is
as you, and your poets and playwrights have most ac-
ceptably visualized it. Furthermore, here am I, a woman
who is known to have done this work on your side, and
who now - still doing the same work - has come back,
and has been able to propound this philosophy."
"It's an explanation not so much of the fact of immor-
tality, as the hereness of it," said Darby.
He' was right. The "hereness of it" is what has come
to seem most real. That is, to us - who experienced these
forty sessions of communication with Betty; sessions
vivid with her unseen presence, from turn of phrase and
mode of thought to her own especial brand of fun and
laughter. But to you who read, the suggestiveness of
what we were told, together with implications thereon
based, must constitute the greater value. The major im-
plications were set forth at length. Others were out-
252- THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNI VE R S E
lined for us but briefly; just touched upon. A new slant
on sociology was suggested; a revitalized and more prac-
tically operative code of ethics; an advanced psychology
dealing with memory, genius and dreams. The last we
were keen to pursue, but Betty would have little of it;
and her reticence hinted at other fascinating topics,
which, however, she has not yet taken up.
"The subject is an anticipation," said she. "It has di-
rectly to do with the Content of Consciousness. But I
want to say this much more:
"We do creative things here. There is not much orig-
inal genius on your side; sometimes there is, but more
often what you call genius is a dipping into what indi-
viduals here accomplish. Great artists have dexterity;
and as a ruJe they are also great psychics. Sometimes they
get our thought without being able to produce it, and
that is a real tragedy. Scientists work on what you call
scientific discovery, and are subject to sudden solutions
of their problems. As in sleep."
"Can you get at us better in our sleep?" one of us
asked.
Sometimes, Betty agreed.
"Just as, in this communication, I use the released sub-
conscious of this station, and its storehouse, to produce
my message, so in your sleep - to an extent - is your
subconscious released. And sometimes the imping-ement
of our ideas is actuated in the same fashion - in sleep -
by the stirring of a subconscious memory. Frequently
dreams, stripped of their emotional content, are a direct
contact with the unobstructed univerc;e and with an
idea being promulgated here. With this knowledge you
could become mentally adept at using your dreams, and
solving your problems during sleep.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 253
"And do not think for one moment that hig-h, low and
in-between do not, at times, tap the infinity of our
thought."
2.
"I am wondering," said Darby, "about the wisdom of
using the word 'prayer.' It has such various connotations
in. people's minds."
"I think most people understand, dimly at least, what
prayer really is," said Betty, "and I think that to most
there comes, sometime, a pretty keen understanding. I
don't think the exact meaning of the word is discarded."
"To most it means that you are trying to influence a
power beyond you in your own behalf," pursued Darby.
"It is directed to a god with magic power to answer it.
That is not the conception we have. We need some dif4
ferent devotional word to indicate contact with unob~
structed consciousness, do we not?"
"The majority of people cannot aspire to such con-
tact," pointed out Betty. "Their degree is not yet high
enough. The formulation of a need into a thought, a
petition, with the sure submerging of self, that comes
with prayer to what is higher and greater than self, is a
beneficent operation to the individual, and is a definite
projection into the unobstructed universe."
"It is a very good thing to teach children to pray,''
contributed Anne. "Prayer is an actuality and gives them
a belief. The world has got along very well on a belief in
prayer, for the voicing of a desire or an emotion makes
it concrete. It clears it in your own mind, if nothing else.
And maybe when you have formulated it, you find you
254 THE UNOBSTRUCT!:D UNIVERSE
do not want it; or if you do.••• It was one of your own
great countrymen who said, "God helps those who help
themselves!"
"Well, now," said I to Betty, "you have always been
beyond the anthropomorphic idea, yet you were always
fond of repeating the Lord's Prayer. What did you have
in your mind? To what or whom did you address it?"
"To consciousness," replied Betty.
"Did you think of consciousness with personality,
warmth - such warmth as comes with personality, I
mean?"
"As though I were drowning in a great sea, and there
was a shipful of people, any or all of whom could help
me," replied Betty promptly.
3·
Perhaps as advanced ideas as any were supplied by the
Doctor. You will remember that the very first evening
Betty spoke through Joan I asked her if she was "work-
ing on the subject of pain, its nature and the technique
Df handling it" - a message purported to have come from
Betty to a friend, and relayed to me - and that she re-
plied she was, under the tutorship of "the Doctor."
This Doctor, dead these many years, and a great friend
of Betty's, spoke to us infrequently, but here is a sample
of the sort of thing he had to say:
"All sickness in your obstructed universe existence is
nothing but a maladjustment of frequencies. All con-
sciousness in the entire universe has a degree-frequency.
The individual consciousnesses of the various organs of
the body each have their individual frequencies, since all
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 255
co?sciousness has its degree-frequency. Now my point is
this:
"In the obstructed universe I employed certain dn1gs,
which were themselves really lower degrees of conscious-
ness - each with its own frequency - to stimulate or re-
tard frequency in higher pegrees of consciousness as
manifested in the human organism. I had, for exa~nle.
something for a torpid liver, for a tired heart - digitalis
- and so on, which should continue to be emnloyed.
But with your present concept and understanding. of
frequency and its relation to consciousness as the real-
ity of which you are a part, I think vou could, after :n
few trials, open your mind to the inflow of the orthic
whole for restoring the depleted frequencies of your
body. Use your minds! That is one of the truths that
has made Christian Science live.
"The only difficulty with that system is that, having-
added the unobstructed universe's healing concent to
earth's own restorative properties, they immediatelv
eliminated the degree-frequencies of drugs. Now, both
should be used. If a tool has been placed at hand, why
disdain it, if it can aid vou?
"When you understand iJJness and pain from tliis
angle, you can see why the Science healer. not tlirough
the laving on of hands, but tlirough the deliberate open-
ing of the mind, does get results, as well as the practi-
tioner of materia rnedica."
The Doctor in this life was a thorourrn-goinQ' allopath.
and - though for his times he was unusuallv restrained
in medication - liis doses, when he gave them, were
the bitterest of bitter!
More than once he talked to us on the modern use of
radium, electricity, various light ravs and the like in
256 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
medicine; all based on the supposition of their being en-
tity frequencies complementing the various degree fre-
quencies of the function of the human organism. It was
interesting and provocative but entirely too technical for
us to comprehend. It did call to mind, however, recent
successful experiments of forcing plant life by means of
artificial light and electrical charges and keeping alive
an isolated chicken heart through chemical stimulation.
Perhaps if, as Betty claims, they of the unobstructed
universe "do creative things" in their celestial laborato-
ries, some obstructed young medico may be "dipping
into" d.1e great reservoir of research Betty and her Doc-
tor both insist "is all here waiting to be told" and dis-
cover for mankind new "frequency" in healing!
4·
Anne had a last word.
"Long ago I told you," said she, "that the greatness of
communication is not the mere fact of communication,
but the creation of new understanding. That is what is
real for you - a new understanding out beyond the cur-
rent conceptions of the obstructed universe. One of the
criteria of your own existence is the endurance potency
of new thoughts. Whom do you best remember in your
own world? The same is true with us. If we, by any
means, can create, for the entire universe, in either phase,
a definite and concrete advancement of the experience
and thought of that universe, we have shared in real Cre-
ation. And if vou have wanted a proof th;it I, that 3ettv,
still exist, better than all the so-called evidential we could
possibly give, that proof is in our building up the foun-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 257·
dation of your own empirical knowledge into new and
advancing thought."
Also it is worth while to Quote Stephen's comment
when we had finished receiving all Betty and the rest
had to sav.
"We on this side are almost as much amazed as pleased
over what has been done in so short a time," said he. "It
has been possible only because, without exception., those
involved managed an entire submergence of egoism. And
the station has been remarbblv cooperative. Her mind
is much interested in this. and the natural wish would be
to sit in on the party. But there has been as complete
and definite a submergence of opinion, personal an<t t:lie-
oretical, as one could find. So tnere has been little color-
ing-. And she has therebv {earned a great deal in maninu-
l::ition of herself as a station. Much of that is due to Mrs.
\Vhite.
"All this has taken a lot of work. For us, as well as
you. Mrs. White has not been alone in it. Indeed she has
never claimed to be, and has stateCl th-at sne was not. But'
she was dPcidedlv the best ad:mted to !!ive this. b0tn
because of her work there and here. We liave reallv haCI
a pretty lar~e group. Some had the sole 1ob of attendinfr
the station. Thev treated ner pnvsicallv. for bealtli of
the phvsical body. They entertained her. They took he!"
away for profound instrnction of a tvpe she has hereto-
fore refused, or been umihle to lnc:e herself in. H er suc-
cess in tlla.t was ane to Mrs. 'VVhite ana tlleir fondnec:s
for each otliPr.
"Mrs. 'VVhite lierself is now g-etting her reward for not
'finding a place !n the universe to slump!' as slie ex-
pressed it in Across the Unknnwn. There are very few
who are able to walk across the no-man~s land as sure-
258 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
footedly as she. It was not new ground for her: it was a
road she knew. And now she comes back over it with
most unusual ease, and facility and accuracy. Those who
give largely, receive largely. She learned this and prac-
tised it of her own free will."
PART IV
CHAPTER XXXI
WHAT IT ALL MEANT TO DARBY
'·
r LOOKED at Darby, and Darby looked at me.
"Well!" we exclaimed in unison.
We sat awhile and smoked. We agreed that this had
been a most amazing performance.
"To start from any premise - true or false - and build
on it so inclusive a philosophical structure, so closely
knit, so airtight logically: one that proceeds through so
wide a range of subjects and interlocks them all so per-
fectly that not a seam shows; and, with all that, expresses
it so simply and clearly -" Darby was overwhelmed, ap-
parently forgetting that Stephen had put on a similar
show, more than twenty years ago. "A man might do
such a thing by his own processes and unaided,"' he con-
ceded doubtfully. "But you can bet all you've got he
wouldn't do it in forty days. Not by forty years he
wouldn't. Why," Darby was warming up, "he'd get the.
germ of the ide1, and he'd fumble, and he'd cut and try,
and he'd go back and modify in the light of his greater
thought, and feel about again, and restate, and when
he'd got it really airtight - according to him - he'd
have white whiskers, and they'd call him a Philosopher,
with a capital P.
"And this thing has come complete, as is!" Darby
mused a moment. "I'll tell you one thing I know!" he
said with conviction. "Joan is out of it - except as the
receiving station. She's gone to school, and she's a bright
262 THE' UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
gal on her own, but she just hasn't the equipment. And
I know I couldn't do it."
"That goes double for me too," said I. "And Joan has
done a grand job as receiving station." A thought struck
me. "That reminds me, Betty gave us a job too - as con-
ceiving stations. Now she and Joan have certainly made
goo,d. How about us?"
"What do you mean?" inquired Darby.
"Just recall what Betty said when she appointed us,"
I urged. "We were not only to help develop her thought
- subject," I added in rueful reminiscence, "to her cor-
rection and veto; but we were to 'reflect back' our un-
derstanding, so she could judge how much of her thought
she had managed to get over to us."
"I got it," said Darby.
"So did I - I think," I agreed. "So let's do a little 're-
flecting back.'"
"As how?" Darby was puzzled.
''Let's sit down and write out, in our own words, what
we each understand to be Betty's basic concepts, or
otherwise comment on them."
Darby nodded. "Good idea," he approved.
"That will sharpen our own mental picture, at least,"
I continued, "and I have a hunch that sc';nething of our
own obstructed viewpoint might help all the subsidiary
conceiving stations - may their tribe increase!"
"Huh?" grunted Darby.
"The readers of the book," I explained.
And then, characteristically, it turned out that Betty
had intended this all along. She had hinted at a Part IV,
for which we ·could see no material. We told her that
henceforth we would utterly give over the hope of hav-
ing original ideas. She did not like that, even in fun; but
THE UNOBS1.'RUCTED UNIVERSE 263
we reassured her by the promise of doing a bit of unim-
portant independent thinking from time to time. After
which, Darby settled down seriously to compile his
report.
2.
This is conceiving station D-A-R-B-Y speaking.
That there is psychological time as distinct from clock,
or sidereal, time seems plain enough. No matter what
the clock says, five minutes becomes sixty when you're
waiting for a pot to boil. But I don't think Betty would
have rung the changes on this obvious enough fact ju~t
for the sake of its own exposition. What she really at-
tempted was to entice S E W and me - and you, too -
out of our customarily static conception of time, out of
the acceptance of an hour as a fixed length, unvarying
irrespective of circumstances. That done, she sought to
ease us into an appreciation of time's malleable char-
acter right here in our ordinary experience.
Yes, psychologically a day may be short or long. We
can fidget during the fifteen minutes we wait for a train
- bored, empty and bedeviled by frustration - and thus
stretch a quarter of an hour into three quarters. Or we
can be interested in our surroundings, speculate on
where all the people are so intent on going and why, and
- presto! - the train arrives before we know it; somehow
fifteen minutes has been contracted to one.
So that is psychological time- not hard and fixed like
sidereal time, but stretchable, contractible, collapsible,
elas.tic, malleable. And all of this is in our daily ex-
penence.
I do not remember whether S E W has quoted the
:z64 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
'Statement, and I shall not stop to search through the
record for it, but my recollection is that Betty called
time, psychological time, the road by which our under-
standing might with the least sweat and strain penetrate
into her land of the unobstructed. For a certain distance
it is a road we know. But perhaps it has not occurred to
many of us that, beyond the familiar portion, this road
continues as a trail.
Here is a little-trodden ·path leading beyond psycho-
logical time, quite as psychological time carries on be-
yond sidereal time, to still another kind of time - what
Betty at first, for want of the word "orthic," could call
only third time.
Have we in our present obstructed state any percep-
tion, however elusive, of this third time? The chances are
we do have, if the wall between our obstructed universe
and Betty's unobstructed is as thin and fragile as she
asserts. This much we can now infer: That third time
is malleable as is psycholog1cal time - only more so; that
lil{e psychological time it expands and contracts.
And this must mean that the tenses of sidereal time
do not survive whollv intact in the third time; surelv
they crumble in our ·dailv experience of psychological
time. It would seem that, in third time, present, past and
future somehow coalesce.
Suppose you enter that railway station again, this
time rapt in thoug-ht. It will be no unusual experience if
you pace about oblivious of everything, :finally board-
ing your train you know not when. In some stray corner
of your mind you will have noted its arrival, of course.
and you do board it. Nonetheless you were unaware of
the passage of the fifteen-minute wait. Clock time ticked
us way into a past that left no impression on. von. And
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 265'
more ticks were just around the corner of the future, but
they were unanticipated by you. Only the present reg-
istered. You were in that present. Or should I say you
were that present, that one way or the other you and
time, for the while, were one?
Betty's third time is like that. It stretches and it con-
tracts; but neither the stretching nor the contracting can
be defined in terms of a sidereal future or past. An odd
kind of time, admittedly. But strange also is the mal-
leability of our own everyday sense of psychological
·time. Look at it as we will, clocks are one thing; our in-
ternal timepiece is something else again.
So far, so good.
But I think we can do even better than that. I think
that we can dig down into our consciousness, not mysti-
cally, but in a rather commonplace way, and find there
an all-including present - a matrix, as it were, that re-
ceives and registers yet transcends events. Let's try.
There is in you, as I think there is in me, a final point
below which there is no need of underpinning. That
point is our ultimate foundation, supporting by its own
sheer streng-th all the vast structure of our senses, emo-
tions and thoughts - the manifold of our perceptions,
instincts, tastes, our loves and hates, our very response,.
and even obligation, to the world of things, forces and
people about us. It was called by the Jehovah of the
ancient testament, "I Am." And after thousands of years,
language can find for it no better word. "I Am," - not
I was·or will be, but just I am.
N ow, in this deep-down, ultimate core of you ao you
find anything like the past and future that clocks record?
I think not. Do you find there primarily just a becoming,
such as might be measured by the standards of ordinary
266 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
time? Hardly. I think you will find there, as Betty en-
couraged S E W and me to find in ourselves, something
more fundamental than becoming, basic as that may be,
something that after a fashion escapes the squirrel-cage
of past and future: Being - being that is rooted in one
tense only, the present.
You, the innermost you, are - co-existing with change
and becoming, and so still in time, still a matrix for re-
ception, though looking neither forward nor backward.
That kind of enduring yet malleable present you will
find, I believe, in your own feel of being. At least, it is
foreshadowed psychologically. Tt is the third time. It is
the orthic time of Betty's unobstructed universe.
If time has three aspects - sidereal, psychological and
orthic - so too has space - or so Betty said.
I shall always remember my first automobile. One-
lungers had disappeared some time before, but high-
compression was still many years away. Tires carried
seventy pounds of air and were about as unyielding as
the bumpy unpaved roads, which, however undeniably
they lured us, had to be negotiated with a fine skill. Dif-
ferentials had a way of responding totally to every other
thank-you-ma'am - they just up and fell out. Axles were
always breaking and springs forever going smash.
With the requisite urging this automobile of mine
could do twenty miles an hour. But, when on the open
highway that speed was attained, farmers working in
their fields would turn to see what all the din and uproar
was about,
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 267
For at twenty miles Peggy (feminine for Pegasus)
shook in all her parts, shivered and snorted, rattled and
clanked - from radiator to tail-light. And I, with Joan
holding her breath in the seat beside me, had a sense
of tremendous speed. The rougher the road, the wilder
was Peggy's career; and th~ more boisterous that career,
the faster Joan and I seemed to be propelled.
"She certainly eats space up," we used to say affec-
tionately of Peggy, as we bedded her down for the night
after a fifty-mile run done in four hours and thirteen
minutes flat. ,
So, right in experience, you and I know that a mile is
not simply a fixed geometrical distance between two
points. Sidereally it is all of that, but psychologically it
varies. Long if we walk it, footsore and weary; short rl
we ride over a concrete road in a modem motor car
geared to do seventy, eighty, a hundred miles an hour.
A commonplace, of course - this mental appraisal of
distance in terms of experience rather than in geometri-
cal feet and miles. Betty would not have labored the
point, as without ulterior purpose she would hardly have
hammered away at psychological time, had she not hoped
that through psychological space we could get some ink-
ling of a third space - the orthic space of her unob-
structed universe.
As a rationalization, the proposition can now be stated.
Betty's space, like her time, is elastic, malleable - in the
same way that we know our psychological space to be
elastic and malleable. And again it should be added,
"only more so."
But must we stop at a mere rationalization?
Unlike SEW, I have not taken to the air. A Pullman
compartment, usually entered at night to save a day,
268 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
remains my fastest mode of travel. Invariably, when I
turn my back on the lights and sounds of a busy railway
station, board my train and close the compartment door,
idling away then the few minutes till the train pulls out,
I have this experience: It seems that space in its ordinary
sense has vanished, that suddenly all there is of space has
been squeezed into the four compartment walls. A feel-
ing of intimacy with it comes over me; space and I are
alone at last, and the world with all its places and all that
intervenes is gone.
The train now moves, picks up speed; and still all
space is compacted within my four walls, but with a dif-
ference. Now this intimate all of space has become fiuid.
Malleable? Of course. Has it not all been squeezed into
one small Pullman compartment! But it is fiowing now,
and I with it. The two of us seem everywhere, yet no-
where. No longer for me does space mean just the dis-
tance between two points. Rather, it's a stream, without
banks or landscape - a stream that flows in all direc-
tions out from a center which is no dimensional center
at all but only myself.
Perhaps the telling of this recurring experience tends
to trip and fall into the occult. Yet I have never felt any
sense of mystery accompanying it. At least, there's noth-
ing even slightly mysterious about the further fact that
after a night's sleep I, who switched off the light just out
of Elizabeth, wake up in Chicago, with no feeling of
geometrical space traversed or of the places that dot that
space. By availing myself of the mechanical help of a
railroad I have traveled five hundred miles in less time
than a good rider on a good horse could have run seventy,
::nd with infinitely less pains.
· After all, then, it is not the number of geometrical
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 269
miles that obstructs us, but our inexpertness in telescop-
ing them or, if you will, flowing through them.
In the company of two friends I took an elevator the
other day to the sixty-fifth floor of a certain skyscraper.
Numerous stops were made on the way up, and finally
we reached· our floor, and that was that.
But, coming down, we made the descent without stop,
clear from the sixty-fifth to the ground floor. There was
no sense of speed and little of motion. Unprepared for
the mental effect of the long drop, we stepped from the
elevator into the lobby.
And - bang! - it was like that explosive recovery
from nitrous oxide with which you crash back into
everydavness after the dentist has extracted an infecred
molar. "Where am I?" you demand, faced with just the
plain, familiar world, but now for a moment strange and
curiously elfin. So mv: two friends and I felt as we stared
about in the lobby of the skvscraper.
Through some trick of the small, moving enclosure
called an elevator we had been loosened, maybe. from
the space of g-ood old Euclid and then, on reaching
the ground :floor, unceremoniously dumped back into
it.
"Where am I?" I almost asked the starter in the lobhy.
More sensible perhaps would it have been to ask, "Where
was I?"
AH in all, third space was hard for me to get the hang
of. For third time I seemed to have an intuitive feeling.
But I could uncover in myself no similar spatial instinct.
And Bettv's introduction of the time-space concept as an
aid to understanding did not help much, though in retro-
spect it becomes clear that all our modem control of
space analyzes down to control of the time required to
270 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
travel space. With me the time-space idea began really
to click only after motion came under discussion.
But, whatever my difficulties, they need not be yours.
For some ordinary experience of your own may so illus-
trate the malleability of psychological space that it will
be easy for you to add Betty's new ingredient, the fiow.
Do so, and I think you will have glimpsed orthic space.
And now let's go back for a moment to consideration
of unadorned sidereal space. Is there warrant in it, whol-
ly aside from psychological reactions, for Betty's con-
ductivity concept?
Look at the matter in this wise:
Your physical body is itself an obstruction, and as
such it is in constant conflict with environing obstrUc-
tions, the most deterring of them being solids. It is from
these solids - the doors of our houses, their walls and
floors and furniture; the materials of our handicraft and
its tools, from lathes and drills to pencils and paper and
even books - that we gather our more obvious spatial
impressions. Everything is so long and so wide and so
high; and that, we judge hastily, is all there is to space.
But even sidereally this is only one aspect, and perhaps
not the more fundamental. The other aspect tells us that
space is that in which we move.
Space itself is not a solid. On the contrary, except as
we meet obstructions, we pass right through it. Indeed,
it is only because our bodies are material and must be
moved about in such a way as to avoid, or utilize, other
material obstructions that we are particularly aware of
space at all. To the degree that our bodies are not hin-
dered by other material objects, we pay but small atten-
tion to the length, breadth and height of things. But
always we are aware that we move - through space.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNI VERSE 271
Surely we do recognize the conductivity of space, even
in this sidereal world.
So, to use Betty's phrase, strip space down. Strip off
its three dimensions, and there is still left conductivity.
Orthic space is conductivity - a fluidity of conduction,
neither up nor down nor across, yet, because of its very
fluidity, still definitely space.
4.
In presenting orthic motion Betty did not follow the
pattern she had established for explanation of third time
and third space. Starting with the motion of our ob-
structed universe, whether astronomical or just pedes-
trian, she could have passed glibly to psychological view-
points. For motion - the uniform sway of a clock pen-
dulum, for instance - does seem to speed or slacken ac-
cording to the observer's interest; at a scene of disaster
relief arrives with cruel slowness, be it rushed by horse
or truck or plane.
And it was thus that I supposed Betty would postulate
orthic motion: malleable, just as a given rate of ordinary
motion appears to vary with the conditions under which
it is experienced.
My questions led in that direction. Betty would have
none of them. Once, if my memory serves me, she came
close to denying existence of any such thing as psycho-
logical motion. Later she took that half back, with a
ho-hum and a yes-no. And in the end she took it back
with a vengeance. Thought itself, she announced, is psy-
chological motion! Had this been an early statement,
SEW and I might well be floundering still.
In any case, abandoned the established pattern was,
272 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
even at the risk of motion appearing for a while to be the
ugly duckling of Betty's grand trilogy. Instead, we
found ourselves plunged deeper and deeper into that
hyphenate of the modem physicist - time-space.
First, let me say that Betty used this concept only as
an aid to instruction. When it had done its work, she
proceeded promptly to knock the hyphen out, ever so
solicitously putting time and space back on their sundry
and individual legs.
Several decades ago a search developed among mathe-
matically inclined physicists for a fourth.dimension. The
length, breadth and height of objects in space, satisfac-
tory enough in everyday thinking, had become inade-
quate. For it was being experimentally demonstrated that
the innerness of all physical things was in flux - even
inert matter. And how in the world could one go on
charting a no longer static physics in terms of three-
dimensional substance?
A number of dizzy books were written. But few, if
any, of them tried to name or describe the needed new
dimension. That is not to say it didn't exist. As a mathe-
matical X, it opened fields of equations- far beyond the
ambition of a Leibnitz and his calculus. And as a con-
venience in accounting for the disappearance of lost
articles it was par excellence. After a man had searched
ten minutes under bed and bureau for his dropped collar
button, he could dismiss the wretched thing with good
conscience - somehow it had just rolled into the fourth
dimension.
Finally something akin to common sense prevailed. By
common sense is meant, I take it, the art of reasoning
toward what one doesn't know from what one does
know. If we can't find a clew to the unknown in empiri-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 273
cal knowledge, we had best wait. Otherwise, we are
liable to become spinners of remote and inapplicable
theories, or, worse, mystics, or, more horrid still, cultists.
Anyway, common sense found a fourth dimension, truly
essential to the new physics of radiation and electrons
and wave-lengths and what-not, in simple, ordinary ex-
perience - in time itself.
Let's explore the idea. There in the station waits our
railway train. It possesses the traditional three dimen-
sions; it is so long, so wide and so high. But now it moves,
quitting the station; and, as it moves in the three dimen-
sions of space, uphill and downhill and straight away on
the level, it moves as well in a fourth dimension. It swings
along in time - in time as in space.
And men say, as they have always said of such mat-
ters, that the train moves so many miles an hour, which
is to assert that its rate of motion in space can be stated
only in terms of time.
But suppose the train does not get under way. Sup-
pose it continues to stand still. Nonetheless it moves, be-
cause it is part and parcel of an earth that itself is in
motion.
So pertinent to any analysis of motion is this concept
that one may well ask wheth~r time-space is not just
another name for motion. Maybe so, and maybe not so..
This much, at least, the concept makes clear:
Without the time dimension there can be no sidereal
motion, and, equally, there can be none without the di-
mensions of space. In oth~r words, there can be sidereal
motion only in time plus space.
But where does this get us in understanding orthic
motion?
Betty says that her unobstructed universe is but an
274 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
extension of our obstructed. To use Stephen's language
of some twenty-five years ago, the two worlds function
under parallels of one and the same law. This being so,,
it follows that motion in the unobstructed universe is as
inextricably tied into an orthic time-space as motion here
is tied into sidereal time-space. If, then, we have learned
anything of orthic time and orthic space, no matter how
little, we probably have learned a like something about
orthic motion. Let's ~ee.
Sidereally, any really instantaneous transit is impossi-
ble. The train can move faster and faster as the engineer
desires, but only up to a certain limit. There is a final
maximum rate of speed beyond which it can not go.
Light moves fastest of all, so fast that astronomers set
down its speed in terms of years; but even in the instance
of light there is always just so much movement in any
given interval of time. Never in the obstructed universe
is motion transmitted instantaneously.
In the same way, sidereal motion cannot escape the
fixed distances of space. However fast the train, it must
run the exact length of each individual mile traveled.
But orthic time, we have learned, is malleable, col-
lapsible; and orthic space is a flow, a completely rarified
conductor if you please. In such a time and such a space..
the instancy of motion becomes conceivable or, if not
quite conceivable, imaginable.
And that - instantaneous transit, with all the brakes
of sidereal time-space released - is half, more or less, of
Betty's story of orthic motion, as told through Joan.
You will understand now, I think, why Betty did not
rely on psychological considerations to demonstrate the
motion of her unobstructed universe. Sidereal motion,
unlike sidereal time and space, is patently malleable here
THE UNODSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 275
in the obstructed universe. It not only seems that way
to us; it is that way. We can walk or we can run. By
interest and anticipation we can speed the frequency of '
our very heartbeat. SEW and I knew that all along,
and Betty knew that we knew it. But what about it? It
helped us not at all to apprehend instancy, that is, mo-
tion unlimited by a maximum rate.
Our effort to visualize an infinitely accelerated fly-
:wheel did help - some - at the time. But this was largely
an intellectual exercise. For myself I had no feel for that
sort of flywheel, though at the point of infinity its mo-
tion would plainly imply instancy.
No, some other device was called for - and provided.
The time-space concept, offering an everyday frame for
sidereal motion and then argued from the obstructed to
the orthic, turned the trick - for me. At least, I can
state the proposition:
Motion in the obstructed universe is gripped in the
vice of sidereal time-space. That time-space is fixed, and
any motion through it is potentially limited. The parallel
motion of the unobstructed universe is as unrestricted as
the orthic time-space in which it functions. And orthic
time-space is limited neither by tense, direction nor ex-
traneous resistence. In orthos, motion is instant.
You may say, as I was tempted to say, that this an-
nihilates time, that a truly instantaneous motion would
have no need of time. But that is to think in terms of
sidereal time, with its three tenses. Furthermore, Betty
cautioned us again and again not to confuse the rate of
motion with motion itself. Perhaps all this can be made
clearer if we pause to answer the question asked a page
or two back: Is time-space just another word for motion?
The answer is, no.
276 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
I walk into a room, stumble and in recovering my
balance knock a chair over. As it topples to the floor it
is in motion; it moves through time-space. But time-space
was there before my awkwardness upset the chair, as it
will be after I put the chair to rights. Given time-space
and it only, the world would lie as unruffled as the night
before Christmas, when, as everybody knows, not a
creature was stirring. A stir, an activating something must
exist as a condition precedent to any motion.
It is that stir, orthic in the final analysis, which, col-
liding with sidereal time and space in the obstructed uni-
verse, sets up the phenomenon we know here as the
time-rate of motion. The stir itself requires no rate.
And now to get back to earth, if only briefly. Let's
reason out the second half of Betty's story of motion un-
obstructed. This exploration need not press beyond mun-
dane frontiers.
In everyday motion we deal first with our ~odily im-
pacts. We hit things and they move. And so we are in-
.dined to assess all motion in terms, say, of a billiard
table. The cue strikes a ball. Immediately that ball leaps
into motion and hits another, which in tum rushes off
to hit a third. Finally all the balls are at rest again, and
we say that the motion set up by the impact of the cue
has spent itself. The fact, of course, is that that motion
did not spend itself, did not cease, but was merely dis-
tributed, its big stream breaking up into innumerable
small streams no longer apparent to us.
It is only on reflection that we note that motion never
comes to rest. It may be transferred or transformed until
it eludes our senses; but, on second thought, we are not
deceived. It still oscillates, actually or potentially, in one
wave-band, so to speak, or another.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 277
Of course, then, orthic motion is perpetual, just as per-'
petual as is sidereal motion. And again it is well to add,'
"only more so." This is why Betty spoke tolerantly of
the "mad inventors" who, glimpsing a truth, have la-
bored honestly, if fatuously, to apply it. Their perpetual
motion machines have not come off for a variety of rea-
sons. Nevertheless motion itself is perpetual.
Perpetualness, demonstrated in the obstructed uni-
verse, is the other half of Betty's story of orthic motion.
We know now two characteristics of the orthic stir,
the activating· impulse without which time and space
would be as dead as a herring - instancy and the state
of being perpetual. And we know one thing that this
stir is not - thought. For thought, says Betty, is psycho-
logical motion; and I suppose that psychological motion
is as remote from orthic motion as sidereal is short of psy-
chological. Yet, to use the word of children playing hide-
and-seek, thought is "warm" - warmer than the sway of
a pendulum or even the course of the planets around the
sun.
From the very beginning of Betty's divulgence, it was
a sidereal word that she used to express the essence of
orthic motion - "frequency." This, I think, was because
modern physics has gained wide acceptance for the word
and given it new and flexible meanings. Also Betty may
have been influenced by the fact that men know much
about the deep inwardness of themselves and can tell
little, while of the world outside themselves they know
little, yet feel qualified to tell much. Pardonable, since
language depicts the outer world more adequately than
it does the inner.
278 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
There remains a clump or two of underbrush to clear
away, and then, I rather think, we shall be ready to make
trial of what Betty, borrowing again from the Greek,
called "trilogia" - her threefold frame of consciousness.
First, we must not be tempted to regard time, space
and motion as mere attributes of consciousness, as one
might say blueness is an attribute of the sea. Under
shifting light conditions, the sea may be blue or it may
be green or just gray; it is still the sea, whatever its color.
Time, space and motion, however, are of the very fabric
of consciousness. If it is correct to say that they exist
no otherwhere than in consciousness, it is hardly less
correct to say that consciousness exists no otherwhere
than in them.
The second misconception we shall want to guard
against is illustrated by the very emphasis of what I have
just written. I seem to suggest that the sum oftime, space
and motion equals consciousness. Not so. Always con-
sciousness works through time, space and motion, but
their total is not consciousness, any more than leaves,
branches and roots add up to make a living tree.
One thing more, in passing: The word trilogia could
be applied, of course, to the time-space-motion complex
in which we function here in the obstructed universe,
as well as to orthos. Do not the obstructed and unob-
structed parallel each other in all respects, existing under
one law? But it was not the obstructed universe·that
Betty sought primarily to clarify. She WqS trying to ra-
tionalize the unobstructed. For the ends of language she
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 279
reserved the term trilogia for the orthic complex, and it
has seemed best to S E W and me to preserve that usage.
And now let's get on.
Consciousness has three co-existences. From the ob-
structed point of view this is not a difficult statement.
You are constantly in time; you are constantly in space;
and I suspect you are constantly in motion, or at least
you are always in the midst of motion. It is not other-
wise in the unobstructed universe, granted that time
there is not measurable by clocks, space by footrules or
motion by speedometers.
Betty's trilogia, co-existent with the consciousness that
is she, consists of orthic time, the essence of which is
receptivity; orthic space, the essence of which is con-
ductivity; and orthic motion, the essence of which is fre-
quency.
A day or two after the essences were sprung on us,
without which I am afraid trilogia might indeed have
proved just a verbal curiosity, Joan, SEW and I had
occasion to drive sixty miles across country. As we
climbed into the car, I had a big idea. For the purpose of
this one ride, why not forget all our ordinary notions of
time, space and motion and instead think only in terms
of receptivity, conductivity and frequency? "A good
idea if it works," agreed SEW.
Well, it worked and it didn't. Certainly the well-tuned
motor fired with an unmistakable rhythm, and regularly
this frequency was transmitted to the wheels of the car.
There was conductivity too, such as modem road-
builders know how to make; for we were being propelled
through rather than against. And there was receptivity,
maybe. S E W said the receptivity was good, meaning, I
inferred, that, as the countryside was new to him, his
280 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
mind was registering many fresh and interesting impres-
sions. To Joan and me the receptivity was only fair; we
had taken that ride too many times before.
"How shall we define the rate of this frequency?" I
asked SEW.
"So much conductivity per so much receptivity," he
replied with a twinkle.
"Hooey!" volunteered Joan. "Why not say a mile a
minute and be done with it?"
Why not, indeed? For were we not right where we
began - in sidereal time, space and motion? The plain
fact was that we had never got out of them. And that,
of course, was why the experiment had failed to work.
"But," I said, "it does help. Imagine a road of perfect
smoothness, running through an atmosphere of no re-
sistance. That road, that space would suggest just con-
ductivity."
"A super speedway for a motor of unlimited fre-
quency!" SEW contributed.
"Provided," said Joan, "one hasn't brought the wrong
kind of receptivity along. I insist on the orthic brand."
I think Joan's insistence went pretty straight to the
heart of things. The effort of our technical age has been
to control motion, to speed it and so to collapse time.
Thus stated, time shortens as an effect of speeded mo-
tion. But actually it is the other way around. You must
tinker with time first, seeking to step up its ratio to
space. Accelerated motion is the external evidence of
how well you have done that tinkering.
Betty says she controls her orthic time, the essence of
which is receptivity. How? By manipulating receptivity?
How? I was in deep water.
To say that space, ortbically viewed, is essentially a
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 281
matter of conductivity was becoming acceptable enough,
because in ordinary experience space is a conductor; we
do go through it. To say that the essence of orthic mo-
tion is frequency may require a deal of explanation, but
it rings a bell, because even in the obstructed universe we
are so accustomed to analyzing motion into vibrations,
cycles, rhythms - in fact, frequencies. But to me time
seemed possessed of other characteristics quite as essen-
tial as receptivity.
There was duration, for example. Had I been asked
before Betty came what was the essence of time, I am
confident I would have replied, "Duration." Surely so
subjective a characteristic as receptivity would not have
occurred to me; such is one's inveterate devotion to the
working materialism of the obstructed universe.
And I was not content even after Betty explained at
length how all things are received in time, and in time
only, and how an event remains influential after its oc-
currence - as the influence of a man may continue after
his death - precisely because of the receptivity which is
time's essence. I was impressed, but not satisfied.
So I had to back-track. I had to remind myself again
of what Betty was really trying to do. It was this: She
was seeking to explain to us why her world is unob-
structed and the how of it; she was trying to make her
unobstructed state reasonable in terms of our oqstruction.
All right, then, how do we here overcome obstruction?
The sixty-mile cross-country automobile ride is a good
enough answer. We mastered space, because a mechani-
cal gadget, our gas engine and its appurtenances, had put
us in a position to take more than usual advantage of con-
ductivity. But we did not really shorten space. As to
time, that we did shorten, relatively. 'Ve traveled sixty
282 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
miles in the interval it would have.taken us to walk five.
And how did we do that? By manipulating duration?
Scarcely. For duration, I was learning, really was the
thing shortened. We shortened time, because we had in-
creased its receptivity - crammed more into it, as it
were - thanks to our humming motor.
Orthic space is no obstruction at all to Betty, if she is
in full control of its essence, conductivity. I had ceased
to argue about that. And it now seems· that there can
be as little argument over the essence of orthic time, re-
ceptivity. For it is only in this characteristic of time, as
we know it here in the obstructed universe, that control
is to be predicated.
To the extent that Betty can increase receptivity, that
is, fill time to its utmost, to the extent that she can in-
crease conductivity, telescoping mere distance, to that
extent she can step up, as she will, the essence of motion,
frequency - all this simply on the basis of an altered
time-space ratio. It is in this orthic ratio that motion be-
comes instantaneous; time becomes an all-inclusive now;
and space becomes only a stream of non-resistance.
To assert these wonders of the trilogia wou1d seem
fantastic were it not that we find them grounded right
here in the commonplace experience of our obstructed
universe. After all, these are the very wonder~ that Joan,
SE W and I worked in that sixty-mile auto ride - im-
perfectly. We shortened time by crowding its essence.,
receptivity. We overcame space by utilizing to unusual
degree its essence, conductivity. And motion bevond the
dreams of shanks' mare resulted. As Mr. Wordsworth
might have said - Trilogia lay all about us.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 283
6.
Speaking of wonderland, you'll recall that when Alice
arrived on the other side of the looking-glass she was
horrified by the persistence with which the people she
found there attached strange and outlandish meanings to
comfortable words that Alice had always supposed she
understood quite well. So it had to be explained, and this
is what they told her concerning one of their puzzlers:
"Ycm see it's like a portmanteau - there are two mean-
ings packed up in one word."
Betty's term "frequency," I take it, is a portmanteau
word. And therein it differs from her other terms, re-
ceptivity and conductivity.
As a word, "receptivity" functions well enough
whether applied to material or psychological processes.
For instance, paper is receptive to ink, and likewise your
mind is receptive to ~ensory impressions. In the same
way, the word "conductivity" blankets both the objec-
tive and subjective ranges. A length of pipe is conductive
of water; from the verbal ~tandpoint, one can say just as
reasonably that your mind is now serving as a conduc-
tor of the thought expressed in this sentence.
But with the word "frequency" it is different. There
may be a word so descriptive of the essence of motion as
to work both materially and psvchologically. But I don't
know it. Neither apparently did Betty. Anvway, it was
a portmanteau word that she left with S E W and me -
a word of two meanings. Rather, I fear of three and
maybe more.
Frequency - what is it sidereally? On first considera-
284 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
tion, only the number of vibrations in a unit of time.
That's our take-off; and in these latter days we get off
the ground quickly enough, leaving such old-time fa-
miliars as the oscillating clock pendulum and the vibrating
piano.string far below. For now the primary meaning of
the word is no longer so simple. With the discovery and
utilization of electricity, including in recent years what
we have come to know as radiant energies, the connota-
tions of the term have been vastly broadened. Now we
talk confidently of radio frequencies. We never saw or
felt one. But because of mechanical registration we know
they are.
,It is this territory of new energies - and of older but
equally baffling ones such as light - which Betty (or
was it Anne?) called "no-man's land." Scarcely non-
material are they, nor yet material in the old acceptance
of the word.
A few pages back we tried to isolate two character-
istics of orthic motion - perpetualness .and instancy. As
motion is perpetual eve~ in the sidereal universe, further
comment is unnecessary. But sicfereal motion is not in-
stant. Qrthic motion is, says Betty. If so, perhaps the
frequencies of no-man's land foreshadow orthic instancy.
Certainly they should do a better job of showing the
way 'than do the grosser vibrations of tuning forks and
such.
The radio announcer, broadcasting miles off, says:
"Eight o'clock by Fugit, the world's most estimable
watch." And we, sitting at our firesides, haul out our
own watches to see if they need resetting. So close to in-
stantaneous is the transmission of the radio frequency
that we ignore the lag between the announcer's spoken
words and our reception of the impulse that reproduces
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 285
those words in our own living rooms. This discrepancy
never occurs to us.
Or we push a button in the wall and expect instantane-
ous response in the chandelier, and for all practical pur-
poses we get it.
So our present-day experience does encompass fre-
quencies approximately instantaneous. Suspect, there-
fore, the existence of really instant frequencies, as far
beyond radio, for example, as radio is beyond a clock
pendulum. Thus SE W and I were charged by Betty,
through Joan.
In fact, one of these ultra frequencies men have known
since men were, more intimately than they know land
and sea and all that in them is. But, because they have
found no way of measuring this particular frequency,
they still swear bv the gods of earth, air and water.
Good, reliable old gods, t~ be sure! But their robust ob-
jectivity became measurable only when yardsticks were
devised and applied by thought. ·
True, the energies of no man's land lift our under-
standing of frequencv, the essence of motion, beyond the
simpler mechanisms. But with the frequency we so inti-
matelv know as thought we climb high above no-man's
land, high above wave-lengths, cmd quanta and what
have vou.
Betty did not ask us to conceive thought as orthic
motion. For us in the obstructed universe it remains only
a psychological frequency, still short of orthos, but pow-
erful: real and pointing straight up the skyway in the
direction of orthic frequency itself.
Let's test the proposition out. Assume that thought is
a frequency, an ultra frequency, foreshadowing the
orthic essence of motion. In that case you would not ex-
286 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
pect to find it in sidereal space. Do you? Obviously not.
Nor would you expect it to be confined in sidereal time.
Is it? The act of thinking may be in sidereal time, but
thought itself jumps all sidereal barriers. The truth is,
neither space nor time obstructs it. You can think of
China, not as accurately, but as easily as you can think
of the street you live on. You can think of IO B. c. as
easily as you can of 1940 A. D.
There was once a very great philosopher who, wish-
ing to prove all things, began by trying to prove his own
existence. And he proved it, in his own estimation, by
saying, "I think. Therefore, I am." Critics ever since
have been clamoring that Descartes could have said
with equal sense, "I walk, or I talk, or I weep. There-
fore, I am." But the critics, I submit, have been only half
right. For, while it may be futile for any man, no matter
how great a philosopher, to attempt to prove the only
thing that he really knows, his own consciousness
through which he infers all else, nonetheless long be-
fore consciousness walked or talked or wept or even re-
joiced, it thought, if only amoeba-wise.
Another thing: Betty says that we here always con-
fuse the obstructed manifestations of the simple mechani-
cal world, and those of the more complex no man's land,
with motion per se. We are made that way, it seems -
with an exception, however, in the case of thought.
Thought is a thing that we never confuse with objective
manifestation. We may think to walk, but we do not
call walking thinking. And there, too, thought is on the
side of the angels.
Again, if thought previews the essence of orthic mo-
tion, we would expect it to be close to instantaneous. Is
it not so? And we would expect it to be close to per-
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 287
petual. Surely it is ceaseless in our waking moments; and
we are told by psychologists that subconsciously it con-
tinues even in our deepest sleep. Betty is living proof -
to me - that its activity survives bodily death.
In the same vein, thought does not vanish with the
act of thinking; the thoughts of a thousand years of yes-
terdays color today, for better or worse, and will color
tomorrows unnumbered.
Yes, I think thought offers specifications on which to
build whatever lame conceptions of orthic frequency we
denizens of the obstructed universe are capable of. It is
the freest, the least obstructed fact in our experience.
And, more, is it not the great creator? Is it not our
world's biggest stir, its mightiest activity, its most potent
impulse?
I make these observations on thought not to glorify it.
There are negative as well as positive thoughts. My pur-
pose is only to suggest some experiential basis for your
and my understanding that the essence Betty calls fre-
quency is the activating impulse, without husk, shell or
wrapping - obstructed in this world, but with thought
offering a glimpse of its unobstruction in orthos. There
is nothing I can add to the phrase "activating impulse."
We shall just have to let it go at that, with, however, a
caution or two.
Don't think that by frequency is meant consciousness
itself. Frequency, the essence of orthic motion, activates
consciousness, and is co-existent with it, but not more so
than is receptivity, the essence of time, or conductivity,
the essence of space. All three together constitute the
trilogia of consciousness. They are interfus'ed and inter-
dependent.
Nor should we vainly imagine that all orthic frequency
288 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
is of the same degree. As there are many sidereal fre-
quencies, each differing from the other, so there are many
orth~c freq~encies. Betty's world is as pluralistic in its
momsm as ts our own.
For instance, there is in our world this thing we call
electricity. We know that we do not know its essence;
all that we know about it is the manner in which it be-
haves in obstruction. In the unobstructed universe the
essence is known and dealt with. And that illustrates
why, when we asked Betty if there were electricity and
oxygen and bricks and sticks and stones in her world,
she answered, yes - even at the risk of being Sir Oliver-
ish. But always she added that she knew and dealt with
these things, not in their obstructed aspect as we do, but
in their essence.
Never fear but that Betty's unobstructed universe has
all the infinite variety of our obstructed universe - "only
more so," what with frequencies we here have not been
able to reach up to, and she there, reaching down to us,
·is unable to bestow.
So the portmanteau character of the term "frequency"
need no longer concern us, because it is clear that fre-
quencies must be in degrees, as is consciousness itself.
There is no difference. in kind between the essential fre-
quency of ordinary visible motion and a radio wave-
length; there is only a difference of degree. .In essence,
a radio wave-length and thought are alike in kind; they,
too, differ only in degree. It is the same way with thought
and the frequencies of orthos.
But Betty did not mean that all orthic frequencies are
of a potential equal to that of thought. On the contrary,
thought, even as it operates in the obstructed universe,
has a potential far beyond t:hat of many a frequency of
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 289
the unobstructed universe. She meant only that in the
unobstructed universe all motion is apprehended in its
essence and that our feel of the freest obstructed mo-
tiQ!1, thought, gives us a clue to motion's orthic essence,
called by her for the purpose of her divulgence, fre-
quency.
7.
Still another of Betty's terms seems to warrant special
attention - "arrestment." She had her bit of fun with
me there, as I maneuvered this way and that to get at
her meaning. But I forgive her. Certainly I had earned
no "ticket" for speeding. I was guilty only of the com-
mon and relatively trivial offense of blocking the traffic.
In the name of the unobstructed universe, aren't we all!
You and I - every mother's child of us - are arrested,
joking aside. And so are all other frequencies manifesting
in obstruction. Thus spoke Betty. Perhaps a moment's
introspection will help us to understand.
We have all had the experience of being lifted out of
ourselves by great music or perhaps just a good movie.
Under the spell of art, we escape our encirclement. That
is, we imagine we are escaping it. And then when the
play is over, what do we do? Do we go out.and crystal-
lize the vague aspirations of make-believe into fact?
Sometimes - if we have aspired quantitatively, as Ste-
phen would say. But if we have aspired qualitatively, and
often we do, it is otherwise. Here we are left to settle
back as comfortably as may be into what we really are.
The point is that but slight self-analysis is required for
each of us to recognize arrestment in himself. We know
•
290 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
our arrestment unmistakably enough whenever we try
to escape it.
But in the field of self-awareness, as elsewhere, arrest-
ment of frequency does not imply obdurate limitation.
That can hardly be, urged as we are by our deepest na-
ture to break through whatever it is that confines us. And
surely arrestment implies no dead stop. It means only a
suspension of potentiality. Nonetheless, frequency :as it
manifests in the obstructed universe is arrested; it does
have its point of suspense.
Take the electric fan that Joan was repairing one
morning in the early days of Betty's divulgence. Let's say
it was a fan of two speeds. The low speed we'll label
50 and the high speed 100. We set the fan revolving at
50. It will go right on revolving at 50 indefinitely, though
its over-all frequency is roo. In other words, without
disturbing the potential of 100, we have arrested the
fan's motion at 50.
Now, forgetting about 100 being a potential, we'll
push the control lever directly into high. With the fan
going twice as fast as before, we note a curious effect -
just as did Joan. Whereas at 50 we could see the blades
clearly, now we don't see them at all. We look right
thr,pugh them at the wall behind.
It is easy for us to say that the fan is revolving too rap-
idly for our eyes to follow its motion, and that's true.
But something else is also true, something that is inde-
pendent of our eyes. It can be stated this way: At roo
the blades of the fan are traveling twice as far as they
did at 50 - in the same unit of time. Into the same time
interval we have packed double the space.
And this brings us to Betty's statement that matter as
we know it in the obstructed universe is an arrestment
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 291
of frequency resulting from a certain incidence of mo-
tion in time and space. This is not altogether a hard say-
ing, if, for the purpose of illustration, you will assume
loo to be the essence of motion, frequency itself in its
orthic meaning. To our obstructed eyesight the blades
·of the fan are invisible at 1oo (essence) ; there is just
the wall behind the place where the fan was. But now
we pull the control back to the 50 mark of arrestment.
Behold the fan again, safely back in the obstructed uni-
verse! All done by a simple shift of the time-space ratio.
Physicists have been telling us for some years now that
there is no material substance as we have understood the
term in the past; that instead there are only aggregates
of energy. Matter, it seems, is the name that we popu-
larly apply to those particular stress-knots that are three-
dimensionally measurable. Well, it is the arrestment of
frequency, if I understand Betty correctly, that makes
that measurement possible. It is the arrestment, in fact,
that we measure.
8.
The universe, Betty told S E W and me, is one and
entire, despite its two aspects. Therefore this one and
entire universe is here now, despite our obstruction.
Go into a dark room. You blunder around and see
nothing. That's one aspect. Now find the electric switch
and flood the room with light. You no longer blunder
about; now you see furnishings and decorations, colors
and shapes. That's another aspect. Yet both aspects are
of the same room. And this is the room you were in all
the time. You are still in it and will be in it. You per-
292 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
ceive the room in obstruction. Betty perceives it m
essence.
Did you ever see two sides of a coin at one time? You
could do that only with mirrors. Yet, seeing one side of
a coin, you do not deny the existence ,of its other side,
or that both sides belong to the same coin.
It has not been my purpose, in this contribution to
SEW's more detailed report, to tie Betty's divulgence
down to hard and fast formulas. That I could not do, and
would not if I could. For she intended her divulgence
only as an aid to thinking, as suggestion rather than
statement.
The truth never varies. Men's understanding of it does,
and will for long, long ages to come. New knowledge
brings new understanding. Hence it is that dogma dies.
To me it seems that the fruits of Betty's divulgence are
for those of us who are still willing to ask: "Where shall
)wisdom be found, and where is the place of under-
standing?"
This is conceiving station D-A-R-B-Y. I return you
now to SEW. :.--
,.
CHAPTER :XXXII
THEY SHALL BE COMFORTED
I.
"Now," said Darby to me after he had finished the fore-
going, "it's your turn."
"lt is," l acknowledged. "Only - what you have writ-
ten so exactly expresses my own understanding that
you've left me nothing to do! And I'm not saying that
to dodge work, either."
"I hope it will help," said he, "for it does take some
thinking out, I found. I wonder how many people will
'get it'?" '
"More than you think," I assured him. "It offers as
first concepts what anyone can understand, and what
everybody wants. And it goes on to show that anyon~ can
have it. An unobstructed universe," I anticipated the ques-
tion he looked as if he were about to ask, "immortality;
life beyond death. They'll get Betty's new terminology,
and the reassurance that terminologycarrieswith it,wheth-
er they get all the finer points of the argument or not."
"I don't know," doubted Darby.
"I do," I persisted. "Why, an eight-year-old child
knows he lives in an obstructed universe. He knows be- ·
cause he bumps into it. So even the eight-year-old will
understand that much if he is told. And a twelve-yearJ
old, tinkering with his radio, has a glimpse, through it,
of the possibility of unobstruction. And so on right along
the line. Every man knows only too well that he lives in
an obstructed world: Everybody has at least imagined a
world without obstruction as the height of desirability.
294 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
It's an almost universal hope - more or less vague - but
characteristic of man as far back as history goes; how
things will be when he 'dies and goes to heaven.' So now
if he sees a good chance that he's going to get some ac-
ceptable foundation for his hope; that this divulgence of
Betty's gives good and acceptable reasons, not based on
mere statement, but on what he himself knows and ex-
periences in his everyday life ... why, he's going to fol-
low that argument even if it is a little difficult for him.
But," I added, "I don't myself think it is difficult. I asked
my typist to be a guinea pig for me and mark down any
points that seemed obscure to her, but she found it clear
enough, and she was busy typing, remember, and -"
"Hold on," Darby stopped me, "don't talk at me. Write
it dovm. I've tried to give my understanding of the con-
cepts as I see them. Suppose you give your understanding
of the significances as you see them."
"I'll try," I agreed. "It's a large order,"
2.
Mankind has always had the picture of two entirely
.different states.of being separated from each other as by
a wall - the "on earth" and "in heaven" idea. That di-
vision has been expressed, of course, in all sorts of ter-
minology. But the concept is always the same; in every
age, by every race, through every creed.
Betty called it the obstructed and unobstructed uni-
verses, but she denied the wall between. That was her
mission in her present divulgence - to knock down the
wall.
To accomplish this she pointed out, first, that there are
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 295
not really two universes, but only two aspects of one.
We here live in the obstructed aspect, a proposition none
of us is likely to deny. Given this fact, the logical de-
duction would be that she lives in the other, the unob-
structed aspect. But.that, astonishingly, she asserts, does
not follow. On the contrary, says she, she lives in both
aspects, in the entire universe; in the obstructed phase -
that tiny percentage of the whole which we of earth in-
habit - as well as in the vast and mysterious unobstructed
portion she assures us science has glimpsed but of which
as yet we know next to nothing. It is one homogeneous
universe to her, simply because what are obstructions to
us are not obstructions to her.
So we are forced to modify our earth-heaven picture.
We must see ourselves as living in a minute segment of a
"one and only universe,'' held within its confines by ob-
structions that affect only us. Those obstructions have
nothing to do with Betty's state of being; they are inher-
ent to ours, and even are, somewhat, of our own pro-
duction. Furthermore they are, to a greater extent than
we have realized, removable by ourselves - if we thought
so, and knew how. That is one of the things Betty tried
to show us; to what extent and how. And here we touch
the practical value of her divulgence for us, right now,
at the present time. Especially at the present time.
For she insists there is no wall! The two universes, or
rather the two aspects of the same and only universe, are
already so alike ~n texture that they interfuse. In fact,
there seems to be a "no-man's land" in which even we of
the ohstnicte<l aspect can scarcely tell which is which!
But Betty defines first the one, then the other, in the
terms of our own thinking, to show that the only differ-
ence between the "two worlds" is from our viewpoint,
296 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
and is no more than that little business of obstruction.
From her viewpoint there is no basic difference. Each re-
moval of obstruction brings these viewpoints - hers and
ours - closer together. And from the beginning of time
man has been busily doing just that; removing obstruc-
tions and thereby eliminating, as far as he is concerned,
some of the differences.
Betty's present effort is to convince us of this fact, of
the gradual elimination of the obstructions; to prove
to us that this underlying principle may be made - tmd
by ourselves - even more workable for us, so that we may
f be less bewildered, so that we may proceed more con-
fidently and understandingly and happily toward con-
ditions of less and less obst:rtJction. Personally and ra-
cially.
How she builds up to that great concept through an-
alysis of the fundamental principles of the entire universe
in its obstructed and unobstructed aspects - ours and hers
- is the body of this book. "'
,.
Betty further says that the human race has come to a
point irJ. evolution where, as she expresses it, "conscious-
ness must be ploughed." I believe her. It may suffice in
our earlie:- and cruder stages to pattern life on mere self-
preservation, with the accompanying greed, indifference
to the other fellow, hatreds, cruelties and treacheries
necessary to carry out that scheme of things. But civiliza-
tion is supposed to be growing out of it. As individuals
I think we are making pretty good progress toward grow-
ing out of it. But our collective policies have been too
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 297
often based on the same barbarisms; and, in singular blind-
ness to opportunity, we have recurred obstinately after
each lesser ploughing to build anew the same old struc-
tures on the same old foundations.
Worse, we latterly have showed a tendency to sheer
away from the straight path of such progress as we have
made. We have gone far in our understanding and con-
trol of physical matter and force since the days when we
lived in caves and did our controlling mostly with our
two bare fists. Indeed, so far have we gone that we have
lost sight of the two truths that are the underpinning
foundations of all advancements in living: the creator is
more important than the thing created: the end and aim
of evolution is the perfection of the whole through the
unretarded functioning of its individual parts.
Perhap!> in ordinary course a swing toward materialism
is normal. Any forward movement occupies a broad band
of extremes. And it is the commonplace of common-
places to say that we have not caught up spiritually with
our scientific achievements - assuming comfortably that
we are going to do so in due time. But unfortunately we
have showed few indications of so doing. After every
ploughing of consciousness - even those of more recent
years - we have again set up things-created as the ends
of desirability - as our golden calf to worship.
Now by that I do not mean merely the material "prod-
ucts of civilization." We might, with a little more
growth, be able to handle them. To take them in our
stride, as it were, and to control them. I want to include
also the trend of thought that more and more subordi-
nates the individual to the institutionand thething; atrend
that reaches its logical and predestined end in totalitarian-
ism. Which means only, "stripped down," that the state,
298 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
the nation - man-created - is so much greater than the
individual that the latter must be sacrificed to it. But do
not mistake me: governmental totalitarianism is only the
outward and visible symbol.
The same trend runs deep through all modern life, not
only political and social, but economic, industrial, artistic
and even the formal-religious. And in its pursuit, often
sincere, men have been forgetting more and more the
basic truth - that there can .be but one Reality: that the
Intent of that Reality, which is Consciousness, is Evolu-
tion; and that the one law of evolution which we of
earth have established beyond question is that it proceeds
exclusively through the individual. We are parts of a
Whole; not alike, not even of equal degrees of capacity
and potentiality; but no part is of lesser importance than
another part, anq no part greater.
Again and again during the forty sessions of her "di-
vulgence" Betty insisted on the value of what she called
"stepladders'' as aids in reaching up to her ideas. Many
such stepladders did she actually point out to us - though
she seemed to find more value in teaching us how to rec-
ognize them for ourselves. '
"Find one of your own stepladders," she would say
when we failed to understand, "climb to the top of it,
and reach from there.»
Those she did indicate she brought to us from all kinds
of sources; from scien~e and the arts, from history, from
fairy tales, from the Bible. The latter especially; because,
she reminded us, "as an exposition of the human emo-
tions" it is rich in stepladders. What worthwhilenes~
Betty herself places on that record comprised of the Old
and New Testaments I am going to let her say for her-
self later in this chapter. But I myself found so good a
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UN !VERSE 299
stepladder concerning our individual importance to the
Whole of which we are each parts, that I want to call
it to your attention right now. It is too long to quote.
You can read it for yourself in the twelfth chapter of
St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians. I was particu-
larly interested in the r ith to 26th verses inclusive. It is,
beyond question, the simplest, clearest statement of de-
mocracy I have ever read. "For as the body is one and hath
many members . . . the eye cannot say unto the hand, I
have no need of thee; nor again the head to the feet, I
have no need of you...." But take time to read the en-
tire chapter. A great metaphysician and a wise man -
Paul.
Now, as I hinted, a certain amount of calf-worship may
be part of the method of progress, provided we balance
it with proportionate spiritual expansion. Nobody wants
to go back to the .flickering of candlelight, and there is
no reason, moral or material, why we should. In fact,
there is every reason why we should not. But for the sake
of the steadier, clearer light of a tungsten lamp we are
not called upon to sacrifice the hard-won treasure of
past spiritual attainments.
The creations of man's hands are cheap - cheap in
time and sweat - as the creations of men's souls are dear
in age-long struggle. Not through any one, or two, or
even dozens of brilliant generations, but through age-
long struggle has man attained the simple things of the
spirit, what we call the homely virtues. The sacredness
of a promise; the sense of moral obligation; common or-
300 THE UNOBS:YRUCTEU UNIVERSE
dinary veracity; personal integrity, individual liberty,
elementary justice... to mention only a few. And in the
end - when all else in the world crashes about our lives
- they are the things to which we turn; the things that
count. The "homely" virtues. Spiritual values.
5·
This ploughing of consciousness is no affair of judg-
ment or retribution, but of simple cause and effect, as
natural as the reaction of the bodily process when, at a
certain stage in hyperacidity, the body starts to produce
its own correcting alkali. The present catastrophe in
Europe is no product of proximate circumstance, nor
wholly of any one race or cast of thought. It is, rather,
that men's minds have more and more centered on the
material world outside themselves, less and less have they
looked within, until, at last, almost nothing of their at-
tention turns to the inward searchings that alone main-
tain spiritual faith.
Now, the only way that an individual, who has so pros-
pered in this world's goods that he has become wholly
engrossed with them, can be made to look within is to
take those things away from him. That, I suspect, is the
real meaning of the story of Job. Sometimes it is neces-
sary to take away from a man everything he holds dear
before, in despair, he will sit him down alone to find that
which cannot be taken away from him; that which, de-
spite all, endures and lives within his own consciousness.
It is no different with peoples.
Something of that sort, I gather from Betty and her
friends, is back of the present world-wide turmoil. How
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 301
much will have to be taken away from mankind before
it sits itself down to its inner searchings, she cannot, will
not, predict.
"That," says she, "is dependent on the free-will of
man. Your wills are free. That is your heritage and your
glory. That we cannot touch."
Only when the balance is restored will the storm die.
Not because somebody decides that we have suffered
enough, but because the cause and effect have worked
out in restoration. When the Intent of Consciousness,
which is evolution, again becomes an event in the hearts
of men as well as in their research laboratories.
6.
''There was growing up in the world a definitely re-
·tarding influence," Stephen told us. "The best way a
thing can be destroyed is for it to destroy itself. That so
many, who are themselves individually positive, must be
destroyed with this negative, is your side of the tragedy,"
he continued pityingly, "but you must remember that it is
only one universe after all. And we know, without a ques-
tion, that your world, which has forgotten .the impor-
tance of immortality and the wisdom of recognizing the
reality of the Oneness of Consciousness, is going to re-
cover that knowledge. 'Where your treasure is' ... re-
member? The world will recover that knowledge be-
cause so much of its treasure - so many of its individual
loved ones - will be here, with us, in the unobstructed
universe."
"The price is high," supplemented Betty, "but that for
w}:iich it is paid is man's greatest good, and so no price is
302 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
too high. The time has come for a distinct step forward
in man's psychological and moral evolution, and some-
times it takes great shock and sorrow to force him to
take that step."
What is that step forward?
Realization of the truth from which humanity was
straying.
What truth?
Faith in the immortality of the individual, and the ex-
tension of outlook that faith implies. Not belief, but
faith - as man has faith in his compass when he is on the
high seas.
What extension of his outlook?
Knowledge that he, himself, is in evolution as well as
being part of that greater evolution of the whole of con-
sciousness that must go on, that will go on. That his own
little segment, of an obstructed universe, and what hair
pens in it, are only a part - though a vitally important
part - of the greater whole.
"The actuality of that relationship is what I am trying
to prove to you," said Betty. "It is what I want to make
real by showing you - in your own terms that you un-
derstand and of which you can intellectually approve -
that the universe is one, and that you and I are co-existent
in it. So that," she pointed out impressively, "you may
widen your thoughts, and so your actions, to that horizon,
and by so much escape into the unobstructed.
"I am," she continued, "stating nothing new. The con-
sciousness of man knows the truth. He need only be told
the truth to recognize it - if he will - since the truth is
in himself. And the only reason he has stepped aside from
living the truth is because he has become too enamored
of his own creations. That which creates, I repeat, is
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 303
greater than the thing created, no matter what it IS.
"Now man must be retold. Always in world crises he
has been retold; always it has taken a world crisis to make
him receive.
"Now, perhaps, he needs this stepladder I offer - this
divulgence with its modern terminology - by which to
climb back. In the crash' and fall of ideals, in the chaos
of a world new to him, he must have a beacon toward a
wider outlook. He must have a significance to life,
wherever he may be and whatever may happen to him.
He must know that, however untoward or retarded the
event, the intent of consciousness, which is evolution, ~
eternal; unchanging and unchanged.
"So many stepladders by which to get back," she went
on. "So many stepladders the human race has accumu-
lated, if only it could recognize them. They are recorded
in all languages and in all sorts of ways; in folk tales and
the picture writings of the savage tribes; in the various
bibles of the various races; in poetry, in music, in sculp-
ture, in painting. In fact, all humanity has been reaching
toward the unobstructed ever since humanity was.
"Above all there is the Christian Bible. All faiths have
in them truth. Indeed, any system of thought that has
lived and continued from generation to generation in
the minds and habits of peoples, has some element of
.truth in it. Otherwise it could not have lived. It may not
contain all the truth, and its element of truth may have
become overdecorated by what Stephen called 'emotional
hypotheses' .....: in other words, the elaborations of dogma.
And, again, what may be truth for one age may not be
truth for a succeeding age. But so long as a man seeks
truth and keeps his path straight, his own seeking makes
it true.
304 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"Of all the faiths that have lived, Christianity has done
most for the world; in envisioning individual and collec-
tive liberty, in belief in self, democracy, education, real
freedom. It was first expressed in terms needed for un-
derstanding at the time, just as I retell the truth now in
the terms of your times. It is the same truth, whether you
call it the brotherhood of man made One in a fatherhood
of Ood, or the individual degrees of consciousness op-
erating in evolution toward the perfection of the whole
of Consciousness, the Reality.
"And I want to call your attention to the sweep of the
Christian Bible as a whole. It is the historical record, not
only of events and the rise and fall of social orders, but
of human emotions and - most of all - spiritual evalua-
tions. In the Old Testament there is a happiness, and ref-
erences to joy and singing that you do not find in the
New. True, you have Job with his troubles and Jeremiah
with his lamentations, but you also have David with his
psalms and Solomon with his songs. Now, if you read
carefully you can find, in this gradual getting away from
happiness, story after story of the ignoring of the One-
ness of Consciousness, the rejection of what they called
'the fear of the Lord.' So when the Jew, Jesus, came to
preach his doctrine of brotherhood, one of the first things
he did was to scourge the money-changers out of the
Temple. The things he had to say were pretty much par-
adoxes to them - so captivated were they by the things
they had created. But these paradoxes, or parables, need
not be such for you.
"The Christian Bible is full of stepladders," she re-
peated. "They merely need restatement, or perhaps rein-
terpretation, in modern terms. For instance? Why, for
instance, the second of the Beatitudes? 'Blessed are they
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 305
that mourn, for they shall be comforted.' What could
!ipply more directly to the world today?
"What was meant by these words then? and what is
meant by them now? I have said to you more than once
that the thing most needed by the human race is a renewal
of faith in its own immortality.
"All that was meant two thousand years ago was that
people who mourn seek after the truth of immortality for
the sake, first, of those they mourn, and, second, for their
own sakes. And that is what is meant again, today. And
the promise is, remember, 'they shall be comforted.'
"If your life on earth is all, why bother with it? Why
bring children into the world? Why plan ahead for com-
ing generations? Fundamentally, you know that the I-
Am of man is in evolution, and must go on. But man has
become so engrossed in the wonders of his own obstruct-
ed universe - allowed himself to become so confused
and overawed by things outside himself - that he has
broken away from that simple, early faith. The world
is mourning now. And it is going to mourn. It is losing
much that it has valued, emotionally and materially. It
is only when people who have become stiff-necked and
proud in their own self-sufficiency are forced by sorrow
to take time to seek after truth - when they themselves
want truth - that truth can 'comfort' them or again make
them free.
"If you search, you will find many such stepladders
to a clearer understanding of the things I have been per-
mitted to tell you.
"I gave you the other day," concluded Betty, "the
symbol of a wheel, and the hub of the wheel is truth, and
the spokes of the wheel are the various paths leading to
truth. Now, no two spokes are identical, and no two
306 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
start from the same place on the rim, but in that they all
run straight and bind the rim to the hub they are alike~
completing a perfect whole, each spoke strengthening the
hub. So if one man, starting from one place, reads one
meaning into this divulgence, and another starting from
another place reads into it a little different meaning, it
can make no matter."
GLOSSARY
CONSCIOUSNESS: The one and all-inclusive reality, in
evolution. Man's self-awareness is the highest expression
of this reality.
ORTHOS: (Greek, orthos: true.) The operation of con-
sciousness, through co-existent essences; in its unob-
structed aspect.
ORTHIC: Adjective. Pertaining to orthos.
UNIVERSE: The total of all manifestations of consciousness.
OBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE: That aspect of the whole
universe which man knows through his senses, includ-
ing their mechanical extensions.
UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE: That aspect of the en-
tire universe ordinarily considered to be beyond the
limitation of man's sense perceptions and their exten-
sions.
TRILOGIA: The threefold aspect of orthos, consisting of
receptivity, conductivity, and frequency.
ESSENCE: (Latin, esse: to be.) The co-existent and co-
efficient actuality of orthos, manifesting itself in the ob-
structed universe as Time, Space and Motion.
RECEPTIVITY: The Essence of Time.
CONDUCTIVITY: The Essence of Space.
FREQUENCY: The Essence of Motion.
TIME: The obstructed manifestation of the orthic essence,
receptivity.
308 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
SPACE: The obstructed mrulifestation of the orthic essence,
conductivity.
MOTION: The obstructed manifestation of the orthic es-
sence, frequency.
ARRESTMENT: An incidence of frequency, conductivity
and receptivity, resulting in manifestation in the ob-
structed universe.
. DEGREE: Consciousness, being in evolution, is in degrees.
Each degree represents a specific manifestation.
QUALITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS: That aspect of con-
sciousness resulting in species manifestation, as elec-
tricity, gold, tree, antelope, man, etc. In the unobstruct-
ed universe Quality is in evolution, and therefore in
degrees. In the obstructed universe it is of fixed poten-
tiality in its given degree.
QUANTITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS: That aspect of con-
sciousness, in the obstructed universe, capable of, and
subject to development by the individual, in evolution
and therefore in degrees.
MATTER: In the obstructed universe matter is that arrest-
ment of frequency which manifests itself in a three-
dimensional extension; in the unobstructed universe it
is the form attribute of any aspect of the trilogia.
MATERIAL FORCES: Those arrestments of frequency ex-
pressing themselves through matter.
AWARENESS-MECHANISM: That equipment of self-
aware consciousness whereby the individual perceives
that which i,s objective to him.
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 309
PARALLEL LAW: The term connotes the interextension
of principles operating in both the obstructed and un-
obstructed universes.
BETA BODY: The form attribute of that frequency which
is an individual consciousness, an I-Am. It is integral,
atomic and noncellular.
ALPHA BODY: The form attribute of a combination of
frequencies, constituting the physical housing in the ob-
structed universe of an individual consciousness. Such
as the human body.
PLURALISTIC MONISM: Connotes one reality express-
ing itself in individualization, alike in kind but different
in manifestation.
JUXTAPOSITION: The manner in which frequency (mo-
tion) variably collides with receptivity (time) and con-
ductivity (space) to result in an arrestment, producing
manifestation.
INfRAPOSITION: As juxtaposition is the manner of ar-
restment resulting in manifestation, so intraposition is the
status of relationship that obtains as long as that arrest-
ment holds.
CO-EXISTENT: That which is united in Being with some-
thing else for the production of an effect.
"'·
APPENDICES
APPENDIX I
Retrrinted by permission from
WHO'S WHO IN AMERICA
Reference Ser'Vice, January 1940
WHITE, Stewart Edward. In his first biographical sketch
for insertion in Who's Who in America - published nearly
40 years ago in volume 2 - Stewart Edward White listed
himself as unmarried and the author of two books, The West-
erner and The Claim-Jumper. When volume 4 went to press
he had married - Elizabeth Grant, in 1904- and there were
seven books to the list, including The Blazed Trail.
By the time volume 19 of Who's Who in America was
issued, Mr. White's list of books had grown to forty - and
all forty of a type so related one to the other that even the
titles carried a common thread of romance and adventure.
However, when a proof of his sketch for volume 20 - the
current Who's Who in America - went to Mr. White for
revision he added a forty-first book, the title of which at
first glance hardly connected it with this thread of pioneer-
ing and new frontiers.
For the title of this forty-first book was The Betty Book.
Surely only those who by one circumstance or another were
led beyond the title discovered that in it Mr. White as a
matter of fact still held to type, and actually recorded
astounding adventure on the greatest frontier of all. And
probably very few of those fortunate enough to go beyond
the title, knew, if outside of Mr. White's own circle, that
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 311
"Betty" was Mrs. White, the Elizabeth Grant first appearing
in Mr. White's second Who's Who in America sketch, pub-
lished thirty years earlier in volume 4.
The facts are that Mr. and Mrs. White have been exploring
the most challenging of the frontiers for many years. Several
thousand pages of closely typed records have been assem-
bled; Mr. White's brother Harwood was contributing much
of his time in collaboration.
When Mr. White received the proof of his Who's Who
in America sketch to revise for volume 21 - to issue in 1940
- Betty had crossed the frontier that she and "her boy" now
knew so well; this time not to return as she had in the course
of many previous adventures along it. Also, a succeeding
volume to The Betty Book, and one under a more revealing
title, was in the printer's hands - Across the Unkno'W1., now
available.
The research editors came to Mr. White's biography in
the course of the careful checking all sketches in Who's Who
in America undergo, including the comparatively few which,
like Mr. White's, have appeared regularly for decades. It
was immediately noticed that while Mr. White had added
Across the Unknown (with Harwood White), 1939, as the
forty-second entry on the list of his books, he had not altered
the line "m. Elizabeth Grant, of Newport, R. I., April 28,
1904." The usual notation was about to be inserted in the
sketch, when one of the editors recalled that he had only
a few days previously received a copy of Across the Un-
Known as a gift from a friend. He glanced through it. His
eye was caught by the final chapter - "I Bear Witness."
Before he had finished the four pages of the chapter lie
understood why Mr. White had not himself altered the ref-
erence to Betty. And he had reached a decision - he would
suggest that the usual notation be not made.
312 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
His suggestion carried - and the chapter, "I Bear Wit-
ness," was the deciding factor. There will be no change in
Mr. White's sketch other than the addition of his forty-
second book: Elizabeth Grant and Stewart Edward White
will continue to be listed in Who's Who in America exactly
as they have been since April, 1904.
There re-:ults a "first" among the 433,050 sketches pub-
lished in Who's Who in America since Mr. White's sketch
first appeared nearly four decades ago. A waiving of accu-
racy to make possible a gesture recognizing the beautiful
chapter in an unusual book. No doubt justified on that score,
but have the editors of Who's Who in America for the first
time actually waived accuracy to any material extent? Per-
haps The Betty Book and Across the Unknown should be
read before answering.
APPENDIX II
THE SEVEN PURPOSES
THE remarkable series of psychic communications relayed in
the spring of r918 through Margaret Cameron by a com-
pany of the Unobstructed under leadership of her deceased
friend "Mary K.", and published as The Seven Purposes by
Harper & Brothers in the following autumn, ended with this
statement: -
"Two things only we have striven for through you: to
prove to a group of intelligent persons that this force [the
motive power employed in communication] exists and may
be practically applied between your plane and ours, and to
warn mankind of the nature and eternal import of impend-
ing struggles.... Upon the choice of them who hear this
truth the immediate progress of the world depends. It is a
warning to unite and prepare for combat. This is the truth.
Heed it." (June 13, 1918).
In the shorter ranges of human affairs, it would appear,
much that is wise goes to waste. Bread, cast on the waters,
returns. But not always is it so with wisdom. While The
Seven Purposes was widely circulated during the years after
its publication and has exercised a continuing influence since,
its acceptance was largely among·those interested in person-
al proofs of individual survival after death. That the book
was of equal significance this· side of death, economically
and governmentally, seems to have been overlooked. Cer-
tainly its "truth," which one can now see offered the design
for social living then required by events, has not been heeded.
"The forces of disintegration," said Mary K., m course
314 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
of the twelve brief "lessons" that serve to focus the broader
narrative of the 314-page book, "have. made friends with
the poor and the needy, and have fed them husks of brother-
hood. They have made friends with the powerful and rich,
and have tempted them with earth and its kingdoms. They
have fed the artist falsehoods, and the writer fear of fear. . .
These are the works of the purposes we fight, and thus do
they disguise themselves. Unless this can be brought home
to the souls of men, the fight will be long and bitter."
(March 26, 1918.)
If these were words of today's writing, they would be
without portent. For already the prophecy is fulfilled. All
too apparent is the present debauching of the needy by spe-
cious promises of security and of the rich by empty assur-
ances of controlled profit. Force now has followed propa-
ganda. The "long fight" is upon us. But they are not words
of 1940. They were communicated through Margaret Cam-
eron in 1918 and were immediately passed on by her and her
publishers to the public.
One is reminded that prophets, so-called, were as natural to
the ancient scene as they are strange to the modern. Then
popular thought accepted a priesthood whose function it
was to confer with divine oracles. Vague were the findings
at times and clothed in imagery more metaphorical than
factual. Yet did the seers of old venture to prophesy; and
their words still ring in our ears - true in the main as to in-
tent, however wide of the mark of event.
But the compilerof TheSevenPurposes had had no thought
of consulting oracles. A gifted author in her own right (see
Who's Who), none was as astonished as she when overnight
she discovered in herself a talent for what psychical research
has called automatic writing. She had knocked at no door;
she had gone up into no mountain; she had encountered no
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 315
burning bush. Without asking for the communications later
assembled in The Seven Purposes, she received them just be-
cause they came - free of obscurant symbolism. Nonetheless
the twelve lessons were prophetic. Consider the following,
also from the material received March 26, 1918:
"This is the second lesson.
"The forces of distintegration are gathering for a titanic
struggle, of which your Great War is only the beginning....
"Germany...chose to follow the forces of destruction,
and they will surely destroy her. But the forces she followed
are unitinr for a fiercer fight, more subtle, more deadly,
more furioJs. Hidden beneath t1
1e garments of peace and
good will, they make ready to poison the minds of men be-
fore destroying their forces and delaying their purposes.
"This is the battle to which we call you and all who are
for progress. This is the message you are to give the world,
to warn them of the danger at hand. The time has come
when men must choose consciously to fight for or against
the forces of construction. They are confused from the con-
flict within themselves, running hither and thither, calling
for help from the.gods they have made unto themselves, but
looking only to the present good, perceiving only the pres-
ent purpose, fearing only the present defeat. They will find
no help from these gods, for they have impotent feet of
clay....
"The forces of light are positive. Shun negation. The
forces of freedom are individual. Shun dependence. The
forces of progress are fearless. Shun fearful combinations.
Work together as individuals, consciously cooperating, not
as sheep....
"The forces of disintegration are wily, but fearful. Bul-
lies and cowards. But when they are united in sufficiently
strong numbers, fearless and unscrupulous. They fear the
316 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
reawakening of the forces of progress in your life. This
is the reason they gather now, to smite while the world is
weary. Disguised as purposes of light they hope for wel-
come."
The deterrent saviors of mankind, who leave no man, rich
or poor, free to create his own freedom! They have indeed
found a welcome. The name of the deluded who hail them
is legion. Legion too is the name of those who hail them
through fear. Nor has the welcome been solely of Europe
and Asia; and that, in this year of disgrace 1940, is the bitter
lesson.
Perhaps America, at lea.o.,t America, wi~l listen now: -
"Free development demands free purpose and concentrated
force. Wherever two or three are gathered together to fol-
low the same purpose in free and conscious cooperation,
there force is niultiplied. Wherever a hundred are assembled
to be led like sheep by the bell-wether, there force is de-
bauched and disintegrated.
"Because men have huddled together in fear, destruction
threatens them. Because free speech has been debauched to
fell purpose, free men distrust it. Men, forces of disintegra-
tion, but possessed of glib tongues, have played bell-wether
to the multitude. Priests of purpose, whose counsel was in-
spired by the Eternal, have been thrust aside. . . Better were
it for the immortal man to follow his purpose to death and
mortal oblivion, than to lose his force to the bell-wether ..."
(April 1, 1918).
Is a vivid description desired of the pressure groups that
have bedeviled American politics for the past ten years?
Read this, received by Margaret Cameron April 1, 1918: -
"Brotherhood, to one class, is a defensive organization, for
protection. Brotherhood, to another class, is an offensive or-
ganization, for pillage. Brotherhood, to another class, is an
THE UNC>BSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 317
organized attempt to preserve the unfit. Brotherhood, to an-
other class, is a dream of unorganized following of untried
theories. None of these know that all men are brothers."
Such is the brotherhood of disintegration. And the broth-
erhood of construction - how is it described by Mary K.?
· "A great brotherhood is possible only when its component
parts are great. Strength lies not in numbers, but in purpose.
The fit may not lie down with the unfit, and their progeny
survive. The strong may not yield their purpose to the weak,
and their force remain....
"Brotherhood is purpose of progress, not purpose of profit.
Brotherhood is made beautiful by unity, not by schism...
All build together the common home of all.
"Seek ye those of your own purpose. Unite together all
who fain would build. Master and man, architect and mason,
financier and farm laborer, all work to the same end, and this
is Brotherhood.
"To work to the same purpose, in whatever capacity may
be necessary, this is the only Brotherhood." (April l, 1918.)
Again: -
"Today, the fii:st essential of brotherhood is freedom. Free-
dom to think, freedom to believe, freedom to strive, freedom
to develop, born highest to lowest. And the employer who
refuses this opportunity to the men who work under him is
no more truly a force of disintegration than the laborer who
refuses to cooperate with his employer and thus proves him-
self unworthy of a place in the procession of progress...
"There can be no society that will withstand disintegra-
tion that has not labor, capital, and market. When capital
oppresses labor, forces of disintegration are freed. When
labor dominates capital, forces of disintegration are freed.
When the people forget justice, forces of disintegration are
freed. And the destruction of qne is the destruction of all.
. Jll'f THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
The rich man who denies his brother freedom is a destroyer.
The poor man who denies his brother freedom is a destroyer
in no less degree. Each is a part of the other, and each follows
eternal purpose to one end - construction and progress.. . .
"There are seven purposes. Progress, Light, Truth, Heal-
ing, Building, Production, and Justice. Equally great, save
Progress, which moves them all. One of these each man must
serve, if he proceeds toward the Great Purpose. . .
"Give unto each his opportunity to grow, and to build for
progress. Freedom to strive is the one right inherent in ex-
istence, the strong and the weak each following his own pur-
pose, with all his force, to the one great end. And he who
binds and limits his brother's purpose binds himself now and
hereafter. But he who extends his brother's opportunity
builds for eternity." (April 3, 1918.)
Aside from the reasonableness of the argument it makes
for personal survival, The Seven Purposes stands as one of
the truly important books of the twentieth century; because
(1) it clearly foretold, twenty-two years ago, the plight in
which the world and its freedom find themselves today, (2)
it forecast the cunning disguises of good-will, peace, prosper-
ity and security behind which the powers of bondage would
plot their victory, and (3) it carried assurance that in the end
Construction, not Disintegration, would win through, despite
all - if and when men cease to huddle, cease to hesitate, and
choose.
As important as the first two, more so, is the third, phrased
thus by Mary IC.: -
"All men aspire. Some with reluctance and halting, but all
feel the purpose of progress working within them. They may
mistake its nature and deny its power, but no man lives who
has not felt its prompting. This is the purpose beyond all
others, the Eternal Purpose of United Construction. No man
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE 319
can thwart it, no man can evade it, no force can defeat it.
Why, then, oppose and delay it?" (April 9, 1918.)
This Great and Eternal Purpose is defined by the lessons
of The Seven Purposes as unity - united construction. Betty
would broaden this definition a bit, as did Stephen. Unity of
what? Her answer: Unity of Consciousness, the one and
only reality. In the oneness of the whole of consciousness
all men must needs be of one flesh, one blood and one soul -
not figuratively, but actually.
The Great Purpose is served first and best by the pur-
pose of Progress, said Mary K. Betty would give progress an
inclusive connotation. She would call it evolution. But really
the two names have but one meaning.
There are disintegrating purposes as well as constructive,
insisted Mary K.; and all men know that this is so, though
Betty, one imagines, would prefer the word "deterrent." It,
too, was sometimes used by Mary K.
Supporting that preference are statements such as this,
taken, not from the lessons but from the body of communi-
cations reported elsewhere in The Seven Purposes: -
"The individual whose purposes are fundamentally de-
structive is not damned nor lost. He is just delayed. Sooner
or later he must work his way up, and it is entirely up to
him whether he does it sooner or later - after he reaches
this life, especially. In your life, he is sometimes confused
and misled. He pays for that, too - not pays, but makes good
for it, by working here for the development he had not
sense enough to take there."
It must be remembered, however, that a prime aim of
The Seven Purposes was to arouse, to realization of new and
more perilous dangers, a world that believed that the defeat
of Germany in 1918 would bring a final peace to all peoples.
Accurately to characterize the hands and minds from which
320 THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
renewed and greater violence - material, intellectual and
moral - was to come, required strong words, particularly
as the tools of that violence would be brute force last, but
first envy disguised as justice, doubt disguised as tolerance,
cupidity disguised as building, destruction and nihilism dis-
guised as progress.
Surely the following prediction, made by Mary .K. in
March, 191 8, and now fulfilled, called for uncompromising
words:
"The forces of disintegration are gathering for a tremen-
dous fight. The Great War is one of the crises of civilization.
but the battle to come still is one of the crises of eternity."
And now as to the word "purpose" itself - just what did
Mary K. mean by it? From the positive, constructive view-
point, simply those great inexorable currents that have con-
trolled mankind's development from cave to culture. It is
these trends, inherent in consciousness itself, that keep the
ideal of man's destiny ever in his heart - a whole of brother-
hood perfected through the free service of individuals.
These are the purposes of consciousness that, like hounds
of heaven, will not down. Betty has called them intents. But
the sweep of Constructive Purpose as set forth through
Margaret Cameron needs small re-enforcement beyond tht.
pages of The Seven Purposes itself. ·
- D.
