{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__duffield___spiritual_life_or_regeneration.pdf","mytitle":"Spiritual Life Or Regeneration","mylang":"de"}
SPIRITUAL LIfE:
OR, ^^
ILLUSTRATED
IN A SERIES OF DISQUISITIONS,
RELATIVE TO ITS
JiUTHOB^ SUBJECT, NATURE, ME^NS, <S'c.
BY GEORGE ^^DUFFIELD,
Pastor of the Presbyterian Churchy Carlisle^ Pa.
*' Let no man upon a weak conceit of sobriety, or an ill-applied moderation, thinker
maintain that a man can search too far, or be too well studied in the book of God's word,
or in the book of God's works; divinity or phitosophy; but rather let men endea\()ur an end-
less progress, or proticience in both; only let men beware that they apply both to chaiity
and not to swelling; to use and not to ostentation; and again that they do not unwisely min-
gle or confound these learnings together."
—
Bacon.
CARLISLE:
PRINTED BY GEORGE FLEJMING
1S32.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, on the 14tlj of January, 1832, by Geo. DufHelcJ,
.i the Clerk's office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
MEMBERS OF HIS CHARGE,
THE rOLLOWING DISQ.UISITIO^'S ARE
AITectioiiately Dedicated^
A T O N E M E N T^
yon OCCASIOS-AL ATTEMPTS, IK THE EAULT PEniOD OF HIS MI>"ISTnT ArtiOy.;
THEM, TO EXPLAIN THE GREAT FACT OF A
SINNER'S REGENEBJITION,
7?T THE AID OF A PIIILOSOPE!Y IMBIBEB IN HIS THEOLOGICAL EDUCATION,
AND INTERWOVEN
IX ^IX^T OF HIS ESHTElTIO>-S OF SCniPTTJBAL TRVTH:
BUT FOR 7'EARS PAST
REPUDIATED,
BY THEIR MUCH ATTACHED
PASTOR
PREFACE.
'
Whoever will carefully inquire, into the means by which
he arrives at the knowledge of truth, not immediately
falling under the cognizance of his senses, will presently
discover, that he is entirely destitute of any original /u/?/-
ilive perceptions. All our knowledge, is, at first, derived
through the avenue of our senses. The impressions made
from sensible things, the mind combines in endless forms,
and rising into loftier spheres, emjdoys the ideas originally
thence obtained as the representatives of unseen and
spiritual verities;—and this it feels at liberty to do, bv vir-
tue of some assumed analogy between them.
It is in this way, we, obtain our ideas of God, and of His
perfections, and indeed of all the grand truths and facts of
our religion. These are all as perfect realities as if they
were perceptible through the medium of our senses. It is
the great business of religion to bring us to the right
apprehension of them. The right apprehension of them
is necessary, —to counteract and overcome the influence of
sense, which binds us to earth and time,—and to connect us
with the grand scenes of Heaven and Eternity. Human
reason here impertinently volunteers its deductions, to lead
us away into the regions of abstraction; and we shall not
have pursued this flattering guide far, till we shall be lost
in labyrinths and worlds of our own creating. But faith
affords a light, as much safer, as it is summarily, and more
satisfactorily, given. The living God has in various ways
reported to us the reality of His own existence, the attri-
butes Ox^ His character and all that it is important, and ne-
cessary for our happiness here or hereafter, to know
with regard to things unseen, spiritual and eternal. The
Vi PEEFACE.
glories and faithfulness of His character, stand pled o;ef|
for the truth of His communications,
Itisourduty and hlcssednessto believe what He says. But,
in so belicvinf;;, we arc, from the very depravity of our na-
ture, constrained to take our ideas of the things He reports to
n% according to tlie plain nnd natural import of the language
in which He addresses us. In doing so, we are not aware of
jiny obligation to believe things are literally and formal-
Jj/y as, His expressions, taken from sensible objects with
^vhich v;c arc familiar, would, at firi^t hearing, ijitimate.
Our minds are so constituted, and such is the law by which
Ood is pleased to govern them, in our presentcomplex state,
VLS that, while we apprehend as realities, the things He states,
we apprehend them not as clearly and perfectly understood,
l>ut as bearing some analogy to those sensible things, from
which we ourselves originally took the ideas by means of
whicli we have formed conceptions of what we can neither
«ce, hear, laste, touch, nor smell.
The vuip:;ar, or commonly received acceptation of terms^
is the tsnly true one, v/hen they are transferred to a Being,
'whose intrinsic attributes are as incomprehensible by us,
TxS His essence, and to a world which lies too remote for
our intuitive cognizance. And yet to understand them
UteraUy, and 7;/*o^?/Cr/y, as we do, in reference To beings
like ourselves, and to things in this world, who does not see
how egregiously we shall err? For example, we com-
TTionly talk of the Life of God; but who will say that it is
of the same kind with ours, which consists in the circula-
tion of blood through our veins and arteries, and of
breath through our nostrils, and lungs, and in other well
known actions of our animal frame? Yet do we believe
ihr..' there is some incessant activity in God, suitable to
His own ineffable essence, which bears a resemblance, suf-
iiciently striking to our life, to be thus denominated. \n
like manner we do not conceive of the Life even of our own
PREFACE. Yii
inimoriai spiritjj, as of the same kind with that of our bo-
dies; —but still we assume, that there is a resemblance,
sufBciently striking to justify us, in analogically oon-
ceiving of the former by means of our idea of the lattar.
If this he so, —and our knowledge of the spiritual realities
reported to us by God, and received by faith, is had by
means of analogical conceptions, —it will be at once appa-
rent to every intelligent reader, that in order to the best,
and most approximated ideas of the latter, we must have
clear and accurate ideas of those sensible things which we
employ as their representatives.
It has been under the influence of such views, that the
following pages—a great part of which was originally in-
tended to facilitate the author's own private studies,—were
prepared. The sacred scriptures represent the change
produced by the Spirit of God, and called Regeneration^
under the idea of a Neio Life, Now it is manifest, that if
we have mistaken views, as to what Life is, in its more
ordinary forms, and as it presents itself to the inspectiori
of our senses, we shall necessarily be led into vague, mj^s^
tie, and indefinite notions of it in spiritual things—which
lie beyond the sphere of our senses. Any and every false, or
imperfect view of life, in the former, must and will even-
tuate in analogical error. It is well that the vulgar appre-
hensions on this subject, are practically correct. Com-
mon sense, invariably associates the idea,of action and en-
joyment w:ith that of life, in its more obvious and imposing
forms;—and following these, as its guide, it will never be
found far from the truth, in that high and wondrous exhi-
bition, viz. the life of God hi the souh Philosophy
however has here done incalculable- mischief. .It has come
with one, and another theory, and with one or more asso=
ciated, and having laid a false m.etaphysical or philosophi-
cal basis in its definitions of life, has reared amass of empti->
ness and mysticism only to bewilder and perplex.
Viii PREFACE.
In the early period of his Iheologidal studies, the-authoi'
felt the extreme perplexit}^ of this subject; but, having im-
bibed the philosophy of the schools, for several years after
the commencement of his ministerial life, was wont to de-
fine and illustrate Regeneration, according to philosophical
views, which he is now persuaded were incorrect. They
were never Tully satisfactory to him, but he comforted him-
self, as he had learned to do, from the authors whose views
he had embraced, by identifying the mist of that philosophy,
with the scriptural facts in the case, —which, like all other
facts, he was prepared to believe, in their intimate nature,
to be inexplicable. He regrets deeply the influence which
they had on his early ministrations among the people of
his charge,—being convinced tliat they seduced him from
that simple testifying to matters of fact, and contemning
the theories and deductions of philosophy, which should
characterize the preaching of him who desires to be blessed
by the Spirit of truth. And for this he knows no more
suitable atonement that he can offer, than to give to them,
in a volume, the result of investigations which he is con-
vinced, are not appropriate to the pulpit.
In adventuring, some things to aid their researches, he
regrets that a state of things should have arisen in the
Presbyterian church, entirely unforeseen, at the period
when he consented that they should pass into the printer's
hands. The spirit of party prevalent at the present day,
is exceedingly prejudicial to candid investigation;—and this
is the more to be regretted, because the contention is not
so much for thefacts of revelation, as—if not for something
still worse—for the philosophical theory employed in the
explanation of those facts, —a theory, so consecrated in the
theological writings of former days, and so interwoven in
their technics, as to be mistaken^ by those who have had
access to none other, for the very truths of Scripture it-
self. All agree as to the facts of the reality and necessity of
PREFACE. ix
Regeneration and of the Spirit's influence to secure it.
Here then, let brethren caress each other, and co-operate
in giving their testimony to the truth. Why should any
follow the light of philosophy, which beguiles from the
simplicity of faith, and causes christian ministers and peo-
ple to diverge further and further from each other?
If the following disquisitions will, in any measure con-
tribute to heal divisions, —to correct suspicions,—to pro-
mote the unity of the Spirit,—to lead any to see the essen-
tial accordance in faith, of those who are at war with each
other in philosophy, the author will consider himself am-
ply rewarded. They have been Submitted to the press as
they were prepared, in moments redeemed from many
pressing engagements;—and they have Ijccii oo«<aucLca
through it, in the midst of the cares, anxieties, labours,
watchings and interruptions incident to a season of the
powerful and gracious effusions of the Spirit of God, among
the people of his charge, and others w^hom he has been called
occasionally to visit. The author therefore claims the indul-
gence of the reader for whatever difiusenessand desultori-
ness and other imperfections he may notice, while he com-
mends the whole to God, with earnest prayer for His
blessing to accompany it
C N T E N T S
CHAPTER I.
gntroducioiy Reraarlcs, -l
CHAPTER IL
The Personality of the Spirit, , 10
CHAPTER HI.
The Personality of the Spirit, continued, 21
CHAPTER IV.
The Deity of the Spirit, 49
CHAPTER V.
The office of human reason in the Interpretation of the Sacred Scriptures,G9
CHAPTER VI.
I'he Spirit of God the Author of Life, 8J
CHAPTER VH.
Tlie nature of Life, 110
CHAPTER VHI.
The Character of the Spirit's Agency, 123
CHAPTER IX.
The Immateriality of the Human Soul, 140
CHAPTER X.
The Substantiality of the Human Soul, : 162
CHAPTER XI.
The Life of Plan's Rational Soul, 187
CHAPTER XII.
Heg-eneration not a Physical Change, 201
CHAPTER Xm.
The fact and general nature oi Human Depravity, 239
CHAPTER XIV.
God is not the Author of Sin, 254
CHAPTER XV.
The Original of Human Depravity, , 269
CHAPTER XVI.
Thr derivation of Depravity, 293
Xii CONTENTS.
CHAPTER XVII.
The nature of Human Ability, .^ ..311
CHAPTER XVIII.
Th e Specific Character of Human Depravity, 336
CHAPTER XIX.
The Moral condition of Deceased Infants, 346
CHAPTER XX.
The Moral Certainty of Human Depravity, 362'
CHAPTER XXI.
The Moral Certainty of Human Depravity, continued, 381
CHAPTER XXU.
The Necessity and Cause of Regeneration, .405
CHAPTER XXni
The Reality of the Spirit's special Agency, .431
CHAPTER XXIV.
The Metaphysical Nature of Regeneration, 442
CHAPTER XXV.
The Nature of Spiritual Illumination, , 456
CHAPTER XXVI.
The Moral Suasion of the Spirit, 480
CHAPTER XXVII.
The Moral Suasion of the Spirit, continued, 496
CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Graces of the Spirit, 516
CHAPTER XXIX.
The Means of Grace, j 5S2
CHAPTER XXX.
Ministerial Efficiency, 555
CHAPTER XXXI.
Ministerial Efficiency, continued, ,..,.,,.., ^8S
^i^'U,.
-uY t'f ^'^t,.
^•JJv JL a:-, >L'. ^.j? iJ VJ v^ i ^v.' -i-i. -^ >'
iiVTRODlJCTORY REMARKS.
Some peculiar life, as produced by the Spirit, spoken of by Christ and the
propliets—The design of the work stated—The chai-acter and source of
proof to be adduced—Illustrations drawn from the analogy of nature
leg-Itimate—God's moral and physical constitutions not at variance
—
?4ode of interpreting" stripture—The divine testimony paramount evi-
dence—The biblical student should not violate the principles of sound
philosophy—The principles to conduct the investig-ation avouched—The
author's liopes expressed.
It was long since predicted, that .^o/ne divine energy
vshould be exerted to produce life in the souls of men.
'^And shall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live,'^*
said "the Lord God" by the mouth of Ezekiel. Whether
this language is wholly metaphorical, will be seen in the
progress and result of the discussion contained in these
pages. The prediction relates particularly to the conver-
sion of the Jews. That event shines conspicuously in
prophetic story, and we are directed to it, as to the
bright morning star which immediately precedes, and even
shines resplendent in the rising glory of millennial day.
What shall be the circumstances connected with their na-
tional regeneration, time alone will disclose. The opera-
tive and efficient agent wi'I be the Spirit of God, and the
immediate effect and proof of His influence, will be the
possession of life in their souls. However the circum-
stances conducive to the conversion of the Jews shall differ
from those ordinarily employed by the Spirit, the charac-
* Ezek. xxxvii, 14.
I
INTKODLGTOin CHAP. I
ter of the agent and of His influence shall not. The re-
generation of a sinner is life from the dead \\\ every in-
stance, whether the suljject be Jew or Gentile. The
preaching of the gospel is indeed the means most fre-
quently employed, and rendered most efficacious in pro-
ducing this life; but it possesses no power to this end,
except as it may be the ivord of God. ''The hour is
coming and now is," said the Lord of life, "when the
dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they
that hear shall //I'e."*
The language, both of the prediction, and of Christy
implies that there is some other life, to be had by men,
than that which all in common possess as creatures com-
posed of soul and body. And the allusions ia the scrip-
tures, both of the Old and New Testaments, to a life
peculiar and distinguishing, as imparted by the Spirit of
God to some, and not to all, prevent the supposition that
it is altogether imaginative, and the language merely meta-
phorical. "But Gody who is rich in mercy, for his great
love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in
sins, hath quickened\ us (made us alive) together with
Christ." It is the object of the following work to inves-
tigate, and illustrate that great moral renovation,, of which
the scriptures speak so decisively, according as it is repre-
sented under the idea of life troduced by the spirit
OF God.
The inspired writers employ a variety of terms in treat-
ing of this subject, and present it under almost endless
aspects. At one time it is called regeneration, at another
being born again, one while a raisingfrorn the dead, and
again creating anew; one while the taking away the
hard and stony heart, and at another the giving an heart
offlesh; one while the renewing of the Holy Ghost, and
at another the law of the Spirit of Life, besides others of
* .Tohn vi, 25. j Epli, ii. 4, 5.
CHAP. 1. REMARKS. 3
the same general import. It is unnecessary to examine
the meaning, or inquire into the reason of each expression.
We have selected the idea of life, as the simplest and
most comprehensive, and design, by means of it, to sub-
ject the whole subject of regeneration, or the new
BIRTH, in all its grand and important relations, to a careful
and candid analysis.
In announcing this design, it may not be improper to
apprise the reader of the source and character of the proofs
and illustrations to be adduced. The sacred scriptures are
assumed to be the infallible word of God. Its revela-
tions are not reputed mere abstractions, but simple mat-
ters OF FACT. So far from the idea being admitted, that
the bible is a mere guide to opinions, and calculated to
induce theory and speculation, it is affirmed that the dis-
closures which it makes are solemn declarations of fact,
and not the less interesting because originally beyond the
sphere of human reason. They affect the character, the
condition, the hopes, the destiny of the ruined race of
man, and have a most important and essential bearing on
individual happine^^s and expectation. In the interpreta-
tion of these words of truth, it is deemed impertinent to
ask, ''can such a thing be,'^ or ''is it compatible with our
notion of the Divine Being." It is from God's own dis-
closure of himself—from His revelation of His own mind
and will —that we are to form our ideas of Himself. If we
imbibe them from another source, we shall err; for natur-
ally we ''walk in the vanity of our mind, having the
understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of
God, through the ignorance that is in us, because of the
blindness* of our heart.'' If God has been pleased to
speak—it is assumed as, unquestionably because most de-
monstratively, true, that He has—it is for us to hear, and
not ask impertinently how or why is this or that which He
*'Eph. iv. 17, 18.
i:n;tiioductory CHAP. r.
declares to be the fact. They that will reserve to them^
selves this liberty, and judge of the revelations of the
scriptures accordinj^ as they may meet or favor their pecu-
liar prejudices and feelings, or as they are pleased to dig-
nify them—their reason, had better act consistently, and
proclaim themselves infidels at once, rejecting the authori-
ty of the word of God. However common it may be for
men to allege they will not believe this or that, because it
does not commend itself to their judgment, because it does
not comport with their views of God, because they reserve
to themselves in all cases the right of private opinion, be-
cause they cannot understand it, it w^iM not for one moment
be conceded that with such the bible is accounted of para-
mount authority. Our discussions are with, and for those
who feel that "thus saith the Lord" is like the oath among
men, and must *^put an end to all strife.'^ All others,
though they may pretend to believe in a divine revelation,
are mere hypocrites and unbelievers.
Yet, in illustrating the facts which it has pleased God to
make known to us in the sacred scriptures, we shall deem
it perfectly lawful to avail ourselves of all the light which
may be obtained from the analog)' of His works. While
Vie magnify revelation, as an authority from which there is
no appeal, and insist, that our minds and consciences bow to
its decisions vvithout a moment's hesitancy, we are neverthe-
less far from exalting it as contrary to the established order
of nature. There is a beautiful harmony between them,
as being alike the oifspring of the same bounteous, parent,
and they serve often to illustrate each other. For, although
the kingdoms of nature and of grace may be as perfectly
distinct as two distant worlds can be, yet, as they both are
established in the same, it is perfectly reasonable to expect
that the same God who presides over both, and is the author
of both, should have maintained an essential concord be-
tween them. He does not frame His moral constitutions
CRAV.l. REMARRS. .5
at variance with His physical. We may have occasion
frequently to trace the beautiful analogy between them,
and be led to admire the divine original of both. But in
doing so we must still claim supreme authority for the
written word: and that we may not be misunderstood, or
our whole subject, and sources of proof rejected as mysti-
cal, we shall devote a chapter explicitly to the character of
the objects v^^hich form the materiel of our knowledge,
and the mode by which it is obtained.
Should there be any obscurity in the language in which
it has pleased God to speak, the previous question as to
what He actually does say, must be carefully and accurate-
ly determined. And in determining this, we shall not
perplex ourselves, or our readers, with any learned or
labored applications of the rules and principles of Flermen-
euties as it is called. Common sense, a knowledge of the
original languages in which the scriptures were written,
and of the customs, manners, and history, &c. which may
be necessary to understand the rationale or allusions of its
terms, are of principal importance. If criticism becomes
necessary, and a demand is made on our philological re-
sources, the reader who is unacquainted with the Hebrew
and Greek, shall not be offended by the introduction of
things on which he can pass no judgment; but the result
of inquiry shall be given in its proper place, while the
mode of obtaining that result, or the reasons for main-
taining it, shall, to such as may be able and disposed to
investigate them, be furnished in notes subjoined. In all
controversy, or doubt about the meaning of a passage oi
scripture, the appeal must be to the Ydvy words which the
Spirit of God himself has employed, and the signification of
those words must be determined by comparing the passages
in which the}^ occur, and the manner in which they are
used by classical authorities, or those with whom the lan-
guag;e was vernacular. Having ascertained the meaning of
6 INTRODUCTOllY CHAP. I.
the words, and relieved the text from obscurlt}^ so that the
mind and will of God has been discovered in the plain
import of the passage, we shall hold ourselves bound to
receive His testimony, without making or entertaining a
solitary objection. Whatever is asserted by God claims
credence from us, in despite of all imaginations and rea-
sonings to tlie contrary. It must be assumed as indisputa-
ble /ac/, wjiich, whether we can understand it or not,
whether we can unravel its perplexities nnd solve its diffi-
culties, or must leave it involved in its own native mys-
tery, cannot be rejected or denied, except at the peril of
taking from iJie ivord of God, and impeaching Him with
falsehood. The testimony of Him that cannot lie is evi-
dence, in every case, conclusive and overpowering; and
it is more trian our souls are worth to doubt, wheth-er it is
or can be true, after that God has declared it to be the fact.
Nor s'nall we admit, for one moment, that tiiere is ground
of reproach against us as weak and credulous, though we
thus SDcak. Vv-^e plant ourselves upon the same solid
ground on which the votary of sound philosophy essays to
rear his system. He asks not, like the incredulous Jew,
'^how can these things be?" but his first inquiry is, is it
indeed the fact? Afterwards he labors to solve the phenom-
enon. Should he fail to do so, he chronicles the fact and
waits for further light to aid iiis investigations. Should
he have ransacked the vast store-house of science, and
found nothing that would enable him satisfactorily to ex-
plain the mystery, and should theory after theory be
framed, and then disc^irded, and not one ray of light beam,
upon the dark bosom of his theme, yet does he not feel
himself authorized to disbelieve what upon sufficient tvi-
dence he is convinced is the fact. However it may
seem to be at variance with the established laws of nature,
or to involve matters altogether novel or inexplicable, he
admits the phenomenon, adn^irino; and ndonno- t:be vastneps
;iiAP I. REMARKS.
and mystery of Nature's works. Il is tlius, too, that the
firm believer in revelation —the biblical philosopher de-
ineans himself. He is jicrfectly convinced that the bible
is the word of God, (and he that is not, has not yet half
explored the proofs that crowd upon the subject), and being
satisfied that God the Holy One a^^d true has spoken, not
all his perplexity can make him for a moment reject the
fact. Theorise and speculate he may, and though wearied
with his devices to pr}' into the mystery of the fact, he
bows submissively to the majesty of trutl) —tlie word of an
undeceived and undeceiving God—and lifts his heart in de-
vout and adoring admiration, *^0, the depth of the riches,
both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How un-
searchable are his judgments, and his ways pasi finding
out."* No more shaH he be reproached for credulity and
-weakness than the loftiest son of science, who, like the
comet,
"Takes his ample round •
Thro' depths of ether; coists uiinuiiibered worlds,
Of more than solar glory."
Both may soar on fancy's airy wings, and climb among
the higher spheres of God's exalted sway; but both must
cease from proud imaginings, and, as they value peace and
knowledge too, learn to rest on simple, sober fact—the
only difference discernible between them being, that be-
fore the one, God spreads the mighty efibrts of his creatrve
power, and bids him "look and learn," while to the
other He speaks in terms direct and plain, and bids him
'•'hear and know." But the eye's seeing is not balf such
satisfying and luxurious evidence, as the heart's believing.
Such are the principles by which it is proposed that our
investigations shall be conducted. Vv'e may perhaps occa-
sionally find it necessary to refer to them; but after this
avowal, such references need not be frequent or prolix
-
* Roui. xi. 33.
S iNTiiODUc roia ghap. i.
Our readers may expect a liberal use of the lively oracles,
and the)^ are solicited to come with us to the consideration
of a theme of infinite moment to us all; and to come with
docile minds and humble hearts. We desire no higher
honor than to be instrumental in leading them to the foun-
tain of truth, and inciting them to inquire of the Great
"Teacher sent from God," what He is willing w^e should
know of "the life hid with Christ in God,"* And^ should
it please the great and sovereign Lord of all, to guide any
humble and anxious mind, through our feeble efforts, into
clearer and admiring perceptions of His own most won-
drous work in quickening those who were "dead in tres»
passes and in sins," and thus creating them anew His
workmanship unto good works, t to Him shall be ascribed
all the glory. Our own hearts rejoice in every survey of
the new creation. Its glory shines with dazzling radiance
on our dciiglited minds, and we long that hundreds and
thousands, now in the grave of their corruptions, should
waken into life, and come forth to swell the anthems of
praise that ascend to ^'Him that liveth and was dead and is
alive for evermore, amen, and hjs the keys of hell and
death. "J The utm.ost we purpose, is, by the light of di-
vine truth, to trace that blessed agency, and that influence
of the eternal life-giving Spirit of God, on the mind and
heart of man, which are designed to qualify him, alike for
usefulness in this world, and glory in the world to come.
In attempting so to do, it will not, we hope, be thought
strange or uncongenial with our subject, if we take a de-
liberate and coa;prehensive view of the characttr of the
glorious agent by whom the life of which we speak is pro-
duced, and of the original and peculiar structure of the
creature man, who is the subject of it. If any of our
readers should think, that we escape into the regions of met-
apbysicai philosophy, we hope it will be remembered that
* Col i; T KpL, 1!. 5, 10. * Rev. i. 18.
CHAP. T.
REMARKS.
it is only because our subject necessarily leads us there,
and, we think that, holding in our hand the torch of truth
divine, we need not be afraid
"Of wandering in airy mazes lost."
The very topic of a change of heart, requires some know-
ledge of man's rational and sensitive soul, in order to its
faithful exhibition. And it may be profitable for us to
trace the influence which a mistaken view of the human
mind—a ^^philosophy falsely so called," has had in shaping
and determining men's notions and practice, on a subject of
such high concernment. We ask the patient and candid
attention of our readers, and praj' that the Spirit of God
may guide botli us and our readers, into the knowledge of
the truth as it is in Jesus.
CHAPTER IL
THE PERSOK^ALITY OF THE SPIRIT.
The life-giving' influence of the Spirit peculiarly cliaracteristic of the evau-
g-elical dispensation
—'i'he Spirit a personal ag'cnt—A two-fold source of
objection against this—Proofs of His personality—1. The power of spon-
taneous action, and the actual voluntary exercise of it—2. The Spirit per-
forms ac^w??s peculiar to a personal agent—3. Operates, &c.—4-. Is affected,
&c. —5. Exercises the functions of various q^ccs
—
6^ HsLsysaiouspersowul
attributes.
"The Lord is that Spirit,"' said the apostle, when speak-
ing of the influence necessary to remove the prejudices of
the Jews against Christ. He had been contrasting the
Mosaic and Evangelical dispensations, and extolling the
latter as possessing richer glory, because of its being ac-
companied with the life-giving influences of the Spirit of
God. The comrpunications of God, under the former
economy, vi^ere made by menus of Moses, and the law en-
graved on tables of stone. It was indeed a glorious reve-
lation, but comparatively little more than the knowledge
of the letter was had by its votaries. There was no pro-
vision made for an especial, powerful, and enlightening
influence of the Spirit of God on the minds and hearts of
ancient worshippers. Whatever influence the Spirit
vouchsafed, it was adapted to the sensible ordinances, and
appalling rites celebrated in the temple of Jehovah. There
was a veil of darkness and mystery thrown around the
whole system, so ''that the children of Israel could not
steadfastly look to the end of that which is abolished.'''
1 2Cor. iii. 17. 2 2Cor. iii. l:^.
CHAP. ir. ^i'HE TERSOXALITY OF THE SPIRIT. H
But under the gospelj there are ministers of Christ com-
missioned to teach, and enforce, the great truths of religion,
whose efforts are accompanied with a convincing and iUum-
i Dating a«;ency of the Spirit of God. This Spirit, the
apostle declares is Jehovah—-the Lord. His influence
is represented as giving life in ojr>osi"'on to the killing
sentence of the law of God, which was engraven on the
tahles of stone, and which formed as it were the grand
central g^ory of the whole system of types and shadows.
"Who also," says he, ''hath made us ahle ministers of the
New Testament; not of the letter, but of the Spirit: for
the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth Life."^ In con-
templating an exposition of this, His peculiar work, there-
fore, it becomes necessary for us to clear away all the ob-
scurity and perplexity wjiich hang around our subject, in
consequence of the objections and doubts expressed by
some in relation to the existecee and personality of the.
Spirit of God. \Vherefore, we have quoted the assertion
of the apostle, with a view to present distinctly for dis-
cussion the two following propositions, which his lan-
guage evidently involves:
I. That the Spirit of God is a personal agent, and
n. That tie is possessed of a divine nature or is in reality
God.
It is objecied, b}^ the enemies of our faith, that the
v/ord PERSON is not to be found in the sacred scriptures as
designating any distinct or separate subsistence in the di-
vine essence. This is freely admitted. But it does not,
therefore, follow, that there are no distinct or separate
siibsislenccs in the divine nature, to which severally and
respectively are attributed, an understanding and will and
power to exert them. The translators of the New Testa-
ment have used the term pe7'S07i in the first chapter of the
epistle to tlie Hebrews, no doubt because it is the best
1 2X'o:-. iii, 6.
12 '-^^^ PERSONALITY CHAP. H.
they could employ, and approximates most to the idea ex-
pressed hy the original. All that is meant, however, when
personality is attributed to the Spirit of God, is, simply,
that there is sone distinct subsistenca in the eJivine na-
ture, possessed of an understanding, and will, and such
other intellectual and moral properties, as authorise us to
believe him to be, and to speak of him as, a personal agent,
who is represented by this appellation. We would not be
very tenacious of the English term, but we claim the
privilege of using it till a better can be substituted.
We are aware that objections are urged against it in a
two-fold form. It is alleged that the idea of there being
three distinct personal subsistences in the divine essence,
is incompatible with that of the unity of God—^a fact most
plainly asserted in the sacred scriptures; and that, as for
the Spirit of God so frequently spoken of, nothing else is
meant by it than an attribute of Deity: wisdom, for in-
stance, or more frequently, perhaps, the divine power.
The first objection is by no means admissible. That there
may be, and is something altogether unintelligible in the
fact of three distinct personal subsistences dwelling in the
same divine essence, is not to be denied: but this is by no
means a sufficient reason for rejecting it, since the evidence
which establishes it is most unquestionable. We daily ad-
mit and believe many things, which we cannot, and do not
even attempt to explain. We believe that we are possess-
ed of two natures, or perhaps three, according to Paul's
philosophy, bodij, soul, and spirit, perfectly distinct and
dissimilar, and yet that they are resident in one moral
being, which we call man. The thing is inexplicable, and
yet the fiict is undeniable. Does any one allege the two
natures in man as an objection against the unity of his per-
son? Where then is there any greater ground of objection
against the unity -of the divine nature from the plurality
of divine persons? We are not at liberty to urge objections
CHAP- IT. <^^ '^^iE ^'^^^^- IS
from what appears inconsistent and may be inexplicable
to us, provided the evidence sufficiently establishes the
fact, xind that such is the fact, that there is a pluralit}^ of
personal subsistences in the divine esaeace. cannot be suc-
cessfully disputed by any one who acknovvk-dges that there
is evidence in testimony, and that the sacred scriptures,
as being the word of God, are q( paramount authority.
Of this we shall be more convinced presently.
As for the attempt of tiiosc who allege that the Spirit of
God is a mere attribute, spoken of, in a bold personifica-
tion, according to the highly figurative stj-ie of the sacred
scriptures, it may be remarked, that such a figure of speech
is indeed sometimes employed by the inspired writers, but
only in the lofty strains of eloquence, or in their sublime
flights of poetry, not in the plain, sober, historical narra-
tive. In the much admired instance of the personified
wisdom in the eighth chapter of Proverbs, it is, to say the
least, very doubtful whether it is not the Lord Jesus Christ,
the personal wisdom, who is spoken of. At all events,
the figure of speech occurs in the rich imagery employed
by our inspired poel, and therefore cannot furnish any
thing conclusive on the main question. For, as we shall
now proceed to shew all the peculiar and appropriate acts
of a person are attributed to the Spirit of God, or, as He
is often called, the Holy Spirit.
It v.'ould be unnecessnry to notice all the passages in
which the Spirit of God is spoken of as a personal agent.
Our attention niust be confined to a fevv which we shall
classify under the following heads:
1. The power of spontaneous action, and the actual
VOLUNTARY EXERCISE of it, are attributed to the Spirit.
Thus, He is said to 7?iove. ^'The Spirit of God moved upon
the face of the waters."^ It is true that some understand by
1 Gen. i. 2. Merahepheth, in the Hithpael which has the force of a re-
flexive veHj—motitans se, ir.olii fbtu incubans.—Clav. pent. p. 4.
14 THE PERSONALITY CHAP. II.
the Spirit in this passage, a mighty wind, according to the
idiomatic import, as they allege, of the Hebrew phrase.
The term translated Spirit, it is confessed, does primarily
signify breath, or wind, and also, that the name of God,
among the Hebrews, was, and as a mode of comparison,
being designed to express the superlative degree: but this
method of resolving tiie plirase cannot be correct; for the
wind has not the power of spontaneous motion. By what-
ever causes its motions may be originated, the air is ah^ays
entirel3^ passive. We do, indeed, personify th3 wina in
ordinar}' speech, but it is in a manner perfectly intelligible
by sM, and never as thuiigh it possessed life, and was capa-
ble of spontaneously affecting other things. The Spirit
OF God, however, in the place referred to, is spoken of as
originating his own actions. Strictly and literally the ex-
pression may be rendered moved himself,^ as the fowl
{)oes over her nest when she is hatching her young. The
motion described by the term, is totally dissimilar from
that of the wind. Beside, there are many passages in
which the phrase, the Spirit of God, cannot possibly, by
an}^ licentiousness of criticism whatever, be conceived to
inean breath or wind, though they are so translated. For
example, the breath of the Almighty hath given me life:""
^'by the breath of God frost is given:" *'by the word of
the Lord were the heavens made: and all the host of them
by the breath of His mouth:"'^ ''Behold the name of the
Lord cometh from far, burning with his anger, and the
burden thereof is heavy, his lips are full of indignation,
and his tongue as a devouring fire, and his breath as an
overflowing stream.""^ "For Tophet is ordained of old,
and the breath of the Lord, like a stream of brimstone,
doth kindle it:'*^ "Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy son
of man, and say to tliC wind, thus saith the Lord God,
1 Job, xxy.U'i. 4. 2 Jol), 5:5:xv)i. 10. 3 Psalms, xxxiii. 6
4 liul-uu XXX -27, 2S. 5 Isa-ah, xxx. 33.
CHAP. n. ^^^ '^Ht: sPiRrr, i 5
como from the four vviads, Oh, breathy and breathe upon
these slain, that they may live.
'^^
The Spirit of God also is said to speaJc, which is another
voluntary action. The Spirit spoke to Peter- and to
Philip,^ &c.
He is also said to lead: -'as many as are led by the
Spirit of God"'* —to guide—^'lle will guide vou Into all
truth"^'
—
to help—"the Spirit helpcth our infirmities"*^
to hear—'Hvhatsoever he shall hear that shall he also
speak,"- and other things of the same nature.
Now it is certainly personifying too much if all these
things are affirmed, and that in the midst of sober narra-
tive or didactic discussion, of an attribute. Surely it is
too absurd to gain the credence of any individual that an
attribute should move itself, Sjjeak, lead, guide and heli}
our infirmities.
2. The Spirit of God is represented as performin'>-
THOSE ACTIONS WHICH CAN BE PREDICATED ONLY OP SOMS
INTELLIGENT PERSONAL AGENT. ThuS, He is Said TO IIS-
VEAL—'-as it is now revealed to his apostles and prophets
by the Spirit"^
—
to teach—-Hhe Comforter shall teach
you all things"^ —to testify—'^Ihe Spirit itself heareih
ivitness'^'^ —"when the Comforter is come, even the
Spirit of truth, he shall testify of nie"-^
—
to receive and
sheiv—"he shall receive of mine and shall shew it unto
you""
—
to search —'"the Spirit searchefh all things"^^
—
to have a mind—"He that searcheth the hearts knoweth
what is the viind oi \\\q Spirit"^^
—
to prophesy'^—"He
shall shew you things to come''^^
—
to intercede —"the
Spirit niaketh intercession for us,'"" and to know —"even
1 Ezekiel, xxxrii. 9. 2 Acts, x. 19. 3 Acts, viii. 20
4 Rom. vl'ii. 14. 5 Joiiii, xvi, 1:1. 6 Rom. viii, 26,
7 Epli. iii. 5. 8 John, xiv. 26 9 Xir.w. vui. 16.
10 John, XV. 26. 11 John, xvi. 14. 12 1 Cor. ii. 10.
13 Rora. viii. 27- 14 John, xvi. 13. 15 Uo:n, viii. 2a„
16 THE PERSONS ALITY CHAP. II.
SO the things of God knoweth no one, but^the Spirit of
Now is it possible tliat sucli things can with any shew
of reason or propriety be said of an attribute? Would it
not be an outrage upon common sense thus to personify?
By what imaginable license of speech would any one ven-
ture to declare, that an attribute—the wisdom or the power
of God for example, should reveal^ teach, testify, receive,
shew, searcli, prophesy, intercede and know? Knowledge
is itself an attribute—one of those essential to God. Who
can conceive that knowledge 0.2.^ with any meaning be
predii;ated of the divine ^^ot^'er, or even of the divine icis-
dom. God Himself is undoubtedly wise and powerful
and omniscient, but shall we afiirm these things of any
one of Wis perfections? Can power know? These are the
mysteries—Vv'e should rather say the absurdities, that
ip.wst be adopted by those who reject the scriptural doctrine
of iliQ pjersonality of the Spirit.
3. The Spirit of God is represented as operating in
such way as necessarily to imply the existence of an
INTELLIGENT PERSONAL AGENT. ThuS, He is Said tO WOrk
miracles—"^through mighty signs and wonders by the
power of the Spirit of God^'^ —to confer gifts—"to one
is given by His Spirit the word of wisdom'^^ —to sancti-
fy—^'ye are sanctified by the Spirit of God'^'* —to give
life—"it is the Spirit that quickeneth'^^ —to reprove—
"He will reprove the world of sin"^ —to strive—"My
Spirit shall not always strive with men.''^ Such are some
of his operations. If working miracles, conferring gifts,
sanctifying, giving life, reproving and remonstrating do
not indicate personality, what can?
4. The Spirit of God is represented as being affect-
1 1 Cor. ii. 10, 11. 2 Rom. xv. 19. 3 1 Cor. xil. 8--14
4 1 Cor. vj. 11. 5 John, vi. 63. 6 John. xvi. 8.
7 Gen. vi. 3.
CHAP. II. ^^ 'l'^^^ SPIRIT. 17
ED, AND THAT BY MEANS OF VARIOUS EXPRESSIONS WHICH
Denote the passions and affections of an intelli-
gent AGENT. Thus, He is said to he pleased—"it seemed
good to the Holy Ghost ;"^ to be vexed—*nhey rebelled
and vexed his Holy Spirit ;'*~ to be grieved—'
'grieve not
the Holy Spirit of God ;"^ to be resisted—^'ye do always
resist the Holy Ghost ;''''
to be quenched—'^quench not
the Spirit.''^ Can all these things be predicated of a mere
attribute.
5. There are various offices attributed to the
Spirit of God, and He is represented as operating
IV the discharge of the same, which are things
perfectly unintelligible and absurd on the supposi-
tion OF his being a personal agent. Thus he is said
io teach: ^'But the anointing which ye have received of
Him abideth in you ; and ye need not that any man teach
you ; but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things,
and is truth and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you,
ye shall abide in him."° By this anointing every one must
admit is meant the very same thing with what is elsewhere
called the Spirit of God. John said of Christ that *'God giv-
eth not the Spirit by measure unto him,"^ but in an
illimitable degree, which thing in the poetic style of the
Psalms, is represented by an unction!^ from the Holy One,
as an Apostle has infallibly declared. ^'Unto the Son he
saith, God, even thy God, hath anointed thee Vv^ith the
oil of gladness above thy fellows. ^^^ Whatever the Spirit
of God may be, it is the same with the anointing which is
said to teach. The Spirit also, is said expressly, or by
evident implication in other passages, to teach. ^'^
This is
a work that is peculiarly attributed to Him, and may there-
1 Acts, XV. 28. 2 Isaiah, Ixiii. 10. 3 Eph. iv. 30.
4 Acts, vii. 51. 5 1 Thess. v. 19. 6 1 John, ii. 27
7 John, ill. 34.
8 Proof to the same effect is to be had by comparing 2 Cor. i. 21, 22,
'.^t\i Epii. 1. 13, 14,-1 John, ii, 20, with 1 C'or. ii. 12,
5 Hefe. i. 9: Psalm, xlv. 7, 10 Luke, xu. 12: John. xlv. 26: 1 Cor, ii. 13,
3
IS 'i'HE PERSONALITY CHAP. ll.
fore be considered His oftlcial business. If the blessed
Saviour is represented as teaching, and is thence to be con-
gidered as an official teacher^ having been sent from God
for this puyyose, according to the true saying of Nicode-
mus/ so ought the Holy Spirit to be, for He is sent
expressly by the Lord Jesus Christ to teach, and thence
takes the distinctive and official title of the Cowforter.
If the one is a true person, and if it is at all lav/ful to argue
that He is, from the office attributed to Him and His dis-
charge of its duties, so also must be the other. Why must
we believe it mere personification in Ihe latter instance, if
it be not in the former? Every reader of the scriptures,
who has not, by his prejudices or attachment to some fa-
vorite theory, been com.pelled to sacrifice his common
sense, sees, at once, how absui'd a thing it is to deny the
real personality of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yet it is not
more so than to deny that of the Spirit. Was the former
an attribute of Deity, or some attribute making manifes-
tations of itself? How utterly absurd! No mystery can be
half as absurd ;
yet this absurdity must be maintained by
him that denies the personality of the Spirit of God
!
The argument drawn from this source might be amplified
by a reference to another very peculiar class of effects
wrought by the Spirit of God, which the sacred scriptures
contemplate as pertaining to Him officially—we mean those
connected with the sanctification of believers, on account
of whose agency and influence in the production of which,
they are said to ^'walk in the Spirit, ^^" to be ''led by the
Spirit, ^'^ to '^live in the Spirit, ^'"^
to be ''after the
Spirit,''' to be "in the Spirit,''^ to be "Jilled ivith the
Spirit,'''^ to have "the fruits of the Spirit,''^ &c. ; but
we deem it unnecessary, as every reader can readily do it
for himself. What mean such expressions, if there is na
1 John, iii, 2. 2 Oal. v. 16. 3 Gal. v. 18.
4 Gal.v. 25. 5 Rom. viii. 5. 6 Rom. viii, 9.
7 Eph. V. 18. 8 Gal. v. 22: Eph. v. 16.
CHAP,. II. OF THE SPIRIT. 19
such blessed agent as the Spirit of God exerting an infliN
ence in and with the believer's efforts to lead a holy life?
Why are they especially called "the temple of God," and
is it said that "the Spirit of God divelleth in"^ them when
their personal holiness is alluded to, if there is no such.
Being as the Spirit of God, and that holiness is not an
effect of His agency and influence? Must the phrase or
phrases as above, be understood to mean the influence of
human reason and conscience in opposition to the animal
appetites? How then without violating an idiom of speech
can believers be said to be ^'sanctiJiedV^ And how is it
that we read of '^sanctijication through the Spirit, ^^ as
though the personal holiness of the believer is to be attri-
buted to some other than the influence of their own rea-
son? Verily language could not have been more vague, or
more calculated to deceive, than that which the sacred
scriptures hold vvith respect to the sanctification of be-
lievers, if the influence of human reason is its source, and
if there is no such Being as the Spirit of God.
6. It may yet be added that there are various attri-
butes GIVEN IN THE SACRED SCRIPTURES TO THE SpiRIT
OF God. Thus, Truth is attributed to Him, 'Hhe Spirit of
Truth whom the world cannot receive"^ —Holiness also,
whence he is called "the Holy Spirit" and "the Spirit of
Holiness^^^ —YxkewhQ Goodness—"Thy Spirit is Good'^
"Thy Goofl? Spirit"'' —and Grace—"hath done despite to
the Spirit of Grace^^'' —and Glory—"the Spirit of Glory
and of God resteth on you"*" -and Etei^ruty—"who through
the Eternal Spirit"'' —and Omnipresence—"whither
shall Igo from thy Spirit"^ —and Omniscience—"The
Spirit searcheth all thi?igs.''^ Can we suppose, without
absurdity, that all these things are attributed to a mere at-
trii)Ute? Shall w^e personify the power of God, and in the
1 1 Cor. ill. 16: vi. 19. 2 John, xiv. 17, &c. &c.. 3 1 Cor. Hi. 16:Rom 5.4.
4 Psalm, cxliii. 10: Neh. ix. 20. 5 Heb. x. 29. 6 1 Peter, iv. 14.
"
Heb. ix.vl-i. 8 Psalm, cvxxix. 7. 9 1 Cor. ii, 1^.
20 THE PERSONALITY OF THE SPIMT. cHAP. n.
boldness of lofty conception weave around it the other
perfections of Deity? Then what are we to make of the
attribute of power itself, which is given to the Spirit of
God, as we read of ^'rnany signs and wonders, by the power
of the Spirit of God?"^ Is it at all conceivable that truth,
holiness, goodness, grace, glory, eternity, omnipresence
and omniscience should be attributed to power, —and potr-
er too? Is it not absurd to talk of the power of the power
of God? So far from the Spirit of God being identical Vv'ith
the power of God, they are accuratel)^ distinguished in the
sacred scriptures, ^'not by might nor by poicer, but hy
My Spirit saith the Lord.'^^
When therefore we survey the different parts of our
argument, we contidently challenge any and every man
who can divest his mind of prejudice, and who will ration-
ally and coolly consider the import of language, to say,
whether there is not the most overwhelming proof of the
vSpirit's personality^ or real personal existence. If He
possesses the power of spontaneous action, and actually
and voluntarily exerts it ; if He performs those actions
which can be predicated only of a personal intelligent
agent—speaking, testifying, searching, shewing, and the
like ; if He operates, and is affected in such way as to imply
personality—-working miracles, conferring gifts, being
vexed and grieved, &c. ; if He discharges the functions of
various offices—teaching and sanctifying; if He is posses-
sed of various attributes of a personal intelligent agent—
-
truth, holiness, goodness, grace, power, &c., ought we,
can we for one moment doubt with respect to His real per-
sonal existence? If these things do not prove personality
what else can? It is just as impossible to prove the per-
sonal existence of Jesus Christ, or even of God the Father,
as it is of the Holy Spirit, if there is no conclusiveness ii:
the arguments that have been adduced.
1 Rorn. XV. 19. 2 Zech. iv. 6.
CHAPTER III.
THE PERSOJVALITY OF THE SPIRIT.
CONTINUED.
An attempt to understand the Unitarian doctrine concerning the Spirit—
.
Quotation from Faustus Socinns—Quotation from Dr. Channing-—From
Leshe—The Unitarian's alternative—His notion of the spirit examined
—
Put to the test of common-sense interpretation of scripture, John xiv, 24
26—Another supposition with regard to the Spirit examined—Its falsity
exposed, when put to the test of scripture, Heb. ii. 4: Acts, xiii. 2 : Acts,
viii. 28: xi 19, 20: xv. 28; xvi. 6—If Unitarian views are true, the sacred
writers liable to a sericus charge. Acts, vi. 3: John, i. 33: Acts, v. 3, A —
The Unitarian notion of impiration examined—Nature of inspiration—An
argument thence deduced in favour of the dirine personality of the Spirit
—Unitarian view of inspiration—Quotation from Priestley and Belshara,
2 Tim. iii. 16; Mark, xiii. 11 —Dr. Bancroft's idea. Mat. xii. 31.
Perhaps it will be objected that we have not faiih-
fully and accurately represented the opinion of those against
whom we have been directing our arguments: —that \nq
have taken advantage of expressions, and attributed to them
sentiments which thoy disavow:—that they do not mean ta
intimate any such absurdity as that a mere abstract perfec-
tion of Deity, apart and separate from God Himself, should
be represented as endowed w^th the attributes of personali-
ty. We confess that it is exceedingly difficult to tell what
they mean, and that we find it much easier to understand
the proposition setting forth this great mystery, that the
Divine Being—the One God exists in three distinct per-
sonal subsistences, than the assertions and explanations
they advance relative to God and the Spirit of God. Let
them speak for themselves. The Holy Spirit of God,
shey say, jjiust be understood in the same sense as wlieii
C22 THE PEPcSOXALITV CHAP. III.
we speak of the Holt/ ivisdom, or the Holy will, or more
especially the Holy'power of God. Hear a great Socinian,
or as he would be called in modern parlance, a learned
Unitarian on this subject. We shall translate his language
for ©ur English readers, but his own words may be con-
sulted in the note. "^
^'BrieOy, every Divine power and
* Breviter omnis divina vis ct efficacia Dei spiritus appellari potest, et
idcirco Deus ipse dicit, se replcvisse Dei spiritu Bcseleel filium Uri; [Exod.
xxxi. 3.] quia videlicet eum implevisset scientia artis niechanica;, qua opus
crat ad ea omnia fabricanda, qus ad sui eultum ut fierent, Mosi prseceperat.
V'erum quia vis ilia et efficac.a divina, qua aliqua ratione res sanctificantur,
aiiis loiig-e praestat estque Dei maxime propria, eamque et ipse frequentis-
sime ac plurimum exerit, et sacrss litterse commemorare nccesse habent
;
propterea factum est, ut Dei spiritus, aut etiam simpliciter Spiritus nomine
vis ista significetur, qus, ut diximus, peculiar! nomine Spiritus sanctus ap-
])ellatur. Estautemh?ec Spiritus pro vi et efficacia appellatio per meta-
]jhoram a vento et flatu ducta ;
quo res nimlrui/i qualitate aliqua facile
replcntur, et simul commoventur atque ag-itantur. Siquidem ea vox, quve
jndivinis litteris reddita est Spiritus apud Hebraeos et Groecos, ut etiam in-
terdnm apud Latinos vox ipsa Spiritus, ventum et fiatum significat. Eadem-
que prorsus metapliora in eadero ipsa re, de qua loquimur, apud Latinos
obtinuit. Pro eo enim, quod sancts: Ltter?e Dei spiritum dicunt, ipsi divi-
iiura affiatum nominant, et quempiam Dei numine afflari aiunt vel etiam, ut
Cicero (a) de poetis dixit, divino quodam spiritu afflari.
Quaraobrem non erat, cur quisquam Dei spiritum in sacris litteris perso-
Tiara aliquam sig'nificare existimaret, etiamsi quaedam illi attributa inveniret,
fiua: pevsonarum sunt propria. Sive enim vis ista atque efficacia divina,
quatenus Deus per eam agit, consideratur, et Dei spiritus nominatur, meto-
TivmiK sane et prosopopcejae aptlssimus est lochis ; Metonymise quidem, ut
rpiritus Dei nomine ipse Deus, qui spiritu suo agit, significetur,: prosopo-
]-!a;joe vero, ut quando per spiritum suum Deus agit, ipsi spiritui actio tribua-
tur. Sive. eadem ista vis atque efficacia divina, quatenus res, in quibiis
Deus agit, ab ipsa afficiuntui', consideratur, ac Dei spiritus appellatur, nulla
est causa, cur similiter vci per metonymiam is, qui ab eo spiritu affectus
•aliquid agit Spiritus Dei nomine intelligi non possil, vel per prosopopoeiam,
quandoquidem is, qui ita affectus est, per eum spiritum agit, actio ilia ipsi
3)ei spiritui ascribi nequcat. D frado Animadversiomtm Faustl Socini
tSe7iensis, in asserfiones Theologicas Collegii Posnauiensis de Trino ct uno
Deo ; adversus Ckabrielem Eutropium CanonicuFO Posnaniensem, ab eodera
Taus. Soc. c. xi. p. 291, ?92.
{ nj Cic. pro. ipeh.
CHAP. III.
*^^' ™t: SPIRIT, 23
virtue can be called a Spirit of God, and therefore God
Himself says, that he had filled with the Spirit of God,
Bezeleel the son of Uri; because, forsooth he had filled him
with the knowledge of a mechanical art necessary to his
making all those things as they should be, which he had
prescribed to Moses in relation to His worship. But be-
cause that Divine power and virtue, by which, in some
way, things are sanctified, is especially proper to God,
and which He both most frequently and most of all exerts,
and the sacred Scriptures find it necessary to mention, is
by far more excellent than others ; therefore it has hap-
pened, that that power is denoted by the name of Spirit of
God, or even simply the Spirit, which, as. we have said, is
called by the peculiar name the Holy Spirit. But this
name of Spirit for power and virtue is metaphorically
taken from a wind or breath, (^atu,) by which things_,
that is to say, of some sort, are easily filled, and at the
same time mixed up and agitated. Inasmuch as that word,
which in the sacred Scriptures is rendered Spirit by He-
brews and Greeks, as also sometimes by Latins, that very
word Spirit signifies a wind, a breath, (flatum.) And
generally the same metaphor, in the very same thing of
which we speak, obtained among the Latins. For that
which the sacred Scriptures call the Spirit of God, they
denominate a Divine breath (afflatum^) and say that one
\s inspired (afflari) by the impulse (numine) of God, or
even, a« Cicero said of the poets, by &ome Divine Spirit to
be inspired,"
"Wherefore it does not follow that one should think the
Spirit of God in the sacred Scriptures signified any person,
though he should find some things attributed to it which are
proper to persons. For whether that Divine power and virtue
in so far as God acts by it, is considered and is called the
Spirit of God, that is truly the fittest occasion for metony-
my or persoailication (pro.supieiije} —of metonymy indeed^
24 THE PERSO:nALITY eHAP. III.
3S by the name of Spirit of God may be signified God
liimself, who acts by his own spirit; but of personification,
as when God acts by His own Spirit, the action may be attri-
buted to the Spirit itself. Or if that same Divine power
and virtue is considered, in so far as the things on which
God acts are affected by it, (abipsa,) as it is called the Spirit
of God, there is no cause why, in like manner, either by
metonymy he, who affected by that Spirit does any thing,
might not be understood by the name of the Spirit of God :
or, by personification, seeing that he who is so affected,
acts by that Spirit, that action canoot be ascribed to the
Spirit of God."
Now if tiiere is not mystery liere, we leave it to the
common sense of our readers to say, whether there is not a
great deal of mysticism, or learned subtlety. It is indeed
exceedingly difficult to tell ivhat those, who deny the
personality of the Spirit of God, do really believe in
relation to him. One talks of a powerful influence of the
Deity (a vis et ef^.cacia) in general ; another of a special
influence, enabling its subject to work miracles ; another
of an '^extraordinary power or gift of God, first to our
Lord Jesus Christ himself, in his life time, and afterwards
to the Apostles and many of the first Christians, to empower
them to preach and propagate the Gospel with success.
'^^
At one time we are told it is an attribute, at another a
figure of speech, a metonymy, a metaphor, a proropopceia,
at another a gift, a grace, the knowledge of some mechani-
cal art ; at one time, the chief of the Heavenly spirits, at
another supreme minister of God ; at one time the energy
or Spirit (temper probably) of God ; at another God Him-
self : now something different from God, and then againi
the very God himself. There is no uniformity or consis-
tency in their opinions,^ Surely it is not half spvitfficult to
1 Lindsey's Memoirs, p. 212.
2 See Dr. ChaRuing's remarks on Dr. Worcester's letter to him,.
CHAP. III. ^^ THE SPIRIT. 25
believe that the Spirit of God is a distinct personal subsis-
tence in the Divine Nature, or, that the Divine Being
subsists in a personality distinct from either the Father or
the Son, as it is to understand all this jargon. The propo-
sitio7i at least is intelligible, whatever of mystery there
may be in the fact. This cannot always be said of those
who claim to be rational divines. Hear Dr. Channing,
*'The Unitarian believes that there is but one person pos-
sessing supreme divinity, even the Father"—''In fact, as
the word Trinity is sometimes used, we all believe it"
—
*'Some suppose that Trinitarianism consists in believing in
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. But we all
believe in them ; we all believe that the Father sent the
Son, and gives to those that ask the Holy Spirit. ^'^
These
are taken at random. Reader can you understand them?
Many other specimens of discrimination and precision
might be furnished from these rational divines, and
especially this most popular of Anierican Unitarians.
But it is unnecessary to perplex our readers or to
crowd our pages. The proposition we stated above, or
this other, that there is one God who subsists and acts in
three distinct persons has no vagueness in it. If the thing
or fact, the mode of this subsistence, is felt to be utterly
incomprehensible what then? It is affirmed distinctly and
positively that ''there are three which bear record in
Heaven, and that these three are one."^ And do we not
meet with resemblances to this in nature, and that not a
few? Light, heat and electricity are perfectly distinct, and
yet, if the philosophical views of some be correct, they all
agree in one. We shall find occasion to refer to this subject
more at large hereafter, and at present only add that what
Virgil fpora the Platonics says of the Infinite and Divine
1 See Dr. Channing's remarks on Dr. Worcester's letter to him, p. 38, 39.
2 1 John, V. 7.
2Q THE PERSONALITY CHAP. ill.
Mind is strictly and literally true of the human soul and
body.
Spiiitus intus alit, totamque infusa per artus
Slens agitat Molein.
*'We sa}^,'' observes a profound scholar, ^/that the soul
is all in all, and all in eve}y part of the body ;
yet, that
the soul is neither multiplied nor divided among the
several niemhers of the body. It is impossible for us to
explain this or to deny it; for w^feel it to be so, though it
is wholly unconceivable to us hotv it can be. Now if the
soul, which is but an image of God at an infinite distance,
can communicate itself to several members without breach
of its unity, why should it be impossible for the Eternal
and Infinite Mind io communicate itself to several joer-
sons without breach of its unity. '^^'^
The Unitarian cannot
but acknowledge that the Father, the Word and the Spirit
are three: but he maintains that God is one—one person.
Now if the Father, the Word and the Spirit are one perso7i
they cannot be three. Yet are they three in some sense.
But in what sense? Let us hear. The Son or the Word
is a manifestation of the Father—*'He that hath seen me
hath seen the Father. '^^ ^'The Spirit is an extraordinary
power or gift of God," uncertain which says one. *'He,"
viz., God, "gives to those that ask, the Holy Spirit," says
another, but other than that he is a gift says not. This is
enough. Now if Christ be the manifestation of the Father
is He the Father? Must He not be a different person from
the Father? And if the Spirit be a GIFT of God, must He
not be different and distinct from God? How then are these
one? Are my image, or representation, and gifts one
with me in any sense? Can they be called such by any
usage of correct speech ! Either the Father, and the Word
and the Spirit must all be the one God—the one person
1 Leslie's Soc. Trinitv explained, p. 20.
2 John xiv. 9.
CHAP. in. OF THE SPIRIT. 37
of the Father, dispensing and acting in different manners,
or they are three Beings, or substances, totally distinct and
different—the personal Father, the image Christ Jesus, and
the gift the Holy Spirit. One or other of these alterna-
tives the Unitarian must sdopt. We give him his choice.
If he takes the first, that the Father, the Word and the
Spirit are the one personal God, differently acting or mani-
festing Himself, then is he not th^ee—there can be no di-
vision or distinction of His one person. The thing is a
contradiction! If he takes the second, that the Father is
one person, and the man Christ Jesus another person or
another thing, and the Holy Spirit something different
from both, then are they not 07ie. Three different beings
cannot be one and the same nufnerically. It is a contra-
diction! A person, an image and a gift can, in no sense, be
said to be one, except that the person is the image of him-
self, and is himself his own gift, which, if it be not utter-
ly unintelligible, reduces us to the necessity of believing
that the Father and the Son and the Spirit are one and the
same person, so that we are driven to the necessity of
adopting and maintaining this monstrous absurdity and con-
tradiction, that the Father, the Son and the Spirit are three
and one in the self-same respect. Such is the legitimate
result of the Unitarian's vague and ill-defined assertions
with regard to his Father, Son and Spirit. By attempting
to get rid of mystery^ he involves himself in mysticism
and contradictions. But it is not so with those who main-
tain the doctrine of one God—-one divine nature subsisting
in three persons. It is admitted that there are difficulties
and mystery not to be unravelled, but these are not con-
tradictions. The Father, the Son and the Spirit are not
one and three in the same respect. In respect of their
nature or essence, they are one. In respect of iheiv persons
they are three. Until we assert them to be one and three,
in the self-same respect, we cannot be charged with teach-
ing either absurdity or contradictions.
28 THE PERSONALITY CHAP. III.
But to return from this digression: The Unitarian says,
the Spirit of God is the power and virtue of God. What,
then, we ask, is this power and virtue? Either it is God
Himself, or it is different from God—that is, stripping it
of all rhetorical drapery, it must be either an attribute, an
accident, or quality of God; or, it is a substance or some-
thing different from God. When the justice of God, the
wisdom of God, and other perfections of the Divine Being
are spoken of, we do not deem it necessary to resort to
the rules of rhetoric to understand the meaning of such
phrases, no one dreams t'^at there is any thing more meant
than that such are the perfections or attributes of God.
That personification obtains in reference to the most of
them, we will not deny, but no one is at a loss to under-
stand the manner in which this figure of speech, in such
cases, is employed. When a quality or attribute is personi-
fied, that is, when personal actions are ascribed to qualities,
the implied idea always is, that it is by, or in accordance
with, such particular qualities, that some personal ageut
performs such particular actions. This is the plain and
common understanding among men in this use of prosopo-
poeia. To ascribe personal actions to qualities in any other
way, is absolutely unintelligible. Now, to apply these
remarks to the sul)ject before us. When we personify the
power of God, the virtue of God is too utterly vague an
idea for us to grasp —we mean, if we mean any thing at
all, that God, that is some intelligent personal agent, by or
according to His attribute of power, performs the actions
spoken of, so that ultimately we identify God and His
power. If we do not, then, must we make God and His
power to be different. We here again give the Unitarian
his choice, and propose to bring his explanation of the
Spirit, as being the power of God personified, to the test
of common sense, as the interpreter of some passages of
scripture. We shall not consent to his escaping from the
CHAP. III. OF THE SPIRIT- 29
dilemma into which we design to place him, by alleging
that the power of God is rather a Tnode of action, or of
inaiiifesting action. A mode of God^s actions, is but
another phl-ase for, God acting after a pariicidar man-
ner. The truth is, we cannot, in our ceneeptions, separate
the power of God from God himself. Are then, the Spirit
of God, that is his power and God Himself, identical? What,
therefore, can we make of such passages as the following?
*'Howbeit, when the Spirit of truth is come, he will guide
you into all truth; for he shall not speak of Himself; but
whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak /'^ The
Spirit is here represented as speaking, but not speaking of
himself, as hearing, and speaking what he hears. On the
supposition of the distinct personality of the Spirit, this
is all plain and perfectly intelligible, and what man of com-
mon sense would not, on the very reading of this passage,
most naturally thus suppose? It is stretching personifica-
tion much too far, to represent a quality or attribute, as
speaking and hearing, and not speaking of itself.
But say that the Spirit is the power of God, and substituting
this phrase for the other, let us see what we shall have?
Surely this is lawful, and we shall find, as the judicious Leslie
has remarked, that "there is nothing better to confute a
Socinian than plainly to set down hi^ paraphrase and shew
how it fills the words of the text.''^ When the power of God
is come, the power of God will guide you into all truth,
for the power of God will not speak of the power of God,
but whatsoever the power of God shall hear, that shall the
power of God speak. Is not this absolute nonsense? Now
this power of God is either God Himself, or it is not. If
it is God himself, as must be the case, if it is the one per-
sonal God operating, then have we this absurdity and con-
tradiction, that God does not speak of Himself, but hears
what Christ says, and speaks that—thus God the Father is
1 John, xvi. 13.
30 iiiF. i'r;RS(>NAi.ir\ chap, in
made reporter from Christ the image, the latter dictating,
and the former repeating. Yet Christ says, *'the word
which yc hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent
?/?.e,"^ exactly tlie reverse of the Unitarian explanation.
Equally absurd and contradictory is the following declara-
tion of the Saviour, according to this explanation of the
Spirit of God: "But the Comforter, which is the Holy
Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall
leach you all thinp;s."" That is, according to- the Unita-
rian paraphrase: The power of God, which is the power
of God, whom the power of God (for the supposition is
that God and His power are identical) will send in my
name, this power of God shall teach you all things. Then
God sends himself, and that in the name of (i. e. commis-
isioned hy or from) Christ. And yet Christ says, *']3ut
when the Comforter is come, whom Iioill send unto you
from the Father, even the Spirit of truth which proceed-
cth from the Father, he shall testify of me,"^ exactly the
reverse oi' the Unitarian explanation. But this last quota-
tion must itself be subjected to the paraphrastic alembic.
But, when the power of God is come, whom I will send
unto you from the power of God, (the supposition still
being, that God and llis power are identical) even the
power of God which jiroceedeth from the power of God,
this power of God shall testify of me. The power of God
•sent by Christ from the power of God ! The power of God
proceeding from the power of God!! Is there any thing
more incomprehensible in tiie whole mystery of the Tri-
une God? nay, rather let us ask can we conceive of greater
absurdities? Other passages might be quoted, which would
be found to be rendered just as unintelligible, and nonsen-
sical, by applying the Unitarian paraphrase, as the fore-
going, but these may suflice. We remark, however, that
if the power of Qoi\ be the same witli God Himself, ac-
1 John, xiv. 2t. 2 John, xiv. 2'>. T.^John. xvi. !.,>
CHAr. III.
OF riiE sriRiT. 31
cording to the terms of the supposition, then is the Spirit
of God (for the Spirit of God, according to the Unitarian,
is the power of God) the same with God—God Himself
—
the very God. This is the result to which the adoption of
the first alternative leads. What then are we to make of
those passages where they are distinguished?
But, perhaps, the other is preferred. Be it so then, and
let it be fairly understood, that by the power of God, that
is Mis Spirit, is meant something different from God. It
cannot be an attribufe of God personified or not per-
sonified, nor can it be a mode of God's agency, for then
must it be, as we have already seen, God Himself, it being
a sort of axiom among divines that the attributes or
properties of God are God. What then is it? Must we
he compelled to travel through the endless detail of hy-
potheses which men have framed on this subject? Their
number and variety are proof that they have nothing solid
and satisfactor3> among themselves. Let them once depart
from the plain scriptural declaration that the three in Hea-
ven, distinct and separate persons—Father, Word and
Spirit, are One essence, and they arc afloat immediately on
a wide and boundless ocean of conjecture, where, though
they may think themselves to be "ever learning,'^ they are
'^never coming to the knowledge of the truth." There is
only one among them all that we deem worthy of notice,
viz., that the Holy Spirit is Xhe^. gift of God. But here we
are again perplexed with doubt and uncertainty. W^hat is
that gift? One tells us the power of working miracles im-
parted to the apostles and early Christians:—another, the
power of preaching the gospel with success, given to
Christ and his disciples:—another, any power, whatever,
even so low as skill in a mechanical art, as in the instance
of Bezaleel, whom tlie Lord ^'filled with the Spirit of God,
in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and
in all manner of workmanship, to devise cunning works.
32 THE PERSOxNALITY CHAP. Ill,
to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in cutting
of stones to set, and in carving of timber to work in all
manner of workmanship.'^^ Knowledge, wisdom, skill,
and ability, to do something or other of consequence, are
these the Spirit of God? We presume it is admitted by our
opponents. Assuredly we do not wish either to misunder-
stand or misrepresent them. Well, then, whose is the
skill and ability or the power? Is it God's? By no means;
for the supposition is that the Spirit of God is something
different from God. It must then be that of the individual
who has received the gift.^ Now let us bring this idea to
1 Exod. xxxi. 3—5.
2 We confess ourselves utterly unable to understand even tliose Socinia?i
writers who seem to have been aware of the diiticulty under which we
labor, of determining- ^rmse/z/ what is tlie Spirit, according- to their scheme,
and who have undertaken to explain themselves much more minutely than
most of our modern Unitarians- We subjoin an extract from J. Crellius,
the CoryphcEus of Socinians, who attempts to illustrate his views of the
Spirit of God, by magnetic attraction, and the influences of the stars upon
terrestrial bodies, the seminal virtue of plants, the notions prevalent in his
day about the animal spirits, the fruit of the tree of knowledge, light, heat,
color, odor and what not. If electricity had been as well understood in
his day, as it is now, it would have afforded him a much better idea of h'cs
Holy Spirit than all the rest put together. He could not have desired a
fitter illustration of the virtue which went out of Christ, according to his
view of it, than the electrical state of one on the insulated chair. The
truth is, that if he has any distinct conceptions at all on the subject, they
are, that the Spirit is an emanation from God, which can be accumulated
and concentrated in a creature, so as that, like the radiation of heat, that
creature shall give out the virtue Vv^hich originally was derived from God.
Non est autem mirandum, ex efficacia divina quoe in Christo habitavit,
quoeque a virtute d\\\\VA. promanavityiiernva aliam virtutem atque efficaciam
quodam modo manasse. Nihil enim prohibet quo minus ab eo calore, quern
calor ignis in alio subjecto excitaverat, iterum vis aliqua in alia corpora di-
manet, etiniis sese exerat et quidem tanto major, quanto major est ille ipse
calor, qui ab igne proxime fuerat profectus. 90, — asserltur Christum dis-
cipulos suos baptizaturum spiritu sancto et igne, hoc est spiritu sancto qui
eft ignis, seu vim habet similem virtuti et efficacia ignis. Hane autem for-
mam (lingiioe ignis) assumere spiritus sanctus non potuit, si suhstantia aliqua
per se subsistens non fuit, p. 75. And yet elsewhere he says, respondemus
CHAP. III.
^^' THE SPIRIT. 33
the test of a few plain passages of the sacred scriptures.
*-They of the circumcision which believed were astonished,
as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles
also was poured the gift of the Holy Ghost. ^^^ Why did
they not say the Holy Ghost, for that was the gift, and
thus relieved the Unitarian paraphrast who must read it
the gift of the gift, or the power of the power, or the skill
of the skill, or something else equally absurd. He cannot
say that^?y?, here denotes the act of giving, or God's grant,
for that is denoted by the previous expression poured: it
must denote the skill or ability, whatever it was, conferred
upon the Gentiles. But that very ability or skill is the
Holy Spirit, as the Unitarian affirms. There is no relief
for him. He must speak absurdity. Let us try him with
another. '*God also bearing witness both with signs and
wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy
Ghost, according to his oivn (the Holy Ghost's own) wdll.'*
The gifts are the ability imparted as in the former case;
but it is not the power of working signs and wonders and
miracles, for this is distinguished from it. It must then
denote some other abilities and skill. Whatever they are,
liowever, they are the Spirit; and here again is the same
absurdity. Our readers who are not acquainted with the
Greek, need to be told that even may sometimes be used
for and,^ so that the gifts, wonders, &c. are the same, ac-
cording to our paraphrast even the ^*gifts"^ being only the
spirltum sanctum quidem perse et (ut in scholis loquuntur) abstracte sump-
tum, qualitatum revera esse non substantiam, earn tamen qualitatem in ma-
teria quadum quoe perse subsistat recipi posse, et ei iter imprimi ut per
earn deferatur eo quo a Deo destinetur et homini communicetur, p. 80, 81.
We candidly, confess this to be beyond our philosophy—a quahty subsisting;
by itself, distinct from substance and yet not a substance! And this utterly
unintelligible theory, after all, is the Socinian's Spirit of God.—Trad, de- Sp.
Sand. J. Cbellio Fra^tco.
1 Acts, X. 45. 2 Ileb. ii. 4. auTcv.
3 The reader acquainted with the origina], may see examples of this
sort in Matt, x. 30: xv. 16, John, vii. 19: xv. 20: Rev. ii. 13.
34 THE PERSO.VALITY CHAP. III.
general classification. But this will not do, for the sigiis
andioonders, &c. which the skill or ability of Christians
EFFECTED, are his Holy Ghost. And still more is he em-
barrassed for the Apostle says, these wonders, &c. are God's
testimony
—
God hearing witness^ that is, God Himself
speaking as it were in these very things. Mere human
skill or ability, that is, the skill or ability of a man^ can
never be God witfiessing. If the apostles had worked
miracles by their oivn skill or ability, it would have been
no proof that Christianity was from God. But, if these
miracles were wrought bi/ the direct agency and mighty
power of God, there can be none better. This the apostle
says was the fact, signs, wonders and divers miracles were
wrought by God. They cannot, then, be the same with
the gifts of the Holy Ghost. Our paraphrast is compelled
to abandon his own criticism. It cannot help him. Nor
does his embarrassment cease here, for the apostle attributes
distinct velleity to the Holy Ghost, and these gifts are
imparted according to his (the Holy Spirit's) own luill,
which, if it is not as plain a distinction between the power
or skill in man, and the Holy Spirit, and as plain a testi-
mony to the personality of the Spirit as can be, we knov/
not what can.
We invite our paraphrast to explain how Luke, the
learned and inspired historian, can be rescued from the
charge of speaking utter nonsense, if the Unitarian's Holy
Ghost, (viz. gifts—power in men,) be what he alluded to
when he said that 'Hhe Holy Ghost said, separate me,
Barnabas and Saul for the work v/hereunto I have called
them."^ It is natural to believe that as an historian, and
writing an historical narrative, Luke here states simply a
a matter of fact. There was no call or occasion for
j-hetorical display. What reader would not at 'first sigh.t
1 Acts, xiii. 5-
CHAP. III. OF THE SPIRIT. 35
take it for granted, that the Spirit was a person when He
is represented as speaking—iPiCntioning two individuals
by name, and directing that they should be set apart from
the rest of their brethren for a specific mission. But how
utterly astonished would he be when told, you are alto-
gether mistaken; it was these men's gifts. To personify
the power, or skill, or gifts of men in this way is a license
of speech which the most stupid and ignorant could not
brook. Who ever heard of a qualify speaking, appointing
its plenipotentiaries, directing as to their commissions,
and saying not A B or C D, but E F and G H, are to
be set apart to this work? If ever personality is implied
or can be, it must in such a case. It is the very manner in
which some of the sovereigns of earth would speak when
^bout to appoint their charge d' affaires. Nor is this a
singular instance. ^*The Spirit said unto Philip go near
and join thyself to this chariot"^—^^^ While Peter thought on
the vision the Spirit said unto. him. Behold three men seek
thee. . Arise therefore and get thee down and go with
them doubting nothing, for /have sent them"^ —"It
seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us to lay on you
none other burden"^ —and **take heed therefore to your-
selves, and to all the flock, over which the Holy Ghost hath
made you overseers" —"Now when they had gone through-
out Phrygia and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden
of the Holy Ghost to preach the words in Asia. "''
Now in
ail these passages the inspired v/riter, let it be remembered,
is reciting historicalfacts, and if the Holy Ghost is not a
^person who is represented as giving instructions, as ap-
pointing to offices, as naming individuals, and giving
direction as to their movements, and expressing his coun-
sels or will, we might, with as much propriety, suppose
1 Acts, viii. 28. 2 Acts, x. 19, 20,
3 Acts, XV, 28, 4 Acts. xvi. 6.
36 THE PERSONALITY cHAP. III.
Peter, and Philip, and Barnabas, and Saul to be qualities
too—mere personifications! How ridiculous would be such
a speech as this! The power or gift of God said, that is,
Philip's and Peter's skill and ability! it seemed good to
the gifts and skill of the Apostles. But it cannot be the
skill and knowledge or will of the Apostles, for it is added
*^and unto us,^^ dist.i.iguishin;^ their judginent ia the case
from that of the Holy Ghost. Shall we suppose that it
was the skill and ability, the gifts of the Bishops of Ephesus
which elevated them to their stations or office? And that
after the Apostles had preached in Phrygia and Galatia,
they lost their skill and ability to preach in Asia? Yet such
absurdities must we believe if our paraphrast is worthy of
confidence, who will tell us that the Holy Spirit is not a
person—not God Himself, but something different from
Him, the skill and ability or power to do this or that, which
He imparts to men.
But we have not yet done with him. The distinction
between the Holy Spirit and human wisdom or skill, is
very clearly made by the Apostles when describing the
qualifications requisite for their apostolic office. ''Where-
fore, brethren," said they to the disciples, "look ye out
seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and
wisdom."^ Were they so stupid and incapable of speaking
correctly, as thus to express themselves, if the spirit and
skill or ability in men—for that in the present instance is
the same with wisdom—were not perfectly distinct? It is
saying very little indeed for their "extraordinary gift of
power," if they talked in such a confused and unintelligi-
ble manner. Our paraphrast must vindicate their reputa-
tion, and shew that they were not absolutely unfit to
teach, notwithstanding their "extraordinary gift or power,"
if they could speak at this rate. And he is particularly
1 Acts, vi. 3.
CHAP. III. ^^ l^^E SPIRIT. 37
concerned with tbat^of Luke, scholar as he was, and accus-
tomed to observe the phenonnena of matter and of mind,
who declares most positively as an historical fact, that at
the baptism of Christ, "the Holy Ghost descended in a
bodily shape, like a dove upon him."^ We will admit
that it is ill a mistake, to suppose as many do, that the
Spiralsform, assumed on that occasion, was that of a dove,
and that the resemblance which Luke notices regards only
the manner of descent. But then, the Holy Ghost de-
scended in a bodily "shape, whatever shape that was. It
was some material substance. It is only by the assump-
tion of some material vehicle or substance, that God can
render himself visible, and it is said by John that on this
occasion ^'he satv/^ as it had been before declared he
should ''see, the spirit descending and remaining on
him."^ It was not, and could not have been an optical
illusion, for it was not vivid and rapid like the lightniag's
1 Luke, iii. 22.
2 John i. 33.
The following extract is given from Leslie's Socinian controversy, in
corroboration of the view which has been given in the above passage in
relation to the descent of the Holy Ghost.
•'It does not appear that there was any shape of a dove at our Saviour's
baptism. Though it is I think ^a vulgar error. For which reason I will
speak a little of it here. There was a bodily sliape appeared; else the peo-
ple could not have seen it. But what was tlie shape or appearance? It was
a fire q{ glory that descended from Heaven and lighted upon the head of our
Saviour. Bat how did it light? Was it like 2t.jiash of lightnings quick and
transient? No. For then, in so great a multitude the people could not
have discerned for what particular ^erso/i it was meant. Did it come down
sw'ft as a bird of prey stoops to its game, like an arrow out of a bow? Jso.
It descended leisurely and hovering as a dove does when it lights upon the
ground, that the people might take the more notice, and to express the
overshadowing of the Holy Spirit. And it not only lighted upon the head
of our Saviour, but it a5oc?e and remained upon Him, as it is said, John, i.
32, 33.
Now ttmt the expression in the text, likf a dove, does refer to this
3S 'i'H^ PEKSONALITY CHAP. TTI,
flash. Its shape was distinctly seen, and its manner of
descent was slow and hovering, like a dove! before it lights^
and it rested and remained on Christ. Was it an attribute
of Deity assuminga bodily shape? Absurd! But our para-
phrast must be attended to.; it v/as *'the extraordinary
gift or power" given to Christ, &c. Strange! Ability or
vskill in man assuming a bodily shape! Who ever heard of
such a thing? Who can conceive of such a thing? It was
nat zn him hwion him. Monstrous! what absurdity!
Our readers will excuse us if we detain these ''rational
manner of the descent of that glory upon our blessed Saviour, and not
the sliape of it, appeiu-s from the grantmaiical construction of the words in
our text, which is better distinguished in the Greek and Latin than in the
English, where the cases of nouns are expressed by particles and not by
their termination. Now if these words, Itlce a dove, had referred to the
shape, then the word c?oi'£ must have been in the genitive case, the shape
of a dove. But It is not so either in the Creek or Latin. It is said in the
Greeks t^^^t the Holy Ghost descended c-cofxctrix'^ «'<^" in a hodily appear-
ance, aa-it (or w; as the Cambridge copy of Beza reads it) ^gg/f«gav, but
if it had refeiTed to the shape it must have been acru Tn^tgi^ctc of a dove.
Thus the Latin, descendit corporali specie, sicut columba. That is, sicut
columba descendit. As a dove descends. It can bear no other construc-
tion. Btit if it had referred to the shape, it must have been descendit corpor-
ali specie, sicut columba', the shape q/" a dove. Which is not in our English.
It is not said in our English the shape of a dove. But that the Holy Ghost
descended (in a bodily shape) like a dove, that is as a dove descends. If
it had referred to the shape, it should have said i-n a bodily shape, as of
a dove, or like as of a dove.
Besides, if that glory which appeared had been no bigger than a dove,
(which is not to be imagined, when it is said the Heaven was opened. And
the people had taken so much notice, if the appearance had been no bigger
than a dove, it might have escaped the sight of many; but suppose it,) how
should they know it to be a dove, more than any other bird or thing of the
like bigness i* Especially considering that it uttered no voice, for it is ex-
pressly said that the voice came from Heaven, then not from that which
abode or remained upon our Saviour.
I have said thus much of it because of the too comi^ion practice ofpaint-
ing the Holy Ghost hke a dove, which gives countenance to the usage in
the church of Rome, of painting God the Father like an old man, &r '
'
i eslie's Dialogues, iii. ^ng--'' 1 «. 19.
CHAP. III. <^F THE SPIRIT. 39
divines,'' —these learned commentators on scripture, to
examine thena a little further as to one or two passages
which, on their principles, we find ourselves utterly at a
loss to know what they can mean. The Apostle Peter
asked, '^Ananias why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie
to the Holy Ghost.''^''^ What! Lie to an attribute, a mere
personification! Or was it to Peter and the Apostles, vvdiose
skill and discernment, whose ability and pov.'er, whose
'^extraordinary gift" Ananias had' called in question by
keepingbackpartof the proceeds on the sale of his property?
Peter says ''Thou hast not lied unto men but unto God.''^
It could not have been to the gift itself which Peter and
the other Apostle's possessed. We never talk of lying to
men's talents, or skill or knowledge. It must be diperson
or percipient being, whom the liar intends to deceive.
But let the Unitarian explain himself. This gift was the
inspiration of God (the afflatus) in the Apostles, and
therefore was it said that Ananias lied to the Holy Ghost.
Not to notice the singularity of the expression lying to an
inspiration, or, the identity between the gift and inspira-
tion, we remark, that although the Spirit of God is som.e-
times put for God Himself, yet it is rather daring to put it
for an Apostle. W^hen was Peter before or afterwards
called the Holy Ghost? And how comes it to pass that
lying to Peter was called lying to God, especially, when
Peter says the lie was not to him, but to God. What
figure of speech can help him here to say, thou hast lied
to the Holy Ghost, that is to us Apostles, who have the
Holy Spirit and inspiration of God in us? For the suppo-
sition is, that the Spirit of God, call it inspiration of God in
the Apostles if you please, is something different from
God. If it be different from God, then Peter erred in
saying that Ananias lied to God. If it be the influence or
f Acts, V. 3. 4,
40 11^^^^ PERSONALITY' CHAP. III.
agency of God who inspired,, then was the lie indeed to
God, but that God, according to Peter's own shewing, is
the Holy Ghost, and a person.
One word, as we pass, on the subject of inspiration.
The sacred scriptures are '^'given by inspiration of God."
The inspiration of God, is God inspiring, revealing and
teaching men to speak and declare his will. It is not a
physical or metaphorical afflatus—not a boldness of speech
in reference to the perceptions or conceptions of the human
understanding. A Newton and La Place, possessed of
'^extraordinary gifts," endowed with superior talents,
have astonished the world with their discoveries in science,
and a Homer and Milton have gained the admiration of
millions by the sublimity of their thoughts, but they cannot
therefore be said to have been inspired of God, There
was nothing preter-natural in their knowledge and lofty
conceptions. The objects and subjects on which their
minds and imaginations were employed, all lay within the
sphere of human observation and research. But the inspi-
ration of God taught its subjects things entirely unknovv'n
and inconceivable to man, as Paul says/ and as we shall
have occasion to see more fully in the succeeding chapter.
It was God Himself, in some mysterious way, giving infor-
mation to the minds of the prophets and other sacred
writers, on themes and matters beyond the sphere of hu-
man ken. But this very thing—this very God-inspiring,
the Apostle Peter says, is the Holy Ghost. '^But holy
men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy.
Ghost. ''2 It is not the effect wrought in their minds—
not their actual knowledge which constituted their inspi-
ration ; but the direct agency of God in giving that
knoivledge. It is this divine agency which identifies in
our minds this knowledge with God, as we cannot separate
the agency of God exerted in the comniunicaiion of this
? X Cor. ii. 7—10. 2 2 Peter, i. 21.
CHAP. III. OF THE SPIRIT. 4i
knowledge from God Himself. And it is that same divine
agency which gives to the sacred scriptures all authority
and infallibility, demanding our full and unwavering assent,
as to the very word of God. It w^as as such the Apostle
Paul declares tiie converts at Thessalonica received the
gospel preached. *-The word/'' says he, '^vhich ye heard
of us, ye received it, not as the ivord of men, but as it is
vi\ truth the ivord of God.^^^ But this same Apostle else-
where, as explicitly as above, attributes the inspiration of
tiie sacred writers to the agency of the Holy Spirit.
^'Now we have received, not the Spirit of the world, but
the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things
that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we
speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth,
but which the Holy Ghost teacheth."- From all which
the follow^ing positions may unquestionably be maintained,
viz., that the inspiration of the Apostles and sacred writers
is not the knowledge or wisdom possessed by the men
themselves ; that it is knowledge communicated directly
and preternaturally by God Himself to the minds of
the Apostles, &:c.; and that this God is the Holy Spirit.
To this conclusion we are inevitably led by all who admit
that the inspiration spoken of in the sacred scriptures
was through the direct and preternatural agency of the
Divine Being on the minds of the Apostles—impressing as
it were with the seal of entire and infallible certainty all
the communications made through them.
But from it the Unitarian seeks to escape by denying
such inspiration. Hear Dr. Priestley —^'The scriptures
were written ivithout any particular inspiration, by
men who wrote according to the best of their knowledge. "^
Hear a later writer of the same school, ^'They, the scrip-
1 1 Thess. ii* 1:1 2 1 Cor. li. 12, 13.
3 triestley'sHistpry of Early Opinions, vol. iv. pp. 4, 5.
6
42 THE PERSONALITY CHAP. III.
tures, are not themselves the word of God/ nor do they
ever assume that title-/ and it is highly improper to speak
of them as such, as it leads inattentive readers to suppose
they are written under a plenary inspiration, to tvhick
they make no pretensions.''^ We reserve a more minute
examination of such a denial to the next chapter. At
present we only remark, that if the Unitarian view of this
subject be correct, it is folly to talk of inspiration at all.
There is, in fact, no such thing. All human knowledge,
all discoveries of human reason are alike an inspiration.
Why then call any thing an inspiration of God^ by
way of distinction? Wliy use the word at all? Talk not
about a particular inspiration and a plenary inspiration.
We cannot understand you: most unquestionably some-
thing more is meant than the general agency of God in the
support of their mental powers, which they had in common
with all rational beings, when it is said that 'Hhe holy men
of old spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost,'' and
that *
'all scripture is given by inspiration of God. "^ If not
the scriptures are pre-eminently calculated to deceive.
The above remarks are made to guard against an evasion
of the argument for the personality of the Spirit, urged
1 The reader may make his own comments on such assertions, when he
has referred to Heb. iv. 12: 2 Cor. iv. 2: 1 Thess. ii. 13.
2 Belsham*s Rev. of Wilberforce, &c. Letter 1.
3 2 Tim. iii. 16. '7rcL(TAyg^ct<^y) 6eo7rvgv?oc axi ui<^i\tfAGQ. Every Greek scholar
mast see that there is an elipsis here which must be supplied by inserting the
copula of existence £f/v either before QtoTvivso^ And a>pi\i,uoc both in the trans-
lation in our English bibles, or before BioTrvivcog only, according to some of
the Latin tianslations, or by inserting the words » ta-rtv after x^cLipn according
to Beaiisohre, Tonie ecriture qui est impirce. Whatever method of supply-
ing the ellipsis however, is adopted, it does not invalidate the assertion which
claims inspiration for the sacred scriptures, thotigh we much prefer that of
the Trench commentator, as being most consonant with the Apostle's design,
and assuming it as fact, that some writings—the writings of the holy men
of God, are inspired, (fiso^rvevfo?) in this thing difiering essentially from any
writings of men.
CHAP. III. OF THE SPIRIT. 43
from Ananias' lying to the Holy Ghost. The inspiration
of the apostles was the direct preternatural agency of
God in their u.inds making known the truth to them
luith infallible certainty. On no other supposition can
Ananias be said to have lied to God. But our Unitarian
paraphrast maintains that inspiration is not God operating:
but something distinct and different from God. Thus
does he make Peter lie most egregiously, in endeavoring
to convict Ananias of falsehood!!!^
There is yet anothxsr passage on which we desire to ex-
amine the Unitarian comment. ^'When they shall lead you
and deliver you," said the Saviour to his disciples, 'Hake
no thought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye
premeditate; bu-t whatsoever shall be given you in that
hour, that speak j^e: for it is not ye that speak, but the
Holy Ghost. ^^^ Hero the Saviour evidently distinguishes
between that which might have been excogitated by the
disciples, and something to be impressed on their minds,
or communicated suddenly to them, from some source
foreign from themselves. ''Not i/e;" "but the Holy
Ghost." If by the Spirit is meant the "extraordinary
power or gift"—the skill or abilit)^ of the apostles^ then
does the Saviour actually speak unintelligibly and falsely.
It was the disciples that spoke. There was no communi-
cation made to them; the very thing that they should
speak was not give?! to them; but by virtue of iheiv gifts
a pM skill it was, at the moment excogitated by them. If
this was his meaning, did he not actually deceive as well
as speak unintelligibly? For who upon hearing such lan-
guage would not have understood him as assuring them,
that some communication should be made directly to their
1 Our readers perhaps will be surprised if we tell them that rather than
abandon their filse and ruinous notions, far greater liberties tlian this have
been taken with Peter's conduct in this transaction.
—
See Kuinoel adlvc
2 Mark. xiii. 11
44 '^^^'^^ VERSOXAIJTY CKAP. III.
minds, by that glorious personal agent wiioni He called the
Holy Ghost? "Take no thouf;ht beforehand what ye shall
speak, neither do ye preineditate—whatsoever shall be
,s;iven yon, that speak, for it is not ye that speak but the
Holy Ghost. "^ Extraordinary language, indeed, if all he
meant was ''do not be solicitous about answering your
enemies, your talents and skill, your extraordinary gifts
will suggest to you instantaneousl}^ what to say!" The
idea of Dr. Bancroft, that the Holy Ghost denotes only
the means'^ of intellectual and moral improvement, is too
litter]}^ ridiculous to deserve serious attention. It cannot
at all apply here. It is even viore absurd than the suppo-
sition, that the Saviour means the actual illumination of
his disciples, or their minds actualhj improved. The sup-
position all along is that the Holy Ghost is sometliing dif-'
ferent from God. Here it cannot mean the disciples for
it is distinguished from them. If it is these extraordi-
7iary gifts or the tneans of improvement they had, then
it may be any thing, or nothing, just as you please! We
candidly confess, that from such instructors we cannot
learn what it means, and if they are to be our guide, we
must abandon the study of the scriptures in utter despair
of ever getting any distinct and intelligible idea, wliatever,
from them. No wonder that these learned divines are so
perplexed, and talk so contemptuously of the sacred scrip-
tures and their inspired penmen.^
1 Mark, xiii, 11.
2 «'These terms (Spirit, Spirit of God, Holy Ghost) are all used in tlie
bible to express the means with which God has been pleased to favor men,
to enlighten their minds and improve their dispositions."
—
Bancroft's Ser-
r)ions,p. 87.
3 We give a few specimens. The Evang-clical histories contain gross
and irreconcilable contradictions.
—
Evansoyi's dissonance, "p. 1.
I think I have often shewn that the apostle Paul often reasons inconclu-
sively,
—
Priestley's His. Cwrup. Christ, vol. ii. p. 570.
Like other men they were subject to prejudice, and m'g-ht be liable to
CHAP, III.
^r THE srmiT. 4o
One more passage and we liave done. *'AU manner of
sin and blasphemy," said the Saviour, '-shall be forgiven
unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall
not be forgiven unto men.''^ Sin against God may be for-
given, but not against the Spirit. But if this Spirit is skill
and ability in men, ^'the extraordinary gift or power" be-
stowed on Christ and the apostles, what then gave such a
sacredness to them? Were they more holy than God? Did
their gifts and powers render them superior to God? Or
did He feel more indignant with those that spoke against
them, than with the bold blasphemers of Himself? But
here our learned commentator will tell us, that the Holy
Ghost does not mean the apostles' gifts or ability, but the
power of God. Strange! What a vague thing this Spirit
is! It is ever eluding our grasp, like some ignis fatinis.
We can never be sure that we have his meaning. This
moment it is power in the apostles, the next it \s power
in God, But let it be so. What does the Saviour mean?
Can it be, that he means to say a man may blaspheme God
Himself-—with one breath speak against his whole Being
and attributes, and yet may be forgiven, but that if he
speaks specially against His power, there is no forgiveness
for such blasphemy? Why should he be more tenacious
and jealous of his power than of other of his perfections?
And why so indignant when that is singly spoken against,
but ready to forgive though it be blasphemed along with
others? Is there not something monstrously absurd in the
adopt a hasty and ill-grounded opinion concerning things which did not fall
within the compass of their knowledge.—Pms^^'^ His. early Opinion^^,
vol. iv. pp. 4, 5. •
The epistle to the Hebrews is said to contain "some far-fetched analog.es
and inaccurate reasonings.—/m;3roi'e^ version of the New Testament, p. 531.
^
We are very free to say, that our views of the nature of the sacred wri-
tings, and of the use we are to make of them differ from those of our or=
thodox hvitiXweji.— Unitarian Miscellany, Sept. 182K p.««.
Mat. xii. 31,
46 THE PErxSONALiTY CHAP. III.
idea? Would we not be disposed to laugh at that man as
a very idiot (we speak with reverence) who should say
—
you shall not speak against my power—you may blaspheme
line, speak against my whole character and my power too,
as much as you please, along with my other virtues and
faculties, and I will forgive you, but if you say a word
against my power alone, it shall never be forgiven? Oh,
exclaims our commentator, you are greatly mistaken. By
the Spirit of God, is not meant the power of God merely,
hut God Himself. It is a mere Hebraism, as when we are
required not to *^grieve the Spirit of God," it is God Him-
self that is meant. We object to this evasion here. The
supposition is tliat the Spirit of God is different from God,
not God Himself.
We have already disposed of the explanation attempted
in the supposition that God and the Spirit are identical.
But let us see whether either supposition will help him.
'The Spirit is God Himself Then the text asserts palpa-
ble falsehood, v^ll 77ianner of sin and blasphemy shall be
forgiven to men; but the blasphemy of God shall not. Is
not blasphemy one sort of sin? Indeed such an explanation
is no better than saying it shall, and it shall not. The
Spirit and God then are not identical. But it is alleged
the Spirit is different from God, as a man's spirit may be
said to be different from himself, as it is said of the chil-
dren of Isreal when they excited the anger of Moses, that
^'they provoked his spirit, '''
a very common mode of
speech. Are we then to understand by the Spirit of God
His irascibility and temper? The thought is too shocking.
What then? Will our paraphrast say v/hat? We cannot.
But v/as not the Spirit of Moses, Moses himself in a state
of excitement! Or if you prefer it, his meek spirit, was it
not Moses the meek—Moses manifesting meekness, or act-
ing meekly? What then sliould we think, of such a dcclara-
J Psslm, c\] 0.3.
UHAP. III.
'^^^ ^'^^^ SPIRIT. 47
tion? They did not provoke IMoses, bat they provoked
his spirit; or this other, you may provoke Moses, but you
must not provoke his spirit. Every one sees the absolute
absurdity of such nonsense. And yet it is precisely the
Unitarian comment, stripped of all its learned and subtle
disguise, on the unpardonable sin. You may blaspheme
God and be forgiven, but if you blaspheme his Spirit you
cannot, that is, (we shudder as we pen the thought) you
may blaspheme God with impunity, provided He is not in
a state of excitement—His Spirit is not roused, but if that
should be the case, there is no hope, no forgiveness for
vou. Oh, where will this wild and reckless expositor of
scripture lead us? He is not satisfied witli one absurdity
after another, but attacks the very character of God, and
represents him as an irascible Being, merciful when not
excited, but when excited of most im.placable spirit! If we
have compelled him to speak plainly what he means by the
Spirit of God, and he has become alarmed, retreating into
his accustomed and cherished vagueness and obscurity of
speech, we can only say, that whatever he here means by
the Spirit of God, whether gifts or means, intellectual and
moral improvement, it must be identical with God Him-
self, or he attaches greater sacredness to that which is not
God, than he does to Him. And if by the Spirit of God
he means the one personal God, he admits the personality
of the Spirit, but he does it by making the Saviour speak
both falsehood and contradiction.
We have gone thus at length into the examination of the
Unitarian notions about the Spirit, that our readers may
see how utterly vague and incomprehensible, and subver-
sive of the authority and obvious meaning of the scrip-
tures, are their views who deny His personality. They
liave no rallying point, no landing spot, but are driven into
the utmost wildness of conjecture, and become the mere
sport of their unbridled imaginations that moment they
4S '-^'^'^E PERSONALITY OF THE SlTmT. cHAP. Ill
reject the plain doctrine of the Spirit^s being a distinct per-
sonal subsistence of the one Divine Nature. We have felt
the more solicitous on this subject, because it forms the
very basis of all future discussions. Disprove his person-
ality, and our whole v/ork is founded in falsehood and
elaborated in folly. But we have thrown ourselves into
the impregnable fortress of divine truth, and we fear not
the assaults of scepticism and error. We are fixed on the
eternal rock, and can thence hurl back on our assailants,
the envenomed darts of their hatred against the truth. Not
one inch will we concede. Every charge of inconsistency,
absurdity and contradiction, which they make against us^
recoils with tenfold force against themselves.
CHAPTER IV.
THE PERSOT^ALITY OF THE SPIRIT.
CONTINUED.
The more general modes of evading the proof of the Deity of the Holy
Spirit—His proper Deity asserted—The general character of proof to
be adduced—Same mode of argument in reference to the divinity of
Jesus Christ—An admission—Proofs, I.—Certain works are attributed to
the Holy Spirit, which none other than God can perform—1. Creation—
2. The giving of L'^fe—o. rmpiration—4. The resurrection of the dead
body and its reani)nution—5. The working of miracles—6. The power
of speaking in an unknown tongue and of delivering predictions—r.
Regeneration—II. The very honor due to God ascribed to the Spirit—1.
His titles: the God of Israel: Jehovah; the Lord of hosts, he. &c. :
the
Most High—2. His worship—3. Rights of sovereignty—III. The attri-
butes of Deity are ascribed to Him, viz., Ubiquity, Omniscience, Omnipo-
tence—IV. The style in wliich He is spoken of in the sacred scriptures-
Unitarian and infidel charges against the doctrine—Thomas Jefferson's
sentiments—Texts that involve allusions and references to three distinct
agencies—The objection of mystery out of place—The charge of arith-
metical contradiction false—Atheistical tendency of infidelity and Un'.ta-
rianism—I'he scriptures our only security, and that as they are legiti-
mately interpreted by plain common sense.
The eternal Deity of the Holy Spirit can be much more
forcibly and conclusively argued, after the proofs which,
in the preceding chapters, have been adduced of His per-
sonality. For, that He is frequently, both called God,
and spoken of as intimately associated with God—on a
perfect equality with that great Being denominated in the
scriptures the Father—every one who reads his bible
attentively must clearly perceive. The modes of evading
the proof of His Deity, are in general two, and may be
tlislinguished by the epithets /i?gh and loiv^ as they were
50 'I'^IK PERSONALITY CHAr. IV,
applied to different branv-Jnes of Arianism, and are now to
those, in other controversies, who push their principles to
their full extent, or moderately assert them. Some, with
the Arians, maintain, that the Holy Spirit is a creature, de-
nying His divinity in any and every sense. While
others, with the Socinians, assuming the name of Uni-
tarians, prefer the idea that He is a divine energy,
metonymically denominated God. Tlieir bond of union,
however, consists rather in what they profess not to
believe, than in what they do. For, denying his divine
nature, and maintaining His personality, or denying His
personality, and asserting his intimacy with God, they
find themselves greatly at a loss, and differing widely from
each other, as to what He really may be—whether the
prince of angels, a principal spirit, a gift of God, a power
of working miracles, a vis et e.fficacia, a divine efficacy,
or a means of moral and religious improvement, &c. &c.
Having in the two preceding chapters shewn that the
Spirit of God is truly a personal agent—that the sacred
scriptures, in many passages, do absolutely speak nonsense
and absurdity on any other supposition, we now proceed
to shew;
I. That the Holy Spirit is truly and properly
God—POSSESSED op the divine nature equally with
THE Father. To prove that He is God, is all that is now
actually necessary, for we have already shewn that He is
a person distinct from God—the Father: but, that the sub-
ject may be fully before our readers, we shall first shew
that he is, in the sacred scriptures, contemplated and spoken
of as truly God, and tlien notice some passages where the
distinction of His person, from the Father and the Son,
is clearly maintained. Our readers will have observed^
that in these discussions nothing has been said in relation
to the divinity of our blessed Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ. And the reason is, because it is deemed unneces-
sarv. Our subject does not reanire that we should partiru-
CHAP. IV. ^F 'A'HJ^ SPIRIT. 51
lariy discuss this topic. It is tht SpiriVs wide and glori-
ous range of operation that we have selected as our theme,
and with His character that we are principally concerned.
The eternal pergonal divine glory of the Son of God, who
assumed human nature into union with Himself, appearing
and acting on earth as the man Jesus, of Nazareth, and yet
the Lord from Heaven, we take for granted, as it is capa-
ble of the most satisfactory demonstration, and is a truth
which sparkles on every page of the bible, there having,
from the very beginning, been allusions made to the fact,
both of His personal existence, official destination and cha-
racter.
It may suffice here to remark, that the very same argu-
ments and mode of reasoning adopted in relation to the
Spirit's personality and deity, will as conclusively demon-
strate the personality and divinity of Jesus Christ, the Son
of God. The Word, the Logos, is a person, no more a
jnere energy of wisdom or power than the Spirit, and that
<^Word was God, and the same was in the beginning,
(a phrase which Grotius admits to be equivalent in the
sacred scriptures \V\i\\ from eternity) with God."^
In undertakin"g to prove the Holy Spirit to be God, w^e
will readily admit, that it is not enough to shew that he is
called God, for so are they which confessedly are not God.
But if we can make it appear, that every thing distinctive
in God, ^wd peculiar to Him, or which He claims exclu-
sively as His, is attributed to the Spirit, then certainly the
term God must be acknowledoed to have more meanins:
as it designates Him, than when it is appropriated to those
which by nature are no gods—yea, must be considered as
implying His divine nature, as truly as it can do, when
applied to the infinite and acknowledged Supreme. This
we shall do, remarking
L There are certain works attributed to the Holy Spirit
X John, i. 1, 2.
52 ' 'Ifl^ PEKSONALllY CHAP. IV.
which none other than GoH can perform, and the power of
doing which, it does not appear has ever been conferred
upon a creature, 1 The first that we notice is creation*
That creation is a work peculiar to God is plainly asser-
ted. **He that made all things is God,''^ says the sacred
word, and the utter fruitlessness of every attempt of man
who may have vainly imagined such a power could be
attained, is itself sufficient to prove it a work at least super-
human. The work of creation is especially claimed by
God, as the work of the absolute Lord —Jehovah. ''Thus
saith God the Lord (Jehovah,) He that created the heavens
and stretched them out, &c., lam the Lord (Jehovah,)
tliat is my name, and my glory will I not give to another. ^^"^
"Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard, the everlast-
ing God, the Lord (Jehovah,) the Creator of the ends of
the earth. "^ But this work is attributed to the Spirit.
*'By the word of the Lord were the Heaven's made, and
sll the host of them by the Spiynt, (breath; of his mouth. "^
'•by his Spirit hath he garnished the Heavens."^ "The^
Spirit of God hath made me.'"^ "Thou sendest forth th}"
Spirit, they are created."^ The inference is plain. The
Spirit is God.
2. The givi)ig of life is another work peculiar to God.
He is called "the living and true God"^ —"the living
one,"^ as possessing life essentially in Himself, and as
being the source of life to all animated creation. And the
power ofgiving and preserving life, He claims exclusively
as his own. "See now that I, even 1 am He, and there
is no God with me, (no creature or idol associated with
him in this matter,) I kill and I make alive; I wound and
I heal; neither is there any that can deliver out of ni}'-
hand."^^ Yet this work is attributed to the Spirit of God.
1 Heb. ili. 4. 2 Isaiah, xlli. 5—8. 3 Isaiah, xl. 28.
4 Psahn, xxxiii. 6. 5 Job, xxvi. 13. 6 Job, xxxiii. 4.
7 Psahn, civ. 30. 8 1 Thess. i. 9. 9 Bev. i. 18. c <fav
10 Deut. xxxii. 39.
CHAP. IV. OF THE SPIRIT. r^s
^'The Spirit of tl^.c Almighty hath given me lite.''^ "It is
the Spirit that quickeneth."^ This subject will present
itself in another chapter for a more minute investigation.
It is the fact simply that we here notice as of importance to
our argument. And who does not see that if it is the
prerogative of God to give life, and the Spirit actually
gives life, that Spirit must be God.
3. Inspiraiioji is a third work peculiar to God. By
this we understand the communication of the Divine mind
and will to the minds of men, in some immediate and
extraordinary revelation. It must be obvious to every
one that it is impossible for a finite mind to search an infi-
nite understanding. We know not the thoughts of our
friend or neighbour's breast, much less can we know the
thoughts of God. The prophet declares explicitly that
''there is no searching his understanding,"^ and an Apostle
has sanctioned the argument just advanced, '^for what man
knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which
is in him? (the man himself alone knows his own heart,)
even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit
ofGod.""* **Who by searching can find out God?" yet
this the Spirit of God is said to do. ^'The Spirit searcheth
all things, yea the deep things of God."^^ And these things
the Apostle says "God hath revealed untous by his SpiritJ^^
'^'^Holy m.en of God spake as the)^ were moved by the Holy
Ghost"'^ The Spirit therefore is God.
4. The resurrection of the dead body and its re-
ANiMATioN are a work that none will deny belongs
to God alone. Yet this is explicitly attributed to the
agency of the Spirit. ''If the Spirit of Him that raised
1 Job, xxxiii. 4. Breath—God does not Ireailie. It is not a metaphor, for
that has been disproved already, see page 13. It is the v«ry same word just
before translated spirit.
2 John, 6, 63. 3 Isaiah, xl. 28. 4 1 Cor. ii, IT
5 1 Cor. ii. 10 6 2 Peter, i, 2T
/
54 'I'iit'^ PERSOXAIJTY CHAP. IV
up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, He that raised up
Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies
by His Spirit which dwelleth in 3'^ou.''^
, 5. The WORKING OF MiiiAGLES too IS referred to the
agency of the Spirit. A miracle can he the work of God
only. It is an effect produced by the suspension of, or in
opposition to a law of nature, to which the power that
ordained and gave to nature all its laws, alone is competent.
The power of w^orking such miracles is every where
throughout the New Testament attributed to the Holy
Spirit. It is particularly plain in the story of Simon the
sorcerer,^ and of the converts of John. ^
6. The POWER OP speaking in an unknown tongue,
AND OF DELIVERING PREDICTIONS, our readers must know
arc, also particularly ascribed to the Spirit—a power which
none but God can impart. ^'The Holy Ghost came on
them, and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.''^
^'He (the Comforter, the Holy Spirit,) will shew you
things to come:"** "Zacharias was filled with the Holy
Ghost and prophesied.*'^
7. But finally : Regeneration, which is said explicitly
to be the work of God, is ascribed to the Spirit. *'Born
not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of
man, but of God."^ What this is, it is our main object to
inquire. At present it is of moment only to notice how
emphatically God claims it as his peculiar and exclusive
work. Yet that it is attributed to the agency of the Spirit,
we presume it is scarcely necessary to affirm. '*He saved
lis by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the
Holy Ghost."^ '^Except a man be born of water and of
the Spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. "^
Other works are ascribed alike to God and to the Spirit;
3 Rom. viii. 11. -2 Acts,viii. 13—24. 3 Acts, xix. 1—6
4 John xvi. 13, and 1 Tim. iv. 1. 5 Luke, I 67= 6 John^ i, 13
7 Titus, js), 5. S JoIi.n, iii. 5.
^.p,^.^ j,^
OF THE SPIIIIT, 65
but not SO emphatically, which therefore., it is unnecessary
to detail. The argument turns on this one point, that the
•works which are exclusively appropriate to God, are ascri-
bed to the Spirit. Such are all that have been mentioned,
so that we conclude, by a very short and satisfactory pro-
cess of argument, that as it belongs to God exclusively to
create, to give life, to rais^ and o^e-animate the dead
body, to communicate the divine mind and luill, to r/?2-
part the power of working miracles, of speaking in
unknown tongues, and of delivering predictions, and to
regenerate the soul, and these tnings are all especially
ascribed to the Holy Spirit, that Spirit must in reality be
God.
II. The same result may be obtained, if we consider that
THE SACRED SCRIPTURES ASCRIBE TO THE HoLY SpiRIT
THE VERY HONOR THAT IS DUE EXCLUSIVELY TO GoD. It
is by means of the titles, the stations of trust and power,
and of expressed reverence and respect, which men confer
upon each other, that the world estimates honour. These
constitute a man's glory. If we estimate the Spirit's
honour in the same way, we shall find it the very same
with that which Pod claims as exclusively his due. There
is a glory, we admit, which may indeed attach in common
to God and to His creature, and from which it would be
absurd to argue any thing as to the divinity of the latter.
But there is a special glory which He claims as exclusively
His own, and of which He represents Himself to be
jealous, yea immoveably tenacious. This, if we consult
His own declarations on the very subject, consists in his
name, and sovereignty, and worship, *''I am the Lord
(Jehovah,) that is my name; and my glory will I not give
to another, neither my praise to graven images."^ This
golemn asseveration follows immediately upon His having
fisserted His sovereignty as the the creator and especial-
1 Isaiah, xlii. 8.
56 THE PERSONALITY (;hAP. IV.
]y in His appointment of His own son to the office of
mediator, as the reader will perceive, if he will attentively
examine the verses preceding the one just quoted.^ As to
the titles by which the great and mighty God is designated
it is admitted that some of them, are appropriated to crea-
tures. Even the term God is common, a»id though in
particular instances of its application to Christ and the
Spirit, it might be shown by a reference to the circumstan-
ces and manner of its use, that it does in truth denote the
living and true God, yet will we waive the argument that
miglit thence be drawn. Of this description is the declara-
tion of Peter, who said to Ananias, whom he had charged
with l^ing to the Holy Ghost, "Thou hast not lied unto
men, but unto Gol],"^ in that very fact. The identity is
obvious, and the term God here, certainly can mean none
othar than the true God, But, as it is sometimes applied
to a creature we let it pass; not because we believe the
argument inconclusive ; but that those with whom we differ
on this subject, may see that we are not tenacious of par-
ticular passages, nor that the strength of our cause is at all
impaired, thougli we should be denied the use of this and
other texts of the same character. Take the following
example of his titles'.
1. The God of Israel it will be admitted, was a dis-
tinctive title, peculiar to the true and Supreme Divinity,
for Israel only of all the people of the earth, had retained
the knowledge of the one living and true God. This title
is given to thic Holy Spirit. For Zacharias, the father of
John "was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied,
sa3'ing., blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath
visited and redeemed his people as He spake by the mouth
of his prophets," &c. We have already seen that the
prophets spake by the Holy Ghost. And Peter says
•explicitly, that of the salvation which God, the God of
1 Isairin. Tviw. 5 7. 2 Act?, v. 3.
CHA.. IV'.
^' ™E SPmiT. 57
Israel promised ^-the prophets have inquired and searched
diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come,
searching what or what manner of time the Sprit of Christ
which was inthem did signify. '^^ ^'The Spirit of the Lord
spake by me/' said David, "and His word was in my tongue—
the God of Israel said/'^ The Holy Ghost or the Spirit of
Christ is therefore one and the same with the God of Israel,
and consequently must be the true and living God.
2. Jehovah, is another title, peculiarly, yea exclusively,
appropriated to the true God. In many editions of the
English bible, it is translated by the term Lord printed
in small capitals, and it probably was thus rendered, be-
cause of the peculiar sanctity of the name Jehovah, and the
singular and profound reverence of the Jews for it, a rever-
ence so great as not on any account to pronounce it. This
title vv^e have seen, the Lord claims as distinctively his
name, saying ''I am Jehovah, (Lord,) that is my name."^
Nowhere is this title conferred on a creature. Yet it is
used to designate the Holy Spirit of God. ^'I heard,"
said the prophet Isaiah, '*the voice the Lord (Jehovah)
saying go and tell this people, &c."^ Yet does Paul say?
«'Well spake the Holy Ghost by Isaiah the prophet, go
unto this people and say, &c."^ Again: the children of Israel
are declared in the Psalms to have tempted the Lord (Jeho-
vah) our maker. ''«
Yet the Apostle Paul, quoting the very
words of Jehovah, whom they tempted, says ^'as the Holy
Ghost saith.''^ Other passages, almost without number,
might be added, but these are sufficient to prove that
Jehovah—the incommunicable title of the Infinite Su-
preme, is employed in the sacred scriptures, to designate
the Holy Spirit. Wherefore He must be truly God.^
3. There is another title, or rather cluster of titles, in
w'hich this very same word forms a part ; and as it evidently
t 1 Peter, i. 11. 2 2 Sam. xxiii. 2, 3. 3 Isaiah, xlii. 8
4 Isaiah vi, 9. 5 Acts, xxviii. 25, 26. 6 Psalm, xcv. 6—9.
7 Heb. ill. 7. 8 In Isaiah, xi. 2, He is called thfe Spirit—Jehovah.
S
58 'i'll^ rERSONALirV CHAP. IV.
is designed to give yet greater intensity to its import,
must be considered as distinctively and exclusively ap-
propriate to the living and true God ; and that is the Lord
(Jehovah) of Hosts—the Lord (Jehovah) God of Hosts—
the Lord God—the Lord Jehovah. Surely the Lord
(Jehovah) God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret
unto His servants the prophets. Hear ye and testify in
the house of Jacob, saith the Lord (Jehovah) God—the
God of Hosts' —*'He that declareth unto man what is His
thought, the Lord (Jehovah) the God of Hosts is His
name."^ We need not again quote the passages which
prove that the revealing and inspiring God is the Holy
Spirit. Stephen takes a general view of the gracious rev-
elations and interpositions of God on the behalf of Israel,
and their conduct in return towards Him, and sums all up
in these emphatic words, making this God to be the Holy
Spirit. "Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and
earS;, ye do ahvays resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers
did so do ye.'"
4. We notice but one more title, viz., Jehovah Most
High, or emphatically the Most High. "Thou Jehovah,''
says the Psalmist, "art the Most High forevermore.""^
"Thou whose name alone is Jehovah, art the Most High
over all the earth. "^ Now this illustrious being was the
God of Israel, and of him the Psalmist declares that after
raany proofs of his power and care, the Israelites "sinned
yet more against Him by provoking the Most High in the
wilderness. "° "They tempted and provoked the Most
High God."^ This same Most High, the prophet Isaiah
calls the Holy Spirit. "They rebelled and vexed his
Holy Spirit. "8 This certainly might suffice. If the one
only living and true God claims to Himself the titles of
1 Amos, iji. 7, 13. 2 Amos, iv. 13. 3 Acts, vii. 51.
4 Psalm, xcii. 8. 5 Psalm, Ixxxiii. 18. See also Hag. ii, 4, 5
6 Psulm. IsTsviiis 17- 7 Fsajm; Jxxvi^i. 56. 8 Isaiah, IxjiL IQ-
CHAP. IV. ^^ '^'^^^ SPIRIT. 5y
the God of Israel, Jehovah, Jehovah of Host8, Jehovah
God, Jehovah Most Hi^h, as being exclusively appropriate
to himself, and if the Spirit of God, as we have seen, is
designated by them all, then must that Spirit be really and
truly the one only living and true God.
2. The Deity of the Spirit appears also from the circum-
stance,thatHe receives the very same worship that is due to
God. His name is associated with the Father and Son in
baptism. "Go," said the Lord Jesus to His Apostles, "and
teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father^
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. ''^ In the benedic-
tion too, which was the Aposlle's solemn appeal to the
triune God for blessings appropriate to the peculiar agency
of each divine person, in the work of redemption, the Holy
Spirit is as clearly addressed as either the Father or the
Son. "The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love
of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost be \v\i\\
you all."^ In this prayer of Paul tuo, reference seems to
be had principally to the Spirit as the person addressed:
"The Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, (a
phrase used in reference to the Father,) and into the pa-
tient waiting for Christ."^ The Lord here prayed to, is
not the Father or Christ. Who then is He, if not the
Spirit? But if the Spirit be lawfully addressed in prayer,
then must He in very deed be God. It is an honour too
great for any creature.
3. As to those acts or rights cf sovereignty which the
Spirit exercises, and which are attributable to God, as His
exclusively, we notice particularly His prime jurisdic-
fion, and His appoi7iti7ig power in the church. The
messages and communications to the seven churches in
Asia, were from the Spirit, and all are required to bow to
His authority, and hearken attentively and submissively to
1 Mat. xxviii. 19. 2 2 Ck)r. xiU. 13/
-1 2 Thess. iii. 5: 1 Tb^ss- ui 11, 12-^ and Kev V^
60 ™E PERSOxXALITY chap. IV.
His counsels and decrees. *'He that hath an ear let him
hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."^ Likewise
the power of appointing to offices and stations, which is one
of the most important and difficult rights of sovereignty,
is represented as being exercised by the Spirit of God . The
Apostles were forbidden by the Holy Ghost to preach the
gospel in Asia, and Paul says of the presbyters of Ephesus,
that the Holy Ghost had made them Bishops.^ Whether,
therefore we consider the titles bestowed, the actual rever-
ence expressed, or the rights of sovereignty He exercises,
which together constitute His honour, they are not in the
least respect inferior to those of God Himself. They are in-
deed the very same; so that the conclusion is unavoidable,
that as the titles, and worship, and sovereignty which are
exclusively appropriated to God, are ascribed to the Holy
Spirit, He must in very deed be God.
in. We add a third argument taken from the at-
tributes OP Deity which are ascribed to the Spirit,
Here too it is admitted, that there are some which are had
by creatures in common with Him, from the ascription of
which to Him, nothing as to His Deity can be conclusively
argued. W'e therefore deem it unnecessary to detail them,
however interesting and instructing it might be to the
Christian, who cannot fail to admire the moral character of
that illustrious guest who visits, and refreshes his heart.
There are others, however, which are peculiar to God—
•which are exclusively His perfections—yea, and which He
cannot communicate to a mere creature, no matter how
liighly exalted that creature may be. These are immensity
or omnipresence, omniscenee and omnipotence. As to
His immensity or ubiguity: we infer it from the fact that
He is said to dwell in Christians, who are to be found all
oveir the earth. ^'Know ye not that ye are the temple of
God, and that the Spirit of God dioelleth in you?'^^ And
\ Rev. ii. n, 2 Acts, XX. 28. S 1 Cor. iii, IQ
OHAP. IV.
^1' ^^^^^ SPIRIT. 61
the Psalmist very distinctly recognizes it when he inquires,
^
^Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? or whither shall I
flee from thy presence. If I ascend up into Heaven, thou
art there; if I make my hed in hell, behold thou art
there; if I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in
the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand
lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.''^ As to His
07nnipotence: we have already seen that the power of
working miracles is His gift, which, more justly than in
the case of Simon, might have led the heathen to say,
^
'these men are the mighty power of God,"^ in whom that
power was conferred. Surely the power that can control
the laws of the material universe, and suspend and contra-
vene them at its pleasure, can be nothing less than omnip-
otent. The creation is an effect of omnipotent power,
and this we have also seen is ascribed to the Spirit as His
work. And as to His omniscience, the apostle says, *'The
Spirit searcheth all things, even the deep things of God.'*^
If, therefore, omnipresence, omnipotence, and omnis-
cience are exclusively and incommunicably the attributes
of God, as undoubtedly they are, and if these things are
attributed to the Spirit, as His characteristic properties,
which we have seen is the case, that Spirit cannot possibly
be other than the living and true God.
IV. The identity of this personal Spirit with the true
God, we yet further argue from the style in which he
IS SPOKEN OF IN THE SACRED SCRIPTURES. What is as-
cribed to God absolutely in one place, is, in another, to
the Spirit; what, it is said, God either does or will do, or
has done, is affirmed of the Spirit; and what is said of God
is asserted of the Spirit. Of the first we have an instance
in the creation. This, which is confessedly the work of
the absolute God, is, as has been already shewn, ascribed
to the Spirit. The inspiration of Moses and the prophets,
3 Psalm, cxxxix. 7—10. 2 Acts, viJi- '^^- ^^ 1 Cor. ii. 10,
(j3 THE PERSONALITY CHAP. IV
which, in some places, is ascribed to God absolutely, is
also to the Spirit. We cite no further instances, for it
would only be to repeat what has been already advanced.
Of the second class, .d^re the miracles which are attributed
to Go#, and yet are explained in tlie scriptures to be the
work of the Soirit. Other instances have been noticed.
And of the last class vv^e cite merely that unqualified de-
claration in the song of Moses, concerning the children of
Israel, "The Lord (Jeliovah) alone did lead him,"' which,
nevertheless, is explicitly affirmed of the Spirit by the
prophet, ^'As a beast goeth down into the valley, the Spirit
of the Lord caused him to rest, so didst thou lead thy peo-
ple, to make thyself a glorious name. "^ We have thus
every possible recognition of the Deity of the Spirit, and
the variety and incidental character of such recognitions,
we deem to be of no small value in the argument on this
subject.
Those who deny the Deity of the Spirit, are very bold
in charging on the doctrine we maintain, absurdity and
contradiction. They scoff at the idea of a Trinity. Uni-
tarians and infidels are perfectly agreed here. One of the
most subtle infidels that ever lived, the late Thomas Jef-
ferson, who claimed kindred with Unitarians, has held lan-
guage on this subject as low and scurrilous, as infamous
and disgusting, as any that ever escaped from the mouth
of the leecherous Voltaire, or of his friend and compatriot,
the filthy, drunken, blasphemer, Tom Paine. And it is
matter of thankfulness, that God in His providence has
exposed the man, through the folly of his descendant, in
the publication of some of his letters, which, if they are
not apologized for, as the mere pratings of civility, must
consign his memory to eternal infamy. Our readers will
find some extracts below to shew that we have not spoken
Tvith unauthorized warmth nnd severity, nor done the Uni-
3 Duet xxxii. 15. -5? Jsf.iah, Ixiii. 14.
^^j^^ iV%
^^^ ^^^^^' SPIRIT. OJ
tarians injustice in classing them witli infidel blasphemers.^
For, that Thomas Jefferson was a blasphemer of the very-
lowest grade, no longer can be denied; and that he con-
sidered himself, and was acknowledged by living Unita-
rians of great note, to be one of then., his correspondence
towards the close of his life will shew. If he wrote in an
uno-uarded manner to his Unitarian friends, never thinking
that, when his body would lie corrupting in the grave, his
letters should be published, and cause his memory too to
rot, that can be no apology. For, either he must have been
an arrant hypocrite, or he spoke the sentiments of his heart,
and knew those of his correspondents too, to have written
in the style he has done, in reference to Christianity and
the Christian's God. But, ribaldry and scoffing, though
they may come from the mouth of the philosopher and
rational divine, are not argument. Nor can the name of
Thomas Jefferson, high in the annals of fame, and embalm-
ed as it may be in the grateful recollection of hundreds and
thousands of the citizens of these United States, nor all
his lofty boastings, and proud predictions, ever shake the
1 "The hocus pocus phantasm of a God, hke another Ccrbems, with one
body and three heads, had its birth and growth in tlie blood of thousands
and thousands of martyrs."—Mem. and Cor. letter to J. Smith.
"The day will come when the mystical g-eneration of JcsiiSj by the Su-
preme Being- as his father, in the womb of a virg-in, will be classed with the
lable of the generation of Minerva in the brain of Jupiter."—Letter to
John Adams, 1823.
**But while this syllabus is meant to place the character of Jesus in its
true and high light, as no impostor himself, but a great reformer of the
Hebrew code of religion, it is not to be understood that I am with h;m in
all its doctrines. I am a materialist; he takes the side of Spiritualism; ha
preaches the efficacy of repentance towards forgiveness of sin; I require
a counterpoise of good works.".—Letter to President Adams, 1822.
"I trust there is not a young many now living in the United States, who
Hvill not die an Uuiiarlun."—Letter to Dr. Waterliouse.
"Of this band of dupes and impostors (the Evangelists and apostlesj
Paul was the great Coryphaus, and firs,t corrupter o( the doctrines of
.^t^.sus/'^-Same letter.
54 'I'HE I'ERSOZvALiiY CHAP. IV.
Christian's iiiith. They may, and we fear will, lead many
thoughtless and unstable souls down to everlasting perdi^
tion: but they can never alter the fact to which the Spirit
of Truth bears witness, that "there are three which bear re-
cord in heaven, the Father, the Word and the Holy Ghost:
and these three are one."^ Taking the sacred scriptures,
in their plain common-sense meaning, and, as being de-
signed for common people as well as learned philosophers
and rational divines, that is their only legitimate meaning,
it must be manifest, that the Holy Spirit is both a person,
a distinct personal subsistence and God.
The scriptures have not given us a treatise on the won-
derous mystery of the Trinity, nor, on the divine glory of
the Spirit. Their object is not that of philosopical disq^ji-
sitions. They have simply afiirmed facts, and their allu-
sions and reference to these facts are made and varied, pre-
cisely according to the circumstances under which the
subject at the time presents itself. It is in this way men
speak in ordinary parlance, when facts are not disputed;
and, although the proposition, v^hich may call for proof in
any case, may not have been distinctly asserted, yet the
allusions and references to the fact, which shew that it
was actually assuyned and acknowledged as true, afford
a stronger argument than mere affirmation.
We have, as our last argument, classified mere allusions,
and references to the Deity of the Spirit. We might have
added' many passages, where there is evidently a recogni-
tion of three distinct agencies, all and each of whom are
called or contemplated as God. But we deem it unneces-
sary, referring merely for example to the events connected
-with Christ's baptism," which the reader may consult, and
not wisliing to swell the argument from collateral sources.
Our object simply is to demand, that, if the scriptures
speak of the Spirit as God, allude to Him as such, attribute
1 1 John, V. 7. 2 Luke, iii, 21. 22: See also Acts, i. 7, S, and ii, 33.
-...p ,„
'
OF THE SPIRIT. 63
to Him the works and properties which are elsewhere as-
crihcd to God, or which belong exclusively to Him; if
ihey seem to employ as indifferent forms of speech, the
expressions Lord, Jehovah, and the Spirit of God, the
Holy Spirit, alluding to those acts, and making those
affirmations, which are peculiarly and exclusively done by
God, or true of Him, as done by the Spirit or true of
Him, and vice versa: —and, if the Spirit of God spoken
of as a personal agent, and as such is alluded to as God,
and called God, while, at the same time. He is distinguish-
edfrom another, and another equally claiming to be God-
all which things in the prosecution of this subject we have
seen to be the case how we, or any one, professing to re=
ceive and submit to the divine infallible authority of the
sacred scriptures, can do else than yield to the impressions,
which such things are calculated to produce, and believe,
that the Spirit is God, and that God—the one Divine Na-
ture subsists and acts in three distinct persons.
It will not do to cry mystery and reject the evidence of
truth. The simple Being and eternity of God, are just
as incomprehensible as the personal subsistences of His
nature. Let any one, wlio rejects the divinity of the Spirit
of God, explain to us, how God can have existed from all
eternity —a first cause without a beginning—a duration
without time—an infinity without extent—an immensity
without dimensions—and ubiguity without space—an eter-
nity without succession, and then we shall admit that he
may, with some propriety, require us to show how the na-
ture of God can subsist in three distinct persons. It is all
irrelevant, to ask hoio three can be one, and one three.
We affirm no such arithmetical absurdity and contradiction:
but have shewn, that they do, who reject the scriptural
doclrino of the one Divine Nature existing in three per-
sons. Nay, unless they reject every trace and vestage of
scriptural information, in regard to His Being, and attri-
66 '11^^ PERSONALITY CHAP. IT.
butes, and operations, and refuse, for one moment, in the
most arrant irreconcilable intidelit}^, to hearken to the ac-
count which God has given of Himself in His own word,
they will be compelled, as the philosopical Crellius was, to
make God a material substance, radiating power and wis-
dom and what not. If they once reject the bible, and re-
turn to nature's sickly light, they will soon talk as mysti-
cally, and unintelligibly, a^ the heathen sophists did, about
the soul of the universe, and find themselves as utterly at
a loss to tell ivho God is, and tvhat He is, as were they,
who, in the profundity of their reasonings, doubted whether
sun, or earth, or heaven, or all were God. Nor will they
stop here, but we shall soon see living instances of unblush-
ing atheism, like master spirits,
WEfo nobly tal:e the high priori road,
And reason downward, till they ^oubt of God.
There are not wanting melancholy specimens of this
nature. The rankest atheism has grown up in the petty
beamings of evangelical light and truth. Its loftiest and
most polluting tendency has been demonstrated before our
eyes. Nor does it require much penetration, to discover,
from its recent developements even in our own land, that
the rejection of the inspired volume in its binding authori-
ty and obvious import is the pioneer of ruin—the prepara-
tion for a desolating starm—the very element of mischief,
in which *Hhe prince of the power of the air, the spirit
that worketh in the children of disobedience," exerts his
energies, and is lashing up the tempestuous passions of
men to sweep over the face of human society —raze to the
very foundation, every moral and social institution of value^^
and throw the mighty deep into such confused and horrible
agitation, as to require the very voice of God to stay the
raging devastations. The scriptures are that voice of God,
and they have already hushed the raging tempests thai
have burst in desolating horror among men. And, theif
CHAP. IV. ^>F r^^ SPIIIIT. 67
are our only security. Let them be rejected, or, what is
equivalent with their rejection, let the spirit of "philosophy,
falsely so called,^' and the alleged decisions of human rea-
son, be made their interpreter, and the standard by which
their revelations are to be judged, and imagination will
soon become the expositor of truth. The fancy will run
wild, and, in the reveries and triumphs of fiction, every
thing distinctive, and of value in the bible, the very life
and soul of Christianity, will evanish. This the Christian
knows, and therefore guards, with ever-wakeful jealousy,
against the proud and sceptical exposition of the sacred
oracles, where men, of unbelieving minds and hearts, and,
not imbued with the spirit of truth, undertake, by their
^^oppositions of science," to explain away the grand pecu-
liarities of our faith. He will not consent, who has re-
ceived the bible as the word of God, to be taught by 'Hhe
perverse disputings of men.'' Wliat this man, or the other
of lofty aspirings, may, in the vanity and scepticism of
their unbelieving heart, tell him is meant by the Spirit of
God, he heeds not, but yields, most cordially and impli-
citly to the impressions of the word, in its plain and ob-
vious import. Nor does he this unwisely; for he has, in
his own soul, an attestation of the truth. He feels that
there is more than metaphor, or a figure of speech, in the
language of the scriptures, as to the living Spirit of Godo
He apprehends Him to be the very sum of all the moral
and spirtual blessings he enjoys, and, as life is imparted
to his soul;—as his affections, which once were dead to
God, become tender and lively towards divine things; —
•
as his moral sensibilities are purified, his heart expatiates
in the joys of fellowship with God, and his whole soul is
drawn upward in sublimest anticipations. As his faith
and hope and love, the powerful principles of human ac-
tion, are transferred from earth and earthly things, and
ma^e to act v/ith more effective energy in reference tc
(3S THE FElJSONALiTV OF TIJE L-l'IHil'. ^ IIAI'. IV,
God and lieavcnly things, he feels perfect!}' convinced that
there is a mighty agent within him accomplishing all—and
that mighty agent, none other than God Himself, in the
person and character of the Holy Spirit—the Spirit gf
life and puritv.
CHAPTER V.
THE OFFICE OF HUMAN REASON
TV IHK
TXTET^riU:TATIOX OT TTIK SAniKD SCniPTURES,
The difference between scriptural and scientific truth—'i'lic sul)jcct of th(^
chapter stated—The scriptures assumed to he the word ofGod—An appeal
to the reader w] JO may doubt—Infallibifity claimed for tlie oraclesof God—
The common infidel objection against this claim—The sentiments of a
\vriter of the seventeenth century—Kemarks upon them—The meaning of
the terms human reason settled—Erroneous assumptions ofthe rationalists-
Examples offalse reasonini^—The folly of rcasoningasto other worlds from
assumptions as to this—No mysticism in the languaf,^e employed by the
Spirit of God—The facts revealed in scripture essentially different from
the phenomena of nature—Thence a superiority claimed for the knowlcdg-c
of the former—The Spirit's revelations essential to that knowledge—Per-
fections in God probably not yet revealed—Mysteries in His government
that will perhaps never be known by us—The very limited extent of hu-
man science—Thence the folly of proud and arrogant demands with
regard to the knowledge of God inferred—We cannot reject facts when
substantiated by evidence—Tlie testimony of God as suflicient evidence
as that of sense—The folly of demanding evidence not appropriate to the
nature of the subject—Mathematical evidence liable to exception—The
folly of applying the data which this world affords as tests of what is truth
in others—The Divine testimony satisfactory and decisive—The danger
of neglecting it illustrated in the eariy history of the Corinthian church—
The character of Paul's preaching—lleason cannot legitimately act as
umpire in matters of faith—Its proper oflice.
There is that, in the truths of the sacred scriptures,
which makes them to differ from the doctrines of human
science. So far as they are exhibited in propositions, ex-
pressed in dofmite hnguagc, they resemble each other. And
70 INTERPliETATION OF CHAP. V.
SO far as human reason is concerned, in the apprehension
of them, no difference can be discerned. One proposition
is just as intelligible ac another, provided, that the /«?i-
giiage employed in both is equally perspicuous. Yet does
it not follow that the fads involved in these propositions
are of equally easy apprehension. Some things are, in
their very nature, inexplicable, while others are intelligi-
ble at first sight. Inattention to this has led to much, and
very serious mischief, in the interpretation of the sacred
scriptures. That the mind of rational man, which we have
above designated by the popular phrase of human reason, has
some important office m the apprehension of scriptural truth,
every one feels. What that office precisely is, it is the
design in this chapter to unfold. The exposition of this
subject is rendered necessary, alike from its own intrinsic
importance, from the very fatal results which have flowed
from its not being well understood, from the proof and
illustration of the subject in the preceding chapter, and from
the intimate connection which it holds with the entire dis-
cussions that we propose.
It must be obvious, that it is of very great moment, in
itself, as well as in relation particularly to the subject in
hand, we should be able to determine, whether human rea-
son is to sit as judge and umpire, deciding as to what is
truth, or whether its entire office is not io pci'ceive, receive
and enforce truth not originally excogitated in the human
mind. On the decision of this question depends the use
that we shall make of the sacred scriptures, and the benefit
we shall derive from them.
It is assumed that they are the ivord of God. If any
reader doubts on this subject, we request him to resort to
the proofs so abundantly and so invincibly demonstrative
to every unprejudiced mind, of the fact that the things
spoken and written by the inspired penmen were delivered
CH\r. r.
'^'^^^ SACPeED SCRIPTURES 71
'^not in the words which man's wisdom teaclieth, but which
the Holy Ghost teacheth."^ His mind must be dark in-
deed, and his heart most wretchedly depraved, who can
carefully examine the arguments drawn from the miracles
performed, and predictions delivered by the apostles and
prophets, not to mention any other, without being convin-
ced that what Paul said of himself is true of all. ^'I certify
you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of
me is not after man. For I neither received it of man,
nor was I fcmght it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ."^
The subject is undoubtedly deserving of the most serious
and interested attention of every rational man, and we
adjure the reader, if he has the least doubt as to the fact, to
lose no time, and spare no pains, to bring this very impor-
tant question, involving his own eternal interests, to an
issue. Let him dismiss prejudice, and read, and weigh,
both sides of the question, and decide according to the
amount and force of evidence, after a full and impartial
examination. We shall not fear the result in his mind.
It is nothing but obliguity of heart that can resist the
overwhelming power of the demonstrations in the case.
The claims of the sacred scriptures are so high, and their
asseverations affecting man's personal and eternal interests,
so bold, and appalling, and uncompromising, that no man,
pretending to act as a reasonable being, can dismiss this
subject with a trivial attention.
Assuming the scriptures to be the word of God, as we
do, it is obvious that we claim for them the infallibility
oi infinite and immulable truth. Thence it is conten-
ded, there arises an obligation, on our part, in reference to
them, which applies not to any other species of evidence.
Believing them to be the word of God, we are bound, by
all the authority that God can assert, to receive them ^^not as
1 ICor. ii. 13. 2 Gal. i. 13, 12.
^2 IN'rERPRETA llOiN OF ^.^ap. v .
[he word of man, but as they are in truth the word of
God.''^ This no one can deny. But some will ask, what
is the word ol God, and how are we to determine as to it
in any and every case? Here and there are passages of
scripture, which are differently understood by different
persons and sects. The Christian world is full of contro-
versy. One party asserts this is the word of God, another
it is the Vv'ord of the devil, and by a summary process they
appeal to their respective creeds and confessions of faith,
which, after all, are the production of fallible men, and pass
sentence of approbation, or of condemnation, according as
opinions accord or are discordant with the set form of
words. The avowed and practical infidel have alike em-
ployed this objection to bolster uj) themselves in their con-
tempt or neglect of the oracles of God. But if *'they have
2*ejected the word of the Lord what wisdom is there in
them?"^ While they profess to act a rational part, they do
act irrationally; and while they boast of being under the
guidance of human wisdom, and claim to themselves the
name of philosophers, or of philosophical or rational di-
vines, they only furnish melancholy specimens of human
folly, and prove that neither common sense or reason will
sanction their claims.
A writer of the seventeenth centur}^, in a treatise entitled
'^Rational Religlo7i,^^ supposes that there are but three
modes^ in which the truth, or true sense of the word
of God itself can be ascertained, viz., by llie authori-
1 1 Thess. ii. 13. 2 Jer. viii. ?.
3 Deus quidem Optiraus, maximus, absque controversia est judex supre-
mus, inefrag-abilis; sed is nunc inter litigantes speciale decrttum vore sua
propria loquendo non, prcnunciat: sicut nee Filius ejus unig-enitus judex
vivorum ac mortuorum ab eo constitutus. Verbum autem Dei scriptum
nobis relictuni, non est proprie judex: nam id est norma secundum quam
aliquis judicare debet. Sicut lex ipsa non judicat proprie, scd secundum
leg-em alicra'-J ab aiiqvio iudicatur.
CHAP. V. THE SACRED SCRIPTURES. 73
iy of the. church, or its visible head on earth—the
Pope of Rome, or a council, according to the opinion of
the Roman Catholics; or by the. dictation of the Holy
Spirit in the hearts of the elect, as he alleges the protes-
tants, who call themselves evangelical or reformed, and the
enthusiasts called quakers affirm; or hy judgment ofsound
reason in every man, legitimately and strictly examining
the word of God. As to \\\q first, we deem it unnecessary
to remark. The authority of Popes and councils is no lon-
ger respected by the Christian world, whatever may be
their aspirings. As to the second, it may suffice to state,
that we contend not for preternatural revelations, since
the code of scripture is completed, and that, although we
acknowledge the agency of the blessed Spirit to be
necessary, in order to our arriving at the knowledge of
scriptural truth, yet we are not of those who affirm that
agency to be by any afflatus, or impression inconsistent
with, or not made through the appropriate exercise of our
rational powers. Mr. Locke, in his essay concerning the
human understanding, has v^^ell remarked that ^'no proposi-
tion can be received fof divine revelation, or obtain the
assent due to all such, if it be contrary to our clear intuitive
knowledge. Because this would be to subvert the princi-
ples and foundatfons of all J^nowledge, evidence and assent
whatever,'-'^ and fanaticism must inevitably assume dominion
Videtur igitur non posse aliter fieri, quam ut in controvcrsiis fidei seu
religionis, Veritas, et ipsius verbi Dei seu sacra: scripture verus sensus, hoc
tempore, per aiiquem istorum trium modorum habeatur: nempe, aut per
EcGlesia; ejusve capitis visibilis in terra, scili cet pontificis Romani, sive
Conciiii, authoritatem ; ut volunt pontificii, qui sibi Catholicorum Roma=
norum appellationem vendicant: aut per spiritus sancti in cordibus
dectorum dictamen, ut statuunt plerique protestantes qui Evang-elici vel
Reformati nominari volunt; ac aliquatenus similiter ii qui Enthusiastze
atque Quakeri nuncupantur: aut denique per ratiotiis sanac, in unoquoque
homine verbum Dei legitime expendentis judicium; utexisthnantaliij aliqui
Christiani.—-i??%?o li'itimalls'—A. iVissowatio, pp. 4, 5.
1 B. ir. c. 18. § 5.
10
74 INTERl'UF/l A HON OF CHAr. V. *
where an influence or revelation of the Spirit, inconsistent
with the jiroper and judicious exercise of our rational minds
is made the arhitcr of truth. This remark, however, is not
intended to apply to any original revelation which God
was pleased to make to the mind of man; but only to that
standard of truth found in the impressions which those
divinely inspired have communicated to us in words, the
ordinary mode of conveying thought from one to another.
He that suspended the exercise of the senses in some of His
propliets. and gave ideas of objects and subjects, previously
unknown and inconceivable, is not to be limited, as to His
power and ways of access to the human mind. Paul un-
doubtedly obtained ideas when *'hc was caught up into
paradise, and heard nnspeakablc words," which he could
not communicate to others, because imparted to him iti
«)ome sublime m3"sterious way, *SvIielhcr in the body or
out of tlie body he could not tell, God knoweth.'^^ Such
revelations however have ceased, and the communications
addressed to us by God, arc through the medium of the
sacred scriptures, an intelligible language, adapted to the
ordinary modes of human Ihoudjht. Whoso pretends to
have received a communication in any other way from
God, must first work a miracle before we can receive his
testimony as the word of God. .
•
The render has perhaps already inferred, that the third
gild last method of arriving at the knowledge of the truth
or true sense of the word of God, viz., by the judgment of
sound reason carefully examining and determing what is
the word of God, is the only available mode. The truth
of this conclusion will depend very much on the meaning
attached to the phrase human reason. If by it is meant tlie
regular process of argument, wliere, by comparing one idea
with another, wb elicit a third, more correctly called
reasoning, the conclusion is untenable. But if nothing
\ '.X^or. \ii- M
, ,1 M . \
I 111'. sA(:iu.:i) ^^i uiri 1 1 ijr.s -
,
more is nieanl, tlian (hal l.lii' j)()\v(r, oi- ;i.s liOclaMldinrs il
,
1l)(^ "faculty whcrt.^l)y man is .supposed (o Ix' «lis(ii^vnisluMl
iVoiu lli(^ Ix-asls/" tin; mind ilscH" ;is (•a[);d)U' ol" p(M-c('i vinu;
and rrc.iMvinir truth, is the modium dT our Unowlcdjre of
the word ofdod, \vc do not ol)ject. All truth, of \vhat(>v<'r
kind, ami supp(;rt('d \)y whalcver ('vldencr, niukcs ils ap-
peal dii-fc.tly lo man's rational natnit\ nnil it is tin* peroi-
pi(.Mit thinkinu; ]>rinciplc itsidf that, ici.'civcs or rejects. Hut
this is not \\\\\ idea which is ntliudjed to the phrase hv
many.
VViien it, is contended hy souk.', that human reason is tiu'
iudj;e id" truth —that, tjje scrijdures ai(^ l)nt the; law (the
7i()rnnf) of jud<;m(MU, and not ^/(^("/expresdng his decisions,
tliey mean, that there are certain intuitive; piinci|)les ur
axioms, which the miijd apj)reheniLs to he immntahly tiue,
and hy means of which it forms a judfj^ment, whether the
rendatioiis of tin; sc.ri|)tures are to hi; r<c(;ived or rejected.
Wn' (;xamjih;, it is assumed that cnery f;dher is prior to his
.ton, (;very u;eueration lias sonu> hep,innin<;' of existence, the
JMost Jligh (loci and man are uneijual, every inxfi/ is Unite,
Gvery tiue man is a trui; person, '.rhesu proj)ositions, and
many other of a like; (;haract<:r which mijjht he sug^;ested
are appreh(;n(h;d as ahsolutc truisms. Now it isall(;j:;cd hy
our oj)ponents, that to the test of such postulates and axioms
wo are to sul)j(;ct the revelations of sciipturi;, in ordc^r to
discover their tiaith or to decide whether they aie or are
not thi; word of (lod. Accordinji;Iy, they go lo work and
throwing the different iloctrines of faith into this yiendiic,
thoy quickly resolve them into mere vaj)0ur, and j)ronounce
tluMU altogether d(;void of truth. J low spurious are; such
argtmM;nts! Ev(;ry fath(;r is jirior to his son: hut (iod is
the /'V////cr of Jesus ('hrist: —therefore Jesus Christ vva.'j
not IVom all eternity with (lod.
Kvery generation has some; heginning of existence; hut
Je.^ns ('hrist wus he^(d,f».'n f)f the Fatlu i": tlierefrtre ,lcMUS
76 IXTERrRETATION OF CHAP. V.
Christ is not God, who is without beginning of days or end
of year's.
The Most High God and man are not equal. Jesus
Christ was man: therefore Jesus Christ was not equal with
God.
Every body is finite. But Jesus Christ had a body:
therefore He was not infinite.
Every true man is a human person: but Jesus Christ was
truly man: therefore He was not God, but a human per-
son.
Against such an use of reason we solemnly protest. We .
do utterly deny, that the axioms, which the human mind
receives as self-evident truths in referonce-to the things of
this world, are to be made the test of truth in reference to
those of another. No position can be more tenable, more
undeniable than this, that it is only by means of the five
senses a knowledge of the external world around us can be
had. But who would jeopard his reputation as a philoso-
pher by affirming there are not inhabitants of other worlds
provided with more or difterent means of intercourse with
material things around tliem?^ The truth is, every rational
man cannot but feel the force of the dramatist's assertion.
There are more things in Heaven and Earth
—
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
It would be absurd to reason, because we have only five
senses, therefore there can he no other means of inter-
course with a material world, and therefore the inhabitants
of Jupiter innst be human beings. We feel how utterly
false it is to apply the axioms and reasonings which are true
of the things of this world to those of another.
Now, the sacred scriptures are the word of God, disclo-
sing scenes and objects, entirely different from what we
meet in this world. Tlie source of our information, is the
1 Voltaire, in one of his romances, has happily illustrated this idea,
and a£;a",n?t it assuredlv the infidel will not obiect.
CHAP. V. i'HE SACRED SCRIPTUIIES. 77
ieHhnony or communication of God Himself, both me-
diately and directly. "God, who at sundry times, and in
divers manners, spake, in time past, unto the fathers, by
the prophets, hath, in these last days, spoken, unto us, by
His Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by
whom also he hath made the worlds."^ In such evidence
we may rest satisfied, for the witness is from the unseen
world; and, that there should be no doubt, and no mistake
about receiving his testimony, the whuie established order
of nature Acre is interrupted, suspended, controlled, and
changed. The God of nature, whom in this world v/e
adore, is thus proved to be the Lord of the invisible state,
and the sensible proofs of His power thus furnished become
strong confirmations of the truth of His communications, as
the apostle aifirms of the gospel, '^which at the first began to
be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by
them that heard him: God also bearing them witness both
with signs, and wonders, and with divers miracles, and
gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his will."^ It would
be absurd to imagine, that the things communicated from
such a sou7xe would be demonstrable by the principles and
axioms that apply to this world. Philosophy may have
much to do in the application, and prosecution of the great
principles of nature's operations as men call it; but certainly
she can have nothing to do with disclosures made by the
most competent witness, with regard to things spiritual.
Faith, or the belief of testimony, is the medium of know-
ledge in reference to the latter. And if there should be
any thing mysterious, and to us inexplicable in the facts
made known with regard to the spiritual world—if they
follow not the order and principles of things in this world,
that is no reason why they should be rejected, but rather
presumptive evidence of their truth, since, even here phi-
losophy herself fails in applying her own favorite and
1 Heb. i. 1. ?. 2 Heb. ii. ?>. 4.
78 INTERPRETATION OF CHAP.V^
peculiar data to the solution of many phenomena occurring.
The two worlds differ essentially in their nature, and so
must the respective phenomena they present.
On the ground of the essentially differing character of
the facts reported in the scriptures, and of the phenomena
which this world presents, we claim a superiority for the
knowledge obtained by faith, above that derived from sys-
tems of philosophy. On the same ground, too, we affirm,
exists whatever difficulty there may be with respect to our
apprehension of them. There is no vagueness or mysti-
cism in the language which the Spirit of God has employ-
ed in delivering His testimony. There is, indeed, an im-
perfection in human language, which renders it difficult to
convey precisely our ideas: and this arises, no doubt,
out of the very nature of things, it being by no means
probable that all will attach the very same leaning to the
same expression. But, therefore, as it has pleased the
Spirit of God to speak to us in human language, to use our
own words, we must expect that there will be different and
even erroneous impressions sometimes made on different
minds. The only effectual guard against this thing, is to
*
'compare spiritual things with spiritual"^ —not to put our
'meaning on any term, but to ascertain, previously, in
what sense the Spirit of God employs it. Here is an
appropriate sphere for the energies of the human mind to
be displayed. But such an office of reason is very differ-
ent from that of judging and deciding, whether the facts
and truths made known, are entitled to credence. If there
is any other difficulty in apprehending the meaning of
scripture, it may be traced entirely to a different source,
eitlier to the circumstance, that the facts or truths they dis-
close are such as, from the very nature of the case, could
not have been discovered, or excogitated by the human
niind, and could only be communicated by expressions bor-
3 1 Cor.il. 13.
CHAP. V. Aii^ SACRED SCRIPTURES. 7\)
rowed from tilings analogous to ihem in this world. They
are ''Ihe things of God,^^—things pertaining;, and peculiar
to the infinite Supreme, which were hid in the counsels or
purposes of the eternal mind, and, therefore, could only
become known by us, either, as He should see fit to de-
clare them, or develope them in His providence. Accord-
ingly, the apostle declares the source of his knowledge of
divine things to have been the communication of God Him-
self, and not the principles and deductions of the world's
philosophy. *'Now we have received, not the spirit of the
world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might
know the things that are freely given to us of God."^
We are aware that such distinctions are repudiated, by
those who affirm human reason to be competent to the dis-
covery of all man shall ever know; and, that, to speak of
things beyond its k^n, is, in their estimation, to rave ia
the delirium of an enthusiastic and distempered fancy.
But such votaries of reason, seem to have taken a very
partial and limited view of the various objects and extent
of human knowledge. God and His government compre-
hend the utmost of what exists, and can be known by the
most exalted and intelligent of creatures. Yea, with rev-
erence be it said, the knowledge of God Himself can ex-
tend no further. But where, let us ask, is the man that
can tell the extent of either the divine excellence or oper-
ations? As to the perfections of Deity, who will affirm
there may not be soir.e, yea, many, of which we cannot
even conjecture? There was a period when but a very few
of the leading attributes of God were known to men. But
it has pleased the Most High to reveal others, of which
human reason, in her loftiest flights, and most entranced
reveries, had never thought or dreamt. The experience
of the world, from the beginning, authorises the belief,
that many attributes of God, yet lie concealed from the
1 1 Cor. u. 12.
80 INTEllPRETATION OF CHAP. \%
notice of poor, frail, and falliWe man, which may, in ano-
ther and nobler world, be disclosed. And the sacred scrip-
tures confirm the belief. "Canst thou by searching find
out God? canst thou find out the^lmighty to prefection?*'^
And as to the government of God, comprehending, alike
his created universe—teeming with life in every part, and
the order and operation and agencies of his holy provi-
dence, can any presume, that he either knows, or shall
be ever able to know, the whole? We look abroad upon
the works of the Almighty hand, and are apt to think, that
if we can discourse a little about tiie laws according to
which bodies affect each other, or their properties and mu-
tual action, we are versed in natural philosophy. We look
a little into the constituent, elementary, parts of material
objects, and their mutual afiinities and action, and think^
that if we can but analize them, we Ifnow them altogether.
We look a little into the operations of our own minds, and
are apt to think that we know somewhat of the character
of spirit, and the laws which govern human thought. And,
in like manner, a transient view of every other branch
of human science, serves but to inflate our vanity and per-
suade us that we know v.uch. But when we begin care-
fully to investigate the mechanical laws wdiich govern the
material universe—the various, complicated and vvonderous
combinations of atoms, by means of the chemical laws,
which regulate the structure and properties of bodies, and
the conflicting elements associated in our own being, which
are preserved in admirable harmony; and when, in addi-
tion to this, we inquire into the essential nature of what
we see and feel and think, we find that ^11 our science and
philosophy teach but the same humiliating and mortifying
lesson, that we do indeed know nothing.
If such is the fact in relation to objects, v/ith which we
are most familiar, which greet and cheer and refresh us at
1 Job- Ai. ^
CHAP. V. THE SACRED SCRIPTURES. -
Si
every turn, need we be at all surprised, at being ignorant
and incapable of discovering those things which are pecu-
liar to God? It is owing to the pride, perverseness and
rebellion of the human mind, that men are so willing to
remain ignorant of those things which do properly consti-
tute the inateriel of human knowledge—which are the
legitimate field for the research of human reason, and yet
insist upon knowing and comprehending every thing,
which in its very nature rises far above the reach of human
thought. We must be content to believe many things
which we shall never understand. We have, indeed, learn-
ed to be so in reference to the most common objects of hu-
man knowledge. Every thing which meets our eye, or is
perceived by any of our senses, is in its intimate nature
incomprehensible. Our very sensations are themselves a
mystery. There is something in all we see and hear and
feel, that evades the grasp of human reason. Yet, will any
one affirm, that to talk of such things—things beyond hu-
man ken, is to rave in the delirium of an enthusiastic and
distempered fancy? Is it delirium? By no means:—but the
fact is directly the reverse. He that suffers himself to
doubt, and disbelieve, in relation to the objects which ad-
dress his senses, who will not admit their reality, because
he cannot comprehend their nature, or have any idea of
the essence of matter, is, by the common consent of man-
kind, pitied or ridiculed as insane.
The truth is, men universally, in reference to matters of
this world, act upon the principle, that the evidence, which
substantiates the fact, even out-weighs their own per-
sonal and peculiar difficulties, or embarrassments, as to its
explication. They believe, that the innumerable inexpli-
cable things around them do exist, because their senses
report to them the fact. Let them act on the evidence
j^'ibmittcd, and believe, as implicitly, that '*the things
which d.ro^ given to us of God,^' do really exist. Is not
11
S2 INTERPREIATION OF CHAP. V.
His testimony in this case, as good evidence as that of our
senses in the other? In both it is obviously our duty to
believe the report—to let the evidence which either the
testimony of God, on the one hand, or that of our senses^
on the other, out-weigh all the perplexities and difficulty
we may have in the explication of the things reported.
But this is not the spirit of the world. The pride of
human reason—the vain v^isdom of a false philosophy
—
the natural aversion of the human heart from the things
that are of God—and the high value at which men practi-
cally hold the evidence of their senses, lead them to reject
and disbelieve the great truths and facts which are based
exclusively on a "Thus saith the Lord." This is the spi-
rit of the world—a carping, captious, cavilling, unbeliev-
ing spirit, which demands the demonstrations of science,
to force conviction, or the soft silver tones of a flattering
eloquence to seduce the heart into faith. It must be wooed
and caressed by "the words which man's wisdom teacheth,"
or it will spurn the testimony of God. It must subject the
declarations of Him who cannot lie, to the inquisitorial
torture of its hoivs, and tvhi/s, and wherefore, and receive
ample satisfaction in all, or it will make a merit and a boast
of its scepticism, while it is content to receive with each
passing hour, things utterly inexplicable, without a mo-
ment's thought, and on evidence, by no means as conclu-
sive as that of the testimony of God.
Every one pronounces h'm to be guilty of great foolish-
ness, who demands evidence on a subject utterly foreign
from the nature of such evidence. Would not all the
w^orld laugh at the judge, who would require the barrister
mathematically to demonstrate his positions, and refuse the
testimony of his witnesses? Equally foolish and absurd,
is his conduct who demands mathematical evidence in sup-
port of moral truth. Who does not see, that the relations,
and ratios, of forms, and quantities are essentially different,,
CHAP. V. '^^^^ SACKED SCRIPTURES. §3
in their nature, from the operations of mind, and must
therefore be demonstrated by evidence essentially different?
The Epicureans are justly censured for rejecting every
truth that would not be supported by the evidence of tlie
senses. And so must they be, who laud the evidence of
geometrical ancdi/sis as superior to that of consciousness*
or of the testimony of a competent and credible witness.
Dr. Barrow, in his profound admiration and extravagant
praise of m-atliematical science, may have probably, though
unintentionally, contributed to fortify the sceptic in his
rejection of the evidence available in the support of moral
truth, wlien he said, "the mathematics eflfeotually exercise^
not vainly delude, nor vexatiously torment, studious minds,
with obscure subtleties, but plainly demonstrate every thing
within their reach." —^'They wholly deliver us from a
credulous simplicity, and most strongly fortify us against
the vanity of scepticism; they effectually restrain us from
a rash presumption, most easily incline us to a due assent,
and perfectly subject us to the government of right reason.
^^
These assertions are too bold. The mathematics have their
subtleties,and they demonstrate what common sense at once
perceives to be absurdities. An infinity of infinities, each
infinitely less than the otht*r—curves infinitely approxi-
mating fixed lines, but never touching—m^nzVe spaces
generating by rotation
—
solids oi finite capacity—varia-
ble l^spaces continually augmenting and yet never be-
coming equal to certain finite quantities, these are subtle^
ties and mysteries as perplexing as any that can be cited
in moral science. The truth is, that there is no subject oa
which the human mind may not, by the aid of its appro»
priate evidence, be led on, by regular processes of demon=
stration, till it is lost in the absolute incomprehensibility
of its own deductions. It is, therefore, highly erroneous,
and mischievous, to extol one species of evidence above
another, and thus contribute to shake men's confidence in
84 INTERPBETATION OF CIIAP. V
the reality of what may have been legitimately demon-
strated by its appropriate evidence. Consciousness, intui-
tion, intellection, deduction, geometrical analysis, moral
certainty, all deserve respect in there proper sphere.
Let reason be employed in her appropriate province, but
when God speaks let man believe. His testimony is ample
and decisive proof. On all subjects to uhich it appropriate-
ly applies, it is, in its very nature^as conclusive as mathe-
matical demonstration can be, and far more than the deduc-
tions of reason, or the testimony of the senses. Why
should we apply the rules and principles of reasoning,
founded on the data which this world affords, to that whicli
is unseen and cannot be explored by us? If God Himself,
a competent and credible witness, has made report to us
—
delivered His testimony, let us rebuke the spirit of the
world, and learn with reverence and gratitude ta receive
the revelations which He makes of His own will. The
spirit of the world, when indulged to the rejection of the
divine testimony, is the arrant pride of the rebellious
mind. Its suggestions are madness, and its ascendant in-
fluence on the mind, is death to all its immortal hopes.
It was this Spirit which characterized and disgraced many
who professed the religion of Jesus Christ in the church of
Corinth. Accustomed to the profound disquisitions of
their philosophers, and to the flowing strains of their oi'a-
tors, and fond, as were the Greeks generally, of rich and
polished style, of accurate and ornamental language, of
close and energetic argument, in short, of all that could
please the imagination and satisfy tlie understanding, they
soon perverted the ministry of reconciliation, and the sacred
scriptures, from their grand original design, and sought to
make them subservient to their literary gratification and
improvement. xVware of this state of feeling, in the first
instance, when Paul preached among them, he purposely
laid F»«ide v/hatpver 7T)ia;ht be thoug;hi: to be i.ni^ended fj? a
CHAP. V, Ttii^ SACKED SCRIPTURES. §/;
<]ispay of wisdom, or eloquence, or mere human reasonins;.
He employed not the enticing words of man's wisdom—he
came not among them with excellency of speech or of wis-
dom; but trusting to the powerful influence of the Spirit,
who revealed the truth to his own mind, he told again
and again, his simple and affecting story of ^^Chr^ist and
Him, crucijied.''^ "For I brethren," says he, '^when I
came to you, came not with excellency of speech, or of
v)lsdo7n, declaring unto you the tesiiviony of God; for
I determined not to know any thing among you, save
Jesus Christ and Him crucified. .
And I was with you in
weakness, and in fear, and much trembling: and my
speech and my preaching w^as not v/itli enticing words of
men's wisdom, but in devionstralion of the Spirit^ and of
power; that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of
men, but in the power of God."^ Here the true reasoii
of our conviction of the truth, as revealed by God, is dis-
tinctly stated
—
the demonstration of the Spirit and of
power. It is the powerfully convincing evidence of truth,
had, in ^Hhe testimony of God," which the Holy Spirit
has delivered to us by the mouths of holy men and prophets,
and which he urges on tlie mind, that sivays it intofaith.
This, Paul wished to be the basis of their faith, and none
other, and as he unfolded the truth, which God had reveal-
ed, he claimed their unhesitating assent. His style of
preaching does not seem to have pleased all. Some -pre-
ferred Apollo's gentle and persuasive strains, while others
were enamoured with Peter's ardent and vehement delive-
ry. Their factious and contentious spirit, Paul utterly
contemned; and he was careful to apprise them, that the
gospel which he preached differed in its very nature, from
all the dogmas or demonstrations of their philosophers.
The ministry of reconciliation was not to be prostituted,
and the high functions of that holy office, v/hir,h unfolds
1 \ Cor. ii. ^'^.
Se INTERPRETATION OF CHAP. V.
and urges the word of God on the consciences of men^ were
not to be discharged as were tlie professional lectures of
their admired scholars. He did not profess to have made
any magnificent discoveres, or to have adopted any new
philosophy or to have elicited truth hy the pov/er of his
own loo-ical mind. He resorted not to the schools of the
philosophers for his information, nor did he even dream of
quoting Pythagoras or Plato, Aristotle or Socrates as his
authorities. He took it from the moulh of God Himself,
and as he bowed in submissive belief of its truth, so did he
require the same faith from his hearers. '
**I certify you
brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me, is not
after man. For I neither received it of man, neither was I
taught it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.''^ He spake
by the Holy Spirit of God, and not according to the wisdom
and judgment, the reasonings and convictions of the world.
This fact he assigns as a sufficient explanation of the au-
thoritative character and style of his preaching—as a
satisfactory reason for his claiming the full unhesitating
assent of his hearers. *'Now we have received, *' says he,
*«^not the spirit of tlie world but the Spirit which is of God,
that we might know the things that are freely given to us
of God."^ It was bi/ the revelaiion of this Spirit, that /j5
obtained his knowledge, and in 7io other way. For the
things that he declared were what ^^Eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither hath it entered the heart of man—the
things which God hath prepared for them that love him."^
The whole scheme of redemption, by the eternal Son of
God, crucified and slain in the nature of man, was originally
beyond the power of human conception. It never coulcl
have been excogitated by the human mind. And there-
fore in undertaking to speak on themes so novel, so extra-
ordinary, so amazing, so inconceivable, however some
might deem them extravagant and wild, or others, evincive
1 Gal 1. 13. 12. ^ > Car. v.. 1?. " ^ ^or. ii, 9.
CHAF. V. i^^ SACKED SCliiPrrLKES. 87
of the loftiest intellect, yet did Paul make no high preten-
sions to human wisdom, nor even defend his claims in this
respect, but sini])!}' "declared unto them the testimo-
ny of God," putting honour on the Spirit who had revealed
them unto him,
Paul's idea of inspiration was essentially difTerent from
that of the rational divines, or he has expressed himself in
the most bungling ond unintelligible terms. So far from
supposing that his thoughts, excogitated in his own mind,
were the revelation of God, he leads us to believe, that
he derived them as certainly and directly from an imme-
diate communication made from God to liim as we may be
said to derive our thoughts from another when we attend
to v/hat he tells us. He did not preach to his hearers the
result of his own reasonings.
The things he taught were gratuitously communicated
of God, and therefore^ were of such character as to have
forever eluded discovery by human reason. They were
things which none of us had a right to expect would be,
and which man, if left to himself, never could have ima-
gined. Nor should w^e be surprised at this. For, if
v/e cannot look into the nearest planet, or penetrate into
the essence of the smallest atom, is it to be expected, that
we should be able to explore the eternal mind? "Touching
the Almighty we cannot find him out."^ *^Who hath known
the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counsellor,''^
To divine what it might please Him to give, when we
cannot eoniecture the purposes even of our nearest and most
intimate friends, is entirely beyond the power of man:-—
especially so, when, instead of anticipating a favour, con-
scious guilt suggests that all we have any right to expect is
^'indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish."^
From the above remarks it is obvious that reason can-
not legitimately act as umpire m matters of faith. The
1 Jcb, xxvii. 23. 2 Rom. xi. 34. 3 Rom. ii 8, 9.
a^- IXTEliPriETA l'It?X OF CHAP. Y.
revelalion of God, claims assent on its own appropriate
evidence, and is not dependent on the deductions or de-
monstrations of reason. The early Unitarians did not
presume in this matter to push their principles as far as
their modern successors have done. The}^ acknowledged
a revelation from God in some immediate and supernatural
way, not through the natural excogitations of the human
intellect, and therefore did not presume to exalt reason ta
the office of judging, and determining what it is in the
sacred scriptures we are bound to believe and what not.
If they did extol it, they gave not to it the paramount
authority. In regulating the distinctive doctrines of reve-
lation, they rather tortured their ingenuity to explain away
the obvious meaning of terms, than took the bold infidel
and deistical ground of rejecting them as mysteries of which
reason could not approve. Hear one of the most celebra-
of this school, *'As regards reason, this truly is a fallacious
way in a matter which is dependent on Divive revelation
as is the Christian religion." Another and as great a name
adds, ^'Mysteries do indeed overcome reason; but they do
not destroy it. They do not extinguish its light but they
perfect it. Nay, reason alone, which could not of itself
discover mysteries, both perceives, and embraces, and de-
fends them ivhen revealed to it "Truly," says a third,
speaking of those too, whom he called Unitarian Chris-
tians, *'these Christians confess that the appropriate mys-
teries and dogmas of the Christian religion themselves, are
by no means excogitated, or discovered by human reason;
but delivered by the revelation of God Himself, through
His Son Jesus Christ." And a fourth admits that neither
can philosophy itself reveal the Christian religion, nor can
our reason ever prevail to try it at law, entirely on philo-
sophical principles; but it behoves it altogether to know it
from a Divine revelation.^ It is too bold a pretence to
1 Quod enim ad rationes attinet, bxc nimis fallax via est, in re qiiJe ex
CHAP. V. THE SACRED SCRIPTURES, 89
exalt reason as the supreme authority, and make it both
judge and law in matters of faith. They that claim for it
this office, and receive, and reject the revelations of the
word of God, just in so far as they accord with, or are
approved by the judgment of their reason are infidels of
an high order. It is not slanderous to call them such,
nor are they thus malignantly denominated by us, for it
is their most appropriate appellation, and it is the most
arrant hypocrisy for them to claim and wear the title of
Christians.
Admitting however that faith is bound to receive the
revelations of God, on t^'^eir appropriate evidence, and not
because reason may approve of their mysteries, a question
arises as to ivhat may be that evidence. On this subject
there has been strong and learned controvers}'', having the
renowned names of Locke on the one side and Halyburton
on the other. We shall not enter into this controversy,
but content ourselves with exhibiting a iQ\Y facts from
which we may be led to a proper conclusion. The sacred
scriptures are demonstrably the word of God, so that
whoso will be at the pains of weighing this matter, may
arrive, by a process of invincible reasoning, at this convic-
tion. It is a truth, supported by intuitive evidence, that
what God says, is and must be true. It might be supposed
that where these two convictions are had there the indivi-
dual must believe. That he ought indubitably to believe
divina patefactione pendet, quails est Chrisllano religio.
—
Faust. Soc, in
Tradde authoritate Jac. Scnp. cap. 1.
S'lperant quidem ratio nem mysteria^ sed non evertunt: non exting-uunt
ilia hujus lumen; sed perficlent. Imo ratio mysterla quae per se invenire
non poterat, sibi revelata, et perclpit sola, et amplectitiir, etdefendit.
—
Cul-
luis de Uno. Deo. Patre Lib. sub Jinem.
At vero isti Christiani, confitentur, ipsa rellgionis Christiana; propria
mysterla, seu dogmata, nequaquam esse et ratione huraana excogltata, sive
inventa; verum ex Dei ipsius revelatione per filium ejus Jesum Christum
tradlt^.
—
Heligio JiaiionaUs Mid. Wi-ssowal. p. 9,
12
90 mTERPRETAliON OF cHAP. V-
none wlii den}^. But it is not the fact. Many profess,
and no doubt have both, and yet do not believe. Now
whence cames this? Is it not the nature of the human mind
to be determined in its convictions, by the force of evi-
dence? A man cannot believe a proposition which he
thinks is not true. Let him however be convinced of its
truth, and it is just as impossible for him not to believe. It is
obvious therefore, that there must be some other evidence
to produce faith than what has been stated. But what can
this be? We apprehend that it is to be found in^ the nature
of the second conviction stated above, viz.^^^that what God
sa3's is true. There is something more necessary to induce
confidence, than the mere intellectual conviction, that a
man speaks the truth. Thei^ must be some feeling of
approbation, some love for the character of that man, if
not of his person, V/e often misplace our confidence, and
believe implicitly the falseho&d which some unworthy
object of our friendship may assert: while, on the other
hand, through prejudice or improper feeling entertained
towards another, his testimony is rejected though he
speaks the absolute truth. It would seem then that the
heart is the great scat of that perplexity and difficulty un-
der which any one may labour, as it respects believing the
word of God. Let the heart—the sensibilities of man^s
nature, be brought into unison with the convictions of his
understanding, and there will be no difficulty.
The fact of such difficulty however is not to be questioned,
and for its removal some divine influence is in reality as
necessary as were the ccmniunications of God in making
the orignal disclosure of the facts themselves. The remov-
al of this is attributed to the same great agent that revealed
men the Spirit of God, who exerts an influence designed
to counteract the depraved perceptions of the mind and
vitiated taste of the heart. "The natural man receiveth
not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness
CHAP. V. THE SACRED SCRIPTURES. 91
unto him, neither can he know them for they are spiritual-
ly discerned," ^ In exerting this influence the Spirit of
God is spoken of in the saered scriptures, as producing a
new life —awakening the mind to new perceptions and
energies, and bringing the heart und^r the power of new
emotions. So Paul speaks of his own perception of the
truths of the gospel, and of his successful exhibition of them
to his hearers. ^*Not that we are sufficient of ourselves
to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of
God; who also hath made us able ministers of the New
Testament; not of the letter, but of the Spirit: for the
ktter killeth but the Spirit giveth life.''^ While therefore
it is conceded that human reason or the mind of man is the
percipient principle, in the appropriate exercise of which
alone, we can have any knowledge of divine things, we are
far from granting that it is possessed of original and indepen-
dent powef to discover the things which the Spirit of God
has revealed, or is placed in circumstances and found af-
fected so as rightly to perceive and appreciate those things
while uninfluenced by the same Spirit. The life-giving
influence of the Spirit of God in the human soul, is essen-
tial to right and clear perceptions of the truth, so that it is
utterly extravagant and absurd to claim for the unrenewed
mind of man the right to sit as umpire and judge of what
can or cannot be, of what is or is not the revelation of God.
The character of the facts, and the discordant state of the
human mind seem alike to require an influence of the
Spirit, in order to aright apprehension of them.
This subject will again occur, when it must receive a
more minute examination. It is only referred to at present
with a view to urge the necessity, and importance, of
laying aside every thing like the pride of human reason,
and an overweening conceit of our own worth, and *'re-
eeive with meekness the ingrafted word which is able to
1 1 Cor n. 14= 2 2 Cor. iii. 5, 6.-
32 INTERPIIETATION, &c. CHAP. V.
save our souls.'^^ We must bring our minds to the con-
templation of divine truth, unbiassed by any precon-
ceived opinions, unaffected by any dislike of the character
of God, or of the matter of his testimony. That testimony
is indeed humiliating to us. It writes <Hekel" on all our
fancied merit, and ^^Ichabod^' on all our lofty gloryings.
And unless we consent to sit at the feet of Jesus, and learn
of him—^unless we be converted and become as little chil-
dren—unless our hearts are attuned to the instruction Ho
gives, and we are vvilling to knov/ and believe implicitly
as he teaches, we shall torment ourselves with our vain
reasonings, and live and die without the hope that He
inspires. We shall not even be able to comprehend
His instruction. All things will be perplexing and ir-
ritating. His language will be ofttimes unintelligible,
even when it is most plain, and we shall find ourselves at
a loss in apprehending those truths on which the simple,
humble believer feeds, and grows, and thrives. As long
as we are affected by a dislike of his character, or of the
truth he teaches, we shall find it impossible to understand
the scriptures. But, if with a docile mind, and a willing
heart, wc come to them to inquire that we may *Mo the
will of God, we shall know of the doctrine whether it be
of God."^ Let us apply all tl^e energy of our minds to the
study of the lively oracles, and diligently and accurately
investigate the meaning of their language according to the
rules of legitimate criticism;—but having ascertained the
meaning of the Spirit^ let us submit our vain reasonings
to His dictation.
1 Jamec, i. 2I-,
'
2 John, vii. 17
CHAPTER VI.
THE SPIRIT OF GOD, THE AUTHOR OF
LIFE*
The power and Spirit of God not synonymous—Regeneration the work of
divine power exerted by the Spirit—A peculiar reason for this being re-
ferred to His agency—An order of operation correspondent with the or-
der of subsistences in the divine nature—An exami)le—The Spirit of
God the great author of Life in all its varieties—No law of nature ade-
quate to explain the production of Life—The nature of causality—Re-
solvible into the will and agency of God—Applied to the subject under
consideration—Account of the creation—Gen. i. 2—Job. xxvii. 3—Psal.
cxxxix. 13, 16—The Mosaic account of the vivification of man—John,
XX. 22—The natural history contained in the bible—Reflections.
The power of God, and the Spirit of God are both spo-
ken of in the sacred scriptures as being concerned in the
regeneration of a sinner. The production of faith in the
heart, which is one of the constituents and evidences or
the commencement of this change, is attributed by the
apostle to the exceeding greatness of His power (who is
the Father of glory) to us-ward who believe according to
the working of His mighty power."^ And yet it is as dis-
tinctly and specifically attributed to the agency of the
Spirit as being indispensible to salvation—*^Except a man
be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the
kingdom of God/'^ Hence, as we have seen, some have
inferred that the power and Spirit of God are synonymous
expressions.
The inference, however, is not legitimate. For, accord-
ing to the views already given of the nature and persons
of Deity, it is very easy to render such phraseology per-
1 Ech. i. 19 - lohn, m. 7,
94 'i'J^fi SPIRIT OF GOD, CHAP. VI.
fectly consistent, and to free the sacred writers from the
charge of mysticism, and of useless multiplication of terms
which would otherwise lie against them. The power of
Omnipotence—that power which is strictly proper to the
divine Being, is specially exerted by God, in the person of
the Holy Spirit. Should it be objected, that in speaking
of the persons of the Godhead, we speak of something un-
intelligible and undefinable, it may be replied, that so does
the physiologist when treating of Life—a thing, the reali-
ty of which we dare not doubt, but the nature and ori-
gin of which are utterly incomprehensible. This is no
valid objection, if, as has been shown, the word of God
does teach the fact, that God, the one infinite Supreme,
exists in three persons. We hope to make it appear in
the prosecution of this work, that the Spirit of God, the
third person of Deity, is not without reason referred to
peculiarly, and specifically in the great work of a sinner's
regeneration, a work accomplished by the energies of God.
It is unnecessary here to repeat or multiply quotations on
this point. No one can have read the sacred scriptures,
without noticing the fact, that the Spirit of God is the
special and immediate agent in this thing, though the power
be divine.
This is not accidental. There is a peculiar reason for
it, which, with deference, we submit. Although there is
much that is awfully mysterious in the nature of the divine
Being; and although the infinite Supreme, Jehovah, the
one simple, undivided, uncompounded, and eternal divine
essence, lives in three distinct and co-equal subsistences or
persons
—
2. fact totally inconceivable and incomprehensi-
ble by our finite minds; yet must we not fear so to think
and speak of Him. For, the sacred scriptures, which re-
veal this fact, actually go further, and represent the persons
of the Godhead, not only as being three distinct co-equali-
ties, but as having an order ofsubsistence, and a correspon-
dent, ordfi.r nfoperrTiion. The Father, as the first person,
CHAF. VI. TliE AUTHOR OF LIFE. 95
is spoken of as the source or fountain —^*The Father of
lights,"' &c. —the Son, as the only begotten of the Father,^
or, as proceeding from Him,^ and the Holy Spirit as pro-
ceeding from the Father, and sent by the Son."* Answera-
ble to this mysterious order of the divine subsistencies, is
the order of divine operations, which the sacred scriptures
recognize. The Father purposes ov plans^—the Son cre-
ates and executes^—-and the Spirit conveys, applies, adorns
and fully invests with the benefits designed to be confer-
red.''' Thus to illustrate this by one vast and comprehen-
sive example.
The plan of redemption is represented as having origi-
nated with God, in the person of the Father—the whole
work necessary to the execution of that plan, as being
wrought by God in the person of the Son—and the bless-
ings designed to be secured by it, as conveyed and commu-
nicated by God in the person of the Holy Spirit:^ so that
there is as entire and harmonious an order of operations,
as there is of subsistences, and the one perfectly corres-
pondent with the other. Such being the order of the divine
subsistences and operations, it follows that regeneration, a
constituent and conspicuous blessinj^ of divine grace, de-
volves particularly on the Holy Spirit, as being His pecu-
liar and appropriate work. It falls within the immediate
sphere of His agency, so that it is not without meaning,
the sacred scriptures uniformly represent it as the effect of
His power, as everv attentive and intelligent reader cannot
fail in the prosecution of this inquiry to perceive. With
a view, therefore, to a more satisfactory apprehension of
our whole subject, as well as to corroborate the account
given above of the Spirit's agency, we shall endeavor to
elucidate and confirm several exegetical propositions which
we shall state in their order.
1 James, i. 17. 2 John,i. 18. .3 John, viii, 42,
4 John, XV. 26. 5 Eph. i. 3—10. 6 Col. i. 16.
7 John, xvi. 14. • 8 See the text above referred to.
96 ^i'HE SPIRIT OF GOD, cHAP. VI.
I. The Spirit of God is the great author or LIFE
IN ALL ITS VARIETIES. He is Called *'t,he Spirit of Life;"
but with what reason, will we better understood presently..
Even the most inattentive observer cannot fail to have
noticed, that there is an endless process of production and
re-production going on in the works of creation—and that
much and by far the most interesting and important part,,
of it is connected with the developement of life in innumer-
able forms. The earth, the air and the seas are teeming
with it. To what cause shall we attribute this effect? The
infidel philosopher talks unintelligibly on the subject. To
say that it results by virtue of a law of nature, is saying
just nothing.
We cannot resolve the whole influence of causality, in
any satisfactory way, without the idea of some intelligent
and efficient agent. It will not do to say, experience
teaches that one event regularly follows another. Why
does it do so? is a question which will force itself on our
attention: and to meet that question, by saying that
experience shews it does, is only another way of con-
fessing ignorance and of evading the question entirely.
To assign the circumstance oi juxta-position as a solu-
tion of the connection which subsists between cause
and effect is felt to be totally inadequate. We see
that the needle touched with a magnet turns towards the
north, and if we ask, ichy it does so, who will be satisfied
with this answer, "because it is attracted by the magnetic
pole." All bodies gravitate towards the centre of the
earth. But why do they? Will you say because it is a law
of nature? What then we ask, is this law of nature? Is it a
power? Is it a will? Is it an intelligence? None will be
afnrmed. What then is it? Is it a property of matter?
But how can matter originate motions without itself? We
see that the dog follows his master as the needle does the
magnet, an event in some instances as regularly succeeding
CHAP. VI. '^^i^^ AUTHOR OF LIFE. ^7
the oLlier in llie one case, as in the other. But who will
resolve the causalit}'- in either case into mere juxta-posi-
tion? The truth is, that the will and agency of God, which
are, from the very necessity of the case, altogether myste*
rious to us, cannot be excluded from our idea of causality.
No otl^ev link can supply the chasm, and bind together the
cause and the effect.
This we feel to be perfectly satisfactory, and the mind
rests in it, as abundantly adequate to the solution of the
phenomena. With regard to those of life, no other ex-
planation can at all suffice. To talk of the aptness of or-
ganic matter for life, will not do. For we see an endless
vaiiety of animate matter—life found in ever varying or-
ganizations. In what consists that adaptation? Whence
comes this variety? Take whatever view you please of the
subject, the difficulty returns into your hands, and the only
satisfactory solution is, that the energy of God is continu-
ally exerted in the production of life, according to the va-
rious modes in which He is sovereignly pleased to dispense
it to His creatures.
We need not restrict the remark to any special kind of
life. All of its forms, from the loftiest seraph to the smal-
lest reptile, or insect, are the product of Almighty power.
This will probably be admitted with respect to God, ab-
stractly considered, as the great fountairi of all being; but
3iow, it will be asked, will this confirm the proposition sta-
ted, that the Spirit of God is the author of life? The bible
gives us some historical details on this subject, but for
which we should have been in utter ignorance. From it
we learn, that God, in the person of the Spirit, presides
over the ivhole department of life, and exerts a special
agency in it. He is represented to have commenced His
operations immediately on the creation of the inanimate
and inorgariic mass of our globe. In the account which
Moses gives of the creation, it is very distinctly stated t(?
13
98 THE SPIRIT OF GOD, cHAX^ VI.
be the fact, that "in the beginning God created the heavens
and the enrlh."^ This may possibly be the title of the
chapter, and the verses which follow, the details. Or, it
may be the record made with regard to the first production
of Almighty and creative power. Which ever view we
take of it, the earth—all the vast mineral 7nass of our
globe, was created at once by His Almighty fiat. One
word brought into existence the whole globe, with its
rocky and earthy stratifications, and their watery envelope.
The whole mineral mass was created perfect, but subjected
to a law or mode of divine agency, according to which, by
the process of crystallization, similar formations might
take place, just as the trees were created in a state of per-
fection, and then planted by the word of God into the soil^
but subjected to a law or mode of His agency, by virtue
of which, according to ^process of lignification, similar
growths might arise. Moses advances not the idea with
whicii we meet in heathen Cosmogony, wb.ere
Once was the face of nature; if a face;
Rather a rude and undigested mass;
A lifeless lump, unfashioned and unframed,.
Of jarring- seeds; and justly Chaos named.
It is much to be regretted, that this poetic fancy has
been adopted by sober philosophers, and christian divines.
There is nothing that we can see, either in nature, or the
scriptures, to sanction it. The laws of gravitation and
crystallization, as put into operation in the substance of
the earth—which some have conceived was created in a
confused and aggregate mass, are not sufficient to account
for the disposing of the different earthy and mineral strati-
fications, which over-lay each other. The Mosaic account
teaches us that rocks, seas, and earthy particles sprung
simultaneously into existence, at the word of God, and
having been created perfect at once, w^ere placed under the
1 Geiv. i. 1.
(HAP. VI. THE AUTHOR OF LIFE. .
99
eperation of certain general laws, or modes of the Creator's
agency, by which, in successive ages, assimilated masses
might be formed. It was the earth, and not a chaoSy that
in the beginning was created.
The expressions of Moses, which may very probably
have suggested the idea of a chaos to the minds of the
philosophic heathen who consulted his writings, and which
seem very evidently to have been paraphrased by Ovid
according to his view of their meaning, do not give their
support to it. He says, that 'Hhe ecirth was without form
and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep
(abyss). "^ It we suppose that the word '^earth^' is here
used to denote the world, as it was when Moses wrote,
then the expressions seem to convey the idea 0^ non-enti-
ty by a very felicitous description. No other idea can be
attached to them. Every material existence has some
form and some substance, and to be without either is to
have no material being. The other expression abyss, for
that is the meaning of the word translated "deep,^' conveys
the same vague, and undefinable idea of non-entity. None
of his terms favor the idea of a chaos.
But if we suppose that the word '^earW^ denotes the
world at the time referred to in the description, there is no
more countenance given to the idea of a chaos. The tarth
THEN was, for IT, by the terms of the supposition, is the
thing described. It was then without form and void, as a
house without arrangement and furniture. The building
was up, but it wanted inhabitants, and the means of their
accommodation. Such was "the earth, '^ strictly so called,
that is, the inorganic and inanimate globe, at its first crea-
tion. It sprung, at once, with its mineral nucleus, and
earthy strata, and watery floods, into being at the command
of God, or by the word of His power. The historical ac-
^eount which Moses gives of the successive six days work
1 Gen i. 2.
100 'i'HE SPIRIT OF GOD, CHAP. VI*
of creation^ if examined, will be found to relate not to the
production of the materials of the globe, but to the arrang-
ing of certain great portions of it, and subjecting it to
the laws by which it should ever afterwards be governed,
and to the creating of inhabitants, and endowing them with
life. In this work, all that pertains to the order, beauty,
and life of the material world, the Spirit of God is dis-
tinctly and formally announced by the historian, to have
been the great agent. Having given an account in general
of the creation of the body or mineral mass of the globe,
he proceeds to a detailed account of the creation of the
different tribes of animated being that inhabit it, and pre-
faces it with a distinct view of the agency of that great
Being who presides in this especial department. "The
Spirit of God," says he, "moved upon the face of the
waters."^
It was not a great and mighty wind, as some allege the
expression. Spirit of God, according to an Hebrew idiom
of speech denotes; because, upon the supposition of a
chaos, in which '^earth and air and water were \n one,**
there could have been no such thing. Nor is the cause at
all adequate to account for the crystalline phenomena of
the earth. Nor can it be reconciled with the mineral geolo-
gy that infers from these phenomena a confused mass of
ielementary principles, suspended in a vast solution—
a
chaotic ocean, whith, after an undcjinable series of ageSj
settled themselves. The agents which the mineral geologist
here introduces, are precipitation and crystallization, ac-
cording to certain laws of matter—the chemical laws of
affinity, of composition, and aggregation. Wind is not an
apt agent in this vast chemical laboratory, nor can it at all
be supposed to have prevailed, during the many thousand
years, which the mineral geologist finds necessary for
making a world. Wind possesses no creative power, nor
1 Gen, i. 2
CHAP. VJ. Ifli^ AL'JIIOR OF LIFE. 20^
power to dispose, and bring order out of confusion, vvbicn
tlie Spirit of God, of which JMoses speaks, certainly
did. Besides, the motion attributed to tlic Spirit of
God, does not, at all, accord with that of wind. It is self-
originated —a spontaneous motion of the agent itself. And
the Hebrew" word denotes, as has already been noticed,
that peculiar kind of motion —a gentle rising up and again
declining, which may be seen in the fowl that receives its
young under its wings to cherish and impart heat to them.
"The Spirit of God brooded npon^ the l^aco of the waters'^—
a very apt and beautiful figure employed by the historian,
to denote the agency of the divine Spirit in the production,
and communication of life, to the numerous tribes of ani-
mated creatures then brought into existence.
What is thus, in the very commencement of the sacreJ
scriptures referred, in general, to the immediate agency of
the Spirit, is attributed to the same, specifically, in differ-
ent kinds of life, distinctly enumerated. Thus Job, speak-
ing of his own animal life, recognizes his dependence for
its support, on the Spirit of God. He defines its period
to be 'Hvhile his breath is in him, and the Spirit of God is
in his nostrils."- Its origination, as well as that of his ra-
tional soul—of his whole compound being, he attributes to
the same great cause: "The Spirit of God hath made me,
and the breath (the Spirit) of the x\lmighty hath given
me life. "^ The Psalmist, too, refers his origin, and that
species of life, which he possessed before he breathed the*
air of Heaven, to the same Almighty Agent. It is the
Spirit ot God to whom he makes his appeal, when he says,
^'Thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in
my mother's womb; thine eyes did see my substance, yet
being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were
written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet
there was none of them."^ The production of the body
1 See page 14. 2 Job, xxvil. 3. :1 job. xxxiii. 4
4 Psalm cxxxix 13^ 1f^. compared ^rith v. 7.
102 'iHE SPIRIT OF GOD, cHAP. VI.
of our Lord Jesus Christ, is particularly ascribed to the
Spirit of Grod, which, although miraculously effected, nev-
ertheless devolved on Him, as the great agent who forms
and imparts life to, the animal nature of man. '^'The Holy
Ghost," said the angel to Mary, "shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee; there-
fore, that holy thing winch shall be born of thee, shall be
called the Son of God.''^
These facts throw some light on the account which Mo-
ses has given us of man's creation. After that God had
formed him ''of the dust of the ground, He hreathed into
his nostrils the breath of life (the spirit of lives) and he
became a living soul."^ The breath of life, or spirit of
lives^ here spoken of, is the Spirit of God, the author of
those different kinds of life, then commenced in the first
man. xind the distinctive appellation of spirit of lives,
is very appropriately given to the Spirit of God, because
he is the author of life in all its modifications. It is, cer-
tainly a very inapt metaphor to denote the mere inflation
of the lungs, by the introduction of atmospheric air. The
agency of God, in the production of what we denominate
life, is h<3re, undoubtedly, in the most formal and accurate
manner, recognized by the historian. That agency is by
the person of the Holy Spirit.
This explanation of the passage is corroborated by the
conduct and language of our blessed Saviour when introdu-
cing the wonders of his new creation, and they mutually
illustrate each other. The gift of the Spirit of God—some
extraordinary degree of His influence had been long pre-
dicted, as the principal characteristic of the evangelical
dispensation: and of the communication of this Spirit,
shortly before his ascension, the Redeemer gave a sym-
bolical annunciation. It was after His resurrection, on the
occasion of one of His visits to His disciples, that "He^
; L'lke. ;. 35. 2 Gen. v.f,
^jj^p. VI,
'^'"^ xS-UTIIOU OF LIFE. 103
breathed on them, and said, Receive ye the Holy GhostJ'^
Not that in His breath, or in the breath of the Almight>%
did literally consist the Spirit of God; nor, that at that
time, any miraculous or extraordinary power was bestowed
on them; but simply, that by this symbolical act He in-
tended, as God had done when He created man in the first
instance, to announce to His followers, distinctly, the
source of that new vivifying influence, which under the
gospel dispensation was as certainly, and as efficiently to
be exerted, as was the influence of the spirit of life when
man became a living soul.
We are aware, that the phrase breath of life is under-
stood, by some commentators, to denote the different kinds
of life which man possesses, animal, intellectual, and spi-
ritual, and not to designate the Spirit of God. With them
however we arc constrained to disagree. That it is a dis-
tinctive appellation conferred on the Spirit, we think must
be apparent, from the consideration, that however true it
is that man is a compound being, possessed of difierent
kinds of life, yet the inspired writer seems only to regard
the life of Adam's animal nature, for he adds ^*man be-
came a living soul,"' that is, according to the import of
the original term, a living frame. The expression shew3
plainly, that regard was principally had to the animation
of Adam's body, and if so, the phrase the breath or sjnrit
of life becomes appellative, and designates the Spirit of
God, who is the great author of our animal life, as well as
of every other species of life, and is, on this account, some-
times explicitly called the sjririt of life, or, literally ren-
dered, the spirit of lives.
1 John, XX. 22.
2 Gen. ii. 7, NEPHESHhas various signification. In Lev. xi. 10; it evident-
ly denotes a mere corporal existence—significat propria id quo animal vivit
et velut primario instrumento agit, quod caique in suo genere agere conve-
mt^Roh'^U. Th.es. j). 607.
104 THE SPIRIT 01' GoD, oHA?. Vi
But we have still more satisfaclory proof of this. From
the testimony of Job, of David, and of Moses, we have
shewn, that the life of viands animal nature is produced
by the Spirit of God. He is also distinctly recognized,
and asserted to be the author of life in all its numerous
varieties. On this subject, we think the scriptures afford
proof sufficient to satisfy every reasonable inquirer. No
one certainly can demand, or expect, that, inasmuch as
they are not intended to furnish us with a system of zoology,
tliey should enter into minute details, and assert of this
and that particular mode of existence, that its life is origina-
ted and supported by the Spirit of God. If we can discover
that it is true in relation to several different classe.?
of animated being, we may with certainty, infer it
to bo true in relation to all. But when we explore the
scriptures, we shall be surprised to find such a vast mass of
information in natural history, that very interesting de-
partment of human science, in a book by no means design-
ed to serve the purpose of mere scientiiic dissertations.
The natural history involved in the bible has given birth
to numerous and valuable scientific works. What a mass
of facts, and what glowing descriptions do we meet with
in the book of Job. We shall not cite them, but refer
the reader to that beautiful ode the 104th Psalm, which
gives as rich a sketch, as it opens an extensive range in
natural history. It com.mences with a view of the forma-
tion of the heavens, and of the foundations of the earth, as
ordered by that illustrious Being whose glory in impas-
sioned strains it extols. It introduces to us the highest order
of living creatures, the ministering angels of God. It un-
veils the whole of that stupendous system of veins and
arteries, if we may so call them, by which the waters cir-
culate through the body of the earth, and preserve it from
putrescence and decay. Aerial, terrestrial and marine ani-
mals, with the whole kin^-dom of ve2;etable life, crowd in
CHAl'. VI. Aii^ AUTHOR OF LIFE. 105
upon our view, with here and there a prominent or con-
spicuous species. And the whole Psalm concludes with a
distinct avowal of the Spirit of God as the great author of
this teeming and endless variety of life. ^'Thou sendest
forth thy Spirit, tliey are created, and thou rcnewest the
face of the earth. ''^
No further, nor any more explicit proof can he desired.
The seraph, glowing in the full ardor of Jehovah^s glory,
is as absolutely dependent for his life, on the agency of the
Spirit of God, as is man, formed of the dust of the ground.
Nor does dependence cease here. He is the great opera-
^tive and efficient agent tliat quickens, sustains and promotes
the life oi all—from man, the image of his maker, to the
invisible animalcule. "The eyes of all wait on Him, and
He giveth them their meat in due season. He openeth
His hand and satisfieth the desire oi ever^y living thing.^^^
What a charm does this fact give in the christian's eye to
the whole subject of natural history! With what a rich
zest of spiritual enjoyment too may he pursue its study! In
all that contributes to the beauty, and order of the inorganic
kingdom, whether he looks into the air, the v/aters, or the
earth, he may trace the footsteps of the blessed Spirit of
God, the Comforter^ who dwells in his own heart. It was
under impressions of this sort, the holy Psalmist, as he lay
by his flocks in the open air, gazing on the vaulted heavens
and the unnumbered and innumerous worlds that sparkled
on his view, burst forth, in these expressions of amazement
and delight, mingled with the deepest self-humiliation:
*'When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers:
the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained; what is
man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man,
that thou visitest him?''^ It is indeed well calculated to
excite the most powerful emotions. As we roam through
the wide expanse of creation, and on fancy's rapid wings,
1 Tsalm, civ. 30. 2 Psalm, cxiv. 15, 16. 3 Psaim, viii. 3. 4.
14
106 THESPIBIT OF GOD, cHAP. VI.
visit world after world, and systems of worlds are seen
woven together, and all in harmonious motion, obeying
the Creator's will, and think, as we are authorized, both
from the word of the faithful God and the experience of
our own souls—this lofty Being, whose glory fills immen-
sity, dwells in the midst of us, has chosen Zion for his
holy habitation, yea takes up his peculiar and special abode
in our hearts, dwelling within us, walking with us, and
filling us with life and joy. Oh, how are we lost in wonder
and delight! As we sink into utter insignificance in our
own estimation, we feel an holy impulse within, that lifts
us up on high, and causes us to soar above the skies. How
exquisitely blissful is it, to hear the voice of this mighty
Maker of heaven and earth —of Him that thunders in the
sky, and roars in the tempest, and spreads to the utmost
verge of space—rebuking the elements, and marshalling
His universe, in sweetest, sofest accents of love, as from the
inmost and most retired recess of our spirits, accost and
comfort us, *'Fear thou not, for / am with thee; be not
dismayed, for /am thy God; /will strengthen thee ;
yea,
/ will help thee; yea, / will uphold thee with the right hand
of my righteousness,"^ Oh, there is a communion thus had
with Him 'Hhat created the heavens and stretched them
out,"' of which, the man, who views these things with
merely a philosophic eye, can form no idea. The chris-
tian may *'joy in the Holy Ghost" when he gambols o'er
creation.
And when we look into the minuter wonders of organized
bodies, and scan the delicate organs, and admirable texture
of vegetable beings, or the almost miraculous functions of
animal life, and survey the mechanism of our own bodies,
how "fearfully and wonderfully" we are made; and the im^
mortal energies of our minds—how lofty are their aspira-
tions? who is not ready to exclaim,
1 Isaiah, xU. 10 2 Isaiah^ xlii. 5.
*;HAP. Vio THE AUTHOR OF LIFE. 107
Helpless immortal.'' insect infininite!
A worm! A God!—I tremble at myself.
And in myself am lost!
But every rising fear is hushed, and the heart is lulled to
rest, as we reflect; all these are but exhibitions which the
ever-living and operative Spirit makes of his wisdom, and
power, and benevolence. If our minds are overwhelmed,
and we feel lost, the heart rejoices to know, that we are
lost in God. We can pity while we fully comprehend the
feelings which led the more philosophic heathen^ to deify
the heavens, and the earth, and regard all life, as the soul
of the divinity, and bless and adore God, for that bright
and steady light of his word, which guides us through all
the mazes of nature directly to Himself. Every form of
life does indeed introduce to us a present God. We trace
the movements of that wonderous Being who in another
than the poet's sense,
Warms in the sun, refreshes in the breeze,
Glows in the stars, and blossoms in the trees.
Lives through all life, extends through all extent.
Spreads imdivided, operates unspent;
Breathes in our soul, informs our mortal part.
As full, as perfect, in a hair as hearty
As full, as perfect in vile man that mourns,
As the rapt seraph that adores and burns.
But it is in a much sublimer and more delightful aspect
the christian beholds Him, than that in which He is con-
templated in the cold and heart-chilling philosophy which
proclaims
All are but parts of one stupendous whole.
Whose body nature is, and God the soul.
However we may admire the production, we are not
satisfied unless we know something of its cause. It is but
1 Estne Dei sedes nisi terra et pontus, et aer
Et coelum, et virtus? Superos quid qucerimus ultra?
Jupiter e'st quodcunque vides quocunque moveris.
Lite. Phor. I 9v, 578 -
108 THE sripar of god, chap. vr.
cheating the mind and heart to present the effect as absor-
bed in, or as being part of the cause. Philosophy never
satisfies the heart;^ but guided by the scriptures, we pass
Irom every living thing directly to God the Holy Spirit,
the great vivifying agent; and in the agency of One, infi-
nite in wisdom, power and benevolence, we rest as a cause
most ample, and satisfactory to account for all that we ob-
serve. We apprehend His presence; but confound Him
not with His productions. We discern an intelligent Spirit
in all the living creation, breathing life into all as at the
first. And when the thought rolls in upon our minds it is
''in Him we live and move and have our being"—this
living and life-giving Spirit dwells in me, and sustains,
supports, strengthens and sanctifies all my powers. How
rich and ennobling is the delight!
Let no one then say, that our ideas, of God, and of his
government of grace, and of the method of salvation through
the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, His son, who died the
just for the unjust, and the renewing and sanctifying
influence of His Spirit, shut out from our view the beau-
ties of creation, and render the heart insensible to their
charms. Redemption is indeed a loftier theme, and the
wonders of redeeming love do indeed surpass the whole
grandeur of creation. But the introduction, as. is done in
the plan of redemption, of an ever-present and operative
agent in the person of God the Holy Spirit, to impart and
sustain life in all its endless varieties, who is the very
same that ministers to our highest and most ennobling life,
enables us, throughout the whole extent of what are so
sadly misnamed Nature's works, to hold communion with
living intelligence, and that in most endeared friendship.
1 Tliis has been inadvertently confessed by the great apostle of modern
infidelity, whose remark is as true in its full extent as in reference to the
particular circumstances of distractioii that induced it.
^'^I n' en tira ftus dss ktmicfesj ct t>* en Te<:ut aucura spul^gement,'^
CHAP. VI.
'1^'^^ AUTHOR OF LIFE. i09
Our God is not a vague abstraction. The study of nature
with such views promotes a blessed fellowship with Him,
and does not debauch the mind. With other views, it has
often led to atheism. Do we ask why? The reason is, that
scepticism and infidelity, which too often conceal them-
selves in science, and proudly arrogate its name, will not
apprehend an ever-present operative Deity. They attribute
to general laivs, what can only be referred to His imme-
diate agency, and thus they exclude from the view, and
thrust from the thoughts, the infinite, every-where present
God. Like thoughtless, inconsiderate children, they play
about the threshhold, but enter not into the palace, to hold
communion with the king. The blessed Spirit of God,
who dwells wherever life is found, is not known, and the
2-nind wanders as through a desolate and dreary universe.
Take God from nature, nothing- great is left;
Man's mind is in a pit, and nothing sees;
Man's heart is in a jakes and loves the mire.
CHAPTER VIL
THE NATURE OF LIFE.
The difficulty in arriving- at a correct idea of Life—Our ignorance of the
essence of matter—The reason of our belief in its reality—False use
made of this mode of reasoning-—General classification of substances
—
Different opinions of the general nature of life—Not the play of chemi-
cal affinities—Nor the mere properties of sensibility and contractility^
Definition of Life—Difference between mineral and vital org'anization
—
Between mere motion and vital action—Life does not consist in the mu-
tual action of bodies on each other—The meaning of organization—Life
not organization—Not ^property—Not a state—Not 2i principle—Gen. ix.
4—Lev. xvii. 11 —But a series of relative actions appropriate to the de-
sign of the Creator in the individual being.
If life, as has been shewn in the former chapter, is the
result of the Spirit's agency, we may expect some difficul-
ty in attempting to arrive at a correct idea of it; for there
is mystery in all His operations. Some things pertaining
to it, will, doubtless, remain forever inaccessible to human
research; but we may, nevertheless, approximate it in
some general idea of its nature. This is perhaps all we
should attempt. But in order to this, it will be necessary
for us to institute a careful examination into the whole sub-
ject of Life. Like all other terms used in spiritual mat-
ters, it is oris^inally taken from material objects, and by
virtue of some assumed analogy between them, becomes a
fit representative of what we cannot subject to the scrutiny
of our senses. And, doubtless, much of the confusion and
perplexity in which this subject is involved, arise from a
disposition to transfer our philosophy in matters of sense,
and the sciences dependent on material things, to those of
morals and the mind.
Wp nrp is^norant of tho essence of nuaffer in all its com-
CHAP. VII. ™E NATURE OF LIFE. m
binations. It is only by inference that we can prove its
real existence: for, those things, which strike our senses,
and which contribute, so essentially, to our idea of any
body, such as shape, color, texture, weight, solidity, and
the like, are mere properties, not the body itself. We
feel, that we may legitimately infer the existence of some
substratum, in which these, or other properties are com-
bined. To this we give the name of matter, and talk of
it with the utmost confidence, as a thing really existent;
for we cannot easily persuade ourselves, that the great
Creator would have communicated to us such organs of
sense —been at sych pains to prepare their complicated ma-
chinery, and adapt them to the mere purpose of reporting
falsehood. The common-sense of mankind will not tole-
rate a doubt on this subject.
He that denies the existence of matter, is thought to be
bordering on derangement. Yet some have doubted, and,
with no little acuteness of reasoning, denied that there is
a material world. The apostle says, '^hy faith we under-
stand (but not by reason) the worlds \vQ\:ef
rained by the
word of God; so that things which are seen were not
made of things which do appear."^ With such proof of
the reality of matter, we can rest satisfied and allow our-
selves to think and speak of it, though our knowledge of
it extends no further than to its properties. This mode of
reasoning has been applied to the subject of life, and it
lias been thought perfectly conclusive as to the reality of
its essence. That there is a subtle material principle
which is the cause of those phenomena to which we give
the name of life, has been inferred from the existence of
w^iat have been called vital properties. Whether this is a
correct mode of speaking, in reference to the vital pheno-
mena, will appear in the course of this chapter.
All material substances may be divided into two general
1 Heb. xi. 3,
112 'HIE NATURE OF LIFE. CHAP. Vlio^
classes. They are eitlier animate or inanimate
—
living or
dead. The latter exhibit certain physical properties,
and are subject to certain physical laws: which things are
true of the former also, to a certain extent. Living bodies^
however, exhibit what are sometimes called properties too,
but of a different kind, and which often seem to be in con-
trast with those of dead matter. These supposed proper-
ties are sometimes termed lifp, at others the vitalforce,, or
the vital properties and powers. By some it has been de-
scribed as an effect, produced by the action of certain im-
pelling causes, and to be nothing but ^forced stale of ex-
istence—the result of organization. By others it has been
called a cause, itself controuling organization. The reader
will at once perceive hov^r perplexed and intricate is the
theme of this chapter. It is requisite, however, that we
attempt to unravel it.
We perceive a scries of phenomena having a constant
relation to each other, and succeeding each other in a con-
slant and uniform order: as, for example, in the animal
frame, we discover the various processes of respiration,
circulation, nutrition, secretion, digestion, growth, &c.
We give the name of life to these phenor?2ena, and freely
admit that there is an agency of the Spirit of God, the
great author of life, in their production, which we never
can comprehend. It "is in God we live and move and
have our being.''
Some, indeed, have endeavored to soh^e the phenomena
of life, and tlie theory of elective affinities among the
molecules or elementary parts of living bodies, has been
supposed satisfactory. But the fact is, that the vital phe-
nomena, and the chemical affinities, are direct antagonists.
We perceive the fair and beauteous form of lovely woman.
What graceful movements! What generous warmth! What
delicate organization! What exquisite sensibilities! All
combine to constitute a most fjscinating ^ovm- The cheeks
CHAP. VII.
'^"^ NATURE OF LIFE. 113
are crimsoned with a ruby blush. The eyes are brilliant
with the fires of genius, or sparkle with the animation of
delio-ht, or dazzle with the lustre of thought, or shed the
mild rays of love. The countenance beams with intelli-
gence, or glows with passion, and the soft tones of sympa-
thizing tenderness drop in mellifluous accents from the
rosy lips; —can these be the mere play of chemical affinities?
They spring from some vastly superior cause. For let but
death intervene;—in an instant sense and motion cease. A
clammy coldness takes the place of generous warmth
—
beauty gives way to hideousuess—the eyes lose all their
lustre, and, with a frightful glare, shrink into their
sockets^the mouth stands horribly gaping, and emits a
foetid odor—a livid hue creeps upon the crimson cheeks,
and ruby lips—the flesh becomes blue, then green, then
black, and the once elegant and voluptuous form evaporates
in infectious exhalations, or dissolves into a putrid sanies,
and leaves but a handful of earth and dust. It is death
which awakens the elective affinities, and they rapidly ac-
complish the disorganization, dismemberment, and dissipa-
tion of the whole frame.
<^The human body," says a medical writer,^ ^'maintains
a successful warfare with, and effectually resists the inces-
sant and combined attack of all the forces of the elements,
often, for more than an hundred years, and then, when the
divine principle does at length retire and yield up its for-
tress, it is in consequence of subjection to a cause widely
different from that of being expelled by the triumphant
power of its assailants. But when the soul has once fled,
then, indeed, the chemical affinities come into play, and
the rapidity of their devastation is terrible. In a few days
all traces of organization are destroyed, and in a few years
two or three gaseous substances distributed through the at-
1 Dr. \yar.r!5 Introductot-v Lect.u-e.
15
114 THE NATURE OF LIFE. CHAP. VII.
mosphere, some saline solutions as widely diffused among
the waters of the earth, and a few particles of earthy mat»
ter, are all that remain of the proud fabric of man,"
The theory of sensibility and contractility, as constitut-
ing vital 7J?'o/?e?'//e,s, though apparently solving many more
of the phenomena of life, and much more satisfactorily than
that of the chemical affinities, will be found also to fail in
some important respects. What are called vital properties
may be distinguished into voluntary and involuntary. The
involuntary may be admitted as properties of matter, but
what are the voluntary? What is the will that creates the
difference? It is surely something different from the pro-
perties themselves: so that more is necessary to the solu-
tion of the phenomena of life, than merely to predicate
sensibility and contractility of particular modifications oT
matter, and to make life consist in them.
It is unnecessary to notice all the different theories of
life. Each one has had its admirers and its day, but has
given place in due season to some more imposing and
successful rival; so that, at this hour, notwithstanding all
the discoveries that have been made with regard to the
more hidden operations of nature, the subject of life re-
mains exceedingly perplexed. And we venture to assert
it will never be entirely extricated from this perplexity.
In general, theories on the subject have been partial, com-
prehending but a small portion of the innumerable varie-
ties of life. In treating of such a general subject, it will
not do to refer its origin to particular causes which apply
only to one, or at most, to few species.
We have already traced the origination of life to God
the Holy Spirit, the common fountain of all animated be-
ing—the unit of this interminable series. Not presuming
to search the mind of the Spirit, nor to know how He exerts
His energies, we are content to remain ignorant of life in
CHAP. VII. THE NATURE OF LIFE. H5
SO far as it is connected with His agency, and believe that
its precise nature is beyond the reach of human scrutiny
and cannot be subjected to the investigation of human fa-
culties.
Yet is it of importance, as far as it is practicable, to have
precise ideas on the subject, and not be liable to the charge
of utter and absolute ignorance. Life is a term which is in
every one's mouth, and a thing, of which every one, at first,
is disposed to think he has sufficient knowledge: but when
asked to define it, who does not find himself greatly at a
loss? Some definitions are too limited —others too general.
Some describe only particular modifications of it—others
generalize too much. It is not presumed that, on a subject
where so much time and thought have been expended, we
should have any thing new to communicate, or be more
successful in attempting to give a definition of life. We
feel that the utmost we can do is merely to approximate
the truth. We hope none will accuse us of vanity, if we
venture to define it, and say that
II. LIFE CONSISTS IN THE REGULAR SERIES OP RELA-
TIVE APPROPRIATE CHARACTERISTIC ACTIONS IN AN INDI-
VIDUAL BEING.
INIotion of some sort is essential to our i dea of life. Mere
organization —understanding by this term the regular ar-
rangement of the particles composing any body, so as to
give it its specific character—does not imply life. The
whole mineral kingdom is subject to certain determinate
rules, according to whichj the particles in any mineral sub-
stance are arranged ^xi^ associated—in some assuming the
form of cubes, in others of rhomboids, in others that of
a six'sided prism terminated by twelve scalene triangles,
and in others of a different dodecahedron with pentagonaj
faces.
None, nor all of the innumerable phenomena of crys-
•tallij^ation, presuppose or suggest the idea of life. The
116 'fHE NATURE OF LIFE. cHAP. Vil.
particles that compose minerals are at rest, maintaining,
except when subjected to external violence their relative
positions. Whatever motion among them is'excited by
solvents or in the crystallizing process, is referred to the
play of chemical affinities, without the idea of vivification;
so that all motion does net imply life.
Neither does that motion which is simply appropriate to a
body convey this idea. The whole planetary S3'stem is kept
in perpetual motion, exhibiting to the eye of the astronomer
the amazing phenomena of gravitation, but life is not predi-
cableofMe^e motions.
Even what may be termed the actions of bodies, do not
always imply the existence of life. One object acts upon
another, and produces certain motions, and this action,
with its corresponding motions, is as various as the differ-
ent species of attraction whose phenomena arrest the eye
of the natural philosopher. The asceiit of water by capil-
lary attraction, the motions of the magnetic needle, the
electrical excitement. &c.,do not not convey the idea of
life.
- The motions of which we predicate life, are confined to
bodies of peculiar structure, those only which, strictly
speaking, possess organization. By organization here we
understand the combination and union of solid and fluid
matter in a state of perpetual action, tending to the pre-
serving of an individual being, and its reproduction. In
the primary and more popular sense of the term organiza-
tion, it is synonymous nearly with that of arrangement,
conveying the idea of some juxta-position of the parts of a
body as visible to the eye, and depending simply upon the
mechanical structure of its particles. In another and higher
sense, it denotes a system composed of parts, possessing
appropriate powers and functions essential, or at least con-
ducive to the existence and preservation of the whole.
These different parts, are called organs, each having its
CHAP. VII. '^^^^ NATURE OF LIFE. 117
specific mode of action, but all combining to resist external
violence, and promote the well-being, and perpetuate the
existence, of the individual being or system uniting
them. It is of these series of varied and relative actions
that we predicate life.
Whether organic action, or tlie actions ' appropriate
in an organized being, be life itself, or the result of life, is
a question that has agitated and divided physiological in-
quirers. It is of some moment, in order to understand and
ascertain the correctness of our definition of life, that we
should determine whether it is the result of organization,
or a principle having a primary and controling influence
on organization itself, or the totality of that series of ac-
tions or motions observable in an organized bod}^ This
differs from the inquiry whether life is dependent on or
connected with organization. We can conceive of organi-
zation and life being so connected, that the destruction of
the one must secure that of the other, and the one cannot
exist without the other, and yet of their being entirely dis-
tinct. But while we distinguish carefully between them,
we cannot be legitijnately accused with maintaining that
life is itself an essence involved in organization.
If life be not identical with organization, it must be either
^j)^'operty^ cr a. stfftc, or 2i principle, or a series ofactions
and motions. It is not a property of organization, for
it will be admitted that death eventuates where organiza-
tion is yet perfect. Perhaps it is preferred, to represent
life under the idea of a state, and to describe it as that
state of an organized body, in which there is eventuating
a process of characteristic actions. We must confess that
we are less inclined to object against this view of its nature
than the former ; but still we deem it objectionable, because
however it might do in common parlance, it is not phi-
losophically correct to call it a state, when it is more
properly that which characterizes (he stnfp or condition.
118 'I'HE NATURE OF LIFE. CHAP. VII.
If it be said tiiat it is di principle, we must inquire what
is meant by the term in this connection. We use the ex^
pression, commonly, to denote something which has a
determining or regulating influence on action. This is its
meaning in morals, and thus we speak of faith, hope, and
love as principles of human action, which, though a vague
phrase is well enough understood to denote the determining
or regulating influence on human conduct exerted by abelief
of testimony, an expectation of good, or an approbation of
excellence —all of them feelings, which incite the voluntary
being to action. We should not therefore make any very
serious objections to the use of the phrase '^a principle of
life,^' in this general moral sense. But when we speak of
animal life, and use the term principle in relation to
it, as designating something which has a determining or
regulating influence on the actions of the animal, or is their
original, if we mean any thing very precisely and do not
speak altogether in a vague sense, we must mean to desig-
nate some essence^ some 7^eal substance which has power
to originate action, or is their appropriate cause. For the
existence of such a substance or essence some have zealously
contended, while others have as zealously denied it.
The arguments in support of the Idea, that life is an es-
sence or substance do not appear conclusive. They are
generall}^ drawn from our ignorance, or from analogy, or
from scriptural expressions. An example of each may suf-
fice. Dr. Copland remarks, ''we are not contending for
the existence of a principle which is material according
to the received notions repecting matter. ^^ This is un-
questionably taking refuge in ignorance.
The argument from analogy is little better. '-If we are
not furnished with powers adequate to the detection of life
in its essential form, does it therefore follow there is no
such thing? It would be just as correct for the blind man
f.o .deny the existence and materiality of light, because he
£11 AP. ?1I. 'A'^^^ NATURE OF LIFE. 119
had no delicately formed organ of vision by which to dis-
eern it, as it is to conclude that life is not an essence, be-
cause we have no sense so delicately formed as to discern
this more sublimated form of matter." Yet does not this
prove that there is such an essence or substance as is con-
tended for by some who denominate life &. principle.
Nor does the language of scripture when fairly interpre-
ted, afford more in support of it. It is true that God
prohibited the use of blood for food^ assigning as a reason
that "in the blood is the life thereof," which circumstance
has been supposed conclusive as it regards the fact of life's
being an essence. We can understand the declaration in
these words, and the design of God in making it, without
resorting to the supposition, that life is a principle per
se, or essence. The words of God are, "But flesh with
the life thereof, [which is] the blood thereof shall ye not
eat."i The words, "ivhich is,'' in brackets, are supplied
by the translators, and the construction of the original
would seem to exhibit the injunction as prohibiting men
from cruelty, in taking a piece of flesh from a living animal
for food. But if this interpretation be rejected,, neither the
declaration in this verse, nor in the parallel one in Leviti-
cus, will sanction the idea that the blood involves any
essence which is life per se. Indeed the latter passage
favors the idea for which we contend. "The life of flesh is
in its blood,"^ is an assertion equivalent with this, that the
blood of an animal is the basis and nourishment or sup-
port of its life, which is physiologically true. The authori-
ty and name of Dr. Hunter, and his theory on the subject
of the blood having life in itself, do not shake our confi-
dence in the plain common-sense interpretation of the
words of scripture. We subjoin a note which we must
take the liberty of saying is a fair specimen of that sort of
obscurity which invariably attaches to their specuhtion?^
1 Gen. ix. 4. 2 Lev. svii. U-
120 A'HE NxVTURE OF LIFE. CHAP. VII,
who make life to consist in an essence or principle anterior
to and irrespective of those actions and motions appropriate
to the being in which they are found.
^
When Paul speaks of man as compounded of ^'bod)', soul
(or life) and spirit/^^ we can very well understand his ex-
pressions without supposing that he meant to teach us, that
life is an essence, and exists in man distinct from those ac-
tions and motions which are appropriate to the great de-
sign of God in his construction. Universally, mankind
instinctively conceive the idea of death, and that imme-
diately when absolute quiescence takes place in any organi-
eal existence. Syncope, and hybernation, and some other
affections of animal existence, may cause an approximation
to a state of absolute quiescence, and that so near as to ren-
der it difficult, by mere inspection, to ascertain whether
all the processes or motions in which consists the life of the
animal have absolutely ceased or not, but physiological
researches have proved that they do not. Paul, whatever
may be said about his Grecian philosophy, appropriately
distinguishes between the '^body,^^ or the bone and mem-
brane which form as it were the vegetable basis of our
being, the (^^souV^) or life, all that relates to spontaneous
motion or sensation, which is properly our animal exist-
ence, and the ^^spirif,^^ the deathless soul, which is the
intelligent percipient nature superadded. There is nothing
1 "When all the circumstances attending" this fluid," says Dr. Hunter,
*«are fidly considered, the idea that it has life within itself may not appear
so difficult to comprehend; and, indeed, when once considered, I do not see
how it is possible we should think it to be otherwise,- when we consider,
that every part is formed from the blood, that we grow out of it, and if it
has not life previous to this operation, it must then acquire it in the act of
forming-; for we all give o'.ir assent to the existence oflife in the parts when
once formed. Our ideas of life have been so much connected with org-anic
bodies, and principally those endowed with visible action, that it requires a
new bent to the mind, to make it conceive that these circumstances are not
inseparable.
—
Hunter on the Bloody pari 1. c. 6., p. 58-
2 i Thes. '% 23.
CHAP. VII.
"^'^^ NATURE OF LIFE. 121
in the phraseology of scripture to sanction the idea, that
life is a principle of itself, if the phrase is to be literally
understood, and is not metaphorically used. God is said
to have life in Himself, yet we cannot think there is in
Him a vital principle distinguishable from His own holy
volitions and actions, nor can we admit it, in reference to
the human soul, and we see no reason why we must believe
it to be a substance or essence in the human body distin-
guishable from the actions that are appropriate in it. The
Stahlian doctrine, which makes the rational soul the vital
principle in the human body, renders the language of scrip-
ture unmeaning and tautological, as well as introduces con*
fusion into the whole subject of vitality.
We are therefore compelled to adopt the last supposition
which indeed is most accordant with the common-sense,
and the ordinary parlance, of men, that life consists in a se-
ries of actions and motions, appropriate to the design of
the Creator in the formation of the individual being in
which they are found. It is unnecessary for us to apply
the definition, in any minute details, in order to ascertain
its truth. But we would simply inquire, when we say a
tree has died, in what consisted its death? Not in the
destruction of the essential substance of the tree, nor in the
absence of all motion whatever in it, for there takes place
the process of putrefaction or decay; but simpl}^, that there
is the cessation of the circulating and assimilating processes
necessary for the sustenance and growth of the tree. Does
not its life then consist in that series of relative actions and
motions appropriate to the design of the Creator in making
it? In what, we would inquire, consists animal death?
It is not in the destruction of the essence of the animal
frame, nor in the cessation of all action and motion, for
the process of decomposition is carried on in it. But the
sensations and spontaneous motions appropriate to the d^-
16
122 '^'HE NATURE OF UFE, CHAP. VII.
sign of the Creator in the formation ot the animal, have
ceased. And hence our idea of its life is easily inferred.
As to the life of the intellectual man—the life of the
thinking and percipient spirit, the reader will have discov-
ered that we understand it to consist in those actions ap-
propriate to the design of the Creator in its original consti-
tution. We reserve for another place the illustration and
confirmation of this view of its nature.
CHAPTER VUI.
THE CHARACTER OF THE SPIRIT'S
AGENCY.
•Whether the Spirit's agency in the production of life is immediate and con=
tinuous, or consists in the establishment of certain laws—Gen. ii. 1, 2:
Psalm cii. 21.—The creating and preserving agency of God not identi-
cal—Quotation from Boston—False assumption—Human language inca-
;pabie of representing the precise character of the divine agency-
Examples in illustration taken from the laws of natiu-e-Re-production
attributable to the Spirit's agency rather them to fixed laws—the infidel
objection against particular providence—Common sense of more value
m understanding this subject than atheistical philosophy—The false as-
sumption of the objection—Testimonies from scripture—Uses to be made
of the great truth confirmed in this chapter—To beware of impertinently
prying into the mysteries of the Spirit's agency—To learn how rich a zest
it gives to the providence of God—How it illustrates the fact of elec-
tion—And reminds us of the uncertainty of hfe, &c.
Perhaps it will be admitted, by some of our readers,
that life flows from the Holy Spirit's agency, while it i^
affirmed that His agency is not immediate; but only ex-
erted in the establishment of certain laws according to
which it is preserved and propagated. This starts a ques-
tion which has been ably handled by metaphysical writers.
Whether conservation be a continual creation, was the form
in which the question was once stated, it being contended,
on the one hand, that the same agency of God which
originally produced the material universe is necessary
every momerit for its preservation, so that if for one in-
stant it should be withheld, the whole creation must relapse
i'nto its primitive non-entitv;—while, on the other haodc
124 THE CHARACTER OF CHAP. VIII.
this was denied, by those who seemed to think that God^
when he originally created matter, endowed it with cer-
tain properties or powers which enabled it to preserve it-
self. We can see no reason for supposing that the one or
the other must necessarily be the fact.
The sacred scriptures certainly represent God as having
ceased at the close of the sixth day to exert his creative
power. *'Thus the heavens and the earth were finished
and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God
ended his work which he had made. •
"^
And the Psalmist
says, '^ Of old hast thou laid the foundations of the earth.
"^
The great reason or recommendation of the observance of
the Sabbath, is represented to consist in the divine exam-
ple in the work of creation —God operating six days and
then ceasing to operate, or resting, on the seventli. We
certainly, from these facts, must conclude that the agency
of God in creating, during those six days, was different
from that which he exerted on the seventh. Yet, it is
most true that God has an agency, in pj^eserving and sup-
porting all things which He has made. It does not how-
ever follow that the agency is of the same character. It is
the agency of the same Being, we admit, but differently
exerted ; for we do not concede, that the agency of God
can only be exerted in positive creative acts, which we
must believe if we identify creation and conservation.
In one of the posthumous works of that excellent dir
vine, Mr. Thos. Boston, he has undertaken to shew that
these things are the same, and by the following mode of
reasoning: ^' There is no necessary connection betwixt the
creature's moments of duration: Ergo, ^o.. It follows not
because I am this moment, therefore I shall be the next,
for so I should be an eternal necessary Being, which is
proper to God." But although we admit his first position
it does not follow that every successive act of God in sus^
1. Gen ii. 1,2. ?. Psfxlms en. 26.
€HAP. VIII,
1^"^ SPIllIT'S AGENCY. U5
taining my being is a creative act. The following is a fair
sample of metaphysical sophistry: ^'Nothing can give
what it has not, we have not our being next moment:
Ergo, &G. Exception our being is still the same in all
moments. Jinswer. No otherwise than the water of Et^
trick is the same it was this morning. Those things which
may be separated are not the same; but my being in the
moment A, may be separated from my being in the moment
C, being annihilated in B, and created again in C. Now
there is the same reason of all. My being this moment is
necessary; for quicquid est quando est, necessario est;
my being next moment is not necessary, for I may be an-
nihilated: ergo, they are not the same."
The whole force of their reasoning who maintain that
creation and preservation are the same specific acts of
God, is derived from this assumption, that every positive
act of God is the same. We cheerfully admit that the up-
holding all things by the word of the divine power, is a
series of positive acts on the part of God ;
but does it
therefore follow there is a new creation springing into
being every successive moment? By no means. For can-
not God diversify his acts and agency ? Creation is the
result of one volition on the part of God, that volition
being accompanied with an exercise of his power. Pre-
servation, at any moment, is the result of another volition,
it being accompanied with another and correspondent ef-
fort of the divine power. If it seem inconceivable to us,
and beneath the dignity of the divine Being, to suppose
that he would be thus incessantly exercising His energies,
we must remember, that human language cannot express
accurately the fact in this case. We can have no idea of
the mode of the divine existence, which is not hy suc-
cession, but AN ETERNAL NOw: uor of the mode of the
divine operation, which is, and must be, in some other
way than according to the impulses of confimied distinct
126 THE CHARACTER OF cHAP.VIIl.
momentary volitions. What we therefore contend for,
is, that creating and sustaining agency on the part of God,
are different—the former being indeed instantaneous, but
the latter continuous, and both exerted in some mysterious
way, adapted to His own mysterious nature. In thus af-
firming we are not to be understood as making mere gratui-
tous assertions. For what, we ask, are the laws of nature
as they are ordinarily termed ?
We talk, of gravitation, of various species of attraction,
and of all the physical laws of nature, as of certain prop-
erties or powers inherent in different modifications of
matter themselves. But who does not feel, that this is
not satisfactory ? When we say that the load-stone attracts
iron, what do we mean? Do we mean that one piece of
inert matter operates spontaneously on another? Or,
that any material thing can have an influence, and effective
operation, beyond itself—that some substance at the mag-
netic pole operates on the needle, which oscillates in my
theodolite, hundreds and thousands of miles removed from
3t—that it can be in two different places at the same time t
Certainly not. Some indeed may attempt to explain
the influence of one material object on another, and va-
rious have been the theories to account for the magnetic,
electric, and galvanic, &c. energies which it is altogether
unnecessary to cite here; but, whether the laws of fluids
tending to an equilibrium resolvable into gravitation, or
any one of the meclianical powers, be made the means of
solving the phenomena, we must pronounce them all un-
satisfactor}^.
For, suppose that all the different modes of action ob-
servable among material substances be resolvable into grav-
itation, still we wish to know what is gravitation? Why
do all bodies tend towards the centre of the earth, and
mutually towards each other, according to their respective
densitips nnd volurn^'.'^ ? How does the sun. at 5uch ?n im-
CHAP. VIIl.
'1'*^^ SPIRIT'S AGENCY. I07
mense distance, operate on the earth to hold it in its orbit?
Who, on mere physical principles, can answer these ques-
tions satisfactorily ? To say that it is the p7'operfy of one
body, thus to affect, and another thus to be affected, is
raying just nothing. To say that God originally gave it
this property, and that it still possesses it by virtue of his
creative power, is saying no more. For the inquiry is
how one piece of matter, destitute of spontaneity and in-
tellio;ence. can operate without the sphere of its own ex-
istence?
We may labour and theorise forever, but shall never be
able to solve satisfactorily the phenomena produced by the
regular action of what are termed the laws of nature, if
we exclude the agency of God—the prime mover, the first
cause, the supreme intelligence, the only independent
Being. It may do in the structure of a dramatic poem to
observe the rule of the poet,
Nee Deus intersit nisi, nodus
Vindice judex
—
—but if we exclude the agency of God in the support of
material things around us we cannot proceed one step, tiil
we are lost in utter and inextricable perplexity. Although
we may not be able to understand the precise mode of that
agency we attribute to God, yet we feel, that an adequate
cause is assigned, in ihQ fact of such agency: for all the
effects we observe to be transpiring and the diversified modes
of His agency, only serve to give us a more exalted idea
of his power and resources. To say, that the continuity
of that agency militates against the dignity of His charac-
ter, is altogether a mistake, for with God there is no suc-
cession. **One day is with the Lord as a thousand years,
and a thousand years as one day," so that, inasmuch as
eternity with Him is an ever-present now, if v;e attribute
to him at any one period of our existence, any particular
agency, we need not fear^ that we &hall derogate from bis
128 THEOHAKACTER OF cHAP. VIII.
dignity, if we believe that agency to be continuous through
the whole, and by a like mode of reasoning, of all other
things.
These remarks may prepare the v/ay for a reply to the
inquiry from which we have digressed, whether the Spirit's
agency, in the production of life, consists merely in an ef-
fort of creative power at the commencement, introducing
all the different forms of life, which, by laivs then or-
dained, should have power to propagate themselves in all
varieties; or whether, there is still and continuously, an
agency of the Spirit for the preservation and support of
life. The laws of re production are indeed established, and
continual developemer.ts of life are conducted according
to them, and have been from the very first period of crea-
tion. The fishes, the reptiles, the feathered tribe, the ani-
mals, and man, were all created in the full vigour and
perfection of tlieir being, not in an embryo state ; and the
trees and herb:;, &:c. were all planted in the ground, after
they had been created, with the seed already formed, the
germ of future growths distinctly organized and ready ta
commence the evolutions of life in a new individual.^
But it does by no means follow from these admissions,
that the Spirit's agency ceased on the establishment of the
laws of re-production. The whole developing process
is under His immediate care. For, as what are called
the laws of nature, are but modes of the divine agen-
cy—different indeed from the creative energy, but as
real ; so the laws of re-production are but modes of the
Spirit's agency—different indeed from that originally
exerted in the formation of the first living creatures, but
not the less real. In the one instance, the agency is
direct, and the effect produced without the interven-
tion of means—in the other through the instrumentality
1. Gen. ij. 5-
CHAP. VIII. THE SPIRIT'S AGENCY. 129
of what are termed second causes. These causes derive
all their efficiency from the divine agency.
III. The developing process, however pursued,
IN THE PRODUCTION OP NEW LIVING BEINGS, OWES ALL ITS
EFFICACY TO THE spirit's AGENCY. He presides over
this immense and interesting; dej)artment of the Creator's
works. *'He giveth to all life and breath and all things."
That there is some divine care extended to the works
of the Creator's hands, must be admitted by all who ac-
knovvledge the truth of the sacred scriptures. Yet are
there not a few, who profess to believe, that the provi-
dence of God must be administered onli/ b^ general laws;
for to suppose that his care extended to the minute crea-
tures, and every individual form of life, and living substance,
they think would derogate from his dignity. They can con-
ceive of God's providence extending tu systems, or of its
being concerned in great signal revolutions in the affairs
of men, but as to any thing further they are incredulous,
" The first Alm'glity cause
** Acts not by partial but by general laws."
But these are vain and ignorant objections. They are
founded alike in ignorance of God and of his work. The
infidel admits the providence of God in general, that is,
it may extend to systems, and by general laws. But what
are systems? What too is here meant by general and 2?i-
dividual? Is there any being which is not a system with
respect to some others? Man unites in himself several.
One system of living beings is involved in another. The
whole creation teems with life, and where to begin, or
where to end, in our researches, we know not. In fact
there is no such thing as absolute magnitude save in God.
All greatness, of which we have knowledge, is relative.
We estimate the magnitude of one object by comparing it
with another. And shall we adopt a standard of our own,
and extend or restrict the agency of God according to out
17
ISO THE CHARACTER O? CHAP, vm.
decisions as to what is great or small? There is a world
in the worm on which we tread, and yet our earth, thfi
sun and planetary worlds^ are but a point compared
with
Orb above orb ascending without end !
Circle in circle without end enclosed !
The eye of the astronomer peers through immeasurable
and uncomprehended space, and losing sight of earth, and
its associate worlds, he exclaims in utter overwhelming
amazement,
What extent! What swarms
Of worlds, that laugh at earth ! Immensely greats
Immensely distant from each other's spheres,
What then the wond'rous space through which they roll
''
At once it quite ingulphs all human thought:
*Tis comprehension's absolute defeat.
If then the agency of God extends to systems only^
where shall it begin ? And where shall it end ? But how
5hall the whole system be preserved, if the different parts
are neglected? The truth is the objection is altogether a
rash one, and if it be carried out, and the principle be fully
admitted, that individual beings are too low for God to
notice, we must land in Atheism. For if it be beneath
Him to preserve it is equally beneath Him to create. Let
the objector who perhaps is not prepared to run with his
objection to this extent, but who scoffs at the idea of God's
care over the individual parts of his creation, tell us why
He made a flea or even a philosopher. The whole force
of the objection lies in this absurd assumption, that small
things have a power to preserve themselves, and need no
particular care and agency of God, but that great things
have not.
It is rather singular that human pride should have be-
trayed itself so completely! The real secret, however, of
all this opposition to God's intimate concern with the
things of this world, is not, that these men have in reality
CHAP. VIII, THE SPiniT^S AGENCY. 131
any greater reverence for the Divine Being, nor that they
are more jealous of his honour than others, nor that they
do design to exalt his character and excellence. Far from it;
but because they do not ^* like to retain God in their know-
ledge. "^ It is rather an unwelcome and painful thought that
He is ever and every where present, ''beholding both the
evil and the good." Therefore they endeavour to impose
on their own consciences, and persuade themselves, with
the old Epicureans, that He has withdrawn from the
earth, and left, v/ith all his creatures, what is called a
plastic nature, to regulate and preserve them. Thus, for
ease of mind they take refuge in practical Atheism, and
dignify it with the name of philosophy. ''The fool hath
said in his heart there is no God."^ " How doth God
know, and is there knowledge with the Most High."^
The Psalmist will be found right, for whatever system
men have devised, let them call it philosophy, or science,
or rationalism, or what they choose, if they exclude the
immediate cognizance, and care of God, from the affairs
of this world, and deny any concurring co-operative
agency on His part, giving efficiency to second causes,
it will be found on a candid and careful examination to
be mere folly. Common sense will discover absurdity
marked and glaring, where the jaundiced eye of the Atheis-
tical philosopher cannot detect it.
The idea does not seem to have entered the mind of these
infidel philosophers, that there can be any particular provi-
dence, on the part of God, without a miracle or departing
from the general laws of nature.
Shall burning ^tna, if a sage requires.
Forget to thunder, and recall her fires'
On air or sea new motions be imprest.
Oh blameless Bethel! to relieve thy breast.*
When the torn mountain trembles from on high,
Shall gravitation cease if you go by ?
1, Bom. i. 28. 2. Psalm xiv. 1. 3. Jlgalm kxiii- U-
132 THE CRARACTER OF cHAP. VIXI,
Thus ignorantly asks the unbeliever! But let us ask—
-
cannot God, previously, direct that the sage shall not re-
quire,norbeendangered by Etna's fires? Shall not his steps
be so directed, as not to pass by the trembling mountain? The
objection seems to take it for granted, that a particular
providence is a providence in emergencies which may
require the control or suspension of some established law.
But there are no emergencies with providence. ^'He work-?
eth all things after the counsel of His own will."^ *'The
steps of a good man are all ordered of the Lord."^ *'The
Lord knoweth the way of the righteous; but the way of
the ungodly shall perish.'" What men may purpose in
evil, God oft times means for good, as Joseph said to his
brethren, "But as for you ye thought evil against me, but
God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day to
save much people alive.
''^
The whole language of scripture teaches a steady and
efficient care and agency, on the part of God, in the preser-
vation of the world and its inhabitants. "Upholding all
things by the word of His power."^ ^'By Him all things
consist."^ "Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing, and
one of them shall not fall on the ground without your
Father."^ "In Him we live, move and have our being."*
These may suffice, and they are so plain as to need no
comment. The agency of God, and that continuousIt/,
in the support of ail things, is a fact most clearly asserted
in the sacred scriptures.
To God, in the person of the Spirit, we have already seen
belongsthe whole department of life, and it is therefore to His
continuous agency, that we are to attribute the preservation
of the vital functions and energies of all that lives. It was
to this Spirit^s agency that the Psalmist attributed his con=
1 Eph. i. 11. 2 PsaliTi, xxxvii. 23. 3 Psalm, i. 6
4 Gen. 1. 20. 5 Heb. i. 3. 6 Col. i. 17.
7 Mat. X. 29, 8 Acts, xvii. 28,
OHAP. VIII. 'i'HE SPIRIT'S AGENCY. 133~
tinuous growth in his mother's womb, and all his subsequent
existence. And it is directly in reference to this efficient
ever operative agency that he speaks when he exclaims
**Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? Or whither shall I
flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou
art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there.
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the utmost
parts of the sea; even there shall thy hand lead me, and
thy right hand shall hold me."^ Let us then cease from
useless inquiry. "Our life is hid with Christ in God.''^
We need never expect to unravel the mysteries of His
agency in its production or perpetuation, nor to understand
its nature. How he operates and excites the different parts
and faculties of our being, and preserves them in appro-
priate action it were folly for us to inquire. That His
agency however is directly and continuously exerted in
relation to those characteristic actions which constitute the
phenomena of life, is a truth plainly taught in the word of
God. There is nothing to sanction the idea, that his
agency consists merely in ordaining the laws, which are to
regulate those actions, or in creating an essence or princi-
ple per se, which is the immediate cause of the phe-
nomena.
Here for a mom.ent let us pause. We feel as if we owed
the reader some apology for the train of remarks into
w^hich we have fallen. They are designed to prepare the
way for an illustration of one of the most interesting facts
developed in the plan of redemption, viz., the regenera-
tion of a sinner. It is the important use we intend to
make of them, that must be our apology for attempting to
define life, and illustrate the definition of it. The highest
authority has required us to *'prove all things,'' and al-
though such proof be not the reason of our faith, yet for
1 Psalm, cxxxix. 7—10. 2 Col. iii, 3.
134 1'HE CHARACTER OF CHAP. VIII,
full confirmation in the faith of an essential fact, and doc-
trine, we have allowed ourselves to take an extensive range
in our investigation, being thoroughly persuaded that there
will be nothing tGund,in the kingdom of grace, at war with
the great and fandamental principles established in the
constitution of nature; and that they who reject, and treat
with ribaldry this important scriptural tenet, as being mys-
terious or absurd, acta most unphilosophical part, and shew
that they know not of what they speak, nor whereof they
a-ffirm.
We cannot, however, dismiss the topic which has in this
chapter engaged our attention without adverting to some
salutary uses which in our daily walk may be made of it.
If life, in all its varieties be the effect of the Spirit's agency;
then let us beware how we attempt, with rash and impious
hand, to draw aside the veil in which He has inwrapped the
mystery of His operations. It has sometimes affected us
with the greatest astonishment, to see how presumptuous
and self-confident have been the philosophic inquirers who
have looked into this subject. They have discovered a few
phenomena of life merely, and ventured to proclaim, that
they could unravel all its mysteries. If observation and
experiment were conducted with a view to ascertain facts,
it would be well; but it, when one or two circumstances of
life are discovered, men proudly presume that they under-
stand the whole subject, and lose sight of God the fountain
of all life, they are greatly to be pitied. Thus to hear men
talk of sensibility, and contractility, and irritability, and
other phenomena of life, may both interest and profit; but we
lose all confidence in the soundness of their judgment, when
they undertake to tell us that these things are the mere effect
of organization, and not dependent on the Spirit of God.
They assign a cause totally inadequate to account for the
effect. We object not to the minutest, and most curious
scrMtiny, Let us push our investigations as far as possible;
THE SPIKIT'S AGENCY. 135
but when we reach the boundaries of human knowledge,
where the wonder-working God inwraps His operations in
the mystery of His own being, let us, with adoring minds
fall prostrate at His feet, and acknowledge his infinite wis-
dom and almightiness.
Let us also learn from the same general fact of the Spirit's
intimate agency in the production and support of life, what
a rich zest it gives to the providence of God. The poor
heathen thought that Go4 had withdrawn from earth and
left things here to direct themselves, or, not feeling satis-
fied with a God afar off, they attributed in all the extrava^
gance of their polytheism, a deity to every thing that lives
and moves. But thanks be to God for the revelations of
His word—while we adore Him, as in heaven the One
Infinite Supreme, we can recognize His presence on the
earth, and trace the operations of His Spirit in. ourselves,
and in every living thing around us. No dread fatality, no
unmeaning chance, no absent God affect us with dismay.
We see the directing and sustaining hand of God—of our
covenant God, in all that we sufi'er or enjoy, and can dis-
miss all fears, and painful anxieties and dread forebodings,
from our minds, being assured that He knows our way, and
directs our steps, so that with pacifying confidence we can
appeal directly to Himself, "Thou wilt guide (us) with thy
counsel, and afterward receive (us) to thy glory. "^
We may also notice how this general fact of the Spirit's
agency in the production of life serves to illustrate a doctrine
so very obnoxious to many, so little understood by those who
oppose it, but so unequivocally taught in the sacred scrip-
tures, viz., the doctrine of election. We use this term
because it is the technicality employed in the scriptures,
and generally by those who advocate or oppose it. But
we are not tenacious of terms. They are things, or facts
for which we contend. Miserable indeed are the contests
1 Psalm, Ixxiii. 24.
I3G 'I'HK CHARACTEH OF chaP. Mil.
which agitate the world, in which mere abstractions are
the occasions of strife. Infidel men denounce all theologi-
cal controversy as such, and many speculative and scientific
religionists afford them too much pretext for it, by their
**doting about questions and strifes of words whereof com-
eth envy, strife, railings, evil surmises, perverse dispu-
tings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth."^
Mere technicalities should be abandoned if they prove
the occasion of controversy, but the truth cannot be by
those that love it. He cannot certainly be accounted a
skilful defender of the truth, who finds it necessary al-
ways to make use of the technics of the schools.
If it be fact as declared by the best authority, even that
of God Himself, we must not only be bold in affirming it;
but it concerns us to see to it, that it has its appropriate influ-
ence on our character and conduct. Now by election in the
sacred scriptures, is meant nothing else than the actual
selection of a certain portion of men, from the great mass,
by their being made the subjects of a new species of life,
viz., spiritual life, and which is not possessed by the rest.
It is the actual exercise and display of God^s sovereignty/
in making believers alive from the dead, or quickening
them from the death of trespasses and sins, in which they
in common with all mankind were lying. What is this
but God's producing new life in individual cases?
And will you say that He shall not exercise His sover-
eignty in this matter? Then you must say that He shall
not exercise it at all in the production of life in a7iy form,
and that He is bound to confer the same kind of life ia
every instance. But how does this accord with the fact?
Is not the sovereignty of God remarkably displayed in His
production of life? He has not made His creatures all angels
nor all animalcules, all men nor all mules, all birds nor all
beasts, all insects nor all fishes, nor all of the different
1 1 Tim. vi. 4, 5.
CHAP. Vlli. THE SPIRIT^S AGENCY. 137
orders and classes of the same form, appearance or species,
and will you say, that in the production of spiritual life,
which is bringing the powers and capacities of rebellious
man into appropriate action and enjoyment, He shall not
consult His own good pleasure? As well might man
upbraid, and find fault with God, that he was not made
a seraph, or a toad that it was not made a philosopher, as
that thou, oh, 5zn72er, who hast no right to any thing what-
ever but the damnation of hell, shouldest upbraid God for
having made thy friend or nei2;hbor a subject of spiritual
life. When nothing as yet had been created, had not God
a right to produce whatever creatures he saw fit? Had non-
entity a claim,
'^
-vd n.'iy use such expr^ssiona, to be made
into anv parlinular creature? Much less has the sinner any
claim on God for spiritual life. Tne whole mass of men
with respect to this life are precisely in the condition of
non-entity with respect to being. Their situation is even
worse, if we may so speak, for if by wilful rebellion, they
act altogether inappropriate to the design of the creator in
their original formation. He certainly can be under no
obligations so to influence and affect them, as to bring them
to those actions and enjoyments which constitute the life
of one in favor and fellowship with God. And thus'the
apostle reasons on the subject, '*0 man who art thou that
repllest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him
that formed it, why hast thou made me thus? Hath not the
potter power of the same lump to make one vessel unto
honour and another unto dishonor?"^ No fact can be
more distinctly stated than this of God's sovereign will
determining the spiritual life or existence of the believer,
"Of His own will begat He us."^ *'Who were born, not of
blood nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man,
but of God. "^ This is election, and it is impossible for any
1 Rom. ix. 20, 21. 2 James, 1. 18. 3 John, i, 13.
IS
I3S THE CHARACTER OF cHAP, VUl.
one to deny the fact that believers are indeed elected of
God, who admit that they have received influences and are
brought to actions and enjoyments differing essentially from
unregenerate sinners.
We have assumed for the present the fact, that believers
are made the subjects of a new life, anticipating, for the sake
of illustrating a great doctrine of our faith, what we hope
to establish fully in the prosecution of this work, and what is
cordially admitted and zealously advocated by some who
nevertheless oppose and take alarm at the very thought of
election. The communication of spiritual life to believers
. is called election, because they as moral agents^ having been
previously existent,, are thus selected from the great mass
of mankind and made to differ from them. Predestination
differs from election only as it is the purpose of God before-
hand to do what in time he actually does, and whoso de-
nies the one must deny the other, or else maintain that God
has no purpose, and does not know what he intends to da,
till the very moment he does it, which is utterly at wai'
with the declarations of his word, which exhibits believers
as ''being predestinated according to the purpose of Him
who worketh all things after the counsel of His own
wilL"^
We cannot dismiss this interesting topic without noticing
how forcibly it reminds us of the uncertainty of life and the
necessity of being prepared for death. We have seen, that
all life depends on the good pleasure of God the Holy
Spirit, both as to its kind and continuance. Now it is
impossible for us to search the mind of God, and therefore
it must be impossible to determine the duration of our life.
Whether it may be his will to stop the current this hour,
or the next, or at a later period who can tell? Think not
frail dust! to say the organs of life must first be deranged or
decayed. If this be necessary, it can be done instanta-
1 Eph, i. IL
CHAP. VIII. ™^ ^P™'^'^ AGENCY. 139
neously. It has often been. But this is not necessary.
Life may cease and yet the organs remain entire. The
wheels of a mill will cease their revolutions the moment
you confine the water, their moving power, to its head.
So the moment the Spirit withholds His agency our life
shall cease. It will inevitably, although the organs may
remain entire. Boast not of health and vigour-your life
depends on God, and what He may choose to do this day
or to-morrow you know not. How utterly foolish there-
fore to neglect the interest of the immortal being, and at
any moment be unprepared for death! Can any such be
found? Ah me, their number is almost beyond the power
of computation. I see an immense crowd of triflers whose
eyes are fast closed, and yet are dancing on the brink of an
awful precipice. One and another are dropping fast from
their midst, while none perceive that their numbers are
diminishing. The warning voice is never heard, the shrieks
of falling companions die upon their ears, while all "drive
headlong towards the precipice of death." Oh, for a voice
like thunder to burst around them with terrific peals! Oh,
for an arm almighty to snatch them from the brink of ruin!
Reader, art thou a stranger to Christ and unprepared to
die? Thy breath is in thy nostrils, and thou knowest not
what a day or an hour may bring forth. Already dost thou
reel upon'the mountains of vanity, but mercy prevents thy
fall. Why trifle? Why an hour's delay, when the next
moment eternity may close around thee and envelope thee
forever in the horrors of despair. Fly to the Lord of Glory,
who gives the spirit of life, and resolve to live forever.
May that good Spirit save thy soul from death, and guide
thee from the brink of ruin to the realms of dayt
CHAPTER IX.
THE IMMATERIALITY OF THE HUMAI^
SOUI^.
The right understanding of a smner's regeneration requires a correct know-
ledge of m.ii'3 original nature—Scriptural account of the creation of
man—Gen. i. 26, 27: ii. 7—The image of God consisted not merely in
tlie spiritual nature of man, nor in his lordship over the creatures, nor in
his moral qualities peculiarly and exclusively, nor in any designed re-
presentation of the form and appearance, but in the three-fold character
of life united in one moral being—Inquiry as to what constitutes the life
of the rational soul of man—The immateriality of the soul does not pi'e-
vent us from all knowledge of it—All our knowledge of God analogical
—
2 Gor. xii. 4—The properties of the human soul not those of matter
—
Thought is not a qxiality of simple matter—Nor the result of chemical
action—Nor motion—Nor oi-ganic action—Nor a secretion of the brain
—
Nor a superadded quality of especial organization—Dr. Pi'iestly, Dr.
Hush, Mr Jefferson's false mode of reasoning—Priestley's argument based
on vague ideas of the properties of matter—Di . Cooper—Inconsistency of
the advocates of materialism—Thought and vibration distinct— Perception
and thought, acts, not qualities—Spec-men of sophistry-»No alleged inca-
pacity of spirit to act on matter a vahd objection against its existence
—
Two monstrous absurdities—Simple method of refuting the errors of the
materialist—The naturalist boimd to account for the imity of human con-
sciousness—Mfere mechanism totally inadequate to account for the phe-
nomena of thought—Objections met.
Having given a general definition of life, and shewn
that the Spirit of God is its immediate author and sustainer^
it becomes necessary,
IV. Before we can consistently and satisfacto-
BILY treat of the REGENERATION OF THE SINNER, TO
INQUIRE INTO THE PRIMITIVE FEATURES OF MAn's SPIRI-
TUAL NATURE-. We shall in vain attempt to examine a
TUE I MMATERIAl.lT Y, &^c. 141
CHAP. IX.
life Te-imparted- without some knowledge of it as origi-
nally given. Where shall we look for this knowledge with
such evident prospect of success, as to the first man when
he sprung into life, in all the perfection of his being, direct-
ly from the plastic hand of his great Creator?
'
The account given in the sacred scriptures of the original
formation of man, is brief, but nevertheless abundantly
satisfactory. That philosophy which rejects the light of
revelation can assign no satisfactory cause for the produc-
tion of the first man. The speculations of some are almost
too ridiculous to be even referred to. But the sure word
of God, in two or three sentences, gives us the most inter-
esting and satisfactory information. -God said, let us
niake man in our image, after our likeness; and let them
have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and
over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
So God created man in His own image, in the image^of
God created He him; male and female created He them."^
«^\nd the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground,
and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man
became a living soul."^
Hence we learn the following facts with regard to man's
original, viz., that, he was created in the image and like-
nest's of God; that his body was made out of pre-existent
materials, the dust of the ground; that the breath of life,
which is the Spirit of God, was communicated to his cor-
poral frame, and he became a living soul or frame, that is
that his life is the direct result of the Spirit's agency. ^
We have already seen, that the expression in the original
is the breath of lives, which, whether it be understood as
designating the Spirit of God, or as the life of the creature
man, amounts in the end, precisely to the same thing, viz.,
1 Gen. i. 26, 27. 2 Gen. ii, 7,
142 THE IMMATERIALITY OF CHAP. IX.
that man is a compound being, or unites in himself several
distinct kinds of life. The Spirit of God would most proba-
bly be designated the breath of lives, from the circumstance
of His being the author of several forms of life in man,
rather than from the fact of His being the universal auihov
of life; for it is common in the scriptures for God to be de-
signated from the particular occasions, or relations, or cir-
cumstances under wliich He is at the time contemplated.
If, as some will contend, it is m.an's life, and not the Spirit
of God, which is denoted b}' this expression, then it cannot
be denied that man was originally the subject of several
kinds of life.
We have already seen that there are fivo distinct kinds
of life united in man, viz., that which consists in the ap-
propriate action of the organic parts of the human body
—
the vegetable, or as it is technically called the organic
life; and that which consists in the appropriate action of
the superadded and complicated machinery of nerves and
muscles, so essential to sensation and voluntary motion
—
the distinctive peculiarities of animal life. These are in
entire accordance with two of the great classifications which
the apostle Paul has made of the constituent parts of man,
viz., body and soul. The term which our translators have
rendered ^'soul,"^ as has been seen, conveys the idea of
anim.al life. This remark may be of use to the reader of
the scriptures in more instancps than one.
It is obvious, that both these parts of man's being are
material—formed of the dust of the ground. There
is however another, which the apostle calls ^'•spiriV^"
and which he designates by the very term which he em-
ploys to denote the Spirit of God. It is in this, that theo-
logians generally consider, we must look for the traces of
the divine image in which man was created. As to what
nonstituted that resemblance however, they are notgener-
^j^^y^ 1^ THE HUMAN SOUL. 143
ally agreed. Some allege that it was mere spirituality,
others the lordship or sovereignty over the creatures with
which he was invested, and others again the moral quali-
ties of his nature, knowledge, righteousness and holiness.
It is perhaps safest to adopt neither opinion exclusively ;
but to trace the likeness in every respect in which true
resemblance can be discerned. It is not in one feature only
in which we are to trace a likeness, but in the toule e?i-
senihle. -
There is, however, we apprehend, one important respect
in which this resemblance in man to God may be seen,
which indeed is generally overlooked, but which, we are
disposed to think, is of principal consequence. It is not
one person of the Godhead only who is represented as
speaking at the formation of man, but the whole three.
Jehovah, the ever-blessed Three in One, said, *'let us
make man in our image"—not in the image of any one
person, nor of each distinctly, but of all conjointly. How
admirably are the distinct personality and essential unity
of the Godhead represented or imaged in man possessing
three distinct kinds of life, and yet constituting but one
moral being. In him are united the vegetable, the animal,
and the moral or spiritual life, each having and preserving
its distinct character, but all combined in one responsible
individual.
Ill support of this explanation of the likeness in which
man was originally created, v/e merely observe, that from
the consultation which is represented to iiave taken place
among the persons of the Godhead about his creation, it is
obvious this image must have been something different
from any thing which had as yet been exhibited in the
creatures. It could not have been the spiritual part of
man's nature, for '*ile maketh His angels spirits,"^ and
man's spiritual nature was greatly obscured by his body,
which was formed of the dust of the ground.
1 Heb. 1. 7.
144 THE IMMATERIALITY OF CHAP. IX",
It could not nave been the mere lordship which He ex-
ercised over the creatures, for this was made a matter of
special grant, after that he had been already created in the
divine image.
It could not have been exclusively the moral qualities
with which he was endowed, for kriowledge, righteousness
and holiness are the attributes of the angelic, as well as of
the human nature.
It could not have been merely as a designed representa-
tion of the form and appearance which it was intended the
son of God should assume, for He is himself styled ^'the
image of the invisible God," and man, in this respect,
would have beon not so much the image of God, the three
in one, as of Christ the second person. We are therefore
compelled to conclude, that man was created the image of
the great Threi: in One, as he was characterized by this
peculiarity among the creatures, that he alone unites in one
moral individual the three great orders of life, viz., vege-
table, animal and spiritual.
There is therefore abundant proof it would seem, from
the very account of man's primitive formation, that
there were associated in him several distinct kinds of
life. Of the two inferior kinds, the organic or vegetable,
and the animal life in man, there is no dispute; nor do
they here require explanation . Sufficient has been already
advanced in illustration of them. But this cannot be said
of the third—tlie life of the spirit or immortal soul of
man. This forms the governing and distinguishing part
of human nature. It is the tie which binds man to other
worlds. It is the immediate seat of all the higher and
ennobling attributes of humanity. In the other parts of
his nature, he is directly dependent on and connected with
this material world. His body is a part of the earth. But
his spirit is dependent on God, and in its appetites and
cravings, he aspires after the bliss of his communion. It
CHAP. IX. THE HUMAN SOUL. 145
is in this part of his nature he has sustained the severest
shock. Here too the ravages of death are most appalling;
but here the energies of the Divine Spirit are exerted to
impart the life of God. *'That which is born of the Spi«
rit is spirit."^ Inasmuch therefore as regeneration is pre-
dicated particularly of the soul of man, and, as authorized
hy the language of the scriptures, it is contemplated as
being the re-commencement of life in that soul, it becomes
necessary to iiiquire as to what constitutes the peculiar
appropriate life of the rational soul of man.
Here, however, as in every other case, when inquiring
into the essence of a thing, we must confess our ignorance.
We use the term soul or spirit, to denote an existence that
is not material; but this is the chief account that we can
give of its nature. Our blessed Lord himself has done no
more. *' A spirit," said he to his disciples, "hath not
flesh and bones. "^ Whether He is here to be understood
as declaring the immaterial nature of spirit, or merely cit-
ing the vulgar opinion on the subject of apparitions, it is
of little consequence to determine ; for flesh and bones
constitute the material part of man, and when to spirit
they are denied, the presumption rises that it is immaterial.
This however is a point which is much disputed.
If the soul be immaterial, perhaps it is asked, how can
we ever have any knowledge of it ? We have no senses
so delicately organized, as to be capable of perceiving spi-
rit. Our senses were all made for the perception of a ma-
terial world around us. How then can we know that
there is such a thing ? And is it at all possible for us, to
have any knowledge of it whatever ?
In reply to such inquires, we might ask, whether the
testimony of God is not as sufficient evidence as that of
our senses, and if He has told us, that we have a soul, that
there is such a thing as spirit—Is not that enough ? And
:, John lii. 6. 2. Luke xxiv. 39.
19
146 THE IMMATERIALITY OF CHAP. ix.
as to our having any Idea or notion of what cannot be per-
ceived by means of our senses, we may ask whether much
of our knowledge is not of this very character? What
are all our abstract ideas and general truths? Are they
not knowledge, which the mind itself has excogitated
from, and by means of, the ideas originally derived through
the medium of sense. ? What too is our knowledge of
God ? '^No man hath seen God at any tinie;"^ yet how
few have reasoned themselves into a notion that there is
not a God? Let the objector declare himself, and say
whether God must be a material Being in order to our
having any knowledge of Him. The scriptures say ^' God
is a Spirit?"^ How then is He known ? It will not do
to say that our knowledge of Him is intuitive, innate, and
such like. Intuitive is a figurative expression, and as to
innate, it is not necessary, at this late day, to expose such
an absurd pretence, as that man is born into the world
with the knowledge of God, or of any thing els^.
The truth is, that all our knowledge of God is analogi-
cal. We employ our conceptions of things originally ma-
terial, to represent in our minds God and divine things, in
consequence, not of a mere apparent but true i^esemblance,
in the nature of things. In lii^e manner we talk of our
own souls, and the operations of our own minds, although
we have no direct or immediate perception of them. *^ We
cannot" says a profound writer, " with our utmost inten-
tion of thought, and greatest energy of abstraction form to
ourselves any original and purely intellectual ideas of
the workings of our own minds. And the reason of this
is, because the most abstracted and exalted operations of
the human mind are actions of both matter and spirit in
essential union, and not particular to either alone. We
have indeed an immediate consciousness of the operations
themselves, without the intervention of any idea of them;
but no perception of them by such abstract or separate
1. Johni. 18. 2. Johniv. 24
CHAP. IX. I'HE HUMAN SOUL. 147
idea of any sort."^ It is by virtue of a real correspon-
dence or true resemblance between some things in spirit,
and what w^e discern in material things, that our ideas and
language taken from the latter class, become certain and
satisfactory representations of that, which in the former
cannot be directly apprehended by mere intellect. Such
is the mode of obtaining knowledge, which God has or-
dained for us, while in our compound state uniting in our
persons both matter and mind, and they mutually depend^
ent.
That pure and disembodied spirit must have other modes
of knowledge, we doubt not ; but in our present state we
Jvnow not what they are ; nor can we, while mind is made
to depend on body. Paul "was caught up into para-
dise, and heard unspeakable words which it is not lawful
for a man to utter;" but whether he was ^'in the body
or out of the body,"^ he could not tell. Yet his ignorance
oi the mode of his knowledge did not destroy his convic-
tions of the truth and certainty of what he knew. When
speaking even of that knowledge, communicated in some
sublime mysterious way, he is compelled to make use of
language borrowed from sensible things. He heard un-
speakable WORDS. No man could make him doubt the
reality of what he was made to know by other means
'than through the mind's sensible perceptions, and conse-
quent and correspondent excogitations.
Why then should it be objected that we can have no
knowledge of spirit, because w^e have no direct, imme-
diate or purely intellectual perception of it ? Is all our lan-
guage, when we talk of perceiving, discerning, comparing,
abstracting, comprehending, inventing, intending, &c.,
where the subject is not material a mere delusion? These
expressions denote sensible acts, and are derived from
sensible objects, but when employed to denote the acts and
? Dime A nalog-y, p. 23. '2. Cor. xii, 4,
148 THE IMMATERIALITY OF CHAP. x:j^.
operations of the mind, are mere pictures, or shadows, or
representations of something analogous, transacted by pure
intellect or spirit. Is all this falsehood? Has God formed
us 90 as to be perpetually busied in framing and playing
with the mere imagery in our own brains, while there is
nothing at all in existence, correspondent with what we
apprehend these imrges to represent ? He that denies the
reality of spirit, and of a spiritual world, because his con-
ceptions of them are only through the medium of sensible
ideas, must either deny that God exists, and has created us,
orimpeach Hischaracter ina vital point, by asserting thatHe
has so constituted us, as to be perpetually gathering, ar-
ranging, classifying, and acquiring ideas by which we ap-
prehend as fact, things that sever had an existence, or, in .
other words, that he has made us the mere sport of our
self-deceivings. That be far from us. If God, who can-
not deceive, has so created us, we rest as perfectly satisfied
of the reality of what is thus indirectly and analogically,
as of what is, directly and sensibly, perceived. It is no
objection, therefore, against the immateriality of the hu-
man soul, that we have no direct immediate perception of
its nature and operations. The very same objection would
lead to the denial of our materiality ; for we have no more
direct and immediate knowledge of the essence of matter,
end its modus operandi, in any c-ase, than we have of
spirit.
But there are other grounds on which men have under-
taken to deny the immateriality (and substantiality) of the
human soul. It may be necessary therefore to advert to
the principal opinions maintained in opposition to the doc^'
trine, that the soul of man, or spirit, is a simple, immate-
rial, uncompounded substance, capable of very peculiar acts.
They may be distributed into two different classes—the
one class maintaining that man differs in nothing from ma-
terial ewbstonce, but in his modification and its effects-'^
CHAP. IX. TIffi HUMAN SOUL. I49
the other that his intellectuality consists in a mere suc-
cession of ideas and exercises. Of the former class some
are wilful and obstinate infidels —''who believe not the
truth because they have pleasure in unrighteousness," and
who, to escape from the menaces of conscience as it for-
warns of the wrath to come, persuade themselves that
mind, conscience, body, all perish at death;—while others
admit the immortality of the human soul, or perhaps more
properly, the future existence of man, though they be-
lieve him to be altogether a material being.
Whatever may be the essence of the human soul, its
properties are demonstrably not those of matter. These
properties it is not of moment accurately to enumerate.
We shall, for the sake of brevity, comprise them under
that of thought. Thought is not a quality of simple viat-
ter. For atoms do not think, either in their original state,
or in any accumulated mass, or in any organized combina-
tion, or in any attenuated substance. If therefore atoms,
as such, do not think—and that they do not common sense
and observation declare—then thought cannot be derived
to them by virtue of any aggregation, organization, at-
tenuation, or other relative position whatever;—for, ulti-
mately, in all cases, the character and qualities of a body,
depend on those of th6 original atoms combined in it.
In like manner we agree, that thought cannot result from
any play of chemical affinities, for their entire operations
may be resolved, ultimately, into a change of relative
position, which can have no miOre efficacy in enabling
matter to think, than the breaking of stones, or the melting
of lead, or the burning of earth, can have.
Neither can motion, whether produced by chemical ac-
tion, or mechanism, originate thought. Change of posi-
tion we have seen cannot produce it, and into this is me-
chanical impulse, as well as chemical action^ ultimately
150 THE IMMATERIALITY OF CHAP. IX.
resolvable, so that the or.e is as incapable as the other of
enabling matter to think.
As to organic action, thouo;h it may give rise to the
most diversified and complicated operations, yet is it but
the combination of a few simple motions, none of which
approach nearer to thought than the flight of a cannon ball,
or the play of lightning. Elasticity and vibration are the
principal kinds of motion, by means of which the advo-
cates of materialism, account for the production of thought
—
but the researches of physiologists have proved that the
nerves are not tense and solid bodies,^ fixed at their
extremities to hard substances, v*'hich it is essential to
this theory they should be. As to the notion of the
nerves being tubes, filled with the animal spirits, through
which liquid substance, impressions are conveyed to
the encephalon, the change of relative position must
ultimately be adopted as the solution, if thought be
a quality of matter. Mere motion is not thought, vvheth-
er it be mechanical, chemical, or organic, for every
man feels that there is some conscious power within him,
observing and attending to the relative changes which take
place there.
The absurd theory of a modern French physician that
thought is a secretion of the brain, scarcely deserves no-
tice, but like every other scheme of materialism, must be
resolved into the change of relative position, which ws
have seen can never account for the origination of thought.
Should it be said that thought is a quality not resident in
all matter, but only superadded to certain organic portions
of it, it will be sufficient to remark, that to talk of a quality
being superadded to matter, and not inherent in it, is a
perfect absurdity, and that if the evidence of conscious-
ness is to be at all relied on, so far from thought being a
1. IIalI<-r=
CHAP. IX. 'I HE HUMxVN SOUL. 151
property, it is an act, or operation, of something quite dis-
tinct from matter.
Among the principal and most ingenious advocates of
the materiality of the human soul, was Dr. Priestley, who
boldly maintained, that revelation is in perfect accordance
with what he supposed to be conclusions authorized by just
reasoning. Dr. Rush too has been supposed, in his trea«
tise, on the influence of physical causes upon the moral
sense, to have favoured the same idea. But whatever may
have been his private views, which, to do but justice to
liis memory, we are persuaded were controled by his faith
in the written word of God as to all its facts and doctrines,
there is nothing in that interesting tract wdiich necessarily
implies such a belief. That physical causes have an in-
fluence on the moral sense or conscience, is a fact which
cannot be denied ; but, it by no means follows, that, in
order to such influence, man must be wholly, conscience
and all, a material being. The reasonings of those who
advocate materialism, will be found alike unphilosophicai
and unscriptaral.
Thomas Jefferson has, in his posthum.ous writings^ ap-
peared among the boldest, and we must be allowed to say,
the most reckless of modern preachers of materialism. "I
can conceive thought, says he, to be an action of a par-
ticular organization of matter, formed for that purpose by
its Creator, as well as that attraction is an action of matter,
or masjnetism of load-stone." His mode of confirming:
such an idea, is a specimen of the argument from igno-
ranee and begging of the question. *' To talk," continues
he, ''of immaterial existences, is to talk of nothings. To
say that the human soul, angels, God, are immaterial, is to
say they are nothings, or that there is no God, no angels,
no soul." Who does not see that this is actually begging
the question, and yet he candidly confesses in the very
next sentence— '-'
I cannot reason otherwise.-' and to anolo-
153 'i'HE IMMATEKIALITY OF CHAP. IX,
gize, in some measure, for his having thus confessed his
imbecility, he observes, "But I believe I am supported in
my creed by the Lockes, &c." and having, as he thought,
defended himself with the authority of so great a name,
he as ignorantly and impudently brands the doctrine of
immaterialism, with the charge of ''masked Atheism," and
refers to the fathers of the three first centuries, and even
to Christ Himself as opposed to such heresy!!!^ Locke
says distinctly, "perception and knowledge, in that one
eternal Being where it has its source, it is visible, must be
essentially inseparable from it ; therefore the actual want of
perception in so great a part of the particular parcels of
matter, is a demonstration that the first Being from whom
perception and knowledge is inseparable, is not matter,^'*
Speaking of the soul he says "it may be proved that it
is to the highest degree probable that it is iininaterial.'*^^
There can be no excuse for such ignorance, or deception,,
and of one or the other is Mr. Jefferson guilty, in citing
Locke as a materialist. A man that can believe and cite
authorities at this rate is not worthy of respect ; nor are
arguments such as he has employed, deserving of atten-
tion.
Dr. Priestley rejects the idea that matter is an impene*
trable inert substance ; and because he finds that sensation
and thought in man have ever been found in connection
with an organized system, infers, that those powers ne-
cessarily exist in, and depend on such a system. How
they result from organization he will not pretend to say,
but presumes, that if sensation and thought be not incom-
patible with the properties of matter, it is quite unphilo
sophical to suppose that there is any substance, in the hu-
man constitution, essentially difierent from matter. Who
does not see, that the argument here is based on a vague
1. Letter to President Adams, in 1830.
2. See his controversy with the Bishop of Worcester.
CHAP. IX. THE IMMATERIALITY OF 153
idea with respect to the nature and properties of matter —
as though it were something, quite contrary to the commoa
apprehensions of mankind—not possessing solid extension,
and therefore having no relation to space, and in this res-
pect resembling spirit rather than body.
In attempting to maintain his denial of the existence of
spirit, he does in fact convert matter into spirit. His ar-
gument amounts to little more than a begging of the ques-
tion. Besides is it not altogether a false inference, to con-
tend, that matter and thought are the same, because they are
found connected and dependent? Were the principle adopt-
ed what endless confusion would it introduce? There is a
connection and dependence between the strings of an in-
strument of music, and the sounds produced by them when
struck; but does it follow that the strings are the sounds?
So while we admit (and no advocate for the existence of
mind ever denied it,) that there is a connection between
the brain and thought, and that even certain vibrations, or
motions of the former, may give rise to the latter, it by no
means follows that the brain is thought.
The advocates of materialism seem to be aware, that
this inference is altogether untenable, and they have there-
fore asserted, that these vibrations themselves are thought.
And so confident and unblushing is Dr. Cooper, that he
hesitates not to declare, that whosoever is not convinced
of the truth of materialism, now that Collins, and Hartley,
and Priestley have thrown such immense light on the sub-
ject, is not to be reasoned with. The Doctor himself, af-
ter distinguishing between sensations and ideas, making the
former to consist in the motions of the brain produced by
external impressions transmitted through the nerves, and
the latter the motions of the same '^arising, or produced
without the impressions of an external object,''^ thinks it
demolis trable that these motions are vibratory,
. 1. Cooper's memoii's of Dr. Priestley, p. 334, oZS.
20
154 1'HE IMMATEmAUTY OF CHAP. XI.
We cannot help rennarking here with regard to the con-
sistency of the advocates of materialism. At one moment
they tell us, that thought is a quality of matter, and in the
next that it is motion! No doubt they were compelled to
this by noticing, what could not possibly have eluded
their observation, that perception is an act^ an event, a
phenomenon, something that takes place, and does not lie
like a dormant qualit}^ unmoved and undisturbed in matter.
Admitting that motions do take place in the brain, and
even give rise to thought, does it thej'cfore follow that
motion is mind? The vibrations of the cords of an instru-
ment give rise to sounds, but thev are not the sounds. But
on the principle referred to, that connection and depend-
ence imply identity, they must be the same.
The truth is that notwithstanding those who deny the ma-
teriality of the human mind are not to be reasoned with, ac-
cording to Dr. Cooper, we must take the liberty of saying,
that this assertion of thought being mere vibratiunculce, is al-
together unintelligible. For to use the language of an acute
writer, ''there may be little shakings in the brain, for any
thing we know, and there may even be shakings of a dif-
ferent kind accompanying every act of thought or percep-
tion, but that the shakings themselves are the thoughts or
perception, we are so far from admitting, that we find it
absolutely impossible to comprehend what is meant by the
assertion. The shakings are certain throbbings, vibra-
tions, or stirrings, in a whitish half-fluid substance like
custard, which we might see perhaps, or feel, if we had
eyes and fingers sufficiently small or fine for the office.
But what w^ould wx see or feel, upon the supposition, that
v/e could detect, by our senses, every thing that actually
took place in the brain? We should see the particles of
this substance change their place a little, move a little up
or down, to the right or to the left, round about, or zig
2ag, or in some other course or direction. This is all that
,HAP. IX. 'l'"E HUMAN SOUL. 155
we could see, if Dr. Hartley's conjecture were proved by
actual observation ; because this is all that exists in mo-
tion, according to our conception of it, and all that we
mean when we say that there is motion in any sub-
stance. Is it intelligible then to say, that this motion, the
whole of which we see and compreiiCnd, is thought and
feeling; and that thought and feeling will exist wherever
we can excite a similar motion in a similar substance?''^
The thing is altogether beyond our comprehension.
That there is a material m.achinery, capable of being moved
and operated on, by certain impulses, for the production of
thought, we will not deny—but that these impulses, and
the movements of this machinery, are thought and feeling
we do. They may be the occasions of these things, but
must not be confounded with them. For there is no con-
ceivable affinity between them, however intimately they
may be connected.
Am I but what I seem, mere flesh and blood?
A branching- channel and a mazy flood
I'he purple stream that throug-h my vessels g-lides.
Dull and unconscious flows like common tides:
The pipes, thro' which the cu-cling juices stray,
Are not that thinking 1, no more than they,
This frame, compacted with transcendent skill,
Of moving- joints obedient to my wil].
Nursed from the fruitful glebe, like yonder tree..
Waxes and wastes: I call it mine not me.
New matter still the mouldering mass sustains.
The mansion changed, the tenant still remains.
And from the fleeting stream repaired by food,
Distinct as is the swimmer from the flood.
As to the idea that thought is a quality of matter, a little
reflection will convince every one that perception itself
must, according to this theory, be a quality. But this is an
abuse of terms. Perception is an act of which the per-
cipient being is conscious. It cannot therefore be intelli-
gibly called, a quality of that which it perceives. All the
1- Edinburgh Rev. vol. ix. p. 152.
156 THE IMMATERIALITY OF cHAP. ix\
qualities of matter may be divided into primary and es-
sential, and secondary or accidental. To the first class be-
long extei s.on, solidity and figure. To this class thought
cannot belong, because many modifications of matter are
destitute of it. If it be said to resemble the accidental
qualities of matter, such as heat or colour which are not
inseparable or permanent, we reply that heat, and light
which is essential to colour, are themselves material sub-
stances. Should we call thought a material substance as
we do light, and heat, we must expect the laws of the ma-
terial world to operate on it, and that it is liable to attrac-
tion, repulsion, condensation, or reflection, as are light and
heat which is absurd.
AVhatever view then we take of the subject w-e are con-
vinced that the theory of materialism is alike unintelligi-
ble and absurd. What can we make of it, when it con-
founds the act of perceiving, with the qiialitles perceived,
and makes the very objects of perception the faculty or
act by which these objects are introduced to our knowledge,
and especially, when it confounds the motions of the brain
with the effects which they produce, and makes mind to
be the mere play of vibratiunculce, produced alike by im-
pressions from without and certain undefined and unorigi-
nated motions from within?
To deny the existence of spirit because of any supposed
want of relation to space, is certainl}^ unphilosuphical.
When it is contended that matter must always have some
relation to space, it is supposed that the advocates of im-
terial existences maintain, that spirit possesses no such re-
lation, and therefore that it can exist noivhere. 'SVho does
not see the sophistry of this reasoning? It is not main-
tained that spirit exists without reference to space, but,
that its relation to space cannot be understood or estimated
by us as we do that of matter. God exists everi/ where.
He has ^orrip relation to infinite space. A profound wri-
CHAP. IX. 'i'ilK HUMAN SOUL. 157
ter has supposed infinite space to be the property of Deity.
Time and place are necessary to the existence of all crea-
ted being. The assumption of Dr. Priestley, therefore, is
not true that the advocates of spiritual existence deny its
relation to space. If it is asserted to be regulated by differ-
ent laws, that authorizes not the denial of such relation.
For to do so would be to assume the point in dispute
that there can he no existence which does not follow the
law by which material substances are bound to space, that
is, that no other than material substances exist. We
know that God does exist, that He is a Spirit, and that
He is related to space, and is it therefore absurd, and un-
philosophical to suppose that there can be created spirits
too, not regulated by the laws which govern material ex-
istence?
The same mode of reasoning will expose the fallacy of
the argument against immaterial existence from the alleged
incapacity of spirit to act on matter. When it is admitted
that spirit and matter are essentially different, devoid of
common properties, it is with as much want of philosophy
as of truth inferred that therefore, the one cannot act upon
the other. Since if this proves any thing, it proves too much.
For it is admitted, that God is a most pure spirit, and yet
He does operate on matter—yea, and has created the world
and all things out of nothing, between which and Himself
there are no common properties. The whole force of this
argument depends on the assumption, that unless substances
are possessed of common properties, they cannot act on
each other. This must be proved before the argument is
worth any thing. But such proof cannot be adduced, as we
have already shewn, that God, in two respects, furnishes
a proof to the contrary. If there is any truth and force in
the argument, it must prove these two monstrous absurdi-
ties and falsities, that it w^as impossible tor God to create
158 THE IMMATERIALITY OF CHAP. ix.
the world cut of nothing, and that God Himself is a mate-
rial being. And indeed this, though denied by Dr. Priest-
ley, is affirmed by others, which, if adopted and followed
out to its legitimate results, will lead us to blank atheism;
and the infinite intelligence and wisdom, the Divine Mind
will become nothing else than the mere motions or v. bra'
iiunculse of a concatenated universe, and must be confned
to some locality correspendent with the human encepha-
lon!!!
We cannot dismiss this topic without submitting to our
readers the following very short and simple method of re-
futing the error of the uiaterialists. If thought be a prop-
erty or quality of matter, it must be, either resident in the
original elementary undivided atoms that compose a body,
or it must be superadded to some organized body. It can-
not be a quality of simple matter, for there is a unity in
our consciousness, which proves, most satisfactorily, that
all the atoms composing our bodies do not tliink. There
ought to be as many consciousnesses as there are atoms in
our bodies, if thought, of which consciousness is but one
form, is a property of simple matter. '
It remains for the materialist who affirms this, to account
for the entire unity of our consciousness and mental acts.
Should this be attempted, and we be referred to the organic
structure of the human body, as a sufficient solution of the
inquiry, we may remark that if matter be not essentially
conscious, ihat is, if every atom does not think separately
and independently, no .system of atoms in any possible
composition, or attenuation, or division can be an indi-
vidual conscious being.
Suppose, for example, a line of telegraphic communica-
tion, the parts or particles of which system, let us say, are
arranged each at 10 or more miles distant, and spreading
over a space of 100 or 1000 miles; is it at all possible or
CHAP. IX. '^'HE HUMAN SOUL. 159
conceivable, that this system, adapted to the transmission
of intelligence most rapidly from one extreme to the other,
is one individual conscious being? Yet why not on the
materialist's supposition? Are the particles too far apart
from each other? Then what is the degree of proximity
requisite?
Suppose that all these different parts be brought together
into such close contact and be connected by such mechanism
as that, when one part is moved, it shall transmit its motions
from the one end to the other throughout the whole line?
Does this juxta-position render the parts less distinct indi-
vidual beings, or communicate a capacity for thought to
the whole connected series? How can their being disposed
in such or any" other possible system, make them one indi-
vidual conscious being? Is it not utterly absurd—at warwith
the common sense of mankind, to attribute thought to the
mill, or steam engine, or any other piece of complicated me-
chanism? Yet if mere mechanism, or the composition and
arrangement of parts into one general system so that their
motions shall be adapted and communicated to each other,
-and be transmitted from or to one common centre, is suffi-
cient to account for the productionof thought, why do not the
mill and engine think? May not the human body as fur-
nished with its admiraWy adjusted system of nerves, be
justly styled a line of telegraphic communication? The
impression is transmitted from the surface or extremity, to
the encephalon or centre, or other extremit}^ Does the
capability of transmitting such impression constitute the
body a thinking substance? No more surely when the ap-
paratus is material nerves, or cords, or tubes, whatever
they be, than when it consists of boards, or blocks, or
lights, or sounds.
A modern projector of telegraphic communication-, b}^
means of rods, v.hich he proposes to have sunk in the earth
ijjO THE IMMATERIALI I V OF CHAP. IX.
and sea, leading from London to Paris, or Constantinople,
and we may add, to all the other cities of the globe, whether
his idea was conceived from the structure of the human
body or not, would operate just as certainly on the mate-
rialist's plan, to constitute the globe, or the ball of this earth
a thinking substance, as the mere material mechanism of
the human body, bound together by a system of nerves,
transmitting impressions from one point of its surface or
part of it to another, constitutes man a thinking conscious
being.
But here the materialist will allege, that to the particles
of matter united in the human body, God has superadded
the power of consciousness. But we may add, that inas-
much as these particles though united in one body are
nevertheless as really distinct as before their union, they
themselves cannot be the subject in which that individual
consciousness inheres. That consciousness, or thinking unit
can only be the intelligent percipient being at the one end,
if we may so remark, of the telegraphic series—something
superadded to mechanism, or the human body, which, in all
its particles, if we must make use of the expression, is still,
itself butone individual conscious being. It follows therefore
legitimately that inasmuch as the power of thinking, what-
ever that power may be, is one individual consciousness, it
cannot possibly be a material substance.
If the brute creation should be cited as a proof to the
contrary, we would reply that as it regards the character-
istic acts of the human mind, there is nothing similar in
them, and that even if we should admit the existence
of spirit, in connection with the bodies of animals, that
will not impose on us the necessity of maintaining their
immortality or even inteilectuallity. For the immor-
tality of man we affirm is not to be inferred from a mere
supposed indestructibility of spirit, but from the constitu-
CHAP. X. 'i'"^ HUMAN SOUL. 161
tution or will and agency of God the Creator, and who that
admits the existence of spirit, will undertake to say that
there may not be endless modifications of spiritual exist-
ence, as there are of matter. Undoubtedly angelic and
human minds are and must be characteristically as different
as are the mind of man and ^Hhe spirit of the brute."
21
CHAPTER X.
THE SUBSTANTIAT.ITY OF THE HUMAN
SOUJL,
The human soul not a chain of exercises—The objection agahist its sub-
stantiality drawn from tlie want of definite conception of its nature not
valid—Frightful consequences resulting from the scheme of the exerci-
sists—Destruction of personal identity—Scriptural facts—1. Appearance
of Moses ?iT.1 Elias—2. The dying thief—3. Dives and Lazarus—4. Vi^
sions—Of Peter—Of Cornelius—5. Inspiration—6. Scr-ptural facts—7.
ijCiVpt 'ral assertions—Job, xxxiii. 18: Eccles. xii. 7: 2 Cor. v. 1: 2 Con
V. S: K xii. 23: Mat, xxti. 22—32—Reflections—^The common sense
of mank'n!; and the scriptures in accordance—What a noble and illus-
ti\:.i.i lAng must man originally have been.
, There are others beside the materialist, whose views seem
:o militate against the doctrine for whici: we contend,,
With some it is a favorite idea, that the soul is a mere sue-
cessian or chain of Lleas and exercises. The principal
arg!.'*iiRnt in support of this scheme is altogether fallaciouSc
It !s alleged, by its advocates, that we are, and can be, con-
sci.>us only of our acts and exercises, and that, of anysub-
stance in wnich they are immanent, or by which they are
origii ated, we can have neitiu^r knowledge nor conception.
But, admitting a]] this, it does not therefore follow, that
u . is not in reality some substance or base, appropriate
tb thougnt, —some real existence the peculiar seat or sub-
ject of ideas and exercises. For, should we allow ourselves
to pursue the assumption in the above objection or argu-
ment, viz., thit OTJ) rag exists of which we have no con-
ception, we should doubt, and disbelieve the existence of
every cause^ agent and eobstance Whatever.
CHAP. X. THE SUBSTANTIALITY &c. l(iS
The advocates of this scheme, assuredly, do not mean to
maintain the absurd and stale objection of the rationalists
in religion, that what we cannot understand, does not ex-
ist—is not true. Their meaning must be, that they have
no appropriate or sufficient evidence of the existence of
any thing, beside their own ideas and exercises, inasmuch
as they can form no conception of spirit al)stracted from
such ideas and exercises.^ If so, then do we ask what evi-
dence have they of the existence of God? Can they form
any distinct conception of His Being? What evidence can
they have of any of His attributes? Can they hav.e more
<lefinlte conceptions of these than of their own being?
Assuredly they do not conceive of God as a mere assem-
blage of ideas and exercises, but must attribute a unity to
His Being. On this subject they cannot doubt. But in
what does that evidence consist? By no means in a distinct
perception or conception of either His being or His attri-
butes. Why then, if they can form no definite conception
of these things, and bow to the evidence of truth which
demonstrates them^ will they not admit the existence of a
spirit, or soul, or immaterial substance in man, if equally
appropriate evidence be adduced? Indeed, on this assump-
tion, they must deny the existence of many other things
which they nevertheless believe to be true. They must
1 Even the knowledge which we have of our own ideas through con»
sciousness is not a direct purely intellectual apprehension ofthem. We can
only speak of them as analog-ically known even after consciousness has re-
ported them. '^Nothing- can be more absurd than for a being composed of
spirit and body in strict intimate union, to imagine it can frame €\\hex merely
semitive or merely spiritual ideas of its thinking, faculty or its acts: And if it
has not ideas of either sort separately, consequently it can have no direct and
immediate knowledge of its own mind but by complex conceptions, formed
from a consciousness of the operations themselves and ideas of sense taken
together, and as necessarily mixed and blended in order to this knowledge
of itself, as its own essence is in fact composed ofmatter and spirit.",—jD^V.
Anal. p. ?4-
i(34 THE SUBSTANTIALITY OF CHAP.X,
deny the existence of matter too, for they can have no more
distinct conception of its substance than of spirit. Yea,
and they must deny their own material existence; for of
what are we conscious? Not of flesh and blood, nor of the
processes of circulation, and secretion, &c. that take place
within us, but of our mental acts and our various emotions.
Our ideas and feelings are the extent of our consciousness.
Will the exercisist presume to reject all other evidence
with regard to the structure of his frame than that of mere
consciousness of acts, or operations? His knowledge of
matter is a mere conception of its properties, but does he
I'eject the evidence which proves that there must be some
substance in which these properties reside? Yet should he,
to act consistently, and thus, by pursuing the miserably
fallacious principle on which his scheme is based, he will
be found to deny the existence alike of matter and spirit,
of God and His universe. Creation becomes a mere assem-
blage of qualities devoid of reality, and moral agents —the
immortal spirits of men a mere concatenation of events!
We can scarcely bring our minds to dwell upon this
scheme long enough to give it a dispassionate examination.
It is at war with the common sense of mankind. They
turn away disgusted with such reasonings; and well they
may, for the scriptures call them all a vain philosophy.
Every man as it were instinctively reasons, from the ac-
tions that he perceives, to the existence of some agent, or
cause, or being producing them. Tiius his mind becomes
convinced of the existence of a God, and thus too he be-
comes convinced that he himself \s something distinct and
different from his act^. God has so constituted us. This
is the law of our minds, and if we are led, invariably, in-
fallibly, universally to the belief, or conclusion, that the
thinking I inyself'is something different and distinct from
thoughts and acts, is not God chargeable with the error,
and His whole creation, so far as the operation of mind is
CHAP. X. THE HUMAIN SOUL. itJ5
concerned, a mere machinery for the production of false-
hood! Yeiij God Himself and all His works are a mere de-
lusion.
Other consequences equally as absurd and monstrous
flow from the same scheme. If there is no thinking sub-
stance in man—no spiritual conscious being in union with
his animal frame, then ivhat are ideas and exercises? They
must be, either a new production or the operation of some-
thing already existent. If the former, will the advocates
of this scheme say whether they are spirit or matter? They
surely will not say the former, for that is to give up the
point in dispute at once. It certainly would be better for
them to admit the existence of a spiritual agent, capable of
those acts which we denominate ideas and exercises, than
to maintain a continued creating process of spiritual exist-
ences, which too, must, as continually, be subjected to an
annihilating process or be combined for preservation! If
the latter, we had better, at once, admit any of the theories
we have already noticed, and maintain thought to be motion,
or a secretion, or any thing else, since it must be material.
According to the theory which we combat, we must either
deny the real existence of man as a moral agent, and con-
vert him into a mere piece of material mechanism, or we
must maintain, that ideas and exercises are produced con-
tinually by the direct agency of God, and that given seriesQi
these creative acts of God constitutes the individual man.
The former we have already disproved. The latter may
require a moment's attention.
Who does not see that the consequences which flow from
such a position affect alike the character of God and of His
government, and the very identity of man. We say the
character of God, for it makes Him the^ author of sin, since
all the siniul thoughts, purposes and affections of man are
but the effects of the divine power strung together in a
given series —not the acts or production of a created volun-
166 THE SUBSTANTIALITY OF CHAP. x.
tary agent. And if so, where is the use of maintaining the
distinction between innocence and guilt, between virtue
and vice, or how can we attribute to man the least ac-
countabilit}'? The influence of motives and the sense of
responsibility will be alike destroyed, and the whole gov-
ernment of God will be converted into a mere theatrical
or other display. We know not well to what it might be
compared, except to some of the splendid exhibitions of
the pyrotechnical art, where there are quick and marvel-
lous successions or series of different coloured flames, and
Ecintellations, all the production of the great master of the
ceremonies. And as to man himself, he is even reduced
below the level of the dancing puppet, which, though all
its motions are mechanical, nevertheless retains its identity,
since upon this scheme man's identity is destroyed. For if
to him is denied a thinking spiritual substance, conscious
of its own acts, into what can identity be resolved? Ideas
and exercises are mere occurrences or events produced by
some cause sustaining a momentary being, and then per-
ishing forever. The difference in point of time would
destroy the identity of ideas, though there should be in
every other respect entire resemblance. They could no
more be called the same, than we can denominate the strokes
of the bell which announce the hour of six this morniiig
the very same with those of yesterday. And what is true
hr one case is true in all others.
There never can be sameness in man, on this scheme,
but he is perpetually varying —ever and anon a new being,
as he passes from one point of time to another. His iden
tity is destroyed, and no proof of it whatever dan be cited.
For to infer it merely from his consciousness, is to infer
what does not exist by the very terms of the supposition.
And what is consciousness itself? It too is but an act. But
of what? Of ideas? Or ideas of it? Are ideas conscious each
of itsoif, and one of another? Sarelv the act or event.
^g.p, X-
^'^^ HUMAN SOUL 167
which we call an idea, and of which we are conscious, is
different from the consciousness which we have of it? If not,
why talk of them as distinct? But if so, then what is that
consciousness? We must admit the presence of a percipient
being attending to, and having knowledge of its own acts,
or we must assert and maintain the monstrous absurdity of
one idea being conscious of another, for after all our con-
sciousness resolves itself into knowledge and knowledge is
thought.
From the above remarks, it must be obvious to the reader,
that the scheme which supposes man to be a mere concate-
nation of thought, without the existence of a spiritual im-
material substance, capable of tlie various acts of thinking,
choosing, comparing, remembering, imagining, willing,
&c. is eminently absurd. Indeed it is utterly unintelligible,
and that it should be embraced by any, after sober and dis-
passiomite inquiry, is passing strange! We have merely
touched the different sources whence we draw the refuta-
tions of. this scheme, and leave the reader to pursue the
subject for himself. We turn from these metaphysical
arguments however to another class which serve to contirm
the spirituality of the human soul. They are drawn from
scriptural facts.
1. Moses and Elias are said to have appeared with Christ
upon the mount of transfiguration. Elias no doubt ap-
peared in his entire human nature, for ne "went up by a
whirlwind into heaven."^ Moses however died, and his
body was laid in the earth, for the Lord ^*buried him in a
valley in the land of Moab, over against Beth Peor."" As
to the appearance of Elijah, there is no difficulty. His body
was still material, though sublimated, and capable of being
seen by the eyes of men as was the risen body of the Sa-
viour. But it was different with Moses; and we must admit
1 2 Kins;?, il. 11-
'
2 Dent, xxxir. 6.
168 A "E SUBSTANTIALITV OF CHAP. X.
either that it was the spirit of Moses which appeared in
some assumed material vehicle or form, or, that his body-
had been raised from the grave. In so far as one class of
materialists is concerned, it is a matter of indifference which
supposition is adopted. One thing is certain, that centuries
after the body of Moses had been mingled with its kindred
dust, he appeared in this world conversing with Jesus Christ
face to face, as a man talketh with his friend. And he
still exists somewhere in the universe of God—but what is
he? A mere material machine? A concatenation of thought?
Who does not see the utter absurdity of either supposition!
2. The second fact we notice is that recorded of the
dying thief. He prayed to the Saviour, ^'Lord remember
me when thou comest into thy kingdom,'^ and the Saviour
replied, '-To-day shalt thou be with me in paradise."^
Now the bodies of the Saviour and of the thief, were, on
that very day laid in the grave, so that he must undoubted-
ly have referred to some other part of their nature than
their material bodies. And if so, what could it have been
but their immaterial and deathless souls? We can scarcely
bring ourselves to notice the miserable criticisms by which
those who adopt Dr. Priestley^s views attempt to evade the
force of this conclusion, when they say that the Saviour
meant, by the phrase ^^to-day," which he used, nothing
more than this, I noio say to you, or, that as in respect of
tiie eternity of God, one day is w^ith Him as a thousand
3'ears, and a thousand years as one day, so Christ meant
to say by using the phrase 'Ho-day," in eternity shalt
thou be with me. The common sense of our readers is
offended by such pitiful trifling. Assuredly they must be
reduced to great straits to support their cause, who find it
necessary to put a meaning upon the dying Saviour^s words,
which actually makes Him speak nonsense, or practice a
deception.
1 L iVe, ^x^ii 43.
CHAP. X. HIE HUMAN SOUL. IQQ
3. We might here cite the parable of Dives and Lazarus,
which linder all the circumstances related, may, though a
parable, be regarded as strictly a matter of fact. Surely the
Saviour did not mean to make a false hnpresslon on the
minds of His hearers, with regard to the slate of man after
the death of the body. *'The beggar," he says, ^Mled and
was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. "^ Laz-
arus is represented as in some way living after death.
Surely he did not mean to say, that the angels carried his
body into Abraham's bosom! And this carrying was co-
temporaneous with his decease. The two events are spoken
of in immediate connection. Who would or could be led
to suppose, tb.at the Saviour meant the resurrection of
Lazarus' body, which is an event yet to take place?
But if this idea should be adopted by any, the language
cmploj'ed in reference to the rich man is yet more pointed.
**The rich man also died, and was buried; and in hell he
lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham
afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. ''^ Whether we under-
stand the word helF here to mean the place of woe or the
state of the dead, it amounts to the same thing. There is
no allusion whatever to the resurrection of the body of the
rich man, before he was made to experience the torments
described. He was buried, and thus disappeared from earth;
but at that time he was 'Hn hell,^^ and capable oi the very
ssivne pe}'ceptio}is, and was possessed of the same spnsibili-
iies, which he had in the flesh —yea, and much more acute.
We have information too of Lazarus' being in x\braham's
bosom, and his knowledge was distinct and vivid, and
exactly correspondent with that which in the flesh is had
by means of vision. Should this circumstance, viz., that
his perceptions and sensations are described by means
of terms which undoubtedly denote the influence and ac-
1 Luke, xvl. 22. 2 Luke, xv'. 23.
2 ttJ'»s~'See Dr. Campbeirs Treliminary Dissertotion',, D. -v L p. 2.
170 ' THE SUBSTANTIALITY OF CdAP. X.
tion of the organs of sense, be cited as an objection against
the conclusion we deduce from this parable; and should it
be thence alleged, that the things described can only be
true of the rich man after the, resurrection of his body,
we remark, that whatever may be the viode of the soul's
perceptions in a disembodied state, on the supposition of
its separate existence, we should be led to conclude, that,
although the mind's knowledge and perceptions were all
originally derived through the instrumentality of its ma-
terial organs, and the laws of association, and modes of
thought dependent on their action, yet it is to be expected
that the same general laws of association, and the very
same affections of the soul should be observable even in its
disembodied state. For here we find thal^ our minds are
combining thought, and become excited frequently under
the influence of thought, which, though originally derived
through the organs of sense, are not in fact sensible ideas,
but excogitated in the pure abstractions of the mind.
Beside, w^e do know that all our knowledge of the opera-
tion of our own minds is by means of analogy, so that there
is, in fact, no other method left of describing the percep-
tions of the disembodied spirit, but by means of its actions
and affections here through the instrumentality of the or-
gans of sense. We legitimately enough speak of the soul's
feeling, seeing, hearing, speaking, &c. in its disembodied
state; not that the acts are precisely the same with what we
intend of ourselves by such phrases in our present state oi
being, but that there is some sufficient resemblance between
its actions in its disembodied and embodied state, to justify
us in the use of terms originally describing sensible acts to
designate the acts of pure spirit. We have already illus-
trated and fully dilated on this point, so that we need not
here repeat what the reader must be familiar with That
we may not be understood as begging the question., however
CHAP. X. THE HUMAN SOUL. 171
in these remarks, we shall presently notice one or two facts
which will prove, incontestihly, that the soul of man has
acted independently of its organic vehicle the body, before
the period of its final separation; so that, having established
the possibility of its independentexistence and action, and,
at the same time, that its perfections and affections, though
not through the material organs, were so far analogous to
the latter as to be best, and indeed only described, by a
reference to them, we may legitimately insist upon the
proof, which the parable of Lazarus and Dives furnishes of
the existence of man in a disembodied state, and conse-
quently of his possessing an immaterial spirit. These facts
constitute our next argument. They are
4. The visions which the prophets and others had when
God communicated to them His mind and will. The in-
stances are many. We might note those of Abraham, of
Balaam, of Elisha, of Hosea, of Ezekiel, of Jeremiah, of
Amos, of Zechariahjof Peter, of Stephen, of Paul, of John,
&c. The reader however may examine the record of them
at his leisure. In all, the perceptions which were had are
described by seeing, whence that particular form or mode
of divine revelation took the name of vision, and the early
prophets because of its frequency u'ere denominated seo^s.
In visions the individual was awake, and his senses all were
in ordinary healthful exercise. But the things that he was
said to SEE, were not perceived by his senses.
The account of Peter's vision is as circumstantial as
any, and may afford the best opportunity to us for an ac-
curate investigation of their nature. It is said, that while
Peter, who had become very hungry as he was engaged in
prayer, was waiting for some food which was being pre-
pared for him '*he fell into a trance,"^ when certain
things took place, which are spoken of as though there had
been Ihe direct visual perception of them. He *^s&w
T Acts y. 1^
172 illi^ SUBSTANTIALITY OF CHAP. X,
heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him,
as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners, and
let down to the earth, wherein were all manner of four
footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts and creeping
things, and fowls of the air.''^ In addition to this he heard
a voice, and spake himself, and that not once only, but
the whole scene was thrice transacted before him.
Now this was no illusion produced by disease, because
the historian has taken care to apprise us of facts which
indicated a state of full and vigorous health. Neither
was it a dream, because he was not asleep, but there was
undoubtedly some interruption or suspension of the exer-
cise of his animal senses. It is called a trance. The
perceptions of his mind however were not interrupted,
They were busily employed. We ask how? Not merely
in the ordinary mode through the impressions made on his
senses. The things Peter saw were visible to none but*
himself, so that they could not have been real material
substances. The whole scene was indeed a symbolical
display, and whether these symbols were actually any forms
or not, we are not in the least concerned to inquire. That
which chiefly concerns our argument is the fact, that Peter
had perceptions of things which were not present before
his senses, so that tliere must be in man something capable
of receiving knowledge, independent of the machinery or
apparatus of nerves, Sec. which a-re the ordinary channel
of communication from external things. If it be alleged
that the knowledge conveyed to Peter^s mind, was by the
ordinary process in which the imagination combines ob-
jects, and brings things before it which do not actually exist,
it may be. remarked, that the result shewed plainly this
was not the case Who ever heard of men's imagining
and combining circumstances that proved to be prophetical,
as were the visions of tlie prophets?
1. Acts X. 10.
,^^P, ^, THE nUM.\N ^OUL, 173
Beside, Peter's imagination would have naturally opera-
ted in another direction. His feelings and prejudices, his
convictions and habits, all were at war with the thought of
admitting the Gentiles to a participation of the privileges
of fellowship with the Jews. He could not himself well
l:)rook the idea, so that if it had been merely the vivid
combinations of his own fancy, they would have been al-
together of another character.
Nor can it be pretended, that the knowledge conveyed
to the mind of Peter was done in some such way as im-
pressions are made on the minds of men in certain diseases.
In some cases of mania there is an absolute deception prac-
tised on the mind, mere fancies being apprehended as re-
alities. There was no bodily di.sease at all in Peter's
case. Nor was it mania; but sober truth, so that, after a
full and candid examination of all the circumstances, if we
believe the record itself, we must admit, that impressions
or communications were made to the mind of Peter, which
would not have been of its own origination, and which
certainly were not produced through the medium of his
senses. The conclusion therefore which we draw from
this is, that there must have been in Peti^r some percipient
principle, capable of acting, and of being acted on, in-
dependently of and by some other means than the material
frame, or organs of sense.
The vision of Cornelius which preceded, but was con-
nected with that of Peter, may also deserve a remark or
two. It is not said simply that he saw an angel, as though
there had been an appea?^ance before him which was cogni-
zable by his senses; but that ''he saw a vision evidently. ^^^
It is not an unnecessary and unmeaning multiplication of
'
1. Acts X. 3. i'JiV HE PERCEIVED, SCC Mat. ll. 16 TOTS Hca)/«; .'/ay OTl
iveTTsLtyBi) Mat. ix. 2. itstt tSeev o Ihtouc t«v Trictv ct-jrcey.
iv cpctuun IN A Yisiox contradistinguished from material existence. See
acts xii. 9.
mrcop'—'^learlv, dist-rc'Tv. without, illusion.
174 THE SUBSTANlIALn Y OF CHAP.X.
words. The idea plainly is, that Cornelius, in a vision,
which was not at all illusory, had as distinct a perception
of an an2;el, as if he had seen that angel with his bodily
eyes. We must let the language of scripture go for what
it is worth, and not imagine that it means this or the other
thing, or pass off our ignorance and incredulity with the
charge of vagueness, mysticism or tautology.
We might multiply instances, but the general fact is all
we want, that God has made communications to the minds
of men, giving them perceptions which were not derived
through the senses, nor excogitated in their own fancies, and
tiierefore that there must be in man some percipient being
distinct from his material nature. This argument may be
pursued yet further, and rendered even more conclusive,
from the fact of,
5, Inspiration. ^^Holy men of God," says the apostle
*^ spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost."^' There
were ideas communicated to their minds which they never
could have excogitated. '*Eye hath not seen, nor ear
heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man to
conceive the things which God hath prepared for them that
love him."^ The apostle does not speak of tilings yet to
be made known, hut of things already revealed. If so,
then it ma}' be pertinently asked how came they ever to
be known? The answer is given. God hath by his Spirit
revealed them. He hath by the miraculous influence of His
Spirit wrought in tlie minds of holy men of old the know-
ledge which they have communicated to us. It is true
that row, since our fellow men have spoken, and written
to us about them, we become acquainted with them in the
ordinary exercise, and cultivation, of those capacities for
thought, be they what they may, which we possess. But
originally this was not the way in which tlie knowledge of
them was obtained. AVherefore we infer that if even know-
1. "?. V^^. '..
?1 2. 1. Cot. ji.P.
CHAP. X.
'^^^^^ IlLMAN SOUL. I75
ledge was communicated to the minds of men by God.
without its being done through the instrumentality of
their senses, or of excogitation —the voluntary combina-
tion of thought, there must be some immaterial percipient
substance in man which was the subject of such knowledge.
G. Our position may be maintained by a host of scrip-
tural passages in which, the immateriality and substantiality
of the human soul are evidently assumed. We select a
few. When the death of Abraham is spoken of, it is said
that ^Mie gave up the ghost, and was gathered to his peo-
ple." Abraham's body was buried in the cave of Mac-
pelah, in Canaan, while his father Terah, and grand-father
Nahor, and yet more remote ancestors lived, and died, and
were buried in Mesopotamia. The gathering of Abraham
therefore cannot mean the interment of his body, and must
be an empty and unmeaning plirase, if there was no more
than body in Abraham—no soul to be introduced into ^* the
general assembly and church of the first born."
We remark also, that when Stephen died, his last words
w^ere^'Lord Jesus receive my spirit."^ And it was no
vague poetical flight of his fancy, for "lie being full of
the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw
the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of
God, and said, Behold I see the heavens opened,' and
the son of man standing on the right hand of God."^ Now
these were things not seen by those around, for his perse-
cutors thought that he blasphemed, and " stopped their ears
and ran upon him with one accord." Nor are they objects
to be perceived through the medium of sense. But Ste-
phen saw ov perceived them, ivhile yet in the body, as he
was destined in afew moments to do in his disembodied
state, and therefore seemed to lose all sight of, and concern
for his material being, and committed his imperishable
l.^Acts vii. 5f^ '2. Acts vi'. 55, r:,% 57.
176 THE SUBSTANllALiTY OF CHAP. X.
soul into the hands of his blessed Saviour. Any other
idea makes the whole scene perfectly ridiculous. Who
can be so weak as to think Stephen spoke of his last
breath, a small volume of air? David makes use of a simi-
lar expression, '' Thou will not leave my soul in heli."^J
Certainly neither he nor Stephen could have meant that at-
tenuated portion of their material nature, which Dr. Priest-
ley has so erroneously called the soul. For all that was
body died. It is too utterly absurd to require a single re-
mark, that they meant the last expiration of their heaving
lungs. There is then no alternative left but this. By
their spirits they understood their immortal soul—the
percipient, thinking, conscious part of their nature.
7. We need not multiply instances of this sort ; but^
shall cite a few passages in which the immateriality, and
true substantiality of the human soul are explicitly asserted.
Job distinguishes between the spirit and animal part of
man. *'He says that God keepeth back his soul from the
pit and his life from the sword. "^ Solomon says ex-
pressly, that at death ''the dust" or the body of man
*• shall return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall
return unto God who gnve it."^ Paul also says that ''if
the earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved''—if
the bod}^ dies —"we have a building of God, an house not
made with hands,'^—a true and separate existence—"eter-
nal in the heavens.''^
On this point he was perfectly confident, asserting in the.
most explicit terms, that there is an existence after death
distinct from, and independent of the body, "that to be
absent from the body is to be present with the Lord."^
Can language more plainly teach, than this does, that the
spirits of believers exist in a separate state after death in-
dependent of the body? The same thing is as clearly taught
1. rsalmxvi. 101. 2. Job xxxiii. 18. 3. Eccles. xii. 1.
4. ", Tor. -. T. •'^ ?. Cor. r. 8.
L^HAP. X. THE HUMAN SOUL. 1^77
in the appellation given to the redeemed in heaven, 'Hhe
spirit's of just men made perfect."^ Why talk of the spirits
of men in contradistinction from angels, for that is the
reason of tlie appellation if both angels and men are not
possessed of a spiritual nature. And why speak of the
spirit's of men made perfect, if there is reference to a
state of separate existence after death, for assuredly they
are not such when in the flesh?
We have but one more passage to cite, and that is the
cogent and conclusive argument, which the blessed Saviour
has condescended to employ, and that with the express
design of proving, from the writings of Moses, that there
is a deathless substance in man—an immortal soul which
survives the dissolution of the mortal body. The Sadducees,
it is said, proposed to the Saviour a question, which they
no doubt thought he could not answer, and by which they
wished to insinuate an objection against a future state of
existence. Assuming the point that the same relations
existed between the same individuals both after death and
in this life, they proposed the case of a woman that had
been successively married to se^' . brethren, and asked
'^Therefore in the resurrectioa whose wife shall she be of
the seven ?"^ To this the Saviour replied, that the objec-
tion, which they insinuated, originated in ignorance, alike
of God, and of what he had revealed, and was founded on
the false assumption^ that in the resurrection the same rela-^
tionships shall exist that do here. And having thus re-
proved their ignorance and self-conceit, he deduces an
argument in favor of a future state of existence from the
manner in which Abraham, Isaac and Jacob are spoken of
in the writings of Moses. '^But as touching the resurrec-
tion of the dead have ye not read that which was spoken
unto you by God saying *I am the God of Abraham, the
1 n?b. xil 23.
2?t
178 Tin: IMMATERIALITY OF CHAF. X.
God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?' God is not the
God of the dead but of the living."^
Now it is manifest that the inference of the Saviour is
valid principally if not exclusively with regard to the
present existence of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, at the
time the phrase was first used by God, at the time the
Saviour Himself quoted it. But their bodies are not yet
at this day raised from the dead, so that, if we attach to the
phrase ''the resurrection," as occurring in our English
translation of the scriptures, the idea of a revivification of
the bod}^ or natural frame, and suppose this to have been
the Saviour's meaning, His conclusion is a no7i sequitur.
This however was not His meaning. The word eivu^Tct^i^
is a general term expressing the idea of a person's rising
up that had been lying down, or sitting, or fallen; and is
thence very appropriately used to denote a state of future
existence, either before or after, in connection with or
independent of, the resurrection of the body.^ When it
denotes the former, the phrase is itv^t?*^-;? t^v viKg^m the rising
up or futui e existeil^e of those that die. "The dead" merely
describes the persons of whom the oLvx^dcn^ is predicated^
and the meaning is such an existence as characterises those
that have died. Now this is not from the phrase necessa-
rily to be understood as the revivification of their bodies.
When the term Avx^cn^ig denotes this latter idea, the phrase
used is rt:^*c*o-K mu-A-im from the dea^d, evidently directing
us to a particular state or condition, from which the subject
spoken of is represented to have escaped—that is the state
of the dead body.
The precision of the language which the scriptures hold
on these points is remarkable, and while the state subse-
quent to the death of the body, and prior to the resurrec-
tion of the dead body, is plainly and accurately distin-
guished from the state subsequent to the resurrection of the
1 Mat. xxii 22—32.
2 See Dr. Campbell's preliminary Dissertations,
€HAP, X. THE HUMAN SOUL. I79
dead body itself, the continuity of existence, from the very
moment of the dissolution of the body, is most explicitly
asserted. And the Saviour's argument is as irresistibly
conclusive as it is simple. God stands in no friendly
relationship to, nor does He represent Himself as being
careful of, and concerned for, non-entities. But if Abra-
ham, and Isaac, and Jacob, are not now existing, if there
is no other substantiality attributable to them than the matter
which was assumed into their organized form, and w^hich,
as really existed before that organization, {i, e. their con-
ception and birth,) as it does now that their material frames
have been resolved into their primitive elements, God
does proclaim Himself to be the God of a moral non-entity,
as standing in a very special and amicable relation to a
few disconnected particles of earth, and evanescent gages,
which have lost entirely their compound organized and
moral existence. This however is absurd, and therefore
as God does style Himself the God of Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob, the}^ must have a present existence and possess some
substantial being other than their material nature which is
now resolved into its primitive elements. This is the plain
legitimate interpretation of the Saviour's own words, and
we defy any one who rejects it' to guard against the charge
of making infinite truth and wisdom reason iilogically and
speak absurdity.
The truth here presented as a conclusion, perhaps it may
he objected, might have been much better, and more satis-
factoril}^ submitted as a distinct assertion, resting on the
divine veracity and authority of the Lord Jesus Christ.
But,—not to notice the impiety of such a thought, inasmuch
as the Saviour is infinitely the best judge of what is the
most proper method of communicating the truth of God,-
—
to have answered the question direi^ly upon his own jjerson-
al authority as a public teacher, would have been to sanction
the infidelitv of the Sadducees, and lead them to boast and
ISO THE SUBSTANTIALITY OF CKAP. X.
glory that the writings of Moses were silent, or furnished
no satisfactory materials for a judgment on this important
topic. While therefore the Saviour draws His argument
from the writings of Moses, He has fully met and answered
the objection of modern divines and infidels, that the doc-
trine of a future state of existence, is not taught in the Pen-
tateuch, and most forcibly proved that there is an immate-
rial and imperishable soul in man.
There are a few reflections which the above discussion
suggests and which the reader will excuse us for submitting
here. Who does not see, that however philosophy, falsely
so called, may assert and endeavor to maintain positions
at war with the declarations of the scriptures, the common
sense of mankind will be ever found in accordance with
them? The prevalent impression is, that man has a soul,
-which is capable of distinct and independent existence.
Occasionally indeed we meet with those that have darkened
their minds by their own vain reasonings, or that have
indulged their sensual appetites and passions to such a
brutalizing and stupifying excess as to deny that they had
souls;^ but the multitude is diflerently impressed. Will it
said that it is a vague, or superstitious notion, engendered
by the Bible, then is it admitted, that the Bible teaches the
fact, so that its testimony will not be wrested from our
hands.
But however we appreciate and extol the gospel of our
Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, as that which has brought
life and immortality to light, we are not prepared to admit
it as fact^ that the idea of spirit is confined to those who
have enjo3^ed the light of revelation. The aborigines of
1 A striking example of this we have in the Comte. de CayJies, whose re-
mark, suggested by the concern for his soul evinced by his relations pre-
vious to his death, the Baron de Gulmen has preserved. '*I see perfectly
that you wish to converse with me on the state of my soul," said he addres-
sing them, "I am very sorry, however, to be obliged to inform you, that J
actuallv have n':nr
"
CHAP.X. 'HIE HUMAN SOUL. ISl
this country, not to mention others, wlicn first visited by
our adventurous forefathers, v/ere found to indulge a belief
in ^^the Great Spirit," and in the existence of man after his
body had died. Now we must admit from this fact, that
either they originally derived the idea of spirit from tradi-
tionary knowledge, or that the human mind is so constitu-
ted, as to infer the existence of some spiritual being from
what it beholds in the works of nature, and, though inca-
pable of any direct and accurate knowledge of it, to con-
ceive of that being by means of symbolic or analogous
representations, drawn from material things made in its
own excogitations. It is a matter of perfect indifference
to us which our opponent prefers. That they had the idea
of spirit is certain, and it is for the materialist to say whence
they came by it. If he sars, that God first conveyed to
the mind of man the idea of spirit, revealing Himself in
some way adapted to his conceptions aboriginally perform-
ing the operations of thought by means of material organs,
we are satisfied. For the idea bavins; been once fairlv
communicated, could be imparted by man to his fellow, and
be transmitted and preserved through all successive gene-
rations. But if God comm.unicated the idea in the first
instance, it must be true. If the other supposition is pre-
ferred, that the mind naturally proceeds by the process
above described, to form for itself the idea of spirit, then
is God who has created that mind, and ordained all its
functions, as responsible for the truth in this case, as if he
had directly communicated it.
It will be perceived that we do not speak of tiiose ex-
cogitations, which are peculiar to individuals, and fearfully
delusive and absolutely false, but only of those which the
mind of man universally, and, if we may so speak, in-
stinctively apprehends. This general and unvarying and
unerring judgment of men, we denominate common sense,
the simple apprehension of matters of fact. It is the mind
182 THE SUBSTANTIALITY OF CHAP. X.
of man still struggling into truth, notwithstanding all the
shocks it receives, and imbecility which is induced by
corrupting passions. And that judgment is not everted by
philosophy. Infidelity and Atheism have reared high their
blood-stained banners, and proclaimed emancipation for
the human mind, and prophesied in terms well known to
Zion's car, that the time of deliverance was nigh. But
those banners have been struck, and those predictions have
been lies, and the very apostles of error have themselves
bowed to tlie majesty of truth.
The passions of men may be excited, and philosophy,
or rather the vain \visdom of men of carnal minds, may be
employed to sustain and justify such excitement, and while
the effervescences of passioi. continue, there may be, and
have been, the embracing of falsehood, and delusion, but
soon the minds of men recover their balance. Passions
ere long will subside, and in the cool and sober exercise
of their judgment, men will embrace the truth, however
it may have been vituperated or ridiculed. These sober
and settled convictions, which operate efficiently through
the mass of men, and at which the mind arrives as it were
by a short, and almost instinctive process, will not be
found at war with the revelations of the Bible. It cannot
be, th.at God, though He has exhibited in the scriptures
things new and marvellous, and inconceivable by man,
should find it necessary to violate the constitution He
originally ordained. He has adapted, to the ordinary and
natural mode of the mind's perception, the communica-
tions He has made in that *^sure word of prophecy '^ which
has been transmitted to us. It will bear the most rigid
scrutiny.
Nor shall w^e, for one moment, concede that the deduc-
tions of sound philosophy, drawn from a faithful examina-
tion of nature, will ever disprove Revelations. The best
interpreter of scripture, under tlie guidance of the blessed
CHAP. X. THE riUMAX SOUL. IS 3
Spirit, is common sense. Let us have the Bible, and the
minds of men so far cultivated and improved, as to be able
to think and judge dispassionately, to come to the con-
sideration of the truth, void of prejudice and corrupt-
ing and debasing passions, and we fear not the result. The
liosts of infidelity and Atheism, will all be vanquished, and
their mad boastings of wisdom and philosophy, will prove
vain and momentary, as the howling tempest that agitn.tes,
but cannot prostrate "the mighty forest." " Forthe weap-
ons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God,
to the pulling down of strong holds, casting down imagin-
ations, and every high thing that exaltetli itself against
the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every
thought to the obedience of Christ.''^ The very energies
of that immortal mind whose existence is denied, as they
are directed and nerved by the Spirit of God, shall accom-
plish the overthrow of all the vain reasonings of a false
philosophy.
These remarks naturally lead us to another. What a
noble and exalted being must man have been as originally
created! What traces of wisdom and grandeur do we
still find in him, though like the mighty ruins he lies fallen
and broken! When we see the achievements of science,
the richness and vastness of human knowledge, and con-
template the untiring energy of thought, though now it is so
obvious that man is an enfeebled and corrupt creature, in
whom the power of perceiving truth has been greatly im-
paired, by the influence and prevalence of a depraved state
of heart, who is not ready to exclaim, what must he have
been when he first sprung from the plastic hand of his
Creator?
" Man all immortal hail!"
> Who can gauge the full and overflowing mind of the
first parent of our race, as enriched and stored with know-
1. 2 Cor. X. 4. 5.
1S4 IHE SL'BSTAN ilALirV UF CHAP. X.
ledge vvhicli Go:l iiimself hath put into it? No darkness
brooded over it. No disease of heart deranged the medium
of itS/perceptions. With sensibilities attuned to the lofty-
pitch of heavenly devotion, and nature sparkling in all the
glory of her Creator, how must man have gamboled over
all her beauties, and searched into her wonders, and been
refreshed with the traces of her maker God! If we are
no\;- surprised at the attainments of a Nev»^ton or Bacon or
La Place, vv'ho, by severe process of study and research,
have unfolded the volume of nature, and deciphered its
characters, so illegible to multitudes, what should be our
wonder, when w^e contemplate man —bright and orient in
the very beams of the divinity—throwing the lustre of his
own illumined mind upon the objects around, and at the first
glance discerning their uses and value! The whole trea-
sury of nature lay open before him, and from the inciden-
tal account which the Spirit of God has given of his nam
ing tlie beasts of the earth, and an examination of the
names wliich he at first imposed, we are led to the belief,
tliat originally his knowledge was as extensive as the ob-
jects which God had so bountifully scattered round him.
He was created in knowledge—not mei'ely with the capa-
cities for it, but with knowledge in actual possession.
But if we are filled with admiration of the resources of
man, and the elevation of his being, as we look back
to the great exemplar and parent of our race, how much
inore should we be as we look forward and discern the new
world, and its thickening wonders which God in the
method of redemption especially, has unfolded to us?
Whatever knowledge, innocent man may have had of the
glories of the Divine Being, as displayed in nature, they
fall far short of those sublime mysteries, into which the
minds of redeemed sinners are conducted by the blessed
Spirit of God. Who is not filled with amazement, when
he thinks of the iiiimense capacities of man, and that he,
OHAP. X. THE HUMAN SOUL. 1S5
of all the intelligent creatures, is destined to arrive at the
grandest, and naost extended, and ex Hed, conceptions of
the Infinite Supreme. Tiiis poor imbe.^ile and almost inert
and unconscious existence, wrapped u o, at its first forma-
tion, in a little organized body, totall / dependent on the
sympathies of a mother's soul, is to be raised to immediate
communion, and most endeared intimacy, with the high
and mighty Ruler of the universe!
Oh! who can under-value the soul of man? That noan
is an enemy of his race, who would persuade us there is no
other principle in our nature than what is destined to rot
in the grave. Shall we give up the hope of immortality,
and quietly prepare for an eternal slaep? —the hope of
glory for the dark, cheerless hope of annihilation? The
mind sickens and revolts from the thought of its own des-
truction. And, blessed be God, the volume of his word
affords the choicest cordial to refresh its drooping and
sinking spirits. There is a deathless soul in man, shut up
for a season indeed, iii the casement of this mortal body,
but destined, to an emancipation both wonderous and bliss-
ful —and to become the eternal friend and companion of
Jehovah of Hoats, or the wretched slave and dotard of Hell.
The spirit within is capable of indefinite improvement,
and exaltation, or deterioration and misery. Whether
the progress shall be towards bliss or woe, depends upon
our faith. Reader, do you consult .sense, and reject faith?
Are you skeptical and unbelieving? You are exchanging,
the only hope of a lost world, for the horrors of Tophetc
You have a soul that must dwell forever in the presence
of God, or be the companion of devils and damned spirits.
Your speculations are vain! Your philosophy may prove
your ruin. Oh your soul is of value too immense thus to
be endangered, or thrown away. The joys of sense may
allure and blunt the powers of perceiving truth —wealth
xmy make her boastful promises and load thee with her
f?4
186 THE SUBSTANTIALITY &c. CHAP. X.
cares—ambition may fire thy spirit and urge thee on to
deeds of vengeance or of desperate daring—but thou must
die. And '* what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole
world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give ii^
exchange for his soul.'^^
1 MarkJ
viii. 36, 37.
CHAPTER XI.
1:HE lilFE OF MAN'S RATIONAL. SOUL.
The subject of the chapter—The hnportance of accurate knowledge with
•
regard to it—Psalm xxx. 5—The hfe of the rational soul does not con-
sist in the mere circumstap.ce of its perpetuity—No more reason to infer
any thing as to the life of the soul from its perpetuity than as to the life
of tlie body, from the permanent existence of the elementary particles
which enter into its composition—The life of the soul does not consist in
its spirituality—But in those actions which are appropriate to its capaci-
ties—What those capacities in general are—Col. iii. 10: Eph. iv. 24—
A
description of the condition of our first parent, as originally created—in
knowledge—righteousness—and hohness—The loss of life consequent
on the first act of rebellion—Regeneration defined—Contrast between
sensual and spiritual men—The scriptural phraseology on the subject
—
Not metaphorical—A caution.
It has been shewn that man is a complex being, and
unites, in himself, the three orders of life —vegetative,
animal, and intellectual or spiritual: —that he is possessed
of a rational soul, which is immaterial in its substance,
and not necessarily dependent on organization, nor a
mere chain of ideas and exercises, but is capable of exis-
tence in a separate state, and is the immediate author of
thought and volition, and the subject of consciousness.
The nature of life too has been illustrated, and a definition
given which it is intended shall be applied to the elucida-
tion of the leading subject of this treatise. These things,
it is expected, will be kept in view by the reader, while
we proceed to inquire, in this chapter, in ivhat consists
the life of the immortal spirit.
The language of the Psalmist is ordinarily quoted on
l«b I'HE LIFE UF iHAl-. XL.
this subject, and it is apprehended by many, that when he
says, in reference to God, ^' In His favour is Hfe,"^ there is
a sufficient explanation given of spiritual life. But, though
the heart, which has had experience of the divine favour,
may practically, and sufficiently for all the purposes of a
walk with God, know something of the life that is ^*hid
with Christ in God;" yet it is desirable to have, as far as
possible, clear ideas on a subject of such deep and eternal
interest.
It is highly probable, that tlie sentiment of the Psalmist,
as expressed in the terms quoted above, was widely dif-
ferent from that which they are commonly employed by
Christians to represent. The inspired writer had been
greatly beset, and persecuted by enemies. His very life
had been in danger from their malice and menaces. Their
opposition and power, their provocations and prevalence
against him, he had interpreted, as proof of the displeasure
of God v/ho had permitted him, in His holy providence^,
thus to be afilicted and assailed: and in this belief, he would
not fail to be confirmed by the proverb of his day, and no
doubt applicable still, that ^^when a man's ways please the
Lord He maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him"^
A change however had taken place in this respect, in the
Psalmist's circumstances. The Lord had rescued him from
the hands of his foes, and as his heart overflowed with
gratitude for such deliverance, he exclaimed " I will extol
thee, Lord, for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made
my foes to rejoice over me.''^ This interposition of pro-
vidence on his behalf^ he felt to be an immense favour =
He attributed it entirely to the grace of God, and felt that
to it he was indebted for the preservation of his life. Such
we apprehend to be the original, and legitimate import of
the Psalmist's words.
But, although they primarily direct our attention to the-
1. Psalm XXX. 5. 2, Pi-ov. xvi, 7. 3.- Psalm xxx. 1.
CHAP. XI.
mortal life cf believers, as protected and preserved by the
gracious provider^ce of God, yet we think, that the language
does as appropriately intimate the general nature o that
life which is peculiar to the immortal soul, of which, the
reader will judge, when he shall have carefully con.iaered
tlie remarks which follow.
1 The life of the rational soul does not consist in the
mere circumstance of its immortality or indestructibility.
Immortality is a quality attributed to the human soul m
contradistinction from what eventuates in the perishable
body, and it rather denotes the perpetuity of its existence
than the nature of its life. The very phrase ^Hm^wrtal
lUe » so commonly used, shews evidently a distinction be-
tween life and immortality. The body possesses an ap-
propriate life, which does not consist in the presence of a
%W.U.\ principle in it, as we have already seen The son
is not the life of the body. Its life is peculiar and dis met
but of a temporary continuance and liable sooner or later
to extinction by means of that process of dissolution wi.icu
destroys the entire organisation. Hence the lite ot tne
.
body is called a mortal life But the soul is not ..able .o
such a dissolution or separation of its parts. And bc.ng
devoid of and unaffected by the properties of matter it ...
destined to continue to all eternity uainnuenoed by aecoy.
It is therefore said to be immortal.
AVe cannot indeed speak with the same precision, and
certainty of the immortal spirit, that we do of the morta
body; for we do not and cannot know what is its essential
nature, and whether there is any thing in it answerable to
or-ranization, or whether it is susceptible of variety in the
modiftcation of its essence, so that when we attribute per-
petuity, and the absence of decay to it, we take it tor
granted that its essential being remains unaltered and un-
affected. For any thing we know to the contrary, the
p,rr,etuitu of the human soul is as entirely distinct Ironu
190 '^'HE LlFii Ui-- (;HAP. XJ-
and no more necessarily connected with, that In which con-
sists its appropriate life, as is the existence of the material
atoms which compose the human body with its appropriate
life. These do not perish: —it is demonstrable, that not a
particle of matter has been annihilated sinc£ the creation.
Incessant changes and combinations are going on, but there
is no such tiling as the absolute destruction of the least
portion of the Creator's works. Nature abhors annihila-
tion. The particles which compose our bodies may indeed
be separated, and resolved into their primary elements,
and be assumed into new productions by entirely new com-
binations; —yea they may even enter into the composition
of other living creatures, but they will not by such pro-
cess be destroyed. And when death has deranged the
entire organization of the human body ; and in the alembic
of the grave, it has been resolved into its simple elements
—
these elements still remain. There is, strictly speaking a
perpetuity attributable to the body. The particles of which
it is composed may lie dormant in the grave, or pass through
a thousand successive changes, but shall be re-combined
and re-organized in all the bloom and beauty of immortal
youth. Of this no one can doubt who admits the truth of
the sacred record. That record is short and decisive.
^'The hour is coming in the which all that are in the graves
shall hear his voice, and shall come forth, they that have
done good unto the resurrection of life; and they that have
done evil to tlie resurrection of damnation.^*^
No one how-
ever thinks of identifying the essential existence of the
elementary dust with the life of the body. Wherefore we
conclude that as the life of the body consists in something
distinct from the mere existence of the material particles of.
wliich it Is composed ; so the life of the soul does as certainly
consist in something distinct from the mere existence of
its spiritual essence. It follows as a corollary from this
^. That the life of tlie soul docs not consist in its spirit-
1 John, V. 29.
xJHAP. XI.
'
MAX'S EATIONAL SOUL. 191
iiality. Spirit is but one mode of being, as matter is
another ; and with equal propriety might it be said, that
the life of material beings consists in their material essence,
as of spiritual beings in their spiritual essence. The life
of the body we have already seen consists in its appropriate
action. It is not now necessary to refer to the proof and
illustrations by which we attempted to establish the cor-
rectness of this definition. Our business here is to apply
it to the rational soul of man by which we shall obtain
some definite ideas on a subject exceedingly intricate and
^perplexed. Wherefore we conclude that
V. The life of the rational soul consists in the
BEGITLAR series OF THOSE ACTIONS WHICH ARE APPRO-
PRIATE TO ITS SUSCEPTIBILITIES AND CAPACITIES. To
understand this, it is necessary for us to inquire what ac-
tions are appropriate; and this can best be done by a refer-
ence to the primitive constitution of man. It cannot be
expected however, nor is it at all necessary that we should
undertake any minute analysis of the capacities of the
human soul, which fit it for various action. It will be enough
for us to adopt some general classification, as suggested
by the character of the actions themselves.
It is said that man w^as created in the image of God, and
n'hatever may be our opinion as to that image's being the
combination in man of the different orders of life, thus consti-
tuting a trinity in unity, certain it is that a resemblance may
be traced in the moral qualities of his rational soul to perfec-
tions of the divine nature. These may be all classed under
the three following heads, which it is not a little remark-
able are designated as the perfections more especially man-
ifested by the three persons of the Godhead, viz., know-
ledge corresponding with the purposes, and plans, and
revelations especially attributable to the Father, who is the
great source of all:
—
Righteousness corresponding with
the peculiar perfection of the Son, who is denominated the
192 THE LIFE OF CHAP. xr.
righteoiis one and the Lord our righteousness, as he ap-
peared and acted fulfilling all righteousness:
—
Holiness,
corresponding with the more especial attribute of the spirit
who receives the denomination oi the Holy One, the Hol}!^
Spirit. The regenerate sinner is said by the apostle to be
^'renewed in knowledge after the image of Him that created
him,"^ and in another place to have *"put on the neiv m^xi
which afto" God is created in righteousness and true holi-
ness,*'^ as though regeneration secured the restoration of
properties originally characteristic of man.
Without venturing into any thing like minute investiga-
tion with regard to tlie import of these expressions, it may
suffice to remark, tliat they are properties appropriate to
the different capacities of man's moral nature. Knotuledge
implies, and is appropriate to the power of perceiving and
understanding the truth —his intellectual capacities: Right-^
eousness to his active powers or capacities for voluntary
action: and Holiness to his sensitive powers or capacities
for feeling and emotion. Where there is knowledge, there
must be truth or fact, and a mind to perceive and apprehend
it. Where there is righteousness, there must be a law or
standard of right and actions conformed to it. Where there
is holiness^ there mast be some sensitiveness to take alarrrj
at the approach and presence of any thing improper, and
impure, and to preserve the harmony of all the powers,
passions and aflections of the soul. When man therefore
was created, he was possessed of a mind capable of perceiv-
ing, and ::iored with the knowledge of, truth; he was strictly
and perfectly conformed to the law of God both in letter
and in spirit, in outward act and inward volition; and he
was so sensitive to every thing that concerned the honor
and glory of God—so fully under the influence of love to
Him, as to be devoid of any of those selfish, sordid and
5 Col iii. 14. o Epi^, j^, 24.
CHAP. XI. MAN'S RATIONAL SOUL. 193
morbid passions and affections which now oppose them-
selves to the truth and justice and purity of God.
Our first parents, unlike their progeny, were created in
full possession of all the powers of their being, and that in
a state of perfection. They were created in knowledge.
Nature spread forth her rich treasures to their enraptured
attention, and immediately on inspection they understood
their use and character. The Lord brought the beasts of
the field to Adam, to receive their names ; and the names
he gave them —if, as it is mostprobable, the Hebrew dialect
approaches nearest to the first language spoken by man
—
are to this day most appropriate, and plainly show, that he
understood their nature. His skill in language, therefore,
must have been equal to his acquaintance with natural his-
tory. Nor should we conclude that he was ignorant of
God and spiritual realities. It was his great employment,
and, while he continued innocent, his great enjoyment
to rise
From nature up to nature's God.
He knew God, not by any abstract process of reasoning ;
but by intuition. The whole creation, m all the bright-
ness of its primitive glory, stood forth as the polished mir-
ror, to reflect the perfections of Deity ; and man had but
to behold, admire and adore. At every turn he met the
ever, and everywhere present God. In every plant and
shrub he traced the workings of His hand. His converse
with nature, was his communion with the Divinity.
And while his mind was exercised, in those contempla-
tions, and with that knowledge, by which a blissful inter-
course, and communion with God were maintained, his
outward actions,, and inward volitions, were in exact con-
formity with the will of God, or law, which he had given
for their regulation. Being created in righteousness^ his
powers were adapted to that law^, or, the law was adapted
to them. At all events, the adaptation was reciprocal and
25
194 1'HE LIFE OF CHAP XI
complete. Man inclined to obedience, and till tlie mo-
ment of his fall, perfectly conformed himself in all the ex-
ercise of his varied powers, to the equitable precepts of
God's most holy law. No thought of rebellion entered his
mind. No act of rebellion ever appeared in his deport-
ment. No feeling of rebellion, lurked in his heart.
He was also created in holiness, with powers so attuned,
if we may thus speak, as to be pleasureably affected with
the knowledge of God, and obedience to his will, and pain-
ed and distressed with the contrary. Thus knowing, act-
ing, and being affected, man was the object of the divine
favour, and did certainly and continuously apprehend that
favour, as the means of his highest and most ennobling bles-
sedness. Such was the design of his being. Such was
the appropriate exercise of his intellectual, active, and sen-
sitive powers. Such was his life. // consisted in the ac-
tings of his mind and will and heart toward God, as
his supreme good and chief end.
VI. This life, man lost immediately on his giv-
ing PLACE TO THE TEMPTER. His belief in the testimony
of the prime apostate obscured his perceptions of the
truth of God, deranged his conceptions, destroyed his
rectitude, and disordered his affections^ so that he died, in
a spiritual sense, as really, the moment he yielded to the
seducer, as he did, in a natural sense, when several cen-
turies after his body dropped into the grave. His peace-
ful and blissful intercourse with God was interrupted, and
instead of rejoicing to hear His voice —that voice which he
was wont to hear with delight—and of wishing to meet His
benificent Creator, and receive His gentle embrace, he
shrunk amazed, appalled, and flying, vainly thought to
shun His presence. Communion with his God, was no
longer blissful. The source of that happiness, for which
all the susceptibilities and capacities of his being had been
ada,pted, became the fruitful spring of misery. The object
CHAP. Xf. MAN'S RATIONAL SOUL. I95
he had chosen as his supreme good, was avoided and rejected
ds his supreme misery. God and His glory was no longer
his chief end, but were lost in the absorbing influence of
supreme selfishness. He shuddered at the very thought
of drawing nigh to God. Instead of basking in the sun-
shine of the divine favour, and absorbing the mild rays of
the divine glory, to invigorate and enliven his soul, he
felt the wrath of God to be like ''a consuming fire." Oh,
it was a death horrible and agonizing, that eventuated in
the soul of man, when first he violated the command of
God. "By one man, sin entered into the world, and
death by sin. "^ The rational soul, where every blissful
emotion was wont to play, in all the delights of heavenly
benevolence, became the foul den of thieves, a cage of un-
clean birds, whence issued every hateful passion, the vile
progeny of Hell. All v/as lost, and man was instantly
transformed, from the delightful friend and lover of God,
into his dark and malignant foe. The pestilential breath
of Hell, had sullied the fair mirror, from which had been
reflected the very glories of God, and on it, now might be
traced, in fixed characters, the resemblance of the first
rebel. See the hideou-s portrait
—
Love was not in their looks, either to God,
Or to each other, but apparent guilt ;
And shame, and perturbation and despair.
Anger and obstinacy, and hate and guile.
Having seen in what the life of man's rational soul con»
sisted before he rebelled, we are now prepared, in a few
words, to state in what consists his regeneration. As
it is essentially, but making alive again, as the apostle has
styled it—restoring a forfeited life; and as the life of man's
rational soul consisted, as we have shown, in the appropri-
ate exercise of its various powers or capacities, so,
VII, Regeneration is the recommencement op the
I^IFE THAT HAS BEEN LOSTJ THE RATIONAL 90VL OP MAN
Jt. Horn. V. 12,
196 THE LIFE OF CHAP. XJ.
BEGINNING TO ACT APPROPRIATELY IN THE EXERCISE OF
ITS MORAL POWERS OR CAPACITIES, HIS MIND AND WILL
AND HEART BEING DIRECTED TO GOD AS THE SUPREME
GOOD AND CHIEF END.
There are spiritual as well as sensible realities. Of the
former, we have as real and satisfactory information, as of
the latter. The testimony of God, is better evidence than
our sensible perceptions. But the testimony of God,
which, as it were, draws aside the veil of sense and dis-
closes to our minds, the wonders and realities of the spirit-
ual world, affects not the great mass of men. ^-They are
earthly, sensual, devilish." They are absorbed in the
scenes oithis life, intent on the objects that arrest the atten-
tion of their senses. Yea, many are disgusted and pain-
fully affected with the little they do learn from the testi-
mony of God, with respect to spiritual things. Others,
however, are filled with delight in the contemplation of
them, and feel their minds and hearts swayed by their in-
fluence. For, says an apostle, *'We look not at the
things which are seen, but at the things which are not
seen."^ That there is some essential difference between
them, is obvious. That difference consists in the want, on
the one hand and in the possession on the other, of spirit-
ual vitality. The rational soul perceives, enjoys and acts
in view of spiritual realities, as disclosed by the testimony
of God.
They control the currents of feeling, and influence
the flowings of thought. The spiritual world rises into
view in all its wondrou;^- glory, and at no time, however
they may vary in the degree of their impressiveness, do
they lose the power of reaching and affecting the man, and
rousing him to some appropriate action. The whole mind
and heart and soul and in all their strength, flow forth to
God, as the object of highest deliglit. "Whom have I
in Heaven but Thee, and there is none on earth that I de-
1, 1 Cor. ). \i^.
vaAP. XI, MAN'S JIATfONAL SOUL. 197
^ire beside Thee. My flesh faints and my heart fails, but
God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever/'
is the language of the living soul. It lives in God—-mind
and heart dwelling on his love.
It will readily be admitted, that the language of the
scriptures, favours this general view of the nature of Re-
generation. It is not in one or two places only, but fre-
quently ;
yea, uniformly, that life is predicated of the
renewed man. This life commences with his faith, or
belief in the testimony of God, the first in the series
of those acts and exercises in which it consists. The
Saviour says, that ''
Except ye eat the flesh of the
Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you."^
As the great object promotive of that life. He calls Him-
self the ''bread of lifc;''^ "The resurrection and the life;''^
^'The way, the truth and the life;"^ "The prince of
life.'-'^
They that believe on Him, are said to be partakers of
life, while those on the other hand who refuse to believe,
?{re spoken of as dead, or devoid of life. "These things"
says the Evangelist John, "have I written untoyou,that ye
inio;ht believe upon the Son of God, and that believing, ye
might have life through His name.'^'^ *'He that believeth
on the Son, hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not
the Son, shall not see life."^
The unrenewed and unbelieving, are represented as re-
fusing to come to Him, who alone can impart life. "Ye
will not come unto me that ye might have life,'"' and as
being actually dead. ''The time is coming, and now is
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and
they that hear shall live.''^
The transition from an unbelieving to a renewed state^
is described by various expressions, but all involving the
idea of life. "We know that we have passed from death
1 Johii Ti. 53. 2 John vr. 48. 3 John xi. 25.
4 John xiv. 6 5 Acts iii. 15. 6 John xx. 31.
**
Jr.hn ;ii 36. 8 John v. 40. 9 John v. :e.'.
198 THE LIFE OP chAP. XI.
unto life/'^ ^'But God who is rich in mercy for the great
love wherewith he hath loved us, even when w^e were dead
in smSyhaih quickened us together with Christ;"^ ^^Blessed
be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who, ac-
cording to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again un-
to a lively (living) hope;*'^ '*Which were bor7i, not of
blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man,
but of God ;"^ ''Ye must be born again ;"^ "Your life is
hid with Christ in God;"^ ''I will put my spirit within
you, and ye shall live;"^ ''He that hath the Son, hath
life/'«
It is unnecessary to multiply passages. The abov^ will
suffice, to show how commonly the sacred scriptures attri-
bute life to the renewed man, as connected with, or pro-
moted by his faith. Paul says, distinctly, "The life
which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son
ofGod, who loved me and gave Himself for me;'" and "the
just shall live by faith. "^'^
Will any one say that all this is
metaphorical? We admit that occasionally some metaphys-
ical allusion may be made, by the term life, to the great
moral transformaiion which is effected in guilty sinners by
the Spirit God. But it is an outrage upon language to say
that in all the passages quoted, life is metaphorical. With
equal propriety might we say that life itself is a metaphor
;
that in fact there is no such thing.
We have already seen in a general point of view, from a
strict and careful examination of the nature of life, as far as
•we can approximate it, that there is a state of things indu-
ced in the human mind, by the Spirit's agency, which cor-
responds exactly and literally with our definition of life.
Why then shall we reject the idea of life, and persuade our-
selves, that as applicable to our moral nature, the term is
1. 1 Jolin iij. 14. 2. Eph. ii. 4, 5. 3. 1 Peter i. 3.
4. Petei- i. 3. 5. John iii. 7. 6. Col. ii. 3.
7. Ezek. xxxvii. 14. 8. 1 Jchn v. 12. 9. Gal. ii. 20.
aO. Romans i. 16.
€HAi*. xr. MAN'S RATIONAL SOLL. 199
merely metaphorical? Must we take it lor granted, that
there cari be no real life, but what we find associated with,
and dependent on, material organization? Who does not
see that the supposition is altogether unphilosophical and
gratuitous? God is a spirit, and yet He is ^Hhe living
and true God/' The blessed Saviour, too is called em-
phatically, '^The living one ;"^ *' I am he that liveth (o ^^y)
and was dead ; and, behold I am alive for ever more. "^ And
it is expressly stated, that -'^As the Father hath life in Him-
self, so hath He also given to the Son, to have life in Him-
self."^ Is all this metaphor? But if not, and if life is
predicable of a pure spirit, as is God, why should we deem
it necessary to believe, or suspect for one moment that
there may not or cannot be such a state of things induced
in the human soul, such acts and emotions elicited, as may
be best understood by accepting in its obvious import the
language of scripture, which speaks of a believer's life.
Thething is unquestionably possible. No one can success-
fully contend for the restriction of life to the narrow limits
of the material creation. If he admits that God lives, really
and truly, and that His life is not metaphorical, then must
he admit that there may be a real life peculiar to the hu-
man soul.
But in so saying, we are not to be understood as teach-
ing, ov admittingfor one moment, any more in reference
to spiritual tha.n natxcral things, that life is an essence^ si
principle, or a substance, existing per se, and being itself
the cause of those actions we denominate vital. Let the
reader bear in mind the idea and definition of life already
advanced, and not attribute to us the mistaken assumption
which pervades tlie writings of some, that life is an essence,
or principle 7?e?" 6'e. In this very thing, we honestly be-
lieve is to be found the origin of much of that dispute
which is now tending to sunder brethren, who ought to be
1 Kev. i. 18. 2 Jelm. v. 26.
200 1'li^ L^^^ <^i' CHAP. XI.
united inheartand efibrt for the salvation of souIs,as well as
the source ofa vast deal of that obscurity which has enwrap-
ped in almost impenetrable mist, the subject of a sinner's re-
generation, and we doubt not, contributed to bewilder, per-
plex, ensnare, and ruin the souls of many. If any will re-
present regeneration as the creation of a new principle of
spiritual life, we call upon them previously to prove that
life is a principle at all. This must be done before any in-
ference, with regard to the nature of regeneration, as being
the communication of a principle of spiritual life can be an-
alogically deducible. But this subject deserves more par-
ticular consideration, and is reserved to the next chap-
ter.
CHAPTEK XII.
HEGEXERATION NOT A PHYSICAI^
CHAIVGE.
Man not naturally possesed of spiritual life—Beginning appropriately to
act he begins to live—This beginning the new birth—Regeneration not the
infusion of a new principle of spiritual life—Ignorance and erroneous
views ofsome Theological writers with respect to the nature oflife-Thence
erroneous and vague language with regard to regeneration—Quotations
from Skepp—AVitsius—Charnoclc—flopkins—A late attempt to screen
old Calvinistic writers from Dr. Cox's charge that they held and taught
. the doctrine of a physical regeneration—Quotation from Turretine—Dr.
Owen's explanation—Dr. Witherspoon's admission—An example ofstrange
discrepancy between them—Quotations from Dr. Owen—The influence
which his false physiology had on his philosophical views of Regenera-
tion—Also of Greenhill—Boston—The Stahlian doctrine and Hunterian
theory of life both lay false foundations for analogical illustration—
A
particular examination ofthe attempts to repel the accusation with regard
to a physical regeneration—Quotations from Dr. Edwards—No new sense
—Nor holy principle—Nor spiritual instinct suflicient explanations of the
nature ofregeneration—All liable to objection —Some objections against
the doctrine. —1. It exceedingly obscures the grace of God—2. renders
the apostle's declai*ation difficult to be understood, Heb. vi. 4, and 5—
3. robs the Spirit of the glory of being the immediate author of christian
graces—4. has a deleterious influence on personal piety—5. destroys a
sense of moral obligation—6. is based on a false assumption.
The life of the rational soul, it has been seen, consisted
originally in the relative series of those actions appropriate
to its necessitibilities, and capacities, in the perception,
approbation, pursuit and enjoyment of the divine favour,
3s its true and supreme felicity. This life has been lovr..
202 REGENERATION NOT CHAP. xil«
Men are naturally opposed to God, as shall be shewn more
fully hereafter. Regeneration is the commencement of
spiritual life. That life must have its commencement in
some actor exercise which is the first in the new series.
Faith, which is simply belief of the truth as made known
byacredible witness, is that act orexerciseof which, where
God is the witness, life in the sacred scriptures is predi-
cated. ** It is written, man shall not live by bread alone,
but by every word which proceedeth out of the mouth of
God.'^i
It will not be questioned on the one hand, that till a
man believes he is destitute of spiritual life; nor, on the
other that he no sooner believes than he lives. *^He that
believeth on the Son hath everlasting life; andhe that be-
lieveth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God
abideth on him."^ It is certain that there is and must be,
in the very nature of things, a point of time when the ra-
tional soul first believes the testimony of God, with that
sort of faith which causes those acts appropriate to the
design of God in its creation » This is not found to be co-
temporaneous with the very first actings of our intelligent
nature. They are directly contrary to the will and conse-
quently to the design of God, so that man is not naturally
or according to the mere developements of nature, posses-
sed of spiritual life. Nor will he ever be without some in-
fluence and agency of the Spirit of God, other than that
which He exerts as He is the God of nature. **You hath
He quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins,
wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of
this world. "^
Whenever the Spirit of God excites and secures in the
mind and heart of man, those acts and emotions which are
appropriate to his rational soul, i. e. when they are direc-
ted to God, as his supreme good and chief end, he is re-
1^ Mat. iv. 4-. 2. John iu. 36, 3. Epli ii. 1, 2.
CHAP. xir. A PHYSICAL CHANGE. 20-
newed, regenerated, born again. And such he must be regar-
ded simultaneously with the very first or commencement
of them, at whatever period in the history of his being that
may take place. He may have existed for years previous-
ly : but his acts, in the days of his unregeneracy were not
appropriate to his moral relations, or to the design of God
in his creation. Till he begins thus to act, i. e. to act
7ught, he has no life : but as he thus begins, he begins to
live.
This beginning to live, or first going forth of the soul in
appropriate actings towards God, is with great propriety
and beauty, denominated the new birth. For what is
birth? Is it not the commencement of a new series of
processes or developements in the being's existence ? It is
not the commencement of existence: nor of life absolutely;
but of those actions and motions—that life which God design-
ed should be developed in man in this world. Entirely
new processes and actions take place simultaneously with
the infant's entrance into the world. Its transit from its
mother's womb, is the date of its life ; but not of its absoi.ite
living existence. Cotemporaneously with this transit, new
characteristicactions and emotions, or processes commence ;
it is therefore said to live. As the air immediately on ex-
posure rushes into the infant's lungs, which had been in a
collapsed or shrivelled state, while it lay in its mother's
womb, new charrcteristic actions commence. The cellu-
lar spaces of the lungs are dilated ; the bosom heaves; the
cavity of the chest is enlarged ; the blood flows; the oxy-
gen or vital part of the atmospheric air is absorbed by the
blood as it passes throu^li the lungs ; heat is disengaged by
this process ; the heart begins to propel the blood ; circula-
tion com.mences; and thence in regular series proceed the
processes of digestion, absorption, nutrition, &c. whose ag-
gregate, constitute the life of the animal being.
No one imagines that when the air inflates the infant's
204 REGENERATION NOT chaf. xu.
lungs, and it begins to ciy, as it struggles into birth, there is
introtluced or infused mio it, a new principle of life. Yet
have all its characteristic actions and processes been sud-
denly changed. Birth is the very first which originates
and secures all the rest in the great aggregate of vital phe-
nomena. If therefore, we cannot so understand birth in
physiology, as originating a new principle, or as being a
new creation, we cannot lawfully infer any thing of this
sort as to spiritual life, when we run the analogy. All that
we can infer from the expressions Regeneration ^being born
again, renewed, &c. which are terms employed to denote
the change that takes place in the rational soul, is, that they
denote its beginning to live, or commencing its appropri-
ate life. If natural birth is not in reality a new creation,
neither is spiritual birth. As our terms are necessarily
taken from material and sensible things, we must beware
that we do not attribute more meaning to them than the)'
can in truth bear. As the infant passes from one state or
mode of its being to another, when it is born, so does the
new born soul pass from under condemnation, into favour
with God. Birth in both cases is the mere transition.
It is going altogether beyond the analogy in the case, to
assert that there is in Regeneration the injection, infusion,
or implantation or creation of 3.new pri7iciple of spirit-
iial life. If the expressions are used in a vague meta-
phoricalsense, ^'s, we suppose they are b}' multitudes, we shall
not object very strenuously against it. But if it is employ-
ed, as it is unquestionably by some, to unfold to us the
philosophy of Regeneration, or to explain the ifninediate
effect of the Spirit's operations, we do unhesitatingly and
unequivocallj^ denounce it as unauthorized by the language
of Scripture, the analogy of nature, and the deductions of
seience.
Perhaps the reader may be startled at the boldness of
%his declaration, and may at first sight, be disposed to think
OfTAP. XIT. '^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 205
that the above account of regeneration involves essential
error. But wherein lies the essential error ? Is it essen-
tial error, to affirm that the expressions, 7iew creature, cre-
ated aneiv, His workmanship, are metaphorical ? Th^y
most undeniably cannot be literally interpreted : for tocre-
ate, is to produce something out of nothing, to give that
a being which had none before, and w^hich in the nature of
things, none can do but God. If they must be literally
interpreted, then do we err, as will be seen, along with one
of the^reat father's of the Presbyterian church, and whose
fame will long be dear to the hearts of the American peo-
ple, and then it will certainly follow, that Regeneration is
the result of an effort of physical power, on the part of God.
But more of this presently.
The writings of many Theologians contain expressions
which betray at one time, utter ignorance, and at another
erroneous vieivs with regard to the nature of Life, It
seems to be taken for granted by not a few, i\id.i physiolo-
gically. Life is a created essence, and itself a causeoiihos^
actions and processes in our animal frame, which we call
vital ; 3ind speaking a?ialogically, ihevefove as our terms
are borrowed from material things, the impression is al-
most indelibly made, that they considered regeneration
literally to be the infusion, implantation or creation of some
inherent principle, essence or substance which is specifical-
ly the cause of those actions we account spiritual or holy.
Regeneration, accordingly, in their estimation, consists in
a simple effort of God's physical or creative jjower, produ-
cing this essence, substance or principle of spiritual life,
which itself becomes and is designed to be the immediate
cause of those actions and exercises denominated holy or
spiritual.
The falsity of the idea that life physiologically consider-
ed, is an essence or principle, has been already exposed.
The reality of its existence has never been proved. The
206 REGEXERATION X'OT CHAP. XII.
most specious of all the arguments in support of its being
a real essence, "a first principle in nature,'^ is but an ap-
parent influence which in fact is a mere hypothesis or
a begging of the question. i The whole philosophy,
"
therefore, which would explain Regeneration as the injec-
tion, or creation of a new principle or essence of spiritual
life, being based on a false theory as to natural life, must be
erroneous, and must lead to consequences both dangerous
and heretical. \Ye\\ therefore did the apostle charge us to
beware of a false philosophy.
It is true that when the subject is presented in this way,
and the advocates of what we must pronounce a false phi-
losoph?/, 3Lve charged with maintaining the docrine of a
j)hysical Regeneration^ ox Regeneration by the physical
1. "It is no evidence," says Dr. Copland, "of the non-existence of this
principle, tliat it does not become visible to our senses, in an uncombined
form : it is, however, sufficiently demonstrable by its effects, in alliance witii
matter, in which state it presents proofs of its beiiig equal to those from
which we infer the existence of matter itself " Ridicrand's Elements af
Physiology—Appendix, p. 2. Who does not see that he takes for granted
the existence of the cause, which is the very thing to be proved, for he
•calls the phenomena of life, effeds of a vital principle ? If they are called
•effects, we have shown tliat their cause is something different from a crea-
ted essence "a vital principle which «//fec? to matter controls its changes and
forms." The phenomena of life are the results of the divine Spirit's agen-
€}', according to established laws or modes and not of a created essence
wh'.ch possesses in itself a controling influence over all the properties of
matter, with which we are acquainted. The following while it furnishes
a specimen of the same mode of false reasoning just noticed, will serve to il-
lustrate in its fullest extent, the false physiology v.hich hes at the basis of
false theolog}^
"As however we can form no just conceptions of such a principle, but by
its eflects, and as we have no experience of these effects unconnected with
matter, so we are warranted in the conclusion, that the vital influence is as-
sociated with the molecules of matter, forming the impregnating secretions,
and the sensible bulk ofthe ovum. This is its lowest state of activity or energy
and its influence is chiefly manifested, under such circumstances, in preser-
ving the elements of matter with which it is associated from entering into
the combinations to which the chemical aflinities of these elements dispose
them,"
—
Idem.
€HAP. XII. ^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. '207
power of Godj tliere are those who utterly disclaim such an
idea. But either their language is utterl^^ and absolutely unia-
telligible, or it does imply the idea oi 7i real creation hy an
act of mere physical power on the part of God ! We
S2iy physical in the proper meaning of that term •,
—not ma-
terial but as real and substantial, as in the ^r^^ production
or creation of the human soul. We must certainly mistake
the obvious meaning of words, if some theologicial writers
do not use the word create in reference to the regeneration
of a sinner, in its plain and literal import, and conceive of
life as being an essence or substance, possessing the power
of a cause in and of itself. We cite a few quotations for
the reader to examine.
^'Second instance of the Spirit's work upon the soul in
effectual calling, in which the soul is ivholly passive ; and
that is, in the act of quickening the soul by giving and ef-
fecting a real vital union to Christ, as the head and root
of all spiritual life and grace; from whom every member of
his body, being thus spiritually and vitally one in him^ re-
ceiveth all the necessary supplies o^nourishment ^nd edillca-
tion suited to the new creature life and motions: and as the
Spirit of God and Christ knits or ties this vitalJinot of ev-
erlasting union betwixt the soul and Christ ; so he himself
becometh the eternal vital bond hy which the two being
^'joinedto the Lord become one spirit," as truly aindprop-
erly as the union between husband and wife, by God's or-
dination make them one flesh."
"As there must be life in the principle or habit, before
it can be in the act; so there must be union to Christ as a
head before there is life in tlie member: for as well may
we imagine a branch cut off from the old wild olive to have
good juices in it, received from the root before it is grafted
in, as to pretend that any have a life of grace or faith before
spiritual vital union to Christ. How this is effected, and
exactly when it beginneth 1 will not pretend to be positive
208 REGENERATION NOT CHAP. Xir.
in, it being much more hidden and mysterious than the way
of the spirit of man, in its first entrance into and qaick-
ening the body before it is born into the world, the whicli^
whatever men pretend, is to mortals inexplicable,"
*^'We are sure we are passive in our being quickened by
and from our life-giving head and spiritual Adam as we
were in our first union to, and quickening in our na-
tural parent: for as a life-giving Spirit he first co?zz;e^e//j
lifefro^n himself into us by his Spirit which he giveth to
us; and this very life is our union, even as life is the bond
uniting and tying soul and body together, so life and unioa
are coeval."
Who does not feel bewildered after passing thro' such a
labyrinth of perplexity? There is such a confounding of
literal and metaphorical expressions, and at the same time
such false physiology and false philosopjhy suggesting the
analogical illustrations, that we are glad to escape. Nor
are we to be deterred from the rejection of such ^^vain phil-
osophy"^ by an appeal to the tnystery of the Spirit's ope-
rations, for this is too often done to prevent the exposure of
mere mysticism and obscurity in the conceptions and lan-
guage of those who discern not where the mystery lies.
Witsius defines Regeneration to be ^*a supernatural act
of God by which a new and divine life z5/>t^/ into (inditur)
an elect man spiritually dead, and that from the incorrupt-
ible seed of the word of God impregnated by the mighty
power of the Spirit."
*'It is that intrinsic constitution of the soul, in which
by virtue of the Spirit's uniting it with God it is born fit to
put forth those actions which are pleasing to God inChrist;
whether actions of this sort may follow from that principle,
or, as fruit in the seed, may even there for a little while lie
hid."2
1 Skepp's Divine Energy, pp. 238, 239, 240.
2 Reg-eneratio est actio Dei hyperphysica, qvia homini electjt)^ stiiritualiter
CHAP. XII. A PHYSICAL CHANGE 209
The same vagueness of speech is here observable, and it
seems to us very clearly to be the result of an attempt, phy-
siologically to explain the nature of regeneration, and ex_
press some mystic notion about the infusion of a vital
jjrinciple into the soul. He speaks of a life put into the
soul, of the intrinsic constitution of the soul, of its being
impregnated while a germ and there for a while lying hid,
and that too, not when he might have been expected to
abound in metaphor, but when theologically and philoso-
phically defining regeneration.
Dr. Charnock says that ''the new cvedXnvQ is ^ vital
powerful principle, naturally moving the. soul to the
service and obedience of God, and doth ani'inate the fa-
culties in their several motions, as the soul doth quicken
the members of the body."
*''Tis the form whence the perfection both of understand-
ing and will do flow; 'tis not therefore placed in either of
them but in the essence of the soul. 'Tis by this the union
is made between God and the soul: but the union is not of
one particular faculty, but of the whole soul. He that is
joined to the Lord is one Spirit, 'tis not one particular
faculty that is perfected by grace but the substance of the
soul.^''
The above is capable of but one construction. We see
in it clearly the philosophy of this celebrated divine. It is
impossible to employ terms more expressive of the idea of
Regeneration's being a physical change. He talks of grace
operating in the essence of the soul, and perfecting the sub-
moi'tuo, nova ac divina vita indltur, idque ex, semine incorruptibili verb!
Dei, fcBCundati per immensam spiritus virtutem.
Est ilia intrinseca animas cunstittit/o, qua virtute Spiritus cam cum Deo
unientis, apta nata est eas exscrereas actiones, qus Deo in Christo gratae
sunt: sive actiones ejusmodi mox ex isto principio consequantur, sive in
jbi uti frudus in semine, aUquantisper delitescant. Wlisius de (Economia
Feed. Die. lib. III. cap v.
1 €harnr)dys works fol. ed. vol. ii. -pp. 51, 8c 46,
QjQ REGENERATION NOT CHAP. XIE
Stance of the soul as though grace were itself a creature in_
jected by the power of God into the soul! !
And yet, else-
where, this same writer contradicts himself; as indeed it is
not uncommon to find such contradictions, when faith and.
common sense, in some moments of inadvertence, make
war upon and triumph over a vain philosophy. He says
that this new creation ''is not a destruction of the substance
of the soul; but that there is the same physical being and
the samefaculties in all men and nothing is changed in its
substance as far as it respects the nature of man: 'tis neces-
sary therefore that this new creation consist in gracious
qualities and habits which beautify and dispose the soul to
act righteously and holily.'^^
The inconsistency and contradictions in the language of
tiis writer, can only be accounted for on the supposition just
stated, viz: his faith and common sense occasionally get-
ting the better of, and breaking through the mysticism of a
false philosophy. It is plain that he considered Regenera-
tion to be something done in or upon the soul by the Spirit
of God, and that by the mere exercise of His physical pow-
er, which, though he could not say it changed the sub-
stance of the soul, nevertheless being introduced into the
soul anterior to, and irrespective of its voluntary exercises,
becomes the immediate cause of holiness or spiritual ac-
tions, as really as the creation of the substance of the soul
precedes, in the order of nntiire and of time, and proves the
cause of those actions which // performs. This is unques-
tionably a physical Regeneration, i. e. a change produced
on or in the soul—we care not whether by addition or
substraction, injection or extraction—something done to
the soul back of its thoughts and feelings or voluntary ex-
ercises, and which, as Witsius intimates, xndiY fecundate it
and fit it for doing those things which are pleasing to God^
though for a little while it may lie hid.
1 Ckarnock's works, fol. ed, vol. ii. pp. 51, 41.
CHAP. XII. A PHYSICAL CHANGE. 211
Dr. Hopkins expresses himself much to the same effect.
'^The divine operation in Regeneration," says he, '*of
v,^hich the ?ieiv heart is the effect, is immediate; or it is
not wrought by any Tneans as the cause of it; but by the
immediate poioer and energy of the Holy Spirit. ^ It is
called a creation; and the divine agency in it is as Tnuck
without any medium as in creating something from no^
things ^^
An attempt has been recently made to vindicate Char-
iiock, Owen, Turretine and others from the charge alleged
against the old Calvinistic divines by Dr. Cox, that they be-
lieved and taught the doctrine ot a physical Regeneration, ^
But it is as we humbly conceive altogther a vain attempt
They do indeed speak of Regeneration as a moral change,
and describe it oft times with great accuracy, when speaking
of the moral exercises. Here their faith and piety tri-
umphed over their philosophy: —but whatever may have
been their declarations and illustrations, as long as they
did assert and teach that Regeneration is a literal crea^
tion—something done in or upon the soul by an immedi-
-ate exercise of physical power on the part of God, thus
and there producing an effect, which is anterior to any
holy exercises, and becomes itself the direct cause of such
exercises, we cannot possibly see how they are to be ex-
culpated from the charge. Their language frequently ia»
volves the idea of physical Regeneration, or they have ex-
pressed themselves most awkwardly, and without any de-
finite meaning.
Speaking of the first moment of conversion, Turretine
represents the man as perfectly passive, as is the ewer inta
which water is poured. And he compares the regenera-
tion of a sinner, not to natural birth but conception, ob-
serving that, ^^as in natural generation the children them-
selves cannot beget themselves, nor confer any thing to
their own nativity, but are merely passive: so in superna-
1- TToplnn's System of Divinity, voli. p. 536. 2 See Bib. Rep, voL ii.
212 IJEGENERATION NOT CHAP. XI 1%
tural regeneration, no one can regenerate himself."'^ The
idea of an infusion or injection of gracious qualities into the
soul, his language evidently implies when he teaches^ that
the orthodox make the man that is to be regenerated, mere-
ly a passive subject of the regenerating spirit and of the
new qualities, which by Him are ii^fused, though after-
wards, these neiv qualities being already injected, the
man demeans himself as the proactive instrument of his
own actions.^
Dr. Owen writing on the subject of regeneration, makes
the following remarks: '^This (i: e. the new creature,) is
produced in the souls of men by a creating act of the
power of God, or it is not a creature: and it is superin-
duced into the essentialfaculties of our souls, or it is not
a new creature; for whatever is in the soul of power, dis-
position, ability or inclination unto God, or for any moral
actions, by nature, it belongs unto the old creation, it is no
new creature, and it must be somewhat that hath a being
and subsistence ofits own in the soul, or it can be neither
new nor a creature.''^^
Of Dr. Owen we have an exalted opinion, and acknowl-
edge ourselves much indebted to his writings, especially in
having early imbibed from them a taste for the study of the
Scriptures, in preference to tomes of theology in matters of
1 Sed de pimo moraento, quo primum convertitnr, et novam vitam per
regenerationem accipsit, in quo mere passive se habere ad modum subjecti
recipientis, non veri principii agentis contendiraus.
Et ut in generatione natural!, liberi ipsi s&\t^?,os gignere non possunt, nee
quicquam conferre ad sui nativitatem, sed mere passive se habent: ita in
regeneratione supernaturali nemo seipsum regenerare potest. Turret.
Inst. Vol. ii. pp. 592, 595.
2 Hominem vero regenerandum facient subjectionem mere passivum
Spiritus regenerantis, et novarum qualitatum, quae ab ipso infunduntur
Quamvis postea infusis jam novis qualitatibus, se habeat ut instrumentum
aQtivumllberum suorum actiomun. Tun-et. Inst. vol. ii. p. 592,
3 0^uen on the SpiriU vol. i. p. 349, 350.
OHAP. XII. "^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 2l3
faith. But we cannot defer even to him, where his lan-
guage is wrapped up in the folds of a false philosophy, or
conveys no definite idea to the mind. In the passaga
above quoted, he clearly and zealously insists upon the
phrase new creature^ being literally understood. Dr.
Witherspoon on the other hand in his valuable practical
treatise on Regeneration, at the very commencement, pro-
nounces the scriptural phrases ''being born again," "the
new creature," *'his workmanship," &c. to be inetaphor-
ical, thus evidently denying there is a literal or real cre-
ation.
He does indeed speakof an ''inward andessential change,"
but it is very evident, that he does not by these terms de-
note any other change than may be traced in the volunta-
ry exercises : for he considers that it may be as appropri-
ately designated by repentance as by regeneration. "It
appears," says he, "that regeneration, repentance, conver-
sion, call it what you please, is a very great change,"^ aiid
that change he describes in detail, in the actual develope-
ments of character ivhich take place, i. e. zVi those feel-
iiigs and actions, which constitute the character.
He does not pretend to prove, or assert, the existence of
^principle of life, or any thing else back of the voluntary
exercises themselves, as the cause, or origin, of that holi-
ness, without which no man shall see the Lord. But this
Dr. Owen does, as the above quotation proves, and to inti-
mate that the expressions, "new creature," "being boru
again," and "His workmanship," are metaphorical, the
latter denounces in the severest terms, saying that it '^is
but a way to turn the whole into a fable, or at least to ren-
der the gospel the most obscure, and improper way of teach-
ing the truth of things, that ever was made use of in the
world. "^ Thus widely and radically did those two excel-
1. Witherspoon's works, vol. i. p. 102.
?. Owen on the Spirit, vol. i, p. 351.
214 KKGENEKATION NOT CHAP. XTI.
lent men differ in their philosophical views of Regenera-
tion, while nevertheless, they both were agreed as to the
scriptural facts in the case.
But we have not yet clone witli the views of Dr. Owen,
and the proofs, that the language of some old Calvinistie
writers implies an assumption, that the agency of the Spir-
it in Regeneration, consisted in producing, creating sorne-
ihing in the soul, which something, is itself the cause of
holy and vital acts and exercises,
^^Allow," says he, ^*a new spiritual principle, an in-
fused habit of grace, or gracious abilities to be required in
and unto Regeneration, or to be the product of the work
of the Spirit therein, that which is born of the Spirit be-
ing Spirit, and this part of the nature of this work, is suffi-
ciently cleared.
'^^
^'This B-iA <puenci this divine nature, is not the nature of
God, whereof in our own persons we are not subjectively
partakers. And yet a nature it is which is a principle of
operation." ^'The principle iiseU i?
fused into us, created
in us, is called the new man." ^'It is called the new man,
because it is the effect and product of God's creating
power, and that in a way of a new cr^eation.^^ ''This is
the constant course and tenor of the scripture, to distin-
guish between the grace of regeneration, which it declares
to be an immediate supernatural work of God in us, and
upon us, and all that obedience, holiness, righteousness,
virtue, or whatever is good in us, which is the consequent,
product and effect of it."^
"As it is in our natural lives, with respect unto God's
providence, so it is in our spiritual lives, with respect un-
to His grace. He hath in the works of nature endowed
us with a vital principle, or an act of the quickening soul
upon the body, wh'ich is quickened thereb}'. By virtue
hereof wQ ^YQ e^zf/^/?^/ unto all vital acts, whether natural
1. O-.ven on the Sp^•i^ vo]. ".
pp. •'^49, S5J, 35X ?^^o.
CHAP. XII. "^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 215
and necessary, or voluntary according to tl^e constitution
of our beings, which is intellectual. ^'God breathed into
man the breath of life, and he became a living soul."
Giving him a p7'inciple of life, he was fitted for, and ena-
bled unto all the proper acts of that life. For a principle
of life is an ability and disposition unto acts of life." ''It
is so as unto our spiritual life. We are, by the grace of
God, through Jesus Christ, furnished with a ^rmcz/?/e of
it, in the way, and for the ends before described. Hereby
are we enabled, and disposed to live unto God, in the ex-
ercise of spiritually vital acts, or the performance of du-
ties of holiness.'"
There could not be plainer, or more decisive passages
desired, to shew the influence which a false physiology
had in determining the philosophical views of this excel-
lent man, with regard to the nature of regeneration. Who
will undertake to affirm, with such testimonies in view,
whatever admissions and explanations he may elsewhere
have made; that he did not practically consider that regen-
eration was the creation by an act ofpower on the part of
God, of some vital pi^inciple in the soul, which gave it
ability and energy to act. The parallel which he runs be-
tween the concurring agency of God's providence in the
support of natural life, and the assisting influence of the
Holy Spirit, in the acts of spiritual life, does not re-
lieve the subject. We find it absolutely impossible to un-
derstand what he says or means, if he did not teach the
sentiment, that Regeneration consisted in God's c?^eating
by Ms physicalpower, a vital substance or principle in
the soul, lohich is the immediate cause of holy and spir-
itual acts—not changing the substance of the soul itself,
but superadded, "infused" into it.
We suppose that such also were the views of Greenhill,
as expressed in the 14th conclusion of his Morning Exer-
1. Owen on the Spirit, Vol. II. pp. 280, 281. ,
21G REGENERATION NO r CHAP. XII.
cise, mi tlie question, *^What must, and can persons do to-
wards their own conversion ?'^ They are indeed much
more vaguely expressed, and partake more of a metaphys-
ical than physiological tinge; but still, they involve the
idea of a created principle of life, which is the immediate
source or cause of power or energy in the soul of man, to
perform spiritual acts. ^'Man's will," says he, *'being
first converted to God, and by God Himself, converts it-
self also unto God, acta agit, as a child's hand in WTiting^
being acted by the master's hand, it writes. Hence, man
may be said to turn himself, for the will being healed and
moAe good, of urw-illing willing, it hath an intrinsical
principle of w^illing good, and so dominion over its own
acts, whereby it turneth itself to God."^
Such too were the. philosophical view^s of Boston as to
the nature of Regeneration, who, nevertheless in his prac-
tical exhibition and illustrations of that great change, writes
with great force and propriety. "Regeneration," says he,
*'is a real lliorough change, w^hereby the man is made a
x\Q.w creature.''^ ''The life give?i z/z regeneration, what-
ever decays it may fall under, can never be utterly lost.'*
^'Believers, regenerate persons, who fiducially credit him
and reU^ on him, have put on Christ. If that be not
enough he is i?i them as the child in the mother^s belly.
'^''
"He liveth in them as their very souls in their bodies.^^
"As the child is merely passive in generation, so is the
child of God in regeneration." " Man in his depraved
state is a mere non entity in grace, and is brought into a
new being, b)- the power of Him *vvho calleth things that
be not as though they were: being created in Jesus Christ
unto good works/ "^
To this we add the language of Shaw: "Therefore we
may conceive of the original of religion in a more inward
1. The Morning exercise at Cripple g-ate, Sep. 1661, Ser, 2.
?. Boston's Fcurfold State, pp. 155, 156, 195, 171.
CHAP. XII. A PHYSICAL CHANGE. 2J7
and spiritual manner still. It is not so much given of
God, as itself is something of God in the soul; as the soul
Is not so properly said to give life as to be the life of man.
As the conjunction of the soul with the body is the life of
the body, so veHIy the life of the soul stands in its con-
junction with God, by a spiritual union." '^Something
of Christ in the soul—an infant Christ as one calls it."^
It is easy, in these expressions, to trace the same physi-
ological principles which were embraced by the old di-
vines generally. Although some are more obscure than
others in their conceptions and language, yet the Stahlian
doctrine of the souPs being the life or quickening princi-
ple of the body has contributed no little, by laying a foun-
dation for false analogies, to involve the subject of regene-
ration in mist and darkness. The substitution of the Hun-
terian theory of life did not and cannot afford a better
ground for analogical illustration.
It is unnecessary we presume, to refer minutely to the
many disgusting and ridiculous items of resemblance,
which are noticed, in the writings of some old Calvinists
between natural genera- ion and regeneration—all being
suggested and insisted on through the influence of a false
physiology. The reader will excuse us for furnishing him
with one:
" Q. What is Regeneration?
"r^. Its the p7'oducfion of a new and spiritual being, by
the mtroduction of a new and spiritual forme. As there-
fore Isaac before generation was a non entitle in nature,
so every child of the promise before Regeneration, is a
non entity in grace; and as in creation there is a forma-
tion, or the introduction of a new forme which gives being,
distinction and operation, so is it likewise in Regeneration.
This forme is nothing else than truih of grace infused. As
1 thaw's Immanuel, pp. 6, 7,
28
218 REGENERATION NOT CHAP. Xil.
in nature the corruption of one thing is the generation of
another; so in grace, the corruption of the old man, is the
generation of the new. And lastly as in natural genera-
tion no forme is introduced but by various preparations and
previous dispositions; so in Regeneration, much legal and
evangelical preparation ushers in the new birth." The
curious reader may find more of the same character in the
residue of the quotation which we give in a note below.^
We are not a little surprised therefore that after sucli
testimonies it should be so peremptorily and pertina-
1. The nature of Regenenition will apjjear more distinctly by comparing
it more particularly with natural g-eneration; and 1. In theterms of conve-
niency or similitude. 2. In the terms of difference or dissimilitude. They
agree 1. In the causes. 2. In the mariner ofproduction. 3, In the matter
produced.
For the first, in both these is 1. A principal cause; and thus God is the
regenerate man's father, the church is his mother. 2. There are subordin-
ate instrumental causes; such are Christ's ministers, who are therefore
sometimes called fathers, and sometimes mothers. 3. The coiistiiutivp,
cause; 2i seed \\\\\c\i \s partly natural^ namely the word—partly spiritual,
the influence and ©fficacy of the Holy Ghost—without which the material
seed or letter is ineffectual.
2. They agree, 2. In the manner of production. In both there is,
1. A conception; Christ spiritual, (as well as personal,) is ever conceived
by the power and overshadowing of the Holy Ghost. This holds true in
other generations—unless the seed of the word be received and retained,
there can be no new man, no good and honest heart.
2. There is a^formation. God's act is wonderful in the formation of our
outward man, but far more stupendous in the formation of our inward manj,
which is no mean part of the mystery of godliness.
3. Quickening—which is perceived bv/spiritual motion.
4. Longings Sometimes the parents long, sometimes the child; here
both parent? and child; how doth God, Christ and his ministers long for the
natural man's conversion? Never did a teeming wotpan long more for
fruit, or deliverance, than these do for a nev/ born babe in Christ. But
this is not all, the babe himself longs also.
5. Travaile with pain. Oh tlie pangs of our spiritual mothers!—do not
increase them by sticking in the birth! —Oh the fear and danger of mis,
carriage, both before and after this spiritual childing! &c. &c. Seethe
Morfiing Exercise at Giks \i\ the fields. M»y, 1659, pp 443, 444-
CHAP. XII. -"^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. gX^
ciously denied, that old Calvinistic writers indicated their
belief, that regeneration is a physical change. If they did
not mean to intimate a change of something back of, or an-
terior to, the voluntary exercises, and that in the constitu-
tional nature of the soul, let it be shown intelligibly and
plainl}' what they did mean. As yet this has not been satis-
factorily done.
A late writer in the Biblical Repertory is too bold, and
assumes what he can never prove, when he represents the old
Calvinists as meaning nothing more by the physical influ»
ence of the Spirit on the soul, which he admits they often
speak of, than His direct and immediate influence. They
unquestionably spoke of a creative exercise of power, but
that is by no means synonymous with a direct and imine-
diafe influence. There are various ways in which men
directly or immediately influence each other, where moral
suasion or the presentation of the truth does not take place.
Would it not be ridiculous and an abuse of terms to de-
scribe such an influence as physical? How vain is the at^
tempt to rescue old Calvinists from the charge of maintain-
ing a physical regeneration, in the proper grammatical
meaning of the term, the reader will be able for himself
presently to judge.
''*,dll the old Calvinists," says the above writer, **and
the great majority, we hope and believe, of the new school
also, hold that the result of the Holy Spirit's operation on
the soul, is a holy principle or disposition."^ This lan»
guage is vague and equivocal. It is even more obscure
than that of Charnock, Owen and others. They tell us
that the Spirit's agency or operation is strictly and pro-
perly creative, and that He produces or i?ifuses in the
soul a principle of life, explaining that, as far as we can
understand, by **a fitness, readiness and \id.hii\kd\ power for
I Biblical Repertory, vol. ii pp. 265, 266.
220 Regeneration NOT chab* xir.
all vital actions," which the soul did not in its natural
state prossess: i. e. as we must believe from their physio-
logical illustrations, some spiritual essence superadded
and diffused through all the faculties of the soul.
The writer in the Repertory, however, seems to speak
of another sort of ^-'holy principle or disposition," the re-
suit of the Spirit's influence, which, as he denies it to be
physical, must be regarded as of a moral character. If
we are to understand the word principle here, as we
do when we coinmonly talk of principles of action, we
shall not contend about it; for, that it results from the in-
fluence of the Spirit, that the regenerate man acts upon a
holy principle, —that is, for example, that his actions are
regulated and determined by a supreme governing pur-
pose to live to the glory of God, we shall not deny, but on
the contrary strenuously affirm. But this is not what the
writer means by a holy principle; for he afterwards quotes
from Charnock, Owen and Edwards, to the latter of whom
is given the strongest testimony of approbation, as express-
ing the doctrine he is endeavoring to support. The Ian*
guage so highly approved of is as follows:
''So this new spiritual sense is not a new faculty of un-
derstanding but it is a new foundation laid in the nature
of the soul, for a new kind of exercises of the same faculty of
understanding. So that new holy disposition of heart that
attends this new sense, is not a new faculty of will but a
foundation laid in the nature of the soul for a new kind
of exercises of the same faculty of will."^
We candidly confess, that, when such a phrase as '*the
nature of tlie soul," is made use of, we immediately con-
ceive that the spirit, or substance of our intellectual being,
apart from, and irrespective of, any of its acts and exer-
cises, is designated ; and the more especially, when we are
directed, by this phrase, to the foundation, source or im-
mediate cause of those acts. It is true the expression i§
1 Bib/Rpp. vol", ii p. 269.
^HAF. XI r. '^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 02
1
vague, and susceptible of different constructions ; and we
would not wish to attach any other meaning to the lan-
guage employed by another, even though his terms may be
incorrect and inappropriate, than Vv'hat he himself is wil-
ling they should bear.
The writer does not certainly mean that it is a princi-
ple of life infused into the soul, for this undoubtedly
would be making Regeneration a physical change, that is
as we understand the expression, a change in man's essen-
iial nature effected, if not by converting the very es-
sence or substance of the soul, at least by the introduction
of something newly created and superadded. This, hqw-
jever, he strenuously denies, and complains that old Cal-
vinists have been charged with holding such a sentiment.
Does he mean that there is superadded to the common,
ordinary or co^w^iVwzf/o/za/principles ofhuman action, such as
habit, affection, passion, &c. any that is new and peculiar?
If so, the being no longer belongs to the human family. For
to give a man a principle of action in this sense, which
he does not possess in common with the whole human
race, is to make him a being of another order. Beside,
if a man has had communicated to him any principle of
action which is the result of a creative energy, his identi-
ty is destroyed. Were we to see a being with a sixth
sense and a capacity to act in some way altogether incon-
ceivable, but answerable to that new sense, we could not
regard him as a human being. Whatever capacity to act
has its foundation laid in the nature of the soul, is un-
questionably constitutional, and must be regarded as an
essential part of its being: so that, if by a holyprinciple the
writer means a capacity oj nature, or an adaptation of
the soul by the communication to it, of some constitution-
al facility or tendency to holy actions, we cannot possibly
avoid the conviction—reprobate the idea as he may—that
he nevertheless teaches, or at least his language implies the
^22 HEUENERATIUN NOT CHAP. XIL.
doctrine of a physical change. And this is the impres-
sion which, in despite of every attempt to attribute to his
words another meaning, the above language of Dr. Ed-
wards, as quoted in tlie Repertory, makes upon our minds.
We cannot conceive of language better calculated to make
just such an Impression, than to talk of -'a new spiritual
sense, or a principle oi neiv kind of perception or spii^it^
II al sensation.'^
Dr. Edwards explains his own meaning. **By d. prhi-
ciple of nature^'^^ says he, ^'I mean \haifoundation which
is laid in nature^ either old or new% for any particular
kind or manner of exercise oi the faculties of the soul ; or
a natural habit, or foundation for action, giving a person
ability diii^ disposition to exert the faculties in exercises of
such a certain kind : so that to exert the faculties in that
kind of exercises, may be said to be his nature.'"^
^'We have never,^^ sa3's the writer in the Repertory,
^'met with a stronger, or m»ore formal statement of the doc«
trine w-hich we are endeavouring to support. '^^ It is un-
questionably more philosophical and precise than Dr. Bel-
my's ''holy taste,^^ and Dr. Dwight's ^^relish for spir-
itual objects," which, if they are not mere 7netaphorical
illustrations, as we strongly suspect, must have been sug-
gested by Dr. Edwards' Philosophy of Regeneration,
which lays 'Hhe foundation" oi holy acts in '*a new spir^
itual sense.
^'
*'But we presume, that the impressions, which such lan»
guage makeson our mind, and the inference which we
cannot avoid drawing from it, that some of the old Calvinists
did virtually, if not avowedly, teach the doctrine of a
physical Regeneration, will be pronounced improper and
incorrect. We have, therefore, applied ourselves, with
especial care to ascertain, if possible, what is precisely ^'the
1. Treatise concerning religious affections, pp. 231, 232,
2. Bib. Rep. vol. ii, p. 2(;.9
CHAP. XII. -^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 223
holy principle,-^ to which the writer refers. His meanini]:
is illustrated by a reference to habit, which is one of the
natural principles of human action, and he supposes that
"something" is done by the Spirit to the soul which places
it, with respect to holy acts, in a similar condition, with
that in which it is, in respect of those acts which habit
renders easy, with this exception only, that there is a
proneness to holy acts in the one case, the like of which
does not exist in the other.
**A single circumstance,'' he says, ''is here wanting,
which is found in other **habits,'' and that is, there is not
the tendency or proneness to those particular acts to which
this state of mind is adapted. This difference, however,
arises not from any difference in the "habits'^ themselves,
but from the nature of the faculties in v/hich, so to speak,
they inhere. A principle in the will (in its largest sense,
including all the active powersj, is not only a state of mind
adapted to certain acts, hutproiie to produce them,"^
From the above explanation, it is evident the writer con-
siders, that in regeneration, some^o?^e?MS communicated to
the soul, which enables it of itself io perform holy acts-
there is '^something'^ which is inherent in the faculties ol
the soul —^'an attribute of the man under all circum-
stances.^' This is the immediate cause of holiness, accor-
ding to this view, and it has its foundation in the nature
of the soul, in ''something'^ in the man himself, which is
the ground of certainty^ that when called to holy acts, he will
perform them with an ease and rapidity impossible, in the
very nature of things, to those unrenewed. At one time,
it is spoken of as "a disposition or relish or taste for holi-
ness,'' and before there was any holy act"— and the sub-
ject is illustrated by the analogies of taste, the love of
children, the social principle, &c., which, unquestionably
are constitutional. At another time it is spoken of, more
1. Bib. Rep vol. ii. n. 17?
224 REGENERATION NOT CHAP. XII,
explicitly still, as possessing this character, and is actually
called ^Hhe instinctive love of holiness," and that not met-
aphorically, but philosophically ; and the subject is illus-
trated by analogies drawn from what the writer calls *^the
maternal instinct," and the instinctive love of justice, ab-
horrence of cruelty, admiration of what is noble, which
God has implanted m our '^nature-^ and which he speaks
of as being innate. In this he strictly follows Dr. Ed-
wards, who, when he explains what he means by a disposi-
tion's being natural, says, it is "from a kind oi instinct im-
planted in the mind, in its creation."
Now the production of these assumed instincts, and "the
instinctive love of holiness," in which it is said the mind of
Adam was created, is only to be attributed to a creative act
of Almighty power. We are compelled, therefore, from
such analogies employed, to infer, that *Hhe instinctive love
of holiness" re-produced in Regeneration, is, and must be
referred by the writer, to a creative act of the same Al-
mighty power ; and {{creative, then there has been the ac-
tual production of something, som^ subsistence which did
not previously exist, which is to all intents and purposes,
explain it as you may, Siphi/sical change—a change wrought
by Almighty power, in simple created nature.
We are not anxious to arrive at such a result, and as the
idea of a physical change is disavowed, it certainly would
be uncourteous, not to say unchristian, to intimate that it
i3 maintained. But language is sometimes incorrectly
used, and modes of speech are adopted, which, infallibly in
their legitimate import and construction, excite ideas con-
trary to those intended to be conveyed. This will always
be the case, when the speaker has not himself a distinct and
vivid conception of the thing he intends to teach; and, no
doubt, much of the dispute in the christian church, arises
out of the imperfection of language, rendered much more
. operative of mischief, as it is employed by persons of
CHAP. XII. A PHYSICAL CHANGE. '
225
undisciplined minds, unaccustomed to accurate analysis of
•thought, and not careful to understand, first what it is they
want to express, and next the precise and legitimate mean-
ing of the words they employ for that purpose. It is be-
cause we are aware of this thing, and fear lest toe may err,
that we feel so solicitous to know what is meant by *'the
holy principle,'' which it is said is the result of the Spirit's
work—lays the foundation for, and is the immediate and
appropriate cause of holy acts.
It is no new substance, it is no vital essence, it is no ne^v
creation. It can be no new sense, nor instinct, m the prop-
er meaning of these words. Nor is it any real subsistence
infused into the natural capacities or susceptibilities, or es-
sence of the soul, for were it any of these, then would it be
ii physical change. Is it meant, that it results conjointly
from the very constitution of the human mind, and the
fact of the Spirit^s gracious agency in that mind, that
when a sinner repents, and believes, he has begun a life, in
which his acts and exercises are all regulated, through the
impulses of the susceptibilities and capacities of his natu-
ral mental and moral constitution, as thei/ are affected and
excited by spiritual objects?—that is, that his natural sus-
ceptibilities and capacities to love, to fear, to hope, to joy^
to sorrow, &c, &:c. are all governed and determined in their
exercise, by the exciting influence of spiritual things, so
that he now proposes to himself a new end, is governed by
a new purpose, has new characteristic exercises and emo-
tions ; new, not by virtue of any foundation in the soul by a
previous creative act of God, but new from the character
of the objects which have assumed exciting, and controling,
or directing influence?
If this be what is meant, we shall not dissent, though we
think the language which has been chosen altogether unhap-
py, and calculated to mislead. That this ??iai/ be the wri«
tf^r's idea, we have been led to conjecture from the follow-
29
^iS BEGEKERATION NO
r
qHAP. XII.
ing remark, m reference to what he calls ^^the tendencies'*
of the soul, and which he says lie back of the exercises,
and are such as sufficiently account for their nature. ''They
may, says he, result from the relative state of all the es-
sential attributes." Let this be granted in reference to
moral acts and exercises, and we are satisfied. Only re-
quire us to believe that the Spirit of God, by his own mys-
terious agency—without explaining that agency to consist
in physically creating or infusing grace^ or in any other
way than as mind operates on mind —brings the mind and
heart of the sinner into appropriate action, and contin-
ually holds them under the directing influence of spirit-
ual things—-that is so excites the natural susceptibilities
and capacities, and sustains them, by his immediate a-
gency, under the quickening and governing influence of
spiritual realities as to elicit, in perfect accordance with
all the established modes and laws of human thought,
those acts and exercises which are required by the law of
God, and we know what we are to believe. We appre-
hend they«c^^ in the case, though we will not pretend to
explain or account for them. But do not tell us, that the
Spirit introduces into the heart a vital principle or sense,
a spiritual instinct or holy principle to be the immedi-
ate cause and formal reason of holy acts, laid by creative
power in the nature of the soul. For then are we requir-
ed to embrace a philosophy which we do not understand,
which we believe to be false, which is totally unnecessary,
which is unsustained by legitimate analogy, and which mil-
itates directly against the plain declarations of fact in the
word of God. Our ivilling and doing are referred direct^
ly to the agency of God. ''Work out your own salvation
with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in
you both to will and to do of his good pleasure"^ —not the
1. Phil-, ii, 12; 13'
r;HAP. xir. A i^HYSICAL CHANGE. 2^i
new sense—^not the holy principle—not the vital essence,
but the immediate agency of God, the Author of Life, in
a way perfectly consistent with and through the already
created and established constitution of our nature —our own
volition and &ct being the result of His influence and agen-
cy, just as another's choice and decision may result through
our persuasion.
Were not the idea of a change wrought in the constitu-
tional nature or properties of the human soul, by a simple
act of creative power on the part of God, so generally and
deservedly reprobated at the present day, it might be ne-
cessary to submit something further on this subject. A few
remarks, however, are all that we deem requisite.
1. If Regeneration is effected by the same power of God
which He exerts in creating, and if this previously crea^zw^
act changing the nature of the soul, is the immediate found-
ation or cause of holy exercises, then is there little or no
grace, so far as we can see, in the transaction. For if God,
by a mere act of creative power, introduces into the soul
of man, a principle which possesses power to secure holy
exercises, where is the grace in the affair? It is an act of
poive?', but the grace is of m.uch the same general character
with that manifested in the mere creation of an intelligent
being. It is, however, amazing grace, to toil and strive,
and by the blessed vSpirit so excite and urge, or win upon
the rebel heart, as to bring it to consent to God, and make
choice of Him as the chief good. By grace we are saved.
2. Moreover, we cannot understand how it should ever
become impossible to reneio to repentance, the most aban-
doned and Hell deserving apostate that ever existed. The
apostle unquestionably speaks of an impossibility of this
nature existing in some cases. For says he, "It is impos-
sibk for those who were once enlightened and have tasted
of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers cf the Holy
228 REGENERATION NOT CHAP. Xli.
Ghost, and have tasted the good word of God and the pow-
ers of the world to come, if they fall away, to renew them
again to repentance "^ If Regeneration was a mere cre-
ative act, three could be no difficulty in any case; nor
could there be any on the part of Omnipotence, in intro-
ducing a "holy principle," if Regeneration consists in
forming a "spiritual instinct." When, however, the nat-
ural existing susceptibilities and capacities are the medium
through which the Spirit of God is to operate, and they
have become callous, and the sensibilities, in reference to
divine realities, all extinct, there is no longer any thing to
v;^hich to appeal, or any principle, which^ in consistency
with the established modes of human thought and feeling,
can b& roused into action, so as to issue in repentance.
We see a force and terror of import in the apostle's ex-
pressions, under this aspect, which they never can possess
if di physical regeneration is the basis or immediate cause
of repentance, and other holy exercises in man.
3. Beside, if Regeneration is a creative act, producing
in the soul "something" which i& the immediate cause of
holiness, then are not the graces, repentance, love, &c. the
immediate fruits of the Spirit. The quotations already
cited from Dr. Owen, shew plainly that the influence of the
Spirit of God in regenerating the sinner is, in his estima-
tion, a mere act of creative power, which gives to the na-
ture or soul /»oz^^er, ability, disposition and inclination
to holy acts. We present some further extracts, where this
^^something" is spoken of as an inherent righteousness,
which is the basis and immediate cause of holy exercises.
He assumes that there is "in and required unto regenera-
tion, the infusion of a new real spiritual principle into
the soul and its faculties, of spiritual life, light, holiness
and righteousness, disposed unto and suited for the destruc-
1, Heb. vh 4i 5,
GHAP. XII. A PHYSICAL CHANGfi. 229
tron or expulsion of a contrary inbred, habitual principle
of sin and enmity against God, enabling unto all acts of
holy obedience, and so, in order of nature, antecedent un-
to them." In support of this view he quotes Davenant,
who is much more explicit in referring us to inherent
Hghteoiisness as the cause of holy exercises. ''By inher-
ent righteousness we understand, says he, the supernatural
gift of sanctifying grace, opposed to original sin, and re-
pairing and renovating, in every faculty of the soul, that
image of God, which, by original sin, was defiled and dis-
sipated. Original sin filled the mind with darkness
—
this
infused grace enlightens it with heavenly liglit. That,
stained the human heart with obstinacy and hatred of God
andofthedivinelaw
—
thisinfusedrighteousnesssoii^nsihQ
heart, kindles and inflames it with the love of good. Fi-
nally, that infects all affections and the very appetite itself
with rebellion —this renovated holiness forces into order
the disturbed affections, and brings under its dominion the
rebel lust itself, and, as it were, puts it under the yoke."^
He also quotes Origen as authority, who says of faith-—
that as the root which has received the shower, it inheres
in the soil of the soul.^
Now this view of the subject, as we conceive, robs the
Spirit of His glory, and introduces a false philosophy, to
1. Per inhaerentem justitiam intelligimus supernaturale donum gratisc
sanctificantis, oppositum orlginali peccato, et in sing-ulis animx facultatibus
reparans et renovans illam Dei imajjinem, quae per peccatum originale fced-
ata ac dissipata fuit. Originale peccatum mentem tenebris implevit
—
ho£C
infusa gratia lumine ccelesti collustrat. Istud cor hunianuin obstinatione
et odio Dei ac divinse legis maculavit
—
Jicbc infusa jusiitia cor emoUit et
amore boni arcendit et inflammat. Postremo, illud affectus omnes atque
ipsum appetitum rebellione infecit; haec renovata sanctitas in ordiiiem cogit
perturbatas affectiones, et ipsam rebellem concupiscentiam dominio spoliat,
et quasi subjugum mittit. Datenaxt de Just. Habit. Cap. 3.
2. Fides tanquam radix imbre suscepto liccret in animx solo, Oeig. lib.
4, in Epist. ad Komun.
230 REGENERATION NOT CHAP. XIi.
obscure his immediate influence. Tiie apostle says, that
''The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering,
gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. ''^
"The
fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness and
truth. "^ Now these are all voluntary exercises of the hu-
man mind; and that ever a sinner is brought to exercise
and exhibit faith, love, repentance, &c. is attributed by the
apostle to the immediate and special influence of the Ho-
ly Spirit. It is philosophy, based on a false physiology,
which comes in and says the Spirit secures the exercise of
these graces hy infusing grace, or by putting into the
soul a principle of life, or by creating a disposition for
holiness, which principle or disposition is the immediate
cause of those hoi}' exercises of mind and heart, technical-
ly called the graces of the Spirit. As to the precise nature
of that influence which the Spirit exerts, we will not pre-
sume to speak. It is through the truth, by the gosjoel,
by the word, and must therefore be adapted to the nature
of man, as a voluntary agent. We cannot explain the na-
ture of that influence which one mind exerts on another,
and therefore it would be absurd to expect, that we should
understand the influence of the infinite mind on ours. But
this we do know, that however powerful and invincible, in
matters of ordinary interest, the former may be, it does
not in the least degree affect obligation, or destroy the vol-
untariness of those actions which result from conviction.
Neither does the Spirit's influence in convincing and con-
verting the sinner from the error of his ways. We admire
the wisdom, benevolence, grace and power of the man who
subdues his enemy, and wins the heart to love, which once
was rankling with hatred against him, and never attribute,
in such a case, to the successful suitor, the infusion or cre-
ation of any principle, by an act of physical power, as the
1. Gal V. 22, 23. 2. Eph. v. 7.
.HAP. xn. ^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 231
immediate cause of this change in all the feelings of the
heart. And shall we give less glory to the Holy Spirit,
who changes the heart of stone into an heart of flesh, and
by his winning and subduing influence elicits those exer-
cises of faith and love and repentance, &c. which form the
character anew, and mould it into the likeness of the Son
of God? Shall we thrust the Spirit back, loose sight of his
grace, and attribute to him the mere exercise of creative.
power, in this marvellous work of converting and sanctify-
ing the soul? Shall we give glory to the renovated man,
and inflate him with pride, by leading him to believe, that
a creative act of God has lodged in him a cause of holy ex-
ercises, and that for his gracious afiections and their contin-
ual exercise, he is not at every moment indebted to the
special agency of the Spirit of God? That be far from us.
It is to the marvellous, gracious and immediate influence
of the Spirit, who begets and sanctifies us through the truth,
that WQ refer all our holy exercises.
This remark is intended to apply not only to the first, but to
all the subsequent exercises of faith and love and repentance/
It is true, that those whose language intimates a physical
regeneration, which lodges in the soul a cause of holiness,
do also teach the continued agency of the Spirit, in preserv-
ing that cause in existence and operation; and in this agen-
cy they make the work of sanctification to consist. But the
agency of the Spirit, in this whole work, is contemplated un-
der the aspect of an exercise oiphysical ypowQv on the part of
God, corresponding with that which he exerts in maintaining
in existence the creature he has produced . Thus Dr. Owen
says, that ^Hhe work of holiness, in its beginning, is like the
seed cast into the earth, viz: the seed of God, whereby we
are born again. And it is known how seed that is cast into
the earth doth grow and increase. Being variously cher-
ished and nourished, it is in its nature to take root and to
spring up, bringing forth fruit. And both these, even the
232 REGEXIiHATION NOT CHAP. Xlf,
first planting and tlie increase of it, are both equally from
God by His Spirit.".^ Speaking of the graces of the Spirit
he says that "He brings them forth from the stock which he
has planted in the heart." Thus the whole agency of the
blessed Spirit,in the work of eliciting and preserving in ex-
ercise the christian graces, is made to possess no other charac-
ter than that, which as the great agent in creation and provi-
dence he exerts. We cannot but think that this militates
alike against the special and gracious character of the
Holy Spirit's work in regeneration and sanctification. For
it differs not in character from His creating and preserving
power, which He exercises throughout his boundless uni-
verse. We candidly confess that we cannot discern either
the g?'ace or specialty of that work of the Spirit in subdu-
ing a rebel, which resolves His influence into the same a-
gency that He exerts as the Creator and Preserver of all
things. If the sinner is born again, and preserved in holi-
ness by the mere exercise of physical power, producing and
vsustaining a new creature in the soul, the interference of
the Spirit in this wondrous work is of no higher character
than that of giving being to, and supporting his creatures.
It may be a display of his wisdom and power, but the
grace of it is exceedingly obscured.
That we have not misrepresented the character of that
agency attributed to the Spirit, by the advocates of a phys-
ical Regeneration, will be apparent from the following si-
militude, which Dr. Owen has traced between the growth
of a tree, and the sanctification of a believer, and which, ^in-
stead of understanding as an analogical illustration, he has
literally interpreted, when noticing the Scriptural predic-
tion, '*I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my bless-
ing upon thine offspring, and they shall spring up as among
the grass, as the willows b}- the water courses.''^ "These
^, OvvEx on the Spirit, v, ii. p, 7^, 79. 2. Isai. xTiv- 3, 4.
CHAP. xn. A PHYSICAL CHANGE 2S3
trees and plants/' says he, *'have the principle of theit
growth in themselves. They do not grow immediately
from external adventitious aid and furtherance ; they grow
from their own seminal virtue and radical moisture. It
is no otherwise in the progress of sanctification and holi-
ness. It hath a root, ^ ^^^A^ ^ principle of growth and
increase in the soul of him that is sanctified. All grace is
immortal seed, and contains in it a living growing princi-
ple. That which hath not in itself a life and power of
growth is not grace. "^ Here then the renovated man has
in himself a life and pov/er of growth, or else according to
Dr. Owen, he has no grace. And to this seminal virtue,
communicated in regeneration, must we refer the power of
growth. The agency of the Spirit is only concerned in so
far as by some general law, it contributes to its develope-
ment ! Who then can consider the Spirit, if this be the
case, as the immediate author of holy exercises ? - The
believer by the seminal virtue in him grows and thrives,
\\^v\\\^ power in himself the Spirit's agency merely sup-
porting and preserving the new creature in him ! But
this is in direct contradiction of Paul's experience, who,
though a converted man, said ^*in me, that is in my flesh
dwelleth no good thing,"^ but who '^through the Spirit
did mortify the deeds of the body."^
4. We cannot neglect, also, to notice the deleterious influ-
ence which the doctrine of physical regeneration must ne-
cessarily have on personal piety. The christian's conso-
lations and activity are alike impaired by it. For he is
put upon a search after some mystical effect of the Spirit's
work on his soul, which as the appropriate and immediate
cause of his voluntary exercises and actions is to determine
his character, in the sight of God, rather than to the ex-
ercises and actions themselves. These he may indeed ob-
4erv-e as reported by his consciousness, but still his mind is
1. bwm on the Spirit, vol ii. p. 87. 2. Ronv. vii. 18. 3. Rom. viii. 13.
30
234 UEGEN'EflATION NOT CHAP. XII.
kept distracted and divided, for he islabouring to ascertain
the existence of a new creature in himself, which is the
cause of holiness. Of the existence of this new" creation in
him, he never can have direct evidence, through conscious-
ness or in any other way; and labouring under the impression
that regeneration consists in the production of this new
creature in him, by the direct exercise of physical power
on the part of God, he may be kept for a long season over-
shadowed with gloomy doubts and suspicions with regard
to his character in the sight of God, and his right to enjoy
christian consolations, or mistake the excitements and hal-
lucinations, which are, often the result of nervous irrita-
bility, and most extraordinary, for the operation of God's
Spirit.
The instances of both sort are not rare. We have traced
tlie practical effects of this view of Regeneration in both
respects. Persons possessed of natural talents, and whose
gifts might be employed with great advantage to others,
hesitate and refuse to take a full and decided stand on the
side of Christ, and resolutely to act in the business of reli-
gion, through a fear that possibly they are not regenerated,
and consequentlyj that their acts are and must be sinful, and
will be by no means continuous. The cause of continuous
holy exercises they suppose to be lodged in the regenerate
man himself, not in the immediate gracious influence of the
Spirit pledged to faith, and having no satisfactor}^ proof
that there ever has been any thing of this sort in them,
they feel that it would be better for them to wait for further
evidence and not commit themselves, or jeopard the cause
of piet}', by undertaking to discharge the distinctive duties
of religion. And this state of things has been often indu-
ced and confirmed by the conduct of professors, and pa-
rents, and church officers, who have refused to accredit a
person as a follower of Christ, on the hrst announcement of
his evidencjBs of christian character, and recommended him
CHAP. Xir. A PIIYSJCAL CIL^JVGE. 035
to ivait some months till time would show whether lie had
not been deceived. Thus is he, as it were, intimidated at
the very commencement, and taught to look with a suspi-
cious eye on all evidences of piety given by himself and
others in the voluntary exercises and actions. The cur-
rent of gracious feeling in the soul is thus checked. The
vigour and zeal of the young convert are paralyzed, and in
many instances, he sinks down into a dull and monotonous
formality, from which perhaps he is seldom or ever after-
wards delivered. The church is robbed of the full bene-
fit of his zealous efforts. The world is deprived of the full
benefit of his example. And his own soul is held in doubts
and despondency, afraid to say that he is a christian, and un-
willing to say that he is not.
It does not comport with the design of this work, to trace
all the different deleterious results on practical piety, which
the idea of a physical regeneration secures. We wonder
at the marvellous grace of the Spirit of God, who keeps the
heart alive where it is held under the influence of such dis-
tracting and perplexing error. And we hope that ere long
the christian community will be furnished with some prac-
tical treatise designed to expose and guard against the in-
jurious influence of such false philosophy, upon religious
experience. Its crippling and benumbing effects have long
been felt in the churches, where there has been intelli-
gence associated with piety. And where ignorance has ob-
tained, the wildest and most fanatical delusions have flowed
from it. Weak-minded and superstitious persons, consid-
ering regeneration to be an act of physical power, and alto-
gether unobservant of their own conscious exercises, have
mistaken excitements of feeling and reveries of imagina-
tion for the impulses and visions of the Spirit. We once
were called to see a lecherous female, who supposed herself
near death, and was exulting in the conviction that she had
been born again produced by the ease of body and revery
^36 IlEGEXERATION NO"? UHAP. XIIv
of imagination, induced by the use of laadanuni, and whose
belief of the Spirit^s direct and powerful agency on the soul
was not to be shaken, but who lived long enough to return
to her wicked ways and prove it all to have been a delu-
sion.
5. The injurious consequences that practically result from
this error, are almost endless: but no where are they more
mischievous than in destroying the sense of moral obliga-
tion, which would urge the unconverted sinner to i?n77ie-
diate repentance. It is in vain to talk to sinners about
God's right to command them to do this or that, or tJieir
obligations, if they see that they are actually required to
exercise the prerogative of Jehovah Himself. Every man.
feels at once, that here obligation ceases, and his heart
is fortified against every call that would urge him virtual-
ly to do so. Now the exercise of creative power God
claims as exclusively His own. ^'Thou art worthy 0,
Lord, to receive glory, and honor, and prower: for thou
HAST CREATED ALL THINGS."^ Yet, He does most undeni-
ably require the sinner to make to himselfa new hearty and
to perform those exercises of faith and repentance, which,
according to the error we combat, are the results of a new
Creation in the soul. *'Repent," says he, ^'and turn your-
elves from all your transgressions, so iniquity shall not be
your ruin. Cast away from you all your transgressions
whereby ye have transgressed: and make you a new
HEART, and a new spirit: for why will ye die, house of
Israel?"^ If therefore, regeneration, or the making of a
new heart, be a creative act of God, an act of His physic-^
al power, then does He command the sinner to exercise
His high and divine prerogative.
It is all to no purpose to tell the sinner about his sin, and
loss of power, and derived corruption and God's right in the
6a&e;—he feels that he is required to do an absolute ini-
X. -Rev iv. \\ I 2. Ez(;k..xviw. 30, 31.
CHAP. XII. -^ PHYSICAL CHANGE. 237
possibility^ and therefore a most unreasonable things and
he is ready, either to dismiss the subject from his thoughts
and repose in unconcern, or inwardly accuse and censure
God as tyrannical and cruel in His demands. He may sigh
and groan over his misfortune, and the misery of his condi-
tion, but hehas nosenseof guilt in his present delayer refusal
to repent and turn to God. And the advice, so often furnished
to one in this case, which puts him with an impenitent and
unbelieving heart, upon the use of the means of grace, as
though that will issue in due season in this new creation,
is calculated to bind him fast in the damning guilt of unbe-
lief and impenitence. Multitudes dream away a whole
life waiting God's time, as they say, to form the new crea-
ture within them, and at last sink down to Hell under
the awful guilt of a despised gospel and a rejected Saviour.
Reader, do yoit urge this plea ? It is the syren song that
will lull your soul asleep till you sink in the arms of death,
ii you do not turn a deaf ear to all its dulcet notes.
6. We addbutanotherobjection, which is, that the idea of
a physical regeneration, is suggested by a false assumption
with regard to the nature of human depravity. It is taken
for granted that the soul of man, in its vQry physical con-
stitution is corrupt—that it is itself simply as a creature an-
terior to, and irrespective of, all moral exercises whatever,
sinful and only sinfuL Thence it follows, that before ev-
er it can put forth holy exercises, it must be remodelled,
CREATED ANEW, by the same plastic hand of the Great Cre-
ator, which, originally, by an act of physical power, gave it
being.
Could we resolve the operations of the intellectual and
spiritual world into some system of mechanism, then might
this idea derive support,as it has done from a sort ofmechan-
ical philosophy; but it receives no ceuntenance in the word
of God, It is, indeed, found involved in the technics of
Theologians as suggested by a false philosophy, and has
23S REGENERATION, kc. CHAP. XII.
crept into various creeds and confessions of faith, and there
lies buried in certain unintelligible and indefinite forms of
speech; but it is not taught as a fact revealed to us by the
sure and unerring testimony of God. The subject, hovvev^-
er, is so very intricate and important, as to require a mi-
nute and careful examination, which shall be attempted in
the following chapters.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE FACT A^D GEXERAL. MATURE OF
HUMAN DEPRAVITY,
Perfectibility claimed for man, witliout renewing gvace—Scripture tes-
timony, Epli.iv. 17-19: ii. 12: Rom.i. 28—32—This description not ex-
clnsively applicable to the heathen world—Facts noticed—Rom. i. ii. and
iii. 9—19—The history ofthe world—Melancholy exposition ofhuman de-
pravity—Quotation from Dr. Dwight—Attempts to account for human
corruption through the influence of example unsatisfactory—Christian
example has an irritating effect—An inquiry as to the nature of depravity-
Whether selfishness is the essence of sin-There can be no evidence ofbeing
savingly interested in the death of Christ, when selfishness prevails—An
inquiry why selfishness Is sin—Man is at war with the constitution of God—
What is the nature of selfishness—Various modes of speech with regard to
human depravity-The exact point of disputes at present agitated on this
subject-Some appropriate cause ofhumau depravity—Traced to the wil-
ful perversion, on the part of man, of God's constitution.
Some votaries of reason and sighing sentimentalists have
claimed perfectibility for man, denying his depravity, and
rejecting the direct influence which is offered from God,
to render him perfect, even as our Father which is in Hea-
ven is perfect. With what degree of truth such things are
done, it may be well to inquire. Correct views, with re-
gard to the fact and nature of human depravity, are indis-
pensably necessary to the right understanding of the doc-
trine of Regeneration.
So far from man's being the pure and upright being that
needs no change, he is described as the enemy of God,
and as having all his moral powers in a characteristic
and deranged exercise. Mind and heart are alike affect-
240 THE FACT AND GENERAL NATURE CHAP. Xlir,
ed, by Ihe dreadful alienation which has taken place. Thus
the apostle Paul in one place describes the unrenewed world
as walking **in the vanity of their mind, having their un-
derstanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God,
through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blind-
ness of their heart: who, being past feeling, have given
themselves over unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness
with greediness,"^ and in another place, as ^*being aliens
from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the
covenants of promise; having no hope^, and without God in
the v/orld.''^
In the first chapter of the epistle to the Romans, there is
a very full and accurate sketch of the corrupt state of un-
renewed men, although it is adapted to the state of society
in general, rather than to the circumstances and characteris-
tics of individual corruption; yet it is manifest, that the
inass 0^ icmxi—ihe whole race is depraved, and that this
depravity is developed in different individuals, in every
variety of corrupt passions, actions and habits. '*As they
did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave
them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which
are not convenient; being filled with all unrighteousness^
fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full
of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers,
backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, in-
ventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, without un-
derstanding, covenant breakers, without natural affection,
implacable, unmerciful, who knowing the judgment of
God, that they which commit such things are worthy of
death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that
do them.""^
This description of human depravity, is supposed, by
some, to refer to the healhen world, and therefore, it is
1. Eph. iv. 17—19 % Eph. il 12, 3. Rom. i. 28, 32.
CHAP.XIII. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY, 041
said, it should be received with considerable allowance, when
applied to mankind as modified by christian institutions.
It is certain, however, that it is as applicable to the state of
society in pagan countries at this day, as it was in the apos-
tle's to pagan Rome—the proud mistress of the world. And
even though the influenceof Christianity may have greatly re-
strained the exhibitions of human depravity, yet are they
rto be seen close upon the footsteps of the church of God„
All the courts of justice, and all the great principles upon
which investigations before them are conducted, are based
on the fact, that man is depraved. His word will not be
-believed, but he must solemnly asseverate on oath. Nor
will the oath be admitted, when personal pecuniar}^ inter-
ests stand affected. These are the, practical comments of
men, in their collective ivisdo?7i, on the depraved charac-
ter of individual man.
And such too is the practical comment of men on each
other, even when their theories on the subject are directly-
opposed to it. What are all the impeachments of motive—
•
assigning of false intentions—suspicions—jealousies, and
the like, which are so current in society, but manifestations
of the practical sense or conviction which is entertained of
the universal depravity of man? The truth is, man is a
fallen creature, and let him be found where he may, till he
is renewed by the Spirit of God, he is under the dominion
of depraved affections.
The same apostle who has given us such a melancholy
sketch of the moral character and condition of the gentile
world, has also given us a full portrait of man by nature,
when situated under the external influence, and enjoying
the advantages, of a clear revelation of the will of God. In
his second chapter to the Romans, he proves tluit Jews,
to whom had been committed the oracles of God, and who
knew his will distinctly, were under the same condemna-
i.lon with the gentiles; and in the third chapter confirms
31
242 fttE FACT AND GENERAL NATURE CHAP. Xiri =
his conclusion, by many passages taken from the Old Tes-
tament scriptures, asserting entire depravit}?^ as the univer-
sal characteristic of man, whether Jew or gentile. ^*We
have," says he, ^*before proved both Jews and gentiles,
that they are all under sin. As it is written, There is none
righteous, no, not one. There is none that understand-
eth, there is cone that seeke\h after God. They are all
gone out of the way, they are together become unprofita-
ble, there is none that doeth good, no, not one. Their
throat is an open sepulchre; w^ith their tongues they have
used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips; whose
mouth is full of cursing and bitterness; their feet are swift
to shed blood; destruction and misery are in their ways,
and the w^y of peace have they not known; there is no fear
of God before their eyes. Now we know that what things
soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the
law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world
become guilty before God."^
Of the fact of universal depravity, no man can doubt,
who admits the truth of the sacred record. Tiie thoughts
of the imaginations of the heart are evil, and that continu-
ally. The aboundings of that evil have been so great, at
different times, that God has found it necessary to come
down, in all the terrors of his vengeance, to consume the
transgressors. He swept the old world with the desola-
ting fury of the deluge. He poured down lightnings from
the skies, and consumed the cities of the plain. Nation af-
ter nation has he overthrown, and all their memorials have
been obliterated with them. Empire after empire has he
dashed to pieces like a potter's vessel, when their iniquity
was full. The history of the world is one unvarying and
melancholy exposition of human depravity.
Should any one doubt the fact, notwithstanding all this
array of proof, that men are corrupt beings, we present the
1. R'm iii. 9 IP
CHAP. XJII. OF MLMAxX DEPKAVIIY. 043
following sketch of the face of modern and christian socie-
ty, as drawn by a faithful and masterly hand. *'No inge-
nuity on the one hand, and no suffering on the other, has^ in
any country, been sufficient to overcome this propensity,
and so far to change the character of man as to exterminate
even a single sin. To this head ought to be referred all the
means furnished by law, ofsafety to our persons and our prop-
erty; the bolts, bars and locks by which we endeavour to de-
fend our houses and their contents, our persons and our fami-
ilies, especially in the night, against the inroads of theft and
violence; the notes, bonds and deeds by which we endeavour
to secure our contracts, prevent the mischiefs of fraud, and
compel dishonesty to fulfil its engagements; the gaols and
dungeons, the chains and galleys, by which we endeavor to
confine villains and prevent them from disturbing by their
crimes the peace of society; the post, the pillory and the
gibbet, by which w^e punish some culprits, and labour to de-
ter others from repeating their perpetrations. All these
and the like things are gloomy and dreadful proofs of the
corruption of the world in which they exist. They exist
wherever men are found of sufficient capacity and in proper
circumstances, to attempt a regular opposition Co crimes, a
continual preservation of peace, and a general eatablishment
of personal safety. The sinfulness, therefore, which tJiey
intend to resist, is equally universal."^
A variety of suppositions have been resorted to, in order
to account for human depravity. We shall not pretend to
examine all. Every sober and diligent inquirer will very
soon perceive, that the most specious of them all, which re-
solves the whole into the i?ijluence of example, is utterly
fallacious. For there are too many melancholy facts to
shew, that the very worst specimens of human depravity are
found, precisely where the examples of christian purity and
,1. i.)vviglit*s Theul. V. ), p. 433,
244 'J^HE FACT AND GENERAL NATURE CHAP. XTII.
devotedness have shone with the most brilliant lustre. From
the bosom of the family where God has been honoured, and
his name most reverently adored, and all his counsels and
commands have been received and obeyed, has issued the
yuuth of dissipated habits, of wanton profanity, and of
the boldest and most shocking impiety. And in chris-
tian lands, travellers commonly remark, that the vices of
the vulgar are more appalling and degrading, and evin-
cive of much greater depravity, than in pagan countries,
where the influence of christian example is not felt.
The truth is, that the specimens of piety which the
church furnishes, have an irritating effect upon the ungodly
world, just as the apostle has apprised us the law of God,
when apprehended in its spirituality and extent, had on his
lustful heart. Such is the indisputable fact. '^'I have giv--
en them thy word, and the world hath hated them,"^ says
the Saviour, in reference to the effect which evangelical ex-
ample and piety had upon men of ungodly minds. *'Sin,"
says the apostle, "taking occasion by the commandment
wrought in me all manner of concupiscence."^ Now, why
should such results flow from such causes? Why should chris-
tian example have a corrupting effect? Upon the principle
of the objection, it should have a contrar)^ And it would
and must have a salutary tendency, were not the hearts of
men naturally depraved, so that there is nothing in unrenew-
ed man on which such example can operate, and to which it
can appeal with success. The heart is in the contrary direc-
tion. Men naturally and universally incline to evil. We
see it in the infant, as soon as it is capable of knowing evil.
Fierce passions rage in the little breast, and, as it advances,
its deportment verifies the observation of the wise man, that
" the wicked are estranged from the womb; they go astray
as soon as they be born, speaking lies." '
1. John xvii. 14. 2, Rom. vii. 8. 3, Psalm Ivill 3,
CHAP XIII. ^^ HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 045
'^Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child,"^ and the life
is but its development.
But what is the nature of human depravity? The chris-
tian church has been agitated by diflferent philosophical
systems, which have been adduced in illustration of scrip-
tural facts. System after system has perished, like the
withering grass and fading flower, but ^Hhe word of God
shall stand forever,"^ and the faith of the church in the
fact of human depravity, remains unchanged. The best
motives and the worst designs have been entertained by-
philosophical inquirers on this subject. Happy is it for
the church that her faith stands not in the wisdom of men.
Whether depravity is to be found exclusively in the will,
or equally in all the faculties—whether it has its origin in a
modification of our essential nature—whetiier it is created
in us, or derived by natural descent—whether it consists in
acts and exercises, or in something back of them wliich lays
the foundation for them, in the very nature of the essential
soul—whether it is som^ deranged and inappropriate exer-
cise of our moral powers, and to be referred to the charac-
ter of the controling objects, or of the governing moral
principle—are questions that have been seriously agitated.
Some of these may attract our notice in another place. For
the present, we confine our attention to the last.
Whether selfishness be the essence of sin, is, after all, a
mere metaphysical question the decision of which does not
affect the sinner's consciousness of guilt, Jior is necessary to
his conviction. Assuredl}^, every form and manifestation
of selfishness, must be sin in a guilty corrupt creature, such
as man. The design of the death of Jesus Christ, *^vho
died for all'' was, ^Hhat they which live should iiot hence-
forth live unto themselves;"^ and He '^gave himself for us,
that he might redeem us from r/// iniquity.
'""^
No man has
1. Frov. xxii. 15. 2. Isai. xl. 8.
o. 2 Cor. V. M, IJ. 4. Tit. il. 11
>046 THE FACT AND GENERAL NATURE chAP. XIII.
any proof that he is recovered from the dominion of sin^
till he finds his selfishness destroyed. Whatever he may
think^ the death of Christ has taken none effect on him.
His selfishness is proof of entire depravity.
The dominion of selfishness is deemed, by some, alike
the proof and essence of human depravity.
But here we venture to ask, why is it? God aims at His
own glory, and for it all things are and were created. He
demands the homage of his creatures, and will have every
knee bow, and every tongue confess to Him. We are not
disposed to think that this is sin in Him. And why not?
God is holy, benevolent, just and true; and in seeking His
own glory, can never injure, or be guilty of injustice to
others. Were he a capricious, fickle, tyrannical and ma-
lignant Being, such a design in him—we speak it with rev-
erence —would become as morally wrong as it is in us.
His seeking his own glory would be apprehended as evin-
cive ot those traits of character, which tend to destroy all
confidence in the Being possessing them, and are destruc-
tive of the peace and happiness of the universe. As it is
now, however, we are inspired with the most delightful con-
fidence, by means of the very circumstance—that all things
are ordained and ordered for the glory of God. The whole
difference would lie in the nature or character of God; not
in the mere exercise of his volitions.
In like manner we may reason of man. The mere cir-
cumstance of his desiring his own happiness, is not in itself
necessarily evincive of depravity. Many of the appeals
which God makes to us, are based on the assumption, that
man will, and may legitimately do so. But God has sub-
ordinated our interests to His glory, and has made it in-
cumbent on us to prosecute them, in entire and absolute
submission to His will. ^'Whether, therefore ye eat or
drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God."^
I 3 CoK X. .•:
..x^,> vTTT . OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 247
When we inquire into the matter of fact, the melancho-
ly discovery is quickly made that man is found at war with
the constitution of God. He substitutes his own selfish in-
terests, wishes and will, for God's, and thus madly attempts
to ascend Jehovah's Throne, and impiously disputes the
equity of His constitution. He is under the all-command-
ing, and controling influence of a purpose of rebellion. It
may not indeed be his conscious intention to resist the God
whose existence he admits, and whose character he imper-
fectly apprehends, but in point of fact there is the feeling
of dislike for, and opposition to, His claims, which deter-
mines and regulates his thoughts and purposes and actions.
He seeks his gratification and happiness, in ways and
thino-s directly at variance with the requisitions, and pro-
hibitions of God. Whenever the latter are opposed to the
dictates of his selfishness, they must give way, and thus
God Himself must be subordinated to his will. It is this
subjection of man's feelings, purposes, affections,
thoughts, desires and acts, to his selfishness, that consti-
tutes the depravity of his nature. Every act and emo-
tion, evincive of it is sin.
By selfishness we do not understand the instinctive de-
sire of the man after happiness. God has ordained it, that
by the mere impulse of instinct, we have respect to our
well-being. It is the law of self preservation, enstamped
on the universal creation. .Some have seen fit to denomi-
nate it self-love, and others diff'erently. We are not tena-
cious of terms. It is the fact of which we are in quest; and
leaving disputed and ambiguous phrases out of view, we
presume our readers will generally admit, that the mere
longing of the soul after bliss, when it does not fix on any
specific or forbidden and dangerous objects, is no more
si?7ful in itself, than is our mere craving of food, when we
think not to gratify it, by appropriating to our use any
iioisonous or other substance. ^'There are certain character-
248 THE FACT AND GENERAL NATURE cHAP. XIII.
istics of human nature," says Dr. Dwight, "which consid-
ered by themselves, are innocent. Such are hunger, thirst,
the fear of suffering and the desire of hoppiness; together
with seT^ral others." *'The desire of happiness, and the
fear of suffering, are inseparable from the rational and even
the percipient nature."^ The desire of happiness, consid-
ered abstractly from every object on which it may be al-
lowed to terminate, is. not in itself sinful; nor is it neces-
saril}^ selfishness. It is in letting this instinctive desire ter-
minate on, and impel us to the choice and pursuit of, any
thing improper and inconsistent with the will of God, that
we are to discover the proof and workings of our own de-
pravity.
The impelling and controling influence of this desire, as
it terminates Oii sinful objects and becomes the merest sel-
fishness, has been variously designated, and its origin refer-
red to various efficient causes. By some it has been called
^he bias of our nature, and by others the inclination of
the heart, the temper of the mind, 2i principle, the dispo-
sition, the tendency, the habit, the propensity of the
soul.^ Much of the dispute which agitates the christian
community on this subject, v/e think will be found to grow
out of different ideas, attached to such very vague and indefi-
nite expressions. They are manifestly all analogical expres-
sions, and therefore ought to be employed with great cau-
tion, and, as far as practicable, with great precision. One
man understands by disposition, something laid in the very
structure of the soul or constitution of our being, which
possesses, anterior to all acts and exercises, efficient jjoiv-
er to secure and produce acts and exercises of a particular
character; and accordingly he employs such loose metaphors
as the source, the fountain, &c. when speaking of moral ac-
tions. Another understands, by it, an immanent choice,
the ^;^.re*i purpose or preference, d^ permanent st?te of mind,
i. Dr. T)\vig-:.t'.sThc-o], vol i. p. 402.
CHAP. XIII. OF HUMAN DEPUAVn V.
249
which results, according to the very laws hy which God
governs the mind, from the first decisive act of the will,
denying that there is any thing in the essence or constitu-
tional properties, or nature of the human soul, apart from
its established modes of action, which possesses efficient
power to secure acts of depravity.
Here lies the main ground of dispute, as we suppose; and
it is one of such a very serious nature, as to require the mi-
Kutest and most interested attention. For it inyolvQS the
character of God, and the responsibilities of man, and that
most vitally. It will not do to dismiss the subject with a cry
of philosophy or metaphysics, and retreat into the refuges
of ignorance. A vain and false piiilosophy m.ay be ingraft-
ed on the facts of revelation, and some may find it difficult
accurately to discriminate between them. Where men have
identified their philosohy with the facts of scripture, and are
unable or averse to discriminate, it is as natural as it is com-
mon, to denounce the rejection of the former, and raise the
cry of metaphysics, philosophy, when, in truth, it is but
an effort to separate what have been improperly united.
That there is some appropriate cause of human depravity,
all admit.
0[ the precise nature of tliis, it is obvious that we must
be ignorant, as we are of all causes whatever. This is not,
>in itself however a suiiicient reason for our denying that
there is, or may be such a thing. When we see effects
uniformly resulting, we attribute them to the influence
and operation of some efficient agency. We begin with
God Himself, and apprehend His divine agency as the
prime cause, and thence proceed, through all the different
uniform phenonema, or results arising, which fall under
our observation, apprehending some immediate efficient
agency, which remains uniformly the same. This we call
by various names, sometimes a law, sometimes a constitW'
32
250 '11^^ FACT AND GENERAL NATURE ciIAP. XIII.
tion of God, sometimes di principle: —It is indeed of little
consequence which.
We find the human mind, in its exercise, following cer-
tain general regular modes of action. Tiioughts rise spon-
taneously there, according to certain laws of association.
We cannot prevent our minds from being thus affected
though we may counteract the impressions, which thoughts
arising, may make upon us. Now we may call this fea-
ture of our nature, a law or constitution of God, or what
we please; still we cannot doubt, that there is something
which'has determined and established these modes of action.
God created the human mind, and in the first instance adap-
ted it to specific modes of action. These are the laws
by which He governs mind. He gave us the power of
thinking and feeling and acting as we do. Ou7' modes of
thought are not those of angelic minds. Shall we say, that
there is no appropriate cause of this difference.'' that there
is no law, or reason, why the mind should act in particu-
lar modes? In other matters we will not consent thus to
act: nor is it proper to dosohere. Wherever we discover
uniform results—a series of correspondent actions, all stan-
ding in the same relation to one specific substance, we
insensibly assume the existence of some unvarying
cause.
We see the phenomena of attraction,for example, in pon-
derous bodies, and attribute them to gravitation, as their
immediate cause. Is there no such thing? Who would
believe the metaphysician that would tell us so? Soms
power is apprehended by us, almost instinctively. This,
power, we have already seen is the agency of God Him-
self into which all our inquiries on this subject, ultimately
conduct us. If in the operations of mind, or its modes of
actioft, we are led to the same result, what then? We ars
not at all startled by it; but, on the contrary, disposed more
to admire and adore the every-where present and operative
/'
CHAP. XIII. f>F HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 251
Supreme. His agency in our minds supporting and invig*
orating them for their appropriate action, we will not pre-
tend to scrutinize, —no more than we will His 'agencv in
the action of one material substance on another. But that
there is some sustaining and suppoi^ting agency of God
in the human mind, by virtue of which it performs certain
actions, according as He has been pleased in His sovereign-
ty to ordain, we cannot deny. The varied modes of that
agency, we appropriately call the laws of mind; and when
its operations are conducted, in accordance with the mu-
tual dependence and subservience of those laws, there is an
harmonious action, as indicative of purity, as productive of
felicity: —Just as the operations of nature, following with-
out perversion or distortion, the laws which God has or-
dained, exhibit the excellence of the divine constitutions.
We admit that the parallel is not complete, and that there
is this essential difference between the agency of God in
sustaining mind and matter, that, in the former instance,
there is a power of voluntary action, which, it is re-
quired shall be exerted in accordance with the divine will.
We are aware, also, that it may be objected, according to
the view^s just expressed, that human volitions themselves,
are as much the result of a divine agency, as other mental
acts. But we are persuaded that the objection originates
in a misapprehension of the nature of that divine agency,
which is conceded in the operations of created mind.
It is not such an agency as to make the act, distinctly
and exclusively the act of God; but such a sustaining, and
uniformly co-operating agency, according to certain estab-
lished modes of thought, as gives energy to the voluntary
being, but at tlie same time, does not affect or destroy the
voluntariness of his acts, nor immediately originate them.
Thus, for example—itis a mental act to attend—the mind
possesses a power to bring its thoughts to bear and fix
tliemseives on a particular subject: that is, God co-operate's
252' 'I'HE TACT AND GENERAL NATURE cHAP. XIII.
by His sustaining agency, while the mind acts. It is
ani&ther mental act to perceive or take up an idea of
that which is presented to the consideration of the
mind;—it is a third to compare together different ob-
jects, and different ideas, so as to elicit some result or con-
clusion, or make a selection and choice from among them,
not to mention others. Now Wiq power of created minds
to do these things, is resolvable only into the concurring
co-operating, or supporting and sustaining agency of God.
This ao-ency is uniform, and entirely irrespective of the ob-
jects that present themselves or the moral character of the
acts.
But man is not only capacitated for certain mental acts,
but also, for being impressed or affected from various sources
and by various means, and in a great variety of modes,
which impressions or affections have an exciting and im-
pelling influence on the mind. Thus, if a man is affected
with a love of moral excellence, or a desire for the glory
of God, the current of his thoughts will take a correspon-
dent course. His mind will act itself in all the varied
modes of thought in attending to, perceiving, comparing,
and choosing those objects and ideas, that are holy and con-
ducive to the glorification of God. On the contrary, if he
is affected with a love of sin, and a desire to proinote his
selfish interest and glory, the whole current of the thoughts
will be turbid and impure. The different capacities and
powers of the man will be exercised on objects, and in
ways, quite foreign from the design of God in his crea-
tion, and made knovv'n to him in His law, and cannot fail
to present a melancholy specimen of moral derangement,
that is, in other words, in all the established modes of ac-
tion, through which God imparts His energy in supporting
the mind of man, man will be found, as the immediate ori-
ginator of his own acts, to be perverting the constitution
of God. and acting altogether inappropriate to the, great
CHAP. XIII. OF lU'MAN DEPRAVITY. 053
design for which he was created, making God to serve
ivith his sins.
Such is actually the exhibition which every unrenewed
man makes. He acts under the influence of aversion from
God, of hatred of holiness, and of love of sin. The current
of his thoughts, the words of his mouth, the feelings of his
heart, as well as the deeds of his life, all shew that there is
no friendly and cherished intercouse between God and his
soul. *^The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God,
—
God is not in all his thoughts."^ ''The carnal mind is en-
mity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God,
niether indeed can be."^ Here lies the proof and essence
of human depravity. There is a deranged action of all the
moral powers in man—they are all under the dominion of
an absorbing selfishness, which has consigned God and His
claims to forgetfulness and contempt. *'The wicked,
through the pride of his countenance, will not seek af-
ter God—God is not in all his thoughts. '^^
Oh wretched,
frightful state of human debasement!
1. Psalm xiv. 1. 2. Rom. viii. 7. 3. Psalm x. 4.
CHAPTER XIV.
GOD IS ^"OT THE AUTHOR OF SI¥.
Ax Inquiry vvlutaer God is the author ofsln—Influence of theoretical prin-
ciples on human belief—Should be carefully resisted when conflicting
with plain scriptural statements of fact—Scriptural account of the nature
of sin and testimony as to its immediate origin—Some agency on the
part of God, in the sinful conduct of men admitted—Infidel objection
against the purit}'^ of God from His permitting men to sin—The possibility
of sin incidental to the giving of a law does not imply it must actually ex-
ist—Fearful results that may transpire in the Government of a Being who
cannot prevent sin—The injurious implications to which the admission
subjects God—Some suggestions as to God's permitting sin—The rich
array of motive to induce obedience thrown around man—Sin a.n occasioii
for amazing revelations as to the divine character—And ofthus multiply-
ing motives of obedience—This does not imply that it is the necessary
means of the greatest good —No impeachment of the purity of God for
His agency in sustaining and supporting the sinner.
Whether God is the author of sin, is a question, often ask-
ed, by those whose views of the divine nature and excellence,
it might have been supposed, would have effectually guarded
against even a momentary doubt or suspicion on the subject-
But, it is by no means uncommon, for theoretical and philo-
sophical principles, to be so pertinaciously and zealously ad-
vocated, as to blind their votaries, and engender notions at
war with the plainest revelations of the word of God. "God
is light, and in Him there is no darkness atall. If we say that
vs-c have fellowship with Him, and walk in darkness, wc lie,
CHAP. XIV. ^^^^ IS NOT THE AUTHOR OF SIX. 255
and do not the truth. ^'^ It is utterly impossible, ihd^t
a Beino; of infinite and spotless holiness, should in any
way, be the author o/ rebellion against His own right-
eous and equitable sway. The idea indeed has been en-
tertained, and it is one which the unrenewed and depraved
heart, secretly cherishes, and tries to believe.
But human conscionsness resists all theory, and every
man, till blinded by his prejudices and false reasonings, is
practically convinced, that he himself is the immediate au-
thor of his own voluntary acts of disobedience. We say
voluntary acts of disobedience, for this is the idea which the
scriptural account of its nature gives us of sin. "Sin is
not imputed where there is no law." ^ "Where no law is,
there is no transgression."^ The violation, in tliought, in
word, or in deed, either by acts or refusing to act, of any
precept of God, is sin. This is the uniform view which
the scriptures give us of its nature; and, at the same time,
they as uniformly teach what human consciousness every
day and hour confirms, that we are ourselves the imme-
diate^ efficient authors of our own volitions. God does
not by any creative or direct positive efficiency produce
them, for then would He be the guilty cause of all rebel-
lion against Himself.
Such as are bold in their rebellion, and devoted in their
attachment to sinful pleasures and pursuits, liave not hesi-
tated to lay tlie blame of their sins on God. But there
sounds forth from tlie very mouth of God Himself, this
solemn and adm.onitory word, charging man with the wil-
ful perversion of His established constitution and modes
of agency. "Tiiese things hast thou done, and I kept si-
lence. Thou thoughtest that I was aUogetlier such an one
as thyself, but I will reprove thee."'* "Thou hast made
Me to serve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine
1. 1 John 1. 5, 6, ?-,. Kom. iv. 15.
2. Horn. V. 1.;, 4. Psalm 1. '21.
256 GOD IS NOT THE CHAP. XIV.
iniquities."^ Nor will any one, who has right apprehen-
sions of the divine excellence, and whose heart entertains
the least feeling of approbation or respect for God, allow it
even to be insinuated, that He can be the author of sin.
'*Let no man say when he is tempted, lam tempted of God:
for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth He
any man. But every man is tempted, when he is drawn
away with his own lust and enticed. Then, when lust
hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is
finished bringeth forth death."^
When it is said that "God did tempt Abraham,'"^ it is ob-
vious the inspired writer meant only to sa)^, that God made
trial of him^ having, by the arrangements of His provi-
dence, the words of His promise, and the precepts of His
mouth, put the faith of Abraham to a very severe test. But,
in all this, God was not the author of sin; nor did He solicit
Abraham to sin; so that, the apostle James' word does not,
in the least respect, conflict with other testimonies of the
sacred scripture ; while, it does, most amply and satisfac-
torily repel the charge, and vindicate the character of God
from the aspersions of those who would teach, that He is
the author of sin. *'Shall the throne of iniquity have fel-
lowship with Thee?''"* These, and such like testimonies,
ought to sway our faith .^
so that, whatever philosophical
principles would lead us to a result so entirely inconsistent
with them, we ought at once to discard them as false and
dangerous guides.
Such a result however, we do not apprehend, can be le-
gitimately deduced from the principles advanced in the
former chapter, with regard to the agency of God. It is
not to be questioned, that while the scriptures vindicate
the character of God, and will not for a moment, admit the
idea that He is the author ofsin, they nevertheless attribute to
1. Isaiah xllii. 24 2. James v. 13—IS.
'
3. Gen. xxii. 1. 4. Psalm, xciv. 20.
CHAP. XIV. AUTHOR OF SIN. 257
Him, some agency in relation to It. ^^Shall there be evil in
the city, and the Lord hath not done it?''^ asks God by the
moutii of the prophet, which, although it may be under-
stood of physical evil, yet, as such evil is often brought
about througli tlie sins of men, there Is so ??ie agency of God
in tlie matter.
Moreover, that tlie counsel or will of God, takes cogjii-
zance of sinful acts, that will hereafter he done by men,
and that, long before the events, or even the agents had
any being, cannot be denied. In proof of this, are those
predictions, which regard the guilty conduct of men. We
select the instance of Joseph's being sold by his brethren,
and the accompanying and consequent transactions. ^*As
for you, ye meant it for evil, but God meant it for good,
to save much people alive, as it is this day."^ Another,
yet more decisive, and marked instance, is that of the cru-
cifixion and death of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. It
was, without doubt, the purpose of God, that His Son
should die a cursed death, and yet, that purpose was effec-
ted through the guilty agency of men. *'Him being de-
livered according to the determinate counsel and fore-
knowledge of God^ have ?/c taken and with Zi;/c/j:<?r/ hands
have crucified and slain. "^ ''For of a truth, both Herod
and Pontius Pilate were gathered together, to do whatsoev-
er Thy (God's) hand and Thy counsel determined before
to be done."^ It cannot be denied, that in bringing about
the same event, God and man, respectively, have had their
purposes and agency. Tho purpose, however, is very" dif-
ferent, in the mind of God from what it is in the mind of
theguilty perpetrator. It does not necessarily imply mor-
al turpitude in the former, but it does in the latter. Man
means his own selfish gratification, and at tlie expense, and
to the injury oft-times of others. But God has designs of
~1. Amos iii. 6. 2. Gen. 1. 20.
3. Actsi. 23. 4. Actslv. 27.28.
;25S «^'*>1> I"^ NOT THE CHAP. XIV.
benevolence, and so- orders and over-rules all, as to bring
about a greater good. Such are the daily developments
of His providence.
This idea may be carried to the utmost extent, and it
furnishes a satisfactory answer to the carj^sing, cavilling ob-
jections of the infidel, v/ho thinks, and alleges, that if God
could have prevented men from sinning, it necessarily im-.
plies some moral turpitude in Hirn, to permit them to do
so. That they do sin, is not to be denied. Nor will it be
disputed, save by some raving Atheist, who has lost the
power of discerning between right and wrong. Now sup-
pose, to shield his reputation from the infidel slander, we
admit that God could not prevent men from sin, is there
anv thing gained in this respect by the admission? For we
may ask ^vith unanswerable pertinency and point, can he
then subdue or control it ? It is m.uch easier among men
io prevent crime, than to reform the criminal. Assured-
ly, if God could not have prevented sin, we cannot confi-
dently expect that ever sin vv^ill be subdued, and nothing
presents itself to our view, but dread uncertainty in this
matter, or a dark and dismal prospect of eternal scenes of
rebellion and revolt in the government of God.
lihc possibility of sin being committed by moral beingSy
must be admitted to be incidental in the nature of things to
the giving of a lav/, designed to regulate their voluntary
conduct. '*Where no lav/ is, there is no transgression,"
nor can there be. But the actual existence of sin is a very
different matter. It does not follow that because it is inci-
dental^ therefore it must exist. Whether voluntary be-
ings shall not be allowed to sin; i. e. whether there shall
be such a powerful array of motive, and such an influence
thiH)wn around them at all times, and all circumstances
of temptation be so carefully prevented from arising, as
that they shall always choose to obe)^, is a question, which
we think it would be presumptuous in us to resolve in any
CHAP. XIV. AUTHOR OF SIX.
'
259
other way, than as God Himself has been pleased to do.
Some voluntary beings have persevered in their obedience,
and kept their first estate. Others have sinned and fallen.
If God had determined to prevent the latter, who will say
that He had not sufficient skill and power to do so? Ad-
mitting that He had, we cannot see that He was under any
obligations of benevolence to do so: but denying that He
had fills us with dread forebodings, as to the final issues
of His government.
Of the apostacy and fall of two orders of intelligent crea-
tures, we have knowledge; and one seduced the other.
Shall this thing spread? Shall the contagion of rebellious
example extend itself to other worlds, and decoy from their
allegiance the happy innocents, that now adore and love?
Or shall the new orders of creatures, which God, in the
plenitude of His wisdom and benevolence, may see fit to
create, fall from their steadfastness and felicity, and the
mighty empire of Jehovah become a vast amphitheatre of
woy? Wmo can contemplate such an idea with composure?
It is shocking to all the sensihilities of the heart! And
yet, if God cannot prevent sin, what security have we,
that eternity shall not be one frightful series of rebellion,
and that world after world shall not, like this wretched
earth of ours, become the theatre of crime, requiring floods
and flames, and even the very annihilating efforts of Om-
nipotence, to stay the progress of revolt?
If, in this way, we seek to defend the divine character
from the malignant aspersions and insinuations of infideli-
ty, do we not impeach it in others? Our confidence in the
government of God will be destroyed, and we may as read-
ily repose in the lofty professions of some rebellious prince,
that rears the standard of revolt, and anticipate success in
resisting the commands and counsels of Jehovah, as in the
declarations of a God that cannot so administer his govern-
ment as to prevent rebellion. The vr-ry admission implies?
Ofjo (,()D TS NOT THE iHAP. XIV.
an imbecility or imperfection of character, or paucity of re-
sources, which might tempt to rebellionj or at least inspire
distrust. But no such admission is necessary. The vin-
dication of the moral character of God requires it not. For
there is a view which can be given of the whole subject,
calculated to exalt both the divine chiiracter and govern-
ment. If He can, as He will, without doing vio-
lence to the voluntary agency of man, subdue his rebellious
heart—if he has so adapted the miotives and inducements
to subordination and submission, as to reach, effectively,
the hearts of his enemies, how. much more easily might He,
in the first instance, have so established the principles of
liis government, and adjusted its administration, as to
have prevented revolt among innocent creatures? JMust
we believe that this was impossible?
But if God could have prevented sin, liow comes it, it
Vv^ill be quickl}^ asked, that a Be'ng of boundless benevo-
lence, who delights not in the misery of his creatures,
and of infinite holiness, who abhors all workers of iniquity,
should have allowed it to gain entrance, and to spread such
wretchedness among his creatures? In reply to this inqui-
ry, we remark, that the government of mind is essentially
clifferent from that of matter. To moral agents, God has
been pleased to grant the power of discerning between
right and wrong, and to choose and act, according as their
minds and hearts shall be determined and affected by con-
siderations and motives presented. Such is his divine con-
stitution. S.ich power is essential to moral agency. Hu-
man beings are moral agents. To act for them, or io force,
them to act against their will, would be contrary to His
own infinitely wise and sovereign constitution. All that
is necessary to vindic:ite the divine purity in this niatter,
is, to shew tliat he has presented in the universe around, in
the circumstances and condition of man's being, and in the
provir?ion« of his moral government, a sufficient array of
CHAP. XIV. AUTHOR OF SIN. 261
materiel for motives and inducements to obedience. Who
can doubt this, that will, for one moment, allow his mind
to contemplate the richness, vastness, wisdom and benevo-
lence of the Almighty INIaker of heaven and earth?
Throughout the whole of animated and vegetable nature,
we may range with delight, admiring and adoring the
%visdom and goodness of God, wdio has made all, and
adapted them to the purposes of human comfort and fe-
licity. Nor is inanimate nature silent in the praise of the
Most High. Every wdiere and in every thing, we may
see reflected the sparkling glories of His wisdom and good-
ness and might. And as it regards the law which He has giv-
en to regulate our hearts and lives, it is wondrously adapt-
ed to the nature and circumstances of man, in all his varied
interests and relations. The observance of its precepts is
conducive to felicity. The violation of them is productive
of misery. '^The law is holy, and the commandment is ho-
ly, just and good,"^ ^'The law of the Lord is perfect, con-
verting the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, mak-
ing wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right,
rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure,
enlightening the eyes; the fear of the Lord is clean, en-
during forever; the judgments of the Lord are true, and
righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than
gold; yea, thaii much fine gold; sweeter also than honey
and the honey comb. Moreover, by them is thy servant
w^arned; and in keeping of them there is great reward. ^'^
These things are not mere speculations, but matters of
fact, continually proved and illustrated before our eyes.
"The wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest;
whose waters cast up mire and dirt. There is no peace,
&aith my God, to the wicked.'" '*Evil pursueth sinners.
''"*
1. Rom. vii. 12. 3. Isal. h'li. 30—31.
2 Psl. xix. r—n. 4. Prov,
^62 <''>^> '^ ^^>'" ''i^K CHAP. Xix:.
No one can have lived long in the world, or looked care-
fully on the conduct of divine providence, without having
found, that just as men depart from the commandments of
God, do they involve themselves in misery. '*Woe to the
wicked, it shall be ill with him ; for the reward of his hands
shall be given him.'^^ Here, then, is an ample array of
motive to induce obedience. But all this has been exceed-
ed—infinitely exceeded, by the displays of mercy and
grace, of righteousness and truth, through Jesus Christ.
It would seem that to innocent beings, a much more lim-
ited development of the excellencies of the divine charac-
ter lias been made, than is through the plan of redemption,
as devised by inliiiite wisdom, and executed through Jesus
Christ. The angels of heaven are represented as desiring
to look into it.^
We have, therefore, ample ground, on which to vindicate
God from the infidel objection against Tne benevolence of.
His character, drawn from the fact of His having permit-
ted sin. It is not that the Lofty Sovereign of heaven and
earth is cnpricious and tyrannical, and delights to sport
vrith the misery of his creatures. It has afforded occasion
far the richest, fullest, and most amazing and affecting ex-
iiibitions of the glories of His character; for tlms increasing
and giving intensity and energy to those motives, by which
He operates on the rational mind, and binds it in wil/iug'
subjection to his sway. Suppose that sin had never exist-
ed; v.'e should not have known that there is mercy with
God, nor any thing of that benignity and grace which
prompt io forgiveness. Some of the most amiable features
of the divine character, would have been forever concealed
from the view of his creatures.
On the supposition that God could not have prevented
sin —i. e. that its actual exi.ste:>ce, is necessarily inciden-
1. Isa". ^i;. U. 2. Pet. i. 12. '
iiAP. XIV. Al'THOlt OF SIX. 0(j3
tal in a moral system, tJie plan of redemption seem.? to bs
nothing more than :x jrrcssnt expedient of His divine wis-
dom, to perfect His moral government. God appears in it
to be rather labouring to remedy the defects of His previous
plan, than as overwhelming His rebellious creatures with
new and surprising demonstrations of His excellence, Nor
ean we have any confidence that His system of moral gov-
ernment \syet perfect. For if sin is necessarily incidental
to a moral system, and God's fu'st plan proved so defective
as that rebellion qulcklv arose among his creatures, what
security have we, that his second plan will prove much bet-
ter? It may, indeed, be the result of experience, and be
somewhat improved; but whether that experience is sulTi-
cient to enable God to guard against all future contingen-
cies, is a question that might excite some painful solicitude
among his creatures. And if, according to tlie view some
take of that improved plan of God's moral governmerjt, we
are to learn that He has relaxed from the rigour of His law.
He certainly \\\\\ stand convicted of rashness and cruelt}*,
in having, in the first instance, gjiven such a law; so tliat
the motives to rebellion would rather be increased tl^an di-
minished. All confidence in His character, as a moral <j;ov-
ernor, would be effectually destroyed, and this would not
fail to introduce endless revolt, and the utm.ost licentious^
ness among His subjects.
But as it is —by simply permitting sin, without doing
any violence whatever to the creature—i. e. by allowing
him, in his rebellion, to act according to t'ne determanations
of his own mind, having given him full pouter to suspend
his decisions, and weigh the tendency and value of every
motive, as it presented itself to his attention —the Lord hi's
been pleased to make sin an occasion for increasing the
motives to obedience, without the least implication of His
wisdom or goodness, or the character of His moral consti-
tution v
2(34: GOD IS NOT TIIL: CHAP. XIV
Unnumbered worlds of holy creatures, may be eternally
established in their allegiance to God, by means of the de-
monstrations which He has been pleased to make, in two
orders of intelligent creatures, among which He has allowed
sin to enter, viz: of the sovereignty and immutability
of His purpose and justice on the one hand —in the con-
demnation of apostate angels; and of the depth of His be-
nevolence and compassions ou the other hand, in pardoning
through Jesus Christ, rebellious men, and of the inexora-
bleness and severity of His truth and righteousness, in
punishingguiltysinnersof mankind, who dared to sport with
the procedures of Heaven, and to reject the only counsels
of peace. As the chant of the redeemed, and of the min-
gled choir of saints and angels round the throne, ascends
to God, all holy intelligences, who hear or know it, cannot
fail to extol, and exult in, the infinite grace and mercy of
the Sovereign of the skies, and feel that it is well and best
for them to obey. And as the smoke of their torment who, with
apostate angels, have been hurled down to the bottomless
abyss, ascends for ever and ever, an obedient universe,
will see inscribed on all its thickening curls, the wages
OF REBELLION, and feel themselves more firmly determin-
ed in their allegiance. As the highest conceivable exhibi-
tion of the bliss of allegiance, and of the misery of rebel-
lion, will thus be presented, there will be the greatest secu-
rity, that the government of God shall remain unassailed
by the proud schemes of daring rebels to become indepen-
dent.
We have represented the actual existence of sin as the
accasion which God, in His infinite wisdom and benevo-
lence, has seized for multiplying the motives to obedience-
And this, after all, let our philosophical discussions be
what they may, is the sober matter of fact. Whether He
could have adopted any other expedient of equal or greater
eifi(^iency, it wer^^ presumptuous for us to inquire. It is
CHAP. XIV. AUTHOR OF SIN. 265
folly and madness to talk of what God might or might not
have done, where He has not been pleased to reveal his
will. Secret things belong unto the Lord; things revealed
belong to us.
But in stating, as simple matter of fact, that God has
made the actual existence of sin, an occasion for wondrous
and glorious revelations of His own character, and for the
increase. of moral influences, which shall issue in lasting and
most blissful results, we are not to be understood as affirm-
ing, that sin, tiie greatest evil, is the necessary means of se-
scuring the greatest good. V/e are utterly incompetent
to such a judgment. In a few words then, God's goodness
cannot be impeached, in allowing a creature, with know-
ledge sufficient to direct it, and power sufficient to act, and
motives sufficient to deter from evil, to take its own course.
To have imposed restraints, other than those of a :Ticral na-
ture, would have been to destroy it,« moral agency. If, with-
out His positive agency to bring about such a result, the
creature chooses to do what He forbids, and declares shall
prove disastrous and ruinous, there can be no impeach-
ment of His character. His benevolence does not bind Him
to destroy the creature's moral agency, or even to increase
the motives to obedience, for they are already sufficient.
If, notwithstanding the creature's actual rebellion. He is
pleased to recover and establish it in willing, and blissful,
and grateful subjection to His sway, and to secure this re-
sult, pours forth the richest and most inconceivable floods
of His own glorious grace and benevolence, we should adore
and wonder. It is vanity, and may prove the death eternal,
to attempt, as with omniscient eye, to search as to what He
could or could not have done.
Having thus vindicated the character of God, from any
moral impurity of purpose, in so far as He may have permit-
ted sin, and sliovv^n that the permitting of sin does not \\\
266 t,OD IS NOT THE cHAP. XIV.
the lea^it impeach His benevolence, it will by no means be
difficult to vindicate whatever other agency He may have
in it. That agency consists in His sustaining power or co-
operation, to use the very strongest term, with man in
those acts of his mind, and feelings of his heart, and out-
ward deeds, which constitute sin. By this, we mean, that
continuous exercise of divine power, which is necessary for
sustaining, supporting and strengthening the human mind,
i. e. for preserving the faculties or powers of the creature,
which constitute it a moral and responsible agent, and qual-
ify it as well for rebellion, as for obedience. We do not
believe that moral responsibilities press on those that have
been born idiots or insane. God has seen fit to withhold
that agency of His, which in its full extent, as vouchsafed
to the sons of men, contributes to the development and
exercise of the different moral powers, which characterize
men as rational, and constitute them accountable creatures.
Does His exerting and continuing that agency, according to
established laws in the support of the rational mind, i. e.
in preserving to it, its characteristic properties which con-
stitute it a moral agent, —necessarily imply any moral tur-
pitude on his part, even though that mind should exert it-
self in acts that are sinful? If this position be maintained,
results will follow that cannot fail to startle even him who
advocates it.
The father watches, with anxious eye^ and breaking
heart, his untoward child, and though his whole conduct
is but one tissue of ingratitude, rebellion and crime, yet
does he, in the exercise of his benignity and compassion,
contribute from his bounteous hand, towards his support.
In some sense he co-operates with his depraved child. But
is the father on this account guilty? Does any moral tur-
pitude attach to him, for extending that care and bounty,
which, of right devolves on him towards the child, wliom
God has made dependent on him? The guilt and ingrati-
CHAP. XIV. AUTHOR OF SIN, -^67
tude of the child, can never destroy the relation which has
been constituted by the great Creator between it and its
parent. That parent is a monster, who makes the guilty
conduct of his child a pretence or an excuse for utterly de-
serting him. And shall we then think, that moral turpi-
tude attaches to the divine Being, because He continues
to support and invigorate the powers of his rebellious and
ungrateful creature, whom He has made dependent on Him-
self? Is God under obligation—is it necessary for His mor-
al purity —instantly to withdraw His support and provi-
dential agency from His creatures when they sin? Then
will it follow that the instant a creature sins, it must be an-
nihilated; for its continuance in being depends on the di-
vine power and providence, and does but contribute to the
perpetuation of its guilt.
It will be admitted, that the agency and co-operation of
God would have been proper and requisite had man con-
tinued in a state of innocence and virtue. The preserving
and supporting power of God, according to the law by
w^hich he ordained at first, that that agency should be ex-
erted, would have been rightfully exercised. How then
comes it that God is under obligations instantly to with-
draw that agency, when the creature rebels? Do the guilt
and ingratitude of the creature, destroy its natural depen-
dence on the Being that created it? The truth is, that this
allegation, against which v/e contend, if it proves any thing,
proves too much. The Lord has unquestionably, by His
power and providence, upheld the world for thousands of
years, and yet during all that time, it has been the great
theatre of crime. Sin has reigned and triumphed over the
successive generations of men, that have sprung up on it,
and has reared innumerable memorials of its swa3^ One
mighty tyrant after another, has appeared and flourished
as actor on the stage, and his track has been marked with
war, and rapine, and blood. Sword^ famine and pestilence
268 <^C)D IS ^t)T THE AUlIIOIi OF SIX. cHAP. XIV.
have followed iti his train, and every hateful crime has
stood like chosen attendants near his throne. And yet it
is said that God raised him up. Of Pharoah there can be
no dispute; nor of Nebuchadnezzar; nor of Cyrus and oth-
ers. Yet no one presumes to impeach the purity of the
divine character, because of that agency, which the divine
providence may have had, in the preservation of corrupt
and tyrannical despots. We ask why not, if the objection
is of force.'* Whether is the agency of God's providence, in
the support of the world, and of the huge monstersof crime,
that have enslaved and tyrannized over it, any less liable to
remark, than that wdiich is ordinarily exerted in the sus-
tentition of the sinner's mind?
Whatever view, therefore, we take of the divine agency
so far as it is concerned in the production of sin, whether
in the permitting of it, or in the exercise of forbearance
towards the sinner, or in the preserving in being and con-
tinuing in wonted vigour, the powers of the moral being, no
taint, nor the least imputation of moral turpitude can attach
to God. Whence then it may be inquired originates hu-
man depravity? If God cannot be pronounced the author
of sin, how comes it into being? An answer to this ques-
tion, will require that we advert to the history, and general
principles or constitution; of that government which God
exercises over men.
CHAPTER XV.
THE ORIGINAL OF HITMAN OEPRAVITT.
f
Ko historical Information as to the origin of sin in other worlds—The history
of it in this—Its immediate effects on the character of our first parents—
The entire change it effected-That change did not affect the general
agency of God, nor the physical nature of our first parents-The influ-
ence of this change on successive generations-Various opinions as to the
origin of human depravity-Inquiry as to what origmaJsin consists in-
The phrase a very vague one—Several inquiries started—.Sin cannot be
predicated of being merely-Necessary to pay particular attention to the
general characteristics of the creature, In order rightly to estimate the
character of the holiness attributed to It—Holiness has respect to the ex-
ercises of the will—Whether there is any inherent cause of sinful actions
in the soul-Dr. Owen's views—Boston's—Calvin's-Vink's-If created
nature or existence be sinful, then is God the author of sin-No physical
property lost or acquired by Adam's sin-No physical defector efficient
principle of physical being produced by It-But it rendered holy exerci-
ses In him morally hnpossible-Vhy^.c^l depravity renders sin necessary-
Dreadful practical results of such a doctrine-To the will of the smner is
to be assigned the Immediate cause o^ sinful ad/ons-Quotation from Dr.
Owen-Inquiry as to the prime origin of sinful actlons-Whether the le-
gal or natui-al resuhs of Adam's sln-The diHerence between a law, a
covenant, and a constitution-The death and corruption of Adam's pro-
geny, results of the divine constitution, ordained for the moral govern-
ment of the human family-Certain plain facts, which cannot be denied-
Folly and sin of objecting to the divine constitution—The law of devel^
opment to be traced In evei^ department of life-Applicable to our mo-
ral nature.
Of the introduction of si?i into other worlds, we have
no knowledge—no historical data whatever—nothing to
conduct inquiry; and it would, therefore, be foolish to at-
tempt it Of its entrance into this, however, w£ have both
270 THE ORIGINAL OF CHAP. XV.
an historical account, and satisfactory knowledge of the
moral constitution under which it occurs.
The simple statement is, that God prohibited the common
parents of the human race, from eating the fruit of a certain
tree—the tree of the knowledge of good and evil; doubt-
less called such, iiot because of any natural virtue which
lis fruit possessed, to quicken man's intellectual powers;
for then would not its fruit have been withheld; but because
it was made the test of man's obedience or subjection to
God, his governor. His abstinence from, or participation
of its fruit, would indicate or furnish knowledge as to his
moral character, whether he was good or whether he was
evil.
By means of an appeal, made directly to the senses and
the heart of Eve, through the subtlety of the tempter, she
was induced to violate the command of God. This result,
however, was obtained through the natural exercise of her
voluntary powers—-i. e. according to the laws which God
had ordained, to regulate their exercise. Motives and ar-
guments, for and against, were presented to, and balanced
in her mind. How long the process continued, we know
not; but, eventually, 'Hvhen the woman saw that the tree
was good for food, and that it was pleasant (desire) to the
eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took
of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her hus-
band with her, and he did eat.'^^ This act changed the en-
tire character; for all the subsequent acts and exercises,
the purposes, thoughts and sensibilities of their souls, be-
came contrary to God. Whereas, before, there was tlie
conlroling influence of the love of God, a consciousness of
their attachment to Him, a knowledge of their relation with
Him, to diffuse bliss throughout their souls, and regulate
all their acts and emotions; there now succeeded an awful
apprehension of His displeasure, a consciousness of their
Gen. iii. -6.
^^^ DEPRAVITY. «
271
own ingratitude, rebellion and guilt, and a knowledge that
they should inevitably meet the retributions of His justice,
whose commands they had violated.
These feelings, these exercises of mind and heart, were
altogether neiv and painful, and quite contrary to those
which originally characterised them. Instead of the harmo-
nious actings of mind and heart toward God, as the foun-
tain of their bliss, there was a terror of God, and a desire
to escape from Him and to shun His notice, indicating, al-
together, a very deficient state of heart toward Him. Their
interests were 7io longer subordinated to the glory of God,
and sought as thus subordinate; but exalted as supreme,
and prosecuted to the neglect, and even contempt of the di-
vine honor and authority.
Such is the general nature of human depravity. It con-
sists not in the destruction of any moral capacity whatev-
er. It was the same heart that once loved God supremely,
which now feared and shunned Him. It was the same mind
that delighted to contemplate and commune with Him,
which now fled from His presence. No constitutional
change had been sustained, but all his acts and emotions
were deranged. Mindand heart alike had been thrown into
disorderedaction,throughapprehensionsand emotions which
followed from the ascendant influenee of his selfishness.
It is obvious that such derangement must continue, as
long as the tiauses operating to produce it—that is, as
long as God remains the same—determined to punish
sin; and man having forfeited his claims and relationship,
and friendly communication with Him, seeks his happiness
in the world. The causes of this deranged and corrupt ex-
ercise of the mind and heart of man, lay not in the inter-
ual essence and structure, or constitutional principles
and properties of the soul; but in the character of God as
moral governor, and in the altered relations and circum-
stancesj which the first act of rebellion induced, as these
272 THE OKfGINAL OF CHAP. XV,
things most naturally operated on his alienated mind and
heart, through the regularly constituted modes of thought
and feeling.
God continues still the same providential a7id preserv-
ing power. His hand sustains the poor, disordered mind.
He does not instantly dash tiie wretched being from His
hand, and cause him to return to his original nonentity
;
but He supports hirn, and imparts the very same sustaining
agency to invigorate his acts and exercises, as when those
acts and exercises were his goings forth to Him, and were
regulated by His friendship.
But He does not choose to undo what has been done, and
bring the rebellious mind back from its disorded action.
He is under no obligation to do this. And the consequence
25, that refusing so to do, the causes of deranged action and
emotion still subsisting, there continue to take place unceas-
ing developments of a disordered or depraved heart. In
all this, however, there was no introduction of any physi-
cal essence, or substance, or principle, &c. into the nature
of man, nor the loss of any such thing. This may suffice
with regard to our first parents. It was the instant cessation
of the mind's actings, as to all the activities, and enjoyments
of spiritual life;i. e. the appropriate goings forth of mind and
heart to Crod, as the supreme good and chief end. Such is
the history of the fall of our first parents.
Itconcernsus to trace the influence of this cltange in the mo-
ral character and sensibilities, on the successive generations of
their ofi'spring. The sacred scriptures teach us, thatthe human
race are all descended from one common original, and that
they transmitted their character to all their offspring. It
iscertain that mortality has been inherited from Adam, and
that mortality was the consequence of sin —the first sin.
"By one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin;
and so death passed upon all m.en, for that all have sin-
ned.'^^ However we may speculate on the causes of human
1. V-n V V^
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRAMTY. 273
corruption, or whatever theories we may frame, with re-
gard to the nature of the human mind, and the character
and responsibilities of a moral agent, it cannot be denied?
that all are sinners. *'For there is not a just man upon
eartii, thit doetii good and sinneth not. '^^
Death has, in
every surcessive generation, '^reigned over them that
liave not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgres-
sion.^
The world has not furnished one instance of a perfectly
sinless and holy creature, having appeared among the sons
of men, since the apostacy of the first pair, save that of our
blessed Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. Ever and anon the
same developments have been made. **The wicked go
astray from the womb, speaking lies." All the way through
life —in every stage of human existence, there are actions
which demonstrate the depravity of man. Whence this
state of things? Various opinions have been advanced, as
to the origin of this depravity, some referring it—to die in-
fluence of education and example—others to the animal
body, with which the soul is connected—others entirely to
the outward circumstances of vian''s condition in this
world—others to some modification of the nature of the
soulj derived by natural descent—and others still to some
j)hysical taint or impurity, lodged in the very constitu-
tion of our nature, which operates as an efficient principle
in the production of depraved acts. The falsity of the
first supposition, has already been exposed. Whether the
second h^fact, can never be proved; for certain it is, that
the connexion of matter and spirit, in a moral being, does
not necessarily render that being a sinner, either imme-
diately or ultimately. The other opinions will all be deter-
mined, if we can resolve the inquiry, as to that in which -
original sin consists.
1. Eccles. vii. 20. 2. Rom. v. 14.
35
274 THE ORIGINAL OP CHAP. XV.
It is exceedingly difficult, in speaking on this subject, to
use terms not liable to be misunderstood. The shorter cat-
echism uses the phrase, '^the corruption of our whole na-
ture," to describe, as it would seem, that which, in the day
when it was framed, was '•^common!}' called original sin."^
What is meant by the ^Hvhole nature," all will not agree.
By this phrase, one thinks is taught the idea of there being
something sinful simply in created nature; i. e. that the
soul and body of the infant yet unborn, are, in themselves,
prior to all moral acts and exercises, sinful. Another, ta-
king it for granted that the catechism cannot possibly mean
to teach such a doctrine as that Gi physical depravity, un-
derstands the phrase, as designating the general character
of those actions, committed in all the appropriate circum-
stances of the being.
1. Such appears to be the grammatical and obvious construction of the
answer to the 18th question in the Shorter Catechism. In the answer to
the 25th question of the Larger Catechism, the ambiguity is not relieved.
Different punctuations convey different ideas. We shall not attempt to de-
cide, whether original sin is described in the Catechisms, as of a iriangu»
lar character, consisting conjointly in ''the guilt of Adam's first sin, the want
of original righteousness, and the corruption of his v/hole nature/' or in the
first or last exclusively. It is certain that some Calvinistic writers do treat
of it, as comprising the whole three; and it is as certain, that expressions oc-
cur in the formularies of the primitive Scottish church, and the confession
of faith itself, which seem to limit it to Adam's transgression. The Assem-
bly, in 1590, appointed a committee, consisting of Messrs. John Craig, Rob-
ert Pont, Thomas Buckingham and Andrew MelvinCf to prepare a Cate-
chism "Anent tl^.e examination before the communion." This Catechism,
drawn up by the Chairman of the Committee, was the next year presented
to the Assembly, and adopted; and in the subsequent year, the follow-
ing act was passed in relation to it—For swa meikle as, at the special Desire
ofthe Kirk, ane Forme of Examination before the Communion was pennit
and formit be their Brother Mr. John Craig, quhilk is now imprintit, and al-
Idwit be the Voyce of the Assembly. Therefore it is th'oug^ht needful that
every pastor travel with his Flock, that they may buy the samen Buik, and
read it in their Families, quhereby they may be better instructit." In that
Catechism, so highly approved of, and designed to be used so extensively in
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 075
The phrase original sin is very vague. It may denote,
either the first sin, whether that be the first in the whole
series of sins, committed by our race, viz: the first trans-
gression of our guilty primogenitors; or, whether it be the
first sinful act, in the series of transgressions, committed
by any one of their descendants. Or, it may denote the
original of sin; i. e. the fountain or source whence other
sins proceed; and that, whether it be in reference to our
first parents^ the source of all the sins in this world, or
in reference to any and every individual, the source of all
the sins conunitted by them. Or, it may denote the sin
of our original, whether it be the sin of every man's pa-
rents, connected with his origination, or the sin of our very
first existence. Or, it may denote something which has the
power to originate sin, and which is necessarily involved
in our very being, from the first moment of its origination.
In this 1 ist sense, as the Catechism intimates it was, in the
days of the Westminster divines and previously, it is often
used as the vulgar synonyme, for ^^the corruption of our
whole nature." Who does not see, how perplexing and
the answer to the 4th question, which is, "What things came to us by that
fall; (of Aclam:) there is an evident distinction made between natural cor-
ruption and original sin. The answer is, ^'Original sin and natural corrup-
tion." In **tlie confession of faith, and doctrine believed and professed by
the protestants of Scotland, Aug 1560," immediately after speaking of the
transgression of our first parents, in eating the forbidden fruit, it is added,
*^liy which trans^gressioti^ commox\\j called original sin." The first sin of
Adam was, in 1560, ^'commonly called" in Scotland, original sin." In 1590s,
still they distinguished between original sin and natural corruption. In the
6th sec. ofthe 6th chap, of the Westminster confession of faith, we read that
"Every sin," hofJi original and actual, being a transgression of the righteous
law of God, and contrary thereto, dotli, in its own nature, bring guilt upon
the sinner, whereby lie is bound over to the wrath of God, and curse of the
law. If original sin be represented as a transgression of law, it is not a sinful
nature. "The Sum of savmg knowledge" holds the following language on
i.he subject: "Our first parents being enticed by Satan, one of these Devils,
speaking in a serpent, did break the covenant of Works, in eating the for-
276 I ^»H"< OHKaXAL OF cHAP. XV.
endless must be tlie disputes which will prevail, where a
phrase, capable of such varied signification, is employed?
It is not found in the word of God, and therefore can claim
no respect, as coming from inspired lips. It may, indeed,
be consecrated in the technicalities of Theologians, but com-
mon sense would unquestionably suggest the propriety of
abandoning it, when it is so liable to be misconstrued and
misunderstood. We shall not, therefore, be at any pains to
determine, whether it means the sin ivhich is first in the
series, or the sin that originates others, or the sin of our
origin,, or the '•^something-' in our being, icJiich has jjow-
er to originate sin, or is the original of sin.
It may be profitable to inquire —Whether our very be-
ing, as we are born into this world, is itself sinful? Whe-
ther- sin has its origin in any physical defect of our being,
or other physical cause whatever? Whether there is any
connexion between the first sin of Adam and our sins ?
What is the nature of that connexion ? And what light may
be thrown on this subject, by a careful examination of facts,
in relation to the developments of human depravity? A so-
bidden frait; wherefore they and theh' posterity, being in their loins, as
branches in the root, and comprehended in the same covenant with them,
became not only liable to eternal death, but also lost all ahiUiy to please
God; 3^ea, did become, by natwe, enemies to God, and to all spiritual good,
and inclined only to evil continually. This is our origijial sin, the bitter root
of all our actual transgi'essions, in Thoiiglits, Word and Deed." Here orig-
inal sin would seem to be represented as our being, by nature, enemies of
God, and having lost all ability—something in the very being which we in-
herit by natural descent, and which is the root of all actual sins. Augus-
tine, who is qvioted, with approbation, in the Biblical Repertoiy, says,
—
''Original sin, therefore, ought not to be considered an infused habit, nor
a habit acquired by repeated acts, but an innate disposition, derived from
the voluntary transgression of the first man." The reader will notice the
sentiments of Calvin and others, quoted on this subject; nor can he fail to
perceive how very vaguely, and confusedly, and contiadictorily Calvinistic
confessions of faith, and Calvinistic writers spoke, on tlie subject of origi-
nal sin, wh>-n they incidentallv undertook to define or to describe it.
CHAP. XV.
"^^^^ df:pravity. 277
lution of these inquiries shall be attempted in the remain-
ing of this, and several succeeding chapters; inasmuch as
the subject of depravity, when understood, serves indirect-
ly to illustrate the natare of Regeneration.
It is strange that ever it should luave been made a ques-
tion, whether sin ma)- be predicated of being or simple ex-
istence, since sin is undeniably an act of a moral charac-
ter, and, therefore, can only be committed by one, who is
possessed of moral powers; i. e. one who is capable of act-
in"- according as the law requires or prohibits. So far as
personal unholiness or sin is concerned, we mean that
which is contracted and exhibited by the individual person
of whom it is predicated, the truth of this remark is ob-
vious. For the very nature of sin implies an exercise of
will. There can be neither obedience nor disobedience,
where there is not an exercise of will. That will may be
secured through the impulse of various feelings and mo-
tives, and they may determine its character; but all person-
al holiness or unholiness—i., e. the holiness or unholiness
which characterizes a moral agent, involves, in its very na-
ture, an exercise of will.
It is indispensably necessary, that we pay particular re-
spect to the general characteristics, as a creature, or consti-
tution of the being, when holiness or unholiness is predi-
cated of it. An ox, or goat, as set apart and slain, accord-
ing to the rites of Levitical sacrifice, was accounted holy.
So also were the pots and vessels of the sanctuary. Other
things were accounted unholy or unlcean. But no one
will pretend, that the holiness or unholiness which is pred-
icated of such things, is the same in character with that
of rational, moral creatures, such as man. Nor will it be
affirmed, that the holiness which was predicated of Israel,
-
collectively as a people, set apart from other nations, is of
the same character with that, which is attributed to the saints
personally, as individual moral agents.
278 THE ORIGINAL OF CHAP. XT.
The holiness or unholiness of an individual moral agent,
which we have called j?;g?\yo??«/, has respect to the exercises
of the will, as induced hy the feelings of the heart, and the
influential motives. These are the things which properly
fall under the cognizance of law, and which the law is de-
signed to regulate. Law, in general, is the declared will
of a legitimate sovereign, designed to regulate the conduct
of his suhjects. It addresses itself directly to the capaci-
ties of their rational and moral nature, and requires from
them a voluntary compliance with its demands. Its char-
acter is not changed, where God, our Creator, is the law-
giver; so that it is obvious, to every intelligent reader, that
holiness, or sin which is its opposite, has a direct and im-
mediate reference to those voluntary acts and exercises,
wbiich the law is designed to secure or prevent.
The law has neither respect to, nor is designed to regu-
Lite. simple being or created existence; hni py^esujjposes the
existence of moral agents. How very absurd, therefore, is
it, to predicate sin of that which does not fall under the cog-
nizance of law at all! Simple existence, cannot, in the very
nature of things, be sinful; for there is no law designed
to prevent existence. And such is the common sense of
mankind. No one ever thinks or feels, that it is a sin,
that he exists, or that he was born, or that he was conceiv-
ed ; for these things, being beyond the control of man's will,
and being properly the results of God's agency, if they
are sinful, the sin must be his, —which is a thought too im-
pious to entertain.
But while this will perhnps be admitted by the most
zealous advocate of what is
*
''commonly called origin-
al sin," tliere are forms of speech, and modes of illustra-
tion, adopted by some, which, if they do not imply that
mere human existence or being is sinful, do certainly, that
there is in the very soul of man ^^something," which has
the power to originate acts of a sinful nature., and conse-
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 079
quently, being their appropriate cause, may be itself de-
nominated sinful, 3Lnd viewed as affecting, by its very pres-
ence, the moral purity of the soul. Whether this cause of
sinful acts, lodged in the very soul, is to be traced up to
any defect of physical constitution, or to the actual inbeing
or inherence of any habit, principle, bias or taiiit, which is .
the appropriate and immediate cause of sinful acts, or both,
it is difficult precisely to determine, from the language and
illustrations employed.
Dr. Owen evidently speaks of sinj'^'is d^jjj^incijjle, or some-
thing which has the efficiency of a cause, and which exists
in men anterior to any actsperformed by them. He calls
it ^^Indwelling sin,'' and has written an interesting prac-
tical treatise, which, where it is not rendered absolutely mys-
tical, and unintelligible, through the influence of false phi-
losophy, may be found profitable in the experience of chris-
tians. His remarks are founded on the figurative expres-
sions of the apostle Paul, who, when speaking of his con-
tinual warfare with sin, personified it as siii that divtlleth
in him, and represented its influence as a law in his mem-
bers. Such expressions the Dr. seems to have understood,
and interpreted in iheir literal sense, which can in no way
be sustained, but on the supposition of a physical depravity.
We give the reader his current comment on the apostles'
language. *'Sin that dwelleth in me. It is present with
me. It is in my members ;
yet it is so far in a man, as in
some sense it is said to be the man himself. 'I know that
in me, that is in my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing.'
The flesh which is the seat and throne of this law^, yea
which indeed is this law, is in some sense the man himself,
as grace also is the new man. Now from this considera-
tion of it, that it is an indwelling law, inclining and moving
to sin as an inward habit or principle, it has sundry advan-
2S0 THE OKlGiNAL OF cHAP. XV.
tages increasing its strength, and furthering its jjower. As,
First it a\\x^,ys abides 172 the soul, it is never absent. '^^
It IS obvious to every reader, that from the above quota-
tion, Dr. Owen, unders'oud what he called *'indwel-
ling sin,'' lobe itself an operative principle, having power
to determine and control the acts of the soul, and in this
respect, to be the very opposite of the vital, or holy princi-
ple, which he taught, is implanted in regeneration. This
is rendered perfectly indisputable, from the definition
which he has given of ^'indwelling sin," considered as a
law. ''It is," says he, ^^3l 2^owe7'ful, effectual indwelling
prir.ciple, inclining and pressing unto actions, agreeable
and suitable unto its nature."^ But while, in one place, he
speaks of &m positively as an indwelling law or principle^
something operative—having power to produce actions
*
'suitable unto its nature," which is unquestionably, ?l phys-
ical depravity) in another place, he contemplates it nega-
tively, as a72«/?«r«/impotency, or defect in our being, thus
also maintaining a physical depravity. He denominates it
a natural impotency, "because" he says "it consists in
the deprivation of the light and ])Oiver that was origi-
nally in the faculties of our minds or understandings,
and because it can never be taken away or cured, but by
an immediate communication of a neio sjnritual power
and abilily, to the mind itself, by the Holy Ghost in
this renovation, so evincing the deprivation of the fa-
culty itself."^ Language more appropriate could not
be employed to teach the doctrine of physical depravity.
It is unnecessary to quote any further from him on this sub-
ject.
We add some things to the same purport from other of
the old Calvinistic writers. "Every person" says Bos-
ton, " that is born according to the course of nature, is
1. Owen on Indwelling Sin, chap. ii. p. 29.
2. Owen on Indwelling' Sin, chup. i. p. 15.
3. Owen on the Spirit, vol. i. Book iii. chap. iii. p. 418
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRAAJTV. OSI
born unclean: if the root be corrupt, so must the branches
be: neither is the matter mended, though the parents be
sanctified ones; for they are but holy ix part, and that
by grace, not by nature; and they beget their children as
men, not as holy men: wherefore as the circumcised parent
begets an uncircumcised child, and after the present graia
is sown, we reap corn with the chaff; so the holiest parents
beget unholy children, and cannot communicdte their grace
to them, as they do their nature.'''^
Hereheevidently predicates sin of simple existence, as pro-
pagated by natural descent. Elsewhere he speaks of ^^
the sin
of our nature," in contradistinction from voluntary acts of
transgression, and describes it in terms plainly expressing a
physical depravity. *' Of all sins" he says, ''it is the
most extensive and diffusive. It goes through the v/hole
man, and spoils all. The corruption of nature, is the poison
of the old serpent, cast into the fountain of action; and so
infect? every action, every breathing of the soul. It is the
cause of all particular lusts, and actual sins in our hearts
and lives. It is virtually all sin: for it is the seed of all
sins, which want but the occasion to setup their heads: be-
ing in the corruption of nature, as the effect in the virtue
of its cause. The sin of our nature is, of all sins, the
most fixed and abiding. It remains with men, in its full
power, by night and by day, at all times, fixed as with
bands of iron and brass. It is the great reigning sin."^^
*'A11 of every man is corrupt; it is a leprosy that has
overspread universally; a leaven that hath leavened the
whole lump. It has overspread, 1. The soul in all its
faculties, 2. As for the will, call it no more will, but
lust. It is free to evil, but not to good. 3. As to the af-
1. Boston's fourfold state, pp. 39. 40.
2. Boston's fourfold state, pp. 105, 106, .
36
282 THE ORIGINAL OF cHAP. XV.
fections they are quite disordered. Further, this corrup-
tion has spread even to the body. "^
The above are specimens of the wliole school, and they
do, if language has any definite meaning, plainly teach the
doctrine of physical depravity. This is manifestly the
doctrine Calvin taught; and the view he took of original sin,
when he defined it to be, *' an hereditary depravity and
corruption of our nature, diffused through every
PART OF THE SOUL. Yet from him, (Adam,) hath not
punishment alone marched upon us as a pestilence, (grassata
est,) but i\\z pestilence (htesj instilled from him, resides-
in iiSr^ov which punishment is justly due.-'*^
Still more decisive and pointed are the following, when
commenting on the x\postle's declaration, '' that all have
sinned." "That is," says he, " they are involved in ori-
ginal sin and polluted with its spots, and fof this reasoh^
infants also themselves, while they, bring their own dam-
nation with themselves from their " mother's womb, are
obnoxious, not for another^s but their own especial vice.
(suo ipsorum vitio. ) For although they may not have pro-
duced the fruits of their own iniquity, yet have they the
seed included in themselves: yea, their ivhole nature, is-
some such seed of sin; so that zV cannot but be odious and
abominable to Godo''-^
1. Boston's body of Divinity, vol. 1, pp. 307, 308, 309.
2. Videtar ergo peccatum orig-inale hoereditaria naturx nostrse pravitaset
corruptio, in omnes animspartes difFusx: Ab illo tamen non Sola in nos
poena grassata est, sed in stillata ab ipso, lues in nobis residet, cui jure poena
debetur. Calvini.Instit. Lib. ii. cap. 1. Sec. 8.
3. Et apostolus ipse disertissime testatur, ideo mortem in omnes perva-
gatam, quod omnes peccarint, id est, involuti slnt originali peccato, et eju3
maculis inquinati. Atqui ideo infantes quoqiie i{)si, dum siiam secum dam-
nationem a matris utero afferunt, non alienio sod suo ipsorum vitio sunt ob-
stricti. Nam tametsi suoe jniquitatis fructus nondum protulerint, habent,
.
t^men in se inclusum semen imo tota corum natura, quoddam est peccati
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRANITY. 2QS
VixK, in his sermon published in the morning exercises,
entilled " Original sin inhering," has given exactly the
same view which Boston after him and many other
theologians of that day have done. We select a. few
passages: he says, " 1. 'Tis called original sinne, because
'tis in Qvery one from his original; it may say to every
one, as soon as thou tvert I am: er 2. Because it is de-
rived ixQm. Adam the original of all man-kinde, Oi^/
^
whose blood, God hath made us all: or 3. Because 'tis the
original of all other sinne; it is the seed and spawn, out of
which they all grow; this is that lust, which when it hath
conceived, bringeth forth sinne. This sin runs parallel
with our being men, or partaking of man's nature in this
world. This sin, and our nature in us, are twins, in life
and death. Oar whole fabrick is so overspread with this
leprosie, that it can never be sufficiently cleansed, till it be
wholly taken down. 1. This sin cleaves to the soul: and
2. It infects the very body also."^
It is unnecessary to crowd our pages with other extracts.^
Those adduced, shew plainly, that original sin is spoken of,
by some old Calvinisti<3 writers, as an operative or efficient
cause of sin, which is lodged in the very soul of man,
from the very first moment of his origin, anterior to
all voluntary acts whatever, and therefore can only be
physical; i. e. must consist in son^e constitution of sim-
ple nature or created being, which is the appropriate, im-
mediate, and necessary cause of sinful actions. This is
semen: ideo non odiosa etabcminabilis Deo esse non potest. Cal. Inst. 1.
ii. c. 1. Sec. 8.
1. See Morning Eiercise, at Giles in the fields, pp. 155, 156, 157, 158.
1. The reader may find many in the first volume of a work entitled-,
yiews of Theology published in New York, in which the author has under-
taken to prove tliat in some theories and reasonings of divines, depravity
is exhibited as a physical attribute-
v>«4 i-'iiF> *niGlNAL OF CHAP. XV=
philosophy. It is an inference drawn from certain facts,
and sustained by false analogies. Who does not see, that
it as deeply implicates the character of God, as it certainly
relieves the sinner from obligation? If simple created na-
ture, or EXISTENCE IS sinful, then is God the direct and
immediate author of sin, for it is His exclusive preroga-
tive to create. This however, He cannot be.
Nor is it sufficient to vindicate the purity of God in this
matter, to say that Adam, having corrupted himself by his
own act, propagated to his progeny a corrupt nature, and
that by virture of fixed and established laws, ordained to
regulate tbe agency of God, in the production of succes-
sive creatures. For it does not appear, that Adam lost or
acquired any physical property by his rebellion: nor
that his nature, consisting simply of his created substance
and its constitutional properties, sustained any phys-
ical change by his sin. His voluntary exercises were sad-
ly deranged, and became awfully depraved, but that de-
pravity formed no part of hi^ substance, nor belonged to
his constitutional jjropertics. It attached to his charac-
ter, as a moral agent. How then could he transmit, by
natural generation what did not inhere in his own constitu-
tion. It does not appear that Adam's sin, produced in his
own soul, any p)hysical defect, or lodged there any new
efficient 2^f'inciple or j^hysical being, possessing power
to control his voluntary actions.
We shall have occasion presently to trace the influence
of certain great wiora/ principles, as they operated to regu-
late his actions, and to shape his character: but certainly,
no one will affirm, that the first sin of Adam, iifheredin
him, changing his very pthysical constitution, and becom-
ing an efficient cause of all his subsequent sinful actions.
For tl^.at sin was an act, not a substance, and had no other
existence, than as an event which transpired in his history,
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 285
but which changed his moral relations, ond rendered those
exercises in which his holiness consisted, morally impos-
sible; and if to him physical depravity accrued not, from
him it cannot be derived. If such a thing were possible,
and actually did take place, who can undertake to blame
m.en for sinning? Their sins would be the proper, and
necessary result of their very constitution, in the produc-
tion of which they had no agency. They would sin of
necessity, and could no more be criminal for their sinful
actions, than for craving food or any other act which results
from an established law of nature. Let men believe this
to be the fact, and what dreadful practical results would
follow! How does the voluptuary grasp it with delight,
as the sop to quiet his conscience! And where might it not
be practically plead as an apology for the worst and vilest
deeds? If the cause of men's sins lies in an ''indwelling
principle,'' as Dr. Owen calls it, '' inclining and pressing
unto actions agreeable and suitable unto its nature," it pos-
sesses the precise character of a law of nature^ as he
himself has defined it. And if men sin according to a
law of nature, the divine agency is implicated, and human
obligation is destroyed.
If, therefore, we cannot predicate sin of simple created
existence; \{ mQV^ physical being is not sinful; and if there
cannot be found, in any physical defect of our being, or in
the presence of any positive principle of our constitutional
nature, the immediate cause of sinful actions, it may be
asked, whence do they originate? We have already shewn
that their immediate and appropriate cause, is to be assign-
ed to the will of the sinner, who chooses and acts contrary
,to the requisitions of God. '
To this, the common sense and
1. The principle that is in the nature of every thing", moving" and cany-
ing" it tov^ards its own end and rest, is called the law of nature. Owen on
ijK.lwelline:s;n. p. 15.
236 THE ORIGINAL OF CHAP. XV-
conscience of mankind give full assent. The authoi'ity of
Dr. Owen, on this point, is explicit and satisfactory. "The
will," says he, *'is the principle, the next seat and cause of
obedience and disobedience. INIoral actions are, unto us,
or in us, so far good or evil, as they partake of the consent
of the will. He spake truth, of old, who said, Omnepec-
catum est adeo vohiniarium, vt non sit peccatnin nisi
sit volu7ifcirium. "Every sin is so voluntary, that if it
be iiot voluntary it is 7iot sin."^ The present inquiry,
however, carries our attention to the more rem.ote, or prime
origin of our sinful actions.
It must be o]}vious to every one, that the rise or origin
of ail sinful actions, as committed by men, is to be dated
in the fii^st sin of Adam. That some connection there-
fore exists between that sin, and the transgressions
of his offspring, none are disposed to deny, as to the charac-
ter of that connection however there is much dispute. It is
of moment to determine whether, our sinful actions are
the legal, or only natural results of Adam's sin. And in
order to tliis, we must inquire—whether our sinful actions
fiow from any or)ersi{ive principle o^ our physical nature,
or any constitutional properties derived from Adam by the
process of natural generation —whethe;r they are to be con-
sidered diS penal results, \. e. the specific punishment pro-
vided by law for crime committed—or whether it became
morally certain, that, from the established constitution of
God, our great primogenitor having sinned, his descend-
ants would do the same.
The first inquiry has been already disposed of. As to the
second, it may be proper to remark, that there is a differ-
ence between a constitution, a covenant, and a law. A law*
requires or prohibits conduct, and determines the suffering
or consequences—or, to speak more technically, the pen-
1. Owen on indwellings sW\. p. 174.
CHAP. XV. HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 237
alty that shall follow or be inflicted for its violation. A
covenant is a forrnnl ngreement between two or more con-
tracting parties. A constitu'.ion determines the grand prin-
ciples which shall restrain, direct, and characterize the
whole administration of a government. The transaction of
God with our first parents has been variously designated —
some accounting it a law, others a covenant, and others ^
constitution. When God prohibited our first parents from
eating the fruit of the tree of knowledge, under penalty of
death, He would seem to have done no more thaii to
have enacted a law. But as it is obvious it affected tlie
condition of their descendants, and is explained in the sa-
cred scriptures, as a transaction that was to have a bearing
on them, it assumes a character somewhat difTerent from
that of a simple law. It was a constitution, which God, \n
His adorable sovereignty, ordained, for the administration
of his government over men. This, we presume, will not
be denied, even by those who prefer to call it a covenant.
Had our first parents stood the test, and obeyed, we have
reason to believe their ofTspring, after them, would have
been confirmed in holines?, and in the enjoyment of ever-
lasting life. This they did not; and through their failure,
death and corruption are the results which follow, in every
age and generation, among their descendants.
It is certain that the death of Adam, both spiritually and
corporally, was the penalty inflicted on him for his first
transgression. Now that which in him was unquestion-
ably the punishment of hissm, does actually eventuate in
the history of his offspring. Death and corruption affect
them all. No one will pretend to say, that in such cases,
God has departed from the original constitution which He
ordained, or that He acts in violation of His own law'.
Most undeniably, it is agreeable to the constitution which
He ordained with our first parents, that their act of rebel-
i2SS "IHE OmClNAL OF CHAP. XV.
lion against Himself, sliould be followed with the death of
all their progen}^ A parent is punished most severely in
the snOerings of his children, especially where he sees
that suffering will be secured by his own improper conduct.
And this tremendous result, which it will not be said was
incompatible with the rectitude of the great moral gover-
nor, was held forth to x\dam as that state of things which
would be induced by his sin. The death and depravity of
his offspring therefore may be very appropriately called
tiie suffering of his sin, or the penalty annexed to that
great moral constitution, which God had ordained with
him as the head and parent of the human family. It is not
necessary to transfer the act of Adam to his offspring, and
account them personally crhninal for it, in order to ac-
count for their suffering: nor is it necessary to attribute to
their created nature^ anterior to, and irrespective of all
moral exercises, some physical depravity, or inherited
LUES, which is offensive to God, and provokes His wrath
personally against the babe unborn. All that we think it
of importance to know, or incjuire after here, is, that by
virtue of the relation which God constituted between
Adam and his offspring as their head and parent, as well
as the great principle which He ordained should mark the
administration of his government over them, the sin of
Adam, rendered the death and depravity of his descendants
not physically necessary, but 7norally certain. Those
principles w^e descry in the great laws of reproduction and
assimilating development, which characterize his univer-
sal providential agency in this world.
We desire not to perplex our readers by introducing
terms, which have been the occasion of doubt and alter-
cation, and would perhaps, through their varied significa-
tion, be misunderstood.^ We aim, in our investigation
1- 'A> tnis+ the candid di)^idianvt^(l^i\ \y\\\ give us credit for sincerity.
CHAP, xv; HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 2S9
simply at tlie knowledge of facts; and however Intricate
and involved this subject may be accounted by many, yet
some things are sufficiently plain.
That we inherit from xldam an animal frame, which is
subject to disease and liable to dissolution, from the very
first moment of its existence, cannot be denied. His body
was the root from which according to the law of reproduc-
tion, established by God, have sprung the bodies of all his
oOspring. The mortality of those propagated from him,
is the result of his sinning against God. Had he obeyed
the command of the Most High, lie would not only have
lived himself, but all his descendants would have inherited
from him an animal frame adapted to immortality. As it
is, disease and death are our inheritance. Here it is mani-
fest, that the act of one man has been followed by its le-
gitimate or ordained results on others. Evidently there-
fore, his conduct has served, at least in respect of our
viaterial being^io sha!?e our character and condition. The
thing is not put to our choice, nor made dependent on our
actions. We are born into this world a dying race.
"Death reigned over them that has not sinned afrer the
similitude of Adam's transgression.'^^
Does any one object to this sovereign constitution.'* Ob-
jection would be vain and foolish, for we are under it, and
die we must. The sentence has gone forth, and we may
even feel the ministers of death already creeping in our
veins, and giving tokens that they are prepared, at any
moment to execute it, and turn us to the dust. It would
be miserable consolation for vain man to persuade himself,
in this derlaration. It is greatly to be lamented, that a refusal to employ
technicalities, should be denounced as Jesuitism, and a studied effort to
conceal heresy. What can be expected from the exercise of ecclesiastical
authority, by those who are ready to denounce an honest desu'e, and en-
deavour to unfold the truth, by such epithets i*
1. Rom. T. 14,
37
290 1'HT- ORIGINAL OF CHAP. XV.
that^God has acted unjustly in establishing such a constitu-
tion.
But few, if any, have the hardihood even to venture
the thought, that the divine Being is blameworthy, for
having created man mortal—nor for having made that ntor-
tality to depend on the conduct ofthe parent of all our race.
They see, in som^e measure, a reason for the thing, in this
universal law of God^s providence, that the developments
of the first man; i. e. those that emanate from him, must
bear an essential resemblance to himself. It is the univer-
sal law which regulates the developments of life in this
world.
Throughout the interminable ranges of vegetable and an-
nimal life, the seed and ovum developed in a new and in-
dividuated being, has first been a part of the body of its
parent, and the offspring, in due season, exhibits the image
of the parent. Shall we object to this constitution of God,
and say, that when He creates, he ought not to make one
being dependent on another, but givs to each one an orig-
inal, separate, independent existence. *'Vain man would
be wise, though man be born like the wild ass's colt."^
Such is the sovereign constitution of God, and to it we
must bow.
The derivation of our mortal bodies from Adam, consti-
tuting the whole human race but one vast series of being,
individuated by regular process, and developing the first
pair of our progenitors, is so unquestionably matter of fact,
that there can be no denial, that in so far, at least, as our
iDodies are concerned, we have not only been begotten in
the likeness of Adam, but also, that as their condition, and
the circumstances of their origination, depended on his own
character and acts, so he has transmitted to us an animal
nature, that is liable to disease and death.
%., Job xi. 12.
CHAP. XV. HUxMAN DEPRAVITY. 291
We can trace this law, or process of reproduction, almost
in every thing. So obvious is it, that persons, entirely un-
acquainted with medicine, will talk about diseases, inherit-
ed from generation to generation. The physician unhesita-
tingly affirms, that the state of animal health in the parents,
affects the condition of the child, descending from them.
The same diseases are developed in parents and children,
and when they disappear in one generation, re-appear in
the next.
Our Saviour has noticed the principle in the vegetable
world. ^^A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit; nei-
ther can an evil tree bring forth good fruit. "^ '^Either
make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else make the
tree corrqpt, and the fruit corrupt : for the tree is known
by his fruit. ^^^ But all this is met, most unphilosophically,
by saying, that the principle applies only to our material
nature. This, however, cannot be proved. The whole
force of analogy is against it.
Will it avail any one to allege, that as the human soul is
immaterial, and as moral corruption is properly and only
predicable of our rational and moral nature, we are not to
imagine, that the same principle will apply to it ? And
why not ?
If we discover any grand principle, pervading all the
other parts of the divine government in this world, running
alike through the animal and vegetable creation, is it not
presumable to suppose, that it extends to and embraces the
other parts? Is it not the business of philosophy to gener-
alize ? To trace the operation of general laws and princi-
ples, in their various applications? Is it not the boast and
glory of the Newtonian philosophy, ^hat, by means of a few
acknowlo;]gcd principles, a thousand varied phenomena
can be explained? How does it illustrate and elevate the
wisdom of that philosophy, which, having determined the
1. Mat. vli. 18. 2, Mat. xii, 33.
i
cause of the falling of an apple from a tree, took it as a
guide, and starting into the immensity of space, explored
the universe, and saw it all moving, and preserved in har-
monious order, by virtue of the same law —systems after
sj^stems, whirling, with all their suns, and planetary, and
satellitical, and cometary, and astroidal worlds, with as un-
erring certainty, as the apple tended to the earth, and then
returning, unfolded the mysteries of the tides, the motions
of the winds, the oscillations of the pendulum, and a thou-
sand other phenomena, that present themselves around this
globe?
When we have ascertained a principle of divine govern-
ment, we should not fear to pursue it in all its legitimate
applications; nor through any of those grand illustrations,
which, as it were, stand forth in bold relief, in the prov-
idence of God. Such a principle, we think, is discern-
ible in the great law of reproduction, and of assimilating
development, which marks tlie providential agency of
God. Its bearing, on the subject of human depravity,
we shall endeavour to trace. But, in the mean time, w^ould
caution the reader, against supposing that w^e advocate the
idea of any seminal principles, physically innate or latent
in the soul, which are derived by natural descent. What
the Confession of Faith says of our first parents, viz : that
''They being the root of all mankind, the guilt of this fthe
first) sin was imputed, and the same death in sin and cor-
rupted nature, conveyed to all their posterity, descending
from them by ordinary generation,"^ is sufficientl}' intelli-
gible, without resorting to the supposition of there bei. g,
in our very constitutional properties, an operative principle,
which is the efficient cause of sin, and renders it physical-
ly necessary.
1. \Ycstminstcr Confession cf iVith, c vi. sec. 3.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE DERIVATION OF DEPRAVITY
An inquiry as to the origination of the human soul—The Idea of all human
souls being concreated with Adam's examined—Does not relieve the
doctrine of Adam's representation, and the imputation of guilt-The facts
in the case as-far as they are ascertainable—The creation of the human
nature of Adam, of Eve, and of Christ throws no Tght on the subject—
The law of development observable in the production of human be-
ings-Various analogical illustrations of this great principle of the divine
government—Its apphcatlon to the circumstances and condition of hu-
man beings—1. A constitutional nature is derived from Adam, which
is subjected to a forfeiture of privileges and immunities that could have
been secured by his obedience—Subject to disease and death—Inquiry
whether eternal life is included in that forfeiture—2. Men come into ex-
istence, under circumstances which render it morally certain, that they
universally will sin, as soon as they are capable of moral agency—An
inquiry whether there is in man's nature, an efficient cause, whose oper-
ation renders it certain, that men will sin—Quotations from Rivet—
Owen—The distinction between natural and moral inability—Some re-
marks on the whole subject.
It may perhaps be thought extravagant, and tresspassing
into the regions of conjecture, to treat of tl e origination
of the human soul. Yet as men have speculated on this
subject, and there is reason to suspect, that some of their
speculations have been assumed as verities, and have ex-
erted, both a practical influence on their conduct, and a con-
troling influence on their belief in some important mat-
ters, it cannot be pronounced presumptuous, to attempt, as
far as reason and scripture, and the observation of facts may
aid, to ascertain the truth.
2.91 'HIE DEia VATION CHAP. XVI.
The idea that all liinnan souls were created sbniiltane-
ously ivith J2dam''s, and are introduced into human bodies
according as they are prepared for them in ordinary gene-
ration, as indeed, all the schemes with regard to pre-exisi-
ence and transmigration, v/hether adopted by ancient phi-
losophical heathen, or advocated by more modern authors,
scarcely deserves attention. There is no proof, as to the
mutter oj fact^ to be drawn, either from human consci-
ousiies.'^, from tlie history of the world, or from the decla-
rations of scripture. Analogy would lead us to a very op-
posite opinion. Nor are the reasons assigned for the/;ro-
bahiUty of its being the fact^^X. all satisfactory.
It is unsafe to reason from our ignorance. Because we
do not know a thing is not so, therefore it may be; and be-
cause, we do not know but that such a tiling may be, there-
fore it is, is a most fallacious species of argument. And, as
to the d'ifficidties, in which, the successive production of
rational creatures, confessedly depraved, seems to involve
th^ divine agenc;/, and the occasion which it is supposed
to furnish for animadversion on the divine character,
they are not at all obviated b}'- the supposition of the^re-
f-i'islence and simidtayieoiis creation of human souls.
Nor can it at all relieve the theory of representation and
the consequent imputation of guilt. In the ordinary af-
f^iirs of life, we do indeed act on the principle, ihat the
constituents and representative, are boih in being; yea, and
that the latter has been constituted such by the will of the
former. If, in the relation between parent and offspring,
ihere seems to be^a departure from the principle recognized
in other repesentative relations, a very satisfactory reason
can be assigned for it, in the circumstance, that the gif-
spring are brought into existence, through the instrumen-
iniity of the parent, and are, for a considerable portion of
their exisience, dependent on his care. The act of the re-
presentative or agent in ordinary cases, affects Wiq aon^lii-
dHAP. XVI. OF DEPRAVITY. 295
uents; and, it is admitted justly enougli, because the latter
have employed, deputed, or, if we may so speak, by their
own selection and commission, and instructing of him,
have, as it were, identified themselves with him. No one
however, pretends that the act of a parent affects the
child, because of any consent or instruction, actual or im-
plied, given by the child previously. The law however,
guards carefully, against the parents being affected —save
in those moral respects, which human law cannot obviate
—
by the act of the child, except in those cases where it was
done by the authority or with the consent and approbation
of the parent. To contend therefore, for the pre-exist-
ence of human souls, in order to vindicate the conduct of
God, as the great moral governor, in making the character
and condition of human beings, dependent on the act of
tddam, the primitive parent, and thus to account for the
derivation of depravity, will be of no avail. It is push-
ing the idea of representation too far, and does indeed se-
cure nothing in the respect for which it is mainly inteiided.
There is no proof, nor can there be, that the world oF
human souls, supposed by some, to have been created
when God breathed into Adam's nostrils the breath of lifey
and he became a living soul, consented to, and approved
of the act of God, in making him their great representa-
tive to act for them, in the high concernments of their
eternal destiny. It will not do, it is not safe, to run anal-
ogies too far. They may illustrate, and shadow forth, or
help to some conception of, a thing of the full and accurate
apprehension of which we are incapable. To press them
further, is dangerous: and it is perhaps, more than mere
conjecture, that not a little of the obscurity and mysticism,
on the subject of human depravity, arises out of confused
notions of Adam's representative cliaracter—his represen-
tation of the human race, being viewed as essentially the
»ame with the various forms and modifications o^ it. with
29G nil: DERIVATION CHAP. XVJ.
which \vc meet in common lite, and vvliich are sometimes
a(.](hiced in illustration of it.
Unquestionably there must be some features in the re-
lation which existed between Adam and his progeny, which
are not to be traced in those resemblances of it occurring
in ordinai-y life, and we therefore ought not to allow our-
selves to conceive of it entirely by what we see, but
carefully endeavour, by an observation of facts, and the
great principles which mark the government of God, to
ascertain it. Suppositions, resorted to, or necessary to
susiain a theory^ might safely, in every instance, be ques-
tioned. Undoubtedly they may be safely rejected, and
such is the character of the suppjosition which we at present
contemplate. It is recommended mainly, because it is
tliought to throw some light on the representative charac-
ter of Adam, and relieve the doctrine of derived depra-
vity, from the apparent ground which it affords, to object
against the purity of God the Creator.
In [Ills latter respect, it fails as entirely as in the former.
For. if it cannot be supposed that God creates a being
p;\ysically impure, and that therefore^ all human souls,
must have been created before the fall, and that they he-
come impure hy virtue of their being introduced into
bodies propagated from the guilty parents of our race,
liow is the justice or purity of God relieved? Are they
not as deeply implicated, as upon the supposition of their
jn'ogressive formation, if not more so? As rational be-
ings, they must have been under the government of law;
and if the}^ were, the justice of God could not have re-
mained unimpaired, had He, by an arbitrary constitution,
made the future cliaracter and condition of innocent creat-
ures already existing, yea, and their eternal destiny, de-
])endent on the conduct of one being, differently situated,
ftnder a different moral constitution, and subjected them
because of his rebellion, to misery and degradation, by
CHAP. XVr. OF DEPRAVITY. 3.97
means of their being brought into connection with diseas-
ed and dying bodies procreated from him? This we c an-
not do. If it be alleged, that the same objection can b©
urged against the idea of the soul's being created, after the
formation of the body, in a pure state, aod in that state
being introduced into it, it may be replied, that much if
not all, of the perplexity on this subject, arises out of
the false assumption, that the soul itself is physically de-
praved. It will not be affirmed that the body, simply as
a body, is in itself sinful; and if not, why must we sup-
pose the soul as soul, or any modification of mere be-
ing whatever, to be so? Should we admit that the soul or-
iginates, like the body, according to some fixed law of
God^s providential agency; so that the father may be said to
beget a son, in his own likeness, as truly in reference
to the spiritual, as to the material' part of his nature. If
there be nothing sinful in simple created nature, the agency
of God in the production of a human being, body and soul,
though it is morally certain, that the being will sin, does not
make Him the author of sin. \isi7nple created nature how-
ever, is sinful, then it does certainly follow that He is;^
which is a result so palpably erroneous, that we must prompt-
ly abandon every theory or supposition, from which it le-
gitimately flows.
It is, perhaps, safest and best, in a question of this na-
ture, to confine ourselves strictly to matters of fact, so far
as accurrae observation will teach us what they are. What
then are the facts? The following cannot he denied; viz:
that the human soul acquires all its knowledge, and acts,
exclusively, through the intervention of its material ve-
hicle, the body—that we are not conscious of any know-
ledge or recollections, derived from a previous state of ex-
istence,^ independent of our bodies —that there are certain
susceptibilities of the human soul, which are in unison with
2SS '^^^^ DEinVATION CHAP. XVI.
various animal affections, possessed by us, in common with
irrational creatures —that the affections and actings of the
human soul are displayed in tiie developments and growth
of our animal bodies;—and that these affections have a povv-
ferul influence, and are, indeed, invariably, in some of their
modifications, involved in the origination or production of
sinful acts.
Further, wlien v^e trace back the growth o{ the human
hody, we find that it is impossible to determine the period
at which it became a separate existence = For a long period,
it existed in the body of its parent, yet was it capable of
certain actings, distinct from those of its parent; although
its existence was altogether dependent. Its growth, which,
in a state of dependence, was gradual, and even its material
organs, for the origination of thought and for those actings,
requisite to accomplish ffurposes and obey volitions, w^ere
progressively developed. ''My substance was not hid from
thee when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in
the lowest parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my sub-
stance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my mem-
bers were written, which in continuance were fashioned,
when as yet there was none of them.''^
There is here distinctly recognized the agency of God,
as extending to the wbole of man's being—not his body on-
ly, but also his immortal mind, in \}ci^ production of both
which, God is explicitly recognized by the Psalmist as
being concerned. *'Th6u hast possessed my reins,'^^ says
he, *
'and hast covered me in my mother's womb."^ The
expression "reins" is most frequently employed in the
Psalmist's v^^ritings, to denote the rational mind. ''My
reins instruct me in the nigbt season.*'^ "The righteous
G-od trieth the heart and the reins.^^"^ jfs, therefore, the
1. Pslam cxxxix, 15—16. 2, Psalm cxxxix, 13.
3, Psalm xvi, 7. 4 Pialm vii, 9.
CHAP. XVi. OF DEPRAVITY. 299
agency of God is extended alike to the production of both
body and soul, and both are gradually developed mMefr etc-
tings, it is certainly not so evident, as to be assumed with-
out dispute, that the human soul is created, instantaneous-
ly, by some insulated and immediate, or independent effort
of divine power, and brought, with all its various capac-
ities, into connexion with the human body.
The presumption, arising from analogy, is against this
idea; whether we suppose that that eflfort of divine power,
in creating the human soul, is simultaneous with concep-
tion, Avith quickening, or with the first inspiration.
The process of the divine Being, in creating the first
man, can afford no light here. Adam's body was at once
moulded fron? the clay, into the perfect stature of a full
grown man; with the entire development of all the organs
requisite for animal action. And his soul in full possession
of all its capacities, was also formed and communicated, sim-
ultaneously, with the very first inflating of his lungs, so that
he came into being with all his animal, intellectual and mo-
ral powers, in a state of full development—with actual
knowledge, righteousness and holiness; i. e. acting from
the first with intelligence, conformably to the law of recti-
tude, and under the influence of benevolent emotions. This
can be said of no other of the human family, save of Eve,
^nhe mother of all living. ^^ The fact therefore seems plain-
ly to be, that, w^hatever agency God is pleased to exert in
the production of human beings, it is according to some
established laiu, ordained at the very creation of our
first parents, which law remains unaltered by their fall,
and which agency would have been exerted in the very
^ame way, had they continued innocent.
The production of the human nature of the Son of Godj
was a departure from, and in opposition to the established
law of procreation, and, consequently, being as perfectly
miraculous as was the translation of Enoch and Elijahs
300 THE DERIVATION cHAP. XVI.
that they should not see death, the sacred scriptures have
been very careful to let us know lohat was the mode of
the divine ageiicy in if, and by what proof the /ac^ of its
tniraculous origination has been established. Miracle
upon miracle attested the extraordinary character of that
ehild, which had been spontaneously conceived in the
womb of Mary, and was brought forth by one, that expres-
ed her own astonishment, saying, "How shall this be, see-
ing I know not a man."^
Now the agency of God, which is ordinarily exerted in
the production of human beings, proceeds or is exerted up-
on this principle, universally characteristic of His govern-
ment in this world, that, in the development of one being,
there is originated another and a separate being, who, by
regular process of growth shall exhibit essential resem-
blance, and that this development shall take place in the
actual exercise of appropriate appetites and capacities.
Throughout the v^hole of animal existence, the law obtains,
that the voluntary exercise of appetites and functions, on
the part of the parents, leads to the evolution of an off-
gpring, jjossessing the same constitutional, and acquir-
ing the same characteristic properties.
We may discern some analogical illustrations of this, in
those creatures, to which we do not attribute volition. So
uniform is the agency of God, in the propagation of vege-
tative life —for the law of vegetative procreation is but an-
other expression for the divine agency—that the horticul-
turist can, with unerring certainty, predict the properties of
a fruit, the embryo of which he has taken care to impreg-
nate. The seed or germ does not possess, in itself, any pow-
er, which has efficiency to cause its own developments.
Some men talk about a vital principle in it; but they talk
unintelligibly to us. All that we can venture to affirm,
1 . I";uke i, 34.
CHAP. XVI. OF DP:pRAYrrY, 301
from an actual observation of facts, without Introducing in-
ferences, which may be false, is, that the seed is a modifica-
tion of bein<j;, adapted to certain uses and intentions by
the great Creator, and capable of being brought into a reg-
ular series of actions or motions, developing, under the in-
fluence of appropriate exciting causes, the constitutional, and
acquirino; the characterestic properties of the being, from
whichithasbeenevolved.^ And wemay trace the same great
principle, even in inanimate nature. In chr3^stallization
formations take place, according to a progressive agency of
God, which are perfectly assimilated to the first productions
of Almighty power, when the rock or mineral, to which
class they belong, was instantaneously produced. And
through the whole processes of ossification in the animal,
and lignification in the vegetable kingdoms, we trace a sim-
ilar agency of God, not instantaneously, but progressivelv
exerted, in bringing into being, creatures assimilated to
those from which they have been evolved.
Shall we then think it strange, that the great Creator
should pursue the same plan of operation, in the produc-
1. The vegetable physiologist can discern the different parts of the seed,
which form, as it were, the basis of future actions and motions, and which, bv
germination, circulation, and other processes, may be developed in the tree,
whose life, perchance, will form an aggregate of a thousand yeai's. These
are the corculum, or embryo, the cotyledonesy albumen, plumula, rostellum or
radicle, hilum, testa, &c. all of which are adapted, when acted on by the ap-
propriate stimulus, or exciting causes, to those motions, through which the
development takes place. A vital principle in these things, is a mere hy-
pothesis. Observation shews, that m impregnated seeds, which are those we
callliving or vital—i. e. capable of evolutioji, the concrrLUM is closely con-
nected with the cotyledones, on which it depends for the first supplies of nu-
triment, while in imimpregnatedseeds it is deficient or abortive, so that the rel-
ative position of the parts of a seed being appropriate, it is adapted to the
purposes of development. This is all we mean in common parlance, wheji
we call it a living seed. We designate it, merely as adapted to the purpo-
ses of development and growth—a general quality. We never say z7 lives,
till the germinating process actually commences.
302 «^HE DERIV.^-UOX tHAP. XVI,
lion of successive creatures, in whom moral qualities are to
be displayed? Why sliall He here depart from the grand
fundamental law of His agency, which obtains throughout
this world? Is He under obligations to create every mo-
ral being, by a perfectl}^ separate act of power, in full pos-
session of all its qualities at once, and in a state of absolute
independence on all others? We do not I'ind that he is in
reference to man; for his existence is derived from that of
his parent, in whom, for a season, he unquestionably lived.
His faculties are gradually acquired, and he can never be
absolutely independent. Whatever may be said of the ex-
clusive applicability of the above observations, to our cor-
poreal nature, it is certain, that all our characteristic, 7?zo-
?"«/ qualities, are actually acquired through the growth
and development of our material being.
Assuming it then as fuct, that the agency of God, in the
formation and support of msn, is exerted according to the
law of development, which secures the evolution of a sim-
ilar being from its parent; the sin and fall of Adam being
admitted, we m.ay see how his posterity becom.e affected by
his sin.
1. They inherit a constitutional nature, which has been
subjected, by virtue of the constitution of God/ to a for-
1. Tlic'.vord covenant, as used in the Old and New Testament, is preferred
b}' many. It must be obvious, that it d'ffered in some circumstances, very
rnateriaUy, from what we call covenants among men. "The word, in the
Old Testament languag-e," says a very able writer, "by which God hath cho-
sen to express his instrumejit of government, and which our translators al-
ways use, is covenant. The word signifies, generally, all kinds of deeds,
v/hercby rights of any sort are conferred, and is very frequently used for
covenants, or mutual agreements between man and man. This might have
been reckoned decisive, if the New Testament writers had not cleared up
the dlfterence. Where the Hebrews had but one word for all kinds of
deeds, the Greeks have two
—
a-jvByiKu and iicibymn. The first, as the word
plainly imports, is used to signify covenants, or mutual agreements, wherein
xwo or more are engaged; the other is never used, but to denote the deed
of one, a constitution or established orJer, a grant, or deed of gift; and par-
ticulai-ly a testament, by which inheritances or legacies are conveyed. AriJ
CHAP. XVI. OF DEPRAViTY. 3O3
feiture of those privileges and imiriunities, wliich would
have ensued or been prolonged, on the obedience of our
great primogenitor. There €:\n be no doubt, but that the
circumstances and condition of the human race, are very
different now, from what they would have been, had not
Satan seduced our first parents from their allegiance to
God. Whatever may be men's theories about the paradisa-
ical state of Adam, or the ultimate effects of his fall, on the
hopes and destiny of his offspring, the fact cannot be de-
nied, that their condition, at present, is very unlike to what
it certainly would have been, had he not eaten the forbid-
den fruit.
They are the subjects of disease, of suffering, and of
death, from which they would have been exempted, ac-
cording to- the promise of immunity and life, implied in the
original threat—*^on the day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt
surely die." Adam was constituted, as it Vv'ere, the foun-
tain, whence life or death v/as to flow to his descendants.
Our fortunes were placed in his hand; and whatever, on the
one hand, of enjoyment he was rendered susceptible, and
of resources for it with which he was furnished; or, on the
other hand, of misery, and the means by which it couid be
produced, constituted the estate or inheritance which should
be parcelled out among his descendants and heirs. On them,
the consequences of his rebellion fall, and they are subjected
to the very same forfeitures which he incurred. He in-
whoever will, with any care and attention, consider what in our translation
are called God's covenants, will find them all of this latter kind, either au-
thoritative constitutions, which those to whom they vrere given were oblig--
ed to submit to, or g-rants and deeds of gifts in their favor, which went al-
ways together, and constituted at once the rule ofjudgment for the sover-
eign, and duty for the subject.—Riccaltoun's Works, v. ii, p. 70—71
.
In the large sense wherein Berith is taken, a man's end or purpose may
be called his covenant, as Job xxxi, 1. "I made a covenant with my eyes "
And so Godcalleth his purpose or decree, concerning the orderly course of
nature.—Owen on the Hebrews, vol. ii, p. 85,
304 THE DERIVATION CHAP. xvi.
curred the forfeiture of that life, which, in innocence, he
possessed, and the interruption and loss of that commu-
nion with God, which he enjoyed. Bodily disease, and
suffering, and an indisposition to maintain and seek an in-
tercourse with God, quickly affected him, and these things
have been experienced by all his progeny.
Whether eternal life was actually included in that for-
feiture, which would be exacted from him and his offspring,
have by some been doubted.^ It is certain, that eternal
death in their oivn persons, has not been incurred by many
of the human family. Had eternal death in a man's own
person been actually the very punishment ordained, it
would have been forever impossible for man to have been
saved.
1. In order therefore, to attain any thing like proper conceptions of the
great change which was made in the circumstances of mankind, by our first
father's transgression, we must, in the first place, be sure of the right im-
port and meaning of that denunciation which produced it, and particularly
of that which he must certainly fall under upon his eating the forbidden
fruit. Many have carried this so far, as to extend it even to that which has
been since called eternal death; the punishment we find denounced against
the despisers or neglecters ofJesus Christ and his great salvation; therefore
called eternal^ because there remains no possibility of relief. Others stop
as much short, confining it entirely to the deatli of the body, and redu-
cing it to dust. There are only two ways on which we can certainly de-
termine this important question, viz: the judgment given upon the delin-
quents b}' the judge, who was the framer of the law, and therefore under-
stood it pei'fectly, and our own experience of what we either do, or may
feel, in ourselves, in this our present state, which was fixed and determin-
ed b}'^ that judgment. There has been a third v/ay attempted, and much
insisted on; viz. reasoning upon the circumstances of the case, and the con-
sequences which seem naturally to arise out of them. So far as these are
found agreeable to, and supported by the other two, we may conclude
them just; otherwise no great dependence can be had on them, however
they may appear to our apprehensions of things, which are at best but a
bad rule to judge by.
As death is allowed by all to import an end put to life, and as the denun-
ciation was peremptory, " In the day thou eatest thou shalt surely die,"
TiiQu, and not another, we mu-^t conclude, could import no less than the
CHAP. XVI, OF DEPRAVITY. .
3q-
All that we can say, with certainty on tliis subject, and
it is abundantly sufficient to fill us with horror in contem-
plating the natural condition of the liuman race, and to in-
duce us toaccept and prize the great salvation offered tlu'ouffh
Jesus Christ,—is, that man was subjected to a forfeiture of
all that life, which, in a state of innocence our first parents
possessed, and for any thing he knew, or could do,
to better his condition, it must and would have been
eternal. To Jesus the blessed mediator, do we owe
the resolution of our painful doubts, and horrible suspense
on this subject. The justice that exacted a present for-
feiture of life, and inflicted a present suffering, might be
presumed to require that they should be eternal, since it
was, manifestly, morally imposible that man could re-in-
state himself in the condition from which he fell, or un-
less of all that life, he was then in possession of, which we may call the
paradisiacal life, and no further. It seems therefore incumbent on those who
extend it to eternal death, to make it appear that Adam, in paradise, was
possessed of that kind of life, which is called kterxal, the life which is in
Christ Jesus; which I believe nobody will say. They build much on the
nature and demerit of sin: and I would not willingly say -any thing, that
might be constructed into the least tendency toward extenuating the na-
ture of that horrible evil; but by the issue of this first dispensation, and
several other instances in the record, we must conclude, that it belongs to
the Gi'eat Sovereign to affix what penalty he pleases to his laws. The con-
clusions drawn from the nature of vindictive justice, are rather too bold
for man to make, without better authority than the record gives us. But
there is one insuperable prejudice, that attends this supposition. That had
eternal death been the penalty, Adam hiinself at least, must have died eter-
nally; and if the denunciation given upon the transgression, extends to all
his posterity, as appears by the event it did, not one of them could have
been saved, without dispensing with the unalterable divine constitution, or
somehow changing the tenor of it: an absurdity which can never be ad-
mitted on any consideration whatsoever. That original life must be destroy-
ed; nor can the original law be satisfied by any means whatsoever until tliat
is done; but when it is done, and that law thereby fulfilled, there is nothing
to hinder the Creator to Yaise whom he pleases to eternal life. Riccal-
toun's \Vorks, vol, ii. p, 72—75.
39
'
-
306 . 'HIE DEHIVATIOX chap. XVI.
do what had been done. Vague hopes, wretched de-
lusions/ distracting feai^s, gloomy forebodings, horrible an-
ticipations, were the exchange that our first parents made
for the peace and joy of a calm life of comnitinion with
God. And the very same things are characteristic of that
condition into which we are born. By virtue of our
connection with Adam as descending from him, we are
subjected in fact to the forfeiture of all the prilvileges and
immunities pertaining to a state of innocence. It cannot for
a moment be alleged, that we are treated as we would have
been, had we been the children of innocent parents.
2. But this is not all. In consequence of the sin of Adam,
men come into existence under the influence of causes and
circumstances, which render it morally certainythdit they
universally, will sin, as soon as they are capable of moral
agency. As to the facts here stated, there is no dispute.
But what are these causes? An innate powerful efficient
principle^ says one. The internal constitution^ says
another. A co^'n^^?/ Aa6«7, says a third. T\\^ operative
disposition or propensity^ says a fourth. The very na-
ture itself says a fifth. It is of little moment to dispute
about words. The whole dispute here, it seems to us,
turns on the decision of the following question. Is therein
simple nature, as created by God, and derived from Adam,
-
and prior to all acts, an efficient cause, whose, operation
renders it certain that men will sin? It is admitted, that,
in so far as it relates to the appetites and passions of our
nature, there is some foundation laid for them in our very
being. We hunger, we thirst, we love, we fear, because
such is our nature. God has so constituted us. There is a-
cause for these things in our physical constitution, just
as there is in the irrational animals.
Some animals are carnivorous; others are graminivo-
rous. They are instinctively inclined to the food which
isatlapte^-to their appetites. In all thiS; there is a foua-
CHAP. XVI. OF DEPRAVITY, 3O7
dation laid in their very physical being. There is a sort
of 7iecessity superinduced upon the actions /rc'??z the very
constitution of the animal. It is an operative cause, laid
in the very nature, which renders the result irresistible
and infallible. Must we believe that men are inclined in
the same way to sin, and that therefore, because of anz?^-
nate jn'opensity to sin—the foundation laid in the very
nature
—
that nature, apart from, and prior to, any of its
moral actings is sinful? That is to make God the author
of sin, and to make men sin hy physical necessity. The
idea of God^s creating men physically incapable of holi-
ness and yet requiring holiness in them, and damning *hem
to eternal misery for not possessing it, is too monstrous for
any one avowedly to advocate.
Yet this idea seems to be wrapped up in the technics
and illustrations of some. ^^The scripture certainly''
says Rivet, '^oft-times insinuates to us, that original sin is
not a mere privation, but something somehow 2^ositive^
that is, it is wont to inculcate that it is affirmative.^'^
Paul's personification of sin, he interpreted literally and
philosophically; so thatj when the apostle exhorts chris-
tians, that they ^ 'let not sin reign in (their) mortal body,
that they should obey it in the lusts thereof,"^ he suppo-
sed his *' words indicate, that there is some habitual lust-
ing in man whose proper acts are actual lustings,^ which
habitual evil the apostle calls sin." Still less ambiguous-
ly does he seem to inculcate the monstrous sentiment above
expressed. ''They^ therefore, have not significantly enough
1. Scriptura certe quoties peccatum originale nobis insinuat, non merara
privationem, sed aliquid qiiodani modo positioum, id est affinnativurri, sokt
inculcarc. Syn. puk. Theol. Disp. iv. p. 169.
2. Rom.vi, 12.
3. Quae verba indicant, concupiscentiam quandam babltualem esse in
homine, cujus proprii actus sunt conupiscentios actuales, quod malum habit-
I'ale apostolus peccatum appellat. Si^fop. Puk. TheOj.. Dis?,-xv. p. Wh-
30S ™£ DERrVATION cHAP. XVI.
expressed the force of this sin"—he had just above called it
"a stain; and most filthy corruption of all the parts of man,
as born into this world;" (labes et foedissima omnium hom-
inis partium) —^Svho make it to consist only in the want
of original righteousness; because, by it, our nature is not
only devoid of any thing good, but also fertile and fruitful
of every thing evil; so that it cannot be idle. Hence some
of our men have said, that the fuel of sin is not without
ACTUAL sin; yea, that it /5 actual sin; which, although said
without authority, yet ought not to be calumniated by our
adversaries, since they meant nothing else, than that this
sin both exists in act, and is also actuating and operative,
so that it cannot rest even in infants, but excites vicious
(guilty) affections."^
^^Butthe subject of this subsistence or inhesion, (i. e. in
which original sin subsists and inheres,) when this sin is
considered, not in respect of the whole species of which it
is predicated, but of the individual of which it is native
and inherent, is not the body in man alone, nor the soul
alone, but body and soul together; and so the man entire,
as to all the faculties of body and soul, as to his entire self,
and the whole of himself."^
1. Non igitur significanter satis vim hujuspeccati expressenint, qui earn
tantum in justitioe orlginalis carentia constituerunt; quia per illud natura
nostra non tantum boniinops est, sed etiam malorum omnium adco fcrtilis
et ferax, ut otiosa esse non possit. Iline quldam e nostris fomitcm pecca-
ti non esse absque actual! peccato, imo peccatum actuate esse dixerunt, quod
ttuvpa^ quidem dictum, in calumniam tamen non debuit ab adversarris, tra-
hi, cum nihil aliud voluerint, quam peccatum hoc ct esse actu, et actuosum
etiam et operosum, ut ne in parvulis quidem quiescat, quin vitiosos motus
cxcitet. Synop.Puk. Thkol. Disp. xv.
2. Subjectum autem y;r«jP|£a; velinhsesionls, quando peccatum hoc con.
sideratur non respectu totius speciei de qua procdicatur, sed individui cui ad-
nascitur et inhoeret, est non solum hominis corpus, neque sola an! ma, sed
corpus et animasimul, adeoque homo totus quantus, secundum omnes cor-
poris et anim3c facultates, secundum setotum, et totum sui.
—
Synop. Pur.
THEot. Drsr. xv. p. 167.
CHAP. XVI. ^^' Di: PRAViTY. SOP
In the above language, wiiich \vc have quoted frem one,
whose name is of great authority with the advocates of
physical depravity, it is very manifest, that the writer as-
signs the origin and certainty of sin among men, to some
cause existing in the very soul itself, so that men sin by
necessity of nature. And this nature is derived by natu-
ral generation!
The same view is also given of the subject by Dr.
Owen. He speaks of the impotency of the mind itself,
as we have seen, saying that it is natural, "because it
can never be taken away or cured, but by an immediate
communication of a new spiritual power and ability, unto
the mind itself by the Holy Ghost, in its renovation, so
curing the depravation of the faculty itself ^'^
That im-
potency which he assigns to the mind, as the cause of sin,
is clearly the result of its constitution by nature, for he
places it in the veryfaculty itself, and distinguishes it from
what he correctly enough calls its moral impotency. If
auch is the cause of sin, man is truly to be pitied, and only
to be pitied, not culpable; for God, his Creator and Judge,
has made him, so that he can do 7ioihing but sin; and that
through the very necessities of his nature! To this, we
must object; because we do not learn, from the scriptures,
that man is destitute oi natural ability; but, that the ina-
bility attributed to him is of a ?;2or«/ character, and because
we can discern sufficient causes in operation, to render it
morally certain, that all men ivill sin, without summoning
to our aid, the philosophical supposition and theory of a
physical depravity, or of there being an efficient cause in
the very constitution of the soul, rendering it, anterior to
all its voluntary acts, sinful in itself
We shall take occasion, when noticing the developments
of human depravity, to designate some of those causes in
operation, which render it morally certain, that men u"hi-
1. Owen on the Spirit, vol. 1, p. 41B.
310 THE DERIVATION OF DEPKAMTY. CHAP. XVX«
versally will sin, as soon as capable of moral action. At
present, it is of consequence merely to state, that they are
not to be found in the physical structure of man's being, as
propagated by natural generation simply. His depravity
consists in the misdirection and inappropriate exercise of
his faculties; not in wrong faculties inherited. And many
causes may operate to secure such a direction and exercise
of his faculties, without inferring from false analogies, sug,
gested by a false physiology, that it must be an operative
principle in the very soul, apart from and anterior to its
exercises. Temptation alone is sufficient under present
circumstances. We never dream of such a cause as this,
operating, in Adam and Eve, to make them sin at first;
and yet it was, doubtless, morally certain, in the eye of
God, that, as exposed to temptation, and destitute of exper-
imental knowledge of evil, they would sin. Where, then,
is the necessity of summoning philosophy to our aid, in
order to detect some hidden and mystical principle in our
very nature, propagated, by natural generation, as the
cause of sin ?
We scarcely deem it necessary to explain the meaning of
moral certainty, as every reader must be aware of it. It is
moral)} certain that the sun will rise to-morrow, and that
we will die; but these things are not physically necessary.
We can see, too, in our individual history, as well as in
the history of the world, various moral causes in operation,
which induce a certainty, as it respects results, by no means
physically necessary. The truth of the above remarks will
be more obvious, when we shall have carefully investigated
the subject of human ability; to which we invite the read-
er's candid attention in the next chapter.
CHAPTER XVII.
OF THE NATURE OF HUMAN ABILITY,
The term ability used in two senses—All human energy to be referred to' the
co-operating agency of God, John xv. 5. 2 Cor. iii. 5. Psalm Ixviii. o5.
iii. 5. xviii. 1, 29-34—To the will is assigned the office, of bringing in-
to immediate exercise whatever of energy may be exerted—The co-op-
erating agency of God, is always in accordance with certain established
modes of action, adapted to hmnan capacities—No obligation where there
is no capacity—The requisite capacities for faith, repentance, Sec pos-
sessed by man—Quotation from Dr, Owen—No change produced by the
fell in the established laws, by which God governs the mind—Dr. Ov.en's
views, as to the impotency of men's natural capacities—Objected to—An
essential difierence in the circumstances, under which Adam and liis de=
scendants come into existence—Quotation from Dr. Howe—Man needs
no new capacities for rebellion—Has fallen under no constitutional imbe-
cility—The strength of human faculties lies not in themselves—The ina-
bility of men moral—The distinction between natural and moral inability
very commonly made—Recognised in the Scriptures—Heb. ix. 5; Mark
ii. 19; John xxi. 25; Mark vi. 5; Mat. xxvi. 39 and Luke xxli. 42; Jer.
Xvi. 1; Isai. i. 13; 1 John, iii. 9—Of daily occurrence—Quotation from
Fuller—Hov/e—Erskine—Dwight—No room for the current sneers, &c,
directed against the distinction between natural and moral ability—Rom,
viii. 7; Gal. v. 17; Rom. viii. 15-18 examined—The inabihty attributed to
man in the sacred scriptures, that oiwill—Any other viev/of the subject
renders faith exceedingly difficult, as it exposes God, in his professions
to sinners, to the charge of insincerity—Hos. xi. 7-8; Luk^ xix. 42; xiii.
35; Jer. viii. 5; xiii. 27; xvi. 12; xxii. 21; Ezek. xxxiii, 11—The imperti-
nence of philosophy.
The subject of natural and moral inability, has been so
often and so ably handled, that but little would be requi-
site fronn us, wer-e we not aware that it is one, altogether
312 OF THE x\ATURE cHAP. XVir.
new to some of our readers, and misunderstood by many-
others. The terms ahUlty and j^oiver may denote, either
the effective force or energy, or the particular faculty or
capacity for exerting that force.
It is to the co-operating agency of God that we refer all
our energy. "Without me," says the Saviour, "ye can do
NOTHING."^ ''Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to
think any thing as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of
God. "2 We have no right to restrict these declarations to
m^re acts of holiness. The Saviour says we can do no-
TPiiNG without Him, not even eat, or drink, or sleep with-
out His sustaining agency. "The God of Israel is He that
giveth strength and power unto people,'" as well the un^
renewed as the renewed. David referred all his corporal
energy or n^itural strength, to God's co-operating agency.
"I laid me down, and slept; I awaked; for the Lord sustain-
ed me. "4 "I will love the Lord, 7ny strength.''^ ''For
by thee I jiave run through a troop; and by my God have
I leaped over a wall. It is God that girdeth me with
strength, and maketlL my way perfect. He maketh my
feet hke hinds' ii^^i^ and settelh me upon my high places.
He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is
broken by mine arms.^^^ Language cannot be more defi-
nite m its import than this, and much to the same purport,
in the word of God, which refers all our effective force, or
energy, or strength, or ability in this sense, to the co-op-
erating and sustaining agency of God. It is in Him we
1 . John, XV, 5. 2. 2 Cor. iii, 5.
3. Psalm JXviii. 35. The pronoun "/«".?," which occurs in our translation,
is^watitin^ln the Hebrew. Venema notices, that the Hebrew word for pow-
er, IS used absolutely here, denoting men spiritual and carnal equally. Spi-
ritualehi seqife ac camalem-, cujus utriusque fata IcetainhocPs. fueruntcel-
ebrata. Ven. in t'sal. ad loe.
4- i'^al- ni. 5. 5. Tsal. xviii, 1.
6, Ps. xviii, 1,—29,-32, :i3, 34.
CHAP. XVII. OT HUMAN ABIUTY. 313
live, and move, and have our being. No man can move a
hrAnd, an arm,* a foot, or limb, without God. Nor can Hcj
aci'jrdrng to the apostle, think a single thought, without
!'? sMopo^'ting and strengthening agency.
B'A. In so saying, every one understands what is meant.
Not th^il God does the thing, so that it is His act;-not that
He moves the limb, or thinks, or creates the thought; but
that, in accordance and co-operation with our volition or
will, He vouchsafes, agreeably to fixed and established
modes of His agency, the requisite aid for its accomplish-
ment. To the ?vill, or the capacity to choose or refuse, is
assigned the office of bringing into immediate exei'cise and
display, whatever of energy or eifective force may be ex-
erted. If we attend, it is an exercise of mental energy,
induced in obedience to an act of the will. If we reason^
if we desire, u we love, if we hate, these are still volunta-
ry exercises, which depend on the sustaining and co-ope-
rating agency of God. That will itself is governed or de-
termined by means of various motives, as suggested, or
impressions as made by objects and considerations, addres-
sed and adapted to our rational and sensitive nature.
We are not here concerned to inquire, what gives prev-
alence to motive. It is t!ie fact, that the will is entrusted
with the exhibition and display of that energy, which God
imparts through His co-operating agency, that mainly de-
mands attention. Now this co-operating agency of God
giving energy, is aKvays in accordance with certain estab-
lished modes of action, for which our capacities are adapt-
ed, and is imparted altogether irrespectively of the charactei*
of the objects or matters, onw hich the will decides. This is
what WG mean by ability, or being able, in the common-
sense use of the term. A man says that he is able to walk^
when he does not actually walk; and in so saying, means
simply, t.liat he is possessed of those muscular capacities,
40
314 01* THE x\^\rUIIE CHAP. xvn.
through which, if brongiit into exercise by his will, or
choosing to walk, there could, by means of the co-operat-
ing agency of God, be put forth the effective force or pow-
er, requisite in the case. The same thing may be said, in
reference to every other species of action, for which we are
furnished with the appropriate capacities. The degree of
energy m-ay be found to vary; but generally it will be ac-
cording to the vigor, and decision, and singleness, with
which the will calls the requisite capacities into action.
Suppose, however, that a man is destitute of some one or
more of those intellectual and other capacities^ which are
characteristic of human nature; say, for example, that he is,
and ever has been devoid of reason —in that case, he would
be accounted unable to arrive at the knowledge of God, or
any thing ehe,from the ibant of the requisite mental ca-
jjacities. No one would ever think, that, under such cir-
cumstances, ignorance would be criminal. Mental derange-
ment may properly be considered, a result of Adam's first
sin; but the destitution of the natural capacities, which are
essentially requisite to the acquisition of knowledge, can
never be charged on the unhappy nativt idiot, as his per-
v<5onal crime. It is an axiom in morals—a self-evident truth,
that no one is or can be under actual obligations to exer-
cise capacities, which he never possessed. Who would
venture to affirm, that we are bound to acquire knowledge
through the exercise of a sixth sense? Or, that the infant,
newly born, is under obligations, at once, to- rise up and
walk ? Or that we should fly, or exercise angelic faculties,
or display angelic energies ? Were we commanded ta
stretch forth our hand, and pluck the moon from her place,
every one would see, at once, the absurdity of requiring us
to do a thing naturally impossible.
It is true^ that the Saviour did require certain things,
wliijjji; seemed t?o possess soiRewhat of tljis characte?; as
CHAP. XVrr. OF HUMAI^ ABILITY, 3I5
when he commanded the man, with the withered hand to
stretch it forth, and the paralytic sufferer to rise, take up his
bed and walk; and being so commanded, they were under
obligations to obey—to do the very things requiredjwhich
may be said to have been physically impossible. But when
t^iese commands, and the circumstances under which they
were given, are attentively considered, they will not be
found to invalidate the position stated, it will be admit-
ted on all bands, that, in these cases, the Saviour exerted
physical power, by a direct, miraculous exercise, which
made its appeal to the senses of men, and was designed to
confirm the fact of his own divine mission; so that it is al-
together illogical and unallowable, to cite them as proofs, or
exact illustrations of the sinner's inability, for there was no
guilt in the case. But this plea is unnecessary, in order to
sustain the position advanced.
For let us inquire w-hat it was the diseased persons were
morally bound to do. They were bound to put confidence
in Christ, and believe that He would co-operate with their
efforts of will, and give them the energy, requisite to do
what He required. They had mental capacities for such an
exercise. Evidence, sufficient to convince the mind of His
ability and willingness to co-operate with them, was fur-
nished. They v/ere convinced by it. That conviction
brought the power of motive to bear upon their wills. They
did will—forthwith the energy, requisite to stretch out the
hand, and rise up and walk, accompanied the effort of mind
and will, and they were healed; so that even these miraclei
in nature, vvhich were intimately connected with the con-
duct of men, as voluntary and responsible agents, do not
violate the fundamental principle of all moral government,
viz: that moral responsibility implies a capacity to act. If
men were destitute of all capacity to know and unrderstand
and do the wijl of God, it would ht physii^Q^ly or natursdr
fU "
©'^ ™^ NATURE CHAP. XVH.
7^ impossible for them to call into exercise that mental
energy^ requisite to arrive at the knovvlediie of God, and to
obey his commands. In such case, the common sense of
mankind proclaims, there could be no more obli,q,ation to
act, nor guilt incurred by not acting, than a deofmvte
would be chargeable with, who did cot vocally sing the
praises of God.
Now to apply the above remarks to the case of the sin-
ner's ability to meet the ordinary claims of God. It will
be admitted, that God does not reqxdre his creatures to do
what they have no capacities for doing. He does not re-
quire the ox to reason, or the ass to speak. Neither does
he require men to do those tilings, which are not adapted
to their intellectual and moral capacities. He commands
us to believe—but we are furnished with minds, which are
capable of perceiving and examining the evidence of truth.
To believe Himself, is an exercise which differs character-
istically, but not essentially, from our believing a neigh-
bour or a- friend. No other intellectual capacities are ne-
cessary in the one case, than in the other.
He commands us'to repent;—and wc are furnished with
sensibilities, vvliich are capable of being excited in sorrow,
by means of appropriate objects or considerations, present-
ed to our senses or our minds. To repent of our sins, for
having displeased Him, may differ, characteyHsiicalJy, hem
the sorrow of a child, for having displeased its parent;
but the constitutional capacities for feeling, are essentially
the same in both cases. He commands us to love Him,
fear Him, hope in Him, &c. but none of these are exercis-
es, for which w£ are not furnished with tlie requisite con-
stitutional capacities. Why then are tliey not exercised in
the way that God requires ? Why does not man believe,
and repent, and love, and fear, and liope in God ? *'A11
l-his," it is admitted, ^'ishisduty. becausehis maker require?
CHAP. XVII. OF HUMAN ABILITY. 317
it from him; but," it is added, will) confident asseveration,
^'the work far transcends his ability, and can be accomplish-
ed only by the miglity power of God,"^ That is, God re-
quires man to do things, wliich it would be unreasonable
arid absurd to expect him to do, unless He Himself does
it for him! Be it far from us, thus to traduce the character
of God. We are persuaded that those who make such as-
sertions, see not their bearing in this respect. What, then,
can be meant by such declarations?
That men are destitute of the natural ahility, i. e. the
constitutional capacities requisite to believe and repent, &c.
none will explicitly affirm. For, ^'it must be observed,'^
says Dr. Owen, ^'that there is, or may be, a two-fold capaci-
ty or ability of receiving, knowing, or understanding spi-
ritual things in the mind of a man. 1. There is a 7Ztf /z/r<2/
poiver, consisting in the suitableness and proportionableness
of the faculties of the soul to veceivc spiritual things, in the
way that they are proposed unto us. This is supposed in
all the exhortations, 'promises, precepts, and threatnings of
the gospel; for in vain would they be proposed unto us, had
we not rational minds and understandings, to apprehend
(heir sense, use, and importance; and also meet subjects for
the faith, grace, and obedience, vvhich are required of us. "^
God requires no exercise, for which v/e have not capacities.
The inability, therefore, which is predicated of unrenewed
sinners, must be, either something which has destroyed
those established laws or modes of the divine agency, ac-
cording to which He co-operates with, and gives efficiency to
human volitions; or it must be something which affects the
will itself—not the faculty itself, but its exercise —and pre-
vents it from summoning to its aid the agency of God, in
and through the appropriate capacities. This latter is de-
riomijiated moral inability.
1. Essay on the Inability of Sinners, p. 12,
"".
Owen on the Spirit, vol. 1, p. 4''<9,
318 <^F THE NATURP: chap. XTfl.
That the great established laws, by which God governs
mind, and according to which He regulates his own co-ope-
rating and sustaining agency, have undergone a change by
the fall, we presume will not be affirmed. That the sin of man
however, has greatly deranged the divine constitution, and
that, in many respects, there can be doubt; but in so far as it
relates to the agency of God Himself, His constitutions re-
main immutable. The laws of nature are fixed and uni-
form, and whatever change has taken place in them, con-
{^equent on the sin of man, as in the sorrows of gestation,
the pains of parturition, and the sterility of the earth, there
is no evidence, that those which affect the development of
his mental constitution have been changed, however great
may have been the moral changes, affecting the develop-
ment of its exercises. He still supports and invigorates
the rebel mind, preserving inviolate the laws that He or-
dained, to regulate His agency. His moral constitution has
not been annulled. *'Till heaven and earth pass, one
jot or tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be
fulfilled.''^ We are not at all justified in supposing, that
God changed the fixed laws of either the mental or moral
constitution, which He had ordained, and that therefore,
in consequence of a lack of energy, or refusal to co-ope-
rate on His part, the capacities of men are left imbecile and .
inefficient.
It is true, that such an idea has been entertained, and by
some it is boldly asserted, that even the natural capacities of
men have suffered, not only by virtue of their deranged
moral exercise, but directly from the cessation of that di-
vine agency, vouchsafed at the first. Dr. Owen says, *'It
were easy to evince, not only by testimonies of the scrip-
ture, but by the experience of all mankind, built on reason,
and the observation of instances innumerable; that M^
CHAP. XVir. OF HUMAN ABILITY. 3I9
whole rational soul of man, since the fall, and by the en-
trance of sin, is weakened^ vitiated in all its faculties and
all their operatio7is, about iheiY proper and natural oh-
jects. Neither is there any re/Ze/ against these evils, with
all those unavoidable perturbations, wherewith it is pos-
sessed, and actually disordered in all its workings, but by
some secret and hidden operation of the Spirit of God, such
as he continually exerts in the rule and government of the
world.'^^ If these positions can be maintained, we see not
but that we are all no better than maniacs, destitute of ev-
ery thing requisite to bring us under the government of
law. We should rather be provided for as idiots and in-
sane, and the government established over us by God, be
that of simple force and power, instead of that benevolent
and equitable constitution, in which He addresses and adapts
His laws to our rational nature.
But such a state of things is not more frightful, in rela-
tion to the condition of men, than it is fraught with appal-
ling implications, in reference to the character of God. If
He has changed the modes of His agency, and withdrawn
His support and co-operation from His creature man-with-
out which he can have no energy rror act-and thus has
left the human mind a perfect wreck of imbecile, deranged
and vitiated capacities and powers, —who is the author of
such confusion but Himself? Individual man assuredly is
not. He has become the sport of misfortune—the prey of
wretchedness. God has withdrawn from him- his natural
ability, and he can be no longer held accountable. He may
will, but all to no purpose. God will not co-operate with
him. He has brought him into being with palsied powers,
and abandoned him to his own weakness. He is an im-
perfect creation, an intellectual deformity, a moral mons--
ter. How truly is he to be pitied! He labors under a dire
1. Owen on the Spirit, vol. 1, p. 391-.
320 OF THB NATURE cHAP. XVII.
necessity of nature. He would do better, but, i}i many
cases, cannot. God will not help him, and although He
has thus created himy yet He is determined to condemn him
eternally, and that for no fault of his own!! Can these
y^ings be?
The trutii is, God Is neither so capricious, nor so improv-
ident, as to establisJi a great constitution, ordaining modes
of His own agency, with regard to the acts of His crea-
tures, and then, because their great forefather suddenly
raised the standard of rebellion against himself, ruin the
natural vigor of his offspring, destroy their capacities, and
send them into this world, absolutely disqualified and inca-
pacitated to avoid those things, for which He has declared
He v»'ill punish them eternally. INIen's natural capacities
remain the same, and God is still willing to co-operate with
them, according to his own established laws, or modes
of agenc}*, provided thai they w^ill choose to exert them.
As to any special, extraordinary influence to induce them
to do so, that is altogether a different thing, and falls not
under our present consideration.
It is necessary here to observe, however, that in esti-
mating the abilities of men, as called to sustain the respon-
sibilities of moral agents, they neither are, nor can be, plac-
ed in the circumstances of their first progenitor. Adam
was created, as has already been remarked, with his capaci-
ties in a full state of development; but we are brought into
being under the operation of laws, which secure their g7'ad-
tial evolution. Nor does it appear that this process, so far
as the agency of God is concerned, would have been dif-
ferent, on the supposition of Adam's obedience. It is, in-
deed, subjected to the operation of certain new moral in-
fluences, and takes place under entirely new circumstances,
as induced- by his sin; but that God has withdrawn; or
changed His agency, in the suj)port and preservation of
CHAP. XVII. <^1' HUMAX AUILITY. 321
man-s capacities, both mental and moral, which He had
originally ordained, does not appear.
We shall see, in the succeeding chapter, how it comes to
pass, that in the process of this development, under the cir-
cumstances which rebellion has induced, man naturally be-
comes a sinner At present, our inquiry particularly re-
lates to those capacities of action, when developed, accord-
ing to which GoJ is pleased to co-operate with his crea-
tures, and in the possession of which, consists our natural
ability. Noiie of these, nor any of that co-operating agency
of God, which is regulated by the fixed and established laws
of nature, has man lost. To suppose the contrary, v/ould be
to disqualify him for God's moral government, and make
the author of our being, the author of our rebellion.
To prove tlie possession of such ability, its actual exer^
else is not necessary. ''For," says Dr. Howe, "it may well
be thought sufficiently to solve the rights and privileges of
the first cause, to assert, that no action can be done, but by a
power derivedfrom it; which, in reference to forbidden ac-
tions, intelligent creatures may use, or not use, as they
please, without ever asserting, that they must be irresistibly
determined also, even to- the worst of actions also. Be-
sides,*that it seems greatly to detract from the perfection of
the ever blessed God, to affirm He was not able to make a
creature of such nature, as, being continually sustained by
Him, and supplied with power every moment, suitable to its
nature, should be capable of acting; unless, whatever he thus
enables he determines^ (that is, for it can mean no less than
impels) It to do also."^
The above remark is unquestionably as true, in reference
to one class of acts as another. No one will maintain, that
God exerts a positive efficient power determining to sin.
Yet has man indisputable ability to sin. He needs no
1. Howe's Works, v. 11, p. 501.
41
322 cF th:: nature chap. xvii.
new capacities, for rebellion. His nalural capacities to
know, love, fear, and act, &c. seem to have lost none of
their energy, so far as they are exerted and directed to-
wards improper and forbidden objects. He has power to
sin. Now it is through the exercise of these very capac-
ities, that man is to exhibit holiness. Shall we say, that
God withholds his agency from man, in so far as holy ex-
ercises-are concerned, but co-operates with him in sin?
That He gives him strength for the one, and will not for the
olher'i That he has so utterly abandoned his creature, that
holiness has become naturally impossible, and that one
creneration after another, are irreversibly condemned to
the suffering of eternal vengeance, for doing what it was
impossible for them to avoid, being impelled by a positive
efficient agency of God! Or, are we to suppose, t-hat natu-
ral ability is soriething different from the capacity appro-
priate to the actio]-), sustnined througl) the agency of God,
co-oneratin^v with tlie will of man ? Are we to believe that
there is, in fact, a vigour and energy in the soul, or the
very faculties themselves, independently of the co-operat-
ino- ao-ency of God, which was originally imparted by God,
but has been v.-ithdrawn ? That the human mind labors un-
der constituiional imbecility, lacks energy in itself and,
therefore, ne^ er can believe, repent, or perform other ho-
ly exercises, till, by Regeneration, there is communicated
some 'hieio jjoiver or ability to the mind itself, by the Ho-
ly Ghost, S"> curing the depravation of its faculties?"
This, if we can understand the views of Dr. Owen, and
others, seems to be wliat they are contending for, when
they deny to unrenewed man all ability, and represent re-
generation as a creative act, giving to i\\Qsoul itself power
and ability. But this is in direct contradiction to Christ and
FauFs testimony. "I can of mine own self do nothing."^ '^My
1. Jsihn V, 30,
CHAP. XVII. OV HUMAN ABILITY. 303
strength is made perfect in weakness. ''^
And it is just as con-
trary to the whole analogy of God's providence. There is no
essence, which is either the cause of vital phenomena, or
possesses power, in itself, to produce them. They are but
modes of the Spirit's agenc}', as ordained and established
in the sovereignty and wisdom of God. The strength or
vigor of human faculties, also, lies not in themselves, but
depend on established modes of the Creator's agency. The
exercise of them, however, is immediately dependent on
the will of man. Whatever, therefore, tends to prevent
the will from calling them into exercise, may be said effec-
tually to disable, it is, however, a moral inability —an
inability, arising out of considerations suggested to the
mind, and inducements operating on the will, which will
certainly, for the time being, prevent the exercise of the
natural capacities.
It is, on this account that it is spoken of, oftimes, in such
strong terms, as though it were as real an inability, as if
the very capacities themselves were wanting; while, at the
same time, no one is disposed to apologize for it, or exten-
uate its guilt in the least degree. Every person understands
this subject, and distinguishes thus between natural and
moral inability. The giddy and thoughtless child is pun-
ished, who says he cannot get his lesson; it being well un-
derstood, that either a dislike for his book, or some other
considerations, prevent him from appljang his mind to it.
The servant is accounted guilty, in many cases, who makes
the same plea. The parent sees a thousand exemplifica-
tions of this same thing; and if he' were, in all cases, 'to ad-
mit the truth of the child's declarations as to ability, he
might soon cease to command.
The Scriptures, too, continually recognize the distinction
between natural and moral ability, always regarding the
inability, which consists, in the refusal of the will, to call
1. 2 Cor. xli, 9.
324 OF THE l\ATl RE chav. xvii.
the requisite capacities into action, as highly crin^inal,
wherever and whenever God commands. When God com-
manded Samuel to go, and anoint David king over Israel,
he replied, '^
How can I go; if Saul hear it he will kill
me ?''^ While Samuel's unbelief and fears prevailed, his
will was prevented from giving its consent to go, and he
felt as if that were a thing utterly impossible, which the
Lord required ? How can I do it?
The apostle, after having enumerated the articles of furni-
ture in the inmostchamber of the temple, "the holiest of all,'*
concludes the description, by mentioning *'the cherubims
of glory overshadowing the mercy seat," but adds, ^'of
which we caxnot now speak particularly "^ His meaning
is plain. Such was the nature of the argument, in which
he was then employed, that he could iiot consent, at that
time, to digress into a particular consideration of matters,
foreign from it. It^was wholly an inability of will; i. e. a
refusal on his part, to make the requisite exertion of his ca-
pacities for that end, induced by considerations arid mo-
tives, prevalent in his mind at the time.
Our Saviour asks, **Can the children of the bride cham-
ber fast, while the bridegroom is with them ? As long as
they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
"-^
This is wholly an inability of will. The thing, in itself, is
not impossible; but the season is one, which is generally
so joyous, and is wont to be so connected with festivities,
as to render \\.morally impossible to fast. Men are render-
ed reluctant, unwilling to do what they are able, and under
other circumstances, they might be induced to do.
In like manner, the Evangelist John says, that "there are
also many other things which Jesus did, the which if they
.should be written every one, I suppose that even the world
t 1 Sam, xvi, ?. 9.. Heb. ix. 5. 3. M.uk ii, 19.
.€HAP. XVII. OF HUMAN ABILII Y. 5C55
itself COULD NOT contaia tlie backs that should be writ-
ten,"^ This was not a natural impossibility.
It is said of the Saviour, on a certain occasion, that, in
going into his own country, '-He could there dp no migh-
ty work.'^^ No one will pretend that this was a natural in-
ability —that the Saviour lacked energy or capacity; but
such was the unbelief of the people, that it did not com-
port with the plan of God's gracious dealing with men, for
him, under such circumstances, to exert his power. It was
wholly a moral inability. He also prayed '^if it be possible,
let this cup pass from me."'' The impossibility in the
case was wholly of a moral nature; for another Evangelist
quotes his language, in words that must prevent dispute;
^'if thou be willing, &c. remove this cup from me."'*
Of the same description, is the inability under which
God represents Himself to have laboured. ^'Though
Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind could
NOT be toward this people."^ "The new moons and sab-
baths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with. "^
And thus we say, an holy God cannot do an unholy thing;
a just God cannot do an unjust thing. A faithful God
cannot lie.
Of the same nature, also, is the inability to sin, which is
predicated of those that are born again. "Whoever," says
the apostle John, "is born of God, doth not commit sin;
for his seed remaineth in him; and he cannot sin, because
he is born of God."^ It is morally impossible, that the
believer should deliberately and wilfully, or habitually sin
against God, and yet no one will pretend that he has not
ABILITY to do so.
1. 3 John xxi, 25. 2. Mark vii, 5.
3. Mat. xxvi, 9. 4. Luke xxii, 42.
5. Jer. xvi, 1. 6. Isai. i. 13.
7. 1 John iii .9.
326 OF THE NATURE cHAP. XVII.
Every one understands the distinction in all ordinary
matters. There is no language more common, than that in
v^^hich it is practically recognized; and it is very extraordi-
nary, that men will be so blind, in reference only to the sin-
ner's ability. We can in no way more charitably account
for it, than on the supposition, that they do virtually sup-
pose the energy to act, lies in the very faculties themselves,
and that in the unrenewed, the natural faculty, the—capacity
of nature, is impaired, debilitated, or lost; but that, in the
renewed, it is conferred again, by an act of mere creative
power oa the part of God. The distinction between the
natural and moral ability of men, is by no means a novel
one. It is as old as the Bible, and there are not wanting
sound Theologians, who have recognized and taught it.
*'It is true," says Fuller, *'that many have affected to
trcat^ the distinction between natural and moral inability,
as more curious than solid. 'If we be unable say they, we
are unable. As to the nature of the inability, it is a matter
of no account. .
Such distinctions are perplexing to plain
christians, and beyond their capacity.' But surely the
plainest and weakest christian, in reading his Bible, if he
pay any regard to what he reads, must perceive a manifest
difference between the blindness of Bartimeus, who was ar-
dently desirous that he might receive his sight, and that
of the unbelieving Jews, wjio closed their eyes; lest they
should see, and be converted and healed; and between the
want of the natural sense of hearing, and the state of those
who have ears, but hear not. So far as my observation
extends, those persons who affect to treat this distinction
as a matter of curious speculation, are as ready to make use
of it as other people, when their own interest is concerned.
"
''Now, if the subject be so clearly understood and acted up-
on, where interest is concerned, and never appears difficult
1. The Essay on the Inability of Sinner?, already quoted, is a striking- ex-
aniole of this.
CHAP. XVII. OF HUMAN ABILITY. 327
but in religion, it is but too manifest, where the difficulty-
lies. If, by fixing; the guilt of our conduct upon our fath-
er Adam, we can sit comfortably in our nest; we shall be
very averse to a sentiment that tends to distract our repose
by planting a thorn in it."^
Dr. Howe, frequently recognizes it, in his appeals to the
conscience, and in one place, particularly remarks: "Not-
withstanding, the souPs natural capacities before assert-
ed and inferred, its 'moral incapacity, I mean its wicked
aversation from God, is such as none but God Himself can
overcome. Nor is that aversation the less culpable, for
that it ir so hardly overcome, but the more. 'Tis an aver-
sion of will; and who sees not, that every man is more
ivicked according as his will is more wickedly bent ?
Hence, his impotency or inability to turn to God, is
not such as that he cannot turn if he would; but it
consists in i\\\s, that he is not willing.^^^ He quotes also,
from Dr. Twisse, the following, which is very explicit:
—
*^The inability to do what is agreeable and acceptable to
God, is not a natural but a moral inability. For no na-
tural faculty is wanting to us through original sin, according
to that saying of Augustine, "It hath taken from none the
faculty of knowing the truth. The power still remains by
which we are able to do what ice ivilL We say that the
natural ability of doing what it pleases them, according
to their will, is transmitted to all, but not the moral abil-
ity:'^
1. Fuller's Gospel worthy of all acceptation, pp. 122, 123.
2. Howe's Works, fol. ed. vol. i. p. 540.
3. Impotentia faciendi quod Deo gratum est et acceptum, non est impo-
tentia naturx, sed mwum. Nulla etenim nobis deest facultas naturae per
peccatum originale, juxta illud AugustinI: NulU agnor^cendiB veritatis ab^
stulit facultattm. Adhuc remand protentia qua faco-e possuvnis qusecunque
volumus. Vind. 1. S.En-at. 9. 5ec. 6. nafuralem proientiam^qmdXihfti agen-
di pro arblti-io ipsorum, dicimus ad omnes transniitti, non autcm poteniiam
mm-alem. Vind. Criminat, 3. S- 1. dig:. 2. C. 3.
328 OF THE NATURE cHAP. XVII.
In the interesting essay of Tliomas Erskine, Esq. on
faith, which has heen so deservedly recommended in the
Christian Advocate,^ to the careful perusal of its readers
^*as admirably calculated, both to impart instruction, and
to promote Godliness,'^ the distinction is formally noticed.
''Man, in his depravity," says the writer, "has all the
faculties which a child of God has in this life. And he
has a natural ability to use these faculties as he will. The
inability, therefore, of a polluted creature to receive an im-
pression of holy love, is not a natural inability, if he
WOULD HE could; his inability is moral, it lies in the op-
positon of his ivill and affections, and this \s his cri'ine.^^ —
*'No one is commanded to delay believing on Christ, until
he is infiuenced by the Spirit; on the contrary, the com-
mand to repent and believe the gospel is universal ; which
proves that it is in the natural power of all men to do
so, and that their inability is a 'inoral, and therefore crim^
inal inability.'''^
Dr. Dwight, is very pointed in his remarks on this sub-
ject. ^'Indisposition to come to Christ," says he, "is there-
fore the true and the oiily difficulty, which lies in our way.
Those who cannot come, therefore, are those, and those
only who icill not. The words can and cannot are used
in the scriptures just as they are used in the common in-
tercourse of mankind, to express rvillingness or unwil^
lingness. Thus, we say, we cannot lend or give, or as-
sist or pa}' a debt, when we mean nothing more than that
we are disinclined to these affairs." After citing many ex-
amples from the Scriptures, some of which the reader will
have already seen, he adds, "In all these and the like in-
stances, there is plainly nothing meant, but inability of
disposition, or a strong disinclination to the thing proposed,
1. SceChristian Advocate for Nov. 1828.
2. E'rskinc's Essny on Faith, pp. 170^—214, Atidover edition.
CHAP. XVII. OF HUxMAX ABILITY. 329
This is both the natural and universal language of men;
found, equally, in their conversation and writings. Chil-
dren speak this language, almost as soon as they begin to
speak at all; and, on every such occasion, utter it more
naturally than any other language. If the Scriptures would
be intelligible to the great body of mankind, they must
speak in the same manner. In this manner, therefore,
God has directed them to be written."^ And we may add,
in like manner must every christian minister present and
speak the truth, if he would reach the consciences of his
hearers, and not soothe them in their wilful rebellion against
God, by representing their depravity to be the dire result
of some fatal calamity and necessity of their physical na-
ture, propagated from Adam to all his progeny, through
their natural descent from him.
There is no room for the sneers, and attempts at wit,
with which many, in some parts, assail this very obvious
and important distinction. The names already cited, —not
to mention an host of others,—might induce those who do
not understand the subject, to examine it a little more se-
riously and attentively. We do not mean to say, that these
names are cited as a reason, why the distinction should be
admitted. That is to be found in the word of God, and the
truth of things, and there alone. But we do claim, that if
men of lofty minds, from Augustine down, have seen and
admitted the truth of such a distinction, there should be a
little modesty on the part or those, who denounce its advo-
cates as tyros in divinity, mere sciolists, stripling theolo-
gians, and excite popular and political prejudices against
them, by branding them as new lights, raising the cry of
New England Theology, and exciting suspicions as to Uni-
tarianism. It is the Theology of the Bible, and there i3
not a single passage in it, when faithfully translated, and
1. Dwight's, Theol. v. iv, p. 25.
42
330 OF THE NATURE CIIAP. XVII.
interpreted as the language of common sense, that will be
found to contradict it.
When Paul says of the ^^carnal mind," that it ^*is not
subject to the law of God, ncithe?' indeed can be,"^ he is
not speaking of the essential mind, but that mind's exerci-
ses, as any Greek scholar will at once perceive: so that, in-
stead of furnishing an objection, this passage is a strong,
confirmation of that for which we contend; as the reader
will perceive, more satisfactorily, in a following chapter.
When the English translation makes the same apostle
say, ''the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit
against the flesh; and these are contrary the one to the oth-
er; so that ye cannot do the things that ye woiild.^^^. It
will be seen by every one, acquainted with the original,
that the word cannot is not used by the apostle himself.
He merely states the fact, that those In whom the conflict
between the flesh and spirit is waged, do not the things
they would. Such is the activity of the conflict, that a
present purpose of will is succeeded and counteracted by
another, before it is executed; but of what character the
will is, nothing is said explicitly. To the context we must
look for that. The Greek particle, translated so thaty
sometimes denotes design; and if, in this sense, it is to be
here understood, the apostle's meaning is, that the influ-
1» Rom. vili, 7. 2. Gal. v. 17.
1. v>dL pt:i el civ Bixy,Te Tcvrm TroinTi. —iva. Conjunctlo casualis slgnincano;.
ut nxiitcf;, indicans causam finalem, vel fineni. Ita usurpatur. John xvi. 1,
Mat. six, 13, Marc i, 38, Luc i, 4. —Vide Schleusneri Lex.
3. Notat Apostolus non eventum sed causam finalem, agltque vel. 1 . de vol-
untate tantum prava, quod banc Spirltus frocnet, nee sinat facere qux pra-
va libido suggerit, vel quae carni adlubescunt; vel 2, de voluntate tantum re>
generata, quod banc non sinat caro facere quae vult bona—vel potius, ut
suadet antitbesis, de- iitraque: Quia inquit Caro et Splritus contraria concu-
piscunt, bine fit, ut non semper ea quee vultis, tarn in bonis, quam in msiVik
e.tiam facere possitfSi —Vide Poll Synop. ad lac
CHAP. XVII. OF HUMAN ABILITY. ^^l
ence of the Spirit in the believer, is vouclisafecl to counter-
act and frustrate his sinful inclinations. This we prefer, as
being most agreeable to the apostle's assurance, expressed
in the previous verse. If it denotes merely the result even-
tually, nothing more can be inferred from it, than that the
influence of the Spirit, which generates an holy inclination,
is counteracted by corru]>t desires and affections, so that it
does not issue in the accomplishment of that to which he
was inclineil, or which he willed. The word here trans-
lated "would/' denotes not only the choice, or purpose, but
that choice or purpose, as influenced by the affections, or
feelings of desire. Our object is not Biblical criticism, in
this work, and, therefore, we are not careful to decide,
which, if either of the two constructions should be exclu-
sively preferred. Neitlier view militates against the truth,
which has been advanced in this chapter. Admitting all
that those who cite it, as found in our translation, think it
affirms, it proves too much, even for them. For the asser-
tion is made, not of the unrenewed, but renewed, and they
must, therefore, maintain, that the latter, notwithstanding
the influence of the Spirit, are utterly unable to do v/hat
they would. It is for them, to reconcile this v/ith other
passages, and ward off the accusation of slandering the
work of the Spirit; and also to explain the absurdities which
they make the apostle speak. ^Yith these things, we have
no concern.
Neither can any thing, unfavorable to this view of human
ability, be inferred from the apostle's experience, when he
says, ''That which I do >ca.Tipyci^cy.rxi—+|-jq word is taken in
a bad sense—the evil thing which I effect,) I allow not
(approve not) for what I would, tliat do I not; but what I
hate, that do I. If, then, I do that which I would not, I
consent unto the law that it is good. Now, then, it is no
.^ore I that do it. but sin that dwelleth in me. For I know
33.2 OF THE NATURE CHAP. XVII.
that in me, (that is in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing;
for to will is present with me, but hov/ to perform ( to
»*T«gv^^acr9A/—the effecting—perfecting) that which is good,
I find not..^^^ It is evident, that the apostle cannot here use
the word ^*will," to denote a simple volition\ for no one
ever acts or does anything, without some volition. The word
is sometimes used, to denote the main and efficient—the lead-
ing and controling purposef and in this sense we suppose
the apostle used it, in the context first quoted. His
meaning, is, therefore, very plain. If he does not volun-
tarily and deliberately />wr/>o<9e to do evil; but on the con-
trary, if it is his fixed, and abiding, and studious purpose,
to do what the law of God requires, it shows that the mo-
ral being—the /, whose character was to be estimated by
this, its leading feature—did fully approve of the law of
God, and that, therefore, of whatever deviations from it he
was guilty, they were to be attributed to the influence of
sin, which \\g personijies, and not to the deep and fixed
principles of his renovated character. His will, in the main,
was right, but it was resisted, counteracted, and ofttimes
overpowered by various considerations, of which, he
did not cordially and deliberately approve, nor of that
which they led him to do. Here, again, we derive a con-
firmation of the views advanced, from the very objections
urged against them.
1. Rom. via, 15-18.
2. Such is the doctrine of tlie Catechism and Confession of Faith. By
the corruption of man's nature, the answer to the 25th question of the Lar-
ger Catechism, says that " he is utterly indisposed, disabled, and made op-
posite unto all that is spiritually good, and wholly inclined to all evil. " The
plain grammatical meaning of these words is, that as man is indisposed^
which term describes altogether a voluntary state of mind, he is disabled,
and so made opposite to all good. Nor is the idea at all different, when it
is said in chap. ix. Sec. 3 of the Confession of Faith, that " man by his
CHAP. XVIT. OF HUMAN ABILITY. 333
The inability attributed to men, in the sacred Scriptures,
is wholly that oiwill.^ Man will not do what God requires,
and is abundantly willing to co-operate with him in effect-
ing. All the solemn appeals, that are made in the sacred
scriptures, to the consciences, sensibilities, and judgment
of men, proceed on this assumption. And, indeed, we see
not how it is possible to understand the many solemn, and
tender, and heart-thrilling remonstrances of God, on any
other. If man is physically disabled, and it requires an
act of creative power, to give him the requisite capacities
and ability, to meet the requisitions of God, so that he can-
not believe, he cannot repent, he cannot obey, \a\\ powe^"
is first put into his faculties; God's withholding that cre-
ative power, is a procedure directly at war with His pro-
fessions. All His remonstrances, and expostulations, and
exhibitions of sorrow and concern, are a mere farce ! He
stands accused and convicted of insincerity, and no won-
der that sinners should find it difficult, and impossible to
believe in such a case.
But the ever blessed God Is faithful and true. And when
we consider, that the whole Inability under which men la-
bour in respect of God's requirements, arises out of the
aversion of their wills —their determined and obstinate re-
fusal and resistance of Jehovah's claims—how amazing do
His grace and condescension appear, in that He undertakes
by considerations addressed to their reason, and conscience,
and heart, to persuade them to be reconciled, and turn to
him in a life of holy obedience! Every word is big with
fall into a state of sin hath lost all ability of will to any spiri'Ual good ac-
companying- salvation; so as a natural man being- altogether averse from
that good, and dead in sin, is 7iot able, bv his own strength, to convert him-
self, or to prepare himself thereunto." It is inability of will that is here
spoken of, and none else. The operation of this sort ofinability which is
moral csixx never upon any fair principle of interpretation, be construed into
a denial of natural ability.
1. ^t\a Mat. xvi. 25; xxiii, 37: Mark viii, 35; x,43, 4; Luke ix, 24; xxiii, 20.
334 Of' THK NAITUK cHAP. XVII,
import. All is radiant, and glowing with truth. No cloud
of dark and fiend-like suspicion, settles on His throne. It
is our boast and glory, that ''the strength of Israel will not
LiE.^ And thus believing; having our minds divested of
every foul and malignant conjecture, that possibly God is
not sincere, our souls are melted within us, in all the ten-
der throbbings of heartfelt repentance, as we hear Him
WEEP, EXPOSTULATE, BESEECH and SWEAR beforc and un-
to us, to induce ns to believe and live.
Can it be for one moment admitted, that God does not
mean exactly wh;it He says? Say, increciuious and skep-
tical render, is it ail a vain show, when He delays his judg-
ments, protests that he is lothe to inflict them, and that it
is the very grief of his heart, that miCn will not turn to him,
that they may live? Has he some private design you can-
not understand, at war with his declarations, which de-
stroys your confidence, when He so feelingly complains,
"My people are bent to backsliding from me; though they
called them to the Most High, none at all tvoicld exalt him.
How shall I give thee up, Ephraim ? How shall I deliver
thee Israel ? How shall I make thee as Admah ? How shall
I set thee as Zeboim ? Mine heart is turned within me, my
repentings are kindled together."^ Is all this grief a mere
theatrical display ? Was all the heart rending sorrow of the
Son of God a mere exhibition, when, with flowing tears,
and a soul almost overwhelmed. He exclaimed, as he look-
ed upon the guilty population of Jerusalem, "If thou hadst
known at least in this thy day, the things which belong un-
to thy peace !-but!-now-they are hid from thine eyes.'^^
••Oh, Jerusalem! Jerusalem! Thou! which killest the pro-
phets, and stonest them that are sent to thee—how often
WOULD / have gathered thy children together, as a hen
gathers her brood under her wings; but ye would not.'"*
1. Sam. XV, 2?. 2. Hcs. xi, 1, 8. 3. Luke, xix, 42. 4. Luke, xiii, 34
tTHAP. XVir. OF HUMAN xVBILlTY. 335
What mean, too, such interrogatories and declarations as
these? Does God intend to deceive, when He lets us know,
that the ujliole blame of the sinner's rebellion, is to be laid
to the charge of his obstinate will? "Why is this people
of Jerusalem slidden back, with a perpetual backsliding?
They hold fast deceit; they refuse to return."^ "Woe
unto thee Jerusalem! ivilt thou not be made clean? When
shall it once be?"^ "Behold, ye walk every one after the
imagination of his evil heart, that they may not hearken
unto me.*'^ Is it all a mere sporting with their misfortune?
a vaunting and triumphing over their misery, when God
says, "I spake unto thee in thy prosperity; but thou saidst,
I will not hear; this has been thy manner from thy youth,
that thou obeyest not my voice. '"* Did He employ his
prophets to utter falsehood, when they went to guilty men,
and, in God's name, plead with them to repent, and say
unto them, "as I live, saith the Lord God, I have no \iVvA-
sure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn
from his way and live; turn ye, turn ye from your evil
ways; for icJiy loilly^ die, house of Israel?''^ Who can.
who dare insinuate these things? He had need To trem-
ble, who exhibits God's word to men in such way. as to
render all such appeals, and protestations, and oaths, as of
no value. Any system of philosophy v^'hatever, that con-
flicts with these, and numerous such like proofs and
exhibitions of sincerity, ought, at once, to be discarded.
It is sapping the very foundation of our faith*. It is re-
proaching God, and slandering Him in a vital part of His
character. It creates much of the difficulty of faith. It
ruins the souls of men. Miserable philosophy! how hast
thou dared to lift thine impudent face, and give the lie
to God; and, having done so, sacreligiously sunimon to
thine aid, the mysteries that attend His tlirone !
1. Jer. vlii, 5. 2. Jcr. xUi, 27. 3. Jer. xvi, 12. 4. Jer. xxii, 21.
.i». Exck. xxxili, II.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE SPECIFIC CHARACTER OF HUMAN
DEPRAVITT.
The specific and formal character of human depravity—1 John ii, 15, 16—
James iv. 4—Romans viii, 7—The Scriptural view of this thing—The
thoughts and wishes of wicked men, evincive of enmity against God—2.
I'hey dislike the word of God, and those ministers and professors, who
are most pungent and faithful in urging it upon the conscience—3. They
dislike serious and fervent prayer, he.
From the remarks already made, on the subject of the
derivation and moral certainty of human depravity, we
may discover in what it specifically and formally consists.
We have seen, that it did not consist in the loss of any
one of his physical powers, or any constitutional suscepti-
bility. He remained, after that he became a rebel, posses-
sed of the verj; same natural capacities, but their exercise
had become fatally disordered. We speak not metaphori-
cally, as though disease had tainted and altered the facul-
ties themselves, but that the laws, which regulated his
thoughts, and all his actions, only operated to evince, that,
instead of the feeling of love to God, being the supreme
and governing principle of his soul, there was the domin-
ion of entire selfishness, and the display of an aversion from
God, or enmity against him. In this, consisted the very
essence of his depravity. He became totally depraved.
His descendants all come into being, under the influence
of causes^ which render the same derangement, in the ex-
ercise of their ^}0^ycr5. inorallv certain. They no sooner
CHAP. XVIII. OF HUMAN DEPRA^^TY. 337
acquire the knowledge of God, and of His law, than they
turn awav from both, as not being the objects of their pre-
ference and delight. Their thoughts, and purposes, and
affections, are engrossed by sensible and sinful objects. The
world, and the things of the world, bear away their hearts.
This is the account which John, and James, and Paul have
given us of this thing. The love of the world, is placed
in strong contrast with the love of the Father, by the for-
mer. "If any man," says he, ^'love the world, the love of
the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the
lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of
life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. "^ Here the
apostle comprehends, under three grand classes, all human
corruption —every thing which is opposed to God. He says
all that is in the world, which has not its origin in God and
from God, but is produced by the influence of the world, is
the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of
life. Now, these things are not created essences, not dX^-
OTdiQYQA faculties, but actings and goings forth of the soul,
towards objects altogether inappropriate, and not designed
by God, to engage the supreme affections of the heart. To
let the heart run out towards them,---to bestow the affec-
tions supremely on them, —to pursue after them with rul-
ing desire and purpose for their enjoyment, is mad rebel-
lion against God.
Accordingly James, when speaking on the very subject
of the lusting of the heart, asks, as though the knowledge
we have is from consciousness, and not by mere inference^
<^Know ye not, that the friendship of the world is enmity
with God?" and concludes, in the most pointed and peremp-
tory manner, *Hvhosoever therefore will be a friend of the
world, is the enemy of God."^ We cannot conceive of en-
mity against God, consisting in constitution or mere exig-
1. 1 John ii, 15—16. 2. 1 JaiTi. iv. 4.
43
j2s uThe specific character chap, xviir.
tence, abstract essence, or mere nature. It is, in its very-
nature, really and formally the ivo7^kings or the acts and
exercises of a rational ^ndi feeling creature; so that, when
these apostles resolve, all that is in the world, which is not
of the Father, into lusti7igs, and represent those lustings
to be in enmity with God, we are infallibly directed, in
making our estimate of hum.an depravity, to have exclu-
sive regard to the acts and exercises of the human soul.
This course Paul also has clearl)^ sanctioned. ^^The
mirnal mind,^^ says he, '' is enmity against God. "^ It is not
the constitutional 7nind, not the abstract essential being
of the rational soul of man, not that unknown and unin-
telligible substratum in which, if we may so speak, are
resident the p7'operties of mind, of which he is speaking,
but the minding the actings of the fational soul in the
way of thought, care, purpose, desire, affection, will, &:c.
These, he says, in exact accordance with John and JameSj
when induced by carnal things—when under the influence
of the things of this world, are directly and essentially at
war with God. They are specifically and formally re-
bellion against Him; for His law requires us to love Him
with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind,
and with all ouv strength, and it is, in the nature of things
an absolute impossibility, that such minding—such a be-
stowment of our thoughts, purposes, affections, desires,
cares, &c. on the things of this world, can ever be obedi-
ence to God. He has prohibited them, and thei/ are es-
sentially, and only, and totally disobedience, rebellion,
enmity, against Him. They neither are, nor ever can
become, submission to His will and holiness of heart. It
is just as impossible, as that darkness should be light, and
the not doing, should be the doing of the very thing re-
quired; and this is what the Apostle means, when he adds,
2. Rom. vUi, T' *§iv«,«ct <r«? o-a^koc, «;t^§* *'f ®"*'—*|<""'i"*—auoi>
%VIS SE^TTIT ET SAPIT, bENSUS, COGITATIO, DliSlDEBIUM, STUBIUH, AEIECTUS,
'!2tr£ij)XTASi voLr>"TAS. Schlciis. Lex.
CHAP. XVlir. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 339,
''it, (i.e. the Tninding of the flesh,) is not subject to the
law of God, neither indeed can be." If he meant the
mind of man, essentially and abstractly considered, all
hope of conversion is forever extinguished. For even the
philosophical theory, that provides for the introduction
into it, of a newly created '* something," which is the
cause of holy exercises, cannot leave the carnal mind to-
tally unchanged as to its essence. If it does not, but:
teaches that the mind abstractly and essentially consider-
ed, is changed by a new creative act, the identity of the
moral individual is destroyed. There is no other con-
struction that can legitimately be put upon the Apostles'
meaning than that just advanced. To mind the things of
the flesh, is to rebel against God, and it is morally, and
eternally impossible, that ever it c«?i be accepted as obe-
dience to the law of God.
This is the view Vv'hich the Divine Spirit gives of the
conduct of those, who prefer the world to God. The love
or friendship of the world, is enmity with God. Our bless-
ed Saviour does not admit the possibility of a man's be-
ing the friend of both. *^ No man can serve two masters,
for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else
he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot
•serve God and mammon."^ And this account, is, by no
means, given in too strong terms. For, although wicked
men may not be conscious of malignant feelings against
God, and may even deny the fact, in reference to them-
selves, that they are enemies of God, and wonder at, and
abuse any one who would preach such a doctrine; yet do they
give abundant indications, in their conduct and conversa-
tion, that they do indeed hate God.
The Saviour testifies of the world, explicitly, that it
hated Him. Of the fact that it did so. His life, and the
• tragical circumstances of His death;, hayepven unanswer.-
Mnt, v;, 24.
S40 l^HE SrECIFIC CHAUACTER CHAP. XVIIL»
able proof. Nor has the character of the world altered in
this respect. There are multitudes yet, who are ready to
raise the cry, "away with Him: away with Him: crucify
Him. We haveno king but CsBsar."^ We will acknow-
ledge no supremacy over us, but that of the government.
1 . How evincive of emmity are the thoughts and wish-
es of ivicked men in reference to God! How they dislike
holiness! They would much rather that God were not so
holy. Indeed, they are not to be persuaded, that He is
that awfully just, and holy being, which many- declare
Him to be. They would have been much more at ease,
if He had not spoken, in such decided terms, against sel-
fish and sinful indulgences. They would have been grati-
fied, if He had never commanded them to lead a holy life,
to take up their cross, to deny themselves, and to crucify
their affections and lusts.
If God could look with indifference upon their conduct,
and allow them to lye and curse, and swear and profane
His Sabbath, and gratify their malicious, and lascivi-
ous, fraudulent, and avaricious desires, they could love
Him: but as it is they do *^not like to retain God in tlieir
knowledge." The God whom they prefer, must let tliem
do as they please; but as for that Holy and Just One, who
will damn them eternally, unless they repent, and lead a
holy life, they cannot love Him. Such a being they cor-
dially hate, and they manifest that hatred, by their abuse
of those ministers, and that preaching, which exhibit the
holiness and justice of the divine character, and the im-
mutability of His law. Whatever love of God they think
they have, it is not of the true and living God; but of an
ideal being, one whom they suppose to be God, not of
Him who has so solemnly asseverated, *'Thou thoughtest
that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will re-
I, John xix, 15.
CHAP. XVIIL <^^ HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 541
prove thee, and set (thy sins) in order before thine eyes.
Now consider this, ye that forget God lest I tear you in
pieces, and there be none to deliver."^
2. The same thing is also evident, from wicked men's
dislike of the word of God, and of i hose minisfe7's, and
professors ofreligion ivho are most pitrigent, andfaithfid
in urging that ivord upon their consciences. What a task
is it for unrenewed men to read the Bible! They dislike to
learn that they ^' must be born again," and love God with
«// their heart; that they must repent of their sins, and
abstain from every appearance of evil. They would
much rather, have had a Bible, that would have left their
ambition, and covetousness and lusts, and appetites, free
from all restraint: that would have said nothing about
holiness, nor been so ^^ uncharitable,^^ as to consign to
Hell, all that do not cordially believe on Jesus Christ. If
they are at any times, forced to take it into their hands—
unless that, as men of taste and curiosit}^, they consult it
for its poetry and history—they approach it with as much
reluctance, as does the poor slave of superstition, the spot
which he has heard is visited by some departed spirit.
There is nothing cordial or voluntary in their consulta-
tion of its pages.
And, as for that sort of preaching wliicli presses home
its truths upon their consciences, they cannot endure it.
The ministers of Christ that preach in this style they de-
test. Gladly would they tarnish their reputation; or ex-
cite such suspicions; foment such prejudice's, and magnify
any such pretext as might neutralize their influence- Their
hearts rise up in opposition to those that bring the light
into their dark minds, and probing their consciences,
make them see, and feel, that they are guilty and accur-
sed m the sight of God. '^ Every one," saith the blessed
1. l»ialm, 1, 21, 22.
342 I'l^"' SPEC IFIvO CHARACTER CHAP. XVITi.
Saviour, ^^that doeth evil, hateth the light, neither com-
eth to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. But
he that doeth truth, cometh to the light, that his deeds
may be made manifest that they are wrought in God.'^'
There is in fact, no class of men, so cordially despised,
and hated, by impenitent sinners; and none whose charac-
ters they seek more earnestly to vilify and destroy. The
wiiole tribe of blasphemers, liars, drunkards, unclean
wretches, and fraudulent persons, receive not half the
iihuse, nor are half so cordially detested as are the faithful
ministers of Christ, who testify against men's sins, and
call upon them to repent, whether they will hear, or
whether they will forbear. But with such, the blessed
Saviour hath identified himself, declaring whoso despiseth
you^ despiseth me.
3. To these facts, innumerable others might be added,
evincive of the same thing, that men are, by nature, ene-
mies of God, We advert to their dislike of serious and
fervent prayer^ and of religious meditation and conver-
sation. The theatre and ball room, the novel and the
play, attract attention, and furnish delight. But nothing in
their eyes can be more sickening or disgusting, than ^jiray-
er meeting. The exercise of prayer, has nothing attrac-
tive to the impenitent sinner. He may read, or recite, or
frame a prayer, to keep his conscience at ease, or to re-
lieve the burden of his self-reproach; but the going forth
of the heart to God, in secret unrestrained delighted com-
munion with Him, is a thing to which they are utter stran-
o'ers. No altar is reared in their house. No morning; and
evening incense is offered at the domestic shrine. The clo-
set is unfrequented. The public prayers of the church
are tedious, and the minister who transgresses for fifteen
or twenty minutes, in this delightful employment, is sure
o receive f^easure, and be pronounced a pharisee. Or accu-
CHAP. XVIII, OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 343
sed of having, by such conduct disgusted them with reli-
gion, and prevented them, perhaps, from frequenting the
house of God. To meet, in some retired spot, for the
purpose oi social prayer, and spend an hour in christian
conference, in the estimation of many, betokens derano-e-
ment or weakness of mind, or infatuation. The avoca-
tions of business, the interests of the family, and a thou-
sand other things are accounted of far more importance
with many; and tliey are never at a loss for some excuse,
in withdrawing from the fellowship of the saints. ^'Be-
hold, what a weariness is it," are they ready to exclaim.
Few things seem half so fatiguing and disgusting as the
dull monotony of some simple honest soul, that pours out
its prayers and praises to God. And why so? —how could
there be such aversion from prayer and religious exercises^
if the heart was not averse from G-od !
Prayer ardent opens Heaven, lets down a stream,
Ofg-loryon the consecrated hour
Of man, in audience with the Diety.
Assuredly if there was not a cordial aversion from Him,
on the part of men, prayer would minister to their delighta-
It is their hatred of God and of divine things, that makes
religious worship so irksome and disgusting, especially
where there is nothing in the outward forms, attractive, or
imposing to sense. Why else, if they did not hate God^
would they be so ready to raise the cry of fanaticism and
enthusiasm, against those whose hearts are imbued w^th the
spirit of prayer, and whose spiritual conversation shewthat
they feel the truth and force of what they profess to be-
lieve? Why else, would it be, that God is not in all their
thoughts?—That they fmd no delight in the meditating on
the glories of his being, and the truths of His word? Why
else would their business, their pleasures, their friends,
their houses, their lands, their funds, their families^, any-
344 THE SPECIFIC CHARACTER CHAP. XVII f.
thing and every thing hut God, and his Christ, find such a
welcome place in their hearts? Why else, should the lust-
ful song, the lewd lascivious jest, and ribaldrous profanity,
be more pleasing than a conversation about the state of
their souls? Why else should the blessed Jesus stand
knocking and pleading in vain to gain admisssion to their
hearts? W^hy else should they reject such a friend, diso-
bey the solemn command of God, take part with all their
sins against a dying Saviour, give the lie direct to a God
of truth, and crucify afresh the Lord of glory? Ah sin-
ner, the secret is told against you. It can be concealed no
longer. Jesus saith of a wicked and impenitent world,
*'^Ie it hateth." This resolves all the mystery of your
conduct, and this it is which creates all the obstacles in the
way of your conversion. Charge not your impenitence
on any constitutional depravity, wrought into the s^ib*
stance of your being—nor lay the blame of voor rebellion
upon the purpose and agency of God, Your sin and depra-
vity lie at your own door. The world and its joys hold
your hearts. You bes'ow on them your affections, purpo-»
ses and cares, and they are sinking you deeper and
deeper in the pit of perdition. You have commenced an
inqiitous course. Unless you repent, and give to God the
thonghts, and affections, and cares, which you now bestow
upon the world, eternity shall but sink you deeper and
deeper in crime:
—
Beneath the lowest deep, a lower deep.
Still threatening to devour you, opens wide.
It is in the character of your own mental acts, and exer-
cises, that you are to trace the proofs and workings of your
own depravity. As to any thing which lies back of these
things, as it is impervious to human view, imperceptible by
human sense, beyond the sphere of consciousness, and ut-
terly incapable of being subjected to investigation or anal-
CHAP. XV III. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 345
5'sis, you know nothing. You need not think to lay the
blame there. As well might you do it in reference to
bone and muscle, flesh and sinews, and sny that they, in
themselves, are sin, as to resolve the guilt of your own vol-
untary actsinio the essence and constitution of your be-
ing. You are conscious of various acts and afi'ections, and
that you possess a power to restrain and regulate them.
For the exercise of this pov/er, you are held responsible,
and will be judged. And, in youvpreference of this world,
and dislike of God, thus giving your hearts to inferior
things, and things opposed to Him, when He requires you
to LOVE Him, with all your hearts, lies the sum and sub-
stance of your depravity. That there must be a nature to
act, is not denied, but that there exists any necessity for
you to sin, arising from constitution or any thing else,
and depriving you of the power of voluntary agency as
a free and accountable creature, cannot be proyed.
44
CHAPTER XIX.
THE MORAI. CONDITION OF DECEAgE»
II^^FANTS.
Impossible to conjecture the precise period at which we become capable
of moral action—Circumstances unfavourable to lioly developments in-
duced by the rebellion of our first parents—A remedial scheme })rovided
—Life can be imparted through Christ to rebels brought into connection
with Him—The law of development obtains here—The Spirit's agency in
establishing that connection—! Cor. xv, 45—49—A connection may be
formed between Christ and the sovd at any period—The death of an in-
fant no proof of final condemnation—A presumption to the contrary
—
But not decisive—The wisdom and goodness of God manifest in leaving
this subject as it is—A purpose of election establislies no actual connec-
tion between Christ and the elect— Luke i. 35 and ii. 40 examined—No-
thing to be inferred from it as to physical holiness—But the fact is estab-
lished by it that the nature of man previous to any of its moral develop-
ments may be the object and subject of the Spirit's care and agency
—
The actual exercise offaith, etc. can only be predicated as absolutely ne-
cessary in those whose moral powers have been sufficiently developed
—
Infants equally with adults indebted to redeeming love—The death of in-
fants a bright feature in the Saviour's triumphs—The lessons of rebuke
and consolation and duty it furnishes.
The view of human depravity, already given, not only
throws light on the responsibilities and character ofMENjbut
also on the probable condition of such as die in infancy. At
what precise period of human existence, the susceptibilities
of our nature are so far developed, as to bring the individual
so directly under the law, as to be held accountable for his
own acts, or to possess such knov/ledge, as to render those
%Qts s,ijHfu], it is impassible to conjecture. It cannot ]iow-
CHAP. XIX. ^^-^^ DECEASEJ3 INFANTS. 347
ever be late in life. At a very early period, tiie child
learns to submit 'to the will of its parent. Its corooreal
imbecility, its limited knowledge, and its cherished and
absorbing affection for the parent, all, doubtless, contribute
to affect it, with a sense of the propriety of such submis-
sion. Yet it is placed in circumstances altogether unpro-
pitious to holy developments ; and, if it is allowed to re-
main in this world, will, like all that have gone before it^.
choose to do evil.
One act, in opposition to the will of the Great Creatorj
we have seen, spreads death through all the family of man,
involves in sin innumerable myriads, originally made
dependent on the first rebel, and strikes into eternity it-
self, a blow of utter desolation, to the hopes and happiness
of human kind. Where are the consequences of rebellion
to end? Who can estimate the bearing of one act? How
murderous and ruinous the attempt, to pervert the laws of
the divine government! What will be the misery and con-
fusion, the devastation and horror resulting, where the re-
bel, in the holy Sovereignty of God, shall be allowed to
push his enmity forward, eternity, in all tlie tragic scenes
.of Hell, shall unfold. Blessed be God, that He has pro-
vided a remedial scheme, by which, in perfect consistencv
with every principle of His moral government^ man may
be recovered, alike from his rebellion, and its ruinous ten-
dency and results. Through the redemption which there
is in Jesus Christ, the rebel can be recovered to the love and
enjoyment of God—to the possession and exhibition of ho-
liness—and to the forfeited, and even enhanced glories of
man's original condition. The eternal Son of God, by vir-
tue of his assumed humanity, the redemption which He has
wrought, and the sovereign ordination of God, is become
a new Head of influences. There is life to be derived from
the blessed Jesus. ''Gur life is hid with Christ in God,'"
Mild Christ has become "oi(r life."^^ All the life that ever
.y Col. iii, 3. 4.
S4S THE MORAL COXDlTiON CHAF. XIX,
is to be, or can be enjoyed, by fallen and degenerate men,
is entrusted in the hands of Christ. It must flow from Him
to them, and for that purpose, there must be some connec-
tion established betvveen Him and them. But, as the law
of development was that, on which the propagation of life
was to be conducted from Adam down, so it has pleased
God to provide, on the same, principle, for the exhibition
of the wonders of spiritual life. By virtue of our union
with Christ, we live, and grow, and thrive. He is the
vine, and we are the branches. He is tlie head, and we are
the members of the body. *'As the branch cannot bear
fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye,'^
said the blessed Saviour, ^'except ye abide in me."^
Now, it is by the Holy Spirit, which proceedeth fium
the Father, through the Son, and whom the Son giveUi to
whomsoever he will, that a connection is established be-
tween Him and the guilty soul of man. Through the agen-
cy of that Spirit, the man's thoughts, affections, and cares,
are brought off from this world, and bestowed on Christ,
in faith, and repentance, &c. and thus commence the evo-
lution and exhibition in them, of those fruits of the Spirit,
or gracious exercises, which form the character of the ren-
ovated man, and assimilate him to the great prototype in
heaven. ^*The first man Adam, was made a living soul;
the last Adam, was made a quickening Spirit. Howbeit,
that was not first which is spiritual, but that which was nat-
ural, and afterw\'\rd that which is spiritual. The first man is of
the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven.
As is the earthy, such are tiiey also that are earthy; and as is
the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly. And
as we have borne the Image of the earthy, we shall also bear
the image of the heavenly."^
However, the immediate reference of the apostle here,
may be understood,—whether to the entire character of the
1. John XV. 4. 2. 1 Cor. xv, 45, 49.
CHAP. XIX. ^^ DECEASED INFANTS. 349
redeemed, or to the ultimate perfection of their being, when
put in possession of their glorious resurrcclion-body —it
is of little consequence to determine. It is the great prin-
ciple recognized by hira, which concerns us; and that is,
that the blessed Saviour stands at the head of an entire fam-
ily of rational beings, in whom are developed his own like-
ness and life, and that by virtue of their connection with
Ilim, just as our first father Adam stood, as it were, the
fountain of our race, and has transmitted his own likeness
and mortality, to those descending from him by ordinary
generation. As yet, there is not the perfection of this great
redeeming process; nor will there be, till, at the consumma-
tion of all things, the glorified spirits around the throne,
shall repossess their risen and sublimated bodies. Buttlie
redeeming process is going on, and we may descry its
wondrous developments, continually taking place, in all its
incipient and early stages.
If it pleased God to commence almost simultaneously with
the being's existence, and to bring it under the operation of
the great laws of redemption, which, by virtue of a con-
nection established with Christ, shall secure holy develop-,
ments, can any one object? Surely none are disposed to
do so, when, in this tvorld, those developments are made,
as In the case of those' children, who seem to have been
sanctified from the womb. Shall we then object to its be-
ing done in another world? The circun.stance of death's
eventuating as soon as birth, or, at any subsequent time,
before the moral powers shall have been developed, so far
as to bring the child directly and personally under the au-
thority of law, can certainly be no objection against the re-
ality of an union being constituted, between Christ and the
soul of that child, through some special care or agency of
the Spirit.
The death of the infant, is no more proof of its final con-
demnation, than the death of the believer. On the contrruv.
350 IHE .NrOlJAL CnXDITlON CHAP. XIX«
as the infiiRt has neither done good nor evil, the presumptioB
arising from its death, would ratherseeni to be. that inasmuch
as its powers, if it had remained in ti is world, ivould have
been developed in sin, so its removal to another and essenti-
ally different world —where all its modes of acquiring know-
ledge, and also of acting, will be essentially d liferent—
will maost probably conduce to instantaneous and lofty ex-
hibilions of lioliness.
It is true, that the presumption may be applied the other
way. Inasmuch, as God visits on the infant the consequen-
ces of the sin cf Adam—subjecting it to disease and death,
and placing it in a world, and under the operation of laws,
which operate, with certainty, to secure its voluntary sin-
ning, as soon as capable of moral agency; and inasmuch as
one of the consequences of such rebellion against God, is,
that a change will take place, either sooner or later, in the
outward circumstances and relations of men in this world,
by virtue of which, much more rapid and frightful devel-
opments of iniqiiity s'r.rill be made,—why may we not con-
clude, that, in the exercise of His sovereignty, God sees fit
Xo anticipate such things, and transfer one and another, forth-
with, as they come into this world, to a new scene of exis-
tence, when the full and final results of Adam's apostacy
are displayed? Especially so, it might be added, since the
promise of grace, in the covenant, seems to contemplate
none other than the children of believers. **I will be a God
to tliee, and to thy seed after thee;"^ and since there can
be no more inconsistency with divine justice, to place an in-
fant in circumstances, where it will become a sinner soon-
er than later, provided there is not to place it in any such
circumstances at all.? We confess, therefore, that nothing
ought to be rashly and positively asserted on tl\is subject,
either way.
1. Gen. .vviii.
eilAP. XIX. OF DECEASED INFANTS. S51
It would seem as if God had not seen it proper, to give
us any decisive information on this subject; and we can see
great wisdom and goodness too, in His keeping us in abso-
lute ignorance on this point. Were the former presump-
tion an established truth, and reverently received among
men, there is no knowing what mischievous consequences
misht result from it, nor how far men. to render their dar-
ling babes eternally happy, might be tempted to become
the murderers of their offspring. And were the latter au
established truth, with what heart-rending agony would ev-
ery sensitive soul see the infant consigned to the tomb! It
is well, that Providence has thrown an impenetrable veil
over this thing. Yet, if we may be allowed to indulge a
fond conjecture, the presumption seem.s strongest, that the
death of an infant is a procedure of mercy, rather than of
vindictive justice. For, as the great rule of procedure on
the judgment day shall be, that God 'Svill render unto ev-
ery ONE, according to the deeds done in the body, wheth-
er they be good or evil,"^ the righteous and the wicked
shall receive their award and allotment upon a principle,
which it is manifest, in the nature of tilings, cannot be
adopted, with regard to those dying in infancy.
Admitting for a moment, that infants dying in infancy
shall be saved, it is obvious that—if the view already given
of the law of God's government in this world be correct
—
it is, and can only be, by virtue of some connection es-
tablished between Christ and them. A mere purpose of
election establishes no such connection, though it may have
respect to it, and secure it ultimately: but the sacred
scriptures do not speak of men as elect, and safe in Christ
till they are actually united unto Ilim. The mere pur-
pose of God to bring into being the oiTspring of man gavc
them no being, nor establisb.ed any connection l:»eLwecii
1. 1 Rom,
352 THE MORAL CONDITION CHAP. XIX»
them and thelf great progenitor. It was the'r actual evo-
lution from him, agreeably to the law established for the
propagation of the race, that rendered them existent; and
all their life was derived through him. In like manner
there must be, the actual union with Christ, in order to
the derivation of life from Him, since He, and He only, is a
fountain head of life for any of the degenerate race of
Adam. This union is eflfectuated as has been hinted by
the communication of the. Holy Spirit. " He that is join^
cd to the Lord is one spirit. ^^^
The agency of this spirit
in respect of the adult will be readily admitted. Why
should it be denied in reference to the infant?
That there is, in fact, a care and agency of the spirit
adapted to the condition and circumstances of the infant
mind, there can be no doubt: and that too to receive holy
developments. For, there is the example of the babe of
Bethlehem, whose conception was not after the law of or-
dinary generation, and who therefore stood in circumstan-
ces, and was the subject of influences, which^—without vio-
lating the fundamental principle of the original constitu-
tion ordained for man —could not have been imparted to
any of his proper and natural offspring. When it is said
to man, that ^' that holy tliing^^ which should be born of
her, should be called tlie son of God, some peculiar agen-
cy of the Holy Spirit in its production is no doubt referred
to, as the reason of this. It is evident too, that it has re-
ference to the future exhibitions of character to be made
by Him. "The Holy Ghost shall come upon ihce, and
the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee, therefore
hIso lliat holy thing that shall be born of thee, shall he
called the son of God.''^
The holiness of the human nature of Christ, in its in-
fant statC; is attributed to some immediate, and special
1. Rmtti. -i. Luke-1, 35.
CHAP. XIX. OF DECEASED INFANTS. 353
agency of the Holy Spirit. The same is also said of it in
its earliest developments. '< The child grew, and waxed
strong in spirit, (by the spirit) filled with wisdom; and the
grace of God was upon him.''^ It is altogether gratuitous
to say, that that agency of the spirit consisted in forming
the humannature of Christ free from any physical defects,
or derangement, and that therefore the child Jesus was
holy. If holiness is attributed to that nature in its unborn
and embryo state, we certainly cannot suppose, that it is,
in the same sense, in which it was after its birth, and
growth into youth and manhood, or else we must suppose,
that holiness as a personal characteristic, consists in some-
thing irrespective of the acts and exercises of a moral being.
For the holiness of a being, with its powers developed,
and actively excited, must be very different from that of
one yet destitute of such powers
Things inanimate, it is true, have in scriptural parlance,
sometimes been called holy, as the inmost chamber ofthe tem-
ple was called the holy of holies; but then it was because
of some especial and peculiar relationship, which it had
to God. He dwelt in it. It was set aparty as pre-emi-
nently and exclusively appropriate to God. In this sense,
the yet unconscious human nature of Christ, may be de-
nominated holy, for it was the habitation of God, and sin-
gularly and exclusively appropriate to Him, differing in
this respect, essentially, and entirely, from that of any of
the descendants of Adam. And this peculiar relationship
of his human nature to the divine, rendering it pre-emi-
nently and singularly an object of the divine care, and se-
curing developmenis at tne earliest possible period, in
holy exercises, i. e, in tnose graces or virtuous affec-
tions appropriate to the nature of man, and denomi-
nated, in the renewed sinner, ^^ the fruits of the spi-
1. Luke ii, 40.
45
354 THE MORAL CONDITION CHAP. xix.
rit," the blessed Saviour has distinctly recognized.
"But Thou,'' says He, "art He that took me out of the
%vomb; Thou didst make me hope when I was upon my
mother's breasts. I was cast upon thee from the womb;
thou art my God from my mother's belly. "^ Here the ho-
liness which manifested itself in the gracious exercises of
the precocious child Jesus, is attributed, nottoany peculiar-
ity ofconstitution, not toany especial native efficiency of his
moral powers, not to any modification of his created being,
not to any necessities of his nature, but to the very special,
yea, miraculous presence and agency of God, which, it was
declared to Mary, should be peculiar to him.^
While, therefore, nothing can be inferred from the lan-
guage of scripture, in reference to the^' holj^ child Jesus,"
in confirmation of the idea, that holiness is the result of
physical constitution, it certainly does convey the idea,
and that very clearly, that there may be, and actually is,
a care and influence of the Spirit of God, adapted to the
infant mind, which will secure holiness, and that in the
earliest developments of its constitutional capacities. Con-
1. Psalm, xsii.
2. We confess ourselves utterly unable to understand the following e-s.-
planation of this thing as given by Dr. Owen. "The human nature of
Christ, being thus formed in the womb by a creating act of the Holy
Spirit, was in the instant of its concept 'on sa7ictijied send filled with grace
according to the measure of its receptivity.- being not begotten by natural
generation, it derived no taint of original sin or corruption from Adam, that
being the only way and means of z7s propagation : and being not in the
loins oT Adam morally before the fall, the promise of his incarnation being
not given until afterwards, the sin of Adam could on no account be imputed
unto him." Owex ox the spirit, v. 1, p. 274. Here is a specimen of
philosophical theorizing utterly unintelligible to us. Equally vague and un-
intelligible are what we hear from him on the same subject in another place,
when he says that that" holy thing" w^s radically JiUed with all that perfec-
tion of habitual grace and wisdom, which was or could be necessary to the
discharge of that whole duty which as man he owed to God." Owen on
the Hebrews, vol. iii, p. 40,
CHAP. XIX. OF DECEASED INFANTS. 355
sequently, there cannot be any valid objection against the
unconscious infants being so made the object and subject of
the Spirit's care, as tobe brought into such connection with
Christ, the second Adam, the fountain of a renovated life,
as to secure, alike its holiness and salvation. Wherefore,
the question of its translation by death to another world,
v/here it shall not be affected by the operation of causes
which here contribute to corrupt developments, cannot be
agitated, so as to prejudice its security—we mean on sup-
position of the Spirit's bringing it into coniiection with
Christ.
Is it necessary that the human mind and heart, must have
been previously in every case, actually exercised in faith,
and repentance, and love? Then can there be salvation
for none other than adults, or those whose m.oral suscepti-
bilities have, in this world, been developed so far as to en-
able them to apprehend and believe the truth. For most un-
questionably " there is no other name, given under Heaven
among men, whereby we must be saved, but the name of
Jesus;"^ and we must therefore maintain either that infants
are not subjected to the consequences of Adam's sin—when
their very death is indisputable proof of the fact—or that in
the economy of grace, there is provision made, in some
way, as God, in his holy sovereignty, hath seen fit, to
bring them into connection with Jesus Christ by the Holy
Spirit and to share in the benefits of His redemption.
The former as we have seen, is directly contrary to fact,
so that we rejoice to give to our blessed Saviour all the glory
cf the rescue of immortal souls from perdition, at whate-
ver period of their existence, they are removed from un-
der tlie operation of those causes, which have been brought
into action, by the rebellion of the first man, and wouldj
if not frustrated by the grace of God, infallibly and eter-
nally ruin the whole race. The infant's song in Heaven.
1. An<:s.
856 '^^^^ MORAL CONDITION CHAP. XIX.
will be as truly and cordially to the praise and glory of
redeetning love, as that of the hoary headed sinner con-
verted, on the very verge of life, fiom the error of his
ways. And, although we presume not rashly to decide,
where God has not clearly revealed; yet, cherishing the
hope of meeting among the redeemed in Heaven, the
countless myriads of our race, who lived but to die or have
been carried from the womb to the grave, what exalted
views, of the overflowing riches of divine grace, may we
not entertain? And what lessons of rebuke and consola-
tion and parental duty may not be derived?
It were delightful to conjecture, the rapid and wondrous
developments of the infant mind, unclogged with bodies,
and placed in circumstances so propitious to holiness. But
it w^ould be all conjecture. We cannot presume even to
imagine, how the babe in Heaven acquires knowledge, or
to deny, but that a few hours' employment in the blissful
exercises of that happy world, will render it vastly supe-
rior, in knowledge and experience, to the aged saint that
goes, at the end of a long life, laden with wisdom, and fil-
led with the love of God, to mingle his rejoicings with the
redeemed on high. It is sufficient to know that all will be
right and glorious, and that, perchance the gloomy feature
of ruin and desolation, which over-spreads this guilty world
-r-the early death of one half that are born into it—shall be
found, in the infinitely wise and wondrous counsels of
Jehovah, converted into the bright aspect of bliss and glo-
ry. How great the triumphs of grace! The most sicken-
ing and painful forms of human mortality conti'ibuting to
swell the numbers and triumphs of Heaven ! ! !
As the vast Ocean heaving from its very depths, throws
wave on wave, and rises and breaks, and scatters its foaming
surges on the shore, so Time rolls its flood along, and, as it
sweeps o'er the guilty race of man, generation after genera-
tion, are carried forward, and dashed upon the breakers,
CHAP. XIX. OF DECEASED INFA^IS. 357
of death, but to be caught by the under-current and borne
into the bosom and blessedness of eternity.
While satan rages and appears to triumph, there is a
mighty conqueror that triumphs over him, and rescues
the victims of his malice. He that has the power of death
has been himself destroyed. The very reign of death, se-
cures from every people, kindred, tribe and tongue the
largest additions to the family of the redeemed. How few
in comparison with the countless myriads on high, will re-
main among the wilful rebels, that refused to submit to
the government of God, and shall be shut up in the peni-
tentiary of Hell? How will the temporary triumphs, but
eternal disappointments of the God of this world, contrib-
ute to illustrate the wisdom and grace of the divine gov-
ernment, and the folly and madness of rebellion? How
delighted will be the believer's experience in Heaven,
there to be made, under circumstances inconceivably glo-
rious, to see how easily the God of truth and justice, has
discomfited falsehood and iniquity! How will the darkest
features in the mysterious history of man, be developed in
the brightest exhibitions of grace and sovereignty? And,
how will the very curse, in all its odious features, prove
through the exceeding riches of divine grace, in his kind-
ness by Christ Jesus a blessing to the ruined family of man?
And even here, before we reach that bright world,
w^here our delighted eyes shall survey the rich and varied
prospect of bliss unfolding its unceasing wonders to our
view, what lessons of rebuke and consolation may we not
draw from the infant's death? Reader, are you d^parenf,
and yet unreconciled to God, through the blood of Jesus
Christ? And have you lost a darling babe, that in the
midst of sufferings, and exquisite agony of body, h-ns
been torn from your fond embrace, and hurried to an ear-
ly grave? Then learn in it, the rebuke of Heaven. That
,
child, on which perhaps your fond heart was set. and which
358 THE MORAL CONDITION CHAP. xrx.
already had began to bind, and rivet those affections which
should have been given to God, has been removed from
you in mercy to it. Had it been allowed to remain in
your embrace, it would have imbibed your rebellious
spirit. The love of its heart for you, would have given
you a power and influence over it, which would have se-
cured the earliest developments of sin, and placed it in an
attitude of direct rebellion against God. You would have
proved the murderer of its soul, and stamped on it, your
own character, so infamous in the sight of God, and invol-
ved it in the condemnation under which you lie.
But God in taking it away, has in effect said, " You are
not fit to have the care of this child. You would have in-
fused into it, your own unbelieving, and rebellious temper,
and armed its little heart, in hostility against me. It
would have learned from you, to break my SabbaUi—to
profane my name—to despise my law—to rebel against my
authority —and proclaim itself a candidate for Hell. But I
have had mercy on it. I have seen that you are not fit to
have it live with you, and have therefore brought it home
to Heaven, that it may be brought up under the immediate
eve and care of my dear Son, away from the contagion of
your example. Read in the death of your child the ven-
geance of Heaven, and its frightful record against you."
But are you a believer, and did you cast your dear little
one over upon God, when you brought it to the baptismal
font, and there in the arms of your faith and love, pre-
sented and devoted it to God, to be washed in the blood of
Jesus, and sanctified by his Spirit, to be redeemed from all
the consequences of the sad and ruinous apostacy of our
race? And has that child, for w]>ich you have plead the
promises of the well-ordered, and everlasting covenant,
been removed from you, and been taken from this world
of sin, before it could itself sin, how rich is your consola-
tion! God has in elfect said to von. ^^ I take you at your
CTTAP. XIX. OF DECEASED INFANTS. 359
word—I have heard your prayers—I have received the
offering of your faith, and have removed your child to
other scenes, where it shall not come in contact, ar be con-
taminated with sin. I know how great would have been
your solicitude; how many heart-rending anxieties, j^ou
would have had on its account, and that, with all your care,
you could not have prevented it from becoming a wilful
transgressor of my law, nor have proved half faithful
and watchful eiough for its training for the skies. I have
therefore t^k>^a this work out of your hands, and given your
cii)]^ to n 7 1 m- S )n, that it may pass at once into the se-
minary of Heaven, and escape the consequences of your
unfaithfulness, and mismanagement, as well as the ills of
this dying and rebellious world, in which you dwell."
Read then in the death of your sweet smiling babe the
mercy of Heaven: and learn to humble yourself at the
feet of God, adoring the grace of his covenant, and receiv-
ing the kind and paternal admonition, his providence ad-
ministers.
But has it pleased Him to spare the little prattlers round
your table? And already do they begin to strike their
roots, and grow like willow^s by the water courses, then
see what a work His providence has laid to your hands.
Those sw^eet lips have already perhaps been soiled. Those
bright eyes have fallen on rebellious scenes, and they have
left their traces on the little mind and memory. The little
bosoms have begun to lieave with passion, and swell with de-
sire. And shall the young immortal fall under the damning
sentence of God's holy law? Parent, teacher, nurse, friend,
Avhat have you to say? Say ye mothers, will you neglect
the moral culture of your darling babes, and suffer the
passions and propensities of their nature to rise and gather
strength, and bear them off to objects which God has for-
biddcMi? Will you allow all t!iis to go on before your
eys. and nrglcct to tell your little charge of God, and r\'
360 THE MOUAL CONDITION cHAP. XIX.
his holy chikl Jesus, and the great salvation, —of the spirit
and his blessed influence, and strive to curb unruly desire,
to bring it under the early influence of the truth, and form
its heart to the love and service of God?
You have been the means of bringing it into a guilty and
a dying world. Shall it be saved or lost? The one or the
other shall be the fact; and whether the one or the other,
will depend, in a great measure on you, and on its early
impressions. Resign it to the dominion of its passions
—
Cheat and deceive it by j^our falsehood and hypocrisy—Vex
and torture it by your fretfulness and rage—Irritate and
dissappoint it by your treachery and unfaithfulness—Throw
around it the contagion of your own depravity—Withhold
from it tiie knowledge of God, and of his law, of Christ,
and of his death—Put it under the care of teachers, that
neitlier fear nor love God
—
And lead it through the paths,
of science, without an observation of His agency and will,
and the c'lild shall grow up, a prey for the vengeance of
heaven.
We cannot neglect to urge, in the most importunate man-
ner, on you, the importance and necessity of early and so-
lemn attention to this matter. Will you mothers, fathers,
friends, christians, and philanthropists, allow the young
immortal to grow up in sin, without an effort to bring its
little powers under the genial and sanctifying influence of
the truth? Why not familiarize the infant mind with di-
vine things? Why not tell it of the love of Jesus, and strive,
before the propensities of the heart shall have become deep
rooted, and wedded it indissolubly to sinful objects, to
bring it under the influence of some awakening truth, and
mould the little understanding to useful, intellectual, and
moral pursuits? The system of iniaut-school instruction,
which proposes, as its object, "to awaken a desire in the in-
fant hear'!, to seek moral and intellectual improvement, by
early nnd lasting activities, to excite virtuous attachments,
CHAP. XIX. OF DECEASED INFANTS. ogj
and inspire an utter detestation for all immorality/^^ de-
serves the interested attention, and zealous co-operation of
every one, who would arrest the progress of moral death.
"Outof themouthsof babesand sucklings, God has—ordain-
ed strength, becauss of His enemies, that (He might) still
the enemy and the avenger. '^^ Here, then, let us begin,
and make our moststudied, and systematic, and mighty
attack on Satan's kingdom. Here is where the strength
lies. And as the whole plan of God^s governmentment
ment, in this v>^orld, is that of development, let us learn wis-
dom from His own constitution, and bring the truth early
to bear upon the infant heart, by developing the spiritual
powers and mental capacities of the young immortal, we
may get the start of corruption and the world, and fit it for
usefulness, happiness, and glory. Seize first the affections
of the infant heart, in all the tenderness and pliancy of their
earliest buddings, and let the bright mirror of God's bles-
sed word, reflect, in mild and mellow rays, the rich and
glowing image of the Sun of Righteousness, to ripen it in-
to holiness. His gracious Spirit invites to this work. And
blessed be His name, for the growing army of youthful teach-
ers, and yet more tender scholars, whom tlie blessed Spi-
rit is marshaling in our Sunday and infant schools! ''Whom
shall he teach knowledge, and whom shall he make to under-
stand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and
drawn from the breasts. For precept must be upon pre-
cept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line,
here a little, and there a little.'*^
I. Psalm viii, 2. 2, Isai. xxviil, 9, 10,
46
CHAPTER XX.
THE MORAL. CERTAIN TY OF HUMAN DE-
PRAVITY.
We are exposed, fi'om the earliest period of our moral history to the influ-
ence of causes which secure a deranged exercise of our moral powers-
Difficult to trace the Influence of these things—An harmony in his mo-
ral exercises, originally characteristic of Adam—This harmony was de-
ranged through the sublcty of Satan's temptations—One wilful act
changed the whole moral aspect of the world—Noticed particul arly in
respect of the moral feelings of our first parents—Traced in respect of
their progeny—Inquiry as to what brings men under the actual govern-
ment of law—Difference between God's providential and moral govern-
jYient—Out of place to ask whether, and how infants sin—The theory
of moral unity or representation in Adam noticed—Some remarks to
prevent mistake —A brief view of man as furnished with various capaci-
ties for thought, feeling and action—The law of reproduction applica-
ble here—Psalm ii, 5. —Conscience affected not by theories, but by per-
sonal crime—General laws affecting the development of human capa-
cities—These laws perverted—Instinct—Animal sensation—Passions and
affections—Inquiry whether infants possess moral character—Moral cha-
racter the result of moral acts—Neither sin nor holiness predicable of in-
fants personally—More abundant causes for men's universally sinning^,
than for tlie first sin of our progenitors.
In the chapter before the last, we digressed into a consid-
eration of the question of human ability, as it presented itself
in the course of our investigations on the subject of derived
corruption. In the chapter preceding that, the fact had
been noticed, that men inherit from Adam, a constitution-
al nature, which is subjected to a forfeiture of privileges
itod- immunities that wowld have been secured by his obeii-
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. -353
dience; and also, that they come into being, under circum-
stances, which render it morally certain, that they will
sin, as soon as they are capable of moral agency. It is
our object, in this chapter, to advert to the developements
of human character, as from the very earliest period of
their history, men are exposed to the influence of
causes or circumstances, which render it tnorally certain
that they will universally sin as soon as they are capable
of moral action.
It were an endless task, to unfold the ever-varying mod-
ifications of corrupt character. They are as numerous,
cs the individuals of our race, and as diversified, as thet
combinations of human passion, which may be excited by
ever-varying circumstances. To analyse these, we shall
not attempt. To do so, would render it necessary, among
other things, to investigate the excedingly perplexed and
intricate subject of insanity. —For, it is very manifest
that, many of its manifestations are owing to the inordi-
nate growth, and ascendant influence of some qx^q, partic-
ular joassion, AH that we can adventure is, some gene-
ral reflections to guide the further inquiries of the reader.
We have already seen, that when Adam was created,
there was an harmony in the exercise of all his moral
powers. His intellectual perceptions, his sensitive emo-
•lions, and his voluntary actions, were in unison. As his
•mind perceived, liis heart felt, and his will determined.
The operations of his self-love, or the instinctive desires of
his soul after happiness, were in perfect accordance with his
duty. On yielding to their impulses, and in seeking
liis enjoyment in the things which God had prescribed, he
incurred not the accusations of conscience. On the con-
trary, he secured its apjorobation, vvdthout which he could
not have been blessed.
The tempter contrived to destroy this harmony. He
awakened eiDotionS; which obscured his perceptions of
3^4
'-^'^^^ MOllAJ. CEllTALXTV ciIAP. XX.
truth, and induced him to act directly contrary to the
divine will. A desire for knowledge, a general res-
pect for the character of God, the natural appetite for food,
the influence of animal senses, entire practical ignorance
of sin, were all anpealed to, and roused into action, and
through the specious reaf^onings of the tempter, our first
mother made the desperate experiment, detennining to do,
and doing what God had prohibited. From that very
moment, a moral derangement took place. That one re-
solute act of will, drew with it most fearful consequen-
ces in her own moral history, and that of her race. She in-
stantly became the tempter of her husband in her turn,
and having persuaded him to sin, their offspring after them,
evince through all their generations, the same alienations
of mind and heart.
It is a subject of very deep interest, and to the christian
minister of awful monient, to inquire how far a deliber-
ate and determined effort of will, in one special case, tends
to shape the whole subsequent history, and character, and
even to effect the generations to come. To the grief and
anguish of the soul of a godly minister, he not unfre-
quently finds, that one decided and desperate effort of
will, on the part of an awakened sinner, by wluch he acts
with energy, either in refusing to believe on Jesus Christ,
or in shaking off his convictions, is followed by insensi-
bility, rapidly increasing depravity, utter desertion by the
Spirit of God, and eternal death; nor does it stop l.ere,
but his children after him, oflimes imitate his exan^ple,
imbibe his spirit, follow in his steps, and pursue him
down to Hell. No man can tell, but tliat any and every,
aiTort of v^-ill in rejecting Christ and his salvation, and i!i
refusing to repent, shall be followed witli eternal consequen-
ces, both in himself, and in those to whom he may give
birth. The whole iniquity tliat has been teeming in the
B'orid, andruinin;; our guilty race, arKl sprea<lir;g havock
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 3^5
and desolation over it, has followed from that one act of will
on the part of our first mother, when she ate the forbidden
fruit.
By it she armed conscience, and enlisted all the consti-
tutional and characteristic principles of her nature, in a
warfare against herself, as well as in rebellion ?f^ainstGod.
Conscience, which before had been a minister of bliss,
became a demon of torment. The constitutional princi-
ples, or the susceptibilities of her nature, remained the
same; but iheiraclion was totally deranged, and she be-
came totally depraved. The proper balance, if we may
so speak, which was to regulate all the motions of the mo-
ral man, was lost, and ever}^ thing was thrown into wild
and frightful disorder. An hurried action instantly took
place, and the rebellion, commenced in one deliberate act
of will, has been driven forward with resistless celerity,
into frantic excitement and resentments even ao;ainst God
Himself.
Such was the process of depraved developments in the
first man. '^ The woman which Thou, gavest to be with
me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat."^ said guilty
and impenitent Adam, charging God Himself vvdth being the
author of his misery and his crime, and hundreds and
thousands of his rebellious offspring malignantly renew
and reiterate the charge. The very principles of Adam's
nature, the susceptibilities and instincts of the moral be-
ing whose excitement and actings had before been blissful
as they were directed to legitimate objects, immediately,
on his sin, lent their powerfulinfluence to perpetuate those
acts of will, which would detain, and sink him, still deep-
er, and deeper, in wretchedness and rebellion. By the
one act of disobedience,^ he had changed all his moral re-
1. Gen. iii, 12.
2. The Aposlle, in the 5th chapter of liis epistle to the Romanr, is very
,careful to desig-nate the firfff ^'" nf oiv vj^-nr-.-nUo.-; He calls it to ^-jcx-
366 THE MORAL CEIITAIXTY tHAP. xx.^
lations, and all his hopes of bliss in communion and inter-
course with God, and contributed to corrupt the charac-
ter of his whole progeny.
The very objects that had contributed to his high and
ennobling enjoyment, proved productive of the keenest
anguish. The gentle step of God, once so beloved, now
breaks upon his ears as rattling peals of thundering ven-
geance. The IjriglU smiles of universal nature, that had
once beamed bliss into his soul, are now like the piercing
frowns of some wrathful executioners of the Almighty
menace. The very light of Heaven was too intensely
glorious for our (.guilty parents to bear, and as they parted
with their hopes and desire of bliss in fellowship with
God, and obedience to Him, the very same instincts
and constitutional susceptibilities which had inclined to
these things, now urged them to attempt an absolute sepa-
ration of themselves from Kim, as the only conceivable
method of escape from deserved damnation. The in-
stinct of our nature, which makes usshrink from pain, and
every passion of the heart that ordinarily incites to action,
were all brought into full and effectual play to beleaguer the
will of man, and prevent forever his return to God. And
had it not been that God, in mercy, intended to recover
(he rebel to Himself, and reveal what he never possibly
Tr-xct.tjL'x—ihe. offence—the stismbliiig block over whicla we fall
—proprie: lap-
su.)i offensioj cum ad rem, inviu jticentem, pedem, imping-entes prolabimur.
bcbleusner;. I, ex. ud. ver. uyup ta tcv ivoc rrctp&Trrayjtx'ri at ttokkc'I
tt.T«9avjv— for if by the offence of the one man the multitude died, Ro-
mans v, 15. See also verses 17, 18, and 20, ^t^ n-.g TrttfAnoi; tcu ivoc civ&pa>7rov
auupraxoi xstTsmt^wcrati/ ct crixxi;, 8cc. K'xriTTX^iKTU',—from a verb which
signifies to stand or put in a place—to appoint or establish in an office
as an overseer of servants, I^uke xii, 42—to lead into, or conduct, Acts
:<vii, 15, to rentier or (ffed, 2 Tet. 1, 8. Tbe Apostle describes the
process by v.'h'icli men become sinners. It is itx by means of t;*? Trapunoui
The offence of Adaln, is the instrumental cause of their sin, not the
very thing \vhicli constituted tl>p>r sin. It leads to or opcrat!="; to secure
s;,ii la the mullitudt: H!i;1 rcnd-^ ''^'')v ^'w^-'-
GHAP. XX. ' OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY, 307
could of himself have discovered, that there is^ forgiveness
through the blood of Jesus, poor wretched fallen man, had
bound himself, eternally, with the chains of his own forg-
ing, and rendered it forever impossible for him to repent.
Hell had quickly opened its flood-gates of wrath, and pour-
ing in its deluge of woe, claimed and secured our whole
guilty race, as another family of devils, fraught with en-
Tenomed malice, to oppose the government of God.
All this perhaps is seen, and acknowledged to be true, in
reference to the first parents of our race; but, it is asked,
how is that disordered exercise of man's moral powers,
which ensued in them immediately upon rebellion, and by
which the passions and appetites, the constitutional suscep-
tibilities and principles of his nature, triumphed over hi?
interest and happiness, rendered certain in his posterity ?
In reply, we remark, that the idea oi jjhysical defect, does
not at all comport with that of inoral dejiravity. The
want of an hand or an arm, an eye or a limb, is not ordi-
narily taken into the account, when we estimate a man's
moral character. But, suppose that a person was born in-
to this world, with such a deformed and ill-shapen body,
as to be illy adapted to the purposes of ordinary life—des-
titute of the power of locomotion, and not capable of being
guided and governed by the will, we should never think of
attributing to him that depravity, which we would to one
who had the requisite corporeal powers, for manifesting
his intentions, and acting out all the rebellious purposes of
his heart. Should he, however, possess the faculty of
speech, and give vent to blasphenjous thoughts and execra-
tions, and thus manifest alienation of mind from God, and
malignity of heart towards Him, we should attribute to him
an increased degree of depravity, in proportion to the coi-
poreal disadvantages and disabilities, under which he labor-
ed. But should he be devoid of mental endowments—in-
36S THE MORAL CERTAIXTV CHAP. XX.
capable of reason, and incapable of speech; or, should he be
possessed of the power of speech, yet altogether idiotical,
incapable of judgment and memory, even acts, which, in
anoti. or, would be accounted proofs of depravity, and which,
in themselves, are immoral, would not be supposed to in-
dicate the same in him. And the reason is, because, prac-
tically, we do not predicate depravity of the corporeal, or
even mental constitution of man; but of the actual exercise-
of those powers, which are implied or requisite in the wil-
ling to do, and doing, what the law of God prohibits, or re-
fusing what it requires. It is, therefore, of essential im-
portance, in our investigations on this subject, that we form
correct notions of what it is, which constitutes man the
proper subject of moral government—we mean, which
brings him actually under the government of law.
Mankind universally make a distinction, between mere
7i«/z^r«/ discipline or government, and that which is hy
law or the declared will of a sovereign, who lias a right
to command. The maniac is governed as the brutes. The
infant and child, by the mere exercise of power*. And, in
luiman governments, wliere the enactments are designed
for tlie good of society, and which, it must therefore be pre-
sumed, are so complicated, as not to be early or easily un-
derstood, tiiere is an age, which the individual must have at-
tained, before he is considered as personally responsible in
all liis acts, or capable of acting for himself. There is evi-
dently this general assumption, on the part of mankind,
that there must be such a development of the corpo-
real and mental capacities, which qualify for acting, as to
presuppose a knowledge of law, before the individual can
strictly and properly be said, to bo under the actual gov-
crineni of law, so far as his personal acts are concerned.
The liolural, .{irovidential government of God, is, un-
doubtedly, different, from that which, as a moral governor,
He n:n*»^^: '•• •- ^"-r- "ntelligent and voluntary beins:? 'I'hr
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 369
latter is the government of law, or declared will. The
former, of mere power and care. The latter, in this world,
is peculiar to man. The former, man enjoys in common
with the whole brute and animal creation. It would seem,
therefore, that the question is rather out of place, to ask,
whether, and how infants sin, in whom there has not yet
been a sufficient development of the intellectual and physi-
cal powers, to qualify them for the knowledge of law, and
the actions contemplated by the law. Are we under the
necessity of supposing, that there is any thing wrought in-
to their intellectual or corporeal constitution, which is, in
itself, sinful? Does the word of God really teach us, that
the mere organization of the infant body and mind, or
that its substance and constitutional properties, are sinful?
We apprehend not; for then, unquestionably, it must mean
something else to be sinful, than actually to violate the
will of a moral governor; and if so, we cannot see, but that
we might predicate sin of the brute creation, with as much
propriety as of infants. If the sin of Adam deranged the
whole constitution of God, that was his sin; but certainly,
in no sense, can it be said to be the personal sin of those, who
are unfurnished with the capacities requisite for moral ac-
tion.
The idea of moral unity, or of representation, or of act-
ing by another, which has been resorted to as Oi philosoph-
ical theory, to solve difficulties on this subject, is based on
the assumption, that every individual descendant of Adam,
\s personally under the actual government of law, from
the very first moment of its existence; yea, and before it
had existence —at least, in the eye of God! The question,
which to us seems most, and indeed only appropriate here,
is, whether Adam's sin has not so perverted the constitu-
tion of God, and produced such a change, in the whole pro-
cess of the development of the powers and capacities of his
offsprings as to render it morally certain, that they shall
47
370 THE MORAL CEHTAINTY CHAP. XX.
both sin, as soon as they have knowledge of law, and even-
tually die too.
This is strictly a question as to matter of fact, and the
answer must therefore be drawn, not from philosophical
theories, but from careful examination of the actual con-
dition of human nature. If it is practicable, there should
indeed be,—in all cases, the utter absence of philosophical
disquisition and theory, and the plain and faithful report-
ing of FACTS, as far as the sacred Scriptures, and accurate
observation, may enable us to ascertain them. It is exact-
ly here, where mischief is done to religion; and it is owing
to the different philosophical views, or theories, in which
the facts of revelation are involved, that christian teachers
and sects are found so much to differ. To separate be-
tween facts, and the doctrines, which are thought legiti-
mately deducible from them—or the theories which are em-
ployed to illustrate or account for them would be no
mean service rendered to the cause of truth. To detect
the difference between the theory diXid. the fact, or the doc-
trine fou?ided on the fact, as suggested by some theoreti-
cal or philosophical views, is no easy task.
Indeed, an attempt to do so is exceedingly perilous; for
it may awaken a host of prejudices, and excite alarm, from
the sudden and almost unavoidable impression made on the
minds of many, that a relinquishment of technicalities,
—
especially if objected against as not happily adapted to
convey the scriptural idea as to matters of fact—is, at least,
presumptive proof of heresy. We therefore venture on a
reply to the question just suggested, with considerable so-
licitude; and would bespeak the reader's candid and patient
attention, as we pursue, somewhat further, the difficult and
much controverted topic, of the derivation of depravity.
It is our desire, and has been, all along, to avoid every
thing like technical phraseology, and exhibit nothing
b.ut the plain matter of fact, without respect to any
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 371
theory or system; and we again express the hope, that our
readers will not be so uncharitable as to suspect error, and
condemn us, without being heard and understood. Our
object is neither to gratify curiosity, nor to divert the mind,
by empty speculations, from that which should engage its
interested attention. How could I sin in Adam ? How
could Adam^s sin become mine? How could Adam sin for
me? How could God impute Adam's sin to me? How
could Adam's sin reach me? Through what channel has
it been conveyed to me? These are questions of no man-
ner oi practical utility, as we apprehend, and we shall not
pretend to agitate them. The Bible has not started them,
nor is it at the pains to meet them. It is a question of vastly
deeper moment, and one which involves the eternal interest
and destiny of us all, How have 1 become a sinner? Is God
or man to blame?
It will readily be admitted, that man is naturally pos-
sessed of certain capacities for action, and susceptibilities
of impression inciting to action, which constitute the very
elements or basis of his moral constitution. He has a
thinking mind, which is both capable of perceiving ex-
ternal things, and of attending to its own operations, and
which is competent to reflect and weigh well the consider-
ations presented, so as to come to a fixed choice, or pur-
pose of action.
Moreover he is capable of various movements, or agita-
tions of soul, which are appropriate, or adapted to the na-
ture of the different objects which present themselves, or to
the character of the different thoughts which arise in his
mind. His sensitive nature is capacitated for impressions
of pleasure or of pain, from objects without him, or
thoughts within him —which impressions, will be corres-
pondent with the real or supposed character of that which
produces them; or, in other words, according as the mind
apprehends an object to be fit to do it good or the contra-
372 THE MORAL CERTAINTY CHAP. XX.
ry, will It be affected pleasurably or painfully towards it.
These affections, produced by the impression of objects
around, if not counteracted in some way, quickly grow
into habits, and assume the permanent character of what,
in common language, we call inclinations, dispositions,
propensities, &:c.
In addition to all this, there is thrown around the human
soul a material body furnished with bones, muscles, nerves,
&c., which qualify it for accomplishing the purposes of
the man, and acting, so far as he comes in contact with
material objects around him.
These different capacities of his nature, which may be
generically denominated his constitutionalsusceptibilitiesor
properties, are dependent, originally, on the sovereign
will of God, the great Creator. It has pleased Him to
give being to such a creature as man, and to constitute
him, a thinking, feeling, acting being.
Such was the first man, and according to the law which
it pleased the great Creator to ordain for the propagation
of his race, these susceptibilities or constitutional proper-
ties, are derived through the process of that development,
which, commencing in conception, is perfected, in due
season, by birth being given to a separate existence. Adam
begat a son in his own likeness, and from that day to the
present, the law of reproduction has obtained in the con-
tinuous evolution of innumerable human beings. In
these suscej)tibilities themselves, considered merely as ex-
istent, there can undoubtedly be nothing sinful, as has
already been seen. It is not a sin to the embryo being,
that it has been conceived, though there may have been
great guilt connected with its origin, and it may be sub-
jected to consequences appropriate to such guilt. It is
not a sin to be born. Nor is it in itself di sin, to think,
to feel, or to act. The sinfulness of any, or of all such
things, is determined, by a reference to the will or law of
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 373
God, which defines what things are, or are not sinful. For
human consciousness, which is the register of crime, notes
only that which consists \n personal disconformity to the
law of God. No one is conscious of having himself sin-
ned in the personal act of Adam's transgression: nor does
the Spirit of God lead to repentance for anj?^ participation
which it may be supposed we had in it.
The Psalmist does indeed make a very humbling allu-
sion to the guilt and sin of his original. I was, says he,
shapcn in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive
me. "^ But surely he could not have meant, that the growth
of his body in his mother's womb, or his conception, were
THEMSELVES SINFUL, or, that these natural processes were
his personal transgressions. What then it may be asked,
could have been his meaning? Whoever will attentively
consider his penitential confessions, will find that he is
contrasting his own sinfulness, with the perfect holiness of
the Divine Character, and after having acknowledged his
own personal acts of defilement, his mind is yet further
humbled by the thought, that his very existence was deri-
ved from a being that had sinned, and that, while tlie or-
iginal process of his formation was going on, he was de-
pendent on, and as it were involved in, the being of one
who was herself a sinner. This is, and cannot fail to be,
when rightly apprehended, a source of humiliation.
Although we are not conscious of any particular guilt,
attaching to us personally, for any specific act of our parents,
yet do we feel that we can never make proud and lofty
pretensions to excellence, when we consider their charac-
ter in the sight of God. The child is humbled in the
recollection of his parent's crime, and that too, oft-times,
where there is no distinct recognition of personal guilt. The
drunkenness, lechery and dissipation of a parent, which, in
1. Psalm, X\. 5.
374 THE MORAL CERTALNTY cHAP. XX,
the eyes of the world, have blasted his reputation, do se-
riously affect the sensibilities of a child, in any measure
awakened to a sense of the impropriety of these things.
In like manner, where the heart is affected, by the Spir-
it of God, so far as to discern the evil of sin as ruining
the reputation in the sight of God, the sinfuhiess of those
through whom we have derived our being, cannot fail to
humble us in our own estimation. It is not necessary to
suppose there was any special guilt, on the part of his pa-
rents, which rendered his birth illegitimate, of which the
Psalmist madeacknowledgement, as some have done. The
ap]>rehension of the parent's impurity in the sight of God,
will affect the heart of a child: for he insensibly feels, and
is persuaded that he can make no pretensions to native
moral excellence or worth derived from them. Thus
was it that Job felt, and this was, doubtless, the import
and extent of his interrogation. ** Who can bring a clean
thing out of an unclean?'^^
Thus far human consciousness of guilt goes, but no fur-
ther. To talk of representation, and participation in the
acts of parents, are mere theoretic attempts to explain \\\%
fact, which men's intellect may, or may not receive. These
are not the things which affect the conscience. It is the
facto^QWY descent, from those whose character we cannot
but condemn, that humbles us. No man repents, because
of the mere susceptibilities which enter into his moral
constitution, or, in other words, because he has been made
capable of thinking, loving, acting, &c., but many do re-
pent, that these susceptibilities have been derived and de-
veloped under such circumstances as to have led to sin,
and involv^ed them in the guilt of personal transgression.
And so far does this sort of repentance proceed sometimes,
that the sinner wishes he had never been born, or mad-
1 . Job, xiv. 4.
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 375
ly puts an end to his present existence, as though that
would put an end to his misery and his crime.
While, therefore, the susceptibilities of our nature are
derived to us, by the very law of reproduction, which
God has ordained to regulate His own agency in the crea-
tion of the successive generations of men; while there is
nothing sinful in these susceptibilities, considered merely
as existent, or as elaborated in our moral constituticm, they
are nevertheless subjected to certain great established laws,
which affect their development, and which, in consequence
of the sin of Adam, render the wilful transgression of his
offspring morally certain. These laws do not impose upon
vian a necessity to sin against God. They are but a part
of that great scheme of providential agency, which God
originally projected, and made subordinate to his system
of moral government intended for mari. The very same
Taws regulating His ownajjency, would, upon the supposition
of Adam's continuous holiness, have rendered the holiness
ofhis descendants morally certain. The development of our
constitutional susceptibilities, would have been conducted,
on the sam€ general principles, and would, doubtless, have
been effectuated in the same order; but it would have beem
just as morally certain, that men would not have sinned^
as it now is, they will, as soon as capable of moral agency.
We need not look into the internal structure of the
human soul, to discover an adaptation to the purpose of
rebellion there, as though God had, by His own creative
agency, taken care to atljust its complicated machln-Qryy
so as to secure, by the very necessities of its being, sucii a
result. God cannot act with any such design. It is just
as morally impossible, as it is to "deny Himself," whieh^
an Apostle has declared to be absolutely impracticable.^"
We can see sufficient to account for man's wilful rebellior^
in that derangement which ensued in the whole circum--
1. 2 Tiro, iij 13.
376 THE MORAL CERTAINTY CHAP. XX.
stances and condition of the human race, as consequent
upon Adam's sin. The laws affecting the development of
our moral powers, as we may perceive in the history of
every individual, are perverted and operate to secure such
a result.
Instinct, whatever that may be, first operates, and its
tendency is simply for the preservation, and future growth
of the animal body. Who can fail to see, that it is, in fact,
God's agency, for the care of a being, devoid of that intel-
ligence, which is necessary to qualify and enable it to take
care of itself? In the instincts of an infant, however, there
can be noih'mg sinful, nor in their exercise—no more than
in ils respiration, or any other of its involuntary motions.
Next to instinct, or simultaneously with its very first ac-
tings, commences the process, which lies at the basis of all
its future knowledge, viz: its animal sensations. These
are but the impressions which those external objects, with
which it is brought in contact, make upon it, and in a way,
appropriate to the different senses, which are fitted for re-
ceiving and transmitting them. In the receiving of these
impressions, or, in other words, in being the mere subject
of sensations, produced by external objects, there is noth-
ing sinful. This is a part of God's natural government.
He has constituted us to be so affected, and we can no more
prevent it, than we can alter the laws of Heaven.
Connected with these impressions or sensations, there is
presently found, a development of peeling or passion
beginning to take place; that is, the child gives indication
of something affecting and moving it, other than the mere
impression which is made upon its senses, by an external
object. It evinces love and dislike, desire and aversion.
It craves the mother's breast, and manifests delight as it is
unlolded. to it. It turns from the spoon, and loathes the
nauseating drug, which it had once imbibed from it. These
for the sin of Adam—unless as the expression be under-
CHAP. XX. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 377
and their kindred feelings, most unequivocally manifested,
and at a very early period, may, indeed, be all traced to
original animal sensations, of which the conscious being has
retained the recollection; but, it is very obvious, that they
are something different from mere sensation. Sensation
lias contributed to their development; but they have, evi-
dently, an impulsive influence themselves. They certainly
incite to act, and secure demonstrations of will and pur-
pose. And these, invariably, take a wrong direction.
We are not concerned, to inquire into the philosophical
theories of men, as to what it is, which determines the
character of influential feeling, rendering it different in dif-
ferent individnals;—whether originally dependent on some
peculiarity in the corporeal organization—or what physio-
logical writers term temperament; —or whether adventi-
tious, the result of circumstances, accidentally associated,
affecting, permanently, by first and deep impressions, the
sensibilities of the being. Our object is simply an observa-
tion of facts, so far as they tend to shape, or affect, the future
moral character of the child. Vve say future, for it is a
question alike pertinent and important, whether, in the in-
cipient period of infancy and childhood, there can be any
moral character whatever possessed.
iNloral character, is character acquired by acts of a moral
nature. Moral acts, are those acts which are contemplat-
ed by the law, prescribing the rule of human conduct. It
is not every act which we perform, that is of a moral cha-
racter. The instinctive actions, which are done witliout
thought, and, as it were, involuntarily, and which are de-
signed, by our great Creator, for the preservation of our
animal life, —the different functions of the various organs
of our animal frame, designed for the promotion of our an-
imal life, and which are, in some degree, dependent on the
^8
will,—and the cravings of appctlie, which are dependent
on the very organization of our bodies, are not, in them-
selves, sinful or holy.
TJiey do not possess a moral character, because the law
of God does not require or forbid them. But, in so far as
tJiese things may influence us to do, or to refuse to do, what
God has required, they fall under the cognizance of law.
The law is so framed, as to regulate all our deliberate and
voluntary actions. It prohibits some, and requires others,
and defines the objects and extent to which we may allow
ourselves to be carried, by the impulses of appetite, and by
a respect for our well being. Every action that is delibe-
rate, and the result of motive, i. e. which originates in some
voluntary determination of the mind, as having an end in
view, has an end prescribed to it. This end is the only le-
gitimate one, and from which, if we deviate, or for which,
if we substitute another, the action so performed, not com-
ing up to the standard of God, becomes sinful. '•Wheth-
er, therefore, ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all
for the glory of God. "^ Such being the case, that many
actions possess altogether an indifferent character, and some
do not fall even under the cognizance of the law of God
—
and that too ia adults, where the capacities for moral action
are fully developed, —itis obvious, that in infancy and in-
cipient childhood, v/Jiere none of the actions are deliberate,
or the result of motive, operating in connection with the
knowledge of law, and of the great end of all human ac-
tions, no moral characier can appropriately be predicated.
There are, in fact, no moral acts. The being is not yet
actually under the goverment of law. It is, indeed, un-
der \he. providential care of God, and shares, in common
with the whole animate and inanimate creation, the bene-
fit of his natural or providential government; but it has not
h 1 Car, :&4(i;
CHAi'. XX. OF HUMAN DEPKAYITV. 379
yet come under the actual operation of law, as addressed to
the reason and conscience of individual personal ao'ents. Its
liioral powers, or capacities for moral action, have not yet
been sufficiently developed for this. To predicate personal
sin, therefore of the infant, is as manifestly contrary to fact,
as it is to ihe common sense and feelings of mankind.
In so saying, the reader will perceive our meaning to be,
simply, that the infant, whose moral powers are yet unde-
veloped, has .7io/ committed acls, which can be considered
violations of ihe law of God. It has no pet'sonal sin; for
it has not inoralhj acted, lis physical nature cannot be
accounted sinful: for that would be to change the very
meaning of terms. Properly speaking, therefore, we can
predicate of it neither sin nor holiness, personally consid'
ered. Yet, it is placed in a rebellious world, subject to
the influence of ignorance, with very limited and imperfect
experience, and liable to the strong impulses of appetite
and passion, so that the moral certainty is as strong as any
thing can be, that the very susceptibilities of its nature,
being, at the earliest moment, excited by sinful or forbid-
den objects, —and God. being under no obligations, nor
choosing, in this world, to vouchsafe the influence of his
holy Spirit, which is necessary to prevent from choosing
and doing what is wrong, —there siiall take place those acts,
of which alone we can legitimately and intelligibly predi-
cate moral depravity. Instinct, animal sensation, consti-
tutional susceptibilities, create an impulse, which not be-
ing counteracted by moral considerations, or gracious in-
fluence, lead the will in a wrong direction, and to wrong
objects.
It was thus, that sin was induced in our holy progeni-
tors. No one can plead in Eve, an efficient cause of sin,
resident in her nature, (any prava vis,) or operative pow-
^?r, sinful in itself, anterior to, and apart from lier own vol-
3$o T^^K MORAL CETiTAl^TV, &c. CHAP. XX.
untary acts. And if she was led into sin, though charac-
teristically holy, and destitute of any imiate propensity to
sin, where is the necessity for supposing, that the sins of her
progeny are to be referred to such a cause? She influenced
Adam to sin, and there was no such cause in his nature.
Their progeny are placed under circumstances, by no means
as propitious to holiness, and it would be strange indeed, if
they would not, most naturally, through the very impulses
of their constitutional susceptibilities, be induced to choose
what God forbids, when their progenitors, with expanded
powers and comprehensive knowledge, and placed in cir-
c?umstances propitious to holiness, abused their liberty in
this way. But an objection may be raised, from the death
of infants, before capable of moral action, which requires
careful attention, and into which we must digress.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE MORAL CERTAINTY OF HUMAN DE-
PRAVITY,
COXTI>-UED.
The death ofinfants made a source of objection against the views of human
depravity, as advocated in this and the preceding- chapter—False inferen-
ces deduced from the fact—Disputes about what old Calvinists behov-
ed—By no means for christian edification—Other inquiries of more im-
portance—The Apostle's use of the term " wages," not decisive—Su-
preme deference due only to the words of Christ—The use of the term
ptmishmeni—The facts ascertainable in the case—The consequences of
the first sin traced in respect of the irrational creation—Thence an in-
quiry suggested in relation to those affecting the human race—Nothing
gained by theories here—Agreement as it respects essential facts—
A
false assumption—Remarks on the use of technics—The supposition of
an inherent taint of depravity—Rom. v, 14 examined—A further obser-
vation of the circumstances under which we are called as moral agents,
first to act—The mind's susceptibility as to pleasure and pain—Its power
of suspending an action till a correct judgment is formed—Danger ari-
sing from the want of knowledge acquired by experience—Instanced in
Eve—Thence infen-ed in'reference to her offspring—Various laws in op-
eration under Vvhich human beings are brought into existence, and first
called to act—The law of development noticed in its progressive results.
*'The wages of sin is death. ^'^ Of this fact there can
be no dispute. How then, it is asked does it come to pass,
that infants die, if sin cannot be predicated of thenijoer-
sonally? That they have ever sinned by personal acts,
cannot be proved; and will not be asserted. Therefore it
is inferred that either there must be some innate sinful
j(?r6>/?e7^5^7y inherited from Adam, which renders them de-
1. Rom. viJ. 23,
3S2 THE MORAL CERTAINTY cHAP. XXI.
serving of death and eternal damnation prior to all
moral acts; or, having been personally represented in
Adam, they have really participated in his act, and the cir-
minality of that act, and thus are rendered deserving of
death and damnation.
This latter idea has of late been the occasion and theme
of much dispute, and what is not a little remarkable, much
of the zeal, in this dispute, is displayed on the incidental
question, whether old Calvinistic writers understood the
doctrine of imputation in this or another sense. One par-
ty maintains that old Calvinists such as Owen, Turretine,
and others did explain the doctrine of tlie imputation of
Adam's sin, in such v/ay, as to convey llie idea, that both
the act and /// desert of Jida/ni^s sin, are as really and
truly his descendants.' as \^ they had committed it them-
selves. The other deny, "First, that this doctrine in-
volves any mysterious union \vith Adj^m, any confusion
of our identity with him, so that his act ipas 2^^'f'sonally
^nd properly our act; and secondly, that the 7noral tiiiyi-
tude of that sin was transferred from him to us; we de-
ny the possibility of any such transfer. These," contin-
ues the writer in the Biblical Repertory, "are the two
ideas which the Spectator, and others, consider as neces-
sarily involved in the doctrine of imputation, and for re-
jecting which, they represent us as having abandoned the
old doctrine on the subject."^ Both, however, admit, that
death in infants ensues, by virtue of their connection with
Adam. They agree as it regards the matter of fact \
but
they differ as to their explanations of that fact; one party
aiiirmiino;, that death is the natural consequence of Adam's
sin; the other, that it is its legal pujiishment.
It,is a remark, v/hich must be obvious to every reader,
thatit is by no means for christian edification to dispute about
what any uninspired men said or thought. Why shall the
1. See Biblical Repertory, v, ii, p. 436,
CHAP. XXI. ^^ HUMAN DEPllAVITY. 3S3
churches be distracted, because divines of different schools
are (lisaojreed as to what Calvin^ and Stapfer, and Turret! ne,
, and Owen, and Edwards, meant, when they spoke of tho
imputation of Adam's sin to his posterity? Is it not the
dictate of common sense, to go, at once, to the Scriptures,
and having diligently compared them, by fair and equita-
ble reasoning, or criticism, ascertain what is the mind of
the Spirit? We shall not perplex our readers by noticing
the philosophical theories of former or modern writers on
this sunject. But there are several points on which it may
be important to have definite ideas.
We shall not inquire whetiier " the imputation of Adam's
sin," means this or that. The very fact of existing dis-
putes about it, shews that it is higli time to employ terms
less liable to be misunderstood. It is of more consequence
to determine, whether the death of infants is \\\q, punish-
mentoiihQiY own sins, or i\\Q punishment o^ jida77r s sm,
or a consequence to which they are naturally liable by vir-
tue of their fore-fathers' rebellion?
The expression 'Mvages," which the Apostle omploj-s,
is undoubtedly figurative. It must be metaphorically in-
terpreted, before it can be quoted by any one as meaning
the penalty of the law. There is no other place in the
New Testament, where it Is so used. If another quotes it
as meaning the certain result—the consequence which fol-
lows just as naturally as the soldiers pay might be looked
for his services—he adheres more strictly to the import of
the expression, so that in the general question, nothing
can be decided by the Ajwstle's use of this term.
It behooves us carefully to examine the scriptural account
of this matter, and to cease from the tenacious use ot any
technical expression whatever, however consecrated by
'
antlquityj which men may have employed to exliibit tlieir
ideas cr? tc> 'vhnl the Snirit t,(*ache§. To l.lio ina'rds of
3S4 THE MORAL CERTAINTY CHAP. XXI.
Christi we must defer, and not to tlie technics of men.'
"If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to whole-
some words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and
to the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is
proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions, and
strifes of words, whereof cometh env}^, strife, railings,
evil-surniisings, perverse disputings of men of corrupt
minds and destitute of the truth.
"^
That mhnis Q.YQi piniished for their own inherent phys-
ical depravity^ we shall not here take time to disprove.
We have already seen that in fact there is no such thing as
physical depravity. That they personally are punished
1. We are happy to have it in our poucras this form goes to press, to ex-
tract the following-, for the benefit of some of our readers as expressive of
the views and feelings of the brethren of New Haven, whom it has become
fashionable in certain quarters to censui'e and condemn, as having denied a
fundamental article of the christian faith, in the views v/hich they express
relative to the imputation of Adam's sin.
*'To conclude," say the conductors of the Christian Spectator, " we at-
tach no kind of importance to the question, what was the old doctrine on
this subject, except in its bearing on existing movements in the Presbyte-
rian Church. It is a fact of much more importance, and one much more
gratifying to us, that our brefnren so explicitly deny the imputation of the
guilt or moral demerit of Adam's sin, to his posterity. This we consider
s;s so much real gain to the cause of truth. And if, as our brethren inti-
mate, the old Calvinists of the Presbyterian Church, go with them in this
denia'!, we shall anticipate still more benign results. That unauthorized use
of words and phrases, to w^hich we have objected, and which is so far from
expressing our brethren's owii views as they explain thetr, must soon be
abandoned. Instead of that unguarded mode of stating the doctrine of
imputation as including two thing's, when according to their explanat^m, it
contains but o'ne; instead of adopting the figurative phraseology of com-
mon life in their doctrinal statements, and denying its Tteral import;
—
m-
steadof using the word jOw^^sAwen/, to denote evil inflicted without res-
pect to the moral desert of its subject and the words guilt, and ill-desert, to
denote mere exposure to penal evils, we confidently expect greater precision
and accuracy in their phraseology. Nor is this change de^ireable for its
CHAP. XXI. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY, S35
stood in a general and figurative sense, as are many which
occur in common parlance—none can affirm, who de-
ny that Aclam^s sin, was personally our sin, or that the
ill desert or moral turpitude of his sin was transferred to
us. If, in a large sense, we say that all the suffering, aud
misery, and death in this world, is ihQ publishment which
God, as the righteous moral governor of the world, in-
flicts, for the violation of His divine constitution hj our
first parents, the idea is a very different one, and does by
no means sanction that mode of speech, which virtually
implies, that the death of an infant, is the specific punish-
ment due to it personally in consequence of having rmlly
and criminally participated in Adam's sin.
own sake. It would involve such other changes and result in such further
explanations as would terminate many of those tlieological discussions, and
ecclesiastical conflicts, which so often agitate the Presbyterian church. In
these cheering anticipations we may indeed be disappointed. But we are
greatly mistaken, if on this subject the consecrated ^phraseology of the
older writers, can be long retained, and used with this modern commen-
tary. Other causes of jts disuse are in powerful operation. The attach-
ment to forms of words, as the essential means of defending the ti'uth is
giving way to independent investigation. The ministry are becoming
afraid to take doctrinal opinions upon trust and are yielding to the solemn
responsibility of thinking for themselves. Not that in our view, this im-
plies any v/ant of reverence for antiquity; but rather indicates, that due
respect to the great and good, which consents to learn from their instruc-
tions, but not to submit implicitly to their authority. The present age is
somewhat distinguished for careful and accurate discrimination, both in
respect to thought, and the vehicle of thought; and more than all, for a
liigh degree of solicitude to exhibit religious truth in forms adapted to tie
minds of the people, and fitted to secure its right apprehension, and prac»
tical results. Evil may ensue in the progress of these changes, but goo(J,
that shall far outweigh the evil, is also to be expected. This tendency of
things, in the theological community is a stream whose course cannot be
resisted; and while it will conduct safely to the haven of trutfe, those who
shall wisely follow it, will no less surely overwhelm those who in the shat-
tered bark of human authority, shall attempt to stem the current.'* Chris,
ian Spectator, vol. iii, p. 511,512.
49
3S(3 THE MORAL CERTAIIsTY CHAP. XXI.
Without adventuring further, at present, on ground,
where it is almost impossible^ to use unambiguous terms,
we shall present to the reader a general sketch of what ap-
pears to be the important facts in the case, as revealed in
the sacred Scriptures. None will deny that [death, as
introduced and perpetuated in this world, is a conse-
quence of our first parents' violation of that positive con-
stitution, which God ordained, v/hen He interdicted them
from the use of the fruit of a particular tree. *' By one
man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so
death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned."^
And this is not obscurely intimated in the language used
in the chronicled record of the original threat. ''In the
day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die."-' —dy-
ing ihou shalt die, as though the process was to be in-
definite.
The whole account too, which is given of the proceed-
ings of God, in relation to the fall of our first parents,
shews plainly, that the act of which they were guilty in
eating the forbidden fruit, changed the entire aspect of
His moral, and even, in some measure deranged His natu-
ral government in this world. That one sin of our first
parents, was the violation of the very fundamental feature
of the whole moral constitution ordained for this world.
It introduced, in every direction, confusion,"and disorder.
We see that the brute creation dies, having as it were
sympathy with man: and that the present uneasiness and
misery of the creatues result, by virtue of some con-
nection which they have with man, seems to be, not ob-
scurely taught by the Apostle when he says, that '' the
creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly but by
reason of him that subjected the same."* It is very cer-
1. See a slng-ular example of this noticed in Christian Spectator, v. iii,
p
509.
2. Rom. V. 12. 3. Gen. ii, 17. 4. Rom. viii, 9/j.
<K\P. XXI. OF HUJIAN DEPRAVITY. 337
tain, that the earth was cursed for Adam^s sake, and ren-
dered sterile, or prolific of thistles and thorns.^ The ser-
pent was also cursed,^ as having been the instrument of
Satan's subtlety; and the peculiar misery of gestation, and
pains of parturition, denounced against Eve,^ have been
perpetuated among her daughters. But will any one say,
that the beasts partook of the ill desert of Adam's
sin?—That the serpent sinned along with the devil, be-
cause it was unconsciously employed to seduce our first
parents?—That the earth sin7ied also, and that the. female
sex shared more largely in the sin of our first parents,
than the other? We presume not. Yet unquestionably have
all these things, in the history of this world followed, in
consequence of the sin of our first parents.
The sin of Adam, deranged the whole constitution of
God's government in this world. A connection had been
established with him as lord of this lower creation, and
all things in it."* By virtue therefore of the state of de-
pendence on man, which God had ordained for themj
when he became rebellious, confusion and derangement
were secured among them. This we can very readily ap-
prehend, without resorting to the philosophical theory of
''the union of representation," to account for the present
condition of the beasts and soil. God undoubtedly was at
libert3% when man rebelled, to show hov/ greatly He was
offended with his sin, and to allow the beasts to rise up
and to dispute man's dominion, and to exhibit among them,
the same scenes of misrule and ferocious passion, which
should prevail among his immediate progeny, as the na-
tural consequence of his rebellion; and further, to cause the
earth reluctantly—not without much toil and suffering on
the part of man, to yield her fruit for his support. Here
we may read, on these monuments which God has erected ia
.2. Gen. ii. ir, 18. 2. Gen, ili.,14. . 3. GeiL iii, 16. 4,Gen.l. 28.
5S8 ™'E MORAL CEtlTAlxNTY cHAP. xxr.
this revolted world, the memorials of His displeasure with
the sin of the first rebel.
With these facts we might be satisfied, and learn from
them, to read the same humbling and appalling lesson, in
the history of our suffering, dying race. What conceiva-
ble obligation could there have been, that God, now bound
after thei*' rebellion, by all the glories of His moral cha-
racter, to inflict death on our first parents according to the
threatening: denounced, should exempt their children and
progeny from the pr^me? Especially, since He had ordain-
ed that all the life lo be irnparted to the latter should be
conveyed through, and possess the character of that of the
former? Must He derange His entire government? Shall
the law of development be suspended in reference to man?
Or rather shall it prevail every where else, but be instantly
suppressed in reference to man, because he had sinned.
Had the infinitely wise and Omniscient Supreme, adopted
a principle to mark His natural government, which would
so quickly be demonstrated improper and mischievous?
Was God chargeable with an act oi thougntiessness and
over-sight, in incorporating in His o;overninent a princi-
ple, which put in jeopardy noth the character and well-be-
ing of the whole race? Who will dare to assert these
things? No. He was not taken by surprise. The laws of
His providence, remain unchanged, though man has chang-
ed his relations; and, instead of being the conduit of life,
conveys death to his progeny; instead of being the occa-
sion and centre of bliss, beauty, and glory among the
creatures, becomes the instrument of curse to a ruined
world. The death of infants therefore, like any other de-
rangement, in the natural government of this world, is the
appropriate and legitimate result of Adam's sin, as com-
mitted under the operation of laws, both physical and mo-
ral; which God had unchangeably ordained, and which He
had m0!^t induoitably n risiht so to do.
CHAP. XX I.
<^F HUMAN DEPRA\1TY. 339
There is no manner of necessity, in order to account for
the death of infants to suppose that the sin of Adam becomes
their personal sin, either in respect of its actor its ill desert.
Their death eventuates, according to that law of depend-
ence, which marks the whole government of God in this
world, by virtue of which the consequences of the act of one
man terminate oft-times on the person of another, where
there is not the union of representation. All this is sim-
ple matter of fact, confirmed alike by human observation,
and the Scriptures. It is theory which enters here, and
talks about being identified with Adam, and of the whole
human race being summiod up in him, and being accounted
but one moral person, partaking in all its numerical parts
of the act and ill desert of his sin. How few form any
definite idea of the fact from such theories! Little if any
thing but confusion and perplexity is gained by them.
They fail even iii that for which they are designed. For,
suppose it be admitted, that death is, in every instance,
specifically the punishment of the sin of the individual
in Vk^hom it eventuates, and that, since dying infants have
x\o personal sin, so there is no sin but that of Adam on ac-
count of which they can be punished—what then? Is there
any thing gained by this theory, which makes them par-
takers of his act and its ill desert, as far as it regards the
justice of God? We apprehend not. For, is it not just as
intelligible, and consistent with the justice of God, to
say that the consequences of Adam's sin, appear in the
death of infants, by virtue of the great laivs of develop-
ment and mutual dependences which mark the divine
government in this world, as to say that death being tlie
penalty of the law, the sin of Adam must become really
and truly, that of infants, that, before they can be guilty
of personal sin themselves, they may be justly punished
with death.
390 THE MORAL CERTAINTY cHAP. XXIc
111 the one instance God is simply viewed—without any
prying into His secret thoughts and purposes, as having es-
tablisitcd a constitution through which, if perverted by their
great progenitor, from ivhom they loere to spring, Y/ien
would be naturally rendered sinners, and subjected to the
consequences of such perversion. In tiiis there can be
no impeachment of divine justice. Injury is done to no
one, and there is an awful exhibition, made of the madness,
and folly, and ruinous tendency, of rebellion. The de-
scendants of the first rebel, as they are evolved from him,
alikepartakeof his constitutional nature, and are subjected to
the consequences of his doings. They are introduced into be-
in<>;. under ilie operation of causes which render sin, suffering,
and death, morallv certain, and this, as to fact, is as far
.\s anv one can venture to go upon this subject, whatever
his theory may be.
In the other instance, God is viewed d.s punishiiig those
who have no personal sins, for no faults of their oion, and,
to give such a procedure the semblance ofjustice as to them,
as having adopted an expedient in what is called *'the union
of representation." But on what is this alledged 'hinion
of representation," founded? It cannot certainly be arbi-
trary. There must be some ostensible ground for it. That
is to be found in the relationship existing between Adam
..'-id his offspring, i. e. in the fact of their descent or de-
velopment from him.
Eventually, therefore, when the idea of the imputation
of sin, comes to be sifted and examined, it amounts to no-
ticing more nor less, than what we have said about the con-
sequences of the act of one man, terminating on another, by
virtue of that law of mutual dependence, which marks the
government of God. But, since the phrase is by no means
unambiguous—has been misapprehended —is objected to by
many—and has led to disputes among those, who agree as
to the substantial fact.s of revelation, is it not safer to decline
CHAP. XXI. Or liU.MAX DEPRAVITY, 301
the use of a teclinicality, wliich renders so much explanation
necessary^ and does not, after all, meet the diiTiculty contem-
plated ?
^'The union of representation'' is indeed insisted on by
some, as of vital consequence. Rut we think, that here
too is an unnecessary dispute about terms, and their mean-
ing. If, by this, is meant nothing more, than that Adam
did not act exclusively for himself; but tliat his conduct
v/as to determine the character and conduct of those that
should come after him, we will not object. But if it is
meant to designate any positive procedure of God, in which
He made Adam to stand, and required him to act, as the
substitute of the persons of his offspring, numerically con-
sidered and by name—head for head, so that they might
be held, as in commercial transactions, personally liable for
this very sin, as being guilty co-partners with him in it, we
certainly may require other and better proof, than what is
commonly submitted . The prophet complains, in reference
to the generations that had preceded him; -'Our fathers have
sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.''^
^
Will it be contended, that in the eye of God, the father;^
had been constituted the representatives, in this strict
sense, of that generation; so that they were punished for the
fathers' sins, committed before they were born? We pre-
sume not. Our Saviour says, that in consequence of the
forefathers of the Jewish people, in his day, having put the
prophets, &:c. to death, it should be required at the hands of
them, their children or descendants. '<That the blood of all
the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may
be required of this generation, from the blood of Abel un-
to the blood of Zacharias, which perished between the al-
tar and the temple : verily I say unto j'ou, it shall be requir-
ed of this generation."^ Will any one aflirm, that there
v/as 'Hhe union of ^'eprcsentatlon*' there? Or, when it is
1. Lam.v. 7 .
f^. l:Mk-. xi .50, ."il.
392 THE MORAL CERTAINTr cHAP. XXI
said, in the second commandment, that ^God visits the in-
iquities of the fathers upon the children, unto the third and
fourth generations," will it be contended, that this is be-
cause the former stood as the representatives of the latter,
acting, legally, in their name, and for them? We presume
not. And yet stronger language cannot be employed, to
denote the results which follow from Adam's sin, by virtue
of our connection with him. Why, then, must we suppose,
that there is a principle in the one case, different from that
in the other? And tliat what seems to flow out of the
natural relation between parent and children, and to be
the natural consequence of such relation, must be attrib-
uted to a legal union or moral identity, between Adam
and his offspring?
There is, we apprehend, involved in this theory of the
^'union of representation," a principle—or, rather, it grows
out of an assumption, which certainly is not revealed truth,
and whether it be truth at all, perhaps can never be deter-
mined, that no creature possessed of susceptibilities, which
may capacitate it for moral action, can be regarded, 2Xaiiy
T/ioment of its beings but as under the government of law;
so that, if not ye/ able, voluntarily to act for itself, in the
prosecution of its interests, or the manifestation of its sub-
mission, it must be done for it by another, admitted and
recognized in law, as its proper and legal representative.
This assumption relates to the conduct of God Himself,
as though, by the very act of creating a rational being. He
must, as the great moral governor, provide for its being
dealt ^vith, at every moment of its existence, and having its
destinies determined, according to law, if not in its own
person,, and for its own acts, in the person and for the acts
of its legal representative. Will any one say, that such
an obligation on God, does, in fact, exist?
It is very manifest, that those things are sot believed by
m^rty. vv'bom. ncygrthclcss, wc cannot but recognize as the
CHAP. XXI. 0¥ HUM.Vi\ DEPRAVITY, ^^g
children of God. Why tlien contend about speculative
principles, or theories, according to which one man and an-
other prefers weaving together the facts of scripture—when
if technicalities and theories were laid aside, it would be
found, that all are agreed, as to the matter of fact? If a
man will confess, that the transaction of God with our first
parents, was such as to affect the whole human race;—that
it is in consequence of their sin that we all die;—that it is
most certain too, that as soon as we are capable of moral
agency, we become guilty of actual sin;—and that such is
the condition, or state of things, under which men are born
into this world, that they will universally and voluntarily
perpetuate the rebellion of the first pair, without some oth-
er agency than was originally employed to prevent it,
—
what more can be desired by the most strenuous advocate
of such technicalities, as the representative character of
Adam, the imputation of sin, sinning in Adam, falling with
him, original sin, the corruption of our whole nature, and
the like? Mast a man be denounced as having denied the
faith —be branded with the charge of heresy, and be sub-
jected to all the fears, and suspicions, and evil speaking,
which must thence arise, affecting alike his reputation and
usefulness, merely because he does not express himself in
terms, consecrated by long usage, but terms of man^s in-
venting, while he nevertheless admits every fact that can
be established, either by scripture or observation? Is it"'
right, does it at all savour of the spirit of Christianity, to
declaim against him, as having broken his ordination vows,
merely because he does not think it expedient to adopt the
language of the Confession of Faith; which, like all other
living languages, has suffered from the changes continually
taking place in the signification of w^ords, while he admits
and believes, that the ^'system of doctrine," as set forth in
that confession, when its terms are fairly and properly un-
50
394 Tlii: MORAL CERTAtSTt t;HAP. XXI.
derstood, is agreeable to the sacred Scriptures? Does his
ordination vow, bind him alwaj^s to express his views of
the great facts of Scripture, in the language of the confes-
sion ? Assuredly it does not. And if a man admits the
grand essential y«^/<y of revelation, though he may even ob-
ject against human technicalities, yet ought we to receive
him as a brother. The Bible has not thrown tliose facts
together into systematic order, and required us to adopt it.
Why, then, shall we be so tenacious of technical terms, and
systematic arrangement of truth, when, perhaps, there may
be much, if not of false philosoph}-, at least of human im-
perfection in both.
These remarks are not made, because of any dislike or
hostility towards Confessions of Faith, much less towards
our own, as a convenient instrument of ecclesiastical fellow-
ship, butto guard againstthesubstitution&exaltation o^such
fellowship, to the exclusion and injury of thatwhich is c/i7'is-
/ea/i.TCe experience ofthe church has shewn, that submission
to formularies, though m.ost rigidly enforced, cannot secure
the spirit of Christianity, or even perfect unity of sentiment
amonga people. It is the unity of the Spirit alone, which con-
stitutes the effectual and eternal bond; but that, instead of be-
ing promoted, is impaired by zealous contentions for tech-
nicalities, and set forms of speech, without fraternal fellow-
ship to ascertain, as heart beats in unison with heart, whe-
ther, and hovv^ far, there is accordance in the belief of the
grand essentials of our religion. It is for the faith of the
gospel, that we are earnestly to contend; but that has refer-
ence io fads of revelation, and not to the theories or tech-
nicalties, which men have thrown around them.
Ifitbesaid that infants die, in consequence of some 2??Aer-
ent taintf or/j^T/.y/c^/disorder in their moral susceptibilities,
derived by natural generation from Adam, rendering them
personally guilty, and dcso^ving oi damnation, before their
own actual sin, the idea is certainly different. But this, as--
CHAP. XXI. .
OF HUMAN DEPRAVm-. 3f)5
suredly, will not be affirmed.^ For the apostle docs manifest-
ly speak of death, aseventuating in every instance.a^ /Ae co??-
sequence ofthe one offence, not of the offence of the individ--
ualdying,butofthe first man. "Through the offence of one/'
say s he,"many be dead. " "By one man's offenc.e,death reign-
ed by one." ''The judgment was by one (offence) to con-
, demnation"—'-'by the offence of one, judgment cam.e upon
all men to condemnation."^ Nothing, therefore, can be in-
ferred from the death of infants, as to any personal partici-
pation in the act and criminality of Adam's sin, requiring
or justifying it; nor as to any inherent or physical depravity.
Death is the natural and legitimate consequence of the first
sin of Adam. It eventuates by virtue of the constitution
ordained with him.
But does not this conclusion militate against the revela-
tions of God? Paul has said, that ''death reigned over
Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned, after
the similitude of Adam's transgression. "^' It is taken for
1. Perhaps we are too sanguine in thus thinking. For Dr. Green, whose
opinions are quoted as authority by some, has indorsed a theory on the sub-
ject of the derivation of dcpray-.ty, at variance with sucli an idea, and as de-
.
serving of chief consideration. He lioids the foUowir.g extraordinary lan-
guage, at the weakness and absurdity of which, we know not whether to
smile or frown:—*'lf we must speculate, and form a theory on this subject/'
says he, (he had just before affirmed, ''that the soul \stwt created impure")
"the saftst and most ratio.val Is, to suppose that all snuls were created at
thebeglnningcfthe world; that tney remain in a quiescent state, till the
bodies which they are to inhabit are formed; that, on union with these bod-
ies, they receive all their original impressions, by means of the external
senses; that the whole system ofbodily appetites and propensities, with the
fancy or imagination which is closely connected with them, having become
ia-regular, excessive, and perverted by the fall, do uxavoii.ablt corrupt
the soul, and enslave it to sin."—Christian- Adtocate, Vol. 3, p. 530.
Whether this "theory" has been borrowed from the Erachmincal Mytholo-
gv, or the Stoical philosophy, which represent the soul of man to be of pure
celestial origin, an emanation from the Deity, but corrupted by its union
with grosser matter, our readers may conjecture. The facts of Scripture
need no theories for illustration, suggested by heathen mythology.
2. Rom.v, 15. IG, 17.18, 3. Rom. v. 14
Qg^ VHE MOHAL certainty CHAP. XXI.
granted by many, that infants are here referred to, and that,
as they arc said to have sinned, while incapable of actual
or voluntary sin, it must be, that the apostle contemplates
cither physical depravity, or personal moral ill desert, or
both, since, only by some essential derangement of the
moral susceptibilities, or a participation in Adam's sin,
could thri/ be said to have "sinned." But does the apos-
tle speak of infants at all? As he evidently speaks of hav-
ing ^'sinned,''' wiiich is an action, we might thence pre-
sume, that he is referring to the acts of voluntary agents,
and the more especially, because he seems to deny only a
formal resemblance between Jidani's transgression, and
the sin of those, to whom he refers.
If, however, we look into the context, we shall find, that
the fact of death's reigning "over those that had not sin-
ned, after the similitude of Adam's transgression," is cited
in proof of another fact, viz:—that there was a laio exis-
tent from Adam to Moses, though it did not at all resem^
hie that which Adam had violated. The law, which Ad-
am had violated, was 2i positive precept, superadded to the
law which was engraven on his heart. Such was not the
law from Adam to Moses. But still he teaches that there
was a law, and confirms it by the fact, that sin was in the
world. Men actually did sin during that period. But it
is not the procedure of God, or the dictate of common
sense, to account, that there either is or can be sin, wdiere
there is no law. ''Sin is not imputed, where there is no
law."^ His object seems to be, to support his assertion,
viz: —that, by virtue of the sin of our first parents, men
had become sinners, and were righteously subjected to
death —there having been a law Vvdiich they had violated,
notwithstanding it was not of the same formal character,
with that which Adam had transgressed, and for the viola-
^. liom. V. IS
CHAP. XXI. OT HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 397
tioii of which, death miglit be most righteously, as it was
actually, inflicted on them that had not sinned, after
the similitude of Adam's transgression. We can, there-
fore, see no reason to suppose, that the apostle uses the
word sin here, in a sense, contrary to his own definition of
it, as being ''the transo-ression of the law^'^—the act of a
voluntary being, under the government of law;—and, if so,
there is no room for the supposition, that he is here speak-
ing of infants.
What he says of "sin dwelling in" him, &c. has been al-
ready explained.
Having, therefore, as we think, shewn, that there is no-
thing decisively to be objected from the death of infants,
against the views presented in the preceding chapters,—that
they are, in fact, not under the actual government of law,
but merely under the providential rule of the great Crea-
tor—and that there is nothing, in the facts and language of
scripture, to confirm the idea of there being something cre-
ated in us, and born with us, w^hich, prior to all voluntar}'
acts, constitutes us really sinners in the sight of God, we
return from this digression, and proceed to trace the law of
development yet further, as it operates to secure the
guilt of personal sin, as soon as the individuals become
moral agents.
With instincts operating, sensations experienced, and no-
thing more than passions or feeling developed, tlie infant
has not yet actually become a moral agent, and, consequent-
ly, possesses no moral character. It has not risen above the
level of the mere animal. Intellection must be superadded,
at least to such a degree, as that the individual shall have
knowledge of law, before that it can become a subject of law.
Man differs from the entire animal creation beside, in that
he is possessed of capacities, which are designedly fitted
for the lofty enjoyments and purposes of the knowledge
39S 'I'^^'F^ MORAL CERTAINTY CIIAP. XXI.
and communion of God. The development of these capa-
cities, however, is effectuated by means of external and ma-
terial objects, and it is not until the child has been so far ac-
customed to associations of thought, clear perceptions, ac-
curate observation, careful comparison and abstraction, as to
be able to form'an idea of something, not perceptible by his
senses, and to employ some sensible object as its repre-
sentative or image, that it can have the idea of God. This
occurs, at a m.uch earlier period than some apprehend. A
child, whose sensations have been vivid, and perceptions
clear, can soon form the idea of an efficient cause, and with
this, by familiar comparisons, associate the ideas of various
moral qualities, which, together, will give the complex no-
tion of God,
We are not concerned to trace, in the regular process of
intellectual education, the development of the different
capacities, w-hich fit man for such knowledge, to which
every child with or without the aid of designed teaching
by instructors, is subjected. They are only some general
facts, wiiich are pertinent. No one can have failed to ob-
serve, that those objects, which produce pleasureable sen-
sations, are apt to engage the attentio7i most, and secure
the most accurate perceptions, and that in proportion to the
vivid character of the sensation, will be the discriminating
character of the perception. In like nianner such sensa-
tions, with their associated thoughts, will be most frequent-
ly recalled, and most indelibly recollected. The vivid
character of the sensation, may, indeed, in som.e measure,
depend upon the susceptibilities of the organs of sense.
It is the susceptibility of the mind as to pleasure or pain
however, wJiich secures the interested attention requisite
to an accurate knowledge, and retentive recollection of the
object. In olher Vvords, just in proportion as feeling is
awakened, or cNcilcd; will be the degree of interested at-
CHAP. XXI. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 39 f^
tention, and the probability of the objects not being forgot-
ten. And what is true of objects as productive of thought,
is also true of subjects, or of those ideas, which the mind
forms or arrives at for |ts^lf, by its comparisons and de-
ductions. Such is the law of our nature, and we cannot
alter it.
Impressions and passions, or feelings, rouse to ac-tion.
But there is given to th3 mind of man, a power of balan-
cing, deliberating, and suspending action, till a full and
correct judgment is formed. That judgment must always
be, according to the character, or degree of correct know-
ledge acquired. If it is thought that an object, or action
will be promotive of our interest, or happiness, there will
be a strong determining influence to seek, on»resolve upon
it. And as it is a law of our nature, tliat we act according to
the influence of prevalent motive, so it is manifest, that if
the judgment in the case, should not be the result of suf-
ficiently accurate, and extensive, knowledge of the cha-
I'acter of the object, or action, or of their tendency to bene-
fit us, so as to counteract the influence of impressions or
feelings inclining to it, the choice or purpose and conduct
af the individual will err, and be found eventually at war
with his real interest.
And here we may remark, that in most cases of practical
bearing, the judgment which we form as to the fitness or
unfitness of an object or action to benefit us, is the result,
not of mere speculative knowledge or intellectual percep-
tions, but actual experience. The child may be told, and
it may even be demonstrated to him, that an object or ac-
tion will prove injurious; but no'.hing that he can licar, and
learn in this way, will be so efficient in preventing the
choice of it, as the actual experience of its injurious ten-
dency. The object may be very attractive, its impressions
very pleasant, and its vvliole appearance so imposing, as to
produce the conviction of its being calculated tv h:^ncfit., and
400 'i'i^ MOUAL CERTAINTY CHAP. xxr.
that in so strong a degree, as actually to prevent that close
observation, and those discriminatingperceptions, which are
necessary to a fuller knowledge of it, and which, if had,
would counteract its illusions. The child will not be effect-
ually prevented from catching at the flame of the candle,
till it has burned its little hand. The knowledge thus
gained by experience, will exert a more efficient influence,
than all it had acquired from the frowns and prohibitions
and other demonstrations of its nurse.
Now, every htrr-ian being is brought into existence un-
der the operation of these and similar laws of his very
nature, a'.'! that too, under circumstances altogether un-
favourable to the acquisition of the knowledge necessary
to determine j^lways to conduct promotive of hisreal benefit.
Sensible objects first appear, and caress his attention, and
attract and win his heart. There is a strong bias towards
them produced by the pleasure afforded, and the indul-
gence allowed, before that intellect has been sufficiently
developed to discover their real character, and their bear-
ing on his true happiness. There is, moreover, a particu-
lar readiness or inclination to experiment for himself, and
to learn jyrcrc/icft//?/, rather than to take the word of one
more competent to judge.
Thus was it in some respect with our first parents while
innocent, and it was on this very principle of their nature,
that Satan operated successfully to secure their sin and ruin.
The influence of passion, excited by the view of the fruit,
and conversation with the tempter, becoming prevalent, and
not Ijcing counteracted by any knowledge of evil which
our first mother derived from the law or prohibition
of God, the readiness to experiment and practically to
know for herself, overpowered her faith in the testimony
of God, and she plucked and ate the forbidden fruit. It
was uiMnifc^ily, in her, the triumph of her sensitive over
her intellectual iialure. Ller i^u'^sions and appetites pre-
CHAP. XXI. OF HUMAN DEPRAVITY^ 40t
vailed, notwithstanding she was in possession of an under-
standing fully developed, and furnished with demonstra-
tive knowledge.
Need we then think it strange—Is it not most natural,
that her offspring should successively make the same fatal
error, especially when they are placed in circumstances
vastly more unpropitious than she was, having in fact been
brought under the strong influence of sensitive indulgence,
before that their intellectual powers have been sufficiently
developed, to discern and know the will, or law of God
—
which declares what is holy, good, and true, and to be sought,
and what is evil, and ruinous, and to be avoided? The
mere knowledge of God, and of His law, intellectually ac-
quired, has to combat with the strong influence of passion,
impelling, oftimes, to what is prohibited, so that, from the
very first moment in which the child begins to act, there
takes place a manifest derangement in the exercise of its
moral powers, or of those capacities and susceptibilities,
which fit it for moral action. It becomes a sinner, there-
fore, most naturally: —nothing, indeed, can be more natu-
ral than such a result, considering all the circumstances un-
der which it is placed. And yet there is no absolute neces-
sity, arising out of the constitution of its being, or from the
presence of some latent, intangible cause, or foundation,
wrought into tiie very structure of the human soul. But,
when it becomes a sinner; or, in other words, when it first
commits sin, it does it most voluntarily. For what is it to
act voluntarily, but to act according to the prevalent mo-
tive? The man naturally, and without resistance, yields to
the motive, which, at the time, seems to him to be most im-
portant, and to have the most direct bearing on his pleasure
or happiness. In so far as he has power to weigh and bal-'
anee the several motives for or against an action, is he
actually and perfectly free. This power, however, it nrnst
be obviou?, will never be brought into (i\\l e'nergv. whoiflr
51
4G3. THE MOliAL CERTAIXTY CHAP. XXI.
the passions and affections, through ignorance and inattention^,
possess such a flattering and engrossing influence, as to make
a trifling and sensual gratification, outweigh an eternal in-
heritance. Yet such is the situation in which man is' placed,
when he is liist called, as a moral and accountable creature
to act. The motives drawn from sensible objects, have air-
ready been operative, and gratification has been found in
the indulgence of snnse. The affections and passions'
have been developed, and already excited, and put into
that tendency to action, which we may commonly call
the will. The knowledge of God, and of His law, acquired
in the development of further and intellectual powers
of the man, present other, higher, and opposing objects of
« pursuit. At flrst, they are but partially known, and under •
these disadvantages, the moral being is called to decide,
whether the rational mind shall rise, and push its conquests
over flesh and sense, aspiring after the joy of communion
with God; or, whether animal indulgence and passion, shall
detain it in bondage. Alas, for our wretched, dying race,
the decision never fails to be a fatal one! One generation^
passeth awaj^, and another cometh, while each repeats the.
same ruinous experiment of rebellion against Godl.
-
And all this, is the consequence of the first sin of our guil--
ty progenitors. There it commenced, and the defection
has been propagated through all generations. If it be inquir-
ed, why are human beings placed in circumstances so unpro*
pitious?—Why are they left thus to perish, in thick and
rapid succession?~Our only reply is, that God saw fit to
adopt, as the rule of Ilis providence, the law of develop-
meat and mutual dependence, for the production of the vast
family of man. This lie had, unquestionably, a right to do;^
and the captious inquirer might, with the very same propri-
ety, ask, why the same law extends throughout the whole an-
imal and vegetable kingdoms. The Most High giveth no
account of His proceedings. It h.ath seemed good to Him^.
OHAP. XXI. OP HUMAN DEPRAVITY. 403
thus to ordain his government in this world; and, but fur the
rebellion of our first parents, the very same law of the divine
agency, would have been as effjcient in the production of
holiness; for the development of human beings, and their
powers, would have been conducted under circumstances as
adverse, as they are how favorable to sin.
That rebellion has deranged the whole issuesof this devel-
oping process, and converted our first parents, who were
ordained to be a channel of life and purity, into that of death
and corruption to their progeny. Earth had been, forever,
a vast Aceldamer, the charnel house of our rebellious race,
where nought but misery, corruption, and death had been
developed, had it not pleased the infmite and adorable Crea-
tor, to provide a new fountain head of influences, and ordain
the Lord Jesus Christ to be a second Adam, that as all united
to the first by ordinary generation, become partakers of
death, so all united to Him by regeneration, should be par-
takers of eternal life.
From him, the process of development commences in a
new series, and as tlie powers of the renovated man are
unfolded, his corrupt exercises cease, and the individual is
recovered from the influence of depravity, there is no estimate
ins the loftv attainments in holiness, to which he shall rise.
He came, not only that we might have life, but that we
might have it more abundantly. The life that was to flow
originally to men, was to pass through the narrow channel
of our great progenitor's capacities, but now, *^as the Fa-
ther hath life in Himself, so hath he given to the Son, to
have life in Himself,^ that He may give it to whomsoever
he will, and of his fulness have all we received, and grace
for grace.
^'^
If God sh^ll see fit to bring the infant mind, before its
powers have been developed, into connection with the bles-
1. John V, 26. 2. John i, l-4n
4t4r TftE MORAL CERTAINTY, &c. CHAP. xxr.
sed Redeemer, as He probably does, in the case of
those that die in infancy, and let the developing process,
be in the high and holy exercises of those redeemed by
His blood, and elicited by circumstances, inconceivably
propitious to happiness and holiness;—or, if he brings the
rebel mind, already arrayed in opposition to His govern-
ment, to submit to His sway, and believe upon His Son, and
then commence its renovated life, and high career of glory,
to Jesus must be all the honor and all the praise ascribed.
Great and ineffable will His glory appear, as it shall be
seen, that man has risen from a state of mere emptiness and
wants, from the lowest and despicable of beginnings, to
such a degree of perfection, that there shall not be found a
creature so lofty, as to excite his envy, or so low as to be
treated with disdain;—and that thus, upon the very same
principle, which the first rebel perverted to misery, cor-
ruption and death, God has raised, and purified, and enlarg-
ed the capacities of poor, degraded, fallen man, to the high-
est conceivable and possible degree of holiness and bliss.
Oh, the depths of the wisdom and goodness of God! How
unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding
CHAPTER XXir.
THE NECESSITY AND CAUSE OF REGEN-
ERATION.
The necessity of a change of heart infemblc from the fact of total depra-
vity—The present disqualification of the impenitent sinner for the hap-
piness of Heaven—A comparison of Christ's and the world's philosophy
on this subject—His conversation with Nicodemus, John iii. 2 8 The
evidence which substantiates the fact—The special and direct influence
of the Spirit its only satisfactory cause—Some attempts to refer it to
natural causes—Two remarks preliminary to an examination of some of
them—1. Conversion not the natural effect of early EDrcATro:!^—3,
Nor of THE DISCIPLINE OF ciHCUMSTAjiTCEs—3. Nor of the power of
strong- BELIEF to HEALizE the thing believed—Two remarks as to all the
hypotheses, which admit not the special and direct agency of the Spirit
The attempt to identify Baptism and Regeneration.
We have seen that the moral exercises of man are de-
ranged; and that instead of the capacities of his nature, his
powers of mind and the affections and passions of his heart,
being carried forth in harmonious exercise towards God,
as the supreme good, —in which consists his spiritual life,
there is an awful disorder prevailing, in which the world
has usurped the place of God; and while it attracts and
binds the thoughts and purposes and desires of the soul, to
what is altogether inappropriate, excites an aversion and
hatred to the former, evincive of a radical derangement
—
a total depravity. With the restoration of their disorder-
ed powers and affections to appropriate and harmonious
action, or in other words, their being actually brought in-
to blissful play around God as the great centre, and spring
of all our delights, commences spiritual life.
Whatever objections, therefore may have been urged
against tfie necessity of a change of heart; from the alleg-
406 THK NECESSITY AND CAUSE CHAP. XXII.
ed virtue of man, it is obvious, that, being based entirely
on false grounds, they cannot lie. Assuredly no one will
pretend, that, take man as we find him—the subject of va-
rious sinful passions and emotions, which bind him down
to earth, and render hirn forgetful, neglectful, and hateful,
W'ith respect to God, —he is, or can be qualified for a hap-
py entrance into Heaven. Remove the impenitent sinner
to the bright scenes of bliss and glory, that fill with
transports of delight, the ^'spirits of just men made per-
fect," and he could not be happy. Hii3 heart is altogether
enattuned to such scenes. No chord in his soul vibrates in
unison with the soft melody of the skies. The nearer his
approach to the infinitely Holy and righteous One, the more
intense must become his misery, while his heart retains
its enmity against Him. We need not conjure out of the
strong metaphorical language of scripture, an Hell of ma-
terial flame for the torturing of the damned.
Every impenitent sinner carries the elements of Hell
in his own bosom, and all that is wanting to the perfection
of his misery, is to place him in circumstiinces, where the
various passions and affections now elicited by prohibited
objects, and modified by his aversion from God, shall be
^fully developed. If the dim and very imperfect view,
which the sinner, in this world, has of the character of
God, oftimes lashes into fearful and hellish excitement,
the pride, and rage, and malice of his soul, and throws
liim into paroxysms of despair and anguish; how much
more intense will be these things, when the scenes of earth
shall recede, and the veil which now covers the eternal
world, slinll be removed, and ha shall see, as in full blaze,
the grandeur and glory—the brilliant lustre of Jehovah?
Oh how will the poor soul recoil, and prey upon itself,
with the most agonizing rcfiections, when it shall be'brought
to'see aiul know, who and wliat He is, against whom.it
rebelled, how holy, and just, and righteous, and true, 'aiid
I.mi7ii"ila5."l-c are his judgments]
CHAP. XXII. OF REGEXERATIOX. 4O7
The truth i^, eternal punishment arises out of the very
canstitution of the mind itself. While under the influence*
and controling power of its selfishness and its enmity
against God, it is not, it cannot be at ease and happj^.
And if man, when the veil of sense is thrown around him,—
>
as it is here, in the first stage of his existence, —to blunt his
perceptions of the vivid and appalling glory of the Divine
Beingy—with his very partial and imperfect knowledge of
the divine character, begins, as soon as he is capable of act-
ing, to sliew his aversion; if, when he is placed under cir-
cumstances' so favourable for repressing and subjugating his
enmity against God, it promptly, and characteristically,
and efiiciently, displays itself, can we anticipate any thing,
else in relation to him, than that unless a change of heart takes
place, —unless he here actually and entirely lays aside his
enmity, he will continue through all eternity to hate God,
and thus torture himself as he shall not fall to make clearer
and fuller discoveries of the absolute and entire opposition
of the divine nature to him? It is as contrary to common
sense, and sound philosophy,, as It is to the sacred Scrip-
tures to anticipate future happiness for man without ar
change of heart. The dead soul must spiritually live, be-
fore there can be either securit}^ or bliss.
This is seen and felt by some, who look, with closer ob-
servation and more discerning eye, an the character and can-
dition of man by nature, than tlie sighing sentimentalists,,
who, in their poetic visions, descry in him, but perfect
purity, or at least perfectibility, without divine influences.
The necessity of some moral transformation,, or renovation
is admitted, butinstead of hearkening to the unerring word
of God, which reveals the great Almighty Agent—the
Holy Splilt whose life-giving influence alone efiectuates ity
they resort to the theories of a false and impertinent phi-
losophy, 0!'toa miserable and degrading superstition. It may-
be well; bcfoi'e we trace lhc-'liifiu.ence of- the spirit,, in pro*
408 THE NECESSITY AND CAUSE cHAP. XXII-
ducing this change of heart in man, to notice some of the
theories, which philosophy and superstition have embra-
ced, in order to account for, or evade the force of scripture
testimony, as to the reality and necessity of a change of
heart.
The blessed Redeemer states, in the most unequivocal
terms, the fact of a moral transformation of character be-
ing both real and necessary, in order to enter into the
kingdom of Heaven, or bring us under the gracious gov=
ernment of God; and that this transformation, is produced
through the immediate and special agency of the Holy
Spirit. Under whatever aspect it is contemplated, wheth-
er in the voluntary exercises of the living soul, in the
spiritual graces of faith, repentance, love, and the like seve-
rally, or whether in the relative series of these vital ex-
ercises, the Spirit of God is proclaimed to be its author.
Call it regeneration, new birth, new creature, change of
lieari, renovation, or by whatever expression it may be
designated, still the agency of the Spirit of God, is assigned
as its great and appropriate, its direct and immediate cause.
The fact is as perfectly ascertainable, as capable of being
subjected to the attention and apprehension of man, as the
wind, though as inscrutable as it regards the modus ope-
randi.
Such is the philosphy of the Saviour. With the evi-
dence of the fact, He requires us to rest satisfied, provided
it is sufficient, even though we may not be able, in any
metaphysical analysis, to unfold the specific nature of that
agency, by which the Spirit produces those remarkable
transformations of character which commence in Regene-
ration. In this respect He shews the superiority of his,
to the systems of human philosophy. They induce a
thousand fruitless speculations, and excite such ardour, in
quest of what is not to be discovered, as oftimes to pro-
duce disas-iro'is effects. Thev lead into sneh puiTif^rous
CHAP. xxir. OF ItEGEN-BRATION. 409
doubts, and bewildering perplexity, so torture with uncer-
tainty and conjecture, and superinduce such a frightful
gloom on the mind itself, that for its own relief, it oft-
times gladly seizes some fantastic theory, and yields to its
guidance in hope of escape, —as the lone traveller, led
by successive shrubs and flowrets into the forest's depths,
till lost in tho darkness of night he hopes to retrace his
steps by the light of deceitful fires, that dance around his
path. How much of human philosophy consists in wild
conjectures about things which cannot be discovered I
How are the mind's energies and the precious moments of
a ileeting life, wasted in mere bewildering speculations!
The Saviour, if we will submit to his philosophy^ sub-
jects us to no such loss of time or efforts, but tells us at
once, thus far shall thou go, but no further—here let
thy proud reasonings be stayed. *^
Who art thou,
vain man, that repliest against God?" The conversation
of Christ with Nicodemus, may be said to have been al-
together of a philosophical character. The topic was the
very theme which now engages our attention, the great
fact of the regeneration of a sinner, one of those
striking phenomena, which the gospel reports, and which
we observe occurring in the moral history of some that
hear it. Nicodemus seems to have been of an inquisitive,
and reflecting mind. He had not yielded to the prejudi-
ces of his sect and day, against Christ; but, having collected
a number of facts which had occurred in His history, and
having subjected them, and the evidence which substantiat-
ed them, to the strictest investigation, had arrived at the
conclusion, that Ho was ^^a teacher come from God.'' The
works performed by Him he saw to be of such an extraordi-
nary character, as to be inexplicable on a^iy of the knoion
laws of nature, or on^any other supposition than that of
the divine presence and (Jb-«perat?ion with Him. " Rabbi?
we know that thau tit a teacher come froih God, for no
k
410 i'll'^ KECESSITY A^D CAUSE CUAV. XXII.
one can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be
with Him. "^
Impressed with this very rational idea, he desired some
instru(^tion from Him. The blessed Saviour at once an-
nounced the fact and^ necessity of rcgeneratloiu ^^ Ex-
cept a man be born again, he cannot enter into the king-
dorti of God." The thing was altogether incomprehensi-
ble by Nicodemus. How a man could be horn again
was a question, which neither his Pharisaism, nor his phil-
osophy could answer. The Saviour, to relieve his mind
from fruitless speculations, assured him that the change was
indeed a real one, of which he spake, and so explained
the phraseology he had employed, as to shew that he was
making use of a metaphorical expression, and should be
understood as designating some change in the spiritual
character of man analogous with that: (which takes place
in his animal functions) at birth. " Verily, verily, I say
unto you, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit,
he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is
born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the
Spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, ye must
be horn again.''
The wzoc^e of the Spirit's efficiency in regeneration He
states, is beyond the reach of inquiry. It is like every
other mode of divine agency altogether inexplicable; and
therefore not a legitiniate subject of investigation. The
evidence of the fact was sufficient. That was the w^ord of
Christ, which upon Nicodemus' own principles, and by
virtue of his professed conviction that He was a teacher
com,e from, God, he was bound to believe. At the same
time the more effectually, and speedily, to check his use-
less curiosity, and induce his faith, the Saviour remarked,
that in requiring him to believe the fact, while he re-
1 . iTohH, ili^S S.
VHAP. XXII. O'P REGENERATION. 411
ihained Ignorant of Lhe 7node in which the Spirit, to whose
p-sency he attributed it, accomplished it, he required no-
thing more than what he willingly conceded, every day,
in relation to objects in the material world. He never
doubted the reality of the wind which howled around his
dwelling, and yet w^ith all his philosophy he could not in-
vent a satisfactory theory with regard to its origin. *' The
wind," said the Saviour, "bloweth where it listeth, and thou
hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell, whence it
conieth, or whither itgoeth; so is every one tbat is born
of the Spirit." He believed in its existence, because of
the report which his senses made to him, and was satisfied
with this evidence, though ignorant of almost every thing
else in relation to it. Why could he not do the same
with regard to the fad of regeneration? H-e had the tes-
timony of a '^ teacher come from God,'^ whose testimony
in the case was, undoubtedly, as sufficient as the truth of
(.fod itself, to secure his belief, though he could not under-
stand the pi'ecisc mode hy which tli£ Spirit produced the
change.
The gospel is thus found to be in exact accordance with
.sound philosophy; so that, whoever refuses to believe the
Saviour's doctrine of regeneration, only shov»'s how unphi-
losophical is his infidelity. The only point on which it
can be lawful, on philosophical principles, to hesitate, is,
the evidence of the fact. We are not to be, too credulous,
and believe every thing reported to us for fact. We owe it
to our rational nature, to see that the facts, or phenomena
reported, are supported with sufficient proof. Eut, b<iing
once satisfied v/ith that proof, any difficulty^ in solving
these facts, or phenomena, can never authorize us lo dis-
believe their reality. Now, the evidence adduc^ in sup-
port of the fact of regeneration, is that of testimony; and
in the case of the individuals renewed, there is superadded
t]\at of^jpnseiousncss.or expexienoe^,The9,um of tjhe evidence
41^ THt NECESSITY A^iD CAUSE oHAP. XXfJ.
on the subject, amounts to this.—The God of truth declares,
that such an entire and radical change of men's disposi-
tions and habits, —such a thorough transformation of their
thoughts, feelings, purposes and conduct, as to make them
exhibit a new life, (which is therefore, very appropriately
termed regeneration, or being born again,) is effected by
the DIRECT AND SPECIAL ageiiCTj of the Spirit of God, In-
dividual sinners add their testimony to that of God, and
declare, ih^i such a change has been wrought on them, and
furnish, in their sudden conversion and subsequent life,
sufficient proof that it is even so.
Itwillnotdoforan objectortosay,"Ihaveneverexperienc-
edsuchachange,and,Merr/ore, there is no such thing." The
conclusion is gratuitous. Ten thousand well attested cases of
sudden and extraordinary conversion may be cited. They
crowd upon us in every direction . From Saul of Tarsus, down
to Newton and Scott, of modern da3^s; and in every of those
numerous revivals of religion, whicli bless the churches in
this land, wc may meet authentic instances oi sudden, en-
tire, and THost extraordinary transformations in the mo-
ral character of individuals, to account for which, no cause
50 satisfactor}'' can be assigned, as that which the blessed Sa-
viour states, viz: —the efficacious grace and influence of the
Holy Spirit. The fact, that some such changes do take
place, cannot be denied. The sceptic, and he who sneers
,at i'^iri'/t/a/ religion, CieYoiio nii\ frames, and christian ex-
perience, cannot resist the evidence of history, and the force
of accumulating testimony, as to the fact of some change,
"whatever may be their theories to account for it. Among
^he most ingenious devices, by wiiich to resist the evidence
of fact, in favour 6f the Spirit's special and direct inflii-
^nctfjistbat, which, li^'ing clothed itself with the sem-
blance of ^ligion, the garh of sanctify, and possessing a be-
lief in the sen^ol infln<*^cp. cf I'^ip Jy^iriL a.nd jr']\}}g nr
CHAP. XXII. OFREGKNERATION^ 41 ^
Christianity, undertakes to trace the fiame-s and feelings of
the converted sinner, exclusively to some natural cause.
The whole strain and spirit of the Saviour's conversa-
tion, appear sufficient to show the fallacy of such a proce-
dure. It is a virtual impeachment of his truth and wis-
dom, to resort to any other supposition, than that which
He has stated to be fact. And wlioever professes to have
extricated the fact of regeneration from all mystery, and
to make the thing perfectly plain, does, in that very cir-
cumstance, furnish presumptive, if not positive proof, that
the regeneration which he inculcates, is essentially differ-
ent from that which Christ taught. But, lest it should
be said, that we demand too unqualified a submission to the
authority of the Scriptures, and reject the lig.ht which men-
tal science furnishes, it may not be improper to notice, dis-
tinctly, some of the more imposing suppositions, which men
of ingenious minds, but enemies of evangelical religion,
have framed, to account for sudden and extraordinary con-
versions, and for the whole of spiritual experience, withn
out admitting the direct and special agency of the divine
Spirit. Thej will all be found inadequate. Laid in the
balance of the Sanctuary, they shall be found wanting. But
to prevent mistake, it is necessary to make one or two pre-
liminary observations.
ThQ first is, that, howaver we may be able to trace the
workings of our own minds, and ascertain the operation of
certain general laws of thought and feeling, in cases of sud-
den and extraordinary conversion, we must bq careful how
we attribute effects of a singular character, to causes, con-
tinually operating without sucTi effects. That tVic Spirit of
God will not violate any established law, by which God
governs mind, in the regeneration of the sinner, but will'
actually make it subservient to his own design and agency,
J? f>?elv acIrhltM^^An^ vet it will, bv no mcp.ns folfb^v,
414 THE NECESSITY AND CAUSE CHA?. XXII.
that there is not a special and peculiar agency, over and
above that which is implied in such general laws. For, if
the ao-eney of the Spirit is only and entirely through, or in
the operation of some universal and established law of hu-
man thought, then, assuredly, we ought to expect, that the
result will be uniform. Transformations of character,
such as the Bible describes, and such as take place in con-
version, must, in this case, occur, as certmnly as these
laws exist and are appealed to, or brought iftto operation.
In i\\G providential government of God, we invariably
expect an uniform result from a general law. Let the
sceptic show why it is, that the transformations of charac-
ter, of which we speak, are so rare, if they are to be refer-
led to the regular operation of universal and established
laws, or natural causes. He is bound to account for their
comparatively iinfrequent occurrence. For, ei:h3r these
conversions njust result from general laws, or particular
accidental combinations of circumstances, if the special and
direct agency of the Spirit is denied. If the former, we
demand that the sceptic, the scoiSng infidel, the hypocriti-
cal formalist, the rational divine, (et idonme gcnus^) shew
what it is, that so prevents the operation of general laws,
as tiiat their rppronrin^e (effects tjccome as rare as excep-
tions. If the latter, then the providence of God must be
denied, or still a special, divine interference in arranging
imd combining those circumstances, must be admitted, so
that notiiing is gained by the supposition; for tlicre is still
:<ome special agency of God, in the conversion of a sinner.
The next observation, relates to the character of the facts,
which are to be referred to the special and efficacious influ-
ence uf the Holy Spirit, as their appropriate cause. They
lire such as the following, viz: —children and youth, appa-
rently free from crlino, and filled witli all tlie "-iddv and
jitit'ternjg fancies of puerile i;iiagi nations, are suddenly op-
CHAP. XXII. OF REGEXEilAi ION. 4I0
pressed with a sense of their own total depravity, and pre-
sently are brought to repent of their sins, and to exercise
a strong and affectionate confidence in God, through the
merits of Christ, which fills them with peace and joy, ami
secures a walk and conversation, according to godliness: —
persons, of adult years, who had lived in utter ignorance
and thoughtlessness about divine things, are suddenly affect-
ed w^ith the same characteristic exercises, producing the
same results; —violent opposers and persecutors of religion,
through the same inward process of conviction and faith.
arc suddenly transformed into its most zealous friends and
advocates:—proud, audacious, and blaspheming infidels,
cold and speculative sceptics, become humble and devoted,
believers: —moralists and religionists, and even acknow-
ledged .ministers of Christ, externally free from blame, are
awakened, and c(nfessing that they had been deceiv-
ing themselves, with outward forms, and utterly igaorant
of a change of heart, evince a deep and heart-felt experi-
ence of the truth:—and all professing the same oppressive
sense of personal guilt, a pacifying confidence in God,
through the merits of the blessed Saviour, and the- deep
feeling of repentance for their sins, and that too, neither in
one country, nor among a particular people, nor in a pecu-
liar combination of circumstances, but throughout the
world, under a ditferent ministry, and missionaries of dif-
ferent sects, savages of our forests, Hottentots, Caffres, Hin-
doos, natives of the Sandwich and Society Isles, Green-
landers, Kamtschadales, "all speaking the wonderful works
of God," and telling ^^vhat He has done for (their) souls.
'^
Other ckssifications of facts might be made, l)ut these arc;
sufficient for our purpose, as they may servo to assist us. iu
tracing the particular hypotheses, by which the infidel for-
malist in religion, attempts to waive., tlio forco of tiie 'irjot
they furnish, i:i favour of the Spirit;.-) work.
41(i THE NECEbSiTV AND CAUSE cHAP. XXII.
1. It is object'cd, that in citing the conversion of children
anti others, as proof of the Spirit's -special and direct agen-
cy, we attrihute to a supernatural influence., both feelings
and conduct, which should, more appropriately, be regard-
ed, as THE EFFECTS OF VERY EARLY EDUCATION. A Very
ingenious and plausible writer, whose object was, to dis-
prove that there was any regeneration, "distinct from Bap-
tism," and to show, that the high church principles and
ultraism of the established Episcopacy in England, were
tliC only safe interpreters and promoters of religion, has en-
deavoured to expose, what he has gratuitously called, "the
evils of making religion consist in abstraction, imaginations
and feelings," and thinks that he has found, in the mel-
anclioly and occasional hallucinations of Cowper's mind, an
ample warrant for his liostiliiy to vital religion, and his most
invidious classifications. "Tlje Esscne and the Evangel-
ical," hesays, ^^appeal to their i;aiural feelings as to a divine
sanction," and "concur lii diveiling religion from influenc-
ing men's conduct, in the business of life, by supplying their
consciences with false, or exaggerated principles of self-ap-
probation and acceptance with God." Now this is false,
as regards the matter of fact, and betrays, altogether,
unpardonable ignorance on a subject, on which the writer,
and those that retail his ingenious trifling, ought to be
better informed.
The Evangelical does not appeal to his natural feelings,
as to a divine sanctionyihou^h he does regardfeeling^j ap-
propriately characterized and estimated, by the infallible
standard of Bible truth, to be an essential niid indispensa-
ble part and evidence of true religion. To trace the in-
fluence of natural feelings and susceptibilities, which the
Spirit employs and excites, in the conversion of a sinrter,
©r, to uiscern goitie remote analogies between them, and
cthsr :ran5icrmati-n^ pf character which t^ik'e place, and
CHAP. XXII. Of' REGENERATION. 4\i
are, confessedly, not religious, are not sufficient to disprove
the /act of the Spirit's special agency in producing them,
in opposition to the plain and solemn declarations of the
word of God.
That 7'eUgions education, in eliciting and directing the
natural susceptibilities of a child, may have an influence in
shaping its cliaracter and feelings, we freely admit. And
so important is that influence, as we believe, that no chris-
tian parent can neglect the religious instruction of his chil-
dren, without subjecting himself to the charge of worse
than murderous barbarity, towards the souls of his offspring.
But, in making this admission, we affirm, that whatever
influence it has in the permanent formation of truly chris-
tian character, is owing to the special agency of the divine
Spirit, and not to any general law of nature, by which that
agency is universally and equally diffiised. For, if it be a
general influence, according to a fixed and undeviating law
of nature, on the result of an appeal to it, we may calcu-
late with the utmost certainty. We may, undoubtedly,
and most legitimately expect, that, in all cases, the same
appeals will secure the same results. This, however, is
not the fact.
But, even on the supposition of the efficiency of a re-
ligious education, should we admit that on its result in the
conversion of children, we may calculate with the utmost
certainty, it behooves the objector to shew, whence that
efficiency is derived, and whether it is not wholly from the
agency of the gracious Spirit of God. The truths of the
Bible, constitute the materiel of a religious education.
But these truths constitute the instrument of the Spirit's
agency. It is ^* by the word," we are begotten to a lively
hope, and it is 'through the truth,'' the Spirit sanctifies.
It is, therefore, begging the question, to refer the conver-
sion of children to religious edu(5^tion, as the appropriate
53
4 IS THE NECESSITY AND CAUSE CIIAP. XXII.
efficient cause, when the sacred Scrlj^tures so explicitly
declare, that the truths of the Bible which constitute the
materiel of a religious education, are rendered efficient,
ivholly by the agency of the Spirit; the very thing for
which we plead.
That, in itself considered, what is ordinarily called a re-
ligious education is inefficacious, there are abundant facts
to prove. It, fails under the very same circumstances pre-
cisely in which it takes place. It takes effect in others,
where less advantages are had than where it fails. Of the
former we may refer to an Ishmael in the family of Ab-
raham, and an Absalom in that of David; —and of the lat-
ter, to a Samuel among the sons of Eli, and a Josiah in the
wicked house of Amon. And similar instances occur in
almost every direction. How many pious parents have
to bemoan the froward, ruinous conduct of some one or
more of their children, notwithstanding all their care, and
all the impressions of an early religions education! And
how many lovely youth, like plants of paradise, may be
seen flourishing and yielding the fruits of holiness, in di-
rect opposition to parental influence or domestic example 1
It is a miserable begging of the question —an involuntary
surrender of the point in dispute, to talk of delicacy of
organization, sensitiveness ofmind, puriency of imagi-
natiotiy precocHy of understanding, irritability of
nerves, constitutional malady, and such like things, as
\is\x\^ peculiar in the case of this, and the other child re-
newed by the blessed Spirit, and urge them as satisfactory
solutions' of the change. Will any one, can any one, ma-
king the least credible or decent pretensions to a belieC
in tliC sacred Scriptures, undertake, by such means, to ac-
count for the powerful and revolutionizing impressions
which religious truth Oitea makes on the heart of children,
and youth? The blessed Saviour's own solution of it is
plain 9^d sai:isfact©ry, though it does offend the pcide of
CHAP. MXII. OF REGENERATION-. .4I9
such as disbelieve the special agency of the Divine Spirit,
in the work of conversion. *' I thank thee, Father,
Lord of Heaven and earth, because tliou hast hid these
things from the wise and prudent, and liast revealed them
unto babes; even so Father, because it seemed good in
thy sight.
"^
And if the vivid imaginations, and warm feelings, and
what some are pleased to call the false associations, of
childhood, cannot satisfactorily account for the conver-
sion of children, much less will a sound logician be sa-
tisfied with an attempt to account for those which take
place in more advanced life, by saying that they are hut
the revival of early assoeiations^ which had long faded
from the mind, and " which disappear from the memory at
one period, to re-appear at another.'^
2. To resist the evidence which ihis second class of facts
a'ffords, in favour of the special influence of the Spirit in
the conversion of tlie sinner, the philosophic formalist
summons to his aid, ** the discipline of circumstan-
ces." It is sometimes asserted, that there is a wise and
salutary provision, in the established system of Providence,
for correcting any preponderance of evil, which may arise
out of imperfections, in the work of nature, or process of
education; —and that this provision, is nothing but such a
general disposition of the course of human events, as-'to
produce an experimental conviction of the ill effects on
the individual himseh, of conduct which is mischievous to
others." To this is attributed, by some, the sudden con-
versions whicli take place in men of dissipated habils. It
is somewhat singular however, to hear a strenuous opponent
of human depravity, impeaching the perfection of nature's
works. Nature and e(5ucation are not sufficient. —It would'
be folly to expect so much from //ze^e ^' architects of thB
.>..Mat.x:, 25, 25. .
420 THE NECESSITY A>;D CAUSE CHAP. XXll.
mindy" as a character in which good preponderates over
evil, and therefore the discipline of circumstances must
supply the defect!
Now, admitting, for the sake of argument, the general
position above noticed, —which we are by no means prepa-
red to do, in its full and unqualified extent—it Is a ques-
tion of some moment, and one which our antagonist is
bound to answer, whence does the discipline of circum-.
stances derive its efficiency? That the Spirit of God ope-
rates on the human mind, in accordance with the natural
exercise of its faculties, and the established laws of human
thought;—that He adopts His influence to the outward
circumstances which, in the providence of God, are com-
bined, and calculated to make impressions on the heart;—
-
that the whole process of thought and feeling which goes
on in the mind of a sinner brought from darkness into
light, may be shewn to be consistent with all the laws of
association, which regulate the production of thought;
—
and that the common means of moral improvement, are
rendered efficient without that kind of agency which may
be strictly termed miraculous, may be freely admitted. But
what then? Does the admission of these things necessa-
rily impl}^, that the efficiency of the whole, or any part
of them, in bringing about tiic result, the conversion of the
sinner, is not to be referred to a s])ecial agency of the
Spirit? It is assuming tlie very point in dispute, to talk
confidently of the discipline of circumstances as possessing
an efficient power in changing the sinner's heart from a
preference of sin, to a preference of holiness; from the
love of the world, to the love of God. Especially so,
when the instances, in which the salutary and saving issue
of this discipline, are comparatively so rare. If it be a gen-
eral law, or provision of providence for correcting the de-
fects of nature and education, why are the effects so special
a«d"singular? W*: are in np wise concerned to answer
CHAP. XXTT.
OFREGENEUATIOX. 421
this. Let hlin that objects to the agency of the blessed
Spirit do it, and do it satisfactorily, if he can.
So far from this sort of moral discipline, being in Itself
efTectual to secure the sinner's conversion, it derives its
whole virtue, from the co-operating and saving grace of
the Divine Spirit. The objector is constrained to admit,
that there are different results flowing from the very same
cause, for the diversity of which, by the way, he is bound
to account. To say, that this discipline corrects, in
some, only the offensive display of vice, leaving the prin-
ciples unchanged,—that in others it o^radually improves
the heart, as well as the conduct,—that in a few, it pro-
duces an entire and sudden moral change, is saying just
nothing at all to the purpose. Whence this diversity?
General laws have uniform results. And to refer us to
differences in dejrree, or peculiarity in the combination of
circumstances in special cases, is a mere begging of the
question.
We deny the objector's assertion, however, in the broad-
est and most unqualified manner, and appeal to endless
facts, in support of the negation. Hundreds and thousands
perish, and d^re goaded to destruction, by this very disci--
pline of circumstances. In itself considered, there is no^
thing saving or salutary in it. It only serves to enrage
and exasperate, in a multitude of cases. ^*Why should ye
be stricken any more?" said the prophet, to rebellious but
afflicted Israel, *'ye will revolt more and more:"^ Nay, if
there is efficiency in such discipline, we must look to Hell
for the most remarkable conversions—for there the sinner
will know vastly more of the ill effects, on himself, of his
conduct, which is mischievous to others, than is or can be
known in this world. But if ajjliciive circumstances hav«
no saving virtue, it is altogether absurd to allege, as is
j.asiii. 1,
57-
422 '^ilE NECESSSITV AND CAUSE chAP. XXIT.
sometimes done, that where the henrt is debarred from
worldly objects, the mind necessarily aspires after the bliss
of communion with God, and exhausts its wasted energies
in the deep love and ardent aspirations of a mystic Thco-
pathy.
3. But the philosophic formalist is at no loss for causes
to account for conversions. If either of the former will
not suffice, w^e shall be referred to "the power of strois^g
BELIEF, TO REALIZE THE THING BELIEVED;" as thoUgh the
mere influence of natural faith, was adequate to solve all
their phenomena. The reference, however, is most un-
fortunate. For, whatever invigorating influence there may
be in that faith, which saves the soul, the Scriptures teach
us, that it is itself the result of the Spirit's special agency.
That there h, an ener^j^, inspired by strong desire and con-
fident expectation, which, in its appropriate displays and
e'lforts, has a natural tendency to secure the good contem-
plated, we shall not deny; as likewise the converse, that
despondence and fear induce that degree of mental imbecil-
ity, which either disqualifles for, or prevents the requisite
energy.
The wisdom of God, who adapts His agency to the prin-
ciples of our nature, is very apparent, in His having se-
Ix^cted faitJi, as the grand means of bringing us to a parti-
cipation of all the blessings of salvation. We may trace
its influence, throughout, from the incipient step for the
conversion of the sinner, to the last breathings of ardent
love and desire, at the moment of triumph in death, which
is to be succeeded by the bright visions of eternity. It is
faith, or a ])clief of the testimony of God, as He proclaims
his law, which overwhelms tlie conscience with convic-
tions. It is faith in His testimony, as He proclaims the
gospel of His grace, that fills the soul with peace and joy.
Jt is faith in God, through our Lord Jesys Christ, as '^a
CHAP. XXir, <^1' REGENERAFiOX. 42.1
present help in every time of trouble," that give&-us the
victory over the world and our corruptions. It is faith,
which brings the bright visions of futurity, the glorying re-
alities of the eternal workl, in rich and vivid display, be-
fore the dying saint, and enables hina, in the hour of his
sorest conflict, to come off more than conqueror, through
Him th-^t hath loved him, and hath given Himself for him.
But, in so saying, who will undertake to say, that we at-
tribute to natural faith, such a potency? By natural
faith, we mean that whii?h goes current among men for
faith, but which is nothing more, in most cases, than a strong,
and vivid and ^ihsoi'h'm^ impression, not the intelligent and,
interested evidence, wiiich is given to the testimony of
another. The faith of which we speak, is not natural, for
it is found, comparatively, in very few. The sacred Scrip-
tures declare it to be "the gift of God."^ Its whole energ\r
and influence, so far as it has any effect in pacifying th&
mmd, quelling the passionsj satisfying the desires, and.
transforming the conduct is referred ta the influence of "the
Author and Finisher of our faith,"^ aixl *^vho fulfils all the
good pleasure of His goodness, and the v/ork of faith with-
power. "^ Paul prayed for the Ephesian converts, that God
would ''grant (them) according to the riches of his glory,,
to be strengthened with might by his Spirit, in the inner
man."'* He lifted up his heart in praise and thanksgiving.,
to God, for ''the power that worketh in us."^ And he urg-
ed believers to '-be strong in the Lord,^ and in the power of
his might. "^ How do such expressions comport with the
idea of the energy of a mere impression? Does not the apos-
duactiMlly deceive qs, or speaknonsense, if this be all the en-
ergy of a believer, when he tells us that we "are kept by
1. Eph. li, 8. 2. Heb xii, 2.
3. 2 Thess. i. 11. 4. Ep^i'. ?ii, 16, and Col. i, U-
jr EplK lii, 20. 6. Ep!>r vi, t(7"
424 '1"^*^ NECESSITY AND CAUSE CHAP. XXII.
the power of Gud^ through faith unto sah^ation?"^ Is there
not an evident distinction, between faith in the mind of the
believer, and a divine energy tln'ough that faith? The truth
is, this objection, like the last, falls at the first touch. It
is again begging tlic question; for all the transforming pow-
er of faith, which, it is alledged, is sufficient, in itself, to
account for conversion, is, according to the sacred Scrip-
tures, derived from the special and direct agency of the
Srnrit—the thing which he denies. "Not by works of
]'ighteousiiess, which we have d'ne, but according to His
mercy^ He saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and
renewing of the Holy Ghost, which He shed on us abun-
dantly, through Jesus Christ, our Saviour. ''^.-
It is unnecessary to examine, in detail, the many other
methods, by which men, professing to believe the Scrip-
tures, have endeavoured to account for a change of heart,
and deny the interesting and solemn truth, of the Spirit's
special agency in the work of conversion, such as the vehe-
rnence oforatory, the contagion of sympathy, the stupen-
dous effects of an imagination, roused into action for the
first tims, and such like. We are willing to admit, that
these things have their influence, in many cases, and that
a variety of spurious conversions are effected by these
means. But, as is the cause, such is the effect. They are
ail fleeting, momentary, evanescent.
These are not the facts on which our reasoning is based.
Our reference has been, and is, to those conversions which
are permmicnt, and which declare the adoption of new
principles of action, and demonstrate themselves in an uni-
fqrm life of holy obedience. However such conversions
may be diversified, in respect of extraneous circumstances,
the Scriptures assign them all to one cause. "Which were
boni not of blood nor of the will of the Aesh, nor oi
1. 1 >et. \, 5.
*
2c Tit ill 3, 6.
CHAP. XXII. OF REGENERATION. 425
man, but of God."^ The infidel formalist, for such we must
call him who denies the Spirit's agency, refers them to an
endless variety of causes, operating conjointly or separate-
Iv, as the case ma}^ he. Nor does he distinguish between
the true and the false; assuming, in his reasonings, those
spurious transformations, which we reject as decidedly and
as utterly as he docs, and misrepresenting the argument on
this subject, as though we plead, indiscriminately, for all
that bears the name of conversion. The fallacy of some
liypoLlieses has been exposed. The residue possess the
same character.
There is but one other, deserving of attention, and that
is, the attempt of certain divines, to identify baptism and re-
generation. But before adverting, particularly, to this
bold attack upon the very vitals of our holy religion, we
have one or two general remarks to make, in reference to
the w*hole tribe of infidel hypotheses, to account for human
conversions, where the special and immediate agency of
the divine Spirit, is not admitted.
1. They are all based on false assumptions, —such as the
following, tliat the Spirit's influence is equably diffused
—
that it is universal and adequate witimutany increase or
variation in special cases, to the production of faith and
love, and other graces—and that it is impossible to distin-
guish between that love of God, of virtue, and of man,
which proceeds from mere human principles and motives,
and that which flows from the influence of the Divine
Spirit. These will not be conceded, and the man who
opposes the special and efficacious grace of the Spirit, in
conversion, must establish them before we can at all agree
to listen to the suppositions tliat grow out of them.
2. Another remark is, that they violate two of the fun-
damental principles of all sound philosophy, viz: —that no
1. Johr, i, IZ,
54
4^>G
'^^^^^ KECESSITY AND CAUSE CHAP. XXII.
more causes are to be admitted^ than are real and sufficient
to account for the phenomena, and that effects of the same
kind are to be referred to the same cause. The special and
efficacious grace of the Spirit is assigned by the testimony
of God, as the cause of conversion, and it is sufficient.
Admitting the authority of the Scriptures, as they do with
^Yhom our argument is concerned, it is unphilosophical to
seek for another. And, what is worthy of the strictest
attention, every truly converted person, whoever and wher-
ever he may be, whether horn and brought up ip the
church of God, or sprung from Hottentots orrlindoos, or
sava<^"es, evinces the same effects. He is humbled and
mourns deeply and bitterly, on account of his sins—sub-
mits to the sovereign authority of God, his creator, and
feels that it would be just in Him to punish him eternal-
ly for his sins, —he sues to Him for mercy,—he trusts
in Him through .tl:e merits of a cruciiied Redeemer for
pardon and acceptance, —he experiences an inward peace
and jo}'-, and he cherishes a firm unconquerable hatred
of sin and love to God and holiness; and he perseveres in
a life of holy obedience. These effects you ilnd wherever
true converts arc found, whether among the learned, or
unlearned, the noble, or ignoble, the civilized, or the sav-
ao-e. Thev are effects of the same kind, and which the
word of God, as philosophically, as unequivocally, attrib-
utes to tlie Spirit's special influence. It is unphilosophi-
cal therefore, to attribute them to any other.
Notliing can be more utterly ridiculous and absurd, than
the endless self-contradictory, and unintelligible suppo-
sitions, which captiom formalists have framed to account
for what arc called extraordinary conversions. We ob-
ject not to any careful and minute investigation of the
mental acts, and whole process of thought and feeling,
leading to, and issuing in conversion. These things are
legitimate subjects qf investigation, and no one can judge.
CHAF. xxri. ^^' REGZNF.RATION. 427
inteiligsntly and eorrectly of his own change of heart, who
does not inspect and examine theiri. But we do ohject,
to that rash, and infidel pride, vvhlch prompts many, be-
cause of the perfect adaptation of the meaiiS which the
Spirit employs to the end which is designed, to deny His
immediate agency altogether, or to assimilate it to some
general law by which God governs the human mind. If
the sacred Scriptures, have described certain acts and ex-
ercises of the mind and heart of man, as effacfs of the
Spirit\s a^oicT/, and we give credit to their authority, the
voluntariness of those acts, of which v/e may be conscious,
or the ease with which we ma}' trace the operation of the
general laws of thought throughout the whole, are, by no
means a sufficient warra'nt to set aside the declarations of
the word of God, in this matter as nugatory, and refuse to
admit the direct agency of tlie blessed Spirit. For after
all, let men trace the laws of thought as distinctly as they
may thoughout the whole process of conversion, tlie effect
in the entire chancre of a man's thou;j;hts and feelino;s, de-
sires, purposes, conduct and habit, is singular, proving
some special cause in the individual cases, giving direc-
tion and efficiency to all the rest.
As to the supposition, that Baptism and Regeneration
are identical, we have but little to remark. The error as
sanctioned by the phraseology in the book of Common Praver
of the Episcopal Cluirch in these United States, and adopt-
ed by some of its members, who claim for its ordinances
exclusive apostolical validity', is the chief thing that gives
it any importance. It may indeed suit those who attach
so much importance to Baptism, and help to invest the
rite with a deeper and superstitious sacredness as perform- .
ed by those who have been Episcopally ordained; but the
common sense of mankind is not so easily to be imposed
upon. But iii\Y wlio read their Bibles, and take the liber-
ty of thinking for themselves, without deferring to that
42S '^HE NECESSITY AND CAUSE niAP. XXII.
mystical being, " the church/^ who thinks, and says, and
ordains thus and thus, will ever be in danger of mistaking
Baptism for Regeneration, or of identifying them.
To tell us of what the church thought, and how the
baptized persons were called renewed, and how in the pri-
mitive ages of Christianity, Baptism and Regeneration
were supposed to be identical, is nothing to the purpose.
We hold, as of very little value, any and every decision or
authority on this subject, but the sacred Scriptures. It evin-
ces a servility tliat we do utterly disdain, to cite the opinion
of this and the other bishop, and father, or council, or doc-
tor, or divine. To the law and to the testimony. What
^ay the Scriptures of truth? So far from their identifying
these things, they are careful to let us know that the}^ are
perfectly distinct. For in Christ Jesus, neither circum-
cision, nor uncircumcision availeth any thing but a new
creature. *^ If any man he in Christ, he is a new creat-
ure. ^^ *' We arehis workmanship created anew in Christ
Jesus unto good works." Believers are said to be '^re-
newed in the spirit of their minds." How an}^ man with
such, and many other passages of like import, staring him
in the face, can undertake to say that Regeneration in the
Scriptures, denotes merely a change of stale and not a
change of affections, is to us truly astonishing.
What if the baptized were called renewed, does it follow
that Baptism and Regeneration are the saine? Where a
church is so careful and pure in the administration of the or-
dinances of Christ's house, as to admit none to Baptism,
but such as give satisfactory evidences of a change of heart
or of being born again, then we see plainly how the terms
might become correlate. But for any one .
gravel}'- to
argue on such grounds as to the identity of Baptism
and Regeneration, is really evincive of something by no
means creditable, either to his head or heart. If any choose
to. apply the term- Regeneration to Baptism, and renewed
CHAP. XXII.
<>^^ REGENERATION. 4.>9
to baptised persons, let them produce their authority for
it from the sacred Scriptures, and shew that such an ap-
plication of them is sanctioned by Christ, and the Apostles.
But do not lot them attempt to justify such perver-
sion of scriptural language, by citing the opinions, and
writings of any uninspired men, or ir.trenching themselves
behind the customs and usages of uninspired speech in any
age of the world.
There is nothing more deluding and dangerous, than to
use the language of Scripture, as expressive of ideas, diifer-
ent from those of the inspired writers, who first employed
it. Nothing can justify such a thing. It is, in this case,
a wresting of words, and perverting of the truth, to the ruin
of souls; and they that will be guilty of such an attempt, to
get rid of a vital and essential doctrine of Christianity, as
to apply the terms of Scripture, which denote a change
of heart, so indispensably necessary to salvation, to a mere
formal rite or ordinance, can no longer be regarded in any
other light, than as false and dangerous guides. We know
v/hat some have done, and how they liave actually evisce-
rated the lively oracles of God, of all their distinctive and
living truth, of every thing that can give consolation to a
troubled conscience, while, nevertheless, the language isre^
tained. *
'The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life;"
and whether it be the essential fact, of an atoning sacrifice
offered by the eternal Son of God, or of the vital influence
of the Holy Spirit, in changing the sinner's heart, we can
discern but little difference. It is but a frigid, killing sys-
tem of religion, where either does not hold a conspicuous
-
place. The wretched mind of man, is in most disordered
action; drawn away, by earth, from God, the source and cen-
tre of its bliss, and held, in sad, corrupting subjection, by its
selfishness. Thers is need for an influence from God, a
_t)eam from the fountain of light, to restore the miserable and
degraded being, that has resigned himself to the dominion
4 so 'I'f^''^ NECESSITY' AND CAUSE, &c. cHAP. XXII.
of iiis lusts. Blessed be God, that the instances are not
rare, in which He ''who hath shined out of darkness into
light, shines into the lieart, to give us the light of the know-
ledge of the glory of God, in the face of Jesus Christ.'^
There is no hypothesis of infidelity, no resort of formality,
no refuge of lies whatever, that can resist the evidence of
facts occurring, so plainly and so satisfactorily solved in
the sacred Scriptures, by referring us, for their cause, to
the special agency of the Spirit of God.
CHAPTER XXIIL
THE REALITY OF THE SPIRITS SFECIAti
AGENCY.
T;i2 doctrine of the special ag'cncy of the Spirit in the conversion of the
sinner not a mere hypothesis—The history ofthe church, furnishes proof
ox ^ special care incl'^cating a special agency on the part of God—The
same thing' inferred from the numerous promises relating- to its growth
aiid prosperity—Objected that these thing's are true only of the church,
as a collective body—Proofs to the contrary—The effects of the special
ag-ency ofthe Spirit, capable of being traced though human conscious-
ness, and consciousness conjointly with the testimony of the Scriptures,
furnishing evidence of the reality ofthe Spirit's special agency.
We have assumed as true, in the remarks already-
made, the special agency of the Spirit, in the work
of conversion, and shewn, that it alone is a cause adequate
to account for the effects contemplated. Before wc at-
tempt to trace that agency, in its immediate influence on
the mind and heart of man, it may perhaps be proper to
adduce some proof of its reality in addition to wliat has
incidentally been exhibited. It is not a mere hypothesis.
Were there no other evidence of \\\q special agency of
the Spirit of God, in the regeneration of the sinner, than
the plausible manner in which it accounts for the remark-
able moral transformations among men, commonly called
conversion, regeneration, change of heart, ^c. it would
after all, be nothing more than a mere philosophical theo-
ry, invented and adduced, to explain the language of the
Scriptures, and as such it could not, however plausible;
claim the assent of our faith. But thnt such is not its
character, a few considerations will .sufiice to Ci^nvince tin.
reader.
432 'liiE KEALITY OF TIIK CHAP. XXIII.
No man can have looked with any (Icgvee of thought-
fuhiess upon this vast world of living beings, without hav-
ing been led to some ideas of dependence on God, and at
least of providential agency on His part in their preserva-
tion and support. The circumstance of there being an ap-
parent blending of divine and human agency, may indeed
produce some perplexity; but it vv^ill not destroy the con-
viction, that there is, and must be some over-ruling care
and power on tlie part of God. Bat while the general
jjrovidential agency of God, in the support of our animal
being, and in the government of our moral actions, will
perhaps be admitted, the direct and special influence of
the Spirit in the conversion of the sinner is denied by some.
But there is sufficient evidence,—not only of a general pro-
vidence on the part of God extending to all nations and
])eop]e; but also of a special care employed in relation to
the church, which care indicates a divine agency, in her
affairs, different from, or superadded to, that from wliich
all alike, receive benefit.
The whole history of tiie church, for near six thousand
years, may be appealed to in proof of the assertion. One
mighty collossal nation after another, has raised its proud
and lofty head, and seemed, as it loomed large before the
world, to be upheld and guided by tiie hand of God: —but
in a few centuries where w^as it? Fallen, broken, and in
ruins! But tlie cliurch of God has lived and flourished,
on the ruins of the mighty nations which sought its over-
throw. Is there no proof of special care and agency on
the part of God, towards his church and people in the
Egyptian bondage, and subsequent miraculous emancipa-
tion?—in their forty years sojourn in the wilderness?
—
during the Babylonish captivity? —in their return to Judea?
in Ihvo sproad of the gospel?—in its preservation in the
world, wiicn the floods of northern barbarians bad swept
€HA?. XXIII. .'.PlHTl'S SPECIAI. AGEIsXY. Jt^S
away nearJy every vestige of civilization, and ior centu-
ries inanilated the world with ignorance? —in the preser-
vation of the truth among the Waidcnses? —in the tri-
umph and spread of the reformation?—and in the rapid
progress, wliicli has marked the course of those who, with-
in the Last thirty years, have sought to diffuse tlie bless-
ings of religion, in despite of all the proud meraccs, and
predictions, and combination of haughty infidels? He
must be blind indeed, who cannot see a special agency of
God, for the preservation of his church, in accordance with
His own pledge, that ^Mhe gates of Hell,'^ should not
prevail against His Zion!
And what mean all t!ie promises of God, which look to
i\\Q. growtii, enlargemeni, [)rosj)erily and uin'versality of
the church of God? Is there no incimatiDn of His special
and peculiar agency when God says, *•
Fear noi; fori am
with thee: I will ijriiag thy seed frorp. the east, and gather
thee from the west: I will say tf> the north, give up; and
to the south keep not back; briiig my sons from far, and
my daughters from the ends of the earth; even every one
that is called by my name; for I have created jjim for m\r
glory, I have formed him; yea, I have made him."^ <*I
will make the place of my feet glorious. The sons also
of them that aPiiictcd thee, shall come bending unto thee:
and all they that despised thee, shall bow themselves down
at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee, The city
of the Lord; The Zion of the Holy One of Israel. Where-
as thou hast been forsaken and hated, so that no man went
through thee. I will make thee an eternal excellency, a
joy of many generations "- ''
And the Redeemer shall
come to Zion, and unto them that turn from transgression
in Jacob, saith the Lord. As for me, this is my covenant'
with them, saith the Lord; my Spirit that is upon thee,
1. Tki. xlili. 5—-r. !3. Isai. Is. lo—l.K'
434 THE REALITY OF THE cHAP. XXIir.
and my words which I have put in thy mouth, shall not
depart out of tliy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed,
nor out of the mouth of thy seed's seed, saith the Lord
from henceforth and forever.''' It is unnecessary to add
to such declarations. They might be multiplied indefi-
nitely. Assuredly such promises pledge somethingniore
to the church, than that general agency, by which God up-
holdeth all things. Whether they are understood of the
literal Israel, and look forward to those wondrous scenes of
Evangelical triumph, when God shall make the repentance
and conversion of the Jews, prove the riches of the world;
or whether they have reference to the spiritual Israel, and
describe the prevalent influence of the truth among them,
it effects not our argument. In either case, there is dis-
tinctly recognized a special and gracious agency on the part
of God as the appropriate cause of these results.
Here, perhaps, it will be objected: —there is, indeed, a
specitii divine agency towards the church; but it is only in
her character as a collective hody^ that it is to be regarded,
and not as extending to her individual m.embers. The Ian-
guage of some of the passages above quoted, evidently inti-
mates sometiiing very different. Beside, the objection is
contradicted alike by facts, and the plainest declarations of
the word of God. Was tliere no special agency in the di-
vine care of Abraham, of Joseph, of Moses, of David, of
Daniel, of Jesus, of the Apostles, and others.
If it should be urged, that they were exb'o ordinary per-
sons, then let the objector say, why it is still, that in dif-
ferent f£.milies such different results are seen, in the char-
acter of different members:—why one is taken, and the oth-
(-^r is left. Why is ii, that one is drawn to the liouse of
Goiij .-nd to the place where :,pT?.}r is wont to be made-,
i^ncliaclisted .to .seek•theffacealld'.Iavo^^ • r' God. while hun--
€.KAr. XXlir. SPlRIT'r? SPECIAL AGEXCV. 435
dreds and thousands go on in blasphemy and crime, to
their eternal ruin? Why is it, that through all the chan-
ges, which eventuate in the history of one and another, there
is ever and anon something stirring vvitb.in him, reproving
iiim for his sins and short-comings, and leading him to look
to and depend on God and Christ alone, while others, with
more outward opportunities, and more likely means to rouse
their consciences, remain entirely indifferent? Why does
the word come with power into the heart of this man, and
not into that of him, that sits beside him? Why is a bur-
den of distress laid on tlie heart of God's people, for thi^i
ene and another, and great fervency in prayer for their sal-
vation is induced, while others excite no interest in the
l^eart, and no freedom in prayer for them is felt? And why,
in despite of all his resistance, is this, and the other rebel
spirit made to bow in submission at the feet of Jesus, while
others set their mouth against the Heavens, and through
the pride of their countenance, will not seek after God?
The answer is plain, and niay be given in the language
iDf God Himself, "I have loved thee with an everlasting
love, therefore with loving kindness have I drawn thee;"^
or, in that of the blessed Redeemer; '•! thank thee, Fa-
ther, Lord of Heaven and earth, because thou hast hid
these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed
them unto babes; even so. Father, for so it seemed good in
thy sight.*'*" The words of God, as reported by the pro-
•phetjin the 43d chapter of Isaiah, are very explicit, and they
only assert individually of the members of the church, true
christians, what is elsewheresaidof them collectively, as true
alike of each and every one. '-This people have I formed
for myself, they shall shew forth my praise."^ The truth
is, there is not a promise of the well ordered covenant,
which does not imply such an agency. What mean such
1. .Ter.. 31, 3. 2. Mut- xi. 25,. 3. Isah 43, 21,
4^6' '^'^^^^^ REALITY OF Till: ClIAr. xxiir.
expressions as these—"I will put my law in ih<nv inward
parts, and write it in their hearts, and will be their God,
and they shall be my people.'" ^'Tlien will I sprinkle clean
water upon you, and ye shall be clean; from all your filthi-
ness, and from all your idols will I cleanse, you: A new
heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put with-
in you; and I will take away the stony heart out of your
flesh, and I will give you an heart of flcsii. And I will put
my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my sta-
tutes, and ye shall keep r/iy judgments and do them."^ It
/s impossible for language to be more pointed, and plainly
indicative of a special agenc}' on the part of God, towards
the conversion of sinners.
Although it may be truly said, that the primary refer-
ence of these passages, is to the great and wondrous effusion of
the blessed Spirit of God, when the remnant of the Jewish,
nation, wliich is now scattered over the face of the earth,
shall be converted unto God, yet does not the agency by
which this ^liall be effectuated, differ, in character, from that
which is exerted, and has been, from the first, for the con-
version of a sinner? For the apostle has shewn, that the
gra.xl principle involved in these promises, is applicable
throughout the whole period of the Evangelical church.
What God says, in reference to the ultimate conversion of
the Jews, was fulfilled on tlie day of Penticost, and is still
in every revival of religion, and conversion of a sin-
ner. "^'I will pour upon tiie house of David, and upon the
inhaijitnuts of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and supplica-
tions; and they shall look ujx)n me whom they have pierc-
ed, and they shall mourn for htm, (it) as one mourneth for
, an only son, and shall be in bitterness for him, (it) as one
that is in bitterness for a first born."-^ Assuredly, these
things mean something direct and special, in which all do
i. Jer. xxxi, .'i:^. % EzHr, vTxvi. ?,5—28. 3. Zach. xii, 10.
CHAP. XXIII. SPIRIT'S SPECIAL AGENCY. 437
not alike, share. The Saviour has explicitly assorted the fact,
"No man can come unto me, except the Father which hath
sent me draw him. "^ Unto all that truly helieve, there is ac-
tually a pledge of special strength and grace given. *'My
grace is suiticient for thee, for my strength is made perfect
in weakness. '^^ ''Fear not, for I am with thee; be not dis-
mayed, for I am thy God. I will help thfe; yea I will
steagtheu thee; yea, I will uphold thee, with the right hand
of my righteousness."^ What does such language mean !
Is it not pre-emine!itly calculated to deceive, if it is not de-
signed to teach us, that God does and will vouchsafe
His special agency, to them that believe and bestow on them
another sort of care, from that which he imparts to sinners
in general.
The fact must be beyond all dispute, among those that
accredit the word in its plain common sense meaning, and
receive it as of paramount authority. " Tlie steps- of a
good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in
his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down:
for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand."^ »' The Lord
knoweth (that is takes a special and approving cognizance
of) the way of the righteous: but tl^e way of the ungodly
shallperish."^ Godhasdetermined,as the Apostle intimates,
'* to make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of
mercy, which He had afore prepared unto glory ."^ Here
is a special gracious agenc}^ on the part of God, distinctly
and positively asserted, embracing alike His providence
and His spiritual communications, and exerted ivilh the
express design of bringing guilty sinners to Himself; and,
in exact accordance with this view, the same Apostlo, in
addressing himself to a body of reputed and professing
christians, expressed his entire confidence, that ^' He
which had begun in them a good work, (v/ould) perfortn
1 .
Jobu vi, 44—65. 2. 2 Cor. xii, 9. 3. Isul. x!i, 10.
4. Psal;n, xxxvii. 23—24. 5. Psalm, i. 6. 6. Uoiii. ix. 23.
438 Tiff-' REALITY OF THE cHAP. XXIII.
it antil tlu" day of Jesiis Christ."' Nothing can be more
explicit than the following, which, in fact, asserts a special
agency on the part of God for the salvation of his ])eople
iVom the beginning to the end, well sustaining the title
fiivcn to our Redeemer, when He is said to be "the au-
thor and finisher of our faith. "^ " Whom he did foreknow,
he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of
his Son, that he mi2;ht be the first born among man}'- breth-
ren. Moreover whom lie did predestinate, them lie also
called; and whom lie called, them lie also justified; and
whom lie justified, them he also glorified. ^'-^
This is not
theory. It is the Spirit's own declaration of facts, and if
U is lawful to take the plain and obvious import of express-
ions, and language can have any definite meaning at all, a
•special divine agency in the sinner's salvation, is most
clearly and conchisively taught.
To trace the cfibctK of that agency, on the different con-
"Stitutiona! or characteristic properties of our nature, is as
iegitiinatc as it is int( resting and ])rofitable. For tiiere is
abundant evidence, ap])ropriatc to the subject, and as satis-
factory as any other species of evidence, wliich subserves
our acfjuisition of knowledge;—it is thatof consciousness.
Consciousness tak(;s cognizance not of abstract essences;
'i)ut of the acts or <lo:i)gs, and feelings, or emdtions of our
-own minds and hearts. These acts and exercises are as
strictly matters of fact, as any thing can be: for they do
as actually take place in the mind and heart of tlie individ-
ual, as the events which transpire in tb.e world around us.
The heart is itself a world in miniature, and there needs
but very little attention to discover, what scenes are trans-
acted there, and liow incessantly and actively, the thinking
and feeling soul of man, is occupied according to its va-
^i-ious capacities. Disease may, through the sympathy be-
l. Ph':i. 1.6. 2. [!(,!:). xli. 2. .o- lU)n!. viij ^9—-.30.
CHAP. XXIII. SPllirrS SPECIAL AGENCY. 439
Iwecn mind and body, derange or powerfullj excite; but
oven of our most bewildered and extravagant and delirious
tlioughts and feelings, consciousness makes faithful report,
thougb indeed, for very sufficient and obvious reasons
memory is oft-times unabk to recall them. However
wild may be the vagaries of human thought, thcv are ne-
vertheless real events or a<«ts, in the lif« and history of
the individual moral being, and, as far as tiicy are faith-
full}' reported by consciousness, and recorded by memory,
become legitimate matters of investigation. Now the
reality of the special ag-rncy of the Spirit of God, in the
production of gracious affections, or in giving character
to the .moral being, by eliciting appropriate acts and exer-
cises of his constitutional capacities, is perfectly ar<sertain-
able. For, God Himself, in His own word, has described
to us, most accurately, those gracious affection?, which,
while they are our own voluntary exercises, and as such,
are strictly cognoscible by consciousness, are nevertheless
denominated, ''the fruits of the Spirit," and referred tt>
the Spirit and His s}w:cial influence, as their appropriate.^
cause.
Of tlie precise manner in which tlie bles.sed Spirit
comes in contact with our minds, if we may so speak, or
how it is that He throws back the current of our disorder-
ed affections, and restores the mind and heart to their ap-
propriate exercise, we canjiot tell. We know not how he
preserves in appropriate action, any living creature what-
ever. But, we may know and trace the immediate effects
of his agency, inasmuch as they all lie in our own volunta-
ry acts and exercises, of which weare distinctly consciou>\
and are produced, through the instrumentality of the.
truth, or word of God, which is adapted to our apprehen-
sion as intelligent creatures, and is calculat'.-J tu arrest oiu*
thoughts, attract and rivet our hearts. A:, iposllc has
:Traleu some of ttiosc things whiu^» arc :, be referred
440 THE REALITY OF THE CHAP. XXIII.
to ihG imnieJiiae special ngoncy of the Spirit, and wliich,
every reader, ot firs! pight, will perceive, are to be classed
amop.ii; our voluntary exercises. '' The fruit of the Spirit
is love, joy, peace, lonor-sufTtirino;, ojentlencs?, goodness,
faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no
In the existence and phry of these, and their kindred
voluntary exercises, by which the soul turns away from •
earth and sin to God and holiness, consists the very es-
sence of spiritual life, and accordingly, the Apostle has
noticed t'nis circumstance in immediate connection with his
enumeration of the fruits of the Spirit. "And they that
are Christ's have crucified the flesh \v\ih the affections and
lusts. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the
Spirit, not being desirous of vain glory, provoking one an-
other, envying one another. "^ With the exact method by
vvhich the Holy Spirit, awakens and elicits those afTections
or disDosition* which influence and determine our choice
and actions, we aie nn;icq'iainted. We know not how one
f^oirit acts upon another, yet do we every day attempt to
affect the hearts of those with whom we have much in-
tercourse. And no one thinks it to be altogether a vain
attempt. It is by mind and spirit acting on mind and
spirit, that all the mighty movements among mankind are
effected. Appropriate instrumentalities however, are em-
ployed. It is by the feeling uttering of our own thoughts,
or the manifestation of emotions, which agitate our own
soul, that we affect others. This is all we know in the
matter. And the utmost that we know of the Spirit's in-
fiucncc on our hearts, is that it is " by the word'"—
^'through the truth." But if through consciousness we can
discover in ourselves the various voluntary exercises of
faith, love, repentance, hope, fear, and the like, which are
1. Gal.v. 22—23. 2. Gal. v. 24, 25, 26.
CHAr. XXlir. SPIRIT'S SPECIAL AUENCV. 441
described in the sacred Scriptures, as ilie fruits of the
Spirit, we have evidence full and satisfactory of the real-
ity of that special agency by which the sinner is first
translated from darkness into light, and being prepared for
glory. We have the witness of the Spirit with our spi-
rits, that we are the children of God. Neither sophistry
nor ridicule can destroy the evidence of the fact, while
such exercises continue. And hence it is, that the simple
honest-hearted christian, who has had a vivid experience,
whose affections have been excited, and, through the
various channels in which they flow, been directed to God
in Christ, as His Father and Redeemer,—possesses in him-
self the witness, which is of more value and efficiency,
than all the arguments and philosophy of the wise and
learned. '' Pie that believeth, hath the witness in him-
self." His experience corresponding with the delinea-
tion of gracious principles and affections given in the sa-
cred Scriptures, the result of the Spirit's special agency,
furnishes him invincible proof of its reality in his own
case. Human consciousness, and the unerring testimony
of the Spirit, unite to prove 'Miis calling and election sure/'
56
CHAPTER XXIV.
THE METAPHYSICAL, NATURE OF
REGENERATION^.
Thb impossibility of speaking lon^ on such a subject, without indicating
our peculiar philosophical views, as to the operations of the human mind-
Necessity, therefore, of dispassionate inquiry—I'he philosopliy of divines
of former centuries—The Shorter Catechism's metaphysical description of
Regeneration
—
W.?, pkilbsophy not binding on the conscience of any one,
who adopts it as a confession of faith—Notice of different philosophical
systems, and their influence on the current phraseology of their votaries
—
Abrief view of our constitutional susceptibilities and capacities—Obvious
results from it—The lawswhich regulate the exercise of our constitutional
capacities—Analogical illustration—Spiritual objects not cognoscible by
our senses—The Bible disclosing spiritual objects to our view, and faith the
medium of our knowledge of them—The different effects produced by
these objects—Their saving and salutary impressions, referrible to the
influence ofthe Holy Spirit—The christian's evidence of the Spirit's in-
fluence on him, not delusive.
It is impossible to speak on the subject of the metaphysi-
cal nature of Regeneration, without betraying the peculiar
philosophical views, which are taken of the operations of the
human mind. How important, therefore, is it, that mutual
forbearance, calm and dispassionate inquiry, and brotherly
love should prevail, in order to the clear and accurate ap-
prehension of each other's views, as to matters of fact, in-
stead of zealous and animated contention, about points in
philosophy, where, perchance, both may be equally far from
the truth.
It is easy to perceive, that while the Westminster Con-
fession of Faith, and the Larger and the Shorter Catechisms
of the Presbyterian Church, have not defined Regenera-
"lion, or spoken explicitly on the subject, its metaphysi-
CHAP. XXIV. OF REGENERATION. 443
cal nature is described, in the account which is given of
''effectual calling." This description was evidently
influenced by the particular views, in mental science, en-
tertained by the framers of that "form of sound words."
Tlie moral being, or rather the rational soul of man, is con-
templated, as being endowed with \ ar lous facu/lies or pow-
ers, whicli are, at least, virtually considered as distinct from
the mind itself. The general classification of these powers,
was into Understanding, Will, Affections, Memory and
Conscience, and in some treatises on Regeneration, composed
by Theologians of former centuries, we may trace the influ-
ence which their philosop/ii/ had, upon their Theological
views of this subject. The ''' Understanding^' being ac-
counted the supreme and governing faculty, xnQu's aber-
rations from rectitude, and their disrelish of a life of holi-
ness, were mainly referred to some obliquity in it, or to
some injury it had sustained by the fall, which actually
incapacitated it for clear and correct apprehensions of the
truth. And, in support of this view, it was common to ad-
duce those passages of the word of God, which intimate a
darkness and blindness of the understanding.
The above distribution of the faculties of the mind, be-
ing assumed as correct, and the understanding being con-
sidered as supreme,—asinvested with authority, by the great
Creator, to control the passions, and determine the voli-
tions, according to its peculiar views of truth or excel-
lence,—it was concluded, that what was chiefly wanting
towards the conversion ofdhe sinner, was, to introduce in-
to his understanding, correct views of divine truth. Hence,
the chief attention was paid by ministers and parents, to the
doctrinal instruction of their hearers and children. An
'undue importance was attached to the illumiriation of the
mind, because it was thought, that, by means of enlighten-
ing the understanding, the Spirit renewed the henrt.
444 THE METAPHYSICAL NATURE chAP. XXIV.
The reader will at once perceive, from the answer to the
•question, *^ what is effectual calling/' how the views of the
Westminster divines, as to the metaphysical nature of Re-
generation, corresponds! with, or were suggested by, the
system of mental philosophy, adopted by tiiem. ^*Effec-
tual calling," say they, *^is the work of God's Spirit, where-
by enlightening our viinds in the knowledge of Christ,
and renewing our wills^ He doth persuade and enable us to
embrace Jesus Christ, freely offered to us in the gospel."
Now, so far as these words describe facts and acts of
the mind, no one, who has experienced a saving change of
heart, can question their correctness. The three most im-
portant facts stated, are illumination of7ni7id, renovation
of will, and the cleaving of the affections to the blessed
Redeemer, as the object of supreme delight, love, and
choice, &c. —and these are attributed to the Spirit's agen-
cy. That all these things, which imply acts and exercis-
es of man, as a rational and feeling creature, are to be at-
tributed to the agency of the Spirit, no one who admits the
fact of Regeneration will deny. Nor does the answer in
the Catechism, intimate any thing like an agency of that
Spirit on the soul of man, changing its essence, or altering
its constitutional properties, or laying any foundation in
nature, by an act of creative power. These things did
not seem to be a part of the philosophy involved in it. But
from the order in which the different acts and exercises of
the mind, which characterize the regenerate sinner, are
enumerated, it would seem tha% the framers of the Cate-
chism thought, that a mere intellectual perception of the
truth, followed by a change in the faculty of the will,
unitedly secured the giving of the heart to Christ, or be-
stowing of the affections on Him.
This is altogether philosophical theory. Will any man
say, that it is a point oi faith, and that, in adopting the
^^ REGENEUATION. 415
language of these divines as a confession of faith, our con-
sciences are bound to adopt the philosophy involved in it?
We presume not. A man may entertain very different,
and more correct views of the nature of the human mind,
and mental operations generally, and yet hold the same facts
with the Gatechists. Shall he he condemned for this, and
denounced as heretical? Shall ignorance, fostering itself
in a^>^^:i^ ranted prejudices against mental science, and, with
a s: 'Mv 3f zeal and devotion for the truth, assoil the reputa-
tio-v ;1 3 "Mr- -'i",in brother, and mar his usefulness, by brand-
,,,0. nr- '', merely because he takes a different
method of exaibliing the same facts, and, instead of speak-
ing <a -A^iT technicalities of old Theologians, employs lan-
guage inore aJnpted to common sense, and to the advanced
state of m. .:-' !)ailo.ophy! Rather, let brethren concede
to each other (he utmost liberty of illustration, while they
adopt the essential facts which Revelation teaches, than at-
tempt to bind themselves to s^i forms ofspeech. The man-
ifestation of fraternal confidence and regard, and the friend-
ly intercouse and communion which will take place, where-
cver there is the unity of the Spirit, are a much more effi-
cient means of preserving the truth, and a much more de-
sirable and valuable bond of unlon,than ecclesiastical canons
and theological technics, and demonstrations of heated zeal,
though the'latter may, with some, be had in estimation, as
contendins earnestly for the faith, once delivered to the
saints.
Instead of contemplating the human mind, as possessing
y^vioMs faculties, analagous with the members of the hu-
man body, and practically conceiving of these things,as dis-
tinct and separate individualities in the mind itself, one
thinks he can much more satisfactorily think and speak of
states of the mind, and another of inodes of action. All,
certainly, have a liberty so to do; and even if they err, pro-
vided that they faithfully declare, and plainly te^ish th^
446 THE METAPHYSICAL NATCUE CHAP. XXIV.
scriptural fads, whicli constitute what ne may term the
phenomena of Regsneration, let each one use his liberty,
without impugning his brother.
We are in the habit of contemplating the human mind
avS one and indivisible,—a simple, uncompounded spirit or
substance, endowed, by its Creator, with certain suscepti-
]>ilities of emotion or feeling, and capacities for thought and
action. Its susceptibilities are adapted to the various objects
which God has created around us, and on which we instru-
mentally depend for their exercise. Its capacities for action,
are suited to the various exigencies of our nature and condi-
tion, all wisely arranged in the mind of our great Creator, and
ordained, originally, in the very constitution of our being.
Thus, for example, we are suscepti!)]c of impressions, from
(il^jccts without us, wliich thus assume a sort of moving pow-
er over us, —a lovely object, exciting desire, —a disagreeable
object, aversion, —a dangerous object, fear and such like. As
to tlieir exciting pov/er over us, we can say no more, than
that such is the constitution of things, which God has ordain-
ed —such ihe nature of our susceptibilities, that we are capa-
ble of being made to feel, or of being moved and excited, ac-
cording to the varying character of the circumstances and
objects, with which we are brouglit into contact.
In the mere impression or excitement, produced by things
seen, heard, or related, we are involuntarily affected. It
does not depend upon our will, whether to feel or not, no
more than it does, whether the impression made on the re-
tina of the eye, be thence transmitted to the sensorium, and
originate the sensation which we call seeing, or, on the tym-
jjanum of the ear, or any other of the organs of sense, pro-
ducing the sensations appropriate. It depends entirely on
constitution.
Superadded to these constitutional susceptibilities, we
possess a power of voluntary action. The modes of that
action, wliieli are various, depend also on the constitution
CHAP. XXIV. t)F KEGEXERATIOX. 447
of God. But the exercise of the mind itself in each mode,
is subject to the will, i. e. it is not by necessity but volun-
tarily; yet varying, according to the circumstances which
call the mind into action. Thus,for example, when an object
is presented to our attention, there is a degree of voluntari-
ness implied in the action of our minds, when we are said to
perceive it. In like manner, in reasoning another mode of
mental action, we voluntarily compare our perceptions or
thoughts and knowledge recalled; —in remembering, we
revive our perceptions; —and in imagining combine them
in new forms. Now these susceptibilities of emotion,
and modes of action, are not two separate and indepen-
dent systems in the mind itself, but are found to be so
blended, as to be alike operaiive, or discoverable in almost
every voluntary action.
Our voluntary actions are of a complex nature. Thus,
for example, we say that we love or hate, desire or fear,
hope or despair, and the like, and so doing, give, by parti-
cular acts, the appropriate indications of these things. Now
what do we mean by such language so very common in
human parlance? We could not love, if we were not pos-
sessed of that constitutional susceptibility, which qualifies
us for feeling the attractive influence of some object of
beauty or excellence, —nor hate, but for another suscepti-
bility, which qualifies us for feeling the repelling influenca
of some disagreeable object, &c. Nor should we iove, or
hate, notwithstanding these susceptibilities, unless soma
appropriate object, i. e. some object of excellence, or the
contrary, calculated to excite the affection, be presented.
When such object is presented, whether directly exhibited
to the inspection of our senses, or represented by state-
ment, or recalled by memory, or created by imagination^
there ij first, the perception of it, which, if of a vivid
character, awakens tiie appropriate feelings, and, securing a
degree of attentivencss to it, next brings those feelings, more
44,S THE ME'l APIIYSICAL NAll ItK cHAP. XXIV.
fully into pla}', till a Dioving power is felt in the soul,
and it is, as it were, carried towards it, or from it, with full
consent, and voluntarily, by looks, words, or deeds, gives
indication of the prevalent emotion. When, therefore,
we say we love or hate, we mean, thit we voluntarily con-
sent or yield, to the particular impression which has been
made by some appropriate object on our susceptible soul.
These voluntary exercises are oft-times very transient,
passing away forever with the thought or object which
has excited them, being quickly obliterated by the im-
pressions of succeeding and more interesting objects.
Where however, the impression has been deep, i. e.
more than the evanescent feelings awakened by the
play of surrounding objects, especially where it has been
made by something wliich has a near or special bearing on
our interests, our happiness, or our security, —the feelings
will be prolonged, repeated, invigorated, and the volunta-
ry exercises, at first isolated and solitary, will become con-
tinuous, and ripen into purpose, leading to action, and
subordinating feebler and counteracting influences. Ac-
cording to the influential purpose^ will be the acquisition
and manifestation of character. Men take their denomi-
nation, or descriptive epithet, from the moving, or ruling
])assion; —tlie slave of avarice, being called a miser, a
wretch, because his love of gold makes him deny to him-
self tbe common comforts, and almost the necessaries of
life; the 'votary of sensual pleasure, a voluptuary, a
sensiialisf, and one and another, deceitful, ivrathful, vin-
dictive, jealous, envious, according to the prevalent feel-
ing; wliich fails not appropriately to express itself.
Now from this view of the susceptibilities, and capaci-
ties for action, which characterize us as moral beings, sev-
eral tilings sc^cin oi}vious; as, that in the mere existence of
these things, there is notliing sinful; that the sinful or ho-
\\ ch'n-acter of them is to be estimated bv a reference to
CHAP. XXIV, OF REGENERATION, 449
the objects which elicit tliem, whether unlawful, or the
contrary; —that the mere Involuntary excitement pro-
duced hy tlic action of an improper object on our sus-
ceptibilities, is not sinful, but only becomes so, if allowed
to prevail until it gains the consent of the will; —and that
this excitement ripening into will and purpose, possesses no
compulsory power, but follows the general laws which
God has ordained for the government of mind.
What those laws are, have already been incidentally
brought into view. They may be summarily stated to be
the following, viz. ; that on the presentation of an object
adapted to any susceptibility of our nature, an impression
or involuntary excitement in some degree, when it is per-
ceived, shall follow—that the strength of the impression, or
the degree of involuntary excitement depends upon the viv-
id character of the first perception of the object, —that if the
excitement is not resisted, it will, by virtue of the laws of as-
sociated thought, increase and gain a controling power over
the will, first securing its consent, and then maturing into
some purpose according to, and in prosecution of, which
the appropriate capacities of action are exerted, and in
such way as to give indication of the fact.
In all these, we observe a strict analogy with the manner
in which material objects act upon the mind, through the
organs of sense. The floweret of beauteous colour, or de-
licious odour when approached, makes its impression on
the appropriate organ of sense. The impression if lively,
awakes the attention of the mind. The artention of the
niind increases the strength of the impression, as it brings
the organ of sense, more fully under its excitir.g power.
That impression deepening, we approach and pluck it, or
inhale its perfume, giving demonstration in acts, and often'
in laudatory expressions, not only of the exciting influ-
ence of the flower, but also, of that excitement being vol-
untarily sustained and promoted by us.
450 THE METAPHYSICAL NATURE cHAP. XXIV.
But the objects appropriate to our spiritual life, the
things of the Spirit, are not directly cognoscible by our
senses. ^^The natural man percciveth not the things of
the Spirit, for they are foolishness to him, neither can he
know them, because they are spiritually discerned."^ The
great realities of eternity, and the peculiar exciting facts
or truths of our holy religion, are none of them open to
the inspection of our senses. They are reported to us by
the testimony of God, who cannot lie, and it is only hy
faith, that we can have any knowledge of them. This
indeed, is the only way in which we can obtain informa-
tion with regard to matters of fact, which we have not
seen, or which have been v^'ithout the sphere of aur
personal observation. It is, from the very necessity of
the case, and not by reason of any arbitrary constitution,
that in these high concerns, *' we walk by faith, and not
by sight. "^ In due season, we shall be permitted to appre-
hend them, by other means, and to our inconceivable de-
light, when the emancipated spirit, sliall have thrown off
the casement of the mortal body, or that bod}^ shall be re-
suscitated, with its senses so sublimed, and purified, and
delicately attenuated, as to secure, in blissful impressions
on the soul, the full and joyous excitement from real ob-
jects, which now can only be known by faith. But though
we do see as through a glass darkly—though the life we
live, is by the faith of the Son of God, yet have we sufficient
information communicated to us by God, in His holy
word, for all the purposes of a present blissful life, and
of eternal safety and glory. The Bible is made the
sphere of spiritual vision. Here are spread before us the
wondrous objects which excite, and bring into blissful and
.holy exercise, the susceptibilities, and capacities, of our
irRiDortal nature. With faith., as with a telescopic glass.
€11 AP. XXIV. QF IlEGEKEltAnt-A- ^51
we peer into cternit3% and survey with rapture and delight,
the realities of the unseen world. For " wc look not at
the things which are seen, but at the things, which are un-
seen: for the things which are seen, are temporal, hut the
things which ai-e not seen, are eternal."^ Nay further, we
penetrate by its means, into the very heart of Heaven and of
God: for the Bible is the revelation of His mind and will, dis-
closing to our view, Himself and His jjerfections, Christ
and His salvation, the Spirit and His work, Heaven and
its happiness, Earth and its misery. Hell and its horrors,
man and his guilt, the church and her interests, the world
and its rebellion, and whatever other spiritual truths or
facts we need to know. And hence it is called, "a light
to our feet and a lamp to our path.
"
But tiie wondrousfacts revealed in the Bible, make no salu-
tary impressions on the minds of multitudes. Insteadof rous-
ing into blissful action their susceptible nature, its precious
lrutl]s,with many, have an irritating effect. While the chris-
tian pores over its sacred pages, and, in the spirit of prayer,
drinks in the refreshing influence of the truth, exclaiming
with the Psalmist, ^'Oh, iiovv I love thy law; it is my med-
itation all the day.^'^ The unrcvved sinner dislikes it, and
neglects to consult it, as *'tlie man of his counsel,'' though
it is "able to make him wise unto salvation," He sees no-
Ihing lovely or attractive in it; except, in-deed, it may be,
in the sublimity of its poetry, and simplicity of its history.
The blessed Saviour, who is there unveiled in the rich glo-
ries of his character, possesses no charms. He is, to the
unbeliever, "a root out of a dry ground, without form or
comeliness, and when He is seen, there is no beauty (per-
ceived) in Him, (to excite the sinner) to desire Him.''^
Whence arises this difference?
^Ye reply, from the special agency of the Holy Spi-
1. 2 Cor. iv. 18. 2. Psahu cxix. 97. 3. Isal. Ilii. 2.
452 THE METAPHYSICAL NA'fTRE cHAP. xxiv.
rit. He, by His gracious interposition and inflaencc, brings
before the mind the grand central object of our faith and
hope—the blessed Redeemer—and influences it to attend to
and contemplate Him, and his claims. Various objects or
truths, as is the case when the sinner is convicted, may have
been previously presented by Him, producing a state of
excitement, or bringing the mind into a mood, favorable
to an impression from the appeal which He makes. When
the pains of Hell get hold of the conscience, and the sinner
becomes uneasy, the instinctive desires of the soul for bliss
are excited. The^promise of bliss in Christ, attracts atten-
tion. His natural susceptibilities of emotion, are variously
excited. Hope, fear, desire, sorrow, begin to operate.
Reformation is attempted. An exciting influence from spi-
ritual objects, although they are but partially and imper-
fectly understood, is now experienced. The interested
attention given to them, increases that excitement. Clear-
er views of their solemnity and importance, cr their excel-
lence and desirableness are had. Some degree of illumination
ensues. Spiritual things are apprehended as realities, and the
full and hearty approbation and choice of Chrisl, as all our
salvation and all our desire, are secured, affecting the heart
with sorrow for past neglect, or contempt of Him, and for
the ingratitude manifested by former iniquit}^, and rejection
of his proffered mercy, and engaging the whole scul, in all
its various capacities to act, no longer for its own selfish
interests, but for His glory. The heart loves Him, con-
fides in Him, yields, in adoring submission, to His claims,
lies humbled at His feet, and consecrates itself and all to
Him. And thus the sinner, in a way perfectly consistent
with, and through the established laws of human thought
and feeling, is brought by the Spirit of *jod, to turn from
his sins and live. Every one, who is acquainted with the
experience of the christian, knows the truth and general ac-
CHAP. XXIV. .
OF KI^GEXERATION. 453
curacy of tb.e above acco'.ir.t, of t'ic process of conversion.
The different steps taken i)y the sinner, and the dirfcrent
acce.ssions of divine influence, ])riorto the entire snrren.der
of the heart to the Saviour, in son.e cases occur at distant
intervals, and it is not til! ofler \--y^'Z, and much slrivini>;,
that the rebel yields. Bnt, in ol'ncrs, the transitiop.s of
feeling arc rapid; and, into tlie shiort space of one lia!f
hour, is crowded an experience -as full and vivid, as tl^.at
Vv'hich is spread over months. Th.esc sudden ciiangcs oc-
cur in seasons of revival, udien tlic S|)irit's infiuence is pow-
erfully exerted. The former most fi'equently take place,
vvlien there is no special exciteinent on the subject of re-
ligion.
In estimating the reality of conversion, we must not look
to the time, during; which, our minds may have been al/ected
with convictions, prior to helievinn;; but to the Tcaliiy of
certain characteristic exercises. Have we been broufj;!itto
see and feel our wretched, guilty, cursed state, by reason
of our own sins? Have we been alTected uith a sense of
the evil of our sins, as comm.itted against God? Have we
felt, that it would be luost righteous for Him to con.demii
us eternally, for our sins? Have we been convinced, i];;.t
our carnal minds a»-e enmity against God? Have we seen
that there is, and can l)e no hiope for us, from our own oijo-
dience? Have we heard of tiie salvation wliich. tiiere is \\\
Christ? Have we seen, that in Him tlicre is a fullness and
sufficiency for all our need—blood, to atoac lor ou.r sijis —
righteousness, to justify—and a purifying Spirit, to cleanse
our hearts? Have we given full and heart)' credit to God's
word, when he calls upon us to embrace this Saviour, as a
certification of his great benevolence, and of his willingness
to receive and save us? Have we actually ventured upoa
Christ, and given ourselves, soul, spirit, and body, away to
Him? Have wc sincerely and deeply repented of our sins,
454 THE METAPHYSICAL NATURE ciIAP. XXIV.
as committed against a righteons God, and a merciful Re-
deemer? Arrd have we cordially, unreservedly, unchange-
ably, and forever devoted ourselves to His service? If so,
the blessed Soirit has subdued us to Hin:iself. The charac-
teristic exercises of a saving change of heart, have been ex-
perienced by us. We are born again. And no one, thus
born again, who has seen and felt the evil of his own heart,
the blindness of his stupid mind, and his natural aversion
from the service of God, but what is ready to exclaim, in admi-
ration of the power and freedom of the grace of God,
which has made him willing to submit, —"Not unto us,
Oh Lord, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy,
and for thy truth's saho.''^ Whether rude or learned, no-
ble or ignoble, Hindoo, Hottentot, CafTre, Indian, or the
ci'vilized son of science, he will relate, essentially, the same
experience, and evince the same impressions of truth upon
the mind. To what other general and extensive cause, can
we assign these mental exercises and transformations of
character, thnn to the Spirit's gracious agency. He is their
author, and His be all the glory and all the praise.
From the above general account, of the change cf char-
acteristic exercises in Regeneration, produced by the Spi-
rit of God, it is obvious, that tl^ere ai'e objects existing,
and that facts have transpired, which are, in their nature,
adapted to produce impressions and excitement, necessary,
according to the constitution of the human m.ind, to rouse
the will into appropriate action; —that these objects and
truths are presented to, and may be apprehended through
the exercise of our constitutional cajiacities, as rational and
sensitive creatures; —that the word of God, is the great the-
atre where they are displayed; —that men are naturally
averse from the contemplation of them, and treat them, as
though they were false and illusory, being unwilling to pur-
fsuc them, as the mcaMSortb.'jir ci^joyment;and that this aver-
1. P.sl;',kn ('^.v, 1,
CHAP XXIV. OF REGENERATION. 455
sion is overcome, by the special influence of the Holy Spi-
rit, who, in some way entirely unknown to us, but in per-
fect consistency with the established laws, which regulate
the exercise of our capacities, gives an impressiveness to
these truths and objects, excites the feelings, secures the
attention, engages the affections, and so making the man
willing and determined to embrace and cleave to them for
ever as to realities substantial and eternal, revolutionizes
his whole character and conduct, and develops in him a new
life.
CHAPTER XXV.
THE ICATURE OJP SPIRITUAL- II^L.U3IINA-
TION.
Mohai. exercises possess a complex character—Inquiry as to tlie nature
of SPIRITUAL iLLU?.riNATioy—It docs Hot coHsist, 1. Ill any chang-e
. wroug-ht on the e.s.?c«ce of the human mind—2. Nor in some ?2eM;/y che-
ated disposition of mind—3. Nor in the communication of any new fa-
culty, or se7isc or instinct—4. Nor in removing any iinbecilifi/ of the na-
tural faculties—5. Nor in any peculiar mode of intellectual knowledge
—
The Bible does not contain trutli beyond the natuml capacities of the
mind
—
Its mysteries not peculiarly inexplicable—The fact not to be de-
nied however, that human corruption impedes the perceptions of the un-
derstanding—The Saviour's explanation of this thing—John viii. 43:
Jer. vii. 5: Eph. iv. 18—-A General view of the structure of the Bible,
which is tlie sphere of .F.j>iritual vision, tending to show, particularly tlie
reason of its obscurity to many—An illustration drawn from real life
—
. An objection answered—Illustrative facts culled from christian experi-
ence—In vv-hat consists tiie Spirit's agency
—'i'liat agency unfolded
—
vSome observations as to incurable blindiicss nf mind, and hardness of
heart.—i'salm, Ixxxi. 11, IC—Ivlat. xili. 14, IJ. kc.
From tbo brief skclcii of the. iiictapl^.ysical nature of
Regeneration given in the preccdinj^; chnplcr, th.c reader
will have discovered, that, while it is the commencement
of a change in the chai-acter of the moral exercises, and
subsequent acts, those exercises are of a complex descrip-
tion, and nol predicabic exclusively, either of the intellec-
tual perceptions, or of the sensitive emotions, but uniting
both.
Two thin<];s are oi}servablc m tliis process. The mind's
perception oi spiritual tilings, and the heart's acquiescence
in Ihem. The former lias been technically called spihit-
^; iLLrMiNATio>', and th.c latter corrcsnonds with mo-
CHAP. XXV. SPIRITUAL ILLUMINATION. 457
RAL sTTAsioN. The agency of the Spirit in both, requires
our special attention.
In what does spiritual illumination consist? The reader
will excuse us if in replying to this inquiry, we may seem
to repeat some ideas alrendy brought into view. We do
not aim to be concise, but are anxious to be understood.
1. Spiritual illumination does not consist in any change
wrought on the essence of the human mind. Such a change
would make us no longer human beings. Let the essen-
tial mind be converted into that of an angel, or seraph,
or new order of intelligent creatures, and it will no lon-
ger be a human soul, for by the very terms of the suppo-
sition, it is essentially changed.
3. Neither does spiritual illumination consist in some
newly created disposition anterior to, but the appropriate
cause, or immediate original of the mind's perceptions
of the truth. In so saying we do not mean, that feelings
elicited have not an influence on the mind's perceptions;
but simply, that there is no peculiar foundation, or fons
actionis, laid in, or superadded to, the constitutional ca--
pacities, and susceptibilities of the moral creature man, by
any exercise of creative power on the part of God. This
too would be to change the constitutional nature of the
being, were such a thing in reality to take place. When
the real nature of what are called dispositions is examin-
ed, they will be found to be habits oi feeling; and every
one who has attended to the exercises of his own mind,
knows that a powerfully and permanently influential
feeling, may be awakened by a simple combination of
circumstances adapted to the mood of the individual's
mind at the time. One strong and vivid emotion or feel-
ing, ripening into purpose, secures, by virtue of the very
laws of mind, the easy and frequent indulgence of the
same; and unlike our mechanical habits, the very first im-
pulse of such feeling assumes for years afterwards a de-
58
45S THE NATURE OF cHAP. XXV,
termining character. But in all this, there is no new
foundation laid in nature, by any creative act —no pro-
duction of a new principle or cause of action sui s^e?terJs,
but simply the eliciting of constitutional susceptibilities
in new exercise, and of such sort—so vivid, so strong, so
influential, as to secure their easy and freqtient repetition.
It is philosophy that talks of some peculiar adaptation of
created nature, that is the specific cause of those acts and
exercises, which as they are strung together in series, or
become habitual, we denominate dispositions. And it is,
as we apprehend, an improper use of the term—one which
common sense will not sustain, to designate, as a dispo-
sition^ a mere modification of created nature; for such ac-
cording to the philosophical use of the term just noticed, it
must mean. We use it commonly, to denote any partic-
ular cl*ss of acts, and exercises towards given objects as
they operate on our constitutional capacities and suscep-
tibilities, and not as efficient causes per se, lodged in the
structure of the soul, or super added to its properties.
3. Neither does spiritual illumination consist in the com-
munication of any tiew faculty, or sense, or instinct, to
ihe soul. For if so, then it follows, as in the former case,
that the subject of it ceases to be a human being. We may
be unable to know what they might do with it, yet we can
(conceive it possible that there should be creatures, wjiom
the power of God may create, having all our senses, and
one or more superadded. The addition of these n.?w
senses, would constitute them creatures of adiflVrent con-
stitutional nature from ourselves; and should ive, by any
exercise of divine power, become similarly endowed, we
should cease to be human beings. The same tnings hold
true, with respect to our intellectual, as well as to our sen-
sitive nature. Say that our minds have been rendered ca*"
pable of new, or angelic modes of thought, and we have
ceased to Ix) m^n. Beside,,, if illumination consists in per-
CHAP. XXV. SPHUTUAL ILLrMl-^TATlON'.. 45-9
ceptions, tiirough a new sense, or by means of a new fa-
culty, or instinct, created in the soul, the unregenerate man
ijs no more under obligation to understand and approve of
spiritual things, and act accordingly, than the blind man
can be, to perceive and understand colors, or the deaf man
sounds. Without the capacity or faculty, requisite to per-
ceive and understand the truth, all moral obligation would
cease; and, accordingly, the Saviour has authorized us to
believe, that the ignorance and blindness of men, on spirit-
ual subjects, is not owing to the destitution of any of the
natural faculties or capacities for mental action, employed
in the perception of truth. Whatever derangement sin may
have produced in our moral nature, one thing is certain
—
it has not robbed us of any distinctive power, or capacity,
witli which we were originally endowed by our great Cre-
ator. It is not a necessary consequence of the fall, that any
of the natural operations of the human mind should be de-
stroyed. Instances, it is true, do occasionally occur in the
case of idiots and lunatics, where the rational powers are
withheld, suspended, or not developed, —sad proofs, indeed,
of tliO havoc wliich sin has made, but not the necessary and
infallible consequences of the fall. For, he that would con-
clude from such facts, that the fall of man.has deprived us
of any mental faculty, must, by the very same mode of
reasoning, infer from the fact of some being born blind,
i\nd others being naturally deformed, or deaf mutes, that it
has also dejjrived us of corporeal powers. The absurdity
of this iiist idea is obvious; and, therefore; by a parity of
reasoning, we are forbidden tc conclude, th the fall has
divested the human mind of any of its naturu' capacities or
jpowers, and, consequently, that illumination nc more con-
sists in restoring the lost Capacity, than in imparting new. -
Man is still possessed of all those powers, which are ne-
cessary to constitute him a moral agent. To deny this, i*
fto deny human accounl^iljility.
4^0 THE NATURE ©F cHAP. XX\r.
4. Nor does spiritual illumination consist, in removing
any natural imbecility of mind, or ^depravation of the fa-
culty'' of understanding, which may be supposed to prevent
the exercise of the intellectual powers, in the perception
of spiritual truth. Dr. Owen speaks of **a two-fold impo-
tency on the minds of men, with respect to spiritual things.
1. That which immediately affects the mind, a natural im-
potency, whence it cannot receive Xh^m^ for want oflight
in itself. 2. That which affects the mind by the will and
affections, a moral impotency, whereby it cannot receive
the things of the Spirit of God, because, unalterably, it will
not."* This is a legitimate inference, from the doctrine of
physical depravity. To present truth to the mind of man,
thus disabled, would be just as absurd, as to reason with an
idiot. If, however, the mind is not physically disabled,
—
created defective, —spiritual illumination cannot consist in
restoring, by a new creative process, what had not been
lost.
5. Neither does illumination consist in any new and
peculiar mode of mere intellectual perception of truth. For
both the renewed and the unrenewed, possess the same esse}i~
Hal capacities, and are governed by the same general laws
of thought. And the former, sustaining no change in the
essence of their being, nor receiving any superadded facul-
ty or sense, their intellectual operations cannot differ, es-
sentially, from those of the latter. How far the exercise
of the intellectual powers, on the part of the unrenewed,
may be impeded by the corruption of their liearts, is a ques-
tion we shall not undertake to solve. That in regard of
spiritual and moral truth, the perceptions of men of quick
understanding have been greatly blunted by the disorder-
ed state of their hearts—by the prevalence*of corrupt incli-
natioris, is a fact, of which there is abundant proof. And,
4. Owen on the Spirit, vol. 1, p. 41T.
CHAP. XXV. SPIRITUAI. ILLU.MIXATIOX. 461
inasmuch as almost all our intellectual knowledge has, or
may be made to have, some hearing on moral and spiritual
things, the man of depraved taste, who is not only destitute
of a relish for holiness, but actually disrelishes it, labours
under the influence of prejudices, which may, and often do
prevent him from perceiving truth perfectly obvious. He
is actually, in this state of mind, disqualified for impartial
investigations, so that the very energies of his mind may
he employed, in the miserable attempt to confirm and illus-
trate, what is absolutely false. The apostle has told us,
that "the world, by wisdom, knew not God—They became
vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was dark-
ened; professing themselves to be wise, they become fools,
''^
and he gives us the most palpable proof of it in the fact,
that they ^'changed the glory of the incorruptible God,
into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds,
and to four-footed bensts, and creeping things."^ Tiie
christian man, whose mind is free from the prejudices against
God and holiness, engendered in a depraved heart, is un-
questionably, all other things being equal, more likely to
make the most rapid and extensive acquisitions in valuable
science. And facts will confirm the assertion. Any ad-
vantage, however, which a renewed man may possess, in
this respect, is not to be attributed to the removal of any con-
stitutional or peculiar obliquity, or imbecility of intellect,
but to the healthful exercise of all the moral powers, secur-
ed by the Spirit of Life. The advantage, in respect of mo-
ral and divine truth, is undeniable.
But this is not owing to any thing in the truths of the
Bible, beyond the natural capacities of the human mind, or
requiring peculiar modes of intellectual perception. We are
distinctly told, that, as it regards the great truths of the'
Bible, *Hhe way-faring men, though fools, shall not err
1. Horn. T, 21—23.
46-2 '^^^^'' XATURE OF CJlAr. XXV-
therein."^ The law of the Lord is declared to be perfect
and ris^ht, ^'making wise the simple," and "enlightening
the eyes.''^ It is true, that it discloses to our view a A^ariety
of facts, which are altogether mysterious and inexplicable,
and which never could have been conceived of by the hu-
man mind, if they had not been made known to us. But
the doctrines, i. e. the propositions founded on these facts,
are just as intelligible, as are any advanced in elementary
treatises in the sciences. Nay, in this respect, the Bible
clainis superiority to alt the writings of men.
jts mysteries are not more inexplicable, than are some
of the facts, on which mathematical reasoning is based, or.
than the innumerable phenomena on which the doctrines
of chemistry and natural philosophy rest. He that can
comprehend the axioms of tlie former, is capable of aj>-
,prehending the <^oc/r/;?e^ of Revelation. We do not say the
fact; and lience we find many, who, with but little men-
ial cultivation, have been able to understand and discuss
all tiie doctrines generally comprised in a system of the-
f)logy, and who could never perhaps be made to com^pre-
hend a single proposition of Euclid. We now speak of
mere scientific, or intellectual acquaintance with the
trutiis of Scripture, by those that are confessedly unre-
newed. The fact is not to be disputed, that multitudes,
who give no evidence whatever of a saving illumination,
understand the doctrines of revelation —which fact fur-
nishes strong and incontestible proof, that there is notliiag
in thein which transcends the natural capacities of the
human mind; and consequently, that, in whatever spiritual
illumination may consist, it is not, in any peculiar modes
of intellectual perception of truth.
Yet there is no denying the fact, that human corruption
impedes the perceptions of the understanding. We have
1. Isai. XXXV. 8.
2, Psalm, jfix. 7,8.
OHAP. XXV. SPmiTUAL ILLirMlNATION. 463
a striking example of this sort proposed m the ciise of
Christ's hearers. They seemed to labour under some
great and pressing difficulty, —something, ^vhich, as it
Were, blinded their minds, and rendered it impossible for
them to understand Him. *^' Why do ye not understand
my speech, even because ye cannot hear my words. "^
But alas! they are not the only example! How many sit
under the preaching of the Gospel for years, and remain
utterly ignorant of its grand and peculiar truths! They
have ej^es, but see not~minds, but they perceive not,
—
and seem to be illustrations of the dreadful sentence of
Heaven, —'' It is a people of no understanding, therefore,
He that made them, will not have mercy upon them, and
He that formed them, will shew them no flivour.
'''
^ But
these facts no more prove that men are destitute of intel-
lectual capacities to perceive the truth, than does the stu-
pidity of one and another with regard to the process of
mathematical analysis, prove the human m/ind to he desti-
tute of a capacity for the apprehension of such truth. It
is not only in respect of scriptural truth, that the percep-
tions of the mind, are impaired by the corruption of the
heart. Passion, and prejudice, and various sinful affec-
tions, have an injurious influence on it, even in respect cf
those subjects which are properly intellectual and scien-
tific.
The Saviour has Himself anticipated and answered the
inquiry, whence arises the difficulty in apprehendi^ig the
truth bv the unrenewed mind. When He said of those
wliom He addressed, that thev co?//.^/ no/ hear His words,
and assigned that as the reason of their not understanding
his speech, he certainly did not mean to say, that the-y
could not perceive the sound of His voice through the ex-
ternal 5(';?.se of hearing. They were not deaf. By hear-
1. Joliii, viii, 43- 5. Isai xxviii". 11.
4G4 THE NATURE OF ciIAP. XXV.
fng, He undoubtedly meant, giving that attention to what
He said, which was necessary, in order to understand it.
No man ever yet understood a proposition or discourse to
which he did not attend. Attending is the very mode
throu"-h which, the mind's energies, requisite to the per-
ception of truth, are roused into action. Now why cannot
the carnally minded sinner give his attention to divine
thin'^s? Why can he not think as intensely, and with as
deep interest, about ihem as about the things of this
world? Is any new faculty wanting? If so, then is he
freed from all obligation to do so; for God will not re-
quire human beings to perform actions, for wliich they
have not the requisite natural capacity. Will He, does
He, require the deaf mute to hear, or the blind to see?
By no means. Why then did not Christ's hearers give their
interested attention to what He said? Because their pas-
sions and prejudices were such, and so powerful, as to ren-
der them unwilling to do so. They actually hated Him,
and were actuated with murderous designs in relation to
Him. The grand difficulty in understanding the words
of Christ, arises from the natural aversion of the heart to
what He speaks. There is no relish for it, but on the
contrary, a disrelish.
When we look into the context, from which we have
just quoted, where Christ describes the character of His
hearers, we find that he declares them to be assimilated
to Satan, in two of their leading and essential features.
They had a desire to kill Him, and a disrelish for the
truth He spoke, thus proving themselves to be the off-
spring of the god of this world, who *' was a murderer
from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because
there is no truth in him."^ Their love oi falsehood, and
dislike of the truth, He assigns, as the reason why they
1. John viij. 44.
CilAP. XXV\ SPIRITUAL IL"LUMIXATIOX 465
could not Iiear, and did not believe Him, who spake thd
truth. The same thing, as we have seen, is done by the
Apostle, who assigns the difficulty or impossibility in the
way of the unrenewed sinner's obedience> to the enmi-
ty of his mind.
The Saviour has, as we think, most conclusively deci-
ded this matter. "This is the condemnation that light is
come into the world, and xno^xi loved darkness rather than
Jight, because their deeds were evil. For every one that
doeth evil, hateth the light. "^ Now it is as impossible
for a man, to hate wliat he does not perceive, as it is, to
love what he does not in some measure know. There is
therefore, according to the plain and obvious import of the
Saviour's terms, no differing mode of intellectual perc^-
tion of tl^.e truth. The cause of spiritual blindness, is the
prevalent influence of a hatred of the truth.
God also assigns the same, as the reason of the contin-
uous and confirmed rebellion, of the ancient inhabitants
of Jerusalem. *'Why is this people of Jerusalem, slidden
back with a perpetual backslidi.jg? They holdfast deceit^
they refuse to return."^ The' Apostle represents that the
Gentile world, the unrenewed, whose case was hopeless,
had so far abandoned themselves to their corrupt inclina<
tions and desires, as to be actually destitute of any sensi-
tiveness, with respect to holy things. It was because of
the blindness of their henrtj^^ and their ^^ h^'ing past feel*
ing^' that they were " alienated from the life of God,"
held in ignorance ^'having the understanding: darkened.*''
Whereas the Ephesian converts had "put off concerning the
former conversation, the okl man which is corrupt, aC'
cording to the deeeitful lusts, and had been renewed in
the spirit o£ their minds. ''^
These passages may suffice.
The difficulty, which the unrenewed sinner finds, in un-
1 Johniii. 39, 20.
46S THE NATURE OF CHAP. XXV.
derstanding the trutli,- arises, not from any defective or-
ganization of the mind; nor from the want of any consti-
tutional capacity; nor from any particular imheciliiy of
natural intellect; nor from any peculiarity in the truth it-
self, which renders it unadapted to the natural faculties of
the human soul; but from the powerful and prevalent in-
fluence of those feelings, which oppose themselves to the
truth, and prevent them from giving that simple, sincere.
undivided and interested attention to it, which it deserves.
And this conclusion maybe illustrated and confirmed by
an exhibition of facts. The Bible, being the sphere of
observation and of spiritual vision, may properly claim
a brief notice from us of its structure, and the correspond-
ent actings of the human mind in the apprehension of its
truths. There are various kinds of composition, or rather,
divine truth is presented, in the sacred Scriptures, in va-
rious forms, which render it perfectly intelligible to tlie
unrenewed mind. There are some parts, which are pure-
ly intellectual, i. e. divine truth in them is presented to
us in a form perfectly abstract and logical. Every mind
capable of such an intellectual proce&s as m-ust be had in
conducting a mathematical demonstration, or in pursuing
a philosophical investigation, or in framing an argument,
can comprehend them. There are others which are pre-
sented in the simple dress of historical narrative, and these,
even children understand without difficulty. Others yet,
are exhibited in 2, poetical garb; and tb'ese delight thetm-
aginations of' many, who disregard the Bible as a Revela-
tion from God. An illusirious modern poet awarded the
pilm to the poetical writings of Moses ki the book of
Job, and says that he once had thoughts himself of wri-
ting a Job, but despaired of success. Now in such parts
->f the uor.lof Ujdi the unrenewed mind, finds no peculiar
f«^ifficijity in apj^iehending its truths. In proof of this^
CHAP. XXV, SPIRITUAL ILLUMlNATiON. 4^7
we have abundant facts. What parts oi the Bible does
the close mathematical reasoner so often select for his
reading, as the very logical writings of Paul? Where does
the man of taste and fancy go more frequently, than to the
pDctical writings of the Old Testament? And what is more
frequently conned, or read with more pleasure by child-
ren, and the great mass of those who read the Bible when
urged to it, merely from a general sense of duty, than the
interesting and striking histojnes and anecdotes related in
the Old and New Testaments? They all find in tTifelBible,
something adapted to their taste, and which must be per-
ceived, or it never could bo relished.
But we remark, in the next place, that there are numer-
•^©ns passages in the Bible, which belong not properly to ei-
ther of the above, and sometimes expressions and senti-
ments occur in them, which are the offspring of feeling.
'Intellect is employed to portray the emotions, the sensi-
nilities, the passions of the convinced, converted and sanc-
tified soul. Now, it is a truth, which will not, we pre-
a ime, be seriously disputed, that the language ofpassion
or feeling cannot be well or fully understood by one, who
is destitute of the passions and' feelings, expressed or im-
'
plied, —who has never experienced them. Language can-
not excite, in a blind man, the idea of vision. Nor can
signs convey to the deaf mute, that of sound. So, nei-
ther can the language of strong emotion—of excited feel-
ing, be fully comprehended by him, who is a stranger to
the feelings which dictate it. The language of the amorous
swain, for example, is disgusting to one, that never felt the
lender emotion. There is a sympathy of feeling, necessa-
ry to render language lucid and intelligible, where it is
that of the heart. The slave,' whose dark mind has never
•^heen illumined with freedom's genial rays, who knows not'
the aspirations and emotions which liberty inspires, cannot
understand the glowing language of the freeman, who is in-
46S T»E NATURE OP cMAP. xxv
.
spired with the love of country. There is no sympathy
between them. Just as it is necessary for us to have seen
an object in nature, in order to have a simple idea of it, so
is it necessary, that our hearts should be affected in some
measure, as are those of the convinced and converted sin-
ner, in order to understand him wlien he speaks.
This being the case, it follows that those parts of the
word of God, which imply or describe the various emotions
of a sanctified heart, cannot be understood by him, who has
never experienced such emotions. Now, strong devotion-
al feelings, and holy exercises of heart, prevail throughout,
and under the guidance of the Spirit of God, suggested the
language of holy writ. The hearts of the inspired writers
of the Scriptures, glowed with zenl for God, and gratitude
to Christ, and love for the souls of men. And they were,
oftimes filled with heart-rending sorrow for sin, with ho-
ly joy and delight in God, with agonizing grief for the dis-
honor done to Him by wretched men, and with a concern
like the very ti»avail of birth, for the salvation of souls.
Wherefpre, it is obvious, that, if the above remarks are
tfue, then, where such things have never been experienc-
ed—where the heart has never been waked up,under the in-
fluence of holy emotions, the Bible, in all the splendor and
fervor of its spirituality, must, to the unrenewed man, be a
sealed book. Now, tliat such feelings are -not naturnl to
men, has been already fully shewn. We are, by nature,
destitute of holy feelings. The love of God, and genuine
Repentance for sin, are wanting in the unrenewed heart. "I
know you," said the Saviour to his hearers, "that ye have
not the love of God in you."^ God is hated, and sin is
loved. Here, then, are we to look, for the source of all
the difficulty of which some complain so loud I}'', in hearing
and understanding the words of Christ. The words arie
jlain, arid perfectly infelligible to those, who$e inin*ds ^n^
CHAP. .VX-\ .
SMiU'i rAl. TLI.rMLXATlOY. 4t;(j
hearts are overpowered with prejudice and uiiliko cf C7od.
Tiiey are not straitened in God, hut in their own bowels.
Your own wilful, obstinate, malicious, and inveterate ha-
tred of holiness, and your besotting, slupifying, and en-
slaving love of sin; —your enmity against God and Clirist,
and your raging thirst after the riches, honors, antl plea-
sures of the world, prevent you, oh impenitent reader, from
giving that sincere and docile attention to the words of
Christ, which is alike your duty and your interest, as a
rational and immortal being. Lay not the blame of your
ignorance and blindness on God,
From the above view of the subject, it is obvious, —that
as the spiritual blindness of men is owing, not to essential
disorganization of mind, nor to the destitution or imbecil-
it}^ of constitutional susceptibilities, nor to an}^ difference
in the modes of intellectual perception of truth, —but,
simply, to the entire absence of all those feelings, or excit-
ed sensibilities, appropriate to the objects and subjects sub-
mitted to attention in the sacred Scriptures; —so, spiritual
illumination consists in the experimental and feeling sense
of tlie truth, which is connected with its vivid and interest-
ed perception. The sensibilities of the heart are roused,
and brought into blissful action by divine things. They
appropriately and pleasurably affect the man, and that gives
a vigor, and intensity, and vividness to his perceptions of
them, which the dull, systematic, scientific or philosophi
cal views of the doctrinal christian, or rationalist in reli-
gion, ever want.
And this view of the subject will admit of very easy and
familiar illustration. You may have seen a man become
inimical to another, for some reason, which neither he, nor
any one else perhaps, could divine, and whose enmity was.
altogether as unjust as it was unreasonable. Although the
character of the man he hates may be excellent, and he may
even befriend him and his family, yet hislj-eart has a bias
470 'I'lIK XAiTK'!-. or CHAP. XXV.
against him, and he disrelishes every thing which helongs
to him. Whatever he does, or says, or thinks, or enjoys;
his deportment and conversation, his opinions and company^
his children and friends, his business and possessions, the
very signt of him, every thing that is his, —he hates. En-
deavour to persuade him he is wrong;—recount to him the
riumerous excellencies of the one he hates;—tell him of
the many kindnesses he himself has received from him;
—
ydduce proof till h'c can no longer reply, and although you
may have given him much knowledge which he never had
before, yet, if his heart still cherishes its hatred, you will
not convince him. His hatred, instead of being diminish-
ed, will ratiier be increased. But let him cease from his
enmity, and become a friend, how great will be the change!
Every thing will be seen, as it were in a new light. The
very things his heart hated, will now be loved;—not because
he has any greater knowledge of the man's character and
conduct, but because the state of his own mind has under-
gone a change. It is thus, in reference to the sinner's ha-
tred of God. Although he may know much of Him, his
knowledge only irritates. His mind is enmity against
ilini. Sucii are the feelings of his heart, that the knowledge
of Him proves p.iinful. But v/hen spiritual illumination
iakes place—trie feelings of the heart have undergone a
c^hange. Instead of hatred and irritation, ther^ are love and
delight. The sensibilities of the soul are differently cxcit-
-'cd, and the very ol)jects which once irritated, disgusted,
tormented, now please, refresh, and satisfy. Divine things
possess a charm, which he never felt before;—not because
lhey were not perceptible before, but because a jaundiced
mind, a prejudiced heart, a bitter enmity to God, divided
and distracted the attention, and thus prevented them from
making their appropriate ifhpressions.
Will it be objected to this view of the subject, that it de-
grades the ru-iional cr intellectual nature of jman. by making
CHAP XXV. SfllllTUAl. ILLUMINATrOX. 47I
the perceptions of the mind depandent, for their ciiaracter,
upon the sensitive properties or feelings? The ohjeciion has
no force. It is the fact, de<j;radin<r as men m.iv tliink it.
And it follows the entire anah)2;y of our being. Sensnilon
forins the hasis of ail our knowledge.
Our corporeal senses rei^ulate, and inHuence, and shnpe
the character of our intellectual operations. And if so, why
sjiould we he loath to believe, that our perceptions of spirit-
ual things, may be dependent on. the susceptibilities of our
sensitive nature? Whether these susceptil)ilities have their
origin in the corporeal organization of our complex nature,
or whether they are merely sympathetic affections of the
immortal spirit, in unison with animal sensations, certa^i it
is, that not a few of those things, which are characteristic of
the renovated man, and of the feelings excited, when the
spiritual perceptions are most vivid, do involve, or are
blended with animal se,nsations. We must take man as he
is—complicated in his structure as His Creator has made
him, if w^e would rightly estimate his characteristic exerci-
ses. And to say, that making the intellectual opcratioiis de-
pendent on the emotions, or to connect them with the sen-
sibilities of the heart as consecutive, or as taking their char-
acter from them, is degrading the rational being, is merely
begging the question. • Analogy decides against the objec-
tion. And so will the united testimony of many facts, which
may be culled from christian experience.
Conviction of sin, consists not in the mere intellectual
perception of the nature of sin; but in the feeling sense of the
fact, that we ourselves, personally are sinners. The mind
of the convinced sinner, apprehends it is as a reality, that
he is a, rebel against God, and the -deep feeling of interest
thence excited inliis hearlv makes the apprehension abiding
and influential, and reitdcrs hiin particularly sensitive. \n
view of the e^vil nature, as w^ril us of the consequences of his
owi! ^i»is. .Xv> «>i!c ever \o.\ i|]auc;htof caliini^ the mere In-'
412 THE NATlllS OF cHAP. XXV.
operaLive intellectual judgmont, as to Ihc nature of sin, con-
viction. It is tlie sinner's waking up, under a realizing view
o^ ihc fact of his own guill^ and its just and horrid conse-
quences in his own case.
The graces of the Spirit, will be seen to be something
more than mere intellectual perceptions of truth. They in-
volve, essentially, tliose feelings or emotions, which are ap-
propriate to the character of the objects the Spirit present:.,
and the relations the individual sustains to them.
Thepeculiar significancy of particular passages of scrip-
ture, which every christian has, at times, noticed in his ex-
perience, and which is oftimes esteemed proof of some spe-
cial illtimination of the Spirit, can be easily explained by a
reference to this simple fact, that, on such occasions, the in-
dividual has experienced the very feelings expressed in the
language contemplated.
In seasons of affliction., and persecution, and peril, from
different sources, when feeling is strongly excited., how
pregnant with import are many of the Pslams, which, un-
der other circumstances, make but little impression! The
perfect applicability of the sentiment expressed, to the cir-
cumstances of the christian, when feeling of any kind is ex-
cited, renders it quite intelligible.
In seasons when strong devotionalfeelings prevail, how
refreshing arc those parts of the word of God, wiiich breathe
forth the ardent expressions of love to the Redeemer, and
hope and trust in liim ! IIow does the heart feel its inter-
est excited, by those incidents or peculiarities in the cir-
cumstances, or experience of christians, recorded in the Bi-
ble, which correspond with its own! The language of the
soul, in close and deep communion with God, is intelligible
and only intelligible io those, who have been admitted to
the same.
In seasons of revival^ when the current of feeling, awak-
ened by tlic fru^h and Spiri^t of God, seem full Sirjd strong,
CHAr. XXV. SIHUITIAL ILLl' MIN ATIOX, 473
!io\v ]ucid do [lie Scriplurcs generally appear! The untu-
tored and unlettered christian, seems, at once, to under-
stand the import orscii])turaI metaphors, and of transactions
had b}' primitive christians, which no commentaries can en-
able the mei'e intellectual formalist, or pharisaic professor
to apprehend, lie enters directly into the feelings of the
convicted, or the rejoicing around, and what, to the cold
and speculative rationalist, and self-righteous pharisee, ap-
pears disgusting and fanatical, unmeaning and absurd, is, to
liim, altogether authorized and appropriate, interesting and
xlelightful.
It is unnecessary to cite any further facts. The above
are sufficient to confirm and illustrate the position, that
•spiritual illumination consists in those vivid and interested
perceptions of divine truth, which are secured through the
influence of the feelings, appropriate to the character of the
object presented, whenever such feelings are excited. It
is, in scriptural terms, understanding with the heart—the
knowledge obtaisied, not by observation, but by actual sen-
sible experience.
Such being its nature, it is easy to perceive, in what con-
sists the special agency of the Spii*it in its production. It
is, in elicitintj; and exciting the feelings of the heart nnpro-
priate to the character of the objects and truths, presented
to the mind, and thus secrnnng those vivid perceptions and
that interested attention, without which there can be no in-
fluential and abiding knowledge. This is exactly the ac-
count which is given of it by the apostle John. '^•The
anointing," says he to christians, ^Svhich ye have receift'ed
of him, abideth in you; and ye need not that any man teach
you, but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things,
and is truth, and is no lie, (a reality) and even as it hath
taught you, ye shall abide in him."*
i. 1 Join, ]'. '17
60
474 THE NATURE OF cHAP. xx\%
If it should be asked, how the Spirit elicits and excites
the feelings, appropriate to the character of any spiritual
object or truth, we must reply, as we have already done,
that the precise mode of His agency is, to us, inscrutable;
but, in so far as its effects can be traced through human
consciousness, it eludes not our research. We have already
seen, that we are so constituted as to be differently affected
and excited by different objects. Why it is so, we cannot
say, other than that, so God has ordained, and such is the
iiature of His own providential rule. When the object
is apprehended, it makes its impression, unless the sensi-
bilities have become extinct. He that understands some-
what of the human heart, can operate upon another's sensi-
bilities, whose character he knows, by such a presentation
of objects, and by such appeals and exhibitions of motive^
as to produce an high degree of excitement, and both in-
fluence his conduct and shape his character. His success
depends upon his knowledge of character,—the exciting
power of the considerations adduced,—the excitability of
the individual, on whom he seeks to operate,—the exciting
power of the considerations adduced, —the wisdom and art,
requisite to combine circumstances, calculated to excite the
very passion desired, and to sustain or prolong that excite-
'ment,-and the skill with which he can adapt his exhibitions
of motive, to the particular mood of mind induced, and to
the interests of the individual to be affected. In all this,
there is no physical creation. Should we then deny to the
Spirit of God, who searcheth the heart and trieth the reins
of the children of men, what we concede to a worm of the
dust? And maintain, that when He undertakesto change the
heart, to disentangle the affections from sinful and direct
them to holy objects, it must and can only be done by phy-
sical power—an act of physical efficiency? But this subject
will more appropriately present itself in the next chapter
CHAP. XXV. SPIKniAL ILLUMIXATIOX 475
We conclude this by remarking, that from the view of
spiritual illumination as already, given, it clearly follows,
that the blindness of mind, and hardness of heart, which
characterize the reprobate, are not attributable to any posi-
tive eiTicieni\v, or ''sovereign" agency on the part of the
Spirit of God. Fhev are the natural results of a refusal, on
His part, to toil and strive with impenitent men, who iiave
already resisted lie i npressions of truth. The sovereignty
of God, is His supremacy, as a moral governor. And He
displays it, in the laws and constitutions He ordains, —in
the method wliich He has devised, and instrumental agen-
cies which He employs for adininistering, or executing the
interests and provisions of His government, —and in thf
exercises of His prerogative to pirdon. A mere capricious
<and arljitrary volition is not sovereignty, hut tyranny. In
the punishment of offenders, He simply executes His jus-
tice. In the pardon ot rebels. He exercises H's sovereign-
ty, or the rigiit of His supremacy to forgive. No rebel
lias, or can have, a claim on Him for forgiveness.
If, in any case, He sees fit to abandon a man, and leave
him to himself, there is no wrong done to him, no positive
influence frjm God, or divine efficiency exerted on him.
All restraints being withdrawn, t!ie man yields to the pas-
sions and affections excited bv sinful objects. They ob-
scure his perceptions of truth, and thus, by process of re-
sistance in the first instance, and of unrestrained indul-
gence subsequently, the man becomes incurably blind and
callous. It is a result that naturally follows: and we are
under no necessity to talk about a yzff//ci«/ procedure on
I'le part of God, in giving the sinner over to hardness of
heart, as though that were the basis of certain positive in-
fluences and agency exerted for his destruction. Judi-
4jial processes are reserved for the great judgment day,
when it sh;iH he found that none of the natural results
47n ^WE NATUPJ.: OF CHAP. XXV.
previously eventuating in God's providential rule, will
militate against the principles and decisions of eternal jus-
tice.
And this is exactly tlie account which God Himself,
has given of this matter. " My people would not heark-
en to my voice; and Israel would none of me. So I gave
them up unto their own hearVs lusts; and they walked
in their oz/'w counsels."^ Correspondent w^ith this, is the
Saviour's account of the same, when explicitly speaking
of those who were the suhjects of incurable blindness.
^^ By hearing, ye shall hear, and shall not understand;
and seeing, ye shall see, and shall not perceive; for this
"people's heai't is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of
hearing;, and their eyes they have closed; lest at any time^
they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears,
and should un-iilerstand with their heart, and sliould be con-
verted, and I should heal them."^ This dreadful result ac-
cording to the Saviour's account, is brou'a;ht about through
ti)e sinner's exercise of his natural capacities, and suscep-
tibilities. He hears and sees things that are calculated to
excite and induce h.im lo forsake the ways of sin. They
make some impressions; but he resists them. He refuses
to attend to them. He labours to obliterate them. Eventu-
ally they lose their impressiveness. In the absence of
all impression from the truth, or divine things, he acts as
though such things did not exist, and God lets him alone.
His sensibilities become indurated. His lusts become
tlominant, and through the influence of base and corrupting
passions, the most obvious truths are imperceptible by
him. The man is not to be moved by any appeals made
to him in judgment, or in mercy. Afllictions irritate,
mercies are despised, and the wretched shive of hateful
passions, is "led captive by the Devil at his will." Pha-^
1. Psalmlxxx; 11, IC 2. Mat. Vnl 14, 15.
CHAP. XXV. SPIRITUAL ILLUMINATION. 477
raoh was a splendid example of this sort: and so were Ike
Gentiles of whom Paul speaks. And when, in the one in-
stance, God is said to have hardened Pharaoh's heart,
and in the other to liave given them over to "vile affec-
tions," and '^a reprobate mind,"^ no other agency on His
part is implied than His abandonment of them. Withdraw-
ing from them the restraints of His truth and grace, and
letting circumstances occur in His providence, which irri-
tate and exasperate their corruptions, tliey become harden-
ed through the deceitfulness of sin. Falsehood is believed
in preference of the truth. Conscience often resisted, is
easily blinded by corrupt reasonings, and loses all power
to control or check. Like raging wave- of the sea, they
foam out their shame, "speaking evil of those things
whicli th(?y know not, and what they know naturally as
brut(^ beasts, in those they corrcpt themselves."^
The same account is also given by the Apostle, when
speaking of those who are devoted to destruction for their
adherence to that wicked ore, '• wliose coming is after
the working of Satan, with all power aiid signs and lying
wonders." He says that the corrupting and hardening
influence which is exerted on sueh, so far from being from
God, is from the Devil, and is " with all deceivableness of
unrighteousness in them that perisli." It is the deception
which they practice on their own minds, through their in-
genious acts of disobedience, that holds them in guilt, and
hardens their hearts. God does not choose to counteract
their wilfijl resisting of the truth. Yea for this very
thiiijj; he abandons them. "Because they received not the
love of ifie truth that iJicy might be saved—and/br this
cause God shall send them strong delusion, (it results in
His providence, and according to the great principles of
His government,; that they should believe a lie; that they
1. "liom. i. 21—32. 2. Judc 10 v.
478 TIIR NATURE OF CHAP. xxr.
all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had
pleasure in unrighteousness."^ So God Himself predicted
that it should be, and so He denounced His vengeance
ao-ainst the rebellion of those who icoiild not be influenced
by the truth, to make choice of Him, and submit to His
sway. *'They have chosen their own ways, and their soul
deli'-hteth in their abominations. —I also will choose their
delusions, and will bring their fears upon them, because
when I called none did answer, when I spake they did not
hear, but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that in
^v hich I delighted not.'
?2
Tiie result is manifest. God is not to blame. He is not
the efficient agent in blinding the minds, and hardening the
hearts of impenitent men. They destroy themselves.
Thev arm the very capacities and susceptibilities of their
nature against themselves, and by opposing the will of God,
secure through the very operation of the laws ordained
for the government of the human mind, their own defile-
ment and damnation. Yea, and they expose themselves
by the indulgence of deceitful lusts, to the caprice and ty-
ranny of the enemy of all good, —that fell ^'spirit of the
storm," that rides in the tempests of human passion, and
«>;uides then:; at iiis will. For, *Mf our gospel be hid, it is hid
to them tliat are lost; in whom, the god of this ivorld,
(not Jehovah.) hath blinded the minds of them which be-
lieve not, lest tne light cf the glorious gospel of Christ,
should shine unto ti^em."^
.Reader, art thou resisting thy conscience, shutting out
the light, rejecting the Saviour, receiving not the love
of the truth, and sporting thyself with tliine own vain im-
aginings? Thou art in the pathway to Hell. The strong
blasts from the deserts of earth, are sweeping thee away.
The prince of the power of the air, is assuming a control
1. 2Thes. ii.. 9—12. 2. Isai. Ixvl. 3, 4. 3. 2 Cor. iv.3,>
CHAP. XXV. Sl'llillLAL ILLUMINATION. 479
in thy heart. The dimness of thy perceptions, the numb-
ness of thy sensibilities, indicate the thickening gloom of
that tempest of wrath, which will presently burst around
thee. Repent, believe, and receive the love of the truth,
or thou shalt be swept, as with the besom of destruction,
into the bottomless abvss!
!
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE MORAL, SUASION OF THE SPIRIT.
The word of God the instrument of Kegeneration—That word not a crea-
iiiiejiat, but the facts and truths of scripture—These well adapted to the
result designed by them—The Spirit gives them efficacy—Inquiry whe-
ther this efficiency is in the suasive influence of truth, or by acts of phy-
s'cal power—The persuasive influence of truth felt in some degree by
all hearers of the gospel—The Spirit's influence something more than
the mere exhibition of truth to the mind—The influence of mind on
mind—Its potency—Itsavailableness—The Spirit's peculiar to Himself
—
FiXerted through the truth—Not a physical energ)^—Quotations from Dr.
Q^Ycn—Examination of the arguiricnt in favor of a physical efficiency
which is adduced from that class of scriptural testimonies which speak of
faith and rejientance as gifts of God—An illustration—The common-
sense view of the subject.
That the Spirit of God is the author of regeneration,
IS not denied hy those who speak of it as the commence-
iment of a change in the character of our voluntary exer-
cises. Whether that cliange is the result of a creative act
of God's physical power—^^terminating on our constitu-
tional capacities and susceptibilities; or consists in the sub-
stitution or succession of new exercises of these capacities
and susceptibilities, the exercisestaking their character from
the objects and motives inducing them, are questiojis which
have been already answered. Even they who contend*' for
a literal interpretation of the phrases, create anew^ new
creature, as denoting an act o^ physical ipower on the part
of God, will nevertheless admit, that the power of God
exerted in regenerating a sinner, is through the instrument
tality of the truth or word of God—a fact essentially at
War with the idea of a literal creation. Such a creation
CHAr. XXVI. OP THE SPIRIT. 4S1
is without jueans —there being nothing on which to ope-
rate, and creation being the production of something out
of nothing. But in the moral creation, means are em-
ployed !)y God. '-Ot" his own will begat He us with the
luord of truth.^'^
It is assumed that this "word of truth" is not the crea-
tive fiat of the Almighty, but the facts and truths reveal-
ed in the sacred scriptures. Every one who will attentively
consicJer the subject, cannot fail to perceive, that thess
facts and truths are admirably adapted to engage the ra-
tional mind and sensitive soul of man, in exercises evincive
of a change of lieart. In order, however, to induce these
exercises for which the word of God is actually emplo3-ed,
common sense at once teaches, that the truths and objects
revealed in the scriptures, must be brought to bear upon
our minds, i. e. must be so presented to us as to engage
our attention, and rouse our mental and other capacities
into action. This the Spirit does in various ways, and
does effectively, in all that believe. In what His efficacy
consists, is a question of deep interest, and in attempting
to meet it, it becomes necessary to inquire whether the
Spirit's agency is in the suasive influence of truth, or by
some act of physical power irrespectively of the appro-
priate influence of the tiuth.
That the great facts revealed in the word of God, with
its doctrinal instruction, its promises, its precepts, its
threatenings, its examples, its precedents, its motives, are
adapted to produce distinct impressions on the minds of
men, and designed to teach them how to live to God and
enjoy His communion, no one who is acquainted with the
sacred volume can deny. It is through this that we are
commanded and exhorted to turn ourselves to God and
live. By wliatever instrumental agencies that truth is ex-
hibited, whether by the living teacher—ihe ministry of
1 James, i. 16.
61
482 THE MOnAL SUASION CHA?. xxvi.
reconciliation, or the living epistle —the conduct and ex-
ample of the church, or the lively Grades themselves, as
quoted, explained, or taught by men, it is stiil the great
means which the Spirit of God empbys to convince us of
our sins, ind turn us from the error of our ways.
Every one whose mind has ever, in any degree, appre-
hended the truth of the scriptures, has felt somewhat of its
pe' suas'.ve influence, leading him to a compliance with it
**AliTiOst thou persuadest me to be a christian,""^ said
Agrippa. And when Paul '^reasoned of righteousness,
temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled."^
The powerful exhibition of motive by the minister of
Christ, as he appeals to the consciences of his hearers, and
sympathetically moves by the manifestation of his own
feelings, seems to have a natural tendency or operation to
induce the conversion of the sinner. All that have turned
to God have felt it.
But is this all the influence of the Spirit? Does His in-
fluence extend no further than the mere exhibition in the
word, of motives, arguments, objects and considerations
calculated to move the heart and change the will? The
sacred scriptures intimate something more than this. He
does, in this way, strive with men universally, who hear
the gospel, and sometimes, with remarkable evidences of
its influence: as in seasons of revival of religion, when
alm^s^ every heart is made to quake, and every mind is
impressed with the solemn conviction that God is in the
midst of His people. But if there is no other agency of
the Spirit than the mere exhibition of moral truth calcu^
lated to excite, then is there no special ^nd i?7imediate or
supernatural influence, to secure the conversion of one
moi^e than another; whereas the Saviour's thanksgiving to
God plainly teaches that there is. **I thank thee Oh Fa-
ther, Lord. of Heaven and of earth, because Thou hast hid
1 AcfSy 5svi, 28. 2 Acts, xxiv, 25.
. tIAP. XXVI. ^>i' ™^ SPIRIT. 483.
these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed
them unto babes. Even so Father for so it seemed good
in thy sight. "^ And the numerous conversions in the
primitive churches are all attributed lo some special agen-
cy, which justified the apostles in using, as the designation
of their members, the phrase ''elect of God." Beside, the
Saviour says expressly, "no man can come to me except the
Father, which hath sent me, draw him: and I will raise
him up at the last day. It is written in the prophets, and
they shall be all taught of God. Every man, therefore,
that hath heard and learned of the Father, cometh unto
me.'^^ There is something more than the mere objective
strivings of the Spirit, as they are sometimes called.
In so saying, however, vv^e are not to be understood as
denying that the efficient agency of the Spirit, is in perfect
unison with the moral influence of the truth: nor as main-
taining that it consists in an effort of j^hysical power. It
is very obvious, that tlie same truth pronounced by one
man will make a much deeper impression than as it comes
from another, though both may be placed precisely in the
sam ext rnil circumstancss. One man may better under-
stand the character of him whom he addresses, than another^
and from his knowledge of that character, and interests, rela-
tions, prejudices, dominant passions, and the like, be able
to make his appeals, in such way, ana to sustain them by
such motives, as to produce the very excitement, and rouse
into action the very feelings, requisite to sway the will
into a compliance with his demands. Perhaps no other
man could have done this. We see examples of this na-
ture, in the success with which one man of practical know-
ledge and tact, and particular acquaintance with dispo-
sitions, &c., makes his appeal to the heart of some wretch-
ed slave of avarice, and secures his liberal donation, al-
though others had often tried and failed.
X Mat.'xi. 25. ^ John, vi. 44^ 45.
484 THE MORAL SUASIOK cHAP. XXVI.
Were wc llien to say, that the Spirit of God, who know-
eth perfectly what is in the breast of man, can so arrange
providential circumstances, and, at the same time, so cause
trulii, specially adapted to the mood of mind which they
liave j)roduccd, to be presented, as to rouse into action
the constitutional capacities and susceptibilities, and thus
secure the compliance of the will with his solicitations,
we should maintain a special and direct agency of His,
s iperadded to that of His mere objective strivings or the
mere presentation of truth to the mind. The grace of
suci) a procedure would be passing strange indeed!
13i)t there is an influence which mind exerts on mind, the
extent and power of which we cannot estimate. We see
i:, m the impressions which a father has made upon his son,
iiud trace its wondrous developments, as that son may roam
i J distant lands; —in the distracting effects of those terrible
denunciations of vengeance, with which an angry foe has
j'ut to flight some timid offender; —in the checks and bar-
ilci^, which some benevolent friend has, by bis feeling
counsels, thrown in the way of the young votary of sinful
pleasure; —in the winning influence of certain indications
of affection, made by the very twinklings of the eye, which
1 ivet the heart; —in the solemn, premeditated appeal, which
passes unheeded at the moment, and seems to die from the
recollection, but revives, with almost tempestuuos power,
when the individual to whom it has been made, suddenly
linds himself involved in the circumstances contemplated;
—
aad in the surprise, delight, anxiety, or terror, which may
be awakened in the mind of another, by one, who, studious
of the heart, has learned from certain outward indications,
to read the thoughts, and founds an appeal on what the in-
dividual addressed had supposed, would never be known or
suspected bj' man.
We vStand amazed, at times, at the potency of that influ-
ence, nvhi.ch those conversant with tlie human heart, and
CHAP. XXVI. OF THE SPIRIT. 435
with knowicdivc of the ways of wicked men, can exert, in
detecting; culprits, in swaying the angry passions of the
multitude, and in subduing, almost by a word, and altogeth-
er unarmed, the subjects ot^ violent and infuriate excite-
ment. There is a sort of sympathy between human spirits,
which may be touched to produce designed emotion, with
as much certainty as we can strike the chords of music,
to secure the verj^ sounds desired. What, in the-^e things,
we concede to man, must be attributed, in infinitely great-
er degree, to that Spirit, who searcheth the heart, and tri-
eth the reins of the children of men.
Nor are we disposed to rest even here. We freely ad-
mit, that the Almighty Spirit, which formed us at first, is
able to rouse our diflerent ca{)acities into action, in some
way peculiar to Himself, so as to produce exactlv the result
He designs; yet so as neither to do violence to an}' princi-
ple of our nature, nor be the efficient Author of our voli-
tions, or of any positive creation within us, having causal
power over such volitions. I^Jt uhat that agency precise-
ly is, we will not presume to say, any furtiier, than that it
is not irrespective of the appropriate influence of truth, up-
on the rational mind and feeling heart of n.an. nor in any
independent exercise of physical power, nor incoiisistent
with the voluntary agency of man.
When the influence of the Spirit, in Regeneration and
sanctification, is proniised, or spoken of, it is as in connec-
tion with and through the truth. When Paul prayed, that
the eyes of the understanding of the Ephesian converts
migiit be enlightened, he asked God specially to give them
the Spirit of wisdom and revelation^ in the knowledge of
Christ.^ When the Saviour promised the Comforter to his
disciplos, he said, *^He shall teach yon all things, and bring.
all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said
1. Eph. i, 17, 18.
486 THE MOllAJ, ST A<10X ^jhAP. XXVI.
unto yoLi."^ Wlien He prayed for their sanctification, it
was ^'through the truth—the ivord.^- Paul says of the Co-
riiUhian converts, ''In Christ Jesus, I have begotten you
through the gospel.''^ Peter says of christians, that they
are "born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorrupti-
ble, by the zvord of God;"^ and Paul prays, that God might
sanctify and cleanse (them) tvith the ivashing of loatcr, by
the toord.''^^
These, and such like testimonies, are sufficient to teach
us, that whatever influence of the Spirit in regeneration or
sanctification is promised, prayed for, or to be expected,
it is in and through the truths of the sacred Scriptures. In
them, are revealed the great objects which the Spirit pre-
sents, and causes to make their appropriate impressions on
us, so tliat our minds and hearts are led forth in holy exer-
eiscs. This fact will not be denied; but an agency of the
Spirit, quite different from any that we have noticed, is as-
serted and contended for by some, as constituting the pos-
itive work of the Spirit in regeneration. It is something
altogether independent of the moral influence of truth, and
which may as readily be exerted without, and irrespective-
ly of the truth, as with or through it. We refer to the
2)hys'i€al energy of God, which we have denied is exerted
in the regeneration of the sinner.
The reader will remember, what has been already brought
into view on this subject, in a preceding chapter, where it
is shown, that such an energy is actually contended for by
some old Calvinistic divines, and is altogether unsupported
by reason or Scripture. We are aware, that some are dis-
posed to accuse us of a misrepresentation of the views of
old Calvinists, and seek a subterfuge in the equivocal im-
port of the w01'A physical, as it is sometimes used synony-
1. .Tolin xlv. 26. 2. John xvii, 17, 3. 1. Cor. iv, 15.
4. 1 rtt.-'., 23. ,5. ,Epb. V. 26..
CHAP. XXVT. OF THE SPIRIT; ^,37
mo'isly with viaterial. But this will not do. Dr. Owen
shall once more speak on this subject. He is very explieit.
when treating on the subject, \vhich claims our attention in
this chapter, and takes care, .n the most pointed and formal
manner, to assert an agency of the Spirit, of a totally dif-
ferent character, from that which is exerted through the
truth. Of the latter he says, *'His operation is herein mo-
ral, and so metaphorical, not real, proper and physical."
And while he admits, *^1. That the Holy Spirit doth n:al:e
use of it in the regeneration or conversion of all that are
adult," he adds, *'But, 2. We say, that the v,-hole Vvork,
or the whole of the work of the Holy Ghost, in our con-
version, doth not consist herein; but there is a real phy-
sical work, whereby he infuseth a gracious principle of
spiritual life, into all that are effctiially converted and re-
ally regenerated."^ This he undertakes, at considerable
length, to prove, as an important point, and necessary to bs-
maintained, in opposition both to the Pelagian and Serai-
Pelagian heresies. We can discern, however, an influence
of the Holy Spirit, which is effectual, and operates, certain-
]}-, to secure the choice of the will, through the influence
of truth, over and above that mere providential presenta-
tion of the truth, which leaves to the will the liberty of in-
difference, without finding it necessary to combat the Pe-
lagian heresy, by maintaining such a monstrous absurditVy-
as that oi physical Regeneration.
The ideas of physical 'depravity, and power, or ability,
in the faculties themselves, vv'ere so interwoven w^ith this
writer's system, that he seems to assume it throughout that
there is, and can be, no other way of effectually injlv-
encing and bringing the sinner to holy exercises, but hy
an actual effort of creative power on the part of God
terminating on the abstract physical conslilution of the
1. Owen oa tlic Spuit, vol. 1, p. l-TG,
48S 1^11^' MOIiAL SUASION tllAr. XXVI»
^7io}'al being —renovating or reinvigoratiiig llic veri/ fdcuJ-
fieSjSo tliat He may be said to have literally created ti^c very
willing of the sinner to come to Christ. ''God workelh
in us to will and to do. The act therefore itself of willing
in our conversionj'' he says, ''is of God's ojx'ration: and
although we vvill ourselves, yet it is he who causclh us to
will by working in us both to vvill and to do.'^ "Yet is
not tlie will able to apjDly itself unto one spiritual act there-
of, without an ability ivroiigJil immediutely in it by the
power of the Spirit of God; or rather unless the Spirit of
God by his grace effect the act of willing in it.*'^
We refer the reader to the quotation in the note below,^
and pass to the consideration of some passages of Scrip-
ture, which seem to favor the idea of a physical efficiency
of the Spirit in the work of conversion, and which are
commonly cited in proof of it. And the first we notice,
is that numerous class, which speak of faith, repentance,
and other christian graces, as the gifts of God. "To you
it is GIVEN on the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on
him, but also to suffer for his sake.'" On this verse Dr.
Owen remarks: "To believe on Christ, expresseth saving
faith itself. This is given to us. And how is it given
to us? even by the jiower of God working in us "to loill
1. Owen on the Spirit, vol. 1. p. 478, 488.
2. I'his first act of willing-, may be considered two ways. (1.) As it is
wrought in tfic will suhjedively, and so it is formally only in that faculty. And
in this sense, the will is merely passive, and only the subject moved or actu-
ated. And, in this respect, the act of GoiTs grace in the will, is an act of the
ivlll. But (2.) It may be considered, as it is efficiently also in the will, as
being- actuated, it acts itself. So it is from the will as its principle, and is a
vital act thereof, which gives it the nature of obedience. Thus the will, in its
own nature, is mobilis fit and meet to be wrought upon by the grace of the
Spirit, to faith and obedience; with respect unto the creating act of grace,
>\ oiking fiiltli in us; it is mota moved and actuated thereby. And, in respect
of its own illicit act, as it is so actuated and moved, it is movens, the next ef-
ficient cause thereof —Owen on the Spirit, vol. 1. p. 498.
3. Phil, i 29.
CHAP. XXVI. OF THE SPIRIT. 489
and to do of liis own good pleasure."^ It is certain that
every giving of a benefit does not imply a physical effi-
ciency producing it. God is said to have "so loved the
world as to give his only begotten Son, that whosoever
believeth on Him might not perish but have everlasting
life."- Here it does not mean an efficiency producing any
exercise, but the authoritative grant of God, which He
has been pleased to make of His Son as a Saviour for a lost
and guilty world. The word indeed eometimes means to
convey or invest with so'^ie right or benefit, I)ut even here
it does not always denoce the i^lea of efficient power.
But it will be said; —the YQvy character of the Being con-
templated, is sucii as necessarily implies, in the present case,
an efficient exercise of power on tne part of God; for faith
is something which had no previous existence, and must,
therefore, ha produced before it can be suid to he given.
It is true that faith and repentance have no existence in
tJie unrenewed sinner. But what are they.^ They are not
substances. The Aristotelian pliilosophy, and the dreams
of the reaJisis are of no authority in the church of God.
Faith and repentance are acts of the thinking, feeling,
conscious being, and they must be volunlary too, or they
want an essential feature. To say, then, that God, by an
act of physical efficiency, gives faith and repentance to a
man, is, in other words, to say, that He produces or cre-
ates the YQYy acts themsetves. And acconJingly Dr. Owen
does not hesitate to assert as much. *'^The act of God
working faith in us, he says, is a creating act.
"^
We confess ourselves at a loss to know what is meant
by the word create in this application, as literally under-
stood. The acts of an existing being are not properly and
literally creations: nor can they, in any literal sense, be
called such, else God may be said to create his own. The
1 Phil. i. 13. 2 John, iii. ]6.
3 Owen on the Spirit, v. I. p. 496.
(>2
490 THE MORAL SUASION CIIAP. XXVI.
views of the author just quoted, which in our youthful
days we thought were too profound for our comprehension,
are too mystical for us still. "The will, therefore," says he,
^^15 noi forced by any power put forth in grace, iii that
tvay wherein it is capaoleoi making opposition unto it, but
the prevalcncy of grace is of it, as it is internal, working
reallv and physically, which is not the object of the will's-
opposition; for it is not proposed unto it, as that which it
may accept or refuse, but worketh effectually in it.''^ "This
internal efficiency of the Holy Spirit on the minds of men,
as to the event is infallible, victorious, irresistible, or ctl-
ways efficacious."^
The meaning of these, and such like declarations, which
we meet with in the writings of this and of other divines
of the same school, must be, if we can at all apprehend
their design, that God, by an effort of jjhysical powery
creates a faculty to liv'// spiritually in regenerate man, and
by simple physical power puts that faculty in motion.^ Thus
God's effective government of mind, is made that of phy-
sical force, and in no wise different from that of the mate-
rial creation. The accountability of the creature is de-
stroyed and by a parity of reasoning, the acts of the mind
r Ow'eiKar the Spirit, v. i. p. 494. 2 Idenij v. i. p. 491.
3 The wiU'in the first act of conversion (as even sundr\ of the scliool-
mcn acknowledge) acts not but as it is acted, moves not but as it is moved,
and therefore is passive therein in the sense immcdiuteh- to be explained:
and if this be not so, it cannot be avoided, but that the act of our turning
unto God is a mere natural act, and not spiritual or gracious. For it is an
act of the will, not enabled thereunto antecedently by grace. Wherefore
it must be granted, and it shall be proved, that, in order of nature, the
acting of grace in the will, in our conversion, is antecedent unto its own
acting; though in tlic same instiuit of time wherein the will is moved, it
m.Gves, and when it is actuated it acts iiself, and preserves its own liberty
in its exercise. There is, therefore, herein, an inward almighty secret act
of the power of the Holy Ghost, producing in us the will of conversion
unto God, so actuating our wills, as that they also act themselves, and that"
freely. Owen on tbe Spirit, v. i. p. 494.
CHAP. XXVI. 01 ™K spirit. .
491
being literal creations, God Hinriself becomes the Great Cre-
ator of unholy as well as holy volitions, and consequently,
according to this doctrine of efnciencyj is the greatest and
the only real sinner in the universe!!!
We can and do, in the ordinary language of common
sense, understand very well such expressioMS, as that of
giving faith, and giving repentance, without any physical
efficiency in creating the acts or exercises of faith and re-
pentance. Were we to maintain that God grants to this
snd the other man, that the mind and heart shall be disen-
tfingled from prejudice, and brought to perceive and be-
lieve what He says, and that to this very end, He is pleas-
ed to exert a very special agency by His Spirit, adapted to
the ordinary laws of human thought and feeling, throwing
around them such objects, exciting such feelings, present-
ing such truth, and making such appeals, and that with so
much point, pathos, and power of influence, as to induce
them to believe and repent, who does not see, that we
might, just as legitimately, yea, and with far greater sem-
blance o[ grace, sdiy\ —to such it is given to believe—to them
hath God granted repentance? In all this there is no phy-
sical efficiency: and yet the specialty and moral power of
God's gracious interposition and influence are very appa-
rent.
W^e see a benevolent individual, whose property has
been injured by a company of thoughtless and wicked
youth, and some of it fraudulently carried away. They
are all known to him. His safety and reputation require,
that such conduct should not pass unnoticed. He has it in
his power to adduce proof against every one, and may put
the law in force, and let it take its course. But He is not
disposed at once to do so. The natural benevolence of
his heart, is sustained by the interference of another, so
that, in so far as his honour and reputation are concerned,
-they may all be forgiven. Accordingly he apprises them
492 THE MOKAI. SUASION CIIAP. XXVf.
of his willingness to pardon, and calls npon them to be-
lieve his professions and repent of their conduct. But
none are inclined to do so. They dishelicve his profes-
sions. They reject his proffered kindness. They trifle
with his forbearance. They defy I'.im to do his utmost.
For the benefit of society he lets the law take its course
with some: but here is one and another whom he is de-
termined to rescue. He is under no obligation to do so;
but so he is inclined. Accordingly he accosts them with
kindness, exposes to their view the evil of their conduct,
and its dreadful and ruinous consequences—tells them of
his concern for them —demonstrates it in many ways be-
fore them—promises and presses on them his forgiveness
—
makes Jiis strong appeals to the feelings of the heart, and
assumes such a powerful influence over their conscience,
and their instinctive feeling of self-love, as to gain their
attention, and eventually, by means of the cogent exhibi-
tion of truth to their minds and hearts, persuades them to
believe, and melts them in repentancCo Wlio does not see
that He is the author of this change in the feelings, and
resolutions of their hearts! It is all grace! amazing grace!
and but for such grace they had neither believed nor re-
pented.
Had he not give7i them to believe—granted them the
opportunitj'-, and exerted the influence requisite to bring
them to do so, they had not censed from the feelings cherish-
ed and conduct pursued in reference to him. But in rdl this,
there is no physical efficieuci/. Shall we suppose that God
ca 1 ^.ot do with sinners, in reference to Hirnseif, what one
ma"> lias (\'^n{:t with an oth.er? That a plivsical ofliciency is
nee siry to make the sinner willing to confide in Him,
and repent of his rebellion! To suppose so, is, in fact, to
attribute a moral influence to man more potent than that,
which, in such a case, it would he requisite God should
exert! It would in efl'ect be to sav tbat man can subdue
CHAP. Xxrr. OF TOR SPIRIT. 493
his foe, and by an appropriate moral Influence; convert
him into a friend; hai that God cannot coii vert His enemy,
and bring him to believe, except He puts fortli IJis phvsi-
cal power, and literally create liim over again. Were the
depravity of man a physical thing—a created substance—
'^something" having being in the soul anterior to all moral
acts and exercises; or were holiness a ph3^sical attribute,
then, indeed, there could be no other method ot conversion
than by an act of creative energy, to remove the tainted,
vitiated "nature," and implant anothei-, having power to pro-
duce acts adapted to it. But the falsity of such an idea
has been exposed: and, therefore, it is altogether improper
to speak of the power of God exerted in the production of
faith as possessing tlie same character with that which is
employed in creating.
We use the term every day, in reference to a moral in-
fluence, and talk of the pov\'er which one man has over an-
other; and none misunderstand us. Why must we sup-
pose the term is literally to be understood, when used to
denote the moral influence of the Spirit of God? We know
not why. And if we may and must reject the idea o^jjhysi-
cal efficiency , i.e. of the act of faith in the believer's mind be-
ing the simple product of God's creative power, then there
is nothinu; of which we can predicate power, but the moral
influence which the Almighty mind exerts on ours. This
influence is exerted in various ways and degrees, to induce
the voluntary rational agent, man, to believe and repent.
And it is successfully exerted in many cases. The illus-
tration, a short time since adduced, will, with a very slight
variation, apply here. We have rebelled against the ITigli
and Mighty Ruler of the Universe. His justice and the
equity of His government,^—the truth, honour, and stabil-
ity of his character and law, require that ^ve siiould be pun-
ished. God is under no obligations to refuse to punish, or
io think of doing any thing else in relation to us>. His
494 THE MOIIAL SUASION CHAP. XXVI.
benevolence prompts him to pardon. His eternal and co-
equal son, by suffering as though he had sinned, and obey-
ing tlic divine commands, has satisfied the justice of God,
and \vrought out an everlasting Righteousness, through
v.'hich He can be just, and yet justify the ungodly. His law
being magnified and made honorable, so that He can consis-
tently pardon —being proved, unanswerably, to be wise and
i-iohtcou3. and not tyrannical, He proclaims his mercy to a
lost and guilty world. They, one and all, begin to make
excuse, reject the ofiered mercy, and refuse forgiveness.
His professions are not believed. No sorrovv for i-ebellion
is evinced. To one and another He is pleased to make, by
His Spirit, His solemm appeal. Object after object, truth
after truth, motive after motive, are presented. Reiterat-
ed appeals are made to conscience and the Iseart, and, even-
tually —where He is pleased in sovereign mercy —to subdue
one and another believe, and are made willing to for-
sake their sins. They never would have done so, but for
SLich a procedure of grace on the part of God. How ap-
propriate, thei-efore, is it, to say of such, that to them it
lias been given to believe? —to them hath God granted re-
pentance. We see, at once, how faith is the gift of God,
without any act of physical efficiency on his part, and the
same too of repentance, which botli are voluntar}^ exerci-
ses, on the part of man. Let us then beware, liow, in the
spirit of philosophy, we push tlie import of terms beyond
iiial, which common sense shows to be their appropriate
lii caning.
And that such is tlic correct interpretation of the passage
>quotcd, and of olliers of similar character, will be obvious
to every unprejudiced reader, who will allow liimself to,
consult the text, in its connection. ^'Untoyou it is given,
in the beludf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but al-
so to suffer for his sake.'' No one will pretend, that God's
g-ving the Piiillippian christians to suffer for Christ's sakcu
CHAP. XXVI. OF THE SPIRIT. 495
was His actually, by His own power, inflicting suffering on
tliem; yet this suffering for Christ was as much the gift of
God, as their believing on him. Every one sees, that it
will not do to adopt the same rule of interpretation, in re-
ference to the suffering, that Dr. Owen and others do in
reference to believing. But what right has one to attach
a meaning to the word give, differing in one case from the
other? We know not; and, therefore, as we cannot, by any
rule of interpretation whatever, say, that God, by any *'phy-
sical work," of his own, directly inflicts sufferings on
believers, for Christ's sake; neither can we say, the apostle
here teaches, that, in this loay, he produces faith. The
truth is, the passage does not contemplate so much the in-
fluence, or agency exerted to j)^'oduce f^th, as it does the
great grace, or favor, which God displays, in allowing chris-
tians to believe on Christ, and suffer for his sake. Both are
signal expressions of grace. That we should be permitted
to confide in Him, and be reputed worthy to suffer for Hi&
sake, are favors truly wonderful! And when these thing.'S
are secured, through the special influence of the Spirit, on
our minds, and the special ordering of His providence, the
grace is exceedingly enhanced. *'By grace are (we) sav--
ed, through faith, and that not of (ourselves); it is the gift
of God. "^
1, Eph. ii, 8.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE MOJJAlr SUASION OF THE SPIRIT.
CuNTINUED.
The term power a;)propriateIy employed to denote a moral influence—Not
necessary to suppose it denotes physical ejjiciency when applied to the
Spirit's converting- influence—Not so to be understood when it is used in
scripture in this connection—Psalm, ex. 8; Rom. xv. 13; 2 Thess. i. II5
2 Cor. xii. 9; John, i. 12; Horn. i. 16; 1 Cor. i. 18; 1 Thess. i. 5; 1 Cor.
ii. 5, 6; Mat. vii. 29; Acts, vi. 8, 10; Heb. iv. 12; Eph. iii. 7; Eph. vi.
10; I'hil. iv. lo; Eph. vi. 11; Eph. i. 19, 20, explained—Inferences from
the view of the Spirit's influence g-iven in this and the preceding' chap-
ter—1. T!ie impertinence and arrogance, &,c. of the spirit of philosophy
—
2. The character and danger of the sin of g-rieving the Spirit.
PIaving dwelt so long in the former chapter, on the ^rst
class of texts, and shewn the fallacy of their interpreta-
tion, by the advocates of physical efficiency, we hope the
reader will not impatiently accompany iis in noticing the
second, which speak specifically of the power of God as
the proper cause of faith and other gracious exercises, or
at least as having some connection with them. We have
already shewn, tiiat the ievm power is, very naturally and
intelligibly, eniployed to denote the vigor, energy and
successful issues of moral influence, where there is no phy-
sical eiliciency. We are, therefore, under no necessity to
suppose, tliat the success of the Spirit's agency is and must
be attiibulabie to a ''physical work,'' or literal creation,
and to be determined, in the ideas which we attach to it, by
su(:h 311 assumption. It is by no means difficult to shew,
tlial in none of the passages where it re used in connection
^HA?. xxrrn ^^ the spimt. 4D7
with t.he Spirit's ardency in our conversion, Is it necessarj
for us to understand it, as intimating 7i physical work on
the part of God or His ejjlcicnt creative energy. We no-
tice a fe^v of those most commonly quoted in proof of such
a creative power being put forth by God in the regenera-
tion of ihc sinner.
*'Thy people/' says the Pr^nlmist, ^'shall be willing in
the day of thy power.''^ This is commonly quoted to
prove, tha'i it is the power of God which makes us willing,
and that power not a moral iniluence which is through
truth J'nd motives presented; but a physical efficiency.
We design not criticisrriy bpt even the unlearned reader
1 . Fs. ex. 3. Poptilus tuus rpordm^e'faies iemportpGlefitix tuxin magmfids
vmammt'S sanditatis: ex idcro ciirm-eefiiiat rosjuveniufis fu^. Qulbus verbis.
a. Morales civium Messia: qiialltates describuntur, et 6, immensa eorum
cop'.a. H'.'jus populi internas externasque qualitates delineant voces
r.pontaneltatum, ct orna7ncnionim scnditates.- quarum illm ad animi, hx ad
totlus bom;r.:s actiones pertinent. Internara aninVi qiiaiitatera et dispositio-
nemlai::Iabikniob oculos ponit epitUeton spontaneltatum, nomlni ;)o/?w/J
additum: sive vertatur, popvilus \.xivis sponianeitatum per ellipsin vocis;?opu-
lus ut plene sit, popuhss tuus est populus spontaneltatum, sive reddatur, popt>
lus tuus spontaneltates sc. sunt, pro sponiuncus est summo ^radii; utnira
que his aclnV.tti potest, et eodem ve-Vblt. Sensus enlm tst populum Messia
esse lubentun, Ingenuum, ^c^nerosic ac liberalls indolls, qui sese Christo
spcntesua, ct toto aninu) subrnisit, et ad quievis officia promptum paratum-
que prxstut. Veneir.a in Psalmos ad loc
The Hebrew schobr needs not to be told that the translation of this verse
in our Eng-llsh Bibles and the use tliat is commonly ma«e of it, arc ahke incor-
rect. Tlie power spoken of, is something different from physical efficiency,
ropuhim en-.m Messi^e takra faturum,seseque pra^stiturum, dicitpoceta, die
potcntiac, s:ve in c^enere, tempore potent^x tux, sc. regis Messix quem adlo-
quiti.r. Interpretis hie varie quidem instituunt, et vel ttn^pxxs copiarum csl-
VgaidarnriuvA yWtov,K,yc\ simple quid intelligunt. Sed eorum potiores sunt
ratioueP, qui tem^iu^ pofi^ii:^, vel sire7vzifatis regis interprctantur; qui satis
usitatus est vocis s'gn'ficutus: modo iliud hie intend! statuatur, quoMessias
omni vi^tate et imbec:il>a'.c, qii?.tn nrter homines, carnc vestitus circumtuht,
depos.ta, ad dextram ,~o/en^;,-c Dei exal'catus earn slrszy.nm modo e:?:9era>t,
m
Spirltus 5. donis efTv.ndendis, euangelio potente et exfutair:anu potentissi-
nia proparunda. Hoc o;.ttciTipus;;y!^n^:zj:=Ieosi2 oi-posite ad tcmpus car-
nis et imbccdhtrit's inter homines. Idcwf.
65
may perceive by the letters In italics in his BiWe, that
the words, ^^shall 5e/' are supplied by the translators.
The proper rendering of the verse does not at all convey
the idea of an exerciss of power an the part of God to
make his people willing. They are spoken of as already
willing^ and the power adverted to, is that of an army or
fi triumph, which furnishes the occasion for demonstrations
o£ loyalty. Thy loyal people shall come to thee cr/^zV-
td in holine&s in the. day of thy triumph. Let not
the text. be made to mean what it cannot, by any fair in-
terpretation, be understood to express.
When Paul prayed for christians at Rome, that *Hhe
God of hope (would) fill (them) with all joy and pence in
believing, that (they) might abound in hope through the
power of the Holy Ghost,"^ he did not ask that God would
by any physical e^ciency j^voduce these acts of faith and
hope^ and feelings of joy and peace; but that the Spirit
might e^ert His influence, and so order it, that they should
abound in. these exercises and emotions. We have already
Been that God can, and does exert an influence, which i^
•uccessful, and is very properly denominated powerful^
without any act of creative power. To say that the power
of the Holy Ghost, in producing hope and faith, is his crea-
tive efficiency y lodging in the soul, *^a principle or dispo-
•ition*' {h^t causes such exercises, is saying no more of it
than what may be said of his power in creating the in-
stincts, &c. of animals, and thus making His work in re-
generation altogether natural, i. e. like that in nature, not
supernatural which it is in fact—an influence exerted \n
pursuance of special design, and not uniformly and infalli*
bly, according to fixed laws of nature. The apostle speaks,
of the continuous exercises of faith, hope, &c. induced by
the special influence of the Spirit, and not of any cause^
.«f them, philosophically speaking, in the soul itself.
1 Rom. Jbv. 13.
CHAP. XXVil. or TllE SPIRIT. 4dg
In the same way we can an'derstand his prayer for chris-
tians at Thessalonica, that God would "fulfil (in them) all
the trood pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith
wick poiojr.'^^ The work t>f faith is not the simple act
we call faith, but all those things which they who believe
incline to, and do inobedience to God, and with a view to
His g\o\'Y—'the actions and labor consequent upon or in*
duced hy their faith. The prayer, therefore, is for the
powerful influence of the Spirit, to stimulate them to in-
creased and prolonged labor, and by His co-operating
agency to sustain and give them success in it What he
has here brought to view in his prayer, he has elsewhere
introduced in the form of precept. *'Be ye steadfast un-
moveable, always abounding in the woi'k of the Lord
Jcnowing that your labor is not vain in the Lord,*'* In
this sense he used the phrase in his first epistle to the Thes«
lialonians, when he said, that he remembered '^without
.-ceasing their work of faith and labor of love."*
When Paul speaks of "glorying in (his) infirmities, that
the power of Christ may rest upon him,'''' he speaks of the
supporting, sustaining, or co-operating and strengthening
care and agency of God,^ by which he was enabled, in the
midst of his poverty and afflictions and weakness, still to
work for Him. The idea is not that of physical efficiency.
When Relievers are said to receive "power to become
the sons of God,"^ the reference is to dignity, excellence;
-right or authority^ as any one, acquainted with the origi*
nal, can perceive.
When the apostle speaks of *<the gospel of Christ, and
1 2Thes3.i.ll. 2 ICor.xv 58.
3 1 Thess. i. 3. 4 2 Cor. xli. 9. -
5 Of similar import are the following, Col. i. 11 j Pet. i. 5\ 2 Tim. I
8, Stc.
6 John, i. 12. t^:vrt<tv -lcense, or liberty of action. See Mat. xxi. 23*
2 Thess. iii. 9? authority or rights Acts, xxvi. 10? Mat ix. S\ viii. 9. X. I.
xxviii. 18; privilege^ prerogctivt^ or digniiy% Johq» Y- 3f
,
^0^ THE MOSAL SUA2IOX CEAP. XXVII,
the preaching of the cross," bsing 'H!ic pniozrof God unto
salvation to every one that believeth,''^ he Is not speaking
of the act of faith, or any otlicr grace, but of the gospel,
i, e. the wondrous facts and gracious truths vvhicl) it was
given him in charge to preach, the very annu.iciation of
which to guilty rebels such as we are, is news of the most
gladdening nature. There are otlier reasons to be assign-
ed for its receiving this denomination, than any phi/sical
efficiency, v/hich, some philosophical expositors of scrip-
ture, have supposed, the Spirit of God exerts, on the minds
and hearts of men in connection with the preaching of the
gospel. As the grand medium or vehicle of those power-
ful influences, which the Uiicreated Mind exerts on our
minds and hearts, it may well receive such an appellation,,
especially as the sudden transformations of characteiv
which result through that influence, are so decisive and
surprising, and so far beyond the power of mere human
suasion, as to prove the moral influence to be superhuman.
To the same purport are the declarations of the same
apostle, specifically with regard to the success of his preach-
ing. **For our gospel came not unto you in word only,
but also in power, and in tiie Holy Ghost, and in much
assurance; as ye know what rnnnner of men we were
among you for your sake. "- Whetiicr the poiver of which
he speaks, as distinct from the Holy .Spirit, be the mira-
cles wrought in proof of the religion he taught, or the
cogent influence of the truth revealed, we are not con-
cerned to incpjire; but one thinp; is certain; —it cannot
meoin physical efficiency. For, he notices that it was -Mn
much assurance,'' I e. in full proof of the truth, whether
that assurance was the hearer's conviction or his own con-
fidence of speech. "My speech and wy preaching,'* says-
he, "was not with enticing \^'ord^ of r^cn's wisdom, but
I Rem. i. 36, 1 Cett i. 18. 2 I T!ies5> i. 5.
CHAP. XXVII. or THE SPIPJT. 501
in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,"^ in the
co'-ent, Dowerful demo:istratioiis of the Spirit. He soua;ht
not to allure by human eloquence, nor to convince by hu-
man reasoning; but ciaimed the credence of his he:irers,
for what he coi^.-nunicaled to them as the word of God,
—
the proof of which fact, viz: 'diat it v/as the word of God,
they had in the miracles and gifts of the Spirit which at-
tended his ministrations. '^IMiat your fiiith,"' he adds,,
''should not stand in liia wisdoin of men but in thi; power
of God."^
We have the aulliority of the scrip-ures tliemselves for
tliis explanation of these expressions. The Saviour is said
to have ''taught the people as having authorit^,^^^ and
yet he did not then exert any thlna; like a physical elBcien-
cy. And so Stephen is said to have been "full of faith
and pDivsr.^'^ He spike with undoubting assurance him-
self, and so convincing were his arguments, that "they
were not able to resist the wisdom and spirit with which
he spake, "^ for "he did great wonders and miracles among
the people."^ All this is perfcv^tly intelligible without the
supposition of a physical efficiency. Wh}' then must it
be admitted, when it is said of "the word of God," that
it "is quick and poworful, and sharper than any two-edged
sword, piercing even to thiO dividing asunder of soul and
spirit, and of the joints and marrow.'"' Especially when this
glowing metaphorical language is explained by the apostle
himself to mean, that it "is a discerner of the thoughts and
intents of the heart?""^
The success of Paul's preaching was very remarkable.
Thousands were converted by means of it. Much of its
potency depended on the miracles he wrought, and gifts
of the Spirit, which God had conferred on him. These
things gave hi.m energy. They were all expressions of
1 1 Cor. U. 5, 6. 2 Mat. vii. 29.
3 Acts, vi. 8, 10. 4 Heb. iv. 12.
503 TflE MOHAL SUASION CHAP. XXVH.
God's fiivor to him, and not mere natural qualifications.
And this is the account he ^ives of the matter when he
says, that he was *'made a minister according to the gift of
the ^race of God given unto (him) by the effectual worJcing
ofhispower^^y.—i. e. according; to the encrti;y of His might.
He is not spealdng of i\v\y physical efficiency producing
faithin his own mind, or in the nrmds of others; hut of
the efficacious influence of the Holy Spirit, which accom-
panied his preaching. That influence we have skevvn was
not physical, but t!ie potent energy which the Infinite
^Nlii'd exerts on our thoughts and purposes and affections,
and by which we are kept the subjects of His sway.
Wc notice anotlter passage. *'We are required to be
strong in the Lord, and in the -power of His might.^^^ To
exert the efficiency of God we cannot, and it would be as
absurd to require us to do so, as it would, that we should
use Sampson's strength. But God exerts his own energy,
in co-operation with our efl'orts, ns we trust and hope in
Him, and gives the efieciivc force, requisite for the accom-
plishment of every hearty, believing, obediential purpose.
The apostle means, that wo should cordially trust in God,
^vhic!l will secure His Almighty agency, in all cases; or,
perhaps, more according to the import of his own meta-
phors, that we should be courageous, and have confidence
in the Lord, our great commander, whose resources are
tixhaustless, whose forces are invincible, and who will
not desert or betray iis. As soldiers are courageous, and
display great energy, when they have confidence in their
general, so will we, if we are confident in the Lord. Wo
refer the reader to the passages, cited in the margin be-
-iow.' With such an intrenching ourselves, within the
1. Eph. iii. 7. x4Tst Twy rjit-^Hiii rut Juvoluius stvrov. Compare Eph. iii.
20. and Col. i. 29.
2. Eph. vi, 10.
o. 2 Chron. xxxli, 7; Isai. xxxv, 4? Josh, j, 7, 9\ Nuvnbere xh', 9; Isal.
acxvi, 4^xli, 10, 1-i; Zci>h. Ul, Ifi, 17? 2 Chron. xlv. IL
CHAP. l^XVii. or THE SPIRIT, 53^4
breast- work of Omnipotence, every f'Virlsiian is familiar.^
But, in all this, there is no intimation of d. jjhysical ejjlcicn^
cy on the part of Gocl, put forth in the production of our
acts. *'The Strength of Israel" co-operates with us, av«i.
we trust in Him, carries.us through frightful dangers, and
causes us to triumph over all our enemies. *'I can do all
thitigs through Cb.rist, which strengtheneth me,'** said the
apostle. What he further sa3's, in explication of tliis
thing, shows plainly, that he is not speaking of a cause
of energy, lodged by God in the soul, nor of any physical
efficienc}', on the part of God, in producing acts; for he
calls the graces of faith, hope, &c. the panoply—'Hhe.
whole armour of God. "^ These graces are the divine wea-
pons, through which we conquer—the exercises of mind,
which secure the defence and support of Omnipotence. We
notice but one more of the numerous class of texts, which
speak of the powrr of God, in connection with the gracious
exercises of the christian.
Paul prayed for the Epheslan converts, that they "miglit
know—wliat is the exceeding greatness of his (God's)
power to us ward, who believe according to the working
of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ, when
he raised him from the dead, and set iiim at his own right
hand, in the heavenly places, far above all principality
and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that
is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is
to come,"* &c. This is commonly quoted as decisive. Dr.
1. Be strong in the Lore, &c. —Tt impV.es a further act of faith, not only
to believe that God is Almighty, but also, that this Alm-ghty power of God
j» engaged for it* defence; so as to bear up in the midst ofall trials and temp'
tations undauntedly, leaning on the arme of God Almighty, as if it were his
own strength, so to encourage the christian to make use of God's Almighty
power, as fully as if it were his own; when ever assaulted by Satan in any
kinde. —Gurnall's Christian Armour, p. 23.
2. Ph^l iv, 13. 3. Eph. vii, 11, 4. Eph. i, 19—21.
504 THE MORAL SUASION ciiAP. XXTII.
Owen snys, in commenting on tlus very passage, "The pow-
er here nientioneci, hcth an excecJing greatness ascrib-
ed unto it, with respect unto the effect produced by it. The
power of God, in itself, i?, r.s to all acts, equnlly infinite.
He is omnipototit. But some cffc-cts are greater than oth-
ers, and carry in them more tlvin o-dinary impressions of
it. Such is that here intended, inkerchjj God makes men
to be believers, and preserves them udien they are so. And
unto this power of God, there is an actital operation, or
efficiency ascribed,—the working of his mightT/ power.
And the nature of this operation, or efficiency, is dechired
to be of the same kind, v,dth that which was exerted in the
raising of Christ from the dead. And this v/as by a rsal
physical efficiency of divine power. This, therefore, is
here testified, that the work of God, towards believers, ei-
ther to make them so, or preserve them such, for all is one
as to our present purpose, consists in the acting of his di-
vine power, by a real internal efficiency
.''"''^
This, we think, is a fair specimen of the influence, which
a man's philosophy naturnlly exerts on his mind, in the in-
terpretation of Scripture terms." Philosophy is always dan-
gerous. Common sense is a much safer guide,
—
and when
epithets are multiplied, it is always done to give impor-
tance to the subject, and the apostle's design, in doing
1. Owen on tl^e Spirit, vol i, p. 490.
2. Z.AT* T»v evt^o} s-vif Tsy •/.fi.T'jVi Tuc ts-^u:; olvtc-j. are the apostle's terms.
Calvin explains thcni to-^vc robw est quasi ladix. KpnTOi poierttia autem
arbor, (cr us Poole quotes Zaneliy onl of Calvir., arbor cum ramis.) tvii-yua.
efficada fructiis—est enim extens'o divini brachii q",?e in actum eniergit.
(Jcdv. Com. in ev'kt.fol. to-X'-JC est facahas ipsa, npxroc ipsius sese exseren-
tis viri.is, ivtpyuci. vcro ipsius eflVctura: i;i^yi;x est ipsa efficax operatiO,
qux profic.sc-tur in^imcdiatc atto t;u x/sctTcy?, i. c. ex actuali robore, quasi
u manxi et bracii'o exserto. Kpu-Tcn; ig-itur erit pctentia ct visexerta, qua q'.:is
aliquid ag-it, tt brcc proficiicitur cltto rHcit^xyo?, vel iuvoLfXimi. Etiam
PaiLGsorni triadistiriguunt, /uyifv./i' <^yff;;i//'/, gj;v, habitnm, et tttfiyueLv, unde
opus oritur. Foi. Svn. ad loc. —Sed non opus est tanta subtilitate.
SO licro, seems, evidently, to extol the immensiiy of the
divine power, rather than plulosophically to unfold its na-
ture, or teach, precisely, its physical character. Let us set
what are the facts he teaches.
He asserts, that there is a mighty energy exerted on the
part of God, in relation to believers
—
^Hhe exceeding great-
ficss of His jiowtr to ns ward who believe.'' If it be said,
that this power is physical, and it be argued alike from the
redundancy of epithets, and the special example of Christ's
resurrection adduced, we shall not dissent. But the read-
er will perceive, that the apostle does not say that it is ex-
erted in^ BF,Li2v^ERs, much less in the productiormf ihosQ
acts of their minds, and feelings of their hearts, which w«
call faith. He is not speaking of the act or ex.ercise of
faith at all, but of christians personally or characteristically
considered, whom he describes as those *Hvho believe," or,
more literally, *'the believing.'' It is the greatness of
God's power fo?^ them, that the apostle prays they may
see. Now, that power is variously exerted, and will be to
1. «f xy.a? Tiwf ^TiTTft'ci'TAir—«? when it g-overns the accusative, has ma-
ny dififerent sigiiiScatioiis, but mostly refers to place when it is used to de-
lYote in cv into, 5\iul is substituted for iv with the abhitivc. Seo Mark i. 9.
tr-; TQV i cct^a.\»v tCccTrTtj-S-^ for «y ^ce JccSuvh. If the apostle had intended to
speak of the eflicacy of the divine power sj)ecificany exerted in our minds,
in the production of faith, he would not have said m »fAA!, but iv >iuit as he
has done in Phil. il. 13. o tvepyav iv vy-iv. Our translators have rendered
it by cj-jg-a tow:u-ds, v/liich docs not coir,cy tiie idea of any internal real phy»
sical tfficienry. Examples of this sort Schleusncr cites from 1 Pet. iv. 9;
Mat. xxvi. 10: Acts x:;iv. 17: Rem. v. 8: xii. 10: C Cor. ii. 4. We object
not to its correctness. But if any one should prefer to i^^nder it foTf *'ut
cause. mJinaiem iu'licet" as in Murk i. 4: Mat. viii. 4: or m relation to, **gtiod
attinet id" as in Gal. iv. 11 and Eph. iii 16, the idea of physical efficiency
will no more be taught by the apostle. In the last text cited «c tu- tra
avSpaiTov is used fd x*Tit tcv, Sec, in reference to the inner man, and tUe '
subject .'-.poken of is the powciful, not physical, influence of the Spirit in
the development of gracious affections, especially, as by this means ho-
lievcrs ai-e cucour.ig-ed and emboldened to meet and en-lcre thdr trlbula*,
tions.
ti4
^06 'r"^^ MOllAL SUASION cHAP. XXVII.
all eternity, for their benefit and glory. Their deliver-
pince from aftlictions, perils, temptations, persecutions, Sa-
tanic arts and mischief, tlie counsels of the wicked, the
wrath of man, death and the grave, and their being raised
tq life, nnd glory eternal in the Heavens, are all etTects and
exhibitions of the mighty power of God.
Of this energy on the part of God, tovv'ards believers, tho
apostle cites an illustrious example, in the resurrection, as^
cension,exahatiQn, and universal supremacy and dominion
of the Lord Jesus Christ. ^*According to^ the working of
1. ;cxTA T»v ivipyau-v, 8cc. "When kj-th g-overns the accusative, it has a
rreat variety of meanhigs. It is necessary however to prove that it hero
denotes the e^c.^e/?/ cause.y before the text can be qi;otecl as proof of Goers
physical power being- exerted in the production of fa'.th. Stcphanus cites
Ikjark i. 27, as an example of its causal import; but Kxra i'^'.vo-inv is proper-
ly cwo'tfc'r^ /a authorif}/—authoritatively, as having authoiity; Schleusner
quotes Gal. i. 11, as an example of the same sort; but xaT4t AvBcanv, if
translated acc&rdlng ta mmi, is equivalent with human as opposed to diving
or inspired, which is the apostle's idea, being a periphrasis fur an adjective^
and is in fact so used by him in Rom. iii. 5, where he quotes the cavilling-
objections of unbelievers against the doctrine of jvistifi cation, which he
taught Thus also it is used 2 Cor. xi. 21, where hato. a.TttAia.)i has. an ad-,
verbial import—foolishly—according to folly. See also Acts xxviil. 16
Schleusner also cites 1 Pet. iv. 14, as an example of the causal import of~
xiTflt, as well as tiie titles of the gospels. V/ith respect to the latter, its
import obviously is not so much to the vfovY produzedy by Matthew, &.c., as
to the gospel, i. e. the account of Christ's life and ministry—the Evangeli-.
cal narrative, according to Mattiiew's relation of it, in contradistir.ction fiom
the same as given by Luke, John and Mark. And in Peter, the obvious
meaning and force of the preposition is g'iven in our translation, in refer-
ence to them ^^ox\ their part kx^.-jl y.i]/ uuTiu; &c. he is blas])hemed," but in
reference to you 'K;n ycur part no-Tct <fg 'i/^xstf he is glorified." "NYe doubt
whether stu.rA can be understood in 1 Ccr. xii. 8, as denoting an efficient
cause. In every other specification of gifts, v.hcre the efficient agency of
the Spirit is noticed, it is either ii-x tcu Iltuv/uaLrcc, or tv tu avtw Uvs^fAurt.
Where k-jlta in this verse occurs, may it not be to denote the knowledge
which was had experimc;-, tally inrelailon to the Spirit, and His influence,
r-.akmg xar* ts 'jlvtc XlvivtAA qualify yvua-iu?, viz: knowledge in relation to
this same Spirit' rather than Xi^.:;, as though the ivord or discourse of
knov/lcd^€ wzz titt immediate production of th<^ Spirit^ V/hatever we
CKAP. XXVli. 0^ TIJE SPIRIT. 5^7
his mii^hty power, which he wrought in Christ, when he
raised him from the dead," &:c. The immensely efficacious
power, of which the npost.le speaks, was wrought in Chsist,
not in believers; and it was \vrought in His resurrection,
which was, indeed, a display both of physical and moral
power—the latter being far more amazing than the former.
It is true, that Dr. Owen and otliers, who maintain a real
physical efficiency of the Spirit, in the production of faith,
admit this, but allege, that the power which produces faith,
is of the same kind with that which raised the blessed Re--
deemer; and in this they think they are justified, by th©"
import of the preposition, translated '^according to.''^ Btli
the prep jsi lion here directs specially to the objects, towards
which believers' faith is directed, for whose fuller and more
satisfactory knowledge of which the apostle prayed. The
whole verse may be rendered, ''that ye might know the ex-
teediiig greatness of his power, for our sake who believe, in
i'clation to the v/orking of his mighty power—that which
lie wrought, when He raised Christ from the dead," &c
^^hus, when the import of the apostle's language is fairly
examined, it contains no sanction of the idea oi physical
efficiency or creative power, on the part of God, being ex-
erted in \h^ production of faith.
may think or decUIe, hovvever, on this import of the preposition, it is cer-
tain that it has various other s:g;n;f;cations as applicable as this. "Whether
we understand it to denote in as directing- to tlie objects on which attention
falls as in Acts xxiv. 14, xiTit Tiv v./zcv in the Pentateuch; or^ ill relation
to, still desi.rrnatlng the objects of attention, as in Epb. vi. 21, t* iiir i,««,
my afiUirs, it equally answers our purpose;, and foi'nishes legitimate author-
ity for considering' that the words translated " to usward who believej ac-
cording" to the working," See, mean to us beUevingcs to, or, in respect of^ or,
in reference to, the working, Sec. ; thus setting forth the specific ohjecfs to-
wards which the christian's faith is directed, viz: that glorious display of
divine power made in the resurrection, exaltation and supremacy of Christ,
and not describing the cfTicaclous influence exerted to prodlies ih^ act of
- faith.
50S ^^^ MORAL suA«fON- exAp. xinit.
Bjt, even if the criticisms subjoined should not be found
eatisfactorv or valid, and we must admit, that the power o^
God, which tlie apostle prayed the Ephesian christians-
might know, was that exerted in the production of faitli
—
which faith was the result of that wondrous exercise of it
dijfplayed in the resurrection of Christ, and in his universal
supremacy,.—there is nothing that req-uiresus to believe it
vf^iS ^ physical efficiency. It was throu2;h material crea-
tion that God revealed Himself to our first parents. The-
wo-rks and beauties of nature were the means of inspiring,
them with confidence in God. But they rebelled; and
gloom and despair gathered round and settled on their
minds. It was a wondrous exer'cise of power displayed
in creation, which, originally, was the means of exciting,
and sustaining their confidence^ But that having lost its
efficacy—-man having sundered his relations, and changed
his character—it was a far more wonderful display of di-
vine and moral power, made in the inediatorictl work of
our blessed Redeemer, whicn rs-inspires the heart of nian —
the revolting, gniltj', rc^bel heart,—with confidence in God..
We need not be astonished at the strong terms which the
npostle uses, when noticing this pow^r, if we advert to
the immense materiel of motive, to induce and secure
the confidence of our hearts in God, which is crowded, in
the teeming wonders and triumphs of truth, justice, holi-
ness, grace, mercy and benevolence, in the resuj-rection,
ascension, and universal dominion of the blessed Redeem-
er, who has all power in heaven and earth given into His
hands, and is worthy of the boundless trust and unqualified
submission of an inlelligcnt universe. Tlicse bright scenes
of glory—-these wondrous developments of divine power,
iorm the wide range of truth—the new creation, over
w,hicb the blessed Spirit of God is hovering, and by means
of which he awakes in the chaotic mind and heart of
rebellious man*, that heartv confidence in God, which
cnxf, xx\^r. ©? the gPiRiT. 509
furnishes the proof and induces the actions of spiritual
life.
Whatever view, thereforo, we take of this and similar
passages of the s-icred scriptures, there appears to be no coun-
tenance of the Idea o'i physical c^fjicienc:/ on the part of God
in the regeneration of the sinner. liis object immediate-'
ly in regenerating, is to induce and secure holiness. This
is by no means a physical attribute. Nor is it necessary
to suppose that, it must or can only be produced bv some
created disposition, or ''next power'' in the soul, which is-
its immediate and appropriate cause, as the appetites and
instincts of animals are of their peculiar and charncteristic
acts and functions. The capacities and susceptibilities of
man, as a rational and moral agent, arc not in themselves-
sinful. The blessed Spirit of God, in the exercise of His
own suasive power and efficacious influence, through the
truths and facts of scripture, excites tliose feelings, and in-
duces those exerciser, which are strictly and properly call-
ed holi/. The same truth in the hands of none else, could
produce such an eaeat. In His hand it is "the sword of the
Spirit," and its Impressivoness, and eiTicacious indiience in
subduing the heart, as imparted to one and another mind,
most gratuitously by that Spirit, is "the gift of t!ie grace
of God given —by the etiectual working of his power,"'
*'the power that worketh in us.
"-
We have dwelt longer on this point than some of our
.readers may think necessary; but, as much of the contro-
versy, on the subject of the Spirit's regenerating infiuence,
turns on tliis very point; as the views w'lich are entertained
in relation to it, shape tiie whole system of our spiiHtual
tactioSy if we may so speak, —and indeed influence minis-
terial efforts, and in some measure regulate its success, —we'
have thought a full and impartial investigation peculiarly
appropriate and requisite. Its practical bearing in a few
I Epli. iii. r. 2 Eph. lii. 20.
510 tJiE MORAL SUASION ClfAP. ^iXVIf.
important respects we submit to the readers consideration^
in the form of inferences, legitimately deduciDle from ihe'
Views aboV2 exhibited.
1. The inlperlinence and arrogance of the spirit of phi-
losophy, cannot fail to arrest the reader's attention}, as
well as, its unkind and pernicious influence in securing^
strife and jealousy, unbrotherly suspicions and allegations.
^^ Unless,^' says Dr. Owen speaking explicitly of the phy-
sical Cillciency of divine power in regeneration, ^^U7iless a
work, tvroKght by power, and that real, and immediate,
be intended herein, such a ivork may neither be supposed
jjossible, nor can be expressed."^ Here is philosophy de-
ciding as to what the work of the Spirit 7?iiist be!!! With
liis peculiar views of the constitution of the human mind,
and of the nature of its operations, and asswniing them as
true, he could not conceive of an cjficacious influence of
the Spirit, in the conversion of the sinBcr, other than some
physical ejjicicncy, exerted '^immediately and effectually
upon the will, j)i-oducing and crcatini^ in if a principle of
faith and obedience infallibly delermining it in its free
.acts."^ And, therefore, all vvlio did not subscribe to his
^philosophy, must necessarily be rejected and condemned,
rfls denying, at least, in his estim.ation, a fundamental arti-
tcle of the christian faith! There is too much sad and sick-
rening <evidence of the same baleful, and arrogant spirit
abroad in the church of God at this day. Some vague and
.mystic notions are had about disposition and habit as the
pvoi^ev philosophical cause of holy exercises. This phi-
losophical cause of holy acts and exercises, is itself pro-
nounced holy, —as every cause, it is thought, must possess
the same quality or character with its effects; and in the
production, or communication, or lodgment, or creation of
this c«2^5«/ ^'something," this clisposilion, or habil in the
human soul, by the Spirit of God, it is alleged consists re-
l Owen on the Spirit, vol. i. p. 491. 2 Idem, vol. i. p. i»15.
CHAP. XXVII. OY THE SPIRIT. 511
generation. Power is l/ius given to tlie reo'encrate man,
to pc-form holy acts, and tlius the efijcacious workinn- of
the Holy Sjjirit is resolved into a mere physical efficien-
cyl And all the passages of scripture, which speak of His
power ill this connection are explained by moans of this
philosophical invention! All this is assumed by many as
absolutely and indisputably true; yea, and is taught as the
revelation of God Himself! so that, when a brother ques-
tions the truth of this philosophy, denies the premises,
and thus deranges the whole habits of thought, and modes
of speech, and long consecrated technics in which others
have been educated, and accustomed to explain theSpirit'^
operations, he is viewed with suspicion —denounced as
unsound—proclaimed to be heretical, and presently de-
fame!, as actually denying the influences and efficacy of
the Spirit altogether.
Although a man believes and preaches, that the im-
penitent sinner never will turn to God unless the Holy
Spirit makes him willing to repent; —although he pres-
ses this fact on the consciences of sinners to convict them
of their obstinacy and horrid enn^iity against God, and
sets it forth to extol and magnify the marvellous grace
of God in converting any; —although he may pray most
fervently, and strive to get all his people to pray specifi-
cally for the influences of the Spirit to revive His work,
and to convert the impenitent; —although, in all his minis-
trations, lie m^ay protest tliat he is dependent for success
on the Spirit of God; —although day after day, and night
after night, he may wrestle with God for the conversion
of dying souls, and his very health decay through the ar-
dour of his importunity;—although the powerful effusion*
'
of the Spirit of God, in ansv/er to his prayers, do actually
attend his ministrations, and the profane and sensual and
ungodly —the proud, the self-righteous, and the self-de-
ceived—the drunken, and lecherous and blasphemous—the
scoffer and infidel and sceptic —the hoary-hendad, middle-
513 TME MORAL SUASION CHAP. XXTII.
aged and youth, —the rich and poor, bond and free, black
and white may all be s'^cn to take tlie alarm, lay down
the weapons of their rel^eiiion at the feet of Jesus, confess
tlieir sin, and with penitent and believing hearts adore the
grace of God and tlie power of jiis Spirit in tiieir conver-
sion, and throngii their subsequent lives evince the fruits
of holiness; —and althou<j;i-j results like these may frequent-
ly take place, studdini; with the richest gems his crown of
rejoicing in the d:iy of tlie Lord Jesus, shedding all around.
the vivid lustre of Inimanuel's glory, and striking awe and
panic among the ungodly and making them to gnash their
teeth in rage; yet, are there lo be found, frigid formal-
ists, self-righteous Pharisees, indolent and inefficient min-
isters of the gospel, eager and ready to disbelieve the
wliole work—to denounce the man as heretically denying
the Spirit's work, and to bemoan, most piteously, the
blighting induence of such false theology —because he does
not believe, and will not teach, that the Spirit converts
the sinner by creative power and by some '"'imnicdiaie'^*
act of physical eJJlcUncy ])roduccs faith and repentance,
but urges the instant repentance of the sinner, andapjjeals
to his m.ind and conscience, by all the power of motive
which he can employ, believing that it is the Spirit's power
of moral suasion, adapted to tlie rational and sensitive na-
ture of man, udiich effects the change!!! Ti'uly it were
becoming, in those private christians who are settled on
their lees, and do practically consent—as for any manifesta-
tion of concern to prevent it or of sorrow in the view of
it—to let guilty and peris])ing souls around them go down
to Hell in rapid succession; and in ministers of Christ
whose ministry has been barren and unblessed, and whose
churches are gradually decaying with themselves, to be
more cautions how they raise the cry of error and delusion
and wild-fire theology, under such circumstances. Is it
not well worth inquiring, whether they and their ministra-
CHAP. XXVII, OT THE SPiniT. 513
tions may not be found to have been "spoiled through phi-
losophy and vain deceit?"
This suggestion is not made in the spirit of censure, but
as an affectionate appeal to those, whose more efficient
ministrations, and extended usefulness, are, undoubtedly,
matters in which all who wish well to the cause of truth,
and can shed one tear of sorrow over a guilty world, must
certainly feel a deep and lively interest. At all events,
may we not sue for a truce in this strife, which now agi-
tates the churches, and claim and exercise, at least, mutual
forbearance in reference to theoretic and philosophical
explanations of the essential and acknov/ledged fact of
the Spirit's powerful and efficacious influence? The mo-
ral suasion of the Spirit—the energy of the truth, as ur-
ged bi/ the Spirit in contradistinction from that of man,
is infinitely superior to human eloquence and argument,
and very different from the mere objective presentation of
the truth, or human suasion. And if this be strenuous-
ly maintained, we see no reason, why a man should be
censured and condemned, who refuses to take one step, in
the light of philosophy, beyond the voluntary exercises of
the hun#n mind, in which alone he can ti'ace the proofs
and workings of the Spirit's power.
2. The character and danger of the sin of grieving the
Spirit of God, are rendered very obvious, also, from the
view which has been taken of the Spirit's efficacious in-
fluence. That there is such a sin, and that to it, and to
the quenching of the Spirit—which is the same, but in a
greater degree of turpitude and malignity—the sacred
scriptures attribute much importance, ^cannot be denied.
Exceedingly vague and mystical notions, however, obtain
in many minds, in relation to it, as though there were
some secretly infusive power, which the Spirit exerts and
is necessary for the transmutation of the sinner, and which,
although its presence can never be detected by any conscious
65 .
514 THE MORAL SUASION cHAP. XXVII.
exercise, the sinneF is in danger of having forever with-
held from him, if he resists, to any great degree, the Spir-
als strivings. We are said to grieve a friend, when we
resist his counsel, and admonitions, and entreaties, and all
the winning arts by which he seeks to induce us to do
what will be promotive of our good. We grieve the
Spirit in the same vvay. He is striving with us, as the
truth makes its impressions on our minds and hearts. And
by all the commands and promises, threatenings and cau-
tions, examples and motives in the scriptures, through the
preaching of the gospel and other means, He is pleading
with us to repent and be reconciled to God. It is an ob-
ject which God has much at heart. ^'Oh do not this abom-
inable thing which I hate!" ''How can I give thee up?"
"My repentings are kindled v/ithin me." "^'Why will ye
die?"—are his pathetic appeals. To resist their impression,
is to grieve this benevolent friend, because it is to counter-
act the object, which is so near his heart.
But resistance, under such circumstances, cannot long
be made, without incurring terrible guilt, and indurating
the sensibilities. No man can tell, when he acts- against
bis. strong irn^Dulsive convictions, and by wilful efforts,
banishes his serious impressions, or deliberately makes
choice of what God forbids, or refuses to accept what God
proflfers, but that, at any and every moment, he is contract-
ing such guilt, and so hardening his heart, as to provoke
Q[oA forever to withdrav/, and say, "Ephraim is joined to
bis idols, let him alone.'' Here lies the guilt of your sin.
Oh forsaken impenitent! You have chosen to act in oppo-
sition to the truth, as urged by the Spirit of God, and as
commpnding itself, alike to your reason and conscience.
And the danger of it, is, not only, that eventually you will
thus bring upon yourself swift destruction; but that you
are rendering your susceptibilities of impression so callous,,
as perhaps, at this very hour, to be closing the last avenue
CHAP. XXVir. OF THE SPIRIT. 515
of access to your heart. If you hope for a mighty crea-
tive power to be exerted on you, irrespectively of your
voluntary exercises, your hopes are baseless and visionary.
The Spirit's efficacious agency is through the suasive in-
fluence of the truth, and if. you resist it, you resist the
only means, that you, or any one else, can hope to be ex-
erted for you, to bring you to repentance. To what degree
or extent this Spirit will strive with you, who can ima-
gine? Even now the pinions of his wings may be already
stretched to take up his last, eternal, flight from an heart
that has been long hardening itself and rejecting his coun-
sels of love!
O sinner mjirk thy fate!
Soon will the judg-e appear,
And then thy cries will come too late,
Too late for God to hear.
Thy day of mercy gone,
The Spirit grieved awa)^,
Thy cup, long filling, now o'erflown.
Demands the vengeful day.
Thy God insulted, seems
To draw his glittering sword?
And o'er thy guilty head it gleams.
To vindicate his word.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE GRACES OF THE SPIRIT.
TflK subject of the chapter stated, viz: 3. That the graces of the Spirit are
not created cames, per se,- but Jiahiiual vQlantary exercises induced by Hi»
efficacious influence through the truths and facts of Revelation—Chris-
tian graces originally affections—\ihyc-A\\ed principles of christian action
—
The meaning of the term defined—Preference of common sense to phi-
losophy in the apprehension of truth—The Spirit's influence the appro-
priate cause of holy exercises—No valid objection against this view of
the subject to be drawn from its making us absolutely dependent on the
Spirit*s agency for such exercises—Some specific laws of human emo-
tion noticed—Habits of feeling different from all others—The nature of
particular graces examined, viz. Love—Rt.pextan^ce—Faith—Iiopk
and Fear.
From the view of the Spirit's cfHcacious ir.nucnce, taken
in the preceding chapters, we may be led to some satisfac--
tory ideas of what are commonly termed the christian
graces. They are certain characteristic emotions, or prin-
ciples of action, wiiich regulate christian conduct, and de-
termine christian character. It is not our design to notice
them in any minute detail or metaphysical analysis; but
simply to present some considerations, suggested alike by
common sense and christian experience. And tliis wo
shall do, by introducing to tkc reader's attention, !he third
inference from the fact of the Spirit's moral suasion, viz:
3. That the graces of the Spirit are not created causes
per se, but habitual voluntary exercises induced by PI is
efficacious influence through the truths and fads of reve-
lation. The graces, or "fruit of the Spirit," are enumer-
ated by the apostle. They are "love, joy, peace, long
suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temper-
CHAP. XXVIII. THE GRACES OF THE SPIRIT. 517
ance.''^ These are all manifestly ditTerent affections, which
depend originally on oar natural or constitutional suscep-
tibilities, and, as excited and elicited by the Spirit's exhi-
bition of the objects and truths appropriate to this end,
assume an impulsive influence, and secure thoae acts and
exercises which we call holy. In the enumeration, as given
by the apostle, primary reference seems to be had, to their
influence in regulating the social intercourse of christians.
But this is only one of the spheres, in which they shed
their radiant lustre. We select a iQ,\Nj and shall trace their
character as determining our actions in reference to God.
As to the order of their enumeration, we attach but little
importance. They are all of them complicated, intimately
uniting the perceptions of the mind, the conviction of the
judgment, and the emotions of the heart; and whether one
or the other assumes, for the time being, the prevalent in-
fluence, is owing to the character of the objects presented, .
and of the truths apprehended. Luve, repentance,
FAITH, HOPE and FEAR are, in their first rise, affections,
excited and elicited by appropriate objects, and becoming
habitual, they assume such permanent influence on conduct
and character, as to be denominated the principles ofchris-
tian action.
The intelligent reader will perceive at once, in what
sense we understand the wov^ principle: —not as designa-
ting "something" laid in the very structure of tlie being: —
•
nor a superadded quality of the soul;—nor a specific cause
of holy exercises, .lodged in the heart by the creative
power of God, anterior to any such exercises; but the de-
termining or regulating influence of any particular species
of feeling, as continuously or frequently and readily ex-
cited and elicited, by the presentation of some object or
truth, appropriately operating on our constitutional sus-
ceptibilities. We are aware, that here we tread the ground
1 Gal. V. 22, 23.
520 TW^ GRACES CHAP, xxviir.
acquired by frequently having done the thing before. The
former become easy after the very first decided impulse of
feeling. And this circumstance explains satisfactorily the
great apparent ease with which the new convert keeps
himself in the love of God.
From the above remarks, the reader will be prepared to
understand the concise account which we subjoin of the
leading graces of the christian. Love has been defined, by
metaphysical writers, the gravitation or tendency of the
soul towards good. But this istoo obscure for common use.
We all know what is meant b}^ the term. It denotes that
feeling of approbation, or complacency, or delight, in any
object, either good in itself, or supposed to be fitted to do us
good, which leads us to desire and make choice of, and
seek to enjoy it. The feeling could not exist if we had
not been created with a capacity for it. Neither can it
ever be excited unless there is some object adapted to secure
it, presented to our consideration. As an object addresses
our senses, or our rational nature, and is apprehended to be
good and desirable, the feeling is awakened. As to the
character of the objects which present themselves, multi-
tudes make fearful and fatal mistakes. Fortune, family,
friends, health, children, and sensual indulgences, receive
the affections of the heart. The love of these things pol-
lutes the soul, distracts its joys, and drowns it in perdition.
But such is the hold, which the world and the things of the
world have upon the heart, that if the blessed Spirit of God
did not see fit to detach them, we should sink deeper and
deeper in the mire of pollution. This He does by bring-
ing before our view, objects in every respect deserving of
our regard. In our natural state, we bestow our affections
on unworthy objects, and withhold them from such as pos-
sess the highest traits of excellence. The blessed Redeemer
is accounted "a root out of dry ground, and when we see
Him there is no beauty in Him to desire Him," But the
CHAP. XXVIII. 07 THt SPIRIT. ,^,4,
Spirit so presents to view the character of Christ, unfolds
this and the other interesting and wondrous trait, shows us
his exalted excellence, and urges them upon our minds and
hearts, that eventually, we cordially embrace Him as all our
salvation, and all our desire, and can say **What things
were gain to (us) these (we) count loss for Christ, yea doubt-
less, and we count every thing bul loss for the excellency
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus our Lord."^ We shall
not pretend to notice the various thoughts and feelings, the
fears, anxieties, and desires, that racked and agitated the
soul before it cordially siirrendered itself, in sweet and de-
lighted approbation of the Chief among ten thousands—the
one altogether lovely; nor through how long, or how short
a space, the Spirit has been telling of His glory, and His
grace, —now pointing to Calvary, and now to Heaven,
Suffice it to say, that the heart once barred against the ten-
derest and best of friends is unclosed. Every thing which
once stood in the way of the soul's communion with Him,
is renounced. Rank, parentage and relations, wealth, hon-
ors and worldly applause, religious duties, outward morality
and former experiences are all sacrificed. Without Christ
he is unhappy and feels he ever must be so. He is the life
of his delights—the centre, and sum, and soul of all his joys.
'Tis Heaven to see His smiling face, and the child of God
presses close to the throne of His grace from day to day,
that he may gaze upon His glory. In loving adoration he
bows before Him, and as he feels the beamings of that light
which pours its splendor all around, earth sinks, and fades,
and disappears. Its glory is darkness in his eye as illumin-
ed by the brighter glories of the Son of God, and every
thing, which men call good and great, is absolute loss in
his view, as it keeps him from the presence and comn-<ti-
nion of Him who is the song, and boast, and triumph of
Heaven.
1 Phil. iii. r. 5.
66
520 THE GRACES chap, xxviir.
acquired by frequently having done the thing before. The
former become easy after the very first decided impulse of
feeling. And this circumstance explains satisfactorily the
great apparent ease with which the new convert keeps
himself in the love of God.
From the above remarks, the reader will be prepared to
understand the concise account which we subjoin of the
leading graces of the christian. Love has been defined, by
metaphysical writers, the gravitation or tendency of the
soul towards good. But this istoo obscure for common use.
We all know what is meant hy the term. It denotes that
feeling of approbation, or complacency, or delight, in any
object, either good in itself, or supposed to be fitted to do us
good, which leads us to desire and make choice of, and
seek to enjoy it. The feeling could not exist if we had
not been created with a capacity for it. Neither can it
ever be excited unless there is some object adapted to secure
it, presented to our consideration. As an object addresses
our senses, or our rational nature, and is apprehended to be
good and desirable, the feeling is awakened. As to the
character of the objects which present themselves, multi-
tudes make fearful and fatal mistakes. Fortune, family,
friends, health, children, and sensual indulgences, receive
the affections of the heart. The love of these things pol-
lutes the soul, distracts its joj^s, and drowns it in perdition.
But such is the hold, which the world and the things of the
u^orld have upon the heart, that if the blessed Spirit of God
did not see fit to detach them, we should sink deeper and
deeper in the mire of pollution. This He does by bring-
ing before our view, objects in every respect deserving of
our regard. In our natural state, we bestow our affections
on unworthy objects, and withhold them from such as pos-
sess the highest traits of excellence. The blessed Redeemer
is accounted "a root out of dry ground, and when we see
Him there is no beauty in Him to desire Him," But the
CKAP. XXVIII. OF THE SPIRIT.
^j^j
Spirit so presents to view the character of Christ, unfolds
this and the other interesting and wondrous trait shows us
his exalted excellence, and urges tliem upon our minds and
hearts, that eventually, we cordially embrace Him as all our
salvation, and all our desire, and can say **What tilings
were gain to (us) these (we) count loss for Christ, yea doubt-
less, and we count every thing but loss for the excellency
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus our Lord/'^ We shall
not pretend to notice the various thoughts and feelings, the
fears, anxieties, and desires, that racked and agitated the
soul before it cordially surrendered itself, in sweet and de-
lighted approbation of the Chief among ten thousands the
one altogether lovely; nor through how long, or how short
a space, the Spirit has been telling of His glory, and His
grace,—now pointing to Calvary, and now to Heaven.
Suffice it to say, that the heart once barred against the ten-
derest and best of friends is unclosed. Every thing which
once stood in the way of the soul's communion with Him,
is renounced. Rank, parentage and relations, wealth, hon-
ors and worldly applause, religious duties, outward morality
and former experiences are all sacrificed. Without Christ
he is unhappy and feels he ever must be so. He is the life
of his delights—the centre, and sum, and soul of all his joys.
'Tis Heaven to see His smiling face, and the child of God
presses close to the throne of His grace from day to day,
that he may gaze upon His glory. In loving adoration he
bows before Him, and as he feels the beamings of thatlio-ht
which pours its splendor all around, earth sinks, and fades,
and disappears. Its glory is darkness in his eye as illumin-
ed by the brighter glories of the Son of God, and every
thing, which men call good and great, is absolute loss in
his view, as it keeps him from the presence and commu>'
nion of Him who is the song, and boast, and triumph of
Heaven.
1 Phi]. iiL r. a
66
522 THE GRACES CHAP, xxrill.
Thus, the love which animates the christian, is perfectly
intelligible, without supposing it is the effect of some spe-
c?^c disposition, created in the soul or laid, like our animal
appetites and constitutional susceptibilities, in the very na-
ture. It is the natural capacity to love, as awakened and
directed by the noblest object in the universe—the blessed
Redeemer; to the apprehension of whose grace and excel-
lence the mind has been excited by the Spirit's efficacious
influence. Nor does it terminate exclusively on His person
and character. We take a deep interest in all that con-
cerns the reputation, and engages the attention of the one
we love. Accordingly, the christian loves the law of God,
and would not expunge from it one solitary precept, or wish
its restraints on his heart and conduct, to be in the least
diminished. So does he love the word of God, and fre-
quently meditates upon its precious promises, precepts and
salutary instructions and counsels. He also loves the wor-
ship of God, and cannot consent long to be absent from the
public assembly, and social meeting, where, according to
His promise, Jesus meets with his people. Much less can
he consent, if he be a parent, that his family should become
a nursery of rebellion, and the morning and the evening
sacrifice be neglected. He loves his duty, and delights to
Qo the will of God. He loves the followers of Christ, and
his faithful ministers, and esteems them very highly for
His sake. Nor does he restrict this regard, to those of
his own sect. He loves the cause of God, and labors and
contributes in his place, and according to his means, to see
it advanced. In short every thing that belongs to Christ,
and interests His heart, commends itself to the christian's.
These are the objects that gain the affections, which were
once squandered on things earthly, sensual, devilish.
Intimately associated with tliis feeling of love, is that of
REPENTANCE. ^Ve are said to repent, when we are heartily
sorry for what we have done, and wish that it had not been
CHAP. XXVIir. OF THE SPIRIT. 5^S
done, and seek, by confession, restoiation, reformation, or
in other appropriate ways to make some amends for it. It
is a feeling that is ever connected with a sense of personal
guilt. We never do, nor can, we repent for what is not,
either wrong in itself, or apprehended to be such by us.
The child sees the character of its conduct towards its pa-
rents, and feeling it has done wrong, repents of its^evil
deeds, and, acknowledging its feelings, gives a moral pledge
•that it will reform. So, the sinner, —when he brings his
^wn conduct and the feelings of his own heart in contrast
with the righteous commands, and holy character of God,
and sees, in the light of this high and holy standard of
right, how wrong they have b©en—becomes, uneasy, agitat-
ed, and oftimes overwhelmed witji a sense of his guilt. He
does indeed, after some sort, repent, —regrets that he had
done this and the other wickedness, and protests and vows
that he will do so no more. But such feelings are painful;
and it is a law of our nature to shrink from pain, and to
avoid what is productive of uneasiness. The terrors of
hell, and of death induced by the contrast, which the sin°
ner makes of his own conduct, with the truth and righteous-
ness and holiness of the divine law and character, never
yet lasted long, or proved permanently influential. They
are only the pleasurable emotions, or those which, at the
time afford some gratification to the individual, that are of
easy repetition and are cherished. But against the anguish
of convictions the impenitent sinner struggles.
There is, iiowever, another view to be taken of the Di-
vine Character, and wl:en the impenitent sinner contrasts
his conduct with the goodness and grace, the boundless love,
and mercy, and compassion of God, especially as manifest-,
ed in His giving His own well beloved Son to die for us—?-
'
the just for the unjust, that He might bring us to Himself^
he feels the baseness, the vileness, the ingratitude, the. ma-
lignity of liis conduct, and heartily loatlios it, and hi/Tiself.
524 riiK cmi^CEs CHAP. xxYiir,
on account of it. The feelings of sorrow, induced by a
view of the tender mercies of God, in contrast \vith his
own character, break his heart; and he weeps and mourns,
for his transgressions. He looks on Him whom he hath
pierced, and mourns for it, as *^one that mourneth for an
only son, and is in bitterness for it,as one that is in bitterness
for a first born."* Nor does he find these feelings pain-
ful. He seeks to have them increased continually, and
often in retirement, in meditation on the word, under the
preaching, and at the holy table of the Lord, stands gazing
with mingled emotions of sorrow and love, on Him *'who
was delivered for our offences.'' It is his full, deliberate^
and decided purpose, eternally to renounce his sins. The
sins and corruption of others as they dishonor God, deeply
affect his heart. God is his choice, and seeing His glory
to be of far greater consequence than his own enjo3'mcnts or
interests, he is ready to exclaim
oh could I lose myself in thee;
Thy depth of mercy prove;
Thou vast unfathomable sea
Of unexhausted love!
T loathe myself wh^n God I see.
And into nothing fall;
Content, if xnou exalted be,
And Christ be all ly All.
With these feelings of love for God, and sorrow for sin,
will be found associated that of confidence or faith. Faith
is the trust or reliance of the heart uj)on the word of God.
It is not a mere intellectual belief; for the objects disclosed
by His testimony, cannot be apprehended as realities, with-
out producing some excitement, and therefore it is, that,
*'with the heart man believeth unto righteousness." Sci-
entific speculations and inquiries, regard the great truths
and facts of revelation as mere viailers of abstraction.
Such things seldom, if ever, interest the heart. Indeed
when they do 5o, in any strong degree, it is thought to in-
1 Zcoh. xii. 10.
CHAP. XXTIII, OF THE SPIRIT. 525
dicate mental alienation. And perhaps, this is one reason
why an unbelieving world accounts the christian mad.
They cannot understand why mere abstract matters, as they
apprehend the truths of Christianity to be, should take such
deep hold on the sensibilities. But the christian knows,
that they are solemn realities. His religion is all based
on matters of fact. He knows it is true, that God hates
sin, and must punish the sinner, if he will not repent;
—
that sin is most odious, impudent^ malignant and abomin-
able, as it is opposition to His law and government, and
seeks to exalt a miserable worm of the dust, a wretched
rebel—the idol self, to supremacy^—that Jesus the eternal
Son of God, has di-ed t^ magnify the law of God, and make
ithonorable^—that having finished transgression, and made
an end of sin, He hath brsught in slu everlasiing r'lghteous-
n-ess, so that, now God can forgive, in perfect consistency
with His truth, and honor, and without any ground of im-
peachment of His goodness and equity as a moral governor;
and that He actually is willing, and ready to forgive, and
proffers His pardoning mercy to any and every sinner, who
h-ears the gospel. Apprehending these things as absolutely
true, the heart is inspired with confidence, alike in the
character of God, as a moral governor, and in the faithful-
ness of his declarationa, and yields itself in sweet reliance
unto Him in both respects.
The evidence of the truth of these things, which is fur-
nished to the mind, is abundantly satisfactory. It is the
word of Him who cannot lie. This sways his mind, and
his faith becomes "the evidence of things not seen, and the
substance of things hoped for.''^ '*He that hath received his
testimony hath set to his seal that God is true. "^ But ^*he
that believeth not God, hath made Him a liar. ''^ And this is
the grand oflence which ruins and datnns toall eternity, those
who reject the testimony of Jesus, ^'the Amen—the faithful
1 Heb. xl 1. 2 John -.u. 33. 3 1 John v. 10.
526 THE GRACES cHAP. XXVIII.
and true witness.'^* And it is right it should be so. For
faith, or the cordial believing of what God says, is nnost rea-
sonable. We have capacities of mind, to perceive the truth
of what He testifies, and of heart, to feel its impressiveness.
His testimony is emblazoned with the most convincing evi-
dence of truth, and nothing but the most unjustifiable, and
:bitter prejudice, and dislike of God, prevent the mind from
perceiving it. If, therefore, a veracious friend or neigh-
tor feels, that he has a right to expect and demand our con-
fidence, when he speaks, how much more reasonably must
God do so? Could He speak to us, and leave it optional
whether to believe or not, so that with impunity we might
refuse, it would be an impeachment of Himself, and a vir-
tual declaration, that He is not "'orthy of our confidence.
It is true, that in the exercise of our minds in the percep-
tion and belief of truth, we act voluntarily; but when the
evidence is sufficient—when the person speaking is a true
and competent witness, and his communications clear and
intelligible—we are morally bound to believe Him. From
such obligations, in reference to God, we can never be
released in heaven, earth or hell. They will follow us to
the utmost verge of creation. Nor can we ever escape from
tiiem, as long as we have intellectual capacities sufficient to
attend to, and believe another.
*'If I say the truth,'' said the blessed Saviour, ''why
do ye not believe me?''^ Impenitent reader, say why?
You know full well, that when your neighbor, whom you
believe to be a man of truth, speaks to you, you readily
give your assent to and repose in his statements. Indeed,
if your mind does not labor under the influence of preju-
dice against him, you find it morally impossible not to be-
lieve what he testifies he has seen and does know, though
you have neither seen nor known it. But on the other
hand, if you know liim to be false, and hypocritical, and
not worthy of confidenee, and your hearts are prejudiced
i llcv. ill. 14. 2 Johnvlii. 46.
CHAP. XXTIII. or THE SPIUIT. 527
against Him, scarcely will his asseveration and oaths in-
duce your belief. You cannot, it is morally impossible
for you to believe the man, whom you think does not
speak the truth. Here lies the grand dilBculty in the way
of your believing God. You believe Him to be a liar.
You think that what He says, in His word, is not true,
and in this practical influential conviction, with respect to
the character of God, wliich saps the very founda'Jon of
all confidence in Him, you are sustained, and confirmed,.
by your wishes that it may be so, your love of sin, and
your dislike of God. You would rather believe, that God
falsifies His word, and violates His pledges, and perjures
his soul; —yea, and that Jesus, notwithstanding He has
died to save us, is destitute of mercy, and the devil worthy
of greater confidence than either! In short, any thing and
every thing sooner, than that it is true, that t/ou must go
down to Hell unless 7/0 u repent. Your difficulties are all
of your own creating. You put from you the word of
eternal life, and judge yourself unworthy of it. 0!i poor
suicide, "'^Who shall have pity upon thee? or who shall be-
moan thee? or who shall go aside to ask how tliou doest?'^'
"You have beheld the Lord, and said it is not He, neither
shall evil come upon me."^ But'*you shall know that He
is Jehovah when He shall lay His vengeance u\)on you'^^
—
and that it is true, all true, most true, unalterably and
eternally true, what God hath said, that *'the wicked sliali
be turned into Hell," and *'he that belicveth not shall be
damned."'*
We have taken a very brief and general view of faith;
but every reader must perceive, that wiiile its essential
character as the cordial belief of the word of some faith-
ful witness, remains the same, its specific influence, and '
the manner in which it will affect the sensibilities, and the
acts of the man, depend upon the character of the truth,
1 Jer. xv. 5. 2 Jer. v. 12. 3 Zek. xxv. 17. 4 Mark xvi. 16.
528 THE GRACES CHAP. XXVIII.
or objects, brought into view in the testimony, and appre-
hended by the mind. In all thii^, we do not perceive any
thing like a cause /?er se, or what is called a principle of
faith, which is the original of faith, but are directed to the
immediate and special agency of the Holy Spirit, as He
operates through the truth upon our constitutional suscep-
tibilities, and elicits them in the cordial belief of that
truth, and embracing of the objects presented.
Hope, too, possesses the same general character. It is
the expectation of some future good desired, the attain-
ment of which is deemed possible. We do not hope for
what we see. Nor for what we deem to he impossible.
As long as the sinner thinks it'is impossible for him to be
pardoned, he can have no hope. But if he believes, the
professions which God makes as to His willingness to for-
give, and the promises in which He holds forth an abun-
dant supply of grace for every time of need, he confident-
ly expects, that, in due season, these things will be forth-
coming, according to the very tenor of the promise. This
is hope. It springs from faith, and looks far into the
vista of eternity. The christian's hope is not the illusion
of a distempered fancy. It is the lofty elevation of the
rational soul, borne upward by a faith which gives to the
mind all the evidence and certainty of demonstration. It
substantiates the realities of the spiritual and eternal state,
and rises superior to all the sophistr3^ and deceits of a
changing and perishing world.
'Tis Heaven, all Heaven, descencVinj^ on the winfjs
Of the glad leg-ions of tlie King of kings;
'lis more:—'lis God diffused through every part
—
'Tis God Himself triumplnint in the heart.
The grand and prominent object of the christian^S' hope
is the blessed Redeemer; and thence He is Himself called
*'our hope.*' The enjoyment of His society, the vision
of His glory, a perfect assimilation to His character, a
CHAP. XXVIII. OF THL SPIRIT. 529
c?own of glory from His h-an-d, a seat upon His throne
—
and an eternity of honour and blias and ineffable deiio-ht
in His communion, are the objects towards which the chris-
tian's hope is directed, which here elicit Ins most enlarged
an-d gladdening anticipations, and to which he shal-has cer-
tainly attain, as- there is a God who cannot lie.
Hope with uplTteJ foot set free from earth,
Pants for the place of her etherial birth.
On steady wing's sails thro' the immense abys;.
Plucks amaranthine joys from bowers of bliss.
And crowns the soiil while yet a mourner here,
With wreaths like tiiose triumphant spirits wear.
An hope so lofty, and so aspiring, and whose anticipa-
tions are so pure, cannot fnil to exert a purifying influence
on the heart and conduct, and to stay the soul, in the midst
of those rude tempests of distress, which are wont to lash
and agitate the ocean of life. *'He that hath this hope in
him, purifieth himself as God is pure."' It cannot be that
lie should degrade himself hy hopes that rest on earth.
Kis hope is near akin to the very fruition of God. Tt
here affords a taste of joys celestial, and is itself the ante-
past of heaven. ^'For God, willing more abundantly to
shew unto the heirs of promise, the immutability of his
counsel confirmed it by an oath: that by two immutable
things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might
liave a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay
hold upon the hope set before us, which hope we have,
as an anchor of the soul both sure and steadfast, and which
entereth into that within the veil, whither the forerunner
is for us entered."^
This hope every christian is under obligations to cherish
and maintain. His destitution of it is his sin, and must be
assigned to his neglect or refusal to exercise that faith
which overcometh the world. On which account the
1. 1 Johniii. :?. 2 Heb. xi. 17-21
61
530' THE GRACE CHAP. XXTIII.
apostle has very appropriately and solemnly exhorted us
to **give all diligence to the full assurance of hope, even
unto the end."^
We subjoin a remark or two with regard to the fear
of God, whicli forms an essential feature in the character
of the christian. It is not thai slavish dread of punish-
ment which characterizes the condemned and guilty cul-
prit, nor the startling impressions which we instinctively
feel, v/hen suddenly apprehending some impending dan-
ger, or in view of some mighty and irresistible power,
which may be brought to bear upon us to our injury; but
that reverence and respect for God, which a right appre-
hension of His character, as the great Moral Governor, and
of our relations to Him as such, cannot fail to inspire.
The external means employed for awakening these feelings
are numerous. The n-hole creation, in all its vastness and'
extent—the entire providence of God, in all its intricate
and wondrous developments—the law of God, in all its
purity and rectitude—the sclieme of redemption, in all the
wonders of divine condescension, as effectuated tiirough
the high and holy One, who though He were a Son, yet
learned obedience,—all contribute to awaken, in the be-
liever's mind, that profound deference and respect for the
great Moral Governor of the world, which tend to secure
the avoidance of temptation, the exercise of circumspec-
tion, and the constant appeal of the heart to His mercy
and grace through a mediator, for protection and support.
These things are manifestly the duty of every rational man.
The}^ are, indeed, feelings, but they are feelings under the
control of, and to bo regulated by the will. And, accord-
ingly, Vi'c are exhorted to '''fear God and keep his com-
raandmients, for this is the whole duty of man."^
Whatever christian grace, therefore, we contemplate,
we discern in each alike, the voluntary agency and ac-
1 lUb. vi. 2. 2 Ecclcs, sii. IX
CHAP. XXVIII. OF THE SPIRIT.
53!
countability of man; and that any individual should be
destitute of any one is his guilt, and will most justly con-
tribute to his damnation. Say not then, impenitent and
graceless reader! tliat you are under no obligations to ex-
hibit "the fruit of the Spirit" in your walk and conversation.
You are commanded to repent of your sins and to believe,
to love, to fear and hope in God. You have the capacities
and susceptibilities which are adapted to such exercises. As
directed in theirexeciso towards God, and divinethings,they
become the graces of the Spirit. To induce such exercisesof
them He operates continually through the truth—presenting
the objects and considerations which are calculated to secure
them, and giving efficac}^ to that truth, and impressiveness
to those objects. Nor would any one ever love, trust, or
hope in God, save for His blessed agency. But that is not
because there must be previously some created cause lodg-
ed in the soul, of which they are destitute, nor because the
.capacities requisite to be acted on are wanting, but because
the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the pride of
life, do hold the thoughts and hearts of men aside from the
^consideration and choice of God and divine things. That
these things are so, is their damning guilt. And that God
by His Spirit should take care, in any, to awaken these cha-
racteristic emotions is grace indeed. This He actually
does in those whom He makes willing to renounce the
world and turn to Him. And having once awakened
these emotions, He does, by the same means, continually
operate to secure their growtl), and increasingly effective
- influence, in the production of the various subordinate
graces of the christian character, and in the blessed expan-
sion and exercise of every capacity of ^he rational and
sensitive soul of man
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE MEAXS OF GRACE.
K fourth inference from the fact of the Spirit's moral suasion, viz: the
means of grace become efficacious as the Spirit operates by them and
secures the fixed and interested attention and t!ie voluntary consecration
of the soul to God—The means of grace all properly resolvable into the
^truths and facts of scripture, as they ay%-aken and fix the attention of the
raind--A natural tendency in these truths to induce Regcneration-Whence
the obligation instantaneously on tlie exhibition of the truth, to exercise
and express the aflfections appropriate—Several propositions stated, viz:
1. There are means of grace—2. They are adapted to the end designed
in them—3. Yet do they not possess efficiency in themselves—4. Nor
does their efficacy depend entirely on the agency of man —5. But sim-
ply as the use of them secures the divine agency—Inquiry as to the cha-
racter of that agency—The result of special design and not a fixed law
—
Appeals to it therefore are of a different character from those made to
laws of nature—Much superstition has been the result of practical error
here—Much antinomianism also—And a deluding, soul-destroying sys-
tem of spiritual tactics—Instances of their practical bearing—The pro-
per course to be pursued with anxitsus souls—A contrary course produc-
tive of self-righteousness—Inconsistent with itself—What the means
of grace which may correctly be denominated such—The same employ-
ed bj God ahke in securing the conversion of tiie sinner and the sancti-
fication of the believer— The divine example and exhortations a suffi-
cient testimony in favor of the principles, and warrant for the mode of
procedure, advocated in this chapter.
Much of what might appropriately be brought into
view in this chapter has been anticipated. Yet are there
.some things which demand particular attention. These,
we shall notice, in the observations suggested by a fourth
inference from the fact of the Spirit's moral suasion, as
already stated, viz:
4. The means of grace become efficacious as the
CHAP. XXIK. Tin: MEANS OF GRACE. 533
Spirit by Ihem, and in a manner perfectly adapted, alike
to their own nature and to that of the human mind and
heart, secures the fixed and interested attention and the
voluntary consecration of the soul to God. These means,
may all be ultimately resolved, into the truths and facts
of scripture, as brought to bear upon the mind of ra-^
tional and feeling man. For ^^what," says an eloquent
writer, '^are bibles, sermons, and sacraments, but instru-
ments to carry truth to the understanding and heart? What
are all the expostulations of others, but efforts to press the
motives contained in truth, upon the sensibilities of the
soul? What are the passions which preachers address, but
-channels, through which truth is carried to the quick, or
'instruments to rouse the soul to view it with sharpened
attention? What docs Providence more than illustrate, and
.enforce revealed truth? Sabbaths are not means of grace,
50 much as opportunities to attend on ordinances and ex-
ercises that are."^ The believing prayers of christians, in
relation to the unconverted, which are made, in the closet
<ir apart from them, are but means of securing, in the goocj
providence of God, that impressive exhibition of the trutb,
through which the Spirit subdues the heart. The gracious
exercises, and other efforts of christians, are but a prepara.^
•tioh for its more decisive and effective appeals. And the
efforts of the unconverted, to which, by some, a superstl^
tious, and by others, a self-righteous, importance has beea
attached, are all reducible, when properly examined, to
the attention which the mind gives to the truth, or to the
ordinances or means through which it is exhibited.
Now it is obvious, that there is a natural tendency of the
truths and facts revealed in the scriptures, to induce those
exercises, appropriate to the capacities, condition, and re^
lations of men, in the commencement of which consists
regeneration. We are required to love and confide ii;i
-1 Park itrect Lectures, p. J 35,
5^4 iHE ME.iNS cHAP. XXIX,
God, to repent of our sins^ and to hope in and fear Him.
All of wliich things are affections of the renovated man,
and without whicli, no one can lay claim to the christian
character. But in the hible, the truth, faithfulness, benevo-
lence, justice, holiness, grace and compassion of the divine
nature, are unfolded, and specific declarations are to be
met with, in the form of promises, giving clear and de-
.cided intimations of thei^e things, and they certainly have,
in the nature of things, a^s obvious a tendency to produce
the affections of love for, and confidence in God, as have
the exhibitions of similar traits of excellence, and proofs
of regard,, when coming from man to man, to induce such
.exercises between them. The dreadful nature of sin, its
dam.ning consequences in us, its frig" tful impeachments of
the divine character, and its horrid 'nalignity as depicted
in the scriptures, are calculated to move to repentance.
And the views v/iiich are given, of the bliss and glories of
ileaven, ana of Ijie ch.aracter of Gcd as s Moral Governor,
have as manifest a tfendency to excite hope and fear.
The opposition, which the heart may and does make
against these things, and their failure, in any case to pro-
duce such results, do not disprove the tendency of the
truth to secure them. Nor, do the special influences of
ine Spirit, vvhich are necessary in consequence oi the
rebellion and resistance of men against the truth, fur-
,nish any argument, against the adaption of that truth, to
the circumstances, character, condition, and constitutional
capacities of man, and consequently, its natural tendency
to i^.'oduce the affeetions contemplated. So far are the
scriptures from sanctioning such an idea, that they do ac-
tually urge the OBLIGATION, arising out of the very ex-
hibition of the truih^ made to the mind and heart of man,
instantaneously to exercise, and express the affectiona
isppropriaic.
Vriih tlic following example?, th« scriptural reader is
CHAI^: XXIX. OF GRACE. :^2S
familiar. ''Thou blind Pharisee! clnmsc^ first that which
is loithin the cup and platter, that tiie outside of them may
be clean also."^ ''Put off all these; anger, wrath, ma-
lice,"^ &c. *'Cleanse your hands, ye sinners 2iPA piirifij
your hearts^ ye double-minded.'" ''SlahUshyour heartr,,'^'^
^'Set your affections on thin«;s above. "^ ''Make to your-
selves a NEW HEART and a new spirit."^ *'0h Jerusalem
wash thy heart from wickedness, thai thou maycst be
saved.^''^ "Save yourselves U'-om Ibis untoward genera-
tion."^ *'My son give me thy heart.
'"'^
Whatever influence the Holy Spirit exerts, to aT^r:!l:cn
and induce such feelings and exercises in rr.en, is and must
Be, in entire accordance with their morn! cgency. For,.
unless men exalt tlieir philosop;>y aboT'e tiie bible, it is un-
deniably throuf;h the frulhy that it is i:^.ip.)rled . Tiiis
very circumstance, implies that the soleii.n consideration
of the facts or objects, which thai truth makes known, is
intimately connected with tlie sinner's cor. version. Ind-?ed
we do not perceive 1)0W else a rational and accountable
creature such as man is, is to be made iclllin^ to renounce'
his sinful, selfish, sordid attachments, and bestow his af-
fections on spiritual tb.ina;^. Tlie 'mIq'aqi iiiimcdiate poivcr
onihe soul, or a physical efficiency determining the \\ill,-
is a contradiction. If he is voluntarily to turn from sin^
to God, and 'he will is always determined by motives, ap--
propriate motives must be presented and the attention in-
terested. This in the very ijature of things, is necessary;
and may serve to throw some liglit upon a subject, exceed-
ingly perplexed, and obscured by the false philosophy
and false theology of some, viz: the use of the means of
grace.
1 Mat. xxiii. 2G. 2 Col. il:. 8. 3 Jfimes Iv. 8.
4 James v. 8. 5 Col. lii. 2. ("> Ezelc. xviii. 21.
7 Jer. iv. 14. S .Acts ii. 40. 9 Pov. xxiii. 26.
Other instances of the same sort, miy be seen in James i. 21 ; 1 Fet. i. 22, ^
si. 1; Col. iil. :2—15; Ileb. xii. 1: Devit. x. 12-- 16; Jer. iv 3, -l-.
536 THE MEANS cttAP. XXir.
On the first view of this subject, it would seem natural
and right, that we should attempt to disci*imrnate correctl}^,
and inquire, in whose hands the means become effectual;
—
whether in the Spirit's or the sinner's —and what are the
]()articular agencies of the Spirit, and of the sinner, neces-
sary to their being used successfully? We shall attempt a
reply to these questions, in the confirmation and elueida-
tion of a few simple propositions.
1. There are, strictly and properly speaking, such things'
as are called means of grace. If the phrase is not found
m the bible, that is no reason why it should be rejected,
provided that the thing it teaches or implies, is found
there. In the hand of God, the trulli is unquestionably
a means through which He displays and imparts His grace.
In the experience of the christian, the consideration of
the truthy to which his mind is led in the right perform-
ance of the duty of prayer, and in the reading of the scrip-
tures, contributes greatly to the growth and perfection of
the gracious affections, and principles of his character.
As employed by the Lord's people, the various methods
which they adopt for the exhibition of the truth, are con-
ducive alike to their own spiritual improvement, and to
the conversion of sinners. And as awakening and fixing
his attention, even the unconverted sinner may make use
of means, that have a salutary tendency. Whoever may-
be the immediate agent contemplated, there are appropriate
means through which he may operate. God and man both-
work by means.
2. The means of grace arc admirably adapted to the
end designed by them. God's wisdom is infinite, and it
were an impeachment of it, and of His character altogether
to suppose that it were otherwise, as it respects the instru-
mentalities of His agency. Nature and Providence alike
display proofs of this. We have already seen ihc adap-
tion of the truths of scripture to the result sought, which:^
CHAP. XXIX. OJ^ GRACE. .5^^
is the sinners conversion. They addrsss His intellect and
heart, and make their powerful appeals to conscience which
tinites both.
3. The means of grace, however, notwithstanding this
natural tenuenc}' or adaption, do not possess any ejjiciency
in themselves, to secure the end designed. For, if tliat
were the fact, then must they differ from all other instru-
mentalities whatever. Instead of being called means,
they should be styled causes.
4. The efficacy of the means of grace, does not depend
upon the agency of 7nan entirely, in the use of them,ybr
the exhibition of the truth. That man has a very impor-
tant part to act, in co-operating with God, according to
His plan, in the use of those means He is ordinarily pleased
to employ and bless, we do not deny. Would that the
whole church were more awake under a sense of the im-
portance and obligation of this thing! But our co-o])era-
lion with God, however important and indispensible,
according to the constitution He has ordained, is not that
which gives efficiency to the means. He is the Mighty
One who worketh all things after the counsel of His own
will, and makes use of our agency as the channel through
which He imparts His ov/n energy. ^'Neither is he that
planteth any thing, neither he that watereth; but God that
giveth the increase. ^'^
5. It is only as the use of the means of grace secures tlie di-
vine agency, that they become effective means of salvation.
*'I have planted," says Paul, 'vVpollos watered, but God gave
the increase."^ This, we presume will be denied by none.
But what is that agency, and how is it secured? It is not a
physical efficiency, as we have seen, but a moral power—
a
power given to the truth, which sv/ays eff'ectually the mind
and heart of the rebel, and turns him from the error of his
ways. If that power be exerted on the mind and heart of
1 iCor. iii. \7. 2 1 Cor. iii. 6.
6S
5 38 THE MEANS CHAP. XXIX.
man, irrespectively of the truth, and to prepare by some
creative process for the influence of the truth to be felt,
then is regeneration altogether a physical work. We care
not how it may be described, whether as creating a dis-
position, habit, taste, instinct, principle, or any thing else.
If it be the product of simple immediate power on the
soul, irrespectively of the truth, the work is not of a moral
character, but precisely in keeping with the great effects
which transpire in the created universe, from the exercise
of physical Omnipotence. Such energies are exerted uni-
formly, undeviatingly and infallibly, according to thefixed
and established constitution of things.
In the conversion of a sinner, the agency of God is the.
result of special design, and not according to any fixed
law, to which, as in the operations of nature, successful
appeals may be infallibly made. Appeals are daily made
to the divine agency in nature, as for example to the law
of gravitation, with infallible success, by those who lose
sight of God's design and providence altogether. It is not
thus, however, with respect to the converting agency of
His Spirit. It is true, that faith has a \NondiQY^\x\ potency ,
and may anticipate^ with confidence, the final result in an
appeal made to God, for the conversion of a sinner. But
that is a very different thing, from the immediate success
of an appeal made through the truth, at any given period-
to the mind and heart of the sinner. It is the agency of
God, which gives that truth its efficacy, and although the
ultimate result may be confidently expected, and there may
be circumstances to authorize the expectation of immediate
success; yet we do not, and cannot, partly from the very
nature of moral agency, and partly from our ignorance of
the mode and laws of the divine agency, anticipate, with
as infallible certainty the issues of an appeal of this sort,
as we do to what are termed the laws of nature.
We admit, that there mny be, and are certain natnr-^l.
'€HAP. XXIX OF GllACE. 539
laws^ according to which, God governs mind, and from
which He no more deviates, than from the laws of nature.
Yet is there, by virtue of that liberty of action, conceded
to the will, a wide range for the combination and employ-
ment of the motives that may sway it. We cannot tell
what peculiar class of motives will affect this or the other
man, most powerfully. Nor can we always calculate, with
absolute certainty, as to the decisions of the will. Differ-
ent minds are differently affected by the very same consid-
erations. One fears and trembles, another becomes uneasy
and wrathful, and a third is filled with delight, at the men-
tion of God, and Christ, and religion, and a change of heart.
Every variety of motive, has, through the agency of God,
led ultimately to gracious results; and every variety of mo-
tive, has had at times quite the contrary effect. The thought
which has disarmed one sinner, and dissolved him in love,
has driven another to rage and desperation. A reason of
this difference, is to be found in the particular state of heart
at the time, which is a province beyond our research. But
as God searcheth the heart, He can, and does, combine
and press motive, so adapted to the peculiar character, and
mental state of the individual, or exhibit truth through
such external instrumentalities, and at such junctures, as
that in His hands, when He specially designs, it becomes
effectual to the sinner's conversion^ But what is the ap-
propriate result oi special design,\we cannot legitimately ac-
count for, as eventuating through d. fixed law: and therefore,
the means of grace become not efficacious, as they are an
appeal to a fixed and established mode, through which the
Creator exercises His energies.
We fear, that m.uch superstition prevails in the <jhurch
on this subject, and, that the illustrations, and analogies,
employed by many writers and preachers on this subject,
have contributed no little, to induce and confirm it. Wit-
;ness the miserable votaries, and slaves of the papal hierar-
310 '"^ MEANS CHAP. XXIX.
ch}', wlio rhyme their ave marias and pater xosters,
and mukiply their '^vain repetitions," with confident
expectation of some beneficial result! See too the poor
formalist—hut a few degrees above the worshipper of the
crucifix, and of the Virgin, -^who somnolently reads his
Bible on the Sabbath,—floats to church with the crow.d,—sits
in the same seat from week to week and j^ear to year, in the
house of God —partakes of the sacrament and goes through
other religious duties, without an interested mind and heart,
yet thinks, that he is using the means of grace, and that
these dumb-shows—this pantominiical sort of religion,
will eventually secure the grace of God! And hear the
learned and philosophical illustrations, of the operations of
grace, given by mystic divines, in their account of the
husbandman's breaking up the fallovv^ ground, preparing the
soil, sowing his seed, and waiting patiently for a crop!
They are all the ruinous, soul-destroying, practical mis-
takes begotten by a false philosophy in alliance with a
mystic lheolog3^ For our parts, we discover very
little, if any essential difference in these monstrous births.
In point of safety, or of real intelligence, among the vo-
taries of either of the above superstitious methods of appeal
to the agency of God, there is unquestionably none.
Nor is their system any nearer the truth, who either
theoretically or practically talk of making efforts and using
the means of grace, so as to bring God under some sort of
obligation to help them. It is truly deplorable to witness
the soul-destroying influence of anlinomian principles in
the church of God. Here and there is to be met one, who,
passes through certain forms and duties of religion —is a
stickler for ''Orthodoxy"—proclaims that he gives all the
glory of his salvation to God, —and denounces every thing
like recf/ and feeling in religion, and pressing of the obli-
gations immediately to repent and lead a holy life, as selt-
righteousness and as denying the grace and work of the
cha: , iXIX. OF GRACE. 541
Spirit; but who, when interrogated with respect to his own
personal hope, hesitates not to say that he trusts in God,
and expects eventually to be saved. The sins of the heart
are not sacrificed. The distinctive duties of religion are
not discharged. The man is like the world, drowned in
its iusfs ar.d cares. Not a word escapes from him in com-
mendation of the Saviour. Not a w^arning is given by him,
to his impenitent and ungodly associates. He must not
be pressed as to his own personal experience in religion,
for it is the prerogative of God, he says, to search the
heart. His family perceive no other indications of reli-
gion about him, than that he goes to church, and *Hakes
the sacraeient.^^ No altar is raised near the domestic
hearth, on which ascends the morning and the evening sa-
crifice. He is more frequently to be seen in the tavern,
than at a prayer-meeting. His voice may be heard in po-
litical clubs, but never in a religious conference. He
knows from experience, what it is to be ^^filled with wine
wherein is excess.*' He can counsel his friends and neigh-
bors, about their w^orldly concerns, or declaim against re-
vivals of religion, and "revival ministers," but knows
not how, nor undertakes, to confer with an anxious sinner
about the concerns of his sou!. And yet he accounts him-
self a christian! He is trusting in Christ eventually to be
saved, but is not willing to be saved just now, and part
with all\i\s sins and begin to practice every duty. Nor
can he endure that preaching, or that man, which makes
him doubt his safety, while he can give no evidence what-
ever, that -Ris faith, or what he calls his ^'faith, purifies his
heart," ^'works by love," and ^^overcomes the world" in
himself. Miserable delusion ! He is floating, on what he
calls the means of grace, most quietly down to hell! And
that preaching, and those ministers, whose exhibition of
doctrinal truth, tends to induce and confirm this soul-de-
stroying delusion, will be found among the guilty causes
of his damnation.
543 '^'"E MEANS CHAP. XXIX.
Not much less dcliuling are the system and tactics of
liiose, who, fearing to invade the province of the Spirit,
are careful to remind the sinner, at every turn, that he is
utterly unable by his own unassisted powers, either to be-
lieve, or to repent to the saving of his soul. It might as
truly be said, that he cannot rise and walk, by his own un-
assisted powers, and it would be, by no means, a difficult
"thing, for one, not hypocondriacally predisposed—who
would allow himself to doubt, whether God would assist
him, and perplex his mind about divine agency and human
dependence, —to persuade'himself to sit still, believing that
'he had lost the use of his limbs. More ridiculous hallucina-
tions have actually taken place. The sinner, that truly
repents, will learn, more effectually from his own expe-
KiENCE, than from all human teaching, to whom the effica-
cious grace, which made him willing to turn to God, is to
1)0 ascribed. To brandish in his face, at every moment,
'the solemn charge that he cannot, as though by some
]jhysical necessity of "sinful nature," it was impossible
for him to repent, is, according to the very constitution of
the human mind, and to the laws which regulate human
thought and action, to take the most eSectual method t@
prevent him from ever doing so.
For it is a wise and benevolent provision of the greart
Creator, that we never think of attcmjyting to do, what
we hiiow is impossible. Every man feels that he will be
acting, as absurdly, as fruitlessly, in trying to do, what
Be knoivs he cannot, and therefore, instinctively refuses
thus to mispend his time and strength. Let the rational
man, therefore, be addressed by one in whom he has con-
fidence, and the truths and facts of religion, be exhibited
to his mind, so as to make the impression, and lead to the
conclusion, that he cannot succeed if he tries; yea, dare
iiot attempt in the strength he has,—the only strength of
which he is conscious;—to repent and turn to God; and the
CHAP. XXIX Q^ GRACE. 54,3
inevitable result will bo, to lie tlown and wail for some
more convenient season, than the present. Sucli is actually
the result, in many instances,as the protracted impenitence,
and deep damnation of delaying sinners fully prove. And
such are the excuses too, which are drawn from the very
mouths of the ambassadors of Clirist sent fortii to beseech
rebels to be reconciled to God, —excuses which they are
ever prompt, and delighted to render, and oftimes actually
do, to the shame and confusion of the legate of the skies!
Look to the barren ministrations of those whose style of
preaching, is unvaryingly of the character referred to. De-
cent outv/ard attendance upon the rites and ordinances of re-
ligion, may be secured; but while men may become reputible
citizens, discreet in their behaviour, studious of the doc-
trines of Christianity, and be accounted in the main relir-
gious, feW; if any, marked and decided cases of conversion^
take place, and still more rare, arc, that spiritual intercourse,
that active and untiring zeal for God, and that anxiety for
souls wliich are indispensiblc evidences of true piety.
We do not mean, unnecessarily to censure. I:'^~ or are u-c
sujjposing cases, to support our theory. At the moment
we pen these lines, our thoughts revert with pamfui emo-
tions, to a venerable father, \A\o lifts, in the councils of the
church, his solemn and tln'iiling voice of alarm, ar.d de-
nunciation against heresies, errors, new measures, ccc, and
who prophesies of the blighting influence of his lorethrcu,
that differ from him in their opinions, but under other cir-
cumstances deplores that, although he has for near half a
century, been preaching the gospel, he does not know one
instance, in which he has been instrumental in the conver-
sion of a.sinner. *'By their fruits ye shall know ih.cm,"
says the blessed Redeemer, and if such be the rule of judg-
ment in this case, would it not be well to suspect, th^itthc-
error may be nearer home? Surely such exhortations as the
following, cannot fail to have a most deleterious induc^ce^
544 THE MEANS CHAP. XXIX.
''Now my dear young friends, here is your duty, you are
called to believe in Christ, and to exercise repentance unto
life. But you are 7iot called, but forbidden to attempt
this duty in your own strength. '^^ It is well, that the feel-
ings of many counteract the influence of their theory, and
that the exhortations, suggested alike by the sacred scrip-^
tures, and by common sense, notwithstanding a mystic
theology, are addressed to the consciences of sinners, to
Urge them to instant repentance. The exhortations **to
seek," and **pray," and '^strive," and *'use the means,'*
which are sometimes substituted for those, which it is ex-
plicitly given in ciiarge to the minister of Christ, to urge,
cannot fail to perplex, bewilder, distract.
Take the confession of a young man, which has been
recently spread before the churches, and whose clear dis-
criminating mind required better counsellors, than it seems
to have been his lot to meet: *'I was almost ready ta
despair; but I remembered, that ^God's arm was not short-
ened, that it could not save,' and I determined never to
cease from striving: but even this, I knew was what I
would not be able to do of mj^self. This continued to be
my state, with little variation, for more than a week."
After listening, witli great interest, to preaching, and talk--
Jng with christians, he adds, *^nothing they said, how-
ever, gave me much encouragement. It was only 'strive,*
*seek,' *ask,' 'knock.' That I was ready to do; and
for the few days past, this darkness has been breaking
away, and in its place a calm assurance has been succeed-
ing."^ The character of that assurance is not described,
nor any thing said, as to what it relates, but the connection
would seem to intimate, that it refers to the conclusion,
drawn in his own mind, that he had become a christian.
The writer of these confessions, may have become suchj.
1 christian Advocate, vol. ix. p. 516.
:2 Missionary Reporter, for Oct. 1(S31.
CHAP. XXIX. Oy GRAGE. 545
but other evidence of the fart, than what he intimates, in-
fluenced his judgment in the case, is indispensibly neces-
sary. The calm assurance of which he speaics, was natu-
rally to have been expected from such counsels, and such
efforts, and such excitement. And the conclusion —as we
fear it is too often done, wiiere such preaching and man-
agement of anxious souls obtain —may have been drawn,
that the mystic change had been experienced, the heart
had been secretly renewed, though there had been no dis-
tinct consciousness of the voluntary/ and hearts/ renuncia-
tion of ail sin, and confiding in the blessed Redeemer, as
an all-sujficient Saviour, accompanied with a loving and
resolute, and delighted consecration of himself and all, to
His service. The above is merely selected as a specimen
of the practical bearing of the counsels given by those, who,
—insteadof directingat once to the Saviour, and spreading
the truth which is to be believed, before tlie mind, and
exposing the guilt and danger of every moment's delay to
repent, and requiring it, as by the aut4iority of God» to be
instantly done—exhort to pray, and read the bible, and use
the means of grace—seeking, knocking, striving after faith
and repentance, and what not.
Now, against all such theory and practice, we enter our
solemn protest. It is contrary to the principles of com-
mon sense. That teaches us to direct the attention spe-
cifically and directly, towards the result to be secured.
The means, or process, by which that result is to be ob-
tained, are, in inar-y cases, instinctively discovered, and
while requiring, and urging the final issue.y every one.
feels, that \\-\e preliminary processesy whici:, in the natui^
of things are necessary to secure it, are also required. But
to direct the attention Jirst io ihesc, is, in fart> to cause
the mind virtually to lose si^ht of the great end lo be
secured. For example, we are required to believe. Now
every man of common sense knows, thpt before there cs.d
69
546 1"E MEANS CHAP. XXIX=
be an act af faith> there must be somewhat to be believed^
—that that must be perceived—and that the atlention of the
mind must be so far awakened, and interested in the mat-^
ter, as to fix itself, in a full reliance, on the testimony-
given. We are also required to repent; but before this can-'
be done, 4:here must be something seen to be wrong, and
jinfficient considerations be present to the mind, to induce '
sorrow. Now, when the injunctions to believe and repent,
in reference to God, are given, they impose, as in all other
cases, an obligation, as to all the necessary preliminary^
exercises of mind. This, in all ordinary matters, every
man feels to be true and right. Why shall we then devi-
ate from the common rule of estimating duty, and proceed-
ing in such cases? Instead ofj??'5/ directing to the ineanSi.
OT preliminaries, and telling the sinner about praying and
reading the bible, and going to church, &c., let us direct
him to the end which must be attained, or perdition shall
overtake him. In doing so, we take the most effectual
method to secure, just that sort of attention to prelimina-
ries, that is indispensibly necessary, while we afford him
no place to rest, and no solace whatever in his present con-
scious impenitence and rebellion.
To pursue another coursg, is to foster the spirit of self-
righteous effort. Every one, conversant v/ith the human
heart, knows ho^v prone men are to rest, in tliis and the
other effort, as conducing to their salvation. How often
do you meet with those, who, have been, most ''
reiigi-
ousl}'','' using the means for years; but have not cordially
embraced the Saviour. Nov/ it is of co .moment vvhnt
the sinner does in this v/ay
—
if he does woi^ actually be-
lieve from his heart, and repcntj he inust, and vvill bs
DAMNED. Is there not danger, thereioie, from such eoii.n-
sels, when we know, hx)w prone men are, in the spirit oiT
self-righteous effart, to rest short of Christ? It is of litlio
giyail to saj, that you will guard against that, by charging;
CHAH. XXIX. OF GRACE. 547
him not to do it. If you direct him to use the means,
as conducing to his salvation, or to make any other effort
than the one all essential, you do actually soothe him, for
the present, and for the present keep him from Christ? Let
any one who doubts the truth of this declaration, enter the
inquiry meeting, and there study the developments of the
human heart. A note of commiseration, a tacit acknowledg-
ment of any other inability, than a w?//*<Jrefusal to come to
Christ, and a directing to means vvluch can be usedasthough
faith and repentance, were not, and might not, instantly be
exercised, will blunt tlie edge of the keenest convictions.
The sinner, and his counsellor may both weep together, and
sing a song of lamentation, over the imbecility of his na-
ture, and his wretched condition, hut \\\s sense of guilty
'will necessarily be impaired by such a process. Well
will it be, if he be not thus beguiled away from Christ,
-and instead of cordially submitting to him in belief of the
truth, and yielding up his all at his feet, be inducted prac-
tically into that life of self-ritrhteous effort, which will
blind his perceptions of truth, and enrol him among the
many self-deceived formalists, and inactive, inefficient
professors of religion in the church of God.
Beside, this melliod of procedure is inconsistent with
itself. The sinner is to be told "that effectual help may
be obtained by earnest entreaty'' —that if he asks aright
he will be hear;l. He cannot this very instant believe; he
must not dare to do so in his own strength; he must be
^•forbidden to attempt'' it; but, if he prays sincerely and
fervently, help will soon be found. And this, with some
is ** preachinii; the whole counsel of God," and to neglect
to do so, is ''keeping back the truth"!!! The first may
produce, as it does among those who adopt the '^seeking"-
plan, a great deal of noisy excitement, and iji many cases
the most fatal delusion, and abominable hypocrisy. We
speak that which we have scon, and testify that which wc^
548
'^^^^ ME.\-N'3 CUAJ?,. XXIX. .,
do know. The other suggew«(tion about praying aright,
only tends to distract the sinner's attention, and turn it
away from Christ to himself. He is put upon inquiry
what it is to pray aright, and examining his own feelings,
and it is morally impossible, in s-jch a case, for the nn.ind
to wake up, under the irsflnence of the great objects of our
faith. In order to this they must be placed before the
mind, and the thoughts be directeii towards them. Let
this be done, and let the minister of Christ, by the author-
ity of the word, and appeals to the conscience, and appro-
priate illustration, keep the solemn facts to be believed
sparkling and glowing before the sinner's mind, and press
him to instant belief of them, and submission to Christ.
But, as he would not throw the soul on the very threshold
of the kingdom, immeasurably, and perhaps eternally,
back, let him beware how he directs him to pray or to use
the 77ieans,^ lest he comfort him in his rebellion. If he
gpeaks the truth, he must tell him, that if he docH not be-
lieve he cannot be heard, and if he tells him he m'isi use
the means believmglr/, and all the time tells him he can."
no^, he is only distracting the attention and sporting with
his miserJ'.
Why then shall the sinner be told to pray, or to do
any thing else, as though it could directly or indirectly
conduce to his salvation, when at the moment he refu-
SM to believe? Is it true, that asking and sesking' are
acceptable to God, unless there is faith? Does He not say,
*'He that cometh to God must believe"— <<lhat without
faith it is impossible to please him."^ "That whatsoever
1. Ev«ry intelligent reader will nt once perctive, that to ur^c ajk] press
•^?^r conscienoe of the impenitent sinner ^V!th his obliitutlon to pray, and to
<!;rc<athe convinoed sinner to pray, when uneasy in liis mind, as conducing
to hia «^'entual fa'th tind reptMitance, are perfectly distinct, and c&n never
I'* ccnfoTiTwied, Uit by those who nrc wilfully ignoranr, or of incurably ob-
t\;s« Intellect.
^ .Heb; xl-^. 3. Horn, xlv, 23.
CHAP. XJtlX. OF GRACE. 549
.is not cf fiiith is sln?'*^ "And that they tliat arc in the
Jlesh cannot please Grod?'" To counsel the sinner in any
otiier wav, and to put him upon efforts, as it were to turn
God to him, is taking part with the sinner against God,
fostering the spirit of rebellion —and practically slandering
the God of love. It is the sinner that must be turned.
God is willing to receive hinn. He needs not to be turned.
To inquire as to His secret purpose is to suspect the sin-
jCerity,, and thruth q{ His promise.
Oh, men of God, bewarehowye do practically betray the
f^anse of a bleeding Saviour, and while His heart is rent and
torn, and His bowels vcarn over a lost and jruilty world, how
you counsel the sinner, so as to make anothier impression,
than that every moment's delay to repentand believe, is only
ioaaing him with heavier guilt, and sinking him down to
hell. Though your hearts ache for him, let not your sympa-
thies ruin his soul. If you virtually lead him to think that you
have more tenderness for him than Christ has, he will
cling to you. Press to imrnediatp. submission. It is a
horrible quarrel the sinnerhas against God; and if he is not
•disarmed of the weapons of his rebellion, he is lost for
ever. You have no authority to tell him any thing else,
as to what is to be done by him, than wliat the apostles and
John the baptist before them, and the Saviour Himself,
did. They charged it on their hearers and especially the
awakened to repent and believe.- This is the scriptural
plan. Who dare substitute another? If the Saviour has
said ^'ask and ye sliall receive," he speaks of no other
than successful asking, "For every one that asketh,'' he
.says, "receiveth.*" And there is no successful asking,
but in faith. "But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering,
for he that xvavereth is like a wave of the sea driven by
T Kom. viil. 8.
3 Mat \\\. 2. iv, 17: Mark '.
^5. vl, H- L'lkc xUi. 3: Acts ii. 33, 40;
ili. 19: xvi. 31: xvii. 30: xxn. 20. 3 Mat. vli. 7.
550 THL >TLAXS CMAP. XXIX
the wind an:l l-ossf^J. For /el 7iofi\\tA man Ihink that be
shall receive any thin*^ st the hnn<i of God.''^
From the nbovc remarks, liic reader will perceive, what
is that use of the rr^enns, wh.ich is npprepriate to the sin-
ner's condition, and conducive to liis salvation, and how
it becomes efficacioiis, as well as the danger of directing
one with conscious unbelief and im])cnitenee, to make any
efiorr, that may contribute to his conversion, instead of re-
quiring th.e thing; itself—the giving of the heart to GocL
As lon<;as the sinner is actuated by his selfish desire after
security, and, without renouncing his sins, seeks to cherish
the hope of acceptance with God, his whole conduct is
rebellious and idolatrous. To tell him to pray for forgive-
ness, when he is consciousl}'' unwilling to forsake his sins,
is to tell him to insult the Majesty of Heaven. To teli
-him to pray for repentance, while he loves and cherishes
his sins, and will not sacrifice them, is to send him before
'A)od to ))lay the hypocrite. To tell him to do certain
jihings which he can, but which are sinful., and which it is
'necessary he should do, in order event^jally to be able to
do what now he cannot, is to set him superstitiously and
sinfully to work, a^s by some spell or self-righteous effort,
'fully to bring God under obligations to him. To tell
him to make use of means, and cry for help, and for-
4)id h,im to attempt complying with the claims of God in
in his own strength, i. e. till God does something more
Aci excite iiim to believe and repent than He is now doings
is to tell him to cast the blame of his present impenitence
(in God, To tell him to do any act as conducive to his
f^alvalion, prior to \\\s full and actual compliance with the
< laims of God for his heart, is to tell him to do what God
,tabliors, and cannot accept, and in which he may rest to his
.everlasting perdition. What then is to be done? Is ll,ere
1 J,:^uies i. (^, r.
CHAP. XXIX. OV GR.VCE. 55
J
no help for him? ^fust he .sink in perfect apathy, or be-
eome frantic witii horror? Must he gu down to hell in the
full blaze of gospel light? By no means. Let him at once
be put upon compliance wit'i the demand of God. Let
the glorious object of our faith be held up to his view, —let
the solemn and awful facts wliichGod has revealed, be niade
linown to him, —let tlie nuilt of his present impenitence be
exposed,—let the trulh in full beamings be poured around
him,-^and let his conscience be pressed to instant belief
and submission.
These arc the means through which the Spirit of God
operates upon the mind and heart. The gospel is the
mighty '^power of God unto salvation, unto every one
that belijveth."' Through its truths, the Spirit strives
to bring men off from their rebellion. They make their
solemn appeal to the instinctive principles of our nature
—our constitutional desir-e after happiness, and dread of
misery. And the Spirit, operating on our susceptibili-
ties through them, is exciting the mind and heart to action,.,
and drawing to the belief and love of the truth. The
attention of mind requisite to perceive truth, the fixing
and dwelling on it necessary to feel it, the ai^prehension of
the evidence that indeed it is truth, and the actual consent-
ing unto it as proposed, —these are all involved in those
prelimioary mental processes, which the injunctions to-
hclieva and repent imply, and which have a natural ten-
dency to issue exactly in the exercises of faith and repent-
ance. If then 3i:ch things be called using the n^eans of.
grace, we shall not object. But certainly this is not the-
ordinary, and theological use of the phrase. To open the
eye-lids, and direct the eye-ball towards an object, that"
the rays which emanate from: it may fall upon them, and
we behold it, arc indeed the' indispensible means of see-
ing; but who docs not see ',hat ihcy arc -lii comprehended.
1. Rom.i. 16.
552 I'WL mi:ax3 eHAP. xxix.
in thst one complex act or operation which we call vision?
So> to give the mind's attention to the trnths which God
speaks, and fix the tkoiif;his ripmi them so as to jeel their
appropriate influence, and ar'.tnally to consent to, approve
of, and emhrace them, may be called tl^e means of faith
and repentance; but who does not see that they are all
comprehended in the ordinary meaning of the terms em-
ployed to express these complex exercises. These are the
fneans God employs. These are the means requisite i\\
the very nature of things.
And these are essentially the means of christian ad-
vancement in the divine life. The outward ordinan-
ces of *nhe word sacraments and prayer,'' are the means-
through which the truth is brought in close contact
w'ith the heart and conscience, and, as the Spirit oper--
ates through the truth, become the means of His effi"
cacioUs agency. These ordinances, as used by ch?istians^
can be no more effectual to their spiritual improvement
than as used by sinners, if t!ie mind and heart are not in-
terested in the contemplation of the objects disclosed by .
the testimony of God, and there are not the voluntary ex-
ercises of faith, repentance, love, hope, fear, &.C., roguiating
the inward experience, and the outward actions. Holiness
is not a suh.'iiratuin. but consists in tliose exercises which
a supjcmc love for God and desire for His glor}- in-
duce. Tlie immediate evidencs of holiness, therefore, is
to be had through our consciousness of such exercises^ and
it is only as new conscious holy exercises are developed
or former holy exercises vividly revived in the recollection,
are tliat the "Spirit beareth witness with our spirit that we
the children of God."^ "He that believeth en the- Son of
God hath the witness in himself.''^ The witnessof theSpirit
that of goes no further than our own spirits, and they can
only testify our christian character as we do actually ex-
1 Koin. viii. \C. '5 1 John v. 10,
CMAP. XKXX. OF QRAQZ. f^j
erciae the christian graces and discharge the christian
duties. The recollections of former experience, and the
conclusions as to our state thence drawn, afford no sensible
enjoyment, sa^e as they contribute to induce the repetition
or renewal of gracious exercises. To look, therefore,
for growth in grace, by a dull monotonous use of out-
ward means, is just as unauthorised, and will prove as
fruitless, as in the unconverted sinner^s case. Truth
is the mea/^s of the Spirit*s influence, as well for sanctify-
ing ns for regeneraLin;^, and the ordinances arc but outward,
formal, stated, modes of exhibiting that truth. Unless the
words of Christ abide in us, and we give our attention and
interested thoughts to the groat concerns of our souls
—
often fix them in contemplation of Christ and his cross,
and through the sacraments, and prayer in all its various
laodes—especially in secret, let our minds and hearts be
engaged in close communion with God, actually loving
Him, actually believing what Ke says, actually repenting
of our sins,3ctually fearing and hoping in Him,—there will,
there can be no spiritual improvement, and no satisfactory
evidence of our affiliation. Hence the apostle exhorts
professing christians to "desire the sincere milk of tho
word that they may grow thereby, if so be they havs
tasted that the Lord is gracious,"^ ** Wherefore holy
brsthren, partakers cf the heavenU^ callingj consider the
apostle and high-priest of our profession, Christ Jesus."
"They that are Christ's have crucified the affections and
lusts. If v.'c live in the spirit, let us also walk in the
spirit. Let us not be dcs-rous of vain-glory, provoking^
one another, envying one another."^ Such are the means
of conversion and of growth in grace approved and ren-
dered efficacious of God. Let us beware how we substi-
tute others. In so doing we shall violate alike our com-
I. I Petii. 2,3. 2, Heh. ui. 1. 3. C d- t. 24—26
70
M3 TIDE MEANS, &«. CEUJT. XXIX.
miMion 18 minister* of the gospel,—the principlei of our
nature as rational voluntary agents, —and the whole consti-
tution through which God has ordained that the efBcaciou*
influence of His Holy Spirit, shall be exerted for the con-
version and sanctification of sinners.
His own example, and his own exhortation, evidently
designed and calculated to induce our interested attention,
and the entire consecration of ourselves to Him, are a suffi-
cient testimony in favor of the principles, and warrant for
the mode of procedure, which we advocate. **Those things
hast thou done, and I kept silence. Thou thoughtcst that
I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove
thee and set them in order before thine eyes. Now con^
Hder this, ye ih&t forget God, lest 1 tear you in pieces
and there be none to deliver."^ *'Come naw, and let us
reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as
scarlet they shall be as white as show; though they be red
like crimson they shall be as wool."^ ^'Wherefore do ye
spend money for that which is not bread? and your labor
for that which satisjieth not? Hearken diligently unto me,
and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight
itself in fatness. Incline your ear and come unto me,
hear 3Lnd your soul shall live; and I will make an ever-
lasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of Da-
vid.*'* *'If ye then be risen with Christ seek those things
which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand
of God. Set your affections on things above, cot on
things on the earth.*'*
1. Pttlml 11, 22. 2= Isai. i. IS. 3. Iwi. It. 2—4. 4. OoJ. uL 1» 3,
CHAPTER XXX
MINISTERIAL EFFICIENCY,
The subject stated in a further inference from the fact of the Spirit'i mortl
suasion, viz : 5. It is only as the ministry of Christ exhibits the tmtli, $o
us to prove the vehicle of the Spirit's influence, that their niini«tration«
become efficipnt—The ministry, the more immeiV.ute means, employed
by the Spirit, for the exhibition of His truth->:at. xxviii. 18-20. Rom.
x. 14, 15: 2 Cor. vi. 1: 1 Cor. iii. 9; iv. 15—Inquiiy whether there is
Buch a mode of exhibiting the truth, as to prove the efficacious instru.
ment of the Spirit's influence—The answer turns upon the particuUr
philosophical views, which may be held, as to the character ofthe Spint'a
agency—Not in the nature of man to take a lively interest in mystic o^
eratio'ns— 1. It is essential there should be the exhibition of BCEirxraAi,
truth^TWis mode of preaching, opposed to various, which have at dif.
ferent times obtuined-Danger of preaching and studying systems of the-
olog>', and the importance of every candidate for tlie ministry, learning
for°himself from the mouth of God, what is to be believed and taught—
Danger also cT preaching the dogmas of sect-2. Those evangelical truth.
Rhould be selected, and moit frequently urged, wiiicb are appropriaU to
ih^gtncrdco-ddlon c.f 77*^-1—Various truths to be variously exhibited—
But "Cguist and nni cKuciriLn," the grand cardinal theme-3. Th«
exhibitions of truth, should be adapted to the complex nature of man—
Kot deferring to the taste of unbelieving mind^, but being adapted to
tha intellect, the hearty and the conscience of men—The inefficiency and
n^lschief of 2.declaraatciy style of preaching-Also where it is purely
intellectur.l—The impoilance of actual fr.eling in the preacher, appropri-
ate to his theme—The best method, to preser\-e the intellect and heart
In unir^n, is to address ccn^cierxe-^ls It is important, that in hl3 cxhibK
lion of truth, the m:n;ster of Christ should be found cooperating with tb«
Spirit-God's d^sii-n in the preaching of the gospel, is the reconciliation
of sinn^r^ to Mimself-For ministers to lose sight of tiiis end, is to oeas*
'
from o(M)p€i-aticn %%Htb God-Different pcrnic^aa eads acmetimc* aimed
*t xsi preftcbing the gospel—Anima<?.rersicn« on ^« spiiit cf wctarism*-
550 MIXISTEEIAI. CHAP. XXX.
Co-operation vith God, in the displfty of the temper and spirit, which
characterised the Saviour, in His ministry—Care also necessar}', lest in
our exhibition of truth, we nolate any ofthe knov/n laws, by wbiolj God
governs mind.
If it is the truth, in the hands of the Spirit, that is effi-
cacious for the conversion and sanctiiication of the sinner,
it is easy to perceive the secret of ministerial succe.ss, and
the duty of every one, who bears tiie high commission of
an ambassador of peace. To His co-operation must he look
for all his efSciency. Without it, he will never win a soul
to Christ. It becomes, therefore, a very interesting and
soJcmn question, to every one who would convert sinners,
from the error of their ways, how they may best exhibit the
truth, so as to secure the co-opsration of the Spirit, and ren-
der their miaistrations successful. We shall adventure a
reply to this question, in the present chapter, as the great
practical issue of all our previous discussion, and as tend-
ing to show the manner in which this subject stands con-
nected with the permanent interestsof the Divine Govern-
ment. This w.e shall do by introducing to the readers at-
tention, the fifth and last inference, out of many we might
submit, from the fact of the Spirit's moral sua,sion, b^ing
the efBcient agency, exerted for the conversion of the sin-
«er, viz:
5. That since m.inisterial success depends on the agency
of the Spirit, and since the truth is the instrument of that
agency, it is only as the ministry of Christ, exhibit the
truth 50 as to prove the vehicle of the Spirit's influence,
that their ministrations become efncient. The truth of the
general position, will not be disputed bj- one who believes,
that the great apostle of the Gentiiss spake the truth, when
he said, *'Who then is Paul, and who is ApoIIon, but min-
isters by whom ye believed, even cs Ihs Lordg&ve to every
man!''^ It is the illustration, V^^rdovQy rather than the
1 1 Cor. iii. 5.
CHAP. XXX, EFFiCII:^'CY. 557
4:onfirmation of tlic truth, nhich requires our attention.
Its importance we deem lobe of infinite moment, not only
ns it may affect the interests of particular individuals, des-
tined to an endless existence; but also as it effects those of
the diT'ine Government in general.
It is the miniptry of reconcilip.tion, by means of which,
in a more especial manner, God Is pleas-^d to operate for the
subjugation of the rebellious minds and hearts of men.
When our Lord Jesus Christ put Into the hands of the
apostles, their high and extensive commiislon. He prefixed
jt by a declaration, whicli siiews, that they stand closely
allied, in the exercise of their functions, with the loftiest
anthority in the universe, —ti.^a they do indeed come forth
from the very throne of the Grand Universal Sovereign,
—
and that their instructions are stamped and emblazoned with
Jehovah's gr^at seal of state. <*A11 power,'^ said He, just
before He ascended to His throne, —*'all power is given
unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye, therefore, and
teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to
observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you,
and, lo, I am with you ahvny, even unto the end of the
world. Amen!^'^ With the mission and execution of their
trust, the apostle identifies the spread of the gospel, end
the extension of the Redeemers sway. *'How shall they
call on Him in whom they have not believed? And how
fihall they believe in Him of whom they have not heard?
And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how
shall they preach, except they be sent? As it is written,
how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel
of peao€, and bring glad tidings of good things!''* And, in
theexect:tion of their trust, the same apostle does not hesi-
tate to denominate them, '*woiikino togetheb (with
2 Mat xzrZ 1^-20, 2 Kom. x U, 13.
553 MINISTLrsIAL CHAP. XxX.
God).'*^ **We arc laborcrs,'V says he, '^tooetbeb with
God.'" Nor, (Hd he fear to be suspected of bonstful vanity,
when, «pcakir)jr of his own agency in the conversion of
•ninnerSvas thon<;h it were a thing not to be disputed, but
legitimately, and confidently expected and asserted by the
minister of Christ, in the prosecution of his trust. •For
<thou}^h,** says he, **ye have ten thousand instructors in
Christ, yet have ye not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I
HAVE BEGOTTEN you through the gospcL^^^
In treatiiig, therefore, on the subject of ministerial effi-
ciency, and in confidently asserting, that success is a thing
1o be expected, yea, and not without horrible guilt in
...iny case, to he entirely wanting, we are not to he un-
ilerstood as invidiously exalting one class, and censuring
'j'nothcr, of our ministerial brethren. We do but **mag-
r.ifv our office, ii by any means wfe ma}' provoke (ourselves
and bretiirenjto emulation, and might save some of them*'*
—who now are at ea»e in their guilt and rebellion. As to
^.otlier men*s labour, we *'judge nothing before the time, un-
<til the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden
things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels
of the hearts; and then shall every man have praise of God.
And these things," we desire to transfer to ourselves and
others, *Mhat (we) might learn not to think of men, above
that which is written, that no one be puffed ui^ for one
against anotriCr."*
There is a question very naturally rising out of the pro-
position advanced in this chapter, which leads directly to
the merits of our subject, and to which we invite the read-
-^rs candid attention, viz: is there such a mode of exhibit'
ing the truthy by the ministry of reconciliation, as thai
1 3 Cof. ri. 1
.
2 1 Cor. lil. 9.
.3 1 Cor. }. >5. 4 Root. si. 13, 14.
5 1 Cor. iv 5.
it shallprovt. the vehicle of the Spirit*i ejicacwta infiu*
ence? If there is, haw infinitely important is it fcr us to
know it? And how awfully guilty must we be, if vvc labor
not, in that very way, to exhibit it?
The observant reader will at once perceive, that the an«
8\ver to this question, in a very great degree, turns upon
the '^:ivi\(i\i\:kT philosophical views, which may he held, as
to the nature or character of the Spirit's agency. If we
must believe, that regeneration, or conversion, or repent-
ance, orfaith,—for we care not here, to distinguish between
them,—is produced by an 'Hmmediatt'^ act of power on the
50w/, irrespectively, and without the intervention, of the
truth as the means of its exercise and direction; then, it
is manifest, that his heart, who thus believes and preach*
es the truth, cannot catch that fervent, lively, all inflam*
ing inspiration, —which he is likel}* to do, who speaks it
as the very word of the Most High, by which the Spirit is
to subdue his hearers, and save the perisliing in view—and
which will cause the truth to fiash from his eyes, kindle in
his looks, burn in hissoul, and pour forth his impassion-
ed torrents of warnings, arguments, appeals, entreaties and
expostulations like the very fires of Heaven. He may
indeed present the truth as the materials, and frame- work
for the building, and aa he does this from day to day, think
that no other obligation rests upon him, than to have it
ready at the call of the Great Builder, and prepared
—
laid
to His hand, when He shall appear on the scaffold, and un»
dcrtake to do the workj but not as a builder along with
Sinu
It is not in the nature of man, to feel a dit^^) and lively
interest in the mystic operations, which depend exclu*
sivefy an the creative energy of Goti. The conjuror, and
devotee of a degrading superetitution, who appeal, as they
ani others suppose, to sonic .such my&tic agency, o!ay do
b66 Mi?nsTSHiAL cn.4.?. xxy,
it Ml all due form, and with great solemnity, and punc-
tilious accuracy as to times, seasons, and modes of opera-
tion; but there cannot, in the nature of things, be that in*
lelligent and animated feeling of the heart, which could
not fail to be avvakened in view of sometliing rcrf/ona/,
/easiblCf and adapted fo /he capacities of manf
to be ef-
fectuated through his own voluntary agency. Is there
not reason to fear, that to this philosopliy or superstition^
call it which you please, —for they are nearly allied, —may
be referred the cold diclaclic discussions often intioduccd
into the pulpit, where divine truth, shorn of all its beamy
glory, is exhibited as a mzre abstraction, altogether de-
void of reality, save as it exists in the intellections of
speaker and hearers? And that to the same, must be as-
signed, as to its appropriate cause, much of that unmeaning,
punctilious, pharisaically solemn observance, of outward
rites and forms of worship, traditions of the elders, and
usages of the fathers, to venture beyond which, is quickly
repelled, as though it were an impious, or sacrilegeous
tresspass, on the province of the Holy Spirit? One thing
is ce[tain,that the man who interprets literally^ in appli-
cntion to his liearers, Ezekiel's vision^ of the valley fill-
ed with dry bones, i. e. who has no hope of their revivi-
fication, but by some physical, mystic einciency of God,
will have very different feelings from him, who regards it
as an a//e^o?7'ca/ description oi that moral death and des-
olation, which are to be counteracted, by the agency of
the Divine Spirit, through the preaching and the prayers
of the prophet. Both may feel, and feel intensely; but th«
feelings of the latter, will, from the very laws of hu-
man thought and emotion, be of a much more active, en-
ergetic, exciting character, leading to prolonged and mul-
tiplied exertions to bring, in every varied form, the truth^
1. Trt\. xxx-v-ii
CHAP. XXX. EFFICIENXY. 55I
through which the Spirit works, to bear upon the rational
mind, and feeling heart of the hearers, while those of the
former, will vary from the most intense and painful anxi-
eties, to calm and patient waiting, or despondence, or indif-
ference, as to th.e result of the regular, solemn, and stated
presentation of the truth.
Rejecting therefore as we do, the inystic philosophy
,
which talks about the *' Inunediate^' and physical ej/!cien-
cy of God, in the conversion of sinners, as degrading this
marvellous work to the level of mere operations in nature
by creative energy; and believing, that the Spirit^s agency
is in, and Ihrough the suasive or motive influence, of His
own truth, as addressed to rational, and feeling creatures,
we descry a ligiit, which relieves the darkness of our path,
and reveals somewhat of high concernment to us, as we
essa)', ''in Christ's stead," to beseech men, '•
to be recon-
ciled to God."
1, It is essential that there should be the exhibition of
scKiPTURAL truth. It is not all truth the Spirit deigns to
bless. Much valuable information may be obtained from
the light of nature, and the wonders of providence. The
treasures of science may enrich the niind; and, through
the wide fields of matter, mind, and morals, we may range,
with profit and delight. J3i]t whatever truth may be dis-
covered, by tlie mere general observation, 01 tlie exercise
of reason, it is totally insufficient for the conversion of the
soul. Philosojjhy, in diiTcrcnt ages and nations, has iram-
ed her systems, and diflused her lij^ht, but not one solita-
ry beam, falls u])on the ])athvvay o^ t!;c sinner (Vom death.
She may attend his steps, and cheer iiim in lifej but at ihe
grave's mouth, she bids the weary traveller adieu, nor
throws one flickering ray upon the dark bosom ol liiot
eternity, into which he enters. She has never yet convert-
ed a sinner from the error of his ways, and saved a soul
from death- In this workthe gospr.d of the grace of God
71
562 MINISTERIAL cHAP. XXX.
stands pre-eminent and alone. It hath brought life and
immortality to light. The woi^d of God^ reveals the only
truth, which is, or can be efficacious for the rescue of the
sinner from the dominion of his sins, and for his recovery
to the forfeited bliss of fellowship with the Most High.
It is <* sure," *' converting the soul,"* and therefore, if
this be the end vvc design, it behooves us to see to it, that
what we preach, can be confimed by a ** thus saith the
LORD." We are to come, as^ clothed with full authority,
to make known tvhat He has rtvtaled^ and, although we
cannot say it as miraculously taught in the manner of
Paul, yet still, drawing from the fountain of all saving
truth —thesacred Scriptures, ** which are able tomake(us)
wise unto salvation;"^—we must, in all our solemn ap-
peals to our hearers, be able to declare with Him, *'I
certify you, brethren, that the gospel which (is) preach-
ed of me, is not after men. For I neither received it of
many neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of
Jesus Christ."^
Now this mode of preaching stands opposed to many^
which at different periods, have been approved. To qis.-
h\h\t scriptural truth, is not to discuss questions in phi-
losophy, or philology—nor to indulge in metophysicaV.
disquisitions—nor to elaborate learned arguinents—nor
to cull the flowers of rhetoric—nor to soar in the regions
of fancy; but to report the awfully solemn and tremend-
ous facts revealed in the Bible, and press them, in the
simplicity of its own diction, and by the commanding
authority of God Himself, on the consideration and the
consciences of the hearers. *' For God hath not given
us the Spirit of fear, but of power," and therefore, we
must not be *^ ashamed of the testimony of the Lord."*
In order to this, it is of moment, that we learn to discrim*
1 . Pealm xix, 7. 2. 2 Tim. iii, 15.
3. Ga]. ii, 12. 4 2 Tim. i. 7, 8.
'©BAP. XXX. EFFICIENCY. 553
inate between i\ie /acts of scripture^ and the doctrines of
a system of theology . There is often so much of philoso-
phy, and of refined speculation, wrapped up in the sys-
temaiic arrangement of scriptural truth, that, if men
will undertake to preach the doctrines of a system, they
will of necessity, be found mingling much of human
wisdom with the word of God, and contending zealously
for vain imaginations, as though they were " thefaith which
was once delivered to the saints.''^ It is easy to perceive
what different hues the facts of scripture will assume, ac-
cording as they are viewed by the light of the Sublapsari-
an*s or Supralapsarian's scheme. The Arminian and the
Calvinist, agree in many essential facts of Christianity;
but how widely do they differ in their systems, and that
difference originates in their philosophy. If ministers
will preach their systems^ they must of necessity, preach
much that is their own, and not the word of God. Preach
their systems they will, if, in preparation for the pulpit,
they consult the writings of men, and the temes of their
admired and favorite authors. Consult them they will,
^if, in their theological education, they have been taught
and trained so to do. Iiiitiate the youth, into the use of
a system, by often referring with approbation to this, and
Hhe other systematic writer—by requiring him to recite
their opinions and reasonings, and by putting them as text-
books into his hand —and you will rarely find him wander
in quest of truth, out of the paths wherein he has trodden
in the schools. We deem it of essential consequence, that
one who has the ministry of Christ in view, should be
led early to the simple unadulterated word of God, and
not only be urged, but actually discipline himself to learn,
in the very language of inspiration itself, what is tlie mind
jof the Spirit. Let him hear as from the mouth of God,
1. Judc 3.
564 MINISTERIAL cnAP. XXX.
SiFidf for himself, in the first instance, know what He says
and is to be believed and taught, and he will never after-
wards think of consulting any other instructoi-. Let him
make his Bible his text-book, and explore it diligently,
accurately, prayerfully and belicvingly, while in training,
and he will never think of stepping from the lofty van-
tage-ground on which he stands. Paul's instructions to
Timothy, which claim the studious attention of every can-
didate for the ministry, are replete with precepts and max"
ims on this subject. ^' Continue thou in the things which
thou hast learned, and hast been assured of, knowing of
WEOM thou hast learned thcm."^
The above remarks arc just as applicable to the dogmas
of a sect, as to the doctrines of a system, for they differ
very li le. That moment the minister of Christ becomes
the minister of a sect or party, and begins to ring the
changes of his shibboleths, he loses many advantages, he
might otherwise have had, in his attack on Satan's king-
dom. In so far as he arrays himself in the distinctive pc-
cidiariiics of sect, he throws off the armor of God. It
is not the doctrines, or the system, or the tactics, or the
ecclesiastical organs of a sect, that constitute his magazine.
If he trusts, in them he has reckoned without his host.
It is the gospel of Christ, that is "the pou'cr of God." Let
him exhibit its truths, in all their native simi)licity, and as
they lie properly scattered, sparkling and glowing on every
page of holy writ.
2.. In llie exhibition of the truths of the gospel, it is
obvious //icy should be 5^/^c/e^/, and mostfreqiicnily iirf!;-
cd, whicli are appropriate to t/ie q-eueral conditiono^ men.
" All scripture given by inspiration, is (indeed) profital)lo
for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in
1. 2 Tim. iii. ft. How fjertinent and imperative nvo t!ie rollowinj:^:
T'lTT.. vl 3—5: I'lt. 1 9; 1 Jo^u-iiv .1; 2 John 9, lU; 2 Tim, li. 2J.
CHAP. XXX. EITICIENCY. 565
righteousness; that the man of God may be perfect, tho-
rouo-hly furnished unto all fz;ood works. ''^
A faithful and
intelligent minister, will endeavour, as he may obtain the
co-operation of his people, to bring before their view, and
to indoctrinate them in the great truths of scripture,
which pertain to the trials, the difficulties, and the con-
flicts of the christian life, —lo the temptations and perils
to which they arc exposed, —to the duties, personal, social,
and public, which are incumbent on them,—to the incite-
ments and encouragements to perfect holiness, —to the in-
terests and prospects of Zion, —and to whatever else,
maj', from the providence of God, the aspect of the times,
and the interests of truth, require consideration. How
this, in all cases shall be done, we shall not presume to
say. Here is a wide range for the exercise of discretion.
The Bible class, the religious conference, the public exam-
inations, the weekly lecture, the parochial visitations,
the private interview, and the catechetical instruction
may furnish some opportunities for this thing. But it
seems to us highly important, that the members of
the church should in some way, be regularly and fre-
quently convened, particularly for religious improve-
ment in calm, brotherly, and conversational discussion of
points of christian duty, experience, and faith, when and
where every one may be at liberty to express his opinion,
or propound his inquiries. This is unquestionably a much
more effective mode of ijistruclio?^ than the formal lec-
ture, or the public preaching. That seems to be much
better adapted, and designed for the exhibition, enforce-
ment, and illustration of important truth, where masses of
men are promiscuously assembled. It is, more especially,
the ordinance for the convictio7i of sinners, and the
j^roduction of faith ^ and repentance^ and therefore, its
1. 2Tlm iii. 16, 17.
568 MJISISTERIAL cilAP. XXX,
stances and cliaiacter. A discourse suited to confirmed
believers, and designed for their edification and consola-
tion, would be by no means appropriate to skeptical and
infidel hearers. In like manner, where excitement on the
subject of religion obtains, it would be highly unbecom-
ing to introduce a topic neither calculated vo sustain it,
nor to give it a proper and salutary direction and issue.
The unconvinced and anxious sinner, the proud self-right-
eous and Antinomian rebel, the humble, prayerful, and be-
lieving child of God, all require a different presentation
of truth, and indeed the discussion of different topics; and
yet to all, the faithful and intelligent ambassador of Jesus
Christ, mny more truly, and effectually preach Christ, and
liini ciucifjcd, varying his subjects and illustrations, than
if he liad been ringing his changes upon "the suretiship
of Christ," and "His covenant character," and "His vi-
carious sacrifice," and "Hisjustifying righteousness," "the
sinners inability," and the like themes which hold a pro-
minent place in his scholastic, or theological system.
And til is icnuirk may be further amplified.
3. It is important that our cxlubitions of truth, should,
as to the manner of them, be adapted to the complex na-
ture of man. By this vve do not mean to insinuate, that
any deference sliould be paid to the vitiated and fastidious
taste of men, of unbelieving minds, though it is obvious
we should not causelessly excite prejudices, where they
may be avoided. Paul said explicitly to the Corinthian
cliurch, referring to the style of his preaching among
a people, when, if ever he might have felt the temptation
to study the ornaments of diction, "my speech and my
])reaching was not with enticing words of man's wis-
dom."^ "I came not to you with excellency of speech, or
of wisdom, declaiming to you The testimony of
1. ICor. ii. 1.
CHA?. XXX. EfFICiEXCV. 5^9
qod/^^ ''Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of
Christ should be made of none erfect. '^^
There was a sini-
plicity cf diction, a plain unadorned style of discourse,
employed by Paul in declaring the truth, vvhiuh rendered
him unpopuhr amonj^the Corinthians, who preferred a sort
of preaching, which the Spirit of God, has pronounced
to be unproiltable. He did not endeavour to establish ci-
vine truth upon the foundation of human reason. He
was no advocate of ralioiialis^n, but declared the tesli-
7nony of God. Nor did he think to set forth the beauiy
of the gospel, by the rules of rhetoric, or the art of man.
The word of God was in his hands the sword of the Spi-
rit. Bat in exhibiting that word, as any one may see by
an inspection of his writings, he addressed the intellect,
the heirt, and the conseience of men, —employing apt illus-
trations, taken from familiar scenes or objects, in order to
convey, to the minds of his headers, a lively idea of the
truth he was inculcating.
There is a declamatory style of preaching, —fullof brawl-
ing exclamations, and of loud and noisy reiterating of truths
•generally believed, by a christian auditory,—which is by no
means calculated to make any deep or permanent impres-
sion. '^\\Q passions xnay indeed thus be lashed into ex-
<cltement, tlirougli the mere contagion of human feeling,,
but no interest of heart, can long be sustained without ar>
intelligent apprehension of truth. There mu£.t bean object
before the mind, to move the sensibilities. Sympathy,
through the mere animal senses, may do so for a season:
but it can operate very little longer, or furlher, than the
exciting scenes and emotions which exist around. But
when truth of an exciting .haracler is introduced to view,
and apprehended by t!ie mind, it lodges an exciting power
in the very soul itself. It follows the man wherever he
1. 1 Cor. n. 1. 2. 1 Ccr. 1. 17.
A70 MINISTERIAL cHAP. XXX,
goes, and developes itself in his thoughts, feelings, words
and actions. It is essential, therefore, that there should
be truth intelligently exhibited in the public preaching
of the word. The rational nature must be addressed, as
well as the passions. Something must be given to the mind,
on which it may bestow its thoughts, and it must be clear-
ly, plainly and intelligently exhibited, if we would either
powerfully excite, or permanently influence the man.
When this is not done, and the passions are roused b}''
other mean^, there is danger, not only of spurious conver-
sions taking place, but also of securing wild and fanatical
displays of feeling. For the rational principles of man's
being, demand a reason for all powerful and long continue
ued emotion. We must justif}^ it to ourselves in some
way; and if there is not solemn truth to authorize and sus-
tain it, there is great dinger, on the supposition of its con-
tinuance, that selfish and malignant considerations—of
which, the corrupt heart is so proline, —will soon give it
the shape and colouring of fanaticism. The ministers of Je-
sus Christ therefore, doliere, incur tremendous responsibili-
ties. Let them beware of ignorance, of unmeaning de-
clamation, and of rousing passion without the directing,
and sustaining influence of truth. If inattentive to the
rational principles of our nature, and negligent to prepare
themselves, by prayerful study of the scriptures, for the
faithful exhibition of truth, they maj^, ere ever they are
aware, be found, through high and prolonged excitement,
to have generated some noxious monster of fanaticism.
This is deserving of particular consideration in times of
revival, when the Spirit of God is extensively poured
out. Not that we mean at all to justify the absurd, and
ridiculous cry of fanaticism, as it bursts forth from the
lips of infidels, formalists, and pharisaical professors,
where religion, in any place, begins to be made a matter of
deep personal feeling and conc<*vn;--~-but simply to caution
BHAP. XXX. EFFICIENCY. 57I
the herald of the cross, how lie endeavours to produce, and
prolong excitement on the subject, in any other way than
by the appropriate exhibition of truth. Let him remem-
ber, that he has men, and not mere animals to deal with.
There is however, an excess on the other hand as dan-
gerous, and as ruinous to the souls of mv'^n, as this. The
public preaching may be too intellectuaL The facts of
scripture may be exhibited, in abstract doctrinal discus-
sions, which shall necessarily and insensibly beguile the
minds of the hearers, —^if they be not too far above the
level of ordinary persons, —into the study, or at least, ap-
prehension of religion, as a m.atter of sri.ence. Even ear-
perimental religion, as it is sometimes called, may be thus
taught, and men may become profound theologians, and
expert casuists, and yet themselves be strangers to the pu-
rifying, and transforming influence of divine truth. In-
tellect may illumine, and throw its pensile rays upon
many intricate questions in didactic divinity, but after all,
the heart be not melted, or reached. And unless the
heart is affected by the truth, its motive power will not
be experienced. In order to this, something Tuore is ne-
cessary than the mere intellect Jt al Q'sh\h\\,ioi\ of truth, as
a matter of science. It must be made known, as though
the speaker h'lmsQM realized it, and understood, and felt
its actual bearing on the condition and interests of his
hearers. Common sense, at once, descries the truth of the
heathen poet's^ remarks;—and no where are they more im-
portant, than where men come, in the name of the Lord
Ood of Hosts, to plead with wretched rebels that despise
His grace; or, to counsel and console His friends.
The varying' face should every passion show,
And words of sorrow wear the look of woe;
Let it hi joy, assume a vivid air;
Fierce when in rage-, hi seriousness severe.
2. Trist'.a mcsgtum
Vultum verba decent; iratum, plena miuarum,
liUdcninm lasclva; scvcrum acria dlctu.
—
Hor.
573 MINISTERIAL CHAP. XXX.
The man who tells the sinner of his guilt and danger,
Biui evinces no concern,—who reproves vice and hypoc-
riflv, and betrays no displeasure and indignation,—who
describes the Saviour's love and tenderness, and is not
himself melted, —who extols His ^rzce and glory, arid
does not burn with holy zeal, may indeed be accounted a
learned divine, and a profound scholar, and a great
preacher, but will never sway the hearts of his hearers.
In order to this, he must himself display feeling. Nor
ahouUl it be a mere duplay. We have heard of ministers
studying their cadences, and practising their gestures be-
fore the glass, and enunciating their studied periods, as
with theatrical simulation. Such things may please the^
lovers of the stage; but they will never win a soul to
Christ They are all mere antic capers, or abominable hy-
pocrisy in the sight of God. Nothing can make amends
for the actual want of feeling. Histrionic emotion is
c-agily delected. Noisy mechanical excitement cannot
be successfully disguised. Nothing cin supply fkeplaee
of a scrj] deeply imbued with its subject, and that, reali-
ZiKg its solemn truth, and the immense responsibilities
and interests at stake, makes its thrilling njjpeals, through
those avenues of feeling by which alouC the heart is acccssi-
Oil this subject we could say much, not only as to the
iiUpertance and ncce."5ity of actual feeling in the preacher,
but as 10 its ch.iracter —nppositeness—the danger of clier-
ishing improper f/elings and of improperly displaying
them —and t))e mode of cultivating and exciting those that
are appropriate; but the cursory sketch intended in thischap-
ter forbids e:jlargement, and detail. It is the feeling ex-
bibition of the truth, where the feeling is appropriate to
the truth—10 the circumstances under wliich it is made
l;i)owa—and to the slate and character of those addressed,
wiucli we pa/^ticuiarly regard as an highly important and
CHAP. XXX. LFnCIENCY. 573
essential qualification, for success in the preaching of the
gospel. Dull monolonous discourses, on tiiemes which
jiave little or no practical bearing, or vvliere their practical
bearing is losi sij^ht of, are not ihe means which the Spirit
of God employs, to convert the soul:* of men. Tl^cy are
not adapted to this end; —and the fact that they are not ac-
liidlly employed, should administer a rebuke to every one,
who, in this way, prophesies overthe dry hones in tb.e val-
ley of vision. The attention must he engaged, and in-
terested. It is indispensably necessary, as we have seen
from the very process of conversion. In order to this,
there must he truth vividly exhibited, and that, so far as
human instrumentality is concerned, can only he done ef-
fectively, where intelligence and feeling are blended in the
exhibition.
Intellect and heart in the minister of Christ, should
never be disunited. Perhaps one of the best metb.ods a
minister of Christ can adopt, to prevent himself from at-
tempting their divorce, is to address the conscience Here
ho'h mind and heart unite. Conscience is th.e judo-ment
which we form, as to tlie character of an action compared
with the standard of right, and which is accompanied with
f} fe-el.ingof approbation, or the contrary, according to the
ehara-Gter of the action, or its correspondence to the rule
«f right. All the greni tru'.hs and ficts of religion, have-
fl direct bearins; on conscience. You cannot effect tV,-
where there is not th^- exhibition of truth; but where'
troth is properly exliibiitad, «o as to secure the interested
attention, and the vivid perception of it, our sensibilities
xvjli be affected, painfull)'', or plerieurably, according as the
character of the truth, aiid individual, and \)\e circumstan-
ces of the case may determine. You may indeed affect
t!\e imagination, arid move the passions; but no motive
p>iwer to induce conversion, shall be felt. It is through
truthj aa it tells upon the conscience, that the Spirit of
^^^
MlNlSTEPvIAL CHAP. XXX.
Ilod, converts the soul, so that, when this is defiled, and
.reared, the sinner's case is hopeless. Now if the minister
of Christ would prove successful, he must have a refer-
ence to this circumstance of the Spirit's agency, and so
present the truth, as to find.its way to the conscience. If
he addresses the iutclleef, the fnncy, or the heart only,
and does not attack the oonsoience, he need not expect to
•;ec the Spirit's intluenee, aitcompany his ministrations.
It is true, that all mny Ise enlisted, and their influence
hrouo;ht to bear, in giving truth a direcliony and a point,
so as to rouse the conscience into action: hut here is
where they are to have th^ir outlet, Dy\d to accumulate
their oower. Arf^u-nents, illustrations, appeals, and every
avaibble method of exhibiting and enforcing truth, may
be anpropriately, and seasonably en-ployed; but to the
conscience must, they ail speak, or they will prove ineffi-
-eient, and the convening iniluence of the Spirit will be
TV i t h held. For we re ni a rk fu r t h e r,
4. That in his exhibition of truth, it is invportant the
minister of Christ, should be found ro-operating with the
^Spirit oi^ God. ''We tlien," says the apostle, *'as work-
.ers /os;('i/ier with Him, beseech you that ye receive no.t
rlhe ^u'ace of God in vain."' There can be no co-operation,
where there is neither a plan of operation previously
known, and acted on, by the parties, nor the entertain-
jnent of the sam.e design, in the prosecution of it. Now
God has a design in the preaching of the gospel. It is a spe-
,cific means He has ordained for its accomplishment. That
design is the conversion of sinners, or the reconciliation
•of tlieui to Himself. ''He hatii given to us,'^ sayi .the
jipostle, "the ministry of reconciliation; to wit, that God
was in Chirst, reconciling the world unto Himself, not
tijipuling their tresspasses unto them; and hath committed
1. 2 Cor. vl.l.
CHAr. XXX. EFFICIENCY. 575
unto US the word of reconciliation.''^ It is therefore the
solemn duty of every minister of Christ, to aim specifi-
cally, and directly, at the conversion of sinners in tiie
prosecution of his work. He must labor ta effect a recon-
ciliation in the sinner, to God. To this his preaching,
prayers, and efforts, sliould all tend, so that he may enter
fully into the Spirit of the apostle's words, and say in his
addresses to his hearers: *• Novv then, we are ambassadors
forChrist, as though God did beseecfi you b)^ us; we prav
j^ou in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God."^ In the
ministration of the word, to lose sight of this end, is to
cease from co-operation with God; and how in such a case,
can success be expecled?
It sometimes happer;?, that ministers aim at the more
mental illumination of their hearers, or their entertain-
ment, or their gratification. These are all unhallowed
ends, when made supreme, and will vitirate the service.
Nor is thcir*s any better, who seek, in the spirit of secta-
rism, to ?\veli their numbers, or, in tlie spirit of prose-
lytism, to seduce from other denominations. God does
not conunission, or employ ministers to labor (or iholv
•j^ect. The Bible knows notiiing of sect, save it 's the
sect every wlicre spoken agninst —the trtf'^ followers of
Christ. T'."' increase their numl)er, should be the aim of
the ministry; aud they who manifesSt more zeal for the in-
crease of their sect, ihan to iiiiCg sinners to Christ, have
forgotten their commission, and will receive no plaudit
from Heaven, for their labor. It i? truly pitiable to wit-
ness the expenditure of timc^ laboi, funds and feeling,,
which is made in the spirit of sectarism'.Thc Prfshyte-
rian, and Episcopalian, and IMethodist, and BajHist ban-
ners, are to be seen floating in ahnost every direction; and
the cry for recruits, is licard in every breeze: but alas!.
1. 2 Cor. V. 18, 19. 2. 2 Cor. v. 20.
576 MINISTERIAL cHAP. XXX.
how often, instead of enlisting "good soldiers'* for Jesus
Christ, is it to be seen, that the sect is first, and Christ
moot. To hear of conversion?, and, revivalSj gives liitic
pleasure to many, unless they happen to be in their ecclesi-
astical connexion! This is a most baleful spirit. It is re-
probated of God; and they who indulge and act according to
it, do indeed oppose, but do not co-operate r. ith Him,
He brings sinners to himself, l.ere and there, wherever
the truth if^ preached, regardless of ecclesiastical organi-
zation. They who co-operate with Him, shouid be will-
ing, and bless Him tliat he does it. Let the grand aim
be to convert siruiers, to brin^ souls to Jesus, and not to
marshal the t'orces of a sect. It is certainly a matter of
comparative unimportance, provided the sinner is truly
converted, in what ecclesii'stical connexion he may event-
uallv be found. For we know that he is dear to the heart
of the Redeemer, and that aa He has given himself for
him, so his Spirit will be given to redeem him from all in-
iquity and purify (him) to himself (as one of His) pecu-
liar people, zealous of good works. "^
It is true, that the fellowship of one society, rmy con-
duce more to holiness, than that of another, and that
therefore, some degree of consideration may be given to
this subject. But v/ho will pretend to say, what is that
society in every particular place? In one place, Presbyte-
rians may be the most warm hearted, zealous, and intel-
ligent sect of christians whose fellowship may be most
desirable and salutar}^; —in another it may be Episcopa*
lians;—in a third Methodists. In other places, the fel-
lowship of each may be exceedingly injurious to the in-
terests of vital piety. Shall we then exalt the mere ec-
clesiastical organization —which is unquestionably a thing
of human device in many of its formal rites and usages
—
1. Tit. 11. 14.
tHAP. XXX. EFFICIEXCy. 577
above the fellowship of God's dear saints, and show more
devotion to the interests of a sect, than to those of the
precious ''flock'' of God *'which He hath purchased with
Kis own hlood?"^ If we do, we are not co-operating
with Him, and arc exalting our plan and aim above His»
Beside we do necessarily restrict the spher/C of our infiu-
encc, —circumscribe the field of our labors, —and actually
render our ministerial services less extensively available
than they might be. Yea, and we do, hy acting in the
spirit of sectarisin, virtually and formally contribute—to
perpetijate, and justify the infidel reproach of Christianity,
that it is a schismatic and litigious thing, —and worse
still, to frustrate our Redeemer's prayers, —and to deprive
the world of the grand convincing argument of the divine
authority of His mission, and of our ow^n too! He pray-
ed for his people^ not only for the apostles, but *'for
them also which should believe on Him through their
word," *'that they may be onc^ even as (He and Hi'
Father) are one: I in them," says He, **and thou ^^
me, that they may op. via da perfect in one; and th^^ ^"^
world may knoio that thou hast sent me, and ha'^ loved
them, as thou hast loved me.''^ Never till th-' spirit of
sectarism, and schism, and strife, is banished ^^<^^"^ ^'"O^'?^
the professed friends and followers, and mii^sters of Jesus
Christ, can the world have this proof of the divinity of
His religion, or the ministry have its P^l eiiiciency and
success.
•
if we shall be censured for so /^ylng., and cur senti-
ments be distorted and misrepresented, as proofs of hos-
tility to ''creeds'' and "co^ifissims offaith;' and of a'i-
G'nation from, or di^affecnon towards, our own ecciesiast-i-:
^al sect, we shall regret, but c:t.<not help it. We cannot
keep back what appears to us, to be the truih, and so highr
1. Acts XX. 2S. 2. Jo'^.n xvli, 30-23,
57S MINISTERIAL cHAP. XtX.
ly important to extensive ministerial success. We shall"
be traduced and slandered, if men will propagate such in-
ferences, from our remarks. They are not legitimate,
and we disavow them. But the very fact of such allega-
tions, being whispered, and circulated to the injury of their
ministerial reputation, —and consequently the success
of their ministerial labors, —who look beyond the bounda-
ries of sect, and aim at the conversion of the world to
Christ, is sufficient proof to us, that one cause of the com-
parative inefficiency of ministerial labor, in many cases, is
to be found in the narrow and restricted aim which di-
rects the effiDrts of some, and, their not coming up di-
rectly, and fully, <Ho the help of the Lord," in His de-^
s*gn to subjugate the whole earth. We are not the min-
isters of a sect. Nor do our commissions carry us with-
in the range exclusively of a particular churich, or denom-
ination. We are ambassadors for God to a guilty worldy
^id the terms of our commission direct us to ^*go into^
^'^ the world, and preach (the) gospel to every crea-
ture:n ^p^ ^^^ ^^^ .^^ ^^^^ spirit of that commission, and-
with thv design of Him who gave it, we must expect but
partial suvpess.
Where tin grand and immediate business of the minis^
try IS lost sig4 of^ and men begin to contend about forms
01 expression, ^^d phrases, and subordinate matters, car-
nal contentions, aid strife and schisms will prevail, —and
though they may aiiempt to apologize for these things by
alleging that tliey doSut contend ''earnestly for the faith
once delivered to the .aints," and that it is of conse-
quence to maintain ''orthodoxy,'' against error, yet is it
found to be the fact, that they who are perpetually testi-
fying against error, and build their ramparts, and walls
of defence, high around them to keep it out, and who
1. Mark xvi. Vii
CHAP. XXX. EFFICIENCY. 57^
fulminate their excommunicating anathemas, against those
who differ from them, are neither the sects, nor the men,
whom God, in His providence, at this day, is leading for-
ward in grand and successful plannings and labours for the
spread of the gospel and the conversion of the world.*
But there are other modes of co-operating with God,
beside the adoption, and prosecution of His catholic de-
sign in the preaching of the gospel. There must also be
a participation of His Spirit, i. e. the exhibition of those
affections, which He represents as characterizing Him,
more especially in this work. He is fraught with com-
passion for the souls of men. He is intently, and inces-
santly occupied in His endeavours for their conversion
^'rising up early," as He says, and sending His prophets,
pleading and expostulating with them,—now with tender-
ness and pity, and now with authority and power—now
with love and grace, and now with solemn fore-warnings
1. It would be well for ministers and christians g-enerally at this day, lo
-read the discourses of Dr. John Howe, on the carnality of religious con-
iention, and of union among protectants. We g-lve the reader one or two
.extracts.
*'A11 are for the truth, and they are all ^ov peace and union. By which
some indeed, more gently, mean, they hope all will quit their former mis-
-taiken opinio7is and luays, (as in great kindness to themselves, they take
for granted, all men's are but their own,) and come wholly over to them.
Others that have not breasts capable of even so much cJiarity as this^ not
only are as much lovers and admirers of themselves, but so vehement haters
of all that presume to differ from ihein, that they think them not fit to live
in the world, that durst not adventure to do so. The meaning therefore,
of their being/or peace, is that they would have destroyed them that are not
of their minds: and then, (as the Roman Historian speaks,) quando solitudi-
nem, fecere appellant pacem. When they have made a desolation, so that they
themselves, are left alone in the world, that they will call /?mce."— Howe's
works, V. ii. p. 217.
"Our famous Bavenant, speaking of the noted contro%ersy between Ste-
phen, bishop of Rom-e, (who he says, much as in him lay, did with a schis-
maiical spirit, tear the church; and Cyprian who, with great lenity and chria-
iian charity, professes, thai he would not breah the Lord's peace, for diversify
550 MLNiSTERIAL cHAP. XXK.
and threatening denunciations, &c. It would be well for
us to study the example and spirit of our blessed master,
and address ourselves to the work of preaching His gos-
pel as He did. No toil, no fatigue, no privatio?!, no oppo-
sition, no reproach, no ff^ar of eccicslastical censures or
of criminal prosecution, diverted Him from His work. His
vt^hole heart was in it. He delL^hted to do His father's
will; and so must we. Days spejit in preaching, must be
followed by nights spent in prayer. We must be careful
to ^'let (the same; mind I)e in (us,) t!jat was also in Christ
Jeswi/'^ arid to *^*puton bowels of mercies, kindness, hum-
bleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one
another, forgiving one another, and above all these things,
charity, which is the bond of perfectness.''^ To preach
Christ in any other spirit, —out ofcnvy or of strife, is not to
co-operate with God. He calls us not to draw the sword, save
it is tlie sword of the Spirit, and if we will, lika Peter make
use of carnal weapons, we shall, like Peter, be presently left
to deny our Lord and master. The holy God can hpve np
lof opinion, nor rtmove aivj fTom iht r'<^Id of cormnunlon^ J co:iCtudc3 that
errhig Ci/jorian, deserved better of tlie church of Chr;st, than Grthodox
JStephen. Ke thought him the schisnmtlc, v/hom he thcugl>t in the right,
and that his Orthodoxy, (as It was acconn.par)ied,) was racre mischievous to
the church, than the ether's error^ nor can a mar. do that Imrt to others
Witliout suffering it more principally; the distemper of his own spirit,
what can recompense! And iiow apt is it to grow in him, and wl:ile it
grows in himself, to ])ropagate itself among- otliers! Whereupon, if the
want of love, hinders the nourishment of the body, much more do the
things which when it is war.ting-, are wont to fill up its place. For as na-
turally as love beg-ets love, so do wrath, envy, mnlice, calumny, beget one
another, and spread a poison and vindcncy, throug-h the body which necessa-
rily wastes, and tends to destroy, flow soon did the christian church cease to
be itself, and the early vigor of primitive Christianity degenerate into in-
sipid spiritless formality, when once it became contentious! It broke into
p.trties, sects multiplied, animosities grew higli, and the grieved spiril of
iwc, retired fromit."—Howe's works, vo|. ii. p. 232, 233.
1. Phil ii. 5. 2. Col. iii. 12—U.
€HAP. XXX. EFFICIiiNCY. 53
^
eoinmunioa wllh us in unhallowed affections. We must
imbibe His Spirit, and like the holy Jesus, at one time
\V2e]) over lost sinners, an;I at another, sternly reprove the
carnality of professors. Oh, if the ministry in the dis-
charge of their liigli and holy functions, were but a mirror
to rcHect the aiTeclions of G'od, upon a lost and guilty
world, convulsed and torn v>ith selfish strifes, and disscn-
tions; how amazing and rapid Vv'ould be the success, and
spread of the gospel!
We onh'- add to the above, tliat in order to co-operafa
with God, Vy'-e must bev/are hou-, in our exliildlions of truth,
r/Q violate any of the Icnown and established laws, by
which He governs mind. God's gracious constitution, is
not at war with His natural. Tb.e laws by which lie vc^-
ulates human thought and emotion remain unchanged, and
when He brings the sinner to Himself, it is not in violation
of any one. For He does not work against Himself. It is
essential, therefore, to iho, success of our ministrations,
that we should know the ordinary principles which regu-
late the operations of the human mind and heart, lest
through ignorance u^e may be found opposi/\g our own. de-
sign. It is one of the laws of human thought and action,
that distinct or clear and vivid perceptions of truth, must
be had, in order to its assuming a powerful, or permanent
influence.' You need not pretend to influence a m.an, by
addressing him in a language or style, v/hich he cannot
understand. We must therefore, see to it, that our preach-
ing is plain, intelligible, and adapted to the apprehension
of comm.on sense. Vague and incoherent declamation-
obscure and unintelligible expressions, must be carefully
avoided, and the most easy, and familiar ilIustra4ions cm-
ployed. Thus did He, "wlio snake as never man spake.''
Inattention to tiiis, oft-tim.es, renders tlie ministration of
the word, perfectly unprofitable; and no more effectual
method can be adopted, to beguile them.inds of men, into
5S2 MINISTEPJAL EiTlCIENCY. cHAP. XXX.
listless, dreaming, indi (Terence, and stupidit}^, than the per-
petual r.se of hackneyed phrases, in which, if there is truth
at all, it is imperceptibly presented. What ideas will
nine-tenths of ordinary hearers of the gospel be likely to
obtain from such expressions as '^implanting in the heart,
the principles of grace/'—^Hhe application of Christ's
righteousness to the heart hy the Spirit of God,"—*'infu-
sing life into the soul,"—^^injecting grace,"—^'standing
in our law,"—and others which we might mention? The
reproor of the apostle, is as deserved in reference to much of
what is charitably passed to the aecount of depth, or pro-
fundity in theology, as it was to the abuses in preaching,
which firrt elicited it. ''If the trumpet give an uncertain
souriJ, . ^^ shall prpn-p -umself to the battle? So like°
wise you. except ye utr.cr by the lon^^ue, xoords easy to be
inidcrsiood, how vsbail it be known what is spoken? For
yo shall speak into the air. "^ We ) r.ve already noticed
cvitable efi'eet which, a certair. mode of exhibiting
the sinner's inability, must have, as being at war with
one of the benevolent provisions of the Great Creator.
We miglit also notice how the want of a due respect to
the operation of human sympathy, and the established
modc5, by which one mind influences another, 'cannot fail
to neutralize, and vitiate much of ministerial effort; but
it wotild be dilating, and digressing too far. We pass to
•still more important considerations.
1. 1 Cor. vlr. 8, 9.
eHAPTER XXXI.
MINISTERIAL, EFFICIENCY.
CONTINUED.
$^ It is mdispenslbly necessary to success, that the truth be delivered *'iiT
demonstration of the Spirit"—Instanced in Paul's preaching;—To be
*
'filled with the Spirit"—What it means and whence the obligation to it
—
-
Necessary as an accompanying testimony to the truth of God's message
by us and for other reasons—Cannot be wanting without guilt, &c.—The
necessity of a ministei-^s being an experimental exercised christian—The
very instincts and sympathies of our nature where the facts of our reli-
gion are beUcved, prevent indifference in the minister of Christ—Paul's
spirit commended—The example of Christ and His apostles—No success
to be expected if we are not filled with the Spirit—How this is to be at-
tained—Necessity of meditation and prayer—Impoi-tant that there should
be much knowledge cf the human heart—6. If we would be successful
we must confidently expect success—Ample warrant to expect it—Ob-
jection urged from the ««divine Sovereignty"—Answered by a reference
to missionary effort—A general view of the divine government—Also
from the ample warrant given us in the promises of God to anticipate
success—And their actual fulfilment when plead in faitli—Apostolical
success—The relation of the tr.'n'stry to the government of God—Have
an agency in foru'arding the r/.Ilfcuial glory—And a yd more important
relation to the glorious scenes cf eternity.
5. It is indispensibly necessary to ministerial success,
that the truth be delivered "in demonstration of the
Spirit.''^ To this cause the apostle referred the efficiency
of Aw preaching. He preached, so as to give a demonstra-
tion to his hearers, that the Holy Ghost ivas in him, Ade-
monstration of this is of vastly greater consequence than c^
1 1 Cor. ii. 4.
5S4 MIXISTi:i:iAT. CHAP. XXXif.
•jreat talents or eriiditlo-i. He also preached, so as to giv'e
a demonstration that he was assisted by the Spirit in his
work. To His agency he referred continually as the vieans
of l;i.^ L'ucccss. For His infiLience he j)rayed. And he
took care his hearers should knov/ that from that Spirit ho
abiv.ally derived his aid. Ho preached the truth with
£i:cp. light nnd power, as to give a demonstration, tliat it
was the Spirit's own weapon for convincing and ccnvert-
irt^ sinners. Although it came tlirough his lips, it was
the Spirit, that effectually operated by it. It was the Spirit
speaking in him.
Such preaching cannot fnil to be successful. We daref
appeal to the experience of every zealous and spiritual
teacher, whciiier his miniftrations have not always been
successful in })roportion as he has been imbued with the
Spirit of Grod.^ There has been an unction, a pathos, a
fervour, a power which has made the hearer involuntarily
exclaim, "God is in him of a trr.lh," and the eiTccts have
been very perceptible. But while this will perhaps be
admitted by most, is there not reason to fear, that none of
us sufficiently realize our obligations thus to preach the
word. Our blessed jMaster led the apostles to expect that
they "should receive 7;czi'e;', after that the Ploly Ghost v/as
con^e upon them, and that they should be wilncsses for
Him."^ And they did receive it, and no sooner did they
bcKin to speak, and testify to Christ, than thousands were
pricked in their hearts and cried out "-'men and brethren
what shall we do." The ivords of the apostles had a much
more powerful effect on them, than the miracles perform-
ed before them, or the visible tokens of the Spirit's pre-
sence. They were '^baptized with the Holy Ghost,''- and
the same promise of the Spirit, which was then fulfilled
in them, reaches to this day, and authorizes the expecta-
tion of the same power to accompany us, and our minis-
1 Acts i. r, 5. 2 Acts i. 5.
CHAP. XJiXl. EJ"FICI5:ncV. 58
trations. We may and must ^<be filled with the Spirit/
and as thus furnished for our work, *'how shall one chase
a thousand and two put ten thousand to flight/'^
On this subject we feel deeply, and beg leave, with all
modesty, to drop one or two hints, conscious that we our-
selves have much to learn, nor forgettrng that "days should
speak and maltitude of year^ should teach wisdom, "^ The
obligation to' ^*be filled with the Spirit/' cannot be de-
nied. It is just as obvious, and peremptory, and as much
a thing to be expected of course in christian experience,
as it is that we **be not drunk with wine, wherein is ex-
cess.'" Ministers and private christians, alike are bound,
to ''live in the Spirit,'' and ''walk in the Spirit.
'''
If w6
are not "filled with the Spirit," it is not because God, by
any capricious or arbitrary dispensation, is pleased to deny
us His influence, so that we must ivdit till a more p'ropi'-
tious season of revival arrives. At no time does the Spirit
withdraw from us, till we ''grievd^' and "year" Him. And
he is ready, at any moment, to' return to us, when we do
rtot, by our impenitence and unbelief prevent Him. "Draw
nigh to God," says the apostle Jaiiies, "and He will draw
nigh to you. Cleanse your hands ye sinners,' and' purify
^our hearts ye double-minded. "* He ''that dwells* in' tlie
high and holy place, (dwells) with him also that rs of a ccir-
trite and humble spirit, to i^evive the spirit of the humble^
and to revive the heart of the contrite ones."® If Vve hav^
hot the Spirit it is beyond all dispute our own fault for "if
(men) being evil, know how to give good gifts to (their)
children, how much more shall (our) Heavenly Father
know how to give the Holy Spirit, to them that ask
Him?"^
1 Deut. xxxii. 30. 2 Job xxxii. 7. 3 Eph. v. IS.
4 Gal. V. 25. 5 Jarn.iv. 8. 6 Isa. Iviii. 15/
7 Luke xi. 13.
74=
586 RnNISTERIAL cHAP. XXXR
But what does this mean? We have already seen that ideas
oipersonalinhahitation, oi infusedgrace and of any mys-
tic agency of the Spirit, form no part of the scriptural doc-
trine of His influence;butthat that influence is exercised and
displayed in the appropriate impressions of truth, upon-
our minds and hearts. A man's mind is full of his subject,
when it occupies his thoughts, engages the interest of hia
heart, and is the continual theme of his conversation. So
we say a man is full of his project or full oi himself—he is
full of wisdom, /w// of sorrow,/?/^/ of wrath, &e., when
there is the governing and absorbing influence of such mat-
ters, and such aff'ections. In like manner we diVe filled with
the Spirit, when mind, heart and conversation, are under
the appropriate, prevailing, absorbing influence of any one
©rmore of the great truths, through which the Spirit ope-
i-ates. And this is the sense in which the phrase is used
in the sacred scriptures. Elizabeth on hearing Mary's
salutation ^^w^s filed with the Holy Ghost. "^ There was-
indeed an extraordinary, though not unnatural, bodily sen-
sation first experienced, which induced the conviction
that she saw the mother of her Lord, the long promised
Messiah, and that thought, or truth, or fact took complete
possession of her mind. It was predicted of John the
Baptist, that he should be "filled with the Holy Ghost,
even from his mother's womb,"^ that is, from the earliest
period of his history, he should be under the controling
and absorbing influence of the Spirit. And such was the
fact. He was absorbed in his work, and his mind was-
deeply imbued with truths, which did not thus affect
others. Zacharias recovering his speech and prophesying,
—thus giving proof of the powerful impression of the truth
upon his mind,—was said to have been "filled with the Holy
Ghost. "^ So also, when the apostles on the day of Pente-
sost, began to speak, it is observed by the historian that
1 Luk€ i. 41 :
- 2. Luke i. 15. 3 Luke i. 67*
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. 537
^Hhey were all filled with the Holy Ghost. ^'^
Peter be-
fore the Sanhedrim,^ the apostles when Peter and John re-
turned,^ and Paul in his address to Elymaslhesourcerer,'* are
all said to have been ^//efl?z^;e7^ the Holy Ghost, and when
we advert to circumstances, we find that the boldness, and
absorbing zeal and feeling with which they spoke the truth,
are especially worthy of notice. The truths of Christianity,
when really and fully believed, will make a deep and ab-
sorbing impression, and when they do so, we are filled
with the Spirit—i. e. our spirits are appropriately and fully
excited by the Spirit of God, through the instrumentality
of His own truth, as apprehended and cordially believed
by us.
Now, that they should be thus believed by every one,
^especially by the ministers of Jesus Christ, who will deny?
Is not the obligation to thi^, as strong as the truth of Him
who speaks can make it, and as solemn as eternity? We
.are not atliberty, at any time, to refuse to believe the man
who speaks the truth. Much less are we, where God is
the One that testifies. Nor can we, without guilt, remain
unaffected by ivhat He testifies. For He never trifles
with us, or asks our attention to matters of little or no im-
portance. God is ever serious, and His communications to
us, are on themes of deep and thrilling interest. To treat
them with indifierence—to remain unmoved by them, is and
must be highly criminal in us. It is a virtual impeach-
ment of the divine solicitude and sincerity.
A deep, operative, heart-felt conviction of the truth, is
also indispensably necessary, as our accompanying testi-
'inony to the truth of what God testifies. Suppose that a
minister of Christ should rise up in the sacred desk, or
elsewhere, and address his fellow-men on divine things,
in a light and flippant style, or in a cold scholastic man-
^ner, or with studied theatrical display, or with evident care
,1 Actsii. 4« 2 Actsiv. 8. 3 Acts iv. 31. 4 Actsxiii. 9. Sec.
5SS MmiSTERfAL CHAP. XXXI.
for rhetorical ornament and effect; who would not, at once
.percelye,.iliat hisown heart attached very little consequence
:to the message of the Lord, which he was professedly de-
livering? It would be utterly in vain to tell us, that he
did indeed feel, and that he was a faithful, and learned,
and pious minister of Christ. We could not resist the
evidence of our senses, and to deliver the truth, in a dull
and heartless, or careless and indifferent manner, could
scarcely fail, according to the very laws of human feeling,
to prejudice the hearer's mind in some degree either against,
the speaker, or against it. Nothing, as has already been
intimated, can make amends for the actual want of feel-
ing on the part of the ministry of Christ. Where howe-
ver, it does exist, it cannot fail to exhibit itself. Can any
private christian, much more any minister of Christ,-|j<fe^'^
free from blame, when destitute oiall feeling appropriate to' •'
the truihs of religion? It is the very evidence, requisite
in the nature of things, to demonstrate to others the reality
of his faitli professed, and to bring the truth, under circum- ^
stances favorable for its reception, to bear upon the minds *
of others? This is the demonstration of the Spirit—the -^
convincing evidence of its being truth, which the minister
of Christ publishes,—the very truth and message of God,-^i^
of which he has no doubts,—through which the Spirit movfeS"'
and excites, and stirshis own spirit within him, —and which '«
thus, by the very laws of human sympathy, and through^^
the energy of the Spirit, present at the time, comes with-*
convincing light and power to the minds of the hearers."^'
Who can fail to see, and to feel, the immense necessity of thi^*^
thing, in order to the successful administration of the word?
This deep, heart-felt, moving, spirit-stirring, belief
of the truth, on our part, as ambassadors of Jesus Christ,
is neccssaiy to prove to those that hear us, that we
do indeed believe the messages of God by us. If wanting,
it will excite in others the suspicion, and indeed generate the
CHAP. XXXJ. EFFICIENCY. 5SS
presuinption^ that as ive, who profess io have the message
from God, give so little jiroof, of its being believed by
USyi\\Q thing after all is not as we represent it. It is, ne-
ce^^ar^ also, to conciliate and engage the attention of our
l?earers; for all men naturally refuse to attend to, and do
actually, turn away with disgust from, the man that does
not, at the time, believe what he is saying. And it is
f^ecessary, still further, to give that sort of sensible exhi-
Ipition of the reality, of what we preach, which, according
to the laws of human emotion and sympathy prevailing
among creatues of sense, is requisite, in the very nature
pf things, for effectively, and successfully, inducing the
minds of others to believe it.
In all this, there is nothing but what may be most ap-
propriately demanded of every minister of Christ. It can^
Bot, in any case, be wanting, without guilt on his part,
—
without endangering the souls of his hearers—and with-
out his being, more likely, the instrument of their unbe-
lief, than of their faith. Oh, have we not reason to fear,
that our exhibitions of truth, may sometimes be made, in
any other way than in ^Hhe demonstration of the Spirit?" If
our hearers remain, from year to year, unbelieving, and
unconverted, ought we not to institute a strict inquiry,
whether we may not iii some way conduce to it? Surely,
if "ihe demonstration of the Spirit," were with us, it
would not, could not be thus! And can that be long, and
totally, w^anting, without guilt on our part, when it is
most reasonable, and natural, and of rightful obligation,
that we should cordially believe, and be fully and power-
fully effected, ,by the great facts of religion, which we
teach, and when,God, is ever willing *Ho give His Holy
Spirit to them that ask Him?" Ah, will we not have reason
to dread the disclosures of eternity, if our own hearts and
souls, are not fully imbued with the truth we preach?
Jiow C3n we look our Master in the face, or how can we
590 MmiSTEUIAL CHAP. XXXI.
ever think of meeting with our hearers at His bar, if we
have not admonished, rebuked, instructed, exhorted, en-
treated, and expostulated; as those that fully, and cordi-
ally believed the truth themselves. Our religion does not
consist of mere abstractions; nor is that preaching the
o-ospel, and watching for souls, which consists in ex-
hibiting mevG doctrinal propositions, that may engage and
instruct the intellect, instead of asserting facts which we
^now and feel, have a direct and solemn bearing on the
character, experience, and destiny of our hearers. This can
never be done, where our own hearts have not believed, and
felt, and wehavethus heen practically taught by the Spirit
of God. We must speak from experience—from our person-
al experimental sense, and knowledge of the truth, or our
preaching will be mere human science—the theology of
the srhools,—the wisdom of philosophy,—the tradition of
the elders,—tlie opinio-ns of the fathers, —and the like mat-
ters, in which we cannot hear witness, as those who know
the truth as taught of God. Tlius Paul was taught, and thus
lie preached, whether he addressed the unconverted, or be-
lievers. ^'Knowing tlierefore, the terror of the Lord, we
persuade men,'^^ said he, as realizing the awful condition
of the impenitent. And when addressing the people of
God, still lie ventured not beyond his own experience, tes-
tifying in ail cases, as to what he knew to be matters of
fact. *'Who comforteth us in all our tribulations, that we
may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by
the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of
God."^
And thus ought the minister of Christ, ever to preach.
He professes to believe, that there is a Hell of unuttera-
ble and unalterable woe, where the wicked shall be forever
made to endure the unmingled and unmitigated wrath of
1. 2 Car. V. IL 2. 2 Cor. L 4.
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. 59I
God—that whosoever does not repent of his sins, and be-
lieve on Jesus Christ, is, at the present moment, a candi-
date for that Hell; yea, that even 71010, "the wrath of
God abideth on him;'^^ that life is extremely uncertain and
precarious; that death at once, and forever, determines-
the state and destiny of men;, and therefore, that any and
every ©ne of his hearers, who does not repent and be-
lieve, is at every moment tremhling, as it were, on i he-
very vortex of the bottomless abyss! How, can a man*
look into the face of his hearers, whom he knows to be
impenitent, and at the same time, believe these things, and
mot feel? The very heart of adamant, we should think,,
must be broken and melted in such a case; and warning,,
exhortation, and entreaty, clothed as it were in the very
"terror of the Lord," be resorted to, as the most appro-
priate method of obtaining relief, under the painful agon-
izing burden of distress. An immortal soul, is of value too-
immense, and the injury done to the blessed Saviour, by
unbelief, and impenitence, too shocking and malignant foi-
any minister of Christ, to remain a calm, indiiferent and
callous spectator. Paul, could not. Stephen, could not.
The apostles, could not. The blessed Jesus Himself, could
not. And shall we? Shall the fear of reproach, or shame,-
or death, or the fancied danger of incurring our hearer's
displeasure, or a tame and courteous compliance with the
soul-destroying maxims of men of ungodly minds, and
with the usages of society adopted or approved by the
enemies of God, be allowed to enter, and chill the gene-
rous compassions of the soul? Shall we fear to be account-
ed mad-men, and fanatics in consequence of our letting
such truths take full possession of our minds,—of being
''filled with the Spirit?" Paul waspronounced a mad-man,
for this very reason. But, as with a '^realizing sense of
1. John ill. 30o
592 MINISTEMAh c»AP. XXXI.
the truth he preached, he was'^made manifest unto God,
and in (the) consciences"^ of his hearers. He cared not
what they thought. He sought not to commend himself
to them: but **whether we be beside ourselves," said he,
*<it is to God, or whether we be sober, it is for your
cause.
"^ ''Would to God ye couW bear with me a little
in my folly: and indeed bear with me."^ Let no man
think me a fool, if otherwise, yet as a fool, receive me."''
Be it our endeavor to catch the spirit of Paul, and to con--
sent, to be accounted fools, and mad-Tnen, rather than con-
tribute to form the minds of our hearers to unbelief, and
countenance their rebellion against the light, by preach-
ing to them with calm indifference, a ''dignified" religion-,
which will pass current with the rich, and gay, and lordly
sons of pride, self-righteousness, and soul-destroying
pharisaism.
If we are "filled with the Spirit," and preach "in the
demonstration of the Spirit," we must expect to be mock-
ed, and ridiculed, and accounted insane, and worse, by
some. The whole company of apostles were reported to
be drunk, by the infidel wags, and pharisaic elders^ of Je-
rusalem. The Master Himself, was said to have a devil.^
His very friends, said that He was beside Himself,'' be*
cause of His devotion to the work of His ministry; and it
is saying very little for our zeal, or faithfulness, ifwe es-
cape suck reproach. Never, ought we to be satisfied, or
think we are sufficiently engaged. The wondrous facts
of our religion, should possess our minds; and zeal, for the
glory of our Master, and love for the souls of men, should
ever lead us to exhibit the truth, "m the demonstration of
the Spirit,''
1. 2. Cor.v. 11. 2. 2Cor. V. 13.
3. 3 Cor. xi. 1. 4. 2Cor. xi. 16.
5. Acts ii. 13. 6- John viii. 48.
7. Mark iii. 21l
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. 593
Without this, at least, in some degree, we need not anti-
cipate success. We may indeed bring men to treat the or-
dinances of religion with respect—we may inoculate them
with the Spirit of sectarism —render them feverishly zeal-
ous for their church—and set them to labor diligently in
building high the ram.parts of defence against error, and
heresy, and the like—but if we are not **filled with the
Spirit," we shall not be very efficient in the conversion of
sinners, and in bringing them when converted to bold, ac-
tive, untiring, ardent, self-denying, labor, and liberality in
the service of a crucified Redeemer.
Does the reader ask how this is to be had, and maintained?
The answer we give, is like that which we return to any,
and every enquiry, as to the mode in which any, and every
religious feeling is to be had and cherished, viz. by volun-
tarily bringing our minds in contact with the objects which
are adapted to excite the feeling. If the sinner asks us
how he is to love the Saviour; hoiv he is to believe upon
Him, and we should venture to give an intelligent reply
to such an absurd question, as we must call it, we would
say—look at the person to be loved, and see His excel-
lence—look at the character of the witness, and see His
truth —*^attend to His words, and incline your ear to His
sayings."^ So, if asked hoiv are we to "be filled with the
Spirit," that as ministers of Christ, we may preach *'in
the demonstration of the Spirit," we reply, let us look at
the great facts and objects which we exhibit to our hearers'
attention,—let us ponder on what God says, —and dwell
upon these solemn things in our own minds, till our ov/n
hearts are affected by them.
To this end it is obvious that, prayer becomes indis-
pensably necessary. The closet of the minister of Christ
should be, as it were the private gate through which he
1. Prov, iv. 20.
75
594 MINISTERIAL cHAP. XXXIv
looks Into Heaven and Hell, and where he surveys the
wonderful realities to which he is to direct his hearers'
attention. All preparation for preaching without prayer,
will be of little avail. His studies will become a mer«
intellectual exercise, if meditation and prayer, are not
continually employed. We must live near to God, and
be much given to prayer, and never attempt to say or do,
any thing for His glory, and the good of souls, without
having first gone to our blessed Master, laid it before
Him, and consulted, as it were with Him, to see, that it
meets His approbation, or is His message. Paul abound-
ed in prayer. The dear Redeemer, ''in the days of His
flesh, offered up prayer and supplications, with strong cry-
ing and tears. ^'^
The apostles spent much of their time, in
this way. They gave themselves "continually to prayer,
and to the ministry of the word."^ Thus they lived in the
Spirit, walked in the Spirit, and were "filled with the
Spirit." We need not wonder therefore, that they preach-
ed "in demonstration of the Spirit." They that do not
devote much of their time to prayer, and, who know not
what it is to put up the />r«yer o/*/a27A, and to bring
their sermons right from the very throne of grace, perfum-
ed and seasoned with the unction from the Holy One,
need look no further for the causes of their inefficient
ministerial labor. Let us ever go to the blessed Saviour,
to learn from Him, and receive "the unction that will
teach us all things," and having delivered our message,
let us go to Him, as did the apostles, and tell Him all
that we have done. It is essential, if we would have the
Spirit of Christ, that we be much with Him, and lead
lives of close, and endeared communion with Him.
It is also important, that the character of the hearens,
should be understood, in order that appropriate truth may
1. Heb. V. 7, 2. Acts vi. 4.
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. ;
-
595
be exhibited. In so saying, we do not mean^ that it is ne-
cessary there should be the knowledge of private history
or of personal character; nor that in preachiHg we should de-
signedly so particularize one or two individuals as to
turn the eyes of a whole congregation on them. Let this
sort of preaching be done in private. But we mean, that
there should be much knowledge of the human heart
of the manner in which different passions and affections
operate, and influence conduct, —of the different springs
of human feeling, —of the character of objects adapted to
excite particular emotions, —of the ordinary laws of hu-
man thought and feeling, —of the appropriate modes in
which the various passions display themselves, —of the
diversified exercises and reasonings of unrenewed men,
by which they apologize for, or justify to themselves
their impenitence and rebellion, —of the motives which
are suitable to one and another class, —of the temptations
of Satan, and the many soul-destroying devices of men of
unbelieving minds, —of the reproaches and objections of
an ungodly world against the cause and people of God,
—
-
and of the perplexities, and perils, and snares, and intri-
cate experiences of the christian, and the like. Thus,
will he be able to commend himself to the consciences of
the hearers. He will speak matters of fact which will find
witnesses in the hearts of his hearers. Truth presented
in this way, will not go over the heads of the hearers.
Nor will they hear as though they were attending to some
scientific lecture or doctrinal discussion.
It is of the utmost consequence, that there be this know-
ledge, or otherwise, there will be little skill or discernment
in the selection of subjects, intheuse of the Bible, and in the
exhibition of truth at different times, to different people, and
under the influence either of different passions, and prejudi-
ces, or of different usages and modes of preaching sanctioned
nnd modified by different states of society. In order to this
596 MINISTERIAL cHAP, XXXT.
knowledge, there must be, the careful study of our own
hearts, —continual self-inspection,— the sifting of motive
and conduct, of feeling and purpose,—the frequent and pray-
erful perusal, more especially of the devotional and experi-
mental parts, of scripture, —a disposition to trace the in-
fluence of truth on different minds,—readiness to en-
ter into spiritual conversation,—a facility at eliciting, and
a tact in discerning the experience or feelings of others,-—
an easy adaptation of ourselves to all classes of society,
and to every condition of life,—a diligent improvement of
the scenes and exercises which the inquiry meeting un-
fold, —and otherthings oflike character. This knowledge, is
not to be obtained from books, or theological lectures; but
only as we may be enabled, by means of the great prin-
ciples in the word of God, and the facilities afforded for it
by the teachingsof the Spirit, to dissect our ownhearts, and
those to which we can have access. It is in the possession
of suchknowledge,-^in appeals made to yea/ life, —and by
the exhibition of facts drawn from actual experience, that
the minister of Christ, when imbued with his subject, an4
speaking "in demonstration of the Spirit,'' finds the word
of God, to be, the sword of the Spirit—^'sharper than
any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asun-
der of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and
a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.''^
It is thus he acts effectively in his high character, as a
witness for God and for Christ, and the more we evince
the spirit, and display the appearance, and actually per-
form the part, of one who simply declares the truth as a
witness for God, the greater will be our success.
The reader will excuse us, if we add but one more re-
mark, which is,
6. That if we woujd be successful in the work of the
1. Heb- iv. 1?.
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY.
59^
ministry, we must confidently expect success. Every
one knows the influence, which the confidence, or even
hope, of success has upon the effects requisite to accom-
plish a contemplated design, or enterprise. So pov/erful,
and so obviously necessary is it, that when we see a man
despond, and droop, and expect disappointment, there we
soon expect to witness that sort of languor, andlistlessness,
and desultoriness of effort, which are ominous of failure.
On the other hand, the certainty of success gives an en-
ergy to effort, which makes it powerfully tell, and oft-
times speedily result in success. Now there is an am-
ple warrant for us, if we do rightly engage in the Lord's
service, to anticipate success. Such an hope is not a va-
gary. For why hath our blessed Master, instituted the
ministry of reconciliation? Assuredly it was not to demon-
strate theinefliciency of His own ordinance! Nor to hard-
en the hearts of men, and prepare them for a dismal liell!
What He said to Paul, is sufiiciently evincive of His
design in commissioning the heralds of the cross; and that
being His declared design, have we not more reason to
suspect, that the want of success is attributable, rather to
the improper and unfaithful mode of executing our com-
mission, than to any counteracting design on His part,
**Rise" said He, ^'and stand upon thy feet: for I have
appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a min-
ister and a witness, both of these things which thou hast
seen, and of those things, in the which I will appear unto
thee, delivering thee from the people, and from the gen-
tiles, unto ivhom now I send thee; to open their eyes,
and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the
power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgive-
ness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanc-
tified by faith that is in me.'^^
L Actsxxvi. 18—18.
598 MINISTEIUAL cHAP. XXXI.
We are aware that here an objection favorable to human
indolence is commonly urged. The want of success in
tlie ministry, is by many attributed to the Sovereign will
<>/Go^; and that too where comparatively but little efifort has
been made. Tliev have been sowing the seed, and preach-
inc' the word at some staled times—and in some formal
way striving to e?2 lighten their hearers, by didactic and
polemic discussions, &c.,—but God has not chosen, to exert
His power, to give //zezV labor effect! How pleasing such
an idea is to the inefficient minister, and how capable of
being made subservient to indolence and unfaithfulness,
in the discharge of duty, are very obvious. It is therefore
a judgment, which we ought to be very careful how we
form. For we incur responsibilities on the subject, as
Kiinisters of Christ, which may make us prejudiced judg-
es. The natural love of self, and of ease, create great
danger here; and it certainly would be wise, and safest,
for us, never to imagine, that the want of success is attrib-
lUable to some particular, secret, and inexplicable exercise
ef ^'Sovereignty" on the part of God, —at least, until we
pre very sure, that tve are not to blame, and that with the
utmost zeal, diligence, prayerfulness, self-denial, and la-
boriousness, tve have done our duty. We have already
had occasion to advert to the mistaken views of *
'Divine
Sovereignty,-^ which sometimes obtain, and prove the
bane of sinner's effort. Let us beware, that the same in
t:s do not neutralize our ministerial labor.
The utter inattention, of a large portion of the chris-
tian world, to the subject of missions, until within a late
period, we think may be cited, as strong proof of the delete-
rious influence of such views. The idea of Regeneration
being the result of physical power, on the part of God,
—
or that some creative process, superadded to the influ-
ence of truth, upon the mind, is necessary for ministerial
success,—cannot fail to destroy, in some measure, a sense
0HAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. 599
of accountability, and secure a censurable Inattention to the
mode adopted in the exhibition of truth. Such language as the
following, we deem highly symptomatic of the tendency of
this philosophy to prejudice effort, and to impair a sense of
ministerial responsibilitij. "Wherefore, although wo
are to take care, and pray much about the continuance of
the dispensation of the gospel in any place, and its propa-
gation in others; yet need we not be over-solicitous about
it? This work and care, the Holy Ghost hath taken on
Himself, and will carry it on according to the counsel of
God, and His purposes concerning the kingdom of ,Tesu3
Christ in this world; and thus far, the gospel is onl}^ a
causa sine qua non, of the regeneration of men, and the
granting of it, depends 50/e/y on the will of the Spirit of
God."^ A very comfortable doctrine indeed, for covetous
churlish, indolent professors, and a wordl3''-minded minis-
try! The Saviour hath gy^anied the gospel to every crea-
ture, and it is the sin and guilt of the ministry and the
church, that it is not preached to every creature. Our
commission is plain enough on this point, and it is a mere
modified fatalism, which leads any of us to be at rest, in
missionary and ministerial exertion, as though it were
not the will of God, that His word should run, have free
course, and be glorified.
The Sovereignty of God is not a capricious or mere ar-
hitray will. His Sovereignty, when rightly understood
and viewed, leads directly to the contrary state of feeling,
and to the most quickened and increased exertion^ and to
the most animating hopes of success. His will on the
subject, has been declared. We read it in the very term.s
of our commission. To imagine that He has private
purposes conflicting with our written instructions, and to
be influenced by such imaginations, in our labor,, is vir-
1. Owen on the Spirit, v. i. p. 350.
600 MINISTERIAL criAP. XXXI,
tu^Ily to assail tiie very character of God, and to place us
ill a very uninviting, and uncomfortable attitude before
His enemies, when we undertake to preach His gospel.
It is not forgotten, we presume, how the missionary zeal
and labors, of many of the ministerial brethren in Eng-
land, were met with objections drawn from the Sovereign-
ty of God. Nor are we free from them in this country.
How little of bold, daring, c^Mo/Zc missionary enterprize,
is there among the churches, whose ministry and members
are ever harping about the Sovereignty of God! They can
build up the walls of defence, to keep out alleged heresy,
and contract the sphere of evangelical labor, and never in
such labor, anticipate any difficulty from the Sovereignty
of God. But, to break through the trammels of sect, and
aim at the conversion of the world, are dreaded and de-
nounced, as departures from the faith, and disastrous in
tendency, although there are abundantly more explicit
declarations of the Divine will, in reference to the latter,
than the former, both in the word and providence of God.
The views of Divine Sovereignty, entertained by many,
amount to religious fatalism. They see an existing evil.
Sin reigns, and is ruining millions. Many'of the hearers
of the gospel are going down to the pit of perdition, and, in
each thirty years, eight hundred millions of the human fa-
mily, pass to the bar of God, —of whom, by far the greatest
portion have lived, and died, in utter ignorance of <Hhe
only name under heaven, given among men, whereby we
must be saved. "^ That God calls us to an active, and im-
portant resistance against the ravages of sin, and has pro-
vided powerful means for offensive hostility, and promised
His co-operation, and our success, in the proper use of them,
cannot bedenied;—nor, thatadisposition heartily, and zeal-
ously, to do so, constitutes a feature of every true christian.
1. Actsiv. 12.
€KAP. XXXI. EFnCIENCY. 601
Why then, should there he parsimony, mdolencfe, despon-
dency, and lameness in the use of them? Assuredly, it is no
honor done to God, or to His cause, to allege His *'Sove-
reignty,*' in permitting this state of things, and to claim
exemption from obligation to personal and practical effort
against it. ^ With equal propriety, might he abstain from
all resistance against the influence of sin, in his own mind,
and practically deny his obligations incessantly, and zeal-
ously, to advance in holiness. This is the verj'- spirit of
antinomianism, which is one perpetual libel against the God
of all grace and holiness. And no man can claim ex-
emption from obligation to contend against sin, and refuse
to act, and apologize for indolent ancl^inefficient efforts of
resistance against it, on the ground, that God in Kis Sove-
reignty /orZ>^W5 it, without taklns^ part with it against
God, It is in plain terms, saying, God permits it, and there-
fore I will, —thus making his assumed secret will in the
case, the rule of duty and obligation, in direct oppositioii
to His plain and imperative command! The truth is,
—
1. We cannot forego the pleasure of directing the reader's attention to
an admirable discourse, delivered before the Baptist Missionary Society,
in Bristol, England, by that very eloquent, and distinguished man, Mr,
John Forster. On the subject of christian obligation to activity viewed
in connexion with the divine permission of sin, he asks, "What indeed is
its permission but simply its existence? In virtue of which it can give
you no exemption from the duty ofattacking it, wh"ch would not be equally
an exemption from all duty whatever, in the form of oppos'.tion and con-
flict, which would not confer an universal inviolability on evil, and end prac-
tically In the maxim, that the more evil there Is on earth, the less there is
for the servants of God to do. Under which condition of things how im-
pertinent, how worse than usel^s, how thriftless of happiness, were that
pious animation of feeling, which you are admitting to be an internal duty,
that holy indignation of the soul against what Is working infinite mischief
and misery to a large portion of mankind. Vain passion of christian zeal
!
Illusory, and almost penal f.re from Heaven! Animating the heart but to
consume It, If there should be no practical mode and machinery of convey-
ing outward its energy, to strike against the hated object. To have the
niind filled as by main force, with the revolting imr'ges of pagan
76
60S mNISTERIAL cHAP. XXXI-
this plea of "Divine Sovereignty," Is the lying whisper of
the great enemy of souls, to beguile us from a sense of
duty, and vitiate and destroy those feelings of fervent
zeal, which would lead to the energetic use of means, and
which cannot exist, where there is not the prospect of suc-
cess. Indeed, when stripped of its disguise, it Is but a
slander ao-ainst God, which, being propagated in the spirit
of apparent piety, and reverence for God, renders it the
more odious and dangerous. As it operates on the mind
of the minister of Christ, frustrates, retards, and gives
monotony to effort, it betrays the secret influence of some
such thoughts as these, alike injurious to the honor of
God, and to his own comfort and success, and is in effect
saying to Him,
*^I behold two views of thy government: there is thy
permission of an awful array and amount of evils, and
there is a system of thy dispensations framed to w^ork In
most direct and absolute opposition to them. The im-
possibility of apprehendiiagthe unity of principle of these
abominations: (the remark appears equally to the minister and servant of
Christ, who groans under a sense of the abominations committed under the
gospel,) and to know that this infernal usurpation triumphs in the slavery:
of millions of our common family, and yet, the while, to subr^It to be un-
furnished "vtith expedients of devout revenge, to have no arrows, no pow-
er of throwing reflected convergent sun-beams, no missiles charged with
the elements most noxious to a malignant nature, would be felt as a hard
imposition by a man of zeal, who would dread to have his soul, in refer-
ence to the service of God, in the condition ofa hero in chains: what shall we
think then, of a servant of God desiring as an exemption and a privilege^
to be allowed thus to expend away the vital force of his spirit, without ac-
tion? We cannot believe that he has any o^ that zealous emotion, which
he pretends No, my good friends, you must not profess to feel, and ful-
fil a duty of enmity in spirit against the permitted evil, and at the same
time acknowledge no duty of offensive exertion. The true animosity
would be so intent on some means of action, that it is quite certain the stats
of feehng, which persuades to decline such means, is far too pacific to-
^A-;ird What is in'eulling God, and destroying man."—p. 51, 52.
CBAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY 603
opposed parts of thy government, throws a dark mystery
on the one of them. But with me unlike my fellow mor-
tals, the mystery rest-s on the latter view, on the economy
constituted for resistance to the evil; whereas the reason
for its permission is so plain to me, that I can, in dissent
from all thy faithful servants, since the world be^-an,
adopt it as my rule of conduct. In pursuance of this adop-
tion^ I dare to believe, Thou art in truth, not so much the
enemy of this same evil as is pretended, even in thy
own revelation; and that I shall upon a certain secret un-
derstanding, please thee fully as well by declining to join
in, (and zealously, and successfully prosecute,) an attack
upon it, as by devoting to the utmost my active forces to
co-operate against it, in a war, which, I do at the same time,
perceive clearly, that Thou thyself for what reason of
state I cannot conjecture, hast raised and maintained with
a palpable and continual interference."^
Who does not see the fallacy, and may we not say, the
impiety of such sentiments? Do they become less false
and criminal, when they are embodied in practical max-
ims, and^ex^ert an influence on conduct? We can see
very little essential difference between thus acting, thus
thinking, and thus speaking . The ^'DivineSovereignty,'^,
affords no refuge for guilt and indolence. Blessed be God the
copious effusions of His Spirit, secured by fervent and be-
lieving prayer, accompanied with the faithful and diligent
administration of the word, expose the falsity of all such at-
tempts to satisfy conscience. Before we can believe, that the
"Divine Sovereignty," stands in the way of . ministerial
success, we must have some well authenticated instances^
in which there have been the laborious and persevering
preaching of the word, in all plainness and faithfulness,
—
tlso humble, ardent and believing prayer for the effusions
1. Forster'a Sermon, p. 54,
60-1 MINISTERIAL CHAP. XXX?.
of the Spirit of God—and the prompt, decisive, and en-
ergectic use o£ allihose means which are ordinarily bless-
ed for the conversion of sinners. We are not to be re--
ferred for instances of ministerial effort, beino; counteracted
by ^'Divine Sovereignty," and of success being Mt^5with~
held from those ministers, whose health, &c. permit greater
effort, but who have neither conversed with their hearers,
on the subject of their personal religion, nor inquired into
the state of their souls, —who are not careful to organize,
and maintain meetings for prayer among their people,
—
who neglect to urge, and educe, professing christians to
zealous and active co-operation with them in their labors;
who fear to irritate, or offend the pride and prejudices of
their hearers, by the faithful exhibition of the truth,—
>
who do not themselves wrestle and agonize in prayer, till
Christ be formed in sinners' hearts the hope of glory,
—
and are not instant in season, and out of season, continually,
abounding in the work of the Lord. Until all these things
have been done, the blame must lie at the door of minis-
ters, and not of the "Divine Sovereignty." When examples
of effort thus made, and maintained, proving utterly ineffi-
cient, can be adduced, then, but not till then, shall we
think there is room for the objection.
That prayerful believing, faithful and diligent effort
should in any case prove altogether unsuccessful and inef-
ficient, is what we have no right to expect. Indeed to
suspect it is to mistrust God, or to misapply the great
promises which He has given for the encouragement of our
faith. He lias said, that in the seed of Abraham, ''shall
all kindreds of the earth be blessed,"^ and promised, in re-
ference to these very days in which we live, *'I will pour
out my Spirit upon alljleshy^^^ Here is ample warrant for
us, to go to our fellow men, wherever they may be found
1. Acts Ui. 25. 2. Acts ii. 17,
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. 605
upon the face of the whole earth, and. as we preach to
them the unsearchable riches of Christ, pray for "'arid ex-^
pect the effusion of His Holy Spirit. If we pray infaith,^
we shall not be disappointed, for still the rule of God's '\
gracious providence, is ^^according to your faith, be it un-
to you.'^^
If we do not pray m faith, we may leaa'n the secret of
our want of success. Do we fear to believe, h'qd' think
that the anticipation of success, is presumption? dtjnayi
be so, and certainly is, if founded on o^ur ^wn efforts,^ but-,
cannot be, if inspired by the belief of the. promises of a'
faithful God, and a reliance on His Spirit. We, as^
ministers of Christ, have as large and ample proinises, on'
which to confide in God, for His efficacious energy to at-'
tend our ministrations, as the individual sinner has to ven-
ture on the grace of the Redeemer. The sinner's ground of
hope is in Christ, and he ventures to trust in Him for His
salvation, because he is God's ordinance for salvation^
to a guilty world, and is offered freely an full}^ to-
Him as one of that world. So should the minister
of Christ derive hope as to his labors. God ''hath givers
Him (Christ,) for a light to the gentiles, that He may be His
salvation unto the ends of the eartli."^ In pursiiarice of this
design on the part of God, and in discharge of His high
and gracious trust. He co.mmands, *'Look unto me and be
ye saved all the ends of the earth. "^ And on the basis of
His own infinite fulness and sufiiciency, and the univer-
sal applicability of His salvation, He commissions His-
ministers, to ''go into all the world, and preach His gos-
pel to every creature."'* Nor is it a vain and empty com-
mission, for He pledges His own presence, at any and;
every moment, to the end of time, wherever, and when-
ever they undertake to publish His grace. "Lo I am
with you alwaysJ
even unto the end of the world. ''^
1. Mat. ix. 29. 2. Isai. xlix. 6.
3. Isai. xlv. 22. 4. Markxvl, 15. 5. Mat. xxviii. 20.
COS MINISTERIAL , CHAP. XXXI.
He has pledged Himself to His ministering servants, to
^'seiid the Coinforter,^^ who *^vill reprove the world of
sin, of righteousness, and of judgment."^
He actually fuIFxls His promises, and sends His Spirit,
v.There there is faith, to plead them and expect their fulfil-
ment, combined with the diligent and faithful exhibition
of His truth. All over the earth, where *
'Christ and Him
crucilied," is thus preached, it becomes ''the power of
God, to salvation. '^^ We therefore, disgrace our commis-
sion, slander our Master, injure His cause, and encourage
His enemies, if Vv^e do not expect success, when, in His
r.ame we undertake to attack the strong holds of sin and
Satan. And we need not be surprised, if, with pusillani-
mous spirit, we publish His salvation, we shall be put t©
.sliume before liis enemies. Let us contemplate the exam-
ples of His apostles, and catch their spirit. The Master
iVas said, that "the least in the kingdom of heaven," shall
be greater than the prophets,^ and that greater things
•should be done by them, than were done by Himself."^
-How fearlessly, zealously, and successfully, the apos-
^tles preached, and how speedily, when the little church
v/as brought into proper action, the gospel was proclaimed
in all the earth, are not to be disputed. Peter looked in
the face of an audience of thousands, suddenly convened in
tlie court of the temple, and charging on them their sin,
•find unfiirlinp:; the banner of the Cross, announced "Unto
you first, God having raised his Son Jesus, sent Him to
-bless you, in turning every one of you from his iniqui-
?iies»"^ If Bucii was the Master's design, it were cowardly
in His follov/ers, and an impreachment of His sincerity,
'to anticipate the want of success. The mission of Christ
1. Johnxvi. 8. 3. Rom. i. 16. 3. Mat.xi. 11.
4. John xiv. 12. 5. Acts iii. 26.
CflAP, XXXr. EFFICIENCY. 607
ofter His resurrection, was through His apostles, not In
person, to the Jewish people; and as Peter preached, he
doubtless felt, that at that very moment in himself, God
was accomplishing His design of mercy, and sending
His risen Son, to bless his hearers, and turn every one of
them from his iniquities. Thus ought we to preach; and
thus preaching, the demonstration of the Spirit, will as-
sume commanding power over the minds and consciences
of our hearers.
But ah! how far short do many of us come, and how
sadly do Ave fail, in the spirit, and success, which should
attend our labors! Hov/ much yet is to be done! How
large a portion of the earth remains to be possessed, by the
servants of the King of kings! The ministers of Christ
have a most intimate and awfully responsible relation to
the interests of the Divine government. According as
they execute their commissions, the cause of God pros-
pers, or languishes,—the energies of the church lie dor-
mant, or are put in active requisition, —and the enemies
of godliness triumph, or submit themselves to His sway.
Even if false prophets, said God "had stood in His coun-
sel, and had caused His people to hear His words, thea
they should have turned them from their evil way, and
from the evil of their doings."^ How much more must
such a result be expected, by those His true and faithful
servants, that bear to Him a loving heart! If they *»take
heed unto (themselves,) and (their) doctrine, and contin-
ue in them," they shall be successful, for saith the Spirit of
God, in doing so, thou shall save both thyself, and them
that hear thee."^
Who does not therefore, see what an important bearing,
the ministerial trust has upon the Divine government?
We incur tremendous responsibilities! If a wicked world
1. Jcr. xxlii. 22. 2. Tim. iv. 16.
^0^ MINISTERIAL CHAP. XXXI.
IS up in arms against our God, no time should be lost, and
no energies lie dormant, but all should be put in eSect-
ive requisition —in powerful action. If the church sleeps,
and her individual members have not, and act not under,
a sense of their pergonal responsibilities as the subjects of
Christ's kingdom, i. e. their direct and pressing obliga-
tions to Himself to be in action,—His cause will suffer,
and souls './ill perish.
There is a great day of millenial glory coming on the
world, and it is not very distant. The light that is to fall
from Heaven, will fall upon the church, and must be reflect-
ed, from her ministry and members, upon the darkness of
this world. That light is the truth, embodied in living
glowing examples of its efficacious influence—of its trans-
forming, renovating, purifying power. Every conversion,
every wakened and zealous professor called into the field
of christian uction, is an advance towards the consumma-
tion of this glory. Every inefficient minister, and luke-
warm indolent professor, retards the arrival of that day.
There are resources in the church, sufficiently ample, for
the conversion of the world within halfa century. To
hesitate and delay, in bringing them forth,—what shall
we call it? Is it any thing short of high treason, against
the King in Zion? The command, and providence, and
Spirit of God, are all at present calling for increased activ-
ity, prayerfulness, and self-denial. Every conversion,
every revival, every phalanx added to the forces of Israel,
and every addition to the ministers of Jesus, gives the
prospect, of new triumphs, and of still greater conquests.
The voice of mercy, the trump of coming victory, even
now resounds in the Jheavens, and as its blasts reach the
earth, the spirit-stirring call echoes, and re-echoes, from
mountain to mountain, and island, to island, and continent
to continent, *
'prepare ye the way of the Lord, make
CHAP. XXXI. EFFICIENCY. 609
straight in the desert an high way for our God .'^^
Who will
who can be disobedient to that call?
Let the truth be preached with plainness and puno-ency,--
let the ministers of Jesus cease from their doctrinal dispu-
tations, and sectarian jealousies and strifes, and assume
their high and holy character and station as ivii?iesses for
God; —let the members of the church support them by
their prayers, and co-operate with them, by their liberality
and eflorts—and ere long ''the glory of the Lord shall be
seen upon Zion, and the gentiles shall, come to her light,
and kings to the brightness of her rising. "^ The swellino-
flood of truth and light, which even now, begins to roll,
shall spread, and wave upon wave rise higher and higher,
till it rolls its mighty volume round our globe, and the
whole ''earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord,
as the waters cover the sea."^ Haste the glad hour of uni-
versal triumph! Even now let thy voice, Immanuel! call
out of thy throne, ^'praise our God all ye his servants, and
ye that fear him, bot/\ small and great," and the response
of a great multitude be heard "as the voice of many waters,
as the voice of mighty thunderings, "Alleluia, for the Lord
God Omnipotent reigneth. Let us be glad and rejoice and
give honor to Him,"'* Let the prospect, though seen in
the dimness of futurity, kindle and lire the spirit of every
minister and every member of the church of God.
It is a day of bustle and action, and who will sleep at
his post? The glory of our God, the triumphs of Im-
manuel, the happiness of earth, the harvest of souls to be
reaped and gathered into the garners of Jehovah, are all
intimately connected with thft faithful and efficient dis-
charge of our high and holy trust. We are linked to the
very throne of God, and the interests of His government
1. Isai. xl. 5. 2 Isai: \x. 2,3. 3 IsrI. xi. 9. 4; Rev. xix. 6, 7.
77
«10 MINISTERIAL ©HAP. XXXf.
are connected with the manner and spirit, the zeal and
diligence, the faithfulness and perseverance in which we
exhibit His truth. We are the channel, through which
the mercy of God is to flow out to a guilty world. Let
us see to it, that there be no obstructions in us. We are
commissioned of the Lord, to lead his hosts to battle.
Victory awaits us! Earth shall be subdued! An apostate
world shall bow in adoration, at the name of Jesus! How
honorable our station! How holy our triumphs! How
insignificant the crowns, and grandeur, and honors, and
triumphs of a guilty world! Be it ours to take a seat upon
the throne with Him who is the King of kings, and Lord
of lords I This is the glorious destiny of those that turn
mai^y to righteousness.
The triumphs of millenial light and truth, and the flood
of glory that shall encompass this little world of ours, will
be but the first bright flash from heaven, that shall usher in
that eternal series of brilliant displays, which the Almighty
Creator shall make of Himself to confirm in its allegiance
an intelligent Universe. The whole company of God's re-
deemed, in whose regeneration and safe cpnduct to heaven,
the ministers of Jesus have an important instrumentality,
are but a kind of '^first fruits" of His creatures. They
are renewed to this intent. *'0f His own will begat He us^
with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first*
fruits of His creatures."^ The first-fruits were a peculiar
offering to God, which had a direct reference to the coming
harvest, and an influence upon its being successfully-
gathered. How vast the thought in reference to the
wide spread government of the infinite mind! And how
exalted and terrible the responsibilities of the minister of
Christ!
We look away from millenial triumphs, and from earth.
1 Jame» i. 1 8.
CHAP. XXXf. EFFICIENCY. g^
crowded with holy beings in delighted submission to the
government of God, and, in wondering gaze, fixed by the
bright convergent beams of glory, that an intelligent and
peopled universe reflect around Jehovah's throne, are lost
in the splendors of the scenso Neither does the analogy
of the divine works, nor the unerring testimony of God,
require us to believe, that there shall reign a deep eternal
solitude throughout the innumerable worlds which God
hath made, and that their only design is to shed a few
glimmering and twinkling rays on this terrestrial ball. The
whole body of the redeemed are the first-fruits of his crea-
tures. Each and every one that have been washed in a
Saviour's blood, are made kings and priests unto God,^
and no doubt from their very titles, will be employed in
some sublime way in executing the grand purposes of
Jehovah's sway and in bringing in a full revenue of glory to
Him, as one vast cloud of incense acending from an universe
teeming with voluntary and delighted subjects of His
sway.^ What examples of love and devotedness to God,
and of high and ennobling communion with Him shall they
exhibit! While from the bottomless abyss shall ascend
for ever, in dense black columns, the smoke of their tor-
ment, who refused to repent and submit to Jehovah's sway,
and bearing in indelible characters, the solemn inscription,
legible to the v/hole creation, *'the wages of sin is
DEATH," the danger, folly and madness of rebellion shall
be fuller seen and understood.
But through the assiduous and incessant activity, and
extatic joys of the redeemed, who once tried a life of re-
bellion against God, and now commend and glory in un-
qualified submission, the ioyal hosts of God's creatures
shall be more than ever confirmed in their allegiance. Oh,
what a glorious and transporting prospect opens upon our
,'. Rev. i. 6. 2 Eph. 10 & 20—23- Col. i. ?.0.
612 MINISTERIAL chap. XXXI.
enraptured view! The whole company of the redeemed,—
renewed inspirit, and won by the instrumentality of the
word of truth as preached by the heralds of the cross,
—
reigning, exulting, and triumphing forever, as the grand
pledge for the security, and allegiance of countless myriads
of unnumbered worlds of holy and intelligent creatures,
spread throughout immensity, and rolling, in their vast
cycles, throughout the endless ages of Eternity!—How are
we lost! What glory awaits the renewed! What honors
shall circle the heads of the faithful ambassadors of Jesus,
as they look upon the kings and priests of God, exerting
their lofty and wondrous influence in the Divine govern=
ment, and can say, with the Great Apostle of the gentiles,
in humbling and adoring gratitude to God for His grace.
These have I begotten through the gospel!
Here is a prize of highest value I Here are honors far
above ambition's loftiest flights! Oh, ye men of God, ye
ministers of Jesus, gird on the gospel armor, and push
with rapid steps, the conquests of the Lamb. You are now
in the field of labor and conflict. On this little theatre of
earth, are developing the scenes, that are to throw their
shade and character, in some measure, upon the grand
drama of Eternity. Here the stupendous plans of infi-
nite wisdom and grace, are beginning to unfold them-
selves. Here all the desperate battles between Heaven
and Hell are to be fought. Here Satan musters his le-
gions, and the Son of God, the gracious Captain of our sal-
vation, puts them to flight. Here the experiment of re-
bellion against God, is made and repented of, and wan-
derers and rebels are to be seen returning to their allegi^
ance to the Most High. Here are to be enlisted the troops
of Heaven. Here are in training the kings and priests of
God. And here, immortal souls, in rich harvest, are to
be reaped, and gathered, and secured for the skies! In all as
ministers of Christ, we are called to act a conspicuous part
CHAP. XXXr. EFFICIENCY. 613
Heavy are our responsibilities! Fearful our trust! One
brought home to God, will secure a revenue of glory be-
yond the power of calculation ! Its bearing on other worlds
who can tell? Well might we shrink, and cry <'Who is
sufficient for these things?" But our panoply is from
God, and the rich recompense of reward, is enough to
urge us forward, in unremitting efforts for the conversion
©f souls.
First among- the holy, shone, a^ best
Became, the folthful minister of God.
See where he \Yalks on yonder mount that lifts
Its summit high, on the right hand of bliss.
Sublime in glory, talking with his peers
Of the incarnate Saviour's love, and passed
Affliction lost in present joy! See how
His face with heavenly ardor glows, and how
His hand enraptured, strikes the golden lyre!
Oh, who can speak his praise! Great humble man
!
He in the current of destruction stood
And warned the sinner of his wo; led on
Immanuel's members in the evil day;
And, with the everlasting arms embraced
Himself around, stood in the dreadful front
Of battle, high, and warred victoriously
With death, and now has come his rest,
His triumph day
!
THE END,
ERRATA.
The reader is requested to note the following- typographical errors vvii'iclt
ilave occurred in consequence of the author's frequent absence, the infancy
of the press, and the occasional illeg-^ble characters of the manuscript:
For our, 13th line from the foot of page 13th, read an.
and, 5th line from the top of 14tb, used.
Introduce the word except, before o?7, in the 13th line of page 17.
For ikeir, in 14th line from top of page 19th, read his.
Erase the second note on page 24th, see Dr. &c.
For the running title of Chapter, Iv. viz. *' Tlie i'ehsoxality of the SriRiif
continued," substitute The Deity of the Spirit.
For 7??, in 11th line from top of page 61st, read 07i.
civility, in 4th do. foot of 62d, senility.
Introduce is, before spolien, in tlie 8th line of page 65.
For or, in 6th line from foot of page 72d, read tiar.
an, ill 15th do. do. 74th. tn.
But,\r\ 18th do. do. 78th, and.
would, in 4th do, from top of 83d, could.
Strike out the first dash in the 11th line from the foot of page 83, and let"
the clause read, '^infinite spaces generating by rotaiio?i, solids of f.nit4
capacity.
For there, in 4th line from lop of page 84th, read tJieir.
Strike out the words and reject, in 3d line from the top of page 89.
For men, in 4th line from the foot of page 9Cth, read them
disordered,
be.
tout.
that a given,
could,
and at.
is no reference.
discordant, 9th
ERRA TA.
^
Transfer the r.c-tc of interrogation, from after io he so in the 12th line of
page 297, to the end of the next sentence after nature.
Tov power, in 2nd fine of note on pag-e 312, read people.
the—capacity, in 8th line from top of page 326, read—^Ae capacity.
or in 7th line frcm foot of page 329, read of.
first, in 9th line from the top of page 332, read jiist.
nperaiiov, in 4lli Kne from foot of note to page 333, read asseveration
>
his in 5th line from top of page 336, read man's.
'
cannot, in 7th line do. 359, read cannot hut.
Strike out the, before meditating, in 4th line from foot of page 343.
i'ovwben, in 11th hne from foorof page 350, read, Wiere.
reverently, in 5th line from top of page 351, read universally.
receive, in 15th do. do. page 552, read secure.
his, in 12th line from foot of page 352, read mans.
mfm, in 11th do. do. page 353, read 3/ar?/.
began, in 1st line on top of page 358, read begun.
in the chapter, do. of page 362, read in the second, chapter.
effect, in l6th line from foot of page 364, read affect.
Strike out entirely the last line at the foot of page 376, viz. for the sin of
Jdam—unless the expression be under.
After the last line of the text, in page 384, introduce that which stands at
the foot of page 376, and let the sentence read, That they personally
are mmishedfor the sin of..^dam—unless the expre^sionbe understood, &c.
For dependences, in 6th lineVrom foot of page 389, read dependence.
sensitive, 8th line from top of page 401, veadsemual.
aceldamer, 11th do. do. 403, read aceldama.
their, in 7th do. foot of page 405, read these.
possessing, m 2d do. do. 412 re&d professing.
place, in 9th do. from top of 418, read effect.
pvriency, in 12th do. from foot of page 418, Tea.d pruriency.
adopts, in 12tli do. from top of page 4i0 read adapts.
evidence, in 13th do. do. 423, read credence.
he, in 9th do. do. 424, read it.
then, in 6th do. at foot of page 428, read there.
effects, in 14th do. from top of page 434, read affects.
current, in 2d line from foot of page 472, read currents.
beheld, in 13th do. do. 527, read belied.
were not in 10th line from top of page 546, read were not io be, and for
instantly be exercised, in same line read, be, instantly exercised.
another, in 13th line from top of page 549, read any other.
fully, in 11th do. from foot of page 550,,read virtually.
Remove the words, that of, in 2d hne from foot of page 352, and insert
them, after than, in the same line.
effects, in 4th line from top of page 557, read affects.
working, in last line of page 557, read workers.
properly, in 7th line from foot of page 564, resid profusely.
important, in 5th line do. page 600, read incessant.
forbids, in 5th do. do. 601, read permits.
J
\J
