{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__gibbes_cummins___they_survive.pdf","mytitle":"They Survive","mylang":"de"}
.-
TH-EY SURVIVE
Evidence of Life Beyond the Grave
_from Scripts .of
GERALDINE CUMMINS
Compiled by
B. B. GIBBES
PSYCHIC BOOK. CLUB
_' _49 Old Bailey, London, E.C.4
This edition'isjni/Jlis11811
by ti1TQIIgll7llll wilh
I0!8S.Rll RIDBR AliD. COimANV
by whom World Cob·
right is 11SITIJid.
TBIS l!OOK IS l>RODVCBD Dl CO,l!ol•
1n.BTB CORl'ORJIITY wtTB TBB
AVTBOIUZBD BCONOJIY STAHDARDit
Printed in Great Britain
at tM Gainsborough PriSt; St. Albans,
~y Fisher,. Knight aJU1 Co. Ltd.
"Nothing really matters except.the answer to the burning question, ·
·Am I going to live or shall I vanish like a b~bble 'l What is the aim
and issue of this strife and suffering 'l' "
-MALINOWSIO.
"What mean these premonitions and apparitions, levitations and
hauntings, these tales of far sight in time and in space, of telepathy ·
and hyperresthesia • • • of monitions and intuitions. like those of
Socrates and Joan of Arc 'l They meet you everywhere, in every age,
in every literature, in every quarter of the globe. • • . Do not let us
talk of the credible and the incredible until we have looked further
into these among many other things; from which,·if well understood,
a new vision of truth might arise."
W. MACNBILB DIXON,· The Human Situation.
CONTENTS
PREFACE
•
CASE I. LIEUT. B. G. W. YEATMAN, R.A.
Knowledge unkriown to medium or to investigator about
a gunner reported missing in Hong Kong (1941) is given
in automatic writmgs four months before intimation of
death was received.
PAGE
9
15
CASB ll. LIEUT. N. A. ST. G. GmBES, 8m HUSSARS . 17
Evidence of prevision 'and survival in connection with a
young officer who died of wounds in North Africa (1942).
CASE ffi. FLYING OFFICER IAN MAcLEAN, D.F.C., R.A;F.V.R. 29
Statement of death having taken place is given in automatic
writing a month before information was officially received
(1944).
CASE IV. BoB F. 33
Reported death ofa friend ofthe communicator some hours
after his passing. Verified by Dr. E. <E. Somerville.
CASE v. HENRY BoYCB
Identifying details correctly given about a stranger who was
not known to anyone present at the sittings, subsequently
confirmed by his widow.
CASB VL T. M.
An author's evidence that ••we survive whole, not piece-
meal."
CASE VII. EUZABETH B.
A child-communicator. Evidence of identity in facts con-·
veyed and style of writing.
CASE Vlll. SIGNOR X. AND HIS WIPE •
, The substance of an agreed statement known only to two
people, one dead, both strangers to mediilm and sitter,
written at a sitting thirty-seven years after the death of
alleged communicator. .
6
35
47
ss
76
CONTBNTS 7
l'AGll
CASB IX•. CAPrAIN J. M. • • . • • • • 82
Information canceming events unknown to anyone present
at the sitting commuliicated about thirty years after they
tool!: place. · ·
CASB X. THB PBAiu. Tm-PIN 88
~·A telepathic message from the deceased officer" is the
comment of the scientist, the .late Sir· Willianl Barrett, on
evidence purporting to CO~m' from an officer killed in action
in the .1914-18 war.
CASB XI. TBI! Ross S.ISIIIRS
Evidence that human personality suniives unchanged in
character and temperament by .the experience of death.
90
CASB XII. A VBRIDICAL DREAM. . • 132
PosrscRIPr. A NBW. DBFINI1lON OP DBATH • • 138
PREFACE
Do welive in anotherworld after death, or is death the end? Numbers
of people may now be asking this question. .
The reply to those who earnestly seek to answer this problem
is that patiently conducted research has provided much evidence
which seems to indicate that human personality does survive the
grave. But a point can only be enforced by accumulated proof. So
it has seemed worth while presenting in this small volume, some
additional evidence of survival of human personality, obtained in
automatic writing by Miss Geraldine Cummins.
It is not generally known that one of our leading Ia ers, the
late Sir Edward Marshall Hall, K.C., against his will, became nvinced
of survival through automatic,writing.
It may be said that a lawyer cannot be regarded as an thority
on. the subject of Psychical Research. Scientists would no accept
him as such because he is not a trained exponent of the scien ific and
analytical view. But it cannot be denied that a great Ia r is an
eminent exponent of the common-sense view. Some years ago the
editor of a London literaryjournal told a friend ofmine that always
gave books on psychical reSearch to lawyers for review beca they
were experts in the examination of evidence. His view was that an
analytical scientist is apt to lose sight of the wholeness of a question
in his concentration on critical detail. It is arguable that the editor
was J;Distaken in his estimate of a reviewer's qualifications. But at any
rate, from the common-sense point ofview, Sir Edward MarshiUI Hall's
experiences add final verdict, are of considerable value to the plain
man who seeks an answer to the question as to whether death is the
end.
In his introduction to Guidance from Beyond, written: automatically
by Miss K. Wingfield, a persorud friend of his sister's, Mrs. Arthur
Labouchere, he says:
My real object in Writing these lines is to try to show that
automatic writing; as it is called, is a real thing, and that by its
means messages are conveyed through an unconscious hand from
some place outside the physical world to those who are still in-
habitants of it.
Sir Edward goes on to explain how he became convinced of sur-
vival. He describes. how he, a complete sceptic, who would have
nothing to do with psychical research, was at last persuaded to
experiment with Miss Wingfield. At a loss how to begin, he
9
A*
10 P'REFACB
suddenly recollected that he had a letter in his pocket which he
had received the previous day at his chambers in the Temple. He
folded up the letter and envelope so that no postmark or writing was
visible and placed it in another envelope. Miss Wingfield was then
asked where was the writer of the letter contained in the envelope.
After some delay, the automatic writing gave the message that "the
writer of that letter is dead." This reply, he says, only increased his
disbelief. So he asked: "When and where did the writer die ?" The
answer came back : "He died yesterday in South Africa."
It will be noted that no sex was mentioned or any indication of
locality given in the question. The answer seemed ridiculous, but the
letter was from Sir Edward Marshall Hall's brother in South Africa
and was written three weeks prior to date of receipt. Two further
letters were received in the following two weeks with no indication
of death or illness. The third week after Miss Wingfield's writing,
however, brought a letter from Archdeacon Gaul in South Africa,
saying that Sir Edward's brother had been found dead in bed that
morning.. The introduction continues :
I need hardly say that I was staggered at the communication
and, making any and every allowance that my imagination can
conceive, I came to the conclusion then, and- I still believe, that
that message can only ·have been communicated through Miss
Wingfield by some agency outside this sphere. Telepathy, clair-
voyance, thought-reading are eliminated absolutely. I was ignorant
ofthe fact-for fact it was when the message came on that Sunday
afternoon-that the writer of the letter was at that moment lying
dead in South Africa.
As far as we can ascertain, he had died about thirty-six hours
previous to the receipt of the message, and though, of course,
at the time of the asking of the question, his death was known to
Archdeacon Gaul and others in South Africa, it was never known
to anyone in England until three weeks later, when I received the
Archdeacon's letter, containing the news.
Of course, I could relate many other instances and experiences
that have occurred since, but for me this was enough. I was and
am convinced that there is an existence beyond so-called death,
and that there are means of communication between them and
us...•
Tiui above is quoted at length, for here we have the considered
opinion ofa brilliant lawyer, accustomed to analysing and scrutinizing
every little detail of a debatable problem, yet, like Sir Oliver Lodge,
Sir William Barrett and other scientists, Sir Edward Marshall Hall
was not afraid to come into the open and state his convictions once
he. had satisfied himself that survival was proved.
PREP ACE 11
However, the sceptic would doubtless argue that evidence in this
case might have been obtained by telepathy between Archdeacon Gaul
or others in South Africa and Miss Wingfield, or that possibly travelling
clairvoyance on her part accounts for the details given. But the
intelligent reader will be disinclined to accept this view if he has
studied the vast body of evidence published by various societies for
psychical research and takes into account the cases recorded in the
present volume. ·
The following collection of automatic writings was produced by
Geraldine Cummins when in a condition of semi-trance or light
dream-state or sometimes in a deeper condition of trance. Her hand
is assumed to be controlled by some outside entity or influence, quite
separate from her own personality. The method adopted by her is
as follows : she sits at a table, with her left himd covering her eyes and
her right hand resting on a block of foolscap paper. After a pause,
during which she endeavours to make her mind a blank, her hand
begins to write and the name ofher guide or control "Astor" is written.
He announces the presence of some "communicator" who then, after
a few words of introduction by Astor, writes his or her name.
In some of the cases here recorded, I have been the investigator,
generally called the "sitter," i.e., the one who sits .beside her, pulls
away the sheet of paper when it is filled with writing and moves the
hand to the top of a blank page then exposed. The sitter also reads
the words a.S they are committed to the page and makes the comments
or questions necessary to carry on the conversation. Such is the
method we employ for automatic writing.
In this manner, Miss·Cummins has written the following historical
books, The Scripts of Cleophas, Paul in Athens, The Great Days of
Ephesus, When Nero was Dictator, After Pentecost, and The Childhood
ofJesus. All these were written in my presence and in the occasional
presence of other witnesses. These Cleophas Scripts as they are collec-
tively known, are an historical document of remarkable interest, in
that the story of the life of St. Paul is woven into a coherent whole,
linking up the Acts of the Apostles with the Epistles. They are pub-
lished in the above-mentioned four volumes-each being complete in
itself. After Pentecost claims to emanate from the same source. It
deals with the meetings of St. Mark and St. John with Philo in Alex-
andria, and shows the influence of the latter on the writing of the
Fourth Gospel. ·
These books are beautifully written and contain much information
not known to the automatist (Miss Cummins) or to the general public.
They bear the stamp ofgenuine history and, so far as has been possible
· to trace given facts, these have been verified by theological experts.
. They claim to be communicated by one calling himself"The Messenger
of Cleophas." But from whatever source they are derived, it seems
scarcely possible that they could have come from .Miss Cummins's
12 PREFACE
conscious or unconscious mind. In addition to the above, the late
F. W. H. Myers purported to write many essays through her and has
given an account of the conditions which we may expect to find after
the death ofour bodies. These are published in The Roadto Immortality
and in Beyond Human Personality. F. W. H. Myers was one of the
founders of the Society for Psychical Research, and Sir Oliver Lodge
testified to his belief that it was, in effect, his friend F. W. H. Myers
himself who had communicated the contents of these books. He also
comments on Miss Cummins's "ready willingness for devoted service
and transparent honesty." As one who has known her for over twenty
years and has worked continuously with her, I would like here to
state that I have never known anyone give of her best more ungrudg-
ingly whenever called upon to do so.
The daughter of the late Professor Ashley Cummins, M.D., of
Cork, Geraldine Cummins has achieved distinction both in sport and
in the literary world. She has played international hockey for Ireland,
and is a tennis player. She is the author of two novels of Irish life,
The Land They Loved (Macmillan), Fires ofBeltane (Michael Joseph),
and also in collaboration with Miss Susanne R. Day of two Irish
peasant plays, Broken Faith, produced at the Abbey Theatre, Dublin,
and Fox and Geese, produced there and also at the Court Theatre,
London. Two brothers anti two sisters of hers are members of the
medical profession. Her brothers (save two who were already serving
in the Regular Army), were volunteers and all saw active service in
the 1914-18 war. Two were killed in action. A third sister was the
first woman member of the Institute of Civil Engineers, Ireland.
Automatic writing is a most intimate form of mediumship, for it
is direct control. It is claimed that the deceased person writes, and
communications from him are not, as a rule, conveyed by a "guide"
or "control" as is usually the case with trance mediums whose guide
speaks to the sitter by means of the medium's larynx.
.Miss Cummins and I started experiments in automatic writing and
the "ouija-board" as long ago as December 1923. The cases presented
in this book were produced by one or other of these methods. The
ouija-board used at our sittings, is a square of cardboard on which
letters of the alphabet are written: These are covered by a piece of
talc. The fingers of the sensitive or automatist (to mention a few
names designating the medium or intermediary), rest on the "traveller"
-a piece of pointed wood. After a while, the fingers move the
traveller; its point is pushed from letter to letter and the words thus
spelt are recorded by the investigator.
In the following scripts it will be observed that no indication other
than that ofjoy is expressed at again speaking to earth. The communi-
cations in many cases are entirely unexpected and spontaneously
given. So no question arises ofit being wrong to disturb the dead.
It may be considered, in the following records, that I have some-
PREFACE 13
what unnecessarily emphasized the point that, in this supernormal
writing, information has been given of which the sitter was unaware
at the time, or was given when Miss Cummins was writing alone;
such information having been subsequently verified. My reason for
. this is due to the fact that the sitter's mind may influence the com-
municatien. Theref.ore, statements made which were unknown to the
medium and known to the sitter do not offer the complete and sati,t;-
fyiilg evidence required as to the identity of the a1leged communicator.
I have myself experienced from an extraneous source the inter-
penetration of my mind at sitting's when information has been deliber-
ately asked for by me. But, in my opinion, it was not the mind of the
automatist which penetrated my mind and acquired information
known to me but unknown to her, it was the control or communicator,
who "looked into" my mind and obtained the correct answers. In
days gone by I tested this with Mrs. Dowden and later with Miss
Cummins. In each case a pause took place in the writing as though
the controlling entity had to shift his own mind, as it were, to another
direction. .
In the case of Mrs. Dowden, I asked her control "Johannes" to
get from my mind the name of someone of whom I was thinking.
The names, Christian and an unusual surname, were correctly written
on the ouija-board. This entity subsequently conversed with me on
many occasions-proving his identity in other ways.
Writing through Miss Cummins, F. W. H. Myers correctly obtained
a certain date for which I asked him, by, as he put it, "looking into
my mind." Miss Cummins had no normal knowledge of this pro-
jected event at all or that it was even contemplated. On the other
hand, communicators have sometimes asked in writing for certain
information which on penetrating our minds could have easily been
obtained. Case II illustrates an instance of this.
So,. in studying this subject and in endeavouring to prove the
identity of communicators, the importance of obtaining facts unknown
to any person present, cannot be too strongly emphasized. Otherwise,
the sceptic may still affirm that there is nothing to show that the
medium's mind does not penetrate the sitter's mind thus obtaining
required facts. Even if at first only information is received which
could be obtained from the sitters' minds, further developments, in
my experience, invariably establish the identity of the communicator
beyond doubt.
In forming his opinion as to whether or not the fo11owing records
offer convincing proof of "survival," readers should also take· into
account the contrast in style and the characterization of the alleged
communicators. It should be borne in mind that, when consciously
composing, Geraldine Cummins is unable to reproduce their person-
alities, but would it be possible for her subconsciousness to create
them ? She has met only five of the many communicating entities
mentioned in this book, and three of these five on only two or three
14 PREFACE
occasions. Yet relations and friends, have recognized certain traits of
character and tricks of speech of the communicators of these writings.
The reproduction of personality would seem to be the most impor-
tant evidence of survival after death and this appears to be very
pronounced .in the varied records obtained by Geraldine Cummins.
It must surely be admitted that it would be difficult to transmit a
personality by telepathy; nor, I think, could penetration of the sitter's
mind by the automatist, be said to account for all the phenomena
displayed in these cases. For, as I have pointed out, there are many
instances when the sitter was "absent" or unaware that certain events
as described, had taken place. .
Much other evidential material has been received through Miss
Cummins which it is not possible to include in this present volume.
Some of it is of too personal a character to permit of publication.
This is often the case in psychical research and considerable material
of value is thus lost to the public.
E. B, ,GffiBES.
Case I
LIEUT. B. G. W. YEATMAN, R.A.
I AM grateful to Mrs. Webb for her kindness in permitting me to print
her report of a case of special interest. It concerns the younger son
of her first marriage, a brilliant young officer, who, like thousands
of others, gave his life that we may live. Mrs. Webb is the daughter
ofthe late Major-General F. Koe, C.B., C.M.G. Many ofher forebears
served with distinction in the BritishArmy. She is a personal friend
of Miss Cummins's and since the first two communications, when
she was not present, has had occasional sittings with her. The dates
ofthe following communications and the corroborative details received
later, make this case particularly arresting and valuable as evidence
of survival after death. ·
Mrs. ·Webb's report runs as follows:
On December 19th, 1941, Benedictus Godfrey William Yeatman,
a gunner, was killed in action, in Hong Kong. His father, Marwood
Yeatman, was killed at Gouane Ia Ferte. on September 15, 1914.
(our son's niCkname was Bun.)
February 26th, 1942. At this time I had no news of Bun,
and there was no reason to believe that he was dead, as 6,000
prisoners had 'been taken. On the above date Geraldine
Cummins had a communication from her father, who had died
some years previously, in which he said my son was there with
him. She then got into touch with Marwood, who confirmed this,
and warned her not to tell me, as I was not well, and my grief
would affect $e boy. I was not to be told "till well in the summer."
On June 22nd, 1942, I got· the first unofficial news (through
the Society of Friends) of my son's death. Later I had several
communications from Marwood and Bun, through the hand of
Geraldine Cummins. Bun started one communication: "My
own Mum"-This was a family joke as each of my three boys
claimed me as his exclusive property. The signature was larger
but very like Bun's own writing, and the headlong, excited style
was characteristic of his earthly letters.
15
16 THEY SURVIVE
In June 1942, Bun's father gave a description of his son's
death. "Bun was, as it were, struck down, flung out of life. It
seems that his camp was assailed from the air, and in .other ways.
He saw horrors, but not many. He went quickly."
In July 1943, I received a letter from a sergeant of the Hong
Kong Volunteers, who was taken prisoner but escaped later. He
wrote: "We were under constant shelling, and his coolness was
a great example to all in the position. . . . The body of your
son was found in the gun position itself, and as far as I could tell,
he had been killed outright." I afterwards heard from the M.O.
that he had been shot through the head. The attack on Hong
Kong was then only four days old.
In the same script (June 1942) came the following words:
Bear in mind that Bun was marvellously delivered from what
would have been hell-bitter, cruel. His young soul escaped
torture.
It was a year later that stories of the tortures on the Hong
Kong priso~ers leaked out.
August 1942. I was the sitter when Bun, in a script through
Geraldine Cummins, apologized for writing me a furious, unkind
letter in answer to one of mine remonstrating with him for not
living within his income. This incident was UI!known to Geraldine
Cummins till she read the script with me. The changes in hand-
writing and the likeness to both Marwood and Bun's signatures
(which are utterly dissimilar) could only be brought out by
photographs of the scripts and original signatures. I think these
incidents go.to show there certainly was a discarnate mind in touch
with Geraldine Cummins and me. The dates are the important
factors.
At a lecture given at the British College of Psychic Science,
Professor Macbride, F.R.S., made the following remark: "If you can
show that knowledge has been received from a medium which the
sitters did not know and the medium didn't know, which afterwards
turned out to be correct, then I think you have extremely strong
evidence."
In this case, Mrs. Webb might be described as the "absent sitter"
for knowledge was received on the first two occasions when she was not
present, which neither she nor the automatist knew, i.e., in the stated
death of her son, four months before any notification' of this event
was received; Again in the words of the automatic writing, "Bun
was marvellously delivered from what would have been hell-bitter,
THEY SUB.VIV'E 17
cruel. His young soul escaped torture." Also, the account of the
circumstances of the death was substantially correct.
The announcement of the death was tragic information, opposed
to the hopes and_ wishes of medium and absent sitter, and, as Mrs.
, Webb has written, "thel:e was no reason to believe he was dead, as
6,000 prisoners had been taken."
In this case,.the standard of evidence required by a.Fellow of the
Royal Society has been fulfilled. It is reinforced by the likeness
of the signatures of both father and son to those in the automatic
writing. Of these Mrs. Webb writes:
The resemblance of the two ·handwritings to the originals is
extraordinary; as G.C. never saw either (of the latter) and they
are utterly unlike her own writing. The evidence of supernormal
intelligence must, I think, be conceded.
In sending Miss Cummins her record, Mrs•.Webb added: .
I have deliberately chosen with care what I consider evidence
good enough for a court of law. • • • As I am all in favour of
carrying the war of proved faith into the camps of the materialists
who will not allow these powers to be used as they are meant to
be employed-for the helping of humanity to understand itself
and the Infinity into which it has been born.
Case II
LIEUT. N. A. St. G. GIBBES, VIll HUSSARS
Tms case is of an extremely personal nature, and it was only after
some hesitation that I decided to discuss it in this book. It includes
some evidence ofprecognition or the forecasting ofevents. I submitted
the evidence of precognition to the London Society of Psychical
Research. In due course, a report of the forecast was published in
their Journal, which.is circulated only to members. This record js
reproduced by permission of the Society. I have made some slight . ·
alterations and added a paragraph to it. It is followed in this chapter
by some interesting evidence of survival.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research, May-June 1942.
The following extracts from the record of a long series of
-communications have been contributed by Miss E. B. Gibbes.
The extracts are selected as referring precognitively to a single
18 THEY SURVIVE
episode, the wounding and recovery of Miss Gibbes' nephew;
his deceased mother is the purporting communicator in scripts
obtained· by Miss Geraldine Cummins, who was in Ireland at·
the time. His deceased uncle is the communicator in two earlier
messages, one obtained by Miss Cummins and the other by Mrs.
Taylor. Miss Gibbes explains the family names and relationships
about which the reader will need to l>e informed, in the first para-
graph that follows; her ensuing record of dated events explains
itself.
My sister-in-law, who died on July 16th, 1941, was devoted
to her two sons, and these extracts conclude with a letter from
one of them, Nigel, confirming what she wrote through Geraldine
Cummins. Peggy is his young wife. Harold was her favourite
brother who died some years ago. Nigel is the son in·question,
and Hilda is the name of my sister-in-law.1 There have been other
prophecies in connection with the death of Hilda, given through
various mediums some years ago which came true. My brother
Frank was Nigel's uncle.
The following was the first intimation of what has proved to
be an interesting example of prevision.
On. October 31st, 1941, writing through Geraldine, Harold
remarks that Hilda had had what he "could only call a nightmare
-a conviction that something bad had happened to Nigel••.•"
On November 7th, writing through G., Hilda remarks: "They
keep telling me Nigel is all right but I had such a fear about
him. • , •" (This script was received by me on November 13th.)
On November 14th, in order to calm hCr mind, I sent G. a
telegram saying:. "Please reassure Hilda immediately. Nigel
cables each week that he is \\tell. • . .'' (Peggy ha,d written that
she had had several cables to this effect.)
On. November 14th, G. prepared herself for automatic writing
and, after reading aloud my wire, wrote the following extract,
purporting to come from Hilda: "Tell Bea• I am very grateful
to her for her wire. It means so much to me that Nigel is well.
I had such bad dreams about him. I dreamt that he was wounded,
tha,t he lay out on a battlefield in great pain. That Peggy said he
was missing, that he did lose an arm or a leg. I can scarcely bear
thinking about it and now you tell me it is all fancy, that my
darling is well. .. .''
1 This, the actual name, is printed in place of a family nickname in the
scripts that follow, for the sake of simplicity.
• Abbreviation of Beatrice-the name by which I was known in the
family.-E. B. G.·
THEY SURVIVE 19
On December 2nd, 1941, Hilda purported to write the foUowing
few lines, through Geraldine. "Hilda. Will you tell Bea that I
was right and she made a mistake.-My poor darling Ni, he has
been wounded or was I dreaming? No. No, it was real. But
tell Bea I am happy about him for it wasn't or didn't seem as bad
as I thought. ..."
On December 4th, Peggy wrote: "I have ·just this moment
received this cable from Nigel: 'Wounded in leg, nothing serious.
Now in base hospital. .. .'"
On December 20th, Peggy wrote: "I have had letters from Nigel
saying he has a broken leg, broken ear drum. and has had two
operations to remove shrapnel from his legs and he was burnt
about the face. • • .'' ·
It will be observed that Hilda appearedto have this vision of Nigel
on or before October 31st, 1941. That it is again referred to on Novem•
ber 7th. On November 14th, H. wrote that Nigel lay out on a battle-.
field wounded in leg or arm. According to the papers and in Nigel's
confirmatory letter, the campaign in Libya opened on November
18th.
On November 21st, Nigel was wounded apparently in these
circumstances :
Extract/rom a letter from Nigel received February 19th, 1942.
(Written to Miss Gibbes from hospital and dated January 5th,
.1942.)
I have just received your two airgraphs, dated December 5th
and 11th. Thank you very much, the information received from
·Mother via Geraldine is most interesting. I don't think now there
can be any harm in giving you the information and dates as it is
so long ago. We left the Metropolis and moved into the desert
on October 8th. The battle started on November 18th, and I was
woundedon November21st about 5o'clock in the evening. I lay out
all night by my tank which was burning and was picked up about
7 o'clock the next morning, November 22nd. My leg was operated
on at an advanced dressing station the same evening and I finally
fetched up here about 7 p.m. on November 29th. I was operated
on a second time on December 1st, when they removed a fairly
large bit of shrapnel from my·leg, and that, I think, is the whole
story. I am up and about again now but walking is slow a:nd some-
what painful still, as the wound has not yet healed. . • •
20 THEY SUR VIVB
It is interesting to note that, though Miss Cummins was alone
and not holding a sitting expressly for her, Hilda wrote with a relieved
mind, on the day after Nigel had had his second operation (December
1st). He was then apparently progressing satisfactorily. Also it will
be observed that Hilda wrote through Geraldine two days before
Peggy or anyone else in England had received the information that
Nigel had been wounded. In addition to this, she stated a fact which
was oppased to the information I had sent her. So far as I know,
there was no question of Nigel having been reported missing.
In March 1940, at a sitting with Mrs. Taylor at the London
Spiritualist Alliance, my brother Frank indicated that there would
be an anxious time about Nigel, but that he would come back. Inci-
dentally, Mrs. Taylor also said that Nigel's mother would have passed
over before he returned.
On May 17th, 1940, writing through Geraldine Cummins, my
brother Frank said: .•."We shall have heavy losses in life. I think
Nigel is wounded, but he recovers. • • • ·
I now give an account of how the news of the death of Hilda
was written through Geraldine Cummins in Ireland, when she was •
unaware that it had occurred in England.1
My brother Arthur died in June 1941, his wife Hilda died suddenly
four weeks later. Nigel, their elder son, had left for the Middle East
four days after his father's death and had been unable to attend the
funeral or to see his mother again after his recent embarkation leave.
So that my sister-in-law had, in a sense, lost them both within a few
days of each other. In a letter to Geraldine, I had told her ofArthur's
death which was inevitable and which we had all anticipated. I ex-
plained that Hilda had been wonderfully brave and courageous
throughout all this worry and anxiety, in addition to her own almost
incessant pain-she had suffered, among other things, from arthritis
for several years.
When Hilda died, I did not inform Geraldine of the fact, I merely
asked her to get in touch with my brother Frank, who died in 1932,
or with Hilda's father, nicknamed "Govy" by his family, or with
her younger sister, Muriel. The latter had died of influenza in the
autumn of 1918. The father had died earlier during the last war.
From time to time I had had communications from them all. In my
1 As my notes sent to the Editor of the S. P. R. Journal were rather
roughly made out and Christian names used, I am continuing throughout
this record,·in the same somewhat intimato manner.
THEY SUR VI VI! 21
letter I merely said "As I had had no news lately, I would like to know
how were they all getting Qn ?"
Extractfrom letterfrom Geraldine Cummins, datedJuly 22nd, 1941. ·
(It will be remembered that Hilda died on the 16th. Letters
to and from Ireland took eight to ten days each way.) "I have
just had your letter by second post. I shall devote to-morrow
morning to a sitting. • • • I was very glad to hear that Hilda is
carrying on well. • • • I do hope she continues to carry on well.'.'
(Referring, of course, to. my previous letter.)
On July 23rd, my brother Frank in automatic writing gave
an account ofhow he had seen my brother Arthur. This was followed
.by more details from Hilda's father and a few lines from Muriel,
all on the same theme assuring me that Arthur was with them and
quite all right.
I was extremely surprised and not a little worried and upset on.
'receipt of these scripts about eight days later, for in none of them
- was Hilda mentioned. However, the mystery was solved by the arrival
of another letter from Geraldine saying she had omitted to enclose,
with her previous letter, a few lines of writing from Muriel which were
given after the three other communications were made. After com-
pleting these, Geraldine had apparently felt she must write again,
and the following few lines were inscribed on another sheet of paper:
Astor. Muriel wants to say something more. Muriel: Just
tell Bea, please, that Hilda is really resting at last, that she mustn't
worry about her. All is well with her. She will enjoy her flowors
soon.
This gave the clue. It became obvious to me that the communicator
could only in these words convey the fact that Hilda was with them.
Clearly, Geraldine entirely believed the remark in my previous letters
that Hilda was keeping well in spite of the loss ofher husband and the
departure of her elder son. So the statement of her death would have
met with an almost impassable barrier in the medium's mind and could
only be expressed in this indirect way. Astor spontaneously explained
later that, as in a distant manner, Geraldine was extremely fond of
my sister-in-law, had they forced the news through her mind at the
time, the shock would have .been so great that it would have seriously
upset her, being as she then was, in the sensitive condition necessary
for psychic communications.
Extract from letter from Geraldine Cummins, dated July 28th, 1941
(lifter explaining how she had mislaid the missing page, she wrote):
Tell me if it is correct, if she is really able to rest. • • • It is
22 THEY SURVIVB
great news that she is bearing it so wellas you said in your last
letter (written before Hilda's death). I hope that during the summer
Hilda will pick up and really enjoy her flowers. . • • At any rate
it is a great comfort to me to hear that she is carrying on well.
• . • Please God she will be spared for some time yet and will
have Nigel back later on.
I quote these extracts in order to show how entirely Geraldine had
misinterpreted the last few lines of Muriel's writing. Subsequently,
on August 3rd, I wrote to Muriel through Geraldine, asking if she
could give me any details of the passing of my sister-in-Jaw; saying
that I should like to know of Hilda's la5t days and how she left here.
In fact, "what happened." I had merely written telling Geraldine
briefly and gently of what had occurred. I gave her no details about
the circumstances of Hilda·s death.
All the above correspondence is, of neCessity, abbreviated. But
I now give an entire script.
On August 9th, 1941, Geraldine wrote:
Astor is here. Yes, I have already asked Muriel about Hilda's
last days. There seems to have been some great anxiety about the
elder son-a great fear that he was suffering in the midst ofviolence,
or dead. I can't get Govy to come and speak for he is entirely
devoting himself to the curative work on Hilda's delicate psyche.
He is using all his powers to eliminate the terror for her son's pain.
It is lurking there like a haunting demon. So he remains watching
by her. And during the long periods of rest for her he concentrates
upon that, keeping iti from re-entering her soul. For if it did it
would be difficult to dislodge.
Muriel to Bea: My dear, you want me to tell you about Hilda's
last days. I was watching for every opportunity to be with her
and near her. Govy was away, engaged on work in the struggle
with the gigantic evil that was flowing to the earth and is still
obsessing it, but with less strength than in the first half of last
month. .
I saw Hilda trying to carry on after Arthur's passing, writing
letters, wearying her tired brain. Then suddenly there came
some great disturbance in her mind. I felt as if everything went
black about her. I could see Bea with a tragic face. It was a face
"" of loss, as if she had heard something very bad. She and Hilda
were then together. It was all a confusion of shifting pictures
that came and went. It was hard to grasp their meaning. I con-
cluded that they had heard Nigel was in the fighting or in some
situation of violence .in which there were explosions. A little
earlier than that I had seen him well, though very sad about his
fa~r. but prepared with reckless courage to face his own future.
TBRY SURVIVB 23
Then I ~w real terror in Hilda's mind for Nigel, as if she had
heard something very serious about him. So I left her and tried
to penetrate the mists and reach that hot, blue sea where I had
last seen Nigel. But I couldn't reach him. It was as if the din,
the thunder and the noise in that part made any link with him,
any penetration to him, impossible.
I struggled to get back to Hilda and I became aware of Bea
being with her and that it was the worst time of all in Hilda's
life-there was a sudden catch at the heart, a wild terror, and then
I could perceive the blood rushing through the brittle veins to
her head.· I was aware of a violent pain in the head. Then it
ceased and everything became dark for her. I could feel stiffness,
rigidity of the body, particularly the left side. It seemed cold,
so cold. But Hilda's mind was struggling, trying to break through
the dark, trying to move what couldn.'t be moved; to speak,
and was unable to speak. There were figures about her,
whispers, a short, stout woman there. Bea again. Also a young
woman who seemed to be helpful, to think quickly and act. -
Afterwards there was a middle-aged man, I suppose he was the
doctor. ·
I can only say about what happened that if Hilda didn't get
bad news about Nigel, she conjured up some nightmare of
horror about him in her mind which I saw and Bea was near, that
I saw too. It was as if there had been one trouble after another
and this was the last straw. At any rate the horror broke
Hilda. Her body was shattered, by a stroke probably, for
there was a bursting of the veins and there was heart failure,
Iater-I think.
I didn't want to talk of this but you insisted on my telling you
what I saw, 'so I am just giving you my impressions. They may
have been forced, distorted, for you must know that things are
very bad psychically about the earth. Tremendous forces of evil
have been drawn up from the depths by the black soul of the
German people .and by the man who summoned the principle of
evil, the father of lies, and made his pact with him. Nearly all our
generation and the preceding generation have been engaged in .
some way in this conflict. At the moment it is a little easier but
for the first few· weeks when the east of Europe went into flames,
the atmosphere we entered round the earth was all chaos.1 It's
quite different from the days of peace when we could come and
go easily.
I am sorry I can't tell you more now, I feel yourhand slackening.
My love to Bea. Tell her not to worry as Govy is watching faith-
fully by Hilda and we hope Harold, when she wakes again, will
1 "East of Europe went into flames." Germany attacked Russia on
Sunday.June 22nd, 1941. A.M. G. (Arthur) died J:une 20th, 1941. H. L. G.
(Hilda) died July 16th, 1941.
24 THBY SUR VIVB
be able to take her to the garden and bring about her the healing,
youthful_memories of 1900.
Yours always,
MURIBL.
P.S.-Ruth couldn't be with Hilda as she is struggling to keep
near Eric and her own children-that is what is so hard, to keep
near them in this time.1
On Monday, August 11th, 1941, in answer to a further letter from
me, the following communication was made: ·
Astor is here. Yes, I can call Govy now.
Govy, you ask me about my Hilda's last days. Her passing
was peaceful and rapid. (Geraldine referred to Hilda's death
and attributed it to some misfortune having occurred to
Nigel.)
No, if Muriel told you that, she is wrong. But I see where the
mistake came in. Hilda did not receive bad news about Nigel.
But she imagined it was coming. She heard in her mind all the
horrible sounds ofwar about him, the din, the noise, the explosions.
Muriel probably saw these dark pictures which, because they were
imagined by Hilda before her passing, were real, clear-cut and
definite, shaped by fear, and these Muriel saw and told you about.
Of the two boys, Tony is the hardest hit. He needs comforting
most. But he will get over it in a little while. My Hilda was
worn out by the strain of her husband's illness and the separatjon
from Nigel. So she slipped out of her body without great pain
or struggle. It is well with my child. Don't be troubled about
her. We shall cure her of the disease and sorrow rapidly. Your
hand is lead to-day, I cannot go on writing. (Geraldine was
terribly overworked, rushed and worried just then.)
At that time, Nigel was safe and had seen no fighting-only
experiencing the long sea voyage via the Cape to Egypt. And it is
evident to me that as "Govy" explained, Muriel picked up Hilda's
many thoughts and fears concerning Nigel after his departure for the
Middle East. I well remember that, on one occasion when the days
went by, and, of course, no word came from him, I tried to cheer
her up with some remark about his safety: that he was probably
enjoying himselfat sea. She replied: "Yes, but he may be torpedoed."
All those four weeks she must have endured agonies of-mind though
she said little about it and always made an effort to be cheerful. But ·
I know that the loss of her husband and the departure of her elder
son, four days later, nearly broke her heart.
1 Ruth is an elder sister who died in 1933. Eric is her husband, still
living.
THEY SURVIVE 25
The earlier part of Muriel's communication of August 9th refers
to the two or three weeks before Hilda's death, when she had in-
numerable letters to write and her brain was utterly weary. But I
cannot place the first description given when Hilda and I were together.
This may be confused with what happened later to Hilda, and be due
.to "the shifting pictures that came and went."
Muriel's description of Hilda's death is remarkably accurate.
Hilda, as described, suddenly complained of a violent pain in the
head; became unconscious almost at once and died three hours
later. She was unable to move during those last hours. The blood
would have rushed to her head as described in the script. It was also
correct I believe, that the left side was the worst. · Her companion-
the boys' old governess-Mademoiselle, is "short and stout." She
and I, as indicated, were with Hilda while she was unconscious.
Her daughter-in-law Peggy, Nigel's wife, came in about one p.m.,
having been out in the woods all the morning, and was "helpful,"
thinking. and acting quickly, as stated. She iminediately took the car
to fetch a doctor from the nearest town. He was "middle-aged," (my
sister-in-law's own medical man was out and could not at once be
traced by telephone). When death came, it was due to sudden "heart
failure."
It must be remembered that Geraldine was in complete ignorance
of the circumstances of the passing of my sister-in-law. There might
have been two or three doctors, a hospital nurse and others present,
including the second son who was in England at the time. Yet none
was mentioned in the script but those who were around Hilda at the
time of her death.
I must now relate the tragic sequel to the report published in the
Journal of the Society of Psychical Research and quoted above.
During the spring of 1942, I had an attack of influenza with com-
plications which left me rather seedy for some time. Geraldine
Cummins came over from Ireland and stayed in my house in London
for about ten days. While sitting beside my bed, she obtained auto-
matic writing for me on three occasions (May 26th, June 1st and 4th,
1942). I had been keeping in touch with Hilda all the winter and
spring by this method of posting occasional letters to Geraldine which
she placed on the table, and, when the various communicators had
announced their presence in writing, read aloud to them. (Alterna-
tively, the communicators sometimes use her eyes and read the letters
through her.)
•I)
On May 26th, 1942, Hilda prattled on in her customary evidential
26 THBY SURVIVE
and happy manner, talking of her sons and chaffing me but showing
no special anxiety aoncerning Nigel.
On June 1st, 1942, after other conversation, she suddenly wrote:
I have been in my garden, and I really ha<l some rather lovely.
roses out made by my own hands and mind. I was so pleased
I was just going to pick one red one for Tony, one cream one for
Nigel, when there came a cloud of smoke and then sounds like guns
and I saw those dreadful tanks rushing over that comer ofmy new
garden. Out of one of them Ni looked, so white, so exhausted
and he was in his battle-dress. I felt a great pain in my head
and so hot, and choky. There were clouds of dust about us. I
tried to reach Ni between those terrible monsters and I knew my
headache was his headache and my choking was because he
couldn't breathe properly. Just as I came beside his tank and my
arms went out to my darling, there was an explosion. I saw
nothing more. I .found myself· back among the roses, the bees
humming among them and no other sound. Do you mind my
telling you this, Bea dear? They don't understand over here.
They are so far away from all that. But you and.I were through
a little of it so you know what I feel. Is my Ni in great danger 1
These remarks considerably shocked me, for her previous vision
of Nigel's wound had been so accurate. But hoping that this second
vision was due to some trick of her imagination, I tried to console
her by saying that perhaps she had picked up other people's thoughts
from earth, and confused them with her own. Eventually, I set her
mind at rest by saying that, for all we knew, Nigel's regiment might
be some distance from the Front, in the Caucasus, or waiting some-
where safe to back up Russia via Persia later. I knew it was not so.
But while Hilda was on earth I had (with others), so often endeavoured
to calm her fears in many ways, that I felt justified in doing the same
in this case. It seemed strange to me that those with whom she now
was were unable to help her in her anxieties. However, they explained
later that, owing to the worried and troubled state of mind in which
she had left this earth, great care still was needed in order not to
harm the delicate "psyche" that had now become her body. So she
was kept largely in ignorance of earth events.
On June 4th, 1942, Hilda described some of her experiences in the
"Beyond" and she suddenly added that:
Govy has been teaching me things. I was not to be frightened
any more, I mean about Nigel, and it is strange, I feel quite calm
and happy, as if he were safe from real pain.
THBY SURVIVB
Then she joked in her witty and characteristic manner and nothing
more was said of her concern for Nigel.
Geraldine returned to Ireland the next day (June 5th).
On Tuesday afternoon, June 9th, 1942, Peggy's mother rang me up
and told me that they had that day received information from the
War Office that Nigel had been killed-died ofwounds-on May 21th.
It seemed incredible. Subsequent confirmation of the events outlined
in the script of June 1st came from Nigel's great friend; who was
able to get to him just before be died, whom he recognized and to
whom he was just able to speak. Save one other very slightly
injured, Nigel was the only one hurt by a direCt hit on the side of his
tank. He lived for two or three hours before passing on-joining
his parents who had gone before him ten and eleven months
previously.
It will be observed that Hilda made no mention of anything tragic
. at the sitting of May 26th, the day before Nigel's death. On June 1st,
she was terribly upset at what she had experienced. On June 4th she
. said she felt calm and happy about him. "as ifhe were quite safe from
real pain." She was apparently unaware of the true reason for this
at the time. Granting survival, conditions surrounding Nigel im-
mediately after death on the battlefield, would no doubt make a
meeting between them impossible.
In this case, the circumstances of a death were described that were
unknown at the time to any of the automatisi's friends or acquain-
tances. They could have been known only to those who had wit-
nessed them in far-away Ubya. Did Miss Cummins therefore,
receive telepathically from the minds ofstrangers this vivid description
of events that apparently took place ? It seems easier to believe that
this devoted mother was drawn, through her love, to be with her
son in that last critical moment of his life. Possibly some half-
unconscious thought went out from him to her and thus she caught
a momentary vision ofNigel and experienced some ofhis last sufferings.
He was devoted to his mother.1
There is more material of considerable interest in this series of
automatically written scripts. But owing to space limitations orily
1 After this book had been typed, I happened to read over some early
·trance-writings purporting to come from my elder sister. In one of them,
writing through G.C. she said; that she had been "wanting to talk about
Nigel," that "she was surprised when he suddenly came out of the mist we
always find about the earth." Nigel had been to see me the day before she
wrote and G. C. was present. He was then aged 15. I asked my sister to
explain how it was she saw Nigel. She replied: "It was something in him
that made me see him. I think he had so'me kind of power that helped to
draw me to him and clear away the mist. Not the ordinary power, but just
I think, becauSe he is a Gibbes...." This seems to bear out my suggestion
concerning Hilda being drawn to Nigel as described above.
28 THEY SURVIVE
one further extract from the writings of these communicators is
recorded. Prevision of Nigel's death is again indicated.
When she was on earth, Hilda created a lovely garden which
was of engrossing interest to her. -
On January 25th, 1942, four months before Nigel's death, writing ·
alone in Ireland, Geraldine sent me a communication from Harold,
Hilda's brother. It began with these words:
We have been making an exhaustive study of azaleas. It is
now Hilda's fancy that Nigel will come home in May, so I began
to teach her our method of gardening. • . .
There followed an account of this process in their world. Then
he continued:
' She has caught on to the idea of painting a picture of the
Wickenden azaleas here, to be ready in her garden at the time of
Nigel's home-coming.... Hilda imagines, by the way, that
he will be back at Wick. in May, so she is determined that
over here she will be looking at what he is looking at-the
azaleas•.•.
I did not then take this hint of what might be going to happen,
though my brother Frank's wife drew my attention to it when I _read
it over to her some little time later. But as Nigel had been so recently
wounded, I concluded that Hilda meant that she thought he would
be sent home to Wickenden-his Sussex home; in fact, the last
remark indicated this. From the first sentence quoted above, it would
seem that Harold knew the truth and changed his words in order
not to.worry me. For the so-called dead appear to be still very sym-
pathetic to our earthly cares and feelings. Being at that time very
occupied with war work, I did not sift these scripts carefully and give
them the attention I should otherwise have done. Now I see what
was indicated.
In conclusion, it is necessary to make a few comments on the
remarks dealing with prevision given through Mrs. Taylor, purporting
to come from my brother Frank, published in the S.P.R. Journal and
outlined earlier in this case. It will be noted that it was said that
Nigel would return. In that, Mrs. Taylor (or the communicator) was
wrong, though it was correctly hinted that Nigel's mother would have
passed over before he returned. This might have been meant to
indicate that she would soon pass away. Writing direct through
Geraldine Cummins, it will be observed that my brother Frank
confines -himself to saying: "I think Nigel is wounded, but he
recovers."
Obviously, he referred to the first time his nephew was hurt •
THEY SURVIVE 29
Perhaps he saw no further, or, ifhe did, did not wish to impart what
he foresaw.
The confusion in the Taylor sitting might have bee~) duo to mis- -
interpretation on the part of the control. On the other band, my
brother Frank, through Mrs. Taylor, gave accurate details concerning
the death of my sister-iii-law, among them that she would pass o~
in "deep sleep" in summer-time.
Also Mrs. Taylor hinted at the life of Nigel being "cut, there is
alteration and change" ''to the one interested in aeroplanes."
· Those readers who judge that the above record perhaps represents
certain conditions in the Beyond, may be glad to know that, though
Hilda bad frequently written of her happiness before Nigel's death,
her delight at being no longer separated from him is unbounded.
They are together. And what was to us a tragedy has so beautifully
ended in supreme joy in that other life.
I have ·not deleted from these scripts some little personal touches.
It is my hope that, in this human and tragic record, those suffering
from recent losses may derive from it the belief that there is
a life to come, and that, as seems obvious, death does not
change us. .
In concluding this case, I would especially draw the reader's
attention to the ·"Postscript" at the close of this book.
Case III
. FLYING OFFICER IAN MACLEAN, D.F.C., R.A.F.V.R.
'THE case oflan Maclean is analogous to that of B. G. W. Yeatman
in that his death was known to no one in England at the time when
it was "reported" through Geraldine Cummins from the Beyond.
In this case, my nephew Nigel-with whose name readers will now
be familiar-claimed a month before his death was announced by the
Air Ministry that he bad heard of him and also met him.
I am indebted to his mother, Lady Maclean, and to his wife,
for permission to include his story in this book. The facts are
these:
Ian Maclean was reported to be missing from air operations on
the night of September 14-15, 1943, but Maclean's relatives were
always hoPeful and convinced that .he was. a prisoner or in hiding
somewhere, and that he would ultimately ·make his way back to
this country•. Time wore on and I was afraid they were mistaken.
Geraldine Cummins, in Ireland, was very occupied, and I did not
want to take up too much of her time in conductins psychic
correspondence. ·
30 THEY SURVIVB
On January 24th, 1944, however, at the end of a letter sent to
Nigel, I made the following remark: "Have you met Ian Maclean
- in R.A.F. yet 'l He is the son of Lady Maclean, a friend of mine,
you may remember."
On J~y 29th, 1944, Nigel replled. After other matters he
wrote:
Funny you should mention Ian·Maclean. When I was on the ·
brink of no-man's-land a little time ago, I heard his name called.
I was preparing to nose-dive on the chance of picking up a bag
of airmen who might be stuck in the black night between life and
death. A chap next me said he had been told to fetch up Ian
Maclean. We haven't any time here--or at any rate, it doesn't
keep time with Big Ben. So I can't tell you the date it happened.
I shall make enquiries about him if you like. His mother was
your friend, wasn't she 'l I saw him later, you know. Though
I've lots more to say, I can't hold on now. Thanks ever so much
for news, etc.
Lady Maclean had told me early in February 1944 that her son's
effects had been returned, but that she and her daughter-in-law were
still quite happy and confident about hiin. There was, of course,
nothing for me to say as the information given by Nigel might have
proved incorrect. I decided to await events and in the meantime; if
possible, to get more details from the latter. I asked Miss Cummins
.therefore merely to "get Nigel to send some messages from Maclean."
·on February 26th, 1944, Lady Maclean was officially lnformed
that her son was believed to have lost his life on the night of
September 14th-15th, 1943. Co:rlirmation of Nigel's report was thuS
received exactly four weeks later. That the missing man had passed
over some time ago was evident from Nigel's remarks recorded above
for he refers to the incident of hearing his name called as·though it
was a past event of uncertain time, and added: "I saw him later,
you know."
It is claimed by the so-called dead that neither time nor space
exist as we understand them in the world to which we go at death.
What may seem a long time to us may be only a short time to "them."
I may here explain that Nigel's expression of "nose-diving," etc., and
his general. interest in airmen, is accounted for by the fact that some
years ago he obtained his pilot's certificate. ~
The following script shows that Ian Maclean had passed over
some while ago, for he had recovered from the shock of his death,
etc., and appears not to be at .all confused (a condition in the ~r-life
which, it is stated, sometimes occurs for a time after sudden death).
THEY SURVIVE 31
On March 1st, 1944, Miss Cummins produced this communication.
She was in complete ignorance of the fact that Ian's passing had not
been officially confirmed.
Astor is here. (She asked for my nephew and made the above
request.) Yes, wait a little. (Pause.)
Nigel Gibbes. Yes, tell my Aunt that I have talked to Maclean.
His ainnan friend brought me along to him. He has had to have
a long rest as he passed from his body so suddenly. He simply
slept and dreamt while his etheric body gradually emerged from
the chrysalis. That't~ how it's explained here. As regards his
death, as far as I could gather, it was very rapid. He said every-
thing went inky and black and he seemed to be travelling a long
time down a tunnel, and when at last his feet touched the bottom
and he thought ..I've parachuted safely on to solid earth," he
found himself floating in space. That was a pretty unpleasant
experience. It was lonely and it was dark. After a while a queer,
unearthly terror got hold of him, and he called and called to his
pals for help. That was the sensible thing to do, because one of
our chaps called Irvin or Irwin, found him and helped him out
of no-man's-land. He has got on famously since ·then. He has no
recollection of agonizing pain-only for one awful searing moment,
a blaze of light and then the tunnel.
He is with his father.1 But I gather that he was worrying about
his mother most of all. I told him I might be able to wireless to
her. He only half-believed me. But he said if I could, to tell her
and the others, that he was ..O.K., never felt better in his life."
But he is worried about affairs-if there will be money enough to
carry on. I asked him about his wife. Then he broke down rather
badly. I suppose he felt the parting from her too much; I don't
know. Anyhow, I changed the subject quickly and asked him
about his life in this comer of orir immense world. You know,
it's not like the earth, it has, so far as I know, no boundaries.
Anyhow, Maclean said he was having an amazing time-had
found his own crowd, and they, including himself, were all so
immensely relieved to find that they were alive, and not only that,
but they were neither in heaven nor in hell or in any other hot
spot, but were in a perfectly normal world, leading a life packed
with thrills. He said, if it wasn't for those left behind, he'd have
no regrets-he wouldn't be sorry for having packed up and cleared
out, or rather, been cleared out.
But he is worried about his affairs and whether there is enough
to make things comfortable. .You say you have got to leave off.
(This remark in reply to Geraldine as an interruption occurred in
the sitting.) One message then to his mother. He wants her not
to be upset about him-that he isn't lost or missing, that he was
1 The Rt. Hon. Sir Donald Maclean, M.P. (died 1932).
/
)
32 THEY SURVIVE
saved a lot of misery by taking the big jump into this world like a
parachutist-no breaks, a clean land-that he is having the hell
of a good time ahd there is nothing to be sad or worry about,
and all his love to Nancy and Donald and good luck. So that's
that, Auntie Bea. • • •
Yours,
NIGEL.
It was unfortunate that Miss Cummins was interrupted for Nigel
had obviously more to say. But in her busy life looking after
her invalid mother and many other matters during this war, alas,
this too frequently occurs when endeavouring to obtain automatic
writing.
In corroboration of the above script, Lady Maclean said it was
concluded that, as only two of the crew of the bomber were identified,
the plane must have caught fire and crashed or been shot down.
This would account for the blaze of light referred to by Nigel. In-
formation was received through the International Red Cross, that
Ian's body had been found, identified and buried with some of the
others. It is true that he had discussed the possibility of communica-
tion between the next world and this, and it is correct that he only
"half-believed;" he was inclined to ridicule it. It is also true that he
might be worried about his financial affairs. These details were, of
·course, unknown to the automatist. So far Irwin or Irvin is
unidentified.
In this case the wording of my remark in my letter to Nigel would
seem to suggest to the automatist that Ian Maclean was dead. On
the other hand she knew that he had only been reported missing and
she has a natural objection to writing the sentence of death while there
is still hope and when a friend is the mother of the son involved. If
evidence in alleged communications from the departed can be explained
by telepathy, then Miss Cummins should have recorded Lady Maclean's
and her daughter-in-law's belief that Ian was alive. But even if the
wording of my remark overcame the influence of telepathy and the
medium's conscious knowledge that there was an excellent chance
that he yet survived, there is still the account given of instantaneous
death in those circumstances to be explained. Ian might have been
seriously injured and have died of wounds or at least have lived for
some hours.
The sceptfc may of course, say that the correct information con-
veyed does not prove the survival of Ian Maclean; it merely shows
that Miss Cummins has the gift of clairvoyance, a faculty that invari-
ably finds out the truth about a matter in dispute, when other hypo-
theses fail. However, if clairvoyance is accepted as the explanation
of this and other evidence, then the influence of telepathy between
THEY SURVIVE 33
living minds is disproved. Miss Cummins has frequently met Lady
Maclean over a number of years and should have registered her all-
absorbing thoughts about her son.
CaseiY
BOB F.
TaB incident here described is of evidential value, in that not only
was it spontaneously given, but in this instance it is testified to by
Dr. E. <E. Somerville, the well-known author with Martin Ross of
The Experiences ofan Irish R.M., The Real Charlotte and other books
which have gained for these writers world fame. .
On the evening of September 27th, 1936, Geraldine Cummins had.
been giving a sitting for automatic writing to one of her sisters at her
home in Ireland. At the end of it, her control, "Astor," wrote that
someone was present who wanted to give a message. Miss Cummins
accompanied her sister downstairs and, later, returned alone to her
room. When there, she again took up her pen, and the following was
wP,tten:
(AsToR) May I let your friend, the Admiral, give his message
now ? He says he will only write for a few minutes.
(BoYLE SoMERVILLE) l felt that you would not mind conveying
a message to my sister. Tell her that all is well with Bob, that he
is at rest. We have been with him during his gradual passing. He
was ready to go, but was surprised and delighted to find all of
C. T. (name of village), who are over here, waiting for him at the
terminus. Don't have any regrets about Bob F.'s passing. He
slipped easily and quietly to us. He has escaped from an old and
worn-out body and is now going to be again the young and hand-
some man he was in his prime. He wants you to think of him in
that way and forget the old, tired man he became. We are all so
glad to have him with us. I can't write more now. I was anxious
to let you know through G. C. that Bob is with us and that he
is happy and at peace.
B.S.
The above message was obviously for Dr. E. <E. Somerville at
·whose home in Ireland Miss Cummins had frequently stayed. The
communicator "B. S.'' had done some experimental work in connec-
tion with psychometry with her, and, since his death nearly a year
previously, had communicated on three or four occasions. Miss
Cummins was doubtful as to the value of this message and hesitated
B
34 THEY SURVIVE
to forward it. Dr. Somerville: waa in America. Howcvor, she posted
it to her the next day. ,
Here is Dr; Somerville's statement of the case on her return.
DRISHANE HousE,
SKIBBEREEN,
Co. CoRK.
January 2nd, 1937.
I have been asked by my friend, Miss E. B. Gibbes, to state
what I know in connection with a case of psychic communication
of which one of my cousins was the subject.
I was in America, and, on the lOth of last October~ I heard
from my. sister, in Ireland, that a much-loved cousin (of whom I
will write as "Bob F." using an abbreviated Christian name and
an initial only, precisely a8 in the script), had died early on Sunday
morning, September 27th. By the same mail, I heard from my
friend; Miss Geraldine Cummins. Her letter was dated September
28th, 1936. It was a long letter, with no reference to psyc~c
subjects until the end, when she wrote as follows : "I was doing
some automatic writing, and 'Astor' asked me to let someone
speak. There came the enclosed page of writing. Do you know
anyone called 'Bob or Bob F.'? That seems to be the name in
the writing. It came late in the evening, when there was little
power left. But it seems to be intended for you. Just tear it up
ifit means nothing to you. I am a little doubtful as it came so late.''
I found that the script Miss Cummins enclosed was from my
brother, the late Vice-Admiral Boyle T. Somerville (who, it may be
remembered; was murdered by political assassins last March).
· He was a personal friend of Miss Cummins, and was much
interested in psychical research, and she and I have had several
extremely interesting direct communications from him since his
death. (Miss Gibbes has given a transcriptofmy brother's message
and the circumstances of its reception.) •
I wrote to my cousin's widow for the facts as to his death, and
she has written to me saying that he died between 2.30 and 3 a.m.
on Sunday morning, September 27th. She said that she had sent
no notice of his death to any newspapers until September 30th,
and only wired the information to his nearest relatives on Monday,
28th, being anxious that they should first hear of his death from
herself.
As Miss Cummins had never met Mr. "Bob F.," and only knew
his widow very slightly, it appears to me that my brother realized
that an opportunity had come, not only to reassure Bob F.'s
friends that he was happy and with his own people, but also to
present what seems to be an unassailable case of evidential
communication.
E. <E. SOMERVILLE, Lrrr.D.
THEY SURVIVE 35
It should be noted that Mr. "Bob F." died in England; also
that Miss Cummins was not corresponding with any other members of
Dr. Somerville's family at that time. Drishane, Dr. Somerville's
home, is sixty miles distant from that bf Miss Cummins.
As conclusive evidence of survival, this case fails in one respect
only, i.e., the telepathic theory is not eliminated. Miss Cummins had
once, some years ago, met the widow of "Bob F."
It is possible that this fact may suggest to the conscientious sceptic
that the information had been picked up by Miss Cummins from
Mrs. "Bob F." and was then dramatized by her, subconsciously, into
a suitable message to send to Dr. Somerville in America.
This solution seems to me to demand a large measure of credulity
as well as invention on the part of the sceptic. But sceptics are like
that.
Moreover, against this hypothesis we must take into consideration
the fact that Miss Cummins appears to be distinctly unreceptive to
telepathic communication. Some years ago a well-known investigator
of psychic phenomena invited Miss Cummins and myself to attend a
series of five test-sittings for the purpose of discovering if evidence of
telepathy could be obtained in connection with my mind and that of
the automatist in question. He had to admit that no evidence of
telepathy had been shown to exist between us in these experiments.
On two of these occasions I was substituted by a friend-a keen
investigator and one who is not convinced of survival. Yet on these
occasions also the results were declared to be negative, or at ·least,
the evidence was insufficient to show that there was any interaction
of mind between them.
Case V
HENRY BOYCE
1im Boyce Case describes in deti}il an episode·in which the identity
of an unknown communicator was eventually established and ulti-
·mately acknowledged by his widow. Incidentally, this case illustrates
how the conscious and not the subconscious mind of the sensitive
intervened and played havoc, for a time, with what would seem to be
indisputable evidence of survival. It further illustrates the difficulties
of communication and some of the many pitfalls in psychical research
into which the enquirer may become involved.
Miss Cummins and I started a series of experiments in automatism
at the end of 1923~ For the first fifteen months or so communications
of a varied kind were received. On November 18th, 1924, we were
invited to the house of Captain and Mrs. R. They were friends of
36 THBY SURVIVE
-mine; Miss Cummins had not met them. They were anxio~ to
see what results would be obtained from their association with her.
She prepared herself for writing as usual and after a few moments
b.Cr control, "Astor," wrote as fo1lows: .
Astor is here. There is someone here newly dead, I think,
anxious to get a message through. He has only just passed over
and has still his astral envelop about him.
(E. B. G.) Please ask him to speak. (The writing changed).
Is this the earth'l How queer. I thought I was dead. Is my wife
there?
(E. B. G.) We don't know who you are.
Surely you see me 'l
(E. B. G.) No, we can't.
Then perhaps if I tell you who I· am, you will tell my wife
I am alive.
(E. B. G.) Yes, please tell us who you are.
Henry is my Christian name.
(E. B. G.) That isn't sufficient.
Try and listen now. (Here the pencil hesitated a little, making
only a tiny movement. Then the following was written and
Ull.derlined).
Bois. Horswich. Did you get my name 'l
(E. B. G.) Yes, that is clear.
The place I lived in. Write to Highfield; my wife liveS there.
(E. B. G.) I wonder if we have your name correctly 'l
Yes, Henry Bois, Bois.
(The pencil then gyrated as if there were some difficulty and
again the word "Bois" was written.)
(E. B. G.) All right, your name is clear. I will try to trace
you at that address.
Yes, yes. Horswich. Tell her I am alive. I know how she is
grieving. Tell my wife her husband will be wat~ for her and
give her my love. I am in dimness but don't tell her that. I feel
this is only the beginning. I have faith. I know I Shall find Heaven
and my God eventually.
(E. B. G.) I don't know where this place is that you mention
but I will try to trace it. .
England. Horswich. It's not a foreign name. I am English.
(E. B. G.) We would like now to see if there is anytme else
here who would care to speak, so I must ask you to come again.
Yes, please let me come again. I am so relieved to feel the
earth has not stopped. I thought everything had stopped at first.
Good-bye.
At this juncture.it was· necessary to send this cOmmunicator away,
for Captain and Mrs. R. were getting very bored, .They ~d anticipated
THEY SUR VI VB 37
conversations with their friends. Therefore we transferred to an
improvised ouija-board at. which Captain and Mrs. R. themselves
sat in order to receive communications. The first entity who then
claimed to spell out some remarks was F. W. H. Myers.1 None
present was acquainted with him. After a while I asked Astor to call
someone connected with our friends and the communication pro-
ceeded on other lines.
Now it seemed apparent that some obstruction checked the
writing of the name "Bois." But as the communication of names is
sometimes a stumbling-block in psychical research, I attached no
especial importance to it. Later it will be shown that this hindrance
was caused by a conflict taking place in the mind of the automatist.
Considerable delay in proving the identity of this communicator
thereby resulted.
When I told Miss Cummins of the message from Henry Bois,
she at once remarked that itmust be the invention of her subconscious
mind. She stated that she knew a certain Henry Bois then living in
India. Therefore she assumed the whole message to be fictitious.
Nevertheless, I consulted ·a railway guide book and discovered that
a town of the name of Horswich existed in Cheshire.s So far as we
could remember, neither she nor I had ever heard of it. I wrote to the
postmaster. On November 28th, 1924, he replied that he "had made
enquiries from all the postmen in the district, but was sorry he could
not help me to find Mr. Henry Bois-." For the time I let it go at that,
believing that dramatization by the subconscious mind accounted for
what had been written.
On December 13th following, Miss Cummins and I were experi-
menting at the ouija-board. She was blindfolded. I was watching
and recording the words spelt out. At first the communication
consisted ofa few disjointed remarks from Astor expressing annoyance
at the bandage. Then followed the words:
· Let me talk. Henry Bois. My wife. Help me. Write pencil.
(E. B. G.) If you are Henry Bois, can you give me the name
of the place you know? .
Horswich.
(E. B. G.) I want the name of the house or street.
Highfield. Message, my wife, love.
The above was slowly spelt out. I then removed the scarffrom the
eyes of the automatist and the c'?mmunication proceeded rapidly.
Give my wife my love, give it to her, will you please?
(E. B. G.) If I can. Tell me if you remember when you died ?
1 See The Road to Immortality, pp. 137-8.
· 1 Pseudonyms are adopted for the name of the town and the county
in England.
38 THBY SURVIVE
November. Will you give my message? My low and I am
alive. Tell her that.
(E. B. G.) I will, if I can find the right address.
Highfield, Highfield Road.
(E. B; G.) Is your name really Henry Bois_?
Yes, Bois.
(E. B. G.) I wrote to Horswich in Cheshire. Is that right?
Horswich, Scotland. I am confused. Find my wife. Let her
know I am alive. She thinks I am dead. I am not dead at all.
I feel so clear now. My memory is muddled still but I can think
and I have no pain at all. She may not believe or consider it is
really true. How did I succeed in getting back to earth ? I don't
really grasp what this means. I saw you in a whirl of mist. It is
clearer to-night.
(E. B. G.) You remember speaking to us on. a previous
occasion 'l .
A lot of shapes were near me then. But when I saw the light
I went straight for it. I didn't care. I wasn't frightened. I just
wanted light to see-to know what had happened.
This communicator then drifted away. Now the word "Scotland"
came as a surprise. On again referring to the railway time-table, I
discovered the existence ofa town ofthe name of Horswick in Scotland.
This I had not previously noticed. I delayed applying there for a
1
few days. Strangely enough, on December 17th, J received voluntary
information from the postmaster at Horswick, Scotland. Referring
to my enquiry for the name of Bois, he informed me that a "Mr. and
Mi-s. Boyce" lived at "--" Heathfield Road, near Horswick,
Scotland.
. It is a curious circumstance ~t the postmaster at Horswick
should have spontaneously written from that town giving me a similar
name and address to that which I was seeking, four days after Henry
Bois had himself communicated the word "Scotland" on the ouija-
board. Presumably my application to Horswich had been forwarded
to Horswick.
Subseque~t enquiries at Horswick, however, elicited a curt reply
to the effect that their name was not Boyce or Bois-but Boyes and that
"they had never known a Henry in the family." It appeared that I
was once more on a false trail. At that time we were very much
occupied with other affairs, so I put the whole matter aside. As a
result, however, of further study of the phenomena of supernormal
writing, it occurred to me, some months later, that, if communications
were made to some extent phonetically, misinterpretation might
have taken place in the mind of the automatist owing to her conscious
connection with the name of Bois. If it were so, it was quite possible
that the name in the lllltomatic script should have been spelt Boyce,
and not Bois, the pronunciation of these two words being the same.
THBY SURVJVB 39
Therefore, on September 13th, 1925, I again applied to the post-
master at Horswich, Cheshire, asking if Mr. Henry Boyce lived in
any house or road by the name ofHighfield. He replied the next day,
stating that a "Mr. H. Boyce lived at 2, Highfield Road, Horwich."
The following day I wrote to that address asking for information
concerning him. The widow ofHenry Boyce answered by return saying
that her husband of that name had died there on November 13th, 1924.
The problem was solved.
At this point I must diverge in order to recount wh~t might be
called a "sidelight" on the case. I have referred to the fact that F. W. H.
Myers, the well-kno\vn investigator of psychical research and one
of the founders of the London S. P.R., purported to write on the
occasion when Miss Cummins and I visited Captain and Mrs. R.
Thinking it might be of interest to follow up this lead, on December
1st, 1924, thirteen days after the first appearance of the name Henry
Bois, I asked Astor if he could call this entity. He did so. Replying
to my query as to whether he had spoken to us on a previous occasion,
Frederic Myers wrote:
I tried to speak through the old man but it was very confusing.
Someone else was trying to talk too, who said he had not been
able to give you his name properly, or something like that. Anyway,
I tried to get my message through in spite of him and the other
influences.
Now this was a possibility which had occurred to neither of us.
We had completely turned down the communication purporting to
come from Henry Bois as being an example of subconscious invention.
The postmaster having stated that he could not trace this individual,
the information, therefore, given by Myers was entirely opposed to
the ideas in our minds. ·
In looking back, I blame myself for my utter stupidity in not
seriously considering the important inference made by Myers. But
at that time, I was not very experienced in psychical research, and,
as Frederic Myers soon began writing many things of interest, I paid
no attention to his valuable hint. In those days I was inclined to attri-
bute all such mental phenomena to the subconscious and telepathic
theories. .
Now, after over twenty years' close investigation of the various
forms of Geraldine Cummins's mediumship, I have come to the
conclusion that these theories play a very minor part-so far as she
is concerned-in communications received by her. In all I have
recorded above and in what follows, I fail to see any indication of
telepathy, thought-reading, subconscious invention or intervention.
It is easy to speculate on the probability of the widow's thoughts
being picked up by Miss Cummins while in a condition of light trance.
But ifthis caso were thoroughly analysed, takins in connection with it
THEY SURVIVE
the spontaneous remark of F. W~ Myers, it would be acknowledged,
I ihink, that thought transference in any form from any living person
is out of the question. The mere contents of the insistent message
from Henry Boyce seem to put these theories beyond all reasonable
possibility. The widow of this individual, or anyone connected with
him, would hardly have formulated such remarks and ejected them
into space at the precise moment when Miss ·Cummins and I were
holding a sitting. Or if the message be assigned to latent telepathy,
it is impossible to believe that the sensitive would be able to select,
out ofthe millions floating around, such appropriate thoughts as would
fit this then hypothetical communicator:
Also, it seems hardly probable that the mind of the psychic would
wander into the mind of a woman unknown to her who lived 190
miles away, and gather the fact that her late husband (among other
things) refused to admit that he was "dead." For it subsequently
transpired1hat the widow declined to believe in the continued existence
of her husband. It seems reasonable therefore to postulate that the
communications purporting to come from Henry Boyce can only be
accounted for on the assumption of the spiritistic hypothesis. ·What
is more natural than that this discarnate entity actually saw Miss
Cummins's psychic "light" and ''went straight for it "? Under
difficult conditions he identified himself giving his correct name and
address.
On this supposition, what followed seems quite comprehensible.
Hearing that his first effort had failed, and, in his anxiety to get a
message through to his wife, accidentally, as it were, he recollected
the name of the other town in Scotland. In a flash, his thought was
communicated to the brain of the sensitive. In fact, he would seem
to confirm this view for he quickly followed up the word "SCotland"
by the remark that he was confused Probably he realized this slip
but was powerless to arrest its passage. This may be an example of
unintentional thought-transference (from the dead to the living). It
may often account for errors in communications for which the
intermediary or medium gets the blame
An unexpected corroboration of this surmise can be inferred from
a case recorded in the Proceedings of the S. P. R. (London) for May
1929, p. 288. In this case--a most remarkable one-the alleged
communicator, Margaret Veley, remarks: "I suddenly woke up and
found myselfhere. I didn't choose to come, and I felt as ifI had some
vague control over your brains and some of the things I thought of
were written" (my italics). 9n p. 330, Margaret Veley also remarks:
"You have got ideas, but hardly the form that I shOuld have given ~
them.''
There are two other instances in the Cummins scripts in which
the communicator had been conscious of the fact that inaccuracies
may have crept into the writing. One came from an entity described
by the initials "T. M." This very evidential case is recorded elsewhere
.
THEY SURVIVE 41
in this volume. The communicator wrote: "I see the words coming
on a glass as I think the thought they embody. But now and then
wrong words get in and the thought is not completed just exactly as
I think it. I fancy I am a beginner who does not yet understand his
apparatus."
The second example comes in another Cummins script published
in The Occult Review for January 1937. It purports to have been written
(also in November 1924) ·by one of the explorers who lost their lives
in a vain attempt to reach the summit of Mount Everest. He wrote:
"You see, I didn't expect to find myselfwithout a body and I am rather
lonely and confused. The queerest things come into my mind. Even
as I write this, the sentences run away from me and only some of my
words get in."
There is, ofcourse, the possibility that some thought from the mind
of the sensitive is invoked by the communicator and unknowingly
it slips into the context.
I now turn to further evidence of the survival of Henry Boyce.
In the spring of 1925 Miss Cummins began writing The Scripts of
Cleophas. This being so, we ceased all other work. As stated, I corres-
ponded with the postmaster at Horswich in September of that year.
Miss Cummins was in Ireland, and knew nothing of my renewed quest
for the widow of Henry Boyce. She was aware of the fact that I had
failed to trace him in England or in Scotland. Many matters -personal
and otherwise-were crowding into her life and she gave little thought
to anything that was not of apparent consequence. However, on her
return from Ireland, I arranged to have a sitting with her. She had
no idea as to whom I was seeking and, on October 8th, 1925, we
again got into touch with Henry Boyce.
Astor is here.
(E. B. G.) Do you remember a stranger who spoke·some time
ago named Henry Boyce? Could you get him to speak to us
again ? He spoke twice before.
Wait. It will be difficult but I will try.
(There was a pause of less than a minute and the handwriting
changed from Astor's vigorous calligraphy to something rather
faint.)
A queer place this, all misty. I am puzzled. ls any friend of
mine here ? I know that this light of yours means the world and
the people living in it. I think I spoke to you before but my memory
has all gone to pieces-I mean of the earth. I am quite sane and
clear in my mind, in fact, I can think a hundred"fold quicker than
when I was alive. But you human beings are just like stone effigies
to me now, so cold and grey and silent.
(E. B. ct.) I wonder if you are the same person who spoke
to us before.
I am called Henry Boyce. You are a stranger to me. But in
B*
42 THEY SURVIVE
that time of terror just after my death, your face appeared to me
in this mist and I thanked God for it.1
(E. B. G.) Well, tell us something about yourself.
I was really retired from my business. I mean I hadn't been
very fit for it for some tim~my illness made me confused. Before
the end, I entered into a curious time in which I seemed to be
always awake, lying there in blinding light, seeing pictures of my
life all the. time from the very beginning. They wouldn't stop
coming-that was what was so maddening about them.
(E. B. G.) Were you ill for long before you died?
I wasn't ill for very long. I was ailing before anyone knew for
a while, but I wouldn't tell. It didn't seem a matter for aJarm and
I was never a great talker. My heart was not in a good condition.
It seemed, even to me, before I saw a doctor, to be irregular.
(E. B. G.) Was that the cause of your passing over?
It was merely a complication, there were other causes. I think
if my heart had been stronger, I wouldn't have gone out as I did.
(E. B. G.) Can you tell us what your profession or your
business was ? ·
My profession? Oh, handling money. I was buying and selling
for a good part of my life and I have pulled off a ·thing or two
in my time, but it is all a bit blurred now. You would be surprised
to Jearn that I remember my childhood best. I remember being
brought up very strictly ~d the little Highlander my mother made
of me. The kilt I didn't like a bit, but it was the fashion in those
days. Queen Victoria made it popular. I got into fearful trouble
for fighting another boy when I had it on. It was my Sunday
best. Curious the way you call up these memories for me.
(E. B. G.) Do you remember anything of your later life?
I remember things in a tangle. Listen and I will try. I was
a serious man and I didn't care for new-fangled ideas. I didn't
believe in going with the times, I preferred that the times should
go with me.
(E. B. G.) Can you tell us anything of your relatives?
Well, you are a stranger. I wonder whether you know my
wife. If you do, I can understand your questioning me.
(E. B. G.) That is just what I want to ask you about, if you
can tell us some more ?
I understand that you do not know her. I can only tell you ours
was a rare connection. We were devoted to each other though we
never said very much-we were not taken that way. She didn't
know how much I loved her. If you ever meet her tell her this.
That is all I care about. You seem to be able to get in touch with
people. I am losing grip now, good night.
1 This is the first time anyone has ever thanked God for the sight of
my face 1-E.B.G.
THEY SUR VI VI! 43
The writing became very faint and after a short pause, Astor
wrote as follows:
He slipped away. He was a person of no great interest, I think.
He seemed not ~o have lived to be very old. I think he must have
died in the fifties, at least, he seemed not to have reached the
ripeness of spirit which we associate with those who live to see
seventy years and more. ·
(E. B. G.) Can you describe him?
He seems to have been about medium height on earth. He
had quite a pleasing appearance. I think he was dark when he was
alive, but he was dim to me. At any rate, his hair had changed
colour before he died.
It will be seen that it was somewhat difficult to formulate a letter
to the widow enquiring as to the accuracy of these details, yet obtain
an answer without explaining my reason for so doing. Even when
intense love exists between parties concerned, the idea that the dead
may possibly be alive appears distasteful to some people. I feared
a rebuff, before securing the hoped-for corroboration from the
widow•
.On the following day, therefore, I wrote to Mrs. Boyce enumerating
various remarks and saying I was anxious to trace someone answering
to that description. I made the letter a friendly one. After four days,
the widow replied-guardedly asking my reasons for applying to her.
Was she to get any benefit from it or was I? For, she said: "all the
questions could be replied to." On October 14th, I wrote again assuring
her that my efforts were entirely disinterested, giving her my banker's
reference I The following is an unedited copy of her letter.
DBAR MADAM,
2, HIGHFIELD RoAD,
HORBWICH.
October 15th, 1925
In reply to your letter ofthe 14th October. You will quite under-
stand why I wanted to know who I was answering your questions
to, about one whom I dearly. loved and have a great respect to
his memory. .·
My husband was a great sufferer from arthritis, he was ailing
two years, and kept on going to business, he was not fit to go,
but he would not give in, he walked with the help of a stick, for
a long time and the last two weeks he went to business, I bad
to go with him to help him to walk, then 1 had to go to help him
home again in the evening, he started out one Monday morning
and only got a few yards down the road, he could not walk any .
further, I had to. get him back home, and be never went to business
44 THBY SURVIVB
again, it crippled him up so much that I had everything to do
for him for eight years, he had a merlin chair for the house
and when the weather was fit, he went out in a bath chair,
he was suffering ten years and bore it all very patiently, never
giving up. On November lOth, 1924, he was not very well, so I
called in the Dr. and he told me it was a gastric ulcer that had burst
in the stomach, and he grad~lly went worse, and died three
days after, November 13th, 1924, he was 55 years of age when
he died.
I cannot say that he was a great talker, but he wa8 a great
reader, and enjoyed a good conversation with anyone, and would
talk on most subjects, he was not a very serious man and did not
care altogether for some of the new ideas, he was medium
height, dark, and of a very pleasing appearance. I do not know
that he ever wore Highland kilts, but as a boy he wore velvet
suits.
I am anxiously waiting for a reply to these questions to know
if I am the right person you are seeking,
Yours faithfully,
---BOYCE
I replied to the above gently informing the writer that I thought
I had received a message from her dead husband. To this letter she
vouchsafed no reply. I fear she was disappointed.
Now there are many points in the document printed above
which corroborate statements made in the script-writing, for
instance:
(AsToR) November 18th, 1924. There is one here newly dead. •••
(Mrs. B.). He died on November 13th, 1924.
(Astor) I think .he must have died in the fifties. . .•
He was fifty-five years of age when he died.
He seems to have been about medium height • • • he was
dark. J
He was of medium height and dark.
(H. B.) I was really retired from my business, I mean I hadn't
been fit for it for some time. . . .
He was ailing for two years but kept going to business, He was not
fit to go but would not give in. • • • .
I wasn't ill for very long, I was ailing before anyone knew, but
I wouldn't tell . . .
On November lOth he was not very well. I called in the doctor
who told me it was o. gastric ulcer that had burst. He died three
days later.
I was never a great talker, I was a serious man and did not care
for new-fangled ideas.
THBY SURVIVB 45
I cannot say he wasa great talker but he was a great reader and could
talk on most subjects. He was not a very serioils man, and did not
care for new ideas.
In his first communication Henry Boyce seemed anxious his
wife should know that he was in no pain. As he had suffered from
arthritis for a number of years, it is probable that he would still be
very conscious of this memory and would wish to comfort his wife
in that respect. He might not have been aware of the ·actual cause
of his death though he referred to his heart and "other causes." My
question as to his being a serious man was probably misunderstood by
Mrs. Boyce. Anyone who is a great reader ~d ·can talk on most
subjects would surely be somewhat serious-minded. It will be noted
that she remarked thai I was enquiring "abOut someone whom I
dearly loved." Henry Boyce says.they "were devoted to each other."
As I received no reply to my letter explaining my reason for tracing
her, it would seem that she unconsciously endorsed her husband's
doubts concerning her ability to believe in his survival of bodily
death. For it will be observed that, on the second occasion on
which he wrote, he said: "She may not believe or consider it is
really true." · · .
When I enquired for infol'mation from the widow, I worded my
letter in a manner which might have induced her to misrepresent
him iri order to proclaim her relationship to the deceased man. For
instance, I asked if she would consider her husband a great talker.
Her reply confirms the fact that he was not. It will be seen that
she owns that she does not know if he wore a kilt as a child.
Obviously she realize4 that if she had not told the truth it might.
be eagy on certain points to ascertain the correct facts about her
husband.
I must now revert to the blindfold sitting of December 13th,
1924. After Henry Boyce had written the word "November" as being
the month in which he died, he added the word "Times." I asked if
he meant the newspaper. He replied "Yes," and then ·hurried on to
give the message for his wife. As the name and address given proved
untraceable, I did not then trouble to apply to this newspaper. When,
however, the mystery had been solved, I wrote to the offices of The
Times, enquiringifthe death ofanyone namedBoyce had been recorded
or in any way referred to in that newspaper. The following is the ·
reply: ·
DBAR SIR,
I am asked to acknowledge YOt;Jl" letter of September 25, but
to say that no death announcement or obituary notice can be
traced in The Times during November 1924 in the name of Boyce.
. . Yours faithfully,
46 THEY SURVIVE
Students of psychical :fesearch often jump to the conclusion that
evidence of a kind similar to that given in this case might have been
derived from a newspaper.· Hence my search for this possibility.
The inadvertent reference to The Times may again be explained as
unintentional thought-transference. The anxiety to get through some
notification of his continued existence is very apparent in these com-
munications, and it is probable that Boyce caught at any straw which
he thought might assist in the matter. That his death might have been
reported in a newspaper may have occurred to him, and, as already
suggested, the thought of The Times may have slipped accidentally
through to the trance-writer's brain.
AB a final possibility I considered that some mention of his death
might have appeared in local papers, to which perhaps, the automatist
had somehow had access-either normally or super-normally. There-
fore I now wrote to the Manchester Guardian and to. the four other
principal neWspapers which I ascertained were published in the town
in which Boyce had lived. None of. these was called The Times.
Only the editor of the Mancluister Guardian replied to my enquiry
and that was again in the negative. Even if there had been any notice
in one or other of these newspapers, such details as had been com-
municated would not have been published. Moreover, from the illiter-
ate character of the letter received .from Mrs. Boyce, it will be evident
that her husband was hardly the type of man whose death would have
been recorded in a newspaper, unless perhaps the cause of the said
death had been due to an accident.
From. the above, not one but many facts emerge which could not
conceivably have come from any source but the discarnate mind of
a man who was on earth known as Henry Boyce. He gave his name
and an address in a provincial town which neither Miss Cummins
nor I had ever visited and details of a personal character cognizance
of which it is impossible to assign to any of the well-known scientific
causes. In the last communication (October 8th) the name appears
correctly spelt. This, I think, cari be ascribed to the fact that Miss
Cummins's psychic powers had considerably developed since the
writing of the earlier scripts. The communicator was thus able to put
through his name without the unconscious intervention of the
automatist's conscious mind. Asked afterwards if she had any
knowledge as to who had been writing on October 8th, Miss
Cummins recalled with difficulty the name of Boyce and appeared to
have forgotten its former connection with her own mind. She
made no allusion to it at the time, neither did she seem the least
interested.
I would like to draw the reader's attention to the introduction of
the word "listen" in the first communication. This was written bythe
communicating entity as though he anticipated some difficulty even
before he actually wrote his name. The confusion in the spelling of
the word "Boyce" would seem to indicate that the method of com":
THEY SURVIVE 47
munication is, to some extent, phonetic. Obviously, the mistake
occurred because the sound was reminiscent, in the automatist's mind,
of a name with which she was familiar.
Case VI
T.M.
THE following record contains a considerable amount of information
unknown to Miss Cummins and to myself, which was subsequently
verified. T. M. was a great friend of my brother-in-law's-whom
I will Call Major Forbes, and he was fairly well acquainted with my
sister, Norah-wife of Major Forbes. Miss Cummins and I knew
T. M. by name only. He was a contributor to a leading Sunday
newspaper and occasionally reviewed books. Miss Cummins and
I were aware of the fact that he lived in the country not far from my·
sister and brother-in-law, but otherwise he was a complete stranger
to us. We knew nothing of his. personality or of his affairs. We had,
however, seen the announcement of his sudden death in the news-·
papers. This occurred three weeks after the death of Norah.
Spontaneous reference to T. M. was first made by another deceased
sister of mine who purported to write through Miss Cummins shortly
after the death of Norah. This sister, Evelyn, had died some years
previously. She stated that she came in contact with Norah soon after
the latter's death and the following is an extract of the conversation
which took place between them.
(EVELYN) (1) Some old friend came to her just as I was talking-·
a man-who brought her newS'. She was so surprised to see him. He
broke into our conversation.
This turned out to beT. M. Norah would naturally be surprised to
see .him as he was alive at the time of her death.
(E. B. G.) What were you talking about?
(EVELYN) (2) There was something about a little dog. I know she
mentioned a dog. Then, when this other spirit came he took rip the
point where I left off.
This would be quite in order. N. and T. M. were both devoted to
dogs though I was not then aware of this in connection with T. M.
(3) He seemed to be connected with some dog or dogs, for he
started by saying, "As the astounding fact is true that I am alive here,
Mrs. Forbes, it may well be that our dogs will follow us."
Major F. told me that he and T. M. often discussed the possible
survival ofanimals-a fact unknown to Miss C. and to myself.
(E. B. G.) What was he like?
48 THEY SURVIVE
(EVELYN) (4) He wasn't an old man. He passed out suddenly.
I think he was rather grey, but I didn't get his colouring very dis-
tinctly. He \Vas not tall by any means, I should say. His mind was
very tired. He said he had been pl!shed too hard lately, that ifhe had
had a rest, he might not so suddenly have passed from his body. He
seemed to have a lot to do with writing. .
Major Forbes wrote: "Age about 58. Hair had been red, but,
when he died, sandy grey and rather bald. Height 5ft. lOins. He had
been much overworked." All unknown to us, though his age may have
been mentioned in some newspaper. ·
· (5) Said he had left a half-written article.
Correct, in so far as he left a half-finished book-a fact unknown
to either of us. ·
(6) He said he had no time to make preparations. He had suddenly
found himself looking down at his body . . .
Correct. His affairs were left rather in confusion according to
Major F.
(Norah here communicated and ended with the following remark):
(NoRAH) (7) I have one more thing to tell specially • . • Tell
Leonard that we have met. I meanT. M. Tell him he is all right.
(i.e. Major Leonard Forbes) (Name written in full and scrawled
across the page.)
(8) Says he saw him at his 'grave and wanted to say: "Cheer up,
old chap. Don't pull such a long face."
The death ofT. M. had been a great shock to my brother-in-law.
He was present at his funeral; a fact known to me but not to Miss C.
In reference to the quotation, Major F. wrote: "Just what I should
have expected him to say."
At the next sitting Norah again purported to write•. Mter a time
I led the conversation back to T. M.
(E. B. G.) You mentioned someone else when you were last
here. ·
(NoRAH) (9) Yes. T. M. He is here now. Just come. He would
like to make your acquaintance.
Name written large and in full.
(10) I will get him to write.
(Writing changed to a small neat hand.) Major F. wrote that T. M.'s
writing was "small but legible.'' .
(T. M.) I am trying to get my bearings. Strange to use someone
else's hand. Excuse me, you are my friend's sister-in-law, aren't you?
(E. B. G.) Yes, that is right. Do talk to us.
(T. M.) Poor chap. He must be very upset still.
(11) Will you tell him that I was right. We do survive whole, not
piecemeal. .
My brother-in-law wrote: "I remember T. M., in a talk we had
on the future state, making use ofpractically these words."
THEY SURVIVE 49
(E. B. G.) He will be delighted to hear from you. He was very
tut up at your death.
(T. M.) Yes, he is such a good fellow. I was very grateful to him
for all his kindness.
(12) He understood me. I was rather a queer chap. Me Jmew
how I felt about most things. I am very exercised about my wife and
family. . • . It is rather a shame mentioning a private worry to you.
I am anxious lest they should be badly off. I never thought I should
go so suddenly. But I won't burden you with my private affairs. I
know they, my wife and family, are very cut up. Will you ask your
brother-in-law to keep in touch with them, if he would be so kind ?
I am sure he will. . . • I am still rather puzzled as regards the actual
events before my decease. I justremember the great darkness swooping
down on me like a bird. How close, how suffocating it was. Then at
last, there was relief, expansion, a sense ofbeing freed from an intoler-
able weight. When I came out into a strange clearness, I did not
believe that I had died. I said to myself, "Has the bottom slipped out
of old England ? Or have the laws of gravitation been suspended or
so altered that now I am actually taking on the attributes of a bird ?"
My memory isn't quite the same, at least so far. It is as if a curtain
had been rung down on a play. I know it has all happened, is perhaps,
still there in its setting behind that curtain. But I can't quite visualize
it. ·I suppose I am not much older as regards time. There is no Big
Ben here. Your sister wishes to speak again. May I pay you another
call?
Major F. states: "Above reply covers this also. He often said I was
one of the few people who understood him and had an insight into the
real T. M."
(This script is reproduced as an example of contrast of style.)
(13) It is strange that we should have had a kind of fleeting
acquaintance, hardly that on earth. And that you should be the first
to extend the friendly hand.
I have no recollection of ever having met T. M.
Evelyn then wrote and the conversation reverted to T. M.
(E. B. G.) Have you seen that man again?
(EVELYN) Yes ••• I saw the man vaguely.
(14) Didn't he wear glasses in life ?
Correct. Verified later by his wife.
(E. B. G.) I don't know.
(EVELYN) (15) He seemed worried about his glasses. He had still
in his mind the idea of reading and writing. It is hard for the new-
comer to get rid of old habits.
Correct. His wife stated: "He .always worried over his.
glasses."
(E. B. G.) Can you remember any more of that conversation into
which he broke and about which you spoke ?
SO TBI!Y SUR VI VB
(EVELYN) (16) He said something about Snap-seemed to be some
p:t. Snap-1 heard it like that. ,
Incorrect in so far as it was not the dog of which I was thinking.
1!ze dog's name was "Joss." But the transmission ofnames often leads
to confusion. And Evelyn took no interest in dogs and -would in life
have paid little attention to their names.
(17) Anyway, he spoke of dogs and seemed very fond of them.
Correct.
(18) He talked to Norah about some dog that had been theirs and
then was his. I didn't follow it all.
Correct. Major F. had given T. M. a dog which was a pet of
theirs.
(19) He was wondering if dogs survived as he had survived. He
said it would be most unfair if they didn't.
His wife wrote that: "He often said this in lifo."
(20) He is very fond of the country and hated having to work in
the city.
Correct.
My brother-in-law told me that he understood that T. M.'s will
could not be found. At a subsequent sitting I asked Evelyn to inquire
from him as to its whereabouts. The conversation which she reported
had taken place between them, however, showed that T. M. was
confused. She said that he was in a state of "half-sleep" and had been
"groping among his memories.'' He had apparently no clear recollec-
tion of the matter at that moment.' I thought no more about it. At
the opening of the next sitting Astor suddenly remarked:
(AsToR) (21) The man mentioned that paper to me. I gathered
from him that it was in some secret drawer, but 'he is not sure
whether it is a legal document. He said something about a bureau
of his in some small room. It seemed an effort for him to remember
still.
Major F. wrote: "I have no doubt that T. M. left the papers he
mentionedin the oldbureau at which he did all his work. I know exactly
where it stood in his small study.''
Neither Miss Cummins nor I were aware, of course, that he worked
at an old bureau in a small room. For all we knew about him, he might
have sat at an office table in London.
At three further sittings T. M. purported to speak. The matter is
too long to recount here. Moreover, there came a communication in
the shape of a story.1 However, in course ofconversation, the follow-
ing information was given. T. M. was worrying very much about his
widow and children. They were left very badly off. In order to get
1 Consisting of3,750 words, written in two hours and forty-three minutes.
THEY SURVIVE Sl
· some evidence I had asked various questions. T. M. was referring to
·his family.
(E. B. G,) You don't tell us how many children you had.
(T. M.) (22) Two children and another.
It was with a certain amount ofliesltation that I read out this remark
to T. M.'s widow. I knew she had two children. I said of course con-
fusion often occurred in communications, and 11llP'11UI1'iil that he was
evidently "muddled" quickly passed on. Mrs. M. broke in, "Oh, that
is quite right. He was married years ago and had another child." This
was known to very few. Certainly not to the automatist or to myself.'
{23) I never expected to go so soon. Myaffairs weren't in order••••
Correct. ·
(24) If I had not known your brother-in-law, and, also, of course,
· bad the pleasure of meeting you.
I have no recollection of ever meeting T. M; So this remark could
not have been drawn from my mind, nor should I have .conveyed the
information telepathically to Miss C.
(E. B. G.)· I don't think we ever met.
(T. M.) Surely I met you.
(E. B. G.) I don't recollect it.
.(25) I had such a busy life.
Correct. ,
(26) Your brother-in-law foregathered with me over dogs.
Correct. .Quite unknown to Miss C. and myself.
(27) And also, he was very helpful as regards books, dealing with
anything of that kind on one or two occasions.
Correct. Major F. told meT. M. often got him to look through
certain sporting books which he (T. M.) had to review•. This was .also
unknown to me and to the automatist.
(28) By Jove, they did bleed good dogs, didn't they 'l
Correct.
(29) It didn't really pay, I fancy, though.
Correct.
(30) Then I remember there was 8ome experiment in bee-keeping,
wasn't there ? I seem to have heard about that.
Correct.
(31) It was a losing game; too, like most ~ings of that kind in
England. Correct.
Forgive me rambling on like this. I begin to remember things about
Leonard as l talk to you. Why is that'l ·
(E. B. G.) Possibly because some of these memories are stored in
. my mind and you contact them in some way at the moment.
But it is perhaps the asSociation· of ideas. As you see me, you
recall these things just as if you had met me in the orQinary·
way. Anyhow it is very hard for us to Ull.derstand how you
communicate. • • • . .
(T. M.) Yes, how do I write to you now 'l I am puzzled. I see the
52 THEY SUR VIVB
words coming on a glass as I think the thought they embody. ·But now
and then wrong words get in and the thought is not always completed
just exactly as I think it. I fancy I am a beginner who does not yet
understand his apparatus.
Owing to illness on the part of Miss Cummins and to other matters
occupying her time, there were no sittings for my sisters for over
four months. At a later date, therefore, Astor wrote:
Astor is here. You wish me to call your friends ? The one named
T. is not far off.
(E. B. G.) (32) Oh well, let him speak.
I hadnot thought ofT. M. The writing ofthe name came as a surprise
to me.
(Astor) Wait.
(T. M.) Excuse me. Am I not wanted here?
(E. B. G.) Yes, ofcourse. I was SQ surprised that you came, that's
all. Please stay and talk for a little while.
(T. M.) It's a pleasure. I am just returned from a meeting with
Mrs. Leonard Forbes. She is changed, and if I r ay say so, is in a far
happier humour than when she was alive. ·
(33) I always had the impression that she was very worried.
Correct.
(34) That the little things of life disturbed her too mucb.
Correct.
(35) ·I had a great regard for both Forbes and his wife.
Correct. · -
(36) Tell him that I often think of the very good times we spent
together.
Correct. They often had lo!lg talks together.
(37) And with gratitude for his unfailing kindness and hospitality.
This is true ofmy brother-in-law.
(E. B. G.) How are you getting on?
(T. M.) I am happy in my own way. Have you ever known what
is called a fisherman's holiday ? I am enjoying such a one at present.
My new job has not yet come to me.
(38) Like the hunter for trout or salmon who vainly thrashes the
water, I vainly thrash what you would call, the void, trying to catch
the elusive enigma of life, here and there in this state and your state.
And in hours of quiet contemplation in between, I get back that
essential vigour of the soul which was wrenched from me in those
tortured months before death, and in the after-time when I suddenly
apprehended that my soul was living and all those good friends I cared
for; my wife, my children, were all dead. I will now salute one who
is dead. A living soul sends greetings to your ghostly self. . . .
Major Forbes writes: "T. M. was a keen and good fisherman."
Miss C. and I were unaware of this.
THEY SURVIVE
(These passages are given to show contraSt in personality but have
no evidential value.)
Being a man ofletters T. M. put his experiences immediately before
and after death into the form of the story already alluded to. Its
style is in complete contrast to the Cleophas and other scripts pro-
duced by Geraldine Cummins.
Hearing from my brother-in-law that I had received communica-
tions purporting to come fro 1 her husband, Mrs. M. wrote to me
asking if she could come to see me. She went through all the matter
written on the occasions in question and corroborated various details.
I have not quoted all ofthese as some were ofa minor character.
The story T. M. had written she described as being "the best thing
T. had.ever done." "Exactly like him." In every possible way she
expressed her convinced belief that her husband had been speaking
. through Geraldine Cummins on the occasions quoted. With reference
to the story and the communications which she took away with her,
she wrote: "My brother and sister think they are wonderful." Four
days later I received the following letter from her:
DEAR Miss GmBES, .
I am returning the script with my notes. Several relatives
and some of his old friends have read it and they are not very
sure that it is T. speaking, saying his outlook has changed so.
He was the cheerful one, I was the worrier. Mr. 0. won't have·
the story is his, as the style is all different and the English not clear
cut. I see exactly what they mean when it is pointed out to me
and compared with his work in life. . . . It is very wonderful and
I should like to talk it over with you again some time, but I could
not swear to it being T.'s, which is really what we want,
isn't it? ...
Here we are up against the old difficulty. It should be realized that
all psychic communications are, to a certain extent, a collaboration
between the "living" medium and the "dead" communicator, or
controL This has been evidenced to me many times in the various
scripts and stories which have been written automatically by Miss
Cummins at the dictation.ofan alleged unseen intelligence. The ideas,
plots and messages the communicator intends to convey seem
to come from the erstwhile control. But the words which clothe them
must, of necessity, be framed in the language found in the brain of
the sensitive. . ·
It is true that Mrs. M. might have been carried away at first by a
sudden fit ofenthusiasm, but it is also obvious that she was influenced
to change her mind by those who had made no study of psychic
phenomena and were unaware of the pitfalls that lie in the paths of
students of psychical research.
54 THEY SURVIVE
For instance, she stated that her husband never used the word
"apprehend." This is possible. But it happens to be a word which
occasionally occurs in the Cummins scripts when the alleged com-
municator tries to avoid duplicating a word in the same paragraph.
Inall the years in which I have been associatedwith Geraldine Cummins
I never recollect hearing her use this word in conversation. "Scattered"
is another term to which Mrs. T. M. took exception. This again, is
a word which communicators through Miss Cummins frequently
use, and one which she herself often employs. Mrs. M. also com-
plained that her husband's outlook had changed: that in life she was
the one who worried. In this case, however, it would seem only natural
for even a light-hearted man to worry over the future of his family.
Conscious of the fact that he had left his wife and family insufficiently
provided for, is it not probable that T. M. would be a little less "cheer-
ful" when he found himself in possession of his emotional memories
of earth, yet unable to help his family in the material sense of the
word?
It.will be observed that Mrs. M. entirely ignores the very important
fact that Miss Cummins's script gave many evidential details which
were entirely unknown to either ofus at the time ofwriting, and which
both she and my brother-in-law subsequently confirmed.
In contrast to the criticisms of Mrs. M. I must mention that Major
Forbes informed me that he considered the scripts were written in
exactly the style in which T. M. expressed himself when on earth.
When I sent the first few writings which contained the communications
from Norah and Evelyn as well as from T. M., to my brother-in-law,
he wrote: "Marvellous ! The script is the most wonderful thing I have
ever read. The personality of everyone is unmistakable. I have read
and re-read it many times."
It will be noted that T. M. remarks that his "memory isn't quite
the same, at least, so far. It is as if a curtain had been rung down on
a play. I know it has all happened, is perhaps, still there in its seiting
behind that curtain. . . ." Mrs. M. wrote that this was "not his
description." Very well. The normal mind of the automatist was
continually thinking out plots for plays and novels. To her it is
recreation as well as work. She enjoys it. If, then, this remark is
unlike T. M., it may be assumed that some such simile was in Miss
Cummins's subconscious mind or was pictured in her brain. Either
he made use of it at once as it sufficiently conveyed his meaning, or
else the thoughts .of the communicator were clothed in the words
drawn from the mind ofthe automatist when the "idea" was suggested
to her brain. Either theory indicates collaboration.
This hypothesis is borne out by the actual words of T. M. when,
ln a script recorded above, he says: "I see the words coming on a
glass as I think the. thought they embody. But now and then wrong
words get in and the thought is not always completed just exactly as
l think it."
THEY SURVIVE 55
In this case also the class ofevidencerequired.by Professor Macbride
has been obtained, and in addition my brother-in-law claims that
supernormal knowledge of personality was shown.
Case VII
ELIZABETH B.
THis case does not exclude telepathy from every source as the child
communicator was known to me, though I had not seen her since
she was about five years old. Her mother and I have known each
other for over forty years. However, the theory that telepathy or the
dramatization of Miss Cummins1s subconscious mind, could account
for the phenomena which are here recorded, would seem to be a
remote speculation. It illustrates the difficulty in this case of at first
establishing identity. Unexpected factors were at work, which tended
to confuse the investigation.
It is a curious document in that it purports to come from a young
and unsophisticated personality and is in strange contrast to the
dignified writings of the Messenger of Cleophas and the philosophical
writings which purport to come from F. W. H. Myers (see The Road
to Immortality and Beyond Human Personality).
The following scripts are of interest because of their naive manner
of expression and arresting ideas, and concern a child who died at
the age of fifteen, of whose survival the mother iS now convinced.
Both mother and daughter were entirely unknown to Miss Cummins
at the time when "Elizabeth" first communicated. The mother had
one sitting later, but this took place after I had sent her many of the
child's writings.
It may be suggested that the mere idea of a young communicator
might prompt the subconscious mind ofthe automatist to adoptchildish
phraseology and to change the handwriting to the round, childlike
form which subsequently developed. However, other alleged entities
who were communicating at that time-sometimes after a lapse of
many weeks or even years had intervened-each wrote in his or her
own particular style. In the case of Elizabeth B., her mother claimed
to recognize the signature which was entirely unknown to Geraldine
Cummins and to myself.
During May 1924 I spent a week-end with Mrs. B., whom I had
not seen for some years. She was interested in my accounts of the
experiments in automatism which Miss Cummins and I were then
conducting. She grieved very much over the loss of her daughter
which had occurred six or seven years previously, and worried a gro
deal as to whether or not survival was a proved fact. I offered, through
56 THEY SURVIVE
Geraldine Cuminins, to endeavour to get into touch with Elizabeth.
I had nothing belonging to the child of which she had been fond,
and which, through the psychometric1 powers of Miss Cummins, might
have been likely to draw her to me, nor was there any particular
affection between us, which might have linked us together, should
she have survived death. The only thing to be done was to ask ..Astor"
to try to find someone answering to her name. This I did. The auto-
matist knew nothing of the child or of my intention. The following
was the result:
(Ouija Board Communication)
May 31st, 1924.
(E. B. G.) Astor, would you see if you can find someone
answering to the name of Elizabeth B. ? She will not have spoken
here before and it may be difficult to find her.
Miss Cummins's hand wrote:
Astor. Wait, I will look.
After a pause the hand spelt out slowly:
I wonder what this is ?
I explained that I was trying to find someone named· Elizabeth
B., whose mother was anxious to trace her. The writing then con.
tinued more quickly:
I am greatly surprised and puzzled. Of course I would be so
grateful if you would tell my mother that I have now reached a
state:in which I can be at peace. I mean that at first, after I died,
I was so upset and distressed at the thought that everything I
cared for was going from me. I felt as ifI were in a feverish dream.
They told me later that it was simply the parting fro 1 the body.
I learnt that I should have a new life and that I was only at the
beginning of things. ·The promise was made me that when my
mother died I should see her and meet her.
There was more of this form of conversation which was not in
any manner evidential. Elizabeth asked if she were dreaming and said
howmuch she wantedto speak to earth; that shewas quiteundeveloped
when she died. At the end of the sitting, I asked Astor if he could
describe this entity who had just purpo~d to speak. He replied:
1 For explanation of this word see case viii.
THEY SURVIVE 51
I got the impression of a person not vecy cultivated in mind,
of a gentle disposition, and one who had drifted away from the
world. She passed over when she was young_.
All that was written at this sitting, I conjectured, might have been
impressions obtained from my mind and unconsciously dramatiud
by the medium. The communication appeared to be more or less
a description of what I imagined Elizabeth to be like, together with
details of certain conditions concerning the after-death state in
the manner of spiritualist literature. Two weeks later I made
another attempt through the ouija board to get into touch with
Elizabeth. The following is an abbreviated account of the writing:
June 11th, 1924.
• . • Yes, Elizabeth. I am trying to see. I am clearer now.
Please tell me is my mother there.
(E. B. G.) No, she is not here. But I will read you a message
which she has sent to you.
I then read extracts from Mrs. B's answers to my notes of the
first sitting. As I expected she had been somewhat disappointed
with the results but took the affair on trust, sending messages to
Elizabeth should she write again. As I read, the hand on the board
gave an excited jerk, then rapidly wrote ho'"' delighted she was to get
the message, and continued giving details of her life since she left
the earth. She reiterated how happy she was at being able to speak
and sent her love to her. mother. The communication was couched
in rather extravagant language. Granting survival, it explained to a
certain extent the possible conditions and surroundings in which the
child might have found herself. But there was really nothing in it
which could not have been accounted for by thought-transference
and a dramatization ofMiss Cummins's subci>nscious mind. Moreover,
the style of composition seemed largely to resemble that of the auto-
matist's own, or that of her control, Astor.
Miss Cummins and I separated for the summer and the memory
of Elizabeth B. slipped from our minds. I had considered the.experi-
ment a failure. Mls. B. was obviously disappointed in the notes I sent
her. When we met again in the autumn, Miss Cummins and· I did
not refer to the matter, and I had not heard from Mrs B. since the
previous· June when she acknowledged my second letter. I was,
therefore, very surprised when Astor announced the presence of "a
young woman" at one of our sittings for automatic writing.
October 31st, 1924.
• • • Elizabeth. I have waited so long. How is Mummy ?
r wondered if it was all right because I have had such a feeling ·
58 THBY SUR.VIVB
abOut her lately. If you see her will you talk to her about me
and tell her that I am sure that she and I will meet. I wasn't quite
before but now I know the secret of people coming together. • • •
It is quite simple. I keep my wish for her alive in my mind. I
never forget I want her. It is just keeping up wanting that makes
it possible for us to meet. The wish, if it is strong enough, goes
out like a thread. It will draw her to me when her time on earth
is over. But she must want me too, quite badly. So will you tell
her NOT TO FORGET (written large). I might slip out of her
mind. There are other people and other things and once the wish
is gone, it is hard to get it back.
(E. B. G.) I thought people always met. • . .
(E.) No, not always. A great many don't. Besides, they
may go to different worlds if they are differently developed, so
I have been told. One may go on to a star and develop a different
shape or body. One may have the power to shape one's own
shape when one goes to a sphere. I only know a little but I am
just telling you what others have told me here. There are so many
other different places and conditions you would be bewildered.
But we always have the power of wishing-that is the true power
of the fairy godmother in the old fairy stories. I have learnt that
at any rate, so it all depends on what we wish for. I wondered
if Mummy was worrying. Some thoughts can reach us from the
living if we care enough. She is disappointed and a little sad and
discouraged, I think. Perhaps I am quite wrong, but as I got that
feeling I wanted her to be cheered up. Just give her my love and
tell her I am happy and that she is certain to be when she comes
here.
(E. B. G.) I will write to her.
(E.) It relieves my mind to know that you will write to her.
Do please. Then I shall go. I only wanted this to be done. Thank
you awfully. Good-bye.
(E.B.G.) Try to sign your name.
Elizabeth B. • • •
The writing was a big untidy scrawl, the signature occupying more
than half the foolscap paper. I knew nothing of Mrs. B.'s circum-
stances, having had no communication with her since the previous
June. I sent her a postcard, merely asking how she was as I had not
heard for so long. She replied by return saying she had not written
as she hadbeen very worried and troubled both.financially and otherwise.
On receipt of this letter I forwarded the above script, stating that it
appeared to give information unknown to both the automatic writer
and to myself. I added that of course the signature meant nothing
as I had had to give her name when asking for her to come and speak
-therefore, thenamewould be known to Miss Cummins'ssubconscious
mind. I received a reply immediately expressing astonishment at the
TKBY SURVIVB 59
correct descriptions which surrounded Mrs. B. at the time. She added
that though I had said that the signature would mean nothing, to her ,
it meant a great deal, for it strongly resembled the child's signature-
especially the dash and scrawl under the last letters. Under normal
conditions the automatist could not even remember Elizabeth's
surname.
Fortunately Geraldine Cummins and I were then sitting fairly
frequently, letting anyone write who· desired to do so. Elizabeth
purported to speak several times after this, Astor introducing her.
November 30th, 1924.
. . . Elizabeth. May I talk ?
(E. B. G.) Yes, please do. You were quite right about your
Mummy being worried.
(E.) Yes, I felt it very strongly for some time but I couldn't
get at her till this lady came. (Meaning G. C.) I feel happier
about her now. The thoughts that come have a different colour,
they were so dark before. · I got· quite troubled. Mummy and I
were very close to each other, you know, that's why I felt it quite
a lot. You might tell her the next time you see her that I am
quite happy about her now. But she mustn't fret like that again.
There isn't anything worth worrying about as much as that.
You see, even if things are horrid for you when you are alive,
it's all made up afterwards. I wanted to tell you that the first time
I spoke, my guide really did most of the talking for me. But now
I am getting so good at it I can really manage alone. Tell her it
has helped me to speak. You know I missed her so much at first,
but tell her I don't now, because we will meet soon. Elizabeth
B. . • • (The italics are mine.)
The script was written in a round, neat, childish hand differing
from the scrawl of the previous occasion. This style was reproduced
whenever Elizabeth subsequently purported to ·speak. Afterwards,
it occurred to me that the writing of the previous script gave the im-
pression of someone being taught to write. The information that her
guide had done most of the talking for her had occurred to neither
of us, and,· as has been shown, was given spontaneously and accounts
for the somewhat unconvincing style of the previous communications
to which I have drawn attention. ·
December 31st, 1924.
. • . Elizabeth. May I send a message to Mummy? I know
she is starting on a New Year. I saw her at Christmas.
(E. B. G.) How did you do this? Can you explain?
(E.) Yes, I saw her mind. I saw the part that you can't see.
It was lovely getting it that way. I know she would like something
60 THEY SURVIVE
from me so do please tell her that the New Year will be a better
one for her than the oldyear and something quite lucky will happen
that will please her very much. I was with her mind or soul, I
think you would call it, at Christmas and I could see that was
going to happen soon in a faint way. It is known beforehand by a
part of you always, but that part isn't able to speak. It usually--
give Mummy best love and lots of kisses from me."
It seemed that Elizabeth was more anxious to send messages to
her mother than to continue what she was writing about. So she broke
off her sentence. I asked her ·how her mother was getting on.
(E.) I think she is still a bit worried but I feel it is not as
bad as it was. I do think things will improve in the New Year.
(E. B. G.) Did you sense or feel anything in particular that
she was doing ? . ·
(E.) She was thinking ofme, I know, because I felt her thoughts.
She did go over in her mind, Christmas long ago. What fun we
had. What lovely presents were given me. I felt I was just looking
in at a window on the old Christmas when I was ne!U" Mummy-
that was what told me it was Christmas. • • • Good-bye.
Elizabeth B. • . .
This communication was quite unexpected. The writing changed
to the slow childish hand as in the last instance when this entity
purported to write. Neither Geraldine Cuimnins nor I had been
speaking of nor consciously thinking of Elizabeth, nor were we aware
of the movements of her mother. The following is an extract from
the letter I received from Mrs. B. in reply to the above script which
I sent her.
It is simply wonderful and word for word true. I was thinking
about her more than I have for years as we were spending
Christmas in the very house with the same person • • . same
servants, same everything. And the· remembrance was so strong
. • • I have always shut it away each year but this year I felt I
could let it come and it brought such peace. What she says about
the New Year is so odd, as I said to J. on New Year's Eve, "I
don't dread this year as I have dreaded others. I am going to drift
and things will shape themselves somehow." I· am so aWfully
happy with this message. . . •
Now what is the explanation of the above episodes ? Geraldine
Cummins apparently gave information which was subsequently
verified, concerning a person unknown to her and of whose where-
abouts at Christmas we were both ignorant. Either it all happened
as Elizabeth had described, in which case it would seem that she
THEY SURVIVIl 61
has proved her survival of bodily death, or else Geraldine Cummins
unconsciously picked up these details from the mother and recorded
them some days later. However, telepathic impressions, I understand,
are usually conveyed instantaneously. How, then, can telepathy
supply the answer to the mystery ? Does the mind of an entranced
individual retain its information and impart it only at the psycho-
logical moment? And how does the mind know when that moment
arrives?
February 1st, 1925.
(B.) • • • May I talk? I wanted to send a message to Mummy
... I wanted her to know that I am with her in a way, but one
tbai: you or she can't understand. It isn't like being together as
one used to be. It is more by feeling than seeing. ·I expect you
will see Mummy later on but there is something in the way .of
her coming to where you are now. I just got that feeling. I think
she will come though after a time. I know she will because that
part of her which you or no other living person has met, has
told me she will. It is what is outside you. We see it in a cloud.
It's being explained to me. You don't see the roots of a tree,
they are underground. There is a part of you that can't ·be seen
or known that feeds the other part. It is more in our world than
in yours. It can think. It can know. But the body is so deaf
it can only hear a little of what that part says. I mean the brain
hears it, not the ears . . • Of course I am a bit different but
not in the things that matter. Mummy will know me when she
comes here.
I told Elizabeth of the joy her last communication had given her
mother. "Darling Mummy," she wrote. The pencil was then moved
back a little and the letter 0 was placed over the Y making the word
into Mummo. She continued:
(B.) I like speaking awfully but there are other people here
sometimes so I don't try to speak then. I am able to when the
way is cle.ar as it is to-night. J have been helped by someone here
to speak. The first time he called me he did the speaking for me
because I didn't know how to write. So I expect you were a bit
puzzled by what was said. He tried to say for me what I wanted
to say, but of course he talked in his own way. Now I know what
.to do. (My italics.)
· (B. B. G.) Do you mean Astor, the guide?
(B.) Yes. He called me. I .have wanted to tell you a funny
thing I met, but you won't believe me. . . . A horse l One I was
fond of when I was alive. Of course, there is no body as you know
it. But at one time I was lonely and I saw it. It didn't stay with
62 TBBY SURVIVE
me. It had some other kind of life. . . . It seemed like a shape
that one can see into. I mean into the part that thinks. You
know horses can in a way, but I think they go back to earth.
They don't stay here. . . • He was brown, not chestnut, but
not dark brown. He was a dear and had a white spot and his
mane used to be cut.
The last words were written faintly. The automatist was tired,
so I suggested that this communicator should come again. She wrote
that "it was getting dim," and signing herself "Elizabeth," said
good-bye.
Here then, given quite spontaneously and without any conjecture or
speculation on the· part of either of us, was a further explanation of
the unsatisfactory conversation given through the ouija board eight
months previously. Readers will perceive that the child merely made
this interesting statement regarding the help she had had from Astor,
in the course o.fconversation. She wrote as though she hadjust thought
ofit. In fact, immediately after disclosing this information, she prattled
onjust as any child might do about a horse. IfAstor were interpreting
for her no wonder her personality went astray !
Investigators who, through some mediums, make unsatisfactory
contact with unseen friends, may realize from this that there are many
unlooked-for solutions to account fora poor sitting. It should also be
noted that evidential matter frequently comes through when not
directly asked for.
In the foregoing script there are many points of interest which go
towards proving Elizabeth's identity. The correction of the word
"Mummy" into "Mummo" elicited the information from the mother
that Elizabeth was in the habit of addressing her as "Mumbo." I
had noticed a slight hesitation on the part of the automatist when
writing the word "Mummy." The fact that Mrs. B. contemplated a
visit to London was known to me and also that the visit had been
postponed. The automatist was entirely unaware of this. That
Elizabeth had been in any way connected with horses was also unknown
to her. Though the description given failed to recall any particular
horse to Mrs. B.'s mind, the remark tliat ~'his mane used to be cut"
was apt, for all their horses had hogged manes. This seems an un-
likely point for a subconscious mind to invent as a chance shot. I
see no reason to suppose that, because these details were known to
me, I should have been able to induce Geraldine Cummins into putting
them on paper. Morover, in this instance, the Mummy-Mummo
incident could not ·have originated in my mind for I was unaware
of its importance.
February 16th, 1925
This was the only occasion on which Mrs. B. was present at a
THBY SURVIV.B 63
&itting. The meeting had been arranged but postponed as suggested
in the script~writing of February 1st. Geraldine Cummins had no
idea as to who the visitor was. In the short conversation which pre-
ceded the opening of the sitting, she was entirely misled as to the
identity ofthe sitter. Later she told me that she recognized the gentle,
soothing influence of Elizabeth when she took control of the pencil
-an influence which did not tire her as did some of the other
communicators. ·
Astor announced that there was a youngish person present who
wished to talk. I told him to let her do so. The writing then changed
to a round hand which seemed rather unstead~ at first. .
(E.) It is different this evening-shining and bright. I feel
so excited too. What is it ? I feel so much the thoughts here.
It is making me remember such nice times, but the thoughts
make a cloud about you, perhaps I shall see in a minute.
Mrs. B., who had been following the writing, asked who was there.
"l am Elizabeth" came the announcement, and the writing fairly
danced across· the paper.
My Mummy, darling Mummy. This is lovely. The cloud is
- going now. I was longing to talk to you. I don't know how to
begin. . • . How is Daddy ? I want to hear everything. • • . I
have lots to tell you but first Daddy please.
After some details had been supplied concerning her father,
Elizabeth continued: ·
(E.) Oh, Mummy, I just remember that you were the kindest,
dearest Mummy anyone ever had. I know I was a bit slow at
lessons and things, but I was awfully happy and now I think how
lucky I was. You see I have grown a bit and I have met other
children who had a bad time and could only think of that-it
kept them back here. I wasn't so lonely as you think after I died
because helpers came to me and explained things and they were
awfully nice and good and they brought me to other children in
a place you would think vecy funny. It was all light and colour
and there they showed us what we were exactly. I saw someone
who told me she was my great granny. I never knew her but she
came to me first. She wasn't a bit old but she said I was like her
in my mind and so she had been able to come. I want you awfully,
Mummy, sometimes. · There's such a lot of things here you would
love. . . . I am looking forward to teaching you things-my
turn you see to be teacher. I shall be awfully cross if you don't
give me all your attention. • • . I am not cut away now like I
was. I asked God especially hard to let me find you again. . . •
THEY SUR VI VB
They say you and I will start together. You see I was a little
backward when I came here and I had a long rest but you won't
need it like me. You will have learnt the thiri.gs on earth I have
learnt here-that's what they say. . . • I'm just waiting in
another country for Y,Ou. You have a .light on your forehead
like this lady. . • • Well, Mummy, I send you heaps of love
and kisses. Elizabeth B. • • • Good-bye.
The signature had the same flourish which the mother told me was
characteristic of the child. So, also, was the frequent use of the word
"lovely" which was introduced mainly in her raptures over speaking
again to her mother. After "good-bye" had been written, there were
frantic signs .in the shape of crosses. Presumably, these were meant
to be kisses. Though Geraldine Cummins and I had experimented
in automatism over a long period, and had received communications
from what purported to be various entities, no one, so far, had ever left
us any kisses ! However, Mrs. B. stated that the child had always
made these signs at the termination of her letters to her when on
earth. Subsequently Mrs. B. wrote that she had never felt anything
so real as the child's presence at that time, ·and that s,he could never
think of her as lost again.
March 7th 1925.
(E.) I've been wanting to thank you for letting Mummo
speak to me. I didn't say half of what I wanted to say...• Isn't
God awfully good to help us like that ? . • • I missed her fright-
fully at the beginning. Now I know why it has all been. If I had
lived, I think something bad would have happened, so they took
me away to save me from being unhappy. They thought I could
learn better here without being hurt. IfI Iuid lived a long time on
earth, I should have met with some unhappiness that couldn't
have been kept from me. That was in front of me, they tell me,
so I escaped it by coming here when I was only a girl. If Mummy
thinks of that, she will see why I was taken away from her. . • .
There is a place here for children and anyone who dies young.
Now I am learning how to make myself change and grow and how
to make, with the others, the place we live in. We don't learn out
of books here, we learn out of ourselves. I must put on the dress
I wore when I was alive when I come to talk to you. I mean, not
a dress you would wear, but just the dress that was all I was when'
Mummy knew me. I expect I have explained badly, but we have
to be ourselves when we talk to·you. ·I was mther stupid when I
was alive. I couldn't learn things quickly, but I've been quite
bright since I came here. You see, I've found the rest of myself
here-everyone does. There's only a small bit of you alive now,
there's a lot of you over here. Often the nice part is over here,
THBY SURVIVB 65
that is why y:ou can never know a perSon who is alive. They some-
times seem to change so awfully. It's simply because another
bit of them has come to live in the body and the first bit has left
to join the bigger part over here. It's like a first cousin or an
uncle coming to be you instead of yourself; I don't mean a first
cousin or an uncle ever does, I simply mean that there is a great
deal more of you than you think, and it's divided and joined at
the roots only. So sometimes several people come and go in one
body in a life, but they are all like each other as cousins are alike,
so you don't notice it as much as you might. You just fancy this
person haschanged a lot, that's all. I wanted to tell you this to show
you I do know something and I have learnt things that even an
old person like you doesn't know.
I agreed that Elizabeth now knew·more than I and inquired if,\
when she spoke to us, she appeared as she was on earth, did she return
to a part of her that was grown up?
(E.) Yes, when I go back I go to a much older part ofmyself.
You know when you're born, there's an old, quite. grown-up.
part outside you, that often stays outside, living your life .till you
die and then joining it. That sounds lib fairy stories, p'raps
you wou:Id say, but it's quite true. Mummy mustn't be frightened
and think she will meet an old grown-up person, someone as old
as an aunt. She will find me (and I want her) just as I used. • • •
Some people lose their· mothers and fathers. It's just because
they don't want them much. It's all if you want or don't want,
and what you expect you will get. So you mustn't expect horrid
thingS when you come here. Amn't I awfully wise? I wanted you
to see I'm not a dunce now. Will you give Mummy ••• etc.
This script terminated with the usUal ecstatic messages to her
mother and the now customary crosses. It is curious to note the
introduction of the words "p'raps" and "amn't". Miss Cummins
has a positive dislike, even in a casual letter, for bad English. The
use of these expressions must, therefore, have been made against her
will and instinct. ·In fact, the general style ofthese writings is entirely
unlike anything onewou:Id imaginewowd, emanate from her. It wou:Id,
however, be characteristic of a backward child such as Elizabeth was
at the time of her death. Moreover, the allusion to "an old person
like you" and "someone as·old as an aunt," are, I think, more applic-
able to the mind of a child than to the dramatization of Geraldine
Cummins's subconscious mind-especially when the reference was
to myself! .
In acknowledging the receipt of the above communication, Mrs.
B. remarked that it was curious that Elizabeth shou:Id state that she.
seemed to have been taken away in order that she shou:Id escape some
c
66 rBEY SUR VIVB
great misfortune. She herself had often thought of this. .It is possible,
therefore, that this impression was received telepathically by Geraldine
Cummins. It is equally possible that Elizabeth read her mother's
thoughts as on other occasions and thus took the opportunity of
answering a question which she found in her mind.
March 19th, 1925.
(E.) Elizabeth. It is nice to see you again. I talked such a
lot last time. I meant it for Mummy. I wanted her to see how
clever I had grown. Perhaps I know more than she does now.
Did you ever play with dolls ?
I laughed and explained that I was rather a tomboy and hated
dolls.
(E.) It's like playing with dolls to come back and put on my
old self again. that's what I do. •It's such fun. I am really just
a bit of myself when I talk to you in this way. I feel it is quite
a nice silly bit of me. You know there is only a bit of Mummy
alive too. There's a lot· of her waiting for her to come out of
her body.
(E. B. G.) Tell us something about the place you were taken
to at :first.
(E.) I will try and tell you. You are a very curious person,
aren't you? You make me think of a governess asking questions
about lessons one hadn't learnt and couldn't understand.
(Laughter.) The children who die young sleep for a long time.
They sometimes, if they are very young, slip back again into
bodies, and grow up and become men and women. A great 1llally
don't. After they have slept they are taken by the periple to what
looks like houses and country. They are told these aren't the same
as in the world, they aren't really there, but are real all the same.
We have thought them so you see them. We see each other as
children because we think the figures ofchildren and so you appear
to each other to look just like children. Your bodies aren't made
ofanything the earth people would call solid, they are simply made
out of something lighter and finer than air. This something can
take the (picture) of anything we like to print on it. We have
wished to print the picture around your mind of your bodies,
and we have done so because we know how to think. You will,
when you have got the wish for it, learn how to do the same over
here. You will learn how to make a picture in your mind of a
house, and a howie will spring up about you. The fairy stories
are the only really true stories. The wand that turns an old woman
into a young girl and the magic carpet that carries you where you
want to go, are all just wishes in the mind that haven't anybody
THEY SUR VIVB 67
to stop them from practising their magic. I know you will think
I am talking silly rubbish, but it is really and truly what happens.
The children are too young, when they come to the other side of
death, to know how to use their wishing caps, their minds. They
just see again pretty country and nice people and houses, that
are all picture books-not really in any way the same as what we
were used to on earth. But they'd be so lonely, they couldn't
bear it, if they didn't find people and things they were used to.
Ofcourse, aft~;~r a while they begin to feel their own minds' strength.
They want to give up playing. Then the first thing they are taught
is how to think the place you want to have about you. You'd be
awfully amused at the funny things they do start building. At
first they come just in little bits. It was lovely when I was able
for the first time to think a horse, and then to see it there in front
of me. Daddy even couldn't do that. Some children are so silly,
they think such stupid pictures. One boy wanted a jungle and a
prairie; he was clever and he got them. But he didn't like them a
bit when they were there about him. They frightened him so,
being all alone and all that. I can tell you he worked hard to get
rid of that silly, dark jungle and its snakes and he made a cosy
den out of his mind as soon as he could. We live, you see, for a
time, in a way that is quite like living 'at home. Only there is
really a big difference. It is, that home is made for us when we
come here first, by older minds, but·we are soon taught how to
change it, how to make it; not with hands and muscles but by
seeing the picture of what one wants in one's mind and then
believing it is really there. It's the believing that's so hard. I had·
to make-believe lots, before anything came at all. The bad people
when they come here, believe in just what is nasty and so they get
it about them. But usually children have an awfully good time
because they know what they want to believe in and when they
are sure offinding a home, they find it ofcourse. There's one thing
we can't make with our minds and that's people. I can't make
Mununy or Daddy. They say it's because no one can make what
is called spirit. There are people.here who are good and kind to
us. They make their own shapes with their minds and come in
them, so that we shouldn't be frightened. • • •
(E. B. G.) And do these pictures remain '1
(E.) They stay if we keep working to make them stay. They
·are made for us at first by these older people. When we know how
to do them we must for a while at least do this picture thinking.
I have done more than make my home in this way and pretty
country. I and a girl called Ruth have just learnt how to travel
on the thing out of which we make our world. It is, in a way,
like air. It has, we have found, lots of colours and we float off on
those colours, going as quickly as a train, as quickly as wind, it
is simply splendid.
68 TBBY SURVIVB
Here I said that I thought all she was saying was very interesting
and asked if she had any news to tell me of her mother.
(E.) I feel she is not upset in the way she. was. I mean, I
don't get that queer knowing that she was fretting, I haven't felt
that just lately. I do get a sort of idea that things are difficult and
something she hopes for hasn't come. But she is able to stand it
better, I think, now. I love Mummy best of all ••• These are
Mummy's.
The writing ended with a series of vigorous crosses. The following
is quoted from a letter received from the mother of Elizabeth B. :
I think this last script the most wonderful ofall. Really it seems
to me to be the most definite and logical explanation of the state
we call Heaven. Surely no medium could possibly write all that
much less think it. It explains so many things that seem impossible
inthe nextexistence. Our ''spiritual body," for instance,asmentioned
in the Bible. And Christ's "many mansions" and Hell being the
evil imaginations of the wicked ones. No theory I have ever read
seems so simple and probable as the way she expresses it. It
seems to me the explanation of the survival of identity ·without
the earthly clay.
There is another link in the chain connected with the survival
of Elizabeth B. It concerns some rather remarkable cross-references
which occurred between Miss Cummins and Miss Helen MacGregor.
At the period of which I write Miss MacGregor was only very slightly
known to me, and she and Geraldine Cummins were unacquainted
with each other. The following are some notes of a sitting obtained
with Miss MacGregor. I had sat with her a few times experimentally,
some eighteen months previously before Elizabeth had begun to
communicate. Miss MacGregor was unaware of her existence. I
went to her on this occasion, hoping to get further evidence of survival
connected with a totally different entity, i.e. F. W. H. Myers. He
had frequently purported to communicate through Geraldine Cummins
during the past year. Elizabeth was entirely out of my mind. Later,
Miss MacGregor wrote stating that she had thought the sitting a
bad one as she "sensed so clearly that she had not touched the spirit
friend I had. come for."
April 13th, 1925.
After some conversation Miss MacGregor's "control" spoke
as follows:
"There is a girl here with straight hair hanging down, and a ribbon ·
on it. She is slender, wearing a white ctoton frock, standing on one
THBY SURVIVB 69
leg, then on the other. She looks delicate though not through illness.
She had a good brain, not very active, and is affectionate in nature.
She has come through you to her mother and would like to communi-
cate again. She has come to the ouija-board or in writing for her
mother. The girl has been over a few years and has evolved and learnt
a lot. She ~ a good power of expression now. She was young when
she passed over. She looked about fourteen then, now she looks about
nineteen or twenty. She will be able to give some more through
writing . . • messages to her mother. The gid did not know you,
she knows of you. You know her mother anyway. She sends her love
to her mother who is beginning to feel her presence and realize she is
still alive. The girl says her mother is not so unhappy about her now,
knowing that life is not ended; she feels in touch with her mother,
she feels she is opening out towards her. She has a younger sister,
but she does not mean so much to her mother-she doesn't mean
she doesn't care so much, but she is different in nature. The mother
suffered dreadfully when she lost the girl, but she is better now. She
wants to thank you for helping her mother. It was a great surprise.
You were the last person she thought could help her in this way.
You were interested in our side and she has been able to help you.
She is a very good communicator and has brought through good tests.
The mother is not in London-you write to her, you don't see her.
She doesn't live far away but it is in England. The mother is not able
to go to mediums because she is out of London. The mother is recep-
tive and has a certain amount of psychic power, she gets it in feeling
some way. She is not good for tests but is impressed. The mother is
kind-hearted, she gives ·out sympathy, having felt so much herself;
the girl is very happy. At first it was an awful wrench from her mother
as she had a great love for her. But she was quickly consoled on
passing over. She has progressed and is progressing in intelligence.
She has come out psychicaliy a lot because you helped her mother.
Don't think you are dragging her back. This girl touches your hand
. . ." (possibly indicating that she has written elsewhere).
The above is remarkable not only iri .the corroboration of What
Elizabeth had written through Miss Cummins, but also in indicating
the mother's feelings resulting from her contact with Elizabeth. This
is the first occasion on which allusion is made to the younger sister.
It may be conjectured that Miss MacGregor's control merely read
my ·mind. Nevertheless, certain facts were given which I did not
know.
On receipt of the notes of Miss MacGregor's ·sitting, Elizabeth's
mother wrote:
I love this last Communication and I think the description
wonderful because Miss MacGregor could know nothing of either
Elizabeth or me. It is lovely to think she can come through more
70 THEY SURVIVE
than one source. I should think staDding on first one leg and then
the other, means she was excited and nervous. I always used to
tell her not to fidget. She nearly always wore white. I have her
frocks now. And she always looked frail even when not ilL It
is indeed true the difference it has made to me-like a door being
opened. People say I look better. It is a new life really. Quite
true, no one can be to me what she was. • • •
I did not know that EI,izabeth "fidgeted" or that she nearly always
wore white, or in fact anything of her personal appearance. It will
be noted that Mrs. B. does not dispute any of the description which
was given by Miss MacGregor; and the account of her contact with
me is accurate in every particular.
About this time Geraldine Cummins began to develop the writing
ofthe Cleophas scripts. For some weeks, therefore, we had no further
conversations with our other alleged communicators. Two months
later, however, we had time for a script from Elizabeth. Here I would
draw attention to the fact that Miss Cummins was absolutely unaware
that I had even seen Miss MacGregor in the interval, much less had
a sitting with her. She knew that I had sat with Mrs. Osborne Leonard
early in June for the purpose of obtaining cross-correspondence
between her and Miss Cummins. I had secured a sitting with the.
latter soon afterwards and had told her later my reason for so doing. ·
June 22nd, 1925. ,
(E.) • • • Betty-a new name for you. My whole name is
Elizabeth. How are you ? • • • I know lots of things you
don't know now. I have learnt how to think twice at the same
time.
(E. B. G.) That must take a bit of doing.
(E.) It does ! I would like to explain if I could. I want to
be making something I remember and I want to be playing tob.
HI want hard enough I find I can work and play at the same time.
And when I have finished, both myself and the other me meet and
tell each other what we have been doing and I am behind both
. and I laugh. It is such fun to do two things at the same time.
As I was anxious to see if Elizabeth would make any reference
to her unexpected appearance at the MacGregor sitting, I asked her
if she had tried to speak to me elsewhere. The answer came without
a second's hesitation. When I asked Geraldine Cummins afterwards
if she were conscious of this question, she replied that she vaguely
recollected hearing the remark and that her mind instinctively recalled
the fact that I had told her of my recent sitting with Mrs. Leonard.
In consequenCe of the information which I knew was in the mind of
the automatist at the time, I confess I expected sorlie allusion to
THEY SURVIVE 71
Elizabeth's having spoken to me at Mrs. Leonard's. In reality, Eliza-
beth was not mentioned at the Leonard sitting. What Elizabeth
wrote, however, referred directly to Miss MacGregor.
(E.) Oh, yes. I tried to make you listen but it was quite
different from this. What a funny place it was. The light was
different, so bright and jumpy. It made me see a room again
quite clearly. I felt crowds of other people were trying to speak
so I had to be quick. I wanted to send love to Mumbo, I thought
it might be heard by you. But you looked different, too, and you
seemed surprised as if you hadn't expected me. I thought perhaps
I had madea mistake, and I tried to say I had talked to you through
someone different-through this person (meaning G. C.) I think
you knew then it was really me. Your face changed. You smiled
quite nicely. I saw your face very clearly. I tried to explain to the
lady who I was. I showed the spirit (the MacGregor control
presumably) my robe. That meant I wasyoung when I died. I
wanted to explain that. I think it was clear. I said I was happy
and I explained myself when I was alive. It's hard to explain what
you are, isn't it ? I showed what I used to like but I don't know
if the spirit saw. I made a picture of an animal and I made one
of the country, by thinking. Then, when that seemed puzzling a
bit, I thought of Mumbo and Daddy and that seemed to be given
attention. You looked pleased. You nodded your head so funnily.
I laughed. Isn't it funny you can't hear me laughing. You see I
like you awfully and you hadn't been talking to me so I wanted
to show you I was there,and give you a message. I hope you were
pleased. It was all so queer-all that buzzing about and all that
brightness. It is quieter here.
(E. B. G.) Do you remember anything more?
(E.) I tried to explain how it all happened, I mean my coming
here, and about being ill. But that was hard to say. It was easier
to talk ofthe way I had spoken to you. I talked a lot and I wanted
to say something about where I was and what I was doing. Then
I thought of Granny and Jane. I thought it would be lovely to
say Jane so that you could hear. You didn't look as if you did.
You didn't smile, you see. I could tell a bit by watching.
(E. B. G.) Do you know that allyou are saying is very important
as proving that you are still alive ?
(E.) I told you I was awfully wise. I wanted to show you
what I could say in a new way. It was so jumpy-such a funny
little spirit. Why does she dance so ?
(E. B. G.) I didn't know she did.
(E.) Yes, all the time dancing and that's why I wasn't sure
if I was being attended to properly.
The writing ended with the customary display of crosses. The
72 THEY SURVIVE
· dancing to which Elizabeth referred would indicate Miss MacGregor~
control, who is, I understand, of a youthful kind. · ·
The two most popular theories brought forward to explain cases
of spirit communication: telepathy, or inventions of the subconscious
mind, do not seem adequately to dispose ofthe evidence offered by this
cross-correspondence. I have no idea how I looked upon the occasion
of my sitting with Miss MacGregor. It is, therefore, impossible that
I conveyed impressions of myself at that sitting to the subconscious
mind of the trance-writer of Elizabeth's words, Geraldine Cummins.
If the survivial of "Elizabeth" is not accepted, then the only plausible
explanation seems to be that Geraldine Cummins is gifted with the
power of "retrovision,"-in other words, that she is able to eject her
mind into the past and from it select-among other things-a certain
pictorial episode in the MacGregor sitting, of which she had no
conscious knowledge had taken place.
Here are a few comparisons ofmy notes of the MacGregor sitting
with the Cummins script. Elizabeth states that I looked as if I had
not expected her. Correct. I was thinking of Myers. She says that
she would have loved to say Jane so that I could hear, but "I didn't
look as though I did." I should certainly have noted the name
of her younger sister, the reference to her father, and other details,
had the MacGregor control heard them and -passed them on
to me. She "made a picture of an animal"-of which I had no note,
and the script-writing admits that it was doubtful if this was
mentioned.
Elizabeth alludes to the fact that she "showed the spirit her robe,"
apparently illustrating her approximate age at death. She does not
qualifY this by saying that she was not sure if she got it through. On
the contrary, she says she "thought it was clear." Miss MacGregor
spoke of a cotton frock and correctly described Elizabeth's age at
death. These, and other details, were given very distinctly and corro-
borated in the automatic script. And there is one more point. Eliza-
beth states in writing that she found it bard to explain about her actual
death-about being ill. Miss MacGregor wrote to me, stating that
she "never encouraged her communicators to recall their last illness
as she considered it harmful to them." Therefore, she "always shut
out all passing-out conditions." This fact was entirely unknown
both to Geraldine Cummins and to myself. Miss Cummins has no
particular feelings of this kind. Yet, spontaneously, through her,
Elizabeth says she was unable to give this information through Miss
MacGregor.
The MacGregor sitting seemed remarkable enough in the descrip-
tion given of I,.ow Elizabeth had come to me through automatic
writing and all the details concerning the mother's reactions, etc.
But more remarkable still would seem to be this record through
Geraldine Cummins giving, it appears, correct indications of what
she got through and of what she thought she had failed to get through
THEY SURVIVl! 73
at the MacGregor sitting and of which, according to my notes, I had
no record.
In reply to my query as to whether Elizabeth was ever called
"Betty," her mother wrote:
"Yes, of course we called her Betty. All J's family do still. I took
to Elizabeth as my father liked it and there were so many 'Bettys'
about then. This seems evidential to me. . • ."
I\lizabeth also spoke to me through Mrs. Barke!, a trance medium
at the British College of Psychic Science, in September 1925. At this.
sitting she stated that she had communicated to me by writing and
where I had taken down notes concerning her: I was a complete
stranger to Mrs. Barke!. It was not until 1927 that another oppor-
tunity occurred to talk with Elizabeth through Geraldine Cummins.
In this interval, she had completed The Scripts of Cleophas, After
Pentecost, Paul in Athens and the first few chapters of The Great
Days o] Ephesus, and other matters.
Just before Elizabeth communicated for the last tiine in 1927,
Frederic Myers wrote an essay on the Group-soul, through Miss
Cummins's hand. All these writings greatly vary in character, style
andsubject-matter. Yet when·Elizabeth wrote again, her own particular
mode of thought and writing reappeared as though there had been
.no lapse of tiine betweea her communications.
June 7th, 1927.
Elizabeth B.•.. My dear godmother, how are you? I have
been so happy since you let me talk. The letters I wrqte to Mumbo
· made me feel quite close to her again, darling Mumbo ! You were
a kind of fairy godmother, pulling down the silly wall between us.
Will you send her my love. . . •
(E. B. G.) What have you been doing lately ?
(E.) I have been living in a lovely place where there is a spring
garden and it changes just as the year does on earth. The people
here taught me to set that garden by the time of the earth. Every-
thing in it is meant to remind me of Mumbo, Jane, Daddy and
everybody. The garden is made by us out ofwhat we canremember.
It isn't solid like the earth, and yet it seems the .same because we
think so as to make it;· and we want it to seem like something
we know. But if we didn't-with the help of all the nice people
here--make this out of our thinking, there would be nothing but
light around us. We build it all up just as children build houses
of bricks, only we are taught to make the bricks too; but if you
. came along to my lovely garden you wouldn't see anything. It
would seem air to you. Isn't that funny?
(E. B. G.) Do you know what your mother has been doing
lately?
· · (E.} Oh lots of little things; she has been worrying and trying
to manage for Jane. And that's a bit hard. You see Jane must have
c•
74 1'HEY SURVIVE
a good time, the best Mummy can give her. And it's awfully hard
when you haven't much. But it will be easier in a year or two.
Things will be better then. I have a secret. Somebody will die
and leave Mumbo a little money. At least I saw that. I can't tell
you when. But it will be a great help. • . .
I have crowds of friends here, but you wouldn't know them.
I don't want to play as I used. It is much more fun making these
pictures which are more than pictures, for they are real. I have
one hard kind of work. I meet little children who have only just
come out of the sleep that follows the time when we first wake up
from the world. They sometimes don't know they are dead, and
if they did, they wouldn't often know what it meant. They try to
cry because their nurses or their mothers aren't with them. I
know what it is like to feel as they do. So I play with them for
a bit and tell them not to be silly. I try to make them learn to
use their new eyes. I show them that they haven't lost their bodies,
butjustbave new ones that are very fine, not like ugly earth-bodies.
These are pretty and don't have pain and don't need food. The
air and the light give us what we need. I show these little
children about the place we have ready for them, and they get
quite happy when they see the houses, trees and fields made out
of the minds of the nice people here. . The children soon feel
at home. They· aren't frightened then when ·I tell them they
are dead. They are so excited by the lovely world we have for
them.
(E. B.. G.) What about animals ? Do they meet them ? Are
there any pets ?
(E.) Yes, we have them too-horses, dogs and birds. The
wise old people here tell me they draw the animal that has died
here and make it understand and live as it did. Only it isn't
frightened any more, for nobody hurts an animal here. If someone
tried it would mean that person would have to go for· a time to
the empty place where there is nothing but greyness. It is awfully
bad to be cruel. But somehow here people don't seem to want to
be cruel. You know a great many of the sins of people on earth
were the fault of their bodies; as soon as they get bodies here that
seem made out of air, they are so light and easy to use, people
don't feel the wish to do cruel or nasty things. There isn't any
need to tell a fib when everybody understands and is kind. There
isn't any need to steal when the air and light are food. There
isn't any need for fights when people have everything they want.
Besides, you see the stupid old earth bodies were made to make
people want things dreadfully they couldn't have.
(E. B. G.) Do animals remember their earth-life?
(E.) Yes, they sometimes show me what they remember. I
have seen a horrid picture, a poor hungry pussy that can't get home
and is starving, creeping into a gutter to die. I have seen that kind
THEY SURVIVE 75
of remembrance. But the pussy has what they call "the spirit of
life" here, so it comes on and doesn't die though its body is dead.
We· see after some of these animals, the cleverest of them. They
come to the place I have told you of, and of course, they go to
others too. I believe, after a time, they go back to earth because
they know it is the best way to b!=come complete. They may go
into the bodies of animals or of babies. It just depends on them-
selves•
. (E. B. G.) How do you know all this? Is someone telling you
now about it?
(E.) I have been learning all this properly lately. Why, don't
you believe me? A nice man has told me a lot. Will you give
Mumbo heaps of love and kisses. She will be surprised at my
writing. It is different because the light seems so bright to-night,
I haven't quite got the hold I had before. I am out of practice.
Give my loving messages, and tell her she is the dearest, best
Mummie in the world. Elizabeth. (There followed a quantity of
crosses as usual.)
On receipt of the foregoing communication, Mrs. B. wrote:
It is extraordinarily true about Jane and my being worried and
trying to do things for her. I did not tell you that Jane had had
the tonsil-adenoid operation for one thing. That's when I was
worried, both about her and the expense. Then I have been
trying to give her tiding lessons and so on, extra. So it is odd
that she should say "trying to manage little things fo:r Jane."
As regards money, I think it is more likely that she knew that one
of my brothers had started to help me with education, etc., only
now1 lately, and it may have seemed like money left me. I am
awfully struck, as I have been before,. by all she says and describes
of life over there. It seems to me it explains everything and is
the solution of all our problems. • . .
There is little to add to the case ofElizabeth B. I can only impress
on the reader that during these two years neither Miss Cummins
nor I had had .any intercourse with Mrs. B. I knew nothing of her
plans concerning Jane or of her worries.
Now there would seem to be two theories to consider. Either
the mind of the writer of these communications has amazing faculties
by which she is able to penetrate into the past, pre_sent and future
of a family completely unkno~ to her, or Elizabeth B. has demon-
strated her survival, beyond doubt, through the psychic powers of
individuals with whom she \vas unacquainted during life. It can hardly
.be claimed that my ·presen,ce influenced the phenomena unless, of
course, my consciousness in some manner unknown, reaches out to
some of my friends and obtains snatches of information concerning
76 THEY SURVIVI
them: which I am able, also unconsciously, to transtnit ~ various
mediums I visit;
In conclusion I would like the reader to observe that the details
concerning the After-life as given by Elizabeth are expressed in a simple,
childlike manner. Whereas Geraldine Cummins's hand haS produced
writings purporting to come from F. W. H. Myers, expounding
similar views. These may be found in The Road to Immortality and
Beyond Human Personality, but they are expressed in elaborate, and
in some cases, cotnplicated language. Both these books were written
some years after the automatic scripts recorded above,
Case VIII
SIGNOR X. AND HIS WIFE
THE following ree<-fd is remarkable in that obscure information and
a pet name were given of which neither Miss Cummins nor r had any
knowledge. ·
A particularly strong affection existed between Signor X., who
lived in Italy, and his wife. Since her death nineteen years before these
writings began, he had searched diligently through various mediumistic
channelS for proof of her survival. These apparently gave him no
irrefutable evidence. It appears from his letters to me that his anxiety
to .be convinced was so great that his presence at a sitting
would tend to upset the delicate psychic· vibrations and so inhibit
success. However, the evidence obtained spOntaneously through
Geraldine Cummins seems to have satisfied him. For, in November
1937, acknowledging a script sent to him, he wrote: "••• it
contained a striking reference to what had been secretly agreed
upon between us thirty-seven years ago at the tiine of our
betrothal."
. Signor X. had, I understand, visited England occasionally but
neither Miss Cummins nor I had met him and he was in Italy when,
at his earnest request, these few sittings were held. He was pu.t iri
touch with Miss Cummins through a friend in the autumn of 1936.
From Italy he sent her a letter and .a lock of hafr, asking her to
"psychometrize" them. Psychometry is a faculty a few gifted
people possess. It enables them, through holding an object, to
obtain a description of its owner, ot veridical events connected with
him. .
On the occasion in question, theautomatist satalone with the above-
mentioned articles beside her on the table. We had been doilig much
psychic work, we had, in fact, almost completed the writing of When
Nero was Dictator. But having a few WJ.ys' rest from work, on
THBY SUR VIVB 7·7
December 21st, 1936, Miss Cummins decided to do what she could
for Signor X. To her surprise, Silenio (the control who announces
the presence of the Christian Messengers) wrote his name and pro-
ceeded to give a long account of his impressions obtained from the
letter and from the lock of hair.
She sent the script to Italy. On January 17th, 1937, Signor X.
replied ~t length, saying "there was a very strong and powerful bond
between my wife and myself" (as was indicated in the writing), and
that Silenio's message "seemed quite satisfactory." He would not
then comment further, but continued:
The thing which worries me at present is to have cogent
evidence of my wife's identity in order that the message purporting
to come from her ~ay be relied on entirely. . • . May I be
allowed to say that our two lives, nay our two souls, were strictly
united and interwoven. . • •
He ended his letter by saying:
I think it convenient to give ·a brief outline to you because
the name Dina or Deena, wlUch had been caught by Silenio when
you were totally unaware, has to my eyes, a great significance. • • •
In early March 1937, Geraldine Cummins received a further long
letter from Signor X. in which he says :
You will remember I had lately forwarded to you a writing
from one of my daughters and a lock. of her hair, with a view
to have $em psychometrized by Silenio. The fact is that, instead
of a psychometry of my daughter, you received through Silenio, a
message purporting to come from my wife whose name was Dina.
At the time you did not know anything about my wife, nor could
you know that "Dina" was a familiar abbreviation of her
Christian name. It was a striking revelation for me to read
Silenio's words: "Now I am getting a name, only a sound. It is
either Dina or Deena. I hear it like that, I don't see the letters."
You kno\\< at present that I and my wife were absolutely one in.
spirit. I have been seeking her desperately these nineteen
years...•
·He enclosed a copy of the original script written by Silenio. This
was the first time I had.read it. He sent also two letters from his late
wife written in 1899 and in 1915, with a request for more sittings on
his behalf. On April 13th, 1937, Geraldine Cummins and I decided
to have a further sitting for Signor X. with the letters on the table.
These drew forth a long communication purporting to come from
78 THEY SURVIVE
his wife, full of the utmost love and devotion-ercalling their happy
life on earth together. It was signed "Diena X."-another indication
that names are often transmitted phonetically to the sensitive as des-
cribed by Silenio and shown eleswhere in this book. This letter was
forwarded to Signor X. and, on April 20th, Miss Cummins received
the acknowledgment from which this extract is taken.
I must sincerely tell you that there is a point-a very important
one-in the message, which substantially coincides with what was
once agreed upon with my wife in her lifetime. I think I am
bound to tell you this because it will represent the best reward
both to you and Miss Gibbes for united efforts.
It occurred to me that we were .on the track of some good
evidence, therefore I wrote in June, saying that, as Signor X. had,
in response to my request, given me permission to participate in the
experimental writing for his wife (as this facilitated the changing of
the paper, etc.), coUld I have his permission to write a short article
for some paper interested in the subject ? To this he willingly assented.
I referred to the obtaining of his wife's name and to the fact that
apparently a point had come through which he claimed had sub-
stantially coincided "with what was agreed upon" between him and
his wife thirty-seven years previously. I pointed out the import;mce
of this, seeing that he had sought for evidence of his wife's survival
for so many years, and that he was not present at the sittings nor did
he know when they were taking place. Therefore it seemed telepathy
would appear largely to be eliminated.
On July 30th, .1937, he replied. Referring to the point agreed
upon between him and his wife, he wrote:
On April 13th, 1937, Miss Cummins's message runs as
follows:
I want you to remember that we agreed once that whatever
ties we might make or affinities have, if we were ever separated
by death, we would in our spirit always hold only to the one
love-each other. That is what I am anxious to make clear and
speak about to you now. So long as· your mind loves and puts
first Dina, then we are sure of meeting as soon as you pass over
to us. . . . I would like you to think of us two as what they call
her~ties-though we are two, we are one. Will you please
keep that thought always in your mind. That we are twin-souls.
So it does not signify how in earthly years we are separated, for
we are bound at last to come together. They call that here the
law of psychic gravitation. Because ·our two souls started long
ago as one, we being one, must come together when you die. For
two lovers, such as we are, cannot be kept apart for longer than
the last half of an earthly life.
THBY SURVIVE 79
Having quoted this paragraph from Miss Cummins's automatic
writing, Signor X. continued:
The foregoing passages made·me think that there was a cOrre-
lation with the following facts: A vow of everlasting union of
our two souls was consecrated by our own free-will thirty-seven
years ago. • . • I am now going to translate as best I can, part
of what passed between my wife and myself thirty-seven years ago:
Prayer to God: Allow my thought to ~ach Thee at this
moment when another soul-companion, who is part of my
own soul, is near to me. To her I have devoted all my life
hoping to reach with her and for her a degree of moral per-
fection. • • . We have· come here to seal before Thee the vow
which overflows from our hearts, and from the depth of our.
souls we ask Thee to bless our union, which we cpnsider as
indissoluble and indelible for ever. That is what we have
promised each other before now knowing that no other tie
would more powerfully satisfy our mutual aspirations.
To her dead father, she addressed herself for i:O.tercession:
Allow that our two souls united in life, and after life, may
meet you in the Infinite never to leave you.
Signor X. then quoted from a letter from his wife, written in 1917:
. . .our two souls in the same stream of light which is the
sum total of our two lives bound in one. • . . I have felt and
am feeling how much your life is an intrinsic part of my soul and
how much your own self is a vital part of my own self. • ••
Signor X. continued:
She died in 1918, leaving five children and ever since I have
been lookiilg for her desperately. No reliable mediums as far as
I know are to be found here, and for various circumstances I am
unable to come to London. 'That is why I have tried to receive
messages by writing to Miss Cummins and others. • • . The first
part of the message received through Miss Cummins as reported
above appears to refer to what was agreed upon thirty-seven years
ago, while, as regards the second part ofthe same message, reference
may be made, I think, to the letters addressed to me. • • •
The above passages put together for comparison by Signor X.
may not satisfy some readers. But to me they seem to represent a
80 THEY SURVIVE
·remarkable similarity of thought, to say ··the least of it, especially
when we consider the lapse of time between the vow, the Jetter and
the automatic writing of April 13th, 1937. It may be suggested that
the thought of this strong attachment being always in Signor X.'s
mind, it was easy for the automatist to pick up the idea of the vow
from him. But why, if this thought was so much in the man's mind
all these years, had no other medium picked it up and "put it through"
as evidence in a manner satisfactory. to Signor X. ? In one letter to
me in August 1937, he states that:
••• he had submitted the case to a well-known London
professional medium, but no satisfactory reply came to my
questions, although I had furnis~ the medi'um with many
particuJars which Miss Cummins was entirely unaware of.
From· this we may infer that in his endeavour to get real proof
such as he· was seeking Signor X. had even gone so far as to put
leading questions. Yet, in addition to the possibility of telepathy,
travelling clairvoyance, etc., which should be considered, even sugges-
tions put into mediums' minds had failed to bring forth the desired
results. Signor X. sums up the situation by remarking:
The questions were then perhaps not answered by my wife
because she wanted a more congenial environment which was
offered by Miss Cummins.
It will be noted that, ip his letter to Geraldine Cummins in January
1937, Signor X. explained the close relationship between, these two.
I· have quoted it because readers should be in possession of details
for and against these various cases in order that they may judge
each record ·for themselves. In this instance, the possibility of the
intervention oftheautomatist'ssubconscious mind has to be considered.
It may be claimed that this inadvertent and very foolishly-imparted
piece of information given by the Italian, may have influenced the
script-writing. But against this it must be recalled that, in her first
communication through Miss Cummins, the wife spontaneously
wrote: "I want you to remember that we once agreed," etc. That any
vow of any kind had ever been agreed between them was, of course,
unknown to us. .
It would seem that this case illustrates why some of the so-called
dead, having declared before death that they will communicate the
conterits of a sealed letter, for example, have failed satisfactorily to
accomplish it. As they must use the physical brain of a living person,
they are dependent on the "make up" and personality of the medium
to get it through. In Geraldine Cummins, Signora X. found one
with, as her husband puts it in another letter: "the necessary sympathy
and understanding," and so was enabled to give a close interpretation
'tHEY SURVIVE 81
of the intense affection which subsisted between husband and wife.
As other communicators have said (their remarks are quoted
elsewhere in this book), "the general idea" is given but not
"the actual words." Again, it .illustrates how important evidence
was spontaneously given and a direct question was avoided.
(Direct questions, for inany reasons, sometimes bring confused
answers.) _
In examining this case I would remind readers that neither of us
had met Signor X., nor was he in England during the sittings.
Regarding the lock of hair and letter originally psychometrized
by Silenio, Signor X. said that these belonged to his daughter. The
vibrations attached to these objects apparently attracted the girl's
mother and a slight confusion was shown in the writing. Asked
later to explain this, Silenio replied: ·
The spirit of a woman stood near you when I came, and
pointed to the hair. I was led by her strong influence and
desire, to write about her and for her, so I believed the hair to
be hers....
Ifwe admit that the dead survive death and can communicate with
those on earth, it would seem from above remarkS that psychOmetry
is sometimes helped_ by the attraction of the dead to the article in
question, and that it is not entirely achieved by the mysterious powers
of the sensitive.
There were two or three further sittings for Signor X. and his
wife in 1938 and 1939. In acknowledging the first Signor X. wrote
that they "contained much truth." .But before I could tie the Signor
down to corroborating the further evidential references in the writings,
war had broken out. He stated however that his wife had always
stressed her belief and- complete confidence in an after-life. He sent
a translation of a letter written to him by her in 1917 from which
the following quotation is taken:
. . . with the help of your love, great and everlasting, which,
after God, is the powerful support of my own soul in earth
life and after ·[ife.
These words are underlined by Signor X. as in the automatic
writings Signora X. had stressed this belief of hers. To those who
accept survival as a proved fact it would seem from these communi-
cations that in some instances memory vividly survives death, for
at least thirty-seven years. ·
82 THEY SURVIVE
. ·--:
\1· CaseiX
CAPTAIN ). M.
Tm! following record is taken in its entirety from the Journal of the
Society for Psychical Research. (May 1929).
The sitter had been most anxious to obtain indisputable evidence
of survival. For this reason she sought details unknown to her and
to the automatist (Miss Cummins), which she could later verify.
Geraldine Cummins appears to have satisfied her in that respect, as
the sitter was successful, with the help of another member of the
Society, in tracing obscure details. Apart from this, it would seem
that the communicator J.M. was fully aware of the sitter's desire,
and sether problems to solve, to be, as he said : "added to E's museum."
INFORMATION RECEIVBD AT A Sl'IT1N'G CONCERNING
MATTERS UNKNOWN TO THB SITIER
We print below a report received from one of our members, here
called Mrs. Cooper, concerning some information of apparently
supernormal origin received by her at sittings with Miss Geraldine
Cummins. The method of communication was by ouija board, Miss
Cummins being in a light trance. The names of all persons concerned
are known to the Society, but for reasons which will be apparent,
pseudonyms or initials have been used here.
The purporting communicator at these sittings was Captain J. M.,
of the 1st Batt. of the Blankshire Regiment, an old friend of Mrs.
Cooper's, who was killed in the South Mrican War. Mrs. Cooper,
who takes her own notes, had her first sitting with Miss Cummins
on June 22nd, 1927; at her fourth sitting on October 26th, 1927,
the following statement was made: ·
(J. M.) You know Cunynham.
(MRS. C.) Yes, of course. What is the rest of his name ?
(J. M.) Cunynham Dick.
Mrs. Cooper was thinking at the time of a man of the name of
Dick-Cunynham, now· dead, with whom she was acquainted. At a
subsequent sitting with Miss Cummins on November 25th, 1927, it
was made clear that reference was intended to Colonel W. H. Dick-
Cunynham, who was awarded the V.C. in the Mghan War in 1897,
and died of wounds received at Caesar's Camp, Ladysmith, in January
1900. This Colonel Dick-Cunynham Mrs. Cooper never knew, nor
at the time ofthe sitting did she consciously remember the circumstances
of his death. It is, however, quite possible that she had at some time
THEY SURVIVE 83
known them; moreover, the circumstances of the awarding of the
V.C. and of Colonel Dick-Cunynham's death have been described in
several published books. The incident is only mentioned here as it
seems to have been the first emergence of a train of thought followed
up in subsequent sittings. Colonel W. H. Dick.-Cunynham was
known to Captain J. M.
Extracts from later sittings with Miss Cummins. ·
December 8th, 1927.
(J. M.) You want me to try to put through a name or two. Did
you ever hear of two men in my .regiment who were knocked out as
I was ? • . . One was a youngster Vezey. The other is Fraser. . ••1
They gave me part of a name which is important. They could not
remember it all. It is Eland-I think. They were done in near some
place like that.
Vemy and Fraser (note spelling) were the names of two officers of
the 2nd Batt. of the Blankshire Regiment killed at Elandslaagte in
October 1899. To the best ofher belief Mrs. Cooper had never heard
of either of them. The applying term of"youngster" to Vezey is not
very appropriate, as he was nearly forty at the time of his death and
considerably older than Fraser, who was not yet thirty.
(J. M.) I met two men I knew this side lately. One is called
Fraser my regiment. He was quite young. The other was a good
fellow Vezey. I had forgotten even their names till I ran up against
them here with Dick-Cunynham.•.•
The mistake as to the respective ages of Vemy and Fraser seems
to be here corrected.
Does a name beginning with Raven mean anything to you ? Raven
.....:.I can't remember the rest. Teignmouth-,a place there-1 know
thei:e was some connection between Dorothy and it.
The allusion to a "name beginning with Raven" meant nothing to
Mrs. Cooper at the time of the sitting. Nor did the allusion to
Teignmouth.
(MRs. C.) Which Dorothy? You don't ~ Miss Cummins?
Dorothy is Miss Cummins's second name.
(J. M.) No, the other one. Her name was connected with that
place. Her name is the one connected with Ravensburn-not more
than a connection. You must puzzle this out.
Later in the sitting:
(MRS. C.) I'll try to find out about Raven and Dorothy.
1 In selecting pseudonyms care has been taken to choose names which
represent the actual names as well as possible, especially as regards mistakes
in spelling, etc. · ·
84 THEY SURVIVE
(J. M.) No. Nevill. Remember Dorothy's name.
Dorothy Nevill .was the nameofa friend at .whose house Mrs. Cooper
andJ. M. had met. ·
April 18th, 1928
(J. M.) I am sorry I did not get the correct meaning through
about Raven. I thought of the Raven Inn and then I couldn't get the
other Ravensburn through. Nevills lived there, not Dorothy, but _I
set it as a puzzle for you.
. At a sitting of Mrs. Cooper's with another medium, not reported
here, there had been a confused attempt to make a statement about
"Raven." The Raven Inn at Shrewsbury is very well known. Mrs.
Cooper notes that at the time of the sitting ofApril 18th; she had traced
a family called Nevill living near Carlisle, who also OWfted land in
Shropshire near J. M.'s old home and she thought reference might be
intended to them.
(J. M.) You will find Ravensbourne Teignmouth next. In my time
Nevills lived there.
(MRs. C.) Is it the name of a house?
(J. M.) Yes, I remembered it, and told you Dorothy's name was
connected with it. It is the same surname. In my time remember.
Mrs. Cooper, who has never herself visited Teignmouth, was unable
to find any reference to a house called Ravensbourne, either in .Kelly's
Directory1 or on maps. Eventually, however, a statement was obtained
from the postmaster at Teignmouth, as.follows :
Post Office,
Teignmouth.
30. 4. 28.
With reference to your enquiry relating to the occupation ofa house
by the name of Ravensbourne, I beg to inform you that it· is confirmed
that a gentleman of the name of Nevill occupied a house of that name
situated in the Higher Woodway some years ago.
(Sgd.) J. E. NEEDHAM.
April 26th, 1928.
(J. M.) Frazer has been telling me about the spree he said I missed
at X-. I wasn't with the regiment then. The two battalions had the
hell of a time to get there, he say~xcuse the language and regimental
gossip. • • • . I shall be a prude and not tell you of a small scandal
that occurred at that time. Some day you may hear of that famous
meeting between the two battalions. The first had done awfully well.
but they little knew what was before them.
1 But see below, page 87.
THEY SURVIVE 85
A military station in India was correctly named with the omission
ofone letter. The first and second battalions ofthe Blank:shire regiment
met at this station in 1898, a fact of which to the best of her belief
Mrs. Cooper had no knowledge. It is true, as Mrs Cooper ascertained
by personal inquir.v after the sitting, that J. M. did not accompany his
regiment to India. Mention of this fact is ofsome interest since it would
not be easily ascertainable from any published source. Mrs. Cooper
did not herself meet, or hear anything of J. M. after June 1897, until
she read ofhis death in S. Africa.
May 7th, 1928.
(J. M.) Next time I speak I will tell you more about X- and the
spree the youngsters had. Jimmy, as we called the adjutant, knew about
it, they tell me.
At a later sitting on May 8th, there was a reference to "Jimmy,"
otherwise Jamieson the adjutant. There seems to be some confusion
here. Neither of the adjutants of the 1st and 2nd battalions of the
Blank:shires in 1898 was called Jami.eson; there was a Captain Jameson
(note spelling) in the first battalion, but he was not the adjutant. We have
ascertained from an old soldier serving with the regiment at the time
(see below) that there was an officer in the 2nd battalion called Jimmy
B. But he also was not the adjutant.
May 18th, 1928.
(J. M.) By the way, I meant to tell you more about that X.
affair.
(MRS. C.) Tell me about the scandal.
(J.. M.) It seems hardly fair to repeat this gossip. I won~t
tell you one matter as it may concern some one still alive, but the
other concerns the youngster here.
He went on the spree, got pretty drunk, I understand, and
with another fellow wandered into a high-caste Hindu's garden
and private resi<lence. The master of the establishment thought
they had designs on his women-folk and threatened to make a
complaint to the Colonel. They managed to shut his mouth;
no doubt they oiled his palm. They hadn't an idea as to where
they· were going. They were just a bit fuddled. I haven't got the
story properly from them yet, but when I first heard them mention
it, I thought: "By jove ! Here's something for E's museum."
It is a fact, as mentioned above, that the 1st and 2nd battalions
ofthe B/ankshires met at X. in 1898, and itis worth noting that meetings
between two battalions of the same regiments are rare events. The
meeting between the two battalions at X. is mentioned in at least one
published book, and although Miss Cummins informs us that to the
best of her knowledge she has never read. or even heard of this book
'
86 THEY SURVIVE
(the reference was·discovered by a member of the Society who kindly
undertook to make some enquiries on our behalf), it obviously may
be the source of her knowledge; the contrary cannot be proved.
On the other hand, such an incident as is related in the above extract
from Mrs. Cooper's sitting on May 18th, 1928, is most unlikely to be
mentioned anywhere in print, and it is therefore a point ofconsiderable
interest that Mrs. Cooper had been able to obtain some corroboration
of the statement maqe. The corroboration is contained in a letter
written to Mrs. Cooper by a friend, Mr. B., as follows:
July 2nd, 1928.
I was playing golf with Colonel D. the other day and I asked
him about the events we were discussing. He was there himself
as a junior subaltern when the two battalions met. While he
cannot, of course, remember the details, he does recollect some
such incident as the garden episode occwring.
It would, of course, have added to the value of the case to have
a more exact and detailed corroboration of this incident, but it is not
surprising that such should be hard to get, seeing that the incident
occurred more than thirty years ago1 and can only have been known
at the time to a few persons, several of whom lost their lives in South
Mricaa few years later. Theoldsoldierwith whom,asalreadymentioned,
we got into touch through one of our members, when questioned on
this point, said he well remembered the meeting of the two battalions
at X. and the celebrations which ensued. Of the garden incident he
knew nothing, but that is not evidence that such an incident did not
occur, for it is not likely that a private soldier would have known
of a matter of this kind in which only officers were directly involved.
On the other hand, this old soldier volunteered to our informant an
account of another unpublished incident which occurred at the same
time and involved a man still alive. This is worth noting in view of
J. M.'s statement on May 18th, 1928, that he would not tell of one
matter "as it may concern some one still alive." At a later sitting
Mrs. Cooper had with Miss Cummins on January 31st last, an attempt
was made to get a further statement from J.M. on this point, but he
declined to say anything on the ground that he had promised Fraser
that he would not give "the name of any living man connected with
that affair," i.e. the meeting of the battalions at X. And there for the
moment the inatter rests. Immediately after refusing to give the
particular piece of information asked of him 1.M. added:
"Did you ever hear of West? or what's his name 'l Tatton.
(MRs. C.) Who was Tatton ?
1 This refers, of course, to the date of publication of Report in S.P.R.
Jounral, in 1929.
THEY SURVIVE 87
(J. M.) You try and find out. You have to do your share of the
NOrk."
Lieut. Tatton was serving in the 1st battalion of the Blankshires
m 1898, at about the time the two battalions met. There was no · '
man of the name pf West in either of the two battalions at the time.
There was a Lieut West in another regiment which was serving in
the Punjab in 1898. No contact between this regiment and the
Blankshires had been traced, but such a contact may have occurred.
So far as she can remember, Mrs. Cooper had never heard either of
Lieut Talton or Lieut. West, until the names were given to her by
Miss Cummins. Apart from her personal acquaintance with J. M.,
which ceased in June 1897, Mrs. Cooper had never had any connection
with the Blankshires, nor had she any knowledge ofthe book mentioned
above, which refers to the meeting of the two battalions at X.
SUMMARY OF THE CASE
As regards possible sources of the know:,~dge shown by Miss
Cummins, normal or otherwise:
• (1) It is extremely improbable that Miss Cummins has ever
obtained any accidental knowledge of the persons or events involved.
In 1898 she was still a child, living in Ireland, and she has never had
through her family or near friends any connection with the regiment
here concerned. She has several relatives in the army, but none of
them seems a likely source of the knowledge shown in the sittings.
Nor is it likely that she has obtained the information in trance from
any of her sitters. She does not give many sitting!! to members of the
public, preferring to spend her time in such work as the recently
·published Scripts of Cleophas. .
(2) The names of the various officers mentioned could have oeen .
obtained from army lists, and, as already noted, a mention of the
meeting of the two battalions at X. has been found in a regimental
history ·published some years ago. Published references to this
incident are not likely to be numerous. It may be noted that the two
mistakes in spelling which occur in the ouija board record (Frazer
and Jamieson) suggest that the source of Miss Cummins's knowledge
was auditory rather then visual (e.g. from an Army List), though this
is not a point to which much weight can be attached.
(3) It is most improbable that any account of the garden incident
had ever appeared in print, and the number of persons now living
who might have any direct knowledge of such an incident must be
smalL·
(4) With regard to the curious incident of the name Nevill
associated with a house called Ravensboume at Teignmouth, informa-
tion on this point, both as regards the name of the house, and the
mime of the occupant, is obtainable from Kelly's County Directory
for Devonshire in the issues from 1914-19; the entry does not appear
88 THBY SURVIVE
in earlier or later issues. The communicator's statement that in his
·time "Nevills lived there" appears therefore to be incorrect. Mrs.
Cooper does not know of any connection he had with Teignmouth.
It was at another place in Devonshire, twenty-four miles from Teign-
mouth, at the house of a friend called Nevil~ m~ntioned above, that
Mrs. Cooper and J. M. first met. The information, which bas no
direct connection with the rest of the case, was apparently offered in
·response to a request from Mrs. Cooper for some evidence ofknowledge
.which could not be· obtained from her mind.
Such is the very ably-presented case and the just and deserving
summary and analysis given it as publi~d in the S.P.R. Journal.
As in the· Boyce Case, it will be noted that the postmaster ultimately
confirmed a name and an address given in the automatic .writing of
which the sitter ktiew nothing. Perhaps some of the possible explana-
tions I have suggested in the above-mentioned case might here apply
where confusion seems to have occurred. As a personal friend of
Geraldine Cummins's over a number ofyears, I can vouch for the fact
that she did not search Directories and other books.in order to produce
obscure evidence of the kind required. It would have taken months
ofresearch in an already very full life; in any case one episode recorded
was not published. Also sceptical readers must take into consideration
other cases reported in this book and ask: from where did Miss
Cummins derive ·the information given ? To take one instance
only. By what normal means did she obtain the fact of the
·agreed vow between Signor X. and his wife, thirty-seven years after it
was made?
Case X
THE PEARL TIE-PIN
THis episode is taken from Sir William Barrett's book, On the Tltreshold
.ofthe Unseen, (pp. 184-5). He was, like Frederic Myel'S, one of the
founders of the Society for Psychical Researcll, and an eminent
scientist.
The facts are as'follows: Geraldine Cummins had been witnessing
aome experiments made by Mrs. Dowden. (Travers-Sniith) in ·ouija
board coinmunications when visiting her in Dublin during the last
war. This was before either of them came to reside in England. On
TREY SURVIVE 89
the occasion in question the "sitters" were Mrs. Dowden (I quote
from the book) "the other was Miss C., the daughter of a medical
man, and evidently possessing great psychic power."
In the Boyce Case, already described, it will be noted that the
correct address was given and eventually traced. · Many things, as
discussed in that case, might account for the wrong address having
been transcribed in the following record.
I would like to draw the reader's special attention to the last
sentence in the report given by Sir William Barrett.
Miss C., the sitter, had a cousin, an office1 with our Army in
France, who was killed in battle a month previous to the sitting;
this she knew. One day, after the name of her co1Isin had unex-
pectedly been spelt out on the ouija board and her name given in
answer to her query: "Do you know who I am?" the following
message came: "Tell mother to give my pearl tie-pin to the girl
I was going to marry, I think she ought to have it." When asked
what was the name and address of the lady, both were given,
the name spelt out included the full christian and surname, the
latter being a very unusual one and qUite unknown to both the
sitters. The address in London Was either fictitious or taken
down incorrectly, as a letter sent there was returned and the whole
message thought to be fictitious. .
Six months later, however, it was discovered that the officer
had been engaged, shortly before he left for the front, to the very
lady whose name was given; he had, however, told no one.
Neither his cousin nor any of his own family was aware of the
fact and had never seen the lady nor heard her name until the
War Office sent over the deceased officer's effects. They found
that he had put this lady's name in his will as his next of kin,
both Christian and surname bring precisely the same as given
through the automatist: and, what is equally remarkable, a pearl
tie-pin was found in his effects.
Both the ladies have signed a document they sent me affirming
the accuracy of the above statement. The message was recorded
at the time, and not written from memory after verification had
been obtained. Here there could be no explanation of the facts
by subliminal memory or telepathy or collusion, and the evidence
points unmistakably to a telepathic message from the deceased
officer.
The above would seem conclusively to fulfil Professor Macbride's
requirements as stated earlier in this book. It has the additional
value of having been selected by an eminent investigator of psychical
research as being a specific instance of·outstanding imP<?rtance.
90 THEY SURVIVE
Case XI
TIIE ROSS SISTERS
1'HI! best evidence of the alleged survival of human personality is
rarely made public for the reason that it is generally of too intimate
a character and concerns those who are near to us. Naturally a
certain reticence is felt in disclosing details connected with family
idfairs, and incidentally, perhaps, family differences. However, that
these exist inmost families (especially large ones) is common knowledge. ·
And it must be evident to those who study communications purporting
to come from the so-called dead that if as individual personalities
we survive death, not only the good but also the bad in us would
continue to assert itself for a time; that, in fact, death should not
immediately change us.
Inthe following pages willbefound a remarkable case ofthe building
up of the va~ious personalities of certain deceased persons unknown
to the automatist (Miss Cummins). As the most comprehensive
evidence of survival seems to be obtained through a series of sittings
with the same psychic, these scripts are produeed at'length. In this
case the aim wa8 to obtain evidence more particularly through the
reproduction of the personality of deceased persons than through
the giving of names, facts and descriptions unknown to the
medium. ·
The dictionary defines personality as "the quality or state of
being personal-that which constitutes individuality." The sceptic
sometimes argues that correct information given at a sitting, which
is at the time unknown to anyone present, does not convey
"that which constitutes individuality," does not tell us that the
individual with all his faults and virtues, his habits of speech and
idiosyncrasies, continues his life after death, "survives whole not
piecemeal." The Ross sisters seem, however, to ·offer this ultimate
evidence.
Under the assumed name of Mary Ross this investigator is per-
mitting these communications, given through Geraldine Cummins, to
be published, together with her notes and arguments concerning them
which I have incorporated in this record.
Like many others under the circumstances, she had a strong
feeling ofcompunction in revealing family history. Readers, therefore,
must recogniu that she does so entirely in the interests of psychical
research. · She realizes that these records are probably unique as
regards the reproduction of personality, and for this reason puts
aside any personal feelings in the matter.
The dramatis personte are arranged in the order of their appearance
in the scripts.
THBY SURVIVE 91
MARY Ross The sitter and youngest member of the Ross family,
known to them as "Molly." .
MARGARET Unmarried sister of Miss M. Ross, died in 1925,
aged 57. Second member of the family.
Aucs Married sister, died in 1928, aged 62. Eldest member
of the family. (Mrs. John Hawley.)
AunRBY Unmarried sister, died in 1894, aged 21, third member
of the family•.
JoHN HAWLEY Husband of Alice, living at time of sittings-
since dead.
CliARLBs Ross Unmarried .brother. Still living.
RONALD HAWLEY Son of Alice. Still living.
"PATBR" THB GoVERNOR Father of the Ross family, died in 1886.
"MATBR" Mother of the Ross family, died in 1898.
When this account is read it will be seen that the characterization
of two of the individuals concerned is so remarkably comic that it
is a little difficult at times to take the communications as seriously
representing prevailing conditions in the so-called life after death.
Yet Miss Ross wishes to state that the personality of each communi-
cator is, to her, so amazingly reproduced through an automatist who
had met none of them in life that she is reluctant to hide any family
idiosyncrasies which might be deemed to augment the proofofsurvival.
Moreover, the publication of what follows (if we believe it to be a
correct interpretation), suggests that "heaven" is not entirely the
peculiarly happy state into which we enter· at death, there to dwell
in perfect harmony with those with whom we have had differences
in our eartl:l-life. On the contrary, if the experiences given in the
following pages ate any criterion, it seems that the old hostilities
and petty grievances· can re-emerge when human beings with con-
flicting temperaments meet again in the "Beyond.., ·
Before going fuither it is necessary to make clear the connection
between Miss Cummins and Miss Mary Ross.
After her death in 1925 Margaret Ross purported to communicate
at a few experimental sittings with Geraldine Cummins to which I
invited her sister Mary. These communications consisted mainly
of descriptions of the situation in which Margaret stated that she
found herself after death and her subsequent experiences for a brief
while. At the last sitting in 1927 she hinted at certain disturbed
eonditions which she had to endure and which later developed as
recounted in the following.pages. But no suggestion was then made
as to the rather humorous nature of this development. During these
early sittings a few facts were given and a. very unusual surname was
correctly written. These were known to the sitter but unknown to the
automatist. ·
·On the first occasion on which Margaret purported to write,
Miss Rosa's notes (made immediately after the sitting) were to the
92 THEY SURVIVB
effect that Miss Cummins said she felt as though she wanted to cry
and asked if Miss Ross had hypnotized her as she never felt like it
before. She said she had no recollection of anything that she had
written.
Miss Ross states that the latter end of Margaret's life had certainly
been lonely, and it is more than probable that if her sister's con-
sciousness still existed, her thoughts would run on the lilies indicated
and would be of a depressing character.
No further sitting for Margaret Ross took place after 1927, until,
a year later, the following development was recorded. ,
Miss Mary Ross is the youngest of the family and has never been
particularly interested in her elder sisters. Not being a united family
in any case, their peculiarities and differences were not mentioned
to Miss Cummins; in fact, Miss Ross declares that she seldom saw her
sisters or gave them a thought, being much too occupied witll her
own· pursujts. She had stated a few facts concerning her sister Alice
to the automatist but gave no details. The facts alluded to in these
records (which must, therefore, be disregarded in so far as evidence
is concerned) are as follows:
1. In the course of the few early sittings Miss Ross had told
Miss Cummins that she had a married sister living in the country
and had mentioned her name.
2. That her sister had two sons.
3. That she was trying to sell her house.
4. That she had a dog of which she was very fond.
It must be understood, therefore, that Miss Cummins knew no
details concerning the Ross family history. Yet into these com-
munications is woven an accuracy of memory of early family feuds
and controversies which were entirely unknown to Miss Cummins and
which occurred, in some instances, before she was born.
· A word must also be said regarding Miss Ross herself. The
influence of the sitter is usually held to have a certain bearing on the
communications received. Undoubtedly the association of memories
would, if this were the case, help the alleged communicators. But it
is difficult to believe that the mannerisms and in some cases the
actual phraseology of certain sentences can be read by the psychic
from the mind of the sitter.
We now pass on to the scripts themselves.
It must be explained that there existed a certain amount ofjealousy
and ill-feeling between Alice and Margaret and between Alice and
Charles in their earth-life. This feature is strongly developed in the
records which follow.
The death of Alice took place suddenly in a nursing home in
York in the early morning of Thursday, October 11th, 1928. Miss
Cummins wa8 in Ireland and Miss Ross had not ·seen Alice since
THEY SURVIVE 93
July. She was summoned.to her by wire on the morning of October
lOth, and left London immediately. During the morning of the 11th,
Miss Ross sent a few lines to Miss Cummins stating that she was
at York where her sister had been very ill and ·where she had just
· died. Miss Ross begged her to try and get a message through to her
sister Margaret. The request to Miss Cummins was as follows:
Please ask Astor to find my elderly sister who died some time
ago, and who spoke through you before. Tell her tha:t the one
named Alice has just passed over, and perhaps she could get
Audrey to go to her. Say this is from the one she calls "Molly."
No further information was given· concerning Alice. Miss Ross
knew neither when Miss Cummins would receive her letter nor when
she would endeavour to get in touch. In fact, owing to necessary
business, very little further thought was given to the letter posted
to Ireland.
On the morning of the f5th Miss Ross received the following
script from Miss Cummins, dated October 12th, 1928, evening. Miss
Cummins alone.
(Comments by Miss RoSS are in italic type.)
I. Astor is here.
Astor states. that he was on earth a pagan Greek.
(Miss Cummins made the above request.)
(AsToR) Yes, I think I can find her ifyou will listen. (Pause.)
MARGARET Ross . . . who called me?
2. (Miss Cummins explained, adding that the message was from
the sister she called Molly.)
(M.) Molly, you say. Can I trust you with a message for Molly?
Then tell her that Alice was not· alone when she was slipping out of
her body. Surely she felt who was there. I mean Molly.
"Molly" is the name by which I was known in my young days. It
was completely dropped by all save Margaret and Alice.
Didn't she know that Audrey and
3: the Mater
This was the name by .which my mother was known in the
family.
4. came to Alice. She must have known.
I was !fevoted to my mother hut have never been conscious of her
nearness 4/'ter death. ¥argaret ofcourse knew oJ my affection for her.
5. Audrey and the Mater
Audrey and Alice were veryfond of each other.
6. have been so anxious for some time about Alice and her journey
to us. I sholilld have thought Molly would have felt the Mater'&
presence close to her, heard her trying to speak to her.
94 THEY SURVIVE
Alice had been far from well /or a long time but had no serious
illness.
7. She was a little troubled, you see, not quite knowing how Alice
would receive her when first she appeared to her. So Audrey \'\las the
first to go to the poor thing•
. A very evidential allusion. A dispute had severed connection between
my mother and Alice. The quarrel was not made up at the time of
my mother's death.
8. She was very frightened, you know, before she passed.
This is probable.
9. Then she had suffered so much she was afraid there was more
of it, perhaps, that it would go on and on.
Correct. She had suffered a great deal in health latterly,·also was
very troubled about finance.
10. Audrey understands. She knows so much more than we do.
Audrey had been dead for a number of years at the time of these
communications. From the spiritisticpoint ofview, she wouldhaveknown
more than M. who had died only three years ·previously.
11. She was very gentle and kind. She knows the lonely feeling
one has at that last crossing, everything slipping away; the feeling
that faces of the living are gone for ever. It comes when we wake up
in this life, I mean at the beginning. So, though Audrey couldn't
appear to Alice just as she is now, she came to her as she was.
Correct. Audrey was a great contrast to her sisters.
12. And because her mind was so restless, not really ready for the
sleep in the darkness, Audrey put a dream of old days about her soul.
Perhaps you won't believe me, but it can be done.
Alice was terribly troubled at the time OJ her death.
13. She showed Alice the pictures of the days when she lived in
London, her early married days, too.
Alice lived in London before and after marriage.
14. You remember when
(There is a curious lapse in this paragraph. It is written as though
Miss Ross were present. E. B. G.)
15. she used to go about and ride and was so proud and pleased
with herself. Poor Alice was like a child when she saw the old
memories. She wasn't frightened any more. She was delighted-
Correct. Alice rode and was exceedingly proud ofherself, A very
characteristic remark of Margaret's.
16. happier than she had been for years.
Alice had been very unhappy for a long time.
17; She said that the years didn't seem to matter that were between
her and Audrey.
Audrey had died 34 years previously. She and Alice were great
friends.
18. Please don't tell. her I said she was frightened if she comes
and talks to Molly. There might be trouble.
THBY SURVIVE 95
A very evidential request. Alice would have caused "trouble" if
she thought sJie had ever been considered afraid of anything.
19. I haven't spoken to Alice or been very close to her. I am not
fit yet to draw near to the newly dead,
Margaret would not have been received kindly by Alice on earth
had she done so, for they were always quarrelling.
20. and anyway, I couldn't because she didn't want me.
Correct as regards earth sentiments.
21. Alice has had a much better time than I had after death. It
was my own fault, of course. She is now sleeping and will rest for
some time in the quiet places. Of eourse she will have her difficulties
to face.·
There is no reason to believe that the autqmatist should have thought
that Alice would have a better time than Margaret. Miss Cummins
knew nothing about either of them.
22. But the great thing is she won't want to get back to earth
and her old life in the desperate way I wanted it. ·
Alice hadsaid to me lately how she longed to die. (See letter below.
E. B. G.) Whereas Margaret always lived an untroubled and somewhat
selfish life.
23. Audrey said she was so tired.
Correct during the last days ofher life.
And would you believe it, wanting someone to lean on and help
her. Tell Molly not to be upset about Alice. It was quite time she
was dead. I don't mean that in a nasty way. I mean that we ~;ill
knew here. . ·
24. that life gave her nothing.
Correct.
25. She wasn't a person who could be old and be happy. Audrey
is watching by her in the place of rest. She. is quite without pain or
fear now, sleeping and dreaming a little after years, at last, at peace.
Correct. Alice could not be old and happy.
26. When she does wake up she is bound to grumble a bit, but
she won't be as miserable as I was, I am sure.
This remark could only have come from someone who knew Alice.
She found fault with many things.
Give my love to Molly and tell her not to worry or grieve overwhat
is the beginning of real happiness
27. with some set-backs, of course I
This last comment is so entirely like Margaret. She had a habit
of adding some rather cynical remark to a sentence and ending with a
laugh.
Sitting ofNovember lOth, 1928. (No. 2.) (This and all the following
sittings took place in London. Miss Ross sat beside Miss Cummins.
There had been no conversation between them concerning these
communications or concerning the recent death.-E. B. G.)
96 THBY SURVIVE
Astor is here.
(Miss R.) Will you call my elderly sister who has spoken several
times before ?
(AsroR) Yes, I remember her. She is not far otT. (Pause.)
MARGARET. Molly, my dear, how strange you should call me to·
day. I have some news for you.
(Miss R.) Good. What is it? ·
(M.) Do you know that I have actually talked with.Alice? It
really seemed as ifwe had gone back to years ago. Only, she is different.
28. I had quite a shock when I found that we didn't disagree
with each other. She is so much gentler than she was.
To Miss Cummins there would be no need to imagine that they
should disagree. Nor that Alice was not ofa gentle disposition.
Poor dear. She was so anxious about John. I had no idea she was
so fond of him. Tthink it was the breaking of an old habit that upset
ber, perhaps.
(MISS R.) What do you mean by that?
29. I mean he was such a habit with her, that she didn't realize
what a tremendous difference it makes when you lose your habits.
They had been married many years and were rarely parted, except
during the war (1914-18).
30. I felt the same way about my house and my ordered life.
Margaret was terribly methodical.
31. She had such a pain in her chest, I think, before she passed.
Correct.
32. She wasn't able to tell you.
She could barely speak when I arrived.
33. She said she promised to send you some message through,
she·thinks. She can't remember now exactly.
Nothing was said to this effect at the end, but I rather recollect a
joking remark of the kind some time ago.
I think things will get clearer for her soon. She will try and write
a few words to-day. But I had better let Alice speak. Here she is now.
· She will be rather muddled, remember.
The writing then changed to a big scrawl and became very laboured.
(A.) Mo, Mo, Molly. I am here. I see you. It's all true. I am
alive. The pain went at once. I felt suffocating.
34. Then, just after I got that awful chok~, I felt things were
breaking up all about me. I heard crackling like fire and then dimness.
She. died of pneumonia.
35. I saw you bending down with such a white face and you were
looking at me, and I wasn't there.
Correct. Curiously enough when Alice's husband and son arrived
I had said aloud to Ronald "she isn't there."
36. I wish,· Molly, that you had someone with you afterwards.
THEY SURVIVE 97
I was alone until the arrival of John Hawley and Ronald several
hours after death had taken place.
37. I saw you in that horrible place,
Alice·died in exactly the type ofestablishment she would have called
"horr.ible." ·
38. sitting by yourself.
Co"ect.
40. John isn't much good at settling things.
Strictly speaking, this is incorrect. But it happened to be Alice's
exact opinion of her husband ! She managed everything and looked
upon him as useless.
41. How did you manage the money and paying up things? It
was on my mind. I was frightfully worried.
This is what would have worried Alice ·very much and she would
probably have thought that expenses might fall on me. ··
42. The house not sold and I felt for a long time that I couldn't
attend to things.
The first allusion to anything of which Miss C. was cognizant.
I couldn't keep my mind on anything. I got so bothered when
I tried.
Probably correct under the existing conditions.
44. And John didn't help. How is he? They tell me we won't
want money here. What will John do·?
Poor John didn't get much ofa chance of trying to help !
(MISS R.) I saw him a short time ago. Don't worry now. All is
being settled. I know you were very unhappy latterly.
45. I was a little hard on him.
Correct.
46. He did try his best, I know. I was so glad when you came.
Co"ect. He did make every ·effort but could not please his wife.
This is the manner in which she wouldhave referred to my brother-in-law.
47. My dear, you have more sense than any ofthe rest ofthe family.
Alice had made this very remark to me when I had visited her for a
few days the previous summer.
You knew all about here.
(MISS R.) I wanted to tell you a little of what I understood but
you didn't encourage me. ·
A.: I wanted to know and I didn't want to know. Because I was
frightened of what might come after. It was easy once I got out of
my body. · ·
48. The Mater turned up, and Audrey is splendid. She has helped
me aU the time.
Exactly Alice's natural manner of speaking.
49. She is like you, she has ,plenty of sense and doesn't argue
about things.
This was certainly Alice's opinion of me. She was particularly
contemptuous concerning the other members of the family.
D
98 THEY SURVIVE
50. How are the boys? Did you write to Kenya?
Alice's second son was in East A/rica but not in Kenya. At one
time during Alice's lifetime there had been considerable talk of his
going ·there.
(Miss R.) I have written but there has not been time to receive
a reply.
A.: You told him everything?
51. I wasn't fair to him. I see it now. I ought to have treated him
equally. But I didn't. I don't suppose he will mind now. ·
Correct. Alice did not arrange her will equally in favour ofher two
sons.
52. It was playing about with girls I thought so foolish.
Correct. . Both that he had many girl friends, and that it was
Alice's opinion concerning the matter which chiefly refers to Ronald,
however.
Note by Miss Ross.-The writing became fainter. The pencil was
then apparently controlled by Margaret.
MARGARET, She found it hard to write at the end. She didn't
understand how to mailage the words. But she put through the
greater part of what she wanted to say.
53. She is troubled about her husband and thinks she ought to
have been gentler with him.
Candidly Alice treated her husband very badly. She bullied him
dreadfully. · .
54. She seemed to have been so upset about her money affairs.
I felt so sorry.
Correct.
55. If only I had left her the money that went to Charles.
Margaret cut Alice completely out ofher will. Cliarles had no need
ofextra money.
56. But ·you know she never tried to smooth things over when I
was alive. · 1
Correct.
57. She could have been friends with me.
Correct.
58. But she was always so domineering. I am sorry now.
Correct. ~
59. Because there were fine things in her. I see that.
Correct. · ·
I suppose I was hard on her too. I think Audrey will do a lot for
her. .
60. She isn't quite at her ease with the Mater, and even less with
me.
This would be probable for Alice quarrelled with both on
earth.
THBY SURVIVB 99
61. She hasn't forgotten yet the way I left my money. She feels
it would have made a difference in her last days.
She never forgave this on earth. .
Do you think, Molly dear, that I behaved badly to her about it'/
62. But you know she was impossible with me.
Exactly the way that Margaret referred to Alice in reference to
herself.
(Miss R.) She estranged herself from us all. I don't think you
were to blame. I should probably have done the same. We are not
a united family.
(M.) That is a great relief to my mind. You see, now I feel I can ·
tell you that, when I first met her after her passing.
63. She did remind me of my will, and told me that she had been
in such a terrible fix lately, and implied that I was to blame.
This is exactly what Alice would have done I She had a rather
Nllfortunate habit ofreminding others ofmistakes they might have made.
And whenever I saw her she made some bitter allusion to Margaret's
will.
When I saw her the second time she was different, gentler and
softer, quite changed and she didn't mention that. I think Audrey
made her understand better. Als() she is beginning to see things in
better proportion. It was a good thing to let her speak as she was
troubled about the end and the clearing up of things. She was afraid
you would have to pay.
(MISS R.) No. Tell her the brothers have taken up matters and
that no expenses have come on me. She must not worry about it. • • •
M.: May I tell her that'/ It will give her peace ofmind.
64. She has some idea that it might all be put on you. .
This is probably what she would have thought. In life she felt that
she could not depend on any ofher brothers jor help. They all strongly
disapproved of her extravagance.
(Miss R. gave further details of a consoling character.)
(M.) Good, I will tell her that, then she won't bother about things.
The fact of the matter is, she came out of the world with a dark cloud
of years of troubled thought about money. It all accumulated and
clung about her. But I think now it will be slowly dissipated.
(Miss R.) Let her come and talk again when she is clearer.
(M.) Yes, she won't be so muddled the next time. All that worrying
before her death left her in a very scattered state of mind. But it has
been easier for her than for me.
(MISs R.) Why so different for you'/ ··
65. (M.) I was so humdrum, perhaps.
Correct.
66. 1 loved my little house and my own ways.
Correct.
67. And I was really very selfish .
Correct.
100 THEY SURVIVE
· 68. I never cared much for anyone~ One pays for that over here.
Correct.
(Miss R.) But you are better now surely, and have built yourself
a house with your thoughts? ·
· (M.) I havegot quiteclear ofthatlongfugfor my house and London
and the life I led there. Since the longfug left me I have come into
a world in which I have a home agafu. And I am sharing it with
someone now.
(Miss R.) (cbaffingly). Oh ! I don't think that sounds quite nice !
Who are you sharing it with? A MAN ?
(M.) Ah I Perhaps l won't tell you-not yet. ·
(Miss R.) I feel you are no fit companion for me. I shan't·be able
to speak to you again !
(M.) Yes, you can imagine the worst!
69. Tell dear Charles that I have dragged the name of Ross into
the mud!
It was a joke between us that Charles took life so seriously and
was terribly afraid offamily scandal.
I wish he could see me with my new friend.
(Miss R.) Perhaps he will some day. · ·
70. He Will have a rather unpleasant time at first.
Charles was, in her opinion, extremely mean and selfish.
(Miss R.) Tell Alice what I have told you and come another day.
(M.) Yes, I will, most certafuly.
Sitting ofNovember 11th, 1928. (No. 3).
Astor is here.
(Miss R.) Will you ask my sister to come and speak?
(AsToR) Yes. I will call her. She is quite near.· Her new body is
now almost formed. When it is complete she can face the new world
and this life. Wait. (Pause.)
(Miss R. was thinking-of Margaret and expecting her.)
(AuCE)· Funny old man called me. ·
71.· Who is your grey-bearded admirer, Molly?
This is exactly the chaffmg manner she often adopted.
(MISS R.) You ];n'obably mean Astor, the guide of this woman
whose hand and brain you are using ·to· write with. • • • (further
explanations followed).
(A.) I am still not quite myself. My mind is in tatters, but I feel
so awfully well.
72. Not for·an Charles's thousands would I exchange with him
now.
This is again the somewhat exaggerated manner in which Alice
referred to Charles's wealth on earth.
(Miss R.) I hope not. I hope you are free from that pain and
worry now. •
73. (A.) Yes. It was a great help, though, to feel you were there
THEY SURVIVE 101
It was the mental pain about money that was worst.
The inference throughout seems to be that I was alone at the time
ofmy sister's death. But the natural assumption on the part ofMiss C.
would surely be that others were present.
74. My men were no good. When you are in a bad way always-
tum to women.
A correct reproduction of Alice's sentiments in this respect.
(Miss R.) Oh ! there arelots of nice men. You used to like them
in your young days.
75. (A.) They were nice to flirt with but not any use otherwise.
Alice had been a great ''flirt" in her time. This is a word she fre-
quently used in connection with herself.
I have seen the Mater. She sends her love to Molly.
76. How she does adore you still. She talks about how you used
to look, about the riding and what a fine; tall girl you were. She
did so hope you would marry ·
My mother wasdevoted to me. This is exactly Alice's manner of
expression and the type of conversation that might .emanate from my
mother.
77. before you all left the old home. She said if you didn't marry
before you were twenty-one you never would.
After my mother's death the house was kept going until I was
twenty-one.
78. We made up that old quarrel. I suppose I was silly about it.
A direct allusion to the misunderstanding to which I have already
referred. "-"
79. But you know, you were very spoilt in those days.
Correct.
80. And why shouldn't the eldest have the horse to ride ?
The incident 'that led to the quarrel was a dispute between my
mother and Alice concerning my ability to ride the horse which had
hitherto been kept for her, though she was, by then, married.
(MISs R.) It's not worth bothering about all those old things.
(A.) No, ouly I remember all the early things now.
81. Silly old Margaret has been round too.
Exactly the contemptuous off-hand manner in which she spoke ofher.
82. You know I never could stand her.
Alice frequently summed up Margaret with the words: "Oh I
never could stand her." ·
But you would have laughed to see us together. We were so polite.
She was trying so hard to avoid giving offence. Do you mind my
talking in this stupid way ?
(MISS R.) No. Go ahead.
83. (A.) I enjoy so much telling you about the family.
It was her favourite topic whenever we met.
84. I put Margaret in her place all right. She told me how sorry
she was about her will and the inoney she didn't leave t.o me.
102 THEY SURVIVE
.Alice was always trying to put everyone in their place ! And again
the reference to the will which always rankled on earth.
85. I told her that being sorry didn't make up for thoughtlessness.
Exactly the snappy kind of reply Alice would make. ·
86. That there was more thought in your little finger than in her
who\e body.
Alice had a good opinion ofme latterly. This is a very typical reply.
87. Do you know, she took it quite quietly, and would you believe
it, kissed me ! My word, I was never so taken aback in my life. I
couldn't say anything more to her then.
This seems to carry out the theory of treating Alice as a child.
88. I had to thank her for being good to Ronald anyway.
Correct. Margaret had left Ronald a handsome legacy.
(MISs R.) Well, you and she were never very united. But why
bother about all that now ?
(A.) No, I won't talk of it again. It was just that memories hung
about.
89. And in those last months I used to keep saying to myself,
"if only this or that had happened."
Correct. Alice continuously used these very words to me when I
stayed with her a few months before her death.
I didn't believe I ·should go so frightfully quickly.
90. I am afraid, .Molly, I gave you bad advice sometimes. I told
you not to hesitate to run an overdraft. That it would be all right.
It's a great mistake, I see now.
(MISs R.) I don't recollect your telling me this•. ·
91. (A.) I seem to remember telling you not to be dictated to by
Charles. That your money was your own and if you liked to sell out
or have an overdraft, not to mind him:
Quite correct and word for wordwhat she did say. But at the first
moment of writing I did not recollect it.
(MISS R.) ·Yes, you are right. I do remember your saying this
now. A long time ago. . ·
(A.) Be careful. Don't get into the muddle I had to face.
92. Don't take on a house and garden and have to do it all yourself
in your old age as I did. ·
Correct. Alice bought a small house soon (lfter the last war, added
to it and spent too much money on it and the garden.
(MISS R.) I don't think I am likely to. Don't worry about that.
Whom have you met lately ?
(A.) First Audrey. You heard-about her, she has been awfully
sweet and good. Then the Mater and Pater. You hardly knew him.
He was very glad to see me.
93. I was rather a favourite of his, you know.
Correct. A fact of which she was very proud.
He told me all about the early days when he and Mater
started.
THI!Y, SURVIVE 103
94. How difficult it was at the beginning. Then how he went
ahead.
Correct.
95. He was quite worried after his death at the thought of these
n\unbskull Rosses, as he called them, being in charge of the Mater's
affairs. He said she would never have lost all those thousands if be
had been there.
I was amazed at this remark, though the information was known to
me. After my fa(her's death, my mother's money affairs were managed
by a relative. A considerable sum ofmoney was lost through speculation
"Numbskull" is a word which my brother-in-law tells me Alice
occasionally made use of herself. (I have never heard Miss Cummins
use it.-E. B. G.) .
96. He said twenty. He seemed to know all about it.
I was just going to aak if she knew how much when the reply was
written. I understand that £20,000 was involved. .
97. He told me he had tried hard to get in touch and had influenced
the Mater's mind at last, to make a row.
Correct, in so far as my mother eventually made enquiries. This
led to a break between the two branches of the Ross family. Alice had
seen nothing of them since and always referred to these connections
with contempt. ·
So we can influence from this side. Tell me, have you heard from
John Hawley?
(Miss R.) I have seen him lately and also heard from
him.
Would he believe you if I sent him my love? Would you tell him
I miss him so much ?
98. That I am sony if I was difficult in those last years.
Alice was extr.emely difficult in those days.
99. Tell him I see more .and more how patient and good he was
to me. I feel so sorry now because I know I spoke harshly to him
sometimes.
Correct. He was most patient with her. "Harshly" is a very mild
way ofputting it I
I want him to feel that deep down he was the only person in the
world for me.
100. I never let him know.
Correct. She certainly did not I
But it is afterwards one realises and feels sony.
(MISs R.) When I came to see you that last time, do you know
that he came up?
101. I thought he was there. But a mist was hanging about
everything. I suppose I really was what is called dead. Anyway I
had a sort of misty sense that he was there. I shouldn't have parted
with him as I did. ·
. I deliberately inferred that my brothe.r-in-law arrived before my
104 THBY SURVIVE
sister's death. She had been dead sixteen hours or so before he could
get there.
(Miss R.) How did you part? What do you mean?
102. I think, if he had been there with me I migbtn.'t have
died.
This shows definite knowledge of the fact that John was not present
at the time; it would be contrary to the ordinary course of events from
the automatist's point of view•
. But perhaps it is all for the best. It is in this way. That I feel
perfectly well now. No pain. Tell him I ani just resting. People
come and see me and I talk. Then I doze and dream. I saw Ronald
in one dream.
103. I wish he would settle down. Any hope ofa real engagement?
Alice was very anxious that her son should marry.
.(Miss R.) I don't know. • • • Give my love to the Mater. .
(A.) Yes, she hasn't really changed. I will give your love to her.
I woufd like to speak another time, My love, my dear Molly,
104. and don't let Charles bully you.
A very typicalparting remark and the actual words she hadused to me·
(The writing then changed to the ordinary quick style.)
MARGARET.
(MISs R.) Do you know who has been writing?
· 105. (M.) Yes, she has quite blossomed out.
Margaret frequently spoke ofpeople "blossoming out."
She is rather amusing over here. The poor thing arrived here with
the sort of earth ideas about things and people in her mind.
106. She anticipated hostility and was quite sarcastic at first.
Alice was always on the defensive and was horribly sarcastic at times.
But as everybody treated her as a small child to be petted but not
paid attention to
107. when she made cutting remarks, shewas very much astonished.
Correct. She was very cutting.
(Miss R.) I was very much aniused to hear you and Alice had met.
She told me sometb.ing about it.
108. (M.) There was rather a fusilade
Exactly what one would have anticipated.
109. I expected it, so I was prepared.
Also knowing Alice, Margaret would have been prepared, and the
word ''fusilade" was often used by Margaret when on earth in describing
similar experiences.
(MISS R.) I ani glad you are all becoming friends, though.
(M.) It will take time. I bruised myself here for a time, she will
do the same.
110. But when she realises that life has no grudge against her,
and people are kind, she will change. l must go back now•• ·•.
THEY SURVIVE 105
One ofAlice's many peculiarities was to think that life had a grudge
against her.
Sitting of November 12th, 1928. (No. 4.)
Astor is here
(Miss R:) I would like to. speak to my sis.ter. ·
(AsToR) Which one of them 'l
(Miss R.) Whichever wants to speak most.
(AsToR) They both like to speak. They are curious spirits. They
seem to want very much to talk to you about each other and their
affairs. It makes them happy.
MARGARET. I came :first to-day.
111. You mustn't mind too much what Alice says to you.
This ·is the very patronizing attitude often adopted by Margaret
when speaking of Alice.
She is still very much in the cloud of her memories. She feels,
however, that things are not so bad here now.
112. At first she found fault with so many different aspects of
life in this place between the worlds.
She found fault with most things and grumbled very much on earth
latterly. ·
There is a kind of intermediate state you !mow. If only human
beings would talk to ~ir people when they are in that state it would
give such comfort. . • . I had a difficult time but it is over now.
You did help me.
113. I was so relieved to see your face and hear your voice when 1
was longing for my home and London.
Refers to the communications written through Miss Cummins soon
after the death of Margaret.
(MISS R.) Oh I What about that house· you are sharing with
someone?
(M.) You would laugh at me ifl explained. We have to go through
certain essential experiences, and if we miss them in the earth-life
we may have to face them here. .
114. I have actually to share a house-not a bed-with a man
(laughter). Quite true.
This again is so exactly the type of vulgar joke Margaret would have
made and the way she would have made it.
(Miss R.) You are pulling my leg. ·
(M.) No, I am not. I don't mean anything improper. I merely
mean I have to put up with a companion of another type of mind.
Here we talk of men and women, but we really mean male and female
minds. I have to put up with the masculine type of mentality in my
home. Heavens ! · It is trying sometimes !
115. You know how I liked to have everything arranged and in
order.
Co"ect.
*D
106 Tl:fEY SURVIVE
Well, everything gets disarranged in this case. I never ·know
what I shall find out of place when next I return to mv home. ·
(MISs R.) And the man is untidy?
(M.) He has an untidy mind. You know we make our homes
out of our memories. I like a nice little house. He wants a house
that is quite unlike ariything that was ever built or imagined. You can't
imagine all his absurd, impossible ideas. How would you like to COUll:
home to your cosy little sitting room and find that it had been turned
into.a. great hall; that it has curious lights .in it, and no ordinary
furruture.
(Miss R.) I shouldn't like it. Has he to learn to be tidy, then 1
(M.) It seems that he was very selfish too, when he was alive, but
he was extravagant, spent his money and other people's making what
he calls "beautiful surroundings" I I call a thing beautiful when it
is tidy and homely and just like it used to be on earth. He always
wants it changed.
116. I hate change.
Very correct.
Miss R. : That is very interesting.
(M.) No, it isn't interesting. It is just irritating.
(Miss R.) I mean it is interesting to hear what you say. Will
you let Alice come now 1 and we wiU talk another time.
Note by Miss Ross-The writing changed. The pencil tapped
the paper in an agitated manner. It was necessary to tell the
communicator not to get so upset. At last the writing started.
Nevertheless the impatience shown in getting going was some-
what evidential of·the entity purporting to communicate. Alice
was very easily annoyed. The mere fact that she was trying to
handle something she couldn't manipulate with facility would
aggravate her. She always assumed that she could do eve~g.
ALICE: 1 GET So IMPATIENT. (Written large.)
Molly, you are good to let me see you again. I .went away so
,happy when I spoke two weeks ago t() you, It is two weeks, isn't it?
(Miss R.) No, it is barely 24 hours.
(A.) But so much has happened. You are joking.
(MISs R.) No it's true. Yesterday.you spoke to me.
(A.) I have .had such a strange experience. I had been resting in
a darkened·mom, at least it seemed like that. Then Au~y came
and she took me out into a warm golden light
117. and I said: "Why, I have got to the South of France after
all!" I was sure it was France or Italy. I saw great s~tches .of
golden sand, a hard blue sky. And though I saw no sun, there was
this wonderful light over everything. I held· on to Audrey. I was
quite frightened. It seemed too good to be true .
An astonishingly interesting remark. She simply longed Jo get
THEY SURVIVE 1&7
away from E~gland and on two or three occasions said: "If only 1
could get away to the South ofFrance."1
(Miss R.) Poor you. You did long to get away.
(A.) I was hungry for it. Audrey made me lie down on the side of
a hill, and I lay there. Lazily looking at the blue sea, and drinking in
that warm comfortable light. For the first time in years I was really
happy. Not a worry on mymind. Then I saw a stranger approaching-
a man. He said he was closely related to me. I think he must have
been trying to comfort me or perhaps it was a joke
· 118. for he said he was my brother. What did he mean? I haven't
any brother here
Quite astonishing. At a sitting years ago with another medium,
Mrs. Couper, it was stated that this brother was in the "Beyond."
119. Ifi had, I would fly from him. ,
Tfrat was exactly Alice's attitude towards her brothers. She had.
no use for them and they thoroughly disapproved of her.
(MISS R.) Well, you know, I remember the Mater telling me that
there was another baby before you. Though it was stillbom, I under-
stand that, as it had life once, it would go on. The Mater told me it
was a boy.
(A.) Oh! I understand now. Audrey left me with him and didn't
explain. He said he was living quite closeio Margaret, that she didn't
know he was her brother. He explained that he had charge of some
man, who came over to this life, not so very long ago, and his punish-
ment was to live with her. Her punishment was· to live with him.
(Miss R.) My hat!
120'. (A.) Did you know therewas a kindoftwist in poor Margaret's
soul and so she had to get it straightened out by living with her
opposite.
As a family we often referred to Margaret as being "an eccentric
old thing." ·
121. He said Margaret really rather ei\joyed it. It stirred stagnant
depths that had never been stirred in her life~
Curiously enough, in a sense, she wouldhave seen the funny side o/it.
I won't have that kiad of experience, he said.
122. I was a married woman.
Alice was rather proud of this fact in life.
I don't think itwill come t.o you either, as
123.·you haven't grown inwards like a bad com.
A typical remark.
1 Quotation. from a letter written by Alice to Mary Ross, dated Januacy
30, 1928.
. . . "I have been pretty ill for the last three weeks. Bronchitis, also mus-
cular rheumatism in my right arm, shoulder, neck and eyes. Out to-day for
the first time..Both my doctor and nurse say I must winter abroad infuture !
How it is to be done, I don't know. Perhaps I shall have· passed on before
then, anyway. I hope so!"
108 THEY SURVIVE
124. You don't have sex business over here. It is something
different. Margaret has to learn to live with other people. .
She always spoke in this downright manner.
Note by Miss Ross.-Here I asked certain questions as to how
. my sister succeeded in getting through so much money. . SQme
exceedingly probable explanation was given. It was on the lines
that John Hawley·had half-suspected. /
125. (A.) I feel rather bad about it. Will John be able to get
on all right ? .
Alice's husband had a hard struggle. ·
(Miss R.) I think when the house is sold he will be very comfortable.
I am sorry to have ·brought these memories back to you. ·
(A.) No, it was on my mind. These memories don't worry me
because I'm out of it.
126. And I've gone abroad after all!
The triumphant cry, so characteristic of Alice, when her plans
succeeded. (See letter quoted above.)
(Miss R.) • . . I was so glad that you sent for me at the end.
But I fear you must have thought me very unsympathetic. The
doctor and nurses all said you were not to talk. So I didn't say much.
127. My dear, you were the only one of the whole faritily I could
depend on. You tried to cheer me up. I knew you were trying.
· In Alice's estimation this would be correct. And again it seems
to be written as tlwugh she were quite aware that no one else was present.
128. I hadn't the strength to answer, but I did see you and
hear you.
Correct.
129. It was so queer to be so helpless
Correct. Alice was quite helpless when I got to her.
130. I couldn't talk. I had so many things to say to you that weren't
said and don't seem to matter now. • •.
Correct. She could barely speak.
(Miss R.) Well. You go back to your South of France. That
must have done you good.
(A.) It did make up for much.
131. Perhaps I am better off than Charles now !
Charles's affluence always rankled.
Note by Miss Ross.-There was a spontaneous reference to
money difficulties. After an explanation of what had occurred
Alice wrote:
132. My affairs and what I did with my money only concern me.
Alice had actually made this very remark to me in the same words.
Molly dear, I would tell you,
THEY SURVIVE 109
133. But I feel so furious with Charles still. I don't want to risk
his ever knowing..
Alice was absolutely furious with Charles and often said so. She
had begged him to help her financially. He refused and wrote her very
unpleasant letters on· the matter.
(Miss R.) I shouldn't tell him.
(A.) No, but he might hear.
134. He is an odious man.
The very words that Alice often applied to Charles and hardly likely
to be written consciously or subconsciously by Miss Cummins.
(Miss R.) We must stop now. .
(A.) Send my love to John. Give him that message I sent two weeks
ago, or was it two hours ago ? • • •
Sitting of November 19th, 1928 (No. 5).
(AsToR) 1bis lady is very excited.
Note by Miss Ross.-The pencil rushed a,cross the paper and
there appeared to be a tussle at the writing of the last word.
Astor seemed to be experiencing difficulty in keeping back the
communicator until he had "opened the door." It appeared that
"Astor's" thoughts have been registered by the automatist. He
seemed to be addressing some invisible entity. The·mental force
he had to assert apparently impressed itself on the brain of Miss
Cummins. 1bis occurs once again in these writings.
13S. Please, madam, have patience. You must wait until you·
are called.
(Miss R.) What is the excitement, Astor ?
136. (AsTOR) A lady who had something of yoilr stature and im·
posing appearance in life. • . •
Alice and I were certainly similar in build.
(Miss R.) Let her speak, Astor.
137. (A.) Ronald. I saw Ronald.
Ronald had been to tea with me that afternoon. Miss Cummins
happened to meet him.
138. 1bis butler was very rude. At least I don't know what to
call him.
Alice had constant trouble with her servants. The fact that she
refers to Astor as the "butler" .and the apparent altercation with him
on the ·threshold seem very evidential as regards the survival of her
personality.
I wanted to tell you that I saw Ronald with you to-day.
139. I saw him in her light.
(Miss C's. ''psychic" light. E.B.G.).
140. I was so pleased to hear him say I had sound sense••••
' 110 THEY SURVIVE
Co"ect. This remark was made before Miss Cummins came into
the room.
(MISS R.) What have you been doing lately '1
(A.) I was taken to a land like the earth in some ways but very
different in others. For instance, you see rocks, trees, houses about
you, but if you choose to close your outward eyes and use
another part of you that can perceive, you see right through these
rocks, trees, houses, and solid earth~ They tell me here that even
while you are on earth, if you practised from childhood closing the
outer eyes and willing hard to see with the eyes of your inner body,
everything also would become transparent to you. And you would
see other strange things.
(MISS R.) That's interesting. How is Margaret getting on'1
141. Oh ! I've no patience with her.
Alice often used these very words in reference to Margaret.
(Mtss R.) Oh well, be kind to her. She spoke very nicely of you
when she came here the other day.
142. But, my dear, she is so stupid still.
Alice always complained of Margaret's stupidity.
143. She is just planted there in her wretched house, trying to
pretend·she is living just as she did on earth, which is such nonsense.
Jt is just as if I had pretended all my life I was a baby in a nursery
and kept on suckiD.g a bottle. Margaret is still sucking her baby bottle,
and she whines for her baby comforter.
All this is a most characteristic speech of Alice's in reference to
her sister, for whom she had a profound contempt.
144. Why, I am already far ahead of her, though I have been here
such a short time.
Another touch of superiority so reminiscent of Alice. ·
145. Thank heavens, I shall never have to clean up that house
again. Never have to cook another meal.
Alice did a good deal ofhouse-work latterly and some ofthe cooking.
146. It's wonderful to be free of all that.
She hated having to do it.
147. I wish you had told me more about this life in detail. Ifyou
had, I should not have been half so miserable.
I had told her very little of what is reputed to be the life to which
we pass. .
(MISS R.) I didn't like to push it. I was afraid you wouldn'tlikeit.
148. (A.) You ought to have shoved it, not pushed it, under
my nose.
Very typical of Alice's style ofspeech.
149. I wouldn't have bothered so much about dinners and over-
drafts perhaps then.
Alice was always fussing about meals and terribly worried about
her overdraft.
(Miss R.) I did try to giv.e you hints and tell y.ou that it wasn't
THBY SOR \II VB
worth while to bother so much about things being out of place and
so on.
150. (A.) Yes, say I told you so now.
Alice had· the habit of formulating this kind of reproach in the
course of. similar conversation.
(MISS R.) No, l don't mean that. But I did.try to· tell you that
it· wasn't worth it-so bad for your nerves-to bother so much
about how things were done.
A. : It is true. You were right.
151. I couldn't bear leaving things looking untidy.
Correct.
(MISS R.) Never mind now. Do you remember anything you were
fond of?
152. (A.) DO you mean the dog? I want to know if John is going
to take care of the poor thing. ·
Her mind at once went to her pet, though, .of course, Miss Cummins
knew of its existence.
(Miss R.) Ofcourse, he is.
(A.) Poor darling. I was so fond of h-n.
Here the script shows a difficulty in getting through the sex
of the dog. One usually thinks of a dog in the masculine. This
dog of which Alice was so fond was a female. The pencil made
a few marks on the paper as though cognisant of some obstruction.
Miss Ross then suggested that the communicator should try to ·
write its name. The pencil tapped impatiently on the paper
and then attempted to write "Pat8ey, Pitri-e-." Another favourite
dog which had died some time previously, was called "Patricia,"
or "Pat" and variations. Miss Ross was thinking of the name of
the living dog Suddenly the word STUPID was written and the
pencil literally stamped angrily on the paper. Then it was flung
violently down. To Miss Ross all this was very evidential of the
impatient temper of her sister Alice. She managed to quiet things
down with a few words of' explanation as to the difficulties which
sometimes occur in communication and the conversation then
continued.-E.B.G.
153, l am- sorry. This hand refuses to write. Tell it to write it.
Put yours on.
No better result was achieved. An attempt to write further names
only ended in a faint scrawl looking like "Rango" and then "Tricksey."
154. I used to kiss it.
Correct.
155. I want someone to see her coat is kept clean.
Alice was most particular about the dog's coat.
(There seems to have been only a liitle difficulty in getting the right
gender through on this occasion.--·E.B.G.)
112 THEY SURVIVE
156. I know you didn't like what you <:ailed lap dogs.
Correct.
(Miss R.) Yours was not thatsort of pet.
157. (A.) I remember hearing you once about mine. Not a
Pekinese, but a pet dog.
Correct. I had told my sister that summer that I disliked pet dogs.
I wonder ifmy papers have been tom up, I hope so. I would like
them all burnt.
158. I hope John isn't short of money.
Alice would probably have been anxious in this matter.
159. Will you go over at Christmas and see him 'l He q~.ay be
alone.
From her earthly memories she would anticipate this.
(Miss R.) As a matter of fact, friends have invited him to stay
with them.
I hope he will take my dog with him.
160. He couldn't be left alone in an empty house.
The dog is implied. This is of interest as John was living alone at
the time of Alice's death. · The dog being with him.
161. My advice to John is to sell the house and go and enjoy
himself somewhere. It is a white elephant for him. . • •
A very characteristic remark and precisely what Alice wanted to
do herself. '
(Miss R.) Well, go to old Margaret and tell her to get a move on.
Dig her out of that house. It must be such a funny menage I
162. Yes, I pity her companion.
A typical remark and very reminiscent of Alice.
Sitting of March 26th, 1929. (No. 6.)
AsTOR: Others are near to-day.
Yes, wait a little.
Note by Miss Ross.-Another violent wrestle with the pencil
took place at this juncture, the last remark being apparently
addressed to the communicator as before. This seems to denote
the powerlessness of Astor to keep a very determined individual
at bay and converse with her without his forcible "thought-effort"
appearing on the paper.
(AsTOR) I have to check those who rush in.
Note by Miss Ross.-The writing changed to the same broken
and uneven calligraphy of four months previously.
ALicE: I wondered why I didn't hear from you, my dear•..
I did want to talk so much to you.
THEY SURVIVE 113
, 163. I know you will be on my side. And perhaps you would
speak to Margaret and make her see ·my point. · .
Alice had the habit oftrying to get people "on her side" and endeav-
our:ing to make them see· her "point."
164. She is just as mulish as ever.
Alice frequently used this word in reference to Margaret.
But of course you don'f know what it's all about.
(MISS R.) No. What's the trouble?
(A.) So tiresome. I forget so quickly that you can't run down to
me. The Mater has been very good to me.
165. Just her old self, when you were young and you didn't know
her.
I was aged twelve when Alice married.
She helped such a lot, showed me how to live here, and because
166. I plunged rather heavily and got into difficulties,
Most evidential. Alice always "plunged" recklessly into things and
invariably got into difficulties.
which are hard to explain as life here is so different, she settled we
should live together all the time. Audrey was away too. She has
other ties and affections now.
167. Of course you can imagine what happened.
Exactly Alice's manner of speech on this .kind of occasion.
168. Margaret became ill-used at once. She told me I was too
much for her, for the Mater. ·
Just what Margaret would do, and the way in which Alice would have
related the incident.
169. You know what she's like. She's just the same. Wants
everything to be run in her way, by rules and regulations.
The exact manner in which Alice often summed up Margaret.
170. I told her she was the teal trouble. That her nagging about
this and that was bad for the Mater.
All most characteristic of Alice and her attitude towards Margaret.
Also the use of the word "nagging."
171. Anyhow we had a row.
They always did ! And exactly the words in which Alice would have ·
described the affair.
And don't you think that when I have been separated for such
years from the Mater
172. and when I am the eldest, I ought to have first claim, not
Margaret. . .
A point Alice often made when she wished to subdue the younger
members of the family.
(MISs R.) Well, I don't think it much matters. I suppose we've got
to progress. . . . ·
173. Progress? Rubbish....
Alice's exact manner in sweepjng aside a remark when she con-
sidered that she krtew better than anyone else.
ft'4 1'HBY SUR VI VB
(Mlss'R.) Old Well, you know best!
174. (A.) Of course I know best.
She always ass11med she did and said so.
175. But you see my point, don't you? You have· common
sense.
Exactly Alice's manner ofspeech. .
(Miss R.) Well, I don't see why you have to live together•••.
(A.) It's not.a question of having to live together. I don't want to
live- alone. And the Mater has been such a dear to me and has looked
after me and ·
116. has listened to all rhad to tell her about Charles;
It is most characteristic that Alice should recount the old grievance$
against Charles.
177~ She saw at once how badly he had behaved to me, 1hough·she
didn't say much. She said whatever he'd done or hadn't done she'd
make it up to me. We were so happy.
Exactiy Alice's way of assuming that everyone immediately agreed
with her. ·
178. She pretended I was her eldest daughter again just when
I was a girl and showed how proud she was of me.
My mother spoilt Alice very much. She adored her· in her young
days and was immensely proud ofher. ·
179. Then Margaret comes along with her silly jealousy and
makes a scene.
Exactly what Margaret probably would do and it is certainly the
manner in which Alice would describe it.
180. Now I want you to call Margaret and give her a good talking
to. Will you please make her understand that I have had a bad time,
and if only she would leave me and the Mater alone, I shall be
perfectly happy. She might let me have a little happiness now.
'Will you?
Alice was very dictatorialand spoke in tiM way. She certainly tried
to monopolize my mother in her young days-and succeeded.
. (MISS R.) I will do what I can if you get her to come;
(A.) Yes, I will call her. My dear, you are good. I know you will
make her see.
181. Tell her not to make mischief between the Mater and me.
Alice had a habit of accusing people of making mischief.
(Slight pause.)
182. MARGARET Ross: I wonder what you have been hearing
about me?
Margaret was often suspicious that people might be talking about
her.
(Miss :R.) OJi, nothing much. I have been wanting to talk to you
but was prevented. ·
THEY SURVIVE 115
(M.) I know you have been talking to Alice.
183. She is justthe same. She hasn~t changed a bit. You remember
how she used to carry all before her, sweep everything aside .to .suit
herself; behave as though she were the only person in the hou~~e to
be attended to. Of course you were so young when we were together
in the bouse, you can't remember how spoilt and impossible she was.
\\tell, she has simply taken possession of the Mater. She behaves as
if she were mistress of everything. She tries to prev.ent my seeing her.
She won't let me tell the Mater about my own little difficulties. She
simply comes in and tries to turn me out. She is my mother just
as much as hers. You will agree with me, I know. You understand
Alice.
This is the injured manner. in which Margaret used to speak.ofAlice
discussing their girlhood, and it is certainly true .of Alice in her young
days. She was most dictatorial and "bossed'' her younger brothers .and
sisters, a fact which they strongly resented.
'184. We agreed she was terribly dominating.
Correct. Several times in the past we had agreed on this point in·
discussing Alice.
185. And when she is coming out in the old colours again I think
it is high time she was put in her place.
The reference to "coming out in the old colours again" is very
reminiscent of Margaret in alluding to Alice.
186. She tries to put the Mater against Charles.
This, I fear, is what Alice would do.
I don't hold any brief for him, but I think it is most unfair. She's
sucking up the Mater's whole life at present.
(MISs R.) Wel:l, why werry about it all so much? Are you still
living in the same house, in the same way ?
187. (M.) Yes, and as I told you I have my worries connected
with it. I h.ave to bear with the company of someone who upsets my
arrangements so often. Well, the Mater used to help me about .that.
I went to her for advice. Now Alice always cuts in.
Margaret's injured attitude ,ofmind .seems clearly indicated in .these
sentences. ·
188. Says it's absurd that I can't get on with this man.
This is exactly the remark Alice would have made.
189. Says she could always get on perfectly with men.
Correct as far as Alice's own. opinion about herself went !
That she and her husband never had any quarrels. I said that was
quite untrue. You know it's untrue, don't you?
19,0. Why should she lord it over me with her self..righteousness
and try to keep the Mater from me?
"Lord it" is· an expression which Margaret frequently used in
.connection with Alice. .
(MISs R.) It lill seems vezy petty. 'Why don't you change your ,
tactics 'l What does it all matter 'l
116 THEY SURVIVE
(M.) How would you like to be cut off from the Mater when you
found her here after years? You know you would make trouble
yourself if you were stopped from being with her.
191. Did you ever realize what a god-send John Hawley was?
It had not occurred to me before to look on my brother-in-law as
a god-send in the sense infe"ed !
192. IfAlice had been in the house in that last time of the Mater's
life, when you were of an age to be a rival to her, there would have
been terrible trouble.
Correct. Whatever Alice thought of me latterly, she was dreadfully
jealous OJ me when I was a child.
(Miss .R.) Well, if I were you, I'd separate, find new friends. It
all sounds very trivial.
193. (M.) I don't like giving in. It's just as if I were owning up
to Alice being right. And she isn't. As a matter offact, I was beginning
to make my own life quite away from the Mater. But I don't see why,
because of that, Alice should be given her own way. It is so bad for
her. ·
All this shows the characteristically silly and peevish view of life
which Margaret took in her attitude towards Alice.
(
Note by Miss Ross.-Here I suggested that they all tried to get
on better together. Adding that if Margaret did this, she would
perhaps gravitate to happier conditions according to communica-
tions received concerning the future state.
(M.) Do you know, Molly, you have changed a great deal. I am
surprised at what you say. I will think it over. I think now that it
was just suddenly remembering the old days when we were both in
the house with the Mater, and you were a baby, started us off. I
suppose we had made a habit of disagreeing, and the old habit started
again. I will be friendly now to her before she speaks again. I will
say something nice to her.
194. Is there any hope of John coming here soon? He would be
a great occupation for Alice.
This is a quaint way ofputting it, but very much in the manner of
Margaret.
(Miss R.) I doubt if he will find the occupation so sweet ! All the
same, you get away from those petty. quarrels and try to find some
new friends.
(M.) If you will wait a moment. Break off and then resume ; I'll
try to say a few nice words to Alice, then she can speak to you again.
You have made me happier about it. You see my points. Perhaps
I shall do better than she, after all. She is so silly~ You know,
195. she boasted to the Mater that she had managed to get married
and that I hadn't, and had done nothing with my life.
This is most astonishingly like Alice, both the reference to getting
c·
THEY SURVIVE 117
married and the taunt that Margaret had done nothing with her. life.
She had frequently remarked this to me in connection with Margaret.
But I will try and forget what she has said.
(Miss R.) Try and make new friends.
(M.) That is a good plan, I think. I have been a lonely person.
196. I used to envy you your friendships, especially with the M.'s.
I always had a feeling that she did.
I shall see what can be arranged.
(Miss R.) Fetch Alice now.
(M.) Wait a moment and she will come.
Note by Miss Ross.-Halfa minuteelapsed. Then the impatient
tapping of the pencil began again. Each word divided as before.
197. ALICE (writtenlarge): Ithoughtyouwoulddoit,Mollyl She
has apologizedto me. Atleast, notexactly, but I could see that after you
had talked to her she saw how much she was in the wrong. I knew
you would see how right I was, and would tell Margaret so.
. I recognize the jubilant ring in Alice's opening sentence. Her accent
would have been on the word "thought.'' When she had gained her
point she always said she knew that she was right.
I shall get real peace and happiness now if Margaret really does ·
leave the Mater to nie. It is all I want. I ask for very little.
(Miss R.) I suppose we ought to forget the past.
(A.) I quite agree. That .is absolutely right. But it is my duty to
protect the Mater against Margaret's humours.
(Miss R.) Well, tell me what you have been doing.
(A.) I have been resting a great deal. I was greatly shaken by my
passing and perhaps it affected my outlook for a while. My new body
has been growing and changing. You would be surprised if you
saw it. ·
198. I have grown so much younger. It gives me pleasure to look
and feel as if I were in the twenties again.
Alice was particularly vain as regards her. personal appearance,
especially when in the twenties.
Tell John he will come to that after his death when he comes here.
Tell him he will be quite as good-looking as he was when we were
first married.
199. I didn't tell him so, but I used to be very proud ofhis appear-
ance when he was first married to me. Perhaps l shall be agam.
Correct. She did not tell him so ifshe really ever thought it. ·But,
strictly speaking, J should not have called him good-looking.
(Miss R.) I hope you aren't worrying over earth things now.
(A.) No, I am not worrying about things there any more.
. 200. I am afraid Ronald has hada disappointing time. Everything
has gone wrong for him except what he has done himself.
Correct.
ll8 THEY SURVIVE
201. He has been abominably treated by girls who weren't good
enough for him.
Correct. And the exact manner in which she managed to gasp out
a few words in reference to his broken engagement the·last time I saw
her in the nursing home.
I hope he won't be lonely. Perhaps he is better off as a bachelor.
202. I should have liked a really good marriage for him.
Correc;t. She was certainly ambitious in this respect.
Note by Miss Ross.-I then asked some questions regarding the
manner inwhich Alice hadgot through her money latterly. In reply,
she infers that she speculated without her husband's knowledge and
lost a considerable sum.
(A.) It was dreadful.
203. But I did so want to get back my old position. • • .
Alice was always regretting her loss of position and speaking of
the time when she had a/air-sized house to keep up.
(MISS R.) Well, don't let Margaret know you notice any change
in her. Be nice to her. .
(A.) Yes, you can be quite sure I shall be nice to her ifshe is nice to
me.
204. I was. always ready to meet her more than half-way and I will
be again.
This wa.\1 Alice's own attitude of mind towards Margaret.
(MISS R.) I am quite aware that I don't practise it here ! It takes
a bit of doing. Perhaps Charles and I will have to live together !
205• (A.f How HEAVENLY I (written large).
An expression often used by Alice in jest.
206. I do long to show Charles round here. The very thought of
his being here gives me the most intense pleasure. If he only knew
how I longed to see him and be able to tell him that all the nilllioas in
the world can't change anything a jot here.
This is aU most strikingly like Alice's style of conversation and
thought when alluding to Charles. She always grudged him his income
am:l complained ofhis meanness.
(Miss R.) It will be a strange meeting between you..
207. (A.) Yes; I shall be blissfully happy when he comes. What a
picture he will make. Just imagine him finding out that money is not
of the least importance.
AU this is very evidential as regards survival ofpersonality. I can
imagine Alice chuckling with delight at the disillusionment ofCharles.
(MISSR.) Well, I don't.want to preach, but all these petty quarrels
do seem rather childish; much better tJ;y to agree.
(A.) You see further than I do. But I just forgot myself. I expect
I shall, in time, be abie to eheck myself.
(MISS R.) Give my love to the others.
THEY SURVIVE
Sitting of March 28th, 1929. (No. 7.)
AsToR waits.
119
(Miss R.) I would like to speak again to my two weird sisten.
208. (AsToR) They have, during their life on earth, impregnated
their ever-growing etheric double with the spirit of antagonism for
each other. My friend, you sow the seeds ofanother potential existence
here. You need not be too troubled about them. Slowly.this warp
in their being will be straightened out•.But at the moment, when·they ·
meet, they respond to old, deep antagonisms. I will summon them•
.(If we admit survival, this seems an interesting andpossible explana-
tion ofa certain phase ofexistence through which some apparently have
to pass.-~. B. G.)
MARGARET: I am glad .to see you again, Molly.
209. I went and told the Mater she was not going to see so much
of me in future. She asked why.
This is exactly. the injured, tactless thing she would have done.
210. I said, Because Alice was jealous of me. She said it was a
mistake to think of Alico being jealous. That even if she were, if
I refused to see it, and thought hal:d the idea that she w..as.glad I was
there, .and welcomed me,· that she would get into th.at state .of mind,
as of course thought is stronger here.
Margaret often referred to AJice~s jealous disposition.
211. Well, I said I didn't care, and I didn't see wby I should put
myself out to that extent. Why should I try to imagine Alice to be
somebody else ?
.This line OJ argument is very typical of Margaret's attitude of mind
towards Alice.
212. We all know her. I wasn't going to invent a falsehood and
imagine Alice as being without jealousy and a pleasant, attractive
person. The Mater said the people one lives with can be the creation
of our own minds; that I could make Alice a really lovable person
by thinking her so all the time.
Margaret frequently said "we all know her" when speaking qfAlice.
213. Such nonsense really.
A phrase frequently 'Used by Margaret.
214. Anyhow, I said !·preferred to avoid her and live by ~If.
I have often heard Margaret sayshe preferred.to avoid Alice.
(Miss R.) Well. I think that.·a very good .idea of the ..IY,Iater's.
You try it.
·(M;) You .suggested I should go and live my own life aW!'lY trom
them. which of course· had alway.s been .mY inclination.
215. I only· started seeing .a lot of the .Mater when Alice ,came,
just to protect the Mater and show Alice she wasn't the only ~.
This is typicOl of·the ~-in-the-manger attitude curiously charac-
.teristic of Margaret.
ci am not g.oing to be antagonistic; I shall simply leave the twp of
them ·alone for the present.
120 THEY SURVIVE
(MISS R.) Well, I think the M~ter's plan a very good one. You
try it.
(M.) But I won't pretend AliCe is anything she isn't. It would
upset my arrangements far too much to try and change Alice.
(Miss R.) Well, what about the Pater? Can't he cope with the
situation ? ·
216. He seems only to be amused at what's happened. He isn't
interested in either of us. His whole mind is fixed on some work
he has here. lie always was that way. Didn't bother about people.
· Correct. Verified later. (See visit to Miss Hamilton described
below.-E.B.G.)
(MISS R.) He's most sensible. It's a pity you don't follow his
example and get some work. You'd be far happier. To me, you and
Alice are just like a couple of silly children and want slapping.
(M.) Really, Molly! You disappoint me very much. It would
interfere with my life. I have everything arranged exactly as I wish
it, and I will keep to it and not bother about the others.
(MISs R.) Ifyou got something to do, you could do it methodically
also. It all seems very silly to me.
217. (M.) I don't think, Molly, you were so perfect that you can
talk like this now.
A manner in which Margaret did reprove me at times I
I have plenty to do looking after my house.
218. However, we won't quarrel over it.
Margaret often finished up a sentence with this remark.
219. I only like peace. I never wanted to have rows with
anyone.
An assertion Margaret often made in life.
IfI had some work to do, I should have to mix with other people,
and perhaps be under their direction.
220. No, I prefer to direct myself I
A very typical example of the manner in which Margaret often
ended up with a laugh.
(MISs R.) Well. Try to think kinder thoughts about Alice.
Perhaps that would help the situation.
221. (M.) Thank you. I will leave the task of reforming Alice
to you when you come here l (Laughter.)
This, again, is the exact way Margaret had of turning the tables
on one and ending with a laugh.
I will tell you what I have planned since thinking things over.
You were so nice when last we spoke. When you come here, which
I wish could be soon, you must come and live with me. · And the
Mater and Alice can live by themselves together.
(Mrss R.) (rather alarmed !) Oh, I shall have to think that over !
(M.) Good, I am so glad. We will manage very nicely together.
You can have all your ftiends at my place. That is something now
to think about. I shall have a home ready for you, much pleasanter
THEY SUB.VIVB 12.1
than·the other· one. It will be rather good for the others, too, to see
us together.
222. That was another thing Alice said, that I could not live
with anyone. I will show her I can. .
Correct. Alice said this on eart~ It is the type of remark she
'Would certainly throw at Margaret if they met elsewhere.
· 223. You know, I was always fond of you.
Correct. Margaret was, I think, fond ofme in her odd way, though
we had no tastes in common and seldom met.
224. Though you did have cwious habits.
This is very evidential. Margaret a/wQys said I wa9 erotic. Chiefly
because I preferred to leadarather ~mconventionallife,from the prevailing
views ofthose days. ·
· Well, don't tell the others that you and I have arranged to live
together here•. Alice would try and separate us, probably•.••
Note by Miss Ross.-There wei:e other rerilarks ofno particular
interest. So I asked for Alice to come. .
Auc:E.
(MTSS R.) I wanted to say a few words to you.. What· has been
happening? · · . .
(A.) Everything is quite all right since Margaret left.
225. I am so pleased to have the Mater to myself now.
In her young days, Alice always tried to achieve this. .
(Miss R.) Is the Mater pleased ? · ·
(A.) Well, she is very glad to have me. ·
226. We are enjoying ourselves going over old times. together.
Alice loved doing this andI confess I was very bored in discussing.
my relatives. ·
227. She is showing me round and bringing me to·see her friends.
Exactly the life AUce would choose.
228. We used to go visiting together in the ca.ttiage.
Correct. ·
Well, though there aren't carriages here, we are going out together
in the.same way now. . ·
229. It is so nice to be made much of again, and the Mater has
done a great deal for me. She has made me forget all that last pain
and trouble.
My mother spoilt Alice terribly in her youth.
(MISS· R.) And how is Margaret?
~30. (A.) Oh I She has gone away in her usual sulk, so that is
all right.
Most char!lcteristic of Margaret and exactly the word Alice often
applied to her. ·
Of course, the Mater wanted me to see her good points,
231; or at least pretend she had· some;
122 TBEY SURVIVE
Exactly Allee's cutting tongue.
232. But I said it was much better for me to ignore her.
What in effect she frequently did .say in reference to Margaret
when on earth. ·
(MISS R.) If you would think better of her, perhaps you would
·get on better.
233. (A.) So long as I don't see her, I won't give her a thought.
Alice expressed similar sentiments to me concerning Margaret.
234. I can't change my opinion of Margaret.
Correct. She never would.
235. I shall always remember her will.
This exactly expresses Alice's feeling on the matter and illustrates
how that episode rankled and appears still to do so.
(MISS R.) Oh, ifyou are going to rake up.all that again, it's fatal.
(A.) No, I won't rake anything up. I have forgiven her that.
236. But somehow, she always rouses me to say things when
she's there, and before I know where I am, I've said things that annoy
her, though they are quite harmless.
Correct. Alice was very quick-tempered and snapped out replies
the moment they came into her head.
(MISS R.) It all sounds very silly to Die here. As I told her, you
are like a couple of children who want smacking I
(A.) Oh, she just wants a good shake
237. and a husband of the firm kind to make her understand how
to live.
Alice often remarked that certain women wanted ''firm husbands."
Otherwise she will just stick where she is,
238. but I shall go ahead.
The same conviction that she was more intelligent than others and
would make headway, ·
239. I am quite certain I shall soon have made my way here, and
will be somebo'dy who counts again. • • •
Again the conceited, ambitious touch. It rankled very much that she
had very little position latterly.
Note by Miss Ross.-Here I made a further reference to the
quarrels between the sisters, and Alice continued:
(A.) Father was called in to settle things.
240. But you know, the Governor always hated what he called
fusses and nothing came of it. I asked him to speak to Margaret
and Margaret asked him to speak to me. And he replied that he
would speak to neither of us, and went away.
Correct. Verified later. (See visit to Miss Hamilton, described
below. E.B.G.). .
(MISS R.) Wise man I I hope the Mater will be all right.
241. Oh I The Mater is going to look to me for everything,
THBY SURVIV8 123
Again the con/ident, possessive spirit so characteristic of Alice.
Before her marriage she ran the house, my mother and. everything.
She was, in fact, "boss" "and very unpopular with her younger brother
and sisters in consequence.
(Miss R.) Well, I hope she'll be happy, that's all.
(A.) Yes, of course she will.
242. She was always devoted to me.
Correct. .
243. It was the fault of other people that she did things that
weren't quite fair to me.
Alice would never acknowledge that she was in the wrong.
244. Of course, she is happy when I'm with her.
Another example of Alice's triumphant conviction concerning her
. personal charms. .
(Miss R.) I would very much lib to speak to· her if she would
come.
(A.) Yes. I know she would.
(Miss R.) Cheer up and try to think more kindly of old Margaret.
245. (A.) Oh ! I'm feeling .so well and so happy I shan't bother
about Margaret. Goodbye.
This remark is so exactly like Alice. She would never bother about
her sister or any one else when she was in a happy frame of mind.
(Miss R.) Well, call the Mater now. Goodbye.
Pauae.-The han~wri~ changed.
{MATIIR) My dear Molly. Yourown Materishereandso happy at
seeing you. You were always a good child and my best memories
of life are ofyou. I think of your pretty brown eyes and dark hair,
and what a dear baby you were. · ·
(Miss R.) I want to know something about this fuss' between
·Alice and Margaret. Do you know anything about it ? What's the
trouble?
(MATER) Oh yes, I was very upset about it. It reminded me ofthe
old days when they quarrelled and I could do nothing with them.
I remember, when quite small children, I came on them each holding
a doll's arm and tugging at it and screaming. The doll, of course,
parted company and they both sat down suddenly. The two of them
were pulling away at that old. doll again here when they once got
accustomed. to seeing each other.
246. You know, I didn't see much of Margaret till Alice came.
Then she used to visit us a great deal. At first I was very pleased.
Then I saw it was partly not to let Alice be the one and only. So
silly, really.
Curious how this runs through these communications. It is evidential.
Margaret was not at all fond of my mother, but it would be very like
her to try and upset arrangements under the circumstan~es as described.
124 THEY SUR VIVB
(Miss R.) ·They have both been pouring out their woes to me.
(MATER) I think you had an excellent effect upon them. They were
quite quiet since they spoke to you. I dcin't know what you said.
But it put an end to the storm. At present I must be a good deal
with Alice, because she has been.going through a critical first period
here.
247. But Margaret doesn't or won't understand that; later on
Alice will make her own life. It is her temperament. But she does
need her mother just at present. And I want to give with both hands
to take away the deep unhappiness I can see was hers on earth.
Correct.
(Miss R.) She made it, to a great extent, herself.
(MATER) Poor child. That makes it all the harder.
(MISS R.) I wanted to know if you were happy with this new
menage of yours. She seems to have monopolized you.
· (MATER) I am happy because I know I am able, in this way, to
help her to happiness. I don't mind her taking control of everything.
I won't restrain her now. I will let her give.her own nature full play.
Later she will begin to learn, and will change. At ·preseDt what is
essential is that she should be content
248. after her long discontent, as it would be fatal if she became
warped or embittered. .
Correct. Latterly she was very discontented at her lot i12 life.
(Miss R.) I told Margaret to try and get something to do.
(MATER) Yes, but Margaret, my dear, is not likely to respond to
your suggestion~ She is, as a matter of fact, much harder to help
thail Alice, because she .hates cllange, and she .is naturally indolent.
It is worth doing. Alice has some very fine things in her, but the
poqr girl is so foolish.
After some further. conversation, the sitting ended.
Extract from sitting of May 15th, 1929. (No. 8.)
Astor comes.
(Miss R.) Will you call. • • • (Miss Ross asked for another
communicator).
(AsroR) Not the brawling ladies? .
(MISS R.) Do you mean my quaint sisters ? Are they wanting
to speak?
(AsToR) They have come on two or three occasions about some
personal matter. They desire to appeal to you.
(Miss R.) Are they still fighting then, Astor ?
(AsroR) Some earthly affair. They each declare that you would
agree with their version of it.
(MISS R.) I probably should I But I wish they would get on ·
with their own affairs.
·THEY SURVIVE l2S
(AsToR) You:must understand that all earth souls evolve according
to their natures. These two ·are not in any distress.
(MISS R.) Well, you had better tell them that they had better
wait till I come over to them. I don't see how I can successfully cope
with the situation from here I
(AsToR) Probably they will be quite happy without your
verdict.
(MISS R.) I don't doubt it ! But can't you tell them not to go on
fighting like this 'l It seems trivial. Only you will have to be very
tactful!
(AsToR) I realize that if I addressed them .on· what they regard as
a family ·matter. they would unite against me and hail my remarks
as a gross impert~ence.
(MISS R.) Do you know what· the trouble is about this time 'l
(AsTOR) Some earth memory is in dispute. Something you. have
not yet discussed with them. • • • They may wait.
(Owing to pressure of other work, six months elapsed before
Miss Ross was able to obtain another sitting with Miss
Cummins.
The latter had, also, been in Ireland for the last three months.
B.B.G.).
Sitting of September 29th, 1929. (No. 9.)
AsTOR: I am permitted to speak 'l . • •
(MISS R.) First, I want to talk to those two strange sisters of mine,
whom you described as the "brawling ladies" some time ago.
(AsTOR) Yes, I like them. They are both pagans anyway. I will
seek them.· Wait.
(Pause and change of writing.)
MARGARET: Ah, Molly, I am glad to speak to you.. I knew you
would rather talk to me· than to Alice. How nice of you to call me
first.
Neither. was specified.
(Miss' R.) How are. you getting on 'l
(M.) First of all, the fact of my writing in this way has enabled
me to see you more often. I was with you several times this summer.
I am glad you were with Alice's poor husband. • • •
249. You can be very sympathetic. He never met with that in
his married life anyway.
Correct. Certainly as regards latter years.
250. When I was alive I had a great friend and I was devoted to·
her. I won't tell you who itis, it hurts me too much to mention her
name. She said horrid things about me and was very unkind.. • • •
126 THEY SURVIVE
Her treating me like that gave me a great shock and those last months
and years were very lonely for me. Do you know that I was much
happier really when I was incurably ill and you visited me than in
the year previoilsly when I seemed fairly well.
All this is entirely correct as regards the friend.
(Miss R.) I think I know who you mean. Tell me, how are you
getting on?
(M.) Things are getting brighter for me.
251. Alice taunted me about not having friends here, so I thought
1 would show her that I had my own circle. So, though I didn't like
doing it at all, I looked up strangers. I tried to make the acquaintance
of quite unprepossessing people. The result is, I have made my
circle now, but it wouldn't have been made if it hadn't been for
Stephen. You don't know him. He is the man I loathed so much,
who had to live with me here. Well, he isn't so bad after all, though
he does upset me still; he is so unmethodical a,nd untidy. Anyway,
he quite understood my point of view about Alice, and agreed that
I must show her that I can manage very well for myself, and lead
a happy, successful life. So first he brought in his friends. Some were
dreadful people, and I would have had nothing to do with them if
it hadn't been for the thought of Alice. But the funny thing was,
that after I had got to know them, they didn't seem so dreadful after
all. Do you know, Molly, I believe I made a great mistake in life.
Very characteristic of Alice to taunt Margaret as described.
252. I shut myself away from people too much. I am afraid I was
rather self-centred.
Correct.
I have only just been getting to know how kind people can be, and
though Stephen and I have rows sometimes still, I am beginning to
see that he means very well and isn't out to deceive me or do ine.
(MISS R.) You used to have two great friends here.... Have
you not met them?
(M.) No, I have not met either of them. I think perhaps it is my
own fault. I thought toomuch about the earth. After a while Stephen
leaves me. But later I shall see you and that will be a joy. Have you
thought about my offer?
(Miss R.) Oh yes ! But we shall have to see what the conditions
are when I come over. This is only a short talk and I want to say a
few words to Alice.
(M.) May I say that I think you are very foolish to talk to Alice ?
She will only weary you with her temper, but of course, if you want
to have a row with her, you can.
253. But you can't say I haven't warned you.
A common remark of Margaret's.
lcould tellyou a great deal abQut travel hereifyou talkto me. Most
interesting. The worlds you can visit, the states you can enter. • ••
(Miss R.) Well, let Alice come now
THEY SURVIVE 127
(Pau&e. The writing changed to the untidy broken style.)
AuCB HAWLEY, STUPID. This hand is- idiotic.
(Miss R.) No. It is just hard for you to get used to it. Tell me
how you are?
(A.) I am so much better; so much happier in spite of
Margaret.
254. I put her in her place after some rows and after that I went
ahead as I told you I should. I am a great success here. ·
The reference to the "idiotic" hand, "rows" and ''putting her in her
place" were words/rt;quently made use of, and the "conceit" reappears.
255. At last I feel I am being appreciated.
She had a grudge, on earth, ~hat she was not.
256. Molly dear, I can't tell you how wonderful it is not to have
to be cook, housekeeper, charwoman and nurse to John, all com-
bined. Don't tell him I said that.
Exactly the way she spoke latterly when things were. very bad in her
domestic ciffairs and correct as regards her responsibilities.
257. I know he did his best.
A contemptuous way in which she did apeak ofher poor husband.
(Miss R.) He was very good really.
(A.) Yes, I shall leave the Mater ofcourse when he comes and we
shall make .our real home together. Of course, the Mater will be
sorry to lose me, but I must put John first.
(Miss R.) Oh, I don't think you need bother I
(A.) Oh, I feel it is my duty.
258. He pould never look after himself here.
The type of sweeping assertion she used to make and the quite
erroneous idea she had of her husband.
(Miss R.) He seems to be able to look after himself now at any
rate 1 I don't think you need bother.
(A.) No, Molly, I am not going to be separated from him. Please
understand that. ·
(Miss R.) Well, I must say you didn't make much ofhim when you
were here. ·
(A.) I know I didn't. I have grown to want John again.
259. It was the reverse on earth.
Co"ect. ,
260. I used to Jong, sometimes, to get right away from him. But
now I think of those first six months of marriage only-hqw good
they were-and the days when we were engaged.
261. ¥ou.know he did admire me, Molly.
Correct. And the old conceit again.
(Miss R.) I want to ask you something; Do you remember who
I mean by Pat? ·
262•.Are you tallcing of a dog or a human being? I am looking
out for my dog here. He hasn't come yet. Is he still living ?
128 THBY SUR VIVB
I purposely gave no indication as to whom or what I referred. A dog
was immediately thought of. Her pet dog was still alive.
' 263.. I am muddled.
(Again the confusion when the matter of the dog comes into play,
-E. B. G.)
(A few letters were written and scratched out.)
264. CAN'T YOU WRITE IT, YOU STUPID WOMAN !
Written large and sprawling across the paper. Apparently she
· was addressing Miss Cummins. Miss R. stated: The hand then
waved about excitedly in the air. Miss C. is not interested in dogs
and speaks always of them in the masculine gender-hence difficulty
that arose.-E. B. G.
(Miss R.) All right. But you mustn't get so agitated. You are
thinking of a female dog that still lives with John?
265. (A.) YBS. BUT THIS FooL WON'T BVEN LBT MB WRITE
PROPERLY.
Another exhibition of Alice's impatience.
266. I kissed it so often.
Correct.
267. The dear thing.
Correct term ofaddressing the dog.
(Miss R.) Yes, you were very fond of it. I wondered if you had
any pets?
(A.) No, but some have their pets. • ••
(Miss R.) Will you do something for John?
268. It depends on what that is.
A familiar reply I
(Miss R.) He was very devoted to a dog called Pat. We wondered,
· if they survive, if he would have her again ? ·
269. Of course, they survive. After all, some of them are much
more sensible than human beings.
Another exhibition of the assumption that she knew everything and
of her opinion of mankind.
(Miss R.) Will you look for her ?
(A.) I shalllook for Pat. When you said that, I thought ofa woman
and a dog. A girl I knew years ago, and of John's Pat. ·
(Miss R.) A white bull-terrier is the dog I mean.
(A.) Yes, it comes back to me. I forget so much about the earth.
I shall certainly look for Pat. They tell me that if you cared enough,
you usually found the one you cared for over here.
(Some further conversation concluded this, the last, sitting.)
Considerable interest attaches to the first sitting ·of this series
owing to the·fact that Miss Ross was not within three or four hundred
miles of the automatist at the time this communication was made.
THEY SURVIVE 129
She was also unaware as to the hour or day when Miss Cummins
would endeavour to make contact with her sister Margaret. More-
over, the conscious mind of Miss Ross was completely absorbed in
business affairs during the first forty-eight hours or more after the
death of Alice.
It is interesting to note that though the automatist was obviously
aware that Margaret hall previously purported to communicate
through her, she did not represent her as rushing to the side of her
dead sister, welcoming her to the .new and happy life that one is led
to anticipate awaits us. On the contrary, she introduces two new
characters who had never before written through her and states that
"Audrey" and the "Mater" went to Alice; that the mother "held back"
as it were, on account of an earthly dispute of many years ago (see
p. 94) entirely unknown to Miss Cummins. This would also be con-
trary to the orthodox idea of Christian ethics in the Beyond. It is
unfortunate that, in sending her message to Ireland, Miss Ross should
·have suggested that her sister Audrey should be asked to go to Alice.
For it is obvious that by so doing she may have represented to the
subconscious mind of the automatist that she, Audrey, would be the
person around whom she could develop some kind of past connection
with the hypothetical new-comer. It has been seen, however, that
as time passed the favourite sister drops out of the drama in the
Beyond and the stage is held almost entirely by Alice and Marjlaret.
In addition to this we have various statements unknown to Miss
Cummins connected with Audrey; that she was "gentle and kind";
that it was she, and not her mother or Margaret whom Alice would
want to see. Correct details were communicated concerning Alice's
"restless mind" and early married days, "when she used to go about
and ride and was so proud and pleased with herself." (p. 94). Also,
we have the hint that there might be "trouble" (p. 94) and that
Alice would "be bound to grumble a bit" on waking. (p. 95). These
and similar remarks, certainly seem to denote an intelligence at the
back of. Miss Cummins who had vivid recollections of the earthly
peculiarities of another woman who had just died. And there is no
question of the automatist, in this first sitting, being able to draw
on the mind of the sitter. For again the sitter was "absent."
Miss Ross's father died in 1886. At this juncture it was difficult
for her to find anyone contemporary with Alice and Margaret who
could recollect their childhood and, perhaps, the disposition of their
father who died when Mary Ross was six years old. However, Miss
Ross remembered that the eldest member of a family of cousins
might be the best person to whom to apply. ·Though she rarely saw
them, she decided to visit them, taking me with her. During the course
of conversation Miss Ross led up to the subject of her sisters and their
youth, asking Miss Hamilton if she remembered how they quarrelled.
Miss Hamilton replied that she often stayed with the Rosses when
she was about ten years old or so. Alice and Margaret Ross were
E
130 'THEY SURVIVE
a few years older than Miss Hamilton, who well remembered how
· they fought over everything. "Alice was so masterful," she said,
"and quite monopolized your mother. She simply ruled everyone.
I remember she even called your father an old fool once !" ·
"And do you remember him ? What was he like ?" asked Miss
Ross.
"Oh, he was very quiet. Never said much to any of them. He
was awfully gentle and kind. I often think it would have been better
if he had taken· a hand in the management of the children. But he
wouldn't."
"I suppose then he didn't much like making fusses over things ?"
asked Miss Ross.
"Oh, he couldn't bear them," Miss Hamilton replied.
Miss Ross also asked if Miss Hamilton remembered any quarrel
between Alice and Margaret over a doll. But the reply was in the
·negative. If the scene described by Mrs. Ross, the mother, in her
communication of March· 28th (page 123) really occurred, (and from
the disposition of those concerned, one can quite believe in its troth),
it is probable that it took place when Alice and Margaret were about
seven and five years old respectively, and presumably the only witness
was th!ir mother. This very interesting incident, therefore, is now
quite impossible to verify.
Miss Hamilton's remarks are of interest as she bears out the
statement that Miss Ross's father couldn't stand "fusses." Moreover,
his decision to speak "to neither of them" when appealed to (p 122)
would seem to identify him with the characteristics of Miss Ross's
father as known to Miss Hamilton. For even in the present menage,
as depicted in the Ross scripts, he apparently refuses to intervene
in the quarrels of his troublesome daughters. Likewise, one might
assume that anyone who would call her father a fool might quite
well apply the same epithetto the thenentranced Miss Cummins(p. 128).
It would seem difficult to attribute the production of the Ross
.scripts to the "subconscious activity" of Miss Cummins. Her mind
contained no reminiscences or associations upon which it could
draw in order successfully to dramatize these very original ladies.
The language employed is purely colloquial and there is no attempt
to emulate the style of any particular author known to us. But there
is the precise building up ofcurious and mundane personalities which
were characteristic of certain deeeased persons unknown to the auto-
matist: but definitely claimed to be recognized by their surviving
relatives.
Telepathy from persons unknown to Miss Cummins may be pos-
tulated to account for the production of the facts concerning the ·
dra1111ltis persontz of the scripts. For, apart from Miss Ross herself,
undoubtedly persons still exist who recollect certain ·happenings in
the lives of the Reiss sisters and their relatives. (Miss Hamilton for
one.) But, on carefully examining the data given, it seems hardly
THEY SURVIVE 131
reasonable to suggest that the theory of telepathy conclusively
explains the reproductions of certain peculiarities· of speech and the
petty antagonisms of two very unimportant ingividuals.
However, readers may consider that the whole of this somewhat
astonishing feat on the-Part of Miss Cummins in reconstructing the
cllaracteristics and past quarrels of the Ross sisters has come from the
mind of Mary Ross even if not present-as on the occasion of the
first sitting. This feat might be. called an example of "telepathic
extraction" from a mind or minds quite ~conscious of the fact that
they are being ransacked for the material. But telepathic extraction
does not explain the account given of the revived conflict of the sisters
in a future life, as it was conducted by the participants in the charac-
teristic language they used on earth. Neither of them wrote out of
character. Surely if the Ross sisters no longer existed, no telepathic
extraction from living human minds would enable the medium to
continue their past feuds-revealing their very same personalities-
just as they had been on earth. So it would seem that the Ross sisters
did not perish at death, and, as a critic to whom I sep.t this typescript,
remarked : "Their persisting habits of mind and the hints of their
eventual way of progress at least makes excellent sense if one wants
a rational psychology in Heaven."
Readers would do well to study the Cleophas volumes and other
works psychically communicated through Miss Cummins (see preface),
in conjunction with.the writings purporting to emanate from the late
sisters of Miss Mary Ross and others published in this book. The
contrastinstyle is somewhat startlingwhenit is realized that the method
of production is 'precisely the same. All these scripts were produced
by the same automatist but all are entirely dissimilar in construction,
in phraseology and in content. Neither do they nor the Ross sisters
bear any resemblance whatsoever to the normal style of writing or
the diction of Geraldine Cummins.
On the other hand, it may be postulated that every life lived,
every deed once committed or thought, however trivial, passes into
history, and, according· to Theosophists, is subjectively recorded on
"The Akashic Records." The unimportant doings of the Ross family
may be said to have passed into what may be called history. And
it may be conjectured that their quarrels and arguments are now
subjectively imprinted on this Great Memory.
The information contained in the Cleophas scripts seems to
suggest that Miss Cummins might possess an innate faculty for tapping ·
such records (both historical and legendary) and of reproducing
therefrom the most minute details concerning St. Paul, his contem,
poraries and successors. ·
The Ross Case may be considered also to come within the scope
of this faculty and may include,_ therefore, not only the Ross family
but many other deceased persons who have purported-to communicate
through the same channel.
132 THBY SURVIVB
.At the same time, unless the survival of human consciousness
after bodily death is admitted to be sufficiently proved, we have to
postulate yet another supernormal feat on the part of Miss Cummins
and other gifted psychics. Miss Cummins must also be possessed of
the capacity for choosing from this Universal Memo_Q' the character-
istic speech of strangers who purport to communicate· through -her.
Alternatively, a discarnate intelligence must. convey the information
to the brain ofthe medium, otherwise it would seem difficult to account
for the reproduction of personality. There appears to be strong
evidence that this is so, in that the material given tells its own story-
is the expression ofa directive intelligence.
lt may be of interest to observe that, in so far as her conscious
powers go, Miss Cummins recently deplored her utter inability to draw
from her imagination such delightful characters as the Ross sisters.
I do not know whether the Ross scripts will be pronounced as sub-
stantially refuting the many possible objections to the theory ofsurvival,
but, in my opinion, they do at least take us one step nearer to dis-
proving an alternative to the survival hypothesis.
In a short article published in the Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research (January 1932) Sir Oliver Lodge remarks
that he considers that we have established the existence of a spiritual
world. "To establish personal identity in connection with such· a
world is a more difficult problem." ·
It would seem that the alleged communicators of the Ross and
other scripts recorded in this volume fulfil the conditions required
to establish their personal identity in an existence beyond the limits
of earth-life.
Case XII
THE PROBLEM OF A STRANGE VERIDICAL DREAM
Tm! following account of a veridical dream, in which Geraldine
Cunimins was the principal participator, is included here. It may
not in a sense appear to prove survival; nevertheless it seems of interest
.in that respect.
If any reader is sufficiently intrigu~d and wishes personally to
verify the statements made by Eileen and Miss X, these are ready to
testify privately to the facts. It is not possible to give their names,
so pseudonyms are employed.
In 1927 Miss Cummins and I became acquainted with two great
friends whom I will call Eileen and Ann. These two were introduced
to us by a Miss X. whom I ·had known for a number of years. Eileen
and she shared a flat together. At the end of December 1931, Ann
THEY· SURVIVE 133
became very ill, though she had hitherto apparently enjoyed normal
health. An operation was performed early in January 1932, from
which she recovered. In the meantime, Miss Cummins was herself
slowly getting over a very serious operation. In the following April
she met Ann once only, and told me later how she envied her being
able to act in a play, while she (Miss Cummins) felt unfit to· do
anything.
Before she went to Ireland for the summer, towards the end of
May, the last Miss Cummins heard of Ann was that she had developed
a bad cough. Miss X. told me later that Ann's condition had suddenly
become very serious and that there seemed to be no hope of her
recovery. I was careful to avoid writing of this to Miss Cummins,
as she was ordered as much peace of mind as possible, and she had
considerable regard for Ann. Ann died in a nursing home on August
2nd. The only mention I made of her to Miss Cummins, between
that date and the date of the latter's departure for Ireland (May
24th), was in a letter in which I mentioned rather casually that Miss X.
had been to see me and had stated that Ann's condition seemed rather
serious. I was careful, however, not to imply that her death was,
as I then understood, inevitable.
In a postscript to a letter to me, written on the morning of
August 4th, Miss Cummins wrote: "Any news of Ann? I had a
very sad and vivid dream ofher last Tuesday night" (Tuesday morning
is meant and is indicated elsewhere in this report). As Miss Cummins
and I were, at that time, very much occupied in correcting the proofs
of The Road to immortality, she omitted to comment further on the
dream in her letter to me. 1 was in London at that time. However,
on August 3rd, she noted the details of the dream which were as
follows:
Tuesday, August 2nd. I dreamt in the small hours of the
morning that I saw Ann in a dim room. She was dressed in
the clothes in which I had last seen her in London in the spring
-a white silk blouse and dark skirt. Her face was ghastly pale
and she .looked terribly ill. She greeted me brightly and at first
I was very glad to see her, but felt so sorry she looked so ill.
Then she came quite close to me until it seemed as if her forehead
was about to touch mine. I shrank away in frantic terror, feeling
that at all costs I mustn't let her touch me. She smiled cheerily
then and made a joke which I can't remember. But I distinctly
recalled her saying, "I'm quite all right." After that she disappeared
and then I saw Eileen in another room in the same house. I went
down the stair to it. I told Eileen that Ann had said she was
"quite all right" so I supposed it meant she was going to get
well again, that ~e seemed quite sure of it anyway. In fact, at
that moment, I felt quite happy' about her. But Eileen replied,
••No, it's hopeless" and became very upset, completely breaking
134 THEY SURVIVE
down and weeping bitterly. I was awfully distressed then, feeling
there was nothing I could say. And soon after, I woke up. I was so
saddened at Eileen's distress I lit the lamp and read for a while.
I didn't note the time, but there was a glimmer of light coming
through the curtain. So it was some time in the early morning.
Later I hoped the dream might mean that Ann had taken
a tum for the better and that she was going to ge~ well after all.
This statement was enclosed in a letter to me written on the
evening of August 4th, together with the following further details
concerning the dream:
You will note in the letter I sent you that I said I had a sad ·
and vivid dream about Ann. I made a note of it as you will see,
which I didn't enclose with the proofs as I was in a hurry to get
to the post-office in case there was aletter from you by the second
. post with further corrections. I got quite a tum when I opened
your letter in the post office and read that poor Ann had died
early on Tuesday morning. I am most terribly sorry, for though
I only knew her slightly, I had a real affection for her, she was
such a delightful person. ·
Do you think my dream was after her passing, or was it when
she was unconscious ? The strange thing about the dream I had
was that I was quite certain she was alive. I made a note of it
because I thought that if you wrote and told me that she had
taken a tutn for the better and was going to get well, there would
be some truth in the remark she made in the dream that she was
"quite all right," and the impression she conveyed that she was
going to be quite well again. What upset me most in the dream
was Eileen's despair.
Also, I don't understand why I was so terrified lest Ann should
touch me. There was some mark on her forehead, almost like
a slight cut or breaking of the skin. Otherwise, she looked as I
saw her last, except that she was so ghastly pale and looked so ill,
yet at the same time she was so cheery, and in this respect such
a contrast to Eileen. Ann gave me such a feeling of happiness
after my terror had passed.
On receipt of this letter, I wrote to Miss X. asking her to answer
the following questions. Question and answer are given herewith.
I. What was the actual time at which death occurred ?
Answer.-To the best of our knowledge Ann passed on between
9 and 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday morning.
2. At what hour did she become quite WlCOnscious?
Answer.-Was never quite unconscious. Came out of the
morphia occasionally. Presumably sank from 5 a.m.
THEY SURVIVE 135
· 3. Is there any room in ·the home (i.e. the nursing home in
which Ann died) or elsewhere connected with Eileen, with a step
leading down to it ?
· Answer.-The matron's room, where Eileen used to interview
the Doctor or Matron, has a step down to it.
4. Has Eileen said to you and to others-if so, when-"No,
it's hopeless" ?
Answer.-A much used phrase since January.
5. Can you explain the mark on the forehead? l mean, Did
Ann have an accident at any time which left a scar for a period?
Answer.-She had a scar on the forehead which she always
covered.
At the suggestion of the Hon. Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.1,
I ascertained that knowledge of the existence of the scar was confined
to a few friends and (presumably) relatives. The scar which was
very slight had been inflicted in the following circumstances: As
a small child of three or four, Ann was driving with her father, who
was then Commissioner of Police in Ireland. A stone had been thrown
at him but, missing him, hit Ann instead.
Extracts from two further letters from Miss Cummins to me
subsequent to the one Written on August 4th are of interest:
1. It is certainly remarkable about the scar on the forehead
for I had no knowledge <5f itand was impressed bythe sight of
it on Ann's forehead in the dream.
2. One point more re dream. When I saw the scar on Ann's
forehead during the dream, I thought it must be caused by the
illness from which she was suffering, for she certainly had nothing,
no mark, when I knew her. That was my dream-thought and
waking-thought and so I was surprised to read in your first {letter)
re dream, that you had heard nothing about a mark or scar.
For it had made such a definite impression on my visual sense
in the dream. ·
If the accumulation of knowledge in the subconscious mind
consists of facts which have once been acquired and forgotten, Miss
Cummins may, of course, have heard of the scar and have failed
consciously to recollect its existence, but it could have· reappeared
in this dream. This seems hardly likely, however, for we saw very
little of Ann, whQ, an actress by profession, was careful to conceal
this slight blemish from the.knowledge of acquaintances.
The fact that Miss Cummins hoped for Ann's recovery and was
Q1\aWare that this was impossible, might also be attributed to her
1 A report of this dream appeared in issue for January 1933.
136 THEY SUR VI VII
subcottSCiousness-seeing that she heard Ann say she was "quite
all 1ight" and appeared in familiar clothes. But this hypothesis must
also then apply to the vision of Eileen and her despair, for which Miss
Cummins was entirely unprepared. Moreover, she had never visited
the nursing home wherein Ann died and knew nothing of the room
with the step leading down to it.
This dream may be considered to be the outcome of combined
telepathic transmission between Eileen and Miss X. to Miss Cummins
or to clairvoyance on the part of the latter. But telepathy would hardly
be said to account for the impression of happiness experienced by the
dreamer, for none concerned would have conveyed a feeling of joy
under the circumstances. .,...
What, then, is the explanation of this incident ? Ann may not
have entirely escaped from her body at the time of the dream and
Eileen was not, in the physical sense, in the home on the night of
Ann's death. But might not one speculate that, in her dream-body
and her troubled mind during sleep, she was back in the room in
the nursing home waiting, as she had so often waited, for news of
Ann ? Miss Cummins, in her sleep, was perhaps also drawn to the
same vicinity by Ann's thought and by her anxious desire to convey
a message of consolation to her great friend, to whom she was unable
to appear herself. In life Ann had been an enthusiastic admirer of
Geraldine Cummins's psychic books and was fully aware of her
psychic powers in general.
It would seem, therefore, that this dream may have been something
more than a dream-that it was, perhaps, on the lines of an "out-of-
the-body" experience on the part of Miss Cummins. For not only
was she shown two distinct visions apparently in the same house,
but she also experienced three opposite emotions-intense grief,
intense joy and frantic terror. Further, conversations were actually
carried on, of which Miss Cummins, on waking, only recollected
fragments. The scar was probably shown for purposes of complete
identification. ·
Thinking it might be of interest to get a possible explanation of
this dream from "the other side," on August 7th, 1932, I wrote to
Miss Cummins, making the following suggestion :
DEAR G.
Your letter re the dream is very interesting, but I, also, cannot
understand why ·you should have felt that terror when Ann seemed
to come near you.
Why don't you, if you feel like it and it is not . too
tiring in addition to all your other work just now, ask F. W. H.
Myers if he can give an explanation of that. feeling and the
dream?
You might say that; in view of his interest in such matters
when on earth, could he explain the sensation you had. Explain
THEY SURVIVB 131
the dream and tell him you heard two days later that the friend
of whom you had dreamed had died during the night or the neat
mornfug..•.
Yours.ever,
E. B. G.
The following. is the reply:
Tuesday, August 8th, 1932.
Astor is here.
FREDERIC MYERS: Good evening. (Request explain~
• • • There is a very simple explanation for your terror. You were
in your double or sleep-body when you saw your friend. Clearly
she was dead at the time of her appearance. Your terror was.
due to a warning sent from your deeper mind that on no account
must you touch this soul because she belonged now to the so-called
dead and you to the so-called living. There is a gulf fixed. The
beings in two worlds may converse ·with one another but may
not make contact. It i& a law of life and may not be broken
with impunity.
Her body which is the double or sleep-body that accompanied
her physical shape on earth is, from the moment of death, gradually
altering its time-rhythm. It will, when the alteration is completed
and the husk cast away, be the etheric body she will inhabit on
the new plane of existence. Your double or sleep-body would
have been injured if contact had been made between you through
touch during this transition period. • • •
If she was unconscious she was already, according to my
sense of the word, dead, in that though not wholly established
in her unifying body, she could sufibiently control it so as tO>
make it appear to you as you had last seen it in the costume at
any rate which she had worn at that time.
It is clear, however, that she had realized death was a mere
incident and in saying she was "quite all right" voiced that amazing
and immense relief we all feel in that marvellous moment when
we know we are dead and long to let those dear to us know that all
is well with us and that we are alive, intact and filled with the eager
spirit of life. You mentioned that she made you feel happy once
the terror had passed. That also is natural, for she would pro-
bably after the misery of illness find great happiness in the feeling
of exhilaration and new life. Also, if she had been unconscious
for a little while, she would have had time to realize that deatb
was her friend and her deliverer.
A few words of explanation are, perhaps, necessary concerning
the allusion to "time-rhythm" in the Myers script. In Beyond Humtlll
Personality in a chapter called ''The Immediate Life after Death'"
Gp. 33), Myers states that:
138 ' THEY SURVIVE
Death means the passing merely from one speed to another,
the adjusting of the soul to a more intense vibration, to a livelier
quicker state of manifestation.
In The Road to Immortality, in a chapter called "The Incident
of Death" (p. 79), the same entity, again writing through Geraldine
Cummins, deals more fully with the subject, and incidentally explains.
why the average person is unable to see those who have passed over.
He says:
The secret of death is to be found in the rate of speed at which
the outer shell vibrates. For instance, a human being is primarily
aware of the visible world about him because his body is travelling
at its particular rate of speed. Alter the timing of your physical
form, and the earth, men, women and all material objects, will
vanish for you as you vanish for them. Death, therefore, means
merely a change of speed. For the purpose of this change, a
temporary dislocation is necessary, for the soul must pass from
one body, travelling at a certain vibration, to another, travelling
at a different rate of time.
The above idea may be illustrated by the analogy of a wheel: spin
it ·round at a great rate, and the spokes become invisible to the human
eye.
POSTSCRIPI'
A NEW DEFINITION OF DEATH
THOSE who so far know little of the possibilities of conversing with
the so-called dead may not accept the source of the passages that end
this book.
Before deciding to include Case II in it, I felt we should ask the
consent of the person most concerned, i.e. "Hilda." Accordingly,
in January 1944, while this book was being put together, I wrote to
Geraldine Cummins in Ireland, asking her if she would have a short
sitting with my sister-in-law for the purpose of getting her permission
to publish the account she had given of her vision or dream concerning
her son Nigel, etc. The sceptic may merely consider the reply an
example of "wishful thinking," as the desire to gain consent would
:have been in both our minds. Even though I was not present at the
time, telepathy might be claimed to supply the answer. However,
the reply was not of the kind one would have expected but is entirely in
keeping with the charming, thoughtful and unselfish character of the
-communicator and of her desire always to help others especially those
who were in any wav suffering. Here is her reply:
lHEY SURVIVE 139'
February Sth, 1944. ·
Yes, but on one condition. You must add a postscript to it.
It is as follows: All my life, whenever· I thought of death, I felt
lonely and frightened. I ·had many fears, but the greatest of them
all was death. I was afraid to sleep in a room by myself because
I might wake up in the night and find that I was dying and be
all alone to face that unknown and dreadful experience. I couldn't
speak of this to anyone because·the thought of it wauo terrible
to me.
Well, when I did die, 1 found that the most foolish mistake
in my life was my long, long terror of death. Year after year I
was afraid of it when I needn't have been in the least afraid. I
had much illness and suffered a great deal from .worries,· fears,
. anxieties and bodily pain in my life. But at the moment of death
there was no pain: When I knew I was dying, I was just able to
say: ''Take care oflittle Tough." He was my darling baby grandson.
But I wasn't unhappy or frighteJ;J.ed or lonely; for I saw my father,
my sisters, my brother, whom I had, thought of as dead-and by
dead, I meant asleep till Judgment Day. But they weren't asleep,
they were quite close to me. I could see them through a pale mist.
So if anyone talks to you about the loneliness of death, tell them it
is all nonsense. I was never less alone than in those few minutes-
I suppose they were minutes, I wasn't in a state to take the time
when I was dying. I was quite helpless. I couldn't move hand or
foot, but I wasn't in the least afraid. So my message to the world
is that, for me, one of the happiest moments of my earth-life,
was the moment of death. Of course, it was much longer than a
moment, but the wonderful freedom from pain, the feeling of
peace and security when I saw my loved dead alive, smiling,
waiting for me, drove away loneliness, fear and, for a while, alt
the grief of separation from my .two boys.
. Other people may die differently-I don't know. I can only
ten you that the word "death," judging from my experience,
should ·have its definition altered in the dictionary to "the first
human experience of a peace that passes ·understanding."
Astor says time is up-one word more. My dear Bea, don't
print this if you don't like it. But I do want people to know that
whatever they are afraid of, they needn't be afraid of death. And
say I approve of her printing anything she thinks will help people
to believe that we are alive. (This last sentence is apparently
addressed to Geraldine Cummins.) ·
I was not aware of my sister-in-law's tear of death to this extent.
But she hated to discuss it. When I told her ofvarious communications
reeeived and of my interest in proving survival, I felt that she only
half-believed. She seemed apathetic. Though I often told her of the
writings I had received through .Geraldine Cummins purporting to
140 THEY SURVIVE
come from members of her own family, she did·not really appear
to believe in them, though she would sometimes argue. about the
evidence; but never very whole-heartedly. In fact, I felt that she wasn't
interested and was rather inclined to think it wrong, but humoured
me, as it were, and was tolerant. I had to choose my moments for
speaking about any messages to her. Yet curiously she quite accepted
The Childhood of Jesus (the book is dedicated to her) as being probably
a true story as far as it was possible to consider it so, and she knew
it to be psychically written. She loved the simplicity of the little book
from the first moment that she read it in typescript. But then she had
a simple mind where Christ was concerned, and complete faith in Him.
It is true that she was in constant pain during her last years and
often terribly ·worried and anxious; that she hated sleeping alone,
and her death occurred three hours after becoming unconscious as
the result of a sudden stroke. Her last words were : "Take care of
the little Tough"-a nickname given the baby grandson by his grand-
father. Unfortunately I had told Geraldine Cummins of this remark,
when she came to London for a few days in 1943. · Until then I had
told her nothing of Hilda's last moments on earth in case I should
spoil further evidence. But Geraldine so much wanted to know
some details as s4e is very devoted to her, so I departed from my
otherwise rigid rule of telling her nothing in case more was written
of which she would have no knowledge. However, Hilda's last words
are not of importance to .readers. The important point is to carry
out the instructions given and try to calm and reassure thoSe who are
afraid of death.
In discus~fug this message by post with Geraldine Cummins, I
think I cannot do better than quote her words concerning my sister-
. in-law. She puts the matter so well. She writes: ·
. . . l feel that Hilda's description of death-particularly
her lovely and original definition of death for the dictionary-
would be an excellent end to these cases, sounding, as ·it does,
the note of optimism from one who, in certain moods, was the
complete pessimist. Though always there was in her that gallant
streak of faith that shone through in brilliant moments of gaiety;
that made her bear pain with Spartan resolution, and 2ave her
indescribable charm.
From whatever source the "postscript" comes, we cannot but
record it in the hope that it may bring consolation and assurance to
many in the hour of death, and who have yet to be convinced of
survival.
THE END
