{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3879 1971 8871","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v4_29_0ctober_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V4 October 29 1885","mylang":"de"}
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
0ct0beT 29, 1885.
The seventeenth General Meeting of this Society was held at
Queen Anne's lIansions, St. James' Park, on Thursday, October
29, 18M.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT, VICE-PREsIDBNT, IN THB CHAIR.
The following paper was read:-
I.
HUMAN PERSONALITY IN THE LIGHT OF HYPNOTIC
SUGGESTION.
By FRBDBRIC W. H. MYERS.
EO.no Ifi p«~lfoll, " 'f'«'~p;;'l1 of'f'/IIT/IC 6{).1"
"011 i6ilcl. TW; l' «VTI x., U7n!6IOllT/IC, i"jlipll.
The facts and inferences contained in the present paper will be novel,
and even startling, to many of my readers. Whatever may be thought
of the II'UCCe88 of my argument, I shall hope at least to deserve some
credit for candour. Being deeply interested in a particular method in
matters psychological, and believing that this method ultimately leads
to certain positive results which I hold to be of the utmost value, I am
nevertheless about to show that this very method leads in the first plaoe
to certain negative results, which so far as they go-and that is very
far-do at least appear directly to contravene those very conclusions
which I hold as so uniquely important.
The method to which I refer is that ofexperimental P'1Iclwlo!l1l in its
strictest sense-the attempt to attack the great problems of our being
not by metaphysical argument, nor by merely introspective analysis,
but by a study, as detailed and exact as in any other natural science,of
all such phenomena of life as have both a psychical and a physical
aspect. Pre-eminently important for such a science is the study of
abnormal, and, I may add, of ~, mental and physical con-
ditions of all kinds. First come the Bpcmtaneotu states; sleep and
dreams, somnambulism, trance, hysteria, automatism, alternating con·
lCiousness, epilepsy, insanity, death and dissolution. Then parallel with
these spontaneous states runs another series of induced states; nar-
cotism, hypnotic catalepsy, hypnotic somnanlbulism, and the)ike, whi.ch
Digitized by l::.OQgle
2 [Oct. 29,
afford, as though by a painless and harmless psychical vivisection, an
unequalled insight into the mysteries of man. Then, again, after
studyiflg the machinery thus thrown slightly out of gear, after isolating
and exaggerating one process after another for more convenientscrutiny,
we may return to those normal states which lie open to our habitual
introspection, having gained a new power of disentangling each par-
ticular thread in the complex of mentation, as when the microscopist
stains his object with a dye that affects one tissue only among several
which are indiscernibly intermixed.
This method, though not absolutely novel, is relatively novel. In
its germ,indeed, it is at least as old as Aristotle, to say nothing of those
obvious speculations on sleep and dreams whioh everywhere form the
rudiments of psychological inquiry. But it is now being revived, after
pretty general neglect, in a manner far more systematic than was ever
possible before, for the simple reason that the advance of physiology
during the last century has supplied an unprecedented quantity of raw
material for the psychologist to work up.
The few men who, like Wundt, are both physiologists and philo-
sophers, have naturally a leading part in such a task as this. But
there is much to be done which such men as M. Tame and M. Ribot,
not themselves practical physiologists, are better fitted to accomplish
than the professed alienist or the practising physician. There is need
even of special knowledge in directions other than biological, as the
tractate of Professor Liegeois, presently to be mentioned, will suffi-
ciently show. And, in fine, any student who honestly endeavours
to assimilate the facts which lie ready to his hand, and to make
experiments which are within the reach of ordinary intelligence and
care, has at this juncture a fair prospect of attaining results of per-
manent value.
Such, then, is the method of inquiry which will be attempted.
Next, as to the conclusions to be demonstrated-conclusions which, as
I have implied, I should deeply regret to have to accept as complete or
final. My own conviction is that we possess-and can nearly prove it
-some kind of soul, or spirit, or transcendental self, which even in this
life occasionally manifests powers beyond the powers of our physical
organism, and which very probably survives the grave. Thus much I
am bound in candour to say, lest in what follows I should seem to be
mystifying the reader, or sailing under colours not my own. But I am
not going to attempt to prove these opinions here:1 on the contrary, I
am going to try to show that certain strong, almost universal preposses-
1 The reader interested in this topic is referred to an article on .. Automatic
Writing," in Part viii. of the Procuding, of Ute S.P.R., and to the forthcoming
book entitled Phantcunl8 oftlu LitJitig. . .. Gooole
Digitized by "
1885.] Hwma;n, Per8onality. 3
sions, which make for my own creed, are in fact unfounded. I believe
that I have a true and permanent self, but I shall here maintain that if
I have such a self,' I am certainly not conscious of him, and that,
whatever he may be, he is at any rate not what I take him for. In
other words, the old empirical conception of human personality must be
analysed into its constituent elements before the basis of a scientific
doctrine of human personality can safely be laid.
It is plain that if a question of such magnitude as this is to be dealt
with in a short paper, it must be simplified in all possible ways, though
at the cost of omitting many points, and of leaving many points so
stated as to he open to easy attack. And first of all we want some kind
of definition to start from as embodying the ordinary accepted notion
of man's personality. Were this a systematic treatise, it would be
necessary to discuss definitions of the Ego or Self advanced at different
times by such various authors as Bume, Mill, Spencer, Kant, Schopen-
hauer, Maine de Biran, 'Vundt, &c., and to indicate the relation which
the views here expressed bear to their different theories. But this task
must be postponed; for the first thing needful is to present certain
novel facts, with the singular conclusions to which they point, in as
clear a light as possible. And we need to throw these facts into relief,
as it were, upon some definition of man's personality which shall be
expressed with care and precision, yet shall not bear too marked
an impress of anyone philosophical school. Such a definition I find in
what is called the Common-sense philosophy of Reid. The passage
(from the essay on the Intellectual Powers of Man) WII.S published a
century ago, but it will still, I imagine, express the views of the great
bulk of my readers.
"The conviction which evel"!' man has of his identity, as far back as his
memory reaches, needs no aid of philosophy to strengthen it; and no
philosophy can weaken it without first producing some degree of insanity.
. . My personal identity, therefore, implies the continued existenctl of
that indivisible thing which I call myself. Whatever this self may be, it is
something which thinks, and deliberates, and resolves, and acts, and suffers.
I &111 not thought, I am not action, I &111 not feeling: I &111 something that
thinks, and acts, and suffers. My thoughts and actions and feelings change
every moment; they have no continued, but a succe88ive existence; but that
sill or I, to which they belong, is permanent, and has the same relation to
all the succeeding thoughts, actions, and feelings which I call mine. . . .
The identity of a person is a perfect identity; wherever it is real it admits
of no degrees; and it is impo88ible that a person should be in part the same
and in part different, because a person is a mO'luui, and is not divisible
into parts. Identity, when applied to persons, has no ambiguity, and admits
not of degrees, or of more and 1e88. It is the foundation of all rights and
obligations, and of all accountableness; and the notion of it is fixed and
precise." ized by Google
n I)
4r Hwman PerBO'fU1J,ity. [Oct. 29,
This seems a fair statement of the obvious verdict of introspection,
of the conclusion to which we come when we. regard ourselves as
complete articles, as the child looks at her doll. But suppose that
instead of taking ourselves for granted as ready-made articles, we look
at ourselves not with the child's but with the dollmaker's eyes, and
consider how we could most cheaply be turned out. What are the
lowest elements, the simplest methods, from which we could educe this
apparent psychical unity 1
We start, then, with the single cell of protoplasm, endowed with
reflex irritability. We attempt a more complex organism by dint of
mere juxtaposition, attaining first to what is styled a "colonial con-
sciousness," where the group of organisms is for locomotive purposes a
single complexly acting individual, though when united action is not
required each polyp in the colony is master of his simple self. Hence
we advance to something like a common brain for the whole aggregate,
though intellectual errors will at first occur, and the head will eat its
own tail if it unfortunately comes in its way. We have got here to a
state like that of the mad John Henry, who alternately boxes his right
ear, saying that John is a ruffian, and his left, saying that Henry is a
fool. We rise higher; and the organism is definitely at unity with
itself. But the unity is still a unity of co-ordination, not of creation ;
it is a unity aggregated from multiplicity, and which contains no
element deeper than the struggle for existence has evolved in it. The
cells of my body are mine in the sense that, for their own comfort and
security, they have agreed to do a great many things" at the bidding of
my brain. But they are servants with a life of their own; they can
get themselves hypertrophied, so to speak, in the kitchen, without my
being able to stop them. Does my consciousness testify that I am &
single entity 1 This only means that a stable cren88tltesia exists in me
just now; a sufficient number of my nervous centres are acting in
unison; I am being governed by a good working majority. Give me &
blow on the head which silences some leading centres, and the rest will
split up into "parliamentary groups," and brawl in delirium or madness.
Does memory prove that I was the same man last year as now 1 This
only means that my circulation has continued steady; the brain's
nutrition has reproduced the modifications impressed on it by stimuli in
the past. My organism is the real basis of my personality; I am still
but a colony of cells, and the unconscious or unknowable from which
my thoughts and feelings draw their unity is below my consciousness
and not above it; it is my protoplasmic substructure, not my trans-
cendental goal.
Such, in rough outline, is the theory of human personality towards
which psycho-physical inquiry seems at present to po~~ _ ~ _metaphor
may perhaps help us to picture to ourselves tJ1l_cttw~~ves, and
1885.] Human Per8onality. 5
the kind of arguments which may be sought to prove or disprove either
of them.
Let us suppose that we are looking at a Zigld, a luminous appearance
which we cannot closely approach, and that we are discussing whether
the light proceeds from an incandescent solid body, or whether it is
a mere shifting luminosity of marsh-gases, a will-o'-the-wisp.
Our first impression is that the light proceeds from a solid body, for
the following reasons :-
(1) The light is brilliant, and has a definite central glow. That is
to say, in the parable, that our sense of personality is strong, and our
controlling will an unmistakable and definite authority.
(2) The light is continuous, with certain brief regular intermissions
only, which we take to be caused by the supply of fresh fuel. That is
to say, our mem.ory seems a continuous thread, with only the regular
intermission of sleep, during which we may suppose that fresh energy
is being gained, without any real break in the personal con-
tinuity.
(3) The light is stationary, and while it lasts its general aspect
remains much the same, subject to a gradual steady growth when first
kindled, and ultimately to decline and extinction.
That is to say, our tastes and character remain pretty much the
same. The special capacities for pleasure and pain, action and per-
ception, which characterise each of us, do not change suddenly and
arbitrarily, but grow with our growth, and slowly alter with our decay.
Now let us see how far these three elements of human personality,
viz., central will, continuous memory, homogeneous character, retain
their definiteness when subjected to analytic experiment. And I shall
here consider one form of experiment alone. I shall treat only of the
hypnotic state, a condition which affords us (in Professor Beaunis'
words), "une veritable vivisection morale,"l but a vivisection, as I have
already said, which is absolutely painless and harmless-nay, is often
accompanied by direct benefit to its subject. By thus throwing the
psychical machinery a little out of gear, by sending all the energy of
1 This view of hypnotis1h, as above all things a metAod of p8yclwlogical
ezperiment (rather than as a mere physiological curiosity, or as a therapeutic
agency) pervades all that Mr. Gurney and I have written on the subject, and
was distinctly formulated in an article in the National Review for July, 1885,
&lao printed in S.P.R. Proceeding8, Part ix. The modem French school of
peycho.ph)'llicistl! have all>O (M. Richet especially) been tending for some time
towards this view, and Professor Beaunie has given it explicit expression in an
article in the Revue PMloaophique for July, 1885. Baron Du Prel, in his
PAilcaophie der Myatik (Leipzig, 1885,) has insisted, with much ingenuity and
detail, on the lesaous derivable from hypnotic or spontaneous. displacements of
the threshold of consciousness. Digitized by Googie
6 Hwman Personality. [Oct. 29,
the engine through a few looms arbitrarily selected out of the myriads
which are habitually at work, we can watch the effects of inhibition and
. exaggeration as applied to limited centres of psychical energy which we
have no other way of isolating from the confused complexity of normal
life. Hypnotisml is in its infancy; but any psychology which neglects
it is superannuated already.
One further word is necessa.ry before I come to the experiments
themselves. It may be asked whether the French experiments which I
am about to mention are altogether trustworthy; whether there has not
been simulation on the part of the subjects who are credited with such
extraordinary performances. I will briefly give my reasons for credit-
ing the cases which I shall cite. In the first place, I have myself at
various times obtained results, on subjects well known to me, which
were altogether analogous to these French cases, though less striking
and conspicuous. I must recommend this practica.l method of gaining
conviction, above all others, to any serious inquirer. In the second
place, various groups of experiments carefully performed by committees
of the Society for Psychica.l Research, in which I took part, and recorded
in our Proceedings, give results which are also in harmony with the
results of Messrs. Bernheim, Bea.unis, dtc. And in the third place I
have, through the kindness of Drs. ChArcot, Ftlre, Bernheim, and
Liebea.ult, myself witnessed typica.l experiml'nts at the Sal~triere in
Paris, in the HOpitaJ Civil at Nancy, and in Dr. Litlbea.ult's printe
practice; have been allowed myself to perform experiments (with the
aid of Mr. Gurney and Dr. A. T. Myers) on the principal subjects
whose cases are recorded; and have in other ways satisfied myself that
the cases vouched for by Drs. Bea.unis, Bernheim, Ftlrt', Liebea.ult, Paul
Richer, Charles Richet, and Professor Litlgeois, have been recorded with
1 I have uBed the term .. hypnotism" throughout this paper, but I do not
concede that the hypnotic phenomenaare always produced by mere monotonous
stimulation or other mechanical causes. I still hold to the view of CUl'ier, that
there is in some cases a specific action of one organism on another, of a kind as
yet unknown. Thi8 theory is generally connoted by the term .. mesmerism...
Since the days of Braid there h&8 been a tendency to exclude it &8 unnecessary
and even fantastic. Mr. Gurney and I (with Dr. Despine, in l<'rance) stand
almost alone among recent writers in adhering to it. Our contention baa
steadily been that no one h&8 &8 yet advanced experiments numerous or careful
enough to di8prove the 8pecifiC influence in question,and that certain of our OWD
experiments, of EsdaUe'8, &c., come very near to proving it. It is worthy of
note that Dr. Liebeault, of Nancy, the most experienced of all living
hypnotizers, after practising hypnotism for twenty-five years on several
thoWWld persoM, and '\"riting a treatise against the theory of specific influence,
h&8 recently convinced himself by 8till further experiment that such specific
intluence does in some cases exist. (Etude BUr." ZooptClgMt~8, par A.
LilSbeault,I883.) Digitized by~0081e
1885.] Human Pers<mality. 7
the candour and accuracy for whioh the reputation of these .aVIIntB is
in itself no small guarantee.1
I may add that although the validity of the cases has been assailed
from an apriori point of view by several writers, I cannot find that
any competent person who has actually witnessed the experiments has
expressed any doubt as to their trustworthiness. I am anxious that
wider attention should be directed to these singular results, and further
criticisms made. But in the meantime I think that the reasons given
above justify me in treating them as veritable acquisitions to science.!
I begin, then, with the question of the light thrown by hypnotio
experiments on human free-wiU. . The reader will naturally dread the
revival of 80 well-worn a controversy. But I venture to promise him
something reaJly new, namely a distinct experimental proof that my
sensation of free choice in the performance of an action is perfectly
consistent with the absolute foreknowledge of my action on the part of
another person, and even with his distinct imposition of that action
upon me. I begin intentionally with the smallest and most trivial
cases. And first I ta.ke an experiment so common and rudimentary
that probably many of my readers have seen it tried, though its full
significance has hardly been realised.
I partially hypnotize a subject and say to him, " Now you can't open
your eyes!" He keeps his eyes shut. "Now laugh!" He laughs.
" Now your name is Nebuchadnezzar. What is your name 1" "Nebu-
chadnezzar." I wake him him up and say, " You were hypnotized; you
could not help obeying my suggestions." "Not at all," he replies. "I
did exactly what I pleased. I shut my eyes because I was tired of
looking at you. I laughed at your absurd belief in your own powers. I
called myself Nebuchadnezza.r merely in order to answer you according
to your folly." .. Very good; you have had your joke, but now the
joke is over; you are not to adopt my suggestions if you can possibly
1 I ought to add that neither Mr. Gurney nor I can always concur with these
IOtJaUU as to the exact interpretation to be placed on the observed phenomena;
but this is a different and a more technical matter, which need not here be
diBcwvJed.
2 The experiments on which this paper is largely based will be found mainly
in the following works :-Bea.unis: Reclurchu Exp~rimentalu, &<c., ii., Paris,
Bailm~re, 1886. Bernheim: De la ,uggution dana I'Mat hyprwtique et dana
Ntat de mile (1884). Liebeault: Du 80mmeil et du ~tata analoguu (1886).
Liegeois: De la auggution hypnotique dana au rapports avec Ie droit civil et Ie
droit criminel (1884). Paul Richer: Trait~ de I'hY8Uro-tpilepBie (2nd Edn.,
1885). Charles Richet: L'homme et l'intelUgence (1883). Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vola. i. and ii. (Triibner, 1883, 1886). Dr. Pitres and the Bordeaux School have
obtained precisely analogous phenomena, though I have not mentioned them
here; wishing to confine this paper to C&Sell of which I have some personal
knowledge. Prof. Bernheim's new book, "De la suggestion et de _ applica-
tions ala tberapeutique," Paris, 1886, contains a great ma§¥, fresh eases.
8 H'U'11W/1I, P6'I'8O'1U11,ity. [Oct. 29,
help it." " Agreed." I make some more passes and again ask him his
name. He is silent, and I press the question. "Nebuchadnezza.r," he
slowly and hesitatingly replies. I wake him up and ask him why he
said this. "Oh, when the time came," he says, "I thought that I
might as well call myself Nebuchadnezza.r as anything else." Here we
have a conf'U.ll'ion of will ; the subject could not in reality help making
the suggested reply; he felt the hypnotizer's will obsusing him, but yet
was just able to maintain a kind of awkward half-belief in his own
. spontaneity. My next example shall be a transitional case, extremely
trivial, but interesting because the subject was able to describe with
exactness the mode of upspringing of the impulse in her mind. I may
remark that it is usually more difficult to implant these suggestions in a
mind which has been well educated and is accustomed to self-control
A suggestion which will take effect in a heedless, vacant mind will
often be crushed in its birth by a habit of repressing inopportune im-
pulses. The subject of the present experiment had been many times
hypnotized by me and was susceptible to suggestions, but she opposed
so much sub-conscious resistance to doing anything outre or unusual that
it was hard to hit on a suggestion ofjust the depth of absurdity which
her unconscious mind would tolerate.
One day when she was in the hypnotic trance I suggested to her that
soon after waking she would continue a task on which she was engaged
with another lady, of colouring a large sketch which included some
brickwork, and that she would paint the bricks blue. I repeated once
or twice, "Blue is the prettiest colour for bricks; you will paint them
blue." I then woke her, and, as usual, she remembered nothing which
had been said to her in the trance. Very soon she began to paint the
diagram, and when she came to the bricks she hesitated awhile, and
then said to the other lady, "I suppose it would never do to paint these
bricks blue 1" " Why blue 1" was the rejoinder. " Oh !" was the rather
shame-faced explanation, "it only occurred to me that it would look
rather nice." She was then told the true origin of this impulse, and she
stated that the words" Blue bricks! blue bricks!" had been running in
her head, and that the absurd notion of how well the colour would look
had got such hold of her that she could not help making the childish
proposal to use the blue paint. Here we have a vanishing trace of
obsession, a subject feeling an apparently spontaneous impulse to perform
the act suggested, yet just aware of an oddness in the way in which the
impulse came. Next to this come the cases of complete illusion of free-
will, where the subject in performing the suggested act is urged by an
impulse which seems to him quite self-originated, and which he justifies,
if called on to do so, by some imaginary reason of his own. I again
intentionally select a case where the suggestion is of an absolutely
trivial kind. Digitized by Google
1885.] H'lJll'M,fI, p6'l'8O'M1;i,ty. 9
Dr. Bernheim suggestedto a hypnotized subject in the Nancy hospital
that when he awoke he would take Dr. X.'s umbrella, open it, and walk
twice up and down the covered gallery. He woke, took the umbrella,
and walked as suggested, though with the umbrella shut. Asked why
be was walking in the gallery, he answered, "C'eat une idee! je me
promene pariois." "But why have you taken Dr. X.'s umbrella. t "
"Oh, I thought it was my own; I will replace it." I have seen many
experiments of this sort, and it is hard to persuade the subjects that
any mind but their own has started the trivial act.
The advantage of these trivial cases is, that they exhibit the power
of suggestion pure and simple, without any kind of accompanying
emotional shock. The idea is placed in the mind as quietly as a seed
in the ground, and it works itself upwards into visible fulfilment at the
appointed time with the saine tranquil regularity as the springing blade
in its season. But the infused ideamay be of a more startling kind. A
good subject may be made to do almost anything, and to justify the act
on any trivial ground which occurs to him at the moment. Nor is this
influence confined to the period of trance. In favourable subjects the
command is executed even after the subject has been awakened, and
appears perfectly normal. Professor Liegeois, whose speciality is
medical jurisprudence, has taken much pains to induce Dr. Liebeault's
patients to commit a number of crimes-as murder, theft, peIjury, &c.,
a.nd has made them give him receipts for large sums of money which he
has never really lent them. I abridge a passage from his careful and
conscientious tractate.
.. I have spoken of my friend M. P., a former magistrate. I must accuse
myself of having endeavoured to get him murdered, and this moreover in the
presence of the Oommi88aire Central of Nancy, who witne88ed the occurrence.
.. I provided myself with a revolver and several cartridges. In order to
prevent the subject, whom I selected at random from among the five or six
aomna.mbules who happened to be at M. Lilibeault's house on that day, from
supposing that the thing was a joke, I charged one of the barrels and fired it
off in the garden, showing a card which the ball had piel'Ced. In 1888 than a
quarter of a minute I suggested to Mme. G. the idea of killing M. P. by a
pistol-shot. With perfect docility Mme. G. advanced on M. P. and fired at
him with the revolver. Interrogated immediately by the Commi88aire Central,
she avowed her crime with entire indifference. 'She had killed M. P.
because she did not like him. She knew the consequences. If her life was
taken, ahe would go to the next world, like her victim, whom she saw (by
hallucination) lying before her. bathed in blood.' She was asked whether it
was not I who had suggested to her the idea of the murder. She declared
that it was not so-that she alone was guilty, and that she would take the
consequences." [It had not been suggested to her that her act. was due to
61tggestum.]
Similarly Mlle. A. E. (a very amiable young pe~~)eJg~I~
10 [Oct. 29.
Professor Liegoois to fire on her own mother with a pistol which she
had no means of knowing to be unloaded. She WIloS also made to accuse
herself before a juge d'imtruction of having assassinated an intimate
friend with a knife. When she thus accused herself she appeared to be
in a perfectly normal waking state. And even the most bizarre actions,
performed under suggestion. look perfectly spontaneous when the subject
carries them out. The action may be dPlerred for hours or days after
the suggestion is given. Professor Liegeois gave to M. N. a paper of
white powder, infornling him that it WIloS arsenic, and that on his return
home he must dissolve it in a glass of water and give it to his aunt. In
the evening a note from the aunt arrived IloS follows: "Madame M. hllo8
the honour to inform M Liegeois that the experiment hlloS completely
succeeded. Her nephew duly presented her with the poison."
In this case the culprit entirely forgot his action, and WIloS unwilling
to believe that he had endeavoured to poison a relative to whom he was
much attached.
Experiments like these will produce in the minds of many readers a
feeling of moral shock and alarm. In the first place, they may
naturally fear that a power like this may be abused for evil purposes,
and the subject induced to commit real IloS well IloS imaginary crimes.
And in the second place, they may suspect that even if no actual crime
is committed, the mere fact of the subjection of the will to temptation
must leave some stain on the moral nature of the subject who hlloS thus
acted out a guilty dream. I do not account the first of these apprehen-
sions as chimerical, nor the second IloS squeamish; nay, I consider on the
other hand that the advocate of hypnotic experiment is bound in
ca.ndour to exhibit IloS fully IloS I have done the grounds for moral demur.
But speaking from the experience of those best qualified to judge, I
feel justified in replying that there. is little fear that ca.ses like these will
ever be more than the harmless curiosities of the lecture-room. As
regards the danger of the suggestion of real acts of crime, it must be
remembered in the first place that Professor LitSgeois' subjects were the
picked specimens of a sensitive nation, and that among thousands of
English men and women perhaps not one clloSe of similar susceptibility
would be found. Again, there is a simple precaution which the French
experimenters recommend Ilos effectual. If a subject feels that he is
becoming too sensitive, let him get some trustworthy friend to hypnotize
him, and to suggest to him that no one else will be able to do so. Tbis
suggestion, it appears, fulfils itself like the rest, and the bane works its
own antidote without further trouble.
For my part, especially where a female subject Wllos concerned, I
should recommend the still further precaution of not allowing anyone
except a trustworthy friend to hypnotize her at all. As to the second
ground of apprehension, the possible tarnishi.JqJitM.J .iil~iense, or
1885.] Hwman PerBOfW,lity. 11
weakening of the moml fibre, by the mere performance, in however
abnorma.l a state, of immoral acts, the requisite precautions are, I
think, very easy to take. In the first place, the subject, unleBB told to
remember the acts, will absolutely forget them-always when they are
performed in the hypnotic trance, and generally when (like the poisoning
of the aunt) they are performed by the subject after he has been
awakened from the trance, and in a condition apparently normal. They
remain no more in the subject's mind than if he had read them in
a book and forgotten them. Certain precautions, nevertheless, may
well be taken. I should avoid, for instance, making any sugges-
tion which at all resembled a possible temptation of the subject's
waking state. I should not myself like to dream of injuring some real
personal enemy, but should feel no compunction if I dreamt that I had
killed the Emperor of China. Now when the dutiful and affectionate
Mlle. .A.. E. shot at her mother, it was not like a dream of yielding to
a temptation, it was like the purely fantastic dream which has no root
in the moral nature.
Prof6llllOr Litigeois justly urges that his experiments have a practical
value as showing that in the case of a person charged with some odd
and motiveleBS offence, it is worth while to find out by experiment
whether the act may not have been performed in a somnambulic state.
In two cases already, persons thus accused have been hypnotized on a
physician's suggestion, and it has been proved to the sa.tisfaction of the
judge that they were irresponsible for the acts ascribed to them, which
had been performed, without waking intention, in a state of spontaneous
trance.l
In fine, then, the hypnotic trance, like alcohol, chloroform, and other
means of acting on the nervous system, can conceivably be employed by
bad men for bad ends. But this evil is not hard to avert, and we shall
see, on the other hand, that the trance has, in good hands, a moralising
efficacy of great va.lue-that it is a means not only to the advancement
of knowledge, but to the improvement of character.
For the present I must return to the remark briefly made above
that the fulfilment of the hypnotic suggestion can be postponed at
pleasure for days, even for months, after the date when it is made. I
abridge a characteristic case of ProfeBSOr Bernheim's:2 "In the month
of August I asked S. (an old soldier), during the trance, 'On what day
in the first week of October will you be at liberty 1' 'On the Wednes-
day.' ' Well, on that day you will ca.1l on Dr. Liebea.ult; you will find
in his room the President of the Republic, who will present you with a
1 Annale8 Mtdioo-psyclwlogifJUU, 1881, p. 468. ReIJ1.l.e Scientijiqlle, Decem-
ber,I883.
I De la BUggution, p. 29. Digitized by Googie
12 [Oct. 29,
medal and a pension.' I said nothing more to him on the matter, and
on awakening he remembered nothing. On October 3, Dr. Liebeault
wrote to me as follows: I S. has just called at my house; he walked
straight to my bookcase, and made a respectful salute; then I heard him
utter the word II Excellence!" Soon he held out his right hand, and
answered, II Merci, Excellence." I asked him to whom he was speaking.
II Mais, au President de la R~publique!" He turned again to the
bookcase and saluted, then went away. The witnesses of the scene
naturally asked me what that madman was doing. I answered that he
was not mad, but as reasonable as they or I, only another person wa.s
acting in him.' "
II I can say," says Professor Bea.uuis, II to a hypnotized subject during
his sleep, I In ten days you will do such a thing at such an hour,' and I
can write in a sealed letter what I have told him to do. At the
appointed hour the su~ject executes the suggestion exactly, convinced
that he acts thus because he chooses, and that he could have acted
di,tferently; and yet. if I make him open the letter, he finds the deed
which he has just done prescribed for him ten days beforehand."
I can hardly suppose that the mere perusal of a string of anecdotes
like these will produce much effect on persons who have never them-
selves seen anything of the kind. But when one has become practically
familiar with the course of the illusion, when one has seen the look of
alert interest which accompanies the emergence of the suggested idea,
in its due time, into waking consciousness, the look of eager decision
with which the subject carries out the notion which he supposes to be so
entirely his own, one cannot help feeling that the distinction between
reflex and voluntary action has become dubious indeed. II A voluntary
act," one is inclined to say, in Ribot's words, II is only a reflex act of
the whole organism."
Far down at the beginnings of life comes the scrap of protoplasm
with its power of re-acting to certain stimuli-a power which at first
seems hardly to suggest anything more than a. mere special complexity
of molecular arrangement. Gradually the power of reaction becomes
more and more subtle, yet for a long time no one suggests conscious
will. Then with the higher animals we have the controversy whether
they are automata or no,-whether they have a consciousness comparable
to our own. Yet, even assuming that they have consciousness, it by no
means follows that they have the sensation of free choice. It is even
doubtful how far children and savages have this sensation. Anyone
who remembers his early childhood clearly will probably recall occasions
when he was performing what might have seemed an act of choice, but
where the subjective sensation was merely of a bewildered waiting for
some suggestion or impulse from without or within. The act ofchoice,
even with many adults, is little more than a. vaU8/l"".h.ich.lri..ves the
Digitized by ~vvo E\:
1885.] Hwmnl1l, Per8()'1l,(1],ity. 13
organism time to respond with an action which is almost as manifestly
rellex as the knee-jerk after a blow below the patella.! The sense that
we are cIwoaing rests, perhaps, on nothing more than the degree of
attention which the inevitable act requires; and the so-called choice, to
use M. Ribot's phrase once more, is the mere verdict of 0. jury which
only declares on which side the preponderating arguments lie, without
itself adding force to any of them.
Now, in hypnotic suggestion, we actually supply the argumentS
which go to the subject's inward jury; we actually implant the
impulses which, sometimes at once, sometimes after a long period of
incubation, work themselves out inevitably in the appropriate acts.
Justin proportion to the vigour and distinctness of our suggestion is
the eagerness and accuracy of the fulfilment on which we can count.
"Fixed fate, free-will, foreknowledge absolute," have been debated, if
we may believe the poets, with somewhat abstract arguments, by men
and devils since the epoch of the war in Heaven. The experiments
above alluded to may not be altogether acceptable to human or demonic
pride, but they do certainly infuse into the time-worn discussion a little
freshness and fact.
I pass on to the light which our experiments throw on the nature
of fTI.61TW'T'1J. And here, perhaps, more strongly than anywhere, is
experimental psychology upsetting the old metaphysical views. How
many pages have been written to show that the persistence of the one
thread of memory through all changes is a proof of the true personality
of man! And it used to seem reasonable to admit that there was in
fact such a continuity of memory-that is, if we ignore the years before
a man has gained his memory and, sometimes, after he has lost it, and
agree to pass over the fact that he ever either sleep or dreams. But
here again, hypnotism has brought into prominence a class of facts
which used to be cited only as rare curiosities. The phenomena of
alternating memory-formerly observed only in a few cases of acci-
dent or disease_re now commonly produced in normal persoIls,
with every variety of relation between the new memory and the
old.
My limits forbid me to enter on this complex topic, on which much
has been already written.2 The principal novelty which the ski]] and
good fortune of the school of Nancy has enabled them to illustrate is
the curious state of passage from one train of memory to another-the
fading away of all recollection of a" suggested" action, though that
1 I am speaking here of ordinary life; I am not dillcu88ing what kind of
contra.impullive power we can bring to bear in a moral criBiB.
: See Proceeding. S.P.R., Vol. t, p. 222 sqq., 287 sqq. ; Vul. ii., p. 66 ,qq.,
-sqIJ·, &e. DigitizedbyGoogle
Hwman Personality. [Oct. 29,
action may have been carried out in apparently complete wakefulness.
I give an instance from Professor Beaunis1 : -
"Mlle. A. E. had just arrived at ProfeBBOr LMbeault's. All soon as she
came in I said: 'In one minute you will go and change the places of the two
busts (Thiers and Btlranger) which are on that bracket.' At the suggested.
moment she performed the action, and had entirely forgotten it the moment
after. Mme. H. A., who had come with her, said: 'I am sure that I should
not have acted like that.' , Very well,' I said, 'in one minute you will take
a BOU from my waistcoat pocket and put it in your pocket.' When the
minute was over, after a moment of hesitation, Mme. H. A. rose, put her
hand into my waistcoat pocket, took out a BOU, and pocketed it. Shortly
afterwards I said to her, 'Empty your pocket.' She looked at me with
surprise, but did so, and in spreading out the contents found the BOU, which
ahe looked at for a moment, and then put in her purse. ' That BOU is not
yours,' said a bystander, 'You have just taken it from M. Beaunis.' She
could remember nothing about this, and was by no means convinced that the
BOU was not her own."
Most perBOns have observed how easily a dream slips from the
mind. We wake from an amusing dream, and resolve to repeat it a.t
breakfast, but in a few minutes every trace of it has disappeared. The
case given above is precisely similar. The act performed in obedience
to suggestion did not in reality belong to the train of waking m"mories,
and affected no permanent lodgment among them. Although the
subject looked perfectly normal, and was normal in all other respects,
both when the act was suggested and when it was performed, that
special act was originated by nervous centres still a.fI'ected (in some way
at present inexplicable) by previous hypnotization. It would be
remembered no doubt in a subsequent trance, though rejected by the
waking current of memory.
I tried myself an experiment of this sort on Madame H. A., Dr.
Liebeault having hypnotized her, on August 31st, 1885. I requested
him to tell her tha.t at seven o'clock that evening she would see me
entfor her Balon, that I would pay her a few compliments, and ask to
be introduced to M. A. if he were present. She was then awoke, and
remembered nothing that had been said. On September 1st, Dr. Lie-
beault's servant was sent on sorue pretext to call on Madame A., who
immediately said to her that one of the English gentlemen (describing
me) had called 011 her the previous evening at seven. On September
2nd Madame A. came to Dr. Litlbea.ult's again. I alluded to my
imaginary visit, at which she looked much astouished, and said that
she had certainly not seen me. 'Ve then asked whether she remem-
bered the seI"l'ant's visit on September 1st, but though this visit had
lasted some time, and had been marked hy one or two trifling incidents,
I Revue Philo80phique, July, 1~gpzel4wGoo8Ie
1885.] H1I/T1I,(J/(I, Per8O'1UJl,ity. 15
it had all but entirely faded from Madame A.'s mind. It was still, as
it were, a prolongation of the dream; the conversation which had kept
her thoughts on the hallucina.tory incident belonged, in fact, rather to
the hypnotic than to the normal stream of her existence. I then myself
hypnotized Madame A., and asked, "Have you seen me since I met
you last at Dr. Liebea.ult's 'l" " Certainly ; you called on me at seven on
August 31st." " Did anyone show me into or out of the room f' No,
you walked in alone." [No servant or other person Dad been ordered
to appear in the hallucination, so my figure alone was seen.] "Was
M. A. present'l" "No, I was alone." [This was unfortunate, as
Madame A. would certainly have introduced the phantasmal visitor to
her husband had he been there.] "What did I say 1" "You thanked
me very politely for coming to Dr. Liebea.ult's." "Do you know that
you just now denied that I had called t" "Impossible; I remember
your visit perfectly well."
The hallucinatory visit, it will be observed, was augguted in the
trance state, though realised in the midst of waking life. It therefore
belonged properly to the trance-memory, and soon faded from the
waking memory, like a dream.
If, however, the hallucination is very strongly impressed, and
remains long dormant before realisation, it acquires lodgment enough
in the mind to place it in the train of waking memory.
I abridge a report made by Professor Beaunis to the lately founded
"Societe de Psychologie Physiologique," of which Dr. Charcot is
President 1 :_
.. On July 14th, 1884, having hypnotiaed Mlle. A. E., I made to her the
following suggestion, which I tranacribe from my note made at the time:-
, On January 1st, 1885, at 10 a.m., you will lee me. I shall wish you a happy
new year, and then disappear.'
"On January 1st, 1885, I was in Paris. I had llot spoken to anyone of
this suggestion. On that same day Mlle. A. E., at Naney, related to a
friend (she has since narrated it to Dr. Liebeault and myself) the following
experience.. At 10 a.m. she was in her room, when she heard a knock at the
door. She said, 'Come in,' and to her great surprise saw me come in, and
heard me wish her a happy new year. I went out again almost instantly,
and though she looked out of the window to watch me go, she could not see
me. She remarked also, to her astonishment, that I was in a suit of summer
clothes-the same, in fact, which I had worn when I had made the sugges-
tion which thus worked itself out after an interval of 172 days."
I was anxious to know how far Mlle. A. E.'s memory of the
imaginary visit had resisted the proof that it had never taken place. I
asked her on September 2nd," Do you still imagine that Professor
Bea.unis called on you on January 1st1" " He certainly called on Die
16 HWT1U1I1/, P6'rIIO'nOlity. [Oct. 29.
on that morning." "But you know quite well that he gives you
hallucinations, and that this was one of them-that he was not even
in Nancy at the time'" "He certainly called on me," was again the
reply; "that time it was no imagination." I might as well have argued
with the heroine of We a/l'e S6'V6n. The hallucinatory idea had persisted
through so long a period of incubation that the waking brain had, if I
may so say, ended by adopting and assimilating it.
These brief hints must suffice for the present to indicate that
memory, as we know it, cannot prove the personality of man.
" Memory'S record" is not a book on clean paper, which we print as
we go. It is a parchment palimpsest, on which one recent text is
fairly legible, but which may show all forms of unknown scripture when
the right re-a.gents are applied.
It is, perhaps, not strictly logical to discu88 c1laraete'f' under &
separate heading from will and memory. Our character is a collection
of habits of clwice, determined partly by what we are hereditarily
inclined to do, and partly by what we recollect of the results of pre-
vious actions. The required modifications of our brain represent the
up-stored memorie8,. our idiosyncratic reactions to special stimuli form,
as we have seen, the organic basis of what we call our will. Any
change in the contents of our memory, or in the sensibility of our
organism, will be a change in our character too. But the effect of
hypnotization in the formation of character needs to be dwelt on as a
point, no longer of mere speculation, but of practical importance.
The civilised character differs, as we know, from the savage
character in the gradual triumph of the higher centres of cerebration
over the lower---of the centres which c(H)rdinate many ideas and
memories, with a view to things abstract or remote, over the centres
which respond to immediate excitations, with a view to the present
moment's ease or enjoyment. The moralising process-the tbixo~
tift'ixoll of the Stoic-is therefore a process of continually strengthened
inl~ibitiom " the higher centres learn to "beA.r and forbear" when the
lower centres would fain snatch or rebel.
Now hypnotism, like education, is mainly a process of inhibition.
Can we get the processes to coincide, and make people virtuous by
hypnotic suggestion 1
I believe that, to a great extent, we can do this; I believe that we
can strengthen the brain's inhibitive power by hypnotism, much as we
can weaken it by opium or alcohol.
And before going further, I must distinctly affirm that the hypnotic
state is not per 86 a morbid phenomenon. It is no more morbid than
sleep is morbid, and I hope to show elsewhere that it is in some ways
even higher than the common sleeping or waking states. We must
put on one side, moreover, the grotesque aneccW.d~lDD~te given
1885.] Hum.an Personality. 17
as showing how far hypnotic susceptibility may go. These things are
but the experiments made with a new drug, to show its dangers and
determine its dose, before it is introduced into ordinary clinica.l practice.
Putting all these bizarrerie8, then, out of the question, let us first
observe what is the moral tone of the somnambule when left to himself,
as far as possible, wWwut suggestions. In some important points it
is the precise opposite of the drunken condition. Alcohol, apparently
by paralyzing first the higher inhibitory centres, makes men boastful,
impure, and quarrelsome. Hypnotization, apparently by a tendency
to paralyze lower appetitive centres, produces a contrary effect. The
increased refinement and the increased cheerfulness of the developed
somnambule is constantly noticed. It is a moot point whether
any "sleep-wILker" has ever told an untruth;1 and, so far 80S I
know, no angry or impure gesture has ever shown itself spontaneously
in the hypnotic state.!
We start then, as it seems, from a favourable moral diathesis; an~
we have next to inquire as to the result-(l) Of often repeated hYf~:
notization ; (2) Of definite suggestion of a moralising kind. (
The first of these questions is complicated by the effects of hypno-
tization on bodily health, on which I cannot enter here. I will merely
remark that Mlle. A. E., so often alluded to, has probably been
hypnotized oftener than almost anyone living, and that the effect on
her character seems to have been unmixedly good. I can answer for
her being now a particularly sensible, cheerful, and kindly person;
whereas she is said to have been moody and frivolous before the course
of hypnotism began. Rere, however, there has been coincident
recovery of health (also ascribed to hypnotism); and it is not easy to
discriminate between the moral and the physical improvement.
More definitely provable ILre the benefits resulting from direct trUg-
geatUm-from the persistence, after waking, of some impulse or
aversion inspired in the hypnotic state. It is especially in checking
the abuse of stimulants that this treatment has proved useful. ChlLr-
pignonS long ago recorded a case of a woman thus cured of a habit of
over-indulgence in coffee. Alcohol is, of course, a more serious matter,
and unfortunately chronic alcoholism renders its victinl very hard
to hypnotize. On the other hand, certain cases where cerebral shock has
1 See Prof_or Beaunis in Revue PhilollOphique, July, 1885. .
I It was long ago remarked by Elliotson and others that the attraction
sometimes felt by a female subject for her hypnotizer is invariably the feeling of
a child, not of a woman. Dr. Perronet, of Lyons, who has seenstriking instances
of this attraction, holds that it is a mere reflection of the hypnotizer's own 8elf-
love. II II jouait mimiquement et phoniquement Ie (trame qui lie d~roulait au
fond de mon inconscient, et dont Ie principal acteur ~tait l'amour de moi-
m@me."-Du MagutiBme Animal, p. 20.
a Phyaiologie du MagmtiBme, p. 2.18.
Digitized by GO~8Ie
18 HWTTW/n, Per8O'llCdity. [Oct. 29,
altered the relation of the system to alcohol, afford a favourable
augury. Thus one of the incidents in the extraordinary life-history of
Louis V__l is the alternating inclination or dislike for alcohol after
attacks of hystero-epilepsy. .We need not, then, be surprised, if the
effect which may be produced, as it were, accidentally, roughly, and
unstably, by the shock of disease should also be produced, more gently
and permanently, by repeated hypnotic suggestion. Professor Beaunia
vouches, from his own observation, for the following case I : -
M. D. was a great smoker, and at the·same time a great beer-
drinker. His health was seriously menaced. Dr. Litfuea.ult hypnotised
him, and suggested to him that he would smoke no more and drink no
more beer. The subject followed with docility the programme thus
traced, and thus attained the result which his family's remonstrances
and his own efforts had failed to secure. A few hypnotizations and
suggestions had been enough to effect it.
Dr. Perronet 8 has had a similar case, when he inspired an habitual
drunkard with a loathing for spirits which had persisted for BOme
months at the date of writing. Such suggestions, however, will pro-
bably require occasional renewal, and Dr. Litfuea.ult gives two cases
which il1ustrate this need. A physician, addicted to drink, was in-
duced by hypnotic suggestion to abstain for three months; but the
taste for drink returned, and he did not visit M. Litfuea.ult again. On
another occasion. an idle boy was taken to this potent moraliser, and it
was suggested to him that he would henceforth be a model of diligence.
The boy did actually work hard for BOme months, by an impUlsion
which he could neither understand nor resist, and rose rapidly to the
top of his class. But the suggestion wore oft; and then he obstina.tely
refused to be hypnotized again, having by no means relished his in-
voluntary r8Ze. His mother was weak enough to let him alone.
This young recalcitrant against hyprwtic moraliBatWn(if I may coin
the phrase) no doubt said to his mother that it was a great shame to
make a fellow diligent a.ga.inst his will, and that there was no good in
learning things just because you could not help it. And other persons,
who "would rather see an J?nglishman free than see him sober," may
be inclined to side with the boy. They will say that you cannot get
virtue into any man's head "by a surgical operation," and that where
there is no moral effort there is no improvement worth wishing for. I
partly agree with this principle; but we are here among the rudiments of
l..4nnalll8 MUico-paycJwlogif}1lU, Jan., 1882. &we Phil~ Oct.,
1886. See also the article on II Telepathic Hypnotlsm II in this volume.
s &we PhikJsopllique, July, 1885, p. 25. Dr. Richet has au_fully WIed
wggestion to give appetite to an invalid.-L'Homml! d l'Inttlligenu, p. 193.
Dr. Despine quotes some aimilar cases.
• D" Magnitisme Animal, p. 40.
Digitized by Coogle
1885.] Hwmotr/, Pe1'8O'1U1lity. 19
morality, and we need not fear that we shall lead our subject on unto
perfection without his knowing it. His moral effort will ha.ve plenty
of worlds to conquer even when he is no longer tempted to get drunk.
In its scientific aspect, at any rate, this power of touching the part
of the brain dl'sired is a forward step of just the kind tha.t we are
always looking for. Weare gradually learning to loca.lise and
specialise our curative methods; we inspect and inject, if I may BO 8&Y,
with arms of precision; we hit a definite point instead of hurliDg our
boluses vaguely at "the system."
Well, here we have a method of cerebral loca.lisation, which-
whether or not it gives us anatomica.l indica.tions-is at least on the
psychica.l side self-&<.-ting and almost infallible. The suggestion once
made to the hypnotized brain, the brain itself picks out the centres
which it is desired to stimulate or to inhibit. After what I have wit-
nessed of suggestion, I hesitate to impose a limit to this power. I do
not despair (for instance) of isolating or suspending at pleasure the
different classes of sensibility-sensory, thermic, tlJ.ctile, dolorous, or
even classes more specialised than these. I do not despair of dissociat-
ing the intellectual from the nutritive-perhaps even from the
emotional-current of our being, and hushing into the absorption of an
Archimedes the stomACh and spirit of a Carlyle. We hold the wand of
Hermes, which we have not yet learnt to sway.
There is, however, no need for prophecy. What has been done and
is doing is enough to show that here as everywhere the real advantage
lies in knowing the facts. If we are multiplex beings, let us get the
advantage of our multiplicity. If we are modifiable by circumstance,
let us learn to modify ourselves. So long as we proclaim ourselves
incompressible atoms, we shall not discover how to deal with our mole-
cular structure. Until we confess what we are, we shall never become
what we may be.
The task assigned to this paper has now, though briefl.y and inade-
quately, been performed. It has been shown that hypnotic experi-
ments throw new light on the intimate nature of man's will, memory,
character; that the flame of personality (to recur to our first
metaphor), is found on inspection to be neither definite, permanent,
nor stationary; but rather that the sense of free-will is shifting and
illusory, and memory multiplex and discontinuous, and character a
function of these two variables, and directly modifiable by purely
physiologica.l means. We have thus, indeed, the consolation of finding
that hypnotism ca.n not only .dissect, but to BODIe extent amend us; yet
this will IK'em to most minds a paltry counterpoise to the depressing
view of ma.n's dignity and destiny which this train of a.rgument
implies.
I ca.nnot here enter on the reasons which, ILl' al~Wb~~~-
20 Hwmam. Pe7'8O'¥W.lity. [Oct. 29.
vince me that this method of experimentBJ. psychology, when carried
farther, will conduct us not to negative but to positive results of the
most hopeful kind. It must suffice to say-still in terms of our
metaphor-that I believe that there is an incandescent solid, but that
that solid is beneath our line of sight. This fact can only be recog-
nised when the visible flames are examined not only with the telescope
but with the spectroscope,. that is to say when the phenomena of
abnormal states are so scrutinised as to discover whether any of them
are in fact supernormal, transcending the powers of man as hitherto
unknown to us, and pointing to a higher stage of evolution. One such
discovery, that of telepathy. or the transference of thought and sensa-
tion from mind to mind without the agency of the recognised organs of
sense, has, as I hold, been already achieved. This is in itself enough
to revolutionise the whole aspect of the problem, and to suggest that if
so transcendent a capacity be indeed lurking among the obscurer and
rarer vital phenomena, then the shifting phosphorescence which we
feared might hang above decay, may in truth resemble rather that
blaze of turbulent vapours which hides and bears witness of the sun.
The proof of this, if it comes, must be slow in coming. But it has
ever been men's error to lack patience when their highest interests were
at stake. We hope too proudly, despair too decisively, from the half-
conscious feeling that questions of primary importance must needs be
settled one way or the other. For my part, I believe that many ques-
tions which the religious world deems to be already closed in one sense
and the materialistic world in the other, are really only just beginning
to come within the purview of science. I maintain that we are just
learning to understand the first elements of problems which so many
preachers have solved with a peroration, so many philosophers with a
formula, so many physiologists with a smile or a sneer. It is, as I
hold, to experimental psychology, to an analysis whose growing power
we can as yet hardly realise. that we must look for a slow but incon-
trovertible decision as to whether man be but the transitory crown of
eIl.rth's fauna., between ice-age and ice-a.ge, between fire and sea; or
whether it may truly be that his evolution is not a terrestrial evolution
alone, not bounded by polar solitudes, nor measured by the sun's march
through Heaven, but making for a vaster future, by inheritance from a
remoter past. FREDERIO W. H. MYERS.
APPENDIX.
Since this paper was read to the S.P.R. (O~tober 29th, 1885), very
great activity has been shown in France in the direction of hypnotio
research. The" Bulletins de la Socit!te de Psychologie Physiologiqu~
1885" (published by Ft!lix Alca.n, Paris, 188~~iti~l~Wk:w~k!s cases
1885.] 21
of high importance. It must suffice here to say that the experiments
detailed in this paper have been repeated and improved upon in many
ways. An account of some experiments at Havre will be found else-
where in this present part of the S.P.R. Proceeding'.
And it seems desirable to add here a brief notice of the later de-
velopment of the case of Louis V--, which I gave to the General
Meeting of March 6th, 1886. A full account of Louis V--'s case,
compiled by Dr. A. T. Myers, will be found in the .kurnal of Mental
Scimce for January, 1886. Louis V-- is no longer at La. Rochelle,
and, with improving health, has ceased to exhibit these changes of
personality.
At the end of 1885, however, he was in the asylum at La. Rochelle,
and the account here given represents his then state, as described by
Drs. Bourru, Burot, a.nd Berjon. I retain the present tense, for clear-
ness' sake, though I ha.ve altered a few expressions.
Louis v-- is now in the asylum at La Rochelle, and baa six per-
IIOnalities. I speak here only of the tra.nsition from State I. to State II. In
what is now c:laued as State I. (though it was not the patient's earliest
condition), he is paralyzed and insensible on the right side. He is talkative,
violent, and arrogant. His language is coane, and he addreaaea everyone
with rough and impudent familiarity, giving nicknames, and making bad
jokes. He is a Radical in politics, and an atheist in religion. He is
extremely fond of holding forth on these topics, but his speech is indistinct
and defective. Of his past life he remembers only certain portions, more or
less akin to his present state. Among the six states, this is the only one in
which there is right hemiplegia j and it is the only one in which the
cha.racter is violent and bad. Whenever the left brain predominates, Louis
V--'s disposition is good, tllOugh there are many variations in his intelli-
gence and his memory, linked with variations in his motor and sensory
systems.
Now let a bar of steel be placed on his right arm. His respiration
becomes quick, his expression anxious j in about a minute the paralysis and
the &IlIllItheaia are transferred from the right side to the left. At the same
time the difficulty of speech disappears, and the patient's pronunciation
becomes easy and clear. Thus far, though the case is remarkable, it is not
quite unique. But now comes the unique point. Together with the sensory
and motor changes there is a change in memory and a change in character.
Be is now gentle, well-mannered, and modest. He speaks respectfully to
the physicians whom a couple of minutes befure he baa been calling by
abusive nicknames. .Asked his opinion on politics or religion, he preft'rs to
lea.ve those matters to wiser hAada than his own. He is ubedient to disci-
pline, and his expression of countenance is gentle and sympathetic. His
memory embraces part of his stay at Sainte Anne, and at Bic6tre, at which
latter asylum he imagines himself still to be.
And now I may point out a curious connection between this case and
certain phenomena of automatic writing, previously diacUlled in these
Pf'flCUtliflgl. It will be remembered that Mr. New~~itP~@~t
22 Hv/m,o,n Pe1'8O"fUllity. [Oct. 29.
for the freakish and non-moral character of some of the replies written by
Mrs. Newnham's hand, suggested, as a poBIIible hypothesis,l that" if the un-
trained side of the brain be suddenly stimulated to action, its behaviour is
apt to resemble that of a child whose education has not been properly
attended to." In commenting on this and other cases, I endeavoured to
show that there was reason to suppose that the right, or leu-used, hemi-
sphere was concerned in supernornllll mentation j and I traced especially
analogies between aphasia and cerebral automatism j the inference being that
in each ease work was thrown on dextro-cerebral centres which was habitually
performed by sinistro-cerebral. I summed up (p. 60) by saying that
.. although I hold that the right hemisphere has much to do with Mrs.
Newnham's replies, • • . I cannot find any well-recognised doctrine of
cerebral localisation which authorises us to draw any conclusion as to the
way in which a temporary predominance of dextra-cerebral centres might
affect the manifestation of moral character j _ • and I should of course be
unwilling in such a matter to go a step beyond the consensus of the beat
acientific opinion. So far as the questions at issue are purely physiological, I
can aim at nothing more than attentive study of the labours of others." I
do not regret the caution of the tone here used, for I hold it eminently
important that we who are thus speculating in a novel realm should not im-
provise a fancy physiology to suit our own ideas-that we should cite chapter
and verse for any phyaiological fact or theory, on which we base further
deductions. But now I find that the suggestion which I hesitated to accept
in full, although all my own arguments pointed directly that way, simply for
lack of a. recorded ease where right hemiplegia had involved a moral tone
di1l'erent from that involved in left hemiplegia in the aame aubject,-I find,
I say, this very auggeation of the moral di1l'erence of the two hemispheres put
forth and endorsed-though of course not as yet in a very confident tone-
by physicians of enlinence, apropos of a ease2 on which no theory of the kind
had been founded at the time when my paper was written. Corroborative
instances, of course, are atill needed, for the coarse organic injuries of the
brain which are most conunonly met with do not show themselves in n"aMa
of character.
But it is to be observed that the most crucial test which could have been
devised for the theory in question would have been one Whel'8 (as in Louis
V--'a case) the functiona of the two hemiapheres were subject to so pro-
found a disassociation that there was actually a co-exclusive alternation of
memories according as one or the other hemisphere 881umed the pre-
dominance. Suppose that in an ordinary ease of hysterical hemiplegia the
hemiplegia is transferred by metallic contact, suggeation, or otherwise, from
the right aide to the left. Suppose, further, that the patient exhibits more
1 ProcCt'dillgs, Vol. iii., p. 22.
• M. Jules Voisin writes in the ArchivCtl de Nturologie, September, 1885, and
Ann. MM. PIlJIM., January, 1886. The opinion of MM. Bourru and Burot
is given (with complete adhesion) by Dr. Berjon in his tractate La Gmwl
HysUI;e I'hez I'Ho11lllle (Paria: Bailliere, 1886), p. 53. I need hardly say th.&
the transfer of activity between the two hemispheres is almost certainly not the
only alt:erat~?~ of cerebral action which occurs in these chan~ of .tate. See
ProceedIngs lll., p. 43. Digitized by Googie
1885.] H'lll1lutn Personality. 23
irritability, &c., when paralyzed on the right than on the left side. Such a
cue would hardly afford a presumption that the highest ideational and
emotional centres were directly affected by the transfer of the paralysis; the
change in temper might merely depend on the greater or le88 malaiae ca.used
by lOme change in the affection of lower centres; for, of course, we cannot
8IIIIume that a hysterical hemiplegia., whOle external signs may be sym-
metrical whether it affects the right or left side, is in reality symmetrical in
its internal or subjective manifestation.
But in Louis V--'s C&Be the chara.cter, as it were, IJtarhlfruh with the
transfer of the hemiplegia.; it can exhibit itself untrammelled by any con-
tinuity of memory with the previous state; we can judge it de notIQ, and, 80
to 88.y, from top to bottom. And we find that the predomina.nce of the right
hemisphere comports a marked reversion to sa.vage chara.cteristiCB, a marked
emotional expl08iven888 and ideational crudity.
Let us see how this view coheres with what we a.lrea.dy know of the
dift"erence between the two hemispheres. We start, of course, from the
notorious fa.ct that our right hauds are more "dexterous" tha.u our left;
that is, that the siniBtro-cerebral hand-governing centres are superior in
development to the dextra-cerebral hand-governing centres. There has been
lOme controversy 88 to how far this is the result of education in the in-
dividual, or how far it depends on Bome asymmetry of the circulatory system.
I cannot, of course, gj.ve any opinion as to the original anatomical reason for
the selection of the right as the domina.ut hand, but I can hardly doubt that
the superiority in the siniBtro-cerebral centres concerned is now a hereditary
thing,-does not depend merely on the education of the individual child.
Going one step higher, it is now pretty genera.lly admitted that the
sinistro-cerebral speech-centres are more evolved than the dextro-cerebral.
And here we come very near to an a.ctua.l difference in the power of summing
up idea.a or emotions. For sigt.s are 80 closely connected with thinking that
it would surprise UI to Bee an aphasic patient retaining for long the Ba.me
mental cleameaa as before his afBiction. And our emotions themselves are
greatly modified by the expre88ion which we give to them. An apha.aic (for
instance) who can expreaa disagreement only by an oath is likely to l08e
his sense of controveraial deference and courtesy. Well, what is now
contended is, that just as there may be a right hemiplegia. which does
not involve aphasia, and, again, a right hemiplegia so far involving the
higher centres that aphasia accompanies it, 80 also in this case of a di88ocia.-
tion almolt unique in its profundity between the activities of the two hemi-
spheres, there was made manifest a difference in stage of evolution between
the highut sinistro-cerebral and dextro-cerebral centres-those which preside
over emotion and ideation. And I go farther, and conjecture that this
dift"erence may exist in all of us, and that just as certain of our visceral
arrangements retain the traces of our pre-human a.ucestry, and just as our
dextra-cerebral speech-centres are often stammering, childish, or wholly
inefficient, 80 a.lBO our dextra-cerebral "chara.cter-forming" centres-the
centres which on that side of the brain sum up or represent our highest
activiti_may retain, in their inferior evolution, tra.ces of that 88.vage an-
cestry which forma the 80mbre ba.ckground of the refinements and felicities
of civilised man. Digitized by Googie
24 Human Pe1"tJonality. [Oct. 29,
And. furthennore, I suggest that while we habitually use our ainiatro-
cerebral character-centres with the same unconscious choice as leads us, for
instance, to catch a rope Hung at us with ollr right hand and not with
our left, there are nevertheless certain statea-supemormal as well as ab-
nonnal-in which our Ego (whatever that may be) expreaaea itself more
readily tlu-ough the dextro-cerebral centres, and aaaumea, therefore, a com-
paratively savage character.
H this be so, much light will be thrown on almost all that claaa of
Spiritualistic manifestations which have been ascribed to diabolic agency.
And if we are not ashamed of poaaesaing a digestive system which includes
the rudimentary "vermifonn appendix,"-a motor system which includes the
comparatively defective motor innervation of our left bands,-then surely
we need not be ashamed of poaaesaing an emotional and ideational system
which includes dextro-cerebral elements some twenty generations or so in
arrear of the epoch to which our bmin, taken as a whole, entitles us to
belong. For those who believe that our evolution has no aaaignable limit,
there may even be something pleasing in such a token as this of the rapidity
with which we are mounting on the endless way.
PROCEEDINGS O~' THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Saturday, Jant14ry 2, 1886.
The eighteenth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on
Saturday, January 2, 1886.
PROFESSOR SIDGWICK, VICE-PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
Mr. E. Gurney read part of a paper on "Collective Hallucinationa,"
smce embodied in PIt!lnta8m8 oj the Living.
Digitized by Coogle
