{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__mackey___the_two_zodiacs_of_tentyra.pdf","mytitle":"The Two Zodiacs Of Tentyra","mylang":"de"}
THE 0
I
TWO ZODIACS OF TENTYRA,
AND THE
ZODIAC OF 'l‘HEBES;
S. A. MACKEY,
or Nonmcu. ‘
PUBLISHED MAY, MDCCCXXXII.
MOEEY‘PIOUS
on mi:
'AR'PIQ‘UI‘I‘Y
of ihe ’
mm mmqu w mmmag
(Illustrated with Two Engravings,)
r
PRINCES STREET, ‘ NORWICH._
. I I ‘ Q ‘ “- '.},|_‘n:_
\ minimum“! am .. .
“ Pfévioixsly to ‘en‘terih'g'ilpoﬁ é‘aéé‘bhﬁiidﬁ ’of‘ﬁiis ﬁb'ik
- of'écibhcé, ‘it'wiIl be né'c'éséary t6 lair li'éfdib 'i‘éa‘ﬂéi‘i,
a plan btbitémeht10mm altéféﬁaoii wﬁian'tm plaza'm
the theme ‘rd'ydl, in ms cityfohgﬂiﬁé'ilédbhd'ﬁeniﬁg '6;
Mi. madam leciureé 6n Mammy; as vamarasg
am of’ihﬁt eveai; lias' ram-15mm m; (as wmam'é‘r
the ‘sacraa mm: Bf‘neivea)’wmi 'tp'ejawe!mass?
bfi-‘dni‘dté'ﬁﬁ'qﬁify m ‘fixi'b’lib’hdﬁéé; 1 '
2
'In speaking of the origin of the Zodiac; Mr. Good
acre observed, that modern Astronomers were satisﬁed
that the antiquity of the Zodiac was not more than 2,
200, or 2,400 years at the most; and beginning at
Aries, he said the ram was placed in the zodiac, in the
month of April, because in that month the lambs were
produced. In May, a hull was placed in the zodiac,
because in that month ether-eows brought forth their
calves; and then, proceeding to the month of June,
(fearing we may'suppose, to offend; the ladies) he turned
the two boys intomtwo kids, saying, that in the ancient
zodiacs, the Gemini were“ represented by two kids, be
cause in the month of June the goats brought forth their
kids. Having ﬁlled one quarter of the zodiac, he pau
sed befotelhe‘set out for the hot month of July. In the
meanwhile a man in the gallery asked Mr. G. if he
Would have the goodness to state in what zodiac those
kids were to be found. .HQ,,(MI‘._ G.) said in the zodiac
of Dendera (Tantyra). The man replied, there are two,
but there are no kids in‘either of them. Have you seen
them said Mr. G.--seen them! said the man in the gal
lerykyes, sir, and many _other__men in Norwich; we are
quite familiariherehwzith these Precious gems of ancient
science, and wehnpwthat‘there are no kids in either of
,them,;,_ Alonglggilﬂulﬂyilence ensued, and the man in
thetgqllqry e§claime¢7ypihsere,_,sir, that the people of
"Hoywich: are; not quitelso; ignorant as you may suppose
them '19: bEMMi-E rGgygqid; e, interruption was ungen
ml, and h9£°f1P§¢lPt§hiiﬁP.itliQW$djt° thin himself
3
quite exonerated from any further reply, and so he went
on with the vnext three signs, which ended with Virgo,
as the month of harvest in Egypt, the month of Septem
ber; .
In what estimation can this man be held by those who
know that the harvest month in Egypt is in the month
of March, he. in that part round about Tentyra. Now
had Mr. G. allowed the ram to have been originallyan
autumnal sign, he would have found the virgin, with
her spike of corn, (symbol of harvest) with the sun in
March, the harvest month in that country. But this
great truth would have embarrassed Mr. G. who had
before stated that Seth, the grandson ofAdam was the
ﬁrst astronomer. If his Seth had known the ram as an
autumnal sign, he must have lived ﬁfteen thousand
years ago.
After MEG. had ﬁnished his account of the zodiac,
he apologized for the error he had committed, by saying
he had read in the work of the ABBE PLUCHE, that two
kids formerly occupied the place of Gemini. But Mr.
G. did not read in Pluche’s work that he should ﬁnd the
kids in the zodiac of Tantyra, nor yet in any other zo
diac; we may therefore conclude that the last error was
of Mr. G’s. own invention.
Before Mr. Goodacre went on with his lecture, he
informed the audience that he had been a lecturer ten
years, and that he had not been interrupted more than
three or four times. He mentioned a man who asked
him from the gallery in Macclesﬁeld, how America he
I
4
come peopled; Mn. G. made no reply to the man, for he
saidhe felt conﬁdent the man intended to insult the au
thority oil-the bible. For what purpose Mr. G. intro
duced the bible, he best knows; but surely he did not
mean to insinuate that the man in the gallery at Nor
wich, intended to doubt the veracity of'the bible ; per
haps-he thought that the sound of the bible would drive
ﬁrem‘the mind of his company the' error he had made
respecting the zodiac of Tantyra.
In his third Lecture hemade a full committal of his
design ; which was to bring into disrepute, “A certain
600k, whose whole merit is'founded on the fallacious
idea: of the. Polar Motion ;” which motion he denied
to exist. As'this point could not be discussed in the
theatre, I inserted the following letter in the Norwich
Mercury.
""_ _ Prince’s Street, 250» 0a. 1813!.
Eggtlllquitgr of the Norwich Mercury.
. Allow me, to oﬂ'er through the medium of your
paper afew remarks on the latter part of the lecture
delivered last night at our theatre by Mr. Good
acre. 1 was forcibly struck by the powerfuland tri
umphant manner in which he recited an extractfrom
La Place on the oscillatory motion of the axis of
the earth. La Place is an abstruse reasoner, so
much so that there are but few men capable of un
derstanding him on that very delicate topic; but
from the conviction Mr. Goodacre appeared to feel
of the correctness of La Place he inspired his audi
ence with a belief that he understood that author .
5
Now, Sir, if Mr. Goodacre will have the goodness to
show, by his machines or diagrams, by what power
in celestial mechanics the axis of the earth is kept
from varying more than a degree and ahalffrom its
present angle, that very deed will gain him an im
mortal fame.
I am Sir, Q0. (3’0.
S. A. MAGKEY.
-_7_..
To the Editor of the Norwich Mercury.
Sir,
_ Delighted with the prospect o “ an immortal fame,”
I began to consider, on reading our learned correspondent
Mr. Mac/ceg’s advice to me in ast week’s Mercury, what
“Machines and Diagrams”- would best shew the “power in
vebstlal mechanics” by which “ the axis of the earth is kept
from varying more than a degree and a ha from its present
angle.” Recollecting however, that M- e La Place had
demonstrated this fact to the com lete satisfaction of every
one of the “few men” in the worl “capable of understanding
him on that verr delicate topic” Mr. Maclceg of course, ex
cepted), 1 feare that the kind a vice of your corres ondent
might lead me, not to fame but to folly, and 1 have t ere/ore
declined acting on his suggestion. But, Sir, when exalted
characters like Mr. llIaclceg descend from their hi h stations
to instruct us in our every day pursuits, gratitu e demands
that we should at least attempt some return. Now as Mr.
.ll’lacleeg has so carved out his own “immortal fame” that no
one particle can 'be added, my advice shall be directed towards
his mortal comfort. and that it may reach his erudite mind
without being subjected to the low criticisms of the vulgar, it
shall be given in the words of a Roman Proverb, “ Ne sutor
ultra crepidam.” '
I am Sir,
Respectfully yours,
ROBT. GOQDAC'RE,v
St. Stephen’s, Nov. 4th, [83L .
6
To the Editor of the Norwich Mercury.
Dear Sir; ‘ a
1 am unwilling to trespass too much on the limits
of your Paper, but perceiving that Mr. Goodacre
endeavours to shroud his inability to shew by what
power in celestial mechanics the axis of the earth is
prevented from deviating more than a degree and a
halffrom its present angle, behind the course rug of
chicanery,*I beg to be allowed to ofer a few remarks
on his very strange composition inserted in your Pa
per of last week.
Mr. G. seems to please himself with the idea of
triumphing over a poor son of Crispin in his “ high
station. ” But though this were intendedas a poi~
son-dart, Mr. G. will perceive that it is to me as
harmless as the spear thrown by Achilles at Cycnus.
On the title page of the ﬁrst edition of my work
printed'at Norwich, I was proud of the addition of
shoe-maker; and though in my edition of Exeter, nor
in my second Norwich edition, my useful trade does
not appear, yet it isfrequently mentioned in the body
qf the work. But Sir, what has this to do with the
sublime Science of Astronomy! Why may not a
shoe-maker 'in his “high station” know as much of
Astronomy as a Baptist Missionary ?
'Mr. Goodacre, Sir, has written from an impulse
not directed by any thing in my last letter to you,
but by something behind the coarse rug. What he
means by “exalted characters descending from their
high stations to instruct us in our every day pur
suits” I can have no clear idea. IVhom does he in
clude in the pronoun us ? Whom have I insulted by
oﬂering them instruction in their every day pursuits ?
It is quite clear that Mr. Goodacre wants to enlist
*A little low chicanery was Mr. Goodacre’s “ Ne
plus ultra.” .
7
into his service a few Auxiliaries—for I have not even
attempted to instruct him. He asserted a thing which
lwished him to prove. This he declines, knowing
his inability to prove it. He says it would be folly in
him to prove what La Place has so clearly demon
strated “to every one of the few capable of under
standing him,” Though llIr. G. was pleased to call
La Place the most gigantic of Astronomers, which
epithet was given in his third lecture withsuch vehe
mence that it seemed to proceed from the lungs of a
Stentor, yet Sir, this loud vociferation is no part
of a demonstraticn~n0r, can M’r. Goodacre show
that, La Place has ever demonstrated to any man
of science that the summer tropic has not been verti—
cal to the Island of Great Britain. ‘
When Galileo was sentenced to imprisonment for
life for having been guilty of the damnable heresy
of asserting the rotundity of the earth, and its revo
lution on its axis, there can be no doubt that the
Jesuits of that day-did give convincing proofs of the
earth’s stability,“ but we now know that though Gal
ileo, to save his life, did sign his Recantatz'on, he
was not convinced of his heresy. But, Sir, the chi
canery of Mr. Goodacre shall notprevent me from
noticing the insult ofered to this city by the exhibi
tion of his Planisphere in his sixth lecture, which,
he says in his outline, shows a picture of the Hea
vens rectiﬁed to anytime and place. Now Sir, aman
who talks of rectifying a Planisphere, to diﬂ’eren't
latitudes is a man totally ignorant ofspherical pro
jection. In common maps of the earth, the circles
are projected so as to have the North Pole at the top
and South Pole at the bottom, in which the Equator
becomes a right line, passing through the centre of
the circle which represents the horizon at the Equa
tor, where the two poles are constantly visible, and
"the ecliptic declines 23 degrees and a half on each
e - .ZI'sIL .1 "HI-1113.1“) $195890
.8
side of the Equator in sections of circles‘pu'ssing
from East to West. ~Let us examine the sphere pro
jected upon an horizon under the tropic of Cancer.
There the North Pole is elevated above the North
horizon and the South Pole disappears; the Equa
tor is no longer a right line passing over the zenith,
but is here declined into the very circle before occu
pied by the southern part of the ecliptic. Placing
the Pole in the zenith as in the latitude of 90 degrees,
the Equator becomes a circle coincident with the hori
zon ; and as in every projection the zodiac must va
ry according to the relative position of the Equa
tor, the position of the Heavens must vary upon
every projected horizon.
ButMr. Goodacre’s “line of the zodiac" and his
whole heavens remained unaltered under every eleva
tion at which he ﬁxed the pole ; and there was the
same span in the hole of the curtain which repre
sent the horizon of the various latitudes.
N. B. Throughout the whole of the scene of the
Planisphere his Heavens revolved the contrary way
to the Heavens above. ‘
Very respectfully,
S. A MAOKEY.
Justice however derhands,‘ that though a public lec
turer be censured for his errors, he ought to be compli
mented for those things in which he may excel.
Mr. Goodaere in the nautical department of his ﬁfth
lecture was jaistly entitled to the general approbation
which he recei'ved.
But as Mr. G’s. evident‘design; ih Astronomy, is to
instil into the minds er his alqaiiory, that the zodiac: of
Dendera, (Tantyra) do not contain marks of a more
9
reinote antiquity than two thOuSald two hundred years,
or'two thousand'four hundred at mosh—I’ll defend the
sacred truths of heaven as they are so strikingly painted
on those two celestial gems of antiquity, ﬁrst brought
to the knowledge of Europeans by the indefatigable ex—
ertions of 4- Denon; who in the ﬁrst vol. of his travels
writes of the circular zodiac in the following words.
“In giving a representation of this Planisphere,! do
not ﬂatter myself with being able to explain it; my sole
object was to show that the Egyptians had a Planetary
system, and that their knowledge of the Heavens Was
reduced to ﬁxed principles :/ I also wished to represent
these/signs to show how the Greeks have ﬁrst borrowed
them from Egypt, and the Romans from Greece, whenoh
they have reached our own times, andI trust by this
accurate copy of a most interesting piece of antiquity,
I shall have deserved well of the learned in Europe.”
Now, withouit taking notice at present of the vast an
tiquity of the state of the heavens depicted on the an
nexed plates, I shall notice a few historical facts, relative
to the temple in which they were preserved, ’ti'li vthey
were torn from their original sanctuary, and lodged in
Paris under the dominion of the Jesuits of the present
day. - - H
We are assured l-by well authenticated documents,
that, Cambyses,-kiug of Persia, who lived 2,356 years
ago, conquered Egypt and Ethiopia, and murdered all
the men of learning that could not escape. Hence,
the origin of scientiﬁc wanderers called gypsies.
B
10
As the history of science was therein written, in a
character which was known to none but those venerable
men who were exterminated, all its ﬁne shades have
disappeared, but the grand outline is indestructible.—
Those men however, who are desirous of not being de
ceived, must be careful in their choice of books; for,
already there are works in print containing corrupted
zodiaos of Dendera (Tantyra) in which all the marks of
their antiquity are carefully omitted.
In the time of Cambyses, Aries was a vernal equi
noctial constellation, and the Crab coincided with the
summer tropic; but in the zodiac A, the winter so]
stitial colure divides the Crab near its middle, and the
Ram must of necessity be an autumnal sign, and if we
allow 25,600 years in that time for one round of the
equinoctial points, half that sum 12,800, which being
added to the time since Camhyses, will give 16,156
years at least, since the Crab was posited, as in the long
zodiac of Tantyra, which I shall demonstrate so clearly
that all who know thesummer noontide sun is higher
than that of winter, and that our heads are above our
feet, shall be satisﬁed that cancer in the long zodiac of
Dendra, is a winter sign._
There was, in China, an emperor, whose name does
notoccur to my mind, but it was him in whose reign
the famous wall was built, that ordered all the pre-exist
ing monuments to be destroyed, and all records to be
burnt, that he himself might be handed down to poster
ity, as their ﬁrst emperor: and I have somewhere read,
u
'11
that 400 of the literati were burnt with their books,
because they would not pollute their hands with the de~
tested pencil of falsehood. A king of Persia ordered
his army to throw down the only monument in Babylon,
dedicated to the science of astronomy, that so the rub
bish from the top, might hide from the eyes ofposterity,
the science recorded on and in the bottom. Cambyses
could not govern the world as a God, nor yet in the
name, of a God of his own creating, till he had murdered
and scattered the men of science in Egypt, who worship
ed the true God—the Great Fabricator of the Universe.
Alexander, having conquered the vast empire acquired
by the Persians, fancied himself to be a God. He died
raving mad; having killed Clitus, (his only realfriend)
because Clitus would not acknowledge him to be the
son of Jupiter Ammon.
Domitian, one of the Roman Emperors, after the de
struction of Jerusalem, when] 100,000 Jews had been
brought as captives to Rome, ordered that all men of
science be banished from Rome.
Quere.—Did the emperors of Rome wish to assume
divine authority, or did they wish to govern the World
under the pretended authority of a God about to be
manufactured in Rome. In the ﬁrst century of the
Christian era, while these things were transacting in
Rome, Ptolemy, king of Egypt, invented an erroneous
system of astrOnomy, which was not at variance with
any thing-said to have emanated from the God which
man had made ; although it was contrary to the sacred
IQ
truths of that God by whom all things were made. This
system was cherished by the loters of falsehood, several
hundred years; and when Copernicus restored the an
cient system of Pythagoras, it met with strong opposi
tion among the Jesuits of that and poor Galileo
was near losing his life for asserting the rotundity of the
earth, and its motion round the sun. Persecution, how
ever, for asserting heavenly facts, conveys an idea that
the persecuting God is, at best, but a malignant de
mon; low cunning were better: let another false sys
tem he invented to amuse the vulgar; and accordingly,
Tycho Brahe invented a false system, in opposition to
that which Copernicus had restored: this was however,
so very absurd that it soon shared the same fate as that
of Ptolemy; and as 2,000 years had rolled by since the
full tide of astronomical knowledge had been stopt in
Egypt by Cambyses, many of the small creeks and in
lets were supposed to be choaked up and totally oblite
rated; the earth is therefore now allowed to spin round
like a top, while it describes a large circle round the
sun. But astronomers improving their instruments, and
redoubling their assiduity, have discovered three distinct
motions or modiﬁcations of motions, which, combining,
cause the pole of the earth to describe among the stars
a jagged involuteof a circle every 25 or 26,000 years.
Sir Isaac Newton attempted to assign a cause for these
motions, which be supposed would continue till the pole
of the earth and the pole of the ecliptic coincided. But
13
Sir Isaac being made master of the mint, we heard no
more of the polar motion from him.
By combining however, all the cousequences which
must result from such a motion continued, Ihave sheWn
that the celebrated fables and mysteries of .the ancientﬂ
are recitals of astronomical facts allegorised. Etc
‘18 Shastres, the 7 Menus, the 7 Rishes, and the G‘S'a
cas, are personiﬁcations of the volves‘of the jagged in;
volutes described by the pole of the earth, in the. lath
tudes of so, 28, and 24 degrees. The sun standing still
on mount Gibeon, and the fable of Samson and Delilah,
and many others contained in the bible, are proved to
be astronomical allegories, originated in an antiquity of
400,000 years. And this is in the book, against which
Mr. Goodacre spoke with so much vehemence, when he '
(said that all its merits were founded on that motion, of'
the pole which does not exist. ‘ - ~
As I have by me a letter, signed Robt. Goodacre, that“
was brought to me by Mr. Go‘odacre’s man, -I will intro
duce it by stating that, in consequence of Mr. G’s. de
claring in print, that he would not exceed his present
course of lectures in Norwich, I was induced to offer a
lecture on the Thursday after his conclusion, which end
ed on Monday. He however, altered his plan, and
gave another lecture on the same night with and to
secure an audience, issued tickets gratuitously 'for
that night. '* '
0n the Sunday morning, his man brought 'thefollow-_
vin'g letter:— ' v ‘ ' ‘ ' i '
M
Sunday Morning.
Sir,
Two thousand copies of this bill were
printed, for distribution to-morrow, before your bill
was given in at the Box Oﬂice last night. I regret
the circumstance but cannot help it. No more Lec
tures however than these will be given by me in Nor
wich and you can shape y0ur own course accordingly.
I enclose you two tickets for the gallery tomorrow
evening for yourself and a friend. If your object
be the discovery of truth, you will then see why the
Ram was put in the zodiac of Dendera, as what you
call an autumnal sign without recurring to dogmas,
which are as repugnant to common sense as they are
to the best interests of society.
Your obedt. Servt.
ROB T. GOODAO'RE.
We may perceive from the above epistle, that Mr.
Goodacre has more regard for what he calls the best
interests of society, than he has for the sacred truths
of heaven. As if fraud is the best rule of society. I
have always found the best interests of society arise from
moral conduct, and what has good morality to do with
fraud and hypocrisy. There is to be seen the same un
charitable feeling against science through all the space
of time, from the emperor of China, down to Mr. Good
acre; ahd till Mr. G. and the Jesuits of the day, can de
monstrate that it is expedient to govern man by fraud,
against truth, I shall continue to defend the sacred truths
ofheaven ; and prove that the Ram in the oblong zodiac
15
of Tantyra is' an autumnal sign, and not-a vernal sign,
as stated by Mr. Goodacre, and I will prove that it con;
tains a knowledge of astronomy, that has not been no
ticed by any of the modern writers. '
The Oblong Zodiac of Tantyra explained.
Every body knows that the summer sun rises higher
at noon than the winter sun does. When the sun has
acquired its greatest altitude in Summer, we say it is
Midsummer, and the sun turns back again; that point
then is called the Summer Tropic, the upper or highest
part of the zodiac,-the top part, and when the sun
has descended to his lowly place in midwinter, from
that point he turns back, and that point is termed the
lower tropic, the bottom oflthe zodiac.
Upon our globes, at this time, the constellation of
Gemini is the highest point of the zodiac, and Sagitta
rius at the bottom; but in the time of Cambyses, the
crab was at the top, and capricorn at the bottom, and
as the progressiVe motion of the zodiac makes an entire
revolution in about 25,000 years, in that time all the
constellations will have been at the top in summer, and
all, at the bottom in winter; therefore when we see a
celestial globe, we can ascertain its antiquity by the
position of the zodiac.
But the zodiac ofTantyra is not placed upon a globe:
how then, are we to ascertain its top from its bottom?
In Dr. Jamieson’s Celestial Atlas, is given what is there
called, the Zodiac of Dendera; but in that there is not
16
the least mark of its antiquity retained: the crab is put
all on one side, and the goat is transplanted to the con
trary side to the correct plate of Denon.
Other authors have given the same corrupted and
mutilated engravings, said to be the zodiacs of Tentyra.
For what purpose is all this cutting and slaying? Does
the malignant spirit of Cambyses still haunt the sci
ence of those whom he murdered? Vain attempt! since
the labours of DENON have metakindred spirit to their
own. ,[See the annexed long engraving]
Here we have the 12 constellations in two strait pa
rallel bands, placed between two female ﬁgures embra
cing‘ the whole; here is a pole with a knob at one end,
indicative of the top; but to prevent doubt, the knob
is placed touching the mouth of the female, and no one
can suppose for a moment that the mouth in the head,
was intended to represent the bottom 0f the Zodiac ;—
here then at the top of this zodiac we ﬁnd the goat, and
at the the bottom, at the feet of the ﬁgure we see the
crab divided near its middle. Here then, in this cele
brated zodiac, we havethe most satisfactory evidence,
that the crab was formerly a winter constellation, and
the goat,,at the top, a summer constellation; and this
was the that cause of the stars in that part of the zodiac
being called the goat—it was at the top of the zodiac
the taperthe Bill; which is the delight of the goat. a
vague fthi’gh station” of the sun,from which he looked
down with: hv's'u'lile upon the earth in all his glory; as a
slinaOfCriinin from his high station, might look down
it
spas-meanes swarms wasané’éun
in'dese'ehdliig train "the Sumhier‘to' the Winter, panics
over'tbe equatoF'ih the Antemn; and here we imam
Summer sum-mung his high mine in the (shah-to
when his unﬁt" neonates to season its
etjualtbrih-Autumn in the commands annexes. was
mammalian autumnal sign. i new caneMr':ease
am ‘ haile the“ ilhpildence' to state ‘bbftli-e an addle‘ﬂce
' in enemy; asaaanfe'saeh‘pnpmefalsehoodsinthean
enee'of assbaaaytsse‘aia. But he (no deli; "He said
the'zodiac‘ofDeiiil‘eiu'ditlln-o’t sh'dvtah sanqany ormore
than 2,200 “2,400 years athe met buthere's the so.
diae‘itself,‘proclaiming an antiquityio'f 16,000 years at
least,and he said, also,that in ale zo‘dieeofhouse“; the
Space now ﬁlled by' the twins, was occupied by tire kids.
But ﬁfe ad k'ids ; [here we'see‘a' group of three men
and waste-emu 'attit-udes seem to express, an agielsr
iiient with iodrth' Woman on terms of Accommodates
as awe w husband’s boat; Well may theemaym
sz’ans of the present day send into the worm '
swim or Dendera; Do they’féai' that materials
of Noah and his family should be teeognsea in this an
vision which Mr.‘Goodacre said contained two kids ?
"'“Having Ishown that the 'Ramwa‘s an autumn;
is“! antennas, endithat about 1'8) degrees 6! cancer
was'tee‘éhéd eyes may some, I am new pressed
to some atewthi'ﬁgt ‘eip're's'sedon this manarorwms;
( to use the words of Denon,) I think,'l mu “slim
well of the twat minim; ‘ ' ' a " ‘”'
C
’
l8/
. We;“his thermos? WNPIWMMWNQII
is, in g1e__.planemt 'Whptoan that allude to?
According-*Qﬁretsetbmeaamnesia Babylon in the
time. all Alexander, Great,;Berosus, the. Babylonian
‘ Historian, informedhim that,(1503,0001yealrs before that
time, the epolefoﬂthei ,earth was within the plane of the
ecliptic-3, Here we have-the testimonyfof another great
Netievmthetthe P019.we,earth was @1168 Within Plana
aﬂthg ecliptic. ,Well might detestable monster of
Rersia idesire gto destroy the sacred tower of Babel,—
the.only monumentm that country, that commemorated
spit-shinotion of thepole. .But_ let us contemplate
the pole in the plate beforeAus—the'polewith one wing.
The',lpoleoﬁ theuearth despribes a spiral ﬁgure among
ﬂit}. titans; ~,_ the pages, pf Egypt represent the
pole with; onlygogte‘ '1; know joi‘no animal in nature
xgiﬂilonledwingi‘onlyq antiwhen_l was‘a boy, at Walton,
marELaqguai-dph‘ort, we useid’tof have our Winters so
$9»thanaemia was be seem the" the
ma-eﬂlieflmliv with .lesgrfowlies 958.9% to shoot the
Willi-Will that senesxtrﬂs? linden-Wt numbers =—
, threemrs mandatieeisry,nonihlg way, but when
on». Wahadmﬁf’falie-MEQS brakes; itdcscribed in its ‘
Ancest,.hy.ﬂies§e etthe nearesslove a ﬁgure in
their simﬂer was washed sew-1g,"16 “m by “1°
pqlepﬂthe: earthl l," gnewmf‘qggd pole is not in the
assessment as! as the“ (31 little bow, which 1
Mtnewmstiweum l (M, It ‘1'. w
What can these 37 litt‘lq‘ﬁﬂﬁishljumengigpo,that'they
o
19
are not to be tossed about upon the billows of time 2-_
these thirty-eight little boat-like divisions of the year,
contain thirty-eight inmates, the greatest half of which
holds in his hand an augurial staff, as a predictor of the
weather, or perhaps other events. .
In the Encyclopaedia Londonensis, at the word Egypt,
are given the two above zodiacs coloured; in the long
one there are but thirty-one boats, and about one-third'
of a boat. Perhaps the number is of no importance,
for I know of no astronomical division of the year into
38 or 31 parts. ~
In the breach of the cieling between Leo and Virgo,
there is in Denon’s zodiac, a space of two boats, but
in the Encyclopaedia Londinensis, the breach occuPies'
but the space of one boat,—these differences ought not
to exist, even if the things are of no importance.
In the ancient history of Egypt, the City of Thebes is
represented as containing the whole'population of the
Country round about it during the Winter, and the' in
undation in the Summer; to which place the mode of
travelling might be by way of the Nile; this would ex
plain the busy group'in the zodiac between the .full moon
in Taurus and the Beetle, or Cancer,—they were about
to depart for Thebes, there to remain till the end ofwin- ‘
ter, in one instance, and the retiring of the water in
the other; at which time the people would issue from
their retreat to their various occupations on the land.
This going'into, and coming out of Thebes annually,
looks very like the story ofthe Flood and the Ark.
20
If the'ilOnguodia'cCA, exhibits an antiquity of more
than"400,000 years',"the circular, one displays an anti
quity of'atfleast‘540,000'years beyond that: for here
we ﬁnd the Zodiac in the-plane of the equator ;' in which
state there would be universal-Spring, and the year must
then,;-hd\fa~beeu"sidereal,~as'a-consequenee cf the great
_ diﬂicdlty’anbeings sensible of the true tropical year.'—
When our calehd’ar was altered, ten'days were left out:
butainythisY calendar, zodiac, or plauisphere, we ﬁnd two
months left o'ut‘J—Leo following Taurus. We ﬁnd also
in the scales, the signs of Leo and Aquarius; which~
shews'that in that remote time they noticed the preces
sion'of the equino'ctial points. We ﬁnd also", that Virgo
is-in'termixedwith Leo, and the ﬁrst of the three virgins
has be? child on her lap,- the idea therefore, of the
sun re-appear-ing in, or beingborn of the virgin,'m of a
still more"remote‘-antiquity»? And as 'the zodiac and
equatOr coincide, the ‘pole of' the earth and the pole of
the eclyptic must also coincide; and here we ﬁnd the
piiesent southern celestial hemisphere coinciding with
the northern' hemisphere of the earth,'and Bootes, to
the north-hf the virgin, is here placed with his cornocut
ting~implement in his hand, on the 'soutk'lside of the
equator.
And Sirius; L'epus, and Fomalhaut are on the south
side of the'ecliptic, but here we'ﬁnd'all of them on
the north side of the equator. The whole of which,
are convincingproofs that the pole of the earth has been
in the plane'of'the ecliptic, and in the plane of its axis.
21
ind thereare ﬁgures in the same temple which shew a
'epetition of each state of the pole three times. Let the
Cambysesians of the present day, blame their! friend
Goodacre for the above explanation, who sinks himself
more and more, in the estimation of Men of Science ;
as we by the following paragraph in the-Norwich
Mercury:oi7 Nov. 26th,‘1'831 :— _X)'M‘_;\-s,s‘\v
In answer to Mr. Mackenerrﬁ'Oodaci'i lays, “ My
planisphere carried. the heaVen's from left to right, and
my audience were told at time its Construction was
explained and the diﬂiculties ofprojecting the sphere in
plane were pointed out, that they were to _suppose them
selves (lookingtowards the South. For the truthof this
statement I ameal to 281 out of the 282 person; who
heard :me on the 26th of Octoher." We omit theirth
of maﬁfsletter, because we ,do not chho‘sre‘our column;
should be the vehicle of coarse reﬂections upon any
man’s employment, however humble, and‘patfticularlgr
upon a man who has, in spite of the depressiolni'qfhie
circumstances, made “great attainments with a degree
of industry and ability which ought to shield him from
vituperation, and indeed to raise him in ‘the estimation
ofevery man-calling himself a philosopher. WWW “ '
E8307. 1‘ 9 F‘K'ulv,“ MB _ thqttwmq
-. n» » , tm‘,
I A I q _‘ I H‘V“
in s \\ \ m \\\!°"\M§Y\§I\W :51»le - .assw \
L. y .. .i.- ':|:"""“ .\-'\'v-,t-:v-"-i.\“_'
__> - F ‘ _\ '
.\\ 2 ‘1’1' “11‘ ‘ -:'\‘\‘.\ h-n‘ ~ - '~-‘
'w- nun-J. » ' 3 - wi'm “(~30 '. '\ l
1 “a 5.1." u! u“ l‘, t ‘ ‘
I 22
1- We inWe EHIt‘elr hithe’ilidtwich'uereury.“
Y 1-": ml raw; or“ ~;l11-'""i :1 u “L =‘
bLsDe'arr'Str, ‘)=--' -'- - .
"Wm"1' " 'In reply :6 'th?‘Extract froniMr. Goodacre’s
letterFiMy'our Paper'ofitke Mth-of'Nov. I831, lsay
that might) have appealed to the whole of the
persons present on the 26th of Oct. last, for I admit
his statement. > ' ' ' ' ‘
We were “sapphire out»;er looking towards the
South; H_Had\ Mr. IG. Ztoldﬂhzis spectators that they
were to consider vthe'inse'l'biii? at Van Dieman’s Land, 01'
New zealaua‘yorlheare'ope in South America,
Ikshsuld. huhtvenblmip‘aqtioﬁeitwith:tht motion of Mr.
‘_G.’§,Rl,anispheref_ for in the Southern Hemisphere,
the'iS’lars" hzféztng,,in the East, do appear to a person
fdcing'th'k380uth'T‘ole, to rise 'at the left,rand going
‘o'o'undtby;the'Nbrthwardyvltsappear Yinf tlie West, at
the. handi; G‘s. Planispherehad the
Nor ern Hemzs here/pr. its principalv ﬁeld ofview,
and the 'North“ olé') hr for its centre of motion.—
ﬂYUe liqntkIme-‘zyehe Horizon was at the top of
theammnndthrﬁonth Point at the bottom. Now
let the East and Westhe. pointed out, .fTahe a com
men 'lobe'rect‘iﬁed‘tothe latitude of Norwich ; place
thebouth part ofthe- Ho'r‘z'z‘on nearest to you and lift
#40?molﬂwttthe‘Nnrthermpartt’qﬁthe ,Horiizm he at
theta ‘, , nol'the;Southv art- would be at the bottom,
that 'e" anathema [directed to you in front.—
‘As a planisphm‘z's but it ﬂictur’e of a globe, Mr. G’s.
plant-sphere was the picture of a globe posited as the
above. And any person will have the goodness to
look on the Horizon by his right hand, he will per
ceive the word East marked there, and West at his
left hand. Thus then according to Mr. G’s. own con
{essz'om his Stars rose in the West, and set in the
last.
8Q
‘ ,lfMei-lgGshaql.placedthe Eastern part qfhis plau
isphere to theJeft ofhis company, the North partof -
.his depice had been atthe shottom of the stage instead
of the top. . This however, at best is but a subterfuge
{of Mr. G. . to hide his gross imposition of oﬂ'ering to
publie notice a plan sphere-hellish he would rectify
to time and place; but which he did notdog.‘ _
. , .\ ,_ ,. . , \I‘\\‘;,‘~ '~ . - ‘._ \} \‘\‘:__-_
3-13.“ You" very-respeettul’y». -‘ m1. .
(Iv “In-1; n.: '. :IFI-H:\\:_ 1-15.: :2}.
lKPrince’s Street, 28th Nov} 1831.\ ‘- A i .. \ '~»".-‘
_ y ', 9' a“ k A \f , -.\_ _ . . =2.va Q
“1-: -\ "\‘\ ‘1‘ \' '._._—.’
I ' 1‘, I "~ \‘ ‘2’“ 'I\I)‘\'\“|
,"\',~,._ '-'~.‘ mp s'x . \\---,_. Err-1)}. , i 'w '\;\
‘ 1355‘ Mr. Gooilacte seeiesxtoliglie
stress onsmyltmdmif- hmwill. do meivthmfavdunvw-nad
,bhé‘fnildw'ing ilebtel‘j‘from aq eminuﬂshtgebhid} Hams
1mm'yv‘il! ‘ﬁncjﬁﬂiaqfiheikfai'é~n;eh_she, think"(liﬂfii‘f -
'1 -'-‘ .-\\
\_ -_\ I“ 8' .
“mi-13¢ x =3 '.‘-_ §. x L ~.\-. ' .1: =:- =- 1‘! 1-9.; a: e ~-=:
J - n I . ,, . \ -._-‘
“- =\=\ " ‘YHbunsle'iof Janwmmi:
\ .'\' 13‘ “, al '\ ‘ \.~ ,“-‘\‘, ray
Machey‘,'\;tf, ‘_ ‘5 ‘e ,5 \_ . . _. a. J.“ “ I.“
E » ' Harrison \Wilhinson and myself have 74nd
much conversatizm aboutypu,‘ and~0ur best-wishes
are to' servewyou. We think-you were to take};
shop in Holborn and publish your, own-“Worhsi't
wow-ids.de Kanswer your purpose,1 pantie-Manly. if
you were-to joinywithkitI-gour own‘vandmtheoéﬂstm;
‘nomical Instruments, Boo/cs miAatronemgi am? Ori
ental Literature; these. together'would bring you
wealth and fameaLonelon, is your theatre; you there
are in the focus ofall the vfg'reat Libraries, which you
could consult, and yam: eveiyﬁnformation ; besides
having the advantagiof conversing with all the
:, runur .-_0¢ um .I. '.-l 'ﬂll‘i
‘ 24
learned men, I do not I! # okr Divines, avoid
both of these pests, as well‘as all titles : they smile
but to betray, 1 know them and their manners better
than you can. Avoid also politicks ; and religion,
except with such’as you well knbw and can depend
upon. “‘Your system must in time destroy the present
ridiculous and circumscribed chronology.“l Stick to
that and you will tumble the crazy temple of error
about the ears of those dolts who support it. Alrea
dy you have shaken its pillars with a mightier force
than their own Sampson did those of the Philistines.
Avoid disputes, except in theScienee you so well
understand, for the wary and terriﬁed Nobles and
Priests will haunt you. And when in the openness
of your own heart you have committed yourself,
with the fury and malignity of ﬂown Sathan,
they will fall on and crush you. 5 J
Be sure in all you publish, put Journeyman Shoe
maker, Nature has given you a Patent ofNobility,
you need no other. As a Journeyman Shoemaker you
are a far greater man, than a G 1K It * t h or
Wesssnssssn, or an A s s h B a; seep
Manners“S * ii it =18 n. “ If; you give up your own
title, the crafty Priests will in a few years swear
you were educated at a University, and brought up
under some reverend and worthy divine. They hate
Science, and ever attempt, when it does appear, and
they cannot destroy it, to make the world believe it
has emanated from thems’elvessm ' 10m
I hope you willeforgive the liberty I have taken
in advising you, there can be but one apology for it,
and that is your welfaredwﬂ .zka-v u ' m
"poQEQst-‘u‘s swims Friend, me \1 do:
’s'xas“ my - “mm "may " \ ‘w
Mos Aq'sb'wim's-m'sé'sl 111mg", BARROW~ , _
‘1 asifszaé ‘1‘ M‘s’mm'm sx
r.
,
.
while,
.
.,
I
1.21.111!
1,
i
_
_
we
‘7—
///
_.1,,..
.1.
r
I
‘
r
J
$7.?unir
1:53.“.
.7
'vu-n
' “?-,§
THE
'zonrAC OF THEBES;
,,
WHICH XI Pnovnz 1‘0 CONTAIN Tn! Pollﬂon oI v“
THE ECLIPTIC 40,000 YEARS BACK.
BY
S. A. MACKEY,
OF NORWICH.
r
SINCE publishing the two zodiacs of Tentyra, I have
seen the third number of the “Edinburgh Cabinet
Library,” written by the Rev. Michael Russell, entitled
“Ancient and Modern Egypt,” and printed in the
year 1831. Though this Rev. Gentleman has
'given me no clue to his residence, yet, as he has sent
into the world a work on a very interesting subject,
in which I ﬁnd the science of astronomy as recorded
in the temples of Egypt, treated as a very modern
science, I shall offer a few remarks on the manner in
which the author endeavours to bring into discredit
the antiquity of the zodiacs of Tentyra.
He states, that the visit of Denon in the temple,
was too short to allow him to be very correct in his
delineations of the numerous ﬁgures, and that he has
not given all the stars; that many of the ﬁgures are
painted of the wrong colour; and that the two female
ﬁgures (which surround the long zodiac) have nothing
of the Egyptian features in them—they are mere
childish faces, 860. Now I have shown that all this
quibbling has not altered the antiquity of the whole,
B
26
for though the faces of the two female ﬁgures were
the faces of irgfants, they are placed on their heads,
and their heads are upon their shoulders, which are
united by a long close dress to their well-formed
feet; pointing out, as clearly as the most exact like
nesses can point out the top of the zodiac from the
bottom, or the summer from the winter ; and of
course spring from autumn. In which last we ﬁnd
the Ram—i. e. the Ram was an autumnal sign. And
as the Goat is at the top, the Goat was a summer
sign. And the Crab, or Scarabeiis, at the feet, was
then a winter sign.
According to Manilins, the Crab was painted on
the globes of the ancients of a black colour, and with
out eyes (the sockets being empty). How expressive
of winter! I ! But Jesuitical writers take no notice
of these characteristic beauties.
Were his Reverence asked, why he asserted the
Lion to be at the summer solstice on that zodiac, I
know not how he could reply without blushing, for a
more palpable incongruity cannot be.
As the above precious remains of remote antiquity
are under the controul of the Jesuits in Paris, I shall
not be surprised to hear of their transplacing the heads
and feet of the two female ﬁgures, and thereby gain
from antiquity nearly 13,000 years. This I hope
will act as a stimulus to those who possess the invalu
able Denonian treasures, to prize them as jewels never
to be let perish.
Carpenter, in his “ Political biagazine,” mentions
a lecturer, whose name is Clarkson, who has been
27
lecturing against the antiquity of the Egyptian science,
and who ‘says that their chronology of 36,000 years
is a forgery. But these assertions are no. where sup
ported by arguments. ' _
Some few years ago, I think just before Denon's
journey, some French philosophers discovered a zodiac
over the gateway of a temple in Egypt, in which the
angle of the equator was very different to what it is
in our time. And though the French nation at that
time was not under one of the holy alliance, yet, the
remarks of the philosophers upon it were published in
the Latin language even in France. Their apology
for so doing was, that the world might not be dis
tracted with NEW THEORIES. The angle of the
equator upon the ecliptic, in our time, is not 23%,
Now, as the angle was very different, it could not be
less than two or three degrees more than it is in our
time; for if it had been only one degree more, it had
not been so very alarming. But one degree would
carry us back 6,000 years into time; and three degrees
would point to a time of 18,000 years backwards.
But even 18,000 years is not so very distracting.
Long before Denon’s time, travellers to Egytpt
brought from a temple at Thebes the annexed zodiac,
which has been published by several authors, but
which has not been explained by any man; I shall
therefore be the ﬁrst European to perform that task.
I mean relative to its antiquity; which I shall show
is 40,000 years; i. e. it gives a state or position of
the zodiac as it was posited at that time, relative to the
latitude or Thebes.
' B 2
28
In this zodiac we perceive four human ﬁgures which
are called “the heavenly host.” These may have a
meaning relative to the agriculture of their country;
but the use I shall derive from them is what cannot
be denied—they denote the top from the bottom—
the summer from the winter. And here, as in the
plate A, the Ram is an autumnal sign, which carries
us back into time 15,000 years. This is not all, for
we perceive that the sun has passed the zenith of
Thebes one whole sign before it is Midsummer.
All who are acquainted with the history of Egypt
know that the Nile water began to rise when the sun
had acquired his greatest northern declination, or his
highest elevation in summer, which was represented
by placing a radiant head vomiting a torrent of water
in the Goat (see page 16). This fact ascertained we
know that when the sun became vertical at Thebes it
wanted one month to Midsummer; i. e. it came to their
zenith in May, when the sun was in Sagittarius.
Thebes then must have been between the tropics. But
the summer tropic, or the sun at Midsummer, does not
rise so high above the equator as to become vertical at
Thebes in our time. Here then is a proof that the
angle between the equator and the ecliptic was different
when this celestial state was registered.
. I shall proceed now to show what the angle was in
the zodiac before us. Let the line N S, ﬁg2, pl. C,
represent the meridian of Thebes; and the right line,
Aries and Libra, the equator. Then the line A A
would represent the parallel of latitude of 25 degrees
20 min. equal to the latitude of Thebes. The curved
29
line Aries, 1, Libra, represents the northern half of
the ecliptic of the present time; the angle of which is
23 degrees 27 min. and about 2; and as Thebes is
situated in latitude 25 degrees20 min. the sun in our
time does not approach the zenith of Thebes by more
than 100 miles; consequently, the zodiac before us
does not agree with the present angle of the ecliptic
and equator.
Now let us extend the summer tropic, or northern
boundary of the ecliptic to the line A A. In this
state, the sun at Midsummer would rise exactly to the
zenith of Thebes, which is, in this ﬁgure, at the point
of intersection of the lines N S, and A A, which
would have been expressed in the zodiac of Thebes
by placing the sun over the principal ﬁgure in the
centre. But as this is not the position in the picture
before us, we must try again. But it will be neces
sary to make a few remarks upon this last position
before we make a further extension of the tropic.
The tropic is now nearly two degrees to the south
of Thebes. And as the tropic is known to recede
but one degree in 6000 years, it is now 12,000 years
since the tropical sun was vertical at Thebes. But in
12,000 years the precession of the equinoctial points
carries the signs half round; and accordingly the
Nile actually begins to rise when the sun is in the
sign of Cancer.
By extending the northernmost point of the eclip
tic to ﬁg. 2, beyond Thebes, the three signs in
the spring quarter would be as in the ﬁgure 2,
i. e. from Libra at 'the right end of the equator, to
30
Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Capricorn on the meridian.
Here the whole sign of Capricorn is to the north of
Thebes, as is represented in this zodiac of Thebes!
Here the angle of the ecliptic is considerably greater
than it is in our time; and if a ruler be laid on the
equator where it intersects the ecliptic at Libra, and
let it be extended quite across the whole ﬁgure over
the point of intersection on the meridian at 2, it
will be found to cut the opposite arch a little above
the latitude of Thebes at A ; and as Thebes is 25
degrees and about 20 minutes, this point of inter
section will be found to be 30 degrees from the
equator.
Thus we have found that at the time of the an
nexed zodiac the angle of the ecliptic and equator
was 30 degrees; which is 611,- degrees more than it is
in our time. And as the angle is well known to
diminish about one degree in 6000 years, the state
of the heavens in this zodiac must give a retrospective
view of 38,000 years. Herein we trace a round and
a half of the equinoctial points in the ecliptic, and
something more than another sign; for the Goat
having been originally in the summer solstice, and
we now know that the solsticial point is in Gemini,
we find a retrogradation of seven signs, in addition
to one whole round, making in all 19 signs: and if
we allow 2000 years to each sign, (which is rather
under the true time) the whole would amount to
39,900 years. But without writing three or four
hundred analytical pages to split a hair’s breadth
into 10,000 parts, it will be quite near enough for
81
the present purpose, to say that this zodiac of Thebes
shews an antiquity of 40,000 years ! l !
There are. various ways of projecting the position
of the heavens at Thebes at the time represented in
this zodiac; which is noon at Midsummer, with the
sun in Capricorn, and the angle of the ecliptic and
equator about 30 degrees.
In ﬁg. 2, the meridian is a right line passing
through N S, and over Thebes in the middle of the
line A A. The present tropic is through 1, and the
place of the tropic at the time ofthe zodiac is through 2.
The present tropic is between the zenith of Thebes
and the equator, and the latter to the north; including
Thebes and even Memphis, (according to a descrip
tion of Egypt in the second book of Herodotus).
In ﬁg. 3, the meridian is the prime circle pas
sing through H, E, Q, Z, N, to H P, on the northern
horizon. The line H H, is the horizon of Thebes,
and Z Z, the circle described by its zenith ; the
circle 0 a, is the present tropic, and c b, the ancient
tropic. N S, the axis, and Q Q, the equator.
Here, as before, we have the whole of Capricorn
to the north of the zenith of Thebes when on the
meridian : and when the sun is there, it must be noon
at Midsummer. Here in ﬁg. 3, we see the sun
in the Goat, posited precisely as in the zodiac,
and here we have ocular proof of the quantity of
the angles. The are c, Q, is 23 degrees and some
thing more than 27 minutes, the quantity of the
present angle. Q Z, the distance of Thebes from the
equator, and Q C, the ancient angle of the eclip
32
tic; which, if measured, would be found to be about
30 degrees.
In the ancient angle, at noon, the sun for the
space of ﬁve or six weeks in summer would cast the
shadows of objects to the southward; but in the
present position of the ecliptic, the shadows of objects
are always turned northward; and a person facing the
east at noon, in the ﬁrst position, would see his sha
dow to the right ; but in the present position at noon,
it would be projected to the left. These are the
obvious results that must have obtruded themselves
to every eye. Can it be supposed for a moment,
that the sophistry of any Jesuitical pander of prejudice
can prevail upon any rational mind to believe, that,
the venerable men who crowned the earth with storied
monuments of celestial science, were so stupid as not
to know their right hand from the left.
THE END
5 JY 62
PRINTED BY WILKIN AND FLETCHER, NORWICH.
