{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__curtiss___personal_survival.pdf","mytitle":"Personal Survival","mylang":"de"}
PERSONAL
SURVIVAL
WITH PHYSICAL PROOFS
BY
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
Founder of TM Uniwrstd Rlligious FelliiD1sJJp. Inc.
FIRST EDITION
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
WASHINGTON. D. C.
Copyright, 1946, by
F. HOMEJl CURTISS, M.D.
All Rights Reserved
LONDON AGENTS
L N. FOWLER &: CO.
29 Ludgate Hill
LoNDON, E. c.. 4
Pri"t"d '" the u..itetl States of A.mnica
At the request of students, this latest photograph of Dr. F. Homer Curtiss
is thus published for all.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
THE VoiCE OP Isis
THE MESSAGE oP AguAlUA.
THE INNER RADIANCE
RE.u.Ks OP THE LIVING DEAD
CoKING WoRLD CHANGES
THE KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
THE KEY OP DESTINY
lzrTERs FJWH THE TEACHER, VoLS. i, ii
THE Tli.UTH ABOUT EvoLUTION AND THE
BIBLE
THE PHILOSOPHY OP W AJl.
FoR YouNG SoULS
GEKS OP MYSTIOSH
THE TElllPLE OF SILENCE
THE DIVINE MotHER
THE SouNDLESS SouND
THE MYSTIC LIFE
THE LovE OP RAIIIACCA
PRAYERS OP THE ORDER OP CHRISTIAN
MYSTICS
FoUR-FOLD HEALTH
VITAllliNS
WHY ARE WE HERE?
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
PREFACE • Vll
I CosMIC PHILOSOPHY 1
II PROBLEM OF INCARNATION 19
III PROBLE!\1 OF REINCARNATION • 29
IV SPIRITUAL CoNTACTS 40
v DEATH UNDERSTOOD 50
VI EFFECTS OF PRAYER 57
VII PRAYERS FOR THE DEAD 67
VIII GRADUATION 75
IX ANIMAL SuRVIVAL • 93
X THEOSOPHISTS' CLAIMS 105
XI A MESSAGE FROM MADAME BLAVATSKY • 113
XII PHYSICAL PROOFS: GENERAL SUBJECT • 124
XIII SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS AND SKOTOGRAPHS 128
XIV HAND WRITING AND PsYCIIOGRAPHs 133
XV MATERIALIZATION • 137
XVI DIRECT VOICE • 143
XVII FINGER PRINTS AND wAX GAUNTLETS 147
XVIII AuTOMATIC WRITING • 150
XIX TELEGRAPHIC MESSAGES ETC. . 158
XX PoLYGLOT LANGUAGES, CRoss CoRRESPOND-
ENCES AND BooK TESTS • 161
XXI HouDINI's TEST MESSAGE . 167
XXII APPORTS, AsPORTS, TRANSPORTs, LEVITA-
TION, PoLTERGEisTs ETc. 172
XXIII LETTERS FROM HELL • 181
XXIV LETTERS FROM HEAVEN 197
XXV CoNCLUSION 217
v
PREFACE
In response to the thousands of letters of inquiry. curios-
ity. fear. rebellion and despair received by the authors since
the publication of the many editions of our Realms of the
Living Dead, we herewith present further details. with many
physical proofs as to personal survival after so-called death.
This is done in order to answer the inquiries. quell the re-
bellion, dispel the fears and bring comfort through under-
standing, to those who have lost loved ones, either in war.
accident, suicide or disease, or in the inevitable withdrawal
from the physical realm which ends advanced age.
Confticting Reports:
Because of the many amfticting reports given by mediums
as to conditions in the invisible worlds of the after-life, there
is much confusion about such reports in the public mind.
Therefore, in Realms of the Living Dead we endeavored to
clarify this confusion by organizing the discovered facts by
a regular series of investigations. This revealed the fact that
there are as many. and even more, different and distinct re-
gions in the invisible worlds as there are in a great city. such
as the retail distriCt. wholesale district. factory district, ath-
letic fields and the slums.
A visitor exploring one of these districts might correctly
claim that his description of that particular district revealed
the character of the city; whereas it would reveal only that
limited section which he had visited. In a similar way reports
of "isolated mediums reveal only the tiny section of the after
life and its conditions which they were enabled to contact by
their degree of development.
'1ril
viii Preface
The Seven Realms:
To simplify our investigation, in Realms of the Living
Dead, we divided the after-world, commonly called the astral
world, into seven regions, which we call realms, and give a
description of the characteristics of each of these realms, to-
gether with the approximate number of miles each realm
extends above the earth's surface.1
Although these regions
overlap as do the regions of the city, nevertheless their gen-
eral conditions are just as characteristic as are those of the
city. Thus we find that all the mediums' reports may be true
as far as they go but represent only limited regions,-not the
whole.
It should be remembered that the world entered through
the gate of death includes as many states of consciousness,
and even more, than the physical world, which is entered
through the gate of birth; for birth into the Physical World
is death to the Astral World, just as death to the Physical
World is birth to the Astral World.
Investigators Limited:
As we have explained in the Realms of the Living Dead,
while many of the teachings herein given find confirmation
in the several works on psychic phenomena and after-death
conditions recently published, many of the scientists who
have investigated this subject have not yet discovered all the
facts herein explained, because they have no all-inclusive
Cosmic Soul Science to guide them, and because they are
content to wander aimlessly, without any guiding light, in
the lower regions of the Astral World where the great spirit-
ual teachers are seldom, if ever, found. Their investigations,
sincere and honest as they may be, are much like laboriously
searching through the plebeian section of a great city for a
scientist or professor who could explain the conditions met
with, when all that would be necessary would be to take a
taxi through the slums, to the University, where hundreds
of professors who are authorities on all types of knowledge
1 See Realrru qf 1111 Liflirlg Detltl, Curtiss, 181.
Preface IX
are to be found. Indeed, few psychic investigators ask their
way to such centers of learning, or even realize that such
exist in the Higher Worlds.
In this volume we do not present additional details, but
give actual physical proofs that our teachings about personal
survival are not merely theory and speculation or mediums'
"say-so" but are facts scientifically investigated and phys-
ically proved.
The physical proofs we shall present herein do not depend
on the reports of the psychics, however evidential they may
seem, or upon the opinions, education, or mentality of the
medium. These proofs, therefore, eliminate the claim that
such reports may have emanated from the medium's sub-
conscious or superconscious mind, or from the mind of some
other living person, by telepathy, instead of from some en-
tirely different and discarnate personality.
As one noted writer says, "The aim of any worthwhile
teaching is the acquisition, not of psychic powers, but of a
manner of living. What the people need is a presentation of
the truth, in the light of their own times, and terms of their
knowledge; so that each may seek truth's comfort for him-
self, and find it." 2
And so with this thought in mind we present the following
chapters on Personal Survival.
z Across the u..k..OWIO. White. 280.
Chapter I
COSMIC PHILOSOPHY
Great are the symbols of being, but that which is symboled
is greater;
Vast the create and beheld, but vaster the inward creator;
Back of the sound broods the silence, back of the gift stands
the giving;
Back of the hand that receives thrill the sensitive nerves of
receiving.
Space is as nothing to spirit, the deed is outdone by the do-
ing;
The heart of the wooer is warm, but warmer the heart of the
wooing;
And up from the pits where these shiver, and up from the
heights where those shine
Twin voices and shadow swim starward, and the essence of
life is divine.
Indirection, RICHARD REALF
For the benefit of those who have not been students of the
Cosmic Soul Science of our Universal Religious Fellowship,
we will give a brief summary of the philosophy which under-
lies all manifestation, as a background to our specific subject.
The object of philosophy is to determine a reasonable
connection between cause and effect ; therefore philosophy is
concerned with finding out the origin, reason, meaning and
purpose of the Universe.
1
2 Personal Survival
The mere recital of the many kinds of spirit phenomena,
no matter how scientifically presented and physically proved,
is not sufficient to give a comprehensive view of the meaning
and significance of personal survival, and the origin and cau-
sation of such phenomena. Hence at least an outline of the
philosophy, which underlies these manifestations, is necessary.
Cosmic Concept:
We must establish certain basic principles by means of
which we can organize the multitudinous and complex mani-
festations into an organic whole, and thus give us a compre-
hensive view of all manifestation, both here and hereafter.
Only thus can our consciousness expand to give us the Cos-
mic Concept of life as a whole. We will thus be able to push
back the frontiers of our knowledge and grasp ever greater
realization of Reality and Trutli. This will enable us to as-
cend even higher up the Mount of Attainment, where we
can obtain ever wider bird's eye views of the whole scheme
of creation, in truly comprehensive divine realization. With-
out such a Cosmic Concept we will be endlessly focussing
our time and attention on one detail after another, and thus
will not be able to see the forest, because we -are too close to
the trees.
To the mass of thinking people who are seeking some
satisfying answer to the problems of life, there comes from
out of the ages the Teachings of those Great Souls who
reached their Godlike state before this world was born. These
Great Souls have always been and still are, the Guides and
Teachers of mankind, hence those whose reason postulates,
or whose intuition recognizes such Godlike Beings, can
safely accept their Teachings, for they are in a position to
know the Truth.
It is these Teachings which form the basis of the Author's
Cosmic Soul Science expounded within.
"Man has a soiritual evolution which comes from above.
Cosmic Philosophy 3
and a material evolution, which belongs to this earth. His
physical body is the highest attainment of a physical evo-
lution through all the lower kingdoms. • . . His spiritual
evolution is the result of voluntary descent of Immortal Egos
into more or less perfected bodies,-human-animal bodies
-, and their subsequent efforts to control and spiritualize
these animal organisms." 1
A little careful consideration will
reveal this.
Life Immortal:
There is no life force, consciousness, creative power or
ability to originate in matter itself. Forms appear out of the
unseen, seemingly self-generated, manifest for a limited cycle
to accomplish their purpose, then disintegrate and disappear,
leaving behind only the ash or the mineral elements out of
which they were formed. But no life dies; only the form
through which a particular aspect of life temporarily mani-
fested, "dies," for life is immortal and can never die. The
form dies not because of lack of life, but because of more
life than it can express. For one reason or another that form
is no longer a suitable vehicle for its aspect of life force, and
upon the withdrawal of that integrating and cohesive power,
the form disintegrates. For this reason all forms of physical
phenomena are impermanent and transitory; in a state of
constant flux and change, a constant becoming.
That which we see in the physical world is therefore but
the outer husk or shell, the vehicle, or mechanism by and
through which some unseen cause, some ideal or pattern,
some center of life, consciousness and force from the unseen
worlds, is striving to manifest for a time in the seen.
Just as the idea or mental pattern of a building is created
in the mental world, by the mind of the architect, and as the
automobile or other invention, painting, statue, or sonata
first exists in the mind of the creator, so does the pattern of
1 Voice of Isis. Curtiss. 229.
4 Personal Survival
every manifested thing exist in the unseen worlds before it
descends through the various realms of manifestation on
Earth.
This goes to show that all manifestation is an expression
of various types of personalized intelligence, which is eter-
nally seeking the expression of ideals in all realms, from the
fashioners of the minute details, up to that Infinite Con-
sciousness, which has planned, and directs and supports the
manifestation of all that we speak of under the all inclusive
term God.
Preexistence:
It is therefore, a basic principle of the philosophy of our
Cosmic Soul Science, that all manifested things appear on
Earth out of the unseen, according to the law of Material-
ization. This is accomplished through the law of Unfoldment
called growth. It is obvious therefore, that the Earth Plane
is not the Plane of Origin or Causation. It is only the Plane
of physical manifestation of that which existed beforehand in
the higher, finer, invisible, spiritual and mental worlds of
Origin or Causation.
As one philosophic writer so aptly puts it, "This inner
functioning of cell and atom toward an evolutionary end, is
not an argument for denial of the existence of a Supreme
Creative Purpose, or God, but the best sustaining natural
evidence for that existence.
"Thus the Supreme Creative Intelligence or Force must be,
not only imminent in atom, cell and process, but must also
trancend its creation. But imminence and trancendence are
found only in what we call a person, that is, a self-referring
subject of experience, that does not pass with its experience."
· In the application of this Cosmic Concept to social organ-
ization it naturally follows that, "the most continuous per-
manent thing in creation is the demand of the human soul for
freedom, the thirst for higher personal, spiritual and asthetic
values.
Cosmic Philosophy 5
"When it comes to the ultimate,-the Origin of conscious-
ness-the materialist is even more at a loss. He claims that
'consciousness is the recognition, by the mind or ego, of its
own acts.' 2
"Thus materialism fails to explain how consciousness can
arise from matter. Much less can it explain the origin of con-
sciousness, or the feeling of personal obligation to do what
is right. None of these problems can be explained except by
recognizing the fact of the indwelling presence of the Spirit-
ual Self, with its mind and conscience manifesting for a brief
term of years, three-score-and-ten more or less, through the
animal organisms or body." 8
These same objections apply to behaviorism and deter-
minism. Behaviorism which ignores consciousness, is but
metaphysical materialism: while determinism is compulsory
materialism. Mere mechanics can never explain organism,
any more than mere analysis can explain life. It ignores
variety, spontaniety, and creation, all of which are apparent
in the universe.
Creative Hierarchies:
All nature-forms are fashioned in the minds of the various
Hierarchies of Builders or Creators, who are charged with
executing and manifesting the various types of ideas in the
Divine Mind. But as the substance of earth in which those
ideas and patterns must find expression, is so dense, inert
and unresponsive to the finer vibrations of the patterns, many
imperfect and incomplete manifestations of the basic idea or
type,-the so-called misfits and failures of Nature,-=-are man-
ifested. Therefore the forms of Nature are said to evolve or
gradually approximate more and more to the perfect ex-
pressions of the ideal of their type.
"It is remembered that no piece of rock or stone is still,
and that all its particles are in movement orderly and con-
2 Tfllentieth Cewhlry Philtuophy, Flewdling.
a Materialism. CurtiSS.
6 Personal Survival
stant. It is only one step onward then, to realize that, in order
for this movement to be maintained, there must be present
some great force, a personality, of which it is the expression.
"The whole material creation is nothing in itself and by
itself. It is but the expression on a lower plane, of person-
alities on higher planes, the effects of which, their Wills are
the causes. As a man leaves the imprint of his character on
his work day by day, so these great Creative Lords and their
ministers, have left the imprint of their personality on these
material phenomena.
"Nothing is still; all moves continuously. This movement is
controlled and orderly, and that is the warrant of the con-
stant energizing of personality. As the lower grades of serv-
ice are dependent on these Higher Lords for their existence
and continuance, so these latter are to those of grades more
sublime; as these are to the one Supreme Energy, the Self-
Existent One, whose Will is our life, and Whose Wisdom is
more wonderful than we can express in words or thoughts." 6
Biblical Illustrations:
This doctrine of the pre-existence of all things before they
were materialized on Earth is taught in many Biblical pas-
sages. In Genesis ii, 5, we are told that God created "Every
plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb
of the field before it grew.'' And in St. John, viii, 58, we are
told: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, before Abraham was I
am." Again we read: "And now 0 Father, glorify thou me
with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee
before the world was•••• For thou lovedst me before the
foundation of the world.'' (St. John, viii, 5). And this same
doctrine is found in most world-religions and philosophies.
The point this chapter seeks to impress is that the higher,
unseen worlds are not mere metaphysical abstractions, men-
tal conceptions, or philosophic postulates, but are real worlds ;
just as real and just as variously in~J>ited as is·the physical
6l.ofiJltlfiiU u1 HHfi..Ofllnl. 151.
Cosmic Philosophy 7
world, but are composed of finer ethereal substances. In other
words they are not mere subjective conceptions but occupy
actual position in space and in relation to this physical world
of form.5
Spirit Origin:
Logic and these facts of all manifestation, force us to ad-
mit the fundamental thesis that back of all manifestation is
spiritual causation, projection and animation.
In other words all manifestation is spirit-conceived, 'spirit-
planned, spirit-fanned, spirit-sustained, and spirit-projected,
into the world of manifestation, and therefore man, in his
spiritual nature is "little lower than the angels."
The poet Lowell must have had an intuitive realization of
this truth even greater than he was conscious of, when he
said . • . "and beyond the dim unknown, standeth God
within the shadows, keeping watch upon His own."
Modem science has abandoned the doctrine of materialism
of the nineteenth century for that of dynamism or force, and
this Cosmic Concept definitely refutes the claims of mate-
rialism, determinism and behaviorism, as theories of causa-
tion. It is only one step more in Science's expansion of con-
sciousness to grasp the Cosmic Concept, and admit the Spir-
itual Origin of manifested Nature as well as man.
Scientists Say:
Distinguished mathematicians assert that the Great Cause-
less Cause of all manifestation, or the Architect of the Uni-
verse, must be a Cosmic Mathematician, for all His laws which
sustain the manifested expression of Nature, are capable of
mathematical proof. Authorities in nuclear physics say that
He must be a Cosmic Super Scientist, since the electrons
within every atom circle around its central nucleus in orderly
orbits corresponding to the orbits in which the planets circle
around the sun.
I See diagrams in Realms of lhe Livi•o DetJ4. CurtiSII. 42.
8 Personal Survival
Microscopists say that He must have an infinite and organ-
izing Intelligence to co-ordinate the life activities of the
swarms of infinitely minute organisms revealed in a drop of
water, as exactly as they are in the grosser fonns of life. In
fact all living fonns of Nature, minute or gigantic, give elo-
quent evidence that, back of all, there must be a Super-intelli-
gent Intention, Plan, Purpose, Design, End-to-be-attained,
and Will-to-manifest, which projects them all into material
expression, animates them and maintains the hannonious, yet
infinitely complex, "balance of Nature."
lllustratioua:
For instance as we have pointed out elsewhere, there is the
mud wasp-Eumenes coarctate-that plans far ahead for the
nourishment of its progeny, which it never sees. It stings a
caterpillar at the exact location of its cerebral nerve ganglion.
This paralyzes the caterpillar but keeps it alive until the
wasp's eggs hatch out. The eggs are laid~ that when the car-
niverous grubs emerge they will have the fresh meat of a live
carcass on which to feed.
But there is a still more remarkable instance of intelligence
and farsighted planning in the case of the moth of the genus
Phonuba. The female punctures the immature seed capsule of
the Yucca flower and lays her eggs inside. She then pollenizes
the stigma of the flower to insure that her nursery will be
properly developed. Without this aid no seeds would be pro-
duced. Thus, by helping the plant to perpetuate its species she
insures food for her young. These never know or contact
their mother, for she is dead before they hatch.
Iuatinct:
To label all such manifestations of mind and intelligence
"instinct" and then define that term as "an inherent impulse
which incites men and other animals to those actions which
are necessary for their guidance, preservation and develop-
Cosmic Philosophy 9
ment" is begging the question, for it does not explain the ori-
gin of the impulse and how it became inherent. The term
"instinct" is merely a convenient name to cloak science's ig-
norance of the origin of the intelligence displayed. Where
else could such long-range planning have originated, except
in the spirit world of causation.
Protozoa:
But there is an even more astonishing manifestation of in-
telligence and discrimination. For example that found in the
one-celled organism called Protozoa. These are so minute that
it takes a high powered microscope even to see them. One
such organism, Didinium Nasutum, which kills its prey by
shooting poisonous, nettle-like darts into it, uses such voli-
tion, judgment and discrimination that it does not attack an
object which is too large for it to kill and devour.
It will attack one species of Animalcule called the Parame-
cium, which is much larger than itself, yet it will not attack
another species whose ectoderm, or skin, is too tough for the
darts to penetrate.
These are facts that external conditions cannot determine;
which are inexplicable by any mechanical theory. This is con-
cept in strictest accord with the newest development of sci-
ence, as it breaks with the materialistic, mechanistic theory,
now so completely abrogated by scientific leaders everywhere.
Evolution is not the mechanical reaction of outside forces,
but is a true evolution, a development from within of a teleo-
logical or purposive, nature, of which human intelligence and
moral achievement, are so far, the highest expression known
to us.
To term these intelligent actions "trophisms" or "involun-
tary mechanical reactions to stimuli, light and chemicals, etc."
is, again but the use of a convenient term to cover ignorance
of why the reactions vary, and why they take place at all.
Whence comes this oower of conscious choice. and delib-
10 Personal Survival
erate discrimination? Again, where else could such manifes-
tations of intelligence come from, except from the Spirit
World of Causation.
Materialism Fails:
What answer does materialism give to these problems?
And how satisfying is the answer? Materialism holds that
matter is the primordial or fundamental substance of the uni-
verse, and that only matter and the forces generated by it,
are real; that the universe is not governed by intelligence,
purpose or final causes, but only by haphazard material
causes.
Such materialism arises largely from the lack of early
training in religious facts, animal reactions only having been
explained.
Consequently the minds of persons lacking such training
have great difficulty in appreciating the immaterial facts of
life, nature and consciousness. Since their whole attention
has been focused on material things, great selfishness de·
velops, and they resent the knowledge that will interfere with
their self-indulgence.
The mental limitations of such ill-trained persons are
shown by the fact that while Nature surrounds them with
countless examples of plan, purpose, and design and the will-
to-manifest, from the beauty of design and the geometrical
perfection of the snowflake or the butterfly, to the galaxies
of universes majestically circling in their appointed orbits,
their minds are unable to see that back of all the vast and in-
tricate clockwork of manifestation, there must be the Great
Designer and Creator. Materialism, therefore fails in explain-
ing the Ultimate Cause of All, which men call God.
Seven Ultimates:
As we have pointed out elsewhere, to be a comprehensi{e
philosophy, worthy of consideration, there are at least seven
Cosmic Philosophy 11
ultimate questions, that a philosophy of life must answer.
These must be satisfactorily answered, or that which is pre-
sented as a philosophy is only an incomplete theory or specu-
lation.
The first ultimate that must be explained is the ultimate
Cause of Manifestation; the second is the ultimate of the
Origin of Life; the third is the Origin of Self-Conscious-
ness; the fourth is the Object of Life; the fifth is the Reign
of Law; the sixth is the Innate Instinct to Worship; and the
seventh is the Ultimate End of Manifestation.
These ultimates can be answered in only one of two ways,
either from the standpoint of materialism, or that of idealism
or spiritualism, for we are necessarily either materialists or
idealists.
Belief Dominates:
These ultimates must be answered because they are the
basic questions which sooner or later clamor for explanation
in every awakened mind that is living above the vegetative
stage of animal consciousness, and has not been fossilized in
a rut of materialistic doctrines, and closed to new ideas and
concepts, by ignorance or narrow scientific and religious prej-
udice.
They must be answered because one's belief dominates his
life. If we believe in God and our indwelling spiritual self,
we live one way. If we believe that the universe is a mere
mechanism for the blind expression of mechanical forces-
chemical, electric, magnetic, solar etc.-we live in quite a dif-
ferent way.
If we believe that the Soul is immortal and manifests on
earth through many incarnations, we naturally try to live so
that our next incarnation will be a great improvement over
this one. On the other hand if we believe that we are merely,
"a fortuitous agglomeration of invisible chemical elements" ;
that mind is but a chemical activity of the cells of the brain,
and that the death of the bodv ends all. we live a life of ani-
12 Personal Survival
mal indulgence, or a bleak, despondent life, without hope or
incentive to progress, and with little joy in living. But if we
believe in our personal survival after death, our belief gives
meaning to every effort we make for spiritual advance.
"Life is not the result of organization, but organization is
the result of life. All organized entities, whether spiritual or
material, are secondary to the life principle within them. The
pressure of life seeking expression in matter, is the cause of
evolution. Matter and spirit are co-existent and co-equal; one
is the passive and the other is the active principle in Nature.
But the God principle is active to both." T
Personalism:
Personalism according to Bronson Alcott is "the doctrine
that the ultimate reality of the world is a Divine Person, who
sustains the universe by a continuous act of creative Will." 8
One spirit communicator from the Higher Realms has
truly said, "I do not understand all the processes, but I do
lmow that for an ungraspably infinite period, the individual
man, created in the image of the consciousness that has
.reached man's estate here, will go on as an individual. 'God
made man in His own image.' • • • Human consciousness,
the height of individualized consciousness, reveals itself in a
form that is a copy of the actuality which is the conscious-
ness itself." •
And again; "Filling all space is a great sea of undifferen-
tiated force; we can call it life or spirit, or the Universal.
• • • But it is the thing, by virtue of which all living things
exist, through their ability to transmute this general force
into something individual. In other words we are all vital
transformers. It follows that we are alive and developed in
proportion to how much of this force we can accept, and how
freely it flows through us. The better we do this the higher
Cosmic Philosophy 13
grade we occupy, and the more alive and contented and effec-
tive we become." 10
There is ultimate satisfaction for the individual and the so-
lution of his problem, only in the realization of his Spiritual
Self (Personalism) a living philosophy because it is a philos-
ophy of life. The highest can only be achieved by spiritual
realization, for moral values are the most real.
As Flewelling says in Twentieth Century Philosophy, page
339; "The values of good-will and love do not need to be
argued anywhere. The beauty of self-forgetfulness for the
common good is recognized in every religion."
This complete realization of the unity and oneness of all
things can come only by the subjugation of animal selfish-
ness, and the individual interests, or in the sublimation of all
interests to the highest and supreme values of life.
Personalism, as has been well said, includes ; "its relation-
ship to new scientific discovery, its provision for meeting the
exigencies of a changing world of thought, its outlook on
education, its provision for religious interests, and its neces-
sity to a surviving democracy. In all the history of philoso-
phic and scientific thought the world has not been faced by
so complete and so significant a reversal of opinion since the
days of Copernicus. In the space of thirty years, we have had
the most revolutionary discoveries; Radio-Activity, the doc-
trine of the Relativity of Space and Time, the Quantom The-
ory, the discovery of the Atomic Force, to mention but a few.
These discoveries indicate the passing of scientific material-
ism, which has held sway for so long, to the exclusion of the
higher personal and esthetic values." 11
Reality:
All reality is, in some sense, personal, and there are only
personalities of various degrees of creative power, and what
they create. Personality is self-conscious and self-directive,
10 Across the Utili-. White, 23.
11 TWfllfietll CeJJfKry Philosophy, Flewelling, 334-5.
14 Personal Survival
both in finite individuals, and in the Supreme Creative Intel-
ligence, which is the world Basis and Source of all Reality.
Personality is thus the very essence of being, the super indi-
viduality of spirit; is the fundamental Real which finds the
expression of itself through the mind. Even Divine Mind
therefore, is not the Real, the Source of all,-though creating
all,--or God. For back of mind there must be Consciousness
which finds expression in concrete thought forms, in the
mind; thought forms so concrete that they have frequently
been photographed. Back of the Consciousness there must be
the Ideation, which functions through Consciousness, and
back of the Ideation there must be the Ideal or the Thinker
and Creator Himself, Who is ever seeking expression through
these various aspects of Himself, in the various worlds of
manifestation.
It is from this Primal Source that mind derives its creative'
power and its ability to differentiate itself from the objective
world, and its own creations and experiences. This Law of
Divine Reality is the fundamental principle of permanence,
in the various worlds of manifestation where all is change.
"Reality can no longer be conceived as something out there
in which the person has no part or lot. What is 'out there' is
also a function of what is 'in here.' " 12
Consciousness:
There exists in you indefinitely developable, an engine of
power, dynamically creative, capable of impressing and mold-
ing your material world, according as you give out from your
inner being its creative force. This force is not primarily the
mentally creative force which you understand perfectly. It is
the higher sense of that mentally creative force, the vital
principle of life, and comes, not from that mere agent of the
soul, the intellect, but from the very plexus of life itself. The
mental force can make a mold or plan, but for completion this
plan must have its vital principle supplied.
u TUHmliel11. Caltl~ Pl&ilD•~1t.:1. FleweDing. 334.
Cosmic Philosophy 15
Consciousness is the one and only Reality, whether it be
the lower consciousness or the Higher Consciousness. That
of which we are conscious, exists for us. The Higher Con-
sciousness is the desire to reach the highest in individual per-
ception of the Great Consciousness, or God; it is harmonious
adjustment to It in understanding and realization. This
Higher Consciousness must not be thought of as something
still within us, something which we get and hold, but as a
continually moving current, and is of no value if we contain
it only, and do not let it flow through us, and share it with
the world. It is like taking food into our bodies and retaining
all of it. We become so clogged that serious congestion and
ill-health result.
So it is with the taking of the Higher Consciousness. We
must keep open the channels of outgo as well as those of in-
take. And as an invisible whose consciousness extends from
the other side tells us. "The way to make room for more is to
use more. And draining out for use establishes suction for
the flowing in. Our output is actually the measure of our
intake." 18
"Therefore the great secret of all progress, is to let the
Universal Force continually flow through you as often as pos-
sible to clear moments in your life in which to circulate it
intensively through your being, stimulating your mind and
body, and every part of you; and then, nourished by it, to let
your mental faculties plan its utilization.
"Keep constantly in mind the powerhouse idea, making
sure you possess its feeling of strength, before attempting to
distribute-or combat. Minimize your sensitiveness, your sus-
ceptibility to adverse influences ; and work on maintaining
your force by keeping it in constant association with the
powerhouse." 14
18 Across the Unkt&Mim, White, 221.
14Across the Uakt&Mim. White. 314.
16 Personal Survival
Spiritualism:
What is spiritualism, and in this all important study of
Cosmic Philosophy and its relation to man in a personal
sense, what part does spiritualism play?
Arthur Ford in a broadcast from Miami, Florida, gives a
. splendid answer to this very relevant and important question,
and to its relationship to Cosmic Philosophy:
"Literally, spiritualism is the antithesis of materialism.
• • • Every person is either a spiritualist or a materialist.
• • • He believes, either that there is a spiritual quality in
him, which survives physical death, or that death is the end
of it all, and only the things that matter are the things of time
and sense. • • • Spiritualism relies on observation • • • its
method is scientific. Spiritualism has an important and com-
pelling message for humanity at a time when chaos, death and
destruction stalk across the world. • • • In the face of the
stark realities of war, what a boon it is to know that there is
one thing that is beyond the power of death, and that human
personality survives all the destructive forces loosed upon
the earth.
"Spiritualism stresses the supreme value of human person-
ality. It puts the emphasis exactly where Jesus did, and where
all the great redemptive teachers of the race have put it, upon
the eternal supremacy of the soul. But it also says that the
whole question of the intrinsic worth of the individual can be
taken out of the realm of pious belief, or poetic sentiment
and placed upon a scientific basis.
"It says that there is abundant proof that God prizes per-
sonality far too highly ever to let it be wholly lost. It knows
that the most backward people, as well as those who boast of
their superior culture, must go on after death whether they
want to or not.
"It knows that life after death is lived in accordance with
the law of cause and effect; that what we sow here we shall
reap there; and that the moral values of life hold inexorably.
"Having a factual basis for this belief. no spiritualist could
Cosmic Philosophy 17
be guilty of racial or religious prejudices. These twin evils,
which have been, and are, causing so much strife and bitter-
ness in the world, are alien to everything we have learned
from those exalted ones who speak to us from the spirit side
of life.
"Believing as we do that all life is the manifestation of one
Infinite Intelligence, we refuse to be a party to any form of
bigotry or intolerance.
"Spiritualism believes that the proof it offers, relative to
man's nature, will make inevitable a revival of the importance
of mind and spirit in the natural order, where too often in
the past the tendency has been to see only force and nzatter.
"This is fundamental to any high idealism, as it means a
larger universe than that perceived by our senses; not in a
quantitative sense, but in a qualitative sense, where faith, hope
and love and aspiration have as real a place as eyes and
hands ; a real universe in which ideal things have an actual
existence.
"If our claims are true, and should they gain wide accept-
ance, it will have far greater power to uphold moral agencies,
and inspire moral striving, than had the belief in immortality
based simply on faith, for it will possess an efficacy that can
never attach to a belief not so assured and buttressed by facts.
"In such a universe God and all the meanings attached to
that name, become vivid and real." 11
We quote again from Stewart Edward White's splendid
book The Unobstructed Universe, pages 37, 64.
"Next is your realization of what your scientists have ad-
mitted, that there exists in the only one universe of which
you are a part, much that your senses cannot detect, but
which have been proved to exist by means of instruments in-
vented by man.
"Recognition of the Creator as greater than the thing cre-
ated . . . acceptance of the Oneness of Consciousness as a
whole . . . is the rock strong enough to support the many-
11 See Harbill{ln of Lio'lll. Oct. bt. 1945.
18 Personal Stt:rvival
storied and various superstructure that to-day's science has
made ours. Realization that man's thoughts and their effect
on the whole, as well as on himself ; not only here and now
in his own little segment of the universe, but on out in an
eternal continuity; immortalityI not as some vague and dis-
tant possibility, but you-here--now I this is the thing that
you must recapture, as an intimate working principle."
To sum up, reality is an activity towards ends, and needs.
The person himself, his welfare, physical, mental, and spirit-
ual; his opportunity for development, consonant with the
rights and freedom of others, is the end of all statecraft or
social organization.
As Raivasson says, "Something more than includes all is to
found in personality, which since it unifies all the diversities
into a unity, is reality itself. Unity in space is organization,
in time it is life, where individuality begins. Life is not only
organization, it is self-organization." 18
Infinity is unconditioned, unlimited, and unrelated; hence
we can grasp only some of its manifestations. The universe
and its Creator are Infinite, hence they cannot be fully
grasped by our three dimensional minds.
"That the world of things springs from an intelligent
Source must of necessity be realized by all normal minds, and
human perceptions as true. The moral laws are held to be as
inexorable in their outworkings as any other law of Nature.
The Cosmic Order, being personal, is also ethical, and the
moral mandates are written into the nature of things." 11
And so we find that; "That is no such thing as blind or
unconscious force in all God's Kingdom of Creation. Not a
ray of light, not an impulse of heat, not an electrical wave
proceeds from your sun or any other star, but is the effect of
a cause; and that cause is a conscious cause; it is the Will of
some conscious Being energizing in a certain and positive
direction." 18
18 Twetttidlo Cn&twr;r Plilo.rDIJly, Flewelling, 331-2.
17 UMb.rl.-.cled UfHrnr.r6, White.
18 Tu Lowla•d.r of Hnflft. Owen. 144.
Chapter II
PROBLEM OF INCARNATION
To understand death fully we must in tum have an under-
standing of life and the processes of incarnation.
The Object of Life:
When it comes to explaining the reason for, and the object
of life, the materialist holds that it is merely for the organism
to maintain itself, and reproduce its kind. If that idea were
true there would be no incentive, or even impulse, to strive
for progress or any higher attainment. Life on such a basis
would be an utterly selfish struggle for creature comforts and
the indulgence of the senses and the appetites of the flesh.
That such a sordid idea is not true is proved by the fact that
a scientific study of the processes of all organic life shows
that it is a purposive, creating evolution, progressing toward
an intelligent and definite goal.
The purely mechanistic conception of life is also disproved
by the fact that we find mankind hungering for the immate-
rial things of the Spirit, such as freedom, justice, wisdom
and love. Man is also altruistically willing to sacrifice his life
for his country, for a cause in which he believes, or for one
whom he loves. Such qualities cannot be produced, either by
chemical activity or by mere organic functioning. Since a
stream cannot rise higher than its source, such high ideals
must have their origin in a source far higher than the physical.
19
20 Personal Survival
Materialization of Ideals:
Only the student of spiritual science can have a fully satis-
factory explanation of the object of life here on earth. For he
knows that every form of life is but an imperfect materiali-
zation of the ideal of that form which has been projected
from the mind of God, for embodiment in matter. The object
of all life is therefore the manifestation of the ideal. Since
this is the universal Law of Manifestation in Nature it ap-
plies to man as well as to the lower kingdoms. For man, the
Real or Spiritual Man, the Adam of the first chapter of Gen-
esis, was also created in the higher unseen worlds long before
the physical vehicle for his manifestation on Earth, the ani-
mal body mentioned in the second chapter of Genesis as hav-
ing been not created but formed out of the dust of the
ground, had been evolved for his use.1
In man this ideal is the pre-existing, super-physical and
super-mortal Spiritual Self. The object of life is to respond
to, and express more and more of this Spiritual Self.
However much the individual may misunderstand his own
needs, and abuse his best opportunities, there is satisfaction
for him at long last, and the solution of his problems only in
the realization of his best and highest self.
As we have said before, when a potter starts to make a
wonderful vase,-a marvel of beauty, a poem of symbology,
a lesson for all who look,-he does not copysomethinganother
mind has brought forth. Such a production would be an imi-
tation of the real. The true potter, the artist, is original. Long
before one stroke is made, even before the clay is moistened,
his mind has created every detail of the vase.2
As long as we regard ourselves as mere mortals, death will
have all the terrors of the unknown. But once we realize that
we are immortal souls, who have reincarnated many times,
and therefore have experienced many deaths, death is but a
1 For details see Tlw T""lt Aboat EfiDIMfiora 11flll til. BiiM. Curtin. 55.
2 Tlw Yllic• of 1m. Curtiss. 306.
Problem of Incarnation 21
beneficient incident in the cycle of immortal life. This under-
stood dispels all the fears and terrors of death.
Death A Victory:
Properly understood death can be a victorious experience
in life everlasting, a joyous dropping-off of all the limitations
and bondages of the flesh. It can be a triumphant entrance
into a greater realization of life eternal in the heavenly
realms ; the consummation of a long awaited, universal and
inevitable experience in immortal life.
Our True Home:
The reference to pre-existence given in Chapter 1 are
enough to establish the fact that the Earth is not our true
home or place of origin, and that our Real or Spiritual Self,
is an individualized, spiritual being, who exists, independent
of, and superior to, its limited expression through our human
animal-body.
In other words, our Spiritual Self is an individualized Ray
of God, projected into the worlds of form to manifest the
potencies and powers of God. Just as the rays of the sun are
individualized expressions of the sun, every beam of which
contains all the potencies and powers of the sun, projected
for embodiment into all the living forms of Nature, just so
are we Rays of the Spiritual Sun, containing all its potencies
and powers. Hence we are properly called "Sons of God."
"We are gods" was not said in a merely figurative sense.
Man may become a god or that which has all the magnitude
and grandure of a god, as we are told in "Letters from a
Living Dead Man," Barker.
It is this,Spiritual Self which is now commonly recognized
by psychologists and psychiatrists as limiting our reactions,
and is referred to as the "mentor" or "censor."
And as the ancient Hindu teachings put it, "Man is a Crys-
tal Ray: a Beam of Light, immaculate within a form of clay
material upon the lower surface. That Beam is thy Life Guide
22 Personal Survival
and thy True Self; the Watcher and the Silent Thinker, the
victim of the lower self." 8
Parents Chosen:
To accomplish this, when we come into incarnation, we
usually choose parents with whom we have set up strong kar-
mic ties in past lives, or those who will give us the type of
body and brain,-not mind, for we bring our own mind with
us,-and the environment which, from our soul's outlook, we
see will be best suited to teach us the needed lessons, even
though the life chosen might appear rugged and harsh to the
personality. We choose our life from the standpoint of the
object to be accomplished, not for the conveniences or pleas-
ures of the personality.
Plane of Demonstration:
Since the Earth-Plane is the Plane of Demonstration, one
reason why we come down to earth from our home in the
heaven-worlds, is to learn and demonstrate the lessons nec-
essary to complete the manifestation of our Spiritual Self,
through the body of flesh in this lowest world of matter.
On some occasions we incarnate only temporarily, when it
is not our cycle or full life term, to divert the chosen parents
from a frivolous life of social striving, mere money making,
or other material ends, and tum them to the study of Spir-
itual Truths. The early death of a beloved babe often diverts
the parents' life, and leads them to seek the Path of Spiritual
Attainment. On such occasions the parents sometimes remain
in close touch with, and are responsive to, the guiding influ-
ence of such a child after its passing over.
Before reincarnating we usually estimate about how long
it will take us to accomplish our life's plan, and so come pre-
pared to stay an approximate number of years, upon the con-
clusion of which, we withdraw. This life-term may be volun-
tarily shortened by war, suicide, accident, or improper living,
a Tie Voic• of tu Sikfll:,, Blavatsky, Fragment 111.
Problem of Incarnation 23
or it may be lengthened by some strong desire for some
worthwhile accomplishment.
Accomplishment:
As we have previously stated, the main object of incarna-
tion is to afford the Spiritual Self an opportunity to manifest
in the flesh all the spiritual qualities which it has acquired,
and the degree of their unfoldment here on earth, as it has
already done in the higher worlds. To accomplish Its life mis-
sion, our Spiritual Self must have a responsive physical in-
strument through which It can contact, respond to, and uti-
lize physical conditions. Naturally this greatly limits the ex-
pression of Its life and consciousness, but it is the best It can
do under the circumstances. The body is therefore, often a
most hampering and rebellious instrument, for the animal-
self has desires and a will of its own, which must ultimatelv
be made subservient to the desires and will of the Spiritual
Self, until it is willing to say to that Self, "not my will but
Thine be done."
St. Paul recognizes this fundamental conflict when he says,
"I delight after the Law of God after the Inner Man, but I
see another law in my members, warring against the law of
my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin."'
Cause and Effect:
This shows that God neither rewards nor punishes us but
gives us free will to follow His guidance. He allows His
great Law of Cause and Effect to operate in the Higher
Worlds as in this world, so we have no one to blame for our
after-death conditions but ourselves. Do not blame God when
you reap the results of your own creations through the vibra-
tions you have generated, and the causes you have set in mo-
tion, for we reward and punish ourselves by reaping there-
sults of the conditions we have created in this earth life. It is
a sacrilege to think of a God of love and justice condemning
' Romans. vii. 22.
24 Personal Survival
us to eternal punishment for mistakes made, largely through
ignorance, while in one short earth life. This realization re-
moves the great fear-complex generated through ages of mis-
understanding of the allegorical nature of the Biblical de-
scriptions of the conditions of the after life.
Our Rewards:
Persons who held high positions in this world, and were
possessors of much of this world's goods, but who developed
little love, compassion or spirituality, will find themselves
poverty stricken in the world of spirit. On the other hand
those of lowly position on earth, .and with perhaps little of
this world's goods, but who have.highly developed characters
and spiritual qualities, will find themselves surrounded in the
hereafter by conditions of love, light, happiness and progress.
This law is aptly illustrated in the reversed positions of the
beggar Lazarus and the rich man-St. Luke, xvi, 19-25-
for in the after-life it was the rich man who cried from tor-
ment, begging help from Lazarus, reposing in the "bliss of
Abraham's bosom."
One writer tells us in a message he received from the other
side; "While all are clothed in the spirit-world, only those
are clothed in crystal whiteness who have overcome,· over-
come their passions and their earthly appetites, in the sense
of training and subordinating them to divine uses. Oothing
in the spirit-world corresponds to character. Many of the
proud and costly attired of earth will find themselves so spir-
itually nude and poor in the world of spirit, that they will feel
to compare their vestures to filthy rags." Swedenborg, by far
the greatest seer of the last century, describes it thus, "Many
of the learned of earth are amazed when they find themselves,
after death, in houses, in bodies and in garments much as
those of earth." 1
Since we have described in more detail, in our Realms of
the Living Dead the clothing worn, the methods of feeding,
I lfllfftOrllllity. Peebln. 61-2.
Problem of Incarnation 25
the transportation, and the various occupations followed in
the after-life, we refer you to that volume for further details.
Diver's Suit:
The body may therefore be likened to the cumbersome suit
of a diver, with its great dome helmet and heavily weighted
boots, which the diver must don in order to work on the bot-
tom of the ocean. Although this greatly hampers his activ-
ities, it is the best he can do under the conditions. But to ac-
complish even this limited work, he must keep in touch with
the upper world of light and air, through the life line and the
air tube, or he could not continue to function below.
Likewise to accomplish its mission, the incarnated Soul
must keep in touch with the Higher Worlds through the Life
Ray, and continue to breathe the "Breath of Heaven"
through spiritual aspiration, or It will be cut off from its
Source and become a soulless animal.
An Overcoat:
Using another simile, the hampering conditions of the body
may be likened to a cumbersome overcoat which it is neces-·
sary for us to wear to manifest through the storms of winter,
But when we return home we lay aside this hampering gar.
ment, and thus are free to accomplish many activities whicl\
we were unable to do while bundled up in it. We can also
ascend to a higher story in our home, from which vantage
point, we can see farther out and get a more comprehensive
view of outer conditions, than we could while on the ground
floor. We may liken "death" to taking off our overcoat and
ascending one flight higher up.
We Remain Unchanged:
Just as taking off our overcoat and going upstairs does not
immediately alter our character, disposition or desires, so tak-
ing off our garment of flesh does not alter them either. We
remain the same personality and in the same degree of evolu-
26 Personal Survival
tion as we were before laying aside the body of flesh, until
we have progressed beyond those conditions while in the
higher realms.
Spirituality Sought:
So the latest scientific evidence shows that laying aside the
physical body, does not at once greatly alter the living, which
seems to be but a continuation of the interests and pursuits
we had while on earth, until they are outgrown, satisfied or
transmuted.
Ordinarily we ascend automatically to the realms to which
our vibrations of thought, character, and associations affini-
tize us. If our main thoughts and desires are still centered on
earth conditions, they naturally hold us and keep us close to
earth, "earth-bound" until we graduate from that grade and
go higher.
So death does not automatically confer spirituality. That at-
tribute must still be achieved, through aspiration and growth,
in the Higher Realms, just as surely as it must be while on
earth. The attainment of the Christ Consciousness or Cosmic
Consciousness, must still be sought for and the needed growth
reached as persistently in these Higher Realms as it was on
the earth plane.
In other words, taking off our overcoat of flesh does not
make us "bright and shining angels" all at once.
Heavenly Surroundiugs:
As the Jaw of Cause and Effect "whatsoever a man soweth,
that shall he also reap," is in effect in the higher realms as
well as on Earth, in the higher worlds we find ourselves sur-
rounded by the exact conditions we have created while on
earth, by our thoughts, emotions, words and deeds. Thus we
are furnishing our heavenly home here and now. This is re-
ferred to by Jesus when he said. "In my Father's house are
many mansions ••• that where I am there ye may be also."
John, iv, 2-3.
Problem of Incarnation 27
How shocking must thy summons be, 0 Death !
To him that is at ease in his possessions;
Who, counting on long years of pleasure here,
Is quite unfurnished for that world to come.
The Grave, BLAIR
If our main interest in life has been in music, we naturally
gravitate to the realm where music and musical pursuits pre-
dominate. If interested in art we naturally join other art lov-
ers. If our chief interest has been religion, we go to the re-
gions where religious ceremonies are held. If our desires have
been of a low nature, we are inevitably attracted to the region
peopled by those of similar low desires, and so on downward
to the lowest slums of the Astral World, where such evil con-
ditions prevail, which are commonly referred to as "hell."
But we cannot too often repeat that all persons do not have
to pass through the hell conditions, any more than they have
to live in slums on earth. It is only those who are affinitized
to these low conditions by their own thoughts, desires, and
actions who have to experience them.
And let us repeat, the thing to keep clearly in mind is that
your body is not you. It is only an outer garment of flesh
which you put on in order that you may contact the physical
conditions of Earth-life, while you remain essentially the
same as you were until you progress, in consciousness.
Heaven and hell are therefore, not only states of mind, but
are regions as tangible to our spirit-body as the regions of
earth are to our physical body.
We cannot too often repeat that your body is only your
"house" or dwelling place; your overcoat or shell which you
discard when you go through the gateway of this "thing
called death." You use it while you are on this earth plane,
to gain the experiences of that plane for the benefit of your
Sours growth.
Modem psychic research shows that the poet Holland was
correct when he wrote:
28 Personal Survival
"Heaven is not reached by a single bound;
But we climb the ladder by which we rise,
From the lowly earth to the vaulted skies.
And we mount to its summit round bv round."
Chapter III
PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION
No philosophy that purports to explain the circumstances
of life, with their inconsistencies, contradictions, inequalities,
seeming injustices, unmerited suffering and apparent success
of evil, can give a satisfactory explanation of these condi-
tions, without including the facts of reincarnation. Life can-
not be explained without including this law. Reincarnation is
therefore the only answer to humanity's eternal cry of why?
why? why?
1\ Christian Doctrine:
As we have treated this subject somewhat extensively as
well as scientifically elsewhere, we herein give only a brief
outline of the law. In doing so we feel that we are on safe
ground theologically, as well as scientifically, for Jesus taught
specifically that John the Baptist was a reincarnation of Elias
when he said; "Elias shall first come and restore all things.
But I say unto you that Elias is already come, and they knew
him not." St. Matthew, vii, 11-12. And again; "If you will re-
ceive it this is Elias which was for to come." Mark, xvii, 10.
The fact that John denied that he was Elias-John, i, 21.1
-
merely proves that we do not ordinarily remember our past
incarnations, as we are now using an entirely new brain, fur-
nished by our parents, within which no vibrations of the past
are recorded.
1 Stt also-St. Mark, vi.. 15.-St. Mathew, xvi, 13-14.-st. John, ix, 2.-
St. Matthew, xvi, 17.-St. John, ili, 3-10.-5t. Matthew, xii, 41-42.-Acts, xv,
16.-Revelations, iii, 12.-St. John, viii, 53-54.
29
30 Personal Survival
The Law Ignored:
Although this law was well known to the early church fa-
thers, it has been pointedly ignored by theologians of later
ages, for its acceptance would necessitate the revision of their
materialization of the allegories of a lake of fire, brimstone,
and eternal punishment, used to describe the after-death suf-
fering and mental torment of remorse for evil deeds, and the
disentegrating effects of the evil we have created, which con-
_stitute the only hell-fire and torment. The fact of the exist-
ence of the materialization of an actual lake of fire, and eter-
nal punishment after death, has now been scientifically dis-
proved and no such literal condition has been discovered, in
even the lowest slums or hell-regions of the astral world.
Therefore the bogies of fear of eternal punishment, which is
so frequently used to coerce men's minds to accept their theo-
logical dogmas no longer holds water among independent
thinkers who have investigated the problem.
The removal of this incubus of fear of eternal punishment,
for temporary mistakes or evils, is one of the greatest accom-
plishments of psychical research for the freedom of the
hearts and minds of mankind. Through reincarnation the soul
can learn and adjust the results of the suffering it has in-
flicted in the past on others, by having corresponding expe-
riences of its own in this life, until the Christ spirit is suffi-
ciently realized to be able to "forgive Its enemies."
Cyclic: Manifestation:
It is well known that all manifestation is cyclic. First there
is a period of activity and outgoing into manifestation, in
which the events of the day are experienced. Then there is a
period of withdrawal into sleep and rest, while the experi-
ences of the "day" are digested.
Then there is the larger period of the summer, in which
the seeds sprout, buds open and growth and fruition result.
This is followed by the fall and winter season, during which
all manifestations of the summer's life are withdrawn. and
Problem of Reincarnation 31
the results of the season's growth are solidified into sturdy
wood, upon which the next season's manifestation will take
place. Since it is obvious that one day's existence is not suffi-
cient for the development and expression of one's character,
and one summer's growth is not sufficient for the complete
manifestation of a giant tree, but that many nights, and win-
ters must intervene, just so is it obvious that one incarnation
is not sufficient for the complete unfoldment and expression
of the Spiritual Self through the garment of 11esh. Each in-
carnation is but one school day, or summer period, in the life
of the soul, with many winter periods of death and disem-
bodiment intervening, during which intervals the Soul assimi-
lates the experiences of the incarnation and builds them into
Soul growth, with which to begin the next incarnation. To
the average untrained individual, death is the end of all hu-
man relationships. This is not true as we have seen, for as
sleep is a short interval between onr experiences of Earth
conditions. to the consciousness of which we ..die" nightly,
so death is only a longer interval of rest and recuperation be-
tween incarnations into earthly conditions.
Hence, just as surely as we awaken each morning and
bring back with us all that we have learned in previous days,
just so surely will we survive and awaken into a new day-
period of life, in the next incarnation, bringing with us as in-
herent faculties. all the gains we have made in the last life,
together With all we have learned in the higher realms, be-
tween death and rebirth, as stock in trade, with which to start
the new incarnation.
Birth and death are therefore as inevitable as day and
night, summer and winter, which mark the cyclic changes in
the material manifestation of Nature, but obviO!Jsly these
changes do not mark the end of life.
Inborn Qualities:
The only portion of goods with which the Father endows
His prodigal son for his long sojourn in this far country of
32 Personal Survival
Earth embodiment is the character, traits and accomplish-
ments which he brings with him as inborn qualities. These
qualities are so powerful that they modify the physical hered-
ity which our parents give to the body. Thus even tiny infants
exhibit decided traits of character which differentiate them
markedly from other children of the same family, long before
they are able to talk. Materialists say that these are "inborn
propensities," but fail to say why they are inborn and whence
they came. Since God cannot fairly be accused of being so
unfair and partial as to make one personality a genius, and
another equally innocent babe a moron, obviously the only
answer to the unbending law of cause and effect is that the
character and traits must have been earned by the Soul,
through the slow law of growth in a past life.
They are therefore born into the new personality as inborn
traits and attainments, with which to start this new day-
period in the school of Earth-life.
If heredity and environment, were, as claimed by the mate-
rialists and determinists, the deciding factors formulating
personality, all children of the same parents and brought up
in the same environment would be as much alike as peas in a
pod, which obviously they are not.
Bonds of Connection:
Remember that while love is the strongest bond of associa-
tion which brings souls together in the new incarnation, ha-
tred is the next strongest. Therefore be sure that you do not
pass out of this life filled with antagonism or hatred, or you
will very likely be incarnated in close contact, perhaps in the
same family, with the one thus hated, until the hate is neu-
tralized and worked out. This could scarcely be done if you
had a clear memory of the previous life.
This explains sudden and unreasoning attraction, or repul-
sion, for people whom you have met for the first time, and
for which there is no apparent cause. It is like old friends or
enemies suddenly meeting face to face, after a long absence.
Problem, of Reincarnation 33
In exceptional cases, however, a person who is suddenly
cut,off in the midst of youth,-as in battle or accident,-may
reincarnate within a few months to fill out the balance of the
last life. During World War I we had one student who re-
incarnated through the same mother, within a few months
after his graduation into the higher life. Naturally the mother
had to be open to the astral, as do all mothers, to make the in-
carnation possible, but in this case she was so open and re-
sponsive that she knew who it was who wished to incarnate,
so that when he was born, she gave him the same name, the
same room, the same playthings, etc. that he had before. In
fact many mothers sense the character of the Soul who is in-
carnating, even though they may not exactly recognize who
it is.
Uninformed Guides:
Some spiritualists say that they do not believe in reincarna
tion, as their "guides" say that they know nothing of it in the
after-life. This is easily explained, for since the guides and
their friends were not interested in the subject while on
earth, it is only natural that they would associate with those
on the other side of life who also knew nothing about it.
In our years of research we have encountered a number of
such guides, who said they knew nothing of the subject, but
who were openminded enough to investigate it, at our sug-
gestion, with the teachers in the Higher Realms. In each case
their researches completely satisfied them of the truth, and
from then on they taught it in their seances.
Testimony of Sir Oliver Lodge:
Since this law has recently been confirmed from the higher
side of life by the great scientist Sir Oliver Lodge, after four
years of intensive investigation, since passing to the Higher
Realms, and since the subject is now being favorably dis-
cussed in spiritualistic magazines, it is fitting that a brief ref-
erence to it be included herein.
34 Personal Survival
This noted scientist and investigator says; "I have delayed
making this statement so that I could be sure, to my own sat-
isfaction, that I am giving you the correct deductions; that I
am giving you facts founded on the observations I have made
since my transition. During this Earth life I have kept an
open mind on this vexed subject on what is called reincarntJ-
tion. • • • Well, now I know that it is a fact. It is true. • • •
According to my personal experience, it is true.,, 2 This testi-
mony of so eminent a scientist and authority, after years of
posthumous investigation, together with the mass of other
evidence and physical proof, should be sufficient to convince
any open mind, of this law as a fact in Nature, and not a
mere convenient theory.
Freewill:
Many say that this life is so difficult that they have no de-
sire to come back again, but they are judging from the lim-
ited mortal viewpoint of the personality, and not from the
Soul's standpoint. As a matter of fact, since they still have
freewill, they will not have to come back until they so desire,
even though they remain out of incarnation for ages. But
ultimately they will realize that they cannot progress further
without returning to the Earth plane of demonstration. We
encountered one guide who claimed she had been out of incar-
nation since the days of ancient Lemuria, more than 30,000
years ago. We do not doubt her claim as she was teaching the
same old concepts as she then taught, instead of reincarnating
many times and progressing, and attaining a greater con-
sciousness and wider outlook, in each incarnation.
As we have shown therefore, we reincarnate to demon-
strate the character, talents and skills we have developed in
previous lives, that we may continue to improve them, until
we have attained God-Consciousness. After this has been at-
tained, we will have to "go no more out" into incarnation, as
the Bible tells us in Revelation, iii, 12, unless we desire, out
2 PaJ'Chic News, Sept. 8th. 1945.
Problem of Reincarnation 35
of love and compassion to return as teachers or leaders, to
help our less evolved fellow men.
Reincarnation is a logical sequence of the continuity of the
life of the Soul apart from the physical body, and properly
understood, with the Law of Karma, reveals to man the eter-
nal nature of life.
A very high spirit teacher, White Eagle gives us the follow-
ing frbm the other side.
"When a man is once convinced of the continuity of life,
when he can see that through reincarnation there can be re-
vealed a wide and grand purpose in all life's experiences, it
gives him hope, not only for the future, but for the present.
It gives him a reason for many of life's happenings.
"Life's purpose begins to reveal itself. He sees that the soul
travels a journey which commenced when it was breathed-
forth from the heart of God; and, descending through the
spheres of spiritual life, came to the earth to gain experi-
ences ; to gain consciousness. • • •
"Through this process of succeeding incarnations it gains
quality of consciousness-eventually such a rich quality that
it becomes God-Conscious• ••• We are well aware that peo-
ple try to argue against this teaching of the Ancient Wisdom.
• • • Neither argument nor opinion can alter truth. Sooner or
later he who argues against this truth, will be for it; he will
suddenly know that he has lived on this earth before. Once
the soul attains this super-conscious state, memories flood in
upon it.
"By studying humanity you will find that there are many
people unable to understand even elementary spiritual truth.
They may be intellectual and clever, but still incapable of see-
ing, hearing, or comprehending anything spiritual in spite of
their ability and so-called common sense.
"In other words, they lack the quality of consciousness, or
the ripeness of consciousness, which alone can give them
comprehension.
"Many others require no argument, they do not need to be
36 · Personal Survival
convinced of spiritual truth; it is already there in them; they
are born with it.
"The quality of consciousness which the soul brings back
into incarnation depends entirely on the life which preceded
it. When this quality is developed it will naturally and nor-
mally be spiritual in its nature, with knowledge of the life
after death.
"Such souls do not regard such a procedure as a succession
of incarnations as objectionable or in any way retrogressive,
but see it revealed as a path of eternal progress; they will see
that as the soul returns to each successive life it bears with it
a richer quality of consciousness,-which by the way, can only
be attained by the everyday experiences, suffering and hard
work of physical life. • • •
"A strange thing is that every other person, who believes
in reincarnation claims to have once been either a king or
queen, or some other notable historical character. Such mem-
ories or such statements originate because of the pride in the
individual. We cannot all have been great, true; but we do
know that it is sometimes necessary for souls who once held
a position of power to reincarnate subsequently in very hum-
ble positions.
"We know also that people who lived in obscure conditions
wisely, truly, and honorably prepare themselves for a subse-
quent incarnation which affords them greater dignity, power
and opportunity to serve mankind.
"The whole purpose of reincarnation is for the develop-
ment and training of the soul. It must learn how to use power
wisely and humbly; it must learn how to accept with sim-
plicity and humility, the limitations which it has earned be-
fore it can find the truth concerning itself.
"Some souls who pass to the spirit world apparently escape
retribution for their sins and short comings. They appear to
live in comfort and happiness much as many people dwell
comfortably and complacently down here on earth.
"Their oast actions and how thev affect the whole commu-
Problem of Reincarnution 37
nity apparently bothers them not at all; but, consider,-what-
ever a man soweth in laziness and complacency, in indiffer-
ence to the sufferings of others, he will experience himself.
Perhaps not in this incarnation, perhaps not in the spirit
world during his soul's period of rest, or in the intermediary
state between one life and another; but as sure as night fol-
lows day, men, races and nations, meet that which they have
.meted out to others, either by active evil or cruelty through
neglect, which latter might be called inactive cruelty.
"But perhaps your experience may not necessarily result
from either action or reaction, but because of neglect of op-
portunity. This is a strange saying, but suffering and disap-
pointment often offer opportunity to the soul. Once the soul
knows this, it will accept its lesson with humility, will not
question and will not demand to know why. By its quality of
consciousness gained, it has either repaid a debt, or earned
the opporunity to expand.
"Do you not see what such an understanding of life's prin-
ciples as this, means to men and women? It means inward
peace, it means assured happiness deep within; it means com-
plete trust and faith in God's love and God's wisdom; in the
wise laws which control the universe, and which control the
Life of Man; which commenced with the birth of the soul
aeons ago, and came to fruition when the soul stands forth a
perfect God-man....
"We tell you that reincarnation is no weary round of birth
and death. After touching the high spheres of light and glory,
an exorable law does not force the reluctant soul back to the
dull drab conditions of physical life. No-something far more
beautiful happens. The soul after death passes onward into a
state of light and peace, and there is able to review itself.
"Do you know what the soul instinctively yearns for when
it sees its past in due perspective ?-it cries. 'Oh, my God,
for another chance! I will do better-next time." Is this not
logical?
"How few of us fail to look back over our years and say
38 Personal Survival
that if only we had our time over again what different lives
we would lead I God in His mercy offers such another oppor-
tunity to the soul.
"In the old Masonic phrasing 'the soul comes forth to labor
on the earth; but it returns to its true home, to its true self
for refreshment; then again it returns to labor.'
"This ancient teaching is a profound truth. Its acceptance
should add much beauty to life, bring to you all encourage-
ment and an inward happiness ; because you will then know
that however simple, however limited your life may be, every-
thing will be worth while; because life provides you with op-
portunities to grow, to be educated, to continually develop
this glorious quality of soul-consciousness which will even-
tually reveal truth and God.
"Life's whole purpose is to increase your consciousness of
God's love, God's beauty, God's laws!, Psychic Observer,
Feb. 25th., 1945.
So when the curtain falls, the play and action has ended,
to the audience present. Yet the actors still exist to appear
again in other plays over and over. The curtain falls between
actor and audience; yet it rises again and our actors appear
to new audiences.
As another writer puts it; "Rebirths are going on all about
us and we pay no attention. They are such commonplaces.
Mosquitoes from wrigglers, that get their wings atop the wa-
ter-all kinds of metamorphoses. I don't know why it should
surprise me to stick my head up into a new world, and realize
that I can draw myself up until I can get entirely into it.
It is quite natural." 1
There are no favorites in the great empire of nature. You
live because it is part of the natural law. You return when
conditions are right, because it is part of the natural law, and
it is open for all to find out for themselves.
•Acrou tu U•"-· White. so.
Problem of Reincarnation
We do come back,-come back again,-
As long as this big earth rolls.
He Who never wasted a leaf of a tree,
Do you think he could squander souls?
-RUDYARD KIPLING
39
Chapter IV
SPIRITUAL CONTACTS
It should be remembered that we are spirits now as much
as we ever will be no matter how little of that spirit we mani-
fest through the body of flesh, in our relatively short sojourn
on the Earth. Being an individualized Ray of God, the Spir-
itual Self naturally contains a threefold expression of the
Trinity.
The Rays of this threefold cord of expression contact the
body through three principal centers:
The Selfconscious, or Rational Ray, contacts the body
through the pineal gland. The Spiritual, Intuitional, or Life
Ray, makes contact through the heart, where the life force
enters the blood. The Subconscious, or Instinctive Ray,
makes contact through the solar plexus.
These three Rays manifest as three aspects of the One
Mind, and these aspects are termed the selfconscious or ra-
tional mind, the superconscious or intuitional mind, and the
subconscious or instinctive mind.
We use only a small portion of the consciousness we pos-
sess,-superconsciousness,self-consciousness or subconscious-
ness.
No matter what the stress or strain of everyday duties
around us, the main object in life is the establishment,
growth and expansion of the Spiritual Self, for it is this Self
that lives on through Eternity. To accomplish this we must
keep that Self under the Rays which nourish it; and remem-
ber that however exalted and developed your aims may be,
40
Spiritual Contacts 41
they have no real existence or life until you give them expres-
sion by sharing them with others, in thought, word and deed.
Protected Doors:
The doors of the centers where the Soul contacts the body,
are covered with a protective web of etheric matter, which
prevents the forces from passing out through them into the
higher worlds, until they have been opened normally or ab-
normally.
When the solar plexus web is opened, the consciousness
can pass into the lower astral, leaving the body in a state of
astral trance. This is the cause of trance mediumship, for in
the absence of the owner's consciousness, other disembodied
entities can manifest through the entranced and otherwise
empty organism.
But no one need fear such influences, as they can find ex-
pression only through those of like negative condition of
mind, or those who open their minds or auras to the evil in-
fluence of such entities, through giving way to selfish, nega-
tive and destructive thoughts and emotions. Therefore, if for
no other reason than this, we all should be constantly on our
guard against giving way to anger, envy, jealousy or lustful
temptations, lest we be swept away into the great currents of
such destructive forces in the Astral \Vorld as will invade us
like whirlwinds and sweep us far beyond anything we had
intended or imagined possible.
In other words the so-called psychic senses are not spiritual
powers, but the functioning of our five physical senses in the
Astral World. Their reports naturally vary with the degree
of their training, just as the reports of our physical sight and
hearing depend for accuracy upon their training.
When the web protecting the brain center is opened, the
consciousness is allowed to pass out partially into the higher
astral and mental worlds, which produces the condition of
clairaudience, clairvoyance or clairsentience.
The ability of the consciousness thus to soar to the higher
42 Personal Survival
worlds, when carried to its highest degree, allows it to ascend
above even the mental worlds into the higher Spirit Worlds in
a condition of ecstacy or inspirational trance called Samadhi;
in this condition Divine Spiritual Realities and ultimate God-
Consciousness are experienced.
Withdrawal of Rays:
In reverse order, at the time of death, the Rays are with-
drawn from their respective centers. To this there are excep-
tions, under which conditions the two Higher Rays are with-
drawn without causing the death of the body, as the Life Ray
is left still functioning.
When the Life Ray is withdrawn the other two Rays must
necessarily cease their activities, as naturally the organism
cannot function when the life forces are withdrawn.
According to the degree to which the Selfconscious Ray is
withdrawn it leaves the body in a state of semiconsciousness,
sleep or trance, with the other two Rays still functioning.
Second Childhood:
These details give us a clew to the phenomenon called "sec-
ond childhood," for when the object of life has been accom-
plished, as the Spiritual Self withdraws, it leaves the body
still living as before, but under the control only of the sub-
conscious mind. This continues to function, largely as a result
of habit or routine, dominated by the strongest impressions
made on the mind. These are usually impressions of expe-
riences gained in childhood or adolescence. Hence these
strongly marked events of childhood are often clearly remem-
bered and referred to as of recent date, while those of later
date, which made little distinct impression, are often forgot-
ten. Because these earlier childhood impressions now domi-
nate, and because there is little reasoning power left, the am-
dition is called "second childhood."
Spiritual Contacts 43
Homan Animals:
The withdrawal of the Selfconscious Ray leaves behind
only a semi-intelligent human-animal, with symptoms of more
or less feeble-mindedness. If its training has been constructive
and happy, this animal-self will be as easy to care for as any
kindly disposed, well trained animal. But if the personality
has been untrained, selfish, wilful and inharmonious, when
the Spiritual Self has withdrawn its control, there is left be-
hind only a very unruly, irritable, selfish and ill-disposed
human-animal to take care of.
Under such conditions this should be recognized, and such
a person should not be expected to live up to his former
standards of conduct, but should be given the kind thoughtful
care that would be given to any aging pet animal. Usually
such cases can be better cared for in some well organized
home for the aged, where they are often happier and more
contented, after the adjustment is made.
Soulless Humans:
When the Spiritual Ray is withdrawn it naturally leave:;
behind only a soulless human-animal, without conscience Oi'
heart qualities, and with no spiritual overshadowing to con-
trol its animal propensities. The object of life having been
attained as far as possible in this incarnation, there remain~
nothing to be desired on earth by the Spiritual Self, so it lose!'!
interest in the physical body, and therefore no longer is at-
tracted to it. It then turns its attention inward and withdraws
from the physical leaving behind the "soulless human-animal.'"
Also when the human personality persistently refuses to
respond to the influences of the Spiritual Self, and so fails
to develop the spiritual qualities of love, compassion and ten-
derness, it naturally degenerates, for the spiritual cord which
attaches it to the Spiritual Self, shrivels and becomes atro-
phied from lack of use. This ultimately cuts the personality
off from its spiritual Source, and leaves it the soulless human
44 Personal Survival
animal, although still retaining its mentality, and its degree
of intelligence.
There is an important distinction both in"quality and degree
between this type of soulless human, and that of those expe-
riencing "second childhood." In the first instance, second
childhood is due to the conscious withdrawal of the Spiritual
Self or Soul, while in the case of the degenerates, it is due,
not to a withdrawal of the Soul, but to the degeneration of
the tie connecting the personality with the Soul.
This does not constitute a "lost soul" for the soul being
immortal, cannot be "lost." It withdraws into the Heaven
Worlds, there to remain until it can gather the materials nec-
essary to build up a new human personality in which to rein-
carnate. What is lost is the personality, since it is cut off from
its Spiritual Source.
Lost Personalities:
These lost personalities may have sufficient spiritual ema-
nations embedded in their finer bodies, and in their "perma-
nent atoms" to cause them to reincarnate one or more times,
but each time in a more and more degenerate human form
until the stage of imbecility or complete idiocy is reached.
Upon the death of such a one, the atoms of its various
bodies disintegrate and return to the elements whence they
came. But the intelligent soulless beings often degenerate into
"Jack-the-Rippers," "Dillengers" and other monsters of
crime, who can commit the greatest atrocities without a
twinge of conscience, remorse or regret for their crimes. No
doubt there are many such soulless beings among the Nazis
and Japanese who inflicted such bestial and sadistic tortures
on captured prisoners. They are not capable of regret for
their crimes, because there is no soul present, with its forces
of love and compassion to bring forth such regret.
Upon the death of such soulless degenerates, since death
does not change their character, they still retain their evil na-
ture. and bestial desires. Thev thus have an evil influence on
Spiritual Contacts 45
all the mortal minds which are at all affinitized to such ten-
dencies. Thus they become as near as we can conceive of as
being discarnate "devils."
Psychic Influences:
Since at first we carry with us the conditions under which
we passed out, until we have been purged from them or out-
grown them, ordinarily when we return to our friends on
earth, we naturally bring with us those conditions, as we have
explained in Realms of the Living Dead. It should therefore
be understood as a fundamental law of the astral world, that
without special training, no person in the astral can come
close enough to contact the aura of his friends on earth, with-
out unconsciously and automatically bringing with him and
imposing on that party, the physical, astral and mental con-
ditions, from which he suffered or experienced as he left the
body at death.
This explains why many sensitive persons soon develop the
symptoms of the malady with which a deceased loved one
passed out. Such persons suffer just as acutely as though they
really had a physical disease, yet a careful physical examina-
tion reveals all the vital organs in a normal condition. These
cases are often diagnosed as imagination or "neuroses," or
even "hysteria" or "insanity" by the family physicians who
are not familiar with the results of psychic research, or the
laws of occultism. Such patients are simply suffering from
astral conditions, unwittingly thrown over them by deceased
loved ones, who are trying to gain recognition, and the
stronger the tie between them, the greater the influence and
the greater the reaction. This frequently ceases or is "cured"
when the source is recognized. If it is not end('d, its effects
should be stopped by repeatedly challenging the departed one,
and demanding that he withdraw from the aura of the suffer-
ing one, and remain outside it in the future; such physical
conditions if allowed to continue long, may act reflexly and
set up actual diseases in physical form.
46 Personal Survival
Metaphysical Means:
These are the stubborn cases which are often "given up by
all doctors" yet are frequently cured by Christian Science,
New Thought Affirmations, Auto Suggestion, etc. The in-
struction and personal magnetism of the healer, and the re-
sulting discussions, inform the departed one, more or less, of
his responsibility for the conditions, and induce him to with-
draw his influence.
One of our students went through an experience of this
sort. When her husband passed over, after suffering for a
week with very distressing heart conditions, she found her-
self much distressed with the same symptoms. Believing that
the trial of his sudden passing and the strain of subsequent
events had brought on heart trouble, she sought medical ad-
vice, but after several elaborate tests, no organic heart trou-
ble could be discovered. Finally she called in a young doctor
who had had some experience with metaphysics, and in whom
she had great faith. He pointed out to her that she had merely
taken on the condition which had caused her husband's death,
and that the pain and discomfort were psychically imposed.
Very soon after this explanation, and by following proper
instructions, the trouble ceased entirely.
A Suicide Case:
A few cases from our medical practice will further illus-
trate this law. One patient complained that she frequently felt
a compelling influence to commit suicide, with a razor, when
she was in the bathroom. She had spent large sums of money
in many months of treatment by psychologists and psychia-
trists, who had endeavored to trace events of her earlier life
back to childhood in an effort to find some fright, fnistration
or other emotional cause, which might have produced the sui-
cidal impulse, but without result. Our first question gave us
the clue.
When asked whether anyone in her family had ever com-
mitted suicide with a razor. she reolied that her husband had
Spiritual Contacts 47
done so, with the blade of his safety razor, in the bathroom
about a year before. When we pointed out to her, and to him,
who was there in spirit, that, in his efforts to contact her, he
unwittingly threw over her the desperate state of mind which
had compelled him to commit the act. We asked him to stand
outside her aura in the future, and to try to communicate
with her through telepathy only. After this explanation while
the patient often sensed his presence, she had no further im-
pulse to suicide.
Drinking Case:
While lecturing in Topeka, Kansas, we were consulted by a
mother concerning the condition of her son, a young man in
the middle twenties. About every three or four months he
would have drinking spells, lasting from a day or two to a
week or more, until he was completely exhausted. After each
spell he would bitterly repent, sign the pledge and vow that he
would never touch liquor again, saying that he hated it, and
it made him sick, but that he could not resist the impulse to
drink. Our psychic investigation revealed the fact that his de-
ceased grandfather, who had been a hard drinking Southern
Colonel, was the cause of his condition. He said he was try-
ing to teach the boy to "carry his liquor like a gentleman."
The boy, however, was too sensitive to stand the strain. When
we explained to the grandfather that his influence was ruin-
ing both the boy's health and his character, he promised to
stay outside his aura, and not to induce him to drink again.
Reports from the mother, a year later, showed that there had
been no further drinking sprees. We have cured a number of
similar cases of periodic drinking by the same methods.
London Case:
After one of our lectures in the great Queen's Hall, Lon-
don, a well-to-do woman came to us for help. She said that
she had everything in life that she wanted, wealth, good fam-
ily, social position, abundance of handsome clothes, motor
48 Personal Survival
car, town and country house, etc. Her difficulty was that often
when she approached the River Thames, she felt a wild im-
pulse to jump in and drown herself. When asked whether she
lmew anyone who had thus drowned, in the Thames, she re-
plied that her father had drowned himself there some time
before. We explained the situation to her and to her father,
who had been attracted to her by our inquiry. He said that he
had no idea that he was throwing over her his impulse to
drown, when he tried to draw close to her with love and af-
fection, and he promised not to do so again. Some months
later she reported that she was still completely free of the im-
pulse, and could now visit the Thames with perfect freedom.
War Cue:
During World War I, a mother asked us for help about the
condition of her daughter, who, she thought, might be losing
her mind. The trouble was that the girl suddenly developed a
fear of the dark; she was especially too frightened to go to
sleep without a light in the room. She had been examined by
psychiatrists and psycho-analysists without receiving any re-
lief from her terror, and her mother had turned to us in des-
peration. Our examination revealed the fact that the girl's
fiance had recently been killed in the war, and it was shortly
after that time that her attacks of fear began. When asked to
explain exactly what took place, she said that as soon as she
turned out the light, and got into bed she felt as though some
terrible object was slowly rolling toward her and that if it
struck her, she would be blown to bits. Further investigation
revealed the fact that, while her fiance lay wounded in a shell
crater, an enemy shell rolled down the slope, and exploded as
it struck him, blowing his body to bits. As soon as he recov-
ered from the shock in the astral, he naturally sought out his
sweetheart, but strangely enough, not to comfort her, but to
urge her to marry his chum whom she knew well, so that he
might incarnate through them as their child. Of course he had
Spiritual Contacts 49
no idea that he was throwing over her all the tragic incidents
of his death. When we explained to both of them that was
what he was doing, all terror of the dark disappeared and a
few months later the chum and she were married, and within
a year a baby boy was born to them.
Chapter V
DEATH UNDERSTOOD
To be prepared to understand the cessation of the manifes-
tation of our life on earth, we must have a clear understand-
ing of the universal and inevitable experience commonly
called death. This experience is dreaded because the un-
trained mind fears the unknown and the unfamiliar. Re-
cently, in the light of clearer knowledge and better under-
standing, through scientific research, this dissolution of the
physical that the soul may progress, is believed to be one of
the fundamental methods of_progress along the Path.
Death, when not due to accident, suicide or war, is the vol-
untary withdrawal of the Life Ray under the direction of the
Spiritual Self. It is simply stepping aside from, or outside of,
one's house of the body, into the "outdoors" of greater light
and freedom. Even if there is sometimes a little confusion
and strangeness at the change of abode at first, it need be
only temporary and momentary.
Doon of Exit:
There are three doors of exit through which the soul may
be released at the time of death, the general tendency of one's
life, that on which one has focussed his attention, and the de-
gree of focussing, determining the door of exit.
In the case of animals, children or adults whose attention
is largely focussed on the physical,-and this includes the un-
thinking and unintelligent masses,-the door of exit is
through the solar plexus.
50
PL\TE !- Departure of the Astral Body at death, through the fon-
tanel. According to the clairvoyant vision oi Andrew Jackson Davis.
( PS}•chic Observer)
Death Understood 51
For the mass of kindly disposed and unselfish people,
-among whom we find the well meaning good citizens, the
compassionate, philanthropic workers for the good of others,
-for all these folks whose heart qualities predominate, the
exit is made through the door in the region of the heart.
In the case of the mental types, and the more spiritually
evolved types, the exit is made, more or less consciously
through the fontanels at the top of the head.
Some occult teachers advocate, not merely drifting to sleep
but practicing consciously withdrawing through the top of
the head, for this will facilitate the conscious withdrawing
at death. When this ability has been developed, we will be
able to withdraw, at death, in full consciousness.
"Stepping outside one's self actually means the practice of
making one's own, in imagination, the conditions of the hour
of death. . • . Supposing the day came for the Great Ad-
venture of departing hence. . . . One is apt to take this tre-
mendous step quite suddenly. What is it going to be like?
Why turn our imagination away from it. . . . Why not
entertain ourselves with the buoyancy of anticipation?" 1
Some teachers claim that as the soul approaches the with-
drawal of life and consciousness, it has a preview of the time
and place of death, and so is prepared for it and able to
predict it.
It is said that a dim orange light in the room during the
passing, facilitates the desirable withdrawing through the
top of the head.
Apparently this method of exit was known to the priest-
hood of many lands, down through the ages. From the
earliest times the Hindoos pictured man with the cap of an
inverted lotus blossom of a thousand petals, with the stalk
extending from the top of the head up into the higher worlds.
This illustrates how the Spiritual Self sends down its Rays
of personality, and enters the body through the top of the
1 Across 1M lid-. White. 64.
52 Personal Survival
head. There it blossoms for a few short years, and then re-
turns to its heavenly home over the same route.
Archeologists exploring in the Mimbres Valley in New
Mexico in 1929, found over four hundred mummies of
primitive Indians, estimated to be at least 1400 years old.
The head of each was covered with an earthen bowl, which
had a small hole drilled into the bottom, so it would come
directly over the top of the head. Through this hole the
spirit of the departed was supposed to ascend into the
Heaven World.
The almost universal recognition of this method of exit,
down through the ages, in widely separated parts of the earth
is good evidence that it is a fact in Nature which is com-
monly recognized.
These details explain why there are conflicts in the reports
of observers as to through which door the exit is made. All
three types of observers may be correct, as they have been
reporting exits through the different centers.
The Passing: --
From many authentic sources comes the blessed word that
the actual passing over, the moment of transition, can be a
delightful, easy and happy experience. We quote from some
eminent writers, who feel that from all the descriptions given
by authorities who are in position to know, whereof they
speak, death is a beautiful thing over which there should be
no grief, no bitterness, to mar the experience of the one who
is passing. Only friends should be around who understand,
and who are calm and loving.
"Spirit friends have already come to attend this higher
birth. Often they bring garments white and glistening.'' 2
When the eminent William Hunter lay dying he is quoted
as saying. "If I had strength enough to hold a pen, I would
write how easy and delightful it is to die." a
s Immortality, Peebles. 36, 38, 39, 44.
arbid.
Death Understood 53
A Universalist minister, the Rev. J. W. Bailey, the day
before he passed over, began to sing, and would sing for
hours, saying that it did not tire him to sing, and that he was
so happy that he could not help it. . . . He turned his eyes
upward and oh, how glorious they looked! They seemed
illumined with heavenly light. He opened his eyes and smiling
upon his wife said. "I have seen over the river ••• it is
beautiful on this side, but oh, glorious, glorious on the
other!" ..• he then said, "Do not grieve," waved his hand
and passed on.4.
When Mrs. Pinkerton, a medium of same note, and a
spiritualist lecturer, was passing into death, she exclaimed,
"This is a glorious doctrine to die by friends.... This is
the best day of my life; I hear the angels singing; I am
happy, happy, happy! •.. Doubt no more-l know there is
a blessed, glorious, eternal life.••• The voyage is pleas-
ant." 11
And from the spirit world we have the following mes-
sages! "Now I am quite successfully dead. It wasn't much
of an operation after all! It was a pleasurable releasing,
quite different from the death-agony idea.••• That should
be looked upon as merely the birth pangs of the spiritual
body." c
"I feel like a tramp stealing a ride under a car, and sud-
denly asked into a pullman. Wonderful to be a part, even a
little part of anything that moves on with such majesty,
beauty and power." 7
"There is no bump or jar. We keep right on just as we
have been going. . . . You shut up your old house and move
into a new habitation. . . . There is no sudden jump, which
will transfer you. You take over what yor~ are." 8
The following is a vivid description of a passing over :
4.Jbid.
liJbid.
8 Acros.r the U11k11ow•. White.
7 Ibid.
8Jbid.
54 Personal Survival
"I discovered by certain whispers which it was supposed
I was unable to hear, and from certain glances of commisera-
tion, which it was supposed I was unable to see, that I was
near death. • • • Presently my mind began to dwell, not
only on the happiness which was to come, but on that which
I was actually enjoying. I saw long forgotten forms, play-
mates, companions of my youth, and of my old age, who one
and all smiled upon me. They did not smile with any com-
passion ;-that I felt I no longer needed-but with that sort
of kindness which is exchanged by people who are equally
happy. I saw my mother, father, and sisters.••• They did
not speak yet they communicated to me their unaltered and
unalterable affection. At about the same time when they ap-
peared, I made an effort to realize my bodily situation • • •
that is I endeavored to connect my soul with my body, which
lay on the bed in my house • • • the endeavor failed. • • •
I was dead." 8
,Conduct of Friends:
As we have stated else.;here, and we would like to be
emphatic about it; we should say farewell to our loved ones
with no more grief than would be natural if they were start-
ing on a long journey, to another country, and were intend-
ing to stay for a long time. We shall see them again, and will
be in communication with them if we desire. • • • Instead of
spending time and force in useless grief and mourning, the
time should be spent in quiet meditation, and in an effort to
correlate our consciousness with theirs and assure them of
our love and understanding. Mourning clothes should not be
worn, nor should constant visits be paid to the grave, for
all such acts and thoughts tend to hold the departed one down
to the discarded body, through the law of attraction.
The recently deceased is often strongly attached to the
discarded physical body, and for some time hence, haunts
8 a,.. H•fllln4 CtU•• Ill S•mwl G/Ur DH11. Baird.
Death Understood 55
its burial place. But it is thus held only as a result of
thought or desire, the desire to see what becomes of the
former outer garment it wore while on earth. Therefore,
cremation is always desirable • • • because it consumes the
physical magnetism, and this releases the desceased at once
from that source of attraction to the Physical World. Great
care should be taken to see that either burial or cremation
is not carried out, until the astral body has had time to with-
draw completely from the physical body, or considerable
suffering may result. • • • The attending physician should not
sign the death certificate, nor the undertaker be called, until
there is absolute surety that the soul has really left the body.10
Peace and quiet should prevail in the death chamber, and
there should be no hysterical beseeching of the loved one to
return. This often brings him back for a few minutes, only
to have to go through the process of dying all over again.
Seen and understood in the light of present inspiration and
spiritual revelations, there is no death, no real death. There
is only transition, a changing of form and state; only the re-
nunciation of the physical body for a lighter, freer and less
unwieldy one. It is the dissolution of time and space. It is
living in another atmosphere with our own selfsame con-
sciousness as we had while on the earth plane, but with a
clearer vision and a wider understanding. It holds no terrors
for those who will learn.
So, death should be a quiet loosening of the magnetic bonds
which hold us to the body, and a letting-go of the strong earth
desires for a further life on Earth; the more one clings to
Earth, the greater the futile struggle against the inevitable
transition.
And so, as one writer puts it. "Death, which is only the
shedding of the outer envelope, in no way affeds the im-
mortal man. It is not a sponge which cleans the slate in a
moment ; not a sieve that, while separating the chaff from
10 For further details. see Realms of the Livi•a Dttad. Curtiss. 65-66.
56 Personal Survival
the wheat, purifies the soul; not a moral chemist, that so
manipulates character as perfect in the twinkling of an eye.
And yet death, or conditions to which death introduces the
individual, offers better and higher facilities for perpetual
progress." u
11lmmortalily, Peebles, 55.
Chapter VI
EFFECTS OF PRAYER
Prayer is defined as "The mode of addressing a divine
or sacred power, in which there predominates the mood and
intent of reverent entreaty. In this sense it is a characteristic
feature of the higher religions, and we might even say that
Christianity, or Mohammedanism, ritually viewed, is in its
utmost essence, a service of prayer." 1
As we have pointed out elsewhere, the object of all re-
ligions is the worship of the Divine; and the primary object
of all worship is personal contact with, and realization of the
Divine. But as there is a method of mechanism by which the
whole manifested universe comes into physical expression,
so is there a method, or mechanism, by which conscious con-
tact is made between the human personality and those higher
expressions of God, toward which the heart aspires.
While there are many avenues by which this contact is
made, ranging from contemplation, meditation, and silent
aspiration, to the sudden despairing cry for help and pro-
tection in times of crises, nevertheless the avenue most
readily available to the average consciousness, is prayer, as
commonly understood. This does not mean that one must
necessarily repeat certain stipulated words as set forth by
another, for each heart can usually formulate its own words,
to express its own desires and needs. But, as words both
symbolize and embody definite ideas, when properly voiced
they can be used to produce specific effects.
1 E•cyclo~etli4 Brita••ka, 11th. Edition. Vol 22, 256-b.
57
58 Personal Survival
Eft'ec:tive Prayers:
Effective prayers are not mere combinations of words,
carefully thought out by the intellect, and arranged as a
literary composition. Such prayers rise scarcely above the
ceiling of the room in which they are uttered. To be effective
they must spring forth spontaneously, and express the feel-
ings and aspirations of the heart. The degree of their spirit-
uality determines the height to which they will rise in the
heavenly realms.
St. James emphasizes the need that the prayer be a fervent
one when he truly said: "The effective, fervent prayer of a
righteous man available much in its working." 2
Neither is prayer merely a supplication, a sending up of a
plea or a wish for something we desire to obtain. Construc-
tive prayer is creative, and in order that it may be effective,
it must be approached with a greath warmth of desire ; a real-
ization of something lacking in our spiritual life and attain-
ment. Prayer enlarges our consciousness of the reality of
Truth for our own personal use, and our realization of our
oneness with the Great Source must be expanded, and go
up to meet the fulfillment of our prayer. Our capacity to
receive the answer must be great enough to allow it to come
to us. In other words, we pray to be made great enough to
receive and be worthy of that for which we ask.
Reports from authorities in the spirit world confirm our
statement that the mere repetition of words has little effect
on the powers evoked. Repeating prayers by rote has little
more effect than repeating the multiplication table.
Prayer, then, isa constant projection of your spiritualbeing,
heart and soul; a constant realization of your Spiritual Self.
One great writer tells us about prayer as he received the
message from spirit teachers:
"You must know that there are appointed guardians of
prayer here whose duty it is to analyse and sift prayers of-
fered and sent up by those on earth, and separate them into
2 St. James. S. 16.
Effects of Prayer 59
divisions and departments ; to pass them on to be examined
by others and dealt with according to their merits and pow-
ers...•
"In order that this may be done perfectly, it is necessary
that we study the vibrations of prayer, as your scientists
study the vibrations of light and sound, and as they are
able to analyze and classify and separate the rays of light, so
are we able to deal with your prayers. And as there are light
rays with which they are confessedly unable to deal, so many
prayers present to us those deeper tones which are beyond
the range of our knowledge. These we pass on to those of
higher grades, to be dealt with in their greater wisdom.
And do not think that these prayers are always found among
the prayers of the wise. They are frequently found in the
prayers of children, whose petitions and sighs are as care-
fully considered here as the prayers of nations. . . . And
what applies to prayer, also may be applied to the exercise
of the will in directions not so legitimate. Hate and im-
purity and greed, and other sins of the spirit and mind, take
on here a solidity which is not seen or realized in your sphere:
and these also are dealt with according to their merits. . • •
And . . . alas, those who say that the angels cannot grieve,
know little of our love for our brethem still battling on
earth. Could they see us dealing with some of these misusings
of the Father's great gift, they would probably love us
more and exalt us less." a
The answer to the prayer is not given fully and effectively
when the prayer is not directed in the right direction, for the
projection of the will must be straight at the end desired, or
the effect is weakened. When the prayer is weakened-with-
out faith-or is actuated by unworthy motives, it does not link
up or harmonize with the wills of those whose duty it is to
take care of prayers, and the end is not attained. ·
"We in spirit life pray for help whenever we want it, let
the object be what it may; but not if it is an evil object.
a Lowla•th ol Heavm. Owen. 138-39-40.
60 Personal Survival
In the latter case prayer certainly is undesirable. for it is the
cause of attracting to you spirits which will aid you in ac-
complishing your purpose perhaps, but they will only in-
crease your unhappiness afterwards; if you have strong will-
power you are tempting them. On the other hand if you pray
for a good object, you benefit the spirits whom you draw
around you. It is good for them to help others, and in help-
ing you they help themselves. Thus you see prayer is a
spiritual force which you can put into operation if you have
will-power enough.
"Prayer is, therefore, not merely aspiration, it is something
like advertising your wants. . • • You should, of course. pray
to God rather than to the spirits directly. He permits spirits
to execute His decrees.••• We all live under His laws, and
nothing can happen contrary to His laws. Whatever is done
must be done by Divine sanction, and to Him our prayers
should be addressed. By longing we do not mean praying.
Prayer is a more active form of longing. • • • Prayer asks,
and love grants. 6
"We are continually broaacasting our most secret thoughts
and desires. We are accountable for ·what we send out;
our desire does not die in our breasts, but it goes out as
something we have launched, to run straight ahead on its
appointed course, until the force of its projection is ex-
hausted, or until it meets a more powerful or deflecting force.
• • • That is part of our responsibility: to send out as far as
human fraility will permit, only wholesome impetus into the
intricate cross currents of world life." •
"The formulation of a need into a thought, a petition, with
the sure submerging of self, that comes with prayer to what
is greater and higher than self, is a beneficent operation to
the individual, and is a definite projection unto the un-
obstructed universe.
"It is a very good thing to teach children to pray. Prayer
Effects of Prayer 61
is an actuality and gives them a belief. The world has got
along very well on a belief in prayer, for the voicing of a
desire or an emotion makes it concrete. It clears it in your
own mind, if nothing else. And maybe when you have
formulated it, you find you do not want it ; or if you do. . . .
'God helps those who help themselves.' " 8
"Prayer is the projection of your spiritual being, heart
and soul. It is the conscious assembling of your highest self.
"Constructive prayer consists in the realization of, not
spiritual needs but spiritual lacks." 7
Raising our consciousness and realization of our oneness
with the Great Creator, or Power, is the channel through
which our prayers are answered. Our thoughts and words go
up as prayers, and not one but is answered for us or against
us. Power is given to us by the Spirit to change our thoughts
from those of negation to those of Heaven. Words and
thoughts of Love, Joy, Peace, uplifting and constructive
thoughts and words, have power and potency. They represent
Divine Power and Reality. Their opposites are merely an
inversion of them, and therefore have no power of their
own. These words of Love, Peace, Order, Harmony, Beauty
and Perfection, are words that carry with them tremendous
power to bring these attributes into our bodies, our lives
and our affairs. If we think such thoughts and speak such
words, aloud or inwardly to our Soul, we became filled with
the Light and Power of Heaven.
Prayer can attune you with spirit forces, but it takes
something else too. Real prayer is thought, word, high
motive, endeavor.
"More things are wrought by prayer
Than this world dreams of. Wherefore let thy voice,
Rise like a fountain for me night and day.
For what are men better than sheep or goats
That nourish a blind life within the brain,
8 UtJObztrtaeletl Uaivw1e. White. 253.
T Till Bdty Booll. White. 135-36.
62 Personal Survival
If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer
Both for themselves and those who call them friend?" 1
Prayer in Action:
Every sincere prayer, every spiritual aspiration, every
constructive thought or emotion, every unselfish deed, en-
genders a constructive vibration which ascends from the
physical to that higher realm with which it affinitizes. There
it is immediately noted by the spiritual workers in that realm,
who do all they can to manifest the desired result or answer,
to the Soul who sent forth the vibration. This of course is
more or less subject to the consciousness and karma of that
individual Soul. Such constructive aspirations and vibrations
pierce the clouds of mentality and miasma overhanging
humanity, like skyrockets illuminating the night. And, most
important of all, they leave a trail of spiritual fire behind
them, which becomes a channel of light, through which the
return currents from the unseen worlds, can penetrate the
overshadowing, miasmic fog, and reach humanity. In other
words, such vibrations make-rifts in the dark clouds, through
which beams of light from the Spiritual Sun can shine down
upon mankind.
Spiritual Forces:
Thus, amid the most terrible conditions of inharmony,
crime and war, there are also manifesting tremendous forces
of Spiritual Light, uplift, and encouragement, for there are
vast and highly organized groups of advanced Souls in
most of the unseen realms, who have dedicated their lives
to the service of humanity, under the direction of the Christ.
These are ever seeking avenues of contact with mankind,
even more eagerly and persistently than are the evil forces,
that through such avenues they may pour their powers of
love, inspiration and constructive power, and enlightenment
for the help, guidance and comfort of humanity, during these
I Jlort• 4'Artb,., Tean:r-, L 247.
Effects of Pra'j'er 63
"days of tribulation." All such who have enlisted in the serv-
ice of the Christ, together with the more advanced Beings,
who stand close around the throne of God, have long watched
and waited for this time to come. They know well that, only
as they can build a bridge of love, understanding and service
between themselves and humanity, and inspire mankind to
live a truly and earnestly helpful spiritual life, can both they
and humanity hope to accomplish the work of the Lord
Christ, and thus shorten these "days of tribulation."
Spiritual Helpers:
These multitudes of advanced Souls in the Higher Realms
of the unseen worlds, who have enlisted in the army of the
Lord, and unselfishly seek to help humanity, together with
the angelic hosts that surround the Christ as a great body
guard of Cosmic Force, as He prepares to descend into
manifestation on Earth, have more than once begged the
Father for more time during which humanity may repent and
be redeemed.
So the great day of adjustment has been pushed back, and
pushed back, time and time again. But alas, cosmic forces
can be influenced or diverted only temporarily, as they move
inevitably forward to their destined manifestation, unless
they are neutralized by opposite vibrations of greater power.
While there are many periods when similar astronomical,
astrological and astral influences have prevailed, yet, just as
one day differs from another that is seemingly identical,
so is it with the greater cycle of the ages. The night is now
far spent and dawn draweth nigh. The New Day is at hand,
the Day of change, the Day of tribulation, "which has not
been since the beginning of time, no nor ever shall be." It
is the day of seeming disaster, but is in reality the Day of
Oeansing and Purifying.11
This general belief verified through the ages by experience,
is explicitly explained by our Cosmic Soul Science, which
II For furth.,r d.,tails """ Worltl Ctnctlitimu. Curtiss..
64 Personal Survival
holds, that, "every sound in the visible world awakens its cor-
responding sound in the invisible realms, and arouses to
action some force or other on the occult side of Nature..•.
All these find an echo • . • even on the terrestrial plane, in
the lives that swarm in the terrene atmosphere, thus prompt-
ing them to action." 10
Prayer Service:
The Universal Religious Fellowship has a daily prayer
service, at which time the names of all those desiring special
help, especially for their health, or while undergoing an
operation, are relayed to the Invisible Helpers.
When the author's mother was asked how such cases were
handled in the invisible, her reply was :
"The Christ force would find its way to the students re-
quiring help, even without the names being given. The con-
dition of those needing help calls for it, as we might say,
automatically. The entire class is looked over and the bare
spots discerned." She also said that when prayers are said
for her they invoke forces of inspiring, joyous, spiritual
forces from the higher realms, all of which help her to pro-
gress.
That such attention to the needs of our students produces
beneficial results is evidenced by the fact that, for more than
thirty years, when students' need for help during operations
is mentioned no operation has been unsuccessful, and no
post operative infection or hemorrhage has developed. Often
such cases are the "miracle cases" because they usually re-
cover so rapidly that they are out of the hospital in half the
usual time.
"Man offers himself to God. He stands before Him as
the canvas before the painter, or the marble before the
sculptor. At the same time he asks for His grace. exposes
his needs and those of his brothers in suffering. The modest,
the ignorant, the poor are more capable of this self-denial,
10 Tu S«rd Doctritw. Blantab, 111, 451.
Effects of Prayer 65
than the rich and the intellectual. \Vhen it possesses such
characteristics, prayer may set in motion a strange phenom-
enon, the miracle." 11
Spiritual Prayers:
Spiritually inspired prayers are pratically dictated by high
spiritual Beings in the Higher Realms. They are not mere
pleasant-sounding pious words, strung together for their
literary effect, but are practically mantrams, whose repetition
invokes forces from particular Hierarches to produce special
effects. The following examples given the author will illus-
trate our meaning. They also embody the teachings we have
given in the previous chapters:
Invocation to the Divine Indweller:
Come forth, 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty!
Thou Who art my Higher Self, and yet art God !
And manifest through this body of Thine,
That it may outpicture Thy radiant perfection,
All that Thou art within.
Even so, manifest through me, 0 Lord. Amen.
Invocation to the I Am Presence:
0 Eternal Being, Thou loving I Am Presence
Whose I am, and Whom I serve;
Thou art in me and I in Thee;
Thou art mine and I am Thine.
Thou art my eternal Pattern ;
Make me more and more like Thee. Amen.
Healing Invocation:
0 Thou loving and helpful Master Jesus!
Thou Who gavest to Thy disciples power to heal the sick!
\Ve, recognizing Thee and realizing Thy Divine Presence
with us,
66 Personal Survival
Ask Thee to lay Thy Hands upon us in healing love.
Oeanse us from all our sins, and by the Divine Power of
Omnipotent Life
Drive out the atoms of inhannony and disease,
And fill our bodies full to overflowing, with
Life, and Love and Immunity.
Protecting Invocation:
0 Christ I surround and fill me and (Here mention the per-
son, room, home, or other object you wish to have pro-
tected.)
With the seven-fold flame of Divine Love and Wisdom,
That it may purify, illumine and guide me in all things.
May its Spiritual Fire form a rampart of Living Flame,
Around me and (The ones or things mentioned above.)
To protect us from all harm.
May it radiate to ever}r heart, consuming all evil,
And intensifying all good.
In the Name of the Living thrist we ask it.
u These and other eimilar prayers, for almost evet')' occ:asioa will lie £0111111 ia
D71WG...U: PN:Jn6, Curtiss.
Chapter VII
PRAYERS FOR THE DEAD
We repeat here for emphasis, what we have said on this
subject in Realms of the Living Dead, page 49: "Prayers
for the loved ones who have gone over surround them with
comforting, helpful and protective thought forces, and they
also serve to call the invisible helpers to their needs."
As prayer can thus reach the higher realms, and bring to
mankind, the help of those over there, just so, on the other
hand, can prayers, especially for our loved ones, reach them
and have their specific effects. This two-way process is the
basis of offering prayers for the dead.
Testimony from the spirit world says; "For those who
have gone on into the perfect understanding, it is ever good
to pray. Why? Because the Universe is one. You pray for us,
we pray for you. You can be in a sense our guardian angels,
as we are yours." 1
From the most ancient times, prayers for the dead have
been recognized as being beneficial to the departed souls.
\Vherever there is a belief in the continued existence of the
personality of man through and after death, religion naturally
concerns itself with the relations between the living and the
dead.
A.ncestor Worship:
Prayers for the dead bring to mind the ancestor worship
among the Chinese and Japanese, and other Oriental peoples,
1 Ut~obnrad'd U11ifl"s', White, 240.
67
68 Personal Survival
wherein direct communication with the departed is recognized
as being made. They are thus kept infonned of all the major
events in the life of the family, and their aid is sought
through prayer to them.
Not only is this belief held by the Orientals, from the
earliest ages, but it is also found in nearly all other religions
which assume, not only that the soul is immortal, and thus
survives death, but that personal communication is possible.
This doctrine was held by the early church fathers, varying
in degree from St. Augustine's prayer for the rest of his
mother's soul, to the extreme statement of Tertullian, that,
"the widow who does not pray for her dead husband, has as
good as divorced him~"
Egyptian Beliefs:
The doctrine of immortality and everlasting life, and the
belief in the resurrection of a spiritual body, are the brightest
and most prominent features of the ancient Egyptian reli-
gion. The many religious texts found appealed mightily to all,
from the highest to the lowest, for they were believed to
give man power in the world beyond the grave, and to en-
able him to gain everlasting life.
Formula of Egyptian Prayers:
Petitions were addressed to the God, or Gods, of the com-
munity on behalf of the dead. and they contained petitions
for the welfare of the departed in the world beyond the
grave.
Their realization as to the reality of a future existence was
very definite and they believed that the life hereafter was
similar to that which thy had led upon earth.
The most important collection of these prayers and rituals
is found in Professor Budge's The Book of the Dead. They
can scarcely be called inspiring because they are nearly all
concerned with the allaying of the fears of the departed,
and protecting them from the fears of the astral world.
Prayers for the Dead 69
Catholic Doctrine:
According to the Catholic doctrine, as stated in the author-
itative Catholic Dictionary; "Prayers for the dead benefit the
souls in Purgatory.... The souls in Purgatory are aided
by the suffrages of the faithful. . . . They are benefitted by
the mass, indulgences and good works, such as prayers,
fasting, alms, etc. . . • The satisfactory indulgence of good
works, which consists of the remission of punishment due to
sin, is transferred to the poor souls.... It is reasonable to
hold that God always applies the satisfactory merits of good
works, offered for the dead, to the poor souls; to those souls
for whom they are offered. It is held that the pains of
Purgatory are measured by years and days, and that each
forgiven soul was supposed to have to endure an amount of
suffering in proportion to the guilt of its sins, and the
prayers and penance of the living availed to shorten this
penance time in Purgatory." 2
It is therefore possible that the masses sincerely said, in
addition to the upward striving of the soul itself, may be
said, "to pray itself out of Purgatory," in due time.
In liturgies of various churches, were lists of the names
of the dead, to be commemorated at the Eucharist, from the
days of St. Paul, who prayed for the rest of the Soul of
Onesiphorous (2nd. Timothy, 1-16.) to the present day.
Mormon Doctrine:
"The mormon Temples are not 'churches.' They are reli-
gious centers, for sacred ordinances-ritualistic courses of
work and study-done by living Mormons for the benefit of
deceased relatives and friends. Through these ordinances
those in the spirit world are brought nearer to Divine Per-
fection,-prepared for eternity." •
2 N r111 Catholic Dietitmary, 781.
B Patl&&..dn. Nov. 1945.
70 Personal Survival
Anglicans Disagree:
"The Church of England believed at one time that the
prayers for the dead were of no avail, since, according to
their 'Church Association,' the believer inherits everlasting
life, and needs no such prayers, whilst the unbeliever's lot is
everlasting condemnation . • • a destiny which no prayers
after death can alter. However the 'Church Times' apparently
does not agree, probably in the light of modem research and
enlightenment. In one of its recent issues, it printed an article
containing the words; 'God • • • must surely design that our
life after death shall be in a state in which our spirits can
mature • • • the life which the departed live is a state of
purification and of progress. • • .'
"Reflections such as these constrain us to appreciate the
naturalness of remembering the departed in our prayers."'
Purgatory:
According to the Roman Catholic Faith, Purgatory is a
state of suffering after death, in which the souls of those
who die in venial sin, and those who still owe some debt of
temporal punishment for mortal sin, are rendered fit to enter
heaven.•
Since the mere incident of leaving the physical plane does
not change the character of the personality of a man, he
carries with him the quality of the vibrations of his mind
and desires, and he is thus surrounded by the conditions
which he generated on earth. If these were of the "earth
earthy,'' they naturally hold the person in close mental and
magnetic touch with the earth.
These material vibrations naturally weigh him down with
their materiality, and prevent him from rising to the Higher
Realms above. He therefore remains earthbound, until those
lower vibrations have been eliminated, by the process of
transmutation and spiritualization. This process is called
• P~clt.ic Nftllll, Oct. 4th, 1945.
II Eru::~clo,edill BriiMiflkll, lith. Edition. Vol. 22, 262 B.
Prayers for the Dead 71
purgation, and the state in which it takes place is called
Purgatory.
This process of redemption is a very real condition, and
may last for years, according to the efforts made by the Soul
to reach higher levels.
Since we have described the low conditions of purgatory
in some detail, in Realms of the Living Dead, we will refer
to them here only as follows: "I have seen in the lower
spheres of darkness, clusters of societies and cities of moral
degradation, in the streets of which, undeveloped spirits were
engaged in disputations, quarrels, enmities and pitiful rav-
ings. They delighted to annoy and torture each other-de-
lighted to live in a measure, their earthy lives over again, and
to influence gamblers in their dens, inebriates in their
wretched retreats, and debauchees in their haunts of crime.
These scenes make angles weep, and I mention them with
sadness. And yet the same God is over all, the same influx
of life sustains all, and there is hope for all in the future." 8
"There is a very definite reality in 'hell' and 'purgatory,'
not precisely as the theologians have it perhaps, but a reality.
But no one comes to the perfect understanding without the
necessity of a time of readjustment, and of wishing he had
done differently." 7
And again, the same spiritual teacher has said; "Take the
person who has fostered or allowed in himself a gradual
growth or accumulation of petty griefs, envies, angers, un-
kindly judgments, and intolerances toward his associates,
amounting finally to a complex that actually makes a char-
acter.•.. These are the 'negatives' that must be eradicated
in 'purgatory,' if you want to call it that. Such a person
must come to a complete understanding, complete selflessness,
complete love. And by his own effort.
"It is only the emotional things that really count. If people
are big enough to live right emotionally, the concrete thing
8JmmorttJiity, Peebles, 91.
7 The Unobsl"'cted Universe. White. 240.
72 Personal Survival
can be over-ridden. Because-and I want you all to get this
-because, nothing that happens to an individual is as im-
portant as what that individual thinks about it." 8
This process of purgation may not invoke suffering, unless
the negative conditions generated are mostly sinful and
grossly material. Otherwise it may be just a period through
which the Soul passes while having its attention turned from
things of the material life, to those of the spiritual life. For
instance, the loved ones often spend years in intimate contact
with the lives and affairs of those left behind, as long as they
are greatly concerned about them. With such concern prom-
inently occupying their minds, they pay little attention to
their progress and purgation. It is these whom our prayers
especiaiiy help, since they turn the attention of such, to higher
things. Therefore do not think of the process, of purgation
as necessarily one of intense suffering, unless the departed
cling desperately to the old ideas, habits, and desires of the
earth life. If they have lived a good temperate life, they
may enjoy a happy existence "over there" for many years,
surrounded by their relatives and friends.
Hell Fire:
Modern research has abundantly shown that, while the
Christian Bible may not be historically accurate, the allegories
and parables, are universally true and are grouped and ar-
ranged to illustrate symbolically some feature of the growth
of the Soul. They serve to illustrate phases of experience,
through which every soul passes during its journey toward
conscious union with the Divine.
This arouses great controversy and there is no doctrine
that bas aroused so much debate as that of "hell-fire." When
this is mentioned in the Bible it refers to the process of
transmutation, in which .evil is transmuted into good. The
fires are the fires of purification and transmutation, which
consume all that is false or impure. These fires are those of
8 T1w Uaobslnad'4 U"i"n-••· White, 245.
Prayers for the Dead 73
karma that the personality has lighted, and in which it must
stand until all is converted into good. The soul will not be left
in hell, but will gather to itself the experiences necessary to
clothe itself in immortality. Hell endures forever and ever
simply because there is no end to eternity, or evolution, and
there will always be some dross to bum out and be purified
and transmuted.
Hell is separation from God, and the greater the separa-
tion, the greater the suffering.9
But let us repeat again for emphasis: While we all have to
pass through the stage of purgation, necessary for our ad-
vance into higher realms, we do not all have to pass through
a "Purgatory" of intense suffering, or through the fires
of "Hell." Only the extremely wicked and unrepentant,
whose vibrations automatically affinitize them with those
conditions, must do so.
"Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell (to Sheol)-, neither
wilt thou suffer Thine Holy One to see corruption." (Psalms,
16, 10.)
And so, as we have said elsewhere, when we pass to an-
other plane, we are surrounded and conditioned by the
thought forms we have accumulated on the earth plane.
Those who have believed in, and thought much about hell
fire after death, especially those who have greatly feared it,
often suffer much from such thought-forms of fire. \Ve were
once present at a materializing seance, in which a form
materialized, completely surrounded by such thought-forms of
fire, which were so dense as to actually bring heat into the
room. He was writhing in pain, as if from an actual cloud of
flame. He appealed piteously for help. When we explained
that he was suffering only from his own thought creation,
magnified by fear and that he could be released by calling on
the Christ for help, he prayed fervently and a Ray of cool
white light shot down and dissipated the cloud of fire.
It is no wonder then that this stage of transition toward
9 For further details srr chaptrr on Hell Fire. Yoke qf Im. Curtiss. 78.
74 Personal Survival
the Higher Realms is recognized by almost all religions.
This is most eloquently expressed in Dante's immortal "The
Inferno," and Milton's "Paradise Lost," although both of
these great works stress largely the lowest depths of such
conditions, in the slums of the astral.
A. Prayer for the Dead:
0 Thou Great Almighty One! from whose heart all man-
kind has sprung! We pray that Thou wilt focus the Rays of
Thy Love, Light and Life, upon those loved ones of ours,
who have graduated from this school of earth life, into Thy
higher school of the Soul.
Send to them, we pray, the hosts of Thy angelic workers,
that they may welcome, guide, and teach our loved ones the
ways of the higher life.
Teach them how to live in ever greater consciousness of
Thine all-encompassing love.
Teach them how to realize, imbibe and assimilate Thy
Power, that they may transmute, and be purged from, all
Earth conditions that hold them back from their continued
progress, into ever higher realms of Thy spirit-world.
Banish all fear and sorrow, with the joy of a new and more
Spiritual life.
Teach them how to purge themselves of all that might
affinitize them to those unhappy souls, who are still in the
regions of darkness, either on earth or in the after-life, who
would seek to drag them down to that level.
Teach them to right the wrongs they have done on earth,
as much as possible.
Teach them how to comfort and inspire those they have
left behind, that they too, may seek to press ever forward
in the Spiritual life, under Thy guidance.
Thus may all in the two worlds be drawn closer to one
another, and to Thee, in the oneness of Thy divine Light,
Life, and Love.
Chapter VIII
GRADUATION
Earth may be considered as the seminary of heaven, where
the Soul is placed to contact the material, that it may develop
and perfect a more mature individuality. It is the rudimen-
tary school, where the most material conditions for spiritual
development, may be contacted and mastered.
A Soul School:
Earth conditions therefore, constitute a common or grade
school for the Soul. Their lessons prepare us for greater Soul
growth and unfoldment, as we learn to express more and
more of the spiritual qualities of our Real Self under the
handicaps of material limitations.
Just as in the common school there are many grades and
many teachers, so in the common school of earth-life there
are many grades and conditions and many kinds of teachers.
The grade, or type of environment in which we start this
life, depends on the degree of unfoldment we have obtained
in past lives, as we have already explained in a previous chap-
ter. For we bring into this incarnation, the net results of the
lessons we have learned in previous lives.
This stock of lessons learned and the character gained, we
build into the new personality as inherent abilities, talents,
likes and dislikes, the expression of which cannot be ac-
counted for by the Law of Physical Heredity. That Law
applies only to the type of body our parents furnish us as an
instrument through which to manifest.
7S
76 Personal Survival
We Progress:
As we make the best use of these inborn qualities, to learn
the new lessons which we incarnated to learn, we progress
from grade to grade. But if we fail to learn the lessons of life
which result in spiritual advancement, we waste our oppor-
tunities, and so have to experience the same conditions again
and again, in this and even in subsequent incarnations, until
the needed qualities have been built into and manifested in
our character. So it is of no use for us to try to "play hooky''
in this school of life by refusing to face and conquer the con-
ditions which life brings to us, and to learn the lessons con-
tained therein.1
We must accept the moral responsibility of the individual,
and that he makes his own happiness or unhappiness as he
obeys or disobeys Nature's physical and spiritual Laws. And
remember that the door to reformation is never closed to any
human Soul, here or hereafter.
From the spirit world comes this message: "Each individ-
ual comes into the worldto do a job, and he comes here best
and happiest only when it is completed; after he has gathered
to himself as nearly as possible his requisite of work and ex-
perience. The purpose of the present divulgence is to restore
in earth consciousness the necessity of individual effort, and
the assurance that the effort will not be wasted. The only
assurance of this is a return to the belief in immortality." 2
The best proof of growth in character is the manifestation
of the "fruits of the Spirit,'' listed by St. Paul (Gal. 5, 22.)
as, "love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, kindness,
goodness, and faithfulness." When we return to our spirit-
ual home, these are the only things that go with us, for we
can take none of this world's goods. We can take only the
character we have developed, and a memory of our earthly
experiences, together with the satisfaction of a work well
done, and the happiness of remembering the little kindnesses,
Graduation 77
the good deeds, the helpfulness and encouragement we have
given, to our fellow travellers on the way. We may also carry
over poignant regrets for the many opportunities for ad-
vancement we have missed, or neglected, and for a life mis-
spent or wasted ; or perhaps we will have remorse for our
evil deeds, and the injustices and suffering we have inflicted
on others.
We Continue to Grow:
We repeat for emphasis what we have said in another
chapter, that when we leave this earth plane, we do not im-
mediately reach maturity, nor are we through with lessons.
As we are told from the other side :
· "Get over any idea that death is going to, instantaneously,
transform you into Celestial Beings. You did not leap iDto
maturity, when you graduated from high school into college.
There is no sudden jump, which will transform you. You
take over what you are. That is the real continuity. It is not
the teal continuity of going over to something easier and
adapted to all your peculiarities. It is a smooth transition.
o o o You've got to do away with that superstition that your
handicaps here will be instantly eliminated there. Get adapted
here and then you will enter without conditions. It is a
smooth, beautiful thing, this continuity. The division between
the lines is an imaginary equator. • . . What you are doing
now carries over.. o o Your real wealth and capital, which
will rehabilitate you in any change that comes to you, is the
extent to which you have developed this Inner Reality. It is
what gives strength to character, the power to convince and
influence others, the calm acceptance of temporary destruc-
tions of one's impermanent possessions and surroundings." 1
And as another communicator expresses it : "There is no
deception possible about the status of those who pass out of
the body. It is not possible-permanently-for a man to dis-
guise himself, and by the assumption of titles or styles to
a At:rtns lu U11boan•. White. 10~10.
78 Personal Survival
pass himself as something he is not. Not all the uniforms,
not all the bestowed decorations, not all the orders or honor-
ifics, of men, will change a mean spirited man or woman into
a noble soul. Time spent in the service of humanity, will,
alone perform that change. Honors are conferred by service.
The dignity of the spirit arises only from its natural growth,
and those who strive to serve do so because they know of
the happiness it will bring, not only in their world but in
ours." 6
Worldly rank and title are leveled; each must stand upon
the foundations of his own character and development. While
some mischievous spirits try sometimes to pose before in-
quirers, as being someone great or important, their deception
is easily seen and known, on the spirit side of life.
Many of the spirit counsellors, in telling of the life after
death, speak of the period or "temple" of self-examination,
to which we go after the passing. Here alone, in silence, and
with memory of the past life most vivid, the soul reviews
that life, a5 it passes in panorama before it, and judges and
grades itself accordingly. Into this judgment is put, not only
thoughts, words, and deeds, but also motives. And this we
should remember, that motifles are important, and as we
strive for mastery let us examine our motives as well as our
thoughts, words and deeds.
Dwellings in the Spirit World:
Those who come back from the other side, to tell us of the
homes over there, vary greatly in the description of these
homes. This has a tendency to raise a doubt in the minds of
many, as to the verity of the message. But the communicators
tell us over and over again, to impress the fact on our minds,
that, we do not all have the same kind or "degree" of home in
the spirit world, any more than we do in this Earth world,
since each one of us, largely builds his eternal home there dur-
ing his life here while in the body. Our home in the spirit
& TN W• DNII Rmna, Barhr.
Graduation 79
world, is our dwelling place there, our realm, the right to
which, we have earned while on the Earth-plane. According to
our consciousness on this Earth-plane, is our dwelling-place in
the spirit world, and as we progress in consciousness there, so
are we able to go on and build "more stately mansions" for
the souP
The following authoritative messages from the spirit-world
will enlighten us :
"I found a home prepared for me in spirit life, but incom-
plete ; I am now working to complete it. Every act of my
earthly life, every secret thought, I found had taken tangible
form. . • . During our sojourn on earth, our homes are pre-
pared for us by the angels, and are built of the vibrations
which go forth into the spiritual atmosphere from our hearts
and lives. Will-power, when it subdues evil, beautifies the
home.
"The smallest act of mercy, kindness, or compassion, of
aid, of self-denial, of intellectual or bodily labor, to please,
benefit or instruct others, will make its own beauty around
the spirit, and will be found in some living object in the
spirit home ••• objects which are sources of satisfaction
and joy.
"It should be remembered by the children of men, that it
is not so much intellect on earth, as goodness, purity and
self-sacrifice, that prepares the soul for the homes of the
blest." 11
Another great teacher and seer speaking from the spirit
world says that what mortals need to fit them to heaven, or
to build their "house not made with hands, eternal in the
heavens" is "more trust in God, more faith in prayer, more
true culture, more self-sacrifice, more of the attributes of
humility, meekness, kindness, love, purity, honesty, serenity,
justice, and truthfulness.•••"'
II Th Cloambn"l Naatilu, Holmes.
e Immorttdity, Peebles, 128, 138, 180.
1' lmffiiWtalit'f. Peebles. 234.
80 Personal Survival
Our Ascent:
As cork rises in water to the extent of its buoyancy, so do
the discarnate souls, almost as automatically ascend to that
realm of the Astral World to which their degree of spiritual
unfoldment, vibrations of thought, character and associations
enable them to respond and affinitize. From that region they
progress, to the still higher Realms, according to the efforts
they make, and the degree of spiritual unfoldment they attain.
Conversely, all we have to do to contact the unseen worlds,
is to raise the vibrations of our consciousness until it responds
to the rate of the unseen realm we desire to contact, and since
everything to which our consciousness responds is real to us
while we are responding to it, when thus contacted, the un-
seen worlds become as real and substantial to us as is the
physical world when we are responding to its lower octave
of vibrations.
Desire Realm:
As the desire realm is the region to which the most un-
developed and least progressed souls are congregated,-in-
cluding the atheist and the gross materialist-whose vibra-
tions are slightly above the physical, they are able to exert
great influence upon the lower and less developed class of
people who are still on Earth. It is these vicious, and malign
entities who are still seeking to express their evil tendencies on
earth, by influencing those who are sensitive and respond to
their forces, who are to a certain extent responsible for insti-
gating our crime waves.
But again let us repeat: We do not have to contact or fight
our way through the lower slums of the astral, unless some-
thing in us affinitizes us to them for a time until it is purged
from us.
For sometime after we pass over, our after-life seems to
be but a continuation of the interests of our Earth-life, and if
our main thoughts and desires are still centered on Earth con-
Graduation 81
ditions, we naturally remain in the realm close to Earth, until
we graduate from that realm and go higher.
Welcoming Committee:
Death does not mean that we pass out into a vast realm or
unknown region of darkness, uncertainty or loneliness, or
even into a bright and shining heaven, or into a burning fiery
hell. Usually we pass right into the arms of our loved ones.
They know that we are about to graduate from Earth's com-
mon grade school, and so they gather as a reception commit-
tee, to greet and help us upon our arrival.
One voice from the spirit-world has said that the extrica-
tion of the ~pirit from the body is an office assigned to a
certain order of angels. They receive souls kindly, and intro-
duce them to their new sphere, where they quickly seek out
those with whom they have an affinity. New-comers from the
Earth rejoice at meeting their friends again, and their friends
rejoice at their arrival. Husbands and wives meet and con-
tinue together for a long or short time according to their af-
finity.
Let us repeat the comforting assurance we give in the
Realms of the Living Dead, page 49, that all that is necessary
for your loved ones to be met by a reception committee, in
the after-life, is for you to send out a strong mental wireless
for the helpers, and they will be gathered to meet the new-
comers.
Workers:
"After a few days of readjustment to the new surround-
ings, many of these new graduates join the great companies
of unselfish servers who work to help the millions of other
new arrivals, whose sudden thrust into the Astral World
leaves them so confused that they cannot understand what
has happened. These workers are organized in regiments,
companies, and squads of rescuers, in which they work much
82 Personal Survival
like the Red Cross workers do here on Earth, giving expla-
nations, companionship and comfort to all who need them." 8
As reported by another authority: "In the first place, when
you come here, one of the things that astounds you most, is
the lack of difference. One of the first jobs is, to meet the
boys who have died in the war, suddenly, without the interim
between the two consciousnesses, and to explain to them
what has happened and where they are." •
Guidance and enlightenment are needed over there, even
as they are here, and especially during the period immedi-
ately following the transition, before adjustment has been
made to the changed conditions. Those who make the tran-
sition in love, are hom into a new realization of love's infinite
capabilities, and its boundless building power.
Only one who is free from all such barriers, and who is in
very deed and truth a World Lover can become a leader,
teacher and liberator of such consciousness-bound egos.
One who has recently made the transition has been called
the "Friend of the World," and already he is engaged in work
on the inner plane the scope and nature of which is such as
to amply justify the friendly appellation thrust upon him.
The Grand Council:
The late President Roosevelt graduated from the confer-
ence of the Big Three statesmen into the Grand Council of
world statesmen, who are working not only for their own
nations, but for the best good of all. This Council includes
our former presidents, Washington, Lincoln, Harrison,
Oeveland, McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt, and Wilson, to-
gether with silnilar minded statesmen and former rulers of
other countries. There, with the wise assistance of the other
members of the Council, our late President will do his utmost
to guide the decisions of our country, and influence for the
best the destiny of the world. His expert influence is so
8 For farther detaa1s, aee RHI,... of tu Livia11 DH4, Curtiss, 48.
• V1111bslncUII Vaiv~6,, Wbite, 205.
Grad,uation 83
plainly recognized that the newspapers write quite casually,
"The man whose Spirit-Presence presides over this Confer-
ence, has been brought home to the onlookers ever since this
parley started." 10
Associations:
The saying that "birds of a feather flock together" holds
true even more forcibly over there than it does here on Earth.
Your vibrations naturally affinitize you with like thoughts
and desires. There can be no pretense or disembling over
there, for your vibrations reveal exactly what you are, al-
though there is much effort made to pose. But this cannot be
done and thus your vibrations affinitize you with your kind
almost as automatically as a dial telephone selects the numbers
which you dial.
Unsympathetic members of an earthly family, coming into
spirit life, automatically separate, each seeking congenial
groups and societies. The law of attraction is the governing
principle.
Long Sleep:
If, before you go over, you have a long drawn-out, ex-
hausting illness, or have suffered much, you are usually given
a protracted restful sleep. If you are a materialist, and do
not believe in life after death, and go over under the influence
of that thought, you will naturally be surrounded by clouds
of such thought forms, and will remain in a state of coma
until the amount of thought-force which you have put into
the idea, has expended itself. Tl\is may take a thousand years
or more, and then you will awaken and see how foolishly
mistaken you have been.
Once we have been released from the bonds of the flesh,
and accustomed ourselves to the conditions in the higher
worlds, we find that the universal urge to eternal progress
still pre,-ails. We therefore desire to continue the unfoldment
10 WGSiaillgln PIISI, Ma7 6th, 1!145.
84 Personal Survival
of our spiritual qualities, and to progress into an ever greater
realization of our oneness with the Divine. We also seek to
unfold all the qualities, which, by their practice, will enable
us to be of greater service in whatever realm or region we
find oudselves. Hence we occupy ourselves with those pur-
suits which facilitate our purgation, and therefore our ad-
vance.
Children Mature:
The Law of Eternal Progress causes those who graduate
from earth-life during childhood, to continue their growth
until maturity, just as they would have had they remained
here on earth.
As a noted spirit teacher has said: "The world calls me,-
tu here-dead. But sometimes people, unable to endure the
thought of such a blanking out, speak of a loved one as having
•gone on.' That idea, the thought of going on, is more correctly
true. It is true that we are changed; but so is man in his earth
experience; changed from a new-hom child to adulthood.
And not only is he changed physically, but his perceptions
are changed, his power of assimilation, his control of himself,
and of the things of Earth about him." 11
Since children have not had time to be greatly impressed
with the more material conditions of earth-life, their minds
remain pure and unsullied by the passions and gross selfish
desires of the more mature life. Upon "graduation" they
therefore naturally ascend into the higher realms of the astral
life, to which the keynote of their characters affinitize them.
There they are met by angelic spirit helpers, whose main de-
light is to work with and help children. They watch and wait
for the coming of the children, that they may bear them tend-
erly to the rest homes, or schools, best fitted to their needs.
''In the spirit world," says one writer, "I have seen the happy
groups of children, frolicking, dancing, gathering flowers,
listening to music, gaining instruction and unfolding in
Graduation 85
beauty and in life. Gleesome sounds burst from glad hearts
-sweet lisps of affection, and the mischievous frolic of the
child-heart. But around every child was an aura or a thread
of life that connected it with the Earth so that it was to know
where it was hom and to tell each one's parentage. It was
forever floating through the spirit atmosphere-the spirit
forces of the parents went upward, and by natural law wound
their life in and around the life of their little ones. This law
is the result of affections, and if the child is loved but little,
then the spirit law has severed the child from its parents' life,
since it was by attraction,-which is love,-that the life of
earth followed it away into the spirit world, and wound itself
about the child of its love. There is no force used but a natu-
ral law of spirit-law of life.
..The spirit bodies of little children grow trancendently
lovely. No human mind can conceive of the beauty and grace
of these little ones. No unlovely object harms them-no
frightful disease rends them. They unfold, as in spring the
rosebud opens to the sun, or the petals of the lily unclose to
the light of day. They all bear a semblance at first to their
natural bodies ; but as their souls grow and their spirits shine
with the life of their souls, then they appear as their interior
or mind makes them. The spirit body flows from the natural
body. It is composed of its electric, magnetic, and spiritual
life, and when first hom into the spirit life, it has the exact
form of the natural body. But as the grosser particles of its
earthly magnetism are given off, and it becomes purer and
truer, higher and holier, then it assumes a form of perfection
and beauty. What the soul wills, or reveals, that is life and
form and substance to the spirit.
..It often occurs that parents pass to the spirit world not
long after their children, or perhaps at the same time. Being
uninstructed in spiritual things, and ignorant of the spiritual
laws, they are ill-fitted to develop the spiritual life of the
child. Therefore, never mourn that you cannot go when your
child goes. It has wiser nurses than you,-better teachers; if
86 Personal Survival
it has not more love, yet it has a higher love,-the love devel-
oped by wisdom." 12
Age Disappears:
On the other hand, those who graduate at an advanced age,
gradually lose all trace of old age or disease, until they return
to their most glowing stage of maturity, usually in the early
thirties.
In a message recently received from Sir Oliver Lodge,
after more than four years' experience in the after-life, to be
sure of his facts, he corroborates our statement by saying,
"I think you might say that I have knocked off about thirty,
to thirty-five years, in appearance. The process of rejuvena-
tion has been very easy." u
But if those in the spirit world return to communicate with
those left behind on Earth, they must present themselves
much the same as they looked when they graduated, or they
would not be recognized. Likewise those who graduate in bat-
tle, or after operations, lose all trace of wounds, and regain
their lost limbs, for the astral body is not mutilated by physi-
cal operations.
Pusiug In Battle:
Those who pass on suddenly in battle find it difficult for a
while to realize where they are. They know that they are not
"dead," for they see their buddies and friends around them.
And since they are clothed in astral duplicate of their uni-
forms, it is difficult for them to realize that they have lost
their physical bodies. They realize that they have had some
kind of physical shock, but they do not know just what has
happened.
As we have explained elsewhere, "In the case of sudden
death, either by accident or in the war, when the mind is still
filled with the intense excitement of battle, the first awaken-
Graduation 87
ing often brings the soldier the sense of being suddenly awak-
ened from a dream, and he looks around in amazement for
the familiar battle field.••. With some few, the force of
the old hostilities and thoughts may for a time impel them to
hunt out and attack the enemy, and return to the battle field
on the physical plane. • • . But those in the astral who keep
on trying to fight are those who have made themselves chan-
nels through which the evil astral forces could express, and
who were so filled with hatred and lust for killing, that they
desired to continue their habits of butchery after passing on.
However, the majority are met by their 'buddies' who have
gone on before, and are anxious to explain to the newly ar-
rived, that for them the fighting is over, for they have gradu-
ated into a higher school of life." u
As an old friend has well said : "Soldiers who are hurled
from their physical bodies, while in the midst of battle for
their Fatherland, find themselves limited on the physical plane
by boundaries corresponding to those that held them nation-
ally confined before crossing over. The joy that comes with
gaining the universal consciousness, is not yet theirs." 11
The Return:
Since thought, desire, and love are even greater controlling
factors over there than they are here, one of the first impulses
of the newly arrived is to contact their homes and their loved
ones. That strong desire naturally carries them immediately
to their homes over the magnetic current of love connecting
them with those left behind, and since they are now still close
to Earth conditions, they often appear to their loved ones in
dreams or waking visions.
Although they cannot appear in physical form, they often
make their presence felt through currents of magnetism and
love. Since their dense astral bodies abstract heat and vitality
from the living, their first contact may cause a chill or shud-
tt See Rnl..u of tit, Lifliag D,ll4. Curtiss. 68.
u Tlu Nlflll World lfll"!n'datioa. Corrine Dunklee.
88 Personal Survival
der to pass over those living ones thus contacted. After a few
such contacts, however, the chill becomes a thrill of recogni-
tion. Later a current of warmth, or a glow, may pass over the
loved ones on Earth, as they respond, for as the astral body
becomes purified and refined, it no longer causes a chill.
Disappointments:
These contacts are often ignored or shaken off by the liv-
ing, either through lack of response, because they are not dis-
tinctly felt and recognized, or through fear due to ignorance,
if they are felt. These rebuffs are a great disappointment to
the departed ones. In fact it is as though they came home, and
found nobody to respond to their knock at the door. If their
presence is felt and response is refused, it is like slamming
the front door in their faces.
Your Response:
While you may not dream about or feel the magnetic pres-
ence of the loved one, a thought of him may suddenly pop
into your mind, when you have not been thinking of him, or
something that he has said may suddenly occur to you. In
such cases this is usually due to his concentrating his mind
upon you, and your mind responds to his thought through
mental telepathy. Since the fact of telepathy, or the direct ex-
change of thought from mind to niind, without physical con-
tact, or the spoken or written word, has been so thoroughly
demonstrated publicly to vast radio audiences, and otherwise,
by the famous Mr. Dunninger, such exchange is no longer
doubted, even if not thoroughly understood. And since the
departed one still has his mind functioning perfectly, he can
communicate through telepathy even more easily than he
could whe11 he was on the earth-plane. One test to determine
whether it is really the loved one who is communicating is
that his thoughts come into your mind in the characteristic
way in which he would express them.
When you realize that any of these forms of contact are
Graduation 89
being made, if possible stop whatever you are doing and pay
attention, just as you would if the telephone or front door
bell rang. Mentally say, "Yes dear one, I recognize your pres-
ence. Please stand outside my aura, and impress my mind
with your message." Then proceed to talk with him as though
he were upstairs, or in another room, out of sight but not out
of hearing. In this way you can receive much love, comfort
and guidance. It is in this way that God often uses our de-
parted ones as messengers, to answer our prayers for comfort
and guidance.
Be sure not to converse aloud with those in the unseen,
unless you are alone, for persons overhearing you might think
you are mentally unbalanced.
Making Contact:
One of the best ways to call a loved one with whom you
wish to make contact is to use a photograph, one in which the
eyes look directly at you if possible. As you send out your
call, focus your gaze upon the pupils of his eyes while you
smilingly pour a warm current of love into them, until he
seems to smile back at you, or you feel the warm response
which shows that a contact has been made. This same method
has been used to comfort, heal, protect, and bless one who is
still living in the flesh.
Their Progress:
Remember that although your loved ones may keep in close
contact mentally or telepathically for years, this need not keep
them from progressing and graduating into the Higher
Realms of light, peace, beauty and joy in spiritual activity
into which their spiritual advance affinitizes them. Therefore
do not hesitate to commune with them when you feel their
presence or their thoughts, provided that you keep in mind
that they are still fallible mortals and that their advice is no
more reliable now than it was when they were on Earth, un-
less they have advanced in wisdom since passing on. Accept
90 Personal Survival
their advice only if it seems reasonable, and receives confir-
mation by a glow of warmth, a thrill, or a strong feeling of
assurance or satisfaction from the Christ within.
And here we would like to quote a message from a spirit
teacher as a warning which all those who are interested in
spirit messages should heed:
"Remember that disorderly spirits, still sympathetically
connected with the Earth, moving in your midst, • • • are
capable of doing great harm to humanity. They can commit
actual sin through easy, negative-minded people upon the
Earth. Changing worlds does not immediately change the de-
sires of the miser, the thief or the carnally minded. These
passions and tendencies do not pertain to the body,-that is
material, unthinking, and irresponsible. It is the spirit that
thinks, wills and does through the body; and it is the spirit
whether it is in the body or out, that is normally respon-
sible.'' 18
Only the very lowest types of the returning spirits come
back to prove any of the religious creeds, or to continue prej-
udice, revenge or hatred. The vast majority of those who re-
turn are glad to come, to give words of love, cheer and com-
fort to those left behind. The first thing they say is that they
are happy that they can return, they still love those with whom
they now talk, they see what is passing in their old homes,
and they share the cares that were once theirs.
The father is still concerned about his children's welfare;
the young lovers are still absorbed in their affection for each
other; the mother is still the preserver and protector of the
home.
Protection:
To prevent you from being deceived by mischief-making,
or malicious spirits in the astral, always use some prayer for
protection, like our Protecting Invocation whenever commu-
1a]fllfii(JrlGli#7, Peebles, 166..
Graduatio1~ 91
nicating. Owing to the war, conditions in the astral world are
so confused and terrible that such protection is necessary
daily, especially for all who are sensitive to invisible influ-
ence.17
The shedding of so much blood on the battle-fields feeds
countless swarms of low type elementals in general. These
elementals, together with great streams of thought-forms
of horror, hatred, anger, revenge, and desire to kill-now re-
inforced by similar thoughts of both embodied and disem-
bodied Nazis and Japanese-form great whirlwinds of evil
force to sweep over mankind. If you open the door to such
forces by giving way more easily than formerly to irritation
and anger, you may be overwhelmed by them into an outburst
of temper far beyond that for which there is any excuse.
Also, if you feel unusually gloomy, discouraged or even
physically tired and depleted, when there is no special physi-
cal or emotional reason, you may be reacting to these clouds
of world evil which are not your own. In such cases, recog-
nize the possibility and refuse to react, or give way to them,
and protect yourself immediately with some protecting
prayer.17
This chapter is written especially for the instruction and
comfort of you who have lost loved ones, so that you may
understand the condition of those who have graduated from
this earth life. You can now look upon such transition, not as
death, but as a graduation into a higher school in a continued,
happier life in the higher worlds. Hence, services for such
transition need not be regarded as a funeral but as gradua-
tion exercises. The departure of the loved one is just like that
of one who has graduated from one phase of life, leaving
home to go into another phase, excepting that he departs to
enter life in the Higher Worlds. In short, he has gradtlated
to another state of being, a greater consciotlSness, where,
minus his cumbersome overcoat of flesh, he lives on; and he
1f See D::JMmic Pra::~ers, Curtiss.
92 Personal Survival
can come back to us to guide, protect, comfort, counsel, and
encourage us, just as he did in the earth-life with us.
And let us repeat again for emphasis. Those who have
gone over to the spirit world, do live, and in their own indi-
'Uiduality, consciousness, character and memory.
Chapter IX
ANIMAL SURVIVAL:
It will be a great comfort to many a sorrowing heart who
has lost beloved pets, to know that there is ample physical
proof of their personal survival after death. Not only is their
presence often fdt by their owners, but they have been photo-
graphed repeatedly. They have frequently manifested physi-
cally in materializing seances, where a dog's bark, a eat's call
or a bird's chirp has been so plainly heard-as to be positively
identified by their owners.
Testimony:
Many famous people have given their testimony to animal
survival. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has told how a medium
coming into his study, clairvoyantly saw, and successfully de-
scribed, the author's ""dead dog'' to him.
Sir Oliver Lodge has said that affection. is the most fJilal
thing in life, and like other vital realities, it continues on. The
universe is governed by love more than anything dse, and no
reality of that kind fades out of existence. The higher ani-
mals have devdoped some human qualities, and have attained
a stage at which there is individual memory, which is the be-
ginning of personality. His dead son Raymond tdls him that
his favorite dog came to wdcome him on his arrival in spirit
land, and that he and others are not cut off from their animal
friends.
94 Personal Survival
Where Are They?
Generally speaking, only domestic animals, who have ac-
quired human qualities through their contact with man, re-
turn to demonstrate their individual survival of "death," but
all species of animals when they die, go to the part of the
spirit world known as the animal plane or sphere. They gravi-
tate quite naturally to the environment most suited to their
needs, state of consciousness and condition of passing.
"Some spirit people visit, and even live on the animal plane
in order to work there. It all helps the sorrowing friends left
behind to know that there is survival after death, and that
even a beloved animal may be very much alive.
"Perhaps as compensation for the amount of wild animal
life, thoughtlessly destroyed on earth, it might be a human's
lot to render aid to the newly awakened spirits of slaughtered
beasts. He may assist the bewildered cattle, recently slain, to
become fully alive to their new form of existence. He may
lead them to "pastures new" where contentment awaits them.
"In the perfect operation of divine law, both man and beast
must receive compensation in the next sphere for what they
have suffered on earth, as innocent victims of injustice."
Group.Soul:
We are taught in our Cosmic Soul Science that all lower
forms of life are but the expressions of the consciousness of
one greater entity called the Group-Soul. Each species of ani-
mal has its own group-soul, which requires all the individuals
of that group species to express its consciousness and to con-
tribute to the evolution of the species as a whole. This group-
soul governs all its members by its consciousness, expressed
as instinct.
Hence all members of the same species will automatically
react in practically the same way, to any given set of condi-
tions, unless they are more or less individualized by contact
with mankind. It is only natural then, that upon their death,
they should return to the realms in which the group-soul is
Animal Survival 95
located, thereby contributing to the consciousness of the
whole, the result of their individual experience.
Even the very lowest forms of life have some sort of sur-
vival, because we know that the living spark cannot be extin-
guished by the death of the physical form, but, as we have
said, the lower forms of animal life become a part of a group-
soul when their physical life is over. But even this group-soul
has its part to play in the operation of God's laws of evolu-
tion.
By losing its identity, and adding to the group-soul or
"pool," the one is sacrified for the whole, and by the sacrifice
of this oneness, not only is the group-soul advanced in evolu-
tion, but the one is raised nearer toward the stage, in its own
evolution, where it leaves behind the animal consciousness,
and is made ready for individuality of soul in a human form.
The great spirit teacher, Silver Birch, to whom we have
referred tells us. "There are two kinds of incarnation. There
is the old soul, re-embodied in the world of matter, and there
is the new soul starting its first phase in the world of matter,
as a human individual."
All Survive:
Although spirit communicators may not agree on all points,
or certain points about the kind of survival of the more lowly
forms of life, they agree on the fact of survival in some form
or another, and on the points that matter. And as we have
said before, they do all pass over to their own particular
sphere on the animal plane. We are told that ferocious beasts
do not continue to prey on other animals, because they do not
feel the necessity of satisfying carnivorous appetites. For
similar reasons the unpleasant characteristics of verminous
pests cease to manifest.
No Barriers:
While all animals have an after-life for a considerable pe-
riod, in the case of wild animals, such survival occurs largely
96 Personal Survival
in the native habitat in which they lived before their death,
and in groups and herds, such as those in which they lived on
earth. This is for no great length of time, however, because
they have not sufficiently developed the individuality from
association with mankind, which the domestic animals have.
In tlie case of pet animals, this same law of association, natu-
rally draws them to their former masters. As one communi-
ca.tor says: "I want you to know, that death is not the end of
all for your pet. Whenever you have a sense of needing him,
your pet answers."
If the ties of love are very strong between you and your
pet animal, you may expect it to be greeted by your friends
on the other side upon its arrival. And, too, there are groups
of animal-loving discarnate persons, who form a sort of res-
cue league, to look after pet animals, not able to make contact
with their owners, left behind on the earth plane.
"Often, as on the Earth, an animal has to seek the aid of a
human, before he can return from the spirit world, to his
owners. As in the case of humans, lO'Oe bridges the gap be-
tween the two worlds." And so it is only natural that those
animals which have been closely associated with human be-
ings should be so attracted to them after death, as to return
and try to demonstrate their survival.
Psychic research, therefore, shows that there are no bar-
riers to separate a human being and his animal friend, even
if one is in the spirit world and one is here on the earth plane,
if the association is mutually desired.
Materialization and Other Phenomena:
In the materializing seances of the Polish medium Kluski
animals often appeared; the most frequent of these to mate-
rialize were dogs, cats and squirrels, while occasionally a
large bird like a hawk or buzzard, and once even a tame lion
appeared.
One of the buzzards was heard flying around the room,
and beating its wings against the walls and ceiling, and this
Animal Survival 97
bird was at one time photographed by a magnesium flash. The
seance was held in the light of a red lamp, fixed about six feet
from the medium.
A few other examples drawn from the writings of an Eng-
lish investigator, who has given special attention to the sub-
ject, will illustrate the law:
In one materializing seance, the materialized form of a
large dog suddenly appeared. He bounced forward in a most
energetic manner, and proceeded to jump excitedly about the
circle. Wagging his tail happily, he ran from one sitter to an-
other, resting his paws on their knees, and sometimes licking
a hand or face.
At another seance a small dog materialized sufficiently to
bite playfully at the trouser legs and shoelaces of the owner.
Another instance of materialization and of direct voice is
as follows: A Great Dane which, after a discarnate period of
twenty years, often returned to its owner, barked so loudly
through the trumpet that the owner said there was no mistak-
ing its voice, and on other occasions it would plant its great
paws heavily on her lap.
On several occasions a gentleman whose cattle dog had pre-
viously been killed, found when he went for his cattle, that
the animals would begin to move and bunch together, as
though the dog were there, helping to round them up as usual.
This continued until he got another dog.
Four days after the death of her pet cat, the owner heard
a thud on the bed and the sound of purring. There was the
invisible cat greeting her from his old particular spot on the
bed. Her husband heard the sound of the purring also, and
quite distinctly. Later the same sound was heard by a visitor,
who recognized it as that of the pet cat.
One dark night, as a gentleman was coming home from
town along a lonely road, he heard a noise behind him, and
turning around, he saw two men following him, apparently
intent on robbing him. At the same moment a large black dog
suddenly appeared at his side. With an oath the men slunk
98 Personal Survival
away. When the gentleman arrived at his gate he reached
down and patted the dog, who had so adequately protected
him, but while he was doing so, the animal dissolved into
thin air.
A lady in Bath had a pet cat which was so jealous that it
would never allow another cat to approach anywhere near its
domain. Since its death the owner has tried to keep many
cats, but none would stay but for a short period. The owner
considered this evidence of her jealous pet's still dominating
its neighborhood. A few days after the same cat passed on, it
manifested itself to its owner by jumping from its accus-
tomed resting place and pattering over to her. The jump
down and the patter of the feet, were so loud as to be dis-
tinctly heard by others in the next room.
Through the trumpet a guide told a sitter of the presence
of a black sheep dog, called Rough. Its owner testified that
this dog had been raised from a puppy, and had passed away
some time previously. Its name was Rough as correctly stated
by the guide.
The author had a very large, very heavy cat, whose favor-
ite resting place was a certain chair, which it refused to va-
cate until it was tilted so that it had to jump to the floor with
a characteristic thump. After the passing of this cat, the chair
in which it had been wont to sit, would frequently be so
heavy, that it could scarcely be moved until it was tilted for-
ward. As soon as this occurred the familiar thump on the
fioor could be heard, and thechair could then be easily moved.
At a home materializing seance, a large dog often material-
ized, resting his paws on the knees of the sitters. The crown-
ing manifestation occurred, when on one occasion he ran to a
bowl of water which had been provided at the seance for psy-
chic purposes, and began to lap up the water eagerly and
noisely, as though the excitement had made him thirsty. After-
wards the bowl was found to be completely empty and there
was not a drop of spirit water to be seen.
PL:\TE II-A "dead" puppy appeared as a psychic extra when this
photograph of his woli -hound friend 11·as taken.
PLATE III-A medium and her psychic friends.
•
Animal Survival 99
llhotography of Animals after Death:
There are many incidents authoritatively cited of photo-
graphs of animals after death, sometimes when the photog-
rapher was trying to get pictures of human beings from the
spirit land. In one instance the medium took the photograph
but instead of the expected relative. there appeared on the
plate an ''extra" of a terrier Floss, a pet of the medium which
had died a short time before.
In another case where a woman was trying to get a spirit
picture of a dead relative there appeared instead, one of a pet
cat, which had been dead a week only. On the same photo-
graph there was seen also the words, "Dear Parents," writ-
ten by the child of one of the sitters. This child was in the
spirit world, and the owner of the pet was told that it was
being looked after by the child, who had written a long mes-
sage to her parents in minute but clear writing.
At another time in the photograph of a medium and others
at the seashore, there appeared, not only the picture of the
dead son of the medium, but also one of a pony who had
passed on and who had been loved and owned by the son.
In the picture shown here of a woman and her Irish wolf-
hound, is found the very clear and easily discernible picture
of a puppy. The owner of the wolf-hound recognized the
puppy as one which had died a short time ago, and to which
both she and the wolf-hound had been deeply attached. The
puppy had been in the habit of lying down with him, with its
head in the same position as it is in the picture.
The other picture shown is a reproduction of a spirit pic-
ture taken over eighteen years ago. The spirit individuals
plainly visible around the medium, have been identified. They
are, starting at the top and going left to right-Hanniah,
Hindu Control; the medium's dog which was killed in an
automobile accident; Patha, materialization helper and chem-
ist; Georgiana, child guide and message bearer; Professor
Iran, Philosopher and Teacher; Dr. Benjamin, Spirit Chern-
100 Personal Survival
ist; and Timothy, trumpet control. This picture is reproduced
from The Psychic Observer.
These are just a few of the many cases on record of spirit
photographs of animals, which have been taken.
The cases and the picture on Plate II, are taken from,
When Your Animal Dies, by Sylvia Barbanell. For other
cases and details see this splendid book.
With this widely attested-to array of physically proven
facts, there should no longer be any doubt left in the unpreju-
diced mind as to the reality of animal survival of bodily death.
Super Intelligence of Animals:
That some animals possess an intelligence away above the
average of their species, has been proven in many cases.
Their mental powers have been investigated, studied and
written about by scientists, professors, savants and psycholo-
gists. They have demonstrated qualities of reason, hw11or,
and sometimes a certain psychic ability, and that they have
memory and powers of reflection. In addition, some of these
animals have solved problems of arithmetic which have been
confusing to many a mathematically informed human.
Properly trained horses can spell and work out mathemati·
cal problems by the stamping of their hoofs, or by picking
out strips of wood, on which were stamped letters, even to
the extraction of the cube root. Maeterlinck, that profound
thinker, poet and writer; that blend of mystic sense and sci·
entific spirit, once paid a visit to the stables of the famous
Elberfield horses, and found that one of them solved pro~
lems of mathematics which stumped even the great man him·
self.
A Shetland pony, Black Bear, was owned and trained by
Mr. Barrett of New York. Black Bear's unexpected replies to
questions, showed almost independent thinking, and som~
times his knowledge of historical events surpassed what had
been taught him. He seemed to develop an intuitive profi·
ciency in the subjects which had been taught him, far sur-
Animal Survival 101
pasmng that of his master, who was often perplexed by the
variety of information, mathematical skill and imaginative
powers displayed by the pony.
The authority referred to in this chapter, further says;
••There is testimony available regarding this intelligence, of
over sixty animals-including forty-four dogs-who had
learned to •speak' their thoughts understandingly by means
of an alphabetical oode taught them by their owners.
After they had mastered the alphabet, and learned to munt,
the dogs were able to convey their own thoughts, either by
tapping their paws, by barking or by other methods. Thus
they could converse and exchange points of view with their
human friends. • • ."
Cracker, a dog, saved the life of his owner's daughter. The
child was seen by the dog to be clinging to the ba.clc of her
father's moving car. In order to attract the owner's attention,
Cracker threw himself repeatedly at the car. He died from
the injuries received, but his efforts succeeded in saving the
life of the child.
There are people who keep a cat merely for catching mice,
but anyone who has had experience in treating a cat as a
member of the family, knows that this animal has intelligence
and seeming reasoning power. The cat, though seldom as
demonstrative as a dog, is capable of deep affection.
••Nurse Nichols" was preparing breakfast, when she heard
a tapping on the window pane. A kitten was by this means
trying to attract her attention. She followed the animal into
the garden, where it led the· way to a shed. Here the nurse
found the gardener suffering from a stroke. Normally no one
would have gone to the shed until evening, by which time it
would have been too late to save the life of the stricken man.
A great number of other stories of the reasoning power of
cats have been recorded.
Birds also come into their share of credit for intelligence
which seems almost human in its scope, and stories are told
of birds being jealous, and refusing to sing when a strange
102 Personal Survival
bird was brought into the room; and of exhibiting other
marked evidences of intelligence, above that of the ordinary
animal.
On the Radio program, "We The People," there was fea-
tured a parrot, which after twenty years of close association
with its master, exhibited such human intelligence as to give
surprisingly intelligent answers to the questions asked by the
audience.
Even with non-domestic animals, it has been found that,
when in constant contact with humans, they develop intelli-
gent observation, and they acquire "personalities" of their
own.
A ship stationed in Fort Blair Harbor was dressed for the
celebration of the captain's birthday party, with Bags and
bunting. Trained elephants were at work on the shore, han-
dling timber, and soon came a message from the shore with
orders to undress the ship of its Bags and decorations. The
elephants saw them and sensing a holiday, refused to work.
The examples given above will serve to illustrate this ab-
sorptiQn of human intelligence, by animals of different kinds.
(Unless otherwise especially assigned, the quotations and
examples in this chapter are from the splendid book on this
subject, When Your Animal Dies, by Sylvia Barbanell, as we
have previously noted.)
Ensoulment:
We feel that a word of warning should be issued as to cer-
tain dangers involved in making an animal too intimate a
member of the family, for by so doing we assume consider-
able responsibility for that animal's evolution.
All living things are constantly throwing off emanations of
various kinds. With human beings these include bodily, astral,
psychic, mental and spiritual emanations. These impinge
upon, and are absorbed by, everything within their environ-
ment. Because of this the trained psychomotrist can pick up
Animal Survival 103
their vibrations, and thus determine whatever form of life
and activity had been present at any certain place.
\Vhen great love and affection are given to an animal, these
emanations are focussed more forcefully on that animal. As
the animal unconsciously absorbs more of them, it naturally
becomes more than a mere animal, to the degree to which it
is able to absorb them. In other words to that extent the ani-
mal becomes humanized. This plainly shows in the superin-
telligence displayed by these specially gifted animals, men-
tioned elsewhere in the chapter. These animals have received
intensive training by their owners, and thus they have ab-
sorbed so much of their trainers' mental emanations, that
their consciousness is expanded beyond that of the animal,
until their minds are partially humanized. Hence they fre-
quently have the reasoning and deductive powers of a twelve
year old child or beyond, for they live in the intellectual
world of man, instead of the instinctive world of animals.
This humanization of the animals, by the absorption of
human emanations, can be carried to the extent of practically
ensouling them with a part of the human soul vibration. This
makes the animal more than animal, and to that extent, hu-
manized, and takes it out of its normal evolution, and from
under the guidance of its group soul. It may even reincarnate
more than once in this life and also be sufficiently humanized
to reincarnate with you, in a future life. Hence you become
responsible for its future evolution, until the development of
its human qualities enables it to enter the human kingdom.
Thus, long after you have become superman and no longer
have to incarnate on this planet, you will have to look down
on, guide and be responsible for the evolution of this animal,
as its '"Father-in-Heaven,'' until it becomes an individualized
human being. You should therefore, think well before you
assume such a responsibility.
Even in the case of non-domestic animals, it has been
found that when close contact with humans has been estab-
104 Personal Survival
fished, intelligent observation develops, and they acquire per-
sonalities of their own.
In the recent publication of Anice Payson Terhune's,
Across the Line, spoken of in another chapter, she speaks of
asking her husband on the other side, if the dogs are there
with him and he replies:
"Laddie and Wolf knew me at once. It was so good to have
them·bounding around me again."
Here we have the word of one who was deeply interested
in religious subjects and the life on the other side of "the
Line," before his going over, that animals do live and have
consciousness after they leave this Earth-plane.
Chapter X
THEOSOPHISTS' CLAIMS
Many of our philosophical friends disapprove of all at-
temps to communicate with our departed loved ones, and in
many cases look dowti on spiritualists with a "holier than
thou" attitude, as being ignorant of the true occult philosophy
back of spiritualistic phenomena.
However this undercurrent of misinterpretation of mo-
tives, is fast being dissipated, until to-day there seems to be a
greater understanding between these two great Schools of
Thought.
We find the Canadian Theosophist of July 1942, stating
that-"Spiritists have long ago demonstrated the reality of
so-called 'independent writing.' That it was done by 'dead
people' is a contradiction in terms. Without the intense vital-
ity such a thing could never be done. Beside, there are no
•dead' beings; for there is no death."
It is only natural that the modem generation of Theoso-
phists should be ignorant of the conditions under which the
Society was founded, unless they have given special study to
its origin. Hence they would not know that their founder,
Madame Helena Petrovna Blavatsky, one of the most re-
markable women. and one of the greatest religious awakeners,
who is known among us chiefl.y through her efforts to estab-
lish in the Occident the philosophy of the Orient,-Theos-
ophy,-also recognized Spiritualism as a great religious truth,
which is proved by its phenomena. When Madame Blavatsky,
-commonly referred to as H.P.B.,-arrived in New York
105
106 Personal Survival
penniless and alone, away back in 1873, the first contacts she
sought out were among the Spiritualists. Among these early
contacts were the well known mediums, Nelson and Jennie
Holmes of Philadelphia. She next visited the Eddys at Chit-
enden, Vermont. To a friend in Russia she wrote:
"I am going to visit next from here, a family of strong
psychical mediums, and stay among them for some time; they
are the Eddys, and I shall make experiments for myself and,
if satisfactory, I will use them in my work for the enlighten-
ment of mankind. There is no doubt that the coming avatars
and teachers must incorporate in their philosophy, this crown-
ing revelation of the age, modem Spiritism." 1
Colonel Olcott, the co-founder with H.P.B. of the Theo-
sophical Society, pays this glowing tribute to her medium-
ship. "I gradually discovered that this lady, whose brilliant
accomplishments and eminent virtues of character, no less
than her exalted social position, entitle her to the highest re-
spect, is one of the most remarkable mediums in the world." 2
Madame Blavatsky also attended materializing seances
given by the medium Dr. Henry Slade, at the home of
E. Furness in Philadelphia. Among the many types of phe-
nomena which were produced, were lengthy messages pre-
cipitated upon slates, in several languages, which her great
linguistic ability and trained intellect could readily translate
and appreciate, since she had learned some forty languages.
In fact it was at a seance with Dr. Slade, that she received
her first written word of encouragement, from her Masters,
since reaching America, in a slate-written message. Part of
the message read as follows: "The Masters are behind the
whole world of spirits and mortals." 8
It was after this heartening message that she is quoted as
saying; "I am ready to sell my soul for Spiritualism, but no-
body will buy it." ~
1 Ps::Jt:loic Obsnvn, Ya,. lOth. 1943.
2 Peotle.r From Other W orltls, Olcott.
a P.ryt:loic Ob.rft'Tier, Yay lOth. 1943.
6 P.ryt:loic Ob.rft'Tier, May lOth, 1943.
•••
PLATE IV-Buckle and Medal of H.P.B.'s Father.
-
Theosophists" Claims 107
Modem students do not realize that H.P.B. was a power-
ful materializing and apport medium. At an early seance with
the Slades, there was apported into her hand, a buckle, and
one of her father's war medals, both of which had been
placed in his coffin when he was buried years ago. This was
brought psychically, by her deceased uncle, whom she had
seen materialized that evening.
Colonel Alcott, who was present asked. "Was there ever a
manifestation more wonderful than this? A token dug by un-
known means, from a father's grave and laid in his daugh-
ter's hand, five thousand miles across an ocean." •
On one occasion Madame Blavatsky held in her right hand,
a blue sapphire ring belonging to her visitor Mrs. Carmichael.
This lady expressed a desire that the ring be duplicated if
possible, in order to demonstrate the presence and power of
the Mahatmas of H.P.B. After an interval of a minute or
two, H.P.B. extended her hand saying, ••Here is your ring,"
showing at the same instant two sapphire rings, the one be-
longing to Mrs. Carmichael, and the other one identical in
every respect, except that the second one was larger and with
a better cut stone. •'Why do you give me this," said Mrs.
Carmichael, in surprise. "I have not done it, it is a gift from
the Mahatmas," answered H.P.B.
At another occasion, at a dinner party, at the first comni3nd
of Madame Blavatsky, there came rushing through the air
her tobacco pouch, box of matches, her pocket handkerchief,
or anything she asked for or was made to ask for.
"Her powers manifested themselves as incessant knocks,
raps and other sounds, the moving about of furniture with-
out contact, and the increase and decrease of the weight of
-various objects.
"It is far easier to enumerate the phenomena that did not
take place during these memorable hours, than to describe
those that did." •
• Put!•• FroM Urueno Wtwl41. Olcott. 338.
8Jf~CidnoU Ia fu Life II/ M"""- Bllwalsb. Simaett. 107. 260.
108 Personal Survival
On many occasions she materialized letters from her Mas-
ters in India. They appeared materialized on the ceiling, and
then dropped to the ftoor, in the presence of one or more
other persons.
Astral Corpses:
Theosophists claim that the mediums do not make contact
with the soul of the deceased, but only with its astral corpse.
While it is true that the Spirit does ultimately graduate out
of the astral world into the mental world and thereby leaves
behind his astral body, as an empty shell or astral corpse, as
a rule this does not take place for many years, at least until
most of his loved ones left behind on Earth have also gradu-
ated into the astral world to join him. Therefore, usually,
there would be no astral shell for them to contact before they
also made the transition.
Reasoning Powers Lacking:
While it is also true that should such an astral corpse be
contacted before it is too greatly disintegrated, it is possible
for its astral brain to be temporarily vitalized by the forces
of the medium and the inquirer, so that it might repeat some
of the most vivid impressions made upon it, during life, auto-
matically, like a phonograph record, yet it would not possess
intelligence enough to carry on a conversation or answer ques-
tions, requiring the power of reasoning, for the remaining
Ego has withdrawn from it.
Also, it is extremely unlikely that such an astral corpse
would be allowed to drift into a well organized seance, for
any responsible manager-<:ommonly called a Guide-of the
astral side of the seance is very careful to select only those
he allows to enter the group that will try to communicate
through the medium.
Seldom Encountered:
Also such astral corpses usually disintegrate rapidly unless
they are grossly animal and densely material. In our more
Theosophists' Claims 109
than thirty Years of psychic research we have never encoun-
tered such an astral shell, although we have encountered
diakkas, or man-made elementals in human form.
Mme. Blavatsky'a Wamiug:
The theosophical attitude is probably due to the fact that
Madame, in her great desire to prevent negative and unself-
reliant persons from continually running to mediums-espe-
cially those mediums who are untrained and only partially de-
veloped,-for advice on their daily affairs, discouraged with
a warning to her followers, that it was posst"ble that an astral
shell might be encountered. Her great desire evidently, was
to tum attention from the transient phenomena to the eternal
philosophy.
llr. Sianett'a Statement:
Another factor is the reckless and wholly unsupported
statement of Mr. Sinnett, made without the slightest refer-
ence to evidence, to say nothing of proof, that ••such an empty
shell is the angel guide of the average medium;• made toward
the close of the last century-(1882)-before modem psy-
chical research bad really begun. Such a statement is now as
entirely out of date as were any conceptions of radio activity
the world may have bad at that time. But naturally statements
made by earlier writers, are taken for granted by later fol-
lowers, hence discourage their personal investigations in the
light of modem science. But no matter who makes such
sweeping statements without giving the proof of their authen-
ticity they are definitely disproved by modem scientific psy-
chic research as reported herein.
Become Self-Reliant:
Since the most important reason for our incarnating here
on ~ is to learn to follow the guidance of the Ouist
within in making our own decisions, the continual running to
mediums for advice would weaken our characters. and make
110 Personal Survival
us "leaners" instead of masters of our actions, we too dis-
courage such dependence upon our departed friends. But this
does not mean that we cannot have friendly visits with them
from time to time, just as we might call on them for a social
evening, were they still on Earth.
To teach that it is only the empty shells of our departed
loved ones that are contacted by mediums is a great mistake,
due to a lack of the Theosophists' full understanding of their
own philosophy. Even Madame Blavatsky's own Master,
Koot Hoomi Lal Singh-usually referred to as K.H.-dis-
tinctly says that the Egos of our departed loved ones are con-
tacted by those left behind, through the proper use of well
developed mediums.
Sinnett's Claims:
On this subject Mr. A. P. Sinnett remarked: "The re-
marks appended to a letter in the last Theosophist, strike me
as very important and as qualifying-! do not say contradict-
ing-a good deal of what we have been told hitherto, in re
Spiritualism. We have heard already of a spiritual condition
of life in which the redeveloped Ego enjoyed a conscious ex-
istence for a time before reincarnation; but that branch of
the subject has hitherto been slurred over. Now some explicit
statements are made about it."
To this the Master Koot Hoomi replied as follows: "The
Souls of pure, loving sensitives think their loved ones come
down to them on earth, while it is their Spirits that are raised
toward those in Deva-Chan. Many of the subjective commu-
nications-most of them when the sensitives are pure minded
-are real; but it is most difficult for the uninitiated medium
to fix his mind on the true and correct pictures of what he
sees and hears. Some of the so called psychography--slate-
writing or precipitated handwriting (the more rarely)-are
also real. The Spirit of the sensitive getting odylized, so to
say, by the spirit in Deva-Chan, becomes for a few minutes
that departed personality, and writes in the handwriting of
Theosophists' Claims 111
the latter, in his language and in his thoughts, as they were
during his life time. The two spirits become blended into one;
and the preponderance of the one over the other during such
phenomena, determines the preponderance of the personality
in the characteristics exhibited in such writing and 'trance
speaking.' -What you call 'rapport' is in fact an identity of
molecular vibration between the astral part of the medium
and the astral part of the discarnate personality•••• And
the question whether the communication shall reflect more of
one personal idiosyncrasy or the other is determined by the
relative intensity of the two sets of vibrations in the com-
pound wave of Akasa. The less identical the two sets of vi-
brations, the more mediumistic and the less spiritual will be
the message. So then measure your medium's 'moral state' by
that of the alleged 'controlling intelligence' and your tests of
genuineness leaves nothing to be desired.'' 7
rheological Misconceptions:
Through similar misunderstandings, fundamentalist theo-
logians have published some pamphlets and books composed
of quotations from the Bible, referring to life after death.
The quotations purport to prooe that the "dead know noth-
ing," and include the doctrines of literal hell-fire, eternal pun-
ishment, and the monstrous doctrine of infant damnation.
The literal and materialistic interpretation of such allegorical
passages, is quite as erroneous as similar pasSageS quoted by
the early church-fathers in the days of Galileo, which seem-
ingly proved that the Earth was Bat and did not circle round
the sun. These quotations about life after death, are just as
misconceived, and equally as erroneous, as were those con-
cerning the shape of the Earth and its revolutions around the
sun, for modem psychic research has just as definitely re-
futed them, with physical proofs, such as are presented
herein, as Galileo refuted the claims of the early church-
fathers.
TTu Jl..,_l.dkn. SUmdt. 99-103.
112 Personal Survival
Therefore those who deride or oppose Spiritualism, per-
haps unwittingly or through ignorance, are going against the
plain teachings of their founder and her Masters. They have
much to learn about our connection with our discarnate
friends, and should be open-minded enough to drop their un-
founded prejudices, and accept the scientifically proven facts,
instead of clinging blindly to misconceived theories, which
have been so completely disproved by modem scientific re-
search.
Chapter XI
A MESSAGE FROM MADAME BLAVATSKY
Transcribed by
DR. AND MRS. F. HOMER CURTISS
Founders of The UnifJersal Religious FeUO'WShip, Inc.
Authors of ~~The Curtiss Books''
The many messages from Madame Bla'Vatsky given to the
mdhors in her own handwriting and wer her own identified
signature, as reproduced in this 'Volume, should be sufficient
roitlence of the close contact the authors have had with her
through many years. These messages should be sufficient
evidence too, of the authenticity of the following message,
dictated to Mrs. Harriette Curtiss by Madame Blavillsky,
Oct. 16th, 1928.
This message was gi'Ven to the transcribers some time ago
for a special purpo~e. But the Author of the message now
directs them to make it public. And they herewith comply
'With that instruction, that the message may reach the hearts
of those who are ready for it.
CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C.
113
114 Personal Survival
It is very important that there should be a plain under-
standing of my teachings on some of the subjects which are
causing so much misunderstanding among my followers in
other societies, so that you can put things in a plain and defi-
nite way which will carry conviction, and will help, we hope,
to bridge the chasm of separation and bring us all closer to-
gether as one family sitting at the table of our Father. You
will have difficulty in making certain ones comprehend, owing
to their fixed idea that only the explanations given them by
their so-called authorities can be accepted. But I want this my
explanation written out so that those to whom it is shown can
accept it or not; then at least we have done our part in pre-
senting the truth.
At the time when she who was known as Helena Petrovna
Blavatsky was on earth, although she had many faults and
many misconceptions she was nevertheless chosen for the
great work of preparing the Western world for the coming
of the Great Teacher, the Avatar. She was never worthy in
her own eyes, except in the sense that she was willing to take
up the burden and would not lay it down until the work was
accomplished. The chief work that she gave to the world,
The Secret Doctrine, was made up largely from the Ancient
Teachings, the fundamental principles of the Wisdom-Reli-
gion. These were gathered from the Ancient Teachings be-
cause there they were most accessible, and because they ex-
pressed most convincingly the essential principles of that reli-
gion. So with many a self-interpolated dictum and with many
a hammer and tongs she did the best she could. And what has
been the result?
With great suffering and many mistakes the Theosophical
Society was founded. And finally the time came for her to lay
down the outer part of her physical work. But did she lay it
down altogether? No. That was impossible, because when one
is chosen and given a definite work to do for the Masters in
a definite cycle, that work must come under the Great Law.
And one is never chosen and then the work pushed on him,
A Message from Madame Blauatsky 115
but the choice always results because in his past incarnations
he himself bas asked for the opportunity and bas tried to pre-
pare himself, bas literally said: "Here am I, use me!"
She was chosen as a Messenger of the Lodge because she
had that kannic right and had sought to prepare herself for
that work. And it is well to understand clearly what I mean
by a Messenger of the Lodge. The Lodge bas messengers of
greater or lesser degrees, but all messengers must be in con-
scious touch with the Lodge and be willing to lay down their
own personalities, their own lives, to do the Master's work.
and must be those whose Karma pennits this. And yet at cer-
tain eras in the world's history, when we might say the world
is approaching a great event, such as the descent of the Ava-
tar, there is always some special Messenger sent out who has
the characteristics, force and power to hew the way like John
the Baptist; to make straight His paths, to prepare for His
coming.
This preparation for the coming of the Great Teacher could
not be accomplished merely by gathering together a few fol-
lowers to study the philosophy of the Ancient Teachings;
they had been studied for ages. How hopeless such a taskI
You know how even during her life time she had few friends.
Her true friends she could count on the fingers of her-hand,
or on both at best. She had no one who was really close, who
really understood her or comprehended her real mission. She
was either regarded as a mountebank and a doer of wonders,
hence sought out for pastime and entertainment, or as a half-
crazed enthusiast who was trying to make a stir in the world
by putting forth bizarre doctrines which would upset the
placid faith of easy going Christianity which had only just
settled down into a comfortable jog-trot after the strenuous
experiences of persecution and intolerance of past ages. Peo-
ple either fawned on her or flattered her and demanded her
help or they derided. And oh, how they crushed and trampled
on her highest ideals and belittled her great missionI
At last there came a time, as there always does, when the
116 Personal Survival
Great Ones said; "Dear child, you have worked long enough
tmder this terrible handicap of disbelief, of bickering, of criti·
cism. Now you can continue your work where it will be eas·
ier; where you can stand aside, can look at the Teachings you
have given out, and at the Source from whence you gathered
them, and can understand more fully what is still necessary
for the coming age." So Mme. Blavatsky, according to the
world's opinion, died, and according to the ideals of the Theo-
sophical Society was transplanted into a higher sphere of ac·
tivity where she would still be capable of carrying on her
work.
According to the very teachings which had been so care-
fully gathered and inculcated in the little group which at that
time called itself the Theosophical Society, it had been pointed
out that when a Teacher has accepted the great responsibility
of preparing for the coming of an Avatar, such a Teacher
never goes into Devachan or accepts Nirvanic bliss; that al·
ways, if he is worthy the name of Agent, he makes the great
sacrifice and remains in the Earth's aura and in close touch
with his followers to teach and help them and to watch over
the seed he has planted and help it to continue its growth.
This teaching is scattered all through her writings.1
When
1 Among tile man7 such references we c:aJ1 attention to the following: "Of tile
wluntary and CODliCIOUs incarnations of Adepts there are two types. those of Nir·
manakayas, and tllose undertaken by probationary chdas who are on their trial
••• There are ~are, yet more frequent tban one would be disposed to
accept-hich are the voluntary and conscious reincaruations of Adepts on their
trial ••• But few are those who, outside the higher degrees of adeptship, can
guide the latter (astral body), or any of the principles tbat animate it, when once
death has closed their abort terrestrial life. Yn sMell g•idaou:e • • • u ""' OAI7
tossibl• hi u of freq•nt D«fjrreace. • • • After the physical translation of auch
a Saint ••• his astral principles cannot be subjected to a natural dissolution
like those of any CODliDOD mortal The7 remain in nr sPilw• and wilh.i• ••-
anradio11 oatl read. • • • Such an adept rnru~iu i• tile astral piau e01111ect•4
80illl nr Earth, and henceforth moves and lives in the possession of all hia
principles except the Kama-Rupa and physical bod7•••• Those are Adepts who
give up Nirvana for the sake of helping humanity•••• This kind of easy death
••• 8Y1Dbo1izes the "death" of any Adept who has reached the power and degree.
and afso the purification which enables him to "die" in the physical body, and
still liw aatl ka4 G couciou lif• in hia astral body." (Tile S•ad Daelri,., Vol.
Zit 559; Vol. 3, 365-67, 372.) Other references are too numerous to mention.
.P.B. promised never to come back "as a 1pook " and abe never has, but this
does not mean tbat abe has not continued to work. throlJih the independent or
telepathic method (See Realms of the Liviflg Dea4, CurtiSS, 225), throqh en·
lightened and devoted followers who are so developed and trained as to respoad
to her directions, not in any kind of trance or "spook control" hi iol fall walrifl(l
cDJUcio111MSS. The evidence ia too plain to be ignored.
A Message from Madame Blavatsk:y 117
they cry, ''Back to Blavatskyl" why do they not go back to
her fundamental teachings on this subject as well as others?
There never has been a great Teacher or a Messenger who,
after he put away the hampering body of flesh, does not re-
main close to his pupils; who does not continue his work;
does not come and appear to and speak with his followers.
To say that Mme. Blavatsky died and then disappeared and
left her work, left it in the chaotic and undeveloped and un-
fulfilled condition you all know it was in, and is still in today,
is simply to deny her the one little recognition of her work
that at least her followers should be glad to give her, namely,
that she was an authorized agent and Messenger of the
Lodge. For, as I have said, if she laid down her work at
death she broke the Law. And if she had not been a Messen-
ger she would have been repudiated long before her death.
This doctrine of ..the self-sacrifice of one who voluntarily
gives up the absolute Nirvana in order to help humanity and
be still doing it good • • • to save his fellow-creatures by
guiding them/, 1
has been plainly given to the Theosophical
Society. And the Masters of Wisdom, be They of high or
low degree, far advanced or only a few steps on the Path of
Mastery, all obey this Law. Therefore, being an Agent of the
Lodge, ••an Adept on his trial,'' she also could be expected to
obey this Law.
Is it conceivable that the great Masters of Wisdom and
Compassion who knew that the whole Earth was about to
pass its great baptism of horror and of blood and of dissolu-
tion; who knew that the days foretold from the beginning of
tim~ were about to be entered upon; who knew that this poor
little Earth was about to pass through its most terrible time
of testing; is it conceivable that these Great Souls would say:
"Yes, we know that the world is about to reach its darkest
night; we know that war and fire and sword and famine, pes-
tilence, desolation and horror are stalking abroad. But we will
now withdraw our Messenger and let no_one from the Lodge
2 7U S«HH Dlldriu. BJavatsb. iii. 366.
118 Personal Survival
interfere to help or comfort or guide. Let the poor suffering
little children fight it out alone with what we have already
given them. We will do no more to help. There will be no one
sent from the Lodge untill975 when it is all over! We will
remain away in hiding, in some safe retreat where we cannot
be hurt while they die and starve and suffer and sink down
into a hopeless hell in the horrors they must face." I say is
this conceivable?
Is there a person living, especially one who calls himself a
theosophist, who can so belittle and falsify the teachings and
condemn the great loving Masters who, as they have been
taught, are the "guardian wall" around humanity, who are
the givers of compassion and love, and the "watchers through
the night," the great lovers of mankind? Yet, apparently this
is the result of Mme. Blavatsky's teachings. Oh, if such a
horrible doctrine were true, I myself would gather the peo-
ples of the earth together and I would say: "Find these so-
called Masters of Wisdom and tear them limb from limb and
throw them to the dogs I Find this God of theirs in his high-
est heav~n and tear him down, and say to this God: How dare
you make man and then leave him helpless and without com-
fort to suffer and die under such terrible conditionsI How
dare you I" Yet this is what my followers today are saying
that Mme. Blavatsky taught I Ah, my children, it is unthink-
able I It is monstrous! It is villainous I It is horrible I
On the contrary, according to the Great Law, when a Mes-
senger of the Lodge is given a work to do upon the earth
plane, and owing to his Karma, his disposition, his racial
characteristics and to a thousand other factors, he fails to a
certain extent to carry out his mission as well as he should,
and yet his heart is true and he wants to do better, he is taken
up into a higher realm, yet not far from Earth, and there is
given an opportunity to do better, to see more clearly, to work
harder, to correct mistakes, and to make the great renuncia-
tion of Nirvanic bliss to remain as the guardian and guide of
his followers: for he would not lav down his advanced state
A Message from Madame Blavatsky 119
to incarnate again as a babe. and thus waste the most precious
years of the cycle while waiting to grow up to an age at which
he could resume his work. ·
Again, they say that granting that all this is so, why could
not some one in the great and loving and brotherly Theosoph-
ical Society be chosen to carry on her work? Oh, they are
doing it beautifu11y, are they not? But I tell you now that
there is absolutely not one among all the T. S. members in the
world whom, if he will come to me and listen to me and obey
me, I will not teach and help and inspire; who, if he will let
go his own preconceived ideas of what Thea-sophia is, I will
not guide and enlighten. But they will not. They will not real-
ize that when on Earth Mme. Blavatsky gave out but the
outer body of the Mystic Teachings or Theosophy, the shell
let us say. But now, like all such Teachers, when she has en-
tered into her real 'WOrk upon a higher plane, she has to take
that outer shell and build into it its soul, the Mystic Teach-
ings of the Heart-Doctrine, the Jove, the understanding, the
sympathy and the personal touch. because today that is what
the world needs.
Inthose earlyterrible days of materialism the world needed
hammer blows, needed to be shown that real religion, the
Wisdom Religion, was scattered through all religions; nerded
to be shown that even those religions which they called
"heathen" contained the mighty spiritual truths needed to
guide the life. This was accomplished, but after she had
passed out the world had changed. It was no longer merely
materialism we had to fight. The world was seeking and cry-
ing out for tnrth, for love, for understanding, for brother-
hood. Therefore, as the dark night came upon the world it
had to have the inner side of the teachings, especially the
inner side of the Christian teachings, explained to it. But
where could I find anyone with minds open enough and who
were karmica11y prepared to give these except the simple ones
I chose?
Therefore I sav Jet all those who consider themselves true
120 Personal Survival
theosophists tum aside from worshipping the outer shell of
the teachings and seek the heart. Let them say: "Yes, all that
former teaching was necessary and fundamental and is good,
but can it alone really help us in these days of misery and un-
rest? Can philosophy alone really feed our Souls? Yet, we
lmow that in Theosophy, real Theosophy, there is this Bread
of Life. But who shall break it and give it to us? Where are
the disciples who can take the five loaves and the two small
fishes and give them to the multitude?" When they have said
this let them take the Mystic Teachings I have more recently
inspired a and see if they cannot find in them the real inner
nourishing food of true Theosophy; not the exact interpreta-
tion perhaps, not the talk, not the controversy, not the argu-
ments, but the spirit; the Spirit of Truth ; the help, and the
understanding of humanity which needs different treatment
today than it needed when Mme. Blavatsky was on earth in
the flesh.
Not until the work of that Teacher is accomplished will
she take her rest. And it will never be accomplished until the
inner Mystic Spirit of her teachings has been given out. And
when I say the inner Mystic Spirit I mean the things which
touch the heart, which grip the understanding, which help
men and women to live in spite of the hard times; to stand
up and face themselves and the world in spite of all the things
they are passing through today, rather than mere metaphysi-
cal speculations and disrupting, hair-splitting disputations
over doctrinal points. Her work will never be accomplished
until it has brought out the true religion within the frame-
work of the philosophy or outer body of the theosophical doc-
trine; until it has shown the great spiritual power, not only
in the ancient religions, but also that same identical spiritual
power and those same truths in the Christian religion.
In the days when Mme. Blavatsky was on Earth the West-
em world believed in what was called the Christian religion,
but could not believe that one could be anything but a
aTe.u:hinp of Tu UmverstJI Relit/itnu FeliDflliiH~. I~~e.
A Message from Madame Blavatsky 121
~'heathen'' who could see truth in any other religion. It was
the work of Theosophy at that time to bring the truth of
other religions to the attention of the Orristian world. And
this work has been so well accomplished that as a result today
it is a common thing for people to go to the Hindus and the
philosophies of other ancient peoples and pick out their won-
derful pearls of great price. Many of such persons say that
Christianityis a failure; that there is nothing in it. Therefore
Mme. Blavatsky has not finished her work until she brings
the same understanding of the Christian Mysteries to the
public mind that she brought to it of the other religions; until
she strings the pearls of the Christian religion upon the same
thread of truth and makes the recognition of all reach around
the world and touch the hearts of all.
You see that her work today is just a continuation of a dif-
ferent part of the same work. You cannot expect a person,
even on the physical plane, to go on day after day, year after
year, repeating the same thing. If he has a philosophy he
must emphasize those aspects which will meet the needs of
the day; for it is not a philosophy if it cannot fit all times and
all conditions of life. If you send a child to school and he is
taught the multiplication table and learns it perfectly, and
then learns something else and finally a profession, would you
say: "This cannot be the same child, for this knowledge is
not what he was taught in the grammar school, and he is now
quite differentI" Do you not see Theosophists today who use
no more common sense than this?
When the cycle of my work is closed; when this 1975 they
talk so much about, comes, then there will be a new Agent or
Messenger from the Lodge. Who will this new Messenger
be? Ah, my cluldren, that we must leave. It will be One
whose understanding is opened, one who has wisdom, who
has love and sympathy, who can touch the hearts and unfold
the Heart Doctrine. His work will be a different work from
mine, but a continuation of it. But in the meantime you can
all help to spread the real Theosophy, both the body structure
122 Personal Survival
and the heart. You can thus help to redeem the work that is
attributed to Mme. Blavatsky when on Earth; can be setting
it right, by making people understand that while she was a
human being, full of faults and failings, yet she was a chosen
Messenger of the Lodge. She was also an immortal Spirit
and a divinely appointed Teacher whose work is not taken
from her because she laid down the human body of flesh; for
she is still working and will still work and never lay down her
work, until she has not merely one agent on Earth, but many,
who will catch the rhythm of the true Teachings and will give
but Theosophy from the heart side. ·
Why has the Society failed to touch the lives and hearts of
its followers as it should? Because they cut out its heart and
now are trying through magic to hold the atoms of the outer
body together. Like all corpses, in spite of the mummy wrap-
pings, the ritual and the mystic powers, the little atoms are
gradually separating, and seeking to live their lives in peace
and harmony elsewhere. Everything that is good in the old
society-and there is much good-will be utilized. But there
are still some devoted servants of the Lodge who are never-
theless so ignorant, so blinded, so deaf that they can look only
backward, never forward. They see only that which was,
never what now is, let alone what shall be. All that is good
will manifest. Every teaching will come back renewed, with
its heart in it. There is nothing that is hid that shall not be
revealed, nothing buried that shall not be resurrected.
This is all I care to tell you. You can proclaim it at your
discretion and let who will believe you. Let those who are
blind be blind still, as the Bible tells us. And he that is deaf
and lame and halt, let him be so still. For the "Kingdom of
Heaven" cometh like a thief in the night. Did you ever stop
to realize what this means? The night that the Scripture was
talking about was the night of the world that we are passing
through today; this great night of darkness and suffering and
ignorance. Yet through the night the footsteps of the Angel
messengers of the New Day can be heard. They are coming
A Message from Madame Blavatsky 123
quietly, yet steadily and persistently. They come like a thief
in the night, because they are stealing from the old forms
their life, that which was thought to be their exclusive foun-
dation. And as they come to humanity they must steal away
from the old forms their logic, their force, and their suprem-
acy. And the result at first is more inharmony. Yet it is but
like a mighty wind that is stirring up the dead leaves.
Soon, ah, so soon, will come the Great Gardener, like a fire,
and bum up the chaff. The fire will be the fire of the Law,
the fire of conviction, the fire of might and power. It will not
be perhaps an outer fire-although that too, may manifest be-
cause the outer fire destroys-but the purifying inner fire,
the fire of the heart, of the life, of the words. That is the fire
that burns for ever and ever; that destroys ultimately all
chaff and prepares the soil for new growth. This is all I have
for you tonight. With my great love I bid you adieu.
Chapter XII
PHYSICAL PROOFS: GENERAL SUBJECT
The physical proofs given in the following chapters place
the subject of conscious personal survival beyond all argu-
ment. It is a physical fact scientifically proven, with physical
evidence, and no longer dependent alone upon the reports of
any mediums or even upon the record of any Scripture which
relates the same facts such as the appearance of Moses and
Elias to Jesus and His disciples on the Mount of Transfigu-
ration, and the thirteen appearances of Jesus to His disciples
elsewhere. The evidence can be duplicated by any sincere
investigator who will take the trouble to set up the conditions
necessary for successful experiments.
Persons who try to argue about the facts of survival are
simply ignorant of the scientific facts repeatedly demon-
strated by competent authorities. Literally they do not know
what they are talking about. It is no longer a matter of belief
but of fact.
Even before the development of Radar and the Atomic
Bomb, no thoughtful scientist would say of any new discov-
ery or idea; "It is impossible I It is against all the laws of
science and nature." Much less would such scientists express
a dogmatic opinion about a subject which they had not stud-
ied and personally investigated, any more than they would
dare to express an adverse opinion as to the manufacture of
the Atomic Bomb, without having had special training in nu-
clear, physics, and atom splitting.
No matter how learned they may be on other subjects, they
124
Physical Proofs: General Subject 125
should not allow themselves to express an opinion on such a
technical matter as this without having been trained in the
technique of this specialty. They only show their ignorance by
doing so. .
When such recognized scientific authorities as Alfred Rus-
sell Waiiace. Sir William Crooks, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
Professor Camille Flammarion, Professor F. W. H. Myers,
and Sir William Barrett of England; Professors Charles
Richet and Gustave Geley of France; Professors Cesar Lom-
broso and Emesto Bozzano, and Dr. ]oseph Lapponi, of
Italy; Dr. A. Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. Franz Hartmann, and
Dr. Johann Karl Jallner of Germany; Professor Harold
Nielsson of Norway; Professor Alberto Brenes of Costa
Rica; Professors James Hervey Hyslop, and Walter E.
Prince of Boston; Professor William James and Dr. Cran-
don of Harvard; Professors McDougall and Joseph Banks
Rhine of Duke; Professors Robert Hare, and Hilprecht, and
Dr. Hays Agnew of the University of Pennsylvania; Robert
J. Tillyard, Chief-Entomologist of the Commonwealth of
Australia, and a host of others; when such great scientists,
professors, and doctors, after careful investigation and ex-
periment, pronounce survival a scientifically demonstrated
fact, the opinion of lesser scientists who have not made spe-
cial investigation into the subject are of little value.
Scientists TestimoDials:
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle says, "I have never in my thirty
years of experience, known one single scientific man who
went thoroughly into this matter who did not end by accept-
ing the spiritual solution."
Professor Lombroso for a long time ridiculed the claims of
Psychic Research for survival after death, but when he was
induced to investigate, he offered this handsome apology. ••1
am ashamed and grieved at having opposed the psychic facts.
Genuine psychic phenomena are produced by intelligences to-
tally independent of the parties present."
126 Personal Survival
"I am absolutely convinced of the fact that those who once
lived on earth, can and do communicate with us. It is hardly
possible to convey to the inexperienced, an adequate idea of
the strength and cumulative force of the evidence!" Sir Wil-
liam Barrett, F.R.S.
The famed Sir Oliver Lodge said, "I tell you we do per-
sist. Communication is possible. I have proved that the peo-
ple who communicate are who and what they say they are.
The conclusion is, that survival is scientifically proved by sci-
entific investigation."
"I am constrained to believe by the invincible logic of
facts." Professor Raoul Pictet, University of Genoa.
Dr. Gustave Geley, of the Metapsychic Institute, Paris,
states; ''The facts necessitate the complete overthrow of the
materialistic philosophy and conception of the Universe."
"When I remember that I branded as a fool that fearless
investigator Crookes, because he had the courage to assert
the reality of psychic phenomena, I am ashamed both of my-
self and others, and I cry from the very bottom of my heart,
'Father forgive I I have sinned against the Light.' " Professor
Ochorowicz, University of Warsaw.
A person may not believe that water is composed of two
gases, oxygen and hydrogen in the proportions of H.O, for
any one can see that water is a liquid. But the fact of its being
composed of two gases is not open to argument. It is simply
a question of how familiar one is with the laws of chemistry.
Likewise, anyone who argues against the truth of survival,
simply exposes his ignorance of the facts discovered through
scientific research.
It makes no difference-except to yourself-whether you
believe in it or not. It is a fact in Nature whether you are fa-
miliar with it or not.
Scientific, well proven assurance of personal survival, is
one of the greatest boons that humanity can receive. In the
face of the stark tragedies of .war, famine and pestilence,
Physical Proofs_: General Subject 127
what a blessing it is to be positively assured that personal sur-
vival is beyond doubt.
Modem scientific investigation into this subject does not
have to depend on the imperfect reports of our senses, which
are subject to illusions, but relies largely on reports of scien-
tific instruments, which are not subject to psychological reac-
tions or illusions.
Even if these psychic phenomena are_super-physical, they
are not supernatural, hence should-not be treated either as
"spooky.. or to be worshipped as Divine. They are just natu-
ral phenomena, of a super-physical causation, and some day
they will be so fatniliar to sincere students, as to cause no as-
tonishment. They will seem as commonplace and taken-for-
granted as the former mystery of radio, television and radar.
Types of Physical Proofs:
As we have said before, the whole subject of peisona1
survival_and every type of physical proof, has been thor-
oughly investigated by trained investigators, in laboratories
equipped with special scientific instruments, and with light
eno~gh to see everything in the room, and with every pre-
caution taken to prevent fraud. To obtain best results, special
conditions have to be established, and special techniques have
to be used, just as they do for any other scientific investiga-
tion. As the result of years of such investigation, and thou-
sand of tests which confirm one another, some types of
physical proofs of personal survival have been obtained, and
repeatedly verified by independent investigators in widely
separated countries.
Some of these types of physical proofs we will study in the
following pages.
Chapter XIII
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS AND
SKOTOGRAPHS
Proofs of identity depend on many factors. Primarily these
are based on certain characteristics which remain in evidence,
despite changes in appearance. Probably no one evidence
would constitute absolute proof of identity, at least not for
everyone, for only by the accwnulation of several types of
evidence, can positive proof be established. While photo-
graphs are generally accepted as certainty, their variability
prevents them from being absolute proof. Not only does the
photographer present to us pictures of several different poses
for our selection, each one varying in appearance sometimes
markedly, but we ourselves change in appearance, sometimes
more, sometimes less, from month to month, and from year
to year. Often this change is quite marked, but in general our
characteristics are sufficiently definite for photographs to be
accepted as evidence of identity.
Spirit Photographs:
Therefore, while spirit photographs are not considered to
be absolute proof of identity, they may well be considered as
a great contribution to the mass of proof that is being accu-
mulated to prove personal survival and direct communication
with those of the spirit world.
There are still some unenlightened people who claim that
spirit photography cannot be, since, they say, "that which is
invisible cannot be photographed." But science has proven
128
PLATE V-Sir Arthur, taken by son Dennis.
PLATE VI- Picture before the Cenotaph in London, Armistice Day.
Spirit Photographs and Skotographs 129
that there are many substances,-dlemicals and gases-that,
while not visible to the naked eye, are sufficiently tangible to
produce an image on the photographic plate. And so in the
same way spirit photography can be produced.
There are two methods of producing spirit photography.
In one of these the spirit is directly before the camera, par-
tially materialized. In all spirit photography the same un-
changing characteristics which give evidence of identity when
photos are taken under test conditions of those who have long
departed from this Earth, are good evidence of their identity,
in the strictest sense.
In the first method of producing spirit photographs, there
must be present one or more persons who have the ability to
exude from their bodies enough etheric matter, ectoplasm,
for the deceased ones who wished to be photographed to use
to materialize their astral bodies to a density sufficient to a£-
feet the photographic plate or film, even though not dense
enough to be visible to the naked eye.
Some Spirit Photographs:
Thousands of photographs have been taken with ordinary
cameras with plates sealed in a package by the dealers at the
time of purchase, and unopened until placed in the cameras
by chosen judges. Lady Conan Doyle sent the writer spirit
pictures of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle taken in her own home
by her son Dennis with his own camera and plates two years
after Sir Arthur's graduation from Earth life. This picture
we produce herein.
We have seen hundreds of similar identified photographs
taken under test conditions which definitely rule out all
chance of fraud or trick photography.
One of the most spectacular and convincing of such photo-
graphs we have ever seen, and which we also produce herein,
was one taken several years ago out-of-doors at the Cenotaph
in Whitehall, London, on Armistice Day. At a certain spot in
front of the Cenotaph, a group of some 200 Spiritualists
130 Personal Survival
were kneeling in prayer. When the plate was developed, there
was revealed a cloud of ectoplasm over the group. In this
cloud were found the pictures of faces of more than 60
deceased British soldiers, most of whose faces were identified
later. The cloud of ectoplasm was so dense that it obscured
most of the Cenotaph and some of the branches of the nearby
trees. The remarkable thing about this picture is that it was
taken out-of-doors in broad daylight in the presence of
thousands of spectators where any fraud was impossible.
Skotographs:
As we have said before there are two methods of produc-
ing spirit photography and the second of these is called
skotography. Skotographs are pictures impressed upon the
photographic plate or film in complete darkness and without
the use of the camera or any known kind of light-infra-red
or otherwise-except the inherent radiant light of the spirit
world. Thus no camera is required.
A good account of this rare type of mediumship is the
experience of the Rev. J. T. Wills, D.D., Pastor of the
Franklin Street Presbyterian Church of San Francisco. In
1903 he investigated the claims of Dr. W. J. Pierce, a busi-
ness man of the highest integrity, who claimed to have taken
pictures without a camera, in connection with the mediumship
of Mr. Edward Wyllie. On the day appointed for the test
Rev. Wills bought a package of plates at a photo supply
store, and carried them in his pocket to the Doctor's office
where he was to meet the medium. The Doctor, who was an
amateur photographer, had a dark room and all the equipment
for development. The two entered the dark room which was
lighted by the usual orange light used by photographers. In
his account of the experiment he says:
"I took the plates out of my pocket, and took one plate out
of the package. After marking it on one comer, I took it by
the comers toward me and held it out to the medium who,
placing his hands one on top and the other underneath, held
Spirit Photographs and Skotographs 131
the plate between his palms. I continued to hold the plate by
its comers and never let go of it for an instant. To my sur-
prise I heard three distinct taps upon the plate; the medium
removed his hands and I put the plate at once into the de-
veloper and developed it myself, no one but myself touching
it for an instant. Neither was the plate out of my possession
for one second from the time I bought it until I had it fully
developed. To my astonishment there was the face of a lady
oti it, and so plain that it was recognized by my daughter as
the likeness of a lady who was never in California, and who
died in England several years ago. • • • In the course of
about fifteen minutes we.had four tests, and with four dis-
tinct and different faces with the same medium, and in the
same manner. Then I felt compelled to aclmowledge that by
a force not visible to me, this work had been done." 1
The following photograph is the one taken by the Rev.
J. T. Wills, D.D. and described above.
The following inscription on the back of the photograph
below, was written by Dr. Pierce;
""Obtained in London England, Oct. 8th, 1903, under
strictly test conditions, within a box holding six sensitized
plates; no camera used. The plates were purchased, developed
and fixed by me, the medium doing nothing except -to hold
the unopened box between his hands for about two minutes,
prior to the developing." •
Geoffrey O'Hara, composer of There Is No Death, gives a
description of the very rigid scientific tests, to which this
picture above was put to prove its authenticity, in The
Psychic Observer, Jan. lOth, 1945.
In this psychic photograph, or skotograph, the extra of
Will Rogers,-center-is a most positive proof of survival.
This picture was verified as evidential by Congressman Ad-
olph J. Sabath. A fairly distinct picture, that bears a re-
markable resemblance to the late Sir Oliver Lodge, can be
132 Personal Survival
seen upper center. The spirit extra to the right center has
been definitely claimed as that of Lon Chaney.•
This skotograph of flowers was precipitated for the author
under strictly tested and scientific conditions.
Although the subject is consistently avoided by his biog-
raphers, there is ample documentary evidence to show that
President Lincoln was an ardent Spiritualist. He not only
attended Seances of the celebrated medium Mrs. L. • • • But
even had materializing seances held in the White House, with
the child medium Nettie Colburn.
The following psychic photograph of Abraham Lincoln,
obtained in 1925, through the mediumship of Craig and
George Falconer, noted English mediums, has been published
numerous times in London Spiritualistic Journals. It is
recognized as probably the most outstanding spirit photo-
graph of Lincoln on record and was obtained under strict
test conditions.
THE MASTER JESUS
Of course there were no pictures of the Master Jesus made
during his Earth-life. All the pictures now in existence are
but the conceptions of the various artists. This picture was
precipitated for the author directly from the invisible. The
discarnate artist stated that the radiance of the Master was
so glorious that it almost blinded him.
This sketch was the best he could do under the circum-
stances. When it was finished he precipitated it into the
physical for our use. The face is sensitive and kind, without
being effeminate; strong, positive and masculine without
being stem.
a For further details see P$Ychic Obn'nJn', Sept. lOth, 1944.
Non-Unless otherwise stated these ~ychie photographs and &kotographs are
used through the courtesy of the PI:JCh.it: Qbsen~w.
Chapter XIV
HANDWRITING, PSYCHOGRAPHS AND
. SIGNATURES
Our handwriting although it varies from year to year,
still retains and exhibits certain characteristics which make
it easily recognizable as being ours. This is especially true
of our signature. Even when we try to disguise our hand-
writing, experts can detect the attempt and recognize the
writer. But these variations do not prevent bank officials from
accepting the slightly varying signatures to our checks. Con-
sequently, when our departed loved ones send us messages,
either through controlled, automatic writing of someone
living on Earth, or by messages in their own characteristic
handwriting, which are phenomenally precipitated intact from
the astral, the writing is so characteristic of the departed
ones, as to be easily recognized by anyone familiar with their
handwriting. This is another good evidence of their presence
and identity, even though it may not be absolute proof to the
severe critic.
Psychographs:
We have spoken above of messages precipitated direct and
intact from the astral by discarnate spirits. These messages
are called psychographs and the method of receiving them is
called psychography. Psychographs are obtained without
human contact, and are shown by rigid tests to be the work
of discarnate entities.
133
134 Personal Survival
Precipitated Writing:
This writing was originally called "slate writing" as it was
usually precipitated on the dark space between two slates or
on cards placed there. The way this is accomplished is as
follows : The inquiring sitter writes out the desired questions,
addressed to his departed loved ones. These are then placed
in a sealed envelope, so that the medium can have no knowl-
edge of either the questions or the names of the persons ad-
dressed. The sealed envelope is then placed outside on top
of the slates. The spirit-guide transmits the messages tele-
pathically to the loved ones so addressed, and collects their
replies.
The departed ones addressed write out their answers to the
questions asked by the sitter, and then the guide, again using
the psychic forces of the medium, precipitates the writing
either on the slates or on the cards placed between the slates.
In some instances the materialized hand of the spirit
visitor is able to do the writing on paper and with a real
pencil.
While trying to solve an old mystery of her brother's re-
corded death in the first World War, Sylvia Barbanell, a
noted author and investigator of psychic phenomena, proved
beyond a doubt that she received a direct message from the
brother who had gone wer. At a seance he asked for a pencil
and paper and with his materialized hand, he wrote her a
letter, clearing up the mystery of his death. On comparing
this letter with the others he had written, the writing was
found to be identical, and even the manner of finishing his
letter and signing his name was beyond doubt. The medium
who was conducting the seance at the time had never seen the
boy's handwriting and Miss Barbanell had none of his letters
with her at the time.1
The method of spirit-writing on slates seems not to be
as yet fully comprehended probably because earth people
are not sufficiently advanced in scientific knowledge, as known
1 For further details see, WU. YDtJr .biMal Dies. Barbanell, 24.
PLATE VII-Sir Arthur Conan Doyle surrounded by his spirit friends.
PLATE VIII-Abraham Lincoln, with Ralph Waldo Emerson,
Edward Everett Hale and Grover Cleveland.
I' l. :\ T E IX- Child ~fediun1 Lil y. ,,mJ others f rolll th<> >pirit-world
PLATE X-Spirit photograph of Lady's head.
PLATE XI-Spirit picture of hand.
PLATE XII-:Spirit photograph of Wendell Willkie and Al Smith..
PLATE XIII-Spirit picture of Willkie, Geofrey O'Hara and others.
PLATE XIV- Will Rogers, Lon Chaney and others.
PLATE XV-Precipitated picture of flowers.
-
PLATE XVI- Head of Lincoln.
PLATE XVII-The Master Jesus.
PLATE X VII !- Precipitated writing of Lincoln and Father.
PLATE XIX-Precipitated writing of Benj. Harrison.
&
·-·
~-- -~---
sam I
Handwriting, Psychographs and Signatures 135
by the spirits to understand the process. Usually a small bit of
pencil is placed between the slates, but it would seem that
the spirits do not always have to use this. A group of medi-
ums, "sitting" without any outsiders in the meeting, once
requested the spirits to write on the slates with a bright
orange color, taken from a ribbon worn by one of the medi-
ums. The color of the writing on the slates, when compared
with that of the ribbon, matched exactly.2
It has been the author's privilege to have received a num-
ber of messages from his father, mother, brothers and sister;
also from former Professors of the University of Pennsylva-
nia, Former Presidents Lincoln, Benjamin Harrison and
other distinguished personages have also written us messages.
In each case the writing was characteristic of the com-
municator as the signatures were verified by comparisons
with those left behind at their passing. On one occasion
President Lincoln precipitated a picture of himself with the
message as did Benjamin Harrison.
The following are some of the psychographs we have men-
tioned above. These messages definitely refute the claim of
some skeptics that spirit messages are of a trivial nature,
give little information, and are of low intellectual content.
These psychographs were materialized by Pierre L. 0. A.
Keeler, at Cascadoga, Fla., Easter morning, March 27th, &
Easter Monday March 28th, 1932 for F. Homer Curtiss.
The author did not recognize the signature of "Annie," but
when this message was thrown on the screen at a meeting,
a lady in the audience recognized the writing and signature
as belonging to a friend who had passed over to the spirit
world some time before.
Professor Hare was formerly Professor of Chemistry at
the University of Pennsylvania, and had been inte~·ested in
the facts of Spiritualism for some time before his passing.
Dr. Agnew was formerly Professor of Surgery at the
2 For further details see Evidential Slate Writing, Washburn, The Direct
Voice, Sept, 1930.
136 Personal Survival
University of Pennsylvania where Dr. Curtiss took his Med-
ical Degree many years later.
Dr. Curtiss was attending a dinner in Florida, when one
of the guests swallowed a bone which lodged so far down in
the trachea that all ordinary efforts to remove it failed and he
was in grave danger of choking to death. During the interim
while a surgeon was being sought, Dr. Curtiss received a
message from Dr. Agnew from the other side to administer a
tremendous blow at a certain spot on the man's back. He
jumped from his chair and followed the instructions, with a
resounding whack. The bone flew out on the floor. The above
psychographic message was received psychographically from
Dr. Agnew in reply to Dr. Curtiss' sincere thanks.
Chapter XV
MATERIALIZATION
Materialization of form, to such an extent as to be seen
and felt by human beings, is another contributing evidence
of personal survival, after S<H:alled death. This is accom-
plished by the departed one's drawing from the body of the
materializing medium, and from that of the audience, enough
of their etheric material or "ectoplasm,'' to clothe himself,
and make his astral body dense enough to be seen in the
dark faintly glowing with an-inner radiant light.
Ectoplasm:
This ectoplasm is the substance of the etheric body of the
medium, or others in the seance room, which is the duplicate
of the physical body, and into the meshes of which the sub-
stance of the dense body is materialized.
Just as certain persons are born with special talents for
music, art, song, mathematics or other abilities, so certain
persons are born with the ability to exude some of their
etheric substance, or ectoplasm, through their orifices, usually
the mouth and nose. Sometimes this emerges only as a thin
vapor, but may be condensed into a liquid or even a solid on
sufficient contact with the air. Since this substance is semi-
physical in its vaporous condition it is used by the discarnate
spirits and incorporated into their astral bodies to make them
sufficiently dense to be seen or photographed, or to produce
the higher, lighter types of physical phenomena. From its
liquid state it can be condensed into rigid rods, or it can be
137
138 Personal Survival
moulded into other forms, which are capable of lifting or
sustaining considerable weight, or producing other phenomena
which require the application of great force.
We have personally felt this condensed ectoplasm, and its
touch resembles that of a jelly, which tends to dissolve under
the living hand, and usually melts away rapidly in the
presence of light, as it is withdrawn into the body of the
medium.
Repercussion:
Since the ectoplasm of the etheric body is the substance of
the model on which the physical body is built, if it is injured
in any way wl_rile it is exuded from the medium's body,-
such as by bruising, scratching, or cutting, when it is with-
drawn again into the body of the medium, the damage will be
reproduced in the flesh, manifesting as a bruise, scratch, or
even a bleeding cut. This phenomena is called repercussion.
Therefore it is very dangerous to the welfare of the medium,
for anyone to touch the ectoplasm or materialized form with-
out the permission of the controlling guide. If the astral cord
connecting the medium with the materialized form is severed
and the ectoplasm is thus prevented from returning into the
physical body, it may result in the death of that body. Those
who attend materializing seances should understand this,
and rigidly adhere to the rules laid down as to the touching
of any materialized forms or articles, or they will be re-
sponsible for any unhappy results.
Even the sudden unauthorized turning on of the light may
dissolve the ectoplasm so quickly, that it will produce a great
shock to the medium from which it will require weeks to
recover. Since ectoplasm is usually soluble in light, such
materializations have to be produced in the dark, or under a
faint ruby light.
Because they are more often produced in the dark, these
phenomena are most often imitated or "faked," but this can
be detected by photographing materialized figures, with infra-
PLATE XX III- Ectoplasm. Over five yards long.
PLATE XXIV- Ectoplasmic arm. Note grippers at the end of arm
for clasping objects. Also orifice above the grippers.
Materialization 139
red rays which, as we explained above, can take pictures in
the dark.
Materialization in the Light:
There are certain exceptions to this general law of materi-
alizing in the dark, however, for some mediums have the
extraordinary ability to produce materialization in the day-
light.
The most astonishing exception we have found recorded,
is that of the noted English medium, William Englinton. On
one occasion while he lay in a trance on a bench out-of-doors
in the garden, he materialized several human forms, taller
than himself. One of them was so powerful that it lifted the
hat off the head of a spectator, put it on its own head, walked
a distance of more than sixty feet from the entranced me-
dium, returned, gave the hat back to its owner, shook hands
with him and then melted back into the body of the medium.
This was aptly testified to and verified by those present.
During our years of personal investigation, among the
hundreds of materialized figures we have seen, all of which
were recognized by relatives or friends, our mother once
fully materialized, and walked the entire length of a large
faintly lighted living-room in full view of some twenty per-
sons. She came up to us, patted us on the cheek and said in
a loud whisper, "Bless you, my son." Other members of our
family have materialized since in the same way.
On one of the author's visits to ''Margery," he was shown
three large rings, each of a different kind of wood, but each
interlaced with the other two. At the time they were shown
to him, they had to be shown under a ruby light as they were
still considered to be "green"; that is, they had not been
materialized long enough to be sufficiently solid to withstand
daylight without dissolving. Later, these rings were sub-
mitted to photomicrographic and other laboratory tests to
discover if they had been cut in two in any way to interlace
them, and then cemented together again. No such transverse
140 Personal Survival
joint could be found. This again proves that, supernonnally,
one fonn of matter can interpenetrate and pass through an-
other.
During a period of three years, Sir William Crookes', in
experiments with the medium Florence Cook, frequently
witnessed the full sized figure of Katie King, who was six
inches taller than the medium, in a somewhat dim light.
Katie at times walked about the room for two hours, con-
versing in a distinctly audible voice. The medium habitually
wore earings while the materialized figure did not. Her fonn
was so solid that she was able to grant the request of Sir
William that he might hold her in his anns, where he felt her
living body. She was frequently photographed, at one time
with five cameras,-including a stereoscopic camera,-
focused on her figure at the same time. At each seance, at
least three exposures of each camera were given.
It was a common thing for the spectators to see both Katie
King and the medium together in the full glare of the
electric light. The pulse of Katie beat steadily at seventy-five,
while that of Miss Cook was going at the rate of ninety. This
shows that Katie's astral heart was beating as regularly as it
did in physical life.2
Materialized fonns have been heard to breathe heavily,
and on certain occasions the breath was breathed through a
tube into baryta water, to detect the presence of carbon
dioxide. A bubbling was heard and the dioxide was proved
to be present, showing that physiological metabolic changes
were taking place in the body of the spirit visitor.
This is positive proof that the fonn was densely material-
ized, that it was performing all the physiological functions
of normal respiration-namely, breathing in oxygen and
breathing out carbonic acid gas-as any other living human
being must necessarily do.
Mediums have been known to lose as much as sixty pounds
while the figures are materialized. In Colonel Alcott's ex-
z See OM Ht,tdred Ctuel of SMnnflai.A./Ier DI!Gih, Baird. 209.
Materialization 141
periments, at the Eddy's at Chittenden, he had various ma-
terialized forms step on a platform scales, on which the
weights were recoroed, or measured, and they were found to
vary from one hundred and thirty-two to one hundred and
sixty pounds.
On one occasion materialized hands pulled a spring scale
out to the limit of measurement, which was fifty pounds.•
And as we have said before, materialized figures have ex-
traordinary strength. In a number of instances the material-
ized figure was able to pick up the entranced medium in his
arms and carry her all around the room for the sitters to see.
In another instance, the materialized form was able to
answer the telephone and have her voice recognized by the
caller.
As the materialized figure moves around the room, every-
one is able to see it since it is illumined by its own inner
radiance.
In her book, Ghosts I Have Seen, Violet Tweedale, a
writer of note and a person of integrity, and impeccable
character, tells of a remarkable demonstration of materializa-
tion on one of her visits to Mme. Blavatsky in London. She
says. "On another occasion when I was alone with Madame
Blavatsky, she suddenly broke off our conversation by laps-
ing into another language, which I supposed to be Hindustani.
She appeared to be addressing someone else, and on looking
over my shoulder, I saw that we were no longer alone. A man
stood in the middle of the room. I was sure he had not
entered by the door, window or chimney, and as I looked at
him in astonishment, he salaamed to Mme. Blavatsky, and
replied to her in the same language in which she had ad-
dressed him."
The picture below is one of the materialized form and
particularly the hands, of Archbishop Nathan Soderblom of
Sweden, given to his medium the Swedish Pastor Ma¢n
Liljeblad. The archbishop had previously written a theolog-
a P""" tr- 1M Otler WurU.. Olcott. 256--57.
142 Personal Survival
ical treatise, through the automatic writing of Liljeblad. This
photograph was recognized by many persons who knew
him well, as an authentic one of the "dead" archbishop.
Liljeblad also published a book of hymns, given to him
through automatic writing from the Danish Hymn writer
Bishop Kingo, who had passed on many years ago. Because
he could not find any suitable tunes for his hymns, he was
helped by other spirits to- compose the music for some of
the hymns which he had received through mediumship.
PLATE XXV-Materialized form and hands of Archbishop Nathan
Soderblom.
PLATE XXVI-Ectoplasmic voice box, used by spirit visitors m
speaking directly to the sitters.
Chapter XVI
DIRECf VOICE
Another physical proof of personal survival is the voices
of the departed coming through to those on this earth-pJane,
and being recognized as such by them. The direct voite of a
loved one can be heard only to the extent that he can ma-
terialize his Jarynx and vocal cords by using the ectoplasm of
the medium. This takes considerable training and practice,
and therefore at first only whispers can be produced. In this
case a trumpet or megaphone can be used and later when
the voice box is fully materialized, the characteristic tones
of the speaker can be easily recognized and identified. To
save expenditure of force, only the Jarynx of the medium
needs to be materialized, as shown in the pictures following,
taken with infra-red light.
Trumpets:
When a trumpet is used it is usually levitated in the air
by spirit power and thus can float to any person in the room,
as shown also in the pictures. The trumpet is often found
near the ceiling, out of human reach.
Bands of luminous tape are frequently placed around each
end of the trumpet, so that its movements can be seen by all
present.
Direct Voice:
Tones of the voice and the timbre of its vibrations are st\
characteristic that they are easily recognized in general.
143
144 Personal Survival
When the voice of the departed is recorded on a phonograph
disk, it may be analyzed scientifically and proved to be identi-
cal with similar disks recorded by that one before transition.
Direct Voice Phenomena:
The following examples of direct voice are quoted by a
writer on this subject:-
"At a sitting with the Countess Tyong Ceitiongham, a
voice addressed her in Chinese, in which language a con-
versation was carried on between them for a short time.
After the sitting the Countess stated that there were at
least twenty dialects in Chinese, each of which might have
been used. The voice, in speaking to her used two dialects
mixed in a way in which no European--even if he were able
to speak Chinese-could do. One of the dialects 'l.V'aS that in
which her father used to speak to her when she 'l.V'aS a child,
and the other, one which they used in talking together after
she had grown up:, 1
The following incident is quoted because the author [while
living in Los Angeles] knew Dr. Peebles personally as a
man of great integrity of purpose:
"A voice claiming to be Dr. Peebles spoke to Dr. Abraham
Wallace. 'You remember that there was a banquet held in
my honor, when the empty chair was left for me? I ap-
preciated it very much; I enjoyed the gathering.'
"Afterwards Dr. Wallace explained that a banquet had
been held in honor of the tOOth birthday of Dr. Peebles,
who died just prior to it. Nevertheless the banquet was held
with the empty chair at the table in appreciation of Dr.
Peebles. This incident was accepted as evidential by Dr.
Wallace, as no one in the room knew of this happening but
himself." 2
In an experiment with Margery Crandon, the investigator
placed a sensitive microphone in a locked and sealed box,
1 Peopk1 from IAI Olhn Worlth, Alcott.
2 P1o1>les from 1111 Olhn Worlds, Alcott.
Direct Voice 145
impervious to any sound-producing waves. The microphone
was connected with a loud speaker in a distant part of the
house. and "Walter"s.. voice was produced from the loud
speaker. with no sound audible in the seance room.
The following case of independent voice is a remarkable
and authentic one. One of our students. Mrs. B•• attended a
seance for the first time, in an attitude of neither belief or
disbelief. but with rather a willingness to be shown. The
medium had been getting messages of a general nature.
through a trumpet. for the sitters. when from the center of
the group came a voice calling distinctly Mrs. B.'s full name,
and.in tones loud enough to be heard by anyone in th~ circle.
She at once recognized the voice as belonging to a friend who
had passed over a few years back. and she greeted her in re-
turn. So sure was she of the identification that she called
out; "OhI Hello C • • .•• using her first name. just as she
had often greeted her. when they had met before death had
separated them.
C • • • then spoke of a matter which had been troubling
her, and said she had tried numerous times to get in touch
with her friend, in order to try to get the trouble straightened
out. No one on earth knew of this incident smJe these two
and they conversed about it for a few minutes. Mrs. B. ex-
plained that it had been taken care of satisfactorily. at the
time of C.'s passing over, and that now she might be at rest
about it. C. thanked her, spoke of some mutual friends in the
spirit world and on the earth-plane, said "Good-bye•• ·very
distinctly and then her voice faded out completely. This was
a most remarkable demonstration of the Direct Voice phe-
nomenon. because of the fact that the spirit visitor spoke
without the aid of the trumpet. and that Mrs. B. • •• did
not expect either a visitor or a message. and that the matter
discussed was positively known to these two alone.
May we further state that none of the sitters nor the
medium had met Mrs. B. • • • or her spirit friend. before the
night of the seance. It was a clear and true case of lntle-
146 Personal Survival
pendent Voice, and a very convincing proof of personal sur-
vival after death.
"A remarkable variety of voices were reproduced through
the trumpet at a seance bY, Armand Wilson, at the Great
Metropolitan Spiritualist Association. Singers from the other
world included a contralto, a mezzo-soprano, sopranos, and
tenors-and some of them remarkably good-.••. A mezzo-
soprano who said she was the mother of the medium was
asked to sing a song composed for a tenor voice. After a
laugh all around, a tenor voice obliged with an excellent
rendering of the song." The speaking voices at this seance
were also remarkably loud and clear." 1
a P1:nltic Nn111, ]an. 19th, 1946.
Chapter XVII
FINGER PRINTS AND WAX GAUNTLETS
One of the most convincing proofs of personal survival is
fingerprin~. In all the courts throughout the world; finger-
prints are now accepted as indisputable physical proof that
the person to whom they belong must have been actually
present to make them. Since this is true, and as no two per-
sons have the same identical fingerprints, spirit fingerprints
are positive and convincing proof of personal survival.
As proof that no two persons have the same fingerprints,
among the many millions of them on file at the headquarters
of the F.B.I. in Washington, at Scotland Yard in London,
at the Surete in Paris, and elsewhere, there are no two alike.
Since it is now universally accepted that no two persons,
living or dead, have the same fingerprints, only the owner
could have made them. Therefore, as we have said above,
fingerprints are recognized as positive and irrefutable proof
of the presence and identity of the one who makes-them.
Even though they are taken of one who is no longer living on
this earth-plant; and can be proven to belong to that one,
there is absolute proof that the person is personally ccalive"
in some other realm.
Scientific investigators have found many such prints made
in soft wax by persons who have passed on from earth-life,
several years previously. These prints have been compared by
fingerprint experts, with those made by the same persons
while they were on Earth, and the two have been declared
identical. This is positive physical proof that the owners
147
148 Personal Survival
must have materialized their fingers sufficiently solidly to
have made the imprint on the wax.1
When such prints are made by the departed in melted wax,
and after comparison with those made while still living they
are proven identical, this constitutes, not merely evidence,
but positive proof of that one's presence in a body which is
an exact duplicate of the physical body, down to the minutest
detail.
Ezamples:
Thumbprints of Charles S. Hill procured after death and
under strict conditions of control.
The thumbprint on the left, was taken in 1928 before his
death. That on the right was taken in 1930 after he had
been in the spirit world over a year.
In another experiment with "Margery," William H. But-
ton, then president of the American S.P.R., obtained a
thumbprint in wax, inside a heavily locked box, which could
not be opened without the facts becoming immediately ap-
parent.2
Wax Moulds:
There is probably no physical proof of personal survival
more positive, convincing or indisputable, than wax moulds
made from hands or feet, of discarnate beings. To produce
this phenomena, large vases containing melted paraffin are
placed before the materializing medium, whose hands are
held by the judges, or otherwise so firmly secured that there
is no possibility of their being moved. During the seance
materialized arms, hands or fists, are dipped into the paraffin
several times, until a thick coating is produced. This is al-
lowed to harden, and then the materialized form is de-
materialized, leaving a hollow gauntlet of hard wax. This is
then filled with plaster of Paris, which makes a perfect cast
of the limb or other object which was dematerialized. This is
Finger Prints and Waz Gauntlets 149
such an accurate reproduction that it shows the texture of
the skin, location of creases, blood-vessels and disposition of
the hair. In some cases it reveals scars, deformities or other
special characteristics, which positively identify the deceased
spirit who had materialized. -
In the Spiritist Headquarters in Paris, there is a col-
lection of famous psychic moulds, made by means of paraffin.
These were obtained in the usual manner by placing a vessel
of warm paraffin near the sitters, and the materialized forms
were requested to thrust a hand or foot into the liquid, which
was then allowed to cool. The mould thus made was then
filled with plaster in the usual way and the paraffin removed.
The moulds are of great variety, some of delicate female
hands, some of large strong male hands while others are of
children, or very small adult hands. These moulds were made
under the mediumship of Kulaski, and conditions were such
as to preclude the possibility of fraud.•
Since these plaster moulds of the hand, arm or other parts
of the body, produced from wax gauntlets, reproduce the
'identifiable characteristics of the size, shape, deformities,
scars or other details of the departed one's limbs, and since
it would be impossible to duplicate such moulds in any other
way, they may be regarded as such strong evidence of per-
sonal survival as to be proof to any reasonable mind.
This phenomenon is also positive proof of both material-
ization and dematerialization, first because the cast differs
markedly from the hands and arms of the medium, and
secondly, if there is no dematerialization there would be no
possible way by which the hand or closed fist could be with-
drawn through the narrow portion of the wrist of the mould.
The most skilled human moulders are unable to produce
similar moulds without making them in halves, and after-
wards uniting them. This is one more physical proof which
defies any other explanation than personal survival of the
deceased person in a materialized body which is the exact
duplicate in every detail of its former physical body.
&..f C~ S•~ of P•~ltictll P~ I.amhert.
CJhapter ){"III
AUTOMATIC WRITING
Automatic Writing-"Scripts produced without the con-
trol of the conscious self. It is one of the most common fonns
of mediumship, the source of innumerable cases of self-
delusion, and at the same time one of the most valuable of
spiritual gifts. 'If reliable it opens up a direct channel for
obtaining teaching from the Beyond." 1
&utomatic Writing:
This is a type of psychic phenomena in which the hand of
the automatist writes with pencil and paper, without writer's
lmowing what is to be or has been written, until it has been
read after it has been produced. The production of this
writing varies all the way from mental suggestion to absolute
control of the hand and arm, or even deep unconscious
trance. Obviously this method is open to much criticism, as
the communication may have originated in the subconscious
mind of the automatist, or have been given by telepathy from
some other living person. It also affords a great opportunity
for the expression of subconscious desires, and a wide field
for the manifestation of a lively imagination. Consequently
a large percentage of such writings are not communications
with the deceased which they purport to represent. Hence all
such writings must be judged by their content and the cir-
cumstances under which they were produced.
To be properly called automatic writing, the hand of the
1 Tlw Eneyclopoedia of Psycllic Scinlc•. Fodor.
ISO
Automatic Writing 151
automatist must be more or less completely controlled by the
discarnate entity with whom he desires to communicate.
Such· control in its negative aspect may be gradually in-
creased to complete control of the entire body, to the point
of complete possession or obsession. On the constructive side
the control may become less and less and the consciousness
of the automatist, having no knowledge whatever of the
message. may respond to the point where the words which
follow are anticipated, and where they can be written down or
not at the will of the writer.
This can further progress to the point where the message
can be clearly understood and written down entirely inde-
pendent of the controL Naturally this is no longer automatic
writing, but becomes voluntary. At this stage it is called in-
spirational writing as it is now entirely under the control of
the automatist and not the discarnate entity. Those who strive
to develop this gift should therefore seek to obtain inspira-
tional writing instead of the automatic type. In other words
the idea the communicator desires to express is impressed
upon the mind of the writer by telepathy in his own language
instead of that which is characteristic of the communicator,
and is then written down or not as the automatist desires.
Many noted authors testify that their best writings are ob-
tained this way. Harriet Beecher Stowe. the author of Uncle
To«s Cabin, said that she did not write that book for her
hand was the instrument of another personality.
Letters from a Liviug Dead Man:
One of the most noted examples of automatic writing is
found in the three volumes written by this method by the well
known author, Elsa Barker. As she describes their origin,
"One night last year, in Paris, I was strongly impelled to take
up a pencil and write. although what I was to write about I
had no idea. Yielding to the impulse, my hand was seized as
if from the outside. and a remarkable message of a personal
nature came, followed by the signature, •x• • • • X was not
152 Personal Survival
a Spiritualist, I am not myself, and never have been a Spir-
itualist. • • • Spiritualism had always left me quite cold."
But in spite of this indifference Mrs. Barker was impelled
to write through this method, three important volumes,
Letters From a Living Dead Man, War Letters From a
Living Dead Man, and Last Letters From a Living Dead
Man. The controlling influence Mr. X proved to be a Judge
Hatch, and much of the information given was entirely un-
known to Mrs. Barker, and hence could not have come from
her subconscious mind, but must have come from the dis-
carnate intelligence of Judge Hatch.
"He was not an ordinary person. He was a well known
lawyer .•• a profound student of philosophy, a writer of
books."
Mrs. Barker says again. ''While writing these books I was
generally in a state of semi-consciousness, so that until I
read the message over afterwards, I had only a vague idea of
what it contained.••. References were often made to
past events and the references were afterwards verified.
This leaves untouched the favorite telepathic theory of the
psychologists. • • . In the absence of X and without some
other entity on the invisible side of Nature, in whom I had a
like degree of confidence, I could not produce another docu-
ment of this kind." 2
How It Is Done:
This is how the discarnate spirit of Judge Hatch speaks of
the automatic writing, through the hand of Mrs. Barker :
"By writing with your hand, I am not making any open-
ing through your nervous system through which irresponsible
and evil forces can enter and take possession of you. At first
I used your hand and arm from the outside, sometimes with
such force as to make them lame the next day...• Then I
tried another method, and you noticed a change in the char-
acter of the writing . • • a third method • • • I enter your
2 See Lnlw$ Frtwrt • Livi•a Dead Jl11•• Barker.
Automatic Writing 153
mind by putting myself in absolute rapport with your mind.
impressing upon your mind itself the things I wish to say:• •
Some of this automatic writing is that of Frederic Myers.
the well known leader in psychical research and one of the
founders of the Society for Psychical Research. and many
of his closest friends. and fearless investigators have believed
it to be his writing.•
Prominent bank officials have identified the handwriting
and signatures of Myers and other trusted spirit "writers••
whose integrity while on the earth plane was beyond doubt.
and who. before their passing had made arrangements by
which the officers of the Society would be able to identify
them should they find it possible to carry on communications
from the spirit world.
Ezamples of Automatic Writiag:
Among the many cases of notable volumes having been
written in truly automatic style. may be mentioned that of
Patience Worth. This case puzzled not only psychical re-
searchers. but scientists and psychologists also. and those
who opposed the after-death-survival theory. were given in
this instance a difficult case to explain away. Patience Worth.
-purporting to be a peasant girl. who had lived in early life
in Dorsetshire. England. and to be killed by Indians in Amer-
ica when she migrated there in the Seventeenth Century-.
controlled Mrs. John Curran. a medium of St. Louis. Mo.
This woman"s education had been limited; her reading never
exceeded that of the average American woman of her class
and she had travelled little.
She first performed on the ouija-board. but later took to
communicating and dictating in direct speech. a number of
books of outstanding literary merit. with extreme rapidity.
over a wide range of subjects. Among the most notable was
Telka. a seventy thousand word poem. in the Anglo-Saxon
154 Personal Survival
language of three centuries ago, dictated for the purpose of
proving Patience Worth to be a personality independent of
the medium, as in it she did not use any words that had come
into use since her day. This she considered beyond the powers
of anyone now living in this world.
Professor Schiller of Oxford University observed, regard-
ing the antiquated language of Telka: "It is certainly impres-
sive to be told that in one of her tales, Telka ••• exhibits a
vocabulary up to ninety percent of the Anglo-Saxon origin,
and contains no word of later entry into the language of
1600, except the word 'amuck',-which is first recorded in
the second half of the seventeenth century-, and no word
wrongly formed among those which are on record.
"Professor Allison of the University of Manitoba, who
personally studied the case, thought she must be 'the out-
standing phenomena of the age,' and Dr. Usher, Professor of
History in Washington University, considered The Sorry
Tale, a work of 350,000 words, the greatest story penned of
the current life and times since the Gospels were published." 1
William Blake in the preface to his great poem I enualem,
wrote that it was dictated to him. "The grandest poem that
this world contains; I may praise it since I dare not pretend
to be other than the secretary. I have written this poem from
immediate dictation, twelve or sometimes twenty or thirty
lines at a time, without premeditation and even against my
will.".
One of the most voluminous examples of automatic writing
ever produced was Hudson Tuttle's Arcana of Nature, from
which Dlarles Darwin quoted in his Origin of S pedes.
Coleridge confessed that his famous poem Kubla Kahn was
written practically under psychic dictation.
Dickens, Balzac, Victor Hugo, etc., are among the many
noted writers who wrote in truly automatic style.
Automatic Writing 155
In the State of Rmaembrtmce by Bligh Bond. it is related
that the automatic writing of his colleague. Captain J. Allen
Bartlett. Jobannes.-a Glastonbury monk of the 15th cen-
tury.-revealed to the architects the exact location of the
Edgar Chapel of that great Cathedral which had been in
ruins for many centuries and the exact location of which
there was no record. Subsequent excavations showed that
the locations indicated were exact in every detail•. Since no
persons then living knew of this location. the information
could not have been received by telepathy from anyone on
earth and therefore must have come from the discarnate
monk Johannes. as was claimed.
The late Albert Peyson Terhune is continuing his literary
work beyond the grave, his widow says. In her book Across
the Line. Anice Terhune holds conversation by automatic
writing with her husband in the spirit world. She says he
speaks to her in a voice closely resembling the one he had
while he was alive. While he is interested in his new life, he
is not so preoccupied with it that he basn"t taken an interest
in her affairs on earth. She had lost some important papers;
he told her where to find them."
As another example of automatic writing the following is
given from the pen of the Rev. G. Vale Owen a clerg}man of
impeccable character and deep sincerity of purpose and con-
viction:
•'There is an opinion abroad that the clergy are very
credulous beings ••• but our.training ••• places us among
the most hard to convince. when any new truth is in question.
It took a quarter of a century to convince me ••• that
spirit communication is a fact. and that the fact was legit-
imate and good. From the moment I had taken my decision
the answer began to appear. First my wife developed the
power of automatic writing. Then through her I received re-
quests that I would sit quietly. pencil in hand. and take down
1' See W........ Posl. Oct. 16th. 1945.
156 Personal Survival
any thoughts which seemed to come into my mind, projected
there by some external personality, and not consequent on the
exercise of my own mentality." 8
The script which follows, and from which we have given
excerpts in another chapter, he refers to as being transmitted
by inspirational writing, rather than by automatic writing.
Ouija Board:
Another method of automatic writing, and one that may be
used outside of the seance room, and by others than mediums,
is the well known but sometimes scoffed-at ouija board. This
little article is too well known and universally used to need
description, and is·too often used by the inexperienced seeker
after sensation. But some of the best automatists find this
method very effective, and have received many splendid and
worthwhile messages, given and directed authentically by a
spirit visitor.
Mrs. Hestor Travers-Smith, one of the better known auto-
matic writers, found the ouija board very satisfactory in her
work as a medium and automatic writer. She usually worked
with another automatist and both were blindfolded. The words
came so fast that in most cases, the services of an experienced
stenographer were required to take them down. This blind-
fold method has the great advantage of barring any subcon-
scious guidance of the indicator or board.
When a pencil thrust through the pointed end of the ouija
board is used to write the message, it is called a planchette.
In spite of the scoffs at the ouija board it is considered
authentic, and a splendid means of communication with the
other world. It is coming more and more into its own.
"I am inclined to believe that the ouija board may take
honorable place with Sir Isaac Newton's apple, Watt's tea-
kettle, Benjamin Franklin's kite, and many other historic
playthings which have led to many great results.
8 n. Lil• B,ytnt4 llw Yflk. Owcu. 8-9.
Automatic Writing 157
"'This book too started with a ouija board but it does not
linger on that phase. • • • Betty blindfolded her eyes. or
looked away from the paper, so that she might separate her-
self as far as possible from what was to come next." •
8 Tie Bnl7 lltlft. WJaitr. 15-22..
Chapter XIX
TELEGRAPHIC MESSAGES AND OTHER
PHYSICAL PROOFS
As we have stated before, it has been proven by scientific
investigation that while the Astral World is a locality in space
in relation to the Physical World, it is also a state of matter
of a higher vibration than that in which the Physical World
manifests. As we have mentioned in a previous chapter, ma-
terialized astral bodies from the Spirit World have been re-
peatedly weighed and photographed, in scientific laboratories,
under the strictest test conditions, which settles the question
as to the reality and material nature of the substance of that
world.
The following cases of phenomena, produced in the seance
room and elsewhere, are strong proofs of this statement of
the actual substance of the spirit body: 1
Telegraphic Messages:
Telegraphic messages are messages received from the other
world through mediumship, on telegraphic machines and on
typewriters. We use these phenomena as further proof of
personal survival and of the real substance and reality of the
discarnate entity which comes down from the spirit world to
give us proof of his personal survival after death.
An electrical instrument has been devised by David Wilson,
M.A. of Cambridge, England, on the order of a telegraph
1 For farther detai'Ja Re lUGlfiU qf tu Livi"'l Dea4, Cartia. 24-5.
158
••
PLATE XXIX-Precipitated painting of "Ida."
.....
Telegraphic Messages 159
instnunent over which he has received hundreds of inde-
pendent communications in all languages. In this experiment
the familiar Morse Code was used, typed out by the material-
ized hands of those who have returned to this plane from the
Spirit World. This adds much to the weight of testimony tQ
prove that those who have left the Physical World through
""death" may and do have communication with those of us
here who are willing to open our minds to the possibility of
such communication, and that the Spirit body does liave ma-
terial substance and actual strength enough to manipulate a
telegraphic instrument or other mechanical contrivance.1
Manipulation of the Typewriter:
One of the most remarkable cases of manipulation of a
physical instrument by the hands of an unseen guest from the
Spirit World was received through the mediumship of Miss
Lizzie Bangs, one of the famous mediums ""The Bangs Sis-
terr' of Chicago. A typewriter in the seance room was held in
the air by four men, and was operated by maferialized hands
from the other side. These hands could-be plainly seen by the
men holding the machine.
PaintiDp from the Spirit World: ,
It was also under the mediumship of the Bangs sisters that
the famous painting of the spirit guide ""Ida," guide of Vice-
Admiral W. Osborne Moore, was painted by the unseen
hands of a discarnate spirit. We produce herein a picture of
the painting, which was obtained under strict test conditions
and in the presence of Admiral Moore.•
Other Proofs:
This use of the hands in painting together with loud rap-
pings, the tilting and lifting of objects too heavy to be lifted
I Ocndt Rftliewl. June 1917.
a Pocllit: Oburwr. Jaa. 2Stll. 1945.
160 Personal Survi.J!al
by human hands, the use of the electrical instrument, the
manipulation of the hands of the writer in automatic writing,
the control of the action of the ouija board, etc., all give
strong evidence of the reality of the strength and substance
of the discarnate visitor from the spirit-plane.
Chapter XX
POLYGLOT LANGUAGES, CROSS·
CORRESPONDENCE AND BOOK TESTS
Inaddition to the phenomenon of the direct voice itself, the
fact that it speaks in many different languages through the
medium who knows only one language is of itself another
physical proof of personal survival. This form of psychic
phenomenon is known as Polyglot Language or Zenoglossis.
Ezamples:
In a recent article we are told, "'There are literally hun·
dreds of such evidential type cases of direct contact between
persons who speak one or more foreign languages with their
relatives or friends from the spiritual planes, persons who
speak through their medium as plainly as if they were Oll·our
side of life.
"'Here is one Mr. Skeptic will have to twist and tum
through a mental labyrinth to explain,-in his terms. A
Scottish-hom lady, who had attended the Rev. Zenor's meet-
ings only a few times, was surprised one evening when a
voice spoke to her in Gaelic, the traditional language of the
Scots. She immediately recognized the Gaelic phrase for
'How are yo~ and she replied in kind. Then the voice spoke
her name in Gaelic and she knew the proper reply-the name
of the street where she formerly lived. The voice completed
the address with the name of the town, the Gaelic form for
Inverness, Scotland.
''Observations of the speakersof foreign languagesthrough
161
162 Personal Survival
the trance mediumship of the Rev. Zenor have been greatly
augmented by the experiences of another researcher, an M.D.
who fortunately speaks no less than eight languages and has
a working knowledge of several others.
t.Dguagea Spoken:
"He has carried on conversations with persons speaking
through the mediums in such languages as French, German,
Russian, Norwegian, Spanish, Chinese (Cantonese), and
Polish, which he speaks fluently. He has also been able to
distinguish the words ofthe speakers of Japanese, theManchu
and Mandarin forms of Chinese, Tibetan and Swedish all of
which he understands well enough to know that they are be-
ing properly spoken. He has even carried on conversations in
LithuanianI Further:.more, at least one speaker has voiced
phrases which are identifiable as an ancient form of Chinese.
"In addition a member of his family speaks Bohemian or
Czech, as well as Polish, and has carried on extensive con-
versations in these languages with persons speaking through
the Rev. Zenor." 1
Constant repetition of the phenomenon has been stn"kingly
demonstrated, for thousands of such messages in foreign
languages are obtained through mediums every year, and are
recognized by their grateful recipients as completely eviden-
tial.
An English medium, Mr. Lowenthal, testified that he was
frequently made to speak in the language of another nation
which he believed to be the tongue of the North American
Indian. He says: "My mouth utters sounds that I do not
understand, and which have no meaning to me}'
Mrs. Young, a medium of Chicago, under the control of
German spirits, sang and spoke German in a circle in which
no one knew that language. At other times she spoke in Span-
Polyglot Languages 163
ish and Italian, although she was an uneducated woman who
knew neither of these languages!
Miss Laura Edmonds, the daughter of the famous medium
and psychical investigator, Judge John Worth Edmonds of
New York, developed this "gift of tongues" after she became
a medium. Although she knew and spoke only English, and a
small amount of French, she spoke fiuently many different
languages while in trance. Some of these were identified as
Spanish, French, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, and Hungarian,
and others entirely foreign to her native English tongue!
Miss Jenny Keyes, another well known medium, while in
trance sang in Spanish and Italian. Others frequently sang
and spoke in Hebrew, Greek, Malay, Chinese and Indian, al-
though none of them could converse in these languages while
out of trance.
The New York Evening Post of Nov. lOth, 1930, reported
the case of a little four-year-girl at Warsaw who, though her
parents spoke only Polish. developed the extraordinary habit
of talking to herself in a foreign tongue which no one about
her could understand but which was later detected to be pure
Gaelic. It is interesting that her great-grandfather came from
the land of the Hebrides and spoke Gaelic before he came to
Warsaw.
Frequently the mediums will write a message in a foreign
language of which they have no knowledge or understanding
while out of the trance state. The young daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Brown of Melbourne, eleven years old, wrote some
Chinese characters holding the pen in Chinese fashion.
There are many other such cases of writing by discarnate
spirits, in another language than that known by the medium,
in the annals of Psychical research, which go to prove again
the actuality of personal survival.
164 Personal Survival
Other Evidences:
In addition to those given there are other types of evidence
which, while not to be counted as physical proofs, are never-
theless additional evidence. One of these is furnished when
only part of a message is given through one medium, which
is of itself incomplete, and another sentence is given through
another medium to complete the message.
Still another evidence is given by having certain words on
certain pages in a specified book pointed out, which will con-
vey testimony of the presence of the communicator.11
Cross Correspondence:
Cross correspondence is that found in the script of two or
more automatic writers acting without collusion and under
such conditions that the possibility of communication by nor-
mal means is removed. They are messages given to one me-
dium in part, and the rest of the message given to another
without collaboration as to the message on the part of the me-
diums.
The theory-to eliminate from mediumistic communication
the hypothesis of telepathy between the living-has been
credited to the celebrated deceased scholar, F. W. H. Myers,
after his death in 1901.
On one occasion a long message was sent to him in Latin.
He gave fragments of his reply through three different me-
diums at various times none of which alone made sense, but
which when pieced together gave the correct reply.
Miss Johnson of the Society of Psychical Research who
made a very close study of Cross Correspondence, on study-
ing the script of five or more mediums concerning the same
message, thus describes the conclusion she came to:
"The characteristics of these cases . • • --or at least some
of them,-is that we do not get in the writing of one automa-
tist anything like a mechanical verbatim reproduction of the
phrases in the other. We do not even get the same idea ex-
11 Er&CYcloi'etlia qf P~chical KfU1fllletlge. Fodor.
Polyglot Languages 165
pressed in different ways as well might result from direct
tdepathy between them. What we do get is a fragmentary
utterance in one script, which seems to have no particular
point or meaning, and another fragmentary utterance in the
other, of an equally pointless character; but when we put the
two together, we see that they supplement one another, and
that there is apparently one coherent idea underlying both,
but only partially expressed in each." •
Book Tests:
Book-tests is a curious phenomenon destined to diminate
tdepathy from the living as an alternative explanation to the
survival theory. It is in a certain sense an offshoot or ex-
tension of the cross-correspondence idea.
The newspaper tests of Mr. C. Brayton Thomas, which he
conducted with the celebrated trance medium Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, are similar in idea to book-tests.Thecommunicating
intelligences gave names one day which were printed in cer-
tain columns and pages of the next day's Times, and the re-
sults obtained were very striking, as neither the compositer
nor the editor of that paper could tell at the hour of Mr.
Th~ sitting, just what particular item would appear in
the next day's issue.'
Another experiment on book-tests is given as follows. Lord
Glenconner of England, had given special study to forestry,
and was especially interested in the damaging effect a type of
tunnelling beetle has on young trees. His son "Bim," who had
been killed in the battle of the Somme in 1916, was well aware
of this fact. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Osborne Leon-
ard, he sent a message to his father, telling him to look for
the "ninth book on the third shdf, counting from left to
right in a ~n bookcase, on the right of the door of the
drawing room." The book indicated proved to be Trees. He
was told to ccrake" the title and look at page c'37." On the
166 Personal Survival
bottom of page 36 and the top of 37, were the words: "Some-
times you will see curious marks in the wood; these are
caused by a tunnellingbeetle, veryinjurious to the trees. • • ."
This test proved so satisfactory to Bim's family that he
was a communicator and that he was present with them, that
it brought a glow of happy satisfaction to all present.8
8 Eaeyc~io of P~clical KIID'IDietlge, Fodor.
Chapter XXI
HOUDINI'S TEST MESSAGE
Many people interested in exposing fraud. and also in giv-
ing credit to those sincere workers who seek to establish the
truth about life after death put their experiments to every
test in order not only to expose the fraudulent but to verify
the authenticity of those who really do communicate with
spirit friends come back from the Spirit World. to tell us of
the life over there and to comfort and sustain the loved ones
left behind. and also to prove that they are not only still alive
but retain their own individuality.
One of the better ways to do this is to arrange and for-
mulate. while those interested are still on the Earth Plane.
some sort of secret code or signal known only to the interested
parties and to be used between them when one or the other
goes over to the Spirit World.
By this means they are able to prove not only that those on
the other side can and do return to communicate with those
left on the Earth Plane. but also to esftlblish lhe identity of
the spirit visitor.
Boadilli"s Message:
One of the most remarkable examples of this kind of test
is shown in the test messages of the late Harry Houdini.
This well known magician Harry Weiss. better known by
his stage name of "Harry Houdini:• did a great service to
Spiritualism by exposing many fraudulent mediums. On the
other hand he took every occasion he could in his public per-
167
168 Personal Survival
formances to discredit Spiritualism by his claim that all me-
diums were frauds, and that any communication with the
deceased was impossible. In an effort to prove this he arranged
with his wife a secret code message which he was to deliver
after his death if such a thing were at all possible. After his
death, messages were received through several mediums
which purported to be the test message. All of these were
denied by the wife. Sometime later, however, fragmentary
messages were received from him through the Rev. Arthur
Ford, a word at a time. First, however, a key word to the
whole sequence-FORGIVE-was brought through from
his mother. This word Mrs. Houdini acknowledged over her
signature to be the key word, and to be the only correct word
received among thousands of messages purporting to be from
him.
Had this word been received from his mother by Houdini
during his lifetime, it might have altered the whole course of
his investigation, for it would have proved to him that com-
munication with the "dead" was possible, and so might have
prevented his attempt to discredit all such messages.
The first word of the second message was given to a group
of friends sitting with Arthur Ford early in November 1928.
The message in its entirety came through during eight sepa-
rate sittings, covering a period of two and one half months.
The method employed by Fletcher, the medium's control,
was to give out the words as they came and as the opportunity
offered. Seldom more than one word came at a time at the
beginning, and frequently the intervals were as far as two
weeks apart.
"The first word 'ROSABELLE' " said Fletcher, "is the
one that is going to unlock the rest." Two weeks later a second
word was added, "NOW," and on December 18th, another
word • . . this word was "LOOK." . . ."
In the group-sitting next to the final one of January 5th,
when the message was delivered complete, and in the correct
sequence, Fletcher said. "Let me give you the words from
Houdinis Test Message 169
the beginning, because I have to work hard to get them."
The details of the development, or gradual building up of
this message taken mostly from stenographic records of the
sittings are given in order that those most interested may
know that the message did not arrive full grown.
At the final sitting on the evening of January 5th •••
Fletcher continued, "It has been a hard job getting them
through, but I tell you," he said, ••they are rightII" • • •
Fletcher continued, "A man who says he is Houdini; but
whose real name was Ehrich Weiss, is here and wishes to
send to his wife, Beatrice Houdini, the ten-word axle, which
he agreed to do if it were possible for him to communicate.
He says you are to take this message to her and upon her
acceptance of it, he wishes her to follow out the plan they
agreed upon before his passing•••• Then," said Fletcher,
••there is something that he wants to tell me that no one but
his wife knows. He smiles now and shows me a picture and
draws the curtain so I . . . or in this manner."
That evidently was the clue for the unfoldment of the next
part of the axle, for Mrs. Houdini responded in French,
• • • ••and now the nine words besides ROSABELLE spell
a word in our axle." • • • Continuing in this way to the end
he said: "The message I want to send back to my wife is
•ROSABELLE, BEUEVEI' " ••Is that right?" asked
Fletcher. •'Yes," answered Mrs. Houdini with great feeling.
Fletcher, concluding, repeated that which was being given
him: ••He says 'tell the whole world that Harry Houdini still
Jives, and will prove it a thousand times and more.' He is
pretty excited. He says, •I was perfectly honest and sincere,
though I resorted to tricks, for the simple reason that I did
not believe it tme, and no more-tricks-than was justifiable.
I am now sincere in sending this through my desire to undo.
Tell all those·who lost faith because of my mistake, to lay
hold again of hope. and to live with the knowledge that life
is continuous. That is my message to the world through my
wife and through this instrument.' "
170 Personal Survival
The day ilfter the receipt of this message, Mrs. Houdini
issued the following statement at her homeI
"Regardless of all statements to the contrary, I wish to dB-
clare that the message, in its entirety, and in the agreed upon
sequence, given to me by Arthur Ford, is the correct message
pre-arra.nged between Mr. Houdini and myself.
Witnessed
Harry R. Zander,
Minnie Chester,
John W. Stafford.
(signed)
Beatrice Houdim"''
• • • Fletcher went on to say "This last is the message
which was to go to his wife. He wants it signed in ink by
each one present. He says the code is known only to him and
his wife, and that no one on earth knew it but these two. He
says there is no danger on that score and that she must make
it public. 'It must come from her; you are nothing more than
agents.' He says that when this comes through there will be
a veritable storm, that many will seek to destroy her, and that
she will be accused of everything that is not good, but she is
honest enough to keep the pact which they repeated over and
over before his death. The last words he spoke were those
used in going over this together so that they would both un-
derstand it clearly. 'I know,' he says, 'That she will be happy
because neither of us believed it would be possible.' "
Two members of the group, Mr. Fast and Mr. Stafford,
both strangers to Mrs. Houdini, as were all of the sitters,
delivered the message to her at her home the following day.
• • • Dropping the letter to her side and stirred with emotion,
she said, "It is right I" Asking for more details concerning
the message, she then undertook to carry out the plan agreed
upon with her husband. The mediwn Arthur Ford, accom-
panied by three members of his group, and a representative
Houdim"7s Test Message 171
of the United Press. went to Mrs. Houdini's home and with
two of her friends gathered at her side.
In a short time the voice of Fletcher came through. "This
man is ooming now,'' he says, "the same one who came the
other night. He tells me to say, 'Hello Bess, Sweetheart.' and
he wants to repeat the message and finish it for you. 'The
oode.' he says, 'is one you used to use in one of your secret
mind-reading acts: Repeating the ten words to her, he said,
"He wants you to tell him whether they are right or not I
"Yes," replied Mrs. Houdini, "they are." He smiles and says,
'Thank you.' "Now I can go on," oontinued Fletcher. "He
tells you to take off your wedding ring and tell them what
RosabeUe means." Drawing her left hand from under the
oover she took off the ring, and holding it before her she sang
in a small voice, 'Rosabelle' etc. • • ."
Mrs. Houdini's attitude has been that of an honest skeptic
who had no alternative but to acx:ept the message since it was
the one agreed upon. She has stoutly maintained in the face
of the cruelest opposition, that no one but herself could pos-
sibly have known the oontents of the message sealed in her
vault. Even close friends urged that at any cost she deny the
message as the oorrect one on the plea that it would undo all
that her husband had stood for. To this she replied, "It was
what he wanted me.to do and I am doing it. Nothing-will
change my belief until it is proved some other way.'' She has
oonfirmed oonclusively that no one but her husband and her-
self oould possi'bly have known the details of the oode: that
neither openly nor oovertly oould it have been gleaned.
Some years later pressure was brought to bear on Mrs.
Houdini to repudiate her former statements as to the correct
transmission of the message agreed upon with her husband.
But no amount of later denial can alter the fact of or dis-
allow her signed statement and the unanimous testimony of
those present at the seance.
Ncn.-AU of the ahoR QUalatioDa ....t data are tabn f~ Tu Horuliwi
M6-.Fut..
Chapter XXII
OTHER PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
There are other physical phenomena which we will talk
about in this chapter which add their testimony and assur-
ance to the great accumulation of proof of personal survival
of what we call death.
Apports:
Apports is the term applied to objects which through psy-
chic power are phenomenally brought into the presence of a
materializing medium, thereby establishing the fact of the
passage of matter through matter, since the doors and win-
dows of the seance room are usually locked and sealed.
These apports embrace a wide variety of articles, the most
common of which are flowers, semi-precious stones-cut and
uncut-and coins, ancient and modem. Other objects are clay
tablets bearing cuneiform inscriptions from excavations at
ancient Babylon, Indian blankets, tomahawks, human scalp
locks and even human beings.
Charles Bailey who specialized in materializing living ob-
jects apported such things as crabs, turtles, a thirty-inch live
snake, a ten-inch baby shark and a nest full of birds with the
mother bird still on it. The nest and mother bird were later
apported back whence they came. Live birds are often felt
flying about in the darkened room, the most common ones
being doves and jungle sparrows. Tropical birds are often
brought in cages.
172
PLATE XXX- Ivy plant apported July 15th, 1928 at Millesimo Castle.
PLATE XXXI-These articles. a brass bird, a stone Buddha, a
Mosaic ornament, and an Egyptian ornament of Osiris, were apporterl
at the seances oi Jack Wehcr.
Other Physical Phenomena 173
Probably the most common apport is flowers, often in the
midst of winter. A famous medium, Mrs. Guppy, once mate-
rialized boughs of orange blossoms and an armful of flowers
with more than forty live butterflies on them. She also mate-
rialized a block of ice a foot square, and many other objects
too numerous to mention. Alfred Russell Wallace once re-
quested her to obtain a sunflower for him. In less than five
minutes a sunflower seven feet tall, and with a large amount
of earth clinging to its roots, was deposited on the table.:
At a seance of "Margery'' in Boston, her brother Walter
was asked to obtain a living flower. In a few minutes a golden
lily six feet tall, and containing seven large blossoms, was
placed on the table. The scent of the flowers was almost over-
whelming. Upon turning on the lights, the stem of the lily
was found to pass through a hole in a large piece of mummy
cloth, which was still redolent of the odor of spices. Seven
days later, when the lily mysteriously disappeared, the piece
of mummy cloth was left behind still with the hole through
which the stem passed, but with no tear or slit in it through
which the stem might have slipped out.
The Bangs sisters were mediums in whose seances apports
of flowers were received, objects disappeared and chemical
changes were effected, such as turning ink into dirty water,
etc.
Asporta:
When the materialized objects called Apports are phenom-
enally removed from the presence of the medium, they are
called Asports.
Asports often form part of a demonstration of apport phe-
nomena. In one of the Millesimo seances with the Marquis
Centurione Scotto and Mme. Fabian Rossi, the members of
the circle were tapped by a little parchment drum, and Mme.
Rossi and another sitter felt their hands squeezed by two iron
mittens. At the conclusion of the seance. these articles were
174 Personal Survival
no longer found in the room, but were found in the respec-
tive places from which they had been apported.1
rransporta:
When materialized objects, often human beings, are car-
ried from one place to another through closed doors and over
a distance, the phenomena are called Transports. There are
too many thoroughly investigated and authenticated cases of
the transportation of human beings to more than mention
here so we will cite briefly only the most outstanding cases.
One of the most astonishing of such cases is that of the
celebrated Italian materializing medium Marquis Centurione
Scotto of Millesimo Castle, whom we have mentioned above.
During the course of a sitting, the Marquis was heard to ex-
claim in a frightened voice: "I can no longer feel my legs I"
Some one spoke to him and receiving no answer, the red light
was turned on and he was found to be missing from his chair
in the seance room, although the door was locked and sealed
and the key was in the lock on the inside. After several hours
of frantic search, a spirit message through automatic writing
said that he could be found in a haymow in the granary in
the stable-yard, nearly one hundred yards away from the
seance room. There he was found in a deep sleep and was as
much astonished and alarmed as any one on realizing his
strange position. To reach this position normally, he would
have had to pass through three doors which were all found
to be locked from the outside.2
Another case is that of Mr. Frank Heme, who was trans-
ported from his seat in a London theatre, and dropped into a
seance room at Hackney, London, several miles distant from
the theatre. Later his overcoat, hat, and umbrella, were
dropped on the table in the same room.
The record of Mrs. Guppy, "One of the biggest women in
London," is probably the best corroborated. At the request of
1 Motlent P6'.'Jclr.k M:~#ft'U6, Hack.
2 Et~eycloPedia of P6'.'Jcllk Scieace, Fodor.
Other Physical Phenomena 175
one of the sitters in a private seance. Katie King, one of the
spirit guides, said she would bring her into the seance room.
Within four minutes there was Mrs. Guppy in their midst,
and much embarrassed at appearing in company in a loose
morning gown and bedroom slippers. She had been at her
desk making up her household accounts and was brought to
the seancewith the pen still in her band and the ink wet on it.
The seance room was more than three miles from her home.
and yet she was transported within four minutes.' ·
Another remarkable instance was the case of William Eg-
linton, who was transported up through the ceiling, and was
found on the floor in the room above.
In still another case. the three children of Senor Buena-
ventura Corales frequently vanished from the seance room,
found themselves in the garden and were returned, to their
great delight, in the same mysterious manner. Although the
doors were locked in each case. upon search for them, they
were always found outside the seance room, usually talking
and laughing over their adventure.
In the case of two Italian boys, Alfred and Paul Passini,
they experienced mysterious transportation in hal£ an hour,
from Ruvo to Molfetta, and again from Ruvo to a boat at
sea.
In another instance. Dr. Joseph Lapponi tells of the flying
brothers of Nari, who oould transfer themselves over a dis-
tance of 45 kilometres in fifteen minutes.6
According to the Bible these levitations are no new phe-
nomena. In Ezekielll, 1: "Moreover the Spirit lifted me up,
and brought me into the East Gate of the Lord's House,
which looked Eastward." Habakkuk was carried from Judea
to Babylon to bring food to Daniel in the Lion's den, and
then carried back to Judea through the air. In the Acts of the
Apostles, the warders of St. Peter's prison, testify: ••ne
prison house we found shut in all safety, and the keepers
816i4.
6Ibi4..
176 Personal Survival
standing before the doors; but when we opened, we found no
man within." St. Philip baptized the Ethiopian; "and when
they were come up out of the water, the spirit of the Lord
caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more. • • •
But Philip was found at Axotus." This was a distance of
some thirty miles from Gaza the scene of the baptism. As we
have pointed out elsewhere, the aged Simeon was apported
into the temple in Jerusalem, so he could meet Jesus before
he died, as was promised by the Lord. St. Luke, 11 :26-7.
How It Is Done:
As to how apportation, asportation and transportation are
accomplished, it must be assumed that there is a hitherto un-
known, or fourth aspect of matter, an atomic or fluid condi-
tion, in which there is a greater malleability of matter than
has been formerly known.
Both through experiment and through the report of spirit
guides, it has been found that through psychic forces, the
physical object is dematerialized, transported to the desired
spot, and then rematerialized. This conclusion is born out by
the fact that the thermo-dynamic force required to demate-
rialize the object is released when it is rematerialized. In the
case of metallic objects and stones, this process often makes
the object too hot to be handled until it is cooled off. In the
case of living beings there must be some other factor in-
volved, as they do not experience this phenomenon of super-
heating, and yet they have been dematerialized. This is testi-
fied by the alarm felt by the Marquis Scotto when he felt for
his legs and found them dematerialized, just before he went
into a deep trance.
Another case, and a most remarkable one of transport, is
told in One Hundred Cases of Survival After Death, Baird,
page 209. We quote:
"Dr. Paul Gibier, an eminent psychologist and Director of
the Pasteur Institute of New York, had a very decisive expe-
rience with Mrs. Salmon.
Other Physical Phenomena 177
""He experimented in his own laboratory, using an iron
cage especially made to his instructions, with a door closing
by a lock. Mrs. Salmon was placed in the cage, the door
locked, the key put in his pocket, and a stamped paper
gummed over the lock. A very short time after the lights
were extinguished, hands, arms and living forms came out of
the cage,-a man, a woman, more often a lively little girl-
Suddenly Mrs. Salmon emerged from the cage and fell half
fainting on the floor. The seals were found intact"and the
door"had not been opened."
A remarkable case was the dematerialization and transpor-
tation of Charles Victor Miller, at a seance in San Francisco,
in the presence of twenty-seven persons. Mr. Miller was ap-
ported through the enclosed walls of a seance room and
found later, ••• still in trance, on the second floor. This
was done under strictly test conditions.5
Levitation:
This phenomenon is the familiar one of the lifting of hu-
man beings or of objects into the air, contrary to the laws of
gravitation, and without any visible agency. Leflilation is
transportation in its highest form, and many instances of it
are recorded in the Bible, in both the old and new Testament.
The record of Jesus' walking on the water, Matthew 14,
24-7 is a splendid illustration, and that many of the saints
and other highly intelligent beings accomplished the same feat
is a recorded fact.
Levitation is not confined to the seance room, but has been
demonstrated in broad daylight, and many authentic cases
have been reported of the lifting of tables, chairs and human
beings in halls and homes. These latter are very numerous
and we cit~ a few of the best authenticated ones.
Before a very large assembly in a lighted hall, the medimn
Henry C. Hall was lifted into the air and floated over the
• A• O«tdUU TNWis. ReicheL
178 Personal Survival
seats for several minutes and then sank back slowly to the
floor.
Three witnesses, the Earl of Dunraven, Lord Lindsay, and
Captain Wynne reported that they saw the medium D. D.
Home float out through the third story window of one room,
and float in through a window of another room. Upon inves·
tigation, no ledge or other support on which the body could
have rested, could be found. The spectators all agreed that
the light in the room was sufficient for them to have detected
any outside aid which might have been given. All three were
ready to swear to the fact of his having gone out of the win-
dow of one room, and having floated in through the window
of another rooni without any visible aid.
Home experienced many other instances of levitation, and
was not always in a trance when they occurred. He wrote of
his experiences that "he could feel no hands supporting him
at any time, and that he felt no sense of fear, even when he
was levitated to a great height." •
There are so many instances of levitation of objects small
and large that there is no necessity of mentioning any of them
here. Tables and chairs, and even pianos are moved and levi-
tated into the air at seances and before the astonished eyes of
even the most skeptical in ordinary rooms in broad daylight
and under the strictest test conditions. In most cases even the
most rigid investigations have failed to show that the levita·
tion of these objects could be accomplished by any other
means than through the work of discarnate spirits.
Poltergeists:
The phenomenon of Poltergeists is a combination of Levi·
tation and Apportation. This term is applied to the physical
phenomenon which includes loud raps, poundings, rattling
noises, and pranks such as any mischievous child might in-
dulge in. It is applied especially when physical objects are
hurled through the air in broad daylight, often with seem-
• Eaeyclol>etlitl ol Ps::~clic Scintc•. Fodor.
PLATE XXXII - Levitation of a table at the Jack Weber seance 111
the presence of ::\Ir. Bernard Gray, a newspaper itwestigator.
Other Physical Phenomena 179
iugly vicious intent. In very extreme cases of this phenome-
non, investigating police have been driven from the room by
the force of such flying objects.
Those who manifest Poltergeists seem also to take delight
in such futilities as the breaking of crockery, the throwing
about of furniture, and the materializing of carrots or coal in
the drawing-room. Some cases of this phenomenon are herein
given.
1"he Epworth Phenomeua:
These disturbances occurred at the vicarage of the Rev.
Samuel Wesley, father of John Wesley, the founder of Meth-
odism, and were attested to by the whole Wesley family all
of whom were decidedly psychic. These phenomena, lasting
over a period of more than two months, include loud knocks
and poundings, the sound of a board being planed as if by a
carpenter, the sound of crashing china in the kitchen, where
no china was found broken, and the sound of many people
tramping up and down the stairs with heavy shoes. The two
men attributed-these persecutions to the devil, but Mrs. Wes-
ley and her daughter claimed they were due to her brother
••old Jeffery," who had passed away in India some years pre-
vious to the disturbances. It is said that for some time vis-
itors were shown large blotches of ink on the wan of John
Wesley's study where he had thrown an ink bottle at a ..per-
secuting devil'' 7
The case of the Joller family in Stans, Switzerland, gives
us a most convincing and formidable array of evidence of
this phenomenon. In the home of M. Joller, a prominent law-
yer and a man of splendid charad:er, a series of disturbances
broke out, such as loud knocks, sounds of sobbing, and the
opening of windows and doors by invisible hands. Cupboard
drawers W'ere pulled out and left in disorderly fashion, and
the family were annoyed by strange gray shapes roaming
about the house. These manifestations continued over a long
1' E.fQC~ II/ PQdi& Sciau. Foclar.
180 Personal Survival
period, and were witnessed by many persons other than the
family, persons who hearing of the strenge phenomena were
attracted to the house. Many of these were prominent people
such as the Director of Police and the President of the Court
of Justice, Stans. The strange happenings went on outside the
house as well as inside, and in broad daylight, which pre-
cluded the possibility of fraud. There seemed no way of over-
coming these strange and uncomfortable happenings until
M. Joller and his family were forced to vacate the home and
find other living quarters.•
Poltergeists usually take place where there is a sensitive
child in the family, especially when there is a young girl who
is just entering puberty, but it is not definitely known whether
this condition is a causative factor or is merely a coincidence.
The phenomena are largely attributed to disembodied, mis-
chievous children who delight to tease, or to low grade morons
who desire thus to plague their superiors and take these meth-
ods of attracting attention to themselve$!
8 EoccyclolrtlU. f1! OcetJllintt, Spence.
8Jbi4.
<Jhapter ){){III
LETTERS FROM HELL
Nom TO THE READER: If you have recently lost a dear one-
by Graduation from earth-life, do not connect the experi-
ences related in this chapter with your loved one, for they
will probably have no relation to the conditions through which
your own is passing.
We also recommend the reader not to read this chapter at
night, unless it is immediately followed by the reading of the
next chapter, Letters From HetJ'Uen, before laying the book
down, or else by repeating the Prayer For Protection,1
or by
reading some chapter in the Bible such as the 23rd Psalm.
The text of the book Letters From Hell, of which portions
of this chapter is a condensation, was written by a Spanish
medium in 1882, and passed through several editions in van-
ous other languages. It is condensed and placed here because
of the power of its truth to give concrete understanding of
the conditions that are described in the Bible, as eternal tor-
ment, generally spoken of as Hell. This description is neces-
sary to complete our account of all after-death conditions,
even the lowest, in which the dregs of humanity exist until
through suffering they have progressed out of them.
In the preface the English translator says: "When I say
that the book is full of truth, I do not mean either truth of
theory or truth in art but something far deeper and higher-
the realities of our relations to God and man and duty-all,
181
182 Personal Survival
in short, that belongs to the conscience. Prominent among
these is the awful verity, that we make our fate in unmaking
ourselves; that men, in defacing the image of God in them-
selves, construct for themselves a world of ho"or and dis-
may,· that our own deeds and character are the informing or
inwardly creating cause of the outer Darkness; that if a man
will not have God he can never be rid of his weary and hate-
ful self."
The book has a fearful title and is far more fearful than
its title; but if it will help to tum any away from that which
alone is really horrible, the doing of unrighteousness, it will
prove itself the outcome of a Divine energy of deliverance.
We quote:
I had lived a life of selfishness, ever pleasing my own de-
sire. It was true, awfully true, that I had not followed the
way of life, but the path of death, since the days even of
childhood. And now I lay dying, a victim of my own folly,
wretched, hopelessly lost t One after another my sins rose be-
fore me, crying for expiation; but it was too late now-too
late for repentance. Despair only was left; the very thought
of repentance had faded from the brain.
An unknown sensation laid hold of me. What was this I
felt? Death had clutched my every fibre, but I seemed re-
leased, free, strangely free t Consciousness had been fading
but was returning even now, waking as from a swoon.
But consciousness at first seemed returned chiefly to expe-
rience an indescribable feeling of nakedness, which indeed
might explain the terrible cold assailing me. • • • I still be-
lieved in my personal identity but I was merely a shadow of
myself. The eye which saw, the teeth which chattered, did
not exist any more than the rest of my earthly body existed.
All that was left of me was an astral shade, unclothed to the
skin,-nay to the inmost soul.••• No wonder I shivered;
no wonder I felt naked. But the feeling of nakedness, strong
as it was, excluded shame. • • • I had died and found myself
in hell r • • • in that place of weeping and gnashing of teeth,
Letters from Hell 183
of torment, alasI beyond conception. This then, was the end
of life's enjoymenL
In spite of the self-love which had accompanied me hither,
unimpaired, I hated myself with a burning implacable hatred.
.. • • I felt sad, I felt ruined and miserably undone. I con-
demned, I cursed. But repentance was far from me. • • •
The power of repentance was lostI And remembering the
many so-called good intentions of my sinful soul, I felt ready
to tear. myself to pieces. In sooth, I myself had assisted dili-
gently in paving the road to belli But that feeling was devoid
of contrition. • • •
I started suddenly: there was a young woman beside me
with a babe on her arm.
"It is hopeless trying,'' she said almost tenderly. ••I myself
bave tried it, and tried again; but it's no use. There is no wa-
ter here, not as much as a single tear." Alas I felt she spoke
the truth. • • • I longed to weep but could noL • • • The
young woman sat down beside me. Indescribably touching
was the expression of sorrowing fondness with which she
gazed upon the babe in her lap, a tiny thing which apparently
had not lived many days. • • •
..Don't you think my baby is still alive,'' she said. "It is not
dead, it is asleep I"
To tell the truth I thought the baby was dead but I haif it
not in me to grieve the poor creature, so I said, ..It may be
asleep-babies do sleep a great deal"
..yes, yes, it is asleep," she repeated softly, rocking the
child. ..They say I killed my child, my own little baby," she
continued. ..But don't you think they talk foolishly? How
could a mother find it in her heart to kill her child, her very
own child?" and she pressed the little thing to her bosom,
with convulsive tenderness. The sight was more than I could
endure and I rose and left her. Yet it soothed my own mis-
ery that for a moment I seemed filled with another's grief,
rather than my own. Her grief I could leave behind. I fled,
but my own wretchedness followed on my heels. • • •
184 Personal Survival
I seemed to be in front of a tavern • • • they were making
merry within • • • drinking, gambling, making merry and
what-not.•••
But it was an awful merriment in which those horrible
astral shades were engaged. . • • The landlord beckoned me
to enter; an inviting fire was blazing on the hearth, and shiv-
ering as I was I went towards it. • • • "Can't you come in by
the door ?" he snarled. • • •
I stammered, "I am so cold, so miserably coldI"
"The more fool you for going naked," cried the fellow,
with an ugly grin. "We admit only well dressed people as a
rule." Involuntarily I thought of my warm clothing, and
scarcely had the idea been shaped in my brain, I found myself
clothed. • • . At the same time my nakedness was not cov-
ered and I felt as cold as before. I moved towards the hearth,
and put my trembling hands to the grate. • • • The blaze
emitted no warmth. ••• I turned away in despair. The
merry-making shades laughed harshly, calling me a fool for
my pains. One of them handed me a goblet. . • • I seized the
cup and lifted it to my lips, that I might drain it. Alas! the
nothingness! My burning desire found it an empty cup, and
I felt ready to faint.
''What house is this? ••• It's my house. How did it come
to be here?" ••• The landlord looked at me with a sneer.
. • • "How did it come to be here ?-Why I thought of it and
there it was. Then the house is merely an idea? Yes, of
course. Here we are in the true land of magic. We need but
imagine a thing and then we have it. • • ."
One thing only was no empty idea, but fearful reality-
the terrible necessity which forced these shadowy semblances
of men to appear to be doing now, in the spirit, the very
things they did in the body upon earth. • • •
It is impossible for me to tell you to what extent a man
here may shrink together within himself.•.• I cowered as
a toad in a hole, hugging my miserable being, until I was
aroused by a groan coming from somewhere beside me. I
Letters from Hell 185
started affrighted and looked about; the darkness being still
increasing, I • • • distinguished another cowering figure
looking at me furtively. The face was strongly distorted, and
the creature had a rope around its neck, the hands trying con-
stantly to secure the ends; at times also a finger would move
around the neck as if to loosen the rope. The figure looked at
me with eyes of terror starting from the head, but not a word
would cross the lips. It was plain I must make the beginning.
"The light is decreasing, • • • I fear we shall be quite in
the dark presently. Yes. How long will it last? How should
I know? It may be some hours, it inay be a hundred years.
• . . It is always long, frightfully long. .
••But it is quite certain that daylight will appear. If you
call that daylight which we used to call dusk upon earth; we
never get more. • • • I see you are a new-comer here."
"Yes quite new; I died but lately; a natural death.'' •••
The distorted face looked at me with a horrible grimace. and
there was silence. • • • The specter resumed ere long: ••It is
hard to be doomed to carry one's life in one's hands. There
is no rest for me anywhere; I am forever trying to escape;
there is not a creature but wants to hang me. Indeed you are
capable of doing it yourself. I see it in your eyes. ••• Do
you see the ends of this rope? It is my one aim to prevent
people from getting hold of them, for if once they succeed I
shall be hanged in a jiffy. • • • It is but foolishness and im-
agination I know; • • • but I am utterly helpless, and when-
ever this foolish fear possesses me afresh, I must run,-run
as though I had a thousand lives to lose." • • • I made some
movement with the ann nearest my wretched neighbor. Evi-
dently he imagined I was for seizing the rope the ends of
which he ~ tightly grasping, and like a flash of lightning
he vanished from my side.
The light decreased, until at last it was the mere ghost of a
radiance; it was plain I should find myself in utter darkness
ere long ••• darkness here is so dense, so heavy, it op-
presses poor souls as with the weight of centuries. • • • The
186 Personal Survival
Bible calls it "the outer darkness." ••• Terrible tmth I that
the tonnents of hell should consist in an awful contrast-
cold without and a consuming fire within. • • • There burned
within me the quenchless tennent of sin and sinful desire.
• . . If conscience,-while on earth-at times made some ef-
fort to be heard, the voice was so gentle that I never hesitated
to disregard it. • • •
You must know, then that each wretched being here is
moved by irresistible impulse to imitate his life on earth. Pas-
sion and wrongful desires rule here as they do on the earth,
only the more horribly, being void of substance•••• No
matter how deeply conscious we are of the vanity of our do-
ings,-no matter how we loathe them,-they have come to be
our masters; we are driven, helplessly driven, to be forever
trying to be what we were on earth. • • • There is no sense
left to gratify; reality has vanished; the greed only remains.
Geography of Hell:
Hell has its own geography • • • no one can tell how far
its realm extends. • • • In the direction of the pale light that
increases and decreases alternately, there is a great gulf, a
fathomless abyss, separating Hell from Paradise. It is Para-
dise whence that radiance proceeds • • • and from the abyss,
apparently dead darkness gushes forth, repressing the faint
far-off light of heaven. • • • At times, a cataract of light
bursts forth victoriously, overflowing from the heart of glory.
Hell stands dazzled, stmck to the core • • • and it is not only
Paradise that we see but the blessed ones who dwell there.
• • • It is only by pushing toward and absorbing that light
that there is any hope of redemption." 1
From another authoritative source we recount more vivid
descriptions of the various aspects of the regions of the Hell-
worlds which confirm that already given. These are the expe-
riences of those who, by their way of living on this earth-
plane, have built for themselves a "house of bondage" and
I For farther detaila Re Ldfw• F~ Hwll. Tbisted.
Letters from HeU 187
••robes of sorrow" for the spirit-world, until such time as
they are able to work out their own redemption by the recog-
nition and acceptance of the love and power of God.
Other Ezperlencea:
We receive the following from a discarnate spirit: • Whilst
in England, the writer received from an unknown spirit the
first experiences of this spirit in the spirit-world. Jle said
that he found himself, with a number of others, in utter dark-
ness, ·cold, hungry and most miserable. • • • In endeavoring
to advance he and his companions found their progress ob-
structed by a massive and lofty walL They felt along it to
discover some door or passage through it, but could find none,
though they continued their search to a great distance. At
length, in despair, they shouted to make someone hear them,
but for a long time received no answer, but a dreary and hol-
low echo. AU else was silent, dead, a vacancy, and a most
terrible negation.
Then they burst into cries of despair and desperation, when
at length a voice demanded who they were and what they
wanted. They replied that they were newly disembodied spir-
its, who were perishing with cold, starvation and nakedness.
'The response was, •.-you lived selfish lives,-lived for your-
selves, while on earth. You felt no thankfulness to God;nor
did you ever cherish in your hearts true love for your fellow-
men. As you were an adamantine wall to humanity, an ada-
mantine wall now rises inexorably before you, cutting off all
admission to more favorable regions."
This terrible announcement struck them down like dead
men. They bewailed themselves bitterly, and cried for mercy
and pardon, and at length a voice exclaimed, ..Arise" and a
strong hand was put forth from the darkness, and the appar-
ently impassable wall gave way to that mighty hand, and they
found themselves in a dusky, as it were, Cimmerian meadow
where friendly beings fed and clothed them and told them
•r~. Peehles. tU-119.
188 Personal Suroival
that now they were on the open highway to the pilgrimage of
eternity, and must advance, grow purer and enjoy according
to their own exertions to the obedience to their spiritual
guides, to the prayerful love they exercised to the great Fa-
ther, to the Law of Christ, and to the love of their neighbor.
(Excerpts from Immortality, Peebles, 111-112.)
The lament of John Jacob Astor from the spirit world
through the mediumship of Mrs. Conent:
"Gold is the strongest tie which binds men to earth, and if
I were on earth again I would not be the owner of gold. I
would rather take the chance of the beggar than that of the
rich man. I would rather be cradled in sorrow on earth, for
then I would better appreciate the joys of heaven. And as all
men sin, so all men must be punished; I had rather receive
my punishment on earth than in the land where we all hope
for happiness. Yes, Yes, I would rather be a Lazarus-much
rather; and could I again be transported to earth, could I
again animate a material form, I would pray that God would
give me the surroundings of a Lazarus rather than the sur-
roundings of a rich man. When the rich man finds death at
his door, he fears to leave his apparently real happiness for
the imaginary-for that he knows nothing of. But when the
poor man dies he says, 'I have nothing here to bind me, my
chance is equally good in the land of the spirits.' • • • All
things that went up to make my sum of happiness on earth,
are denied me in heaven; I partake not of its glories, for each
individual forms his own heaven and his own hell. Heaven
may be within me, above me, around me, and yet not of me.
I may not be happy though others may be happy around me.
How long I am to remain so I do not know. I know however,
that he who judges righteously will not judge me har~hly." •
The personal experiences of Aaron Knight, given from the
spirit world :
"Although my father was a prominent churchman, and my
brother, the Rev. James Knight, an English clergyman, I was
ti..._wil:r. Peeblea. 113-114.
Letters from HeU 189
a materialist and given to intoxicating liquors. Coming to con-
sciousness in spirit life, I was at first inclined to doubt my
existence; at least I could not realize that my body was dead.
• • • I saw my body buried. which when done, the attending
spirits left me to myself-left me alone.
""The atmosphere was dark hued and hazy. • • • I said to
myself, "How strange, I see no God, no devil, no heaven, no
hell,-and yet I exist. But ohI so lonelyI' AU leam in our
life, .if not in yours, that penalties, like shadows, follow us
each and all, and none can get away from themselves. • • •
After thinking intently upon some of the rollicking associates
who passed to spirit-life before me, they were attracted to
me by the psychic law of sympathy, and I joined them in
their haunts, and engaged in their frivolous pursuits. My
spirit-world at this time was my earth-world • • • and my
affections and thoughts continued on earthly things. My
moral status and tendency of mind barred me away f~ the
heavens. • • • My home was in the hells, but they were hells
not entirely devoid of an inferior kind of pleasure. • • •
"Long weary years rolled away before I made any percep-
b"ble progress. • • • Remorse often stung me. I did not find
complete rest. Some in states lower than mine had suffered
intense anguish for long periods. They were wilful in their
blindness. Their environments,-dark wastes, barren fields,
dismal swamps, gloomy dens and caves of horror,-accorded
fully with their intemal desires and motives. • • •
"'In the transition to a higher state of happiness, I was
aided by my brother the clergyman. • • • I was dissatisfied
with my associates, and while apart by myself praying, I saw
in the distance a star. Reverently continuing my soul aspira-
tions, the star seemed to approach nearer, expanding until it
actually enveloped me in a halo of brightness, and out of this
resplendent brightness, there came to me my brother. • • •
I begged permission to go home, to his home in the heavens
at once. ••• "No,' he replied. "You can only come to our
heavenly world when prepared. • • • Go directly to your old
190 Personal Survival
associates as a teacher.••• Aid and encourage them •••
and in blessing them you will be thrice blessed.' Often from
this onward did my brother come to me, and thus aided by
him and other noble teachers, I rapidly unfolded until my
surroundings are now divinely beautiful, and I am permitted
to minister to mortals.'
Black Spots:
"I approached one of these black spots and there, in a mis-
erable hovel, was a human being. He was ghastly, thin, hag-
gard--almost a skeleton. He knew no means of escape from
that dark habitation, where he was all alone. The most violent
of human passions were raging in him, and he was walking
back and forth like a chained tiger. • • •
"There was a little light in that habitation of his, but it was
an awful one. It was the red, flame-like light of his own eyes.
They were open and staring like burning coals, with a black
spot in their center, and were constantly straining to see
something,-the darkness was so horrible to him I He had no
companion but his own hatred and the memory of his evil
past.
"He paused once in a while in his walk, raising his clenched
hands above his head, and cursed his Maker that ever He had
created him. He cursed also the false teachers who had pre-
tended to tell him the consequences of a life of sin, and yet
knew so little of them. They had told him of a hell of fire and
brimstone only, and he knew that when he died, casting off
his material garb, .such a hell could have no effect on him•
• • • Now waking to the reality of a hell far worse than had
ever been painted to him, he cursed God and man that he had
been left alone to dare its torments,-that he had been left in
ignorance of what must follow the indulgence of the matenal
passions, to which he had given up his whole life.
"If you had seen the agony that was painted on his face,
the despair and hatred that spoke in every lineament, the des-
•r-e.zii<J. Peebla. 87.
Letters from HeU 191
perate passion tbat swelled every muscle, and the horrible
fear that stole over him of what further might ensue • • • you
would have shuddered and recoiled from the sight. • • • And
what aggravated all this suffering was his ignor;mce that
there was any redemption for him, and the belief tbat it was
forever.
"He clasped his bands over bis.bead in a gesture of mute
despair, and standing thus for a few minutes be cried, 'Oh
for annihilationI' • • • If you oould have beard the tone in
which tbat imprecation was uttered, you oould have formed
an idea of the torments of the damned ••• groveling in the
dirt and writhing in agony, he bowled like the most furious
maniac, tbat bedlam's worst cell ever saw. At length from
sheer exhaustion he was still • • • and, now, as be lay there
prostrate and exhausted, solitary and in utter darkness, all
the evil deeds of his life chased each other through his tnem-
ory • • • faithfully performing their terrible duty of retn"bu-
tion."•
Exploration of the bells by another spirit from the Higher
Planes, gives us the following.
"The spirit-world, almost measureless in extent, bas actual
localities, as well as oonditions, where sympathizing spirits
meet. A higher spirit may visit the lower spheres, but t}te re-
verse is impossi"ble. • • •
"Turning our attention to what is before us, we see in the
widened distance, a misty darkness, and as we descend in an
opposite direction from which we came, the darkness beamies
more and more intensified. There is no vegetation, no spar-
kling rivers nor smiling lakes. As we pass on • • • rising and
crossing a range of bills, the harsh cries and the hoarse ago-
nies tbat appall the soul, reveal the fact tbat we are in the
neighborhood of dark and undeveloped spirits.
'We stand for a moment to mature plans for the thorough
investigation of these cities of strife. ••• We each take a
separate path • • • the darkness fading into a lurid, dusky,
•1~. Peellles. 114-115.
192 Personal Survival
phosphorescent light, until we come to a huge cavern, around
which are fierce reptiles, crawling lizards and slimy serpents,
winding around each other as though in fond embrace. In the
atmosphere are vultures, black and dismal-everything is ter-
ribly repulsive! . • •
"We come to the conclusion that these fierce, loathsome
and horrid creatures are the natural outbursts of just such
dismal localities as this. • • •
City of Strife:
"We discover a capacious, vault-like room, where reside
two women and a man. Inquiring, we are informed that the
two women in a quarrel about the man • • • had, while on
earth, murdered each other, one dying immediately and the
other living a few days to rave in anger. The vile man soon
after committed suicide! In malice, hate and strife they had
lived on earth, and dying in strife, they were born into the
spirit-world; hence their home is in the City of Strife. And,
as if to remind them of their past deeds, pictured streams of
blood, seemingly roll down the sides of the deep black walls,
of their dismal abode.
"Relating the sad story to us, they occasionally quarrel,
accusing each other, and moaning in spirit; and as they do
this, the reptiles and animals, so demon-like without, mock
them, and ghastly bat-like creatures screech in dismal dis-
cords that echo through the cave-chambers. Here these per-
sons are doomed to remain, until by punishment, by penance,
by repentance and active deeds of reparation, they shall make
amends for the past. .
"Leaving the cavern lly its only entrance, we find ourselves
once more in the more free but impure atmosphere•••• We
come upon a cluster of wretched huts. Their exteriors are
coarse and painful to behold, and their interiors are in per-
fect correspondence. Insects and lizards are also here, and the
denizens of the air are pouring out their jarring discords. The
Letters from HeU 193
occupants of these squalid homes are of the same quarrelsome
nature, as the one we have just left. The City of Strife is
justly named... w
Horror"s Camp:
"Travelling on our winding way over some barren bills,
whose frowning summits intercept the light from the brighter
scenes, is Horror's CampI Its dwellers are numerous, and
principally those who have died in drunken fits, or have come
to these shores in some other vehicle of crime and sin. Not
that they merely died in any particular passion, but, having
lived lives of licentiousness and vice, driving far away the
light of virtue, they entered spirit-life in this impure state.
"It is really touching enough to melt the heart of the stout-
est, to observe their furrowed brows, glaring eyes, straggling
hair, and honey, sinewy frames, half oovered in scarlet gar-
ments. We observe that some of them gaze intently upon the
dark and dismal walls, without removing their eyes from the
serpent-charmed spot. The scenes of their past lives are in
their most disgusting features, floating before their vision
and playing upon the walls. They are horrified at the sight of
their own misdeeds, and they cry out occasionally in wailing
choruses. • • • Sometimes they vary this monotony !>f en-
deavoring to relieve their earthly lusts; but being unable, they
are mortified and shocked with horror, and then resort to new
orgies, hoping to realize some carnal delight. It is surprising
to hear bow some will talk to their comrades about virtue.
••• To listen to their talk, some of them on earth have lived
exemplary and virtuous lives; yet they are the most depraved
:md degraded of any. These more talkative characters will
draw plans • • • that they may return to earth, that they may
influence mortals and in this way gratify their propensities
• • • the affair generally ends in a quarrel. And so here they
remain, poor vice-stnmg souls; horror-bound they sigh in
w
1-'tllil:.. Peehla. 117-118.
194 Personal Survival
restless suspense, daily exhibiting their contempt for the laws
of man and God." 8
rhe Hells Mitigated:
"Three of us resolve to continue in one of these hells and
watch the method of reaching and redeeming these people of
the lower spheres. We select the case of a man who has been
in darkness some time, yet seems possessed of some good
tendencies. His abode is in a den beneath an overhanging
cliff, dimly illumined by a ghastly light. It should be remem-
bered that the Divine Light partially illumines, and the Di-
vine Life,-by the law of the influx-flows into all spheres.
"Unseen by this person we watch him carefully, noticing
every act and listening to every ejaculation. In this way we
learn that in a revengeful quarrel with his brother, while on
earth, he inflicted upon himself a fatal wound, and was borne
to this dark place. He gravitated to his own place just as nat-
urally as a stone falls to the earth. Here he indulges at times
in expressions of anger, revenge, and terrible threats. Upon
one occasion after these wild ravings, we see him sitting upon
a cliff and sadder than usual, doubtless thinking of his mis-
spent and vicious life. He cries out in the fullness of his soul.
'What! am I here for trying to slay my brother? 0 heavenI
I've been mad.' and the tears such as only spirits can shed,
stream down his face, upon the crystal rocks beneath. And
while thus weeping, the vapor of his thoughts gather round
him, in-filling his demon home with sorrow. Soon we begin
to witness his gradual transformation.
"The rocks disappear; the fierce howlings in the air are
hushed, and this seemingly lost soul, angel-guided, finds him-
self in a dismal cellar, in one of the filthy streets of Liver-
pool, England. Here on a pallet of straw without the com-
forts of home, lies his brother almost dying! Remembering
at once his past unkindnesses, the scene touches his soul's
vitals. He weeps; and tenderly bending over the sickly form,
Blm....,.,alil:~. Peebles. 117-118.
Letters from HeU 195
he prays. 'Oh God and 0 father and mother,-angels now-
forgive my past sins, and make me better in the future; for
Christ's sake. Amen.'
"His tears, his earnest prayers, draw ot)ters to him though
he is not aware of their presence. They give him strength,
and he imparts it in love waves of magnetism to his deeply
wronged and suffering brother. This continues for months
the sick man growing weaker and fainter. But all·this time
the good thoughts of each enlist the interests of higher spir-
its, while the two brothers, by their thoughts and deeds of
kindness, bwld a home in the better land. The last we witness
is when earth yields up its claim, and the released brother,
leaving the body, is home in slumbers sweet, to the abode
awaiting him, by the brother, now more angel made. As time
passes on the flowers grow, the trees sigh, the streams ripple,
and the birds sing sweetly in adjoining groves; for no inhar-
mony, no sloth abides in that home. And so in blessing an-
other the blessing is returned. • • • Here you may ask, even
though our motive was good, how could we leave our sun-
bright abodes, and tany in the murky atmosphere of the
hells? Be our answer. Spirits project the atmosphere or aural
emanation in which they live and move. When descending
into the hells, this personal atmosphere becomes a protr.ctive
envelope, being positive to the general as well as to the indi-
vidual atmospheres of lower spheres. But if one attempts to
ascend from a lower to a higher sphere his characteristic ema-
nations are negative to the aromal flames, which then become
to him a consuming fire." •
"In regard to suicide, I can only say, that if men knew
what waits those who go out by their own hand, they would
rather r~n with the evil that they know." u
In reading the above descriptions, the basic comforting
thought is, that even in the blackest depths of hell there is
always the possibility and availability of reform and redemp-
196 Personal Survival
tion, whenever the soul desires or seeks it. In other words,
since the love of God is all powerful and everlasting, it is al-
ways available to those who seek it. There is no eterno! dam-
nation, but for only such time as the soul condemns itself by
its refusal to respond to the redemptive power of God's love.
In these present days, when men are so gladly hearing
afresh that "in Him is no darkness at all" is it believable that
God could have created any man if he knew that he must live
in torture through all Eternity; and that His hatred toward
evil cannot be expressed by injustice,-itself the aro essence
of evil? For certainly it would be nothing less than injustice
to punish infinitely what was finitely committed; no sinner be-
ing capable of understanding the enormity of what he does.
Chapter XXIV
LETTERS FROM HEAVEN
In 1909 the mother of the Rev. G. Dale Owen. Vicar of
Orford, Lancaster, England, passed over to the other side. In
1913 his wife developed the power of automatic writing, and
through her he received the request that be himself would sit
quietly, with a pencil in his band, and take down any though~
which seemed to come into his mind, projected there by any
external personality, and not consequent on the exercise of
his own mentality. From these writings developed the four
volumes comprising The Life Beyond the Veil, describing
life in the astral, from the fi~t of which The Lowlands of
Heaven, we requote in this chapter, as follows:
"A few words of the conditions we found when we arrived
here.-the conditions that is of those who pass over -here
when they first arrive. They are not all of the same spiritual
degree of development, of course, and therefore require dif-
ferent treatment. Many, as you lmow, do not seem to realize
the fact that they are what they would call dead, because they
find themselves alive and with a body, and their previous
vague notions of the after-death state are not by any means
lightly thrown away.
"The fi~t thing to do then with such as these is to help
them to realize that they are no more in the earth life, and to
do this we employ many methods. One is to ask them whether
they remember some friend or relative, and when they reply
that they do so but that he is dead, we try to enable them to
see this particular spirit who appearing alive should convince
197
198 Personal Survival
the doubter that he had really passed over. This is not always
the case for the ingrained fallacies are obstinate, and so we
try another method.
"We take him to some scene on earth with which he is fa-
miliar and show him those left behind and the difference in
his state and theirs. If this should fail, then we bring to his
recollection the last experiences he underwent before passing,
and gradually lead up to the time when he fell asleep. Then
we try to connect up that moment with his awakening here.
"All of these endeavors often fail,-more often than you
would imagine-for character is builded up year by year, and
the ideas which go to help in this building, become finally im-
bedded in his character. Also, we have to be very careful not
to overtax him, or it would delay his enlightenment. Some-
times however, in the case of those who are more enlightened,
they realize immediately that they are passed into the spirit
land, and then our work is easy. I fear many of you when
you come over here will be shocked to see how very natural
all things are, even if more beautiful than on earth. So many
expect to find a vague, shadowy world over here, totally di-
verse from earth in every way. And yet come to think of it,
and with common sense, what good would such a world be to
us? It would mean not a gradual progress for us but a vast
leap, and that is not the way of God.
"Many things here when we first arrive are certainly dif-
ferent from those of the old life, but not so different as to
make us feel dumbfounded by their strangeness. Indeed those
who came over after living an unprogressive life on earth,
find themselves in spheres of so gross a character, as to be to
them, indistinguishable from earth itself. That is one of the
reasons they are not able to realize that they have changed
their state. As you progress through the lower spheres into
the higher, this grossness gradually gives place to more rare
conditions, and the higher you go the more sublimated the en-
vironment. But few if any, pass into those spheres where no
trace of earth is seen. or no likeness to the earth-life. I doubt
Letters from Heaven 199
if as a rule any do, but of this I must speak dogmaticaJly. for
I have not myself reached, or even visited a sphere where
there is no likeness to God's beautiful earth. Earth is.but one
manifestation furiher outward from our own spheres, and in
tune with us and our present environment in many very inti-
mate ways. Were it not thus we would not be communing
with you at this moment.
''It would probably be utterly absurd to many to ~ told
that here we have real solid houses and streets; mountains
and trees and animals and birds, and that animals are not here
for ornament alone, but also for use; and that horses, oxen
and other animals are put to use. But they seem to enjoy their
work which makes one glad to watch them.
"As. we gaze ont over the wide planes and valleys of the
Heavenly Land, we are scarce able to remember the effect of
the atmosphere of earth as it bad relation to our vision of ter-
restrial things. But we do remember certain qualities which
are here absent. Distance is not obscured, for instance; it
fades away. Trees and plants do not appear for a season and
then die, but bloom perpetually, and then when they are
plucked, they are fresh for a long time, but they do not droop
and wither. They too fade away into the atmosphere. This
same atmosphere is not always white. It is not a mist and
does not always obscure, but bathes all things in its golden
radiance without invading the various colors themselves. In
other places it is a faint pink or blue and every region has its
own peculiar tint, or sense of color, according to the nature
of the people and their employment and bent of mind.
"One of the things that matter here is that due proportion
be meted out between wisdom and love. These are not con-
trary the one to the other, but are two great phases of one
principle. For love is to wisdom as the tree is to the leaves,
and if love actuate and wisdom breathe then the fruit is
healthy and sound.
"Light is not always conducive to peace. but in its passage
creates a series of vibrations which often bring destruction to
200 Personal Survival
those species of living creatures which are not fashioned to
survive in the light of the sun. Let them go • . • and your
eyes will become accustomed to the greater light, the beauty
of the Love of God, the very intensity of which, blended as
it is with infinite wisdom, is perplexing to those who are not
altogether in the light.
"Our home over here is very bright and beautiful, and
others from the higher spheres continually descend and visit
us to cheer us on the upward way. These higher companions
are visible to the others when they wish to be, and according
to the development of those they visit.
Passing Scenes:
"We will tell you of a scene which we witnessed not long
ago. . • • We were told that a ceremony was about to take
place in a certain wide plain not far from our home, at which
we might be present. It was the ceremony of initiation of one
who had passed the gate of what we will call prejudice,-
that is prejudice against those who are not of his particular
way of leaming,-and who was about to go forth into a wider
and fuller sphere of usefulness.
"We found a great many people arriving from all direc-
tions. Some came on foot, others in horse-drawn chariots,
without reins and guided by mind power. Others came by
aerial flight without the use of wings. We began to sing and
although no instrument was visible, yet instrumental music
blended with our singing and became one with it. It was very
beautiful and served both as a reward to those who had
earned it, and a spur to those who had still to tread the path.
The music proceeded from a temple grove outside the circle
• • • and seemed to be a part of the atmosphere.
"When they had all gathered, a circle was made, and one
stepped out, the one who was to be initiated, and he wore a
robe of orange color . • • not like the color as you lmow it;
-none of our colors are. • • .
Letters from Heaven 201
Aa Ezperience:
""The initiate took me by the hand and led me away. We
walked for a little time and then I felt my feet leave the
ground and we went through the air. I was not afraid for his
strength was given to me ••• we descended in a city where
I had not been before • • • I soon made out that we were in
a garden surrounding a large building. • • • The building
seemed all of one piece of material of different hu~. pink
and blue and red and yellow, which shone like gold but softly.
Up the steps we went, and at the great doorway withoutany
door to it, we met a very beautiful lady. stately but not proud.
She was the Angel of the House of Sorrow. • • • The sor-
row is not of those who dwell there but is the lot of those to
whom they minister. The sorrowful ones are those on earth.
and it is the business of the residents of this House to send
to them vibrations which have the effect of neutralizing the
vibrations of the sorrowful hearts on earth. You must under,
stand that here we must get at the bottom of things, and learn
the cause of thingS, and that it is a very deep study. Our oc-
cupation varies according to the needs of those to whom we
minister. It is very varied but directed to the uplift of those
who are still in earth-life. This then is my present phase of
service, and a very happy one it promises to be. But I have
only just begun to understand the prayers which are broaght
to us here and registered, and the sighs of those in trouble
we hear.--or rather they too are registered,-and we feel or
see them as it were. and send out our own vibrations in an-
swer. As the effects are also registered back again to us. I
know the amount of comfort and help we send.
••we were led back into the grounds which surrounded the
bouse, and there we found gardeners at work. tending the
Bowers ana fruit trees. and doing the general work of a gar-
den. He took us some distance along the walks winding here
and there. and through plantations of trees and shmbs. where
birds were singing and small, pretty. furry ·animals played
202 Personal Survival
here and there. At length we came to a stream and by it stood
a stone arbor, which reminded me of a miniature temple of
Egypt.
"The grounds were very extensive and all have a kind of
relationship to the buildings,-a kind of responsiveness. For
instance the trees are true trees, and grow much as trees do
on earth, but they have a kind of responsiveness to the build-
ings; and different kinds of trees respond more to one house
than to the others, and help the effect and work for which
that particular house was raised. So it is with the grouping of
trees in the groves, and the bordering :flower-beds of the
paths, and the arrangement of the streams and falls which
are found in different parts of the grounds, all these things
have been brought out with marvelous wisdom, and the effect
produced is very beautiful.
"These houses have not been raised merely mechanically,
but are the outcome,-growth if you will,--of the action of
the will of those high in rank in these realms; and so they
are of very powerful creative wills. •
Life of Children:
"A certain building is reserved for the children who are
still-born and have never breathed the atmosphere of earth.
These children are different from those who have been born
alive and have breathed the earth atmosphere, even if only
for a very few minutes, and for this reason they require a
different treatment, and are able sooner to imbibe the knowl-
edge of these spheres. So they are sent to some special homes
by themselves, where they are trained until they have pro-
gressed in mind and statue to such a degree, that they are able
to begin their new course of knowledge. Then, having become
strong in heavenly purity and wisdom, they are taken in hand
by those teachers who are in touch with the earth itself, and
they are taught what they have not been able to learn before.
"When young children come over here they are first
schooled in this life and then have to learn what experience
Letters from H eiJ1Jen 203
they have laclced on earth. The more training they have ac-
quired in the earth life. the sooner they are sent to complete
it. Those who are still-born have had no training at alL Nev-
ertheless they are children of earth and as such they must re-
turn and acquire this training. Not 1mtil it is safe for them to
do so however. and then 1mder proper guardianship. until
they are oompetent to go alone. • • • One who has lived a
long and busy life on earth has less to learn of earth life
when he mmes over here. and so he can progress to other
studies.
""There are regions where there are many institutions
mostly devoted to the study of the best ways of helping those
on earth who are in doubt and perplexity as to the problems
which stretch out into the realms beyond.
Other Scenes:
••Our guides led us to one of those plains of Heaven where
Manifestations from the higher Heavens are sometimes given.
The call goes forth and vast multitudes assemble. and then
some of the glories of the highest spheres are manifested as
well as it is possible in these lower realms. • • •
""We received a message a short time ago of the arrival of
a sister at the Bridge who had rome over from the farther
side where lie the regions of gloom. and I and another were
sent to conduct her to this Home. We went quickly and found
our charge awaiting us. She was quite alone for her attend-
ants had left her thus in order that she might profit by a quiet
period of meditation and reflection. before beginning her fur-
ther advance.
""When she opened her eyes she looked up at us for some
time in an inquiring manner. I addressed her as "sist~ and
at that wOOl her eyes began to fill with tears, and she wept
bitterly••••
•• "How do you know who or what I am?" she said.
""We do not know who you are. ••• We do know that
you were and are always a child of our Father. and so always
204 Personal Survival
our sister. What else you are lies with you. You are either one
whose face is turned toward the Sunshine of His Presence,
or one • • • who will tum back across the Bridge.'
"She said, 'I dare not, it is all too horrible back there.' Then
I told her that for the present she must try to forget those
experiences, until we had helped her•••• There is only one
way onward, nothing can be glossed over. Everything must
be viewed and understood for what it is,-every act and word
up to the present time,-God's justice acknowledged and
God's love through all,-and that is the only onward and up-
ward way.
"We told her all about the home to which she was being
led • • • and in the midst of it all she stopped suddenly and
said that she felt she could go no further, that she was afraid.
" 'But,' I urged, 'You must choose for you cannot remain
where you are. And you will come the upward way-will you
not? And we will lend you a sister's hand, and give you a sis-
ter's love to help you on the way...• In the midst of our
conversation she stopped suddenly and said she felt again that
she could go on no further. 'Why?' we inquired, 'are you
tired?' and she answered again 'No, afraid.'
"When we questioned her she told us the following: It
seems that when the guardian at the other end of the bridge
had heard her cry for help, far away in the gloom, he at once
directed a ray of light in the direction and sent a messenger
to help her. This spirit found her fainting by the side of a
dark murky stream whose waters were foul and hot, and bore
her to the Gatehouse at the Bridge. Here she was tended
and revived, and brought forward across the Bridge, where
we found her.
"Now it chanced that when the spirit worker had found
her, she had felt a presence, but could not see anyone near.
She therefore called aloud, 'May you be cursed if you touch
me!' thinking it was one of her old tormenters, and compan-
ions in wickedness. Then she remembered no more until she
recovered her senses again in the Gatehouse. • • • She had
Letters from HetJfJen 205
cursed one of God's ministers, and she was afraid of the light
because the words were evil Truly she did not know whom
she had cursed; but a curse is a curse, against whomsoever
directed, and it Jay upon her heart. • • • This was against
one of her fellow workers of the realms of light and love
and we saw that she would find no rest among us, and our
services would little avail her, until that wrong had been
righted. So back to the Bridge we went and right across it to
the Gatehouse at the further end. There we found the· spirit-
helper who had brought her to that place, and she asked and
obtained forgiveness. Indeed he was awaiting us, for he was
stronger than we and greater in wisdom, and he knew that
she would compel herself to return. • • • When she saw the
face of the one against whom she had sinned, and heard his
words of love and forgiveness, it showed her for the first
time that whatever she had to endure in the future, it would
be sweet in the end, and each task done would earn its own
blessing.
Judgment:
"One of our poor sisters inquired of our Mother Angel,
"Where is the Judge, and when is the judgment to take place?
I am trembling at the thought of it for I know my punish-
ment will be a very dreadful one, and I would know the worst
and get it over with.'
"To this the mother replied. 'My child your judgment will
take place whenever you desire it, and I can tell by your own
words that it has already begun. For you own that your past
life is worthy of punishment and that is the first step in your
judgment. As for the Judge, well, she is here; for :you :your-
self are judge and will mete out to yourself your own punish-
ment. You will do this of your own free-will by reviewing all
the life you have lived, and as you bravely own up one sin
after another so you will progress. Much of your punishment
you have already infficted upon yourself in the dark regions
from which you have lately come. That punishment was in-
206 Personal Survival
deed dreadful, but that is past and over, and what you have
now to endure will be dreadful no longer. All dread should
now be past. Painful, deeply painful I fear it will be, but all
through you will feel that He is leading you, and this more
and more as you go on in the right way.'
"'But' persisted the inquirer, 'I am perplexed because I do
not see the throne of the Great Judge, Who will reward some
and punish others.'
" 'You will indeed some day see that throne, but not yet.
The judgment you are thinking of is very different from what
you imagine. But you should have no fear and as you progress·
you will learn more and understand more of God's great
love.'
"That is what perplexes many who come over here. They
expect to find all set ready for their dismissal from the Pres-
ence into torture, and cannot understand things as they are.
"Others who have cultivated a good opinion of their de-
serts are much disappointed when they are given a lowly place,
sometimes a very lowly one, and not ushered immediately into
the Presence of the Enthroned Christ to be hailed with His
'Well Done.' OhI there are many surprises awaiting those
who come over here, some of a very joyful kind and others
the reverse.
Diflieulties of Spirit Communicators:
"And now let us see if we can explain a difficulty which is
perplexing many investigators into psychic matters. We mean
the difficulty they have in understanding why we do not give
them exact information which they desire about one thing or
another which they have in their minds. You must try to real-
ize that when we come down here to you, we are not in our
proper element, but are hampered with limitations which are
now strange to us. For instance we have to work according
to the laws which are in vogue in the earth realm, or we could
not make you understand what we wish to do or say. Then
we often find that when anvone has his mind fixed on some
Letters from HetJ!Uen 2JJ7
particular person whom he wishes to see or hear, or some spe-
cial matter about which he wishes to inquire, we are limited
by the straightened means at our disposal. Other reservoirs
of power in that inquirer are closed, and those only are open
to ns which he himself has willed to be opened. And these are
frequently not enough for us to work with.
"Then again, the activity of his will meets the activity of
ours midway as it were, and there is a clash, and the ~ult is
either a confusion or nil. It is nearly always better to allow
us to work in our own way, trustfully, and afterwards to ex-
amine critically what we manage to get through. If informa-
tion on any particular point is desired, let that point be in
your minds at times as you go about your daily occupation.
We shall see it and take account of it, and if it is possible and
useful and lawful, we sball find opportunity and means
sooner or later to answer it. If you ask a question while we
are with you, manifesting in one way or another, do not de-
mand but just put your thoughts before us, and then leave it
to us to do what we can. Do not insist. You may be sure that,
as our desire is.to help we will do all we can. • • •
"The power we use is best described as magnetism, and by
this the vibrations of our minds are directed to your own.
Your hand being placed against your head serves as a kind of
magnet and reservoir in one and helps us. • • •
"In our life in the summerland we endeavor to help both
those who come over to us and also their friends still on
earth. Indeed the two phases of service are inseparable, for
those who pass over here are often much distressed, and so
are unable to progress, until they know that those they left
behind are being helped from this side. So we often make ex-
cursions to the Earth plane for this reason.
Namea:
•'What's in a name? Well from our point of view and, that
also of the ancient wisdom of Egypt, based on data obtained
on this side of the veil, there is a great deal in a name. Even
208 Personal Survival
in the repetition of some names there is actual power and
sometimes peril. That we know now as we did not when we
were on earth. And so we here acquire a reverence for the
entity 'The Name' which to you would probably seem foolish.
Nevertheless it is partly for this reason that names do not
come through to you so plentifully, as many rather feeble in-
vestigators would wish.
"Also the mere utterance and transmission of some of
these mimes is, when we are in this earth region, a matter of
more difficulty than you would perhaps deem. It is a subject
however which is hard to explain to you, and only one which
you will be able to understand when you have become more
familiar with the fourth dimension which obtains here,-
which term also we use for want of a better. We will just
refer you to two or three instances and there leave the matter.
"One is the giving to Moses of the Name of the great Offi-
cer of the Supreme, Who visited him. Moses asked for that
name and got it,-an<I neither he nor anyone else to his day
has been able to say what it means.
"Then the lesser Angel who came to Jacob. Jacob asked for
his name and it was refused him. The Angels who came to
Abraham and to others in the Old Testament, very seldom
gave their names. Likewise in the New Testament, most of
the Angels who came to minister to earth's denizens, are sim-
ply so called, and when the name is given, as in the case of
Gabriel, it is little understood as to its significance.
()ther llessengers:
"We are spiritual ministers from another sphere, where
your own friends and your mother have visited from time to
time. • • • She and her friends come to us for instruction.
We are glad to come,-and to know you,-at the request of
your mother. Never imagine that we are troubled to come to
this earth sphere, for although it does mean an experience of
less brightness in environment, than is our usual lot; yet the
privilege counterbalances that more and more. • • •
Letters from Heaven 209
"We understand much that was not clear to us when we
walked amidst the shadows on earth. And this we would say
with all solemnity: let those who to-day amongst you are
searching into the meaning of His Divinity and the relation
of this to His Humanity, do so fearlessly and reverently. For
such are guided more than they Imow from these realms. • • •
"Friend, we tell you. with this same fearlessness. and with
great reverence also. that what goes by the name of .ortho-
doxy among the Christians in the church on Earth, is not a
true and fair presentation in many ways of the Truth as we
have come to Imow it here. • • •
Dreams:
"I was impressing a man who was investigating the laws of
psychology in the matter of visions and dreams. He wanted
to find out what was the cause of certain dreams being pro-
phetic,-the connection between the dream itself and the inci-
dent which it foreshadowed. He applied to me and I told him
that he must continue his investigations and use his own
mind, and, if it were well it would be given to him to under-
stand.
Zones:
''When we said 'the Powers which watch over the world,'
we did not mean to localize these powers on one side of this
planet, but to apply the all-enveloping watch which the heav-
enly powers keep about the sphere which is called Earth.
These Powers are resident in the Zones of which the Earth
itself is the center, and they lie in concentric circles around it.
The inferior zones are those near the planet's surface, and
progress in power and glory as the distance is increased. And
yet. space inust be enlarged in meaning when applied to these
spheres; for distance has not the same obstructive sense to us
as it has to you. • • • So we may for the sake of clarity, put
it thus: The Earth is the center about which many spheres
are. and is enclosed in aU these spheres. And the residents in
210 Personal Survival
the Earth life are potentially in touch with all those spheres,
and actually so in ratio to their altitude spiritually considered,
-spiritually, because these spheres are spiritual and not ma-
terial.1
"You will now have some idea of what prayer and aspira-
tion and worship mean. They are the means of communion
with the Creator, and His High and Holy Ones, Who,-to
put it in a way that you will understand,-dwell in the high-
est or outmost of these spheres, and include within Himself
and These all those zones within the highest Zone or
Sphere." 2
Degrees in Spirit Life:
In a report from another great writer we find the follow-
ing message from the other side of the veil:
"When I passed to spirit life I entered into the fourth de-
gree of happiness. Each degree is divided into what may be
-denominated fifteen compartments. I was too young of course
to have known sin, but I was also too young to have advanced
in spiritual progression. I am now in the fifth degree and
hope very soon to enter the sixth with my mother.
"We have our homes, our houses, our fruits, birds, flowers,
plants, trees, everything in fact, that you have on Earth, and
as tangible to us as material things are to you. There is no
sorrow in our home. It is only when we witness the sorrow
and suffering of Earth's inhabitants, that we are unhappy.
• • • Everytime we are permitted to make ourselves known,
-to our Earth friends,-we are advanced. • • • Our home
was not made by hands but by pure thoughts, and good ac-
tions expressed in the earthly life." a
From another noted spirit communicator we find that life
goes on, on the other side much the same as it does on our
Earth plane.
1 For further details 11ee R,al,.. of tlo• Livifl/1 D,a4, Curtiu.
2 For further details ~~ee, Tu Lorillo...U of HnWfl, Owen.
a IMMDrlalily, Peebles. 194.
Letters from Heaven 211
"Often I have told you that this world is, almost to com-
pleteness, the counterpart of Earth and its inhabitants. Con-
sequently social ap.d domestic relations are very similar.
Wedded bliss is numbered among the numerous joys that
abound in the spiritual world. But marriages, in the spheres,
are not based upon the ceremonial, nor are they for the pur-
pose of procreation and self-gratification. but rather for so-
cial interblendings, and the quickening of the spiritual activ-
ities. ••• On earth I was called a bachelor. and I remain
such yet if by it is meant individualized singleness, relative
to connubial life. Still I consider all things from the minutest
monads to the most royal soul-angels-to be dual; and I be-
lieve men and women to be the two hemispheres of the
sphere. and as positives and negatives, corresponding to wis-
dom and love, they were designed for sac_red unions. If these
are based on selfishness, they necessarily terminate sooner or
later: but if true and well fitted, the spiritual dominating
when on Earth, they continue on in our world of spirits. An-
cient seers and sages however, who have summered many
thousand years in the heavens, assure me that. progressively
inclined spirits so untold, so approximate the Divine. that
ultimately their loves become •ni'llersal, the love of each flow-
ing out to all, as the sun shines upon all, and as God's !ife
and love :flow into all immortal intelligences." •
As we have explained in another chapter, the following ex-
cerpts from letters. came to the author Elsa Barker, from a
discarnate friend, Judge Hatch, who used the method of au-
tomatic writing for the purpose of communication.
"I should be very sorry if the reading of these letters of
mine should cause foolish and unthinking people to go spirit-
hunting, inviting into their hmnan sphere the irresponsible
and often, lying elemental spirits. Tell them not to do it.
••no not be too sure that the entity which raps on your
table or your cupboard, is the spirit of your deceased uncle
or grandfather. It may be a blind and very desirOtU entity,
•1-'tlliU. Pechta. 92.
212 Personal Survival
an eager consciousness trying to use you to hasten its own
evolution; trying to get into you or through you so as to en-
joy the Earth and the coarser vibrations of the Earth. It may
not be able to harm you but on the other hand, it may do you
no good.
"It is strange, but many persons seem to be in the regular
orthodox heaven, singing in white robes with crowns on their
heads, and with harps in their hands. There is a region which
outsiders call the 'heaven country.' There is also, they tell me,
a fiery hell, with, at least the smeU of brimstone; but I have
not been there yet. Some day when I feel strong I will look
in••••
"Notwithstanding the companionship I have here, I some-
times regret my failure in holding onto the world. But regrets
have less weight on this side,-like our bodies. Do not fear
death but stay on Earth as long as you can.
"You need to take certain precautions to protect yourself
from those who press around me. You have only to lay a
spell upon yourself night and morning. Nothing can get
through that wall,-nothing which you forbid your soul to
entertain. • • • You have nothing to f&r if you protect your-
self.
"The teacher showed me how to create garments such as
I desired; to fix the pattern and shape clearly in my mind, to
visualize it, and then by power to desire to draw the subtle
matter of the thought-world round the pattern, so as to ac-
tually form the garment.
"Those people who think of their departed friends as being
all-wise, how disappointed they would be if they would know
that the life on this side is only an extension of the life on
Earth. If the thoughts and desires there have been only for
pleasures, the thoughts and desires here are likely to be· the
same.
"Many times I have seen men and women lying in a state
of unconsciousness more profound than the deepest sleep,
their faces expressionless and uninteresting. • • • I tried to
Letters from Heaven 213
awaken one or two of them, but was not successfuL • • • I
returned and found them lying in the same lethargy. • • • To
my question as to why, the Teacher replied. 'They are those
who in the earth-life denied the immortality of the soul after
death. •• .'
•••And will they never awaken?'
•• 'Yes, perhaps centuries, perhaps ages hence, when the ir-
resistible law of rhythm shall draw them out of their sleep
into incarnation, for the law of rebirth is one with the law of
rhythm, I said.
•• 'Perhaps you with your greater power and knowledge
could succeed where I have failed. ••• Will you not try to
awaken this man?'
•• 'You know not what you ask,' he replied. • • • •In order
to counteract the law which holds him in sleep, the law of the
spell he laid upon his own soul when he went out of life de-
manding unconsciousness and annihilation • • • in order to
counteract that law I should have to put into operation a law
still stronger. Will ••• the potency of the will ••• Will
you tell me your reason for asking me to do this?'••• I ad-
mitted that it was scientific curiosity on my part.
•• 'In that case,' the teacher said, 'I am justified in using him
as a demonstration of the power of the trained will.'
•• •As far as he is concerned he is not worth the amount of
energy as will be necessary to arouse him from this spell
which he laid upon himself ages ago. • • • I see in the pale
light around the recumbent form, many pictures of the soul's
past. I see that he not only denied immortality of the soul's
consciousness, but he taught that doctrine of death to other
men.
"He tJ:ten awakened him, but by what method and by what
words, I am not permitted to tell you.
•• 'Where am I?' said the man, when he had awakened.
" 'You are where you always have been and always will be,
in eternity,' said tile teacher.
•• 'And who are vou.'
214 Personal Survival
" 'I am one who knows the workings of the Law • • • of
rhythm, which drives the soul in and out of gross matter,
•.. and the consciousness of man into sleeping and wak-
. '
tng••••
"This man by his misdirected will had been temporarily
able to transcend the law of immortality, even as the Teacher,
by his wisely directed will, transcended the mortal in himself I
My soul sang within me at this glimpse of the godlike pos-
sibilities of the human mind.
"When one leaves the earth full of a great affection, and
when the earthly loved one does not forget, the tie can hold
for many years unweakened. You on earth have forgotten so
much of what you have learned here, that you do not realize
how your forgetfulness of us can throw us back upon our-
selves.
Reincamatioa:
- "Many souls stay out here until they are as tired of this
world as they were formerly tired of the Earth, and then are
driven back, half unconsciously, by the irresistible force of
rhythm. These are the unadvanced souls who are drawn to
their parents by the force of karma, and not by choice. Until
you are willing to go in and out of dense matter, you will
never learn to transcend matter. There are those who can stay
in and out at will, and relatively speaking, as long as they
choose. Those who do not believe in rebirth cannot forever
escape the rhythm of rebirth; but they hold to their belief
until the tide of rhythm sweeps them along with it and forces
them into gross matter again, into which they go quite unpre-
pared, carrying with them almost no memory of their life out
here. They carried out here the memory of their Earth life
because they expected to carry it.
Many persons out here sink into a sort of subjective bliss,
which makes them indifferent as to what is going on upon the
Earth. or in the heavens.
Letters from Heaven 215
.,Some souls would go back almost at once which is a
mistake. Unless one is young. and still bas a store of unused
energy saved over from the last life, in going back to the
Earth too soon, one lacks the force of a strong rebound. In
such cases they live out only the unfinished part of their
former life span. •• :•
In speaking of these letters the author says; ''The effect of
these letters on me personally is to remove entirely any fear
of death, which I may ever have bad; to strengthen my be-
lief in immortality; to make life beyond the grave as vital, as
real as life here in the sunshine. If they can give to even one
other person the same sense of exultant immortality which
they have given to me I shall feel repaid for my labor.'' •
To sum up the truths told in these Letters From Heaven.
we quote again from ~e message communicated to the Rev.
G. Vale Owen. by the spiritual ministers from the spirit-
world.
.,Be sure, friend, and tell others who will hear it,-that this
life which awaits you is not a mere bodiless dream in a twi-
light region, somewhere beyond the real and the actual. No l
It is strenuous and intense this life of ours. It is filled with
service and endeavors, crowned one after another, with
success; of patient pressing onward, and of indomitable wills
attuned each to the other, in comrade service for the Lord
of Love, whose life we sense and inspire, but whom we do
not see, and whose home is too sublime for us to Imow.
,.But we testify to you, friend, and to those who will
think reverently of these things· they cannot understand,
that if wonder gives us pause time and time again. as we
proceed, yet never do we lose that sense of a Presence whose
breathing ·is of love, and Whose leading is as gentle as the
mother's leading of her little child. So we, as you do, take
His hand and do not fear; and the music of the spheres is
around us as we go from glory to the glory beyond. • • •
•Lnkr•F.-- A Lifli..Dfttl M•. Barlrcr.
216 Personal Survival
Never faint nor grow weary of the road, for the mists are
thinning as you proceed, and the light strengthens into the
further light which issues onward into the unknown, which
is never feared. So we tread gently and humbly • • • amid
the glories of the planets, and the heavens of suns and
spheres, and of the Love of God."
Chapter XXV
CONCLUSION
"Spiritualism, with its rational regard for God as Spirit,
pervading all life, and prayer as the key to inner under-
standing, must appeal to ever increasing numbers of earnest
thinking people. We can hope that succeeding generations,
wiU not then blame God for the misdeed of men, but wiU
find the cause in themselves,--and the cure too." 1
As we have said in the preface of this volume, Personal
Suroival, the particular aim is to bring comfort, solace and
F15Surance to countless thousands, through the realization
and understanding of all life, and particularly of the life
which goes on after death. In this concluding chapter we
wiU speak of Spiritualism in a general way, its attributes, its
value to humanity, its use for individual growth, its place in
the Great Plan, and also its pitfalls and dangers.
Spiritualism teaches anew the indestructibility of the hu-
man spiriL That in itself should be one of the greatest serv-
ices in the years to come. When men realize that they cannot
in fact destroy the human spirit, they may give up trying to
kill the body through which it functions. And once that is
accepted, we may have the sure foundation for a long period
of peace. Itis h1ce a family reunion, for it is the end of grief
and the end of not knowing.
Spiritualism perfonns a great international service without
regard to race, creed, class distinction or color of skin.
Many have come to the seance room with minds dark with
217
218 Personal Survival
grief. and a few words from beyond the veil have altered
their whole outlook.
Science changes its views on many things. and has to re-
write its text books every few years. but the fundamentals of
Psychic Research remain the same. It continues to progress.
for the results of such investigations but confirm and elabo-
rate its earlier statements.
The conditions for spiritualistic achievement are simple;
first a still mind ; second a readiness to face facts ; third
reasonable judgment through which all statements must pass
before they are accepted. You require no expert knowledge.
only a desire to know the truth.
One case of survival would be a mystery, and the starting
point of a thousand legends. But when one is followed by a
million. then you have something which has to be considered
as a fundamental coqtribution to civilization. The evidence
of one case might well give rise to skepticism or doubt, but
the evidence of millions of cases constitutes an avalanche
which sweeps away all doubtful objections.
Principles of Spiritualism:
There are certain general principles or truths which must
be accepted and used as a working basis. First and foremost
of these is the truth that no life dies. but only the form is
changed from time to time, and this changing of the form of
life is what is usually called "death.'' As one writer received
this truth from the spirit world. "It is so that I am changed;
-so all we dead are changed ; glorified with our own im-
mortality, even as you too will be glorified. We have indeed
'gone on• beyond the comprehension of your present Earth
conceptions." z
One of the first principles of Spiritualism is that everyone
must find out and know the truth for himself. The evidences
of survival are available to anyone who with earnest sincer-
ity. openmindedness and a willingness to seek and work, is
Z Uaobstrwcte4 Uai'flnze. White. 33.
Conclusion 219
willing to lay aside his prejudices and creed superstition, and
open his mind to further enlightenment.
Across the Chasm:
From across the chasm of so-a.lled death comes the fol-
lowing reassuring message:
''There are millions who yearn to reveal that love is death-
less; that the grave has no power to touch those whom love
has united forever.
"It is always our task to build more bridges across the
chasm of death, to open new roads, to find more inslru-ments,
to encourage them to develop their di'Uine gifts to the highest,
to teach them to be unselfish, and unwearying in service, so
that more and more may be brought within the orbit of that
wonderous knowledge, which dispels darkness and fear, and
brings light and confidence to those who did not possess them
before.
"I have returned to teach certain truths, truths that I have
learned, truths very elementary, very simple yet fundamental,
for without these truths man does not know his.place in the
great Cosmic Scheme of life.'"•
Uaivenal Panacaea:
"In this world the chief difficulty arises from the contest
between the 'Haves'.and the 'Have-nots,' which is the root of
most of our envy, hatred and malice. But there is no need for
this at all in the next stage, since anyone can secure what-
ever he chooses by ooncentrating upon it; thus he needs envy
nobody.
"Money becomes entirely superfluous where there are no
goods on sale. And the miser who once hugged his money
bags may continue to hug them still in the beyond, and
though full, they are now meaningless. The only ITu-e wealth
consists in character; for even knowledge such as we gain
here is often of little use in the next stage, and a kindly
SA 111a511&e &om Silftl' Birc:J1. P~die N,_. Feb. 9th. It46.
220 Personal Survival
disposition and a heart of gold are far more really riches.
"But there are no compulsions. If we want to advance we
may. If we want to stagnate we are allowed to do so. Yet
after a time it is the common experience • • • that souls
find their happiness only in growth and steady progress." 6
Working Principles:
Another thing to remember is that the doors of the spirit
world are always open between the higher minds in the spirit
world and those in the earth plane. Your spirit natures are in
constant communication with the spirit world, and if you
wish to and will listen you may receive guidance and counsel
from those Spirits who inhabit the Higher Worlds. The
spirit world is always ready and willing to give up its secrets
to you, if you are willing and ready to receive them. "Knowl-
edge is as free as the air you breathe, but as air is only
breathed by lungs which are ready to receive it, and are
developed up to it, so the entrance of knowledge into a
mind is determined by the capacity of that mind to receive
it. • • • Every soul gets all the knowledge to which it is
attuned. • • • There is something in Spiritualism far better
than anything you have received from it, for its capacity
and its outlook are infinite. But we must not overlook all the
seemingly little things we have learned. • • • The fact of
comunication; that is of inestimable value." 1
Mediumship:
And how can we receive the truth from the higher worlds?
What are the conditions which should prevail?
In this great search for truth it is generally conceded by
those earnest workers who have worked and sought long
and patiently, that some sort of mediumship is necessary, to
investigate thoroughly, whether it be our own or that of some
one else.
6 After ~'!:atl,-Wbt, Ernest Hunt.
I Tis. Willow• Mit1. Funk. 97.
Conclusion 221
The spirilflal seance in which these truths are received
from those Higher Ones should not be entered in a spirit of
idle curiosity, or for mere selfish comfort, but there should
be the desire to obtain spiritual food and knowledge, which
will fit us, not only for the life to come, but for real living
in this earth-life. The medium should have a deep sense of
high moral and spiritual values, and the seance should be
opened with aspiration and prayer. If one wishes to oontact
only the higher spirit friends one should strive to make
spiritual progress in this life. We must also realize that upon
ourselves depends the success of the venture.
The question is often asked as to why mediums are used
as go-betweens in communicating with someone on the other
side. The answer is obvious. Spirits dwell in another country
from ours; if one while on earth wished to communicate with
a person in a distant country, he would have to use a medium
-although perhaps not a human one. He would use a tele-
phone, telegraph, radio or other mechanical means of com-
munication. The mediums in the seance room or elsewhere
are therefore merely taking the place of these mechanical
instruments. And in cases of materializ3.tion it is necessary
that the spirit visitor use the ectoplasm of the medium in
order to give it a form to· make itself known to the decser
physical senses of those on the physical plane, as we have ex-
plained elsewhere.
Life on the Other Side:
In reading in this volume and elsewhere about the life on
the other side, the home-life, the clothes, the houses. the
buildings, etc., one is amazed and astounded with the diversity
of opinioil,-no not of "opinion," for it is not their opinion
which those who communicate with us are giving us, but
rather their own individual way of realizing it,-diversity of
description is better. But that is the way it should be on
analysis of the observation for each one gives his report of
the living as he sees it. To one, the land, the houses, the
222 Personal Survival
clothes, the people, the very life, is one way because that
is the way he has it in his consciousness; to another it is some
other way according to his consciousness. Both are con-
scientious and correct in their report. Truly, "in my Father's
house are many mansions." Whatever those of the spirit
world are individually conscious of, that is what exists for
them.
Pitfalls:
We cannot too strongly emphasize the fact that everyone
who goes through the gateway of death is not immediately
transformed into an angel of beauty and goodness. Even
those find their level who have been careless and indifferent
about the life on the other planes, and who have committed
only the lighter sins of self-centeredness, narrowmindedness
or indifference to their fellow-men. There are earthy spirits
who find it very easy to enter the earth conditions and com-
municate through the mediums, and these spirits are some-
times not only frivolous and playful but are often malicious
and revengeful, and do a great deal of harm if allowed to
occupy the mind and attention of the sitters or medium.
Surely, as we are told by St. John, we should "tiy the spirits,
whether they are of God," (1st. John, 4, 1.) and the mediums
and sitters should seek protection from such as these by
asking aid from their guardian angels, by using a protecting
prayer or by some other method.
The Law of Rhythm and the Karmic Law are the only
controlling factors in determining the length of our stay in
any one realm of the after-world, and as these two laws are
founded on our own character and state of being, which we
give ourselves by our thoughts, words, and actions on the
earth plane, the duration of our stay is still subject to our
free will.
Phenomenal Spiritualism is not for all. Many minds are
not able to reconcile the phenomena with the greatness of the
truth of ~"liritualism. Such as these must be content with
Conclusion 223
the knowledge gained from the study of the principles and
from the experiences of others. To them will be given the
full and glorious realization that all they have actually
learned on this earth-plane is true. only when they pass over
to the spirit-world.
••Jn earth-life I did my best to help and enlighten. • • •
Since my arrival in this land I have tried to carry on and to
greatly increase the amount and sphere of this same work.
I must impress upon you all.-the interested and the disin-
terested. the believer in this great subject caUed •spiritualism:
and the skeptic.-to remember that you are still on Earth.
and you still have to perform the duties of Earth. You have
your daily lives to lead. and you must always do well the
work in hand.,, •
It is well to keep in mind that. ..spirit visitors. seance
rooms. trance addresses. are of no value unless they are a
doorWa.y through which we can enter a nobler age.•• 7
Either that ..new world"" we hear so much about is the
aim and end of spiritualism. or it is no better than the old
creeds it is destined to replace.
..To ~eve in God as the Infinite Spirit Presence of the
Universe, to hold conscious oommunion with spirits and
angels. and to live a true. noble. spiritual. Christlike life.-
these constitute a Spiritualist.""8
-
• Tll. Blu Islatul. Steacl. 24.
'I' Tu P~IW ObsWT~W. Oct. 25th. JMS.
8.Ira...Witw. Peebl-. 9&. •
INDEX
The flumbers below refer to chapters arul 110t to pages
A
Adam. the real, or spiritual man,2
Aflectioo, Vital, 9
Affinity, of souls, 8
Age, on the other side. 8
Animals. Where are theyl9
Animatioo, 1
Apports,22
Art, 12
Asports,22
Astral conditions, thrownoat, 4
Atoms, disintegrationof, 4
B
Battle. passing io,8
Behaviorism, 1
Beliefs, results of, 1
Birth, inevitable, 3
Blavatsky, Madame H. P.. 10, 11
Blood, shedding of, 9
Body, physic:al instrument, 2; an
overcoat, 2; not you, 2; house
of soul, 2
Breath of HcaVCD, 2
Breatbmgof spirits. 15
c
Cause and Effect, Jaw of, 2
Causatiou, theories of, 1
Centers, doors of, 4
Character,2. 3, 8
autdreo, after death, 8
Oothes, on the other side, 24
Ootbiog, inthe spirit world, 2
22S
Comfort,8
Communication with spirits, S. 24,
25
Compensatioo, 9
Consciousness, 1; infinite. 1,8
Corpses, astral, 10
Creatm: Power, 1
Cremation desirable. s
D
Death, inevitable and uniTersal, 3;
merely mntinuity of life. S; not
end of all human relationships,
3; sudden, 8; wbat js ,it, 2
Design, of creation, 1
Desires of the ficsb, 2
Detamiaism, 1
Disease, OYa" there. 8
Doors, of centers, 4; of exit at
dcath,5
DoyJe. Sir Arthur Conan, 6, S.9
Dying, description of, 5; deport-
ment of those attending, 15
I>Juamism. 1
E
Earth, not true home. 3; plane of
dcmoostratiou, 2; soul school, 8
Ectoplasm, 15
Elcmentals, 24
Emotions,7
Ensouling of animals, 9
Envirooment, effects of, 3
Evolutioo, of matter, 1; of spirit, 1
226
F
Family life. on the other side. 8
Finger prints, 17
Forces, spiritual, through prayer,
6
Fonns, where they come from, 1;
disintegration of, 1
Free WJ.ll,3
Fmits, of the spirit, 8
Furnishings of Heavenly home, 2
G
Gannents, in spirit world, 24
God, 1; conscious attunement to, 3
Group Soul, 9
Growth, hereafter, 8
Guides, 1; often uninformed, 3
H
Heaven, description of, 24; our,
over there. 8; state of mind, 2;
transportation in, 24
Hell, 7; fire. 7; geography of, 23;
relief from, 23; state of mind, 2
Helpers, spiritual, 6
Heredity, 3, 8
Hierarchies, 1
Homes, over there. 8
Houses, over there. 8
Humans, soulless, 4
I
ldeals,1,2
Incarnation, length of, 2; reason
for,2
ln1luences, psychic, on the other
side. 4
lnsbnct,1
Intellect, agent of soul, 1
Intelligence. of animals, 9
J
Judgment,8
Index
Lessons,8
Levitation, 22
L
Life. active and intense over
there. 24; forces of, 1; never
die. 24; purposive. 2;
Life-Ray, soul must keep in touch
with,2
Lights, effects of at death, 5
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 3, 8, 9, 12
Longing, not praying, 6
M
Man, what is he. 1
Manifestation, all eyclic, 3
Materialism, failure of, 1;
Materialization, 15 ; law of, 1;
plane of, 1; of animals, 9 ;
Matter, passive principle of, 1
Means, of relief, metaphysical, 4
Mechanical instruments, manipu-
lation of, 19
Mediums, why, 24
Mediumship, trance. 4
Money, superfluous over there. 24
Motives,8
Movement, continuous, 1
Music,2
N
Names, significance of, 24
0
Old Age. in the spirit world, 8
Oneness of all things, 1
Opportunity, neglect of, 3
Organism, 1
Ouija Board, 18
p
Paintings, spirit, 19
Paradise, 23
Parents, we choose our, 2
Pattern, mental, 1
Personalism, 1
Personalities. lost. 4
PlaD, 1
Planes. of manifestation. 1
Poltergeists. 22
Possession. by spirits. 18
Prayer. definition of, 6; for dead,
7; in action, 24; for protection,
23; not a supplication. 6
Prayers. how bandied in Higher
Realms,6
Prodigal Son. 12
Progress, in spirit world. 24
Psychic moulds. 17
Psychic seoses.not spiritual
powers,4
Puoisbment, no etema1. 3; not of
God,2
Purpose. of all life, 8
R
Rank. in other world. 8
Rays. of God, 24; uames of, 4
Reality, I
Rebirths. all aroundus.3
Religion,2
Reincarnation, purpose of. 3;
Ouistian doctrine.3
Response. to spirit visitors. 8
Responsibility. of humans to ani-
mals.9
Rewards. not given by God. 2
s
Samadhi.4
School of souls.8
Scientists, Super Cosmic:. 1
Second childhood, 4
Self, Spiritual, Ray of God. 2;
mentor,2
Shells.astral,l
Singing. reproduced by spirit 'Visi-
tors. 16; in foreign tougue. 20
Slate writing. 14
Sleep. in spirit world. 24
Soul immortal. 1
Index 227
Soulless animal, 2
Souls. none lost. 4
Spirit, active principle, 1
Spirit life, degreeof, 24
Spirits. mischievous. 8
Spirtualism. universal panacea.
24; its message. 1; phenomenal,
24; what is it. 1
Spiritualist. service of. 24; what
isa.24
Spirituality, in Higher Realms.
25; must be sought, 2
State aaft. aim of, 1
Suicide, 4; war c:ase of. 23
Teachers, I
Telepathy. 20
T
Terhune, Albert Payson. 9
Thought forms. 1
Times, signs of the, 6
Title. over there, 8
Trance, astral. 4
Transition, no death, 5
Transports. 22
Truths, 1. 24
u
Ultimates, seven. 1
Unfoldment, law of, 1
Unity, of all things. 1
Universe, wby, 1
Vibration. 1
Voicebox,l6
v
w
wealth. only troe.24
Web. protective, 4
Weights, of mediums, IS
World. of things. origin of. 1
Worlds. of causation, 1; mental,
1; reality of higher. 1; spirit-
nal.l
ne u,;,ersal Relitioa Pellor~~sln~
presenting the philosophy of
Cosmic Soul Science
A IIOil-sa:tarian spiritual JIIOftiDellt for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Ouistian in ethics, yet IIOil-sa:tarian and universaL
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all "ritaJ
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings presented in this wlame haYe intaated
and helped you. Send for a dcsaiptiYe pamphlet of our
correspondence course.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
Waah~Dstoa. D. C.
''THE CURTISS BOOKS"
THE CURTISS PBILOSOPmC BOOK CO.
WasiUngton. D. C.
"'The Curtiss Boow- Dispel the 1CISts From llpticiam
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Payc:hology. Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation
Not cold, intellectual essays, but vibrant with sympathy, undentand-
ing- and comfort for those faciug life's trials and problems, explaining
the reasons therefor and how to master them. Radiant with practical
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish Them-The
Cycle of Fulfillment. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It Began-Degrees and Orders, and the
Celestial Bieran:hies-The Wisdom Religion-Concerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the Bible-The Eleventh Command-
ment-Nan:otics, Alcohol and Psychism-A Study of Karma-The
Self-The Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mistake of the many claimants-A Study of
Reincarnation-The Seven Powers of Man-A Brief Outline of Evo-
lution, both Man and Nature-The Sevenfold Law-The Formation
of World Chains-Purity, and the problem of sex-The Origin of Man,
a clear explanation which reconciles Fundamentalists and Liberals-
The Symbol of the Serpent-Purification vs. Deification-The Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
sonages in the past-The Cycle of Necessity-The Path of Attainment-
Earth's F"mer Forces-The Descent of the Light-The Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in Life-The Healing
Prayer, and how to use it-How to Enter the Silence-Nature's Mystic
AlphabeL A Study of the Relation of Sound, Number, Color and
Form-The Word Made Flesh-IDumination-The Symbol of the Salt
-Thou Shalt Not KiD, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Eating
-The Pmyer of Consecration-The Meaning of the Symbol of the
Order.
A'J.be CUrtiss Boob• Help You to Help Yoarself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we llave a wise book."-Porlland OregtnliGfa.
"Is the most valuable. yes. the most practical of any tllat has come
ODder the olEervation of the reviewer."-Jolid NntJS.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical iDstruction IICCODlJIIlDies well n:asomd
theory at every tum."-The OUfiU Rniew, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplicity, dim:tDess and convincing fon:e,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Seem W'ISdom."-.boli
llagasine, New York.
"'t is indeed an epoch-making volume and almost every subject of
importanc:e is treated ••• and elucidated beautifully. Verily those who
aa:ept the authors' interpretations ••• wiD be students of Univasal
Religion."-Kalld& Jlagasine,IDdia..
"High ideals are given upon ss and gmeation. and the hook is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towuds advanciuc
humanity."-Tic Mtmer Mind, Los ADge1es.
"'t is the practical problems of life ••• tllat constitute its use and
commend it to every earnest stuclenL"-The hbli&. Cbic:ago.
"Altogether, this is a book rich in thought and suggestion."'-Tie
.tlllt:ricaa TheDSDITtisl.
"'t contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."-uay, Kansas City.
"Not only has the book very favorably impn:ssed me throulh. its
common sense way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I llave almost invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who llave read it."-Edilor The 0. E. Libnlry Crilie,
Washington.
"Undoubtedly the best tbat has appeared for some time ••• writtm
In a style both simple and schoJarly."-NefDIDI'I Plain Tali.
"The gratest book since The Seem Doc:trine."'-J. B.
"The first and only book tllat gives me a feeling of complete satis-
faction as I read."-Jir.r. S. S. B.
"' keep it cJase and read it as some do tiJeir BibJes."'-Jlr.r. C. W.
"For me, your book is the most inclusive, popular, compftllensiw.
sane and babnad, and saturated with tllat wonderful and helpful
essence of undelstandillg, sym.pathy and love, which makes your book
a livisg /rierul. Your spiritual psychology is unique! It has opemd D1J:
eyes."-P. R. German edition, $3.00
Fillemli BtliUoa. Elabtll'tlle lflllu. Pria, IZ.SD
"The Curtiss Books'" Solve the Riddle of Death-and Mter
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
Is communication poSSJ."ble? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a clear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, including a clear explanation of the
problems unsolved by "Raymond"; "Letters from a Living Dead
Man"; "Patience Worth:' etc. A rational, scientific, all-inclusive philos-
ophy, not a D)ere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know it to be a fact and desire authoritative
instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting Powers-Independent Commu-
nications, examples-The Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin Roosevelt-The Annunciation-A Message from Lincoln-A
Prophecy of the Aquarian Age-A Message from Saturn-The Garden
of Prayers-The Message of the Sphinx-The Curtain-Aviator
returns.
You will find all your questions answered in this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Scientific proofs-Rivers of Life and Death-the Seven Reahns-
Realm of Reflection-the Astral Double-the After-Death Sleep-the
Awakening of the Aged; After Battle-Astral Helpers-Indians as
Guides-Earth-bound Spirits-the Law of Thought and Desire-Diseases
Due to Reflex Psychic Conditions-Clothing, Houses, Amusements-
the Method of Materialization-Souls Seeking Incarnation-Condi-
tions Around the Prospective Mother-the Hall of Lethe-Why We
Forget the Higher Realms at Birth-Law of Manifestation-the Outer
Darkness-"Weeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"-Masses
of Color, Perfumes, Sounds-How the Flowers Are Colored-Thought-
forms and Inventions-the Pattern Museum-Aeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to Come-Obsessing Entities-Psychic Cause of
Drunkenness-Examples and the Cure-Crimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
-Lustful Temptations-Control of Sex Desires-Dual and Multiple
Personalities-Loving Friends and Helpers-St. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"-5o-called "Lost Souls"-the Dweller on the Threshold
-Sad Fate of the Suicide-Elementals-the Fairies, Nature Sprites-
Their Messages and Prophecies-How Gold is Formed-Psychic Realms
-Diagrams of the Astral World-Death of the Astral Body-5pirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"-the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schools-the Great White Lodge-Work of Mme. Blavatsky
Continues-Independent Methods of Communion-Telepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clairaudience, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
Avesha-Difference Between Independent and Subjective Methods-
"Spirit Control"-5ubjective vs. Ecstatic Trance-Materialization-
Trumpet Speaking-the Ouija Board, Examples of Its Deceptions anc:l
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
The Seven Realms
Dallgels-Sir O&ver Lodge's WamiDg as to Automatic Writing-"111e
Telepathic Method, Bible Eumples-SL Paul's Dim:tions to AD Chris-
tians-the Astral Cai11 'VI. the Spiritual FU"e, Cail1 or TbrlD-Protecting
Powen-Negative 'VI. Positive States-Enoch and the Doctrine of
Tr.msJation-Akashic: Records-four added chapters of Independent
Communications-The Aviator's Gn:at Adventure, a Message from
Quentin Roosevelt-The Annuncia&n-A Message from Lincoln-A
Prophecy of the Aquarian Age-A Message from Satum-the Garden
of Prayen-'lbe Message of the Sphinx-The Curtain.
You wiD find ;your questions ausweml in this YOlume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can 'ftrJ' wum1y recommend this volume-By far tie tiiOJI
llllWifiUtl booi tn1 tie ltlbjea.-Kflickerbodur Prm, Albany, N. Y.
··n fs the Oaristian heleafter that is descn"bed with the rlassilic:atioD
of the Astral World tn1 • sdndift& bas."-New Yori Tftu.r.
"Distinctively aDied with the Bible ••• really of essential value."-
Spriaffield llelflbliaul.
"'ne of the most valuable pa!lll8geS of the book, and a really fiDitJ6Ic
etndribtllitm lo lie ltlbjecl, is on the treatment of druDkalds and the
Dature of alcohoL"-Tortnllo SIUIIltJy World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on Tie Dun Realm• •••
Thele is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such u
ftgUds suicides and the daDgen of (subjective) mediumship. The
chapters on dementaJs and fairies are fllrtmnely interestiug, and l&lto-
&ether our friends the Curtisses have given us a wry valfllJble ctnllribu-
litnl for occult study."-Editor of Azoti Mllfaifle.
•A peat deal of~ useful advice is given to people regard-
IDg their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partie-
~ desirable that in these times of death and sorrow people slwultl
Ill /tlfllililr uitiJ etmtlilitnu of life tn1 the other side of the veil
-TDr'tnllo Sundtly WDr'ltl
•A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult t1
find. ••• The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their tearbinp.
and this work sboald CDhauce their already great reputation. •••
Over 300 pages of SOIDld knowledge and advice. • • • The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this cah"ber,
and those wbo would delve deeper into this subject should not faill
to read this book." The Ouwll Rruiew (London). .
Can You Aftora to Remain Ignorant on Tbb Vitany
Important Subject?
Semltl F.tlitiot&. Will Nft, A~ tn1 Narcotics turd D,ufllic Prtlym
U.SD
"The- Curtiss Books" !!plain the Second Coming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a seQuel to Tile VDiu of Isis, but rather a response to the
urgent call for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
The only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Tile Jlystil: Life-in nature, so in man-how to react to stimuH from
the inner world as we now react to Ule outer.-The Sign Aquarius-
doctrine of cycles and ages-the Sign of the Son of Man in heavm.-
Are These the Last Days-cycles of Races and sub-races-meaning of
"the end of the world."-comets and Eclipse~ow cosmic changes
affect the Earth-the Sun-spot cycle and its effect-Halley's comet
ushered in Aquarian Age.-The Law of Growtls--how the ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growth-the dynaspheric force.-Birth of
the New Ageo-the Water Bearer-embodiment of the Christ-His
teachings.-Jacob and Esau-meaning of the trickery-of Jacob's twelve
so~bology of the Stars and Stripes-is America the seat of
the new race?-JIastery and the Jlasters-meaning of mastery and
how attained-feminine Masters-the Great White Lodge.-JIother
Earth-her alchemy-her seven layers-origin of insect pests and plant
blights-effect of blood shed on battlefi.elds.-The Four Winds-use of
4 in the Bible-coming cataclysms.-The Three Johns-John the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.-cltildren of the HotUe-
iold-the Prayer for Demonstration-protection from astral forces-
astral chill-astral diseases--child training-attaining material supply.-
Jian, Know Thyself-divisions of man-laws of mind-concentration
on the solar plexus-training the subconscious mind-the superconscious
--5ylllbol of the carpenter-of Herod-the crucifi.xion.-Orderly Sequence
-effect of order and diso:rder.-The Spiral of Life-reason for changes
in life-use of the Masters' names.-Life Waves-law of wave-motion
-rhythm of the breath-tidal waves-storms of emotion-magnetic
variations of the Earth.-JIessage of the Spltin»-meaning of the
scarab-origin of the Order of Christian Mystics-crypt beneath the
Sphinx.-The Second Woe-length of the four periods of the woe-
false prophets.-The Day of Judgment-signs of His coming.-Law of
Sacrifice-sacrifi.ce of the Sun in Nature-value of talismans-value
of sacrifi.ce.-Tile Sileep and the Goats-their symbology-the "other
sheep."-The Jlystil: Oak-origin and function of the dance-rhythmic
motion in religious services-symbology of Circle and Sun dances-
origin of bonfires and the Maypole-Dryads and Naiads.-The Dia-
mond Heart-formation of a diamond-forces obtained from a dia-
mond.-The True Priesthood-meaning of priest, hierophant, prophet-
Melchisedec and Jesus-how an Avatar manifests-H"JJ near advent-
partial Avatars or Aveshas.-A New Testa,.,.,_Jesus• new testament
-rile Curtla Boob'- Ghe a llew Outlook on Life
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
-5ylllbology of "the upper chamber"-of blood-of the bread and wiDe.
-Crossing JortLJa-wandering in the wilderness-dividiDg the watels-
c:rossing dry-sbod.-Takiag Jericlo-5ymbology of the ram's homr-
why the walls fell.-Tie Yam Slo-Ltu:i/er-distinction between Luci-
fer, Satan and the devil-UDiversal Center of the Solar School-the
Luciferian School-Faiti tmtl Worb-Sun Initiation.-Jlar.s-why
Mars is red-relation of Mars and Venus-why the Bi'ble is aDegorical.
-The Sliritfltll Birti--pla.ce of the spiritual birth-the spiritual or
N'II'IIWI&kaya body.-Th Migldy A"gd-"this same Jesus shaD so come
in like :manner"-Bis method of appearance-conditions necessary-how
to recognize Bim.-The Sovl"s GtlerdOJt-lesson of each Earth-life-
object of inc:amation-value of ceremonies, observances, diet, etc-the
Lonl from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admbably conceived and well produced volume, which shoaU do
much to incnase still farther the wide cirde of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of Tie Order of Cirisliaa Mystics makes so stroDC
an appeal."-The OCCIIll Rniew, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with "l'he Message of
Aquaria,' but the book is so good that I want to put one in each of our
pablic Jibmries."-R. H. W.
"The book makes interesting readiDg. • • • These two authors are aP-
parently authorities."......s- Fraru.isco JOflrfllll.
"These books are not claptrap utterauas of shallow miDds; they are
deep and siucere."-Oailau Tribtme.
"Quite apart from their great message to the world, lie afH8ftl of
.afllll if10711ledge lit:y c0fJ1ai11 and the mraortliftary iigi slarulanl •I
literary ft'llisi, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
make this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarriug
note."-A. A. B., London.
"What a tremendous work you have aa:omplishcdI How inuneusely
importantI Your works must certainly become more widely known aD
over the worldI The highest spiritua]ity breathes through every sen-
tence. I am amazed at the immense spiritual value I have discovered
and am daily discovering in them. They are Soul-upliftiug to an in-
credible degreeI How blessed you are to receive these splendors from
the IDfiDite Consciousness directI You are two Souls spedaBy favon4
hy lleavenl W"rth the greatest e5Uem and admbation, your friend."-
._.,. Albm Va• tier Naillnl, author of I• lit: Sa..af11W7, etc.
Cora,.lt: lflflu. Sizti BdiiUnl.. Priu, $2.50
"'Tbe Curtiss Books" Ezp1ain the Mpteries of Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritativa
book on the signiiicance and spiritual WU#eltJtitm of fttlmbus GJUl
symbols, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spiritually
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, square. pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments, includ-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible ·and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Maso~c ,ymbols, the Trinity, the Elohime
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, initiations, etc., than many sep-
arate books on those subjects."-Baltimore Americaft. •
Not a dry mathematical treatise, nor mere speculative theoDea.
lllustr.ltions and co•Jirmatiom from JJatrwe at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are apressions of the ODe
Great Law manifesting according to mathematical principles, demon-
str.lting that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of eveLts that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical SysteJD5-the Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Church-the Druids and Hyperboreans--Round Towers
of Ireland-Indians' Use of Feathers-the Circle as the Egg and the
Cat-Origin of the Decimal System-Origin of the Druid Bomires
and Maypole-Why 1 Comes First-the Letter Aleph-T1te Jt~ggler­
Origin of Constantine's Symbol-the Magic Wand and Crozier-Soul-
marriage-Key to the Universal Law of Sex-the Letter BetiJ-the
Higll Priestes.s-Jakin and Boas-Solar Cross-Veil of Isis-the 3 Great
Star Streams-Origin of the Triangle and the Trinity-Diagram of
Law of Marriage and Divorce-Tripod of Pythian Priestess-Noah and
His Sons-Prophets in the Fiery Furnace-Power of the Spoken Word
-"Army of the Voice"-The Letter GimeJ-TIIe Empren-Origin of
the Square, and Cross, Swastika-the 4 Beasts-the 4 W"mds-the 4
Gospels-the 4 Rivers of Eden-40 Years in the Wildemess--40 Days'
Fast-the 4 Castes of Mankind--4 Stages of Civilization--4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now entering-the Letter Dalelll
-T1te Emperor-Difference between Sabbath and Sunday-Role of
Satum-5 Pointed Star-Belshazzar's Vision-Clairvoyance Not a 6th
Sense-Symbol of the Crocodile-the 5 Talismans of the Sikhs-Anti-
gonus' Vision of the Pentacle-Effect of a Reversed Symbol-the Letter
HI-Tile Pope-Offering Up lsaac-6 Days of Creation-6 Days of
Labor-Number 6 and the Elementals-the Letter Va-The Mystery
of Creation-the 7 Elohim-Music of the Spheres-Colors of the Musi-
c:al Scale-Apollo's Lyre-the Pipes of Pan-the number of Gestation-
the 7-fold Earth Chain-the 7 Races and Sub-races-the 7-fold Con-
r.truction of Man-the 7 Cycles of Life-the 7-fold Basis of Masonry-
Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7-the 7 Chun:hes in Asia-Number 7 in
Revelal.itm-the 7-Pointed Star-5eal of Solomon-Legend of the Mina-
tour-of Phaeton-the 7 Principles of Man clearly apounded-thc 7
-rhe Curtiss Boob• Renew Faith through KDow!edge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Pleiades and the 7 Risbis-Myth of Orion-of N'10he-the Letter Z11ir1
Tie Cbriot-the Number of Evolution-the Octave-the 8th Sphae
-the Dweller on the '11msho1d-Valley of the Shadow of Death-the
Letter Hetl-Jtulice-the Number of Initiation-ApoiJoDius of Tyana
Meditation-Genii of the Hours-Higher Initiations-PJato and Num-
ber 9-the 9th Hour-the 9 Muses-the Mystery of Number 9-
Symbology of a Rope-the 144,()00--the Letter Tetl-Thc Hertrtil-
the Number 10-the Number of Completion-the Decad-the Sun-
Abram and Sarai-Zodiac Formerly had Only 10 Sigos-Dia.gr.un of
the Group-Soul-Meaning of the 10 l..epen-the Letter Yo4-Tic
Wieel of Life-the Joy of Completion-Key-note of Creation-Geo-
logic Eras-Number of CompJeted Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"'n tbis book aD the lore of centuries that lw gatheml about the
number from I through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detaiL •• This book is easily "" ffiOJI t:ofii,Uie llfl4 mtis/aclory
briDging together of iuformation that is scattered in hUilCireds of wl-
tlmes not readily ac:cessibJe.11
-Tk Bostn Poll.
"It is the most Wcinatiug book I ever read."-De Casseres. Nt~t~
York Srm.
"It c:ertainly Dahs out a good brief for the significance of num-
bers, and one V1ell sui~Drletl by flllltkrrlatics llfl4 flltuic. • • • It con-
tams much besides the fDgmious shcnriDg of the curious COI'ftSJJODdmc:e
of numbers."-.51rinfliel4 Re,_,lktul.
"An elabomte spiritual interpretaticm of numben and symbols which
lements Middle Age delNelances In tbis field • ., illrutrllliofiS
;!: fiiOtlens sdeftce, and comes near to relegating Pythagons-to the
shelf as a back number•••• The treatise presents an amount of weD
coDected iuformation which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can aftord to neglect. ••• The general aim is both ethical and
ldigious.11
-Bo510fl Herald.
"It is deep and profound. As one goes into tbis message of phi~
1
losophy one becomes yjta)Jy interested. and evm awed..•-Portlmltl
Oregoxitus.
-rhe person who has only an amused c:ontcmpt for this sort of
thing will "' foul a griplirsg ialeresl in CODtcmpJating wbat it has
produc:ed.."-Tiae StJJJ FrtiiiCisco ChrtnHcle.
"'Goes deeply into the philosophy of llUIDbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry• ••• Not a
mathematical dissertatiou. but replete with occult informatiou.•
-MastnHc Nn~~ Age MtlgtUille.
"'Easily the most complete and satisfactory bringing together of
••• all the lore of centuries that has gathered about llUIDbers •••
set forth with a perfect wealth of detai1...-Bostn Posl.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait of Mrs.
Curtiss. many diagrams. tables, etc.
Co•llele We%. Eitktk a4 Revised B4i1iDr&. Priu $3.DO
"'The Curtiss Boob" Have Remodeled :Men's Llvea
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
This volume presents three revelations of supreme importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the Zodiac divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations in the Zodiac?
AU the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are aU based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere m print have we found any philosophical and scientific rea-
son why the divisi011 into 12 was chosen, save in this volume. Truly
P. momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar animals used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such animals? The reason is found only in this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere m all literature can the interpretation of the 12 Labon
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book in itself.
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of· the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
\-olume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct challenge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chi# claims
against the Bible story. Of great importance to aU students of com-
parative religion, to ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced Disciple-
the Legend of Parsifal-the 11 year Astronomical Cycle-the 11 year
Sun Spot Cycle-Gems and the Zodiac-Use of a penon's Name-
Number-Reincarnation and Transmutation-the Permanent Atom-
Physical Immortality-Attitude for Healing-Cause of Cancer-the He-
brew Letters-the 144,()00-the 11th letter, Kapi-diagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation.
Number 12, the Manifested Universe-Geometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 fold-Diagram of Zodiac-the Aquarian Age-Why were
the disciples called "Fishen of Men"?-Origin of the 12 Tribes-
12 Stones from Jordan-the 12 Disciples-12 Knights of King Arthur-
the Last Supper-the 12 Baskets of Bread-Jesus at 12 years-When
is Incarnation Complete?-Incamation in Various Signs-Mystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple I..etten-12 BodY Salts-Jesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
-rhe Curtiss Books'" Satisfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of Herades-Relation of Hen:uJes and Jacob-ICili-
IDg the Nemean Lion-Killing the Hydra-Capturing the Keryneian
Doe-Capturing the Erymanthian Boar-CJeaniug the Augean Stables
-Killing the Man-eating Birds of Stynaphalos-Capturing the Cletan
Bull-Capturing the Man-eating Mares of Diomedes-Seiziug the
Giidle of Hippolyte-Capturing the Oxen of Geryoneus-the Three-
headed Hen Hound-Obtaining the Golden Apples of llesperides-Cba
:hom 10 signs to 12-Wrestling with Anta.ios-Mysteries of EJeusis.
Number 13-Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinner-Its Real
Significance-The Savior God-Mystical Meaning of the Bible-Higher
Critics refuted-the Life of J~Number of Judas--30 pieces of
Silver-Meaning of Playing ~13 Apparitious of Jesus.
Number 14-Phantoms of the Mind-Hawaiian Sacrec. Shadt-Levia-
than-Jonah-Use of Perfumes.
Number IS-Blood of the ~e Devil, How Cleated-Origin
of Diseases-Race Kanna-Power of Thought-Dwdler on the Thmihold
-Hour of Initiation-the Order of the 15-Why Established-Con-
tacting the Masters-the Holy Grail-Message of the SphiDL
Number 16-Vac:tory-Nature Spirits-Enchantments.
Number 17-Disposing Intelligence-the CelestialllieJarc:hi5-144.000
-Value of Horoscopes-Diagr.un of the Hienrchies.
Number 18--The Second Initiation-Black Magidaus-the $ Sign
-5ymbol of the Swan or Pelican-Number 666 and the Beast.
Number 19-Number of the Sun-Twice-hom-Sun Eclipse every 19
years-the Hyperborean Land-Druid Colleges-Sun Initiation-the
Philosopher's Sto~nter in the Spleen-the Swastika-Equilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20-Celestial Initiato~Power of the Christ-ReaSon for
Spiritual Development in Deformed Bodies-Description of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Body-the Feminine Ray.
Number 21-IncamatioDS of the Higher Self-Mme. Bla'Vldsky's last
Incamation-Spiritual Majority-the CrocodiJe.
Number 22-The New Jerusalem-Squaring the cm:t-Law of Co-
opention-Aquarian .Age-Prophecies of Diasters-Establishing New
Conclitiom-the Womm's .Age-Taking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
bolsm of numbers. ••• You will find hen: 11 fositive ~ of irt-
/Drfii4Uot& about how to climb to the ultimate attainment."'-Tk.Bost011
Ptm.
Tm full-page plates, Jl9rtrait of Dr. Curtiss, many diagnms, etc.
Fi#l EtliUofl. C01111lde lflda:. Price sz.so
-rhe Curtiss Books" solve evolutiO!l!!Y problems
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION,
and the BIBLE
A new and illuminating concept of evolution.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the whole Garden of Eden
story. A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides of the
controversy and a rational basis for the reconciliation of religion and
science; of the Fundamentalists and the Liberals.
Profound, yet clear and simply expressed. ScientificaDy accurate, yet
not tiresomely statistical or unduly technicaL Vibrant with deep spirit-
ual understanding and penetrating insight into ultimate realities and the
fundamentals of both causation and manifestation.
Expands the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrll1s the heart.
A grasp of this book will enable one to maintain his stand in any
company. Answers all questions.
Covers all phases, both biblical and scientific.
Chapters on Science, what it has proved as to the evolution of forms.
Materialism. Not a sound philosophy. Accept its facts, but not its
conclusions. Manifestation. Necessity of a pattern and how material-
Ized. Examples. Creation. The first Adam created, the second Jormed.
Not the descendants of apes and why. Evolution not a mechanical
process. Spiritual radio-activity. Adam and Eve. Not parents of alL
How and why the separation of the sexes took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sex appeal. Garden of Eden. In all religions. No such
place even found. Meaning. Trees in the Garden. Meaning of their
fruit. Why banished? The Serpent Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sex not impure. The Kundalini-force, effect on spinal cord and brain.
Unity in Duality. The Twain one Flesh. True marriage made in heaven.
Object of marriage. Trial and companionate marriages. Supplementary
chapters on God, The Image of God, and Emmanuel.
APPRECIATIONS
"A new conception of evolution." New York Times.
"A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both sides fn the
controver.;y over evolution and the Bible." Detroit Free Pren.
"The findings of science are well stated." Richmond Times-DUpatcll.
"A new and en:ightening contribution. • • • Contains a profound dis-
cussion of the conflict between science and religion and offers an in-
teresting explanation." Spokane Chronicle.
"The writers unquestionably deplore the drift toward animalism, and
they wish to reinforce the drift to spirituality." Boston Transcript.
"Written in a way to hold the interest." Oakland Tribune.
"The place of woman as the complement of man is demonstrated.•
Columbus Dispatcll.
"The story of Eden and the modern social problems involved are dis-
cussed at length and with much interesting comment." Buffalo Courier-
&press.
"Written in simple, clear language the book gives a striking impres.o
sion of the process of evolution • • • in which man shares on all planes.
lt is a source of light, a revelation to be welcomed by all such as long
and thirst for an understanding of the unity of all life and to whom
-.rhe Curdss .lloob" m1111line blbUcal aDegorlea
tile Bible so far had remained obscure." Editor, Cmule a Cmule, Paris.
'"'The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search-
light of profouud spiritual perception, briDging light to many tbiup
heretofore hidden. The book is splendidly written, a rich mine of iDfor-
mation, and we advise each one of our readeiS to obtain this valuable
and much-Deeded treasure volume." Editor, Tile AfiUI'itm Age.
"Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profowd
thought as weB as the constructive religion of the co-authms." Btli-
WU.. Natioual League of American Pen Womeo.
'"'The old knowledge is tiansfigun:d by the new and inspired concep-
tion. Instead of the Jetter which killeth, we are given food for the
growth of the souL Editor, Ps1drk Sciefru, London.
"You may take your Bible literaDy or otherwise, but you a1e 'bound
to find Tile T""l Abtna BvolHti011 aJUl 'lie Bible a l'timulatiug aD4
thought-provoking book. • • • The sort of book that can be picke4
up and 'dipped into' anywhere-intensely readable from the filst page ~
the last." Editor, OccuU Digest.
"'l'he latest work from the inspiring pen of these two highly spedal-
lml students of the Scriptures, and the psychology of the Spirit, ~
all its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented in laDguap
both simple and impressive. • • • This book is commended to an who
a1e interested in things of the Spirit and who a1e striviug to widen and
deepen their understanding of symbology." Editor, KROfllirJg Peolle.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at
our desk. Wo. stop work at once and read it, for the several boob
Issued by these gifted authors thus far have always been not ollly
helpful but of unusual merit. • • • We have enjoyed it. We have
profited by it. The clean, wholesome, sane, logk:a.l philosophy em-
bodied cannot fail to lmpie~S constructively. We aflirm that it js dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Mercwy.
"The study of the Bible in the light of the above views ought .to en-
eourage every thinking Christian to a more ratioual and scientific view
of religion and mnst satisfy both his inteDect and his heart. ••• We
look to this book therefore as of profouud use and interest to an tral7
religious." Editor, Tile KalltJ]ul. India.
•An addition to the weB-known "Curtiss Books' fs sure of a welcome
from many readeiS. • • • Much of the symbolism of the Bible-and
particularly of the creation story in Genesis-is explained in an iiiumi..
11atiug style. • • • The chapters dealing with the sez problem and the
true meaning of marriage ••• will no doubt prove helpful to many
people who are groping for truth amid all the conffidiDg theods
preached today ••• will inspire and uplift all who are able to apple-
bend it." Tile OCCflle Review, London.
"It fs always a pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and Mn.. F. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are ai.
ways dinrt and to the point, and--what is of the greatest usefulness Jn
this rather inchoate field-..5imple and very readable. • • • The partjca-
Jar value of this volume ••• is the consistent and intelligent reference
to sdentiGc authorities and modern points of view. • • • Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss greatly ac:el in the symbolical or allegorical school of Bible
laterpretation." Man: Edmund Jones, Editor, Tic Sabia• Plilosolly.
Ct~~~~preleruiw Wes /or JtfllletW. S«Dflll 1llliUml. Price. SZ.SD
"The Curtiss Books" explain the problems of daily life
LETIERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the many occult volumes before the public, aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
tbcmselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me."-W. I. Colville.
"Many Biblical and other problems are handled clearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that shows the instructor to be one sure of
the position taken, desirous of imparting helpful knowledge to all
earnest inquirers, at the same time leaving all students in full mental
liberty.-M)'stic Light Librar)' BuUetin.
"Another interesting contribution to the department of occult
science."-Portland Oregonian.
"The letters of advice, of which this book is nearly full, bear every
mark of culture, of sincerity, and of a lofty thought."-Scm Francisco
Argonaut.
"The book is pervaded with the spirit of loving service. Every
question receives a clear and careful answer which must have satisfic:4
the inquirer."-American Theosophist.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treated in a manner
so interesting that it is hard to lay it down, but when the chapter on
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some strong food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. II is the sort of tJ booll the student wants for reference...-
~dwards Paul Jones.
"Its warnings against the dangers of psychism, and its frank and
rational discussion of the sex question ••• are to be commended."-
Editor 0. E. S. Critic.
"The beautiful truths expressed in beautiful diction cannot help
but appeal to the soul which is seeking the higher things of life."-
Unity.
"I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the comfort
that has come to me through your Leiters from the Teacher. I felt
the moment the book came into my hands like one who had come
home at last-to a wonderful home for which one had been long and
earnestly seeking and ~raying and longing. • • • When one comes into
the realization of ones dearest dreams, knowledge is instantaneous-
there is no doubt."-M. C.
"I find your books the most helpful I have ever read. They are so
liveable and mett the wants of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude."-Mrs. E. H. G.
Yol. II, New letters cwering other subjects, including special chat-_
lers on Sex, Marriage and Divorce, Financial Problems, the Chnsl
and the coming World Teacher, etc.
LE'ITERS Jrmn the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of CArislitM JI:JSiic•.
in answa- to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions tbat arise io
~ daily lives of all wbo are strivmg to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume I Volume II
L s~
Growth aoc1 ne- L Health and Discue.
IL Psyc:bic Coaditicms.
IL The Masters of WISdom
IlL The Law of Karma.
and Their Work.
IlL Cam:eming The Order of IV. Coming World Olauga.
Ouistian llJStic:s. v. Conc:cming The Order of
IV. Pra,er and Its Results. Ouistian llJStics.
v. The Astral Plaoe.. VI. After Death Coaclitbs.
VI. PQddc Phcaomeua. VIL PraJU' aod Its Results.
VIL Dreams and Vuioas. VIIL Health aud Discue.
VIIL Health and Disease. IX. F"mancial Problems.
Ix. The Sex Problem. X. Reiacamatioa.
X. lliscrDaneot,u. XL The Sex Problem.
xu. llarriage and Di-,on:e.
Each wlume cootains en- XIIL Disc:oaragmleot
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
maationed in the other wlame.
XIV. Jesus and The Olrist.
:XV. Miscellaneoas.
Volume L Sixth Edition Price $1.50.
Volume IL Second Edition Price Sl.SO.
"The Curtiss Books.. replace war with peace
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
''This book serves a most important need because it teaches us those
fundamental principles which men seem to have forgotten today. Their
practice would assuredly make the long-envisioned Brotherhood of Man
a reality. We congratulate you on your splendid work in the darkness
of the present hour." Director, Biosophical Institute.
"A book that seeks to reveal the cosmic forces behind war. In gen-
eral a mystical conception of the subject." Detroit News.
"An alive interest; it points out the internal causes of war and the
deep reasons in man's want of humane, positive, peace-building quali-
ties-solidarity and mutual understanding, good will and co-operation."
Editor, Mondi Lingo, Mexico City.
"Written in a philosophic vein, but in terms readily understood by
the reading public, this book presents a call to the individual to align
himseH with the forces of right and justice and thereby hasten the
coming of the Brotherhood of Man throughout the world." Mont-
gomery Advertiser.
"Philosophy indeed. Worth reading many times. None equal in
my estimation, this splendid volume." Alan Leo, Editor, Modem
Astrology.
"It is written with a desire to enlighten humanity on fundamentals
and to prevent human suffering. It gives practical suggestions as to
what can be done now to stop the present conflict.'' Winston-Salem
lounJ(Jl.
Points out that this "is not merely a war for the destruction of • • •
all the basic ideals of the democracies. It is not even a war to impose
~ non-benevolent despotism upon free peoples. It is something far
more fundamental and important." Dunedin (New Zealand) Evening
Star.
"The Curtisses seek to make known the law that will counteract the
basic causes, and bring the war to a quick termination. Positive and
effective action is necessary if anxiety and suffering are to be elimi-
nated." Editor, Christian Spiritualist Quarterly.
"I should h"ke to tell you how much the Teachings have cheered and
encouraged me these dark days. They are most helpful these times,
especially The Philosophy of War.• Miss M. H., Brighton, England.
"The Halifax (Yorkshire) Libraiy has ll_11rchased your Philosophy
of War. That is six of your books in that Library." Mr. E. B., Eiland,
England
Order your copy now. Price $1.50 postpaid
""The Curtiss Boob"" reveal the causes of war
THE PHILOSOPHY OF WAR
A NEW AND ENLARGED EDITION of a book that will help you
to understand all wars. their causes and the cure..
This is not a dry, academic discussion of the theories or eveo. the
horrors of war, but a penetrating and illmninating revelation of the
hidden forces which are at work behind the scenes of all wars.
It will give you the same understanding and mmfort it gave the
thousands of readers of the former editions.
It is writtm with a passiouate desire to enlighten bmnanity on funda-
mentals and to prevent hmnan sutlering. It also gives practical sug-
gestions as to wbattiM each can do fiOfl1 to help stop the present aJDflic:t.
APPRECIATIONS
""Dr. F. Homer Curtiss of WashiDgton, who will he remembered as
a "Visitor to this country during the last International Congress, • • •
rightly points out that this war (with Hider) is not a war of conquest
or eveo. a war of peoples, but a strife for spiritual freedom and mental
liberty. He ~ts that the right attitude is not to hate, but to pity
and to pray for those who have been deceived and misled by false gods,
and he believes right thinking will lead to right action." Editor, TfiHI
Worlds, Manchester, England.
"Penetrating ••• illmninating • • • Gives a clearer 'IJIICiersba.ndiog
and a hope for comfort after the turmoil." Weslchufer Preu.
"The present 'VOlume, which gives prophecies already fulfilled as wdl
as what is ahead for mankind, expounds cosmic and eternal principles
upon which alone true and permanent peace can he founded." Occwll
Digest.
"Dr. F. Homer Curtiss is a thinker and a philosopher. • • • I re-
member the predictions he made which have come to pass. • • • He
gives you another angle of Why War, which dovetails in veil' well
with the Talmud UntfiiJSTletl, another phase of the same thing. Curtiss
gives yo\1 the ingredients that go to make war possible; and he also
gives you the preventive medicine. • • • This is a book for the prayer-
ful thinker who wants to he a co-worker with divinity." Editor,
Beactm Light.
"A book with the iJ:npassionUI intent of enlightening humanity as to
the insidious forces behind the scenes of the present war." HoasiDfl
Post.
"The Curtiss Books" Are Emaustless Wells "of Fasclnating Material
A compmion, volume to THE VOICE OF ISIS and THE MESSAGE
. OFAQUARIL
THE INNER RADIANCE
Forty splendid chapters covering almost every phase of the mystic
life, occultism and spiritual philosophy, from the stock market col-
lapse and the depress1on. and the remedy, to the zodiac, the elementals,
divine fire, redemption. King Arthur and his knights, King Desire, and
the Christ Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Inner Radiance: that mysterious power which pushes all things
on to perfection. The God Man: God in the process of manifestation
in man. .As in the Days of Noah: planets returning to similar rela-
tions and producing similar conditious today. How to master them.
SpirittUJl Co-operation: a law of the universe. Man and the Zodiac:
how the 12 signs are represented in man. The Lord from Heaven:
how the spiritual man descends into the human. The Send Language:
the inner language of spiritual consciousness. Transmigration: the
doctrine, the atoms. Not reincarnation. Cosmic Causes of World
Conditions and the Remed:y: Cosmic and Karmic factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Chamber of Commerce. The Mystic Rose: why a
spnbol of Divine Love. The Great and the Small: all things are rela-
tive. The Lords of Karma: the events of life neither fate nor pun-
ishment, but opportunities. Redemption: the esoteric doctrine. Why
necessary. Reliance: of the outer upon the inner. The Great Work:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. King Desire: his meaning and
mastery. The M:ystery of the Elemmts: the conscious forces back of
Nature. Hymn to the Elements. Man and the Elementals: role of the
Gnomes, Undines, Sylphs and Salamanders. The Realm of Be-ness:
the mystery of Being from non-being. Saturn and C:yclic Law: role
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Man and the Planet: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance. The Third Eye: fUActions of
the pineal gland. The Mount of .Aflainment: the end of the Path.
The Round Table: symbology of King Arthur and his knights. Di-
fline Fire: fire of life, of mind. Cosmic fire. The Glor:y of the Lord:
bow recognized and contacted. Lessons by the Way: the ancient con-
tinents. Lesson of the sage-brush. Nature's symbology. The King of
Glory: where and how he reigns. The Christ Star: the shepherds
and the Wise Men. The five points. Preparation: for the Second
Coming. Third Edition with full index. Price $2.50.
•
Order all of ..The Curtiss Books" direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
-The Curtin Boob- Are Life-long l'riencla
APPRECIATIONS
""l11e majority of the forty dlapters which comprise this work con-
am the revolutionary changes through which humauity is DOW pass-
iug, and their slirlually crwdite contents should do mud to allay /etm
which tend to 8ood the miDd through Jack of knowledge. • • • Of
whatever they beat • • • the authors are nothiug if not mtreJMiy
iell/111. As Christian mystics who work strmuously for the di""""ina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge amoug aD races and cneds, Dr. and
Mrs. Curtiss write with V1itle lfiOWletlge aflll a~. and their view-
points and suggiStioDS should prow both irderuUag tJ1Ul eJ~Ct~~~rt~Paf to
those who view with appreheusion the Jeligious, sodal and political
uphea'Vals which would appear to some to he the visible sigDS of an
IIDgl'y Deity's vengeance.---OccriU Ref1iefll. London.
"I have enjoyed all of your hooks so much that somehot· any other
literature has lost its value for me. I tJtJJ qtlite mtisjietl to read and
enjoy it, as it is so eorulnu;Uw. lorilg and 1..:'-Jirs. S. H. W.
JndiaDapoBs.
"'l'bis is the 18th volume of "'l'be Curtiss Boob' and flletJJIIrel •I 111
tie bm teaching put out by the well known authors. • • • Tbe forty
ciJapters include several chapters dealing with trua~-tlsy cmuliUtnrs m
the world. • • • '1be hook helps one to better fl1llkmtmtl from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which humauity
is now passing."-Tie A'lf~Gri~m Age.
"1.11ere is no need for ignorance in the world today. • • • Tie lfiiW
Rtulitnru briDgs into one's ccmscioUSDeSS the Why"I of aD questicms_
and their answasl It is food which if earnestly partaken of by the
student will_result mgood ctigestion."-Jirs. Jt. E. w...washlDgton.
'"l'his is the latest of the numerous publicatioDS of Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss ••• the purpose of which is to make religion a trtJt;.tiaJl tJ1Ul
flital ai4 in the conduct of life. Its memhershlp ranges over some 70
foreign countries and is united only by specjfic hours of devotion and
iDtBtrssion."-S~ Uniors aflll Relflblicaa.
"Permit me to add my tn"bute of plaise to the great volume you no
doubt haw receival from the production of Tire lmrer Rtulitnru. It
is a tit com~n to the other 'Curtiss Books,' and I believe shows
a deeler s,mtfllll iruiglrt than possibly its predecessors. • • • I will
not ftSt until I can sua:asfully correlate with the true Imler Radianc::e.
-Jir. H. s.. Toronto. _
. "It is a continuation of the iluliriag tJ1Ul trtJt;.tiaJl letJt:lirqs to he
found m.the loug series of volumes issued by the authors; which com-
bine a fum adhermce aDd interpretation of our Bible truths with a
tleel tJ1Ul ateJuiw htnllletlge of the esoteric teachings of ancient and
modem times. It is couched mplain, intelligible language, and its aim
is to he of service to till who are oa the upward Path, and are in need
of counsel aDd encouraganent in the cWiic:ult aDd crucial period through
which we are passing. • • • :Many most abstruse subjects are disculled
with utmost simp1idty and franknc&a."-Tie Rlllly. London.
The Nineteenth Volume of ""The Curtiss_Boob""
F.OUR-FOLD HEALTH·
This is not a large elaborate 'VOlume filled with dry statistics and
long-winded discussions and theories about health, but a vitally inter-
esting and practical summary of our teachings on the importance of
health of body, mind and spirit, and how to retain or regain it.
It contains the essence of my many years of medical experience,
together with our highest mystical teachings as to the health of the
inner as well as the outer man. It therefore deals with the effect
upon your health of the thoughts, emotions and psychic influences to
which you respond, as well as the physical factors.
It contains the essence of the most advanced metaphysical teaching
on bathing, breathing, exercise. thought-control, and physical, mental,
psychic, prayer, faith and spiritual healing. All boiled down into
twelve chapters packed with definite laws, rules and directions. AU
ex~rcssed in simple. non-technical language.
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most ,.&rome disorders, as
well as explicit instructions as to just what to do in acute attacks. This
may save the life of your child, yourself or your family.
Each chapter gives the essence of whole, expensive conrses on each
subject. Just what you bave long been waiting for. Study carefully
the table of contents and see if you can afford to be without it.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
llllrodtJclitm. The body an instrument. What is health? Uses of
pain, of prayer. Natural immunity to all diseases, how attainal.
Restoration to health.
Chapter I. MeehallictJI FtJetors if HetJltlt. Structural defects. Spinal
adjustments, bathing, etc.
Chapter II. BretJihillg. Science of breath. Occult uses of breath, etc.
Chapter III. COIISiittJiion. Reasons for. Mechanism of. Cure of.
Chapter IV. Aewle Disorders. Appendicitis c:urccl in a few hours.
Chapter V. Food its General. Compatible combinations etc.
Chapter VI. ComttJiibilily of Foods. Rules for combinations.
Chapter VII. Cooking. Best methods. Raw foods.
Chapter VIII. VtJrious Suggestilms. Insomnia. AlcohoL Tobacco.
Vaccination. Serums.
Chapter IX. Menlalln/ltU~~ees. Origin of thought. llental health.
Chapter X. EMotitms. Effect of joy, happiness, prayer, aspiration.
Chapter XI. S,sriltltJiln/l~Unees. Invisible helpers. Healing Prayer.
Chapter XII. MentU tmd SttJtislies. How to choose. properly com-
bine, cook and serve foods.
Price $1.50 postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
APPRECIATIONS
"This book, as the name implies. contaius Health Hints for the
purification of the body, mind and emotions, and is orae of the best boob
111e haw ever sem on the maiotenance of health from aU standpoints.
It bas invaluable chapters on Breathing, baths of various kinds, a
very mmprcheosne chapter on Constipation tmd il.r a~re; helps in
Geflle tlisetJSes, and some nluable advice in regard to foods, with
suggested mcous of correct diet. The author is an M. D. as well as
a nationally known teacher and lecturer along spiritual lines, and he
therefore includes most interesting chapters on the mental, emotiooal
and spiritual inflaenc::es which play so Yital a part in the health of the
inclividua1.. The book is one of the tiiDSI ialeresliftg tmd compelamsiw
of the hundreds we have seen on the subject of health. It is weD
indexed, and will be,. tJUel ia ay/llflfily because of its many niuable
~ons., Editor, The AqtiiWitJa Age.
'"This is the Dioeteenth wlume of the famous Cwli.r.s Boob, which
have aflorded such an inexhaustible store of Ancieat W"udom and
Mystic Truth for the past thirty years. The present wlmne ••• gives
forth the results of his many ;rars medical apc:rience as applied to
the imler, as well as the outer man. Valuable suggations tmd direc-
litnu are sivm on Breathing, Food and Exercises, both physical and
spiritual. The last chapter is dewted to Spiritual Inflaenc::es, and the
ftrious methods of Healing, concluding with an earnest desire tbat
the followiog of the teachings given may be a source of purification.
uoderstanding health, harmaay and happiness to the reader." Editor,
Tile Rtllly, London. -
•As an jnspiration as well as an instruction to all physical sufferers.
it would be diflicu1t to find advice and hope so evenly balanced with
soand authority, as is found in the recent book HeoltiJ Hmls by Dr. F.
Homer Cmtiss. The chapter on Constipation defines, in the opinion of
this writer, the plaiD, simple and fundamental cause UDderlying the
CCJimDOD diseases to which the flesh is heir. So important ••• do we
deem_this chapter that we quote it in its entirety, with the untindured
r'#COtllfllftldtJiitm of lhe vmok boole as being the besl doCIMWIII D11 1M
subject hetJIIIJ yet to appear for lay readers. No sufferer or DDDSUfferer
can read this book in vaia.,• Sltlrr Day, Author of Love Cu Olm
Pristnt Doors, etc.
From New Zealand: "'have receival my copy of Heoltl& Hmls and
I find it imlalllllbk. Am Glready greatly impwed by following its
practical directions. It is a book that should be in every home.•
llrs.. J. w.
"The Curtiss Boon•• Set the Pattern for Life
THE PATTERN LIFE
The Symbolic Life of Christ
By F. HoJmt Cun-ms, B.S., M.D.
Founder of The Universal Religious Fellowshil, Inc., and Co-author
of "The Curtiss Books"
The most astonishing yet revealing interpretation of the Gospel story.
Gives it a new spiritual yet logical and scientific appeal
The result of Dr. Curtiss" 20 years of painstaking and scholarly research
in the fields of comparative religion, philosophy, psychology and sym-
bolism.
The results are astonishing if not sensational in the religious field. Not
dry scholastic agrument, but applied to the daily experiences of our Hves.
Gives the only satisfactory explanation of the many inaccuracies and
flat contradictions in the Gostels.
Accepts the historical facts recently discovered, but definitely refutes
the materialistic conclusions of the "higher critics" and mythologists.
A great reconciler of con1licting opinions and theories.
OUTLINE OF CONTENTS
It~trotluction. The Universal Solar Myth. The basis of all world
religions.
The .A.t~undatioas. To Elizabeth and Zacharias. To Mary and
Joseph. Why made by Gabriel?
The Immaculate Concettio•. Why disputed for ages? Was Joseph the
real father of Jesus?
The Birtll of the Christ. Actual date unknown. Why Dec. 25th was
chosen. Its meaning in our daily lives.
Tile Wise Mm and the Star. How could a star stand still over a certain
spot and then turn South? What it really was. Who were the W"Jse Men?
The Sllelherds and the Shee,. Why the revelation was made to humble
shepherds and not to the high priests.
Tile Ma•rer and the Swaddling Clothes. Why was Christ bom in a
stable? Meaning of swaddling clothes.
Gilts of the Wise Men. Symbology of gold, frankincense and myrrh,
their meaning.
Herod aad the Wise Mea. Gives the key to many otherwise unex-
plained experiences in our lives.
T11a f'lirllt and Massacre. Were any children actually slain? How
many? Why denied by St. Luke? .
Twelve Year.s of .A.ge. Where was Jesus during His early years? Why
12 is an important age.
The Ba,tism. Job. Why did Jesus need to be baptized by John?
Its meaning.
The Ba,tism. The Cllrist. Why did Jesus wait until He was 30 before
baotism?
Tic BII,U.. Tic Jtmlinl. "l'he physical features of the JordaD.
Their significance.
• T!" T~B~ Tie Fm. Why did Jesus Deed to fast 40 days? Its
significance. did J b • •
Tile TeB~ Tic TeB~ter. WhY esus su mit to temptation
by the devil when Be blew who it was?
Tie Mtlrl'itJge bl CmaJ. How and why was the water turned into wine?
Its symbology aud application.
Tic Bdn~ycl. Why did Jesus permit Judas to betray Him when Be
knew of the intention loug in advance?
Tic CrtldflDoa. Why was this tra&aly permitted? Why between
thieves? Its significance.
Tine Days bl tic TOIIIb. What took place daring that interval? Its
meaning
Tic RawncUtm. How could Jesus survive, appear aud disappear
through closed doors at wiD?
Tile .AsUIISiot&. How was Jesus' 'body c1wlged so that "'Besh aud
blood" could inherit the kingdom of heaven?
ElllbortJte .A~ Star map of the hea'ftiiS. "l'he actual astronomi-
cal events of the Sun Cycle. Various birth dates. Why Dec. 2Sth was
chosen. IDacc:uracies aud flat contradictioDS uplained.
wm cause as many happily c:han&ed lifts as any other of "'The Curtiss
Books."
mustrated with a hitherto unpublished picture of the Master Jesus.
APPRECIATIONS
From HollYfi/Dotl, Cllli/. "Tic Patterr& Lll• has been more than I ex-
pected. It is a detailed account of the Path with illuminated sign posts
marking the way. The Judd uplanations do away with the confusion,
the degrading feelings aud doubts that have been with me so long. It is
like having a light turned on in a dark room where you have been
poping to find something you must have." From Wasimgttm, D. C.
•u peace ancl"bannony are to be established in the world, people interested
in higher things must set the example. The DeW book, Tile Patterr& U/e,
Is a real contribution toward reconciling the 'Various confticting interpreta-
tions aud seemiug incoDSistendrs in the Goslds that have caused such
bitter controversies and discord amoug ChristiaDs down through the
years."
From ..twora.Ill. "Tic Plltterr& U/e Is wonderfulI Never before any-
thing like itI Thele are three of us studying It aud we get untold good
from disc:assing it. Thank _you for sharing your great vision with us."
From s- .AIISeltiiD, Clllit. "My daughter and I are feasting on Tic
Ptltterr& U/e. We pray that It may have a wide dn:ulation. So broad in
unclerstandiug and ability to express dearlyl" From Bomm, MIISS.
"Please send another copy of Tic Plltterr& U/e. It c:ertainly is a master-
pieceI I treasure every chapter. It giva light to so many blind alleys.
Dad is reading it a second time... From Glnulole, Clllif. "It is likely to
rank with Tile Voice o/lsis as a tat-book of the W'JSCiom Religion. Even
the Pre/ace is inspjriug aud iDstructive.•
From St. Ltnds, Mo. "It is with complete sincerity that I try to express
my thanks for your wonderful book, Tie PlltterJJ U/e. Have read it the
second time with more appreciation aud understanding than at first.•
From SIO'Iuure. WasL •1 want to express my gratitude for being privi-
)qal to read such a deeply inspiring book. It Is indeed a scholarly work.
This is the best yet!' From ScoUstlllle1 Aril. "'Tlle PaUma lJf• is an
intense work of knowledge and inspiration. To be able to write such a
book seems a marvel to me. It will be an inspiration throughout my life."
"The Patkm Life well describes itself as the story of the life of Jesus
regarded not only as the spiritual history of one Great Teacher, but as an
allegory of the life of perfected man: The Pattern Life which all humanity
must ultimately follow: the universal experience which each Soul passes
through as the Christ-consciousness is bom within and unfolds • • •
Every incident symbolizes a step on the Path of Attainment of Christ-
hood ••• Therefore the story of Jesus is the storr of the spiritual evolu-
tion, unfoldment and manifestation of the Christ m the tlesb." Tile NetD
Age Inttr~reter.
"Dr. Curtiss points out that • • • man must have a superphysical arche-
type or pattern, and this pattern we find manifested in the life of Jesus
• • • never bas it been so well outlined and documented as in Tle PatJem
Life ••• Dr. Curtiss proves that we find the same Jist of events In the
life story of nearly every Ligbtbringer presented by former religious down
through the ages." LetnflriMJ Ambtsssatlor.
"It may weD serve as an Introduction to the new thought-life of the
last 70 years for those who have become sated with what they know as
orthodoxy ••• Dr. Curtiss will lead them through the mazes of ec:-
desiastical distortion by which Christian teaching has ceased to be a life
to be Jived, till it has become a puzzle of creeds and dogmas • • • the
names of the chapters are like a peal of church bells calling to worship
• • • The reader will gain a considerable knowledge of comparative re-
ligion who makes a study of this book." Tlle Ca111Jdi411 Tlleosopllist.
"It expcnmds the gospel story in terms of the stages of the common
spiritual evolution of all honest aspirants in whom the Christ within is
brought to birth and baptism, experiences the temptation of power, and
the crucifixion which brings the animal nature finaDy Into submission to
the Spirit, leading to the fulfiUment of the Resurrection and Ascension.
There is much in this volume to interest those seeking IDumination aloug
this path of thought and practice." Eireflkon Magtuine, Eugland.
"More than particular histories of the life of Jesus, the pspels must be
considered as spiritual histories of all manifestations of the Divine in the
world, and individually in man • • • The different evangelical symbols
from the Annunciation to the Ascension, are studied by the Author and
Interpreted from the twofold viewpoint of their cosmical and mystical
meanings." Editor, Mtnllli Liflguo, Mexico.
"Dr. F. Bomer Curtiss, whom I have known and whose work I have
regarded very highly for lo these many years, has presented our circuJating
library with his latest and twenty-third book, Tlle Pattma Life, and it
presents this fact of the Christ story in a straight and lnterestiug form
• • • I applaud the exposition in its own terms • • • It is beiDg read, and
I think it wiD make friends for the work and the other books • • • I
hope you will examine it. To it always I give the heartiest and most
sincere good wishes.n Editor, Fortnightly Field Notes.
"More than ever before men are shaking themselves free from authority
and dogma, seeking to discover for themselves the essential truths of re-
ligion. Dr. Curtiss sheds new light on the life and teachings of Christ.
His interpretations are of great value to the aspiring student of universal
truth." Tlle Bio:solllical Review.
From Vaudium, N. M. "The long-looked-for book, Tle Pattern Lilt,
has overshadowed everything else. It is wonderfulI It contains just
what the world Deeds to bow and which other authors haw beeD afraid
to say.• From Sat& Frmrclsco. Calif. '"This revelation of DiviDe Truth
willliw foreva'I The old crust of dogmas shouJd he cracked wide open
to Jet into our minds and hearts the Jife-givillg waters of Truth to deaDse
and stieDgthm each pilgrim on the Path to VJCtory over an advene
conditioDs.•
From Mill Valley. Calif. "Mn. L. sat down to look it over one eftlliDg
and read until3 .A.K.I ••• ODe Sunday she invited an ex-Catholic priest,
a reformed embezzler and a friend to hear her read it aloud. She read
from 10 A.K. until3 P.x.l The ex-Catholic said: 'I was never so iDspired
with understanding in my 6fe! The ex-embezzler said: 'I feel like a uew
~~~a~~.• The friend said: 'Iwas never so thrilled by the Gospel story! •
A '"mast haw'" book of great enlightenment, inspiration and reference
for the library of ewry clergyman and other advanced bibJical student.
No other colkction of authentic biblical facts and history like it an)'Where.
Amply dOCIIDlellted and incbed for studcllts. $2.50. postpaid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Washin&ton 8, D. C.
THE GEM SERIES OF BOOKLETS
Ideal gifts at any season, in handy pocket size.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
IDSpiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss.
Gives simply an insight into Mysticism in a helpful way.
"One might wade thru the religious philosophizings of every people
and place and not receive the iDSpiration one gets out of a ten-minute
perusal of this little book."-Baltimore A.mericaa.
6th editioa. Price aow 50 ceab
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The most inspiring treatise on Meditation and entering the SDence.
Practical working directions given.
4th editioa. A.rl Paper 75 Ct:als
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The Divine Mother-the Bringer-forth-the Midnight Prayer-The
Waters of Life-the Comforter.
4th edilioa. A.rl Paper 75 Ct:als
DYNAMIC PRAYERS
A long fdt want filled. A collection of truly inspired prayers for all
occasions and for every need and mood. Truly bring results.
Fabriloid bintlitag. 50 cmts
THE l\IYSTIC LIFE
An introduction to mysticism and a clear exposition of its meaning,
its scope, and its importance in daily life. World's problems solved.
Fabriloid bintlitag. 50 cmts
The Gem Series of Booldcts-Continuccl
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul can eat and drink of a book full of
lovillg helpfubless, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an odor-Jaden zephyr, with song,
refn:shment, and delighL''-George Wlarln James. Editor "Cha West."
Sli t:tliUtnl. 75 UJdl
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A Tragedy in Five Acts
A thriDiDg tale of a pte-historic race, recovered psychiaDy by the
authoiS.
FalnilDi4 bWirlg. 50 1:eJ1U
FOR YOUNG SOULS
Explains the mysteries of life, truth, and health in simple language.
For those young souls, young myean or not who are as yet unacquainted
with some of the deeper phDosophical explanations and great principles
and conditions of life here and hereafter,-and how to apply them.
50 cents
VITAMINS
Their Origin, Importance, and Specific Uses
Most practical supplement to Dr. Curtiss' "Fourfold Health." Non-
technical language. A great aid to all who are· suffering from mental,
nervous, or bodily disorders.
50 cents
WHY ARE WE HERE?
And Other Essays on Cosmic Soul Science.
Simple Language
Many problems satisfyingly answered.
If you are confused by present chaotic conditions, you will find com-
fort and understanding in this book. Ao optimistic presentation.
Price $1.50
PERSONAL SURVIVAL
With Physical Proofs
Last book written by Dr. F. Homer Curtiss.
A sequel to the well-known book, "Real,., o/ tie Living Detlll."
Profusely illustrated. Actual photographs of the departed-also finger-
prints in wax, and several other actual evidences including a test message
from Houdiui.
Letters from Hell and from Heaven, and many other most interesting
and convincing features.
lndeud. Price SZ.SO
