{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__raphael___familiar_astrologer.pdf","mytitle":"Familiar Astrologer","mylang":"de"}
TilE
ASTROLOGER;
AN EASY GUIDE
TO
U 'II'RLI. AI TO TRB
SECllET AND WO DERF'UL PROPERTIES OF :SATURE.
J:mbenished with eurioua Engra'l'i"'l on Steel, and numerous Wood Cuts.
BY RAPHAEL.
Aodlwre-ffllft Book. ••Tit• A•troloK••oftloe Tltt Pop11lar
M••""' nf..lllro/"§1·" " Tllt Pra,Miic Mtllt"ff••." 4'<·4'c. Almabrr ofthe
Allrono•icol S«letrofLorulmt, oftll• PltiiOIOfJioictll Lrceu-.oftlo•
MtrcurU,• o•tl oflftllrtJI Oi41r I111NNd A•l«i•llon•.
aonbon·
PRINTED FOR JOHN BENNETT,
'l'lillft·TIJN PAIIAGE, IVY LAME, PATBRXOITI!R RO'I'I',
AXD SOLD BY ALL BOOII:IBI.J.£:11,
1832.
Digitized by Google
I
D1g1
tized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
TilE
FAMILIAR ASTRO:J.,OGER;
AN EASY GUIDE TO
2'ATB, DBSTJtnr, 6. 2'0BBB.KOW'Z.BDGB,
•
AS WILL AI TO THI
SECRET AND WONDERFUL PROPERTIES OF NATURE:
C(lllfA.IIIUIO ALSO
A oi•p... euy,1IDCI Infallible 011ide to tbe
of the future Pate and
Deo&lay ol11111y ID4hl4ual, of the
Kelp of tbe Pianett."tbe Hour of their
Blr\11; aDCI otber Metbodo not req11lrfns
Calcalallono.
'ne nrloaa Art of dlooo,..tlns Cutare
Bftlllll, by Loco or Polnto,
wtUt tile Horoocopeo of Bmlnent and R•
lt&llrableCbaraeten.bo&b ll•lnsand dead.
lecnlo relatlq to Natl.e&m toKI!e lear-'
Ia .&l&reloctcal Len.
,_,...,.. Ma"ello11o Talu, WJendt. and
TrWIUono,relallnl to Ohooto,Appultlono,
.&..,..lA. Splrtta, Demont, Wltcbeo, Falrtu,
a.e.a.e. .
4.W.t Traolltloao relatln1 to CbiU'IU,
SpeU.. Keebaat-ato, and the myderlouo
propertiH of Herb-, Btonu, and Rooto:
wllb VlrHllon• lor formtn1 'fallomaao,
.Amuleto, ud otl1er woa4erful yet powel'-
ful AJento In the operation• of Nature.
Cbarmo relatln1 to All.baUow Bn and Bablt
.John'o NI1Jbt, and othero oald to CllaN
··Lo•e, Hatred, Good-fouuae, a.c.
of ralolnc SplrltuxplalnNI.
Cbarn.o to dloconr TbeR and pUDIIIl tbe
Tblef. .
lkte aDCI eun-Beenttla Natural Pblloo
AI$ of Vlolaoo.
MatTellout and Wonderful PropbeeiH.
of Omeaa, Sootboaylnr•.Aadtnt
Boob, and DhinalioD
&c. &c. &c.
WITII 4 t'.t.lllll'tT OP TRI IIOIT V..U.U411LII .AI'D llfTI!REITllfO IIATTIIII, MOT
TO U IM 4JtT WORK OP TBII P41T OR PRI!IEKT Till&.
with curiout Engnarings on Steel, and numerous Wood Cott.
&Oihll:
PRINTED FOR JOHN BENNETT,
'J'HREil•TUN PA88A81l, IVY LANE, PATBRIIIOSTER ROW,
4JCD. IO'LD BY ALL BOOKIELLIOI.
1831.
Digitized by Coogle
" 1 tell thee,
There's not 1 pulse beats in the human frame
Tlaa& il not go•em'd by the stara abo.e us.
The blood that 11111 011r 'ein8, in all Its ebb
And low, 11 away'd by them u certainly
Aa are the restless tides of the salt aea
By the resplendent moon : and ct thy birth
.Tiay 111othM's eye gaaed not more stHdfutl)'
On thee, than did tM ltar tAdt r•U>• U.y fate,
Showering upon thy head an inlluence
Malignant or benign."
11. Nuu, Esq.
W. M. AlfD I. IUi'IORT, PIIII'I'D..
IIIROP'I COliiT, OLD a.uuy,
Digitized by Google
'l'ID
FAMILIAR ASTROLOGER.
DtnlODC'CTO&T &.IIUUS a&LATIVB TO TBB ICOPJl .iliD DUJGM
TBB P&UBliT WOU.
SqDca the least complex, Arb the moat simple ud commoa,
appear diflicult when iD their infancy, ... long u they are taught
oely by words or and before experience and daily prac-
tice haTe rendered them familiar. W1uat numerou dangen and
diiicultiea might be .taried agaiDat an the daily enterprizea of
-.ea, were it DOt undeniable that they are performed with facility !
How might not the po111"bility of making a watch, and atiD more a
watch to wear iD a ring, or of sai1iDg cmr the nit and of
nmberlea o£ber arb and iDventiODJ, be &puted, did we not behold
&.em constantly practiled ! How many arguments, likewiae, might
be urged againSt the practice of Physic ! And though some of
tiat may be unanawerable, how m.Dy are the reTene I How
...y diflicaltiea are iD the way of entry project or invention
And yet it ia to 111J'1Dount the greater part of
obafeclea, which, iD a physical way, we have tn oomW, wJaere
tlaote auao Arts and Sciences are eoac:ernecl.
Digitized by Coogle
4
'111is should teach us, that we ought never to decide precipitately,
without carefu1ly examining respecting the possibility, the or
difficulty of what we ·have never tried. The easiest thing imaginable
may be difficult to one who has not, by repeated trials, acquired
the power of performing it ; whereas the greatest difficulties vanish
before exertion and perseverance. And why mav not Astrology,
like every' oiner atucty, : rece&ve acqmre· lixed prin-
ciples, and gradually overthrow tire specious reasonings of ita
opposers, to their utter confusion and disgrace ?
All Sciences are, more or less, surrounded with difficulties ; and
is it, then, any wonder that Astrology, which, above all other arts,
claims pre-eminence, on account of ita dignified pretensions, should
be hedged round with doubts and mists, which are rendered much
mme gr-911 by the prevailing prej.,dices of bigatry,and iuoredu)ity?
Yet it may be faQ-ly; .aa.id that...A.etrology, of all other Sciences, is
the most sublime, curious, and beautiful!
. ,, .: '
1(, Wb.t.ke.a -
vie.w .of [JJ).iveoe at large, we shall find that
:of .an disclOJed to the
penetnijag auul curious eye of man, which (l.fe . lesa usefu1 than a
kJlqw}edge ,of futurity• ..Has not Science taught.,him to trace tke
f*h of.(:Qmetf, and .to theit orbits? .Haa. abe.not placed
the t.eleacope in hia band, and discovered .to .him,. through it.. tube,
tbe Laws and.Al$Uona? .Has ,she not e,u,abled him.to
read the.ll&9le& IID'l of each orb,ill thQ.atarry c.oncave r
Wby, .Jhen,..siLwdd,.the..knowledg,e., of their power and influence
over the mind lilld body of man be neglected ?
The human 01iud is, in a manner, go,·emed by authority. Tlu:
Digitized by Coogle
6
IMCiiae Ill a.,........ -.....;pt.willa tUa
RUGa. to.tM prem.ee_ a(.. ,...
dmt-Drli•g,.cx...,.•CIUiirll tM.,... ._,.. To a,W, tlaen-
fare, the aUatioa of.,.....aacl te-....,I& &he ....tiM,
t1ae .,... aliglataecl willa popmr UJ111HDtl, -...w to ,.•
....de weaker ailadl, I llaal1, ia tile foDowiag pap, proclace
....we. ... llltlaoritiea (relatm to the tndh o( A*ologic:al
....,_). 101M more or lea importut, of .,U. ad iMinted
ia -no.e compuyl aa ader DO apprebeuioa of upomg
to U. ridiealou ob.enatioaa of eome penou more iDc:1iDed to
laagla tUa to thiDk.
I llan Ure.dy treaW of tbe mon ahltrue ud Hcalt put of
tile A.tn1 Scieace, ia a JaUDer which lau M:WeCI the pablic
ltteatioa. The preKDt Work ia more calcal&ted for the geaenl
(Ht aot lea judiciou) ruder. It will dilplay thole Secret. of
Plaetuy IDiaaac:e, to which all are abject, U. a __,. MliN/y
dnloid of miDgliDg " iDstractioD with delight," ud
exrhH•ieg hiddea traths byllftel ud faaailiu illaatratiou; ud
ill. itCIIIIIIOt fail to be u iutructive ud uauiag compuiOD, for
Ill wllo ue fOIIII of tnciag the mysteriou ud woDCierful (bat ao
Je. certaiD) laws ud properties of Datare.
The aanellou PropertiH of Herbs, Stooe•, ud Roots-the
cuiou all oc:calt IDSaeDCM of certaia Coutellatioa.-the lo-
tapntatiou of DreaJu.-.-ud the DiaplaJ of ucieat Trwliti11n• .
Lqada, udS.pentitiou, relatiYe to the former belief iD CJaarmp,
EecM•tmeDt., ud nch lib cvioaa Arts,-which are, for the moet
put, gathered from COitlJ ud partly iaaccessible 1oarou of ia-
A.atlaor IItten ..u..elf are too nlaable, to Deed
Digitized by Google
either comment or reSection ; and the Reader may rest assured,
that as the Work begim, so shall it be continued, and so ct»l-
clflded,-the Proprietors being determined to render it the most
curious and entertaining Work ever published in that grauti etn-
llOrium of Literature-the British Metrop<'litl.
Lo7UU171, 1831.
Digitized by GoogIe
,,
TO THE ERUDITE
AUTHOR OF DARNLEY, RICHLIEU,
PHILIP AUGUSTUS, &c. &c.
trbts bolume
IS RESPECTFULLY
As a small token of esteem for the writer; and as
but sincere attempt, to express the great
patification
in common with his Friends and Brother Astro-
logers, hail received in the perusal of the different
works, to which the aforesaid justl.y-celebrated
author's signature has been appended.
Lolldolt,
CtUIJI Stnn &ut, Ozford Strfl(,
16, 1831,
a
by Coogle
DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER.
1. Taa HtuooLYPBIC.U. Faol'ITISPiacK-lofo« Till#.
!l. Taa WaTCa or Page 136.
I. P.t.LIIIITRT-lofa« Ptlge ••
'- TaoiiU PKRII:I RAIIIMO .r. Srrur-#ofa« »It,
6.
I. AJ.armnc.u. Aac.r.n_,..ft-Pllpl80.
o,gitizedbvGoogle
A
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
A
pap
Astrologer, the, 7, :SO, 114, 100, 223, 846, 358, 466, 486, 499,
666, 673, 686, 002, 7M, m
Apparition of a murdered mao 20
Augury, ancient, 46
Alkahest, the famoua, 71
Apparitions in Turkey - lt&
Apparitions before death - 127
Amethyst. the, - 133
Amologer at the funeral of Von Weber - 227
Astrologer's Creed - 888
Astrological Authors - 714
Astrological Conversations - 370, 4.')1, 475
Astrologer at the Court of Common Pleas 401
Agrippa, life of, - 406
Ancient Enchantment - 426
Astrologer, King's visit to the, - 613
Ameriam Antiquitiea - 629
Astronomy - 631
Animal Magoetiam - 604
Ancient Superstition _ 60C5
..&.trological Corre8pondence - 642
Astrologer and the Demon 6'74
Bibliomancy
BleediDg, Amulot fw,
Books, to presene,
B1Dning Mirror
Barometer, a simple one,
BaDshee, the,
B
14
- 133
- 166
- 242
-
- 267
Digitized by Coogle
Birth-day events
Uiography of Astrologers
Bohemian Astrologer
Correspondence with Spirits
Charms to bind a Thief
Charms to stop bleeding
Card Sun Dial
Charms for Love
Charms for Hooping Cough
Conjunctions, rule for,
Celandine, the herb, -
Custa.ury, the herb,
Coral, the,
Chemical shrub
Charm, legendary,
Cluricaune, the,
Celestial Magic
Combustion
Dcvil's banquet, the,
iv
c
D
Devil, Cromwell's compact with,
E
Enchanted Statue
Eclipse, effects of,
Earth, new theory of,
Electric Eels
Enchantment, mystic,
Electrical Kite
Elves in Ireland
Elements of Astrology
Evil Eye, the,
F
and Unfortunate hours of each day
Fascinate birds, to,
Paces, Death-like,
Figure of Triplicity
Fortunate clays
- :Jti4
- 404
- 418
23
45
ib.
G9
101
ib.
122
- 130
- 131
- 133
- 162
- 217
- 265
615
- 655
- 124
- 188
27
33
- Hi2
- 164
- 218
- 246
- 260
- 471
- fl68
!)Cj
97
- 112
- 117
Digitized by GoogIe
Fascinate dogs, to,
from old authors
Fairy, appearance of,
Fairy legends
Fairy land
Fairy "ife, the
Fairy legends
French astrologer
v
page
• 132
• 173
• 193
• 260
269
- m
- 391
• 410
- 413
French mathematician
Fatal Horoscopes 421,519,538,612,629,660
G
Geomancy
Ghost story, a,
28,103,176,349,457,640
- 195
Horoscopes, remarkable,
Henbane, the herb,
HaDd Dial
Horoscope, solar,
lniluence of the Moon
lew, the wandering,
Judge, Populus and Via
Invocate the dead, to,
Invocating Fairy Queen
H
I
1udge. Acquisitio and Amissio,
Judge, Conjunctio and Career,
Judge, Fortnna Major and Minor,
Indian witchcraft and magic
.LuDa.r aspects, rule for,
Lilly, astrologically gathered
Legendary charm
Life, elixir of,
Lilly,life of
H
L
68
- 131
- 163
- 249
]1
- 165
- . 179
215
- 273
• 349
• 457
• 643
• 683
- 120
• 131
• 222
- 234
• 41.3
Marvellous properties ofherbs, stones, and roots 18, 130,
23-'l
Marvellous dream 22
Digitized by GoogIe
.Miscellanies
.Midsummer Charm
Magical Suft"umigations
Marriage Omen
Magic vessel, the,
Misleto, the,
Magical experiment
Mandrake, the,
Marvellous enchantment
Michael Scott
Magic Watch
Natural Magic
Name of Napoleon
Narrative ofan Astrologer
Nativities
Nativity of Miss Stockdale
vi
N
• • • of the Rev. E. Irving
Natore of the· Sun
Nativity ofLord Porchester
Necromancy, African,
Necromantic traditions
Nativity of Corder
. ofW. P. Young
• • • of Xenocrates
• • . of the living Alchemist
Neapolitan Astrologer
Nativity ofa 'Varrior
. of Princess Olive
. of an Insane person
• • . of D. Parkes, !ftudent
• • • of Miss Fanny Wright
. of Miss Smsut
• of a Suicide
. of an Infant
page
32,69,162,242,529,642
47
48
48
96
- 131
215
233
428
- 430
433
25,96
32
33
55
58
- 114
168
169
193
- 212
- 223
- 3l6
- 358
- 387
- 412
- 421.
- 452
- 471
- 60"2
- :H!J
- 538
- 612
- 629
• . of a Child burnt to deR.th
. of Mr. R. Dolben
- 660
- 666
. ofHenrx V. - 705
., a curious one, i63
Digitized by GoogIe
Nativity of a Murderer
. . of sudden death
. . ofZadkiel
Napoleon's Tomb
Ominous Requiem
Obeah Man
OW legend of the signs
O'Donoghue, legend of,
Olive, Princess,
Oracle of dreams
via
()
p
Possessed one, the, -
Prognostications from Moon's age
Periwinkle, the herb,
Pythagorean days
Porchester, Lord,
.Planetary Alphabet
Penny-royal, the herb,
Puzzle, mechanical
Pbooka, the
Philosopher's Stone
Palmistry, Metoposcopy,. and .Physiognomy
Prophecies
Planisphere, the,
Perks Thomas, story of,
Poles of the Houses
R
Room in flames, to make appear,
Ring of strength
Roman astrologer
Boform
.BM Barn, the,
Sleep without danger
Sage, wonders of,
Seven Planets, fumes of
s,eu,
Spirits, to see, •
s
• •
page
- 686
- 692
- 715
- 689
- 192
- 193
- 212
- 270
-
- 661
39
98
- 130
- 160
- 169
- 207
- 233
- 2-tS
- 268
400,632
523,.MS
535,665,708
- 00
- 694
- 709
71
74
• 41U
- 614
659
.. 130
132
- 134
- 21%
Digitized by GoogIe
Spring root
Sol in Aries
• Taurus
. Gemini
• Cancer
. Leo
• . Virgo, Libra
. Scorpio
. Sagittarius
• . Capricorn
. Aquarius
• Pisces
Soldier and Astrologer
Scottish Astrologer
Secrets in Geomancy
'iii
T
page
- 23(;
- 24.9
- 250
- 251
- 252
- 253
- 2M
- 255
- 256
- 257
- 258
- 259
- 417
- 418
- 480
Traditions and Superstitions of fimner times 13, 4;'), 9R,
207,2-18
Talisman of Constantine
Talisman of St. Barnabas
73
75
Talisman, Hebrew, the, - 102
Tylwith Teg, the, - 27.5
Teigue of the Lee - 391
Translation of light - f,;')2
Theorem for Working the Celestial Poles, Raphael's, 713
v
Vervain - 132
Velocity of the Earth's motion
Volcano, artificial,
- 166
- 24:3
World of Spirits, the,
'Vheel of Pythagoras
Witch of Eye
Wanderer, the,
Wondcrs of Physic!!
w
20,124,18$,426,542,615,694
()2, 157
ta5, 407
- 30()
-
X
Xenocrates, correspondence • 347
Digitized by Coogle
THE ASTROLOGER.
No I.
UNDEB this bead I shall introduce to the notice
of my readers a Nrietg cif e.rtracts from rare and
C1R'Unu authors; some of which exist only in manu-
acript, and otners are either out of print, or locked
up in the libraries of the V(ealthy and the learned.
Th6f will uniformly consist of the most simple and
easy methods for acquiring a knowledge of planetary
inftuence that could possibly be devised, and wholly
devoid of the usual and ntcessary scientific calcula·
tions, attendant upon caating nativities, and horary
schemes of heaven.
Digitized by Coogle
THE FORTUNATE AND UNFORTUNATE
HOURS
OW EACll DAY Ul THE W,.:EK,
FOR BU61NES81 TRAV.ELLING,.IIARRIAGE,&c.&c.&c.
F(!f' ErJer.
''Know also, that there are moreover} in NJery day
of the week, certain hours of the day and of the
night, which, by the reigning force of the Seven
Planets, are said by the learned of aJl ages to be
wonderfully productive of fortunate or unfor-
tunate events ; even as the wise man ·bath 11ttered
in the words where he speaks-; that ' to nil things
the-re·happenf:!th a season, -and It time to do ·every
work under the heaven..' Tnese hours ·are found
to work many marvels, to ·array the observer
thereof with the goodneSS' of fortune-;- so that,· by
the mere knowledge of these· good and evif..hours,
he shall, as it were, luzve fortune on Iris side: ·FOJ'
although all times are beautiful in their seasons,
yet, the forces of the wandering fires of heaven,
Digitized by Google
when rightly obtained, are of wonderful and rare
efficacy·; and thus are they to be chosen.
"Thou shalt begin thy observances as follow&: -
THE GOOD EVIL HOURS Oi'· lfOlfl>AY.
"The :m:ttntJ·hOurafter 8UD-rising is evil and unfor-
tunate; it begins when the space of one bour after
aun-rise· ie complete : al86 the boor before mid-
night--ovoid 4fld •hun each of tha•; neither marry,
plant, sow, build, travel, voyage. or bargain for
lucre, if thou wouldest hope for success in thy
undertakings ; for their reibrn is evil, and Saturn
lordships their duration. ·
"The fortunate hours of each Alonday (for ever)
are the third hour, accounted from sunrise; the·
hour immediately befGre noon, (i. e. from eleven to
twelve of the clock, in the day); and also· two
hoars before midnight: doose tAese for thy worb,
in marriage, business, ttavelling, and undertak.inge
of magnitude. The heavenly influences will then
favour thee.
"THE GOOD .AND EVIL HOURS OF TU;ESDA':•
"The Jir61 hour, accounted from the time the
aun rises, is unfortunate; rashness and quarrel-
someness are its character ; strife and contention
prevail therein: in like manner is the hour before
noon-day. Do not, therefore, beg-in any under-
taking at these evil times ; for the stars are then
against thee.
"The most fortunate hours of Tuesday, are the
boor immediately after noon-day, (which is from
twelve to one o'clock), and the hour before JUid.
night.
a
Digitized by Coogle
10
' 1 THE GOOD AND EVIL HOURS OF WEDNESDAY.
"On Wednesday, avoid, as endued with the evil
influences of the planets, the third hour reckoned
from sunrise, and the hour next before sunset;
for little can prosper that is performed therein :
and choose as fortunate, the second hour after sun-
set, and the hour before midnight. In love and
marriage these are pre-eminently fortunate.
"THE GOOD AND EVIL HOURS OF THURSDAY.
"The hour after noon-day (from twelve to one
o'clock) is particularly unfortunate: neither marry,
sow, plant, voyage, merchandize, nor seek for riches
or profit. Neither are the first or second hours after
sunset any better. But the first hour after sunrise,
at any season or time of the year, is pre-eminently
endued with the force of benevolent stars. What-
ever thou doest is likely to prosper.
''THE GOOD AND F.VIL HOURS OF FRIDAY.
"Herein do nothing, especially in love, friend-
ship, bargaining, planting, or marriage, in the hour
next before noon,· or the hour before midnight.
Stars of malignant fortune reign at those periods:
but the second hour before noon, and the hour next
before sunset-choose those as fortunate.
"THE GOOD AND EVIL HOURS OF SATURDAY.
"The first hour after sunrise, and the second
hour after noon-day (from one to two o'clock) are
unfortunate: it is in vain to expect aught of
good will happen : the ancient wise men rejected
them, as pernicious and baneful in efficacy. In
Digitized by Coogle
II
travelling, marriage, and buaineu, let them be
avoided.
"Thefortt.Uitlk hours of Saturday, are the eecood
hour after and the last hour before sunset.
11 THE GOOD AND EVIL HOURS OF SUNDAT.
''The unfortunate hours, are the hour next after
noon, and the last hour of the day, before the sun
leta. Foolish, indeed, is the adventurer who begin•
his enterprises therein : but, if thou willest good
fortune to attend thee, choose the hour before noon-
day, and the hour next following after suoaet
Work in these, and expect to prosper."
From a very ancient Mamucript.
It may be proper to obse"e, that the times of
IWlrise and sunset are easily known either by
Moore's, or any other Almanack. Thus the above
emact cannot fail to be acceptable to those who
have not time to spare for calculating the horoscope
of the time. The manuscript does not state the
reuons, in a scientific way, for the foregoing elec
tiona ; but this alone should not militate against its
aathenticity, when it ia considered that the Arabians,
who chiefty followed the horary system ef the
planeta, were renowned for skilful prognostications.
THE INPJ.UENCE OF THE MOON,
IN AFFAIRS OF IMPORTANCE AND MAGNITUDE
.Accordmg u 1he u IncrtiUing, or in tlu Wane.
Not ollly does the moon claim the most powerful
pre-eminence, in every part of Astrological Science
Digitized by GoogIe
12
whether as .it relates ,to the fate of the new-born
infant, or to the fate of any individual enteqdse ;
but those who are skilful in husbandry well know
that plants or herbs which are sown, or even trees
which are planted in the decrease or wane of the
moon, seldom thrive, or afford hopes of fruitfulness.
But my . readers are not aware that her .occult
influence extends even to affairs of business in :a
.general way. Therefore, let those who would .have
any pursuit or undertaking successful, observe the
course of the moon ; and, above all things, begin
nothing of eonsequence in the decrease, whieh is from
the second day of the full moon to the next ·new
moon (which. the commonest almanack will show);
fbr long experience proves, that, with very few
e1>jections, there does not exist half the chance of
success .to any pursuit during that time; and, on the
contrary1 affairs and business of·any kind, which are
began in the increase the moon, that is, from.the
second day after the new moon to the time oflthe
full, have a far better prospect of. allowiag
for natural obstacles, than at the,opposite
This; if well understood and duly observed,·DlllY
save a world of trouble ; and it is a singular fact,
that nearly all the unsuccessful literary publications,
especially newspapers and periodicals, which are so
continually appearing, and as constantly failing, are
ushered forth to public notice while the moon ia in
Iter decrease: I leave this to the notice and verifica·
tion of.my readers.-It is a fact denying contra-
diction, I can assure them ; and a slight observation
of events will enable them to prove it. The reason
for which, in an astrological point of view, is, be-
cause the moon signifies not only the community at
Digitized by Coogle
13
llrge, of·e•ery. nation, but also thote.cllangea in
fashionable md popular opinioa which: result from
no appatent origin ; but which, although whimaical,
are yet too powerful for a thinking person, well
acquainted with the foibles and vices of mankind,
to despise.
J •• • . I : • . • .. t • • • • .
" For be made the moon also to aerve in her ee:uon, for 11. dedua-
tioo of time., Ud a sign or'the worfd.''-&cfe,:A.. J.liii. 6.: ·
• I • · • a, • I ' If> ' , L. l
. Tbe celebrated Dr. Mead, .weU.Ir.nown as .oae .r
the moat ·skilful of his day, whose portrait is hung
in the ·new a.aembly room of the ·Royal College d
Physicians, has these remarks ·•pon the " Influencre
of the Moon.'' .··'
" To conclude, the powerful action of the moon
is observed not only by philosophers and natural
historians, but even by the· common people, who
have been fully penuaded of it. time out of mind.
Pliny relates, .that Aristotle laid it down as an
aphorism, that no animal diu but ;, the ebb of the
tidt! And that births ·&M deaths chiefly happen
about the new and full moon, ·is aa axiom among
women. · The huabaodmen, likew.ite, are regulated
by the moon in planting and managing trees; and
aeveral other of their occupations. So great is the
empire of- the mooa over.the terraqueous globe."
; . I ,
TRADITIONS 'AND' troPERSTITION8-·0F
FORMER TIMES; .
l •• . - • • f I '
IN regard to the display of the former popular
belief in the mystic power of charms, spells,
enchantments, and the occult influences of certain
Digitized by Coogle
14
agents ; the author is desirous of its being under-
stood that he by no means wishes to revive the
gloomy days of superstition, nor to impose upon
the unreflecting multitude the principles of igno-
rance or enthusiasm. Neither does he avouch for
the truth or falsehood of the different mystical rites,
ceremonials, and such like, that are brought for-
ward in this book for the sole purpose of recording
the traditional customs of times long past; which
most persons certainly feel pleasure in perusing,
when they are incorporated in tales or romances,
or even in detached fragments of legendary lore,
where a small portion of truth is generally mixed
with a prodigious deal of fiction. These remarks
are necessary for the purpose of freeing the author,
and the science he professes, from the charge of
superstition; which he well knows his enemies
would, but for this explanation, hasten to palm
upon him, without reason or reserve.
l!Stbliomancy ;
OR, DIVINATION DY THE DIBLE.
Amongst other modes of divining the future fate;
made use of by the ancient Christian Church, the
Bible formed a most prominent feature : and it is
affirmed, that the forty-ninth chapter of Genesis is
of singular efficacy therein ; for it is said, that if
any person beginning life refer to the forty-ninth
chapter of Genesis, and choose any verse at random,
beginning with the third verse, and ending with the
twenty-sevellth ·verse, the verse he first chooses shall
be typical of his future fate, character, and success
in life. Several persons who have tried this method
have been struck with the aingularity of the result.
Digitized by Coogle
15
Another method practised by the ancients upon
almost every occasion, was, to open the Bible at
random-especially the Psalms, the Prophets, or
the Four Gospels,--and the words which .firll pre-
aented themselves decided the future lot of the
inquirer. Several remarkable instances of this
practice are upon record, from which I abstract
the following :-
One Peter, of Tholouse, being accused of heresy,
and having denied the truth of the accusation upon
oath, a bystander, in order to judge of the truth,
seized the book upon which he had sworn, and
opening it hastily, met with the words of the devil
to our Saviour, "What have we to do with thee,
thou Jesus of Nazareth!" and concluded from
thence that the accused was guilty; and this waa
afterwards proved.
The founder of the Franciscan Friars, it seema,
having denied himself the possession of anything but
coats and a cord, and still having doubts whether
be might not possess books, first prayed. and then
casually opened upon JJ-lark, chap. iv.-" Unto you
it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of
God; but unto them that are without, all these things
are done in parables:" from which he drew the con-
clusion, that books were not necessary for him.
The Emperor Heraclius, in the war against the
Peraians, being at a loss whether to advance or
retreat, commanded a public fast for three days; at
the end of which he applied to the Four Gospels,
and opened upon a text which he regarded as an
oracular intimation to winter in Albania.
Gregory of Tours also relatelt, that Meroveoua
being desirous of obtaining the kingdom of Chil-
Digitized by Coogle
IG
peric, his father consulted a female fortune-teller,
who promised him the possession of royal estates.
But, to prevent deception, and to try the truth of
her prognostications, he caused the Psalter, the
Book ·of Kings, and the Four Gospels, to be.laid
upon the shrine of Saint Martin, and, after fasting
and solemn prayer, opened upon passages which
not only destroyed his former hopes, but seemed .to
predict the unfortunate events which really after-
wards befel him. ,. , .·
In the Gallican Church it was long practised in
the election of bishops,-children being employed,
&n behalf of each candidate, to draw slips of paper
with texts on them; and that which was thought
most favourable decided the choice. A similar
mode was pursued at the installation of abbots, and
the reception of canons; and this custom is said to
have continued in the Cathedrals of Ypres, St.
Omers, and Boulogne, so late as the year
In ·the Greek Church it was practised upon the
consecration of Athanasius, on whose behalf the
presiding prelate, Caracalla, archbishop of Nico-
media, opened the Gospels upon these words-" For
the devil and his angels," _A,fatt. xxv. 41. The
bishop of Nice first saw them, and adroitly turned
over the leaf to another verse, which was instantly
read aloud-" The birds of the air came and
lodged in the branches thereof." · But this passage
appearing contrary to the ceremony, the first be-
came gradually known; and the historian who has
recorded the fact, remarks, that the Church of
Constantinople was violently agitated by the most
fatal divisions during the patriarchate.
The Methodists are said to pay a particular
Digitized by Coogle
17
attention to this mode of discovering future eventa ;
a singular inatance whereof is given in the life of
the eccentric but fortunate bookseller, Mr. Lacking-
ton, which is recorded by himself as follows:-
'"One Sunday morning, at eight o'clock, my
mistress, seeing her sons set off, and knowing that
they were gone to a methodist meeting, determined
to prevent me from doing the same by locking the
door, which she accordingly did; on which, in a
superstitious mood, I opened the Bible for direction
what to do, and the first words I read were these -
"He has given his angels charge concerning thee,
lest at any time thou shouldst dash thy foot against
a stone." This was enough for me; so without a
moment'• hesitation, I ran up two pair of stairs to
my own room, and out of the window I leaped, to
the great terror of my poor mistress. I got up
immediately, and ran about two or three hundred
yarda towards the meeting bouse; but, alas! I could
run no farther ; my feet and ancles were most into-
lerably bruised, so that I was obliged to be carried
back and put to bed. fbis my rash adventure
made a great noise in the town.,
The author of this book is well acquainted with
many persons of erudition an<.. sound judgment,
who, at the present day, privatdy'lllake use of the
fOregoing method of prognosticating the event of
their undertakings, by opening the Bible in a
::hance way, and placing reliance upon the .first
llll88ge of Scripture that meeta their eye ; and
hey say it is seldom erroneous.
c
Digitized by Coogle
Hi
MARVELLOUS PROPERTIES
OF HERBS, STONES, ROOTS, MINERALS,
&c. &c.
ST. JOHN'S WORT.
THE herb St. John's \\"'ort, being carried abont
any one, is said to protect the wearer against all
invisible beings.
TO CAUSE TRUE DREAIIIS.
The seeds of flax and flea-wort, finely powdered,
and often smelt to, occasion prophetic and ominous
dreams. The manuscript from whence this was
taken deems it infallible.
A RING FOR POWER, AND TO OVERCOliE ENE:&IIES.
Let the character of Saturn ( J,) be engraved
upon a magnet, or piece of loadstone, in the time
of the moon's increase; and, being worn on the
right hand, no enemy or foe shall overcome the
wearer.
FOR TilE SIGHT,
Fennel, rose, venain, celandine, and rue,
Do \\&ter make which will the sight renew.
ACONlTE, OR WOLFSBANE.
It is said by old herbalists, that ·these herbs are
so extremely pernicious and poisonous, that if either
man or beast be wounded with an arrow, knife.
sword, or any other instrument, dipped in the juice
Digitized by Coogle
1&
ol this herb, they die incurably within half an hour
alierwarda.
IU1,LL.ETT, OR FLEA•BANE•
.This herb, burned and smoked where flies, gnata,
fteu, or any venomous things are, doth drive them
away.
HERBS THAT ACT AS A CHARM AGAINST SPIRIT!'•
.. There is an herb called corona regis (or rose-
mary) ; the that is suffumigated therewith,
noe devil nor spirit hath power over the same.
Piony hath the same virtue."-( Mamucript.)
TO IIAKE A SAD PEJlSO!f HEJlRY.
·For dull, melancholy men, take the flowers
of rosemary, and make them into powder; bind
them to the right arm in a linen cloth. and thia
powder, by working upon the veins, shall..make a
man more merry and lightsome than ordinary.
MYSTERIOUS PROPERTIES 01' TBE SUNFLOWER.
• I • • - '' • ' '
Albertua Magnu relatea that the. heliotropium.
or IRlll-flower, is endued with wonderful virtues;
b, if pthered when the aun is in the fifth sign of
tbe. zodiac ('9.),.and wrapped in a thereto
beiag added a.wolfs tooth, the person who earries
it about him. ahalJ .find .that. nobody can have the
power of usiag any .otller than mild language to
IUm. .. Moreover, .if an)'thing has. been taken from
by .atealtb, -let WBJ lay .it under his head at
night, aDd he shall see the thief, and all the circum-
stances of the theft.
Digitized by Coogle
20
THE NETTLE.
The second herb he notices is the nettle. By
holding this herb, together with miljoil, in your
hand, you are free from apparitions. Mix it with
the juice of sen-green, and smear your hands there-
with, putting a part into any water where there are
fish, it will not fail to attract them; withdraw it,
and they will disperse immediately.
€
bt Rlorlb of tflptrtts.
APPARITION OF A MURDERED ?II AN, AND CONSE·
QUENT DISCOVERY OF THE MURDERER.
THE recent singular and romantically horrible
affair at Polstead, having plainly evinced the
existence of an ever-watchful Providence over the
affairs and destinies of us finite mortals, in spite of
the arrogant atheism of the present day, has led us
to insert the following affair, which occurred a few
years since at a village in Lancashire; where the
circumstance, which made much noise at the time,
is even now well remembered.
One James Dl!nstable, a poor labouring man,
had, by great industry, amassed a considerable sum
of money, which, as he had but a small family, con-
tinually increased; so that, by the death of an
uncle of his wife, who was a considerable farmer in
that part, his possessions made him be looked upon
as one of the most able peasants in that county.
He lived for some time in this state, and was much
respected by his neighbours.
Digitized by Google
21
It happened that be was called off to a f&ir in
one of the chief towna, and was away three daya.
As the fair lasted in general no longer, he was
expected on the third ; but not coming at the
expected time, and being a very sober and punctual
man, there was some SU8picion that he had met with
an accident. On the fifth day, not arriving, his
wife and all the neighbourhood were much alarmed,
and search was made round the country ; but he
could not be heard of, nor was he found at all at
that time. So that it was concluded, and not with-
out reason, that he had been murdered; especially
u he had been known to have set out from the inn
after the fair was over.
Things continued in this situation for several
years, till the wife was persuaded to give her
hand to a neighbour who was thought to be very
deaerving. He made her a good husband, and for
a little space of time they continued happy ; but
at last it appeared that all was not right with him.
His wife was the first who perceived this change in
his temper and carriage : he would frequently start
if he beheld t10metbing supernatural of a sudden ;
and he was troubled in his sleep, as if his dreams
had been disagreeable. She would sometimes ask
him the reason of these emotions, but he always
excused himself. His fears grew upon him every
day ; and his neighbours perceived that be was
neither so bold nor so steady in his deportment as
usual.
One night, in a party at an ale-house, where a
pretty large company were collected, he got elated
with drink, and recovered his wonted spirits, so that
he was as cheerful and merry as the rest. In the
Digitized by Coogle
22
midst of their festivity, he was observed, to start
with great terror, and fix his eyes. upon a particular
place. 'rhe whole company thought him drunk or
insane, as they jokingly said. However, he could
not be appeased ; and, at last, giving a shriek, he
cried out ,loudly-" Q there he is ! look.l he sees
me!. It was me!" There now arose a .great con-
sternation in the house, and he was .immediately
seized upon suspicion of having murdered . Dun-
stable._. He was tried soon after, and conftssed the
affai.r ;,..,-that .he had murdered him, and thrown his
body.into. deep pit, which.had been. partly .filled
up, and which had escaped the vigilance of those
who made search for him. The body. was found
as described ; and the murderer received his due
reward!.!
Whether, in such a case, the apparition -of the
deceased appeared to the murderer; or whether it
might be the effect. of his troubled imagination, is
pot easy to. 13ay; but it is sufficient to prove that
such wicked and premeditated deeds are sure to be
brought to light.
MARVELLOUS DREAH OF .AN ITALIAN MUSICIAN.
Tartini, a celebrated musician, who was born
at Pirano, in, !stria, being much inclined to the
study of music in his early youth, dreamed one
night that he had made a compact with the deyil,
who promised to be at his service on all occasions ;
and during this vision everything succeeded ac-
cording to .his mind ;.his .wisQes were prevented,
apd his desires. always surpassed by the assistance
s>.f his new servant. At last he imagined that he
presented the devil with his violin, in order to dis-
Digitized by Coogle
curer what kind of a musician he was ; wben, to
in. astonishment, he heard him play a solo 80 Sin•
gularty beautiful, and which he e1ecuted with s.och
aaperinr'·taate and· precision, 1bi.t it·surpassed all
the muie wb.ieh he had ever heard or'Conceived in
his life; · So great was his surprise, and so
site was his ·delight,· upon this dtat 'it
depriYed him of the power of breathing: ·He·awub
With 'the violence ofJUs sensation, ·and instantly
seized his fiddle, in hopes ·of what
he had just heard; but in vain. ·He; however,
composed a piece, which is perhaps' the .best of
all his works-be called it SoNATA'
but ·it was so far inferior to the music ·he heard
ib: his dream, that he declared he would ·'haYe
broken his instrument, and ·abandoned music for
ever, if he could have found any other meaaa flf
nbeistence. ·'
A CORRESPONDENCE WITH SPIRITS.
Dr. Richard Napier was hom in the beginning
of lhe year 1534. extraordinary circUJR>o
stances are related by Mr. Aubrey to 'have happened
at his birth. In his youtll ·he showed an early pioua
disposition, and his genius, was tnily premature-;
insomuch that before be was twelve years ·old, lie
was forwarder in human learning than bia eonte-..
poraries in class who were double his age. After
passing through the due degrees of edueation with
an extraordinary character for abstinence, innocence
of maJlllers, and piety, be was promoted ·to the
rectory of Linford, in· Bucks, where he practised
physic; but what· he gdt by it he gave to tbe poor.
Be allo pnctiJed astrolOgy ; but he <JGn·
Digitized by Coogle
24
fessed that this art was but the countenance, and
that he did his business by the help of the blessed
spirits, with whom only men of great piety, humility.
and charity, could be acquainted; and such an one
be was. He constantly spent, every day, two hours
in family prayer. When a patient or querist came
to him he went to liis closet to pray, and told to
admiration tl:e recovery or death of the patient.
It appears, by his papers, that he conversed with
spirits, who gave him the responses.
Elias Ashmole, Esq., had all his MSS., where
is contained his general practice for about fifty
years. In these papers are many excellent medi-
cines, or receipts, for several diseases that his
patients had ; and before some of them stands this
mark, "R. R1s.'', which Mr. Ashmole interprets to
signify, "Re sponaioni Raphttlia," (or the answer of
the angel Raphael). They contain, also, several
queries to the angels, as relating to religion, future
judgment, &c. One of these questions is, "Whicll
are the most numerous, the good spirits or the bad
ones! The answer stands thus; "R. Rrs.-TuE
oooo." In these papers are found several other
incontestible proofs of this spirit of prophecy ; among
other things, he foretold to Dr. John Prideaux, in
1621, that twenty years after, he should be made a
bishop; which accordingly happened in 1641, when
the Doctor was created to the see of Worcester f
He predicted, also, that a Mr. Booth, of Cheshire,
should have a son that should be afterwards created
aLord. This prediction was made in 1619; and
Sir George Booth, the first lArd Delamore, was
bom Dec. 18, 1622 f "There is an incontestible
imposaibility," observes Mr. Aubrey, "that this
Digitized by Coogle
uatiYity co.lcl be baud 1\Uy other way, hut by
angelical revelation!"
A gentleman took bia pandaoa to Dr. Napier k>r
being troubled with the worms : after con-
saltiDg him, the Doctor retired ; and the old gentle-
man's curioaity urging him to peep in at the
he saw him upon his knees at prayer. A abort
time after llle returned, and told him that at fourteen
years old lUa grand$0D would be freed from that
distemper; and he was eo. The medicine he pre-
.mbed wu, to drink a little draught of muscadine
in the m«»rniog. This happened in 1625.
He foretold the day aad hour of his own death,
wbieh happened April 1, 1634, at the age of one
k...tred years! He wu nearly related to the learned
Lonl Napier, Baroo of Marchiston in Scotland. Hi•
estate descended to Sir Richard Napier, M.D. ot
the College of Physicians, LoDdon; from wbom
lb. A.ahmole had tbe Dr.'s picture, now in thQ
Museum, at Oxford ; where all bis papers are
aanmged and deposited, in several volumes in folio,
ia the lihrary.
NATURAL MAGIC.
THE IYMPATHETJC VIAL;
Wbereb!J may he immediately ucertained the Healtk Of'
of an absent Friend, although a tl10wattd
Milu dillant; and whdher they are Alive or DMtl.
IT is tolerably well known that Nature baa a
secret communication within herself, through all
her works ; and the occult principle thereof is found
m human nature, as well as in animal and inani-
D
Digitized by Coogle
mate bodies. Upon this reasoning the following
curious experiment is founded.
If you wish to know how any relation, absent
friend, or acquaintance, does, during their absence
or travelling into any other country, in respect to
their health, you must possess yourself with some
of their live blood; and, while it is warm, infuse into
it a small quantity of white vitriol or spirits of wine,
and keep it close stopped up, in a glass vial, from
the air. Now, if your friend is well, the blood will
look lively, fresh, and florid; but, on the contrary,
if he is ill, or the least thing indisposed, you may
perceive it by the changing colour of the blood,.
which will immediately happen according as he is
diseased in his body. If the blood gain a redder
hue than usual, you may pronounce him in a fever;
but, if it grow paler, and seem mixed with water,
and to part in different colours, his sickness is dan- .
gcrous, and he is reduced to the last stage of weak-
ness.
After this indisposition, if he recover his health,
the blood will again look fresh and lively, as at first;
but, should death unfortunately ensue, the blood will
putrify and stink accordingly, just as the rest of the
body decays. This has been proved several times,
as Dr. Blagrave, in his Astrological Physic, reports;
and the same effects have been produced by Sir
Kenelm Digby's sympathetic powder, which was
said to cure wounds at a distance, being applied to
some of the fresh blood collected therefrom.
Digitized by Coogle
TBE ENCHANTED STATUE.
To make an image or statue lpMk, and utter
articulate sounds; or to give answers to any ques-
tion proposed, proceed as follows :-
Place a concave mirror of or gilt pasteboard,
ofabout two feet diameter, as A B in the engraving,
in a perpendicular direction. The focus of this
mirror may be at fifteen or eighteen inches distance
&om its circumference.
At the distance of five or six feet let there be a
partition, in which there is an opening (E F) egual to
tire nze of the mirror ; against this opening place a
picture printed in water colours on a thin cloth, that
sound mayeasily pass through it. Behind the partf-
tion, at the distance oftwo or three feet, place another
mirror (G B) of the same size as the former, and let
it be uactl!Jopposite to it. ·
At the point C place the image or statue of a
man, seated upon a pedestal, and let his ear be
situated exactly in the focus of the first mirror ; his
lower jaw must be made to open by a wire, and
thut by a spring, and there may be another wire to
lime the eyes,-these wires must pass through the
figure, go under the ftoor, and come up behind the
partition.
Digitized by Coogle
28
Then let a person properly instructed be placed
behind the partition, near the mirror. You then
propose to aby one to speak softly to the statue, by
putting his mouth to its ear, assuring him it will
answer directly! Then give ·the preco11certed
signal to the person behind the partition, who, by
placing his ear to the focus I of the mirror G H,
will, by the reflection of the sound, hear distinctly
what the other said; and, moving the jaws and eyes
of the statue by the wires, will return an answer
instantly, which, in like manner, will be distinctly
beard by the first speaker.
The more effectually to conceal the eause of this
illusion, the mirror A B may be fixed in the wain-
scot, and a gauze, or any other thin covering, thrown
over it ; as that will not prevent the sound. An
experiment of this kind may be performed iq a field
or garden, between two hedges-in one of which the
mirror A B may be placed, and in the other an
opening artfully contrived.
GEOMANCY;
OR, 1'11"£ AUT OF FORETELLING EVENTS llY LOTS
Olt 1'01 NTS.
No. I.
Tms curious art was formerly in hi6rf1 repute;
being a favourite science among the monks and
friars of the middle who, immured in the
solitary gloom of their abbeys and monasteries,
stood in need of some peculiar invention, that com-
bined the then universal desire for unveiling futurity,
with a recreation at once pleasant and amusing.
Digitized by Coogle
•
8tseb were speedily discOYerecl ia tile
pradiee of Geomancy ; added to which, tDhn'e liN
infuirn- u6incere in hi1 wi1he1, the universal tym•
pe.thy 80 prevalent throughout an nature, (and
which not even the profoundest philosopher of the
presetlt day can deny or satisfactorily explain,
except by admitting occult principles,) will seldom
fail, to procure him a rational and true answer.
The art or science of Geomancy consists of two
parts, which, although distinct in a manner from
each otlter, are nevertheless founded on, and pro--
duced by, the same sympathetic impulse. The first
iB termed Simple Geomancy ; and consists ia judgia!
of future events by the nature and properties of tbe
.ateea figures or emblems, without combination,
boute, place, or aspect. The other is tei'J'Dei
fJtMrpormd; as it teaches the method of
tile cCJI'relative contingeDcies of each question by
t:neans of Upetts, houses, and emblematical move-
ments. This letter part is far more difficult thaa
the former; I shall therefore jirll initiate my
reeders into the practice ol the former, or Simple
Geomancy ; t1t1 it cannot fail to ai'otd many an
boer's rlltiorrtll amusement.
I need ttetm:ely obee"e, that boob on this Ab.
ject are so extremely rare as seldom be met widt.
at tm!f price.
The method of working the questions in Geo-
mancy coMists in marking down with pen, pencil,
or any other inatrument, upon paper, slate, or any
legible material, a certain number of points, or
dots, leaving the precise number to chance ; and
all the time the inquirer is so doing, his thoughta
mut dwell tarnuii!J upon the matter upon which .
Digitized by Coogle
30
he wishes to be informed, with a fervent wish
(devoid of doubting as much as possible) to have a
correct and true answer.
The ancients affirmed, that in these cases an in-
visible spirit, or planetary angel, uniformly directed
the hand of the querist, so to form the mystic
points as· to obtain the desired resolution of his
query : but whether or not this may be the case,
it is quite certain that the thoughts and earnest
desires of the mind have a wonderful control over
the nerves, muscles, and pulsations of the body.
This is seen plainly in the case of timid, weak, and
nervous persons, who, when writing letters, or sen-
tences where their feelings are more than usually
wrought upon, never fail to exhibit signs of such
mental irritation in their hand-writing. But this
fact, which is, I believe, well known to every one,
is more clearly demonstrated by the following
simple but curious experiment, the truth of which I
can avouch from my own experience.
Sling a or sixpence at the end of a piece
of thread, by means of a loop, or tie a ring thereto ;
then, resting your elbow upon a table, hold tightly
the other end of the thread between your fot·tjinger
and thumb, taking care that the thread passes
across the ball of the thumb (where the pulse lies),
and thus suspend the shilling or ring in an empt!J
goblet. Observe to keep your hand as steady as
possible, or otherwise it is useless to attempt the
experiment.
\Vhen the shilling or ring is properly suspended,
you will find it will for a moment be stationary. It
will then, of its own accord, and without the least
agenc!J from the pcrs.on holding it, vibrate like the
Digitized by Coogle
31
pendulum of a clock, from side to side of the glass;
and, after a few seconds, it will strike the hour
nearest to the· time qf da!f or night. For instance, if
the time be twenty-five minutes past six o'clock,
it will strike six ; if thirty-five minutes past, it will
strike seven, and so on of any other hour. It will
olio strike an!/ number you think qf; which latter
property arises solely from the pulsation of the
thumb, communicating, by an occult principle, the
desires of the mind to the nervous system. But to
what cause its striking the precise hour is to be
traced, as the author of "Rational Recreations"
observes, " remains unexplained; for it is no less
astonishing than true, that when it has struck the
proper number, its vibration ceases, it acquires a
kind of rotary motion, and at last becomes sta-
tionary as before."
HAKES OF THE SIXTEEN FIGURES OF OEOH.A.NCY
•• • •
• Acquisitio • Caput
• • •
• •
• •
• • Amissio • Cauda
• •
• • • •
• • • •
• Rubells • • Fortuna Major
• • •
• • •
• • •
.. .Albus • Fortuna Minor
• • •
• • 4.
Digitized by Coogle
82
• •
•• Letitia
... Puella
•• •
•• •
•• •
•• Tristitia • Puer
•• • •
• •
•• •
• Conjunctio • Via
.. •
• • •
• ••
• • Carc:er • • Populus
•• •• ¥:
.. ,. .
MISCELLANIES.
KYSTIC SIGNIFlCATION OF THE NAME NAPOLEO
IT is a curious circumstance, that the nam
"Napoleon," together with the original derivation
of the name, which is compounded of two Greek
words, signifying the " Lion ofthe Desert," forms a
most striking coincidence with the character of that
extraordinary conqueror, who has rendered it so
conspicuous in history.
1. NAPOLEON
6. APOLEON
7. POLEON
3. OLEON
4. LEON
5. EON
2. ON
By dropping the first letter from the first syllable
of the name in full, and from each part of It in
Digitized by Coogle
33
succession, si.r Greek words are formed, which,
fated in the orderof the numerals, signify," Napolctm
being a raging lion, going about destro!Jing cities."
EXTRAORDINARY ESFECTS 01· A Ll:N.AR ECLIPSE.
"January 21, 1693.-Tbe moon having been
eclipsed that night, the greatest part of the sick
died, about the very hour of the eclipse, and some
were even struok with sodden death."-Dr. lY/ead
on Plandary I'!fluence.
EXTRAORDINARY NARRATIVE
OPA
CEl.EBR.A'rEfJ .ASTRI&LOGER OF THE LAST CENTURY.
I have not so exclusively attached myself to .
ancient legends as to omit any opportunity of col-
lecting and preserving the romantic narratives of a
later time. My own custom is to have a frequent
gossip with my host or hostess upon any subject
that occurs to either of us; such as the remem-
brances of their youth, the alterations of the town,
the characters and histories of their former lodgers.
By these means I not only lay hold ,pf many a
curious anecdote, interesting adventure, or legendary
tradition, but I also observe many a delightful trait
of human nature, as shown either in its actions or
passions, which is carefully laid up in my memory,
until I have occasion to bring it forward to the
public in a pen and ink drawing upon paper.
When I first came to London, about fifty years ago,
my abode was with a Mrs. Bathsheba Pendulum,
the Scottish widow of Tubal Pendulum, an eminent
watch and clock-maker in Little Britain.
It waR not at that time much different from what
&
Digitized by Coogle
1t now appears, generally speaking; but as my
narrative will occasionally refer to the appearance
of my landlady's house itself, it will be proper to
state that it was erected after the following fashion.
Tall and narrow as were the buildings of the time
to ·which I allude, the one that I dwelt in was some-
thing taller, and a great deal narrower, than the
generality of them. The door stood between two
short and stout bay windows, divided by thick and
ill-shaped red frames into a number of smaJl
squares, fitted with a coarse green-coloured glass;
behind which appeared several antiquely-shapecl
clocks and watches. Some of these were of large
dimensions, and in form not very much unlike the
case of a violincello; and, by their fine ornamental
Indian gilding upon a black japanned ground, were
evidently designed for chapels, ha1ls, or tap-rooms.
Others, again, made with all the luxuriance of scroli-
work of gilded brass, and silvered or enamelJed faces,
showed that they wE:re intended for the beau-
monde of the day, for the dial-plate sometimes
displayed the attractive words, " Bontemps, lloro-
logier, ll Paris." Then, again, there were a few
Rpecimens of horizontal and perpendicular sun-
dials, engraven on brass ; and an assortment of the
massive silver-faced repeating watches then in
fashion, which, by an almost infinity of movements,
gave as much information as a modern alm.anack.
Above the door projected a most resplendent sign,
carved, coloured, and gilded, in such style as to
shame all the others in the street ; though many a
gaily painted board creaked as it swung from the
flourished iron work that was suspended
every house.
Digitized by Coogle
It was on a· summer's afternoon, when, with the
degree of A.B., I had quitted my University, tbat I
arrived by the Oxford Eagle, after apassage of a
day and a night, safe in London. I procured my
baggage to be sent from the inn, and returned to
take what my new landlady called " my afternoon
tea" with her. Although I was a stranger, and her
lodger, Mrs. Pendulum was not backward in her
conversation, and the discourse turned to some
curious specimens of clock-work standing in the
room, which introduced a host of stories, the last
of which related to an eminent astrologer, who had
formerly lived in the house, nnd enjoyed a very
great degree of practice and patronage from all
descriptions of persons; and, as this interested me,
I was particularly curious in my inquiries, to which
my landlady thus·generally replied.
"Ow, I dinna ken muckle about him, only that
he was caa'd Totemic Horoscope, as it's said; and
that he sleepit in the room that ye're to sleep in;
an' that he tauld the fortunes of all the world, for
the people wad be coming in the mom, and in the
day time, and in the dark night, when naebody
could see them. And ye see that when the auld
warlock was gane, and my auld Pendulum took the
booth, which was soon after his death, we found
su<'h hantels o' curious papers."
Well," said I, with some anxiety," and what
did you do with them?"
"Aye, Mr. Slowclarke, we e'en sold them for
the paper to auld .Moses Baggitt, the Israelitish rag
merchant. They war not for the likes o' us to
keep."
Such was the slight information I received on
Digitized by Coogle
36
the subject of the astrologer from Mrs. Pendulum ;
but, even when I retired to rest, it was still present
to my thoughts; and in my night visions it was
still present before me, for I had the following
dream:-
The apartment in which I was sleeping seemed
to shift and change its appearance, until only the
bed remained of its usual furniture. An old carved
oaken cabinet, a table, and some chairs of the same
material, rose before me ; while a man of a middle
age, with an oval face, and long flowing
clothed in a black Spanish habit, was seated writing
by a lamp; and before him were scattered
books, spheres, and various astrological instruments.
At length he ceased from his employment, and,
closing the volume, placed it, with the other
in a secret drawer of the cabinet ; and sighing
heavily, said, "Rest thou miserable record
of sin and sorrow, avarice, folly, and all the other
vices of naankind ! Rest there ! thou record of the
wide astrological practice of PTOLEMY HoaoscoPE,
TilE IDOLIZED AsTROLOGER OF LITTLE BRITAIN;
who has rendered this house, this chamber, this
part of the city, famous for ever, by the high
personages who have sought the skill which he
possesses. Rest there! till some one in future
years shall haply find thee, and shall publish to his
countrymen thy memorials of the guilt and folly of
departed ages ··
There seemed to follow a most dreadful jangling,
as if all the steeples in London had been shaken by
an earthquake, and all their bells partook of their
convulsions. 'When my ear became sensible of
I discovered that it wus three in
Digitized by Coogle
37
morning: but I found it impossible to sleep; and
my thoughts uaturally reverted to my dream,
whilst I remembered with no alight curiosity
the oaken cabinet, with its contents.
But this vision and its subject both paued away;
as superstition is not one of my most
powerful feelings, it bad entirely left my mind,
until, in an obscure part of London, I one day met
witla an old oaken cabinet, the same as I bad already
aeen in my dream, eiposed for sale ! Like the P.r-
dener in the Eastern tale, bad I poueased but ten
golden rlecemars in the world, I bad purchased it.
I felt an irresistible impulse to make it mine : and
when it was once more placed in its own native
apartment, conceive my surprise, when, with a pal-
pitat.iug heart and nervous hand, I found the spring,
threw open the secret drawer, and discovered the
astrologer·s manuscript&! The chief of these was
an old vellum book, tilled with drawings of astro-
logical figures, and their particular histories attached
to each, the characters of which were precisely as
he had deacribed them. Some were of a public,
11001e of a private nature; and on a piece of old
yellow paper were the following words, descriptive
of them, written in Latin, in an ancient hand, and
in an ink which had faded, through time, to a pale
brown colour.
"It is not only to the Science of Astrology that
my studies have been confined ; since in this chest
are contained.all the proofs t.h;1t I have made some
progress in those arts which, as Lilly saith, are
•above and beyond it.' In Geomancy, in the use
of the Crystal, in the conversing with Spirits, in
that almost obsolete part of Astrology entitled
•
Digitized by Coogle
38
Sachaomatike, or the formation of Sigils, and in
the discovery of future events by the mirror, 1- have
studied deeply, and that with no vain prospect o£
success. But, of all kinds of learning, it is this
which soonest corrodes and eats up the heart: it
preys upon the spirits ; it devours the soul with
:melancholy; and the body is wasted away through
the vigils, cercmc·nials, and fastings, attendant
thereon. Finding this, like many others who have
trodden the sar.1e path before me, I destroyed most
of my materials, which instructed me in those
curious arts, and have since attached myself to the
astrological science only.
"PTOLEMY HoRoscoPE.
"Little Britain, at the Globe aud Comc·l,
this 12tlt clay ofMarch, 1750."
The box also contained a manuscript, fairly and
closely written in the Latin language, interspersed
with drawings of sigils and figures of the various
angels who were consulted on the different cases.
There were also some of those mystical jewels,
which were formerly used by those persons who
pretended to a knowledge of magic and divination;
such as several thin plates of gold and silver, of
various shapes, inscribed with a number of different
devices, as well as the names of some angelic
spirits, and other sacred titles, engraven chiefly in
the Greek and Hebrew characters. Besides these,
there was a small case of solid gold, measuring
about an inch square, on one side of which was
drawn a circle, having seven Chaldaic names traced
in the circumference of it, and forming a border to
a large clear crystal, which was set like a mirror
Digitized by Coogle
39
beneath it. Near this curious instrument was a
mystic invocation. entitled " A Call te tile Cr!JIIal,''
written in a very beautiful small band, upon a very
fine piece of vellum, which was sufficient to explain
that its use was to summon the spirits, consulted by
the astrologer, to a conference within the crystal.
I shall now call the reader's attention to one of
the__moat extraordinary stories, which I found in the
oaken casket. It was adorned in the original by
the delineation of a sigil, or magic medal, men-
tioned and described in the notes, and by the figure
of a horoscope. But what was my surprise, when
one of the metal charms already mentioned proved
to be engraven with the ·very same characters, and
to be that hereafter spoken of; which, when the
reader has gone through, he will discover the cal!sc
of my astonishment.
CJJt • .,...., -..r.
..d ugend of Lombard Street.
It was, then, in the house of Louis Bezant, an
eminent merchant adventurer, goldsmith, and banker,
who lived about the year 1745, at the sign ofthe Arms
of Lombardy, in Lombard Street, that several per-
IODS of the family were met, with joy in their looks
and anticipation in their hearts, to witness the return
of young Edmund Bezant, the eldest son, from
America, where he had been a resident almost from
his infancy. The cause of his having been sent to
that country was briefly thus:-At the time of his
birth, his father resolved upon having his nativity
carefully calculated; and it was not difficult, from
the numerous excellent astrological scholars made
Digitized by Google
by ·Booker, Lilly, and many others, in the seven-
teenth century, to find an artist who speedily drew
up young Edmund's horoscope upon paper; and a
more singular combination of virtue and vice, ability
and weakness, prosperity and mi-sery, was seldom
seen or inspected. The judgment of his Nativity
stated that " his ten youngest years should be per-
fectly happy and virtuous; his youthful ten, weak
frivolous, extravagant, and within a step of vice
and the ten which included his manhood, afflicted
gloomy, distressing in a very great degree, and ter
minating untimely and unhappily." For all thes...,
evils, two causes were pointed out: in the first in-
stance, he would be of a disposition unfitted for the
world, because he would hold its every-day actions
and feelings in contempt ; and secondly, his misfor-
tunes would arise from an insatiate thirst for learn-
ing, which, joined to an induction of amazing
readiness, would lead him through many abstruse
studies, until at length all his powers being worn
out, they would be lost in a boundless sea of
useless knowledge, blended with much presump-
tion, and not void of guilt.
" From this wretched state," continued the Nati-
vity, "he will endeavour to escape, by flying to the
opposite extreme; and here he will meet his ruin.
One, whose society shall be the delight of his life,
if he be not the rock on which his soul shall split.
will at least be that where his earthly peace shall
be wrecked, and the cause of his early death. The
stars and their courses are in the hand of a mighty
Ruler, and all this may not be ; but the caution
arising from it is-Beware of the connc.rions of hi1
youthful
Digitized by Coogle
41
Incooaequence·of this. a fayourite divine, Fervent
Corsegrave, who had been bred up in America,
proposed his being sent into New England, and
entrusted to the care of a faithful relative ; which, as
&he divine was a great friend ofthe family, was readily
consented to ; and from time to time the accounts
which were receiTed from New England were satis-
factory : but when the young Edmund was verging
towards the age of twenty, reports changed, and he
was represented as wild and profligate. '' He it,"
eaid letter which brought the news, " extran-
gutly attached to hunting, nor does he return for
many days and nights together from these hazard-
CN& excunions; so tlaat we are more fearful for that
eeciety in which he may paas his nights, than any
ef the dangem by day; for the too often
practise the accursed art of witchcraft, calling up
i>ul spirits to their midnight meetings. There is,
however, one who ia called by the name of Paul
Hallet, who doth constantly attend upon the young
Edmund, in whose company we have sent thy lOll
baek.."
Such was the history of the individual whom
the party at the" Arms of Lombardy" were met to
receive and welcome. He was in person tall and
handsome, with a deep olive countenance tinctured
with melancholy, occasionally lighted up by a
bright smile, whicb would sometimes become dis-
torted like a sybil's in the moment of prophecy, or
awitch's at the time of incantation. His compa.·
nion (Paul Hallet) was a tall and thin figure, plainly
dressed, wholly devoid of colour in his face, and ill
whose eyes there was something at once terrific and
ilneresting : but it was over the younger man tbal
F
Digitized by Coogle
his glances seemed to possess a supernatural power,
for the moment his companion looked upon him, he
started with horror, and became possessed with the
most terrible and frantic emotions.
"Edmund, my boy Edmund!'' cried Louis Bezant,
as his son entered the room. ''My father!" returned
the youth, ''what a long and unhappy separation
has ours been! Oh! I conjure you, let me not
return to that dreadful country again, which is
haunted by the foulest of spirits --" Here his
voice suddenly failed him, he looked round upon Paul
Hallet, and cried with earnestness.-" Nay, tor-
ment me not now, it is before your hour! ·I will
say no more, so thou wilt not torment me now I
My father, touch him not: I am delivered over to
them for a season-for I - I am a POSSESSED
ONE!"
It was with considerable grief that the Bezant
family beheld the mind of their young relative so
unstrung and overclouded : the fits seldom left him.
He would sometimes sit and sing, most plaintively,
portions of hymns, and then suddenly he would
burst out with a wild strain, that sounded like a
wizard's incantation, whilst his gestures were no
less terrific, as he would writhe, and exhibit all the
actions of one under the greatest tortures, although
there was not any outward reason for such conduct.
It was observed, however, that Paul Hallet seemed
to influence him in all things : if he were present,
and smiled, Edmund looked for rest. It was no less
too, that he spake as if that person were
always near him, whether he was in the room or
not. Time passed away while these things were
observed, but the grief into which it threw Ius stster
o,9itized bvGoogle
43
Adelaiae, determined her to commit the whole of
her information to writing, and taking with it a copy
of the scheme of his nativity, she presented it to
Ptolemy Horoscope, who gazed on it in sadness
and silence, but at length thus spake :-
"You have done wisely, my daughter, in bring-
mg this case before me. I can afford you relief, for
in three days I will frame you a powerful Sigil of
rirgin gold, which shall be inscribed with certain
sacred names, and which, when hung about the neck
of the possessed one, shall drive the evil spirit far
from him. But then be must live piously, and
repent fervently; for this, though a potent, is but a
aecondary, influence: yet must be on no account
be the Sigil, for then will the fiend return with re-
doubled rage. Let all this be done with secrcsy."
According to his promise the astrologer acted,
and the same hour that the Sigil was given to Ed·
mund his fits departed ; while, what was still more
remarkable, Paul Hallet came soon after to take
leave of the elder Bezant, and stating " that he wa1
compelled to leave him," immediately quitted the
bouse.
It was some years subsequent to these circum-
stances, when they were no longer spoken of,-for
to Edmund the memory of all his past sufferings had
entirely left his mind,-that Mrs. Miriam Fairfax,
apious relative, who waspresent accidentally, disco-
vered Horoscope's golden Sigil hanging at his breast.
Upon inquiring of him as to its signification, he
§tated that his sister had placed it round his neck,
!en years back, as a preservative from evil spirits.
· " A preservative from evil spirits!" ejaculated
llrs. Fairfax, in an&'er. ''She is for opposing Satan's
Digitized by Google
44
shield to Satan's sword; but that may not be, Mr.
Corsgrave," continued she to that minister, who
was standing by.
"Most honourable lady, no," returned he. "Cast
it off, my young friend, and believe me thou shalt
be under surer protection, than if thou hadst a
thousand Sigils." Overcome by their persuasions,
Edmund took the medal from his neck, and as
did so, Paul Hallet entered the room, and. attempted
to seize it; but ere he could touch it, it was gone,
and no one knew by what means ! When his guar-
dian had thus mysteriously departed, the fits of
possession again seized young Bezant with increased
rage, and with all the appearance of deadly con·
vulsions. "My"hour of departure is arrived," said
be, "am1 I shall be for ever free from the tyranny
of Paul Hallet."
''Call me not by that name !" replied the stranger.
" Fervent Corsgrave, look upon thy father !"
"My father!" exclaimed Corsgrave in terror, ''he
died, and was buried in New England."
"True," said the appearance; " but his spirit
hath no rest, because of his crimes : it hath wan-
dered over the earth which he dishonoured by his
cruelty, and deceived by his hypocrisy; and it hath
been used as the instrument of punishing and in-
structing one who else would have fallen to destruc-
tion. Farewell ! ye shall see me no more, but let
Jny permitted appearance affright you from my sins."
As he spake these words he ceased to be visible,
without any flash of light or sign of vanishing, but
disappeared suddenly and instantaneously; whilst,
at the same moment, with a smile of angelic beauty
on hischeek, tlte soul rifthe Possessed One lcflllis body!
Digitized by Coogle
46
TRADITIONS AND SUPERSTITIONS OP
FORMER TIMES.
A CURIOUS CH.Ailll TO BIND OR COIIP.EL A THI.EF.
To bind a thief so that he shall have neither rest
aor peace till he return thee thy lost goods, go to
the place from whence they were stolen away, and
write the name of the person or persons thou 9US-
peetest upon parchment, and put the same under-
neath the threshold of the door they went out of.
Then make four crosses on the four comers or posts
of the doorway, and go your ways saying," Thou
thief, which hast stolen and taken away such a thing
from this place, Abraham, by his Tirtue and the
power God gave him, call thee back again,-Isaac,
by his power, stop thee in the way,-Jacob make
thee go no farther,but bringthem again,-and Joseph,
by his power and virtue, and also by the grace and
might of the Holy Ghost, force thee to come again
into this place ;--and that neither Solomon let thee,
nor David bid thee ; but that the same through
Christ our Lord do cause thee presently, and without
stay, to come again into this place, and bring them
with thee. Fiat, fiat, fiat, cito, cito, cito. In the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy
Ghost, Amen." Repeat these words three timet', and
the thief shall not rest, nor delay, till he return thee
thy goods.-Ancienl Mamucript.
A CHAR.H TO STOP BLEEDING AT TUE NOSE.
Touch the aose, and say, nine tirm:1 with great
faith, these words,-" Blood abide in this vein as
Christ abideth in the Church, and hide in thee as
Digitized by Coogle
46
Christ hideth from himself;"-and the bleeding will
presently cease, to the 'admiration of all present.
ANCIENT AUGURY AND SOOTHSAYING.
Augury is the art of inspection, and prognosti-
cating or soothsaying, by observation of birds and
beasts, and was in great repute among the ancients.
The Lacedcmonians had always an augur· to attend
upon their kings ; and among the Romans was a
college of augurs.
Homulus himself was a soothsayer, and ordained
that the choice of magistrates should be confirmed
by augury ; and so fond were the ancients of this
art, as to ordain that nothing of public or private
affairs should be transacted without it. In taking
the auspices, it was observed whether the beasts
came willingly to the altar or not-whether the en-
trails were of a natural colour, and not exulcerated,
or whether any parts were defective or wanting.
Thus, when the Emperor Augustus found two galls
in his sacrifice, it was considered as prognosticative
of peace with Antony, and the amity of state dls-
sentit'nts.
Bt'cause Brutus· and Cassius met a blackamoor,
and Pompey had on a garment of dark colours, at
the battle of Pharsalia, these were said to be pre-
of their on:rthrow. \n1en Gracreus was
slain. the same day the augurs obsen·ed that the
sacrt'd chick<.'ns ,that were kept ftlr the purposes of
di,ination,\ refused to CtllllC out of their coop. So
the death of Ca'sar was di,·ined, from the unusual
noise and t.'lattering of armour in his house. In
lilt' mamwr. tht> poiStlning of Germanicus was pre-
Digitized by Coogle
47
saged by the strange circumstance (accordmg to
Listorians) of a trumpet sounding of its own accord.
About anno 1300, apai11led horse, on the walls of
the imperial palace of the Emperor Andronicus, was
saidto neigh with great loudness,-whichwas judged
a happy omen to that Emperor, and his Chancellor
congratulated him in the expectation of future
and when Baldwin, emperor of the Latins,
was beaten out of Constantinople by his father, his
horse neighed with a strange and hollow sound,
which was thought by his courtiers (as it proved)
ominous of great disasters.
An owl screeching in the Senate-house, was
deemed ominous and bodiogill-luck to the Emperor
Augustus. A company of crows following Sejanus to
his house with great noise and clamour, was judged
to be fatal, and so indeed it proved.-Romulus had
the empire promised him before his brother Remus,
by the soothsayers, because he had seen the double
uumber of vultures.-So ourWilliam the Conqueror,
when he first stepped on land, his foot slipping, he
fell down and got some dirt in his band, which his
attendants fearing to be.an evil omen, he said," No;
I have, by this fall, but taken possessio11 of this island."
Also, a swarm of bees hovering over St. Ambrose,
as also Plato the philosopher, when infants in their
cradles, was judged to portend " that great wisdom
should flow from their mouths, which would enrap-
ture mankind."
MIDSUMMER CHARM, TO KNOW WHEN ANY ONE
SHALL DIE.
To ascertain whether a person will die m the cur-
rent year, the country folk, in some places, about
Digitized by Google
48
Midsummer, pluck some of the herb St. Jolm's wort,
before sunrise in the morning, and hide it in the
walls in various parts of the house. The bunches
which immed'uztelg droop, announce with certainty
(it is said) the speedy death of tho!;e who placed
them there ; but if the herb remains fresh and
green, then the person who placed it there will not
die during that year.
A MARRIAGE OMEN.
Among the peasantry of Westphalia, and.in some
parts of Wales, young females knock, on Christmas
Eve, at the hen-house. If a hen.first cackles, they
relinquish all hopes of being manied during the
ensuing year; but if a cock crow_sjirst, they deem
it an infallible omen of their being married before
the ensuing year expires.
,11laJ{cal l;uffumiptionJ,
AND THEIR WONDEB.FUL EFFICACY.
The ancient philosophers affirm, that "no one
should 'wonder how great things suffumigations
(the burning of certain perfumes or substances) can
do in the air, especially when he shall with Porphyry
consider, that by certain vapours exhaling from
proper suft'umigations, airy spirits are presently
raised ; as also thunderings and lightnings, and such
like things.
The liver of a came/ion being burnt upon the top
of a house, doth, as it is manifest, raise showers and
lightnings ;-in like manner, the head and throat, if
they be burnt with the wood of the oalt, cause
lightnings and tempesta.
Digitized by Coogle
41
There are alao auftUmigationa under opportune
coo.stellations and benevolent influences of the stars,
that make the images of spirits forthwith appear in
the air, or other mediums. It is said, that if a fume
be made of coriander, muJllage, laeltbane, and hem-
ltd, spirits will presently come together, and be-
come visible : hence are they called " the spirits'
herbs." Also make a fume of the root of the reedy
herb sagapen, the juice of hemlock and henbane,
tapus, barbetus, red sanders, and black poppy ;
it makes spirits and strange shapes appear. If
smallage be added thereto, it chases away spirits
&om any place, and destroys their visions.
Again; a fume made of mint, calamint,piony, and
ptlhrta chri6ti (herbs easily obtained), it drives away
all evil spirits, and vain or fearful imaginations.
Hermes affirms, that there is nothing better than the
fume of 6pU11UICtli for the raising of spirits ; and if
afume be made of that, and lignum aloee, pepper,
musk, sa.ft"ron, and red thorax,.tempered together
with the blood of a lapwing, it will quickly gather
aerial spirita together. And if it be used about the
graves of the dead, it gathers together spirits, and
the souls of the dead. Some say, that a fume made
with linseed and fleabane seed, and the roots of
violets and parsley, it maketh one toforuee things to
come, and doth conduce to prophesying.
If a house, or any place, be smoked with the gall
of a cuttle fish, made into a confection with red
•toru, rosea, and lignum aloes, and if there be
lOme water or blood cast into that place, the
will seem to be full of water or blood ; and if some
earth of a newly-ploughed ground be cast there, the
G
Digitized by Coogle
earth will seem to quake, and be convulsed as in nn
earthquake.
Others write, that if any one shall hide gold
or silver, or any other precious thing, on Sunday,
Monday, or Tuesday, days attributed to 0, and
», and shall fume the place with coriander, saffron,
henbane, smaJJage, and black poppy, of eac}l
like quantity, bruised together, and tempered with
the juice of hemlock, that which is so hid, shall
never be discovered or taken away; for they affirm
that spiritual intelligences shall continually bear
watch over it; and if any one shall endeavour to
take it away, he shall be hurt by these invisible
agents, or will become possessed of an incurable
uenzy.-MSS. qf Co,·nelius Agrippa.
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. II.
1'UE MOST FORTUNATE TIMES OF THE D.AY
TO BE BORN, BY THE COURSE OF THE SUN.
THE lloroscope, or twelve houses of heaven, made
use of by astrologers in their scientific researches,
are constituted by dividing the path or diurnal
course of the sun, in his rising, culminating, setting,
and coming to the midnight quadrant (or in other
words, of the earth's diurnal motion around its own
axis, although the forma is more easily compre-
hended). Hence there arc certain times of the day,
throughout the year, which nre more likely to cause
Digitized by Coogle
61
11tivitiea of notoriety, fame, and success, or emi-
nence in life, than others ; the philosophical cause
of which is neither more or less than the particular
position of the sun, with respect to that part o(
heaven he may happen to be in, when the infant
stranger first draws breath in this sublunary region,
and becomes subject to what Shakspeare terms
" the skiey influences.''
OP THOSE WHO ARE BORN NEAR TilE IIIDDLE OF
THE DAY.
Persons, therefore, of either sex, who are born
auring the winter season, from eleven to twelve
o'clock in the day; in the summer season, from ten
to twelve ; and during the spring and autumn sea-
lOlls, from half past ten o'clock till noon day; will
have tbe sun in the tenth house or meridian of their
nativities; and from that circumstance alone (owing
to the great power of the sun over the respectability
or dignity of life), will, making due allowances for
talents and education, be than usuallgluccu'.ful
,;troted in their pursuits; will generally spend the
greater part of their lives in some active or honour-
able mode of business or profession ; will have nume-
rous connexions and acquaintances tif or of an
aonourable nature; and may be thus said to be born
Females born near noon-day, usually
marry either advantageously, or much above the
natural course of their expectations.
Of course, those who are born nearest to noon
day (b-ut not past it), are the most fortunate; for the
IOiar influence is then most powerful.
Digitized by Google
OF THE FATE OF THOSE BORN N.EAD.
Pursuing the same philosophical mode of reaoon-
ing, it will be found that those, who are born in the
winter season, from two hours preceding midnight
(or from ten to twelve o'cJock at night), will he from
astral causes born also to distinction, publicity, and
a proportionable share of eminence. Those born in
the summer season, from eleven to twelve at night,
and in the spring and autumn, from about a
quarter past eleven o'clock till twelve at night,
will be fated to the same success and good fortune,
the sun being in those person's horoscopes, in the
corth angle of the heaven : yet those persons are by
no means so fortunate as others born at the ·same
hours in the day time (unless other configurations
exist to add to the solar influence); and it is a sin-
gular peculiarity in nativities of this kind, that those
born within an hour or two of midnight, have uni-
formly the most remarkable events of their lives take
place after their thirtieth year is gone bg. Whereas
those born near noon, are popular the greater partof
their lives, both before and after thirty.
Persons born with the majority of the planets
under the earth, are liable to extraordinary events in
the latter half of their lives, in the same way; and
it is generally the case, that persons born near mid-
night, are certain of some kind of a name after death,
meritorious or otherwise, as the horoscope in itself
·evinces.
Some authors affirm, that persons hom at those
times (that is, near ele,·en or twelve o'clock at night,)
are subject to see visions, dream curious dreaDll,
pursue singular flights of genius and imagination, and
Digitized by Coogle
fD be for the DlOet part believers m the wodd o
spirits.
OF THOSE BORN NEAR SUN-RISING.
For the same reason, those who are born within
an hour preceding or succeeding sun-rise, are fated
to have a very active and frequently honourable
existence, to rise by their own exertions, and to
have eminent and remarkable friends.
OF THOSE BORN NEAR SUN-SETTING.
Lastly, penons hom with the sun in the seventh
bouse, or in the summer season within two hours of
nn-set, and in the winter within an hour ofsun-set.
ue certain to be very succeasful and active in busi •
ness, and expert in merchandize. Females usuall)
marry in very respectable stations, although it is far
more fortunate to be born near noon-day or sun-
riling.
OF PERSONS BORN FORTUNATE, ACCORDING TCI
THE MOON'S COURSE.
In every almanac, there is given the time of what
ia termed the " motm'l IOUlhing :" this is the time
when the moon crosses the meridian ; now those
penons who are hom toilhin an hour and a half pre-
etding tM MJUthing of the moo11, and withi" half an
w it, have the moon in the tenth bouse
of heaven, and are fated to be travellers, to see far
distant countries, and to have a most remarkable
life; replete with diversities, changes, and, in many
respects, a great variety of good and evil fortune.
But for changes, publicity, notoriety, and extensive
acquaintances, their horoscopes are generally re-
Digitized by Coogle
mark.ahle ; the moon having wonderful power when
in, or near the meridian, over the lives and fortunes
of all who are born under such a celestial position.
Again, those who are born within half an hour of
the moon's rising andsetting, (which is also easily seen
by the most commonalmanac), have the moon angular
either in the first or seventh house; and conse-
quently are certain to be either seafaring persons,
travellers, or subject to the most extraordinary
changes. But it is more fortunate of the two, to be
born near the moon's rising, rather than the setting;
as the ascendant in all nativities has the greatest
efficacy.
By attention to those foregoing simple rules, those
persons who know nothing of astrological calcula-
tions, may learn something of the fate to which they
are destined. The._following curious facts, which
have already been noticed in the different periodicals
of the day, are sufficient to prove the theory or
LUNAR INFLUENCE.
If an animal, first killed, be exposed to the full
effulgence of the moon beams, it will in a few hours
become a mass of corruption ; whilst another animal
not exposed to such influence, and only a few feet
distant, will not be in the slightest manner affected.
Fruits also, when exposed to the moonshine, have
been known to ripen much more readily than those
which have not; and plants, shut out from the sun's
rays and from light, and consequently bleached, have
been observed to assume their natural appearance if
exposed to the rays of a full moon.
In South America, trees cut at the full moon, split
almost immediately, as if torn asunder by great
Digitized by Coogle
extemal fOrce. The writer of theee obaerYet, •• 1111
tltue are mnarlcahk tmd t«lluta!J/UIIedflldl, but have
Dl!ver u yet been accounted for."
NATitrl'iiS.
BIJf'l"l AND DJSCOVJtlliES FOR STUDENTS.
hr these remarks, I shall from time to time, intro-
duce to the student's notice, those facts and observa-
tions which, being the result of a long tried and
experienced practice, it is presumed will be highly
worthy of his most serious and profound attention.
The Ce/e1titll PeriOtk of Mar1 a11d the Sun.
In my late " Manual of A1tro/ogy.'' I have given
at large the particular periods of each celestial orb ;
of course it is not requisite to repeat the instruction
there given. I now beg leave merely to point out
the periods of two powerful planets ; the first of
which is that of t , which it will be observed is nine-
teen years. That is, in every nativity t returns to
his place at birth, when nineteen years are com-
pleted from the birthday. and of course forms
various zodiacal aspects with the different stars in
the nativity, according as they may be placed in
house,sign, oraspect. Suppose, for instance. a person
hasthe 0 in nineteen M in his nativity,and t in nine-
teen 111.; now at nine years and six months(which ia
the half period of t ) Mars comes to the conjunction,
or place of the sun at birth, and at nineteen years
be returns to his own place, which is in opposition
thereto. Each of these, if the sun were hyleg,
Digitized by Coogle
be productive of serious illness; but whether he
were hyleg or not, would give much trouble. It is
the same thing with the other aspects of the planets :
for instance, were t and in a zodiacal a at birth,
(a well known evil aspect), every conjunction, quar-
tile, or opposite ray, which Mars forms by his peri-
odical circuit with Mercury, would renew the trouble
thereby denoted. This would take place, in such a
case, every successive period of four years and nine
months the time of his quartile, of nine years and
six months his opposition, and of nineteen years his
co,Yunction, or return io his place in the radix.
Again, suppose a female to have and !i in ami-
cable aspect in her nativity; every nineteen years,
Mars would come to his own place, and renew the
denotations of the figure. Now it is a well known
fact among students in astrology, that nine females
out of ten are involved in a love affair when about
the age of nineteen years old, which arises solely
from and t being in some kind of configuration
at birth, whereby Mars returning to his radical
place at the age of nineteen, of course produces a
love affair, which is pleasant or otherwise, as the
aspect in the horoscope portends ; pleasant, if t and 1
!i be in friendly aspect, and the contrary, if in evil
configuration.
The Sun has the same period as Mars, but his 1
configurations not producing such warmth of passion
or intensity of feeling as Mars; females usually
marry more for respectability and advancement in
life, than for the tender passion, under his aspects.
The Princess Charlotte married exactly (evm to
a do!J) as the Sun came to the place of Jupiter, by
this mode of direction; and what is more singular
Digitized by Coogle
Jtill, 11. in =. described the person of her
h118band ! This is a well known and illustrious
instance ofthe truth of these periods of the planets;
and which no one can disprove. On the day of that
lamented princess's birth, the 0 was posited in
16° 54' "i• and 1t. in 12° 12' =: now, at nineteen
years old, the sun returned to his zodiacal place; and
in sixteen months be would have moved, on the same
ICilk, the exact number of degrees and minutes to
bring him to the conjunction of -. . I mention this
chiefly as a praxis for the student in other calcula-
tions.
The chief excellence of the planetary periods con-
lists in this,-that, allowing the time of birth to be
erroneous for several hours, many events of life may
be discovered by their means, without difficult cal-
culations. This is a desideratum in astrology.
" To bow by np to judge the tuna or rate,
Ia greater than to 60 the Ieala or .tate;
Tile ruling atara above, by .ecret lawa,
Determine Fortune ill her .ecoud C&Uie.
'l'be1e are a book whereiu we all may read,
ADd all abo11ld bow, who would ill life ncceecl,
What COrreapoDdeDt ngru iD 1D&D diaplay
HitJ future acti0111-poiut his devioua way,-
Thua iD the beaveu hia future rate to lean.
'The prelellt, put, aud future to diacem ;
('.correct bia step., improve the houra or life,
And, ahiiDIIiarerror, li•e de•oid or strife.'.'
"
Digitized by Coogle
58
REMARKABLE HOROSCOPES, EVINCING THl
POWER OF THE STARS IN LIFE AND DEATH.
{'i'
f/'
::
.aS
0•
-
R. A.
I 1
1\IISS STOCKDALE,
BoaN Rb. 4, 1809,
9 H. 35 l\l. Cloclc time,
or 9 H. 211\I. mean Solartime.
DIED, July 4, 1820.
11
PLANETS'
0 IZ' :w S.
J) 7 15 s.
f1 18 52 s.
'U 4 0 s.
8 7 30 s.
i 4 12 r.;,
6 13 :-1.
Iii 14 !2 s.
Digitized by Coogle
_,
IN the course of the following Work, it i• my
intention to insert the Nativities of those persona
Olliy, whose names, or those of their families, are
either known to the public, or open to their inqui-
ries; that the enemies of this sublime science may
readily tucertuin whether the stars have really the
power we astrologers assign to them, or whether
their influence is merely imaginary. This wiJise"e
to promote the cause of truth, at any rate, should it
do nothing else: -I trust, however, the exaaples
will be also valuable in celestial philosophy.
THE NATIVITY OF MISS STOC)(DALE.
The above horoscope is a correct delineation ot
the heavens and heavenly bodies, at the birth of
Miss Stockdale, daughter of Mr. Stockdale, the
IIIA('dbookseller and publisher, formerly of Pall Mall.
Itwas obtained by Mr. John Varley, the well kuomt
artist, from the young lady's parents, from whom
the author of this book received it ; and certainly it
exhibits a most striking proof of alStral agency over
the lives and destinies of finite mortals!
The subject thereof, a particularly interesting and
amiable girl, departed this life on the 4th of July,
1>.<20, at the age of eleven years and nearly fi\'t!
months. By inspecting the scheme, it will be mani-
fest that the ascendant ia the true hyleg, or" gi,·cr
oflife," as astrologers term it; and the planet Saturn
lhe auareia, or "destroyer of life:" since that planet
is posited in an evil position, without a single ray
from either of the fortunes; and nearly in zodiacal
}larlllcl to Herschel. And at the time of death the
Digitized by Coogle
GO
same planet came to a semiquartile of the ascendant,
which is thus calculated :-
0
The ascensional difference of Is 25 29
To this add (as 1:? is in a Southern sign) 90 0
This gives the semi-nocturnal arc of 115 29
Then,
To the right ascension of I;>
Add half his semi-arc
Subtract from this the right ascension
241 40
57 45
299 25
of the lmum Creli 288 II
The arc of direction II 14
This, by the Table of Time, answers exactly to eleven
years and five months, the period of dissolution.
SummaT'!} of Fatal Arcs.
Months.
The ascendant to the semiquartile of 11 5 D EA Til
The ascendant to the conjunction of t 14 3 ---
At the time of the horoscope being calculated, the
skilful artist who obtained it was of opinion that the
fatal arc was the ascendant to the o of t. Dut the
attentive student will perceive that the planet t was
by no means so evil as since he is in biquintile
to .Tupiter, and nearly in parallel to both and s.,
which must have warded off his evil effects. This
nativity sets at rest the question of the efficacy or
non-efficacy of the semiquartile ray. I have, in the
course of my practice, inv'ariably found that the
Digitized by Coogle
61
semiquartile and sesquiquadrate from the second
and eighth houses was of equal, if not of superior,
force to the quartile or opposition. Tbe student who
has followed the erroneous rules of former authors,
may here see the truth of the hylegiacal places
dmwnstrated. The estimate time was taken within
two minutes of the time here given. I leave this
remarkable example for the serious of
my scientific readers, ·being an authenticated horo-
scope, it merits their closest attention.
Digitized by Google
62
ANCIENT DIVINATION
BY THE
WHF:EL OF PYTIIAGORASj
Wllic/1 is said to resolve all Questions, Past, Present,
and Future.
PART I.
THE "'HEEL.
Digitized by Coogle
TnE Ancients, who extremely fond of divina-
oon, were wont to place great confidence in t.be
"Wheel of Pythagoras," which resolves queations
ily Aritkmancy, or a species of sortilegy by num-
bers; wherein the result depends upon the unfettered
agency of mind and will, or intent to know "any
difficult" thing."
The Wheel of Pythagoras is said by furmer WTitera
to resolve u all queationa the asker may wish to be
acquainted with, whether of the past time, the pre-
aent time, or of the future." The followiny are said
lObe
The Quesliom th.e Wheel answers.
1. 1f a horse shall win the race?
2. If a prisoner shall come out of prison?
3. If a sick person shall recover or die?
4. If an absent person shall return ?
:. If the city besieged shaH be taken ?
6. Of two fighters, which shall prevail?
7. If the sickness shall be long or short?
8. If a suit at law shall be gained ?
9. If thy wishes shall succeed?
10. If the day shall be fortunate?
II. If stolen or lost things shall be recovere.J
12. If it be good to buy or sell?
13. If the asker shall marry?
14. If ·the undertaking shall succeed?
i5. If the asker is fortunate or unfortunate ?
16. If any matter or thing whatever shall end
or ill?
Digitized by GoogIe
64
E.l'planation of the Wlteel.
The Wheel, it will be perceived. is divided into
four compartments. the upper half of which contains
in order the numbers which are termed propitious,
good, and fortunate; the lower half contains those
numbers of a contrary kind, or those which are
termed evil, unpropitious, and unfortunate.
Round the Wheel are the letters of the Alphabet,
to which are placed certain corresponding numbers
which are required in the calculations: (these will
be explained in Part 2). Besides which, the num-
bers in the right half of the wheel are said to denote
"Long Time," or that the question which has these
numbers in the working will be a length of time
about; and those in the left half of the wheel are
said to signify a short or brief space of tirae ere the
affair is accomplished. Next follow the
TABLES IN WORKING THE WHEEL.
1. The Mystical Numbers of each Day i11 the W«!o
Sunday 106
Monday 52
Tuesday 52
Wednesday 102
Thursday 31
Friday 68
Saturday 4.5
2. The Mmzbers of the Planets ruling the DaJ.t.
0 34 Thursday lf. i8
Monday l> Jn Friday 'l -45
Tuesday l 39 Saturday J..
Wednesday 114
Digitized by Coogle
66
3. 7L Nlnllkr•lll k clwm 11J Chance (tU '--,fttr
upiGtwti) ;, ti)()J'Iiltg. tile
1 11 22 28
I 29
6 2 12 23
I 30
15 I 7 3 13
I 24
I
19
I 16
I 8
I .. 14
25
I 20
I 17
I 9 5
27
I 26
I 21 18 10
The numbers attributed to the days of the week.
and of the planet ruling the day, are of very ancient
origin ; and for which it would be difficult to aaaign
a reason, or even account for in any way consonant
with Astrological Science. They are, however, as
well as the Wheel, a relic of former traditioMl fore-
knowledge by lots or numbers; probably invented,
tike Geomancy, in the monastic soJitude of the
ciddle ages. The manuscript from whence this is
compiled appears to have been written as early as
the fifteenth century.-lt was purchased at a high
price at the sale of the late Mr. Cosway's library.
But Christopher Cattan, a very old author, whose
works are rare and expensive, makes some mentton
thereof; yet he fails in describing the manner of
uaing the numbers, and in other parts of tl\e
DrOCeu.
I
Digitized by Google
66
Artthmancy, or Divination by Numbers, on which
the Wheel is founded, was variously practised.
Many stupendous " Tomes," in the dead languages,
now obsolete and forgotten, were to be found,
explaining the "Arte and Manner" of these curious
proceedings ; in which the letters of the party's
name were said to contain many hidden arcana,
when decyphered by the "mysteries of numbers."
The ancients went so far in these particulars, as to
declare their belief that each individual may know
the chief secrets of his destiny by the help of his
name, or patronymical appellation ; and also that
there exists a peculiar sympathy between the name
and the pursuits throughout life. These facts are
here stated merely to apprise the reader of the un-
limited fondness of the ancients for every kind of
Aruspicy or Soothsaying, no matter how or where it
was accomplished.
There have been several Italian writers of emi-
nence who have treated of the power of numbers
when chosen or combined by" lot;" amongst whom
stands Trithemius, the famous Abbot of
Spanheim, whose work, entitled" Steganography,''
is exceedingly mystical, rare, and curioua, but has
never been translated into English.
The Italians have also made use of the "Wheel
ci Pythagoras" for finding out fortunate numbers in
the Lottery; as the following extract from the life of
The celebrated Count Cagliostro
w11l sufficiently prove.
" 'The lottery,' says the count, 'was at this time
(Ill the point of commencing ; the daily discourses
ot Scot on this eubject (who, like Vitellina, was
addicted to <tll game:. of chance) brought to my
Digitized by Coogle
IDiDd a mana.clipt which I had in my pouer · •:
it contained IDimY curioua cabalistieal operations bJ
tumben; by the aid ofwhich, amongatother sec&letB,.
the author .et forth the actual pouibUily ,f cal·
tolating numben lotteries.
" •I bad ever cooaidered this as a vague and
enthusiastic idea, but had long contracted the habit
of suspendiag my judgment Oil those thinp 1 had
W>t particularly made the object of ay •1*8"
latiooa.•
" He wu reaolved, he telle 111, to ,..., the tnadl
or falsehood ofU.oae auertiooe ; and, by adheringto
the rulea prescribed in the maauacript. for the 6th
of November be predicted the number 20. 1 On
tbia,' ays he, •Seot riaked a trifte, and 10011; but
by number !6, which wu calculated for the ensuio«
he gained upwards of oae hundred guineas !
"'The IMitllben 60 and 67 were announced with
eqaal lUCCI!# for the 18da of November ; the profita
of which days were equally divided between Vitel-
liu, and the pretended Lady Scot.
1 Judge my astonishment,' says the Count, 1 at
perceiving the exactnesa of those calculations I had
ie&el.ed to be but a mere chimera ! Tile pouibility
oi aaell calculation• I most entirely submit to the
detenaination of the reader ; but was this un-
common success the effect of human skill or of
aatire cha.Dce !'
"The Count. from a point of delicacy, thought
proper to the repeated solicitations of Scot,
&:c., by reeolutely refuting to predict other numbers.
Scot exerted every effort to strengthen his intent
with the Count. 'ue presented Madame Cagliostro
with the trimming of a cloak worth four or five
Digitized by Coogle
68
guineas; in return for which, as he would not
mortify him by a refusal, the Count presented him,
on the same day, with a gold box, value twenty-five
guineas; and, to free himself from further impor-
tunity, ordered his servant to deny him both to
Scot and Miss Fry, which was the real name of the
pretended lady.
" The latter, however, in a few days gained ad-
mission to Lady Cagliostro. She informed her in
broken accents, accompanied with tears, that she
was for ever ruined ; Scot, she said, to whom she
had the weakness to be attached, having decamped
with the profits arising from the lottery, leaving her
with his three children entirely destitute. This
imaginary tale produced the intended result Ma-
dame Cagliostro, touched with the pretended misery
of her situation, generously interceded with the
Count in her behalf, who, at her request, sent her a
guinea, and, for the ensuing day, the chance of
number 8.
"Flushed with her former success, she now believed
ihe calculations of her benefactor infallible ; and,
having procured cash upon her effects, she boldly
risked a considerable sum on the above number.
Fate was again propitious! On the 7th of Decem-
ber, the number eigltt emerged from the wheel of
fortune!
"This extraordinary chance, on which the Count
did not risk a single guinea, returned to Scot and
Miss Fry (whose quarrel was fabulous) the full
aum of one thousand five hundred guineas!"
Cagliostro's Life, p. 22.
Digitized by Coogle
69
MISCELLANIES,
AIIUSING AND SELECT.
A SIMPLE AND PJ,EASJNG WA I' TO MAKE A PO&TA•
BLE SUN-DIAL OF A CARD.
THE lines ad, a h, and h c, of the gnomon (or pin
of the dial), must be cut quite through the card;
and, as the end of a b or the gnomon is raised occa-
sionally above the plane of the dial, it turns upon
the uncut line c d as on a hinge. The dotted line
A II must penetrate through the card, :1nd the thread
Digitized by Google
7()
c must pass through that line, and have a knot tied
behind, to preserve it from being easily drawn out.
Upon the other end of this thread . is a small
plummet D, and in the middle of it, a small bead
for pointing out the hour of the day.
To rectifg thu dial, set the thread in the slit, right
against the day of the month, and stretch the thread
from the day of the month over the angular point,
where the curve lines meet at XII; then shift the
bead to that point on the thread, and the dial will be
correct.
To find tke hour of tke da!J, raise the gnomon (no
matter how much or little), and hold the edge of
the dial next the gnomon towards the sun, so as the
uppermost edge of the gnomon may just cover the
1hadow line; and the bead then playing freely on the
face of the dial, by the weight of the plummet, will
show the time of the day amongst the hour lines,
as it may be forenoon or afternoon.
Tu find the time of sun-rising and setting, move the
thread among the hour lines, until it either covers
some one of them, or lies parallel between any
two; and then it will cut the time of sun-rising
among the forenoon hours, or of sun-setting among
the afternoon hours, for that day of the year to
which the thread is set in the scale of months.
To find the mn'1 declination, stretch thread
from the day of the month over the angular point at
xu, and it will cut the sun's declination, as it is
aorth or south for that day, the arched scale ofnorth
and south declination.
To find on wluzt day tke sun enter1 the 1igm; when
the bead, as above rectified, along any of tb.e
icurved lines which have the signs of the zodiac
'
Digitized by Coogle
'11
marked OD them, the 111n enten thoae mgu OD file
days pointed out by the thread in the scale of
IDODths.
TO MAKE A ROOX APPEAR IN PLAX&I.
A marvellou1 11/tuion of tlze Fancy.
Take half an ounce of sal-ammoniac, one ounce
of camphor, and two ounces of aqua-vita! (or recti..
fied spirits of wine), put them into an earthen pot.
narrowing towards the top, and set fire to it.
The efFect will be immediate, and 10 alarming,
that the persons in the room will even fancy their
own garments are on fire ; but the illusory ftamea
will nevertheless do no harm. This waa in former
times accounted a rare secret.
THE FAMOUS ALKAHEST,
UNIVERSAL DISSOLVENT OP THE ANCI&NTI.
According to Paracelsua and Van Belmont, there
is a certain fluid in nature capable of reducing all
sublunary bodies, or dissolving them into their
original matter ; or into an uniform portable liquor
that will unite with water, ud the juices of our
bodies.
Van Belmont, declaring that Ae himself possessed
tie leCret, excited aucceeding chemists and alche-
miata to the pursuit of so wonderful a menstruum ;
'.Dd Hr. Boyle, the celebrated chemist, is said to
.ave declared, that " he had rather have been
llalter of it than of the philoeopher's atone."
Digitized by Coogle
72
'fhe different conjecturesof chemists, with regard
to the matterof thealkahest, are innumerable ; somP.
expected to obtain it from sea-salt and mercury ;
others wrought on equinoctial dew; others on rain-
water; others on talc, on zinc, on antimony, &c.
Kunkel, in ridicule of the universal dissolvent,
asks, " If the alkahest dissolves all substances, in
what vessel can it be contained ?" But this question
may be partially set aside, when it is considered that
the menstruum might be weakened so as to be occa-
sionally kept in that vessel which has the greatest
power to resist its effects, or it might be contained
in a continuous number of vessels, as it is not to be
supposed that the effect would be instantaneous.
And the fact of so great a man as Boyle giving cre-
dence to the possibility ofsuch a mixture, certainly
goes far to free those persons from the charge of cre-
dulity, who are believers therein at the present day;
of which there are many; t....ey, also, men of
and genius !
TALISMANS.
THE extraordinary interest which has been excited
by the author of Waverley's celebrated romance o(
" The Talisman," has, it appears, created a pretty
general desire for becoming acquainted with those
mysterious agents (as they are said to be) in the
laboratory of nature. And hence also, the author
of this book has toiled amidst many a dusky and
worm-eaten memorial of former times, in order to
give an accurate description of the most esteemed
Digitized by Google
73
Talismans, which those ancient manuscripts tre•t
In additioD to which, be has chosen $UCh at
to be facile in construction ; and by the t.ase with
v.ilich the reader can thus make them, itwill be &qoll
manifest whether their powers are real or imaginary.
Wlakk u1aid to give V.cto'l' over Enemiu.
This Talisman must be engraved on pure iron.
The metal must be moulded into the above form ou
the day of Mars (which is Tuelda!J), and in his hour
(which is the first and eighth hour of that day),
while the moon is in sextile, or trine to Mars, which
every astrologer knows, and which the ephemeris
will teach. It must be engraven at the same time,
or under similar aspects, and in the increase of the
moon.
Vhen completed(the utmost care being that
it is began and ended under the required aspects),
the person for whom it is made must retire to some
aecret place, and fumigating it with the magical
aul'umigation of the spirita of Mars, which consists
.a:
Digitized by Coogle
of red saunders. frankincense, and pepper, must
proceed to suspend it from some part of the body,
where it will be kept clean and secret ; or it may be
worn on the finger as a ring, the characters being
engraven inside (the size of the Talisman being of no
consequence) next to the finger.
This is said to be the identical sign which the
Emperor Constantine saw in the heavens, previous
to his embracing Christianity. And it is also said
to " give victory over every earthly enemy, being·
rightly formed."-Jft/SS. Key to Agrippa.
The writings of the ancients are filled with the
various effects and descriptions of Talismans, many
of which were formed of the most costly materials;
as of "gold, silver, and rubies." The following,
worn in a ring, is said to prove of great and sur-
prising efficacy in the way of acquiring powerful
friends, and overcoming the evils of life: it is termed
by an old manuscript
"TilE RING OF STRENGTH."
" Let a ring be formed of virgin gold; on the day
of the suo, and in the hour of Jupiter, in the moon's
increase, wherein thou shalt place seven precious
stones-the DIAMOND, the RuBY, the EMERALD,
the J A CYNTH, the SAPPHIRE, the BERYL, and the
ToPAz. Wear it about thee, and fear no mao; lOr
thou wilt be im·incible as Achilles."-MSS 1/
PhilmJ.cipizu1.
Digitized by Coogle
TilE
TALISMAN OF ST. BARNABAS.
A LEGE 'D OF CHEA PSlDE.
THE very ancient cu tom of commercial society
hich induced tho e per on who exerci ed the
amc profe. i n or occupation to re ide together,
al o the origin of such place being erected..
beautified, or named, by tho e liberal individuals
who wi hed to rai e their profe ions in dignity and
:mpurtauce. lany in tances of thi practice might
be mentioned, but the nresent narrative require u
Digitized by Coogle
only to refer to that part of Cheapside anciently
standing opposite the end of Wood-street, and then
called Goldsmiths'-row. It consisted of a: series of
wooden houses and shops, having their can·ed gables
turned to the street, and erected, according to the
antique custom of London, in one frame of four
stories in height; each of which projected over that
beneath. Below these buildings were fourteen small
and rather dark shops, the deep unglazed windows
of which were covered with a heavy tiled pent-
house, having a rich display of gold and silver ves-
sels in the interior ; to guard which, as well as to
solicit custom, the master or some of his servants
continually stood before the door.
The fronts of these erections were adorned with
their respective signs and several sculptures in wood,
whilst in the centre edifice was a large ornamental
tablet cast in lead, and richly painted and gilt,
intended at once to commemorate the title of
row itself, and of its generous founder; since it
represented the Goldsmiths' Arms, with figures of
woodmen riding on monstrous beasts, exprt'Ss'i've of
the name of Thomas \Vood, goldsmith and sherill',
who not only built these shops and houses in
but .endowed them with certain sums of money, to
be lent to such young citizens as should first inhabit
them.
To this pile of building, then-which was consi-
dered the glory of Cheapside, of London, and of
England-there removed an old and rather a humor-
ous personage, a bachelor, named Ignatius Touch-
stone, who resided in the principal tenement, known
by the sign of the Chalice and Unicorn, being ap-
pointed a sort of governor over the junior membent
Digitized by Coogle
77
fl Master Wood's foundation. And, indeed, the
ancient goldsmith was excellently adapted for such
an appointment, since his professional skill wu
known and esteemed wherever a ship had, at thia.
period, found a passage. His damasquined
pons were coveted, his plate and jewellery were
equaJJy admired in court and castle, and his chapel
fumitUTe was so highly valued, that pontiff and
priest were alike desirous of possessing his crosiers,
patinas, shrine8, lamps, and flagons. Whilst he
was thus the very prototype of the mad Florentine,
Benvenuto Cellini, in tkill, he also possessed a very
large portion of his fiery temper; though, when he
came to blows, he had recourse to a long and stout
oaken walking-staff, choicely carved by tbe famoUB
Albrecht Durer, and mounted in gold with his own
band, instead of the more destructive weapons of the
Italian. With this instrument, which he humorously
ftl1ed " the book of gocXl manners,'' he commonly
made a considerable impression in every dispute, and
wu particularly successful in using it to coD\·ince
·his wild kinsman and apprentice, Pierce Malefant,
ef idleness and lewd revelry; his lessons and disci-
pline on which commonly began at rather an early
hour in the morning. It was also not unfrequently
with him to open this said volume, and to pursue hit
scholar through the streets with it, whenever he
him loitering at a pageant, a tavern, or a procession,
through Cheapside. For, to speak truth, it should
be observed, that Master Pierce very much resem-
bled the idle apprentice in Chaucer's exquisite frag-
ment of " The Coke's Tale;" for which reason, the
wholeeome ®use, and even the oaken arguments, of
tbe ancient goldsmith were by no means uncalled for.
Digitized by Coogle
78
As this character, too, was tolerably well known
the neighbours, it was eeldom thought wonderful
to see them both racing through the street of West-
cheap; the one laying about him with a host of
hard words, and yet harder blows, and the other
flying along, half in mockery and half in fear. In
due time, however, notwithstanding Master Touch-
stone's rigid government, his pupil became indif-
ferently good at his art. He possessed both a fair
face and a bold presence, being always out first
when the other apprentices began to cry " Clubs!"
He had a good voice in a stave, and a light foot in a
galliard; though he was chiefly known for an auda-
cious spirit, that seemed formed either for making a
fortune or stretching a halter, and so unbounded an
ambition, that, provided he arrived at wealth and
power, he cared not greatly whether the road lay
nearest to virtue or to villainy. And, indeed, the
aspect of the times was such, that any bold or enter-
prising spirit might exp'ect to prosper in them.
There were many alarming symptoms of discontent
in England : an insecure peace was existing with
France, and the party of Perkin Warbeck, the ficti-
tious Duke of York, continued to rapidly increase.
King Henry VII. had prohibited all intercourse with
Flanders, and the importation of all Flemish wares.
The English merchants had, therefore, no other mart
than Calais for the sale of their goods, which greatly
decreased their credit; while the Flemish merchants
who were settled and protected in England carried
on a trade with their own countries, and from their
warehouses at the Still-yard, on the riYer bank,
continued to supply all who had hitherto been fur-
nished with goods by the citizens of London.
Digitized by Coogle
79
Their success naturally produced the strongest feel-
ings of envy and diSlike in the civic traders, until.
at length, their smouldered hatred broke forth in the
most furious acts of open revenge. Such was then
the state of London at the period our narrative com-
mences, which, to fix it precisely, is about six
o'clock in the morning of Monday, October the .
7th, in the year of human Redemption 1493, and
the 9th of the reign of King Henry VII.
The public fountain in Cheapside was at this time
a place of universal intercourse for the apprentices
of London, at which meetings were appointed, dis-
ports planned, their rights and privileges debated,
and measures of offence and defence concerted. It
was known by the name of the Lesser Conduit,
consisting of a short square turret, with four basins
and an embattled top, built of stone, and lined with
lead. It was at this-..time surmounted by a fair
gothic cupola and vane ; for it had been erected
only about sixty years, and repaired still more
recently by licence from Henry IV. It was filled
from the Great Conduit at Bucklersbury, with a
stream brought from Paddington. As pipes, how-
ever, for the supply of private houses, were not then
invented, the water was conveyed to them in large
wooden tankards, hooped with iron, and having
massy handles, chains, and moveable covers ; and
in some ancient views of Comhill and Cheapside,
the conduits are represented with a host of these
,·easels standing about them.
At the time of this narrative, most citizens were
served by their own apprentices, especially those
whose houses stood so immediately in the vicinity of
the conduits as did Master Ignatius Touchstone's in
Digitized by Coogle
80
the Goldsmiths'-row. It was this day with no good
will that Master Pierce Malefant took up his heavy
tankard and went him forth to the Little Conduit in
Cheap, which was constructed in the Standard, at
the end of Honey-lane, or about opposite to the
north door of the present Bow Church. As he
hastily advanced, his associates received him with
a clamorous resolution, some greeting, some jesting,
but most with laughter, and all with good humour;
till his own ill-humour was partly assuaged by the
intelligence he received of a conspiracy among his
brother apprentices, the ostensible purpose of which
was a plot to burn the warehouses of the Flemish
merchants, and destroy their goods, in revenge for
the loss of credit sustained by their c:vic anta-
gonists.
"Now, Pierce Malefant,'' began Dominic, as soon
as they were clear of the crowd, at the same time
drawing him under a dark pent-house by Bow
Church, and speaking in a low tone, "do not I
utter your thoughts, when I state that you desire to
avenge yourself upon him whom you serve ?''
" What fiend told you that ?'' exclaimed Pierce,
starting back ; " and yet, to say the truth, I "
"Aye, aye," interrupted he, "I knew it well!
His morning curses and his daily blows could not
but fire such a free young spirit as thine. Now,
mark what I am about to tell thee. Some seven
nights past, I went, about eight of the clock, to
carry a fair parchment missal, and a rosary of san-
dal wood, to Master Lumpfish, in the Bridge-street;
and as I returned by the Still-yard, I saw two men
come out, one of whom I knew to be an Almaine,
named Cornelius Zaubergoldt; a man shrewdly
Digitized by Coogle
auapected of magical aud uugodly arte. He
gave the other a brass box, bidding him guard it u
his. life, since it contained that which would make
or mar them for ever ; above all, he was to keep the
casket shut, as the thing within it was a fiend,
which he bad with much labour confined there, and
would prove one of the foulest spirits of the deep,
should it once get loosened. They spake all this in
a very joyful manner; and when Cornelius had
gone in again, I traced the stranger to your dwell-
ing; I saw him enter with the fiendish box, and wot
it could be no other than Master Touchstone him-
self!.,
"What wouldst thou do, then, good scribe of the
Westcheap ?'' asked Pierce. " Wouldst have me
break open the casket, and Jet the deYil loose
upon OS?"
"I do not ask thee to loose the demon," answered
Dominic ; " but methinks that a true son of the Holy
Church should ever help to resist the Devil: I pro-
mise you that his Grace of Canterbury well guer-
dons tbO&e who do, and sorely disciplines those who
do not. Avise yourself of it, then, and peer about
closely for more charges;, for with this act of witch-
craft brought home to the Flemings, and our own
force to boot, down they go, an' they were an hun-
dred fold stronger than they be.''
" Well, well,'' replied the yielding Pi(>rce, " thou
bast wrought strange feelings within me :-where
shall we two meet at night, to confer more of this
matter alone ?"
"Nowhere better than on this very spot," was
the au.swer, "an hour after Bow-be!l has. rung lor
.1.
Digitized by Coogle
82
curfew; but thou wilt come to us at the Roya
Rose?"
"I may not promise that," rejoined Malefant,
"but do thou say for me that I will not fail to rise
and join them with the first outcry." The two
worthies then separated ; Dominic taking a cir-
cuitous road to his own dwelling, whilst Master
Pierce, bearing the tankard on his shoulder, returned
to the abode of Master Touchstone.
As the night had proved more damp and gloomy
than is usual for so early an October evening, Mas-
ter Touchstone took his departure to his club, which,
to complete the strange features of these times, was
held under the authority of Absolon Chine (a whim-
aical character, formerly well known throughout
Westcheap for his quaint humour, and his office as
sexton of St. Mary-le-Bow) in the belfry of the
Church; where the eldest, and the merriest, and the
most singular of the elders, would meet on winter's
evenings, to laugh, quaff, and sing, or play away
the hours, until nine o'clock gave notice that the
guardian of Bow-bell should toll the curfew. On
Master Touchstone's departure, his apprentice re-
mained alone ;· with the less regret, on account of
being employed in planishing a silver charger for
the ensuing Lord Mayor's day, until .Absolon's
curfew should release him from labour. The figures
with which it was decorated were
intended to represent that Industry and Skill are
the discoverers of concealed treasures ; and as
he burnished the emhlems of wealth, he could
not avoid reflecting up0n his own ambitious visions,
and execrating the fate which confined him to
Digitized by Coogle
83
manual labo 1r, and the caprices of a humoroua
master.
" I would to St. Mildred !" said Pierce, half
aloud ; '' I would to St. Mildred, now, that any of
the gold which men say is in the earth were to
fall to my share ; and, by the bones! I'd never
question whence it "came, or who placed it there;
for full sure am I that there be shorter roads to
riches than this toiliDg at furnace and hammer.
The sprite in yonder casket might perchuce tell
some tidings of this ; and 1 know not what lets me
now from asking it myself. But what if the fiend
prove too stark for me when his prison is open,
and fly away with the Goldsmiths'-row t Mass I
that were a foul thing truly ! and small ruth
would be shown to me, for 1 should carry a
faggot to Powle's, as sure as the holy thorn
blossoms at Christmas."
How strong-his fear or his good resolutions might
have proved, it is impossible to guess ; for at that
moment all his reveries were put to flight by a
gentle knocking at the house door; and Pierce, sup-
posing that it might be some of his fellows, went
thither with more haste than usual. Upon opening
the portal he saw a figure wrapped in a mantle, who
presently discovered to him the features of Cornelius
Zaubergoldt, and demanded the immediate attend-
ance of Master Touchstone.
"Please you to sit awhile," said Pierce, "and
perchance he may return soon after the curfew; but
at present he is gone forth !"
.. Sit awhile!" exclaimed the German, hastily;
"soul of Alcabitius! why goes he forth, when every
moment may call him to the great work? 'Tis
Digitized by Coogle
84
§hrewd ill luck for him ; but l perceive that the
planets have rejected him from their mysteries"
"Beseech you," said Pierce, "take it not so
foully; he may not tarry long; but an' I might
be " · ·
"And,'' interrupted the alchemist, "are the
mysteries for which I have toiled so long to await
his tardy return? No, verily! he is cut off as un-
worthy of partaking in them ; but I must seize the
true moment of working, according to the tables
which Isaac Aben Seyd and the Eastern astrono-
mers wrought for Prince Alphonso the Wise. And
tell me, youth, knowest thou aught of thy craft?"
"Why," returned Pierce, c• ( can do somewhat,
though there be many others more couthful; and
yet I can grave, cHase, and cast, with any 'pre!ltice
in Westcheap of no longer standing."
" Enough," answered Cornelius, "I will use thy
skill ; therefore fetch me hither that brazen casket
which standeth in the upper chamber, and brihg.it
to the laboratory, for as yet I have no power to
touch it: I will in the mean time prepare a crucible
to receive the spirit that lies within it. Depart at
once for the box, or lament in vain through the
rest of thy miserable life: I foresee that the eril'is
of thy fate is at hand, and there is but one moment
for us to work in. Thus it is that man, vain
looking to a length of years, delays from day to
day to begin his greatest labours: the happy season
passes, and he is lost. \Vork the'l now, or vainly
repent for ever!''
He spake; and Pierce hastened out of the
ment. Upon returning to the laboratory, he found
(;ornt·li carefully preparing a which, by
Digitized by Coogle
s.s
· Jme secret means, he bad brought to such a high
jegree of heat as almost instantly to fuse either
gold or silver. The clear blue eyes and pale com-
plexion of the German looked nearly unearthly in
the blaze of the furnace; and their solemn effect
was farther increased by his dress, since he bad
entireIy thrown aside his mantle, and appeared in a
rich Eastern habit, having on his breast a large silver
cross, embroidered with such art that the meta1waa
nearly as vivid as if it had been wrought in rays of
light!
Having ordered Pierce to secure the door, he
directed him to open the casket, which contained a
mould for casting a small image of St. Barnabas,
and several fragments of ancient gold. These the
alchemist Bung into the crucible; and then, turning
to Pierce, said, "Well, what think·st thou now ? Is
there aught unholy in our labours?"
" No, by my bolidame !" answered the appren-
tice; "but I would fain learn what all this sig-
nifieth."
"Listen then," replied Cornelius; "and so much
u I may disclose to thee I wil1, the rather that
thine art may be the more availing. It is now some
three yeats since, when I sojourned in the fair city
of Milan, one summer midnight, as I read late in
the divine books of Ptolemy and the Rabbi Jehuda
el Coneso, a man clothed in this habit stood sud-
denly before me! His visage was that of one who
had been long at rest in the sepulchre ; his hair and
robes were dropping with the night dews ; and this
cross, which I have faintly purfled in silver, shone
his breast in rays of living light. With fear
and trembling I prostrated myself before him,
Digitized by Coogle
deeming that 1 saw the vision of some ancient saint;
and demanded of him what he would have with his
servant. In brier, he told me in mine own tongue,
that he was Christianus Crux;"' the great master of
all alchemic mysteries ; that the cross on his breast
was the mystic sign of his own name, and of that
light which is the menstruum of gold; and that the
dew falling from h1m expressed the -all-creating and
all-dissolving spirit of nature. 'And now, Cor-
nelius/ said he, ' if thou wilt listen to my words,
thou shalt have a larger guerdon than the richest
king ever yet bestowed. Thou knowest that the
first Christian Church in Milan was planted by
holy Barnabas, the fellow Apostle of Paul, and men
still show the place where he preached, without the
South gate of the city. Deeply buried in that
place lies a casket, with certain reliques of mystic
gold, once part of an image adored in this city, but
wondrously thrown down and broken, what time the
true faith was brought hither. Howbeit, in that
gold dwells the sympathetic power ofjindi11g out all
other hidden treasures; if it be first skilfully wrought
into the form of the holy Apostle, under the same
configurations as those which reigned at its de-
struction, which must be graven upon its base.
'\Vherefore, on the coming feast of St. Barnabas,
when the sun is so high and bright in the Twins that
• It has been erroneously suppC1sed that the sect of thc. Rm,m-u-
implied the brotherhood of the Ro•.Y Cross: their
title was really derived from the words Res, or dew, lite mod
powerful of gold, and Cru:r, their founder's name, which
signifies a cross, the chemical character fM light. This Association
wa!l expressed hy the Idlers F. H. ('., meaning, /lu.(t's
Cocti, or, Brethren of the Couroded Dew.
Digitized by Coogle
even midnight quenches not his fire, and the year is
at its perfect manhood, go to that sacred spot, and
take up the gold again, when the hour is neither o.
night nor of morning, and the heavens are lighted
both by sun and stars.' He said, and passed away
from me as in a cloud ; ho\Ybeit, I fulfilled his he·
bests, and the gold is now before thee. With much
labour, and by the aid of those wondrous Tables
which the Rabbi Isaac Ab{m Seyd framed for King
Alonzo of Leon, I ha\"e been enabled to calculate
the exact times for fashioning the figure. And 11ow,
the mould thereof is formed, the gold is melted,
and the Talismanic Image wants but casting and
inscribing with the p1anetary influences, to be
perfect.''
.. Wherein," said Pierce, "I shall soon speed you.
By St. Mary of Bow! ye have told me a strange tale;
and methinks that the fire burns more fiercely than
eler I marked it; and here, too, are wondrous fair
colours, leaping, as it were, about the melting pot.·•
.. A sure token, my son," said Cornelius, "that
our labours have arrived at a happy perfection ; but
the gold is now molten, so cast me the figure in the
Dallle of the holy St. Barnabas." ·
As soon as the metal had been safely poured into
the mould, and was carefully set to cool, Cornelius
departed; first, however, drawing from his pouch a
piece of vellum inscribed with certain Hebrew
names and astronomical signs, written around two
circles and a cross. This he gave to Pierce, and
said, " The night is waning, and I must go hence :
let not the sacred effigy be taken from its matrix
until I return hither; but at fitting season, when
no eye can mark thy labours, let these characters
Digitized by Coogle
88
be graven upon the base of it. Above all, say.
nought of these things unto thy master; but '!».
faithful, be silent, and thy guerdon shall be alike
great and certain."
When the German had quitted the laboratory,
Pierce began to reflect upon the strange events of
the last hour ; and gazing on the cooling image, he
uttered his considerations in these words:-" A
wondrous fair piece of work truly, and, I ween, a·
quicker one than ever was wrought by any save
holy Dunstan, or the foul fiend. IIa!" exclaimed
he, cautiously touching it, " 'tis even now as cold as
if it had been founded last St. Barnabas; and so
I'll e'en sit me down and finish the work, ere I
meet that wily knave Dominic under Bow steeple."
In executing this part of the Tali8man, the young
goldsmith seemed ha,·e additional skill given to
his hand, and more than ordinary keenness to his
graYer, so that the whole inscription was rapidly
and fairly transferred to the base of the image;
which implied, that the happiest moments had been
taken for its perfection, when all the planetary in-
fluences·were in fa,·ourable aspects. As lze traced
the last line, howeYcr, the figure suddenly fell with
a loud noise upon the pavement of the laboratory,
and stood erect upon the centre of the stone; whilst
the mould which enveloped it flew into a thousand
pieces!
"The fiend take these juggleries, and the knave
who made them!'' exclaimed Pierce, endeavouring
to lift, or even to wrench, the gifted image from the
stone. "I'm foully sped now, I trow; for here the
figure stands as immoveable as Cheap Standard!-
By St. Thomas! I might as well try to pluck up
Digitized by Coogle
89
Powle's Cross. Mass! now," continued he. arm
pulling lustily between each exclamatiot., " how
ahaU I unroot this golden devil? Marry . 111 e'en
take tongs and fire prong, and wrench •tp the Stolle,
and then hammer him off upon the anvil.··
As his strength soon enabled hirr. t<• efft!ct this.
the moment the stone was raised from the ground
the figure fell from it ; and the cause of its attach·
ment was immediately shown by the appearance of
an antique golden cup and cover, filled with coina
of the same metal, which had been buried beneath
il Master Pierce Malefant carefully concealed the
gold and the Talisman, let down the stone again
into its cavity, and went forth to keep his appoint-
ment with Dominic Beadroll. Of .this interview
it is only important for the reader to know that
Pierce advised the scribe to send two stout appari·
tors from the Bishop of London early on the follow·
ing morning; adding, that it was now certain that
Master Touchatone held intercourse with a magician
and an evil spirit, for the discovery of hidden trea·
sarea; and, having made this arrangement, they
adjourned to the other apprentices at the Royal
R01e.
It was grey morning in the Wcstcheap ere the
aaeient goldsmith quitted Master Absolon of Bow-
bell, and took the road to his own dwelling, which
he found wholly unguarded, and even deserted, by
hia knavish apprentice. Having drummed for some
time impatiently on his portal, uttering a host of
those gentle execrations which rose so readily to
hi5 tongue, Master Touchstone tried the lock, which
taon yielded to his strength, the rather that hia
deputy had never fastened it.
J(
Digitized by Coogle
90
Within, the whole place appeared in confusion;
and it was with many . a vow of vengeance at
a fitting season, that the goldsmith set about
arranging and opening his shop. Whilst he was
thus employed, two men clothed in that clerical
kind of habit generally worn by summoners, appa-
ritors, and other retainers of the ecclesiastical law,
came up to him and addressed him with-" Good
morrow to ye, friend ; you are called Master Igna-
tius Touchstone, as we take it: there be ill reports
of you abroad, for men say that you keep an evil
spirit in your house here; and we have warrant to
make inquisition touching it, and to summon you
to answer it"
"Ye say truly, masters," replied Touchstone, in a
careless and rough jesting tone; 11 I wot well that
for nearly seven years I have had one nf the foul
fiend's own cockrels in my dwelling, in the form of
a lose! apprentice ; howbeit, his heels have saved
his bones this morning, seeing that he has run away
altogether. And now, I trow, your errand is fairly
sped, since I have answered ye, and you may sum·
mon him as speedily as ye list...
The goldsmith had just grasped his staff and
certainly would have succeeded in effectually re-
pulsing the apparitors, when Cornelius Zaubergoldt
came hastily up, and burst through the party into
the house, saying, "Give place; let me pass: I can
salute no man now: it is the full hour of perfection,
and the Talisman must be secured now or never."
" Here.'s an ungodly royster,'' cried the app.aritor.
" By holy Powle, this is the other sorcerer; let's
seize on him as he returns." And, as he spake, the
German rushed forth from the laboratory, with all
Digitized by Coogle
91
the most violent signs of grief and diaappointmeot
in his looks, exclaiming, " LostI lost I the labour or
years, and the work of immortals-alllostl-the holy
figure destroyed, and the spirit which dwelt in it
gone for ever! False villain !" continued he, rushing
violently towards Touchstone, "give me back my
treasure, the mystic Talisman of St. Barnabas,
which only last night I left within thy laboratory."
"Here's a coil!'' exclaimed Touchstone; "here's
agoodly coil, indeed, for a man to break his fast
upon I First I am to be treated like a foul sorcerer,
and then comes a mad old Easterling, whom I have
honoured by working for him at all hours without
guerdon, and charges me with the loss of his moon-
mine treasures ; for albeit he promised me moun-
taios of gold for my labours, well I weened that I
ahould have fewer coins than crosaes. And so now
go to, my masters all; an' ye will depart quickly, I
will be content to hold all your maltreatment but
misprise; but if ye do not now make away, why
beware my baston. And for you, Master Cornelius,
go-take up your casket within, and get hence."
"The fiend take the casket I" cried the German ;
what is the casket when the jewel is gone ! I tell
thee, that only yesternight the work was brought to
perfection by the hand of thy disciple; for thou,
being absent, wert rejected from the holy labour;
and this morning I find the matrix broken, the
casket void, and the Talisman of St. Barnabas rent
from me! Miserable man that I am, where shall I
look for my treasure ? Thy disciple knew the good
apirit that dwelt in the work, and where is be f'
"Then your riddle is aoon read,'. answ:ered Toucll•
atone ; " the evil spirit hath carried oft' the
Digitized by Coogle
92
one; for I trow that he is fled. And now, I wot,
there only wants Bow-bell to toll, and the knaves
of Cheap to cry clubs, to make a fair day's work of
it, seeing it hath begun so starkly."
Even as he spake, the bell from Bow church
steeple began to ring out a loud and hasty note of
alarm; which, however, might be accounted for by
knowing that before Master Touchstone quitted the
steeple, finding the clerk near!y overpowered by the
night's enjoyment, he had carefully blindfolded him,
and stretched him on the hearth to recover. Master
Absolon's first thoughts turned to his duties, and
finding all dark, without considering the hour, he
supposed it to be about curfew time, and so began
to toll. The citizens came hastily together, but a
previous alarm was already spread, that a riot had
been commenced at the Still-yard, which was fear-
fully increasing. The immrgents consisted chiefly
of parties from the several trades which were, or
supposed to be, injured by the Easterlings, being
chiefly mercers, clothiers, and haberdashers ; aided
by that numerous and quarrelsome class of citizens,
the apprentices of London, of whom our friend
Pierce Malefant was one of the foremost.
The Still-yard, or Mart-house, was a large stone
building on the banks of the Thames, a short dis-
tance above London-bridge, erected upon the spot
which even now bears the same name. Round this
edifice, which the foreign merchants used as a hall, .
were several other smaller building-s, some of which
were of wood, occupied as dwellings and ware-
houses, and towards which the tumultuous force
more immediately advanced ; the riotous shouts of
their march becoming distinguishable by the alarming
Digitized by Coogle
cries of" Clubs! cluba! Down with the Easterlinga!
-.Awaywith the dog }'lemings!-Fire the Still-yard!
and carry away the wares to hooester men's housea I
-Rise, men ofLondon! rise on the false Easterlings!
-Clubs ! clubs! cry all-cry all !"
Nor were the actual depredations of these over-
heated artizans leu ferocious than their clamoroua
advance, since they instantly began to break open
and plunder all the buildings where they could
effect an entrance ; whilst the unhappy foreigner8
were saved from entire destructior only by the
assistance of some smiths and carpenters, who
rosaed over to them from Southwark. In the
mean time, however, notict- of the tumult had beea
aent to Master William Martin, the then Lord ltayor,
who hastily assembled the Sheriffs and principal
citizens, and increased the confusion at Touch-
atone's house by calling on him for his aid, assuring
him that his apprentice, Pierce, was one of the fore-
most of the rioters. The Lord Mayor's engagement
that Master Touchstone should be forthcoming to
answer any charges, soon liberated him from the
apparitors; and Cornelius having rushed out of
the bouse the moment he heard of an attack upon the
Still-yard, the party hastened down to the scene of
action, from which, however, most of the rioters fled
on the arrival of the civic force, though several others
were taken and lodged in the Tower.
Considerable destruction had, notwithstanding,
already been effected. Several storehouses were
partly broken down and despoiled : and the dwell-
ing of Zaubergoldt, being of wood, was in flamE's;
whilst the unhappy German, distractod with hie
loeaes. was running wildly to and fro in front of it.
Digitized by Coogle
94
" See, see!" be exclaimed, pointing to Pierce
Malefant, in the hottest of the fray, with the Talis-
man of St. Barnabas suspended about his neck;
., see how the foul robber bears away the holy
image of the Spirit of gold !-Ha ! now the wondrous
irifluence works, and 'tis drawn to the fire by the gold
which is burning within! Holy saints, how the fated
youth climbs the burning ruins! Wretch that I am !
to behold the greatest treasure of the world perish
before mine eyes !-Now he stands upon the roof!
-Now the gold is attracted to that beneath /-and
now---
, .
Cornelius sank senseless on the ground, as the
unhappy Pierce Malefantfell into the.flames, dragged
thither by the force of the Talisman he wore: but
though the old German recovered, and even lived to
a very old age, his senses and tranquillity were
gone for ever ! And it is recorded, that in the
streets of Venice, anciently at the Carnival time,
there was wont to come upon the Piazza di san
Marco the figure of a tall venerable man, dressed in
a torn but rich Eastern habit, with a silver cross
upon his breast, anxiously looking at every one,
and then turning disappointed away. He was com-
monly known by the name of "The mad Gold-
smith of Milan;" and one who wrote of him in the
sixteenth century gave him this character (which,
with the foregoing circumstances, makes it ex-
tremely probable that he could be no other than
Cornelius Zaubergoldt):-" Sucbe is my reporte of
this strange wanderer, and so shall he roame till
deathe or doomes-day take him from the worlde.
He bathe traversed o'er manie countries, and is well
seene in many tongues ; but thoughe he mighte
o;9,tized by Google
tti
beholde the fairest sightes of the earthe, and coulde
taJke of its moete approved ma"ailee, yet bathe he
oo eyes but to aearche after that which he hathe
loste, and no speeche save to enquire if any man
hathe founde his treasure."
For Master Touchstone, it remains only to be rP.-
eorded, that he soon cleared himself from all charge•
of sorcery ; but from that day he was said to be an
altered man, seldom using his walking-staft' u a
weapon, and never swearing his usual oaths. The
golden chalice which the Talisman of St. Barnaba1
discovered in his laboratory, he bequeathed to the
Goldsmiths' Company, though it was loat in the great
ireof London; after which also hia other gifts ceased;
though the following literal extract from his ancient
Will and Testament, will perhaps be the best moral
and the best conclusion which I can now put to
thia extended narrative.-" And forasmuche as grete
and memorable thynges oughte not by man to be
100ne forgottene, I give and bequeathe to the wor-
ahipfull CompanyeofGouldsmythe'sahighstandyn&e
cuppe and cover, all of the beate goulde, called Cor-
nelius, in memorye of an Almayne of that name
with whom I sometime had famylyaritye; the.said
cuppe to be fylled with sacke, and drunke from by
all the free brothers of this Companye, on the Tues-
daye nexte before the feaste ofthe Translation ofSaint
Edwarde, yearly; ud I also give X1. for a dinner
for the sayd Companye, to be helde on that day for
ever. In worthie memorie that on that day I sawe
the sudden falle of prosperous vyllaynye, and howe
Jll-gotten rychea wyll oftentymes ead a man to
dauopr, ud even unto detb.''
Digitized by Coogle
uo
NATURAL MAGIC.
TO FASCINATE B,IRDS.
1\f1x together the juice of rue and vinegar, and
sleep corn therein; this corn, thrown to birds, shall
S\) fascinate them upon their eating thereof, that they
may be easily caught with the hand. In like man-
ner, poppy seeds steeped in brandy for tweo.ty-four
hours will have the same effect.
TifF. MAGIC
D
l.Jpon the bottom of a vessel (see above figure)
lay three pieces of money, the first at the second
at B, and the third at c. Then place a person at
D, where he can sec no farther into the vessel thau
E. You may then inform him, that by pouring
water into the vessel you will make him see three
different pieces of money ; and bid him observe that
you do not convey any money in with the water.
nut be careful that you pour the water in gently, or
the pieces will move out of their places, and thereby
destroy the object.
Digitized by Coogle
97
Now when the water rises up to the piece nt A
wilt be visible; when it reaches o, both A and .B
will be visible; and when it comes up to H, all three
pieces can be distinguished I
TO HAKE THE FACES OF A PARTT APPEAR GHASTLY
AND DEATH-LIKE.
This is a curious experiment, and formerly the
work of superstition, invented by the cunning friars
(as an old author writes). In order to perform this
strange feat, take half a pint of spirits of wine, or
of strong brandy, and having warmed it, put a
handful of salt with it into a basin ; then set it on
fire with a lighted piece of paper, and it will ha,·e
the efFect of making every one present look " as if
they were newly risen from their cold graves.··
. Note.-This can only be done in a close room.
•
Digitized by Coogle
98
TRADITIONS AND SUPERSTITIONS OF
FORMER TIMES.
PROGNOSTICATIONS FROM TilE MOON'S AGB.
Moon••Ag11.
1st day. THE child born is said to be long-lived.
The_ dream true, and the event satis-
fying.
2d day. The dream wilJ be unprofitable. The
child born on this day grows fast. It
is a fortunate day for searching after
remarkable things.
3d day. The dream good. The child born this
day is said to be fortunate with great
men or Princes.
4th day. Unhappy, evil, and perilous, especially
to those who fall sick. The dream
will not be effected.
5th day. Good to begin any work, or to voyage
on water. A good dream wiJJ be ef-
fected and brought about ; but a bad
dream will have no meaning. The
child born this day proves a traitor.
6th day. The fugitive shall be recovered. Dreams
t;uspended. · The child born will, it is
said, be short-lived.
7th day. The sick person whose sickness began
on this day shall soon be well. The
dream must be kept . secret. The
child born this day will be long-lived
and liable to tronhlP..
Digitized by Coogle
8th day.
9th day.
lOth day.
lith day.
12th day.
13th day.
14th day.
liith day.
16th day.
17th day.
99
The dream true and certain. The child
hom long-lived.
The dream will tum out good next day.
The dream will be soon effected. The
sickneu perilous. The child born
this day is said to be fated to long
life. The 0 being Alchochodon.
Here rules Babiel, enemy to dreams;
hence the dreams will be of no effect.
The child born this day shall be
aftlicted in travelling, and irreligious.
The dream good and effective. The
child ingenious and long-lived.
The dream true and effective. The
child then hom will be foolish or a
zealot.
The dream•shall be ambiguous, doubt-
ful, and the effect suspended. The
child born this day will be an extra-
ordinary genius. His fate is ruled by
the demon or angel Casaiel, in the
hierarchy of Uriel.
He who falls sick this day it shall be
unto death. The dream true. For-
tune indifferent. The child under t ,
handsome, fair, and fortunate.
The dreams will be accomplished. The
child long-lived. t is said to be
Alchochodon.
If this fall on a Saturday, it is said to
prove very unfortunate. The dream
not effected for three days. The
child born on this day is said to be
unhappy.
Digitized by Google
100
18th day. Th·e dream is said to be true and cer-
tain. The child, through much labour
and travel, will come to high dignity
and honours.
i9th day. Hiel rules. The day dangerous. Dream
forbodes ill fortune. The child iikely
to prove mischievous, or a thief.
20th day. The dream true. The child, as before,
a cheat.
21st day. The day is said t:> be good. The dream
unprofitable. The child corpulent,
strong, but a cheat.
22d day. Gebil rules. The dream is true. The
child good, docile, and long-lived.
:!:ld da y. A fortunate day. The dream, neverthe-
less, is false. The child born this
•
day will be deformed, but clever.
24th day. The dream of no effect. The child then
born soft-tempered, and voluptuous.
25th rlay. Unfortunate Adversity for the
child then born.
26th day Dream certain. The child, when adult,
will be rich and honoured.
27th d'1'' A goO<l day. The child fortunate, but
a great dreamer. Dreams prevail.
day The sick will die. The dream bad, as
the spirits are troubled with religious
whims. The child born this day will
die young; and if it live past five
months, will prove a zealot, ·or an
idiot.
29th day. Fortunate; Raphael predominates. The
child born long-lived, and fated to
riches. Dreams trnP .
Digitized by Coogle
101
30th and last day. ·Unfortunate. Child sbort-liTed.
The sick penon will die. Cauiel
predominates.
With respect to the foregoing traditions, they are
very ancient, and are therefore curious. Their truth
or falsehood may be proved by observation.-The
days of the moon's age may be known by the com-
monest almanack.
AN AMULET OR CHARM
FOR LOVR.
"liE that beareth this charm about him, written
on virgin parchment, shall obtain love of lord and
Iady."-Ancient A-ISS.
CHARMING AWAY THE HOOPING COUGH.
An English lady, the wife of an officer, accompa-
nied her husband to Dublin not very long ago, when
his was ordered to that station. She en-
gaged Irish girl as nurse-maid in her family, and
a short time after her arrival was astonished by an
urgent request from this damsel to permit her to
charm little missfrom ever having the hooping cough-
(then prevailing in Dublin) r
The lady inquired how this was performed; and
Digitized by Google
102
not long after had, in walking through the streets,
many times the pleasure of witnessing the process,
which is simply this :-An ass is brought before the
door of the house, into whose mouth a piece of
bread is introduced, and the child being passed
three times over and under the animal's body, the
charm is completed; and of its efficacy in pre-
venting the spread of a very distressing, and some-
times fatal disorder, the lower class of Irish are
certam.
TALISMANS.
THE SPIRAL SEMAPHORA.
An Hebrew Talisman.
AMoxG the Hebrew Cabalists, the following
charm is said to be of singular efficacy towards
success ;, life. "Procure a piece of virgin silver in
the increase of the moon ; let it be well guarded,
and kept free from coiltamination with other metals.
Then, on the day when the sun is in trine to the
moon from the signs Scorpio and Pisces, mould the
metal into the form of a medal, and engrave the
words thereon. It will be more precious to thee
than the gold of Ophir."-Alanuscript t!f the late
Dr. 'Iilloch.
o,9itized by Google
103
GEOMANOY.
·No.2.
f8 C.&ST A FIGURE OF THE TRIPLICITIES, AC•
CORDING TO SIMPLE GEOIU.NCY.
IT has been before observed (page 29), that the
method made use of in working the Schemes of
Geomancy, was to mark down a certain number of
points or dots, casually, without counting the num·
ber, and then joining them by the rules of art into
a Scheme, or Figure, whence the answers were
readily obtained.
Such u the process ; but a very curious, and,
indeed, ancient, manuscript now before me gives the
following formula for divining, which will probably
be read with interest, as affording a partial view of
the singular hold which superstition had upon the
castorus, and even amusements, of former times.
E.rtract from an ancienl ManUicript of the Elevt:nl4
Century.
" The Seven Planets are called the Kings of the
World; and every one of these may do in his hemi·
sphere as an emperor in his empire, or a prince in
his kingdom. They are termed by some of the
wisest of men, Seven Candlesticks of Light and of
Life, and are as seven quick spirits, whereunto all
living things and all terrestrial affairs are subject.
"Now to divine by their influences is the scope
of our doctrine, even by the art called Geomancy,
which is none other but the cogitation of the heart
of the aaker, joined to the earnest desire of the tiJill
Digitized by Coogle
104
to know the thing or matter uncertain and dark, which
nevertheless is contained in the arcanum, or hidden
cabinet of nature, and governed by the secrets of
fortune.
''This art, curious in its method, and of diverse
efficacy, is attainable by him alone who will, amidst
thorny paths and rugged journeys, guide his foot-
steps aright; for doubtless divers ways lead to the
selfsame end. But know, 0 man! whoever thou
art, that shall inquire into these hidden mysteries,
that thou must forbear to consult the heavenly
oracles, or to cast thy divining points, in a cloudy,
windy, or rainy season; or when the heav(>ns above
thee are stricken with thunder ; or when the light-
nings glare amidst thy path ; for thou art governed
by an invisible demon who wills thy answer,
and will guide thy trembling fingers to cast thy
figure rightly. So that what to thee may seem the
sport and pastime of very chance, is the work of an
unseen power. Therefore, mark well, else the
mighty spirits of the earth, who rule thy destiny,
will be to thee as deceivers, and even as the false
and lying spirits recorded in holy writ.
" Thou shalt therefore cast thy divining points in
earth (thy fellow clay) tempered according to the
high and hidden mysteries of the seven wanderiug
fires of heaven, which the vulgar call planets, or
stars. Thou shalt take clean earth, in the manner
of sand, mingled witlt the dews of tl.e night, and tl1e
raiu of the clouds that shall fall durin,!!,· the full of the
moo11, commi.red in equal ]JOrtions fur the space of
seven days, under the celestial signs or reigning
constellations, or otherwise in the lordship of the
hours of the presiding planets ; and then shalt thou
Digitized by GoogIe
105
mingle the whole mu& together, to the inteat that ·
by their commixion the universal effect may be the
better known, and the end thereof prophesied.
''Chooae, therefore, a clear and goodly season,
bright and fair, and neither dark, windy, nor rainy-
and fear not, but rest assured thou shalt be satisfied.
"Moreover, sbouldest thou make use of the .
magical suffumigations of the heavenly .>rbs, thou
shalt make glad (bv sympathy) the spirits of the,
air. They are these ;-viz. mastic, cinnamon, frank-
mceoae, musk, wood of aloes, coriandrum,
Tiolets, saunders, and saffron. Commix and ignite
these in due and just proportions; and then mayest
thou proceed to consult thy future lot. There-
fore, cast aside all unbelief and all vain scoffings ,
fOr the Fathers of the Church, and the wise and
holy men of all age5, have exercised these mattera,
-and truth is in them, if thou «archut right/g."
Happily for the reader, there is not the least
uccasion for the superstitious observance contained
in the foregoing ceremonial, or be might grope on iu
darkness and mystery, till utterly bewildered in the
labyrinth of error. It is quite sufficient, and baa
equally the same effect, to cast the points upon
slate or paper, or with pen or pencil, as on the
earth.
The following are therefore
The Firll Steps of tl1e Figure.
When tl;te asker or inquirer has thought earnestly
upon the subject or matter of which he inquires,
let him mark down lirtem Jines of dots, marks, or
points, without counting them, so that at the least •
there be not leas than twelve points in each line,-
o
Digitized by Coogle
106
whieb done, let him join the points or marb in eadl
line together, two and two; and if the number of
points in the line be ef1e!Z, which is if they will all
join together, let him mark down at the end of the
line two dots, ciphers, or marks ; but if the number
of points in the line be odd, which is when one remaitu.
after they arejoined by t?DO and ttDO, then let him write
down but one point. Every four lines form one
Geomantic figure, as follows :-
FiniF;,.
t-1 H 1-1 H H -1 H H H H o o
HHHHHHI o
HH.HH HI-IH H oo
HHHHHHI o
&cottd 1!ipt
HHHHHHHHH oo
HHHH·I-IHHI . o
Lf H H H .1-1 H H H H H I o
HHHHHI-1HI o
HHHHI-IHHHI
-;HHHHHHI
-tHHHHHHH
-thHHI-IHHHI
T1Krd J1ipn<
0
0
00
0
PourtA Fipre·
HHHHHHI-tf-'HH oo
'-IHHHHHHHY oo
HHHHHHI-IH oo
HHHHI-JHH oo
Digitized by Coogle
107
To ezemplify and explain thefirllllepl, it will be
.een, by counting the points in line the first, that
the number of points are twenty, and eoen, conae-
quently they admit of being joined together two and
two; but in the second line the number of points
are but thirteen, and consequently being odd, cannot
be all joined but by leaving one point unjoioed to
the rest. The same rules are observed in the other
lines, which produces the four first steps of the
figure ; and in placing them they must be read froaa
right to left, as underneath.
4th 3d 2d lat
00
00
00
0
0
00
00
0
0
00
0
0 Q .
0 0 0 0 0
In all caaee they are. placed in the same manner. ..
The next process is to form four other figurea
from out of the first four, which is done by taking
the number of points in the separate lines of each
figure ; thus, in the figure
Fi,_..l.
No. 1, the points in the first line
are two, placed thus o o
In No. 2, the points in the first line
are also two, placed thus o o
In No.3 there is but one point, thus o
In No. there are again two, thus o o
Giving this figure,
No.5.
0 0
0
o .o
Digitized by Coogle
108
Figure· the 6th is found the same way, by taking
the odd or even points in the second line of the
figures, thus:-
Fi,-11.
In the second line of No. 1 is an odd point, thus o
In the second line of No. 2 is also an odd point o
In the second line of No. 3 is also an odd point o
ID ilie :;; thus oo
Figure the 7th is also found the same way ; thus
Fi,-1.
In the third line of No. J, there are two points,
thus o o
bt the third line of No. 2, one point, thus o
lA the third line of No. 3, two points, thus o o
lA the third line of No. 4, also two points, thus o o
Giving this figure,
No.7. l-0 0°
0 0
0 0
Figure the 8th is formed thus, the same way.
In thefourth line of No. 1, one point
In the fourth line of No. 2, one point
In the fourth line of No. 3, one point
ln the fourth line of No. 4, two points
Giving this figure,
No.8.
F;,-s.
0
0
0
0 0
Digitized by Coogle
109.
The next step. is to place the whole in order from
right to left, as under.
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 ' 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ne.z:t, a triangle is formed out of each, by JOining
together the 1st and 2d, the 3d and 4th, the 5th and·
6th, and the 7th and 8th figures thus, according as
the points in each are odd or even.
8 7 6 54 3 2 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 00 00 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
oo 0 0 0 0 ()0 0 0 0 0 0
12 11 10 9
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
By this means, an additional four figures, Nos. 9,
10, 11, and 12, are gained, after which they are
again to be joined together triangularly, as 9 and 10.
IDd 11 and 12, thus:
8 7 6 6 4 3 2 1
0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
.12 11 10 9
0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 00
Digitized by Coogle
14
00
0
0
0 0
110
13
0
0
0
0
And lastly, No. 13 and 14 are joined in like manner
together thus ; No. J3 has one mark and odd in the
first line, and No. 14 two.
·JlfpnlS.
The number three is odd, marked thus o
In the second line of each, two points, evm o o
In the third line of each, two, also even o o
In the fourth line of each, three, odd o
The whole process is exemplified in the complete
figure, which is here given. ·
Example I
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 00
0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0
0 0
0
0 0
0 0
0
0
00
0
0
0 0
00
0
00
0 0
0
0 0 0
0 00
0 0 0
0 00
0
0
0
0
Digitized by Coogle
Ill
In order, however, to render th.e reader perfect in
.:asting his figures, I shall subjoin one more example
at large.
E.rample 2.
No.I.
HHHI-IHHI 0
HHHHHHH 0 0
HHHHHHI 0
HHHHHHI 0
No.2.
r-IHHHHHHI 0
HHHHHHHI 0
0
HHHH H HI Ci
No.3.
HHHHHHHHHH oo
HHHHHHHHJ o
HHHHHHHI o
YHHHHHHH . oo
No.4.
HHHI-IHHHI o
HHHHHHHH oo
HHHHHHH oo
HHHHH'HI o
0 0 00 0 0 00 Q 0
0 0 0 0 00 0 0 00
oo 0 0 00 00 0 0 0
0 00 00 0 0 00 0 0 ··
Digitized by Coogle
112
00 0 0 00
00 0 0 0 0·
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
14 13 ,.
0 0
cii.
;;- s:
;; 0 0 00
f 0 0 (J ;;
::
0 0 15 0
Judge.
0 0
0 0
0
0
In resolving questions by simple Geomancy, it ia
the tlzree lastfigures alone, No. 13, 14, and 15, which
are used in giving the answers. These are termed
A FIGURE OF TRIPLICITY.
Of these three figures, No. 13 is termed the Right
Witness, and No. 14 the Left Witness; out of these
two is drawn the J uooE of the whole figure, to
whom the sentence or answer of the whole question
belongs, as will be hereafter shown.
There is a striking peculiarity, or arithmetical
property, in a scheme of Geomancy thus cast;
which is, that only eight out of the sixteen figures
can ever be found in the place of the Judge ; the
latter, therefore, is always formed of even points.
For it must be observed, that to the first four figures
belong the ground-work of the whole ; and these
must be either odd or even :-if odd, the next four
figures will be also odd ; and, according to a geo-
metrical axiom, out of two negative qualities comes
an affirmative; and, therefore, the Judge will be
Digitized by Coogle
llJ
even. Again, if the first four figures are even, the
next four figures will be even also, and of course
tkt Judge will alwa!JI be even. Thus, the figures
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0
are the only 6gures which can ever be the Judge,
being all of an even number of points; and the figures
0 0 0 00 00 00 00 0
00 0 00 00 0 00 0 ()
0 00 00 00 00 0 0 0
0 0 00 0 00 00 0 00
11tr1tr can be judges, for the reasons before shown.
At first sight, the reader may probably feel
inclined to discover many difficulties in the way of
casting a figure ; but a little practice will render
the system familiar, plain, and easy, therefore let
him not reject it without a trial. The next paper
(No. III.) will explain the method of obtaining the
answers, in which the reader will at once see the
easiness of the method propounded.
Digitized by Coogle
114
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. III.
NATIVITY OF THAT CELEBRATED PREACHER,
THE REV. EDW. IRVING, A.M.
THE REV. E. DlVING,
BoaN Aug. 4, 1792,
1 H. 30M., P.l\1.
55". 20' North Lat.
3. 0 Weat Long.
Digitized by Coogle
. !
115
PLANETS' DECLINATIOli.
0 17. oN.
) 6. 30 s.
¥ 15. 45 N.
r, 9. 49 N.
lf. 8. 30 s.
8 10. 30 s.
18. 0 N.
10. 0 N.
Nativity of the Rev. Edw. Irving, a man
who has obtained such remarkable celebrity both
aa an orator and as a writer among the religious
wwld, caDDOt fail to be considered as a by
the astmlogical student; particularly at the present
time, when the reverend orator is assuming the
dignity of a prophetic interpreter of the sacred
1tlitings; which his recent discourses upon the mil•
leDnium, the return of the Jews to the Holy Land.
and the temporal adTent of the evioc.es
aDd which have lately made rather an unusual noise
among a certain class of persons.
It waa obtained from Mr. Irving himself by a
gentleman, who, being a student in Astrology, llad
sufficient tact to raiee a desire in Mr. Irving relative
to his nativity being calculated, while arguing in
favour of the Astral Science, and setting forth its
advantages overthe new-fangled doctrines of Phreno-
logy. The student may, therefore,depend upon tba
horoscope being perfectly correct.
I have stated the manDer in which the horoscope
was obtained, merely to guard misrepre-
sentation ; bot the merest tyro in the eelestial
Digitized by Coogle
116
sctence will at once percetve the extraordinary
oositions therein, and will be led to appreciate
.he real value of an art, which shines the more
brilliant, the more its doctrines are put to the test of
experience.
\Vhat, for instance, can better evince the singular
character of this orator, than Afercury, the ruler of
the mental and intellectualfaculties, a11gular in the mid-
lleaven, the house of Honour, within three degrees of
culminating, in the sign Virgo, his celestial e.raltation?
or, what can depicture the energy and fiery ardour
which the native displays in his discourses, better
than Mercury being in close zodiacal parallel to
Mars? or, what can set forth his peculiar devotion
to the pulpit, and contempt of the reigning fashions
c.lnd vices of the day, more, than the moon being in
close zodiacal parallel to Jupiter, and Jupiter in
parallel to Saturn ?
His celebritg in life is plain enough to be seen
from the conjunction of three planets in the sign
Leo, -Sol, Venus, and Herschel,-in the ninth house
(the house of religion, astrologically speaking), and
in quintile ray to :Mars and Jupiter, the latter two
in conjunction, in the cardinal equinoctial sign
Libra. The same configuration portends the most
eminent friends and eminent popularity, or public
notice, which is the most fortunate configuration in
the horoscope.
Still, the nativity, a/tltouglt fortunate in an eminent
degree, is not without evil aspects, for no human
good is perfect; so say the sublime doctrines which
the native promulgates, and so says Mr. Irving's
horoscope. Here is the l\Ioon in opposition to
Mercury, and in scsquiquadmtc to Mars and
Digitized by Coogle
117
opiter, which naturally :lenotes irritability and
impatience of temper, re'4tlessncss of ideas, power-
fulness of passion, too much sensibility and acute-
ness of feelings to admit of contentment (leaving
religion, and its power over the mind, out of the
question), and many lossu qf money, defectioN qf
suppqrters,faithkunus offriends, and the consequent
evils attendant upon sudden elevation as an orator;
which I need not mention, but by which he will
never be overcome.
It wonld be invidious and censurable to Jay open
the secretK of the futurt events of his life, as I could
do by my art. Sufficient is written to prove its
truth. That only is my aim in the preaent instance.
THE THEORY OF
POB'I'VNATB AIID UIIPOB'I'VNA'I'B DAYS,
BY THE LUNAR MOTIONS.
I HAVE already spoken of the powerful influence
which the Moon over the earth and the whole
of its inhabilanu ; this daily experience proves,
beyond the sl\adow of a doubt: for which reason,
the Moon is a chief significator in every horoscope,
or theme of heaven, and u such the student must
invariably obse"e her aspects, ere he can obtain
the truth of the matter. I shaH, probably, give
many instances thereof in the course ofthese pages;
but, for the present, I shall confine myself to the
diurnal lunar aspects, or the configurations the
Moon is perpetually forming with the
Digitized by Coogle
118
seven primary planets, the Sun, Mercury, Venus.
Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and Herschel.
The theory of fortunate and unfortunate days
has, therefore, a real foundation in nature; since
those days only are considered as fortunate, on
which the Moon forms a favourable aspect with a
fortunate planet ; and the unfortunate ones are
those on which her configurations are malignant
and evil.
To be more explicit : the best, or most fortunate
days, are those on which the Moon is in *, ll.,
quintile or cS of Jupiter; the ne.rt in power, when
she is in the like configurations with Venus ; and
the worst, or most malignant and unfortunate, are
those days whereon the Moon is in cS , semiquartile,
o or 8 of Saturn or Mars; and next to those, when
she is in o or 8 of Herschel ; the cS of Herschel
not being near so evil.
Those days, also, whereon the Moon is in cS , o,
semiquartile, or 8 of the Sun, are eminently evil.
But of these, the cS , and next the o, are the worst;
the 8 being beneficial in some cases, such as where
publicity is concerned, &c.
Again, on those days that the Moon comes to the
o, semiquartile, or 8 of Mercury, astrologers ac-
count it unfortunate for business, or travelling, or
writings and speculations of any kind. Also, those
days when she is in evil aspect to Jupiter or Venus,
as the o, semiquartile, or 8 are accounted far
from good; but the quartile, in these cases, acts
worse than the opposition.
On the other hand, even the fortunate aspects of
the evil planets, as the * or ll. of Saturn, Mars, or
Herschel are rarely considered as benevolent; the 6 ,
Digitized by Coogle
119
*, or A, of Mercury is good for business ; and the
like aspects of the Sun for affairs connected with
requests, petitions, or affairs where patronage is
concerned. And on those days whereon the Moon
fOI'IIlJ no aspect, but is void of couue, as astrologers
term it--which is, when she in no aspect whatever
with any planet,-it ia generally accounted that the
cJuef or reigning influence is evil. Seldom does
any new undertaking prosper or come to maturity
which is then commenced.
It follows, therefore, as a mathematical conse-
quence which should be well remembered, that
there u nothing mperltitiotu in attending to the chou:e
tftimu 11Rd «tUUtU, 1ince the celutial cof!figuratiolll do
t.Nt in Uu ht4fJenl, aDd are by no means chimerical ;
ud he that rejecta them, or laughs at the student
who (by consulting hie Ephemeris) appointa a pecu-
liu time when t.he heavenly influences are fraught
with ilrtuoate aspects; might with equal propriety
make aport of the patient who attenda to the man-
dates of his physician ; as to his choice of the Temal
lllDalaioe, or refreshiQJ breeze of summer, ill'prefer-
ence to the dews of tae night; or the chilling airs
t1 the humid and streamiqg atmosphere : when he
Yatana abroad for the restoration of his health.
To «ttle al ona, and -.et aaide the noisy and
incredulous laugh of the disbeliever in the celestial
influeneea, I will «ive ooe instance oi the ltmar
configuratiou in a case atill fresh in the 8li.nds of
my readers, from the dreadful scene of death and
deetructioo it cauaed; a scene truly of horror, and
frught with dire remembrances. I allude to the
ioyal Brunswick Theatre, which opened with un-
a.ualapleadour on Monday, the 25th of February,
Digitized by Coogle
120
1828, and within a few days was nothing but a pile
of ruins!
On the 25th of February, 1828, at noon-day, the
Moon was in seven degrees thirty-six minutes of
the sign Cancer, and Saturn was in thirteen degrees
thirty-nine minutes of the same sign. Consequently,
the Moon was fast hastening to the malignant con-
junction of that evil star. The aspect, or the meet-
ing of those two planets, took place at a quarter
past twelve o'clock that night; consequently, the
whole of that day, during the opening, the rehearsal,
and the first performance, the llfoon was terribly
ajjlicted. The Moon also signifies the community
at large (as all astrological authors teach); and
what could more truly depicture the unfortunate
end of this ill-fated commencement, than the above
evil configuration? To an unprejudiced mind, this
single instance, which every Almanack or Ephemeris
of the year can prove, will be sufficient to entitle
my theory to attention-and attention is all that is
wanting to prove its truth.
To calculate the aspects of the Moon with the
other seven planets, the student should make use of
'' White's Ephemeris," wherein the places of the
heavenly bodies are set down for noon for each day
in the year.-The easiest
RULE FOR CALCULATING THE LUNAR ASPECTS
Is as follows :-First, obtain the diurnal motion of
each planet whose conjunction or aspect you want;
which is done by subtracting one day·s motion from
the next; and if they are both direct, or both
retrograde, subtract the lesser from tlte gt·eall>r, and
use the difference. But if one is direct and the
Digitized by Coogle
121
other retrograde, then add both their motiom togtther,
and make use of the sum; and this sum or differ-
ence shall be the true diurnal motion of the swifter
planet from the slower.
Next, take the distance of the aspect from noon,
which reserve, and say, by the rule of proportion,
as the diurnal motion of the swifter planet from the
slower is to twenty-four hours, so is the distance of
the aspect from nooJJ to the true time of the con-
junction or aspect required.
EXA L E.
February 25th, 1828.-1 observe the l> meeta
the c:S of 11. the latter planet being retrograde.
Diurnal motion of the 1> • • • • • • • • 11° 51'
Diurnal motion of R. . . . . . . . • 0° 2'
Diurnal motion of l> to • • . . . . . . . . 11° 53'
DUtllnce ofthe aspect from noon 6° 3'.
Now say,
As 11o 53' is to 24 hours, so is 6° 3' to 12 hours
15 minutes, the true time of the required aspect,
or 12h. 15m. P.M.
This rule will serve in all other cases whatever,
and is of great importance also in Nativities, in the
calculation of the Secondary or Progressive Direc-
tions; which, as I have demonstrated in my
'' ManWll of Aatrology," are of great and singular
efficacy, as the sceptical reader may see by perusing
the pages of that work.
Q
Digitized by GoogIe
TO FIND THE CONJUNCTIONS DY MOOHF. S
.ALMANACK.
As "Moore's Almanack" is so much made use of
by the agriculturists and residents in the country,
(in spite of the feeble and puny animadversions
of the late writers in the ''British Almanack," or
of the astounding efforts of the "schoolmaster
with his primer," as Han'}' Brougham has it), it
may not be amiss to give the rule for knowing
the conjunctions thereby; which is simplv as
follows-by observing the top of that column where
it is. said, on such a day and at such an hour,
" Saturn is with the " Mars is with the
Moon," and so on of the rest. This being "with
the Moon," means the conjunction of those planets
with that luminary; and, as the hour is there set
down, the careful agriculturist, or pr'!dent observer
of times, will easily be able to know tkose good or
evil periods h)' their favourite almanack ; which,
probably, nine out of ten who pursue it are not at
present aware of. .
In those cases, however, there are two things
which must be well remembered, namely, in the
first place the difference between the clock and the
Sun; the clock being at some times of the year
more than a quarter of an hour too fast or too
slow, by the true solar motions; and the hours and
minutes when the conjunctions or aspects are set
down in the Ephemeris or Almanack, are calculated
by the Sun, and must be reduced accordingly.
In the second phce, it must be well remembered,
that the instant the aspect is past, whether it be
the &, *, a, 6, or a, of the Moon, with any other
Digitized by Coogle
123
planet, the irifluential effect is declining, and the
indications thereby are likewise ceased. This also
renders it of great importance to be correct as to
time-the neglecting to notice which has most
probably caused those failures which have Jed
former writers _
to cry down the system. For where ·
there is no attention paid to time, how can truth in
the prediction be expected ?
The conjunction, quartile, and opposition, of the
Sun and Moon are also easily found by the com-
monest almanack ; since
The conjunction ofthe l> with the 0 is the New ..Moon.
The opposition of the l> with the 0 is the Full Moon.
The quartile of the l> with the 0 is the first and last
QUilrters;
each of which is set down in and obviotiS to
the first glance of the eye. Nevertheless, though
easily found, they are times of the utmost import-
ance to those who study or believe in the unerring
laws of celestial motions.
•• For fortune at some hours to aU is kind ;
The lucky have whole days which still they choose;
The unluclcy have but hours, and those they lose."
DRYDKl'f.
Digitized by Coogle
124
THE DEVIL'S BANQUET.
A SILESIAN LEGEND.
A NOBLE11IAN in Silesia having caused a sump-
entertainment to be prepared for several of
his friends, they, instead of being punctual to the
time, according to promise, a1leged divers excuses
for the necessity they were under of absenting
themselves ; which so exasperated him, that he
fell into a paroxysm of rage, exclaiming,-" Since
theY. have thus disappointed me, may as ·many
devils from hell come and eat up the provisions
those friends of mine refuse to partake of!' which
said, he sallied out of the house, and went to
church to hear a He had not long
gone, when a numerous company of horsemen, aU
arrayed in black, of extraordinary aspect and stature,
appeared in his court-yard ; and, alighting, called a
groom to take the horses, bidding another run pre-
sently to his master and tell him his guests were
arrived.
The servant, with hair erect, and looks betoken-
ing horror, entered the church where his master
was, and acquainted him with the circumstance, as
well as his fright would permit him. The nobleman
immediately interrupted the sermon, intreating the
preacher to assist him with his ghostly counsel.
Digitized by Coogle
125
He, with all his congregation, made all speed
towards the mansion, which had been deserted by
the servants ; who, in the hurry of their flight had
left behind them a young child, their muter's aon,
sleeping in the cradle. By this time, the devils
were revelling in the dining-room, making a great
noise, as if they saluted and welcomed each other.
They looked through the casements, one with the
head of a bear, another with that of a wolf, &c.;
taking bowls at the same time, and quaffing, as if
they had drank to the master of the house. The
nobleman, who, among others, was a witneas of
their revelry, seeing his servants aafe, bethought
himself of his son, and asked, .. what was become
of him?" The words had scarcely passed his lips
when one of the devils had the infant in his arms,
and showed it to him at the window. The father,
half frantic with his feelings, on seeing his beloved
offspring so perilously situated, fetched a deep sigh,
and turning to an old and faithful servant, said,
"What shall become of my boy?'' " Sir," said
the trusty domestic, truly affected by the agony of
despair he saw his master in, " by God's I
will enter the house, and rescue the babe from yon
devil, or perish with him." '' Heaven prosper thy
attempt," returned his master, "and strengthen
thee in thy purpose!" He accordingly went, fol-
lowed by the prayers of all present ; and, having
entered a room adjoining that in which the devils
were rioting, he fell upon hia knees and commended
himself to the protection of heaven; after which,
he burst in them, and beheld them in their
horrible shapes! That instant, they all pressed
round him, inquiring what his business was there f
Digitized by Coogle
126
He, under great terror, though resolved to fulfil the
intent of his coming, addressing himself to the
spirit that held the child, said-'' In the name of
God, deliver the child to me!" "No!" replied the
fiend, "let thy master, who is more interested in
him, come.'' " I am come," rejoined the man, " to
do that service to 'Yhich God hath called me ; by
virtue of which, and ·by his power, I do seize upon
the innocent." So saying, he snatched him from
the devil, and bore him off, the spirits clamouring
as he departed-'' Knave, knave, leave the child,
or we tear thee in pieces!'' But he, undismayed
by their diabolical menaces, effected his· purpose,
and restored the boy·to his afllicted father !
APPARITIONS IN TURKEY.
It is the received opinion of the Persians and
Turks, that, near the close of life, every person bas
some sort of extraordinary revelation of that awful
event; and the most ancient of their writings prove
it. Herbelot (in his Bibliotheque Orientale) relates,
that the Sultan Metandi, as he rose one day from
table, said to one of his wives, who was present,
" Who are these people that are come in here, with-
out leave?'' Upon looking round, she could see
none, but observed that he grew pale, and imme-
diately fell down dead !
The Mahomedan writings are full of narrations,
which show that the doctrine of spiritual manifes-
tation has from the earlieit time prevailed amongst
them.
Digitized by Coogle
127
AVTIJENTIC ACCOUNT OF AN APPARITION BEJ.'OitE
DEATH.
Tbe following extraordinary, and evidently super-
natural, occurrence, caused a considerable sensation
in the middle of the eighteenth century ; as the
names and places of abode of the parties were
made known J\t the time-a circumstance not fre-
quently the case in ghost stories.
Mr. Joseph Glew, a sword-hilt maker, lived with
his wife (both elderly people) many years, and one
female lodger, in the house over the archway in
the passage to Bear-yard, near the Oratory in Lin-
coln's-inn-fields; and, for the sake of company,
desired a nephew of his by marriage to come and
lodge in his house. Accordingly, in the beginning
of January 1739, the nephew came to his uncle,
and spent every evening with him and his wife, in
reading, &c. for their amusement.
About the twenty-fifth of the same month, after
the nephew had been reading to his uncle and aunt
(who were at that time in very good health) &Qme
meditations out of Dr. Thomas Coney's " Devout
Soul," he retired to his chamber-a large hack room,
up two pair of stairs; and, having .fastened the
door, went to bed, and fell asleep before ten o'clock.
A little before the clock struck twelve, he was
awakened by the drawing of the curtains of his bed,
and, on starting up, saw, by a gllmmering light,
resembling that of the moon, the spirit of his uncle,
in the night-gown and cap he had on when be last
parted with him, standing on the right side, near
the bead of the bed, holding the head curtain back
Wltb his left hand, and seemed as if be Wa& either
Digitized by Coogle
128
going to strike or cares5 him with his right : but the
nephew believed the latter, as the face of the ghost
had a cheerful look, and they lived in the greatc:st
amity.
At this instant, Mrs. Cooke, an elderly woman
that lodged in the fore two pair of stairs room,
and who formerly belonged to :ur. Rich's company
of comedians se\·eral years, came out of her apart-
ment to light down stairs the widow of the facetious
James Spiller, who had been this evening to visit
her. He now heard the clock, which was in his
uncle's apartments underneath, strike tu·clve, and
tried to call out to the two women as they passed
by his door ; but in vain, for he had lost all power
of utterance. The spectre kept its position, and
the nephew kept his eyes fixed on it ; and, to be
certain of his being actually awake, remembered
hearing, that when the two wbmen opened the
street-door, they called to the watchman, as he
came by crying the hour of twelve, and agreed to
give him some pence to light Mrs. Spiller to her
lodging, which was but at a little distance; on
which she went away, and .Mrs. Cooke having again
fastened the door, was coming up-stairs, when the
nephew supposes he swooned away; for, on corning
again to the usc of his reason, he found himself halt
out of bed, and immersed in a cold and clammy
sweat.
The first thing he heard, after he had recovered
from his fright, was the clock striking one! He
now wrapped himself up in his bed clothes, but
closed his eyes no more the whole night. About
eight in the morning, as soon as he heard his aunt
open the door of her apartment, he jumped out of
Digitized by Coogle
12!}
bed, and putting on his apparel with a11 much expe·
dttion as he could, hurried down to his aunt's room,
and having asked how his uncle did, heard he was
pretty well.
On this, he told his aunt what he had seen, with
the time and circumstances; but she looking on it
as chimerical, they called for Mrs. Cooke, who was
just got up, and she confirmed everything he had
said concerning Mrs. Spiller and the watchman-a
positive proof be was awake, and in his senM.!S.
The aunt now desired he would not mentiun it to
his uncle, which be promised he would not, but told
her he could never sleep in that chamber any more,
and took his leave.
The same day, before one o'clock, the nephew
received a message from h1s aunt, where he was at
work, in Fleet Street, desiring him to come imme-
diately to her. He accordingly went to her house.
when !le found his uncle dead, and was told that he!
fell down in crossing the room, and died suddenly,
about three minutes before twelve o'clock; cxaetly
twelve hours from his ghost's appearance to his
nephew.
This circumstance induced the young man to
think his uncle might want to reveal something to
him; and, therefore, he desired to sit up with his
corpse the night preceding his interment : whiclt
tbe aunt agreeing to, he fortified his minrl, and pre-
pared a devotional book for his companion, with
which he shut himself up in the room with thP.
body, about six in the evening, in hopes he might
see the spirit of his uncle, if he had to say
or open to him ; but, as nothing occurn•d during
fourteen hours he was alone with the corpse, thE>
a
Digitized by Coogle
130
folfowiug evening he attended his funeral to the
north part of the churchyard of St. Giles in the
Fields, where his body was interred; leaving behind·
him the character of a good Christian, a tender
husband, and a sincere friend!
MARVELLOUS PROPERTIES OF HERBS,
STONES, ROOTS, &c. '
TO SLEEP WITHOUT DANGER.
" Whosoever weareth vervain or
May be bold to sleep on every hiil."
The herb Dill is said to procure sleep, sound and
1ec-ure; and in ancient t1111es it was thus that gar-
lands were used to be worn at riotous feasts, that
thereby they might not only sleep, but sleep with·
'ut danger.
SECRETS OP ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
THE HERD CELANDINE.
No less extraordinary ts the property of the herb
. celandine ; which, it is said, if suspended over the
head of a sick person, will set him s.inging aloud if
he be likely to live ; but, if to die, it will makt
him weep.
THE IIERB PERIWINKLE.
The herb periwinkle, Albertus Magnus tells
being pulverized with earth-worms and sen-green,
Digitized by Coogle
131
creates affection between man and wife, by putting a
portion of it in their food. A small quantity of the
above preparation, with some sulphur, being thrown
into a fish-pond, will destrov the fish.
THE HERB HENBANE.
The herb henbane, mixed with wild saffron, and
given to a mad dog, kills him instantaneously; and
mixed with the blood of a leveret, 1s said to fasci·
nate hares.
THE LILY, ASTROLOGICALLY GATHERED.
Gather the lily while the sun is in Leo (whit:h is
from the 23d of July to the 21st of August), mix it
with the juice of the laurel; which done, bury it
for some time under dung, and worms shall be bred
from it, which worms being reduced to a powder,
and applied to one's neck, will not let the bearer
aleep. If put into a vessel containing cow's milk,
and covered with the hide of a cow of one colour,
'twill dry up the udders of the whole herd.
THE MlSLETOE.
It is said, that if the above herb be put into the
mouth of any person, and that he think of a certain
thing, it will dwell upon his memory if it be to
happen; if not to happen, it will escape his remem-
brance entirely. Let it be suspended from a tree
with the wing of a swallow, and birds without num-
ber will flock thither.
THF. HERB CENTAURY.
The same writer mentions many wonderful virtues
the herb .centaury; as, for instance, if it be put
Digitized by Coogle
132
into L. lamp with the blood of a female pue!, all the
bye-standers will imagine themselves enchanted, in
such a manner that it will appear their position is
inverted, supposing their heads to be where their
feet are. Again, if thrown into the fire, " the stars
shall seem a tilting at one another:" moreover,
when applied to the nose of any one, it will operate
so as to make him run himself out of breath for
fear.
VERVAIN, ASTROLOGICALLY GATHERED.
Vervain, he says, has, among others, a salutary
property. Gather it when the sun is in Aries (from
the 21st of March to the 21st of April), and mix it
with a grain of pwn!J of one year's growth; it is a
specific for those who are afflicted with epilepsy or
fits. If put into a rich mould, it will produce
worms in eight weeks, which are immediate death
to whoever touches them. Another property of it
is, to attract pigeons, which it does surprising-ly
when put into a dove-cot.
TO l'ASCINATE OR CHARM DOGS.
The herb dog's-tongue, with the heart of a young
frog, and its matrix, will, in a short time, collect a
multitude of dogs to wheresoever it is laid. Put
the same herb under your great toe, and it will
prevent a dog's barking. Tie it to a dog's neck,
in such a manner that he cannot get at it with his
teeth, and he will not cease wheeling round until
he fall as it wt>rc dead.
WONDERFUL rROPERTIES OF SAGE
Sage, being rotted under dung, and put under a
Digitized by Google
133
glass, will produce a worm, or a bird having- a tail
like a blackbird's; the blood of which, if it touch
a person's breast, renders the person so touched
senseless for a fortnight. Another property of it
is, that if the cowder be put into a lamp, the
room in which it bums will seem full of serpents.
PROPERTIES OF THE AliETllYST.
The amethyst, which is of a purple colour,. is
supposed to prevent drunkenness and inebriation,
wh1ch property must greatly enhance its value,
and render it an invaluable acquisition to the pos-
sessor. Our author alio adds, that it aids the
nderstanding; u does likewise the pale trans-
arent beryl.
THE CORAL.
The coral, inheriting a virtue from that element
in which it is found, is said to allay tempests, and
to be a safeguard to those who journey by water.
It has, moreover, been used to stop bleeding; and
ia said to be of marvellous efficacy for children to
wear during their infancy and the period of their
teething. The latter virtue is also mentioned by
many writers of the eighteenth century.
AN ADMIRABLE AMULET TO STOP BLEEDING.
(From an old Author.)
Take a toad, and kill him ; then take three
bricks, put them into the fire, and take out one of
them, and put the toad upon it. Then take out
another, and put him again upon that; and when
the brick is nearly cold, take off the toad, and
Digitized by Coogle
134
put the brick again intO' the fire; then take the
third _
brick and do so, till the· toad be consumed
to ashes. Then take the ashes and put them care-
fully into a silk or taffeta bag ; and when any one
bleedeth, apply the bag upon the heart of 1lhe
party, and it will instantly stay the bleeding, either
of the nose or of any .other wound whatever.
THE IIYSTICAL PERFUMES OF THE SEVEN PLANETS,
(.According to Hermes).
'f1 Saturn . . . . ••. . . • Pepperwort.
11. Jupiter ......•• . . Nut.meg.
Mars. . . . . . ••••. • Lignum Aloes.
0 Sol . . . . . . . •••. . Mastio.
Venus . . . . . . . . •• Saffron.
t' Mercury ••. . . . . . Cinnamon.
:!> Luna•...•......• Myrrh.
" These are said, by the old herbalists, to render
that place fortunate wherein they are _
burnt, during
the right planetary hour."-Key to Agrippa.
Digitized by Coogle
..
_, -
o;g,tized by Google
Digitized by Google
\
AN HISTORICAL OCCURRENCE IN THE
REIGN OF HENRY THE SIXTH.
" Truth is atrauge-
Stranger than fiction."
"FEAR me not, fear me not, good Sir John: the
stout heart of Eleanor Cobham will not fail her;
albeit that as yet I do not choose to be present at
these orgies. How sayest thou, Margaret Jourdmaiu
is there, and assisted by Roger Bolinbroke?"
The person by whom this question was asked
was a female; who, although somewhat cleclined
into the vale of years, was still remarkable for her
stately and majestic gait, and the symmetry and
beauty of her features. Her stature sermed to be
above six feet; her long, flowing, and once jet
black, but now grey, tresses, fell in rich ringlets
down her back ; and her high, pale forehead was
singularly contrasted with her dark and fiery eye.
Her rank and were sufficiently indicated by
the splendour of her dress. She wore a long flow-
ing robe of silk; her hair was plaited with jewels,
whence pendant drops, composed of precious stones
of great value and size, hung upon her forehead ;
and a collar of gold, from which hung a chain of
the same costly material, was fastened round her
Digitized by Coogle
136
neck. She sat in a massive oaken chair, curiously
carved, and placed in the midst of a large Gothic
chamber, through whose windows the moonbeams
poured a flood of many-coloured light, as they took
the tinge of the painted glass through which they
streamed.
The walls of the apartment were hung with rich
tapestry, and the floor was strewed with rushes.
A large silver candelabra, bearing lighted waxen
tapers, descended from the ceiling and
the whole apartment. A small table, of similar
workmanship to the chair in which she sat, stood
before the lady, and on it was spread, wide open, a
large parchment volume, in the perusal of which
she appeared to have been very recently occupied.
Opposite to her stood a man, whose sharen
crown, the brads and cross dependent from his
neck, his white cassock, and his narrow scapulary,
proclaimed him to be a monk uf the Cistercian
order. He was a short and meagre figure, with
small red eyes, a sharp aquiline nose, black beard
and brows, and an extraordinarily intelligent, but at
the same time somewhat repulsi\·e and malignant,
expression of countenance.
"They have been busily engaged, madam,'' he
said, in answer to the lady's question, "in your
Grace's service, since the hour of noon. At that
hour the waxen image was completed, and the fatal
fire was lighted ; and from that hour did Henry,
marrow, bones, and all, begin to waste and wither
away; and shall continue so to do, until the throne of
England shall be left vacant for a worthier occupant."
"Thanks, good Sir John," said the lady, un-
clasping the collar of gold round her neck, and
Digitized by Google
J1i
it, with the chain attached to it, in the
priest's hands; " A thousand thauks! Do I nut
well, Sir John ? Heaven knows that it is not for
the sake of gratifying any ambitious of
my own that I enter upon this seemingly unhal
lowed work ; but in compassion of the misnics
which the unhappy people of England endure under
the sway of the feeble and incapable Henry, who
is the unresisting instrument of all their ill, in the
bands of that she-wolf of France, and this ncwly-
creatcrl Duke of York, Richard Plantngcnet.·•
"Your Grace is but to blame," said the obse-
quious priest, "for having so long delayed to avail
yourself of that knowledge, and those arts, into the
mysteries of which your poor servant has been the
unworthy means of initiating you, for the purpose
of putting an end to the evils with which our
country is overwhelmed. How will the loyal heart
of your servanfRume rejoice, when he hears the
welcome shouts of 'God sa\'e King Humphrey I'
'God save Queen Eleao '>r !' "
"Peace, peace, gooa Ilume !'' said the lady;
"thou talkest idly.'' But a smile of hope brightened
her features at the same time, and helied the expres-
sion of her lips. " llca\'<'n knows that there is no
one in this realm would pray more fcrv<'ntly for the
welfare of Henry of Lancaster than Eleanor Cob-
ham ; but that, while he lives, England must lie at
the mercy of Margaret of Anjou, and Richard of
Plantagenet. Yet, Hume, I would fain receive
some more certain assurance as to my future
destiny. When wilt thou invoke to my presence
the spirit who is to answer such questions as I shall
propound?"
5
Digitized by Coogle
"Madam," answered Hume, ''it i:; by sevHe
nnd painful penance, anxious watching, and loug
fasting-, alone, that I can prevail upon that invisible
power whom I sen·e, to gratify your Grace's desire.
Neither can Margaret Jourdmain nor Roger Bolin-
broke assist me; for they haYc not attained :-ueh
proficiency in the occult sciences as to be ahie to
command spirits to do their bidding. Time, a short
but carefully spent time, will empower me to call
one before you who s!,:
.dl reveal to your Grace the
secrets of futurity ...
Had the Duchess at th::t moment fixed her eye
upon her chaplain, she wotl!tl have detected, in his
chans·ing colour and limbs, the hypocrite
and the impostor. 'Vbatever might have been the
reality of the pretensions to occult" lore on the part
of Jourdmain and Bolinbrokc, the only magic of
which Hume was master, was the ascendancy of a
strong mind over a weak one. The Duchess knew
him to be a man of Yast and various learning and
acquirements; and had been initiated by him into
the study of languages, ::md of the natural sciences.
She tl1ercfore readily credited his pretensions to
knowledge of a more profound and mysterious cha-
racter; and he, by fiattcring· her ambitious hopes,
and pretending to mi!l!;,;tcr to their gratification.
continued to store !tis own purse at her expense,
and to indulge himself in such plcnsurcs as his
straitened means, and not his sacerdotal oath, alone
debarred him from. He had accordingly promised
to raise a spirit who should reveal her future destiny
to her, being deficient in the science of Astrofo;;y
(which was then, as it is now, the only laiLjitl mc:w.-
madc use of tor dccyphcring futurity, without ll:·:
Digitized by Coogle
imputation of crime). He had, for this purpose,
hired two professors of the black art, or witchcraft,
to construct a waxen image of the King, who, they
pretended, would waste away under the influence
of a strange disease, as that image melted before a
fire which they had kindled. Hume knew his own
pretensions to occult knowledge to be unfounded,
and believed those of his associates to be the same.
The death of the King, and the elevation of dame
Eleanor, were not the objects which the crafty
priest had in view ; but the multiplication of his
own wealth and pleasures, by means of the well-
stored of the Duchess of Gloucester.
"Hume !" said the lady, "hasten the period at
which my desires may be gratified. In the mean
time, receive my thanks for the services which thou
hast already rendered me. But, give us leave
awhile, good Sir John; my Lord approaches."
The priest made a lowly reverence, and left the
apartment, almost at the same moment that the
Duke of Gloucester entered. This was the son of
King Henry the Fourth, who, by his virtues, had
acquired the appellation of " the good Duke
Humphrey." He entered with a hurried and agi-
tated step: his face was pale; his lip quivered;
and his eye rolled wildly and fearfully.
"My gracious Lord," said the Duchess, "what
hu happened ? I fear some strange and unlooked
for misfortune."
''Eleanor," said the Duke, "the young King is
taken suddenly and dangerously ill. His physicians
can neither divine the nature of his malady, nor
deriae any cure."
"Ha I'' said the Duchess ; her eyes sparkling,
Digitized by Google
1-!0
a:Hl her cheek glowing as she spoke;-" suddenly,
Duke Humphrey, sayest thou, that the King was
thus attacked? And at what hour, I pray thee?"
"At the hour of noon ;" answered the Duke.
" At noon-at noon!'' repeated the Duchess to
herself, clasping her hanJs, 'and pacing the apart-
ment in a state of mental abstraction. " It was at
that hour, as Hume informed me, that the wise
woman's labours were completed. Humphrey,'' she
added, turning towards the Duke, " the King will
die."
"Now heaven forefend!" replied Duke Humphrey;
"so young-so good-so pious !"
" The fitter for heaven!" interrupted the Duchess.
''For this world, and especially for the station he
fills, he is, of all men, most unfit. The monk's
cloister, or the hermit's cell, indeed, might have
found in him a fitting occupant; but the throne of
France and Enghnll suits him not; and the sceptre
of Henry the Fifth is not adapted to his puny
grasp."
"Alas, alas!" said the Duke of Gloucester; "he
will neither fiil the one nor grasp the other long."
"The will of heaven must be submitted to," said
Eleanor; " and the people of England, when they
are obliged to King Henry fi)r King
Humphrey, must learn to yield in patience to so
fearful a visitation."
"Now, by hcaYen, Nell!" said the Duke; and
an expression of intli;nation and ang1..·r succeeded
that of deep distress which had cloulled his fine
features-" thou me. Is 01:rs an a·rc at
<:>
which to nmse the idle dreams of ambition? aml is
tl: ·; m;.l;\dy of a ynun;; an(l virtuous prince, like
Digitized by Coogle
ltl
Henry, a fitting subject of exultation to his nearest
relatives? I fear, Eleanor, that pride and ambition
have dried up the milk of human charity in thy
bosom. I feas.r, too,"-hf!re he spoke in a low and
stifled tone, while cold big drops stood upon his
temples,-" that thou pursucst unholy and unlawful
studies. Beware! Eleanor Cobham, beware ! -the
public suspicion is awakened against thee; the
Queen loves thee not; the Duke of YOl'k thirsta
for thy blood ; and Humphrey of tiloucester's
power to defend and protect thee is becoming
smaller and weaker with each waning moon."
The consciousness of her guilt, and the abrupt-
ness and suddenness of the accusation, struck the
Duchess of Gloucester mute ; while her cheek
changed from a fiery red to an ashy paleness, her
breath came short and thick, and her limbs trembled
•nder her. "Humphrey/' she at length said, aa
with a violent effort she recovered her self-posses-
sion, drew her stately figure up to its utmost height,
and laid her hand upon the arm of the Duke; "this
is cruel and unkind; and, from thee, un-
expected. Because I have devoted myself to
study, the ignorant vulgar have charged me with
the practice of magic; and the of those,
my foes, whose superior education and station pre-
vent them from being themselves the dupe of so
idJe an accusation, bas nevertheless given sanction
and confirmation to it; but, that the Duke of
Gloucester,-the most accomplished and learned
prince in Christendom, in whose well-stored library
I have acquired that knowledge which is now
imputed to me as a crim{',-that he should join in
the senseless outcry of the vulgar and malignant, is a
Digitized by Coogle
cahn11ity the o.:currcncc of wl:ich I confess
thr.t I was not sufficiently prepared. Go! Duke
lfumphrey; denounce me to the King! offer up
your wife as an expiatory sacrif-Ice to the wrath of
of Anjou, and l{ichard Plantagenet! Suf-
J;J[k will smile upon you-your good uncle Beaufort
\\ !II once more admit you to paternal embrace;
and rare and jocun<l will be the dunce and the was-
sailing over the grave of Eleanor Cobham."
Thus saying, she rushed out of the apartment,
leaving the Duke, over whose feelings she well
kllcw the extent of her influence, penetrated with
uneasiness and sorrow at having given her pain or
oncnce; although he could not entirely banish from
his mind the suspicions which had been awakened
.' .
lll It.
To the wonder and joy of the Duchess, and the
consternation of Hume, day after day brought news
to the Duke of Gloucester's palace of the increasing
malady of the King, and of the inutility of every
effort which had been made to stop its fatal progress.
The chaplain, who had believed that the associates
whom he had engaged to assist him in his attack on
the Duchess·s purse were no more able to effect the
King's death by magic than he was to raise a spirit,
began to fear that their diabolical learning was no
vain pretension-so strangely coincident was the
progress of the King's disease with the work on
which the \Vitch of Eye and Bolinbroke were
engaged.
Dissolute and avaricious as he was, his heart sunk
within him at the idea of being an accomplice in
the murder of his soverei;;n, especially by such
means. Remorse for his cnmc was also mingled
Digitized by Coogle
)43
with no small portion of fear as to its consequence&
to himself; for it was by no means C(;rlain, that
amidst the contentions uf parties which would mTl'S·
sarily follow the death of the King, his
would rule the ascendant. To add to his pnplcxity,
Eleanor had become importunate with him to raise
the spirit who, he had promised, should reveal lt)
her her future destiny; and, on his repcatcJ
lllld postponements, had ratc(l him in tcrms which
his wounded pri<le could ill brook. l\luodily and
dejectedly pondering over these
Hume wa<.; pacing the great hall of the ducal
paalce. He had just received an i·utin.ation from
Bolinbroke, that their work was proceculllg must
auspiciously; that in less tl1an twelve huurs thr.
waxen image would entirely melt away; aull that
within that time, therefore, King Henry must siuk
under the influence of his disease.
"Save me! save me, gracious heaven!" he ex-
claimed; "wherefore have I sold myself, body ancl
soul, to this diabolical confederacy ? I will break
the hellish trammels in which I am bound. I will
hasten to the Duke of York, reveal all, and while
there is yet time, save the King from tltc machina-
tions of his enemies. And yet," he atldcd, after a
short pause, this is but an idle fear by wl1ich l am
suffering myself to be unmanned. Stra11;;c as it is
that the King's illness should happen at tuc san1c
time that these idle mummeries are J>r<lcti-..in3", it
does not therefore follow that it is caused by them ;
neither do I yet know that any symptoms l1a\'c
to-day appeared to render the near approach uf
death probable."
At that moment the Duke of Gloucester, w1th
Digitized by Google
144
several passed through the halJ. As
he passed Hume, the priest made a lowly reverence.
"'fo your prayers, to your prayers, good Sir John,"
said the Duke ; " pray for our pious King, whose
mortal career is fast drawing to its close."
"I trust," said Hume, crossing himself, "that
his Highness will yet live many years to rule over
a happy and loyal people."
"That hope is vain, Hume," said the Duke. "I
have just received a message from Queen Margaret,
commanding my immediate attendance; and in-
forming me, that the King has not twelve !tours' life in
him. Fare thee well, reverend father! and forget
·not to pray for good King Henry's soul."
Hume gazed on the Duke without answering him.•
astounded and dismayed. "Twelve hours!" he
exclaimed, after Humphrey and his followers had
disappeared. " It is the very period which Bolin-
broke mentioned, as that at which his hellish pur-
pose would be achieved. I will wash my hands of
this unhallowed deed. The Duke of York shall
know the fiend-like purpose of the Duchess. Yet
would I not willingly lead to destruction the woman
to whom I owe my rank and fortune. I would not
lead to the scaffold or to the stake--''
At that moment he felt his arm wrung forcibly,
and, turning round, beheld the very person who
principally occupied his thoughts, standing before
him. There was an unusual flush on the cheek of
the Duchess ; her eye seemed to flash fire, and her
stately form appeared to dilate to still more majestic
proportions. She looked as though sbe already
grasped the sceptre of France and England, and
wore the regal diadem upon her brow.
Digitized by Coogle
"So moody and contemplative, Sir John Hume!'
said ; " and at the hour when all our labourt
are about to be crowned with success ?"
"I understand your Grace's meaning," said the
priest: " the King is dying?"
''Even 10," said the Duchess; "thanks to thy
powerful arts!"
Hume shuddered; and, lifting his sleeve to his
brow, wiped away the drops which had started
there. cc Gracious madam, say not so!" he ex-
claimed. "I trust that his Highness will yet-will
at least for a time ;-pardon me, pardon me l I
know not what I say; yet, were it not well that
these proceedings should be stayed for a time 1
The King's disorder may be natural; and then-"
" Peace, peace !" said Eleanor ; thou talkest
childishly. It was the will of fate that Margaret of
Anjou's crown should be transferred to these brows
of mine. But, Burne," she added, in a determined
and somewhat angry tone, cc I must see and con-
verse with this spirit immediately. I will not be
delayed longer ; and if thy art cannot raise him, I
must seek the aid of others who are greater profi-
cients."
"Not yet, gracious madam, not yet," said Hume:
and I pray thee again consider whether we are not
somewhat too sudden in our machinations for the
death of the King. Command the Witch of Eye
and Bolinbroke to suspend their operations for the
present. If the King's illness is so speedily fol-
lowed by death, the public will suspect--·'' ·
"Peace, man!" said the Duchess, whose uaughty
and imperious temper for a moment got the better
of her discretion, and smiting the priest violently
T
Digitized by Coogle
\.\1)
N\ his <'heek-'' peace, doting prattler! counsel tne
not, but obey me. Rai:sc me the spirit, or by
heaven--''
At that moment the Duchess's eye caught
tne expression of Hume's features, and she was
startled and awed at the mingled malignity, con-
tempt, and triumph, which she read there. Eleanor
Cobham, although noted for the violence and impe-
tuosity of her passions, was equally remarkable
for the swiftness and adroitness with which she
could master and disguise them. In an instant, the
fiush of anger passed from her face, her lip curled
with a smile, and her whole countenance seemed
l1ghted up with gaiety.
"'Vhy, llume, man," she said, "thou lookest as
if thou believedst us in earnest offended, and
forgetful of the services which our good chaplain
has performed on our behalf. But in truth, Sir
John, I must converse with this spirit. Gratify the
wish of thy Duchess--"
" Of my Queen !" said Hume, sinking on his
knee, and taking the opportunity of his prostration
to mask his features in an expression of becoming
reverence and humility.
"Whether Duchess or Queen," said the lady,
" the reward bestowed by Eleanor Cobham on those
who obey her will shall be princely."
"Your Grace's will," said llume, "is your lowly
servant's law. This night, if it so please ye, your
wish shall be gratified."
" Ha !" said the Duchess ; " at what hour?"
"At the hour of eleven, which is just one hour
before the charm which is to work King Henry's
death will be C<
)mplctc, will I conduct you to my
Digitized by Coogle
147
apartment, where the Witch of Eye and Bolinbroke
are busily at work. There you shall aee and hear
the spirit which will reveal to you your future
destiny."
" I will not fail thee, good Sir John," said
Eleanor, thrusting a purse into his hand. "At the
hour of eleven thou shalt find we are ready to
accompany thee." Thus saying, and waving her
hand to the priest, she hurried from his presence.
" And at the hour of eleven, proud Eleanor
Cobham," said Hume, following her slowly with
his eye till she disappeared from the hall, " I will
raise thee such a spirit as thou wouldst gi"e the
wealth of England to lay. There needed but this,"
he added, while his features assumed an expression
of demoniacal ferocity-" there needed but this
dishonest blow to wind my spirit to its purpose.''-
He paused a moment; but, in that moment, hia
flashing eye, his changing brow, and his heaving
breast, seemed to indicate thoughts sufficient to
occupy his mind for a century. At length, wrap-
ping his cloak closely round him, drawing his cowl
over hjs brow, and exclaiming, "I have it! I ha\'e
itI" he rushed out of the hall.
This conversation took place at about the hour of
noon; and the bell bad just tolled the ele\'cnth
hour, when the Duchess of Gloucuter, leaning on
the arm of Home, entered the chamber in which
her were performing, or pretending to
perform, their wicked ceremonies.
It was a lofty and spacious apartment, which the
Duke of Gloucester had specially appropriated to
the use of the chaplain, and which was held sacred
from the intrusion of every other person. Here.
Digitized by Coogle
148
therefore, Hume had an opportunity of pursuing,
without interruption or discovery, his studies in
those '1ccult sciences to which·he had devoted
self. The Duchess started as she entered ; for the
pale lurid flame by which alone the chamber was
illuminated, cast a fearful and preternatural light
over every object on which it glanced. Eleanor,
however, soon suppressed the feeling of fear by
which she had at first been overpowered, and
advanced into the apartment.
The fire from which this ghastly and melancholy
light proceeded, glowed on the hearth, at the eastern
end of the room. Over it cowered two figures,
whose squalid misshapen forms, and wan
and emaciated featur<:!s, were in fearful unisl)n with
the whole scene. One was a woman, bent nearly
double with age and infirmity; a very few tufts, or
patches, of white hair were upon her head ; but
·the scantiness of hair there was compensated by
the profusion with which it grew above her lip and
chin. Her cheek was sunken and hollow, her lips
dry and withered, and, as they moved up and doWB,
while she seemed to be mumbling some diabolical
prayer or incantation, they showed that the hag
could not boast of the possession of a single tooth.
Her right hand resied on a stick, while her left was
elevated, and moved to and fro in accompaniment
to the spell which she was muttering. Her com-
panion was a lean and shrivelled old man, whose
grey beard swept his breast, and who, with a large
voiume in his hand, which he was attentively
perusing, knelt by the fire, and seemed to be eo-
mining, by his book, the accuracy of the leuon
which the old woman was repeating.
Digitized by Coogle
140
Tbe Duchess, bold of heart as she was, could
not help shuddering, and clasped more firmly the
arm of Hume, as she gazeu upon these l\vo f(:arful
beings; especially as she perceived, that although
they stood in the full blaze of the fire, their figures
cast no shadow on the floor of the apartment.
But an object of still more intense interest to her.
soon diverted her gaze another way.
At the opposite end of the apartment stood a
large waxen image, which needed not the crown
upon its bead, or the sceptre in its hand, to tell her
that it was intended to represent King Henry ; so
perfect and faithful a portraiture did it present of
that monarch. For nearly a month had this image
been stationed opposite the fire which we have
described, and which had been kept incessantly
burning, night and day.
During that time, the figure had melted and
wasted beneath the influence of the heat; and it
now presented tbe appearance of a man emaciated
by illness, and fast sinking into the grave. The
Duchess, who had on the previous day seen the
King, gave a smile of grim delight, as she saw the
evidence of the success of her magical practices
before . her. The most intense silence reigned in
the apartment, interrupted only by the low faint
mumbling of the .hag, ·and the crackling of the
faggots in the blaze. The Duchess, howe\'er, soon
broke this portentous silence, by advancing towards
the fire, and aaying to the unearthly-looking beirrge
who stood beside it-" Rare artists! accept the
thanks of Eleanor Cobham ; and doubt not, as soon
as the work is accomplished, that your recompense
lball be far more substantial."
Digitized by Coogle
150
The people whom she addressed, were Margaret
Jourdain, or Jourdmain, who was better known as
"tl-.e Witch of Eye,'' from the place of her birth;
Roger Bolinbroke, who was, like Hume, a
priest, but had devoted his learning and talents to
the study of sorcery. These persons had long been
employed by Hume, and paid him the utmost
respect and deference; not only on account of the
liberal gifts by which he repaid their services, but
because they believed him to be a greater proficient
in the arts of magic than themselves, and to be able
even to raise spirits-a degree of proficiency in
those diabolical arts to which they did not pretend.
They answered the address of the Duchess by
directing their eyes slowly towards her, making
the sign of the cross, not upon their foreheads,
but their backs, and then sinking upon their
knees before her, exclaiming, "God save Queen
Eleanor!"
"Thanks, gentle friends ; thanks for your un-
shaken loyalty and unremitting services!" said the
Duchess. "But tell me, I pray ye, when the work
shall be accomplished ?''
" When the bell," said the witch, in a discordant
tone, or rather shriek, " shall have tolled the midnight
hour!''
At that moment the bell of the ducal palace
drowned all other sounds, by tolling heavily and
solemnly the first quarter after the hour of eleven.
" Ha ! sayest thou so ?" said the Duchess ; and
as the lurid blaze brightened her features, it showed
them still more brightened by the hope of approach-
ing grandeur and sovereignty.
"Even so," said the hag; "then will yonder
Digitized by Coogle
151
image sink to the ground, destroyed and dissolved
in that flame ; and then will tlte spirit of 1/('111:'1 1:/
Windsor melt beneatk the i'!.fluence of !tis tlismsc, dis-
$()/vt, and mingle with the dements.''
"Then look to it, Margaret of Anjou! look to it,
Richard Plantaganet !" said the Duchess ; "fc)r
Eleanor Cobham has been injured, and will he
revenged. But still I am troubled; doubt nnd un-
certainty !Jd hang over my future fate. Henry may
cease to be King, and yet Eleanor not become
Queen. These signs and symbols may be delusion!l.
Hume, I claim the performance of thy promise.
Call up a spirit who shall make answer to such
questions as 1 shall propound."
"Your Grace," said Hume, "shall be obeyed ;
yet, pardon me, but I fear your courage may fail."
"Nay, nay, dotard!" said the Duchess, impa·
tiently; "I mean," she added, eager to retract
the offensive epithet, " my good Sir John-fear not
my courage; I have gone too far to recede."
The chaplain then bowed reverentially, and,
drawing a white wand from beneath his cloak,
advanced into the midst of the apartment. With
this wand he described a circle on the floor, which
he perambulated three times, pouring from a phial
which he held in . his hand a blood-red liquor, and
chanting, in a low and solemn tone, something
which appeared to be a metrical composition, but
was in a language unintelligible to the Duchess.
He then threw himself on the floor, and re-
mained in a po!rture apparently of adoration, and
groaning bitterly for several minutes ; then, starting
up, he rushed towards the fire, seized the volumo
which Bolinbroke held in his hand, and, returning
Digitized by Coogle
152
to the circle, began to read loudly and rapidly from
it; but still in a language which the Duchess did
not understand.
At length he closed the volume, bowed reverently
three times, and retreated backwards out of the
circle. At that moment, the bell tolled the second
quarter after eleven. A noise like the sound of
distant thunder was heard, the floor of the apart·
ment opened, and a figure which could not be
distinctly seen, but appeared to be tall, and
wrapped in a black mantle, stood before them.
A shriek burst from the lips of the Duchess, and
even from those of Bolinbroke and .the Witch.
"For the love of heaven, be silent!" said Home, in
a whisper to the former: "waste not these pre-
cious moments in idle alarms ! demand what ye
will of the spirit; but, be courageous, and be
brief."
"Tell me," said Eleanor, advancing towards the
circle, but trembling in every limb--" telL.me .what
fate awaits King Henry?''
She gazed with dim, but anxiously straining eyes,
on the being whom she interrogated; as, in a aullea,
feeble voice the spirit answered :-
11 When yonder image melt. in yonder blaze,
Henry ahall uumber out bia mortal dayt."
"Why, that is well!" exclaimed the Duchess,
forgetting her alarm in the confirmation which this
prediction gave to her wildest hopes. " But,
Henry," she added, is not the only person whose
existence gives me uneasiness. Tell me, too, what
fate awaits the Duke of York !"
Digitized by Coogle
163
The spirit answered, in the same tone-
" Plantagenet from earth shall fly,
StriCtly and speedily ae l."
"Why that," said Eleanor," is better tidings still:
tlt011. wilt vanish in an instant, when my bidding
performed. And shall the residue of Plantagenet
on this earth be no more permanent than thy own ?
Happy, happy Eleanor !"
"For heaven's sake, madam," !'aid Hume, gazing
anxiously on a dial on which the rays of the fire at
that moment fell, telling him that the midnight hour
was fast approaching-" tbiR is idle and inauspicious
delay. \Vould you demand ought farther of the
spirit?"
" One, one more question !" she exclaimed,
"Tell me,'' she said ; and then hesitating for a
momeni, seemed anxiouM yet fearful to put the
question-" tell me my own future fate-the fate
o( Eleanor Cohham ?"
The answer was not given to this question so
speedily as before; but, when it was pronounced,
it was in a peculiarly emphatic and impressive
tone:-
"The secrets of thy future fate
J,et my attending spirits state ;
Tell the Dame of Gloucester's doom;
Come, attending spirits, come !''
The spirit, as he finiRhed his prt-diction, was
seen to apply something to his lips; and presently
afterwards, no unearthly and aerial sound was heard
l'
Digitized by Coogle
....
154
to pt·oceed from them, but the loud and distinct
blast of a bugle. A responsive shout was heard
to follow it, and then the doors of the apartment
were burst open, and a band of soldiers, carrying
drawn swords and lighted torches in their hands,
rushed in. The pretended spirit advanced towards
them, and, throwing away the black mantle iu
which his fonn and face had been enveloped, dis-
covered to the terrified and astonished Duchess the
features of the Duke of York !
" The fire! the fire !" said Hume, darting a look
of agony at the dial.
"lla I I did indeed forget!" said the Duke
of Buckingham, who was the leader of the soldiers.
'' Fellows, extinguish that accursed light !"
The soldiers immediately advanced to the fire;
and, trampling upon the now faint and decaying
embers, speedily succeeded in extinguishing it.
The last spark, however, had scarcely been trodden
out, before the bell tolled the hour of midnight.
" Heaven be praised!'' said Hume; "the ac-
cursed deed has been prevented. Had yonder
spark retained a gleam of light for an instant longer.
the spirit of good King Henry had passed away
tor ever."
" Peace, double traitor!'' said the Duke of York.
"Good King Henry is doubtless indebted to thee
for his life; but he has to thank not thy loyalty,
but thy malignity and avarice. Both, however,
shall be gratified, agreeably to the promise which I
made thee. The woman, Duchess though she he,
who insulted thee, shall be brought to a terrible
expiation of her crimea ; and the reward which she
Digitized by Coogle
155
promised thee for aiding and concealing her damua-
ble practices, shall be more than doubled for having
revealed them."
Eleanor gazed in sullen silence on the scene that
bad terminated all her hopes, and probably her
life. She saw herself too completely in the hands
of her enemies for any effort at resistance or escape
to be availing ; and was too proud to expose the
bitterness and humiliation of her feelings, by tears
or idle upbraidings. One scornful and malignant
smile, which she glanced at Hume, was the only
expression of her sentiments in which she indulged;
and then she left the apartment, with her arms
fettered to those of Boliobroke and the Witch
of Eye, in the custody of Buckingham and the
soldiers.
The events which followed arc matter of history,
and too well known to require more than a bncf
recitaL The Duchess of Gloucester, Burne, the
Witch of Eye, and Bulinbroke, were tried aJHl
condemned, on the clearest evidence, fur the crimes
of conspiring the death of the King, and practisin.;
the arts of magic and witch<:raft.
The Witch was burned in Smithfield,
was hanged at Tyburn, and the Duchess sentenced
to do open penance in four public places within the
city of London, and afterwards to imprisonment for
life in the Isle of Man. Hume wns not only par-
doned, but liberally rewarded. This man did not
appear really to have possessed any knowledge of
the occult sciences; but seems to have imposed ou
the credulity of the Duchess.
That Margaret Jourdmain and Roger Bolinbroke
were reali9 magicians and wizards, was religiously
Digitized by Coogle
believed by all , and the fact that the King, at the
very moment that tlte magical fire was extinguished
in the house of the Duke of Gloucester, recovered
his full and perfect health, at his palace at 'Vest-
minster, ga,·e support and confirmation to such a
belief, however irrational it may now appear.
The Duke of Gloucc:'ter, whatever might be his
feelings at the disgrace and punishment of his
DucJ1ess, did not attem?t any exercise of his autho-
rity for their prevention ; but, to use the language
of an old chronicler, "toke all these thynges
paciently, and saied little.''¥
• Neele'11 " Romance oi Hi11tory:'
Digitized by Coogle
157
ANCIENT DIVINATION.
BY THa
PART II.
TO RESOLVE THE QUESTIONS.
IN the first place, the inquirer must refer to
Table III. Page 65 ; and, while thinking earnestly
upon the question he wishes resolved or answered,
let him choose a number out of that table, without
premeditation; or, what is said to be still better,
let the inquirer take thirty pieces of card, and
write thereon from No. 1 to 30 ; and these pieces
being so numbered, and mixed together, let o-ne of
them he chosen promiscuously, and the number thereon
taken notice of. This is the first step in the opera-
tion; but thereon depends the truth of the whole :
therefore the inquirer must be particular in thil
part of the process. •
Secondly. To this number, ao chosen, dther
from the table or otherwise, let the inquirer add the
number a1uwering to the }ir1t Idler of his proper or
Chrntian name; which is seen in the \Vheel itself,
where the numbers stand in the inner circle, under
the letters.
Thirdly. To this sum add the number of the
dag of the week, and of the planet ruling the day;
Digitized by Google
158
which is plainly shown in Tables No. I. and II.
page G·l, of that day on which they ask the ques-
tion. • Then, add the whole together, and divide it by
30, or subtract 30 from it, as often as you can ; and
the remainder look for in the \Vheel, observing in
what part of the Wheel it falls ; but if there be no
remahtder, then the number 30 itself must be
looked for.
Now. to know whether the question or demand,
which the inquirer or any one else propounds, shall
succeed or not; take notice, if the number falls in
thtl upper half of the ·wheel, your fortune therein
is GooD, and the lot you have cast will cause your
request to · be fuJfilled. But if it chance to be
found in the lower half of the \Vheel, your lot is evil
and unfortunate ; and the proposed question shall
have an EviL issue.
Note, also, if it be any question wherein time is
concerned ; as, how long or how short shall be the
matter in hand before it be accomplished. Observe,
that one half of the \Vheel represents numbers of
"long time," the other half of " short time;" and
even so, in good or evil, shall the matter in hand
fall out.
The whole of the questions but out· in the list are
answered thus; but, to which is, "If a sick
person shall t:ecover or die?" to the above sums
must be added, the "Moon's Age" on the day the
question is asked; and the result proceeded with
in the same manner.
E..wmple 1.
Saturday, March 1, 18:!8.-lt was asked, If an
undertaking should succeed? The number chosen
Digitized by Coogle
,
159
was 14; and the first letter of the person's Christian
name 1Vas R.
Number chosen . . •••. . . . . • •. • . • 14
Number in the Wheel answering to R. 13
Number answering to Saturday . . . . 45
Number of the Planet ruling Saturday 55
Sum • • 127
This, divided by 30, leaves 7 for the remainder.
Refer to the Wheel, and 7 is found in the upper
half of the Wheel, and in the half marked "short
time." This shows that the affair would be accom-
plished accordingly.
E.rample 2.
A person whose initial was S. asked, on Wednes-
day, If a sick friend should recover or die 1 and
drew forth a card with the number 23 upon it, as
his lot.
.Number chosen ••. •. •• . . . . . . •. . . • 23
Number answering to S . •. . . . . . . . 9
Number answering to Wednesday •• 102
Number answering to the Planet. ... 114
Number of the Age of the Moon . . . • 20
268
This, divided by 30, leaves 28 for the remainder,
which is found to fall in the unfortunate half of the
Wheel, and denotes long sickness, and dangerous,
or of a doubtful issue.
Digitized by Coogle
160
These examples will be sufficient to illustrate the
method of resolving questions by the Wheel of
Pythagoras, in which the only difficulty consists in
choosing the first number. For which purpose, the
manuscript from whence this is taken recommends
the inquirer not to" ask but one question on the same
day, and to refrain from all gibing, sporting, jesting,
and unbelief, while divining/' or making use of the
Wheel, in order to know the truth.
The reader will remember that this extract is put
more for his amusement than for any avouching as
to its actual certainty. Let him try it, and judge
for himself.
'ONPORTUNATB AND BVIL DAYS,
BY \'8&
WHEEL OF PYTHAGORAS.
THE same manuscript also contains a trad1t1tm
relating to the evil days, or days of misfor-
tune, whereon no question should be asked; as
follows:-
" There be evil and unfortunate days, so called
by the ancient philosophers, in the which, if a man
fall sick, he shall be in danger of death, or else to be
long sick; or, if any person take upon him a
journey, and set forward in any one of these days,
he shall have itt luck in his doings : neither is it
good to plant, to make bargains, or banquets, in
any of them.
Digitized by Coogle
16\
"JANUARY hath five ill days; H.at is, the 3d, 4th,
5th, 9th, and 11th.
FEBRUARY hath three; that is, the 13th, 17th,
and 19th.
MARCH hath three; that is, the 13th· 15th, and
16th.
APRIL hath two; that is, the 5th and the 14th.
MAY also hath two; the 8th and the 14th.
JuNE hath but one ill day; and that is, the 6th.
JuLY hath two ill days; the 16th and 19th.
AuousT hath two; the 8th and the 16th.
SEPTEMBER hath three; that is, the 1st, 15th, and
16th.
OcTOBER hath but one ill day; and that is, the
Nov.EU.BER hath two; that is, the 15th and 16th.
D.r.cEJIBEn. hath three; that is, the 6th, 7th, and
the 11th." •
The foregoing tradition seems to be a relic of
ancient augury, or soothsaying, and, consequently,
very old in date. In the middle ages, these days
were universally shunned, as " ruled by evil
influences." As an old writer has it,
" Da,.. of e.II, ab'lfe and hate ;
Cnel wrath and r..ndt!bale.
Planetllb'lke and stan annoy,
Alpftc:ta, of good deatroy.
Shun their calenda,
Hef'd tbelr power.
NouiJbt btogun In OYII bour
EYer went well. Splrlt.a o'er
Tboae daya prealde,
Wbo 1p0rt and gibe,
With human fate;
Omena of bate,
Wrath, and debate."
OLD LEGiliiD.
• Tbe reade-r may dbcover tbe really furlllute tmd rkys, a::.
to utral - , by consu!Uog "THE PROPHE"fiC GUIDE,"
.,.Wiabellanalllllly. That Cor 18!9, contaiBa the of eacb day iD tbat yew"
Digitized by Coogle
MISCELLANIES,
AMUSING AND SELRCT.
New Theory of the Earth.
M. L. Cordier, Professor of Geology in the Garden
of Plants at Paris, has published a Memoir, in which
he endeavours to prove that the Eartlt is a cooled
star, which has been extinguished only at its
surface, and that its interior is still in a state of
fluidity; that the main thickness of the crust of the
Earth does not exceed twenty leagues, (60 English
miles); that, according to observations which have
been made in the caves undet· the Observatory
at Paris, the heat iuctt:<tses so fast, that at the
depth of about a mile and a half under Paris, we
should reach a temper.tture equal to that of boiling
water; and that this solid crust is of very unequal
thickness in different countries, bringing the fluid
matter nearer the surface, and imparting a nigher
temperature to the soil, and a warmer climate to the
country.
The Chemical Shrub.
Place a sprig of rosemary, or any other garden
herb, in a glass jar, so that when it is inverted the
stem may be downwards and the sprig supported
by the sides of the jar ; then put some ben::.oic acid
upon a piece of hot iron, so hot that the acid may
be sublimed in the form of a thick white vapour.
Invert the jar over the iron, and leave the whole
untouched until the sprig be covered by the sub-
limed acid in the form of a beautiful hoarfrost.
Digitized by Coogle
163
A Ia the glass jar.
B The iron upon which the ben
zoic acid is placed.
c Is the sprig covered by the acid
after sublimation.
To teJJ the Hour ofthe Day when the Sun 1hinu bJ a.'•
Hand.
Between the fore finger and thumb, place a small
stick five or six inches long, A A, projecting four
inches ; then tum your back nearly towards the
IUD, so that it may shine full upon the outside of
the thumb when held upright, as in the figure,
and that the shadow thereof may reach so far as that
arched mark in the palm, commonly called the line of
life, J' B.
Digitized by GoogIe
164
At this time, the stick will cast its shadow across
the palm to its lowest part, when the sun is at its
highest meridian, (or 12 at noon). And, in fact,
the true position of the stick may be best learned by
adj•tsting it by this rule ,a few times before you trust
to your own expertness.
Earlier in the day, before attaining this altitude,
the sun will throw the shadow of the stick's point
higher up on the joints of the little finger, as marked
at 11, 10, D, 8, in the morning; but at J, 2, 3, &c.,
the shadow of the stick's point will reach beyond
the joints of that finger as marked respectively; and
so on of the others.
Electric Eels.
The electric eels of America frequently attack and
kil1 horses who pass the marshes, where these ex-
traordinary animals are found. The Indian mode
of fishing for these eels is most extraordinary.
They enclose a part of the marsh, and then drive
horses and mules into the water. The noise excites
these courageous fish to the attack, and they are
seen swimming on the surface, and coming in con-
tact with the quadrupeds. .
l\Iany of them arc killed by the electric shock,
others are seen pantiug-, and, with all the symptoms
of terror and anguish, endeavouring to get away ; but
the Indians drive them hack with long bamboos. At
length, the eels, baring exhausted the whole store
of electric fluid, which it would require a con-
siderable time to reproduce, become feeble and
frightened by the trampling of the horses, and ap-
proach the banks, where they are struck by the
Indians with harpoons, and killed.
Digitized by GoogIe
165
THE WANDERING JEW.
Dr. Percy tells us, ''this story is of considerable
antiquity; it had obtained full credit in this part of
the world before the year 1228, as we learn from
Matt. Paris ; for in that year it seems there came
an Armenian Archbishop into England to visit the
shrines and reliques preserved in our churches, who
being entertained at the Monastery of St. Alban's,
wu asked several questions relating to his country,"
tc. Among the rest a Monk, who sat near him,
inquired "ifhe had ever seen or beard of the famous
named Joseph, that was so much talked of,
who was present at our Lord's Crucifixion, and
conversed with him, and who was stilJ alive in con-
finnation of the Christian faith ?" The Archbishop
answered, that the fact waa true ; and afterwards,
one of his train, who was well known to a servant
of the Abbot's, interpreting his maater's words, told
them, in French, that his Lord knew the person
they spoke of very well ; that he dined at his table
but a little while before he left the East; that he
had been Pontius Pilate's porter, by name Cata-
pbilua; who, when they were dragging Jesus out
of the door of the Judgment Hall, struck him with
his fist on the back, saying, "Go faster, Jesus, go
faster ; why dost thou linger ?" Upon which Jesus
looked at him with a frown, and aaid, " I indeed
am going, but thou shalt tarry till I come." Soon
after, he was converted and baptized by the name
of Joseph. He liYes for ever ; but at the end of
every hundred years falls into an incurable illness,
and at length into a violent fit of ecstasy, out of
which, when he recovers, he return• to the same
Digitized by Coogle
166
state of youth he was in when Jesus suffered, being
then about thirty years of age. He remembers all
the circumstances of the death and resurrection of
Christ, the Saints that arose with him; the com-
posing of the Apostle's Creed, their preaching and
dispersion; and is himself a very grave and holy
person. This is the substance of M. Paris's account,
who was himself a Monk at St. Alban's, and was
living at the time when this Armenian Bishop made
the above relation. Since this time, several im-
postors have appeared at intervals under the name
and character of the Wandering Jew.
TO PRESERVE BOOKS.
A Secret for the Literary Amateur.
A few drops of any pe1jumed oil will secure libraries
from the consuming effects of mouldiness and damp.
Russian leather, which is perfumed with the t:ar
of the birch- tree, never moulds; and merchants
suffer large bales of this article to lie in the London
Docks in the most careless manner, knowing that it
cannot sustain any injury from damp.
VELOCITY OF THE EARTH's MOTION, AND MAGXI-
TUDES OF THE PLANETARY OHBS.
Thedistance ofthe sun from the earth is 95,000,000
miles, which being the radius of the earth's orbit,
we have its diameter 190,000,000 miles, and taking
Van Ceulen's proportion, which I consider to be
sufficiently accurate for this purpose, i. e. as
1: 3,141,593:: 190,000,000: 596,902,670, the cir-
cumference of the earth's orbit. Now as the earth
Digitized by Coogle
167
completes ita revolution in about 365 days, we find
that in our day it moves through the space 1,635,354
miles; in an hour through 68,140 miles ; in a minute
1,136 miles; and in the short space of one second it
moves through 19 miles. Perhaps it may not be
considered altogether uninteresting to enlarge rather
upon this subject, by giving the hourly motion of
the principal planets, by which it will be seen
that those nearest their centre of gravity move
fastest; hence the inferior planets, Mercury and
Venus, will move at a greater rate than the earth,
and the superior planets will move slower; their
hourly motion is as follows :-Mercury 95,000
miles, Venus 69,000, Mars 47,000, Jupiter 25,000,
Saturn 18,000, and Uranus 15,381 miles in an hour.
Masses so stupendous, situated at distances so
very great, would lead us to infer that each of them
is, like our earth, clothed with vegetables and
peopled with animals. This gives us an idea of the
extent and grandeur of creation, and by consequence
of the power and majesty of the Creator, which we
cannot acquire by anything merely terrestrial ; and
it is by those appeals and views that the science of
tLStrology rises so much in grandeur above every
other science, and inspires feelings of devotion and
reverence for the Deity, which can be excited by no
Digitized by Google
168
other subject that can occupy the human
In other studies we may be puzzled, but here we
are overcome by amazement, and forced to exclaim
with the poet,
« Au uudevout Astrologer is l'l"d ••
NATURE OF THE SUN. Q
For many ages the sun was believed to be a globe
of fire; but the majority of modern astronomers
have rejected this opinion. One of the most plausible
and ingenious theories on this subject is given by
Dr. Herschel, in the Philosophical Transactions of
the Royal Society. He supposes the sun has an.
atmosphere resembling that of the earth, and that
this atmosphere consists of various elastic tluids,
some of which exhibit a shining brilliancy, while
others are merely transparent. In others, the
opaque vapours will reflect the sun·s light, without
permitting his solid body to be seen on surface
of our globe.
He apprehends also, that there are considerable
inequalities in the surface of the sun, and that there
may be elevations, not less than 500 or 600 miles in
height ; that a very high country, or chain of
mountains, may oftener become visible by the re-
moval of the obstructing fluid than the lower regions
on account of its not being so deeply covered by it.
In the year 1779, the Doctor observed a 1pot on tile
8UII large enough to be discerned by the nakedeye; for
it extended more than 50,000 miles.
Digitized by Coogle
169
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. IV.
TBB NA'I'IVI'I'i' OP A NOBLB POBT.
AUT HOI\ OP
II THE MOOR,"
.l.."'D OP
"DON PEDRO,"
A TIIAOEDY.
NATUS Juue 8, 1800,
2H. A.M.
tH0• 32' orth Lat.
T
Digitized by Coogle
170
PLANETS' DECLINATIONS.
0 22° 50' N
:> 80 Lt
II 3 20 N.
Y7 19 20 N.
'lf. 23 18 N.
t 2 0 s.
20 0 N.
21 30 N.
The time of the above horoscope was given to me
by the noble native himself, at the request of his
friend, the Countess of 'Vestmoreland, in the year
1825, from which I remember predicting that his
Poem of'' The Moor., would twt be popular. My
remarks were not appreciated at the time ; but the
public opinion has since coincided with the sentence
of the heavenly bodies ; in addition to which, even
the last production of the noble author, " The
Tragedy of Don Pedro," although possessing many
poetical beauties, has likewise failed to crown him
with any additional honours.
What are the operating causes for such ill success?
will naturally be asked by the astrological student.
To which I beg leave to answer, by pointing
them out the close approaching zodiacal quartile of
the Moon and Mars, from the bicorporeal signs
Sagittarius and Pisces,-signs which, when replete
with evil rays, are more than usually malignant as
to any good fortune wherein the public opinion, or
voice of the people, are concerned. The same
aspect is generally found to produce either perpe-
tual celibacy, evil connexions, or trouble in the
matrimonial state; for even riches and splendour
will but gild the galling chain, where a union of
Digitized by Coogle
171
hands and not of hearts takes place, and cannot, with
all their lustre, procure domestic happineu.
The inclination for poetry, and the genius or the
gift of imagination neceuary thereto, are here
mtmltraud by the conjunction ofVenus and Mercury
in the sign Gemini, and by Venus and Mercury
being in close parallel in the Zodiac. But I regret
to say, the native, however worthy, will never
become afavourile with the lovers of poetry. The
before-mentioned evil configurationa deny it alto-
gether.
The foregoing authentic horoscope will verify the
rules laid down in my former writings. I subjoin a
liat of the principal directions calculated by me at
the time I drew forth his horoscope ; they will serve
u a praxis for the student. The measure of time
by which the area are equated, is that given in my
" Manual," which see.
Y-..IIMIM.
0 to tbe o of J, converse. 7... 3 4 FaU.
0 to the cS or convene. 10 9
0 to the o or 1 direct. 11 5
0 to the cS or COnVP.rle, 13 0
) to the o of 1, converse. 13 0
, to the Seequiqaadnte or, 15 o
) to tbe e of converse. 16 0
) to tbe a or comene. 17 9
0 to the * or 1C. convene. 18 0
) to tbe o of 1 direct. 19 0
Aaceodaot to the cS or 19 6
) to the 4 of direct. 20 6}
Aseendant to tbe cS or 21 a
0 to the cS of 1C. direct. 21 6 HerM!ary aC9f"N-
0 to the cS of 1C. zodiac. 21 6 fMnU.
) to the 4 of 1C. con...ene. 21 10
Digitized by Coogle
172
) tothe 6 of direct. 22 6 TrmJelled.
0 to the Semiquartile of 17 24 Wrote tAe" Moos.''
Mid-heaven to the 8 of 17 25 unBucceuful.
0 to the 6 of 17 direct. 26 9} Wrote in "Literarg
&uvenir.,
) to the * of 17 converse. 29 9} Will give Literary
Succetl8.
It was my intention to give a list of every arc, up
to the period of his predicted decease ; but I have
already extended this article to too great a length
for the general reader, and the student in the
science will therefore excuse my not continuing the
list. The directions were, as far as I can recollect,
planispherically calculated; and probably, although
the noble Lord is a metaphysical philosopher, as
well as a poet, he might deem it invidious were I to
descant publicly upon his future fate. I must there-
fore decline the gratification of any thing resembling
idle curiosity.
" For ira 1M StcN, cleertr than II the glua,
II written, God wot, whoso could It read,
The dethe of ''ei'J 111&11 wlthoaUn drede.
In Siam many • winter there before
Wu writ the dethe of Hector, Achlllet,
Of Pompe7, Jallu, ere they were bore;
The ltrlfe of Thebll and ol Hercolea,
Of Sluaplon, Tnroua, and of Socretel,
The detbe; but tbat men'• wt.. beD 10 dall
Tlla& 110 wtpt can well rede llat the falL"
Digitized by Coogle
173
"&me clloice A.pllorimu, and Rulu for Ekcti01U,
relating to 111M Undertaking1.
" The ) increaaing in good aspect ofthe 0, helpa
:or joumies.
" In all joumies, the greatest impediment of a
planet is to be peregrine or retrograde.
" 'Tis bad in journies to have & in the third or
ninth, but much worse to have him in the second.
" The lord of the ninth or third, in the first, the
journey will be succeuful ; but if strong and well
aspected, the better.
" In all journies view the », for she is a general
significatrix of joumies.
" When a 1/aip seta sail, if 11 ascend in x, the
ahip will be cast away if I afflict him.
" If you go to a prince or king, let a fiery aigu
ascend, and let the 0 be in good aspect with
or t.
" Begin no building, the , in x, or DL, having
south latitude for if you do, it will
soon fall.
" The most fortunate time to begin buildings i"
when the , ia in •, or when = ascends, and
the , behold it, and the fortunes in good aspect to
the degree ascending.
" In marriages, the aacendant stands for the man,
the seventh for the woman.
" In which of thole parts good planeta are, it will
be best for them.
" Let not the , be crmtbrut on the marriage-day,
Digitized by Coogle
174
for that signifies the death of the ; nor in the
combust way, for that signifies an ill end.
" 'Tis very ill in marriages, ifthe ]) apply to f7 or t ,
though the aspect be ever so good ; for then there
will be neither peace nor love between them.
" In all marriages let the » increase in light and
motion,·and let her have no ill aspect to the 0, nor
any at all to f7 or t .
" is the only general significatrix in marriage,
and therefore it is best to let the ]) apply to lu:r.
" It the lord of the ascendant is weak, and·the
lord of the seventh strong in the seventh, and he a
commanding planet, and in good aspect of t, she
will wear the breeches, and domineer over her
husband.
"I know one, who had 111. ascending at the time
of marriage, and 8 and in cS in ftl, and both com-
bust, and in a to the », and it proved a very
unhappy marriage.
" Let not f7 or t be in the seventh, for that always
puts the woman out of order.
'' Such as go to war, ought to consider of coming
home safe again.
" For this end, let the e, 1f., or v, be in the
ascendant, or else they may fail of it.
" If 11 be in the ascendant, he will come again
·a coward, surprised with fear, and not fight.
" If t be there, he will either die there, or be
dangerously wounded.
"But if 11 and t be·both there, you may be con-
fident he will never rettH!n. • . .
" If in the tenth, he will be .taken prisoner,
eapecially if the lord of the ascendant be in the
twelfth.
Digitized by Coogle
176
•• Judge of the challenger by the ascendant., and
so vary the houses accordingly.
"Judge of the opponent by the seventh, and 10
T&ry the. houses as before ; the tenth being hia
fourth, and the fourth his tenth, &c. &c.
" It is not good to fight when the lord of the
ascendant is in the eighth, for then there is danger
ofdeath.
"The assailant always loses the battle, if the
lord of the ascendant be an lnfortune, Retrograde.,
and Combust.
" But ifthe lord ofthe seventh be •o,the opponent
is beaten.
" When the , , f1, and 1 , shall bejoined together,
there will be great effusion of blood.
·- "What has been said of two fighting, is as well
applicable to the plaintif' ud defendant in a suit of
law.
" Ifany one go the King, &c. let the ) be in the
ascendant in * or 6 to the 0 in the tenth house."
. c........
SIR WM. DELAJIBRB MASST.
Digitized by Google
176
GEOMANCY
No.3.
method of casting or forming a figure of
Geomaucy, has been already shown; as also, what
is termed, the " Figure of the Triplicities;" for the
better judging of which, the old authors have left on
record certain Tables, which contain the " Sentence"
of the witnesses and judge; by which, without
further trouble, the answer, so far as a negative or
affirmative is concerned, may be found without
trouble.
It has been also observed, that only eight out of
the sixteen figures can ever be judge ; yet, as there
are two witnesses also to be taken into account, the
variations to the answers are 8 x 16, and therefore
Digitized by Google
177
equal to 128 in number. In thele cues, however,
it is of consequence to DOtice on which side the
good or enl figures fall, aa tlult gifts the nriatiuna
in the result. Thus, for inataoce, the Triplicities-
00 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0
00 0 aod 0 00 although the judge
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
ia the same in each, yet the answers corresponding
aredift'erent; and ao in all other C8le8 whatever.
In order to work by the following 1'ablea, the
reader must cast the figure, aDd refer to the page
for the answer to hia question : thus, for iutance,
in the following figure :-
, . •
.. . •
• ..
• • •
•
..
•
•
If the question were " cf the Length of Life,"
the answer would be, "Short Life."
If it were of an affair connected with " Money,"
the answer would be, " Urifortunate."
Ifit were of" Sickness." it would denote" Death"
to the Patient, and so on in all other cases ; refemng
to that page of the. work which has the required
a
Digitized by Coogle
178
Triplicities. I have only to observe that the fol-
lowing Tables are compiled from an old and curious
author, now out of print: the answers are concise,
and the explanation simple ; which is as much as
can be wished.
Verbum aapientia aatla. (Bur.)
Example at large ofthe whole Figure whereby the
Judge zs obtained.
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 \) 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 00 00
0 0 00
0 0 00
0 00
00 1)0
0 0
0 0
0
\Vitness 0 0 Judge
0
0
u
0
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
f) 0 0 0
0 0 0
(J
0
0 0
0 Witness
Digitized by Coogle
THE SENTENCE
OJ'
POPULUS AND VIA,
JUDGE
IN THB QUESTIONS RELATJN(J TO
1. of
2. ,111lontl! or eain,
.3. Jlonour or Crtbit,
JSuJfnta,
5. ,111lartiagt,
6. tJrtgnant,v,
7• .flitftntH,
s. JEmprtJonmtnt,
9. anb
10. qtnp I.Oflt;
Jtecording·to tAe moatfamou. JtutAort off.wmer littwt.
Digitized by Coogle ·
0 e 0 0
00 0 0
00 0 0
00 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
QwltifiJII. .Atuulwl.
Life •••• , ••• JJitMkral•ly '-1
Money • •••• • Meanly 100t1.
Honour ••• •• • MIIIJ'IIIy 100t1·
Buaineu .... Fortvtlale•
Marriage • ••• Good.
PregllaJicy••••
.A Dtul'""'·
Sickneu .... J>Gr.tWOIUo
lmprilonment • lhli""'Y.
Journey...... Good 6) Watn-.
Thing lost •• FO!IIId.
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
Qutltilml. .A--..
Life ........ /lrJil;
Money ...... g,;r.
Honour ...... Good.
Bualn- .... Fortwaclt,
Marriage •••• GfiOd.
Pngnancy•• • • ADaNgMn-.
Slclmeu... . . . DGngtrftl.
lmprilonmer.! . Lon,.
JOUJ1Ie1. ..... Good 6y SH.
!ThlagloA .. NotJOflllll.
-
180
00 0
00 0
oo 0
00 0 0
0
0
0
Qwlliflfll. ,Arut/H!I"I,
Life ........ Moderate•
Money ...... E,;r.
Honour ......
Buaineu l"n/arlfiiUIIt.
Marriage Good.
PregllaJICy•• • • .A Sort•
Siclmeu ••••• Htolllt.
Imprisonment . Quick lltlta1e.
Journey•••••• Good tllld piclc.
Thing lost •• Noljtn11ul.
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0
0
0
Qw.t;.,. AMII1tf'l,
Llle ........Good tllld LM1.
Money ......
Honour •••••• Good.
.... Good•
M1urlage .... Good.
Pnlftllancy • ••• .A&..
Siekneu • • ••• lkttlllt.
lmprilonmen\ • Lull out.
Journey., .... Erullgood.
Tblng kilt .. F.-I•
Digitized by Coogle
00
00
0
0 00
00
00
00
.
00
00
0
0
.,.,_,
jw. ........
Jl-, ••••• . ,,.,.,..
a_....... ......_
B.&.. ••.• '•'-*·
........,....
....
I..,.U.•at, C.. ••
...... o.l_,.-IJ
ntarloll ••
00
00
0
0 0 0 0
00
0 0
00
QwlfNu.
Life ••••••••
M_,- •••..•
Hoaoar ••• •••
00
00
0
00
llaniltle •••• Wfl'lrnl.
Pregnuq. ••• .A Da1Am.
SickJw....... p.,.;r.w.
lllpn.o...Dt.
Jovoey•••••• y.,.. INil I,
»'""
.....
Tiling loat P"'fl-1·
181
00
00
0
0 0
0
0
0
Life ••••••••
MODt)' ••••••
Ho•ur ••••••
Marrt.se ••••
PresiiUICJ••••
•••••
0
0
00
00
"'-•·
Gtotl.
lmpdloDIMDi, JhliHr'tJflc..
J OIII'DIJ.••••• &oil IWttlnl.
Tbbfl loR ••
00
00
0
0 0 0
0
0
0
Llle ••••••••
Mo11ey ..... .
HoDOUr ......
Bual- •••••
0
0
0 0-
0
Sltllrl Lif•.
IU.
Ul.
Marriage •••• U1tj""'-U.
PregDIIIlcy.... A IJaK"""·
lllclmea • • •• • IHrdlt.
ImpdloD-t. Pmlow.
IOIII'DIJ ••••. • Jhtua.
TIIIDr loft • • N.,fo-1.
Digitized by Google'"
182
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
Que.tionr. AM11111f'lo QwltiOftl. .JtUtDWI.
Life ........ Yn-y evil. Life
········ MaJenzu.
Money •••••. Vnluclry. Money ••••.• Meanly Go«l.
Honour •••••• rery ill. Honour •••••. Me1111.
Business Unfortunate. Blll1ne11 Jndi.ffwtnJ.
Marriage A bad ont. Marriage Proqwrmu.
Pregnancy ••• .A Girl. Pregnancy .. .A Daughter.
Sickoeu ••••• Ptrilo111. Sickoes1 .... Lfmg Siclr•
Imprisonment. Dtath, Imprisonment &on out.
Journey •••••• Roh6td. Journey.••••• Sloul.
Thing !oat .. Notjotlftfl. Thing Lost •• Ftntltll•
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 c
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0
Qt.elliom. .AfiiWIIf'l. .AtUtDtrI.
Life ........ Short. Life ........ eoil.
Money ...... Unluclry. Money ...... ill.
Honour ...... Euil. Honour ...... nr.
Buaineu Ellil. Buaineu UnluclrJ.
Marriage Jarn"ng. Marriage Eoil•
Pregnancy.... .Abortion. Pregnllllcy•••• A6ortiora.
Sickoeu.•.••. Sickneu••••••
Imprisonment • Dangtrour. lmpr!Jonment. lAta,.
Journey...... Unlucky. Joumry......
Thing Lolt •• Nutfound. Thing !oat NlllJr-tj.
-
Digitized by Google
0
00
00
00 0
0
0
0
Qrlnll-.
Life ........
11-r ..•••.
Ho80ar ••••••
B111l- ....
Harrlap .•••
PreguDC)'••••
SiekDe11 e4••
lmprbon-t.
Je.ne,......
Tlliagbt ..
0
00
0 0
0 0 0
0
0
0
L.g.
lka.
Jkart.
Urcluclry• .
o-1.
.A Soli.
Da"gw.
o-1.
Pllrlfowul.
00
0
0
0 0
0
0
0 0
0 0 0
0
0
0
Qw.oo... "'-·
Lile • •••• •• • llotkrat#.
M011ey ......
Hoaoar. ••••• IU.
Ba- .... IU.
Murlap •••• Ill.
Clliltl di,.
SlckM....... Pwt/(lftl.
l•p11-ment. Omte tlfll.
.JOIII'IIe7...... Illnul.
l'ldar 1o1t •• Not/rnuttl.
183
0
0 0
0
0 0
0
0
0
Qr#ltioru•
LICe ........
Money ••••••
Honour ••••••
B1111Den ....
Murlege ....
PregnaDCy••••
Slclm-••••••
lmpriloDmeat
Joomer••••••
TIIIDg l01t ..
0
0 0
0
0 0
0
0
0
"'""""'·
L.g.
Good.
Ywypotl•
Plltutmt•
.A &m.
De,,_,,
IhliWfy.
Yoyag• gfKitl.
Partfund.
0 0
0 0
0
0
0 0
0
0
0 0 0
0
0
0
AJUW.rl.
LICe ........ · Sltort.
MoDe)' ...... Uftlllc/ry.
Hoaolll'......
Blllinen •••• Mtu.
Marriage •••• · · ltldi.ff'wmt.
PregD&uey.... .A -Dttvglttw.
Slckneu .... Detztll.
lmprbonment . &ort flfll•
Journey...... M111fl.
Tbtngloet Partformd.
Digitized by Googl .
0
0
0 0
0 0
0
0
0
Qutltioru.
Life ........
Money ••• •• .
Honoar ......l
Busineu....
Manlage • •••
Pregnanq••••
....
Imprisonml'nt .
Journey ••••••
Tblng l01t
00
0
0
..
0 0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0 0
0
Jil&ltlllf'l,
SI.OI"t.
Unl"lry.
Evil.
Evil.
Un!wlry.
Dau.ghtw.
Soult di8.
Soult 0111.
f"c.niiow1.
NotftW:Nl.
0
00
00
0
QvlltiOIII. At11111w..
Life ........ Lot.g.
Money ...... Yery good.
Honour...... Gr.od.
Butlneu Good.
Pregnancy••• •
Slckneu. ••••• Htt!.lth.
Imprilonment. C0111t 0111.
Journey...... Good.
Thing l01t • • Fl*flll.
184
0 0
0
0
0 0
0
0
0
Life ........
Mone;y ......
Honour ......
Bullne11 ....
Marriage ••• •
Pregnancy• •• •
Sickness ....
Imprlaonment.
Journey......
Thing lost
0
0
0
0 0
..
0 0
0
0
0 0
0
0
0
J/IUIWrl,
IAn,.
GJ.nt Rick•.
&ctll#ftt.
re;yt*·
Good.
AS...
Dang,._,
f'qyag•t•·
Frii/M.
00
00
00
0
Life ..•.. .. • S/wrt.
Mone;y ...... Ill.
Honour...... IU.
Buainea ..•• IIHa.
Marriage ••• • f"ny 6ad.
Preguanq.... A Daugl&ttr.
Slcknell • •• • Da"'fn•
Imprlaooment DaglrOVI.
Jouroey.. .... Frr/uclry.
TblDg la.t • • Notf•vtul.
Digitized by Coogle
c c
0 0
c 0
00 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
Qwlliou. ..lttnHrl.
I
IUft! ••••••• • Slwrt.
Moaey ••• •••
Hooour ••••••
....
Marriage ••••
Pregnancy••••
Sickneu ....
. lmprilonaaent •
JOIUoe,.•••• • •
ThiDg loat ..
Urtlucq.
Eflil.
Ill.
Un/uclcy.
Daugbtn-.
Death.
•
1M•.
Nut fourlll.
0
0 0
00
0
00
0
0
0 0 0
0
0
0
I
ur. ......., Mftlft,
Mone,-......·I Bad.
1Ho110111 • ••• ••! Ill.
IB111ineu ••• ·I Ill.
Marriage , Ill.
l'repancy.... A
Sickoea •••• Hra/14.
l•priloolllftnt . c-e tMt.
Joaron. ••••. Mtatl
Thiac loat •• Nol lourul.
. ·--- - -1·------
i85
A A
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
Quutioftl.
ILife
········ '-K·
Money •••••• Ywy fortulultl.
Honour ••••••
Businesa ....
Marriage •• ••
Pregnancy••••
Sickneu ....
lmpriaooment.
Jouroey ••••••
Tbtog 1o11t ··I
Good.
For1wtu1t1.
FortiiiUIU.
Health.
Delivny.
Good.
F._,,
00
0
0
0 0
0
0 0
00
0 0
0
0
0
QW##iOIII.
------..,-----
Life ........ Coed.
l\fonq •••••• Good.
Honour......
Bualneu Mtlltl.
Marriage
Prejpl&llcy. ••• A IMtWtl.
Sicluleu •••• Erlll, ,_11,.
Jmprllonment. LMtf,
Journey... ... Good.
Thing lolt. NH/lfiMII,
Digitized by c ·oogle "'"
c
0 c
0
0 0 0 0
00
oo
0 0
Life ••••••••
·Money ••••••
Honllllr ••••• •
B.at.......
Muriap ••• ·
PregllaiiCT••••
Sick-••••••
0
00
0
oo
8/wiot.
Urduclry.
Ill.
&II.
Ernt.
Pmiotu.
Jmprllon-ut. l.H.Jicwlt.
JourDf1··•···
Tbhlf lott •• NolffltJltd.
co
0
· 0
0 0
0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0
0
0
(Jtw,... ""'-•·
Life • • • •• •• • Metlwalt!.
Mo11111 •••••• lkatt.
Houoar •••. •. Blltl.
Busta- ••. . lmlifWt!nt.
Murlap •••• JIH,,
Pr•r••cr .. IM•KIIi"'.
s.c-.. ..... lhltKWIIfW·
Jmpna-nt . LM1.
Jour_,...... ...,,
1A6
0 c
0
0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
00
flve•tiou.
Life ........
Mooey ..... .
Honour ......
Busln- ••••
Marriage ••••
Pregnancy••••
Sickn-.•••••
oc
0
0
00
s...
Dt!tdlt.
Pf!ri,_,
I mprtsonment.
Journey......
Thing lost ••
GoodhJ_....I
0
0 0
0 0
0
0 0
0
0
0 0 0
0
0
0
Qwnr-. A,_,.
Life ........ MNa.
Moncr •••••• .U...
..)
HonoaT...... lrha. '
Boaln- •••. a-1.
Marriage ••• • Ooot/.
Prep.uey. •.. A IJaKAWr·
SlctDe•·..... lJt1111,-.
lmprlloo111811t • 1.41•••
JCMilDeJ'..... • m.
TbtJIC IOit •.. F.W.
I J
Digitized by GoogIe
:>
00
00
0 0 0
00
0 0
0 0
Qw•titllu.
Life ••••••••
Money ••••••
Hooour ••••••
Baa- ..•.
Marrilte ••••
0
00
0 0
0
Ill.
• &il.
U111wlcJ.
111.
IPrepucy••••
,Ilk__ ....
I.prilon-qt •
,.....,......
0
0
00
00
Qtintiou.
0
0
0
0
Pml-..
LMI.
IJi#-U.
Nolforntd.
00
00
0
0
Life ........ Gootl.
......, ......
HoiiiU...... P-fill·
•••• fJflltl.
......... •••• tlootl.
l'l!epuey.... ...
..... •••• Bre/14.
.......t. c-. ..t.
.IOUIIIJ......
'nUr lad ..
thod.
"-ttl.
187
0
0
0 0
0 0 0 0
oo
00
00
Qru•tiom.
Life ........
Money ......
Honour ..... .
•••••
Maniap ••••
•• • •
Siebel• , •••
Imprisonment •
Journey••••••
Tblqs kilt ••
0
0
0 0
0 0
Mntl.
0
0
0
0 0
00
. 0 0
0 0
0
0
0
QwmiMU,
0 0
A-..
LICe ..•..... JloderwU.
Moaey ...... Ill.
HoiiOUr •••.. •
Balin... .... Ill.
Marriage • ••• Uootl,
Prepancy•• ,. .A a..
Slelmca •• •• H..rt4•
Jmprllonment. 8oM Old•
J011lJ18y...... Yor"l' 10011.
TblDJiolt
Digitized by Google .
188
CROMWELL'S COMPACT WITH THE
DEVIL.
TuE following* " True and faithful Narrative of
Oliver Cromwell's Compact with the Devil for seven
years, on the day on which he gained the Battle of
Worcester," may not prove uninteresting to many of
our readers.
The tract opens with the following extract from
Mr. Archdeacon Eachard's History of the Kings of
England, which he quotes from the " History of
Independency," part 4, p. 13.
"It was believed! and not without some good
cause, that Cromwell, the same morning he had
defeated the King's army at Worcester fight, had
conference personally with the devil, with whom
he made a contract, that to have his will then, and
in all things else after, for seven yearsfrom that time,
(being the 3rd of September, 1651); he should at
the expiration of the said years, have him at his
command, both his soul and his body. Now, if any
one will please to reckon from the 3rd of September,
1651, till the 3rd of September, 1658, he shall find
it to a day just seven years, and no more ; at the
end of which he died, but with extremity of tem-
pestuous weather that was by all men judged to
• A tract printed ud sold by W. Boreham,at the Aagel ill Pater-
noater Row. 6d.
Digitized by Coogle
189
be predigious: neither, indeed, was his end more
miserable (for he died mad and despairing) than he
had left his name infamous."
Arcbdeacon Eachard then gives " a relation or
narrative of a valiant officer called an inti-
mate friend of Cromwell's, the first Captain of his
regiment, and therefore commonly called Colonel
Lindsey," which is to this effect:-
,,On the 3rd of September, in the morning,
Cromwell took this officer to a wood side, not far
from the army, and bid him alight and follow him
into that wood, nnd to take particular notice of what
he 1aw a11d heard! After they had both alighted
and secured their horses, and walked some small
way into the wood, Lindsey began to turn pale. a&ad
to be seized with horror from some unknown cause ;
upon which Cromwell asked him how be did, or
how be felt himself? He answered that he was in
such a trembling and consternation, that he never
felt the like in all the conflicts and battles be
had engaged in; but whether it proceeded from
the gloominess of the place, or the temperament of
his body, he knew not. 'How now,' said Crom-
well, • what ! troubled with vapours? Come forward
Dlan.' They bad not gone above twenty yards
before Lindsey on a sudden stood stiU, and cried
out by all that was good, that he was seized with
such unaccountable terror and astonishment, that it
was impossible for him to stir one step farther.
" Upon this, Cromwell called him a faint-hearted
fool, and bid him stand there and observe, or be a
witness; and then advancing to some distance from
him, he md with a grave e/derlg man, with a roll of
parchment in his hand, who delivered it to Cromwell,
Digitized by Coogle
190
who eagerly perused it. Lindsey, a little recovered
from his fear, heard several loud words between
them : particularly, Cromwell said, 'This is but
for seven years-! was to have it for one-and-twenty,
and it must and shall be so.' The other told
him positively, 'it could not be for above seven
years;' upon which Cromwell cried with great
fierceness, 'it should be for fourteen years.' But
the other peremptorily declared it cou1d not possibly
be for any longer time; and if he would not take it
so, there were others who would accept it.
" Upan this, Cromwell, at last, took tl.e parch-
ment, and returned to Lindsey with great joy in his
countenance, and cried, 'Now, Lindsey, the battle
is our own-I long to be engaged.' Returning out
of the wood, they rode to the army-Cromwell
with a resolution to as soon as it was
possible, and the other with the design of leaving
the army as soon. After the first charge, Lindsey
deserted his post, and rode away with all possible
speed, day and night, till he came into the county
of Norfolk, to the house of an intimate friend, one
1\'Ir. Thorogood, minister of the parish.
" Cromwell, as soon as he missed him, sent
all ways after him, with a promise of a great
reward to any one who should bring him alive or
dead. Thus far the narrative of Lindsey himself;
but something further is to be remembered to com-
plete and confirm the story.
"When Mr. Thorogood saw his friend Lindsey
come into his yard, his horse and himself just tired,
in a l:iort of amaze he said, 'How now, Colonel, we
hear there is likely to be a battle shortly! What,
iled from your colours!' ' A battle,' said the
Digitized by Coogle
101
other, •yes, there baa been a battle, and I am sure
the King is beaten : but if ever I strike a stroke for
Cromwell again, may I perish eternally; for I am
sure he bas made a league with the devil, and the
devil will have him in due time.' Then desiring
protection from Cromwell's inquisitors, he went in
and related the whole atory, and all the circum-
atances, concluding with these remarkable words :
•That Cromwell tOO#Id certainiJJ die that da!J
the battle was fought !'
"The strangeness of the relation caused Mr.
Thorogood to order his son John to write it at full
length in his common place book, which J am
assured is still prese"ed in the family of the
Thorogoods."
In corroboration of the above marvellous narra-
tive, we have also ''Minutes taken out of Mr.
Secretary Thurloe's pocket-book, by the late Mr.
John Milton, and given by him to his nephew,
Mr. John PhiiJips." The following is an extract:-
,,August 17, 1658, my master, the Protector,
caused me to take a bond out of a little ebony
casket and to bum it, saying, • The complttion of it
ttHU tDt:IJ nigh come to p011.' He died the 3rd of Sep·
tember following!"
We have also a long letter from his daughter to
her sister, the Lady Viscountess of Falconbridge:
this is part thereof:-" When he and I are only
sitting in his bed chamber together, he seems very
often talking to a third person, and cries, •You have
cheated me; the purchase was intended by me for
aeven years longer : I will not be so served.' And
again, sometimes as the fit strikes him, to divert the
melancholy, he dines with the officers at Hampton
Digitized by Coogle
192
Court, and shows an hundred anti-tricks, as throwing
cushions at them, and putting burning hot coals into
their pockets and boots ! At others, before he has
half dined, he gives orders for a drum to beat, and
call in the foot guards, like a kennel of hounds, to
snatch off the meat from his table, and tear it in
pieces,-with many other unaccountable whimsies;
immediately after this, fear and astonishment sits
in his countenance, and not a nobleman approachts
him but he fells him ! Now he calls for his guards,
with whom he rides out encompassed behind and
before for the preservation of his highness ; and at
his return at night, shifts from bed to bed for fear of
surprise."
The above narrative is strange, and the marvellous
part thereof seems to have strong confirmation.
The reader, be he sceptical or otherwise, must use
his own judgment as to the interpretation of the facts
above described, for the narration is strictly copied
from the sources therein stated.
l\IOZART's 0:\[INOUS
A short time before the death of Mozart, the
great musician, a stranger of remarkable appearance,
and dressed in deep mourning, called at his house
and requested him to compose a requiem in his
best style, for the funeral of a person of distinction.
The sensitive imagination of the composer (who
was at that time out of health) immediately seized
upon the idea that this was an ''"/zen of his own death
and that the requiem would be for himself.
\Vhcther or not it was owing to the nervous
excitement under which he laboured to complete the
task, it is an extraordinary fact, that the presentiment
Digitized by Coogle
W3
was realized, for he died soon after, and the muaac
was actually performed at his funeral !
Who the atnnger was that ordered the requiem
has never been ascertained : it is singular he never
afterward• made his appearance.
AFRICAN NECROMANCY.
THE OBEAH MAN.
I wu present, some.yean ago, at the trial of a
ootorioua .Obeah man. driven on an eatate in the
parish of St. wbo, by the overwhelming in-
fluence he bad aequired over the minds of his
deluded victims, aad· the more potent means he
bad at command to accomplish his enda, had done
great injury among the slaves on the property
before it was disoovered.
One of the witnesses, a negro belonging to the
same estate, was asked,· " Do you know the
to be an Obeah-man?" "Ees, massa; shadow
catcher, true." ''What do you mean by a shadow
catcller ?" " Him ha·coffin, (a little:coffin was pro-
duced), him aet for catch dem shadow.' "What
shadow do you mean ?"' " When him set obeah
for sc;>mebody, him catch dem shadow and dem go
dead."' And too surely tbey .were soon dead, when
he pretended to have caught their shadows, by
whatever means it waa effected.-Barela!!'1 Slavery.
SINGlJLAR AUTHENTIC;ATED APPEAR
ANCE OF A FAIRY.
J'or nearly half a ceutury, a weekly dinner party
oi literary men took place at the house of Joaeph
B B
Digitized by Coogle
.Johnson, a respectable and honest bookseller in St.
Paul's Church Yard. Johnson was the publisher of
Captain Steadmari•s Work on Surinam ; and as the
Captain lived at Hammersmith, he usually came to
town on the morning of the weekly dinner by the
Hammersmith stage. ..
As the coach was proceeding at its usual rumbling
rate towards London, Captain Steadman was aroused
by a very uncommon sound in the air; and on
looking out of the coach door, his surprise was in-
creased by the apparition of a little fellow, about
two feet high, dressed in a full suit of regimentals,
with a gold-laced cocked -
hat, and a gold-headed
cane, striding along the footpath, "and raising
such a devil of a sough,'" that the Captain·s astonish-
. ment knew no bounds. He rubbed his eyes, looked,
doubted, and looked again; but there, to visible
certainty, was the little man striding away, swinging
his arm, and "swishing his cane ., in full force,
going at the rate of nine miles an hour, and leaving
the coach far behind him. Away he went at thia
prodigious pace until he came to a green lane which
led tQ Holland House, up which he whisked with the
greatest nimbleness. When the coach came oppo-
site to the lane, the little man was nowhere to I»
seen.
This was related by Captain Steadman at dinner
the verv day it occurred, and he continued to af&rm
his belief in the appearance of the goblin, to the day
of his death.
Crofton Croker, Esq., author of "The Fairy
Legends," gives this relation on the authority of the
late Mr. Fu,eli, the celebrated artist, who wu tlaen
presertt.
Digitized by Coogle
196
ANTONELLI;
Alf AUTHENTICATED GHOST STORY.
Related by Goethe, the great Gtrm1111 Authw.
When I was in Italy, Antonelli, an opera-aiager,
wu the favourite of tbe Neapolitan public. Her
youth, beauty, and talenta, insured her applause on
die atage: nor W88 she deficient in any quality
that could render her agreeable to a small circle of
friends. She was not indifferent either to love or
praise; but her diacretion W88 such 88 to enable her
1oeajoy both with becoming dignity. Every young
11aa of rank or fortune in Naplea W88 eager to be
numbered among her auitors : few, however, met
with a favourable reception ; and though abe was,
iD tbe choice of her Ioven, directed chiefly by her
eyea and her heart, abe diaplayed on all occasiona
a firmoea, and stability of character, that never
fAiled to engage even auch 88 were indifferent to her
fuoun. I had frequent opportunities of seeing her,
beiug on of the cloeest intimacy with one of
her favoured admirers.
Several yean were now elapsed, and she had
become acquainted with a number of gentlemen,
many of whom had rendered themse),-ea disguating
by the extteme leYity and fickleneu oftheir mannera.
She bad repeatedly obaerved young gentlemen,
whoee profeeaiona of conatancy and attacbment
would their miatreu of the impossibility of
their ever deserting her, withhold their protection in
those very cues where it w88 most needed; or,
wlaat i8 atill wone, incited by the temptation of
ridding them.selvea of a troublesome connexion, she
Digitized by Coogle
1<96
had known them give advice which has entai1ed
misery and ruin.
Her acquaintance hitherto had been of such a
nature as to leave mind inactive. She .pow
began to feel a desire to which she had before been
a stranger. She wished to possess a friend, to
whom she might communicate her most secret
thoughts; and happily, just at that time, she found
one among those who surrounded her, possessed of
every requisite quality, and who seemed, in every
respect, worthy of her confidence.
This gentleman was by birth a Genoese, and
resided at Naples for the purpose of transacting
some commercial business of great importance, for
the house with which he was connected. In
possession of good parts, he had, in addition, received
a very finished education. His knowledge was ex-
tensive; and no less care had been bestowed on his
body than on his mind. He was inspired with the
commercial spirit natural to his countrymen, and
considered mercantile affairs on a grand scale. His
situation was, however, not the most enviable ; his
house had unfortunately been drawn into hazardous
speculations, which were afterwards attended with
expensive law-suits. The state of his atfairs grew
daily more intricate, and the uneasiness thereby
produced gave him an air of seriousness, which in
the present case was not to his disadvantage ; for it
encouraged our young heroine to seek his friendship,
rightly judging that he himself stood in need of a
friend.
Hitherto, he had seen her only occasionally, and
at places of public resort: she now, on his first re-
quest, granted him access to her house : she even
Digitized by Coogle
197
iDYited him nry preMiogly,·and he was AOt
iD obeying the invitation.
She lost no time in making him acquamted wiQ
llel' and -the confidence she.:repoeed·iJa him.
He was surprised, and rejoieed at the proposal. .
wu urgent in the request that lae might always rea
main ber frieud, and never shade that name
with the ambiguous claims of a lover. She DIMe
him aequinted with some difficUlties which then
perplexed her, and on which his experience would
eoable him to give the best advice, aud propoae the
most speedy means for her relief. In return for this
conideoce, he did DOt hesitate to disclose to her his
own situation ; and her endea"Vours to sooth and
console him were, in reality, not without a beneficial
consequence, as they se"ed to put aim in that state
of mind so necessary for acting with deliberation
8IICi e«ect. Thus a friendship was·in a short time
cemented, founded on the most exalted esteem, and
OD the consciousnesa tllat each was necessary to the
well-being of the other.
Ithappens but too often, that we make agreements
withoat considering whether it ia in our power to
fulfil their conditions. He had promised to be only
her friend, and not to think of her as a mistresa ; and
yet he could not deny that he was mortifieq and dis-
gusted ·with the sight of aay other Yisitor. His
ill humour was particularly excited by hearing her,
in a jestiDg manner, eJWmerate the good or bad
qualitiea of aome favourite; and after having ahowa
much good sense in pointing out his blemishes,
neglect bet: friend, and prefer his company that very
It happened soon after that the heart of the fair
Digitized by Coogle
198
was disengaged. Her friend was rejoiced at the dis-
covery, and represented to her that he was entitled
to her affection before all others. She gave ear to
his petition, when she found resistance was vain.
"I fear," said she, "that I am parting with the most
valuable possession on earth--=--a friend, and that I
shall get nothing in return but a lover." Her suspi-
cions were well founded: he had not enjoyed his
double capacity long, when he showed a. degree of
peevishnesa, of which he had before thought himself
incapable. As a friend, he demanded her esteem ;
as a lover, he claimed her undivided affection; and
as a man of sense and education, he expected ra-
tional and pleasing conversation. These complicated
claims, however, ill accorded with the sprightly dis-
position of Antonelli; she could consent to no
sacrifices, and was unwilling to grant exclusive
rights. She therefore endeavoured in a delicate
manner to shorten his visits, to see him less fre-
quently, and intimated that she would upon no
consideration whatever give up her freedom.
As soon as he remarked this new treatment, his
misery was beyond endurance ;· and, unfortunately,
this was not the only mischance that befel him. His
mercantile affairs assumed a very doubtful appear-
ance ; besides this, a view of his past life called
forth many mortifying reflections: he bad, from his
earliest youth, looked upon his fortune as inex-
haustible ; his business often lay neglected, while
engaged in long and expensive travels, endeavouring
to make a figure in the fashionable world, far above
his birth and fortune. The law-suits, which were
now his only hope, proceeded slowly, and were con-
nected with a vast expense. These required his
Digitized by Google
199
in Palenno several times ; and while abM'id
on his laat journey, Antonelli made arrangements
ca1cnlated,.by degreea, tn banish him entirely from
her houae. On his return, he found she had taken
another houae at a considerable distance from hie
owu i the Marqueas de 8., who, at that time, had
great influence on plays and public diversions, visited
her daily, and, to all appearance, with great familia-
rity. This mortified him severe}y, and a serious
illDeas waa the consequence. When the news of
his sickneu reached hie friend, she hastened to him,
wu anxious to lee him comfortable, and diacovering
that he was in great pecuniary difficulties, on going
away she lef\ him a sum of money sufficient to re-
lieve m. wants.
Her friend had once presumed to encroach oo her
freedom ; thie attempt was with her an unpardonable
ofl"ence, and the discovery or hie having acted 10 in-
in hia own afFaira, had not given her the
moat favourable opinion o( hie understanding and
his character ; notwithstanding the decrease of her
aft'ection, her asaiduity for him bad redoubled. He
did not, however, remark the great change which
had really taken place ; her anxiety for his recovery,
her watching for hours at his bedside, appeared to
him rather proofs of friendship and Jove, than the
effects ofcompasaion; and he hoped, on his recovery,
to be reinstated in all his former rights.
But bow greatly was he mistaken I In proportion
u his health and strength returned, all tenderness
and atrection for him vaniabed; nay, her aversion for
him now was equal to the pleasure with·which she
formerly regarded him. He bad also, in conse-
quence of these multiplied reverses, contracted a
Digitized by Coogle
200
habit of ill humour, of which he was himself not
aware, and which greatly contributed to a'lienate
Antonelli. His, own bad management .in: business
he attributed to others ; so that, in his o.pinioti, he
was perfectly justified. He looked upon himself as
an unfortunate man, persecuted by the world, and
hoped for an equivalent to all his sufferings and mis-
fortunes in the undivided affection of his mistress.
This concession he insisted on, the first day he
was able to leave his chamber, and visit her. He
demanded nothing less than that she,should re8ign
herself up to him entirely, dismiss her other friends
and acquaintances, leave. the stage, and live solely
with him, and for him. She showed him the im-
possibility of granting his demands, at first naildly,
but was at last obliged to confet:s the melancholy
truth, that her former relation existed no more. He
left her, and nevH her again.
He lived some years longer, seeing but few ac-
quaintances, and chiefly in the company of a pious
old lady, with whom he occupied the same dwelling,
and who lived on the rent of an adjoining house, her
only income. During this interval, he gained one
of his law-suits, and soon after the other; but his
health· was destroyed, and his future prospects
blasted. A slight cause brought on a, relapse of
his former the physician acquainted him
with his approaching end. He was resigned to his
fate, and his only remaining wish was, once more to
see his lovely friend. He sent the servant to her,
who, in more happy days, had·' often been the
bearer of tender messages. He prayed her to grant
his request: she refused. He sent ,a second time
entreating most ardently she might not deaf to
Digitized by Coogle
iOl
hia prayers, with no better aucceu. She persiatecl
in her first anawer. The night waa already far ad-
vanced, when he sent a third time : she showed
great agitation, and confided to me the cauee of her
embariaument, (for I had just happened to be at
sapper at her houee, with the Marque11, and aome
other friends). I advised her-I entreated her, to
show her friend thia last act of kindnesa. She
.eemed undecided, and in great emotion ; but after
a few moments she became more collected. She
Mmt away the servant with a refUial, and he retumed
DO more.
When supper was over. Wfl sat together in familiar
converaation. while cheerfulneA and good humour
reigued among us. It was near midnight, when
suddenly a hollow, dolefulaound was heard, like the
groaning of a human bemg; gradually it grew
weaker, and at last died away entirely. A mo-
mentary trembliog seized us all; we atared at each
other, and then around us, unable to explain the
mystery.
TheMarquess nua to the window, while the rest of
as were endeavouring to restore the lady, who lay
8ell881ess on the floor. It was some time before abe
recovered. The jealous Italian would scarce]y give
her time to open her eyes, .when he began to load
her with reproaches. " If you agree on signs with
your friends/' said the Marquess, "I pray you let
them be less open and terrifying." She replied. with
her usual presence of mind, that, having the right to
see any person, at any time, in her bouse, she could
ba.rdly be auppoaed to choose such appalJing sounds
as the forerunner& of happy moments.
And really thert' was something uncommoaly
c c
Digitized by Coogle
terrifying in the sound ; its vt·
brations were still fresh in our ears. Antonelli was
pale, confused, and every moment in danger of
falling into a swoon. We were obliged to remain
with her half the night. Nothing more was beard.
On the following evening the same company was
assembled ; and although the cheerfulness of the
preceding day was wanting, we were not dejected.
Precisely at the same hour we heard the same
hollow groan as the night before.
We had, in the mean time, formed many con-
jectures on the origin of this strange sound, which
were as contradictory as they were extravagant. It
is unnecessary to relate every particular: in short,
whenever Antonelli supped at home, the alarming
noise was heard at the same hour, sometimes
stronger, at others weaker. This occurrence was
spoken ofall over Naples. Every inmate ofthe bouse,
every friend and acquaintance, took the most lively
interest; even the police was summoned to attend.
Spies were placed at proper distances around the
house. To such as stood in the street, the sound
seemed to arise in the open air, while those in the
room heard it close by them. As often as she
supped all was silent, but whenever she remained
at home, she was sure to be visited by her uncivil
guest: but leaving her house was not always a
means of escaping him. Her talent and character
gained her admittance into the first houses ; the
elegance of her manners, and her lively conversation,
made her everywhere welcome ; and, in order to
her unwelcome visitor, she used to pass her
evenings in company out of the house.
A gentleman, whose age and rank made him
Digitized by Coogle
203
reapectable, accompanied her home one evening in
his coach. On taking leave of him at her door, the
well known voice issued from the steps beneath
them ; and the old gentleman, who was perfectly
well acquainted with the story, was helped into hit
coach more dead than alive.
She was one evening accompanied by a young
singer, in her coach, on a visit to a friend's. He
had heard of this mysterious affair, and being of a
lively disposition, expressed some doubta on the
subject. I most ardently wish, continued he, to
hear the voice of your invisible companion ; do call
him, there are two of us, we shall not be frightened.
Without reflecting, abe bad courage to summon the
spirit, and presently, from the fiOQr of the coach,
aro.e the appalling sound : it was repeated three
times in rapid succession, and died away in a hollow
mean. When the door of the carriage was opened,
both were found in a swoon, and it was some time
before they were reatored, and could inform those
present of their unhappy adventure.
This frequent repetition, at length, affected her
health; and the spirit, who seemed to have com-
pauion ou her, for some weeks gave no signs of his
presence. She even began to cherish a hope that
abe was now entirely rid of him ; but in this she
was mistaken.
When the Carnival was over, she went into the
country on a visit, in the company of a lady, and
attended only by one waiting maid. Night overtook
them before they could ;reach their journey's end;
and suifering an interruption, from the breaking ot
a chain, they were compeJled to stop for the night
at an obscure inn by the road side. Fatiyue made
Digitized by Coogle
204
Antonelli seek for repose immediately on their
arrival ; and she had just lain down, when the
waitipg-maid, who was arranging a night lamp, in
a jesting tone, observed, "We are here, in a manner
at the end of the earth, and the weather is horrible--
will he be able to find us here 1" That moment the
voice was heard, louder and more terrible than ever.
The lady imagined the room filled with demons, and:.
leaping out of bed, ran down stairs, alarming the
whole house. Nobody slept a wink that night.
"fhis was the last time the noise was heard. But
this unwelcome visitor had soon another, and more
disagreeable method of notifying his presence.
She had been left in peace some time, when one
evening, at the usual hour, while she was sitting at
table with her friends, she was startled at the dis-
charge of a gun, or a well-charged pistol: it seemed
to have passed through the window. All present
heard the report and saw the flash, but on ex-
amination the pane was found uninjured. The com-
pany was nevertheless greatly concerned, and it
was generally believed that some one's life had been
attempted. Some present ran to the police, while
the rest searched the adjoining houses-but in vain;
nothing was discovered that could excite the least
suspicion. The next evening, sentinels were sta-
tioned at all the neighbouring windows : the house
itself, where Antonelli lived, was closely searched,
and spies were placed in the street.
But aiJ this precaution availed nothing. Three
months in succession, at the same moment, the re-
port was heard : the charge er.tered at the same
pane of glass without making the least alteration in
ita appearance ; and what is remarkable, it in-
Digitized by Coogle
106
nriably took place preciaely one hour before mid-
night, although the Neapolitans have the Italian
way of keeping time accordiag to which midnight
forma no remarkable diriaion. At length, the shooting
grew as familiar as the voice had formerly been, and
this innocent malice of the apirit na forgiven him.
The report often took place without disturbing the
company, or evea interrupting their conversation.
One evening, after a sultry day, Antonelli, with-
out thinking of the approaching hour, opened the
window, ud atepped with the Marqueaa on the
balcony. But a few moments had elapeed, when .
the invisible gun was discharged, and both were
thrown back into the room with a violent shock.
On recoverilag, the Marqueu felt the pain of a
IRDart blow on hia right cheek, and the ainger, on
her left. But no other injury being received, this
eYent gave rise to a number of merry observations.
Thia was the last time abe alarmed in her
lloue, and she had hopes of being at last entirely
rid of her persecutor, when, one evening,
riding out with a &iend, she waa once more greatly
terrified. They drove through the Chiaja, where
the ace-favoured Genoese bad resided. The moon
ahone bright. The lady with her demanded, '' Ia
DOt that the house where Mr. died?., "It ia
one of thoee two, if I am not mistaken," replied
Antoaelli. That iDita.nt the report burst upon their
ean louder than ever : the flash iasuing from one of
the eeemed to pass through the carriage.
The coachman aupposing they were attacked by
robben, droYe ofF in great haste. On arriving at
the place of destination, the two ladies were taken
out in a state of iuensibility.
Digitized by Coogle
206
This was, however, the last scene of terror.
The invisible tormentor now changed his manner,
and used more gentle means. One evening, soon
after, a loud clapping of hands was heard under her
window. Antonelli, as a favourite actress and
singer, was no stranger to these sounds : they
carried in them nothing terrifying, and they might
be ascribed to one of her admirers. She paid
little attention to it: her friends, however, were
more vigilant; they sent out spies as formerly. The
clapping was heard, but no one was to be seen;
and it was hoped that these mysterious doings
would soon entirely cease.
After some evenings the clapping was no longer
heard, and more agreeable sounds succee<!ed.
They were not properly melodious, but unspeakably
delightful and agreeable: they seemed to issue
from the corner of an opposite street, approach the
window, and die gently away. It seemed as ifsome
aerial spirit intended them as a prelude to some
piece of music that he was about to perform. These
tones soon became weaker, and at last they were
heard no more.
I had the curiosity, soon afterthefirst disturbance,
to go to the house of the deceased, under the pretext
of visiting the old lady, who had so faithfully at-
tended him in his last illness. She told me her
friend had an unbounded affection 'for Antonelli;
that he had, for some weeks previous to his death,
talked only of her, and sometimes represented her
as an angel, and then again as a devil. When his
illness became serious, his only wish was to see her
before his dissolution,-probably in hopes of re-
ceiving from her some kind expression, or prevailing
Digitized by Coogle
207
on her to give him some consoling proof of her love
and attachment. Her obstinate refusal caused him
the greatest torments, and her last answer evidently
hastened hia end; for, added she, he made one
violent effort, and raising his bead, he cried out in
despair, " l.o, it 1hall avail her nothing; 1/ae avouu
me, bul I'll torment her, though the grave divide tu !''
And indeed the event proved that a man may per-
form his promise in spite of death itself.
TRADITIONS AND SUPERSTITIONS
OF FOllMER Tl Es.
OF "TRITHEMIUS Till!: WISE,"
Which ia aaid to discover the Sign and Planet under
which any one ia born, and tlttir Good and
Fortune in life, b!J the Letters of their Name.
Digitized by Coogle
208
•viiBEIU ANSWERING TO THE PLANlt'l'a.
The Sun 0 1 or 4
fhe Moon ]) 2 or 7
Saturn 'f1 8
Jupiter ,. 3
Mars 8 9
Venus 6
Mercury 5
.UIIBERS ATTRIBUTED TO THE 12 CELESTIAL
SIGNS.
Aries
"'
7" A 8 Libra
Taurus ts 6 11l 9 Scorpio
"'Gemini u 12 I 4 Sagitarius
Cancer e 5 'f! 3 Capricomua
Leo .Sl. 1 .... 2 Aquarius
-
Virgo ".R 10 )( 11 Pisces
Among the most curious of the ancient inventions,
may be classed the foregoing tradition of the old
astrologers '' for finding the sign and star under
which one is born ;" which is done as follows.
1. TO l-'IND TilE ALHUTAN OR RULING PLANE'l'
.A.T BIRTH, DY NAMES ALONE.
Add together the different sums answering to the
letters of the christian (or proper) namu, and th01t of
eachparent, as they are set down in the table callt'd
the "Planetary Alphabet," and then divide that
sum so found by nine; the remainder, which is left
after such division, being sought as above, directs
you to the planet which is the Almutan, or planet, tOAo
ruled at birth, as it is termed by the old authol'l.
Thus, if the remainder were 3, that planet would be
Digitized by Coogle
208
Jupiter; if 1 or 4, the Sa; if 2 or 7, the Mila;
and so of the rest : and if nothing remain after
such division is made, the number 9, which you
dinded by, is the symbol ofthe planet.
E.rarpk. Name of the party inquiring, JAIIEI;
of the parents, A.'NN and TnoH.u. Proc.d thus-
Part!J.
J 20
A 1
M23
E 22
s 9
Sam 76
Parents.
A 1
N 12
N. 12
Sum 26
Add topther.
75
25
58
Divide by 8)i68
P1ftf111.
T 8
H 6
0 11
M 23
A I
s 9
Sum 68
17, ud 5 mnainder.
..
Therefore 5 is the planetary number, which giTes
Mercury.( ") for your almutan, or ruling star.
This is too plain to need any other example.
2. TO DISCOVER THE SIGN THAT PLANET WAS IN.
Add together the .dift'erent sums of your own and
yaar parents' proper names, and divide the sum bJ
12 ; the remainder shows the lign the planetwas in.
Bat if there be no remainder, take 12 iteelf for that
number.
)J D
Digitized by GoogIe
210
£.ramp/e. Names as before.
Sum.
Divide by 12)158
13;"and 2 remainder.
No. 2 is attributed to Aquarius (=), therefore the
party in question is born under in=, (Mercury
in Aquarius).
Note that this rule is said only to be true when
the party inquiring is ignorant of their true nativity,
although it may afford much amusement to any other
person who is fond of the superstitions of past ages.
The ancient Chaldee and Babylonian soothsayers,
and the modern Persian astrologers, agreed unani-
mously in drawing certain particulars of the future
fate, or the "destinie," of mankind, from the letters
of their names ; affirming that " all names were to
befound registered in the heavens, and to be known by
the planets reigning at the birth of man!' Some of
the ancient Magi go even farther than this, and de-
clare that the Genius, or the Guardian Demon,
which they say every man has allotted him from
the instant of his emerging into life as an animal,
may be likewise known, and his company sought, by
the nomenclature of the native and his parents. It
is from a scarce work in the British Museum, that
the foregoing is compiled, written in the Italian
language, and correctly translated with the different
planetary characters.
The signs and planets differ from each other in
nature, influence, and description, as various writers
also teach. Of the twelve zodiacal signs, some are
to be far more fortunate than others, " in their
influence oyer man's life."
Digitized by Coogle
211
nhlrtunate ignss art
lf. Jupiter,
0 The Sun,
v Venus,
If Mercury,
) And the MOOD.
Ctt8nfortunatt •Iandi art
" Saturn
1 And Mars.
With respect to the foregoing traditions, it must
bewell remembered,that to be bom underafortunate
planet, and also under a fortunate 1ign, termed by
the old astrologers, " the top or Koodi!J height1 of
fortune," symbolical, as it is said, of" riches, money,
power, and divers happiness, a life of pleasure,
fortune, and long in duration.''
To be hom under an unfortunate planet, and also
under an unfortunate 1ipl, is what they termed
" the evil tkmon oflift," denoting " a fate or fortune
o,9itized bvGoogle
212
of poverty, alms-craving, wretchedness, woe, and
but of few years."
Also to be born under a fortunate planet and
unfortunate sign, denotes, as they say, "a
mean, and commia:t fortune,-now good, now ill,
buoyant upon Fate's most lucky pinions, now
down and of fellowship; fortune's
ball, and also her favourite, as the stars may
in their courses; of whom, know, 0 man I thoa
the subject, not the ruler."
Understand the same of the rest.
of very interesting amusement in these
the Reader will soon perceive this, by a few
upon himself or his friends
AN OLD LEGEND OF THE TWELVES
Ariel iJ good,
Tarmu is not 10.
Gemini and Callcw will make tbee glad ;
But beware hardly of Leo and nrgo.
Lihra, for friendship, is good;
Very hard Ia Scorpio.
Sagittarye Ia good, and
Capricorne perilous.
Aquariru is good by water,
(Clarke's provetb so).
Tbe best of all is Pi1ce1,
And most plenteous.
TRADITIONS RELATING TO
MANCY,
lnbocattng tbt iBtab.
Translated from Corneliiu Agrippa. ( MSS.)
'' The souls of men do still love their relinqui ihed
bodies after death, as it were a certain affinity ad-
Digitized byGoogle
'·
Digitized by Google
7.
c
.,.,
-
..
...
-
:..
..,._
.,.
--:
-
.....
c
-
-
E-o
..
Digitized by Google
2l:J
bering to them : such as are the aoula of noxloua
men, that have violently relinquished their bodie1,
and wanting a due burial, their eoula do •till
wander in a liquid and turbulent apirit about tlleir
dead bodies ; for those souls, by the known means,
by the which heretofore they were conjoined to
their bodies by the like vapours, liquors, and savoun,
are easily drawn into their bodies.
" But the aouls of the dead are not to be called up
without blood, or by the application of some part of
the rdict body ; therefore, to intJOCIIte the dud, thou
ehouldest suffumigate with new blood, with the
bones ofthe dead, with flesh, eggs, milk, honey, oil,
&c. which do attribute to the soul a means apt to
receiYe their bodies.
"It is requisite this work should be done in
thoee places where those souls are most conversant,
or for some alliance alluring those souls into their
fonaken bodies, or for eome kinds of affection which,
in times put, was impressed in them, in their life,
drawing the said aouls to certain places, things, or
penona, or for the forcible nature of some place
fitted and prepared for to purge or punish their souls.
Which places are known from nightly visiQTls, pre-
aentiments, apparitions, and such like prodigies seen.
" .Apt places for these things are churchyards ;
and better than this, places where there hath been
an execution of criminal judgments ; and better
still, those places where of late years murders have
been done, and for which no expiation has been
made, nor right burials performed. For the ex-
piation of those places is a holy rite, duly to be
adhibited to the burial of the bodies, and oftentimes
Digitized by GoogIe
214
prohibiteth the souls coming into their bodies, and
expelleth them far off unto the places of judgment.
But the souls of the dead are not easily to be raised
up. except it be the souls of them whom we have
known to be evil, or to have perished by a violent
death, and those whose bodies want a right and due
burial.
"Therefore, what place soever you make use
take someprincipal ofthe relict body to make a suffumi-
gation with, using other rites. But those things
are not always sufficient for the raising up of souls,
because of an extra-natural part of reason and
understanding, which is above, and known only to
the ruling powers of heaven.
''The souls, moreover, ought to be allured by
celestial powers duly administered, which do move
the harmony of the soul, such as are songs, sounds,
inchantments, or holy rites, prayers, conjurations,
exorcisms, &c."
The author, wishing to give every possible eluci-
dation relative to the extraordinary superstitions of
past ages, the belief in which, it is said, no longer
e.rists, has been indefatigable in perusing the various
magical manuscripts that has fallen under his imme-
diate notice. This he has done the rather, because
hitherto the different authors who have written upon
the theory of charms, enchantments, spectral appari-
tions, and fairy lore, have merely confined their
labours to narrative alone, forgetting that the best
illustration of those subjects lies in the elucidating
their singular ceremonials.
Digitized by Google
215
A MAGICAL EXPERIMENT.
The following strange experjment is copied from a
f1t1J ICilret and curiotu manUicripl. In the present
enlightened age, the rehearsal thereof cannot pos-
sibly do any harm, as we presume it would be
difficult to find any one who would go through the
disgusting process of " raising the dead spirit," even
should they place faith in its performance. It is
word for word with the original, which was deemed
a moat profound secret, in the reign of Popery and
Inquisition; the betrayal of which would have
subjected the party to imprisonment for life, or to a
cruel death.
eolnbotatt Conbna •ttbCbt .tall.
" When any one d.ieth, tDIIom you tDOtllld have the
lpiril ofwhen dead, Go wheare the grave tDill be
made, and make sure to take a handful of the first
earth that is digged when the grave is first begun
to be made ; then rehearsing the person's name
that ia dead, saying as followeth
"' 0 (N) I doe take of the earth in which thou
muat enter into, that thy spirit may come unto the
churche to speake unto me, and fulfill my will, and
that it shall never have power to rest, or be quiet,
until thou come to apeak with me, and fulfiU my
will and commandments!
" Afterwards goe into the churche with the earthe
in thy hande, and there beholde untill the bodie of
the dead person be brought into the Churche; and
thou shall see a two-foulde spirit cominge. AnJ
the Spirit of the dead like Catts. Then rehearse
the names of God followinge, afterwardes they will
Digitized by Coogle
216
departe and go with the funerall to the grave. But
thou must beholde still, and walke untill the corpse
be buried, and every one departed, and gone awaye.
" Then the Spirit will come to thee again, whom
doe not feare, for it cannot hurte thee. Then calle
it by the person's name that is buried, and say as
followeth,
" ' 0 (N) I doe co,Yure thee by the Passion of our
Lord Jesus Xt, and by the virginitie of the sweet
Virgin Marye, and by the twelve Apostles, and by
the four Evangelists, and by all Martyrs and Con-
fessors, and by this Earthe which I have in my
hande, which is of the Earthe wherein thy bodie is
buried in, 0 (N) and by all the Constellations of
heaven, and by all the Virtues and Powers, which
are in heaven and earth, and by all the Angelles,
and their falle, in which was the cause of Man's
creation, and by the wordes which Christ spake as
he bung on the Altar of the Crosse, That is, Ely,
Ely, Lama-zabacthani, Semiforas, that thou doe not
offen!le me by any manner of lyinge or deceit, but
that thou declare the truth of all things that I shall
aske thee, and that thou doe come unto me at all
times when I doe calle thee, by this name, 0 (N).
And in answeringe me trulye with an understanding
voice, and true tongue or speeche, which I do best
understande, and thus I doe bind thee and conjure
thee by all the wordes aforesaid, and I commande
thee by our Lord Jesus Xt, and by his most precious
bloude, and by him that will come to judge the
quicke and thedeade,and the worlde by fier. Amen.'
" Then carrye the earth in thy hande to the grave
again, and say unto him, Go in peace, 0 (N), and
the peace of God be between me and thee, and a,
Digitized by Coogle
217
often u I will speake with thee, be thou readie,
and when I call thee by thia name 0 (N) with thia
conjuration, Go in peace, and the C1'0U8 of Xt.
be betweene me and thee, nowP and always. Amen.
Ymt, fiat, fiat."
" Note firste of all when the spirits do appeare,
rehearse these names of God followinge to bind
them, and thou llhalt be safe from all dangers after-
wardes. These be the names followinge.
"Tetragrammaton, Anronadall, Draconium, Al-
liam, fortiuam, fortisson, figa, Sache, frege. Pronis-
sioni, Sucreon, Dracoeu, Eloy, Sachee, Emanuell,
Anathanathout, Semaforas. At"len."
ANOTHE& IT&ANGE NECROMANTIC SPELL.
" If thou be disposed to speake or meete with
anye penon l!Juitlge or deade, you muste goe into
the Churcbe yarde on ajryda!Jt at night, at 9 or 10
of the Clocke, and walke rounde aboute the alley
times, and wheD you come to a comer, you
mute stande still, and saye the Lordes prayer, and
the Creede. and before you have gone 1evm timu
aboute, you shall meete them you woulde meete
withall, personallye as they were wont togoe. Finis."
A LEGENDARY CHARM OR SPELL, I.AID BY OLD
AUTHORS TO B¥ PROOF AGAINST THIEVEI .AND
ENEMIES.
Tow «Nat,.
" Ia tbe power ol Gee!, I wUke oa •1 war,
1a Ole meek- ol Clnut, wllat thle•ee I meet,
1'1111 Ho1rOMit, to D.,aMIJ ..bepe.
Ybetbr Ill«,or "--e, Willaor 11..,.,
Tbe lhlDiage of the
Allo &M 11rfctatae-.of hlo ...._, lbaU -
EE
Digitized by Coogle
21a
The laHb of IlldE to daye ahllll me Je.de ;
The lll&rtup of Jacob to da7e he IDJ apeed.
The dm>Uoll of the bol7e Lambe, tbie9ea lhllll 1«1.•
The ltnDgtb of J-·•bl..t plllloD them llelett.
The dreede of death, hold thieftl low,
The wtadome of Solomon eaoae their onrthJ:OW.
The IUII'erblp of Job, them lu bolde,
The chuUUe ofDaulelle, leU what they wou!U.
The apeeche of r..e, theirapeeche lhall aplU,
The I&DgallhlDg faith of Jherom, lett them of their wtll.
The tamlup ller of hell to hl\ them I bequeath,
The deepueue of the deepe ,,., their {alae banda for to leU.
Tht Ugbte ofheaYea aplDat them aball rlae.
The clrede of IIIIJI'IlW caa1e their heart. to plete.
The helpe of beano, cauae tbi- to ataad ;
He that made the Son aad Moon, blnd them wlth hla hand,
So .."' • St. bolllld thetend,
With the balrof hla beard.
With theae three eecret name• of God, Jmowne and uoknowne,
Mlaer, Sae!l fetragrammaton. CbriatJIIUI. Amen."
F,... a cwriow JltJ.tc-"11·
MYSTIC E,NC HA NTMENT.
Fr()TIJ the MSS. of Philadelphw.
The following is related by Eckartshausen, in
his German work, entitled "Magic.,.
Eckartshausen was aquainted with a Scotsman,
who was not given to the practice of incantations,
but merely acquired the knowledge of an ex-
traordinary process, which bad been
to him by a Jew. He made the e.rperiment in com-
pan!J with Eckartshausen;-it is extraordinary, and
deserves to be related.
The person who wishes to see a particular
spirit, (either of a living or dead person), must, for
some days previous, undergo a state of physical and
spiritual preparation. Very remarkable conditions
• " JAil," old word; to 001tro.:t,to AhtMr.
Digitized by Coogle
219
and correapondencies eeem required between the
person who wiahea to see the spirit, and the spirit
itself, (conditions we can only explain by ad-
mission that a dawning of the spiritual world begins
on our side of the graye). When these preparations
are completed, a fumigation from certain ingredients
(the knowledge of which Mr. E. very properly,
from a fear of their abuse, declines to communicate)
ia made in a room. The flapDUr [orm1 into a
which il tilt perftct ruembkmce of tile perMm
tile opertllor toilhu to 1«! Magic lights, optical
deceptions, &c., are here out of the question. TaE
VAPOUR. PB.ODUCES A HUMAN FIGURE, resembling
. him we desire to see l The following are Eckarts-
bausen'• own words:-
,. Some time after the departure of the foreigner
(the Scotsman), I repeated the experiment with one
of my friends--he latD and felt as I did myself.
The observations we made were these :-as soon as
the ingredients were thrown into the chafingdish,
a whitish figure forms itself, and seems of natural
aize to hover just above the chafingdish. It
poiiUIU a molt perfect ruemblance fDilh the perMm to
6t ont, that thefigure utUh!J pak. Upon ap-
proaching the figure, a considerable resistance is
felt, sometlling like walking against a strong wind.
Ifit is spoken to, no distinct recollection remains of
what has been said ; and when the phantom dis-
appears, it seems ·like awakening from a dream.
Tbe head is 1tupified, and there is a great tightness
felt in the lower parts of the body. It is singular,
that the same appearance presents itself upon being
ill the dark, or looking afterwards upon dark bodies.
Digitized by Coogle
220
" The unpleasantness of this sensation wu
such that, however solicited, I was unwilling to
repeat the experiment. young gentleman came
to me, and positively imisted upon seeing the ap-
parition. As he was a man of a delicate constitu-
tion and lively imagination, I hesitated, and con-
sulted an experienced physician, to whom I
discovered the entire secret. He was of opinion
that the narcotics used must powerfully excite the
imagination, and might, under certain circumstances,
be very dangerous. He thought the preparatory
forms increased the power of their operation, and
advised me to make trial of their effect in very small
portions, without previous preparations.
" This I did, one day after dinner, when this
gentleman, who dined with me, was present. The
materials were all thrown into the ehafingdisb,
when certainly a figure showed itself; but a shud-
dering, which I was unable to controul, overcame
'·
me. I was obliged to leave the room for three :
hours; I was extremely ill, and had the figure "'
constantly before me. By the use of a great deal '1
of vinegar, which I inhaled, and drank with water,
I recovered, towards the evening; yet, for three ::
weeks afterwards, I felt a loss of strength : and what i
is most singular, is, that. even to this time, when I .,
think on the ·circumstance, and look upon a dark i.l
body, a lively representation of the ashy-pale figure !.
presents itselt before me. Since that time (adds he)
I have never ventured to repeat the experiment." <
The following note is added by a lady of
erudition, who had read Eckartshausen's work, and
remembers these particulars, viz.-'' that certaiD ti
, .
Digitized by Coogle
221
prmous forms aDd condition• are required before
the operation takes place ; upon omiAion of these,
the operator is threatened with either Joss of health,
inlanity, or the moat eerious derangement or hi•
temporal circumstances. The particulars I do not
remember distinctly, but I think three day1' utkr
is commanded. During these days, the
operator must employ himself in devotional exerc1ses,
he must often tum his thoughts to the subject he
wishes to see, must have a particular regard to him
in his prayers, must recollect and dwell on his good
qualities, and be very certain that no impure view
mixes with his wish to see him. The subject must
have committed no crime; and if a living person, he
must ban no wound in any part of his body. This
IIUt condition ia remarkable ; the tendency of the
other is obvious, when it is considered that they
eame from Arabia (where the Jew first found the
eeeret), and therefore originate with a people not
profeseedly Christian. I think it will be allowed
that their piety is worthy notice."
M.r. E., in his second volume, says that he
may venture to give the fumigating ingredients
without fear, 88 the success of the experiment
depends upon their exact proportions or Opium,
Saffron, .Alou, Henbane, Night1hade, Poppy-•wl, and
He1ftlock.
I must here regret that the author did not
communicate whether his own experiments were
made with a living subject, and what the state of
that person might be during the operation.
From the same hand, Eckartshausen received
another fumigation, which, used in a church-yard,
would bring into visible existence the spirits of
Digitized by Coogle
222
the persons there interred ; and an ointment which,
upon being applied upon different parts of the bod:y,
would transport the spirit into any part qf the world
These, however, were composed of narcotics of such
intense and fearful potency, that the author state11
he never considered it safe to use them.
Communicated b11 Philadelpltu1.
A LEGENDARY CHARM, USED BY WITCHES IN
GATHERING HERBS FOR MAGICAL PURPOSES.
" Hall to thee, holy herb,
Growing on the ground,
AU on mount Calvary
First wut thou found.
Thou art gooa for many 10res
And healeth many a wound ;
In the name of Saint Jesu I
I t11ke thee from the ground."
Takenfrom an old blacK letter missal, in tnepo11ession
qf the "MERCURII," which also states, that "the
muttering of this charm, while concocting drugs or
simples, balsams or elixirs, C'ontrihutes marvellously
to their efficacy."
Digitized by Google
223
THE ASTROLOGER.
NoV
'1'IIB KA'l"IVI'ri' OP COBDBB 'I'IIB
.v&DB8BR.
Communicated 6y a CorreBpOndent
BOaM
J.. 'l21td, 1804,
4A.t•• P.M.
aiCTlrJID IOL4ll TIMI;
ll-ud, J818,
PORTRR
Digitized by Coogle
224
TO THE EDITOR OF THE "FAMILIAR ASTROLOGI(B.."
SIR,
Actuated by a wish for the extension of the
knowledge of the sublime science we mutually
profess, and for the confirmation of its truth in the
sceptical minds of the present age, I send you what
I have every reason to believe is the genuine· nativity
ofWilliam Corder, lately convicted and executed for
the murder of Maria Marten
From your perusal of the Trial, you wilJ doubtless
recollect a present of a copy of Blair's Sermons,
made to him by his unfortunate wife on his com-
pleting hia 24th vear. In the first page is written
the cause and date of presentation, which event is
described as taking place on the 22d of June,
· Upon reference, I find the sun posited in the
same degree of the sign Cancer on the 22d of
June, 1804, the given day of and the 22d of
June, 1828. From these data, I set to work to
discover, from the planetary positions and aspects,
indications of the afflicting and violent termination
of the native's existence that has recently taken
place ; and I flatter myself you will agree with me
in opinion, that my study on the occasion has been
rewarded by eliciting the true time of birth. The
following powerful aspects and positions were in
operation in the radix, viz. :- ,
J. The ascendant, H!Jleg. being via combust&
and opposed by 8 in his detriment from the seventh
house, and also conjoined with Caput Algol. AJso
the o of 8 and , and semiquartile of and b ;
» iu semiquartile to the ascendant. The 0 located
Digitized by Coogle
225
in tlae 8th in o of r, and eemiquartile of 1, u weil
u in eemiquartile to t.
2. The ) in e to 0, ud quartiled by .., , froJU
the lOth houee and human signa.
3. IP, Lord of the 8th house, (the houae of death),
in an airy sign, on the cuap of the 8th, in parallel
with 1, and within orba of ._'a seaquiquadrate ray1.
4. t, Lady of the 7th, equared by 1, whoae
malignant position and influence ia greatly increued
by hia aesquiquadrate aspect to .., .
6. The A of If and v, both dignified, gave the
oatiYe much aubtility and deceit, u were &ufficiently
exemplified, but attellded with great eccentricity.
6. .., to tile mid/leaven, 1r1t11 the direction for AU
tr.p:oi 6ut wll meritedend
As, from your acquaintaDce with the beat authon
on the ac:ience, and your own experience, you will
need no explanation, I shall make but few com-
ments, leaving you to form your own judgment
thereon, which I have rttle doubt will coincide
with my own, u to the violent indicationa of an un-
timely end and moat turbulent life. 'rhere is one
Tery remarkable position and aspect which I consider
tingularly curioua, Yiz., 1 in the 7th .house in his
tltJtri-..t, opposed to tbeAsc. and squaring t, Lady
of the 7th in the Moon's southern node (the dragon'•
tail); also the position of r, in the lOth, in a human
sign, allicting both luminaries ; and also the
ucendant and , Lord of the house of deaLh, on
the cusp of that bouse in eeaquiquadrate to
There are two position&. aiRo, which I think tend
much to authenticate the correctness of the figure.
Saturn, Lord of the third house (or house or
\retbren), posited in the lOth 'or brother'• eighth).
r F
Digitized by GoogIe
226
also the Sun in the eighth. and afHicted there: these
are certainly indicative ofthe death that are aware
had previously taken place in· his family. The
Lady of the 7th in the 9th, implies a wife obtained
at a distance, or by a journey, (which is a known
fact); also that she should receive detriment by
him, is deduced from the square aspect of Mars to
Venus, one of her significators ; and the husband's
significator, a malefic, hurtfully posited in her
ascendant. Venus in Leo, in the tail, and squared
by Mars, from the house of Venus, is strongly cor·
roborative of the indulgence of those illicit desires
which brought the unfortunate Maria to such an
untimely and tragical death.
C. I. T.
Manchelter, A.,.. 21, 1828.
There are but few remarks needful, after the
skilful elucidation of our correspondent. There
seems little reuon to doubt the authenticity of the
figure ; but whether or not the hour and, minute
be correct, the da!J of the murderer's birth we
know to be 10; and the quartile of the Moon with
Saturn, from eommon malignant signs, the quartile
ofMars to Venus fromfirtd signs, the sesquiquadrate
of Mercury and Jupiter, and the sesquiquadrate oC
the Moon and Mars,-were quite sufficient to give
fuH astrological avouchment of the disastrous par
-·Eo.
Digitized by Coogle
AT THE FUNERAL OP THE LAMENTED
GABL IBABIA VOR WBBBB.
'Til lallblcll ud tbe atiDI ol._tla II o'er,
Aad 1111 pare Spirt\ -b tbelbeaYeDIJ lbore
...... - - ..... plaeel ...... ..,,.,
ADd,... areluaowo, aDd felt wttlloat .uo,-.
Hll - 110--llliod, aDd there eboaJd be
N o - tonab 1D, -bll..-,.
TM..-t. tM pod, wllo perilla Ia their pr18e,
&coDae tbe luUDS creditors ol time
Allll - mlllt reDder to Uae aalplJ cleoid,
Tile dellt-.,_ U... for dieJo1 tbeflbed.
It was on the 21st of June, 1826, that the earthly
remains of the lamented Carl Maria Von Weber,
the celebrated author of Dtr and Obtron,
were committed, with the funeral10lemnity of the
Catholic Church, to the •11ent HJMilchre. On the
morning of that day, I had, by appointment, met
my friend Captain B oa the Royal Ex-
change, having eold a few thoui&Dda of consols for
the following July account, which, although I am
aaturally averae to " high play" of any description,
I had been induced to do at the penuasion of a
friend, chiefty to convince an unbeliever in celestial
lore of the ample meana posseued by an
for i.Dcreuing the store of this world's wealth, even
where the chances are so much against the specula-
tor, aa they proverbially are, amoag the bulls and
bean of the Stock Exchange.
The day was unusually gloomy; and although
at wu at that season of the year when even the
atreeta of the metropolis assume a gayer appearance
than usual, from the general serenity of the atmo-
Digitized by Google
228
sphere, yet the rack of drifting fleeces, as they shot
swiftly through the azure vault above, were oc-
casionally tinged with crimson, and anbn skirted
with a lurid and lowering hue,-the general fore-
runners of a rainy day. As the morning advanced,
the sky would for an instant become clearer; but
the too sudden bursting of the solar rays from the
accumulating masses of dense ana sombre clouds,
told plainlyto the observing eye, that these ephemeral
indications of serenity were even like the gay and
gaudy sunshine of man's transitory life,-most
liable, alas! to storms and tempests!
While my friend and myself were busily con-
versing upon the already palpable effects of Saturn's
celestial progress through the constellation Gemini,
the ascendant in astrological lore of the proud
metropolis, which reared its walls and mansions
around us, proclaiming itself the mart of Europe,
and mistress of the civilized world ; and while we
were ever and anon breaking through the thread of
our discourse, to remark upon-the motley assemblage
of merchants, Jews, jobbers, and the usual
corollaries of a commercial life, which passed in
quick succession before us-some of them most
eagerly disseminating the political news of the day,
and commenting upon the sudden decline in the
price ofthe public securities, through the defalcation
in the revenue, the warlike news from India, the
reYolt of the Janissaries in Constantinople, and $UCb
like une.rpected events, which myself had foruom
and predicted wre certain to occur, from the celutial
agency that the peculiar po$itiom of the star1 evinced.
While we were remarking upon the wonderful ad-
vantages which astrology gave even to the merchant
Digitized by Coogle
229
or tJae apeculator, oYer the mere man of the world,
who had his buaiaeea, u it were, at '' hia fingen'
ends," and were moralizing upon the variety of thole
dil'eraified scenes that daily occur in the 'ricinity of
the Royal .Exchange, we were eaaually informed that
tbe ca't'&lcade and proceuion of Weber'a funeral
was on its way to the chapel in Moorfielda.
Laying aside eYery other engagement, we im-
mediately haatened to the place reaoiYed to wit·
aeu the lut honoun paid to the late illutrious BOD
of Apollo, whole sublime enchanting strain• of
unearthly muaic had 10 frequently engaged our moat
deJighted attention, u well in the theatre, the throne
of his fame, u in the retirement of the closet.
The atmosphere, which, a short time previoua,
had appeared as if brightening up into a partial
IUilShine, now seemed entirely changed-" a miat
hung hovering in the air," and the sky looked
unusually fitful and gloomy. As we proceeded
towards the scene of woe, we were frequently
interrupted by groupe of pedestrians who pursued the
eame path ; but, on arriving at the gatea of the
Catholic Chapel, in Moorfields, the aaaembled throng
wu immense, and it was with great difficulty we
penetrated the crowded but sorrowful multitude,-
ao thickly were they congregated.
On entering the walla of this beautiful edifice,
the awfill sublimity and mournfully intereating
u.ture of the melancholy spectacle which was
to our view, nearly overpowered our
feelings. In the centre aiale, raiaed on trestles,
IVDlounted by a canopy of sable plumes, which
were eYer and uon waving and nodding aa if in
aoekery of mortality, surrounded by the bearers of
Digitized by Coogle
230
incense, the officiating priests, and accompanied by
the whole ofthe sad, yet gorgeous, funeral pomp of
the ennobled dead, lay the coffin of Weber ! The
rites and ceremonies of the Roman Church are at
all times most peculiarly grand and imposing ; but
on the present mournful occasion they were infinitely
more so than upon ordinary occasions; added to
which, the vocal choir, who forth the
solemn, yet melodious dirge of death, with har-
monious voices, were of the 1rst order, as the most
celebrated professors of English song, residing in
the metropolis, had seizetl the occasion of paying
a willing tribute to the departed genius of the gifted
deceased.
During the solemnization of high mass, .the
feelings of the assembled multitude were partially
quiescent, as if meditating upon the consolations
which religion offered, even beyond the grave,
where all, alas! is darkness. But these feelings of
partial repose on unearthly comforts were soon
aroused in the numerous assembly by the deep
and swelling tone of the funeral anthem. And thoae
feelings of sorrow were felt by none more deeply
than myself. Born with a soul susceptible to the
most lively degree of joy and sorrow, and at a time
when Venus, the star of music and poetry, the fair
planet of genius, claimed powerful preeminence
over my horoscope ; that atar has never ceased to
endue my mind with a love of the solemn and the
pathetic, which only those who have, as Shakspeare
expresses it, "music in their souls," can describe.
And such Oll/y can sympathize truly with my
feelings, as the dirge of death, beginning at first in
low and solemn sounds, now swelled forth in loud
Digitized by Coogle
231
IDd awful tones. deep and intoned, like Nature's
wailings, and anon with a aweep of mournfulcadence,
became lost to the ear ; while again bunting fo1 th, as
it were, with apparent fury, acomful of controul, it
1018 in notes of rapture, as if directing the soul to
heaven and disdaining the earth, till it vanished at
leagth in a swift full sound of ecstasy. Such are the
well known qualities ofMozart's celebrated Requiem
-well known.to the musical world for many sad re-
collectiona, and which was, perhaps, never better
performed than on that day of sadness. Sob after
lOb announced the atifted but poignant sorrows
which penaded the immense uaemblage, as the
aepulchral requiem was chanted ; and till, amidlt
a thousand spectator•, scarcely a 'tearless eye was
vilible I
At length it ceased; when, with slow and silent
atepe, the co8in, attended by the officiating prie1ts,
eeremonioualy commending the soul of the deceased
to thfo protection of heaven, with religious awe, and
IUJTOUDded by the pompous but awful insignia of
death, wu bore out of the chapel to the nulta
beneath. It ia a ainguJar fact, that at the moment
the receptacle of mortality descended the steps of its
Jut abode, the evil and malevolent atar of Saturn
culminated.in the zenith, and crossed the meridian
of Londoo, as if it were revelling in the woe of
mankind. and rejoicing in the sorrow of thousands.
Myastrologicalfriends, byreferring totheir ephemeris
Gw noon day, on the 2lat June, 1826, will obae"e
11M singular and remarkable agreement between
eeleetial ad terrestrial agency, even where the
objecta are death and the graTe t
Arrived in the vault, and deposited on ita lalt
Digitized by GoogIe
232
and final resting place, there lay the cotlin, and
mortal remains of the inimitable Weber-of him
who had enchanted thousands with his immortal
productions-whose genius, as " a living fire," con-
•umed its votary, ere age had tinted his raven loeb.
There lay the coffin, surrounded by many noble,
and many illustrious dead ; but none more truly
noble, more truly illustrious, t:nore known to fame,
more worthy of funeral honours, aJld a lasting re-
nown, than himself! Scarcely had the coffin beea
deposited in the vaults, when the rain, which the
clouds of the morning portended as concentrating,
descended in copious showers : the mist which had
hovered in the air, as if unwilling that the day
should prove cheering even wappearance, became
suddenly the precurser of a storm ; and, as numben
remarked, the very elements seemed to weep for the
wreck of genius. At this moment, the scene was
sublimely and awfully picturesque. The interest
which attended the last rites of humanity, had
descended to the sepulchre, even to the last :gloomy
mansions of the dead, which were quickly ftlled
with weeping spectators. The place was entirely
lit by the glare of funeral torches, that threw their
lengthened shadows to the extremity of the vaults,
which, however, were so an1ple in exteqt, that only
a partial view could be discovered of the numeroua
coffins which lay mouldering therein. Piled heapt
on heaps, a sad memento of human frailty ; yet
their ftickering lights imparted a melancholy hue of
grandeur to the scene, which could acarcely be con-
ceived by those who are unused to such spectacles.
And it was while reclining over the cotlin of the
iJI•\Strious dead, and gazing upon the trophieJ of the
Digitized by Coogle
"fell deltroyer," that I remarked to my friend,
''How in6nitely more imposing, and worthy at·
tention, was the sad and awful solemnity of the scene
around us, than aught which the pomps and levitiea
of the ''fashionable world," with all its boasted re-
finement and splendour, its gaieties, its heartlessness,
ant\ its numerous vagaries, could produce! Yes,"
exclaimed I, ''even in death does Weber triumph!"
PEACE BE TO HIS ASHES I
And may his name and memory ever be held in u
much veneration as it is by
•mE ASTROLOGER OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY."
UlVELLOU8 PROPERTIES OF HERBS,
STONES, ROOTS, &c.
8pirit1.
•Take the juice of Dill, Vervaine, and St. John's
paee, (St. John's wart), and anoint your eyes for
three and you shall see spirits visible."-0/d
MSS.
SINGULAR PROPERTY OF PENNYROYAL.
"In winter, when all things wither and drie up,
Pennyroval flourisheth "
VIRTUES OF THE KANDRAKE.
" WboeoeYer can get any of this rare plant, shall
have continued joy without sorrow, wealth without
want, and be warded from all evil and sudden death,
00
Digitized by GoogIe
or· mischances. .He shall never be robbed, nor
killed. but overcome all his enetnies, in what nature
soever: this is clearly proved."-MSS. Key to
.Agrippa.
TBE FAMOUS ELIXIR OF LIFE.
Preparedfrom Balm.
"In the proper season of the year, when the herb
is at its full growth, and, consequently, its juices in
their whole vigour, gather at thefittest time ofthe day
a sufficient quantity of balm, wipe it clean, and
pick it; then put it in a stone mortar, and, by
laborious beating, reduce it into a thin pap
" Take this glutinous and odoriferous substance
and put it into a bolt-head, which is to be
hermetically sealed, and then place it in a dunghill,
or some gentle heat equivalent thereto, where it
must digest for forty days.
" When it. is taken out, the matter will appear
clearer than ever, and have a quicker scent. Then
1eparate the grosser parts, which, however, are not
to be thrown away. Put this liquid into a gentle
bath, that the remaining gross particles may per-
fectly subside. In the meantime, dry calcine, and
extract thefixed salt of the grosser parts, separated
as before mentioned, which fixed salt is to be joined
to the Hquor when filtrated.
" Next take sea salt, well purified, melt 1t, and,
by setting it in a cold place, it will run, and become
clear and limpid. Take equal parts of both liquors,
mix them thoroughly, and having hermetically
sealed them in a proper glass, let them be carefully
exposed to the ..un, in the warmest season of tbe
Digitized by Coogle
235
year, for about six weeks. At the end of thia
space, the primum em of the balm will appear
swimming on the top like a bright green oil, which
is to be carefully separated and preserved. Of thia
oil, a fetD takm in a gla11 of wine for several
days together, will bring to pass those wonders
that are reported of the Countess o( Desmond and
others; for it will entirelg change the juice1 of the
Atnnan !xxl!J, reviving tbe decaying frame of life, ana
rutoring the 8pirit1 oflong Wit youth."
The author who records this curious and wonder-
ful discovery, remarks, " If after the medicine ia
thus prepared, any doubt be bad of its efficacy, or
of its manner of operation, let a few drops be given
every day on raw meat to any old dog or cat, and in
leas than a fortnight, by the changing of their coata
and other incontestable changes, the virtue of tbia
preparation will sufficiently appear."
This is the preparation of balm which Mr. Boyle
(the celebrated chemist) mentions in his works; and
in which be tells us that ''Dr. Le Fevre" gave him
an account of it, '' in the presence of a famous
physician, and anothervirtuoso, to whom be applied,
as knowing the truth of what he said, that an
intimate friend of his, whom," says .Mr. Boyle,
" be named to me, having prepared the primum em
of balm, to satisfy himself the better of itA effects,
made a trial upon himself, and took of it according
to the prescription, for above a fortnight ; long before
which, his nails, both of his hands and feet, began
to loosen themselves from the skin, (but without
pain), which, at length, falling off of their own
accord, this gentleman keeps yet by him in a
bos for a rarity ; but would not pursue the trial
Digitized by Coogle
236
any farther, being satisfied with what he had found,
and being in no need of such physic; but having
given of the same medicated wine, for ten or twelve
days, to a ·woman that served in his house, and who
was near 70 years of age, without letting her know
what he expected it would do, her 'menses' came
upon her again, in a sufficiently large quantity to
frighten her so much that he durst not prosecute the
experiment any farther. And when I asked," says
Mr. Boyle, "why he made no trials upon beasts,
it was answered, that though he had but little
of the medicine, yet he put apart an old hen, and
moistening her food with some drops of it for a
week, about the sixth day she began to moult her
feathers by degrees till she became stark naked ;
but before a fortnight was passed, she ·began to
regain othel'l, which, when they were come to their
full growth, appeared fair and better coloured than
at first."
-And he added, "that besides that her crest was
raised, she also laid more eggs than she was wont
to do before."-From "Hermeppu8 Rediviflru," 11
&earce •oork.
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT.
" Vervain and Dill
Hinder Witcbea Crom their will."
WeMiy .ftnMtt,.
TilE SPRING ROOT,
.And a LegeJIJ qf it8 maroellotu Efficacy.
Rubezah1 bas his own vegetable garden in the
mountain ; it is shown upon the declivity of
Aupengrund. The mountain is rich in exceJleat
Digitized by Coogle
237
herbs, which have been employed, from Yery ancient
times, in the preparation of costly eaeences. Even
at this day the inhabitanta of Krumhubel gain their
livelihood by the preparation of these essences from
the herbs which grow in those parts,-an art they
may probably ha\"e derived from the pupils of the
once celebrated school of Paracelaus at Prague, who
were driven by the wars of the Hussitea into the
more secluded .parts of the country ; whence it is
possible the people of Krumhubel may yet be_in
pouession of many curious and valuable traditions.
Among these herbs there is one which has become
peculiarly celebrated in legendary lore ; it is
called tile and is found only in Ru-
bezahl's garden. This root is of moat costly species,
and poaeeues virtues to heal the most obstinate and
inveterate diseases. But it serves besides as a
nourishment to the spirits themselves, and Rubezahl
allows none but his particular favorites to gather it.
A lady of high birth once lay dangerously ill at
Liegnitz, and promised a peasant from the high
mountain a great reward if he could procure her
the Spring· root from Rubezahl'a garden. Allured by
her tempting promises, he undertook the task.
When be reached the lonely desert country where
the garden lies, he seized his spade, and began to
dig up the Spring-root, wh1ch was not unknown to
him. Whilst he was yet stooping at his labour, the
wind began to howl from one quarter, and he heard
loud thundering words which be did not understand.
He started up in alarm, in order to aatisfy himself
whence 1t came, but be was not able to stand uv-
rigbt against the rush of the wind. He perceived,
Digitized by Coogle
however. upon the extreme edge of a projecting
cliff, a tall gigantic form ; a long.beard descended
over his breast, and a large crooked c.ose disfigured
his countenance. The figure looked upon him with
fearfully glowing eyes; his streaming )ock.s, and a
large white cloak which he wore, waved in the
storm, and in his hand he bore a large knotted club.
'' What are you doing there ?" screamed the
apparition to him ; and the rough voice was
scarcely distinguishable from the howling of the
storm. The peasant, though a very bold man, was
overcome by the terror which now seized him, and
replied, ''I am seeking the Spring root for a sick
lady, who has promised to pay me well for it."
" What you have got you may keep ; but return
again,·and -,"screamed the figure; andbrandish-
ing his club with threatening gestures, he vanished.
The peasant went down from the mountain lost in
deep thought, and the lady at Liegnitz considered
herself extremely fortunate in getting possession of
the potent root to sooth her pains. Her illness
visibly diminished, and as she could only expect her
complete recovery from the continued use of the
root, she desired that the peasant might be again
brought into her presence. " \Vould you venture
once more to fetch me the Spring-root?" inquired
the lady. ".My good lady," answered the peasant,
"the first time the Lord ofthe mountain appeared to
.me in fearful form, and threatened me so seriously,
that I dare not venture a second time!' But the
lady conquered his fear by dint of liberal promises:
she offered him a much larger sum than the first
time, and the peasant, no longer able to withstand
o,9itized bvGoogle
239
the temptation, ventured once again to take a
aolitary journey into the inmost recesses of the
mountain.
As soon as he began to dig the root, there arose
a fearful storm in the same quarter as before; and
when he looked towards it he beheld the same
figure menacing him in a still more threatening
posture ; the long hair and wide mantle of the
spirit seemed to stream on the wind towards him-
fire shone in his eyes-the frightful voice, which
again acreamed "What are you doing ?" re-echoed
from the barren rocks, and seemed to be shouted
with redoubled violence from the hidden abyss.
When the peasant answered, ''I seek the Spring·
root,-a sick lady has promised to reward me well
for it," the wrathful spirit roared out, "Have I not
warned you, you madman I and you dare to come
bac:k again? But you have it already; 80 save your·
self, if you can I" The lightnings of his eyes seemed
to strike upon the fainting peasant, and to scorch
his countenance : his mighty club whirled through
the air and Ciunk close beside him deep into the
solid rock-the ground trembled-a loud thunder-
clap beaumbed his senses, and be sank down un·
conscious upon the turf. On recovering from his
tlance, he felt as if every bone in his body had
been broken. The club bad disappeared, thunder
rolled in ihe distance, and he thought be could
diatinguish the threatening voice amid its roar ;
bot the Spring-root remained in his hand, and 80 he
crept about drenched by the rain, surrounded by
the thick fog, attacked by flitting sprites hither and
thither, the whole night and the following day,
without knowing where he was, till a charcoal..
Digitized by Coogle
240
oumer found him half-starved, and took him to his
hut. Here he recovered, and then hastened to
Liegnitz.
The lady was delighted when he again stood
before her with the Spring-root, and gave him so
great a reward that he forgot all his misfortunes and
joyfully hastened home. Some time elapsed, and
the lady seemed almost well, but still she not
thoroughly recovered. "If I could get the Spring-
root once more, I feel I could be quite well," she
said. So she sent again to the peasant, who reo
fused to go to her ; but it was as if he was urged by
an evil spirit against his will, and he at last yielded.
"Here I am again, lady," said the peasant, "what
do you wish of me 1 I hope it is not to go again
for the Spring-root ?-heaven preserve me from
that !-the last time, I scarcely escaped with my
life. I yet shudder when I think of it." Here the
lady began to embrace him, and promised him a
whole rich farm and great treasures with it, and so
dazzled the poor man's imagination, that he re·
solved to brave all danger and endeavour to steal
a third time the Spring-root from the enchanted
garden, though he should perish in the attempt.
"Hitherto," said the peasant, "the Lord of the
mountain has only threatened me ; and this shall be
the last time, for then I am a rich man and can speDd
my life in glory and joy.
The peasant dared not go alone this time to the
mountain. "Dear boy," said he, to his eldest son,
who was now beyond childhood, "we shall go to
the chapel upon the mountain : you shall accompany
me." They proceeded together till the ravines
became more and more narrow, and the rocks more
Digitized by Coogle
241
rwaed and barren. As they passed along the
margie of the dark lakes eternally ovenhadowed by
tbe steep rocks, the father became silent and
thoughtful, and deep horror fell upon his inmost
soul; his eyes gleamed so wildly that his aon
shuddered to look upon them. "What ails you,
father?'' said he, at last; but the father did not .
answer him, and gazed in silence on the ground.
Then they ascended higher and higher up the
mountain, till they drew near the garden, when the
father thus addressed his .son :-•' Evil spirits have
beguiled thy fatht:r from his earliest years. I have
eared only forriches, and have remained astranger to
the fear ofGod and ofreligion. I have led a wild and
couchlese lire, and never set before you a good ex-
ample. Now Hell calls me, and I must purloin the
Spring-root from the Lord of the mountain, for
which he will tear me to pieces.·• At this the son
wept sore, and said, ,. Father, Jeave it, and tum
back with me; heaven is merciful." But in the
distraction of despair, the father· had already
aeized the spade and begun to dig. Then arose a
fearful hurricane-a water-spout rushed down and
flooded all the brooks into wild torrents--a moaning,
beartwringing lamentseemed to rise upfrom the roots
of the garden-all the elements mingled wildly with
one another-yawning cliffs opened around-and
from above, a huge figure, itself like a mountain,
descended with a gigantic club, seized the peasant,
aod flew up with him to the height; then a large
rock fell down and shivered into a thousand pieces.
The son heard the moaning of his father, farther and
still farther in the and for a long time lay
on the ground in deep stupor. At last the hurrtcane
II H
Digitized by Coogle
242
ceased to war, the sky cleared up, and the fors3kea
son, full of terror, sought the mountain-chapel tore-
commend himself to God's mercy and protection.
At the same hour the lady at Liegnitz, who 1"mned al-
m08t recooered, died suddenly.
MISCELLANIES,
A lf U S I N G A N D S E L E C T.
THE BURNING !'tiiRROR OF ARCHUIEDE5.
Archimedes, the greatest of all the mechanics of
antiquity, is said to have reduced the Roman fleet,
under the command of Marcellus, to ashes, in the
port of Syracuse, through the medium of a burning
mirror. The cut which we present above to our
readers, as a representation of that of Archimedes,
is, m fact, copied from one actually constructed by
Digitized by Coogle
243
Mr. BufFon,the French naturalist, which being fuund
capable of effecting nearly what Archimedes' ia
said to hue accomplished, is presumed to be
similar to his mirror. Each square in the plate
repreaents a plane mirror, or glass, quicltailvered,
of which 400 were placed in an iron frame, and all
of them were made, by means of screws in the back
part of the frame, to reftect the collected rays of the
sun to one point. They can be adjusted to the sun at
various heights, and made to cast ita rays to
dift"erent distances. It takes a considerable time,
indeed, to adjust them; but, when adjusted, the focus
continues unaltered for an hour or two, and very
powerful effects are produced. With this instru-
ment, ButTon melted lead and tin at the distance of
about 50 English yards, and burnt lighter substances
as far off as 75 yards. It was his opinion, that,
with summer beat, and a better apparatus, he should
be able to produce combustion at the distance of
142 yards.
TO UAKE AN ARTIFICIAL VOLCANO,
Mix 28 pounds of sulphur and 28 pounds of iron·
filings together, and add as tnuch water as will form
Digitized by Coogle
(
the whole into a paste; oury the mass about two
feet below the surfact of the earth; and in twelve or
fourteen hours so much heat will be generated as to
swell the earth, and cause an artificial volcano,
throwing up whatever impedes its progress, and
scattering round ashes of a yellowish and black
colour. To succeed in this experiment, advantage
should be taken of warm weather (in the months of
June, July, or August), and after the tenth hour of
burying tlae mass, care must be taken not to ap·
proach too near its situation. In this experiment,
the air being excluded, the iron is the medium of
decomposition. The heat of the situation permits
the iron filings to attract the oxygen of the water to
itself; and in doing this, the latent caloric of the
oxygen combines with the hydrogen and sulphur,
and produces the flames, which having the power of
repulsion, or of dilating bodies, swell and burst the
earth, and the volcanic matter, which is the residuum
of combustion, is thrown out.
Note.-There is a pseudo volcano near the Brad-
ley Iron-works, in Staffordshire. It is mentioned by
Plott, in his Natural History of that county, as being
on fire in 1686, when he wrote; and he says, that it
was not then known how long it had been burning.
AI. that period it occupied a space of eleven acres,
but ita ravages have since extended about one mile
and a half in extreme length, and one mile in
breadth. Whether the fire originated in accident,
or from the sulphur contained in the coal and pyrites,
is not known; but it probably arose frollJ. the latter
cause, as, at other pits, the small coal has taken
fire on being exposed to the air.
Some few years ago, it began to penetrate through
Digitized by Coogle
246
tht: ftoor of some causing grea. alarm, by
ppeariog in the night, and four of the houses were
taken down. It exhibits a red heat in thia situation,
and the smoke hu forced its way through a bed of
cinders forty feet in height. On the aouth it i8
arrested by beds of aaod, which cover the coal
formation in that part, and upon the north-east it ia
mpeded by cultivation. first view, a stranger
might suppose himaelf in a volcanic region. The
exterior appearuce of the strata, exposed by the
falling in of the ground, presents a surface blackened
by the action of fire, and presenting most of the
porphyrite and trappean colours in high perfectioll.
TUE llt:CHANlCAL PUZZL£.
D
The above cut represents a very ingeniour.
mechanical puzzle, the secret of which is not
readily discovered. It is made of wood, and con-
abita of a tablet A, with a sQuare hole in the middle,
Digitized by Google
246
•
into which are mserted four solid pieces of wood
B B B B, which fill the space completely out ; and
though you may slide them up or down in the hole,
each separately, or all four together, yet the knobs
at the extremities of each piece preclude the
possibility of extracting any one of them : they can,
however, be taken to pieces, and put together again.
If jammed between the door, or pressed in any
similar way, the knot is reduced to half its dimen-
sions, and comes asunder; when subsequently, if the
apparatus be allowed to remain some time immersed
in water, it resumes its former shape. By these
means the pieces can be displaced and replaced at
pleasure.
Ohseroe-These puzzles must be made, or partly
made, of fir, or some such soft wood.
TO lt1.AKE .AN ELECTRICAL KITE.
Make a small cross of two light strips of cedar,
the arms long enough to reach to the four corners of
a large silk handkerchief, when extended; tie the
corners of the handkerchief to the extremities of the
cross, and you have the body of the kite, which,
being properly furnished with a tail, loop, and string,
will rise in the air like one made of paper ; but this
being of silk, is better adapted to bear the brunt of
a thunder storm without tearing. To the top of the
upright stick of the cross is to be fixed a sharp
pointed wire, rising a foot or more above the wood.
To the end of the twiae next the hand is to be tied
a silken ribbon, and where the silk and twine join,
a key may be fastened. This kite is to be raised
when a thunder-storm appears to be coming on; and
the person who holds the string must stand within a
Digitized by Coogle
247
door or window, or under some cover, so that the
ribbon may not be wetted by the rain, and care
m01t be taken that the twine do not touch the frame
ofthe door or window.
As BOC,>n as thunder-clouds come over the kite, the
pointed wire will draw from the electric fire, and
the kite, with all the twine, will be electrified,
while the filaments of the twine will stand out
eYery way, and be attracted by an approaching
finger. When the rain has wetted the kite and
twine, so that it can conduct the electric tire freely,
the experimentalist will find it stream out plentifully
from the key on the approach of his knuckle. At
this key an electric phial may be charged ; and from
electric fire thus obtained, spirits may be kindled,
and all other elect&c experiments performed, which
are usually done the help of a rubbed glass or
tube, and thereby the identity of the electric matter
with. that of lightning completely demonstrated.
Note.-Much careia requisite when great lightning
happens ; the string muat then be held by a peg.
TO CONSTRUCT A SIMPLE BAROMETER.
Let a line, made of good whip-cord, that is well
dried, and a plummet affixed to the end of it, be sus-
pended againsta wainscot, and a mark drawn exactly
under the spot which the plummet reaches ; in very
moderate weather the plummet will be found to rise
above the mark before rain, and to sink below it
when the weather is likely to become fair. But a
better contrivance still, iJ a good pair of in
one of which place a brass weight of a pound, and
in the other a pound of salt, or of saltpetre, well
dried ; a stand being placed under thescale, so aa to
Digitized by Google
248
prevent its dropping too low. When rain is about
to faiJ, the salt will swell and sink the scale; when
the weather is growing fair, the brass weight will
regain its ascendency.
TRADITIONS AND SUPERSTITIONS OF
FORMER TIMES.
In the dark ages of Popery, almost (or quite)
every science was engrossed by the priesthood, and
even the self-evident theories thereof linked with
superstitious formulas; and therefore it could not
be expected that a science like Astrology should
escape the follies of the period: on the contrary,
the science was often made the vehicle of the
grossest and most palpable credulity. The well fed
and pampered monks, in their impious cells, pro.
fessed to hold converse with heaven by means of
the stars, and with the "powers of darkness"
beneath, by means of magical rites, sorceries, and
incantations. For this, the science of the "Celestial
Influences •t oecame often the butt of ridicule, or
the theme of imprecations; which, in the manner
it was then professed, when philosophical reasoning
and analytical deduction were entirely out of the
question, could scarcely be wondered at. Besides
which, the imperfections in the art, caused by tbe
non-discovery of Rerschel (a planet of prodigious
power in all nativities and themes of heaven), and
an ignorance of the laws relative to comets and
various celestial phenomena, were sufficient to
cause a host of erroneous theories, or, as we now
term them, "Ancient Superstitions." Of which,
one ofthe most curious is
Digitized by Coogle
THE KNOWLEDGE OF FATE" BY THB
SOLAR HOROSCOPE.
Amongst the various Astrological authors,
Penian. and Italian, who have written upon the
elects of the " Solar Horo6Ct1pt," the· most con-
spicuous are Taimer, Jun<.'tinus, Haly Ahenragel
lndagine, and Agripva, from which the folJowing is
extracted verbatim ; and first we begin with
•ol in
Or TraditioM relating to the Fate of Per10m horn from
the 20th of March to the 20th of April.
"The Sun being in Ariel, maketh them which are
born, neither rich, neither very poor. Also angry,
but soon pleased, studious, eloquent, diverse, proud,
lying, and luxurious; promising (as they· say)
mountains of gold, and performing evil
reported among his kindred, and shall be brought
J [
Digitized by Coogle
in danger by his enemies, which shall be men or
power.
" He shall be hurt oy four-footed beasts, as being
cast off a horSe, he aball receive great wounds with
danger of death. So much unfortunate and adverse
shall all kinds of hawking, hunting, fishing, and all
things to be done on horseback, be t0 him. In
other things he shall be more fortunate and happy,
and also long lived.
"Also if it be a maid that is hom, she shall be
given to lying, angry, fair, curious, delighting in new
and strange thiDgs, envious, and fruitful in children,
whose first child shall be slain : she shall be in
many perils and dangers, whereby she shall get a
scar in the head, or else be naturally lllM'ked there,
or in the feet. This we have noted also out of
certain authors, that the chaldren ofAries being born
in the day, shall be fortunate, and of great reputatioll
and renown amongst great men and princes ; con-
trarywise, they which are born in the night, wjll be
unfortunate and of no reputation."
tn
Or Traditions relating to the Fate of those bornfrom
the 20th ofApril to the 20th of JJ£ay.
'' Taurus doth make them bold and fortunate in
attempting hard and weighty affairs and businesses;
a victor or conqueror of his enemies, a great
traveller, and banished from his native country.
'' Also servile, familiar, angry, but more in youtb
than in age, for age shall take away all incom-
modities and and sha11 bring riches and
Digitized by Coogle
i61
marriage ; by which mean• he aball be exhilarate,
and made"j&yfol and glad. For if he go about to
marry in youth, he shall attain unto it ;
howbeit, age doth not take away sickness, but in-
creaseth sadness, melancholy, black choler, and
cauaeth hurt, as biting of a dog, and that about the
h«nly-eightk or thirt!J:fiftk year of his age.
"These things once passed, he shall flourish again,
and live very long, It maketh also the women-
children, painful, disobedient, and full of
words : also infamed for unchastity, which infamy
shall vanish away by liitle and little, when she
cometh to the age of twmty-one years. She shall
bve many husbands and children, wise in
6elpingand counselling others, also circumspect and
tich."
•ol tn fJtmfnf,
Or to the Fate of tlwu horn
tht 20ti -fMIIJ to tilt 20lh of June.
"Gemini being naturally fair, doth also eaose a
fair childe, merciful, wise, and witty, liber1ll, a
boaster, a runner and strayer about countreys,
bring no regard to his own business, whereby be
ahall be neither rich, neither oppressed with poverty,
but of a mean estate ; and of such fidelity and faith-
fulnesse, that he shall have the rule of the common
treasure, merry minded, full ofunderstanding, subtle,
gentle to be spoken· to, and by a certain instruction
acceptable unto men, as they which have YenlU in
the root of their nativity. Also fair of face, endued
with learning and science, as mathematical
sciences, the laws, and aritltmetit-lt. The singular
gift. be hath also before others, that being angry, he
Digitized by Coogle
can dissemble and cover his anger. He shall be in
.great !!-bout 23 ofage, eitherto be bitten
by a dog, or hurt by fire, or else by some weapon.,.
tn €
anur,
Or Traditions relating to the·Fate of those horn from
20th of June to the 20th qfJuly.
" Cancer being naturaUy cold and moist; doth
make gross the flesh, .and doth allure and provok4?
to the love and company of women. Also it causeth
a good wit, humility, and wisdome, full of strife and
debate, and for the most part giviug victory over
all his. Attempting many things; and
especially on the sea, often in dangef, and vexed
with many incommodities, with much poverty and
misery. And albeit he be the causer of gain, yet
shall he be never a whit the richer; he shall dig for
treasure, and finde that which he looked not for.
But if it be a maid, she shall be fat, beautiful,
nimble, angry, and soon pleased, diligent, wise, civil,
and shamefast, witty, deceitful, and crafty, saying
one thing and doing another, alwaies careful and
painful, ordained to many dangers, as by water, by
falling, by childe-bearing, and by the collick, having
her first child weak and tender, the other somewhat
stronger. And if he happen to commit any fault of
infamy after the age of 26 years, it be clean
abolished and put out of minde. After the which
age, whether it be man or woman, it promiseth
good success and fortune. It maketh them all well
haired, modest, faithful, painful, greedy of meat and
drink, acquainted with noble men, and fortunate in
husbandry.''
Digitized by Coogle
268
6ol tn ilto,
Or Trtllliliom rtlalmg to the Fate of thOle born from
tile20Ua ofJui!J to the 201A ofAugull•
•, The &m in Leo maketh a stout stomack bold,
arrogant, eloquent, and proud; a mocker and
1e0mer, unmerciful, cruel, hard, and hard to be
iDtreated; beset with many miseries and perils, out
fi the which he being escaped, shall obtain some
eommon oftice; u to be a centurion or captain over
600, JookiBg for beaefit at the hands of three noble-
men, ,UD(ortunate in children, and from them sus-
taining much labour and aftliction, proae to anger,
and putting himlelf iato many dangers, enftaming
choler, promoting to honors and dignities, and
bringeth them in danger of fire, sword, and violence
ofbeuts, whereby be shall die out ofhis own house
or place. Howbeit by the help of God he shall
eecape out of all these clangera. Likewise, if it be a
maid, ebe shall be bold, have a great and large
breast, and slender legs, which are tokens of stout-
aesae and boldneue, anger, slanders and babling,
albeit that the softnesse which ia in women doth
somewhat admit and aaswage the excess of the same.
She ought also specially to take heed of hot waters
and fire, by the which she shall be greatly in
danger : shee shall also be much enclined to the
aicknesse, or gnawing of the stomack. But after
the age of twenty or twenty-one years, she shall be
fortunate in richee, the which she shall obtain by the
help of great men, and the use of other men's goods;
alao in house-keeping, beauty, and love. Notwith ·
&tanaliog, abe shall ha•e but few children."
Digitized by Google
264
.eoi tn 11truo,
Or Tradilwru to the Fate of those horn {r0111
the 20th rif August to the 20th ofSepte111ber.
' 1 So likewise Virgo doth make thein fortunate in
houshold affairs, witty, true, stout and ambitious.
His wife shall die before he know of it; divers
things also shall be taken and stoln from him, aDd
he shall be revenged of his enemies. Moreover bee
shall be so much given to boasting and babling, that
he cannot hide and keep close his own secrets : fair
of face, well mannered., a lover of women, and
delighting to be in the Courts of great men and
princes. Moreover, just, wise, good a.Jid honourable,
a patron and defender of his friends; also holy and
merciful, comely bodied; and well featured. A
maid of same birth shall be witty, honest and
shamefac'd, diligent, circumspect and
angry ; she shall marry about the age of fifteen years,
and shall bring forth her first begotten of an eloquent
and goodly form or shape. Howbeit, whether they
be men or women, they shall be wrapped in many
perils and dangers."
-ol in K.ibra,
Or Traditions relating to the Fate qf tlzose horn from
the 20th qf &ptemher to tlee 20th qfOctober.
'' The Sun in Libra causes the childe to be
libidinous, busie, fortunate, and specially upon the
waters, or things pertaining to the water. Also by
sweet spices, and precious stones, and such like. It
causeth likewise a comely body and nimble. a
Digitized by Coogle
25<J .
pleasant tongue or speech. a good name, seeking
outsecrets, but seldom stedfast in promises, although
he pretend otherwise. He shall put himself in
great dangers and troubles. His first wife shall
not continue with him long, he shall also have in-
heritance oC the goods of dead men, and partly by his
own wit and industry. Neither shall be be altogether
unfonunate by four footed beasts. He shall suffer
many and great things for women's sakes, and shall
be infamed for unlawful companying with them.
Also he shall be a good interpreter of dreams,
whether his birth be by day or night. The woman
shall be friendly, merry and. jocond, setting ber
whole delight oa the fields and herbs, wandering
into strange places. About the age oC 23 she shall
marry, which marriage shall be fortunate; whose
beauty, pleasant speech, or tongue, and comely
behaviour, shall greatly prefer or promote her.
Neither are the children of Libra altogether
unapt to letters, or good learning. But let them
take heed of scalding water and of fire, for they
shall receive burt by them, without great reprd
be had."
.-ol bt .flcorpfo,
Or Traditiom relating to the Pale tf those IKmt from
the 20tk of OctoiJer to the 20th of
" Scorpio doth augment the inheritance, and addeth
boldness, and stoutness, also flattery, by the which
he shall deceive many, showing (as they say) bread
in one hand, and hiding a Rtone in the other;
tningling poys.on with bony, performing almost
nothing that he promiseth. Notwithstanding, merry,
Digitized by Coogle
256
and jesting, light of belief, and a conquerour of his
enemies.
"It causcth also the women to be friendly, wise,
and crafty, which shall be deceived of her first
husband ; her other husband she shall joyfully use,
and overcome her enemies. She shaH also have the
pain ofthe spleen, and be marked either in the head
or shoulders, or brawn of the arm. It maketh both
kindes bold and rash to rob and steal, and to search
out forbidden things, and to make contracts or
bargains. Also it maketh them wanton, lasci\'ious
unstable, and full of evil thoughts and imaginations,
babling, and angry, and sometime very sad and
afflicted. Howbeit, there shall be princes and great
men which shall esteem and set much by such sort
of men, and also of the common people which shall
flatter them, whereby they shall be had in great
reputation and honour."
tn
Or Traditions relating to the Fate of those horn from.
the 20th of November to the 20t/i, of December
''Sagittarius is not altogether eviJ, for the Su11
dwelling in it, doth give fortune, and mimstreth
courage to take any thing in hand, whatsoever thou
purposest; and specially to travel strange countreys,
and to passe the seas, and not to return without
great gain. He shall also get friends to come into
the houses and courts of princes, not to gather up
the trenchers, or lick the dishes, as the common and
viler sort of courtiers do ; but to be put in some
office, as to bee steward, or such 1ike ; to the which
promotion his agilityand strength shall greatly prefer
Digitized by Coogle
.. 257
him. MoreoveT, he &tiall be altogether pen to
riding, hawking, hunting, dancing, and leaping,
.plays, and games, combats and confficts, for the
which he shall have many enemiea, which shall envy
bim, and impugn him grievously, whom he shall
notwithstanding vanquish and overcome. He shall
also possesse his father's inheritance, which hap-
peneth not unto all men. And oftentimes it maketh
them just, witty, still, hearty, ingenious, faithful,
gentle, firm and stable, painful and boasting. The
woman also shall not much differ ; for she shall be
full of anxiety, painful, merciful, and much envied,
and laid in wait for by evil men ; but she shall over
come them and be fertile in childe-bee.ring. She
ahall marry about the age of 17 years, but if that
marriage proceed not, she shall not marry until tbe
age of 24 years."
.6ol in capricorn.
Or Traditiotu relating to the Fate of thOle born frsm
the 20th of December to the 20th of Januar!J.
"Capricorn maketh the childe angry, and light,
·accompanying himself with vile and suspicious
persons. Also painful and distract, and vexed with
divers variances, the which adversities he shall
boldly and stoutly bear out and sustain. Hee shall
bee ready to dye for the love of some poor and simple
maid, the which at length shall cast him into some
disease and sickness.
c• It maketh them also meanly rich, benevolent,
cheerful and merry i but unstedfast, if the nativity
be by night. In his age, when bee seetb his richet
KK.
Digitized by GoogIe
2:S8
cacreaae, he will begin to love money, and decline
from his former liberality unto covetousness, for in
youth be was easily to be ha,nd!ed. He shall
prosper in navigations, and specially toward the ;
for his fortune shall come out of the east.from great
men. The Physiognomy of those children for the
most part is such ; a little head, hollow eyes, aud a
mean voice. Baths bee. profitable uato him, being
sick. The womea are timorous, .
and very shame-
fac'd, and shall have dominion and victory over
their enemies, and shall stray far abroad."
.,el tn
Or Traditions relating to the Fate qf those horn from
the 20th qf January tb the 20th qf February.
"Aquarius maketh the childe friendly, but
covetous, and apt to quotidian agues, unfortunate
about waters, which naturally he shall abhor. His
good fortune shall begin to encrease about the age
of 15, or 16 years, at the which time he shall begin
to wander and stray through divers places, and
waxe somewhat rich, which riches shall never come
to abundance, but shall be dispersed again until
his Jatter years, which shall make amends for that
which hath been over liberally spent before.
Neither shall his long journeys turn him to any great
lucre, or gain, but he shall look for and obtain
greater profit at the hands of others. Further, bee
shall be vexed with sundry incommodities, losses
and perils, and especially with his wife, and other
women ; for she shall fall into a palsie, neither shall
he have the fruition of her any long time, neither
Digitized by Coogle
269
shall he prosper with other women, but she being'
once dead, all thinga shall come more fortunately to
passe.
" The maid born in Aqum-itu, shall be proper and
fine, true, and conatant, and in these three poiota
•he shall excel the man. She shall also be enriebed
with other men•a goods, and let her take heed of her
children, lot the shall be vexed with many
modities, and· attempt strange placee; she shall bee
but mean estate, unto the age af 22 years, and thea
fortune shall begin somewhat to Cavour her,· and abe
shall obtain mean riches. Oftentimes both the men
and women be soft of speech, wise, ingenious, faith-
ful, merry, and ()OIJtinually aogry with theirenemi.-.•
#141 in
Or Tradilion1 relating to the Fate of those hornfrom
the 20th of February to the 20th of March•
•, Pilcu in youth doth vex his children with
many evils, and oftentimes without desert ; and
maketh them covetous, merry, diligent, piayers,
Deglecting fortune, of a good disposition, loving
the company of good men. Alao of a quick and
ready tongue, bold, standing much in their own
cooceit, and fortunate in seeking out treasures :
for this is only given unto them, that they shall
find something unlooked for. They shall also
partly be enriched by other men's goods. They
shall not live long, except they pass the age of 35
years, then there is hope of long life ; yet shall they
never be very rich, albeit in.their own opinion, they
think to pouesae the riches of Crtuw, full oi
troublous tlaoughts, and shall be brought
Digitized by Coogle
260
captivity through women, and few things shall
prosper with them in their childe-hood or youth.
They shall be marked in the elbow or foot, and
their fortune is towards the south. The maiden
children shall be hot, bold, of insolent tongues, con-
tumelious, full of brawling and scolding, beset with
many perils and (putting all honesty apart) she
shall forsake her husband, and if she ·be not let,
she will marry herself to an adulterer. Also, they
shall be much vexed with the torments of the belly,
and stomach.''
$ait*Y Coltlttt
JLot*e.
., '
"Puck. How now Spirit! whither wander you?
Fai. O•·er hill, over dale,
Through bush, tbrongh brier,
Over park, over pale,
Tilrough ftood, through fire,
J do wander every
Swirter than tbe mooo"'5 Sfht•r";
And I sene tbe fairy queen,
To dew her orbs upon the gret'll:
The cowslips tall, her pensionen be·
In their gold coats you see ;
Those be fairy ja1Jour1,
In those frt:cklea Jive tbelr
I m•ut go set:k some dew drops bt·re,
And hnng a pearl io every cowsllp'5 f'ar.
Farewt'll, thou lob of Spirits, I'll be gone!
Our nod all our eh·es come h..rc anou. •
A .llidmmmn XigM'11 Dnsa.
THE ELVES IN IRELAKD.
The Elves, which, in their true shape, are said to
be but a few inches high, have an airy, almost
transparent, body: so delicate is their form, that a
Digitized by GoogIe
281
dewdrop, when they dance on it, trembles, indeed,
but never breaks. Both sexes are of extraordinary
aDd mortal_beings cannot be compared with
They do not live alone, or in pairs, but alwaya
in large societies. They are invisible to man,
particularly in the daytime ; and as they can be
_present, and hear what is said, the peasantry never
speak of them but with caution and respect, terming
them "the good people," or the friends, as any other
name would ofFend them.
Ifa great cloud of dust rises on the road, it is said
by the.peaw1try that the Elves are about to change
their reaidence, and to remove to another place, and
the invisible travellers are always saluted with a
respectful bow. have their dwellings in clefts
of rocks, caves, and ancient tumuli. Every part
within is decorated in the moat splendid and mag-
nificent manner ; and the pleasing music, which
sometimes issues from thence in the night, baa
delighted those who have been so fortunate as to
hear it.
During the summer nights, when the moon shines,
and particularly in the harvest time, the Elves come
out of their secret dwellings, and assemble for the
dance in certain favourite spots, which are hidden.
and secluded places, such as mountain-valleys,
meadows near streams and brooks, and church-
yarda, where men seldom come They often cele-
brate their feasts under large mushrooms, or repose
beneath their shade. In the first.rays of the morning
sun they again vanish, with a noise resembling that
of a swarm of bees or flies. Their garments are
said to be as white as snow, sometimes shining like
Digitized by Coogle
•
262
silver : a hat or cap is indispensable; for which
purpose they generally select the red towers of the
fo.ttglove, and by it different.pardelf are known. · ·
The secret and magic powers of the Elves,
tradition asserts to be so great as to know
any bounds. They can assume in a momeut*· not
only the human, hut every other form, even the
most terrific ; and it is easy for them ·com-ey
thems-elves, in one second, a distance of fiv-e leagQei.:
Before their breath, all human energy fails. They
sometimes communicate supernatural knowledge to
men; and if a person be seen, walking up an4 down
alone, and moving his lips, as one half
it is said to be a sign that an Elf is invisibly present,
and instructing him.
The Elves are, above all things, fond of mll4ic.
Those who have heard their music, cannot find
words to describe the power with which it fills and
enraptures th'3 soul. It rushes upon them like a
stream ; . and yet the tones are simple, even
monotonous, and in general resembling natural
sounds. Among their amusements, is that of play•
ing at ball, which they pursue with much eagerness,
and at which they often differ so as even to quarrel.
Their skill in dancing far exceeds the highest art
of man, and the pleasure they takein this amusement
is inexhaustible. They dance without interruption
till the rays ofthe sun appear on the mountains, and
make the bf<>ldest leaps without the least exertion.
They do not require any food, but refresh themselves
with dewdrops, which they co1lect from the leaves.
They severely punish all who inquisitively ap..
proach or teaze them ; otherwise they are friendly
and obliging to well-meaning people, who confide in
Digitized by Coogle
them. They remMe humps from the shoulder,
make preeente of new articles of clothing, undertake
to grant requeata; though, in such cuea, good
humour on the applicant's part seems to be neceuary.
Sometimes, too, they appear in human forin, or allow
persons who have accidentally strayed amongst
them during the night, to join in their dances ; but
there is always some danger in this intercourse.
The person becomes ill in consequence, and falls into
a .,iolent fever from the unnatural exertion, as they
seem to lend him a part of their power. If he
forget himself, and, according to the euat&m, kiss his
partner, the whole scene vanisbea the instant his
lips touch hers.
The Elves have another peculiar and more intimltte
connexion with mortals. It seems u if they divided
among themselves the souls of men, and considet"ed
them thenceforth as their property. Hence, certain
families have their particular Elves, to whom they
are devoted; in return for which, however, they
receive from them help and assistance ia critical
moments, and, often, recovery from mortal diaeues.
But as, afterdeath, they become the property of their
the death of a man is to them always a
festival, at which one of their own body enters into
theirsociety. Thereforethey require that people shall
be present at funerals, and pay them reverence. They
celebrate an interment like a wedding, by dancing
on the grave : and it is for this reason that they
select churchyards fortheir favourite places of resort.
A violent quarrel often arises, whether a child be-
longs to the Elves of the or of the mother, and
in what churchyard it is to be buried. The
dift'ereat ·parties of·these supernatural beinp hate
Digitized by Coogle
284 .
and make war on each other, with as much animosity
as nations among mankind : their combats take place
in the night in cross roads, and often do not
.separate till'daybreak parts them. This connexion
of men with a quiet and good tribe of spirits, far
from being frightful, would rather be beneficial, but
the Elves appear in a dubious character; both evil
and good are combined in their nature, and they
show a dark as well aa a fair'side. They are said
to be angels e.rpelledfrom heaven, who have not fallen
into hell, but are in fear and doubt respecting their
future states, and whether they shall find mercy at
the day ofjudgment.
This mixture of the dark and the malevolent is
visibly manifested in their actions and inclinations.
If, in remembrance of their original and happy
condition, they are beneficent and friendly towards
man, the evil principle within them prompts them to
malicious and injurious trick.s. Their the
wondrous splendour of their dwellings, their spright-
liness, is nothing more than illusive show ; and
their true figure, which is frightfully ugly, inspires
terror. If, as is but rarely the case, they are seen
in the day-time, their countenances appear to be
wrinkled with age, or, as people express it, " like a
withered cauliflower,'' a little nose, red eyes, and
hair hoary with extreme old age.
One of their evil propensities consists in stealing
healthy and fine children from their mothers, and
substituting in their room a changeling, who bears
some resemblance to the stolen infant, but is, in fact,
only an ugly and sickly Elf. He manifests every
evil dispositioo,-is malicious, mischievous, and
though insatiable as to food, doea not thrive. When
Digitized by GoogIe
266
the name of God is mentioned, he begins to laugh ;
otherwise he never speaks till, being obliged to do
so by artifice, his age is betrayed by his voice,
which is that· of a very old man. The love of
music shows itself in him, as well as extraordinary
proficiency : supernatural energies are also mani-
fested in the power with which he obliges every-
thing, even inanimate objects, to dance. ·Wherever
be comes. he brings ruin : a series of misfortunes
succeed each other ; the cattle become sick, the
house falls into decay, and every enterprise proves
abortive. If he is recognized, and threatened, he
makes himself invisible, and escapes. He dislikes
running water ; and if he is carried on a bridge, he
jumps over, and, sitting upon the waves, plays his
pipe, and returns to his own.people. -
At particular times, -such as May eve, for instance,
the evil Elves seem to be peculiarly active and
powerful. To those to whom they are inimical,
they give a blow unperceived, the consequence of
which is lameness ; or they breathe upon them, and
boils and swellings immediately appear on the place
which the breath has touched. Persons who pre-
tend to be in particular favour with 1' thefairies,"
undertake to cure such diseases by-o magic and
mysterious journeys.
THE CLURICAUNE.
In this quality the E{fis essentially distinguished
from the Shefro, by his solitary and awkward man-
ners : the CL u tt I cAu N E is never met with in
company, but always alone. He is said to be much
more corporeal, and appears in the daytime as a
-. L
Digitized by Coogle
little old man, with a wrinkled countenance, in an
antiquated dress. His pea-green coat is adorned
with large buttons, and be seems to take· a par-
ticular delight in having large metal shoe-buckles.
He wears a cocked hat in the ancient French style,
He is detested on account of his evil disposition,
and his name is used as an expression of contempt.
People try to become his master, and therefore
often threaten him : sometimes they succeed in out·
witting him ; sometimes he is more cunning, and
cheats them. He employs in making shoes,
at the same time whistling a tune. If he is sur·
prised by man, when thus engaged, be is, indeedt
afraid of his superior strength, but endowed with
the power of vanishing, if he can contrive to make
the mortal turn his eyes from him, even for an
instant.
The Cluricaune possesses a knowledge of hidden
treasures, but does not discover them till he ia
pressed to the utmost. He frequently relieves
himself, when a man fancies that he is wholly in his
power. A common trick of his, is infinitely to
multiply the mark showing where the treasure lies,
whether it be a bush, a thistle, or a branch, that it
may no longer serve as a guide to the person who
has fetched an instrument to dig up the ground.
The Cluricaune has, it is said, a small leathern
purse, with a shilling which, however often be
may pay it away, always returns, and which is
called the lucky shilling. He frequently carries
about him two purses, the one contains the magic
shilling and the other a copper coin; and if com·
pclled to he cunningly presents the latter,
t'le weight of which is satisfactory; and when the
Digitized by Coogle
periOD who baa leized it is examining whether it ie
correct, he watches the opportunity and disappears.
His enjoyments consist in smoking and drinking.
He knows the secret, which the Danes are said to
have brought into Ireland, of making beer from
4elltitr. The small tobacco pipes of antique form,
which are frequently found in Ireland, in digging up
or ploughing, especially in the vicinity of those cir-
cular entrenchments called Danish forts, are sup-
poled to belong to the Cluricaunea ; and if they are
discovered broken, or in any way damaged, it ia
Jooked upon as a sort of atonement for the tricks
which their pretended owners are presumed to have
played.
The Cloricaune l(llao appears connected with men,
and then attaches himself to a family, with which he
remains aa long as a member of it survives, who are
at the same time unable to get rid of him. With all
bia propenaity to mischief and roguery, he usually
has a degree of respect for the master of the house,
and treata him with deference. He lends a helping
hand, and warda oft' secret dangers; but is extremely
angry and enraged if they forget him, and neglect
to put hia food in the uaual place.
THE BANSHEE.
The Baruh« is considered the "white woman," or
the chief of the Elvea. A female spirit, said to
belong to certain families, generally, however, of
ancient or noble descent, which appears only to
announce the death of one of the members. The
Banshee shows herself in the vicinity of the house,
or at the windows, of the sick person, clasps her
Digitized by Coogle
268
hands, and laments in tones of the greatest anguish.
She wears an ample mantle, with a hood over her
head.
THE PBOOKA.
The Phooka is said, by a celebrated author of fairy
lore, to be extremely obscure and indefinite in rt>-
presentation. People are said to recollect it im-
perfectly, like a dream, even though they have
experienced the strongest sensations, yet the Phooka
is palpable to the touch. It appears as a black
horse, an eagle, a bat, and compels the man ofwhom
it has got possession, and who is incapable of
making any resistance, to go through various curious
adventures in a short time. It hurries with him over
precipices, carries him up into the moon, and down
into the bottom of the sea. If a building falls in,
it is imputed to the Phooka. There are numerous
precipices and and rocky caverns, called " Phooka
Caves:" even a waterfall formed by the Liffey, in
the county of Wicklow, has derived its name from
this spirit. The people prohibit their children from
eating blackberries after Micbaelmas, and ascribe
the decay of that fruit, which takes place after that
season, to the Phooka ! Shakspeare records these
fairy,pbantnsies admirably, thus:-
" About, about,
h Windsor CasUe, Elve•, within, without ;
Str.-w good luck, Ouphu, on eYery aacred room,
That it may stand till the perpetual doom
;n atate u wholesome, us in atate 'ti• lit,
Worthy the owner, end the own.-r it.
The several chain of orders, look you seour,
With juice of balm and every precious flower.
Each fair instalment, coat, and lf'Veral crett,
With loyal blazon evermore be bleat.
Digitized by Coogle
269
Alid DJpdy, -"IN'ftJirk•, loot yoa...,
Uke t.o tile prter'• COGipua, In a rtq:
Tilt esprellloa U..t ItIleus, peen Jet It ..,
More lenlle, freah, tbou all theleld to-·
And .. liMy IOil ftU _,I 'fW'IH•" write,
ID ...us turf'•, llowen purple, ......, aad wlalle'
Like 111ppblre, pearl, an4 rlcb elllbloldery,
Buckled be&ow fait kDJptbood'l bendiDf kDee,
Frtiriu - towen for tbelr cllanctery.
A-y, dbperle I but, till 'til one o'clock,
Our daue ol custom, round about tilt' oak
01 Hnae tile buatn, M u• 1101 (orpt."
lkrry '" H'i--.
YBE FAIRY LAND OF YOUTH.
Beneath the water (tradition relates) there is a
country, as well as above the earth, where the
glorious sun shines forth in splendour, beautiful
meadows flourish in trees put forth their
gaudy blossoms, fields and woods vary the goodly
acene, splendid cities and gorgeous palaces arise
aloft in beaming splendour, equalled by none on
earth, which are inhabited by legends or Fairies and
myriads of Elves.
Tradition relates, that if you have found, at the
proper moment, the right spot upon the banks or
the water, the splendid scene may be easily beheld.
Persons who are said to have faJlen in, and reached
thia sub-aqueous world without accident, on their
return have related wonders of this enchanted
regiOn.
It is called " tbe Fairy Land of Youth;" for it is
affirmed that time bas no power there, over years, or
months, or weeks, or days, or hours, or moments ;
no one eYer, tbert, becomes old; no one regards
time u passing fleetly ; and those persons who
have paned whole years there, nay, even an age,
have fancied the enchanted period as only a momeut.
Digitized by Coogle
270
On particular days_ at the rising ofthe sun, it is said_
the fairy inhabitants appear above the $urface of the
water_ decked forth in all the resplendent colours of
the rainbow, and apparelled like immortals, in never
fading garments, bright, ethereal, and magnificent.
With the song, the dance, and the sweetest
strains of enlivening music, they are said to pass
joyously, in a certain track along the water_ which
no more yields to the pressure of their little feet,
than the solid earth under the foot of frail man_ till
they at length vanish, and disappear in mist.
"Heask'd bow mRny charming houra had ftoWD
Since on her slave her heaven of beauty shown.
'Should I consult my heart,' cried be, 'the rate
Were small-a week would be tbe utmost date;
P.ut when my mind reflects on actions past,
And counts its joys, time must hue fled more fast :
Perhaps I migbt ban• said three month• are gone,'
• Tbree months!' replled the fair; 'three months aloDII,
Know that three l•undred yttlf'# haTe roll'd away,
Since at my ft'et my lovely phrenix lay.'
' Three hundred years!' re-echoed back the prince,
' A whole three hundred yl'!ars completed alnce
I landed I!"
TAe Enclla111ed IA.h.
THE LEGEND OF O'DONOGHVE.
In an age, so distant that the precise period is un-
known, a chit-ftain, named O'Donoghue, ruled over
the country which surrounds the romantic Lough
Lean, now called the Lake of Killarney. Wisdom,
beneficence, and justice, distinguished his reign, and
the prosperity and happiness of his subjects were
their natural results.
He is tlaid to have been as renowned for his
exploits as for his pacific virtues ; and as a
proof that his domestic administration was not the
less vigorous because it was mild, a rocky island is
Digitized by Coogle
271
pointed out to strangers, called ,. O'Donoghae's
Prison," in which this prince once confined his own
IOD for some act of disorder and disobedience.
His end (for it cannot correctly be called his
death) was singular and mysterious. At one of
those splendid feasts, for which his Court was
celebrated, surrounded by the most distinguished
of his subjects, he was engaged in a prophetic
vision of the events which were to happen in ages yet
to come. His auditors listened to his relation,-now
wrapped in wonder, now fixed with indignation,
burning witb shame, or melted into sorrow,-as he
filitbfully related the heroism, the injuries, the crimes,
and the miseries, oftheir descendants.
In the midst of his predictions, he rose slowly
from his seat, advanced with a solemn, measured,'
and tread, to the shore of the lake, and
walked forward composedly upon its unyielding
surface. When he had nearly reached the centre,
be paused for a moment, then turning slowly round,
looked forward to his friends, and waving his arms
to them, with the cheerful air of one taking a short
farewell, diaapptaredfrom their vitte.
Tlae meroory of the '1good 0'Donoghue," has been
by successive generationswith afFectionate
reverence ; and it is believed that, at sun-rise, on
every May-day morning, the anniversary of his
departure, he revisits llis ancient domain: a favoured
few only are in general permitted to see him, and this
distinction is always an omen of good fortune to the
beholders. When it is granted to many, it is a sure
token of an abundant harveat--a bleSBing, the waat
of wllieh, during this prince's reign, waa never felt
by his people. ·
Digitized by Coogle
272
Some years have elapsed since the last appearanct
of O'Donoghue. The April of that year had been
remarkably wild and stormy, but on May morning
the fury of the elements bad altogether subsided.
The air was hushed and still, and the sky, which
was reflected in the serene lake, resembled a
beautiful but deceitful countenance, whose smiles,
after the most tempestuous emotions, tempt the
stranger to believe that it belongs to a soul which
no passion has ever ruffled.
The first beams of the rising sun were just gilding
the lofty summit of Glenaa, when the waters, near
the eastern shore of the lake, became suddenly and
violently agitated, though all the rest of its surface
lay smooth and still as a tomb of polished marble.
The next moment a foaming wave darted forward,
and, like a proud high-crested war-horse, exulting
in his strength, rushed across the lake towards
Toomies mountain. Behind this wave, appeared a
stately warrior fully armed, mounted upon a milk-white
steed, and at his back fluttered a light blue scarf.
The horse, apparently exulting in his noble burthen,
sprung after the wave along the water, which bore
him up like firm earth, while showers of spray,
that glittered brightly in the morning sun, were
dashed up at every bound.
The warrior was O'Donoghue; he was followed
by numberless youths and maidens, who moved
light and unconstrained over the watery plain, tu
the moonlight fairies glide through the fields qf air.
They were linked together by garlands of delicious
spring flowers, and they timed their movements to
strains of enchanting melody. When O'Donogbue
had nearly reached the western side of the lake, he
Digitized by Coogle
273
auddenly turned his steed_ and directed his course
along the wood-fringed shore of Glenaa, preceded
by the huge wave that curled and foamed up as
high as the horse's neck, whose fiery nostrils snorted
above it. The long train of attendants followed_
with playful deviations, the trackof their leader, and
moved on with unabated fleetness to their celestial
music_ till graduaUy, as they entered the narrow
straight between Glenaa and Dinis, they became
inTolved in the mists which still partially floated
over the lakes_ and faded from tile view of the
wondering beholders I But the sound of their music
still fell upon the ear, and echo_ catching up the
harmonious strains, fondly repeated and prolonged
t,hem in soft and softer tones, till the last faint
repetition died away, and the hearers awoke as from
a dream of bliss. ·
From Crofton Croltr'l deliglltful Fairy LlgMb.
•
INVOCATION 01' TBE FAIRY
QUEEN.
From tile Life of tM ceklwuled WiUiam Lilly.
' 1 Since I have related of the Queen of the Fairies,
I shall acquaint you that it is not for every one, or
every person, that these angelical creatures will
appear unto, though they may say over the call
over and over; or, indeed, is it given to very many
persons to endure their glorious aspects. Even
very many have failed just at that present time when
they are ready to manifest themselves: even persons,
otherwise of undaunted spirits and firm resolution,
HM
Digitized by Coogle
are herewith astonished, and tremble, tu it happened
not many years since with us. A very sober discreet
person, of virtuotis life and conversation, was
beyond measure desirous to aee something in this
nature.
" Accordingly he went with a friend into my
Hurst Wood. The Queen of Fairies was invocated:
a gentle murmuring wind came first, after that,
amongst the a smart whirlwind ; by and by a
strong blast of wind blew upon the face of the friend.
and the Queen appearing in a most illustrious glflT'!},
'No more, I beseech you,' quoth he, 'my heart
fails-I am not able to endure longer.' Nor was
he ; his black curling hair rose up. and I believe a
hullrush would have beat him to the ground.-He
was soundly laughed at.
" There was, in the times of the late troubles,
one Mortlack, who pretended unto speculations, bad
a crystal, a call of Queen Mab, one of the Queens of
fairies : he deluded many thereby. At last, I was
brought -
into his company: he was desired to make
invocation. He did so : nothing appeared, or would.
Three or four times, in my company, he was put
upon to do the work, but could not : at last, he said
he could do nothing as long as I was in presence.
I, at last, showed him ·his error, but left him, as I
found him, a pretended ignoramus.
" I may seem, to some, to write incredibilia;-be
. it so: but knowing unto whom, and for whose sak-e
only, I do write them, I am much comforted there-
with, well knowing you are the most knowing ·in
these curiosities of any now living in England."
Lilly'• Life and
Digitized by Coogle
•• hlq .•ltucl...-
do._,... wll;
'fteo, 1111 Ia .u.- 118d,
Trip • tile oipt'•
We the globe caa compau IOUII,
9wifWr tbaa tile wanderlos 111oon."
._a,......
TBJC TYLW1''t8 TEG.
In the Qlountains, near :Precknock. there is a
Anall tQ which traditiQD assigiUi tqe following
tale:-.
Io. times, • door CL rook, near this lake,
open upon a certain day every year : I
think it was N.r_y-day. 'fh01e who ha4 curiosity
and reaolution to enter, were conducted by a secret
paasage, which tei"Qlinated itl a small island in the
cenue of the lake. llere the visitors were 8Ufprise4
with the of a fM6I endaRting g(lrden, stored
with the choicest fruits flowers, and inhabited
by the T.!JIWjtA Teg, or family-a kind of fairie!f
coqlq be.equalled only by the courtesy
and aHability which they exhibited to th01e who
pleased them. They gathered fruit and flowers for
\!etch of their guests, entertained them with the most
exquisite music, disclosed to them many secrets of
futurity, a.nd invited them to stay as long as they
should find their attention agreeable. But the
island wassec1·et, and nothing of its produce must be
carried away.
The whole of tlns scene was invisible to those who
stood without the marginofthe lake. Only an indis-
tinct mass was seen in the·middle, and it was observed
that no bird would fly over the water, and that a
soft strain of music, at times, breathed with rapturous
sweetness in the breeze of the morning.
Digitized by GoogIe
It happened, upon one of these annual visits, that
a sacrilegious wretch, when he was about to leave
the garden, put a flower, with which he had been
presented, into his pocket ; but the theft boded him
no good. As soon as he had touched unhallowed
ground, the flower vanished, and he lost his senses.
Of this injury, the fair family took no notice at
the time. They dismissed their guests with their
accustomed courtesy, and the door was closed as
usual. But their resentment ran high: for though,
as the tale goes, the Tylwyth Teg and their garden
undoubtedly occupy the spot to this day, though
the birdsstill keep a respectful distance from the lake,
and some broken strains of music are still heard at
times, yet the door 'which led to the island was
never re-opened ; and, from the day of this sacri-
legious act, the Cymry have been unfortunate.
Some time after this, an adventurous person at-
tempted to draw off the water, in order to discover
its contents, when a terrific form arose from the
midst of the lake, commanding him to desist, or
otherwise he would drown the country.
" Come .now a roundel, and afairy aong;
Then for the third part of a minute, henco:
Some war with rear-mice for their leathern wing.,
ro muke my small Eh·ea coats; and some keep back
The clamorous o\Vl, that Lightly boots and wonders
At our quaint Fpirits. Sing me now to aleep;
Tben to your offices, nod let me rest."
4. Nig4t'• [),twn.
Digitized by Coogle
217
TBE PAIR Y WIPE
'
A II A a V E L L 0 U S L E G E N D.
TraMlated from lfu Gtrman.
• By way of introduction, let me confess that I
have not always so arranged my scheme of life as to
be certain of the next period in it, or even of the
next day. In my youth I was no first-rate economist,
and often found myself in manifold perplexity. At
one time I undertook a journey, thinking to derive
good profit in the c_ourse of it : but the scale I went
upon was too liberal; and, after having commenced
my travel with extra-post, and then prosecuted it
for a time in the diligence, I at last found myselt
obliged to front the end of it on foot. Like a gay
young blade, it had been, from of old, my custom,
on entering any inn, to look round for the landlady,
or even the cook, and wheedle myaelf into favour
with her ; whereby, for most part, my shot waa
somewhat reduced. One night at dusk, as I was
entering a post-house of a little town, and purposing
•o set about my customary operations, there came a
fair double-seated coach, with four horses, rattling
up to the door behind me. I turned round, and ob ·
served in it a young lady, without maid, without
servants. I hastened to open the carriage for her,
and to ask her if I could help her in any thing. On
stepping out, a fair form displayed itaelf ; and her
lovely countenance, if you looked at it narrowly,
was adorned with a slight shade of sorrow. I ngain
aaked if there was aught I could do for her. "0
yes!" aaid she, " if you will lift that little box care-
fully. which you will find standing on the seat, and
Digitized by Coogle
278
bring it in : but I beg very much of you to carry it
with all steadiness, and not to move orshake it in
the least." I took out the box with great care; she
shut the coach-door; we walked upstairs together;
and she told the servants that she was to stay here
for the night. We were now alone in the chamber:
she desired me to put the box on the table which
was standing at the wall ; and as, by several of her
movements, I observed that she wished to be alone,
I took my leave, reverently but warmly kissing her
hand. "Order supper for us two," said she, then:
and you may well with what pleasure I
executed the commission; scarcely deigning, in the
pride of my heart, to cast even a side look at the land-
1ady and menials. With impatience I expected the
moment that was to lead me back to her. Supper
was served : we took our seats opposite each other;
I refreshed my heart, for the first time during a con-
siderable while, with a good meal ; and no less
with so desirable a sight beside me ; nay, it seemed
as if she were growing fairer and fairer every
moment. Her conversation was pleasant, yet she
carefully waved whatever had reference to affection
or Jove. The cloth was removed : I still lingered,
I tried all sorts ofmanreuvres to get near her, but in
vain : she kept me at my distance, by a certain
dignity that I could not withstand; nay, against my
will, I had to part from her at a rather early hour.
After a night passed in waking or unrestfully
dreaming, I rose early, inquired whether she had
ordered horses, and learning that she had not, I
walked into the garden, saw her standing dressei
at the window, and hastened up to her. Here, as
she looked so fair, and fairer than ever, love, roguery,
Digitized by Coogle
27V
and auacity9 all at Ollce started into motion within
me: I rushed towards her, and clasped her in my
arms. ''Angelic, irresistible being!" cried I,
"pudoo! but it is impossible I'' With incedible
de.rterity she whisked herselfout of my arms, and I
had ttOt even time to imprint a kias on her cheek:
'' Forbear web outlx-eakings of a. sudden, foolish
pusion/' said she, "if you would not scare away a
happiness which lies close beside you, but wbich
cannot be laid hold of till after some trials." " Ask
of me what thoa pleasetb, angelic spirit !" cried
I, ''but do DOt drive me to despair." .Siae answered
with a '' If you mean to devote yourself to
my service, Jaear the terms. I am come hitber te
visit a lady of my friends, and with her I purpose to
cootibue for a time : in the meanwhile, I could wish
tJ.at my carriage and tbia box were taken forward.
Will you engage with it 1 You have nothing to do,
butcarefully to'lift the box into the carriage and out;
tositdowflbesideit, and punctually take charge that it
receive no harm. When you enter an inn, it is put
upon a table, in a chamber by itself, in which you
must neither sit nor sleep. You lock the chamber-
door with this key, which will open and shut aD)
lock, and bas the peculiar property that no lock
by it can be opened in the interim." I looked
at her; I felt strangely enough at heart : I promised
to do all, if I might hope to see her soon, and if
she would seal this hope to me with a kiss.
did so, and from that moment I had become
(Ultirely her bondman. ·I was now to order horses,
she said. We settled the way I was to take-the
places where I was to wait, and expect her. She
at last pressed a purse of gold into my hand, and I
Digitized by Coogle
280
yn·essed my lips on the fair hand that gave it me,
She seemed moved at parting; and for me, I no
longer knew what I was doing or was to do. On
my return from giving my orders, I found the room-
door locked. I directly tried my master-key, and
it performed its duty perfectly. The door flew up:
I found the chamber empty, only the box standing
on the table where I had laid it. The carriage drove
up; I carried the box carefully down with me, and
placed it by my side. The hostess asked, " Where
is the lady, then?" A child answered, "She is gone
into the town." I nodded to the people, and rolled
off in triumph from the door which I had last night
entered with dusty gaiters. That in my hours d
leisure I diligently meditated on this adventure,
counted my money, laid many schemes, and still
now. and then kept glancing at the box, you will
readily imagine. I posted right forward, passed
several stages without alighting, and rested not till
1 had reached a considerable town, where my fair
one had appointed me to wait. Her commands bad
been pointedly obeyed ; the box always carried to
a separate room, and two wax candles lighted beside
it; for such also had been her order. I would then
Jock the chamber, establish myself in my own, and
,ake such comfort as the place afforded. For a
while, I was able to employ myself with thinking ot
her; but, by degrees, the time began to hang heav
on my hands. I was not used to live without com·
panions: these I soon found at tables-d'h6te, in
coffee-houses, and public places, altogether to my
wish. In such a mode of living, my money soon
began to melt away; and one night it vanished
entirely from my purse, in a fit of passionate gaming,
Digitized by Coogle
which I had not had the prudence to abandon. Void
oi money; with the appearance of a rich man, ex-
pecting a heavy bill of charges ; uncertain whether
and when my fair one would again make bee ap-
pearance, I felt myselfin the deepest embarrassment.
Doubly did I now long for her; and believe that,
without her and her gold, it was quite impossible
for me to live. After supper, which I had relished
very little, being forced for this time to consume it
in SQlitude, I took to walking violently up and down
my room: I spoke aloud to myself, cursed my folly
with horrid execrations, threw myself on the floor,
tore my hair, and, indeed, behaved in the most out-
rageous fashion. Suddenly, in the adjoining chamber,
where the box was, I heard a slight movement, and
then a soft knocking at the well-bolted door which
entered from my apartment. I gather myself,
grope for my master-key ; but the door-leaves fly
up of themselves, and, in the splendour of those
burning wax-lights, enters my beauty. I cast my-
self at her feet, kiss her robe, her hands : she raises
me; I not to clasp her, scarcely to look at
her, but candidly and repentantly confess to her
my fault. "It is }>ardonable," said she, ''only it
postpones your happiness and mine. You must
now make another tour into the world, before we
can meet again. Here is more money," continued
she, "sufficient, if you husband it with any kind of
reason. But as wine and play have brought you
into this perplexity, be on your guard in future
against wine and women, and let me hope for a
glad meeting when the time comes." She retired
over the threshold ; the door-leaves flew together :
l knocked, I entreated, but noth:ng farther stirred.
N N
Digitized by Google
284
Next morning, while presenting his bill, the waiter
smiled, and said, " So we have found out at last,
then, why you lock your door in so artful and incom·
prehensible a way that no master-key can open it.
We supposed you must have much money and
precious ware laid up by you, but now we have
seen yonr treasure walking down stairs ; and, in
good truth, it seemed worthy of being weU kept.''
To this I answered nothing, but paid my reckoning,
and mounted with my box into the carriage. I
again rolled forth into the wor1d, with the firmest
resolution to be heedful in future of the warning
given me by my fair and mysterious friend. Scarcely,
however, had l once more reached a large town,
when forthwith I got acquainted with certain
interesting ladies, from whom I absolutely could
not tear myself away. They seemed_inclined to
make me pay dear for their favour; for, while they
kept me at a certain distance, they led me into one
expense after the other ; and I, being anxious only
to promote their satisfaction, once more ceased to
think of my purse, but paid and spent straight for·
ward, as occasion needed. But how great was my
astonishment and joy, when, after some weeks, I
observed that the fulness of my store was not in
the least diminished, that my purse was still as
round and crammed as e\'er ! Wishing to obtain
more strict knowledge of this pretty quality, I set
myself down to count ; I accurately marked the
sum, and again proceeded in my joyous life as
before. We had no want of excursions by land,
and excursions by water ; of dancing, singing, and
other recreations. But now it required small at-
tention to observe that the purse was actuaJiy
Digitized by Coogle
diminishing, as if, by my cursed oounting, I had
robbed it of the property ol being uncountable.
HoweTer, this gay mode of existence had been once
entered on : I could not draw back, and yet my
ready mmtey aoon verged to a close. I execrated
my situation ; upbraided my fair friend, for having
ao led me into temptation ; took it aa an offence
that abe did not agam show herself to me ; rl'-
in my apleen, all duties towards her ; and
resolved to break open the box, and see if perad-
venture any help might be found there. I was just
about proceeding with my purpose, but I put it offtill
Right, that I might go through the business with full
compoaure ; and, in the mean time, I hastened off
to a banquet, for which this was the appointed
hour. Here, again, we got into a high key; the
wine and trumpet-aounding had Bushed me not a
little, when, by the most luck, it chanced,
that during the desert, a former friend of my dearest
fair one, returning from a journey, entered unex-
pectedly, placed himself beside her, and, without
much ceremony, set about asserting his old
privilege8. Hence, very soon arose ill-humour,
quarrelling, and battle : we plucked out our spits,
and I was carried home half dead of several wounds.
The surgeon had bandaged me and. gone away ;
it was far in the night ; my sick nurse had fallen
asleep ; the door of my side-room went up ; my
fair mysterious friend came in, and sat down by me
on tile bed. She asked bow I was : I anawered
Mt, for I was faint and sullen. She continued
speaking with much sympathy : she rubbed my
temples a certain balsam, whereby I felt
rapidly and decidedly strengthened, so
Digitized by GoogIe
286
strengthened, that I could now get angry and up-
braid her. In a violent speech, I threw all the
blame of my misfortune on her, on the passion she
' had inspired me with, on her appearing and vanish-
ing, and the tedium, the longing which, in such a
case, I could not but feel. I waxed more and more
vehement, as if a fever had been coming on ; and I
swore to her, at last, that, if she would not be mine,
would not now abide with me and wed me, I had
no wish to live any Ion r. to all which, I required
a peremptory answer. As she lingered and held
back with her explanation, I got altogether beside
myself, and tore off my double and triple bandages,
in the firmest resolution to bleed to death. But
what was JllY amazement, when I found all my
wounds healed, my skin smooth and entire, and
this ..fair friend in my arms ! Henceforth we were
the happiest pair in the world. \Ve both begged
pardon of each other, without either of us rightly
knowing why. She now promised to travel on
along with me; and soon we were sitting side by
side in the carriage, the little box lying opposite us
on the other seat. Of this I had never spoken to
her, nor did I now think of speaking, though it lay
there before our eyes ; and both of us, by tacit
agreement, took charge of it, as circumstances
might require : I, however, still carrying it to and
from the carriage, and busying myself, as formerly,
with the locking of the doors. So long as aught
remained in my purse, I had continued to pay; but
when my cash went down, I signified the fact to
her., "This is easily helped," said she, pointing to
a couple of little pouches, fixed at the top to the
side of the carriage. ·These l had often observed
Digitized by Coogle
287
before, but never turned to use. She put her hanct
into one, and pulled out some gold pieces, as from
the other some coins of silver; thereby showing me
the possibility of meeting any scale of expenditure
which we might choose to adopt. And thus we
journeyed on from town to town, from land to land,
contented with each other and with the world ; and
I fancied not that she would again leave me ; the
less so, that for some time she had evidently been
as loving wives wish to be,-a circumstance by
which our happiness and mutual affection was in-
creased still farther. But one morning, alas ! she
could not be found ; and as my actual residence,
without her company, became displeasing, I again
took the road with my box; tried the virtue ofthe two
pouches, and found it still unimpaired. My journey
proceeded without accident. But if I had hitherto
paid little heed to the mysteries of my adventure,
expecting a natural solution of the whole, there now
occurred something which threw me into astonish-
ment, into anxiety, nay, into fear. Being wont, in
my impatience for change of place, to hurry
day and night, it was often my hap to be travelling
in the dark; and when the lamps, by any chance,
went out, to be left in utter obscurity. Once in
the dead of such a night I had fallen to sleep, and,
on awakening, I obse"ed the glimmer of a light on
the covering of my carriage. I examined this more
strictly, and found that it was issuing from the box,
in which there seemed to be a chink, as if it had
beenchapped bythe,warm anddryweatherofsummer,
which was now come on. My thoughts of jewels
again came into my head ; I supposed there must
be some carbuncle lying in the box, and this point
Digitized by Coogle
288
I forthwith 11et about investigating. I postured my-
self as well as might be, so that my eye was in im-
mediate contact with the chink. But how great
was my surprise, when a fair apartment, well
lighted, and furnished with much taste and, even
costliness, met my inspection, just as if I had been
looking down through the opening of a dome into a
royal saloon ! A fire was burning in the grate, and
before it stood an arm chair. I held my breath, and
to observe. And now there entered, from
the other side of the apartment, a lady with a book in
herhand, whom I at once recognised for my wife,
though her figure was contracted into the extreme of
diminution. She sat down in the chair by the fire to
read ; shetrimmed the coals with the mostdainty pair
oftongs ; and, in thecourse of hermovements, I could
clearly perceive that this fairest little creature was
also in tlfe family way. But now I was obliged to
shift my constrained posture a little, and the next
moment, when I bent down to look in again, and
convince myself that it was no dream, the light had
vanished, and my eye rested on empty darkness.
How amazed, nay, terrified, I was, you may easily
conceive. I started a thousand thoughts on this
discovery, and in truth could think nothing. In the
midst of this, I fell ; and, on awakening, I
fancied that it must have been a mere dream : yet I
felt myself in some degree estranged from my fair
one ; and though I watched over the box but so
much the carefully, I knew not whether the
event of her re-appearance in human size was a thing
which I should wish or dread. After some time, she
did, in fact, re-appear.: one evening, in a white robe,
she came gliding in ; and as it was just then
Digitized by Coogle
289
growing dusky in my room, she seemed to me taller
than when I had seen her last ; and I remembered
having heard that all beings of the mermaid and
gnome species increase in stature very perceptibly
at the fall of night. She flew, aa usual, to my
arms; bot I could not with right gladness press her
to my obstructed breut. "My dearest," said she,
"I now feel, by thy reception of me, wliat, alas f I
know already too well. Thou hast seen me in the
interim; thou art acquainted the state in which,
at certain times, I find myself: thy happiness and
mine is interrupted, nay, it stands on the brink of
being annihilated altogether. I must leave thee,
and I know not whether I shall ever se!! thee again."
Her presence, the grace witb which she spoke,
directly banished from my memory almost every
trace of that vision, which, indeed, had already
hovered before me as little more than a dream. I
addressed her with kind vivacity, convinced her of
my passion, assured her that I WM innocent, that
my discovery was accidental ; in short, I so managed
it that she appeared composed, and endeavoured to
compose me. "Try thyself strictly/' said she,
" whether this discovery bas not hurt thy love,
thou canst forget that I live in two form&
beside thee, whether the diminution of my being will
not also contract thy affection." I looked at her; she
was fairer than ever ; and I thought within myself,
Is it so great a misfortune, after all, to have a wife,
who, from time to time, becomes a dwarf, so that
one can carry her about with him in a casket!
\tere it not much worse if she became a giantess,
and put her husband in the box? My gaiety of
heat t bad returned. I would not for the whole
Digitized by Coogle
290
'\7orld have let her go. ''Best heart," said I, "let
us be and continue ever as we have been. Could
either of us wish to be better? Enjoy thy con-
veniency, and I promise thee to guard the box
with so much the more faithfulness. Why should
tbe prettiest sight I have ever seen in my life make
a bad impression on me? How happy would lovers
be, could they but procure such miniature pictures!
And, after all, it was but a picture-a little sleight-
of-hand deception. Thou art trying and teasing
me ; but thou shalt see how I will stand it." "The
matter is more serious than thou thinkest," said
the fair one; "however, I am truly glad to see thee
take it so lightly, for much good may stiH be
awaiting us both. I will trust in thee, and, for my
own part, do my utmost; only promise me that
thou wilt never mention this discovery by way of
reproach. Another prayer, likewise, I mostearnestly
make to thee: be more than ever on thy guard
against wine and anger." I promised what she re-
quired; I could have gone on promising to all lengths,
but she herself turned aside the conversation, anrl
thenceforth all proceeded· in its former routine
\Ye had no inducement to alter our place of
residence; the town was large, the society various;
and the fine season gave rise to many an excursion
and garden festival.
In all such amusements the presence of my wife
was welcome, nay, eagerly desired, by women as
well as men. A kind insinuating manner, joined
with a certain dignity of bearing, secured to her, on
all praise and estimation. Besides, she
could play beautifully on the lute, accompanying it
with her voice; and no social night could be per-
Digitized by Google
291
feet. unless crowned by the grat>es of this talt>nt. I
will be free to confess thatl have never got much good
of music; on the .. it has always rather had a
disagreeable efFect on me. My fair one soon noticed
this, and accordingly, when by ourselves, she ne,·.er
tried to entertain me by such means : in return,
howeYer, she appeared to indemnify herself while in
society, where, indeed, she always found a crowd of
admirers. And now, why should I deny it, our late
dialogue, in spite of my best intentions, had by no
means sufficed to abolish the matter within me: on
the contrary, my temper of mind had, by degrees,
got into the strangest tune, almost without my being
conscious of it. One night, in a large company,
this hidden grudge broke )J)Ose, and by its conse-
quences produced to myself the greatest damage.
When I look back it now, I in fact loved my
beauty far less after that unlucky discovery : I was
also growing jealous of her,-a whim that had never
struck me before. ThiR night, at table, I found
myself placed, Yery much to my mind, beside my
two neighhours-a couple of ladies, who, for some
time, bad appeared to me very charming. Amid
jesting and soft small talk, I was not sparing of my
wine : while, on the other side, a pair of ·musical
dilletanti had got bold of my wife, and at last
trived to lead the company into singing separately,
and by way of chorus. · This put me into ill-humour.
The ·two amateurs appeared to me impertinent :
the singing vexed me ; and when, as my tum came,
they even rt>quested a solo-strophe frpm me, I
truly indignant, [ emptied my glass, se.t
down again with no soft movement. grace of
my two fait neighbours soon PaCified ·me, indeed ;
00
Digitized by Coogle
2!12
but there is an evil nature in wrath, when once it is
aet agoing. It went on fermenting within me,
though all things were of a kind to induce joy and
complaisance. On the contrary, I waxed more
splenetic than ever when a lute was produced, and
my fair one began fingering it, and singing, to the
admiration of all the rest. Unhappily, a general
silence was requested. So, then, I was not even
to talk any more ; and these tones were g«>ing
through me like a tooth-ach. Was it any wonder
that, at last, the smallest spark should blow up the
mine 1 The SODgstress had just ended a song
amid the loudest applauses, when she looked over to
me ; and this truly with the most loving face in the
world. Unluckily, its lovingness could not penetrate
so far. She perceived that I had just gulped down
a cup of wine, and was pouring out a freah one.
With her right forefinger, she beckoned me in kind
threatening. " Consider that is wine I" said she,
not louder than for myself to hear it. u Water iJ
for mermaids!" cried I. "My ladies," said she to
my neighbours, "crown the cup with all your
gracefulness, that it be not too often emptied."
"You will not let yourself be tutored," whispered
one of them in my ear. "What ails the dwarf?"
cried I, with a more violent gesture, in which I
overset the glass. Ah, what you have spilt!"
cried the paragon of women ; at the same time,
twanging her strings, as if to lead back the attention
of the company from this disturbance to herself.
Her attempt succeeded; the more completely, as
she rose to her feet, seemingly that she might play
with greater convenience, and in this attitude con
tmued preluding. At the sight of the red wine
Digitized by Coogle
293
nmning over the table-cloth, I returned to myself.
I perceived the gFeat fault I had been guilty of, and
it cut me through the very heart. :Never till now
bad muaie spo.r.en to me : the fint verse she sang
was a friendly good-night to the company, here as
they were, as they might still feel themselves
together. With the next verse they became as if
ICittered asunder; each felt himself solitary,
.eparated,-no one could fancy that be was present
any longer. But what shall I say of the last verse!
It wu directed to me alone: the voice of injured
love bidding farewell to moroseneA and caprice.
In silence I conducted her home, foreboding no
good. Scarcely, however, had we reached our
ehamber, when she began to show herself ex-
ceedingly kind and graceful-nay, even roguish:
&he made me the happiest of all men. Next
llOI'Iling, in high spirits and full of love, I said to
her, " Thou hast so often sung, when asked in
company,-as, for example, thy touching farewell
aoog last night,-come, now, for my sake, and sing
me a dainty gay welcome to this morning hour, that
we may feel as if we mere meeting for the first
time." "That I may not do, my friend," said she
aerioualy. " The song of last night referred to our
parting, which must now forthwith take place ; for
Ican only tell thee, the violation of thy promise and
oath will have the worst consequences for us both:
thou hast scoffed away a great felicity, and I too
must renounce my dearest wishes." As I now
preased and entreated her to explain herself more
clearly, she answered, "That, alas, I can well do;
tOr, at all events, my continuance with thee is over.
Hear, then, what I would rather ha.ve concealed to
Digitized by Coogle
294
the latest times. The form under which thou
sawest me in the box, is my natural and proper
f9rm : for I am of the race of King Eckwald, the
dread Sovereign of the Dwarfs, concerning whom
authentic history has recorded so much. Our people
are still, as ofold, laborious and busy, and therefore
easy to govern• Thou must not fancy that the
dwarfs are behindhand in their manufacturing skill.
Swords which followed the foe when you cast them
after him, invisible and mysteriously binding chains,
impenetrable shields, and such like ware, in old
times, formed their staple produce. But now they
chiefly employ themselves with articles of con-
venience and ornament; in which truly they surpau
all people of the earth. 'I may well say, it would
astonish thee to walk through our workshops and
warehouses. All this would be right and good; were
it not th&.t with the whole nation in general; but
more particularly with the royal family, there is ond
peculiar circumstance connected." She paused for
a moment, and I again begged farther light on
these wonderful secrets; which, accordingly, she
forthwith proceeded to grant. " It is well known,"
said she, "that God, so soon as.he had created the
world, and 'the ground was dry, and the mountains
were standing bright and glorious, that God, I say,
thereupon, in the veryfirst place, created the dwarfs,
to the end that there might be reasonable beings
also, who, in their passages and chasms, might
contemplate and adore his wonders in the inward
parts of the earth. It is farther well known, that
this little race, by degrees, became uplifted in heart,
and attempted to acquire the dominion of the earth:
for which reason God then created the in
Digitized by Coogle
295
.
order to drive back the dwarfs into their
Now, as the dragons themselves were wont ta
DeSUe in the large caverns and clefts, and dwell
there, and many of them, too, were in the habit of
apiUing fire, and working much other mischief, the
poor little dwarfs were. by this means thrown into
exceeding straits and distress, so that, not knowing
what in the world to do, they humbly and fervently
turned to God, and called to him in prayer, that he
would vouchsafe to abolish this unclean dragon
generation. But though it consisted not with hii
wisdom to destroy his own creatures, yet the heavy
sufferings of the poor dwarfs so moved his com·-
puaion, that anon he created the giants, ordering
them to fight these dragons, and if not root them
out, at least lessen their numbers. Now, no
1100ner had the giants got moderately well through
with the dragons, than their hearts also began to
wax wanton; and, in their presumption, they
practised much tyranny, especially on the good
little dwarfs, who then once more in their need
turned to the Lord ; and he, by the power of his
hand, created the who were to make war
on the giants and dragons, and to live in concord
with the dwarfs. Hereby was the work of creation
completed on this side ; and it is plain, that hence-
forth giants and dragons, as well as knights and
dwarfs, have always maintained themselves in
being. From this, my friend, it will be clear to
thee, that we are of the oldest race on the earth,-
a circumstance which does us honour, but, at the
same time, brings great disadvantages along with it.
For as there is nothing in tlte world that can endure
for evert but all that has once been great mual -
Digitized by Coogle
become little and fade, it is our lot, also, that ever
since the creation of the world, we have been
waning and growing smaller, especially the royal
family, on whom, by reason of their pure blood, this
destiny presses with the heaviest force. To remedy
this evil, our wise teachers have many years ago
devised the expedient of sending forth a princess of
the royal house from time to time into the world,
to wed some honourable knight, that so the dwarf
progenymay berefected, andsavedfrom entiredecay."'
Though my fair one related these things with an
air of the utmost sincerity, I looked at her
hesitatingly, for it seemed as if she meant to palm
some fable on me. As to her own dainty lineage, I
had not the smallest doubt: but that she should
have laid hold of me in place of a knight, occasioned
some mistrust ; seeing I knew myself too well to
suppose that my ancestors had come into the world
by an immediate act of creation. I concealed my
wonder and scepticism, and asked her kindly,
" But tell me, my dear child, how thou hast attained
this large ahd stately shape ? For I know few
women that, in riches of form, can compare with
thee." ''Thou shalt hear," replied she. "It is
a settled maxim in the council of the dwarf kings,
that this extraordinary step be forborne as long as
It possibly can; which, indeed, I cannot but say is
quite natural and proper. Perhaps they might
have lingered still longer, had not my brother, born
after me, came into the world so exceedingly small,
that the nurses actually lost him outof his swaddling•
clothes, and no creature yet knows he is
gone. On this occurrence, unexampled in the
annals of dwarfdom, the sages were assembled;
Digitized by Google
291
and without more ado, the resolution was taken,
and I sent oat in quest of a husband.'' "The
resolution 1" exclaimed I, '' that is extremely
well. One can resolve, one can take his reaolution;
but to give a dwarf this heavenly shape, ho'C did
your sages manage that ?" " It bad been provided
already," said she, ''by our ancestors. In the
royal treasury lay a monstrous gold ring. I speak of
it as it then appeared to me, when I saw it in my
childhood.; for it was this same ring which I have
here on my finger. We now went to work aa
G>Uows :-I was informed of all that awaited me,
and instructed what I had to do and to forbear. A
splendid palace, after the pattern of my father's
favourite summer residence, was then got ready: a
main edifice, wings, and whatever else you could
think of. It stood at the entrance of a large rock-
cleft, which it decorated in the handsomest style.
On the appointed day, our court moved thither, my
parents alao, and myself. The army paraded, and
priests, not without difficulty,
carried on a costly litter the mysterious ring. It
was placed on the threshold of the building, just
within the spot where you entered. Many cere-
monies were obsened, and after a pathetic farewell,
I proceeded to my task. I stept forward to the ring,
laid my finger on it, and that instant began per-
ceptibly to wax in atature. In a few moments, I
reached my present size, and then I put the ring on
my 6Dger. But now, in the twinkling of an eye, the
doors, windows, gates, flapped to ; the wings drew
up into the body of the edifice : instead of a palace,
stood a little box beside me, which I forthwith
liftecl, and carriedoff with me, not without a pleasant
Digitized by Coogle
298
feeling in beiug so tall and strong : still, indeed, a
dwarf•to trees and mountains, to streams and tracts
of land, yet a giant to grass and herbs, and, above
all, to ants, from whom we dwarfs, not being
always on the best terms with them, often suffer
considerable annoyance. How it fared with me on
my pilgrimage, I might tell thee at great length.
Suffice it to say, I many,, but no one save thou
seemed worthy of being honoured to renovate and
perpetuate the line of the glorious Eckwald." In
the course of these narrations, my head had now and
then kept wagging, without myself absolutely
shaking it. I put several questions, to which I re-
ceived no very satisfactory answers : on the contrary,
I learned, to my great affliction, that after what had
happened, she must needs return to her parents.
She had hopes still, she said, of getting to me;
but, for the present, it was indispensably necessary
to present herself at court ; as otherwise, both for
her and me, there was nothing but utter ruin. The
purses would soon cease to pay, and who knew
what would be the consequences? On hearing
that our money would run short, l inquired no
farther into consequences: I shrugged myshoulders,
J was silent, and she seemed to understand me.
We now packed up, and got into our carriage, the
box standing opposite us ; in which, howe.ver, I
could still see no symptoms of a palace. In this
way we proceeded several stages. Post-money and
drink-money were readily and richly paid from the
pouches to the right and left, till, at last, we
reached a mountainous district ; and no sooner had
we alighted here, than my fair one walked forward,
directing me to follow her with the box. She Jed
Digitized by Coogle
299
me by rather steep paths to a narrow plot of
ground, through which a clear brook now gushed in
little falls, now·ran in quiet windings. She pointed
to a little knoll, bade me set the box down there,
then said, "Farewell! thou wilt easily find the
way back : remember me. I hope to see
again.' At this moment, I felt as if I could not
leave her. She was just now in one of her fine
days, or, if you will, her tine hours. Alope with so
fair a being, on the green sward, among grass and
Sowers, girt in by rooks, waters murmuring rounc;l
you, what heart could have remained insensible? I
came forward to seize her hand, to clasp her in my
arms; but she motioned me back, threatening me,
though still kindly enough, with great danger, if I
did not instantly withdraw. " Is there no possibility,
then,'' exclaimed I, ''of my btaying with thee, of
thy keeping me beside thee ?" These words I
uttered with such rueful tones and gestures, that she
seemed touched by them; and, after some thought,
confeued to-me that a continuance of our union was
not entirely imposlrible. Who happier than If My
importunity, which increased every moment, com·
pelled her at last to come out with her scheme, and
inform me that if I too could resolve on becoming as
little as I had once aeen her, I might still remain
with her, be admitted to her house, her kingdom,
her family. The proposal W(l.S not altogether to my
mind; yet, at this moment, I could not positively
tear myself away ; 10, having already for a goOd
while been accustomed to the marvellous, and being
at all times prone to bold enterprises, I closed with
her offer, ud said she might do with me as abe
pleased. I was thereupon directed to hold out the
p p
Digitized by Coogle
300
little finger of my right hand ; she placed her own
against it; then, with her left hand, she quite softly
pulled the ring from her finger, and let it run along
mine. That instant, I felt a violent twinge on my
finger: the ring shrunk together, and tortured me
horribly. I gave a loud cry, and caught round me
for my fair. one, but she had disappeared. What
state of mind I was in during this moment, I find
no words to express ; so I have nothing more to say,
but that I very soon, in my miniature size, found
myself beside my fair one in a wood of grass-stalks.
The joy ofmeeting after this short, yet most strange
separation-or, if you will, of this re-union without
separation-exceeds all conception. I fell on her
neck, she replied to my caresses, and the little pair
was as happy as the large one. 'Vith some
difficulty we now mounted a hill : I say difficulty,
because the sward had become for us an almost im-
penetrable forest. Yet, at length, we reached a
bare space; and how surprised was I at perceiving
there a large bolted mass, which, ere long, I could
not but recognize for the box, in the same state as
when I had sat it down. "Go up to it, my friend,"
said she; " and do but knock with the ring, thou
shalt see wonders." I went up accordingly, and no
sooner had I rapped, than I did, in fact, witness the
greatest wonder. Two wings came jutting out;
and at the .same time there fel1, like scales and
chips, various pieces this way and that; while
doors, windows, colonnades, and all that belongs to
a complete palace, at once came into view. If e\·er
you have seen one of Rontchen's desks, how, at one
pull, a multitude of springs and latches get in
motion, and writing board and writing materials,
Digitized by Coogle
301
letter and money compartments, all at once, or io
quick succession, start forward, you will partly
eonceive how this palace unfolded itself, into which
my sweet. attendant now introduced me. In the
large saloon I directly recognized fire-place
wbich I had formerly seen from above, and the chair
in which she had then been sitting. And on looking
up, I actually fancied I could still ,;ee something c.,(
the chink in the dome, through which I had peeped
in. I spare you the description of the rest : in a
1rord, all was spacious, splendid, and tlsteful.
Scarcely had I recovered from my astonishment,
•ben I heard afar off a sound of military music.
My better half sprang up, and with rapture an-
nounced to me the approach of his majesty her
father. We stepped out to the threshold, and here
beheld a magnificent procession moving towards us,
from a considerable cleft in the rock. Soldiers,
ae"ants, officers of state, and glittering courtiers,
in order. At last you observed a golden
throng, and in the midst of it the king himself. So
lOOn as the whole procession had drawn up before
the palace, the king, with his neareet retinue,
stepped forward. His · loving daughter hastened
wt to him, pulling me along with her. We threw
ourselves at his feet: he raised me very graciously;
and, on coming to stand before him, I perceived
tbat in this ·little world I was still the most con-
siderable figure. We proceeded together to the
palace, where his majesty, in presence of his whole
court, was pleased to welcome me with a well-
studied oration, in which be expressed his surprise
at finding us here, me as his son-in-
law, and appointed· the nuptial ceremony to tako
Digitized by Coogle
302
place on the morrow. A cold sweat came over me
as I heard him speak of marriage; for I dreaded
this even more than music, which otberwise ap-
peared to me the most hateful thing on earth. Your
music-makers, I used to say, enjoy at least the con-
ceit of being in unison with each other, and working
in concord ; for when they have tweaked and
tuned long enough, grating our ears with all
manner of screeches, they believe in their hearts
that the matter is now adjusted, and one instrument
accurately suited to the other. The band-master
himself is in this happy delusion; and so they set
forth joyfully, tho11gh still tearing our nerves to
pieces. In the marriage state, even this is not the
case ; for although it is but a duet, and you might
think two voices, or.even two instruments, might
in some degree be attuned to each other, yet this
happens very seldom; for while the man gives out
one tone, the wife directly takes a higher one, and
the man again a higher; and so it rises from the
chamber to the choral pitch--:and farther and farther,
till at last wind instruments themselves cannot
reach it. And now, as harmonica! music itself is
an offence to me, it will not be surprising that dis-
harmonica} should be a thing which I cannot endure.
Of the festivities in which the day was spent, I
shall and can say nothing, for I paid small heed to
any of them. The sumptuous victuals, the generous
wine, the royal amusements, I could not relish. I
kept thinking and considering what I was to do.
Here, however, there was but little to be considered.
I determined, once for all, to take myself away, and
hide somewhere. Accordingly, J succeeded in
reaching the chink of a stone, where I entrenched
Digitized by Coogle
303
ind concealed myaelf aa well aa might be. My first
care after this, was to get the unhappy ring off my
finger,--an enterprise, however, which would by no
means prosper, for, on the contrary, I felt that every
pull I gave, the metal grew straiter, and cramped
me with violent pains, which again abated so soon
u I desisted from my purpose. · Early in the
morning I awoke, (for my little person bad slept,
and very soundly), and was just stepping out to
look farther about me, when I felt a kind of rain
coming on. Through the grass, flowers, and leaves,
tliere fell, it were, something like sand and grit
in large quantities: but what was my horror when
the whole of it became alive, and an innumerable
host of ants rushed down on me. No sooner did
they observe me, than they made an attack on all
aides ; and though I defended myself stoutly and
gallantly enough, they at last so hemmed me in, so
nipped and pinched me, that I was glad to hear
them calling to surrender. I surrendered instantly
and wholly; whe'!"eupon an ant of respectable
stature approached me with courtesy-nay, with
reverence, and even recommended itself to my good
graces. I learned that the ants had now become
allies of my father-in-law, and by him been caned
out in the present emergency, and commissioned to
fetch me back. Here then was little I in the hands
of creatures still Jess. I had nothing· for it but
looking forward to the marriage,-nay, I must now
thank heaven, if my father-in-law were not wroth,
if my fair one had not taken the sulJens. Let me
akip over the whole train of ceremonies : in a word,
we were wedded. Gaily and joyously as mattera
went, there were, nevertheless, solitary hours, in
Digitized by Google
304
which you are led astray into reflection ; and now
there happened to me something which had never
happened before: what, and how, you shall Jearn.
Everything about me was completely adapted to
my present form and wants : the bottles and glasses
were in a fit ratio to a little toper-nay, if you will,
better measure, in proportion, than with us. In my
tiny palate, the dainty tid-bits tasted excellently;
a kiss from the little mouth of my spouse was still
the most charming thing in nature, and I will not
deny that novelty made all these circumstances
highly agreeable. Unhappily, however, I had
forgotten my former situation. I felt within me
a scale of bygone greatness, and it rendered me
restless and cheerless. Now, for the first time,
did I understand what the philosophers might mean
by their ideal, which they say so plagues the mind
of man. I had an ideal of myself, and often in
dreams appeared as a giant. In short, my wife,
my ring, my dwarf figure, and so many other bonds
and reslrictions, made me utterly unhappy, so that
I began to think seriously about obtaining my
deli\'crance. Being persuaded that the whole
magic lay in the ring, I resolved on filing this
asunder. From the court-jeweller, accordingly, I
borrowed some files. By good luck, I was left-
handed, as, indeed, throughout my whole life, I
had never done aught in the right-handed way. I
stood tightly to the work; it was not small, for the
golden hoop, so thin as it appeared, had grown pro-
portionably thicker in contracting from its former
length. All vacant hours I privately applied to
this task ; and at Jast, the being nearly
through, I was provident enough to step out of
Digitized by Coogle
305
doors. This was a wise measure, for all at once
the golden hoop started sharply from my finger, and
my frame shot aloft with auch violence, that I
actually fancied I should dash against the sky;
and, at all events, I must have bolted through the
dome of our palace-nay, perhaps, in my new
awkwardness, have destroyed this summer-residence
altogether. Here then was I standing again; in
truth, so much the larger, but also, as it seemed to
me, so much the more foolish and helpleaa. On re-
covering from my stupefaction, I observed the
royal strong box lying near me, which I found to be
moderately heavy, as I lifted it, and carried it down
the foot-path to the next stage, where I directly
ordered honea and aet forth. By the road, I
soon made trial of the two side-pouches. Instead
of nwney, which appeared to be run out, I found a
little key: it belonged to the strong-box, in which
I got some moderate compensation. So long as
thia held out, I made uae of the carriage : by and
by I sold it, and proceeded by the diligence. The
strong-box, too, I at length cast from me, having no
hope of ita ever filling again. And thus, in the
end, though after a considerable circuit, I again re-
turned to the kitchen-hearth, to Mle land!ady, and
the c:ook, where you were fi.rst introduced to me:•
Digitized by Coogle
306
A Legendary Fragment qf Supernatural lnterut.
"On the evening supposed to be that preceding
the dreadful event, Melmoth had thrown an unusual
degree of tenderness into his manner-he gazed on
her frequently with anxious and silent fondness-
he seemed to have something to communicate which
he had not courage to disclose. Isidora, well ·
versed in the language of countenance, which ia
often, more than that of words, the language of the
heart, intreated him to tell her what he looked.
• Your father is returning,' said Melmoth, reluctantly.
'He will certainly be here in a few days, perhaps
in a few hours.' Isidora heard him in silent horror.
• My father l' she cried-' I have never seen my
father.-Oh, how shall I meet him now I And is
my mother ignorant of this ?-would she not have
apprised me ?' ' She is ignorant at present, but
she will not long be .so.' ' And from whence
could you have obtained intelligence that she is
iporant of?' Melmoth paused some time,-hia
features assumed a more contracted and gloomy
character than they had done latterly-he answered
with slow and stem reluctance-' Never again
me that question-the intelligence that I can give
you must be of more importance to you than tbe
meana by which I obtain it-enough for you that it
ia true.' ' Pardon me, love,' said Isidora ; ' it ia
Digitized by Coogle
• 301
probable that I may never again offend you-will
you not, then, forgive my ltul offence ?•
11 Melmoth aeemed too intently occupied with hia
own thoughts to answer even her tears. He added,
after a short and .sullen pause, 1 Your betrothed
bridegroom is coming with your father-Montilla•s
father ia dead-the arrangements are all concluded
for your nuptials-your bridegroom is coming to
wed the wife of another-with him comes your fiery,
fOolish brother, who bas set out to meet his father
and his future relative. There will be a feast pre-
pared in the house on the occasion of your future
ooptials-.you-ma!J hear of a 1lrange guul appeari"8
lit !JOUrfutival-1 will be there I'
• Isidora stood stupified with horror. I Festival r·
she repeated-' a bridal festival !-and I already
wedded to you, and about to become a mother l'
• • • • •
"At this moment the tramplinr of may horsemen
wu heard aa they approached the villa-the
tumult of the domestics hurrying to admit and re-
ceive them, resounded through the apartments-
and Melmoth, with a gesture that seemed to Isidora
rather like a menace than a farewell, instantly dis-
appeared ; and within an hour, Isidora knelt to the
father she had never till then beheld-suffered her-
aelf to be saluted by Montilla--and accepted the
embrace of her brother, who, in the petulance of
his spirit, half rejected the chill and altered form
that .-ulvanced to greet him.
• • • • •
"Every thipg at the family meeting wu con·
ducted in the true Spanish formality. Aliaga ldued
cold hand of his withered wife-the num
QQ
Digitized by Coogle
308 •
domestics exhibited a grave joy at the return of
their master-Fra Jose assumed increased im-
portance, and called for dinner in a louder tone.
Montilla, the lover, a cold and quiet character,
took things as they occurred.
''Every thing lay hushed under a brief and
treacherous calm. Isidora, who trembling at the
approaching danger, felt her terrors on a
suspended. It was not so very near as she appre-
hended ; and she bore with tolerable patience the
daily mention of her approaching nuptials, while
she was momently harassed by her confidential
servants with hints of the impossibility of the event
of which they were in expectation, being much
longer delayed. lsidora heard, felt, endured all
with courage-the grave congratulation of her
father and mother-the self-complacent attentions
of Montilla, sure of the br!de and of her dower-the
sullen compliance of the brother, who, unable to
refuse his consent, was for ever hinting that 1m
sister might have formed a higher conoexion. All
these passed over her mind like a dream-the
reality of her existence seemed internal, and she
said to herself, • Were I at the altar, were my
hand locked in that of .Montilla, Melmoth would rend
me from him.' A wild but deeply-fixed conviction
-a wandering image of preternatural power, over-
shadowed her mind while she thought of Melmoth;
and this image, whi('h had caused her so much
terror and inquietude i•.
1 her early hours of love, now
formed her only resource against the hour of incon-
ceivable suffering; as those unfortunate females iD
the Eastern Tales. whose beauty has attracted the
fearful passion oi some evil genii, are supposed to
Digitized by Coogle
..
depend, at their miptilll ..oa JM ol
the seducing spirit, to tbe arms of the
agonised parent, and the distracted bri.degroom. the
victim whom he has .reserved for himself, and whose
wild devotion to him gives a dignity to the union .w
unhallowed and unnatural.
.. .. .. • •
"Aliaga's heart expanded amid the approaching
completion of the felicitous plans be had formed,
and with his heart. his purse, which 'was its de-
pository, opened also, and be resolved to give a
splendid fete in honour of his daughter's nuptials.
Isidora remembered Melmoth's prediction of a fatal
festival ; and his words, 1 I will be lhere,' gave her
for a time a kind ohrembling confidence. But as tbe
preparations were carried on under her very eye,-.
as she was hourly conaulted about the disposal pf
the ornaments. and the decorations of the apart-
ments,-ber resolution failed, and while she uttered
a few incoherent words, her eye was glazed with
horror•
.,The entertainment .was to be a Ql\U.;
and bidora, who that this might suggett
to Melmoth some auspicioua expedient for
escape, watched in vain for some hint of hope,-
some allusion to the probability of this event facili-
tating her extrication from those of
that seemed compassing her about. He.
uttered a word, and her dependence on him WJlS.at
one moment confirmed, at another shaken to
foundation, by this terrible silence. In one of
these latter moments, the anguish of which was in-
creased beyond expression by a conviction that her
hour of danger was not far distant, she exclaimed to
Digitized by Coogle
810
Melmota, 'Take me-take me from this place I My
existence is nothing-it is a vapour that must soon
be exhaled-but my reason is threatened every
moment ; I cannot sustain the horrors to which I
am exposed I All this day I have been dragged
through rooms decorated for my impossible nuptials!
-Oh, Melmoth, if you no longer love me, at least
commiserate me I Save me from a situation of
horror unspeakable !-have mercy on your child, if
not on me! I have hung on your looks,-I have
watched for a word of hope ;-you have not uttered
a sound-you have not cast a glance of hope on
me I I am wild !-1 am reckless of all but the im-
minent and present horrors of to-morrow-you have
talked of your power to approach, to enter these
walls without suspicion or discovery-you boasted
of that cloud of mystery in which you could en-
velope yourself. Oh I in this last moment of my
extremity, wrap me in its tremendous folds, and let
me escape in them, though they prove my shroud I
-Think of the terrible night of our marriage ! I
followed you then in fear and confidence-your
touchdissolvedevery earthlybarrier-your steps trod
an unknown path, yet I followed you !-Oh I if you
really possess that mysterious and inscrutable
power, which I dare not either question or believe,
exert it for me in this terrible emergency-aid my
escape-and though I feel I shall never live to
thank you, the &ilent 1uppliant will remind you by
its smiles of the tears that I now shed ; and if they
are shed in vain, its smile will have a bitter eloquence
• IS it plays with the flowers on its mother's grave I'
'' Melmoth, as she spoke, was profoundly silent,
and deeply attentive. He said at last, ' Do vou then
Digitized by GoogIe
311
resign younelf to me ?' •Alas t have I not r •A
question is not an answer. Will you, renouncing.
all other engagements, other hopes, depend on
me solely for your extrication from this fearful
?' ' I will-I do !' ' Will you promise,
that if I render you the service you require, if I
employ the power you say I have alluded to, you
will be mine1' 1 Your1 /-Alas I am I not yours
already ?' 1 You embrace my protection, then ?
You voluntarily seek the shelter of that p<>wer
which I can promise ? You yourself will me to
employ that power in effecting your escape ?-
Speak-do I interpret your sentiments aright ?-1
am unable to exercise those powers you invest
me with, unless you yourself require me to do 80.
I have waited-I have watched for the demand-it
baa been made-would that it never had I' An ex-
pression of the fiercest agony corrugated his stem
features as he spoke.-• But it may yet be
drawn--reflect !' • And you will not then save me
from shame and danger ? Is this the proof of your
love-is this the boast of your power?' said Isidora,
half frantic at this delay. 'If I adjure you to
pause-if I myself hesitate and tremble-it is to
give time for the salutary whisper of your better
angel.' • Oh I save me, and you shall be my angel!'
said lsidora, falling at his feet. Melmoth shook
through his whole frame as be heard these words.
He raised and soothed her, however, with promises
of safety, though in a voice that seemed to announce
despair-and then turning from her, burst into a
puaionate soliloquy. •Immortal Heaven I what is
man 1-A being with the ignorance, but not the
iaatinct, of the feeblest animals !-They are like
Digitized by Coogle
312
,thy haad, 0 Thou ,whom I
· is on them, they scream and quiver,
the gentle pressure is intended e>nly to
convey the wanderer back to his cage-;w,bile, to
.shun the light fear that scares the senses, ·t.bey.
.into the snare that is spread in their .sight, and
·where their captivity is hopeless !' As .he spoke,
•hastily traversing the room, his foot struck against a
chair on which a gorgeous dress was spread. ' What
is this 1' he exclaimed-' 'Vhat idiot ,trumpery,
what May-queen foolery is this?' ' It is the habit I
am to wear at the feast to-'llight,' said Isidora-
'-My attendants are coming·-rl ·hear them -at the
-door-oh, with what a ·•throbbinfr heart I shall put
on this glittering mockery !-But -you .w.ill ·not
desert me then 1' she added, .with .wild·and breath-
less anxiety. 'Fear not,' said Melmoth, solenml)'
have demanded my aid, .Wld :it shalLbe
corded. May your heart tremble no more when
·you. throw off that habit, than now..when you.are
about to put it on I'
·''The hour approached, and the guest& -were
arriving. Isidora, arrayed·ina splendid andcfanciful
garb, and rejoicing ·in 'the .shelter which her.mask
afforded to the expression .of her pale .features,
mingled among the groupe. She walked one
measure with Montilla, and then declined dancing
on the pretence of assisting .her mother·in receiving
and entertaining her guests.
"After a sumptuous banquet, ,dan.aing was re-
newed in the spacious .hall, and Isidora followed
the company thither with a beating heart. .Twelve
was the hour at which Melmoth bad promised to
meet her, and by the clock, which was placed over
Digitized by Coogle
313
the door of the hall, she saw it wanted but 1 quarter
to twelve. The hand moved on-it anived at the
bout-the clock struck ! lsidora, whose eyes had
been rivetted on its movements, now withdrew them
in des·pair. At that moment she felt her arm '
gently touched. and one of the maskers, bending
towards bet, whispered, 'I am here I' and he added
the sign which MeJmoth and she bad agreed on as
the signal of their meeting. Isidora, unahle to
reply, could only return the sign. 'Make haste,'
he added-• all is arranged for your flight-there is
not a moment to be Iost-1 will leave you now, but
meet me in a few moments in the western portico-
the lamps are extinguished there, and the servants
have neglected to re-light them-be silent and be
swift!' He disappeared as he spoke, and Isidora,
after a few moments, followed him. Though the
portico was dark, a faint gleam from the sp:cndidfy
illuminated rooms disclosed to her the figure of
Melmoth. He drew her arm under his in silence,
and proceeded to hurry her from the spot. 'Stop,
villain, stop!' exclaimed the voice of her brother,
who, follbwed by Montilla, sprung from the balcony
-'Where do you drag my sister ?-and you, de-
graded wretch, where are you about to fly, and with
whom ?' Melmoth attempted to pass him, sup-
porting Isidora with one arm, while the other was
extended to repel his approach ; but Fernan, drawing
his sword, placed himself directly in their way, at
the same time calling on Montilla to raise the house-
hold, and tear Isidora from his arms. 'Off, fool-
off!' exclaimed Melmoth-' Rush not on destruction!
-I seek not your life-one victim of your bouse ia
enough-let us pass ere you perish!' · Boaater,
Digitized by Coogle
314
prove your words!' said Fernan,· mumg a des-
perate thrust at him, which Melmoth coolly put by
with his hand. 'Draw, coward!' cried Feman,
rendered furious by this action-' My next will be
more successful!' Melmoth slowly drew his sword.
'Boy I' said he in an awful voice-' if I tum this
point against you, your life is not worth a moment's
purchase-be wise, and let us pass.' Fernan·made
no ·answer but by a fierce attack, which was in-
stantly met by his antagonist.
'' The shrieks of Isidora had now reached the ears
of the revellers, who rushed in crowds to the garden
-the servants followed them with flambeaux,
Sl'latched from the walls adorned for this ill-omened
festival, and the scene of the combat was in a
moment as light as day, and surrounded by a
hundred spectators.
"• Part them-part them-save them I' shrieked
Isidora, writhing at the feet of her father and
mother, who, with the rest, were gazing in stupid
horror at the scene--' Save my brother-save my
husband !' The whole dreadful truth rushed on
Donna Clara's mind at these words, and casting a
conscious look at the terrified priest, she fell to the
ground. The combat was short as it was unequal,
-in two moments Melmoth passed the sword twice
through the body of Fernan, who sunk beside
Isidora, and expired I There was a universal pause
of horror for some moments : at length a cry of-
' Seize the murderer !' burst from every lip and
the crowd began to around Melmoth He
attempted no defence. He retreatea a few paces,
and sheathing his sword, waved them back only
with his arm ; and this movement, that
Digitized by Coogle
315
to announ<'e an internal power above all physical
force, had the effect of nailing every spectator to the
spot where he stood.
"The light of the torches, which the trembling
servants held up to gaze on him, fell full on hit
countenance, and the voices of a few shuddering
speakers exciaimed, •MELIIOTB 'I'IIB WAMDBBBB r
•I am-I am !' said that unfortunate being; ' and
who now will oppose my passing-who will become
my companion ? I seek not to injure now-but )
will not be detained. Would that breathless fool
had yielded to my bidding, not to my sword-there
was but one human chord that vibrated in my heart
-it is broken to-night, and for ever ! I will never
tempt woman more! Why should the whirlwind.
that can shake the mountains, and overwhelm
cities with its breath, descend to scatter the leaves
of the rose-bud?' As he spoke, his eyes fell on the
form of Isidora, which lay at his feet extended
beside that of Fernan. He bent over it for a
moment--a pulsation like returning life agitated
her frame. He bent nearer-he whispered, un-
heard by the rest, 'lsidora, will you fly with me?-
this is the moment-every arm is paralyzed-every
mind is frozen to its centre !-lsidora, rise and fly
with me-this is your hour of safety!' lsidora, who
recognized the voice but not the speaker, raised
herself for a moment-looked on Melmoth-cast a
glance on the bleeding bosom of Fernan, and fell on
it dyed in that blood. Melmoth started up-there
was a slight movement of hostility among some of
the guests-he turned one briefand withering
on them-they stood every man his hand on
sword, without the power to draw them, and the
RR
Digitized by Coogle
al6
,·ery domestics held up the torches in their trembling
hands, as if with involuntary awe they were lighting
him out. So he passed on unmolested amici the
group, till he reached the spot where Aiiaga,
stupified with horror, stood beside the bodies of
son and daughter. 'Wretched old man!' he ex-
claimed, looking on him as the unhappy father
strained his glazing and dilated eyes to see who
spoke to him, and at length with difficulty recognized
the form of the stranger-the companion of his
fearful journey some months past-' Wretched old
man !-you were warned-but you neglected the
warning-! adjured you to save your daughter-!
best knew her danger-you saved your gold-now
estimate the value of the dross you grasped, and
the precious ore you dropt ! I stood between m!Jself
and her-1 warned-1 menaced-it was not for me
to intreat. Wretched old man-see the result!'-
and he turned slowly to depart. An involuntary
sound of execration and horror, half a howl and
half a hiss, pursued his parting steps, and the priest,
with a dignity that more became his profession than
his character, exclaimed aloud, 'Depart accursed,
and trouble us not-go, cursing and to curse.' 'I
go conquering and to conquer,' answered Melmoth,
with wild and fierce triumph-' wretches ! your
vices, your passions, and your weaknesses, make
you my victims. Upbraid yourselves, and not me.
Heroes in your guilt, but cowards in your despair,
you would kneel at my feet for the terrible immunity
with which I pass through you at this moment.-1
go accursed of every human heart, yet untouched by
one human hand !' As he retired slowly, the
murmur of suppressed but instinctive and irre ·
Digitized by Coogle
317
pressible horror and hatred burst from the group.
He past on scowling at them like a lion on a pack
of bayed hounds, and departed unmolested-un-
assayed-no weapon was drawn-no arm was lifted
-tbe mark was on his brow,-and those who
could read it knew that all human power was alike
forceless and needless,-and those who could not
succumbed in passive horror. Every sword was ia
its sheath as Melmoth quitted the garden. 'LeaYe
him to God !' was the universal exclamation. 'You
could not leave him in worse hands,' exclaimed
Fra Jose-' He will certainly be damned-and-
that is some comfort to this afflicted family.'
'' In less than halfan hour, the superb apartments,
the illuminated gardens of Aliaga, did not echo a
footstep ; all were gone, txcept a few who lingered,
some from curiosity, some from humanity, to
witness or condole with the sufferings of the
wretched· parents. The sumptuously decorated
garden now presented a sight horrid from the con-
trasted figures and scenery. The domestics stood
like statues, holding the torches still in their hands
-Jsidora Jay beside the bloody corse of her brother,
till an attempt was made to remove it, and then she
clung to it with a strength that required strength to
tear her from it-Aliaga, who had not uttered a
word, and scarcely drawn a breath, sunk on his
knees to curse his half-lifeless daughter-Donna
Clara, who still retained a woman's heart, lost all
fear of her husband in this dreadful emergency, and,
kneeling beside him, held his uplifted hands, and
struggled hard for the suspension of the malediction
-Fra Jose, the only one of the group who ap-
peared to possess any power of recollection or of
Digitized by Coogle
318
mental sanity, adJressed repeatedly to lsidora the
question, ' Are you married,-and married to that
fearful being?' . 'I am married!' answered the
l'ictim, rising from beside the corse of her brother.
' I am married !' she added, glancing a look at her
splendid habit, and displaying it with a frantic
laugh. A loud knocking at the garden gate was
at this moment. am married!' shrieked
lsidora, 'and here comes the witness of my
1mptials !'
'' As she spoke, some peasantS from .the neigh-
bourhood, assisted by the domestics of Don Aliaga,
brought in a corse, so altered from the fearful
change that passes on the mortal frame, that the
nearest relative could not have known it. Isidora
recogni1ed it in a moment for the body of the old
domestic who had disappeared so mysteriously on
the night of her frightful nuptials. The body had
been discovered but that evening by the peasants;
it was lacerated as by a fall from rocks, and so dis-
figured and decayed as to retain no resemblance to
humanity. It was recognizable only by the
livery of AJiaga, which, though much defaced, was
still distinguishable by some peculiarities in the
dress, that announced that those defaced garments
CO\'Cted the mortal remains of the . old domestic.
'There!' cried lsidora, with delirious energy-
' there is the witness of my fatal marriage!'
'' Fra Jose hung over the illegible fragments of
that whereon nature had once written-' This is a
human being,' and, turning his eyes on hidorc1, with
involuntary horror he ' Your witness is
dumb!' As the wretched Isidora dragged away
by those who surrounded her, she felt the first throes
Digitized by Coogle
319
of maternal suffering, and exclaimed, 'Oh! there
will be a living witness-if you permit it to live !'
Her words were soon realized ; she was conveyed to
her apartment, and in a few hours after, scarcely
assisted and wholly unpitied by her attendants, gave
birth to a daughter.
"This event excited a sentiment in the family at
once ludicrous and horrible. Aliaga, who had re-
mained in a state of stupefaction since his son's
death, uttered but one exclamation-:-' Let the wife
of the sorcerer, and their accursed offspring, be
delivered ·into .the bands of the merciful and holy
tribunal, the Inquisition.' He afterwards muttered
something about his property being confiscated, but
to this nobody paid any attention. Donna Clara
was almost distracted between compassion for her
wretched daughter, and being grandmother to an
infant demon, for such she deemed the child of
'Ale/moth the Wanderer' must be -and Fra Jose,
while he baptized the infant with trembling hands,
almost expected a fearful sponsor to appear and
blast the rite with his horrible negative to the appeal
made in the name of all that is holy among
Christians. The baptismal ceremony was per-
formed, however, with an omission which the good-
natured priest overlooked-there was no sponsor-
the lowest domestic in the house declined with
horror the proposal of being sponsor for the child of
that terrible union. The wretched mother heard
them from her bed of pain, and loved her infant
better for its utter destitution.
• • • • •
'' A few hours put an end to the consternation of
the family, on the score of religion at least. The
Digitized by Coogle
320
officers of the Inquisition arrived, armed with all the
powers oftheir tribunal, and strongly excited by the
report, that the Wanderer of whom they had been
long in search, had lately perpetrated an act that
brought him within the sphere of their jurisdiction,
by involving the life of the only being his solitary
existence held alliance with. •We hold him by the
cords of a man,' said the chief inquisitor, speaking
more from what he read than what he felt-' if he
burst these cords he is more than man. He has a
wife and child, and if there be human elements in
him, if there be any thing mortal clinging to his
heart, we shall wind round the roots of it, and
extract it.'
• •
'' It was not till after some weeks, that lsidora
recovered her perfect recollection. When she did,
she was in a prison, a pallet of straw was her bed,
a crucifix and a death's head the only furniture of
her cell ; the light struggled through a narrow ·grate,
and struggled in vain, to cast one gleam on the
squalid apartment that it visited and shrunk from.
Jsidora looked round her-she had light enough to
sec her child-she clasped it to her bosom, from
which it had unconsciously drawn its feverish
nourishment, and wept in ecstasy. 'It is my own,'
she sobbed, • and only mine! It has no father-he
is at the ends of the earth-he has left me alone-
but I am not alone while you are left to me !'
"She was left in solitary confinement for many
days, undisturbed and unvisited. The persons in
whose hands she was had strong reasons for this
mode of treatment. They were desirous that she
should recover perfect sanity of intellect previous to
Digitized by Coogle
321
her examination, and they also wished to give her
time to form that profound attachment to the
innocent companion of her solitude, that might be
a powerful engine in their hands in dicovering those
circumstances relative to Melmoth that had hitherto
batHed all the power and penetration of the ln-
quisition itself. All reports agreed that the
Wanderer bad never before been known to make a
woman the object of his temptation, or to entrust
her with the terrible secret of his destiny ; and the
Inquisitors were heard to say to each other, 'Now
that we have got the Delilah in our bands, we shall
soon have the Sampson.'
'' It was on the night previous to her examination,
(of which she was unapprized), that lsidora saw the
door of her cell opened, and a figure appear at it,
whom, amid the dreary obscurity that surrounded
her, she recognized in a moment-it was Fra Jose.
After a long pause of mutual horror, she knelt in
silence to receive his benediction, which he gave
with feeling solemnity ; and then the good monk,
whose propensities, though somewhat •earthly and
sensual,' were 'never devilish,' after vainly drawing
his cowl over his face to stifle his sobs, lifted up his
voice and 'wept bitterly.'
"Isidora was silent, but her silence was not that
of sullen apathy, or of conscience-seared im-
penitence. At length Fra Jose seated himself on
the foot of the pallet, at some distance from the
prisoner, who was also sitting, and .bending her
cheek, down which a cold tear slowly flowed, over
her infant. 'Daughter,' said the monk, collecting
himself, ' it is to the indulgence of the holy office I
Digitized by Google
322
owe this permission to visit you.' ' I thank them;
said Isidora, and her tears flowed fast and relievingly.
•I am permitted also to tell you that your ex-
amination will take place to-morrow,-to adjure you
to prepare for it,-and, if there be any thing which
' • My examination I' repeated Isidora with
surprise, but evidently without terror, 'on what
subject am I then to be examined?' On that of your
inconceivable union with a being devoted and ac-
cursed.' His voice was choked with horror, and he
added, • Daughter, are you then indeed the wife of
-of-that being, whose name makes the flesh creep,
and the hai1· stand on end ?' 'l am.' 'Who were the
witnesses of your marriage, and what hand dared to
bind yours with that unholy and unnatural bond?'
' There were no witnesses-we were wedded in
darkness. I saw no form, but I thought I heard
words uttered-! know I felt a hand place mine in
Melmoth's-its touch was as cold as that of the
dead.' • Oh, complicatcrl and mysterious horror!
said the priest, turning pale, and crossing himself
with ma1·ks of unfeigned terror; he bowed his head
on his arm for some time, and remained silent from
unutterable emotion. • Father,' said Isidora at
length, 'you knew the hermit who lived amid the
ruins of the monastery near our house,-he was a
priest also,-he was a holy man, it was he who
united us I' Her voice trembled. •'"retched victim!'
groaned the priest, without raising his head, • you
know not what you utter-that holy man is known
to have died the very night preading that oftile dread-
ful union.'
''Another pause of mute horror followed, which
Digitized by Google
323
the priest at length broke. • Unhappy daughter,'
said he in a composed and solemn voice, • I am in-
dulged with permisllion to give you the benefit of
the sacrament of confession, previous to your ex-
amination. I adjure you to unburden your soul to
me,-will you?' 'I will, my father.' 'Will you
answer me, as you would answer at the tribunal of
God?' 'Yes,-as I would answer at the tribunal of
God.' As she spake, she prostrated herself before
the priest in the attitude of confession.
• • • • •
" And you have now disclosed the whole burthen
of your spirit?' • I have, my father.' The priest
sat thoughtfully for a considerable time. He then
put to her several singutar questions relative to
Melmoth, which she was wholly unable to answer.
They seemed chiefly the result of those impressions of
aupernatural power and terror, which were every-
where usociated with his image. • My father,'
aaid Isidora, when he had ceased, in a faltering
Toice-' my father, may I inquire about my unhappy
parents?' The priest shook his head, and remained
silent. At length, affected by the agony with
which she urged her inquiry, he reluctantly said she
might guess the effect which the death of their son,
and the imprisonment of their daughter in the In-
quisition, must have on parents, who were no less
eminent for their zeal for the Catholic faith, than
for their parental aJfection. ' Are they alive?' said
bidora. ' Spare yourself the pain of further in-
quiries, daughter,' said the prieflt, • and be assured,
that if the answer was such as could give you com-
fort, it would not be withheld.'
At this moment a bell was heard to sound in a
88
Digitized by Coogle
324
distant part of the structure. •That bell,' said the
priest, ' announces that the hour of your examination
approaches ;-farewel'l, and may the saints be with
you!' •Stay, father,-stay one moment,-but one
moment !' cried Isidora, rushing franticly between
him and the door. Fra Jose paused. Isidora sunk
before him, and, hiding her face with her hands, ex-
claimed in a voice choked with agony, 'Father,
do you think-that I am--lost for ever?' 'Daughter,'
said the priest, in heavy accents, and in a troubled
and doubting spirit, •daughter,-! have given you
what comfort I could-press for no more, lest what
I have given (with many struggles of conscience)
may be withdrawn. Perhaps you are in a state on
which I can form no judgment, and pronounce no
sentence. May God be merciful to you, and may
the holy tribunal judge you in its mercy also l'
•Yet stay, father-stay one moment--only one
moment--only one question more.' As she spoke,
she caught her pale and innocent companion from
the pallet where it slept, and held it up to the priest.
•Father, tell me, can this be the child of a demon!
-can it be-this creature that smiles on me-that
smiles on you, while you are mustering curses
against it ?-Oh, holy drops have sprinkled it from
your own hand !-Father, you have spoke holy
words over it. Father, let them tear me with their
pincers, let them roast me on their flames, but will
not my child escape-my innocent child, that smiles
on you? Holy father, dear father, look back on my
child 1' And she crawled after him on her knees,
holding up the miserable infant in her arms, whose
weak cry and wasted frame pleaded against the
dungeon-life to which its infancy had been doomed.
Digitized by Coogle
'' Pra Jose melted at the and he was
about to bestow many a kiss and many a prayer on
the wretched babe, when the bell again , waa
eounded, and hasting away, he had but time to
exclaim, ' My daugher, may God protect you!'
'God protect me !' said Isidora, clasping her infant
to her bosom. The bell sounded again, and Isidora
knew that the hour of her trial approached.
"The fint examination of Isidora was conducted
with the circumspecti\'e formality that has always
been known to mark the proceedings of that tribunal.
The second and the third were alike strict, pene-
trating, and inoperative, and the holy office began to
feel its highest functionaries were no match for the
extraordinary prisoner who stood before them ; who,
combining the extremes of simplicity and magna-
nimity, uttered every thing that might criminate
henelf, fmt evaded, with skill that baffied all the
ll'ts of inquisitorial exami'nation, every question that
referred to Melmoth.
"In the course of the first examination, they
hinted at the torture. lsidora, with something of
the free and nature-taught dignity of her early
existence, smiled as they spoke of it. An official
whispered one of the inquisitors, as he observed the
peculiar expression of her countenance, and the
torture was mentioned no more.
"A second-a third examination followed 'it long
intervals--but it was observed, that every time the
mode of examination was less severe, and the treat-
ment of the prisoner more and more indulgent ;-her
youth, her beauty, her profound simplicity of
character and language, developed strongly on this
singular emergency, and the affecting circumstance
Digitized by Google
326
of her always appearing with her child in her arms,
whose feeble cries she tried to hush, while she bent
foi-ward to hear and answer the questions addressed
to her,-all these seemed to have wrought powerfully
on the minds of men not accustomed to yield to ex-
ternal impressions. There was also a docility, a
submission, about this beautiful and unfortunate
being-a contrite and bending spirit-
· a sense of
wretchedness for the misfortunes of her family-a
consciousness of her own,-that touched the hearts
even of inquisitors.
"After repeated examinations, when nothing
could be extorted from the prisoner, a skilful and
profound artist in the school of mental anatom)
whispered to the inquisitor something about the
infant whom she held in her arms. •She has
defied the rack,' was the answer. •Try her on tlult
rack,• was rejoined; and the hint '!a& taken.
'' After the usual formalities were gone through,
Isidora's sentence was read to her. She was con-
demned, as a suspected heretic, to perpetual con·
finement in the prison of the Inquisition-her child
was to be taken from her, and brought up in a con·
vent, in order to -
Here the reading of the sentence was inter·
rupted by the prisoner, who, uttering one dreadful
shriek of maternal agony, louder than any other
mode of torture had ever before extorted, fell
on floor. When she was restored to
sensation, no authority or terror of the place 'or
the judges, could prevent her pouring forth thoae
wild and piercing supplications, which, from the
energywithwhich they were uttered, appeared to the
speaker himself like commanda,-that the latter
Digitized by Coogle
put of her eenteace might be remitted ;-theformer
appeared to make not the least impression on her:-
eternal solitude, paned in etemal darkneu, eeemed
to give her neither fear or pain, but she wept, and
pleaded, and raved, that she might not be separated
fiom her infant.
"The judges listened with fortified hearts, and in
unbroken silence. When she found all.waa over, she
rose from her posture of humiliation and agony-
and there was something even of dignity about her
u she demanded, in a calm and altered voice, that
her child might not be removed from her till the
following day. She had also self-possession enough
to enforce her petition by the remark, that ita life
might be the sacrifice, ifit was too suddenly deprived
of the nourishment it was accustomed to receive
from her. To this request the judges acceded, and
abe was remanded to her cell.
• • • • •
"The time elapsed. The person who brought
her food departed without uttering a word ; nor did
ahe utter a word to him. It was about midnight
that the door of her cell was unlocked, and two
penons in official habits appeared at it. They
aeemed to pause, like the heralds at the tent of
·Achilles, and then, like them, forced themselves to
enter. These men had haggard and livid faces-
their attitudes were perfectly stony and automaton-
like--their movements appeared the result of mere
mechanism,-yet these men were touched. The
miserable light within hardly showed the pallet on
which the prisoner was seated ; but a strong red
light from the torch the attendant held, ftared
Digitized by Coogle
3'28
bi'Oadly on the nrch of the door under which the
figures appeared. They approached· with a motion
that seemed simultaneous and involuntary-and
uttered together, in accents that seemed to issue
from one mouth, 'Deliver your child touts !• In a
voice as hoarse, dry, and natureless, the prisoner
answered, ' Take it I'
''The men looked about the cell-it seemed as if
they knew not where to find the offspring of
humanity amid the cells of the Inquisition. The
prisoner was silent and motionless during their
search. It was not long--the narro\v apartment,
the scanty furniture, afforded little room for the
investigation. When it was concluded, however,
the prisoner, bursting into a wild laugh, exclaimed,
'Where would you search for a child but in its
mother's bosom ? Here-here it is-take it-take
it !' And she put it into their llands. ' Oh what
fools ye were to seek my child any where but on
its mother's bosom ! It is yours now! she
shrieked m a voice that froze the officials ;-' take it
-take it from me I'
" The agents of the holy office advanced ; and
the technicality of their movements was somewhat
suspended when Isidora placed in their hands the
corse of her infant daughter. Around the throat of
the miserable infant, born amid agony and nursed
in a dungeon, there was a black mark, which the
officials made their use of in representing this ex-
traordinary circumstance to thr. holy office. By
some it was deemed as the sign impressed by the
evil one at its birth-by others as the fearful effect
of maternal despair.
Digitized by Coogle
329
"It was determined that the prisoner ahould
appear before them within l9ur-and-twenty houra,
IDd &OCOUDt for the death of her child•
• • • • •
" Within leu than half that number of hours, a
mightier arm than that of the Inquisition waa
dealing with the prisoner-an arm that seemed to
menace, 6ut waa indeed stretched out to save, and
before who.e touch the barriers of the dreaded
quiaition iblelf were aa frail as the fortress of the
spider who hwag her web on its walls. Isidora
was dying of a disease, not the less mortal because
it makes no appearance in an obituary-she waa
dying of that internal and incurable wound-a
broken heart.
" When the were at last convinced
tllat there was nothing more to be obtaine<l: by
torture, bodily or mental torture, they suffered her
to die unmolested, and granted her last request, that
Fra Jose might be permitted to visit her.
• • • • •
6' It was midnight--but its approach was unknown
ill that place, where day and night are the same.
A dim lamp was substituted for that weak and
struggling beam that counterfeited day-light. The
peaiteat was stretched on her bed of rest-the
humaDe priest sat beside her; and if his presence
gave no dipity to the scene, Jt at least seftened it by
the touches of humanity.
• • • • •
"My fatber,' said the dying Isidora, 'you pro-
DOGnced me forgiven.' 'Yea, my daughter.,' aaid
the priest ; ·'you have NSured me you are innocent
Digitized by Coogle
330
of the death of your infant.' ' You never could
have believed me guilty,' said lsidora, raising her-
self on her pallet at the appeal-' the consciousness
of its existence alone would have kept me alive,
even in my prison. Oh, my father! how was it
possible it could live, buried with me in this dreadful
place almost as soon as it received life? Even the
morbid nourishment it received from me was dried
up when my sentence was read. It moaned all
night-towards morning its moans grew fainter, and
I was glad-at last they ceased, and I was very
-happy !' But as she talked of this fearful
happiness, she wept.
"'My daughter, is your heart disengaged from
that awful and disastrous tie that bound it to mis-
fortune here, and to perdition hereafter ?' It was
long before she could answer ; at length she said in
a broken voice, 'My father, I have not now strength
to search or to struggle with my heart. Death
must very soon break every tie that was twined
with it, and it is useless to anticipate my liberation;
the effort would be agony,-fruitless agony,-for,
while I live, I must love my destroyer! Alas ! in being
the enemy of mankind, was not his hostility to me
inevitable and fatal ? In rejecting his last terrible
temptation-in resigning him to his destiny, and pre-
ferring submission to my own, I feel my triumph com-
plete, and my salvationassured.' 'Daughter, I do not
comprehend you.' 'Melmoth,' said Isidora, with
a strong effort-' Melmolh was here last night!-
within the walls of the Inquisition-within this
very cell !' The priest crossed himself with marks
of the profoundest horror, and, as the wind
Digitized by Coogle
331
boUuwly tnrough the long passage, almost expected ·
the shaken door would burst opeu, and diacloee the
figure of the Wamderer.
• • • . '
" ' My father, I have had many dreama,' an.awereci
the penitent, shaking her heaci at a suggestion of the
priest's, ' many-many wanderings, but this was ao
dream. I have dreamed of the garden-land where
I beheld him firat-1 have dreamed of the nights
when he atood at my casement, and trembled in
sleep at the sound of my mother's step-and I hav.e
had holy and hopeful wisions, in which celestial
forms appeued to me, and promised me his con-
Yersion this was no dream-I saw him lut
night! Father, he was here the whole night-be
promised-he asaured me-he acljured me to accept
of liberation and safety, of life and of felicity. He
told me, nor could I doubt him, that, by whatever
means ·he effected his entrance, he could also efFect
my escape. He oft'ered to live with me in that
Iodian isle-that paradise of oce&D, far from hum&D
reaort or hup1an persecution. He ofFered to love me
aloDe, and for then I listened to him.
Ob, my father, I am ve.., youug, and lite and love
sounded sweetly in eara, wben 1 looked at my
dungeon, and tbougbt of dying on this floor of stone!
But-when he whispered the lerrible condition on
which the fulfilment of his promise depended-
when he told me that-'
" Her voice failed with her failing strength, uui
abe .could utter no more. • Daughter,' said the
priest, bending over her bed, 'daughter, I adjw:e
you, by the image represented on this croas I hold
to your dyil;lg lips--by your hopes .of salvatiDo
TT
Digitized by Coogle
332
which depends on the truth you utter to me, your
priest and your friend-the conditions proposed by
your tempter!' ' Promise me absolution for repeating
the for I should wish that my last breath
might not be exhaled in uttering-what I must.'
'1'e absolvo,' &c. said the priest, and bent his ear to
catch the sounds. The moment they were uttered,
he started as from the sting of a serpent, and, seating
himself at the extremity of the cell, rocked in dumb
horror. 'My father, you promised me
said the penitent. 'Jam tibi dedi, moribunda,'
answered the priest, in the confusion of thoughts
using the language appropriated to the service of
religion. ' Moribunda indeed !' said the sufferer,
falling back on her pallet. ' Father, let me feel a
human hand in mine as I part !' ' Call upon God,
daughter!' said the priest, applying the crucifix to
her cold lips ' I loved his religion,' said the peni·
tent, kissing rt devoutly; ' I loved it before 1
knew it; and God must have been my teacher, for I
had no other! Oh !'she exclaimed, with that deep
conviction that must thrill every dying heart, and
whose echo (would to God) might pierce every living
one-oh that I had loved none but God-how
profound would have been my peace-how gloriou
my departure !-now-his image pursues me even
to the brink of the grave, into which I plunge to
escape it!'
" •My daughter,' said the priest, while the teara
rolled fast down his cheeks-' my daughter, you are
passing to bliss-the conflict was fierce and short,
but the victory is sure--harps are tuned to a new
song, even a song of welcome, and wrea,hs of palm
are weaving for you in paradise!' "
Digitized by GoogIe
333
"' Paradiare I' uttered Isidora, with her last breath
-· WiU he be there ?'
• • •
" here concluded the tale of the Indian,
-the victim of Melmoth's passion, no less than of
bis destiny, both alike unhallowed and unutterable.
And he announced his intention of disclosing to him
the fates of the other victims, whose skeletons were
preserved in the vaultof the Jew Adonijah in Madrid.
He added, that the circumstances relating to them,
were of a character still darker and more awful
than those he had recited, as they were the result of
impressions made on mLSCuline minds, without any
excitement but that of looking into futurity.· He
mentioned, too, that the circumstances of his
residence in the house ofthe Jew, his escape from it,
and the reasons of his subsequent arrival in Ireland,
were scarcely less extraordinary than any thing he
had hitherto related. Young Melmoth, (whose
name perhaps the reader has forgot), did •seriously
incline • to the .purpose of having his dangerous
curiosity further gratified, nor was he perhaps alto-
gether without the wild hope of seeing the original
of that portrait he had destroyed, burst from the
walls and take up the fearful tale himself.
"The narrative of the Spaniard had occupied
many days ; at. their termination, young Mdmoth
signmed to his guest that he was prepared to hear
the sequel.
"A night was fixed for the continuation of the
recital. Young Melmoth and his guest met him in
the usual apartment-it was a dreary, stormy night
-the rain that had fallen all day, seemed now to
have yielded to the wind, that came in strong and
Digitized by Coogle
.....
334
stldden bursts, suddenly hushed, as if collecting
strength for the tempest of the night. Monpda
• and Melmoth drew their chairs closer to the fire,
looking at each other with the aspect of men who
wish to inspire each other with courage to listen,
and to tell, and are more eager to inspire it, because
neither feels it himself.
"At length collected his voice and reso·
lution to proceed, but as he went on, he perceived
he could not fix his hearer's attention, and he paused.
" ' I thought/ said Melmoth, answering his
silence, ' I thought I heard a noise-
· as of.a person
walking in the passage.' 'Hush! and listen/ said
'I would not wish to be overheard/
They paused and held their breath-the sound was
renewed-it was evidently that of steps approaching
the door, and then retiring from it. ' We are
watched,' said Melmoth, half rising from his chair;
but at that time the door opened, and a figure
appeared at it, which recognized for the
subject af his narrative, and his mysterious visitor
in the prison of the Inquisition; and Melmoth for
the original of the picture, and the being whose un-
accountable appearance had filled him with con-
sternation, as he sat beside his dying uncle's bed.
"The figure stood at the door for some time, and
then advancing slowly till it gained the centre of the
toom, it remained there fixed for some time, but
without looking at them. It then approached the
table where the ysat, in a slow but distinctly heard
step, and stood before them as a living being. The
profound horror that was equally felt by both, was
differently expressed by each. · crossed
himself repeatedly, and attempted to utter many
Digitized by Coogle
prayets. Mclmoth, naile::\ to his chair, fixed hii
sightless eyes on the form that stood before him;-
it was indeed Me/moth the Wanderer-the same as ·
he was in the past century-the same as he may be
in centuries to come, should the fearful terms of his
existence be renewed . His 'natural force was not
abated; but ' his eye was dim/-that appalling and
supernatural lustre of the visual organ-that beacon
lit by an infernal fire, to tempt or·to warn the ad-
venturers of despair from that coast on which many
struck; and some sunk-that portentous light was
no longer Tisible..;.;..the form and figure were those of
a living man; of the age indicated in the portrait
which the young Melmoth had destroyed; but the
eyu were tU the e!Jes ofthe dead.
• • • • •
''As the Wanderer advanced still nearer, till his
figure touched the table, and Melmoth
started up in irrepressible horror, and stood in
attitudes of defence, though consciol.lS at the
moment that all defence was hopeless against a
being that withered and mocked at human power.
The Wanderer waved his arm with an action that
spoke defiance without hostility-and the strange
and solemn accents of the only human voice that
had respired mortal air beyond the period of mortal
life, and never spoken but to the ear of guilt or
suffering, and never uttered to that ear aught but
despair, rolled slowly on their hearing like a peal
of distant thunder.
"Mortals! you are here to talk of my destiny,
and of the events which it has involved. That
destiny is accomplished, I believe; and with it
tt.rminate those events that have stimulated your
'
Digitized by Coogle
336
wild and wretched curiosity. I am here to tell you
of both !-1-1 of whom you speak, am here!-
Who can tell so well of Melmoth the Wanderer as
himself, now that he is about to resign that ex·
istence which has been the object of terror and
wonder to the world ? Melmoth, you behold your
ancestor-the being on whose portrait is inscribed
the date of a century and a half, is before you,-
you see an acquaintance of a later date.'
-(A grim smile of wandered over his
features as he spoke).-· Fear nothing,' he added,
observing the agony and terror of his involuntary
hearers. ' What have you to fear ?' he continued,
while a flash of derisive malignity once more lit up
the sockets of his dead eyes-' You, Senhor, are
armed with your beads-and you, Melmoth, are
fortified by that vain and desperate inquisitiveness,
which might, at a former period, have made you
my victim,-(and his features underwent a short
out horrible convulsion)- but now makes you only
my mockery.
• • • • •
"' Have you aught to quench my thirst?' he
adued, seating himself. The senses of
and his companion reeled in delirious terror, and
the former, in a kind of wild confidence, filled a
glass of water, and offered it to the Wanderer with
a hand as steady, but colder, as he would
have presented it to one who sat beside him in
human companionship. The Wanderer raised it to
his lips, and tasted a few drops, then placing it on
the table, said with a laugh, wild indeed, but no
longer ferocious-' Have you seen,' said he to
and MclmotlJ, who gazed with dim and
Digitized by GoogIe
337
troubled sight on this vision, and wist not what to
think-' have you seen the fate of Don Juan-not u
be is pantomimed on your paltry stage, but as he ia
represented in the real horrors of his destiny by the
Spanish writer? There the apectre returns the
hospitality of his inviter, and summons him in tum
to a feast. The banquet-hall is a church;-he
arrives-it is illuminated with a mysterious light-
invisible hands hold lamps fed by no earthly
substance, to light the apostate to his doom ! He
enters the church, and is greeted by a numerous
company-the spirits of th(lse whom he has wronged
and murdered, uprisen from their charnel, and
swathed in shrouds, stand there to welcome him !
As he passea among them, they call on him in
hollow sounds to pledge them in goblets of blood
which they present to him-and beneath the altar,
by which stands the spirit of him whom the
parricide has.murdered, the gulph of perdition ia
yawning to receive him! Through such a band I
must soon prepare to Pass !-IsidoraI thy form will
be ·the last I must encounter-and-the most
terrible! Now for the last drop I must taste of
earth's produce-the last that shall wet my mortal
lips!' He slowly finished the draught of water.
Neither ofhis companions had the power to speak.
He sat down in a posture of heavy musing, and
neither ventured to interrupt him•
." They kept silence till the morning was dawning,
and a faint light streamed through the closed
abutters. Then the Wanderer raised his heavy
eyes, and fixed them on 1\lelmoth. ' Your ancestor
baa come home; he said ; •his wanderings are oTer I
-what baa been told or believed of me is now of
Digitized by Coogle
338
avail to me. The seca·et of destiny rests
with myself. If all that fear has invented, and
credulity belie,·ed, of me be true, to what does it
amount? That if my crimes have exceeded those
of mortality, so will my punishment. I have been
on earth a terror, but not an evil to its inhabitants.
None can participate in my destiny but with his
own consent-none have eonsented ;-none can be in-
volved in its tremendous penalties, but by participa-
tion. I alone must sustain the penalty. If I have
put forth my hand, and eaten of the fruit of th£
interdicted tree, am I not driven from the presenct
of God and the religion of paradise, and sent t(j
wander amid worlds of barrenness, and curse for·
ever and ever ?
" ' It has been reported of me, that I obtained
from the enemy of souls a range of existence beyond
the period allotted to mortality-a power to pass
over space witho.ut disturbance or delay, and visit
remote regions with the swiftness of thought-to
encounter tempests without the hope of their blasting
me, and penetrate into dungeons, whose bolts were
as flax and tow at my touch. It has been said that
this power was accorded to me, that I might be
enabled to tempt wretches in their fearful hour of
extremity, with the promise of deliverance and
immunity, on condition of their changing situations
with me. If this be true, it bears attestation to
a truth uttered by the lips of one I may not name,
and echoed by e¥ery human heart in the habitable
world.
" ' No one has ever exchanged destinies with
Melmoth the Wanderer. I have traversed tile world
in the search, and no one, to gain that u:orld, would lose
Digitized by Coogle
3J9
lui om Mnd/-Not Stanton in his cell-nor you,
in the prison of the Inquisition;_nor
Walberg,who saw his children perishing with want
-nor-another-·'
"He paused, and though on thP verge of his dark
and doubtful voyage, he seemed to cast one look of
bitter and retrospective anguish on the receding
shore of life, and see, through the mists of memory,
one form that stood there to bid him farewell. He
rose-• Let me, if possible, obtain an hour's repose.
Aye, repose-sleep!' be repeated, answering the
silent astonishment of his hearer's looks; •my ex-
istence is still human !'-and a ghastly and derisive
smile wandered over his features for the last time, as
be spoke. How often had that smile frozen the blood
of his victims ! -Melmoth and quitted the
apartment ; and the Wanderer, sinking .back in his
chair slept profoundly. He slept; but what were
the visions of his last earthly slumber?
'\
-
'' He dreamed that he stood on the summit of a
precipice, whose downward height no eye could
have measured, but for the fearful waves of a fiery
ocean that lashed, and blazed, and roared, at its
bottom, sending its burning spray far up, so as to
drench the dreamer with its sulphurous rain. The
whole glowing below was alive-every billow
bore an agonizing soul, that rose like a wreck or a
putrid corse on the waves of earth's oceans-uttered
a shriek as it burst against that adamantine precipice
--6unk-and rose again to repeat the tremendous
u u
Digitized by Coogle
340
experiment ! Every billow of fire was thus instinct
with immortal and agonizing existence,-cach W:lS
freighted with a soul, that rose on the burning wave
in torturing hope, burst on the rock in despair, added
its eternal shriek to the roar of that fiery ocean,
nnd sunk to rise again-in vain, and-for ever !
" Suddenly the Wanderer felt himself flung half-
way down the precipice. He stood, in his dream,
tottering on a crag midway down the precipice-he
looked upward, but the upper air (for there was no
heaven) showed only blackness unshadowed and im-
penetrable-but, blacker than that blackness, he
could distinguish a gigantic outstretched arm, that
held him as in sport on the ridge of that infernal
precipice; while another, that seemed in its motions
to hold fearful and invisible conjunction with the
arm that grasped him, as if both belonged to some
being too vast and horrible even for the imagery oi
a dream to shape, pointed upwards to a dial-plate
fixed on the top of that precipice, and which the
flashes of that ocean of fire made fearfully con-
spicuous. He saw the mysterious single hand
revolve-he saw it reach the appointed period of 150
years-(for in this mystic plate centuries were
marked, not hours)-he shrieked in his dream, and,
with that strong impulse often felt in sleep, burst
from the arm that held him, to arrest the motion of
the hand.
" In the effort he fell ; and falling, grasped at
aught that might save him. His fall seemed per·
pendicular-there was nOllght to save him-the
ruck was as smooth as ice-the ocean of fire broke
at its foot! Suddenly a group of figures appeared,
ascending as he fell. He gra$ped at them sue-
Digitized by Coogle
341
cessively ;-first Stanton· -then Walberg-Elinor
passed him ;-
to each he seemed in his slumber to cling in order
to break his fall-all ascended the precipice. He
caught at each in his downward flight, but all for-
lOOk him and ascended.
" His last despairing reverted glance waa fixed
on the of eternity : the upraised black arm
seemed to push forward the hand-it arrived at its
period-he fell-he su·nk-he blazed-he shrieked I
The burning waves boomed over his sinking head,
and the clock of eternity rung out its awful chime-
'Room for the soul of the Wanderer !'-and the
waves of the burning ocean answered, as they
lashed tile adamantine rock-' There il roona for
more!'-The Wanderer awoke."
"Melmoth and did not dare to approach
the door till about noon. They then knocked gently
at the door, and finding •ummons unanswered,
they entered slowly and irresolutely. The apart-
ment was in the same state in which they had left
it the preceding night, or rather morning; it was
dusky and silent, the shutters had not been opened,
and the Wanderer still seemed sleeping in his chair.
" At the sound of their approach he half started
up, and demanded what was the hour. They told
him. ' M!J hour il CM'IU: !' said the Wanderer ; ' it is
an hour you must neither partake nor witness-the
clock of eternity is about to strike, but its knell
must be unheard by mortal ears!' As he spoke
they approached nearer, and saw with horror the
change the last few hours had wrought on him.
The fearful lustre of his eyes had been deadened
Digitized by Google
342
before their late interview, but now the lines of
extreme age were visible in every feature. His
hairs were as white as snow, his mouth had fallen
in, the muscles of his face were relaxed and
withered-he was the very image of hoary decrepit
debility. He started himself at the impression
which his appearance visibly made on the intruders.
' You see what I feel,' he exclaimed; ' the hour, then,
is come. I am summoned, and I must obey the
summons-my master has other work -for me I
When a meteor blazes in your atmosphere-when a
comet pursues its burning path towards the sun-
look up, and perhaps you may think of the
condemned to guide the blazing and erratic orb.'
" The spirits, that had risen to a kind of wild
elation, as suddenly subsided, and he added,
•Leave me ; I must be alone for the few last hours
of my mortal existence-if, indeed, they are to be
the last.' He speke this with an inward shuddering,
that was felt by his hearers. ' Iu this apartment,•
he continued, •I first drew breath; in this I must
perhaps resign it ;-would-would I had never been
born!
• • • • •
"'Men-retire--leave me alone. Whatevernoises
you bear in the course of the awful night that is
approaching, come not near this apartment, at peril
of your lives. Remember,'--raising his voice, which
, still retained all its powers,-' remember your Jh·es
will be the forfeit of your desperate curiosity. For
the same stake I nsked more than life-and lost it!
-Be warned-retire t'
•They retired, and passed the remainder of that
day without even thinking of food, from that intense
Digitized by Coogle
343
and burning anxiety that 8P.emed to prey on fheir
very ¥itals. At night they retired, and though each
Ia) down, it wu without a thought of repoae. Re-
pose, indeed, would have been impossible. The
sounda that aoon after midnight to iuue
(rom the apartment of the Wanderer, were at
first of a description not io alarm ; b.ut they were
aoon exchanged for others of meA i1111ucri!HW/e
ltf»"f'fir, that Melmoth, though he had taken the pre-
caution of dismissing the servants to sleep in the
adjacent offices, began to fear that those sounds
might reach them, and, restless himself from in-
supportable inquietude, rose and walked up and
down the passage that led to that room of horror
Aa he was thus occupied, he thought he saw a figure
at the lower end of the passage. So disturbed was
his vision, that he did not at first recognize
. Neither asked the other the reason of
bis being there-they walked up and down together
silently.
" In a short time the sounds became ·so terrible,
that scarcely had the awful warning of the Wanderer
power to withhold them from attempting to burst
into the room. These noises were of the most
mixed and indescribable kind. They could not dis-
tinguish whether they were the shrieks of supplica·
tion, or the yell of blasphemy-they hoped inwardly
they might be the former.
" Towards morning the sounds suddenly ceased
-they totrt 1til/ed tu in a moment. The silence
that succeeded, seemed to them for a few momenta
more terrible than· all that preceded. After con-
sulting each other by a glance, they hastened
together to the apartment. They entered-it was
Digitized by Coogle
344
empty-not a vestige of its last iuhabit.ant was to be
traced within.
••After looking around in fruitless amazement,
they perceived a small door opposite to that by
which they had entered. It communicated with a
back staircase, and was open. As they approached
they discovered the traces of footsteps that
appeared to be those of a person who had been
walking ia damp sand or clay. These traces were
exceedingly plain : they followed them to a door
that opened on the garden-that door was opened
also. They traced the footmarks distinctly through
the narrow gravel walk, which was tenninated by a
broken fence, and opened on a heathy field which
spread half-way up a rock whose summit overlooked
the sea. The weather had beea rainy, and they
could trace the steps distinctly through that heathy
fieid. They ascended the rock together.
"Early as it was, the cottagers, who were poor
fishermen residing on the shore, were all up, and
assured Melmoth and his companion that they had
been disturbed and terrified the preceding night by
sounds which they could not describe. It waE
singular that these men, accustomed by nature and
habit alike to exaggeration and superstition, used
not the language of either on this occasion.
" There is an overwhelming mass of conviction
that falls on the mind, that annihilates idiom and
peculiarities, and crushes out truth from the heart.
waved back all who offered to accompany
him to the precipice which overhung the sea.
alone folowed him.
· " Through the furze that clothed this rock, almost
to its summit, there was a kind of tract as if a
Digitized by Google
345
penon had dragged, or been dragged, his way
through it- down-trodden tract, over which no
footsteps but those of one impelled by foree had
ever passed. Melmoth and gained at last
the Rummit of the rock. The ocean was beneath-
the wide, waste, engulphing oceanf On a crag
beneath them, something hung as .floating to the
blut. MeJmoth clambered down and caugbt it.
It was the handkerchief which the Wanderer had
worn about his neck the preceding night-tluzl UM8
lie /all trace ofIke Wanderer
" Melmoth and exchanged looks of
silent and 110utterable horror, and returned slowly
PnKD tile Rev. C. R. Matarin'a Tale of"M•ltnoti."
Digitized by Gooo:1
34G
THE ASTROLOGER, No.6.
TilE
HOROSCOPE OP A NOTED CHABACTEL •
· Cornmtmicated by a Scie11tific Corre11potule1Jt.
W. P. YOUNG, Esq.
BORN
Wednl'sdny, 29Jma. 1783.
11 h. 30m. P. i\1.
51°. 32 N.
B. P. BRITISH SERVICE.
Late Slate Pri•01u:r in Portugal.
}) 8 'I
l> Semiquarlile
&miquartile 'f1
0 Semiquarlile -!
Sesquiquadrale I§.
]) 6 h.
347
SJa,
This is a correct figure of the heavens at the birth
of a celebrated character who htU au.ffered imp1·i-
1011111ent in Portugal under A-lpl, and who is the
author of a valuable and interesting work just pub-
liahed, entitled, " A Narrative of the Imprisonment
and Trial of W. Young, Esq. &c. &c.; written by
himself." I had the honour of being introduced to
him a few days ago, when be gave me the time of his
birth, after I had lent him your " Prophetic Messen-
ger" for the ensuing year, which he looked into, and
expressed his opinion that the PREDICTioNs were
very likely to be verified.
XENOCRATES,
t Nov. 28, 1828, 1P' 45• A.M.
, in a in Apoge.
To Don Raphael, Aatro-Philo,
Author ofthe
" Familiar Astrologer."
'Xenocrates" baa our thanks for sending us this
horoscope, which the readers of the '' Familiar
Astrologer,. will to be worthy recording.
The author whose fate it registers, was certainly
born at a time when the positions in the firmament
were striking; and, astrologically speaking, remark-
ably curious. Travelling is very plainly denoted by
the Moon, Saturn and Jupiter being located in the
cardinal sign Capricorn, to which Mars in Sagitta-
rius added a powerful stimulus when that planet
aspected the principal significators by " qirection."
But the most singular positions in the figure are
the extraordinary junction of no less then six primary
planets in contiguous signs, and within 60 degrees
XX
o,9itized by Google
348
of each other ; three of the chiefstars being angular.
Saturn near the Moon, and the semiquartile of
s;aturn and Mercury were the configurations which
foretold imprisonment ; but Jupiter near Saturn
and. the three signifi<..ators, Saturn, Mars, and
Jupiter, in zodiacal parallel, imply unexpected aids,
helps, friends, and rescue therefrom.
We know nothing of the author, except by his
, book, which speaks, no doubt, the language of truth;
but Venus and Mercury, in conjunction in the scien-
tific sign Aquarius, denote a clever, ingenious mind,
and they give much of erudite abilities. Luna with
Saturn implies melancholy, or secret grief; but the
reigning stars, and the chief of the configurated sig-
nificators, evidently imply a public name, and either
employment relative to the government, or some-
thing of titular dignity, but many enemies; as the
Moon is not only afflicted by Saturn, but is approach-
ing to the opposition of Herschel. This same aspect
also contributes to throw many extraordinary obsta·
cles in the way of his advancement, and is evil
in· regard to marriage, if the native be married, of
which there seems some doubt. From the age of
42 years to nearly 52, the natives life is certain to
be extraordinary and eventful; and he must be
extremely careful of his pursuits, as well as of
enemies, ill-advisers. and, indeed, of his health,
from the age of 48 to 51t years. Late in life there
are many directions which portend good fortune.
Digitized by Coogle
GEOMANCY.
No. IV.
THE SENTENCE
or
.um
A8 THI
.JUDGE.
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0
00
0
(Jue1tioru.
Life .........
Money ••••••
Honour ••••••
Buslnel!l
Marriage
Pregnancy•••.
Sicknel!l ....
Imprisonment .
Journey•••• •.
Thing lost
0
0 0
00
00
..
0 0
0
0 0
0
0 0
0
0 0
0
Long.
Mean.
Mean.
Luclry.
.41011.
DfJnbtful.
Good.
Found.
0
0
00
0
Lite • •• ••••. Meanly ltnag.
Money •• •••. Etil.
Honour ••••• • Ill.
Businesa •• ••• II/.
Marriage • ••• Ill.
Pregnancy. ••• .4. ton.
Slckuera •••.
Jmpritonment . &cape1.
Journey..... . Ecil.
Thing latt • . Partjnun,f.
350
0 0 00
0 0 0
0 0 00
0 00 00
0
00
0
Queltioru. Atlltl!m.
Life ........ Long.
Money •••••• Fwtu'IUitt.
Honour •••••• Good.
Buainel!l ....
Marriage ••••
Pregnancy• •••
....
Jmprilonment •
Journey••••••
Thing lost
0
0
00
0
..
0 0
0
00
0
Good.
.4-.
HealtA.
DeatA.
Meu.
Foew/.
0
0 0
0 0
0 0
!-Life • •• •• •• • Meanly
Money •••••• Mta.
Honour... •• • Met/lfl.
Bualneu • •• •
Marriage • ••• InJi.ffwertl.
Pregnancy. ••• .4 ,....
Sicknesa • • •• n..lt/1.
Imprisonment . Collw *·
Journey...... M-.
Thing lost • . Found.
Digitized by Coogle
co 0
00 0 0
00 0
00 0 0 0
0 0
0
0 0
Atu_,.
l.lfe •••••••• ......
....,....·
... Gwtl.
...... 10.
..... .. Bflil•
....
........... · Vlllwlry•
.ltloiAkr.
..._ ....
•.,..Dmat.
J--,•..... . llw'l.
narlolt•••• Prlrl/flfi'Ml.
0
00
00
00 0
0 0
0
00
0 0
00
0
00
Life.. 0 • • • • • • • llM!rl.
.....,. o••••• ....
B..-oooo•• .....
..... oo•• lfllli.IWMI.
......... o.o. Ntllpxl.
..........,.... DDrAUr>.
. . _ ••o. Pmlow.
bipdloDIIIeDt. c-. 0111.
kcntttt••o • • • Valvclry
TIIIDrbt.ooo P•tftlfiU.
:Ml
0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0
0 0
Qwmoru. Atu!IIWI.
ure ••....•. 8114rt•.
MODeJ ••••••
Hoooar •••••• Bllil.
BIIIID• .... fhl/wtwau.
Marrllse •••• Vlllwlty.
A4auiAUr•
Slclme.••••••
18tplllouaeDt •
JOQJ'D.,••••••
1'hiD«lo.t••0 .
0 0
00
0
00 0
00
0
00
II«U14.
a..•.
ltktlfl•
Ntllfo!MJ.
0
00
00
00
Qwmoru. .Arawlw•.
Llle ooo•• •• • &tAw llmr.
MoDeJ •••••• o-J.
Ho11011r •••o • th«l.
llant.p ....
P.N8JIIIDC7ooo. A -
81cJEDe. ••o. llnUII•
I
lepdlrnmaeat. a-,,
JOIII'DeJ ..0 • • • 'ltiiN it.
Thlq lolt. •• Pfll'lftiWtll.
Digitized by Coogle
352
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 00
0 0
Quellillfll. A1UV1n'1. .,,.,..,.,,
IJie ••••••· •. Mealy km8• Life .........,
Mone, ••••••• btdfffenrst. Mone7 •••••• UtaJ-,.
.
Honour•••••• Jtlea. ••••••
Bualoeu. •••• Bualllea ..... Ur.luclrf,
Marriage .... Moderate. Mll'rillgt .... &til.
l'nlgnllllcy••••
.4 ""'· PregoaDC)'••.• • .,,.,
l!llcklleas...... HeQ/111, Slclmea••••••
Jmpriloomeat. CO'IIaeOIII. lmprlloomeat Come 0111.
Journey•••••. Good. Joaroey...... ltldi.ffemat.
Tblog lott•••• ThiDglOit ...
0 00 00 0
0 0 0 0
0 00 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
(/IHitiOftl, AttltDft"l, Qut:lliOJU, .,,_,,
Life ...,...... Moderauly lo111 Llle •.••••••• SNJrt.
Mooe7 ...... ltldiff'erml. Moue7 ••••••
Li""·
Honour...... 111411. Honor ••••••• ..v-.
Bwlaeu ..... Moderate. BualDela ••••• Bllil.
ll1111iage ..... &ther 8*· Marriage .... tTIIlwo9·
PreglllUIC)'•••• A 1011. PreguaDC)'•••• A,..,
SickDEliS•••••• HetJit4. SlckDOU...... HeQ/tj.
lmprlaoomeot CuJMD!It. Imprlaonmeot C.Votd.
Jollllley•••••• Lrue. Jouroe7 ••••• .Gettl.
Tiling lott•••• Liltk furutd. Thing lost•••• . Ntlf.-1·
...-...... Digitized by Coogle
353
00 0 c e 0 0 0
e<» 0 0 00
0 0 0 0
0 0 ct 00 0 0 00 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
Qumou. ,A,..w.. •
.,___
Life ••••••••
llltbrei•IJ ltntl Life ........ L.l·
.._, ······ Ilea. M'oJ181 •••••• .
lloooar ......
'-·· Hoaoar ••••••
·--····· OOOtl. Ball- ••••• FortwuJu.
llurlap ••••• Marrt8«e ••••• Lwq.
Afe-k. l'repaacy•••• .,_
lhltA. Slckoea ••••• liMItA.
l•pdloluDeat Jkclj. lmprhoomeot
Joamey•••••• lh-.
Joarney ····1 E.r«llnal.
Tblllfrlolt•••• FllfiJtli. TbiDf l01t •••• F1111f14.
c 0 0 0 00
0 0 O•O 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 00 0
0 0 ct 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
00 0 0
Qw•liMU. AII4VNn. Qw1tiGIU. A_,.
Life ........ SNrl. Life ••••••••• SMrt.
IIOIK'J ...... &tlwr nil. MODIIJ ....... Not I*·
ROIIOQr ••••• • Not,-. HoDOQI' •••••• &il.
a..- ..... Notl11cq. Blllioen ••••• &il.
lfaorlap ••••• Uaf.rt.ao. M.m.,e ••• Rl-faietl.
DDI4kr• PrepiiiiCJ••••
.,__
.... I' 8lckaetl ••••• HraltA.
IIDpri--at. lhnln'fiiU. lmprhoDJDeat UIMO 71CI.
J--,...... LeU. Jouraey•••••• 81-.
TlaiD!flolt.... Pllrlf.-4. TbJDf JOlt•••• Pari fnrttl.
Digitized by Google
00
00
0
00 00
0
0 0
0
Life ......... .
0 0
0
0
0
Lo•g.
Money , •, ..• Fortwud6.
Honour •••••• Ez«lknt.
BUJineu ,. .... PFWJiffOIU•
Marriage.....
Pregnancy••••
Slckneu ...... Heallh.
Jmprlaooment. Ru11 fiWG!/•
Journey......
Tbing loot.... FC811d.
0 0
0
0 0
0 0 0
00
c
00
0
0
0
00
--- ---,------.
ILife ........
Money ......
Honour ..... .
BIJiineu •••••
Marriage .•••
8/wrt.
&il.
Tediotu.
Pnpancy.... A dau1Mw.
SieU....... . ll'nlth.
Jmprl10nment. Dl•t out.
Journ,.y...... 111.
Tbing lolt. ••• ll'ot /Nu.
354
0 0
0
0
0 0 0
0
0 0
0
0 0
00
0
00
(/wltiOIU, ,A__,.,
Life •••••••.. Ltntllif•·
Money •••••• Gretll -rd.
Honour ..•••• Good.
Bulneu .. •• •
Marriage •• •• • E.rt:61/at.
Pregnancy•••• A
Sick- •... .. &.liA.
Jmprbonment. Ptri/0111.
Journey.,. ••• M-.
Tblng Jolt.... FtltRIII.
0
0
0
00 0
o. 0
0
0 0
Qu61tio>u.
00
0
00
00
Life •..•.. •..• 8/wrt,
Moner. •••••• Lou.
Honour.......
Bullneu ••••.. &il.
Marriqe. • •. U•hdf·
Pregnancy•••• A-.
Sick-. ••••• JWJa.
Imprilonmeot. Coat tlfll.
Journey... ..• Q.J.
Tblng lolt.... Nt11 f•"'·
Digitized by Google
3;)l)
00 0 0 0 0 0 0
c. 0 0 0 0
"
0 o · 0 c 0 c 0 0
C . O 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
c 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
fiw•tionu, AMtMrl, QwltiutU. AIUIDtrl.
Life ........ Meanly lotlg. Ll'e ........ Short•
Mooe7 ••••.• J..di.fft1t'etd. Mont•y ····-· Fnlw:lry.
Honour ...... Mean. Honour ...... Evil.
Busiorn .... Mean. Bu•inra Unfi,.t!Uiale.
Marriage ••• • Evil. Mouriage Euil.
P"'guancy•• • • Daughter. Pregnancy••• . A11111.
Sic:lmns .... Helllf4. Sicknes• .... Dangt:r.
lmrruonment • Di.J!iculty. lmprlaoument. Ptri/IJUI,
JourneJ...... Eui/. JourneJ...... Unhlcky.
Tbi'Jg loll .. Part TIJ111Ioat•• ••
0 0 0 Q 0 0
0 0 c G 0 0 0 c
0 0 c 0 0 ()
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 e
0 0
() 0 0 0
QMeltiotu. Que•tilllll.
LiCe ........ Jfeanly lo11g. Life
········ Jleu11.
Moae1 ...... E11il. Mo!ley ... . .. J.lea11.
Honeur.•• •••• . E,;l• Honour • •••••
au.aoe. Bad. Busioea lndipn111.
Marriage Bad, Muriage Eflil.
Protpanq•••• A lirl. ••• A-id.
Slc:k.... .... IIHltA. Siclmea••••••
r.,neonmeot. c-#!lfll. lmprisooment • a-. Ofll.
Joarue,)'•••••• l'ery lllle. Journey...... m-.
. Tbias lod••••
I
Thing •... Not/Oil7111,
-· y y
Digitized by Google
0 0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0
0
0
0
(JuulitnU.
Life ........
Money ••••••
Honour ••••••
Busloea
Marriage
Pregnaocy••••
Slclro-••••••
Impriloomeot •
Jolltlley••••••
Tblog loet••••
0
0
00
0
Life ••••••••
MoJ11!1 ••••••
Ho- ••••••
Marriage ••••
Prepaocy •••
Slclr-••••••
lmprt-ment .
Journey••.•••
ITblog loet ••••
0
Ann«n.
Shtwt.
CTnforltltttJM.
IM•.
&pm-aliOII.
Dangt!f".
IJflllgtfr.
lUftd.
Notjtlfllll.
00
0
0
0
Jlod#raU.
Bflil.
&d.
M,.,._..
...
Hftlll4.
Jhlt.
Flltlflll.
3;)6
I'
0 0 oc
e 00
00 00
00 00 0
0
00
0
flw•ti-.
......__
Life ........ Metlllly - ,•
Money •••••• M-.
HODOGr •••••• ltfllif-t.
Bwdo- .... Nollf*l•
Marrlep ••:. Bflil.
PregoaDCY····
Slckoea•••••• &.ule.
ImpriloiiDieot •
Journey•••••• IU ftll.
Tblog Loet .. PGrljllflftll.
00
0
0
0 0
0 0 .
0
00
(/wltifiU.
0
0
00
0
Lite •••••••• ...,_
Mooey ••••••
Hoaour...... ...,_
••• • 11tM.
Maniap •... l1lwlioI ltr,
.Preguuq.•• • Jl....
Slclal•...... llriiiM.
Imprf_n, . 0... filii.
Jouroe.y...... lltM.
Tblog loet.... f-!1.
Digitized by Coogle
357
0 0 0 c
0 0 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 0 0 0 0
o. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
q.atiOIU. .,_.,... Queditm•. AnftDw•.
I
' LUe ••••••• &flicial. Life ........ ModeraklyltAtt·
Moaq ••••••. · Money ...... lndijferenl.
Roaour ...... M-. Honour ...... Eoil.
I
Basm- .... Jlotkrate• Buslnea .... Mean.
Kanlap .. Marrl.ge •••• Mean.
l'reguanCf••••
.4 -·
Pregnancy.... A 11Uiid.
Siekae. .... Heall4• SlckDMI......
llmpriloDJDent. Cumeoul. lmpriloument. Dtutgerou.
Joomey...... Slow. Journl'y......
1
Eoil.
j Tblng la.t•••• NotformJ. Tiling la.t...., Foimd.
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
f/lle.tiOIU.
.. .. Q.e•tiou.
.,___
Li(e ........ ..,.. Life
········ Mea11•
......
·-· Money ...... M-.
llooour ...... 11-. Honour ...... lnd{ftret1f.
Busiot!U M«iilf.att1. Bulin- .... lndi.ffwenl.
Marriage Good. Marriage •••• Moderau.
Preguaey.... ..,,... Prrsnancy•••• A maid.
SickHu•••••• Pmttnu. Slckneu•••••• Deat4.
Iapr18onment •
Cume '*'· I mprl10n111ent • Cfi/IMDUI.
Joamq...... m.. Journey•••••• Mean.
Tllblg la.t•••• NolftnUtd. Thing loat•••• Fllfllld.
o,gitized bvGoogle
35H
THE ASTROLOGER, No. VII.
X EN 0 CR ATE S,
A Lawyer,
Now living In London, a111l still
to labour nt the oar
for hisaupport ;
Near Leicester-square,
Sunday, Hb. lOth, 1760,
4 A. 40m. A. :.r.
CALCULATION OF THE HOROSCOPE.
By an Amateur.
LIFE.
fhe 0, who is evidently hyleg, posited in tltc
first house in cS with 'lf., and aspect with the D , who
Digitized by GoogIe
359
ia in the lOth, also unafBicted by the malefics, givea
abale constitution and long life; more especially as
0 is rising to , and elevated above t, • The
chief interruption of health will be at ltDent!J;ftw:,
short but violent, at thirt!J-«Vm, at forl!J-Jiw:, and
finally at #Vml!J-four.•
DISEASES.
and the e in • and M show accidents of the
lower extremities, and probably gout; 8 in ••
jloints out affections of the bowels, such a& inflam-
mations arising from taking cold in the feet, and
obstruction of perspiration. In fact, these positions
denote a cold and dry constitution.
FOilTUNE.
&, who assumes dominion of EB, is retrogade in "l.
occidental, and out of all his dignities ; which,
with " exactly on the cusp of the second, clearly
show that the native's substance will never increase.
The EB, however, being in A to Q, 11., and ,
denote that he will acquire more possessive property
in the early part of life (they being also angular),
than· he will be able to retain at a later period ; be-
cause the e is occidental ; but as e is in a trine
aspect to all theae, we may safely venture to say
that the native will never want.
• ll«iMrrU ti-"'-
'ne ..otla of XeDDCratlll died wbea be wu II yean of tis. In I'I'll .
x-ratet manted a •ad amiable wtfe In 1'184, who wu u beautiful in ber
lltlllln u ber .UDd wu eupglq aDd IOYely; and after ll•lng with ber 38 yean,
• departed tbla life OD the bt or No•ember, 1821.
Oa the lilt of Marcb, J'llrr, XeDOCnltes broke bis rlgllt leg jumpiDg oo
ol a earr1qe wbile tbe .__ wwe I'IUIDing a-y, wblch bappen..I about ball.
put eJsbt or nine In tbe nentns,alld bls father died In the latter end or the same
JIV; aDd the 7ear l19T wu In other respects a101t unfortuaaw.
Digitized by GoogIe
HONOUtR.S.
Bothe and » being angular, D in a masculme,
e in a feminine .sign, the native will obtain some
official situation in early life, and of great respect-
ability ; but, from.the near approach of 11 to the e.
he will not hold it for any considerable period,
although capable of fulfilling its duties with credit
and reputation ; and the mundane o between o
and D, shows discord and private enemies to be the ,
cause. o posited in an airy sign, and making
application to 11, indicate that tardiness and inac-
tivity will, throughoutlife, leada strongtincture to his
character, and which will inftuence him against his
interest in almost every situation.
KARRIAGE
Wi:I take place early in life, as the l> is oriental,
angular, and applying to ll. and e; but they are not
strong, occidental, and the application to 11 will
make her application to the G of none effect, though
in the same sign with ll.. Consequently there will
be but one marriage ; ll. its. significator., and lf. 1n =
descriptive of the wife's person.
CHILDREN.
\Ve here find no planets in the tenth or eleventh,
fourth or fifth, except the D in t , who is there but
weak, it being a masculine, though a double-bodied,
sign. She might, indeed, from her position, give
one, but the » * o b., o e, o JL and tbe
o of Q 11. 11 , both to the tenth and fourth are
so many strong testimonies agaiast living issue, that
it is not probable there could be any to live to years
of maturity.
Digitized by Coogle
361
TRAVELLING
Will not be much, from 'soccidental posi-
tion, there will be some. being dispositor of
, indicates that it will be on literary or professional
pursuits; and the part of Fortune being disposed of
by 8 , and assisted by a aspect of the Q, '2f., and
that it will be attended with profit; and, from
the of i to with pleasure and amusement.
PROFESSION.
11 making oriental appearance next before the Q,
would render the mind studious and attentive to
literature ; '2f. also in =, nearest the 0, indicates
connexion with papers ; and being so near the
ascendant, influences the character and disposition
through life, giving it a turn for science, literature, &c.
MIND.
in a tropical sign, shows it to be highly inge-
nious and active, with a tincture of ambition, but
the 7> in the tenth, and in 'Vi, gives a variable in-
clination, roving from one science to another. The
e, 'lf., and in ::::, and in IIJ4, show an attach·
ment to the more abstruse branches of science, as
philosophy, occult sciences, astrology, &c.
TO THE J::DITOR OF THE FA?tiiLIAR ASTROLOGER.
8m,
Perhaps my nativity is scarcely worthy of pub-
lication, though there is a wonderful coincidence
between the positions and aspects of the heavenly
bodies, and many of the events of my life. The
Digitized by Coogle
362
commencement of my earthly career was remark-
able, as niy birth was a very difficult one, being
ushered into the world with my feet foremost, which
seldom occurs, though it is supposed by some to be
a token of superior strength in the child while in
the womb. About forty-five years ago, a learned
astrologer calculated my nativity, which I soon
afterwards lost; but I remember it concluded by
stating, that if I lzad been born a king, I slwuld
11ever be out of trouble; and if I had been born a
beggar, I should never want. This has rea}ly proved
correct: I have always been in the habit of antici·
pating evils, although I have of late found some
relief from the consolations of religion. The same
astrologer calculated the nativity of the present King,
when Prince of Wales ; and observed, that if ever
his Royal Highness should have the command of an
army, he would conquer the most pou·erful foe; and so
it turned out many years afterwards; for, when be
became Prince Regent, and had the supreme com-
mand of the British forces, he ultimately overcame
even Napoleon himself, who was the greatest and
the bravest General that ever led an army to the
field. So much for the ofjudicial astrology.
I shall only add, that I hope the foregoing horoscope
will, by developing the wonderful truth of the
science, interest your numerous admirers, amongst
whom may be classed your correspondent,
XENOCRATES.
To Don Raphael.
Digitized by Coogle
363
TO THE EDITOR OF TJI.i FAlJILJAa ASTJlOLOGER.
81B,-The following I have laid down as the fun-
damental principlu on which to found my astrolo-
gical judgment ; and, would it not give you too
much trouble, I beg that you will have the kindness
to insert them in your valuable pages. Observe,
Sir, these principles regard onl!J NAT1vJn.u, and
not horary question-schemes.
The significations orthe planets are three-natu,.al,
or derived from the houses of which they are
the rulera : natural, u -. of and e of IO'Ve ;
flu/, as j{ " be in the 1eventh houee, he is, though
DOt the lord of teveDth, aod though eignifying
oaturally, riclaet, &c., the tigniftcator of or
ntruv.ED from the hOWJes of which they are the
rolert ; u if 1 be ;, the fifth. and /Qrd Q{ the
second house, though no significator of riches by
llature or locality, he is a significator of riches.
The uouua of the planets do, in all cases, retain
the significations given them by the most experienced
and enlightened astrologers ; and, in every case,
are of fortunate or unfortunate import, according to
their strength or weakneas, the good or evil planets
which have taken up their abode in them, and the
favourable or unfavourable aspects with whieh they,
or the planets in them, or their lords, are beheld :
though the ruler of a houae may, from tlte 1ign of
it, be very weak, yet from any of the bcne\'olent
z z
Digitized by Coogle
304
planets choosing that bouse for a residence, or from
the good aspects towards it, or towards the lord of
it, who is hereby rendered strong, abundaace of
good may, by such house, be prefigured. Planets
are rendered as powerful or debilitated by t11p«11, as
by sign.
This, Sir, for the present, is my Astrological Creed.
J. s.
Brat/ford, Yorkskire.
REMARKABLE EVENTS
Which have hefallen certain Per10n1 on tlze .Annitttr·
1ary oftheir Birth, andotlterparticular Day1.
TuE ancients used to celebrate the annual retam
of their birthdays with feasting, music, sports,
mutual presents, and whatsoever else might serve
to entertain with highest solemnity the revisits of
that light wherein they first beheld the world; but
notwithstanding which it may truly be said with the
poet,
"No day from sadnCIII so exempt appears,
As not to minister new cause of fean.••
.:
B.u.ulft.
ANTIPATER SJDONIU8.
Antipater Sidonius, the poet, throughout the whole
space of his life, every year, for only one day, that
is to say, the day whereon he was born, W88 seized
with a fever ; and when he lived to a great age, by
the certain return of his wonted disease, be died
llpon his birthday.
Digitized by Coogle
365
ELIZABETH.
Elizabeth, the eldest daughter of King Edward ·
the Fourth, and eighteen years the wife of·King
Henry the Seventh, died ia child-bed, in the Tower
of London, the 11th of February, the very day
upon which she was born.
Al.i:XANDER THE GREAT.
Alexander the Great is said to have been hom
upon the 6th day of the month Targelion, and also
to have died on the same-that is, on the 6th of
February.
CAIUS JULIUS CESAR.
Caius Julius was born in the ides of March,
and, by a conspiracy of the Nobles, was slain in the
Senate-bouse upon the same, although he was fore
warned to take care of them.
ANTONIUS CARACALLA.
Antonius Caracalla.. the emperor, was slain by
Macrinus, the pnetorian prefect, at Carris, in Meso-
potamia, upon his birthday, which was the 6th of
the ides of April, the twenty-ninth of his age, and
the sixth of his empire.
POPE GREGORY.
Pope Gregory the Great was born and died upon
the MJme day, upon the 4th of the ides of March.
GARSIAS.
Garsias, the great grandfather to Petrarcb, having
lived one hundred and four years, died, as did also
/ -
Digitized by Coogle
366
Plato, on the very day of his nativity, and in the
same chamber wherein he was born.
CHARLES THE GREAT.
The emperor Charles the Great was buried at
Aquisgrave, upon the same day whereon he was
born, A. D. 810.
JllELANCTHON.
Philip Melancthon died A. D. 1560, in the sixty-
third year of his age, and upon the Jay of his
nativity, which was the 13th of the calends of May.
CHARLES THE FIFTH,
The emperor Charles the Fifth was born on the
day of Matthias the Apostle; on which day, also
in the course of his life, was King Francis taken by
him in battle, and the victory likewise won at Cic-
caque : he was also elected and crowned emperor
on the same day ; and many other great fortunes
befel him still on that day.
0 F 11.1 US H l L A R US,
M. Ofilius Hilarus, an actor of comedies, after be
had highly pleased the people upon his birthday,
kept a feast at home in .his own. house ; and when
supper was upon the table, he called for a mess of
hot broth, and casting his eye upon the vizor he bad
worn that day in the play, he fitted it again to his
face, and taking off the garland which he wore upon
his bare head, he set it thereupon: in this posture,
disguised as he sat, he died, and became cold. before
any person in the company knew any thing of the
matter,
o,9itized by Google
367
AUGUSTUS CJE5A R.
Augustus. Cresar had certain anniversary sick
nesses, and such as did return at a stated and
certain time: he commonly .languished about the
time of his birthday, which was the 9th of the
calends of October.
TIMOLEON.
Timoleon, general or the Syracusans, obtained
the greatest of his victories upon his birthday,
which thereupon was annually and universally cele-
brated by the Syracusans, as a day to them of good
and happy fortune.
JULIUS C.iESA R.
It is said of Julius Cresar, that he found the ides
of July to be very happy and auspicious to him ; at
which time he was also born.
PHILIP 01' )[ACEDON.
King Philip of Macedon used to celebrate the
day of his birth with extraordinary joy, as the mos
favourable and fortunate to him of all other ; for
once upon that day he bad a triplicity of good tidings
-that he was victor in the chariot-race in the
Olympics; that Parmenio, his general, had gained
a most important \'ictory; and that the queen
Olympias was delivered of his son Alexander.
OPHIONEUS.
Ophioneus was one amongst the Messenians who
bad ·the gift of prophecy ; and Pausanias says of
him, that immediately after his birthday.he was
Digitized by Google
368
annually stricken with blindness. Nor is this less
wonderful in the same person-that after a vehe-
ment fit of the head-ache he would begin to see;
and then presently fall from thence into his former
blindness again.
HENRY THE EIGHTH.
It is a note worthy to be remembered, that Tkurs-
day was observed to be a day fatal to King Henry
the Eighth, and to all his posterity; for be himself
died on Thursday, the 28th of January; King
Edward the Sixth, on Thursday, the 6th of July;
Queen Marv, on Thursday, the 17th of November;
and Queen Elizabeth, on Tllursday, the 24th of
March.
FRANCISCUS BA UDUIES.
Franciscus Baudimes, an abbot, a citizen of Flo-
rence, and well known in the court of Rome, died
upon the anniversary return of his birth-day, which
was upon the 19th day of December, and was buried
in the church of St. Silvester in Rome; and it was
the observation of him that made his funeral elegy,
that the number 9 did four times remarkably happen
in his affairs; he was hom on the nine-teenth day,
and died on the same, being aged twenty-nine, and
died in the year of our Lord, 1579.
POPE SIXTUS .
Wednesday is said to have been fortunate to Pope
Sixtus the Fifth; on that day he was born, on
that day made a monk, on the same day of the week
created a general of his order, on the same day made
Digitized by Coogle
369
cardinal, on the same day made pope, and on the
same day inaugurated.
GONSALVO.
Friday was observed to be very lucky to the great
Captain Gonsalvo, who_ on that day repeatedly
conquered the French.
HENRY THE SEVENTH.
In like manner, Saturday was peculiarly fortunate
to Henry the Seventh.
RAPHAEL.
Raphael de lTrhino, who, by the consent ofman-
kind, ia acknowledged to be the Prince of modern
and often styled the '' divine Raphael,"
as well for the grandeur of his conception as the
inimitable graces of his pencil, was born on Good
Friday, Anno 1483. As a reward for his consum-
mate merit, he had hopes of receiving a cardinal's
cap, but falling ill of a fever, death deprived him of
the expected honour, on Good Friday, 1520.
OLIVER CROMWELL.
The 3d of September was a remarkable day in
the history of Oliver Cromwell. On that day, 1650,
he gave the Scots, whom he hated and despised, a
total overthrow at the battle of Dunbar. On that
day twelvemonth he defeated Charles the Second
at Worcester ; and on that day, in the year 1658,
he gave up the ghost, in the midst of one of the
greatest storms that was ever known· in England.
o,9itized by Goo le
...
370
CONVERSATIONS UPON ASTROLOGY.
No. I.
TAKEN FRO.alTHE MEMORANDA OF THE MERCURlt.
l'reset.t-RAPHAEL, t!te S.-cretary, and lfletnbers.
·Raphael.-" The usual attention of our Society
relative to affairs of its own immediate interest being
over, it now remains for us to join in scientific
discussion."
Captain B.-'' I shall begin by resuming my
former queries upon the effects of transits. Allow
me, therefore, to ask your opinion, Raphael, upon
the effects which the transit of Saturn in Leo will
have in my horoscope ?"
Raphael. - " Let us see: the .Jfoon i11 Libra
ascending; Sol and Afcrcury in Taurus; Leo on the
eleventh house,· Jupiter therein ;-why, undoubtedly
EVIL, during his first sojourn in the sign. For you
will remember my theory advanced at our last meet-
ing,,that in nativities, the transit of Saturn is more
evil by far than that of any other planet, not even
excepting Herschel."
J. L.-" My opinion is, that if a good direction
operates, at the time of the transit, much of the evil
will be lessened.''
Raphael.-" Lessened it may be, but not annihi-
lated : you will bear in mind that the good foreshown
by a good direction, at the time of an evil transit, will
also be lessened. And if Saturn be in evil aspect
to the luminaries at birth, the evil will be greatly
augmented:"
Digitized by Coogle
371
H. W.-'' Pray, Raphael, what places in the
horCIIICCipe do you find to be generally most amicted
by transite ?"
Ropltael.-" Of course, in the nineteenth century,
we astrologers do not (after discovering Herschel,
and correcting our Tables to the true obliquity of
the ecliptic, and obeying the call of the ' march of
intellect') keep to the antiquated rules of our fore-
fa&bers, .re.pecling one single planet bearing aole
rule as lord ol our ascendant; and tying us down
perforce to gotXl or evil all our days, merely by hi1
mighty fiat. No: whether Saturn or Mars (evil
enough, God knows), Jupiter or Venus, rules our •
ascendants, tlull albne we little heed. I need not tell
my bretbren.in.art here assembled, and those gentle-
men who attend con amort, that astrologers, now,
bear a true philosophical attention to calUe and effect:
it is the whole lwrolcope,---<ach sign, each 11ar, tach
upect,-we now look to ; weighingeach by ita merits,
aoalyzing every configuration, scrutinizing every
orb, nod taking nought by·theory as correct, except
borne out by U]Writnce. But I believe, that leaving
ucendanta and midheavens out of the question,
Saturn hurts most when transitting over the radical
places. of the luminaries Sol and Luna. I remember
a cue·in point, of a certain person whose nativity
I calculated a few years back, who had the Sun in
Gemini in the eighth house, Jupiterin the ninth in
Cancer; .and although the Sun by direclien .came to
the.conjunction of Jupiter both in and mundo,
yu Saturn trannlling Gemini, the Sun's place,
instead of any good, as some would imagine, the
nati\·c beeame a bankrupt ; Saturn proving here to
exeeed in power over the operating arc of direction.
3 A
Digitized by Coogle
372
I remember predicting in ' Urania' that year, how
disastrous 1825 would be to the community
and the succeeding events too well proved it to be
the case; witness the famous panic in the City. This
gentleman above named, was one of the many who
fell a victim thereto. The transit of Saturn over
Mercury and Vemu is also very unfortunate; and
over the Moon, perhaps, still worse.
Captain B.-" And pray, may I inquire the result
of your studies upon the transit of Marl 1"
J. T.-" As Raphael has permitted me, I will
answer for him, having been instructed in his theory
• some short time since. The transit of Mars, occur-
ring so often, and remaining so short a time in force
(unless Mars should turn retrograde), wiJl pass over
lightly, if no other cause intervene to prolong its
effects.''
H. W.-" And yet, if I remember, a Mr. Wilson
is of the clean contrary opinion."
J. T.-" True; but 'fronti nulla fides.' This
said sage Mr. Wilson has (if I may be allowed to
quote an old author) but ' saluted astrology at the
threshold ;'-vide his assertions in his Preface, where
he states that an astrologer may think himself for-
tunate, if, in the course of his life, he acquired tmlJ
1 six remarkable nativities' to practise upon. Strange
grounds whereon to build the superstructure of an
eternal science ! What will be think, when we
tell him that Raphaers Astrological Album con-
tains the correct data of several 1/unuand horo-
scopes 1 Besides, Mr. W. decries all the mundane
directions."
Captain B.-1' If Raphael were destitute of such
examples, bow could he have made his variou
Digitized by Coogle
373
diScoveries relative to the long-lost theories of the
ancients1 How-"
Raphad.-" Brotberstudents ;allowme to remark,
that I am indebted to patient perseverance alone for
such discoveries."
Captain B.-11 Yea; and also to the fortunate con-
figuration of Mercury in your horoscope. Mercur!l
in Cazjmi, in e.ract mundane sulik lo Jupiter, and
:odiacalse.rtik to Saturn, cannot fail to elicit scientific
discoveries."
J. T - 1' In directions, whether in zodiac or in
mundo, I allow Mar11 to be as hostile, or more so,
than Saturn."
Raphatl.-" Mflre so, if Mars be void of the for-
tunate beams of Jupiter or Venus, and afBicted by
Saturn or Herschel."
J. T.-11 Right: I remember, in the horoscope
of a 'would-be astrologer,' who wrote some few
years back in a periodical termed-"
&vera/ Members.-'' Do not confer immortality
upon his name, by mentioning it in our minutes,
which Raphael will hereafter promulgate-"
J. T.-1' By no means: the foolish and eccentric
unfledged opinions of that thoughtless writer having
long ago met their just reward-viz. the scorn and
contumely of the age,-1 would only remark, in
order to keep other students from judging rashly
withoutexperience, that he bad the temerity to-''
Lieutenant M.-" To predict 10111e heav!l calamit!l
would befal a member of the learned Society now
convened, upon the transit ofJupiter over the
radical place of the Moon !!!"
J. T.-1' Puny absurdity !-disgusting inanity
Digitized by Coogle
374
tself! This student must have been ignorant of his
11, h, c, in astrology."
C. S.-" No wonder, then, that his errors met
auch a sound lashing as ' .11-'ledusa' once gave him in a
certain publication."
J. T.-" I need scarcely remark, that the person
to whom the evil was predicted, was unusuallyfor-
tunate at the time the predicted evil was to have
taken place."
H. W.-'' As he must have been of course; I am
at a loss to account for such an egregious blunder;
for Jupiter being a fortunate planet, his transit must
have been doubly fortunate also."
C. S. - " As that writer has since disappeared
from the horizon of science, and as his nativity may
be seen in ' The Astrologer of the Nineteenth Cen-
tury,' I need only mention, that you will easily recog-
nize it by his JJiercury heingin zodiacalsesquiquadrateto
Herschel, and 1/erschet in mundane to Satur11."
Captain B.-" Pardon me; enough of this;--·none
of his writings, under such a configuration, will
ever prosper. You will allow me to congratulate
both Raphael, and the Society of the Mercurii, upon
the increasing success of ' THE PROPHETIC MKs·
SENGER.'"
Omnes.-" Assuredly; 'The Prophetic Messen-
ger,· and its lm thousand readers, will avouch for
the truth of astrology, as well as for the great
labour Raphael, its author, had in calculations so
profound ;-may it succeed to Time's last timit.s !"
H. W.-'' Astrology may now feel proud of its
champions ;-the march of science is abroad, as well
as th<lt of 'intellect.'"
Digitized by Coogle
375
Capt-. B.-" I predict, that in another century
the sublime and celestial science of the stars will
be taught at the London University; and, wh.at is
of more consequence, at the King's College."
· OrnllU.-" Of course, the pure astrology, divested
of every trace and vestige of superstition ;-such
aa we presume to practise."
Captain B.-" And such an utrology as Raphael
alone advocatea,-the astrology whose attractions
ue as the Sun in the firmament, when compared
with other perishing sciences ;-the light of truth ;
the astrology of reason, guided by experience. I
remember, at one of our former meetings in the
Temple of Science, it was deemed advisable to let
the literary and curiotuly scientific world have a
glimpse of that extraordinary manuscript, which
was purchased of that worthy bookseller, Mr. J.
Denley. Pray, can you inform me, Raphael, if such
is to be the cue 1"
Raphael.-" It is; the chief part of that invalu-
able manuscript will immediately appear under the
title of ' The Royal Book of Fate." I have shown
the MS. to many philosophical characters, and a
few select antiquarians (of the Royal Society), all
of whom join in attributing' the palm' to the singu-
larity of ita c;ontents; and as there can be no doubt
of its succeu, contidering the place from whence it
iJ sent forth to the world, it will add another link to
the chain of our succeaaea. That excellent and libe-
ral publisher, Mr. R• .Ackermann, of the Strand, not
QQ!y auggeatecl valuable hints relative to the
'""" in which it would be beat to appear, but
expre88Cd his opinion of iq curioua COidents in very
unqualified terms."
Digitized by Coogle
376
Onmes. -" Let the • Royal Book rif Fate,' then,
be placed in the library of the' Mr:ttCUlUI."'
Raphael.-" Of course it will, brother students;
and there remain as the most curious specimen of
ancient prognostications from geomancy ever offered
to the public gaze."
C. S.-" Apropos of this-what do you think,
Raphael, of fortunate days and hours?"
Raphael.-" It is my opinion, that by the choice
of fortunate days and hours, much evil may certainly
be avoided; for it is our bounden duty to make
use of the proper means, and leave the result to the
will of Divine Providence : hence it is, too, that a
foreknowledge of the nativity is eminently useful: for
even as we, in natural agents, are well aware that oy
the. known properties offire, it will either burn or
warm, according to the intensity of its heat, and
the mode of its application ; even so, in celestial
lore, the astrologer, by a due attention to the horo-
scope of the hour, the nativity of individual, and
the celestial configurations of the time, may work
many strange effects; but all amenable to reason,
and founded on natural causes, devoid alike of
superstition or imposture. Hence those days,
wherein the Moon and planets are fortunately
configurated, are really most apt to be chosen as
fit for certain purposes, which those who neglect
them too plainly discover, when they have let slip
the opportunity. No wise man,-nor, indeed, any
one in his senses,-will shun the choice of times
and seasons;-all the world over, inquiries are made
as to the best time for doing ' such and such a
thing.' A.atrology, alone, furnishes this duidt·
Digitized by Coogle
371
Captain And your • PaoPHETIC GuiDE,'
I perceive,'explains it."
Raphad.-" The intr!cacy ofthe calculations, you,
brother students, are weJJ aware of. I can only say
it iJ correct."
Omnu.-" There can be no doubt of its perfecti-
bility in that case."
Cuptain B.-" Pray, Raphael, allow me to request
your 1cientijic reason1 for the remarkable fulfilment
ofyour predictions in December, 1828 (l P. Me,,.')
-viz. where you state, ' I grkve to 1ee the decline
of tlte year produclit't of much evil; thi1 will, I fear,
bt a month of accitlenll, danger1, a11d con1iderable
fires, and numerous maligni-
ties,' &c. To which, also, our learned foreign cor-
respondent, Madame L. N., has requested the same
favour ; and which are so amply borne out by the
recent tremendous failure in the City ; the flight of
the banker and his clerk, with their hundreds of
thousands of cash ; as well as by the cruel, horrible,
and revolting atrocities,-murder it its deepest dye,
-in the good city of Edinburgh."
J. F.-" I hear that the author of ' Waverley'
has visited the horrible den of the murderer, and
expressed his opinion that his most fertile imagination
could not have sketched such a fiendish scene and
such hellish monsters."
C. S.-" He bas visited it ; and I, too, would
also request our Secretary to give his astrological
reasons for such an instance of foresight."
Raphael.-'' In the 'Astrologer of the Nine-
teenth Century.' you will remember, I have, at
large, gone through the list of fires, murders, and
calamities, produced by transits oftheinfor-
Digitized by Coogle
378
tunes over the ascendants of certain cities. As the
theory there laid down cost tne many years close
attention to embody, I beg leave to refer your
leisurely attention to the recital there given; but I
also remark, that, by consulting yourephemeris.
you will find that the infortunes Marl entertd Ike
sign Pisces, as December, 1828, began. Now I must,
once for all, lay it down as an incontrovertible
maxim, that neither Saturn, nor Mars, ever pau
through the. 1igns Gemini, Sagittarizu, Virgo, or
Pisct•s, without producing something publicly evil;
something which causes the tongues of thousands
to talk thereof, in which I do think Mars has greatest
power1but, thank heaven! unless retrograde, hiscruel
influences are soon over, and he certainly is worse
by far in mundane affairs than in nativities). But it
must be well remembered that here, as in nativities,
the philosophy of cause and effect must be duly
weighed,- --that is, to observe whether Mars, when
passing through these signs, receives any tUiistanct
from Jupiter or Venus; for if he does, the evil will
not be so deeply felt. Now, you will take notice,
that during the whole of December, J828, and espe-
cially from the lOth day downward, Afars wa1 Iran-
sitting Pisces in quartile to the ascendant of the
metropolis, void of any benevolent ray to mitigate
his disastrous portents. Hence, I could not do
otherwise than predict it would prove to be a
most evil month; and further, on the 24th Decem-
ber, Mars came to a sesquiquadrate of Herschel,
increasing his malignant rays to a wonder. The
failure of the banking establishment you speak of,
and the revolting contents of the public journals
relative to the aforenamed foul and horrid murders,
Digitized by Google
379
ou will observe, each took place as December drew
oa conclusion ;-a proof of astral agency, I should
think, which will meet public attention."
Captain B.-" Especially when it is remembered
that our discussions this evening will be registered
in the ' Familiar Astrologer;' which, being promul-
gated by the celebrated and liberal publishers of the
.J/ecllanicl (that travels over half the
world, diffusing bright rays of knowledge), will
ensure its perusal by many thousand persons, both
in England and on the Continent."
J. T.-" I suppose most of our brethren here
present have read Sir R. Phillips's late description of
'TaE LIVING ALcHEMisT,' as be is pleased, sneer-
iogly, to term him."
Omnu.-1' Too sneeringly, I think, for his friend
and a member of our Society, a worthy and scien-
tific character, and, I may add, a clever astro
loger--"
Captain B.-" Mr. John Varley, the celebrated
artist, I presume--"
J. T.-" The same.- Mr. V. bas a high opinion
of Mr. Kellerman's talents: it· is said that Mr. K.
bas gone through the circle of the sciences ; a self-
taught student(ifnot an adept), be is well acquainted
with astrology, and pursues his alchemical studies
on the theory of a modern chemist, notwithstanding
what Sir Richard affirms."
Raphael.-" Sir Richard Phillips was formerly a
close student in astrology himself; and, I believe,
proju1eJ something of the sort. This you are pro-
bably not aware of.
Captain B.-" With permission, I will read the
3n
Digitized by Coogle
following extract from Sir Richard _PhiHips's Tour,
llJlOn-
"THE LIVING
" It was four miles out of the road; but I thought
a modern alchemist worthy of a visit, particularly as
several inhabitants of Luton gravely assured me
that he had succeeded in discovering the Philoso-
pher's Stone, and also the Universal Solvent. The
reports about him would have rendered it culpable
not to have hazarded anything for a personal inter-
view. I learnt that he had been a man of fashion,
and at one time largely concerned in adventures on
the turf; but that for many years he had devoted
himsdf to his present pursuits; while, for some time
past, he had been inaccessible and invisible to the
world-the house being shut and barricadoed, and
the walls of his grounds protected by httrdles, with
spring-guns so planted as to resist intrusion in
every direction. Under these circumstances, I had
no encouragement to go to Lilley, but I thought that
even the external inspection of such premises would
. repay me for the trouble. At Lilley, I inquired for
his house, ofvarious people,and they looked ominous;
some smiled, others shook their heads, and all
appeared surprised at the approach of an apparent
visitor to Mr. Kellerman.
" 'fhe appearance of the premises did not belie
vulgar report. I could not help shuddering at see-
ing the high walls of respectable premises lined at
the top with double tiers of hurdles ; and on driving
my chaise to the front of the house, I perceived the
whole in a state of horrid dilapidation. Contrary,
Digitized by Google
- '.. 1 / / ' I
r .. .. ../ /1 .'.--: .....
\ •/J.:
/ o,9,tizedbyGoogle
Digitized by Coogle
381
however, to my expectation, I found a young man,
who appeared to belong to the outbuildings, and he
took.charge of my card for his muter, and w-ent to
the back part f){ the house to deliver it. The front
windows OD tlte ground-floor and the upper stories
were entirely closed by inside shutters; much of the
glass was broken, and the premises appeared alto-
gether as if deserted. I was pleased at the words,
'My master will be happy to see you ;' and in a
minate the front door was opened, and Mr. Keller·
man present-ed himself.-1 lament that I have not
the peaeil of Hogarth, for a more original figure
never was seen. He was about six feet high, and of
athletic make ; on his head was a white night-cap,
and h4; drets conaisted of a long great-coat once
green, aad he had a sort of jockey waistcoat with
three tiers of His manner was extremely
poijte and graceful, but my attention was chiefly
abaerbcd by his singular physiognomy. llis com-
plexion was deeply sal:low; and his eyes large,
hlack, and rolling. He 4:onduoted me into a very
large parlour, with a window looking backward ; and
having locked the door, and put the key in his
he desired me to be seated in one of two large
arm-chairs covered with sheepskins. The room was
a realization of the well-known picture of Teniers'
Alchemist. The floor was covered \Vith retorts,
crucibles, alembics, jars, bottles in various shapes,
intermingled with old books piled upon each other,
with a suflicient quantity of dust aud cobwebs. Dif-
ferent shelves were filled in the same manner; and
on one .side stood his bed. In a comer, somewhat
shaded from the light, I beheld two !tends, white,
wiLh du1 k wigs ou them ; I entertained nu doubt,
Digitized by Coogle
382
therefore, that among other fancies, he was engaged
in re-making the brazen speaking head of Roger
Bacon and Albertus. Many persons might have
felt alarmed at the peculiarity of my situation; but
being accustomed to mingle with eccentric charac-
ters, and having no fear from any pretensions of
the Black Art, I was infinitely gratified by all I saw.
" Having stated the reports which I had heard,
relative to his wonderful discoveries, I told him
frankly that mine was a visit of.curiosity ; and stated
that if what I had heard was. matter of fact, the
researches of the ancient chemists had been unjustly
derided. He then gave me a history of bis studies;
mentioned some men whom I had happened to know
in London, who he alleged had assured him that
they bad made gold. That having in consequence
examined the works of the ancient alchemists, and
discovered the key which they had studiously con-
cealed from the multitude, he had pursued their
system under the influence of new lights ; and after
suffering numerous disappointments, owing to the
ambiguity with which they described their processes,
he at length happily succeeded, and made gold ;
and could make as much more as he pleased, even
to the extent of paying off the national debt in the
coin of the realm.
"I yielded to the declaration, expressed my satis-
faction at so extraordinary a discovery, and asked
him to oblige me so far, as to show me some of
the precious metal which he had made.
" ' Not so,' said he ; ' I will show it to no -one.
I made Lord Liverpool the offer, that if he would
iqtro_duce me to the King, I would show it to His
Majesty; but Lord I.ivcrpool insolently declined,
Digitized by Coogle
383
on the ground that there was no precedent ; and I
am therefore determined that the secret shaH die
with me. It is true that, in order to avenge myself
of such contempt, I made a communication to the
French ambassador, Prince Polignac, and offered
to go to France, and transfer to the French Govern-
ment the entire advantages of the discovery ; but
after deluding me, and shuffting for some time, I
found it necessary to treat him with the same con-
tempt as the others.•
'' I expressed my convictions in regard to the
double dealing of men in office.
"' o; said he, 'as to that, every court in Europe
well knows that I have made the discovery ; and
they are all in confederacy against me, lest, by
giving it to any one, I should make that country
master of all the rest: the world, Sir,' he exclaimed
with great emotion, ' is in my hands and my power.•
'' Satisfied with this announcement of the dis-
coyery of the philosopher's stone, I now inquired
about the sublime alkahest, or universal solvent,
and whether he bad succeeded in deciphering the
enigmatical descriptions of the ancient writers on
that most curious topic.
'' 'Certainly,' be replied; ' I succeeded in that
several years ago.'
" ' Then,' I proceeded, ' have you effected the
other great desideratum-the fixing of mercury.'
" ' Than that process,• said be, ' there is nothing
more easy; at the same time it is proper I should
inform you, that there are a class of impostors, who,
miatak.ing the ancient writers, pretend it can be done
by heat; . but I can assure you it can only be
eiiected by water.'
Digitized by Coogle
384
"I then besought him to do me the favour to show
me some of his fixed mrrcury; having once seen
some which had been fixed by cold.
" This pr0:position, however, he declined, because,
he said, he had refused others. ' That you may,
howev.
cr, be satisfied that I have made great .disco-
veries, here is a bottle of oil, which I have purified,
and rendered transparent as spring water. I was
offered £10,000 for this discovery; but I am so
neglected, and so conspired against, that I am deter-
mined it and all my other discoveries shal:l die
with me.'
" I now inquired, whether he had been alarmed by
the ignorance '>f the people in the country, so as to
shut himself up in so unusual a manner.
''' No,' he replied ; ' not on their account wholly.
They are ignorant and insolent enough; but it was
to protect myselfagainst the Governments ofEurope,
who are determined to get possession of my secret
by force.. I have been,' he exclaimed, ' twice fired
at in one day through that window, and three times
attempted ·to be poisoned. They believed I had
written .a book containing my secrets, and to get
possession of this book has been their object. To
baffle them, I burnt all that I had ever written, and
I have so guarded the windows with spring-guns,
and have such a collection of combustibles in the
range of bottles which stand at your elbow, that I
could destroy a whole regiment of soldiers if sent
against me.' He then related, that as a further
protection he lived entirely iu that room, and per-
mitted no one to come into the house ; while be bad
locked up every room except that with patent pad-
locks, aml the kcy-hulcs. ·
Digitized by Coogle
385
"It would be tedious and impossible to follow Mr.
Kellerman through a conversation of two or three
hours, in which he enlarged upon the merits of the
ancient and on the blunders and imper-
tinent assumptions of the modem chemists, with
whose writings and names it is fair to acknowledge
be seemed well acquainted. He quoted the autho-
rities of Roger and Lord Bacon, Paracelsus, Boyle,
Boerbaave, Woolfe, and others, tojustify his pursuits.
As to the term philosopher·s stone, he alleged that
it was a mere figure, to deceive the vulgar. He ap-
peared, also, to give full credit to the siJJy story about
Dee's assistant, Kelly, finding some of the powder
of' projection in the tomb of Roger Bacon of Glaston-
bury,bymeansofwhich, as was said, Kellyforalengtb
of time supported himself in princely splendour.
"I inquired whether he had discovered the blacker
than black of Apollonius Tyraneus ; and this, he
assured me, he had effected; it was itaelf the powder
of projection for producing gold.
''Amidst all this delusion and illusion on these
subjects, Mr. Kellerman behaved in other respects
with great propriety and politeness; and having un-
locked the door, he took me to the doors of some of
tbe other rooms, to show me how safely they were
padlocked; and on taking leave, directed me in
my course towards Bedford.
" In a few minutes, l overtook a man; and on
inquiring what the people thought of Mr. KeJierman,
he told me that he had l:ived with him for seven
years; that he was one of eight assistants whom be
kept for the purpose of superintending his crucibles,
-two at a time relreving- each other every six hours ;
that he bad exposed some preparations to intense
Digitized by Coogle
38(;
heat for many months at a time, but that all except
one crucible had burst, and that he called on him
to pbserve, that it contained the true ' blacker than
·black.' The man protested, however, tbat no gold
had ever been made, and that no mercury had ever
been fixed; for he was quite sure, that if he had
made any discovery, he could not have concealed
it from the assistants ; while, on the contrary, they
witnessed his severe disappointment at the termi-
nation of his most eiaborate experiments.
. "On my telling the man that I had been in his
room, he seemed much astonished at my boldness;
for he assured me that he carried a loaded pistol in
every one of his six waistcoat pqckets. I learnt
also from this man, that he has, or had, considerable
property in Jamaica ; that he has lived in the pre-
mises at Lilley about twenty-three years, and during
fourteen of them pursued his alchemical researches
with unremitting ardour; but for the last few years
shut himself up as a close prisoner, and lived in the
manner I have described."
'Raphael.-" I thank our worthy friend and bro-
ther in science, for his recital from Sir Richard Phil-
lips's Tour; but must say it was not very gentleman-
like, nor ,·ery worthy a man of such known integrity
as Sir Richard is, to print his account of the inter-
view with Mr. Kellerman in so unphilosophical and
ludicrous a style. Even supposing Mr. K. to be ied
astray by his pursuits, he is certainly a gentleman
of great accomplishments, and I have often heard my
friend, Mr. V., speak in praise of his attainments.
However, I will, with the permission of this Society,
present all here assembled with-
Digitized by Google
jtatU.aty ot tiJt ''"'"'
ttltfJnua_..
J. P. KELLERMAN, Esq.
BORI'f
At Klapton, In Ja•alea,
&plemher 6tA, 1775,
1J L M. •· P.M. EstiDlftte Ti•e.
L.&T. N.
PLANETS' DECLINATIONS.
"
1 20 s.
1t23 8 N.
8 13 21 s.
0 6 12 N.
14 46 s.
"
9 54 N.
) 16 52 s.
3c
o1gitized by Coogle
388
"Now it will be readily observed, that Mr. K. is
oorn with Jupiter in the ascendant, and the Moou
in uwndane trine to Jupiter, which certainly are for-
tunate positions, and seldom met with. But you
will observe, also, that Mercury, although in Virgo,
his own exaltation, according to the ancient astrolo-
gers, is in quartile to Herschel, and semiquartile to
Venus. Hence the cause why Mr. K. has drawn
upon him the observations of a satirist. It is sin·
gular how much Mercury governs public opinion;
and how much any Horoscope is detrimented by his
mal-configuration with other orbs.
It was some years since I calculated his Horo-
scope by his own request, and the following are the
train of operating arcs, in his 54th year, etc.
Ytul. J/,.tl.l.
The 0 to the ·mundane a ot converse 53 2
The l> to the inundane quintile of '21.
direct 53 2
The mid-heaven to the mundane sesqui-
quadrate of the 0 53 2
Students in the art will wonder no longer at the cir-
cumstance of his name being treated in a manner so
unworthy of a scientific genius. And I believe
Sim in Virgo represents his visitor, although 1 have
never seen him. The Moon in trine to both Saturn
and Jupiter, both ways (in the zodiac, and in mundo),
of course, gives a wonderful degree of thought, skiiJ,
and ingenuity; and, no doubt, extraordinarychemical
discoveries.
I have a letter of the native's here before me,
wherein the following passage occurs:-Mr. K.,
after stating the time of his birth, &c. says, " You
Digitized by Coogle
389
must be fulJy aware of the bounty of Providence,
suffering me, as Aristotle, in his dying speech,
expressed himself, fade hunc mundane intraor', to
enter this world at a time when Mercury was in his
highest dignities. I have been &o as to have hem
e11abled to discover the whole hermetic secret. I have
in the analysis of that idol of mankind,
gold; and I have equally succeeded in the synthesis,
h!Jforming a small particle oftile metal by a combina-
. tion of the three elementary principles."
Captain B. '' Mercury in Virgo is certainly fortu.
nate, as it is a sign of his own nature; but his afHic-
tioJts by aspect are so powerful, that there seems to
me a doubt, whether the alchemist will succeed in
acquiring thefame that usually attends such disco-
veries. StilJ, it is my opinion, Mr. K. must be a
remarkably erudite gentleman."
Raphael. " He is; but you will observe that
1here are too many clever characters still fated to
unaccountable obstacles, in the pursuit of their
plans, such as Herschel here denotes. It is to be
feared the native will always find 1:1ome unaccount-
able, unexpected, undefined impediments in the way
of his chemical pursuits. You wiJI also observe
Mercury in para1le1 to Mars, denoting personal
hazard by accidents; but the Moon Hyleg in trine
to Jupiter, wiJJ always preserve from serious harm. In
the 55th year of his life, there are these directions:-
Munlh•.
TheM. C. to the semisquare of ll. 54 4
The 0 to the mundane * of direct 54 6
The 0 to the mundane parallel of
converse - 55 0
o;gitizedbyGoogle .A
300
The two latter are very j(ntunate; but the former
denotes great expenditure or loss of money."
Pre1ident. ''Raphael; the thanks of this Society
are due to you as our Secretary. for your attention
this evening, while we have attempted, in conference
assembled, to decypher the language of those bright
ethereal monitors, that now roll high above our heads
in all their glittering Jx>mp of majestic beauty;
speaking as it were celestial music to the inquiring
soul; affording a glimpse of immortality, by their
countless evolutions ; and unveiling to our view the
dark rece8868 ofthe future, by means of that heaven-
born science, AsTaoLooY, the doctriD.eof the stan."
Temple of Urania,
Die If Dec. 1828.
Digitized by GoogIe
381
TEIGUE OF THE LEE.
A IIAJlVELLOU8 NARRATION.
By Crofton Croiw, &q.
"I CAN'T stop in the hous&-1 won't atop in it.
for all the money that is buried in the old castle
of Carrigrohan. If ever there was such a thing
in the world I-to be a'bused to my face night and
day, and nobody to the fore doing it! and then, if
I'm angry, to be laughed at with a great roaring
ho, ho, ho ! I won't stay in the house after to-
night, it there was not another place in the country
to put my head under." This angry soliloquy was
pronounced in the hall of the old manor-house of
Carrigrohan, by John Sheehan. John was a new
servant ; he had been only three days in the house,
9ihich had the character of being haunted, and in
that short space of time he had been abused and
laughed at, by a voice which sounded as if a man
spoke with his head in a cask ; nor could he ·dis-
cover who was the speaker, or from whence the
voice came. ., I'll not stop here/' said John; "and
that ends the matter."
"Ho, ho, ho ! be quiet, John Sheehan, or else
worse will happen to you."
John instantly ran to the hall window, us the
Digitized by Coogle
3!)2
words were evidently spoken by a person imme-
diately outside, but no one was visible. He had
scarcely placed his face at the pane of glass, when
he heard another loud " Ho, ho, ho !" as if behind
him in the hall; as quick as lightning he turned his
head, but no living thing was to be seen.
" Ho, ho, ho, John !" shouted a voice that ap-
peared to come from the lawn before the house ;
"do you think you'll see Teigue ?-ob, never! as
long as you live ! so leave alone looking after.him,
and mind your business; there's plenty of company
to dinner from Cork to be here to-day, and 'tis time
you had the cloth laid."
"Lord bless us l there's more of it !-I'll never
stay another day here," repeated John.
" Hold your tongue, and stay where you are
quietly, and play no tricks on Mr. Pratt, as you did
on Mr. Jervois about the spoons."
John Sheehan was confounded by this address
from his invisible persecutor, but nevertheless he
mustered courage enough to say-'' Who are you ?
--come here, and Jet me see you, if you are a man;"
but he received in reply only a laugh of unearthly
derision, which was followed by a " Good bye--
1'11 watch you at dinner, John!"
" I..ord between us and harm ! t.his beats all !-
I'll watch you at dinner!-may be you will ;-'tis
the broad day-light, so 'tis no ghost; but this is a
terrible place, and this is the last day I'll stay in it.
How does he know about the spoons ?--if he tells
it, I'm a ruined man !-there was no living soul
could tell it to him but Tim Barrett, and be's far
enough; oft' in the wilds of Botany Bay now, so bow
could he know it-1 can't tell for the world ! But
Digitized by Coogle
3U3
what's that I see there at the comer of the wall ?-
'tis not a man !-oh, what a fool I am I 'tis only the
old stump of a tree !-But this is a shocking place
-l'll never stop in it, for 1'11 leave the house to-
morrow; the very look of it is enough to frighten
any one." .
The mansion had certainly an air of desolation;
it was situated in a lawn which had nothing to
break its uniform level, save a tew tufts of nar-
cissuses, and a couple of old trees coeval with the
building. The house stood at a short distance from
the road: it was upwards of a century old, and Time
was doing his work upon it; its walls were weather-
stained in all colours; its roof showed various white
patches; it had no look of comfort ; all was dim and
dingy without, and within there was an air of gloom,
of departed and departing greatness, which hanno-
nised well with the exterior. It required all the
exuberance of youth and of gaiety to remove the
almost amouating to awe, with which
you trod the huge square hall, paced along the gal·
Iery which surrounded the hall, or explored the long
rambfing passages below stairs. The ball-room, as
the large drawing-room was called, and several
other apartments, were in a state of decay ; the
walls were stained with damp; and I remember
well the sensation of awe which I felt creeping
o\·er me when, boy as I was, and full of boyish life,
and wild and ardent spirits, I descended to the
vaults--aU without and within me became chilled
beneath their dampness and gloom: their extent,
too, terrified me; nor could the merriment of my
two school-fellows, whose father, a respectable
dergyman, rented the dwelling for a time, dispcl
Digitized by Coogle
394
the feelings of a romantic imagination, until I once
again ascended to the upper regions.
John had pretty weU recovered himself as the
dinner-hour approached, and several guests arrived.
They were all seated at table, and had begun to
enjoy the excellent repast, when a voice was heard
in the lawn.
"Ho, ho, ho! Mr. Pratt, won't you give poor
Teigue some dinner? ho, ho ! a fine company you
have there, and plenty of every thing that's good;
sure you won't forget poor Teigue ?"
John dropped the glass he had in his hand.
"Who is that?" said Mr. Pratt's brother, an
officer of the artillery.
"That is Teigue,'' said Mr. Pratt, laughing,
"whom you must often have heard me .mention."
''And pray, Mr. Pratt," inquired a,nother gentle·
man, "who is Teigue ?"
"That,'' he replied, is more than I can tell. No
one has ever been able to catch even a glimpse of
him. I have been on the watch for a whole evening
with three of my sons, yet, although his voice some-
times sounded almost in my ear, I could not see
him. I fancied, indeed, that I saw a man in a white
frieze jacket pass into the door from the garden to
the lawn ; but it could be only fancy, for I found the
door locked, while the fellow, whoever he is, was
laughing at our trouble. He visits us occasionally,
and sometimes a long interval passes between his
visits, as in the present case ; it is now nearly two
years since we heard that hollow voice outside the
window. He has never done any injury that we
know of; and once, when he broke a plate, he brought
one back exactly like it."
Digitized by Coogle
395
"It is very extraordinary," said several of the
company.
"But," remarked a gentleman to young Mr.
Pratt, "your father said he broke a plate ; how did
he get it without your seeing him ?"
· "When he asks for some dinner, we put it out-
side the window and go away ; whilMt we watch he
will not take it, but no sooner have we withdrawn
than it is gone•.,
" How does he know that you are watching ?"
"That's more than I can tell, but he either knows
orsuspects. One day my brothers, Hobert and James,
with myself, were in our back parlour, which has a
window into the garden, when he came outside and
said, 'Ho, ho, ho! Master James, and Robert, an<t'
Henry, give poor 'feigue a glass of whiskey.' James
went out of the room, filled a glass with whiskey
vinegar, and salt, and brought it to him. 'Here,
Teigue,' said he, ' come for it now.' ' Well; put it
down, then, on the step outside the window.' This
was done, and we stood looking at it. ' There,
now, go away,' he shouted. We retired, but still
watched it. ' Ho, ho! you are watching Teigue ;
go out of the room, now, or I won't take it.' We
went outside the door and returned ; the glass was
gone, and a moment after we heard hitn roaring and
cursing frightfully. He took away the glass, but
the next day the g1ass was on the stone step under
the window, and there were crumbs of bread in the
inside, as if he had put it in his pocket : from that
time he was not heard till to-day."
"Oh," said the Colonel, "I'll get a sight of bim;
you are not used to these things ; an old soldier
has the best chance; and as I shall finish my dinner
31>
Digitized by Coogle
396
with this wing, I'll be ready for him when he speaks
next.-Mr. Bell, will you take a glass of wine with
me?"
" Ho, ho I Mr. Bell,, shouted Teigue. "Ho, ho!
Mr. Bell, you were a quaker long ago. Ho, hoi
Mr. Bell, you're a pretty boy; a pretty quaker you
were; and now you're no quaker, nor any thing
else: ho, ho! M1·. Bell. And there's Mr. Parkes
to be sure, Mr. Parkes looks mighty fine to-day,
with his powdered head, and bis grand silk stock-
ings, and his bran new rakish red waistcoat.-And
there's Mr. Cole,-did you ever see such a fellow 1
a pretty company you've brought together, Mr.
Pratt: kiln-dried quakers, butter-buying buckeens
from Mallow-lane, and a drinking exciseman from
the Coal-quay, to meet the great thundering artil-
lery-general that is come out of the Indies, and is
the biggest dust of them all."
H you scoundrel!" exclaimed the Colonel ; " n
make you show yourself;" and snatching up his
sword from a corner of the room, he sprang out of
the window upon the In a moment, a shout
of laughter, so hollow, so unlike any human sound,
made him stop, as well as Mr. Bell, with a
huge oak stick, was close at the Colonel's heels.;
others of the party followed on the lawn, and the
remainder rose and went to the windows. " Come
on, Colonel," said Ml'. Bell; "let us catch this im·
pudent rascal."
"Ho, ho! Mr. Bell, here I am-here's Teigue
-why don't you catch him ?-Ho, ho! Colonel
Pratt, what a pretty soldier you are to draw
sword upon poor Teigue, that never did any body
harm."
Digitized by Coogle
397
"Let us see your face, you scoundrel,'' said the
Colonel.
" Ho, ho, ho !-look. at me-look at me : do you
aee the wind, Colonel Pratt !-you'll see Teigue as
soon; so go in and finish your dinner."
"If you're upon the earth I'll find you, you 'fil-
lain !" said the Colonel, whilst the same unearthly
about of derision seemed to come from behind an
angle of the building. "He's round that corner,"
said Mr. Bell-" run, run."
They followed the sCiund, which was continued
at intervals along the garden wall, but could dis-
cover no human being; at last both stopped to draw
breath, and in an instant, almost at their ears,
sounded the shout.
44 Ho, ho, ho ! Colonel Pratt, do you see Teigue
now !-do you hear him !-Ho, ho, ho! you're a
fine Colonel to follow the wind."
"Not that way, Mr. Bell-not that way; come
here," said the Colonel•
.. Ho, ho, ho t what a fool you are ! do you think
Teigue is going to show himself to you in the field,
there? But, Colonel, follow me if you can :-you a
soldier !-ho, ho, ho !" The Colonel was enraged-
he followed the voice over hedge and ditch, alter-
nately laughed at and taunted by the unseen object
or his pursuit-{Mr. Bell, who was heavy, was soon
thrown out), until at length, after being led a weary
-chase, he found himself at the top of the cliff, over
that part of the river Lee, which, from its great
depth, and the blackness of its water, has received
the name of Hell-hole. Here, on the edge of the
cliff, stood the Colonel, out of breath, and mopping
Digitized by Coogle
3US
l1is forehead with his handkerchief, while the voice,
which seemed close at his feet, exclaimed-" Now,
Colonel Pratt-now, if you're a soldier, here's a leap
for you ;-now look at Teigue-why don't you look
at him ?-Ho, ho, ho! Come along ; you're warm,
I'm sure, Colonel Pratt, so come in and cool your-
self; Teigue is going to have a swim !" Tbe voice
seemed as descending amongst the trailing ivy and
brushwood which clothes this picturesque cliff
nearly from top to bottom, yet it was impossible
that any human being could have found footing.
"Now, Colonel, have you courage to take the leap?
-Ho, ho, ho ! what a pretty soldier you are. Good
bye-I'll see you again in ten minutes above, at the
house-look at your watch, Colonel : there's a dive
for you ;" and a heavy plunge into the water was
heard. The Colonel stood still, but no sound fol·
lowed, and he walked slowly back to the house, not
quite half a mile from the Crag."
"Well, did you see Teigue ?" said his brother,
whilst his nephews, scarcely able to smother their
laughter, stood by.-" Give me some wine," said
the Colonel. " I never was Jed such a dance in my
life: the fellow carried me all round and round, till
he brought me to the edge of the cliff, and then
down he went into Hell-hole, telling me he'd be
here in ten minutes: 'tis more than that now, but
he's not come."
"Ho, ho, ho! Colonel, isn't he here ?-Teigue
never told a lie in his life : but, Mr. Pratt, give me
a drink and my dinner, and then good night to you
all, for I'm tired ; and that's the Colonel's doing."
A plate of food was ordered ; it was placed by
Digitized by Coogle
399
with fear and trembling, on the lawn under the
window. Every one kept on the watch, and the
plate remained undisturbed for some time.
"Ah! Mr. Pratt, will you sta"e poor Teigue?
Make every one go away from the windows, and
master Henry out of the tree, and master Richard
oft' the garden wall."
The eyes of the company were turned to the tree
and the garden wall ; the two boys' attention was
occupied in getting down ; the visitors were looking
at them ; and " Ho, ho, ho 1-good luck to you, Mr.
PrattI 'tis a good dinner, and there's the plate,
ladies and gentlemen-good-bye to you, Colonel !-
good-bye, Mr. Bell !-good-bye to you all"-
brooght the attention back, when they saw the
empty plate lying on the grass ; and Teigue's voice
was heard no more for that evening. Many visits
were afterwards paid by Teigue; but never was he
seen, nor was any discovery ever made of his ;>er-
aon or character.
The pranks of Teigue resemble those related by
GervaseofTilbury ofthe spirit Follet,which he
describes as inhabiting the houses ofignorant rustics,
and whose exorcisms fail in banishing him. He says
of the Folletos:
"Verba utique humano more audiuntur et effigies
non comparent. De istis pleraque miracula memini
me in vila et miraculis healusimi Antoni•
reperille."-Otia lmperalia, p. 897.
Their voices may be heard in human fashion, but
their form is not visible. I remember to have read
Digitized by Coogle
400
a great many marvels about them in the short life
and miracles of the blessed Anthony.
The evening previous to sending this note to press,
it was the writer's good fortune to meet Major Percy
Pratt, son of the Colonel (afterwards General) Pratt
mentioned in the tale, who related to Sir William
Beetham, and repeated to him, all the particulars of
this strange story. Several respectable persons in
the south of Ireland have favoured him with accounts
of Teigue, but they are so nearly similar that it be·
comes unnecessary to give them. One of these
accounts, however, received from Mr. Newenham
de Ia Oour, contains some few circumstances which
have been omitted in the foregoing relation :-
"I never heard," writes Mr. de Ia Cour, "of a
more familiar goblin than Teigue. His visit gene-
rally commenced with a civil salutation to the
master of the bouse, which was quickly followed
by an application for a glass of whiskey ; but no
human creature could be seen or found in the
quarter from whence the voice proceeded. These
visits were usually repeated once a week; some·
times, however, a month or more elapsed between
them. If any friend came to dine or to stay at the
house for a few days, Teigue was sure to be heard
in the evening accosting them in a very courteous
manner, inquiring after the different members o
their family, and often mentioning domestic occur-
rences with a surprising intimacy. If a stranger
happened to excel in music, this could not escape
the penetration of Teigue, who seemed to be familiar
with every person's acquirements and habits; and
he invariably requested the musician to play or sing.
A young lady from Youghall was once called upo11
Digitized by Coogle
401
by Teigue to favour him with a tone : she 8lll down
to the pianoforte all fear and trembling. When abe
had eollcluded, Teigue applauded her performance,
and said, in return, be would treat her to a BOng to
the best of his ability. He accordingly sung, with
a most tremendous voice, •My name is Teigue, and
I lives in state;' a composition well known in the
south of Ireland.
" Several cleverly concerted plans have been
formed for the discoYery of this strange being, yet
they all failed of their object. Two different and
contradictory opinions prevail respecting Teigue :
some people report him to be a giant, others a
dwarf; the former opinion is founded on the follow-
ing circumstance :-Amongst the ingenious methods
devised for deciding whether the voice might be that
of a mortal man or a goblin, wu the plan of strewing
carefully some fine ashes at twilight before the
windows. That night Teigue was unusually noisy
without; and the next morning early, when the
place was inspected, the print of one foot only, of
superhuman dimensiona. was found. The notion of
his being a dwarf rests 011 no less an authority than
Teigue himself. He frequently styled himself
Teigueen, or little Teiguc ; yet this diminutive may
be nothing more than a pet name. But on one
occasion, when some guests expressed their sur-
prise that master Teigue bad never been caught,
this curious being replied, ' 'Tis to no use at all, gen-
tlemen, you're thinking of catching poor Teigueen,
for he is no bigger than your thumb l' All those
who have heard him speak: agree in this, that the
sound of his voice was not in the least like that of
ordinaq mortala ; it resembled, they said, that
Digitized by Coogle
hollow hoarse kind of voice emitted by a man speak-
ing with his head (as a gallant English officer has
,described it) inclosed in an empt!J cask."
Connected with the belief of supernatural voices,
a common superstitious notion may be worth men-
tioning bere.-It is popularly believed in Ireland.
and possibly in other countries, that when a friend
or relative dies, a warning voice is beard, and the
greater the space between the parties the more cer-
tain the sound. The following is an attempt at
translating an irish song founded on this idea, which
rs sung to a singularly wild and melancholy air:-
A low sound of song from the diatance I hear,
In the silence of night, breathing sad on my ear!
Whence comes it? I know not-unearthly the note,
And unearthly the tones through the air u they float;
Yet it sounds like the lay that my mother once sung,
Aa o'er her first-born in his cradle she hung.
Long parted from her, far away from her home,
'Mong people that speak not her language I roam :
Is it she that sends over the billowy sea
'This low-breathing murmur of sadneu to me ?
What gives it the power thus to me with dread?
DoeP it say, that aad voice, that my mother ia dead?
Digitized by Coogle
tOl
'I'BE ASTROLOGER
AT TilE
COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
IT was on the 19th day of February, 1829, that
the Astrologer was subpamaed to attend as a witness
in the Court held at Westminster Hall, in order to
avouch for the truth of a consultation, wherein his
advice had been given, and which related to an act
of bankruptcy.
The morning was beautiful ; the mildness of the
weather, so unusual in the month of February
seemed to announce the cheering presence of the
vernal equinox, rather than the conclusion of the
wintry solstice. The sun arose that morning with
resplendent beams, cheering the inhabitants of the
rut and crowded metropolis with his gladdening
presence ; and as the Astrologer bent his path
through the royal parks, in his road to Westminster,
he found those numerous walks, which, only a few
weeks before, in consequence of the bleakness of
the atmosphere, were deserted by all but the sad
subjects of poverty; were now thronged with groups
of smiling pedestrians, each apparently eager to in-
hale the refreshing breezes that filled the air, and
gave promise of health and hilarity. The lofty
trees in St. James's Park were also tenanted by
many feathered inhabitants of the aerial regions ;
'Uld as these little songsters hopped blithesome from
ranch to branch, and from tree to tree, their
3E
Digitized by Coogle
402
innocent and joyful twittering gave an air of rurality
to the scene, which for a moment seemed to shut
out the sense of proximity to the stormy bustle and
din of that noisy circle within whose limits lay the
Astrologer's sojourning.
The " Court of Common Pleas" is held in the
precincts of, and opens into, Westminster Hall ; a
place renowned in English history for historical re-·
collections, some of which were of a sorrowful
nature, others more bright, joyous, gorgeous, and
remarkable. This ancient structure is believed to
have been erected in the eleventh century, by the
renowned William Rufus; who, during his absence
in Normandy, gave orders for its erection; and,
upon his return, tradition relates, that notwith·
standing its vast area (which is stated to be four-
tenths of an acre in admeasurement), he affected
disappointment at the smallness of its dimensions,
as being not half big enough, and fitter for his bed-
chamber than the public hall of his palace, with
which it was connected?
In this hall were held the rude and boisterous,
the barbarously splendid banquets, the "Royal
Feastings" of ancient monarchs. Here were held
the national councils, and the courts of justice; and
here were probably passed many of those laws of
which the British nation are so proud; and latterly,
here too was held the magnificent, the gorgeous
coronation festival of our beloved monarch, George
the Fourth. And as the eye wandered around the
vast edifice, and caught the features of its noble
architecture, imagination would recal the unrivalled
splendours of the royal banquet; whereat a King pre·
sided, the most potent in modern, if not in ancient
Digitized by Coogle
403
biatory; at whote inauguration all the fairy illu·
aiODI of 181 diamonds, gold and gems, and
tile riehes of ·tie univene, the noble chivalry of the
armed co!Qba$, and the homage of thousands, were
to tile view with all tlae quickness and
pauing pap of an Eastern eoebantment. In
additiQn to lVUcb, the knowledge that a Parlia-
ment waa U.. daily aiUiag in the adjoiaing walls,
revolting the queetion of Catholic Ascen-
dancy, whick involved the probable .destiny .of
thouaands,-this, alao, . contributed to give the
intenlut to the apot where the Astrologet"
Groups of aexee, of aU agee, and of almost
every conditi()Q in life, previous to the open-
ing of the various patading the ft8t space
of Weatminatu H.U ; mwboee anxioua counte-
nances might be view.ecl the inteDee feelings, and
sad forebodings, which nlled .their breuts, as each
revolved .the probabJe {ate of their law trials ;
forming a straage contrut to the lone-liness
of the aneient .edifice. whoae vast area, with its
noble roof decorated with the l'ich massive orna-
ments of Gothic ·seemed to the uaind's
eye frowning in mockery at tile petty and trifling
toils of lllan's mortal existence. .lnd as the Astro-
loger gazed llpon tlle noble pile befwe him, which
for ages had ateod by time, and seemed
built to endure for ·to come, he coulcl
not help co».trut.iog tbw'e.'l'ith the &b&rtneu of
human life,.and moralizing upon its lnevity, ita
troubles, and ita
The trial commenced at 10 h. 40 m....M.; at
which time my astrological readers, by referring to
Digitized by Coogle
404
the horoscope of that hour and minute, will per-
ceive that the thirteenth degree of Gemini arose in
the angle of the East. The. scheme of heaven at
that time is in many respects worthy the student's
attention. As the plaintiff's suit was first named,
the planet Jupiter was exactly setting on the cusr
of the western angle of the celestial hemisphere,-
strong, potent, and powerful, in house and sign ;
but as this planet represented the house of legal
opposition, and tlze strength of the law, it was, con-
sequently, inimical to the defendant's cause in a
peculiar degree. Mercury, the lord of the first
house, was also afflicted in Pisces ; his fall, and the
moon in opposition to him from Virgo-sad and
true presages of the issue which followed.
The trial proceeded-the Judge occupied the
Bench-the jury were sworn-and the nature of the
eause proclaimed. At this time the Court pre-
sented a peculiar aspect of awe and solemnity.
And as the Astrologer gazed around upon the
assuming gravity of the barristers, " enrobed with
wig and gown," with the cool but venerable counte-
nance of the Chief Justice, and compared there-
with the an.t·ious faces of the parties at issue; he
was no longer at a loss to discover why so many
hearts are found to quail and quiver when called
before the stem imposing appearance, the dignified
spectacle, of an English court of judicature; espe-
cially when their personal feelings are doomed to
be tried by such a severe test, as the ordeal of the
law imposes.
Mercury, the lord of the ascendant, had now
attained the cusp of the eleventh house, while the
nineteenth degree of Gemini arose as the Counsel
Digitized by Coogle
406
began to ·plead for the plaintifF. Upon his an-
nouncing to the auembly, that a witness or so
extraordinary a character aa an A1trologer would
be called forth that day, the curiosity of the Court
became excited to an unusual degree ; and the
galleries being crowded with females of elegance.
rank, and fashion, gave evidence of the singula·
interest taken in the Astrologer's writings, even by
the usually gay and thoughtless votaries of the
luzut ton; since only a few private whispers, the
day previous to the trial, had given rise to such an
unusual assemblage of fashionable visitants (who,
perhaps, on no other occasion would have been
aeen near the precinct. of the Hall), solel1 to
witness the expected appearance of " Raphad" in
public.
· Theae curious visitants were, however, doomed
to disappointment; for although the Counsel for the
plaintifF had declared hie intention to call forth tbe
Astrologer, he contented himself by reading ex-
tracts from the horoscope of the defendant's fate,
which Raphael had cast ; and, however strange it
may appear to those who affect to deny the sublime
science of the stars, it is an incontrovertible fact,
that the Counsellor repeatedly complimented the
Astrologer upon " the sound judgment and erudi
tion displayed in the calculation," which, he de-
clared, contained "advice tiXI1'th!l of the molt pro-
{fiUnd attention," although he denied the premises
OD which it was founded.• A proof how much the
• For proof of tbU, see the neuiag joamala of Feb. 19th,
eapecially the "GloM and Traveller;" aa aleo the morning journals
of tile 20th, of which the " MM'Yiing contains the beat
report.-The latter reiiiU'Iut-" He (tho Astrologer) {OQDd the
Digitized by Coogle
400
belief in celestial inftoeo.ces IS ad'fanced by in-
vestigation, even of the most rigid kiod. For
it must be remembered, the Astrologer was here
an 1mwilling witness; and as such, being forced
to attend the Court, could hardly have expected
this lenient view of his favourite science,
which many too hastily condemn; but (as these
proceedings prove it to be) without argument
or reason, or even allowing it a fair chance of
defence.
A desultory conversation, amongst the judge,
lawyers, and advocates, mixed with discussions of
some points of law, succeeded to the astrological
intelligence; and precisely as Saturn, the gloomy
forerunner of mortal woe,- the most unfortunate of
the whole planetary host, touched the cusp of the
second celestial house, the plaintiff obtained a
verdict for the :debt and costs I
The defendant, who lwt the action, was, it ap-
pears, a free and too coniid}ng man ; one Wbe,
there is every reason to beJiev.e, ·was, in a measure,
the victim of treacherous ::s.chemes · amongst his
dependents; sinoe it was t'f6¥ed in Court that
his own servant had openly defrauded. him. The
law, however, was too .explicit ,upon the point that
involved his wishes, to allow of a 'et"dict in hil
plaueta in conjunction, therefore he adVised the baukrupt not to go
to law; he advised him to threaten Chancery, but by all meau to
avoid that ' gulph of vexation, ruin, and del&J.' " The "D/Dbl"
atatea,-" He, the learned Counsel, held in his haud the horoscope,
with aU tlu banknlpt'11 mi•forltmell clearly forellhown ;'' aud adds,
" Tt.te persona in Court appeared ve7) much di•appoinlul tlult 1M
Astrologer had not been calkd, the cause having gone off oa a
}Xtint prior to that which he was to prove coming ou."
Digitized by Google
407
farour; and he retired &om Court accompaDied
by the undisguiled emotions of numerous friends,
amongst whom, aithhtk iaeopito, and free from
the idle gaze of curiosity, none more truly.t)'Olpa-
thized in his misfortunes, than
RAPHAEL,
" TM AdroiiJgw of tlte Nituleefllla Celllury.••
A LADY bas sent the Editor an account of the
dungeon ia which the Ducheas of Gloucester was
confined. for conspiring to take the life of King
Heuy by wittberaft (vide the hutoricaJ tale, 156).
Our fair cQrretpondent writea,-
" I hava retraced every step of the mieerable
dWlgeoll ill Peel Castle, ble of Man, occupied by
the Duclaeas 1of Gloucester; she might with truth
say-' It, suits the gloomy temper of my aoull'
Sbe mutt have had an admirable conatitutiOD to
have lingered there sixteen years I I caught a
violent cold from remaining in it only twenty
minutes. There ia a atrong spring of water in it ;
and the temperature strike• you like an ice-house
when you enter it. I wore out a new pair of gloves
with the ruggedness of the walls. Wicked as she
waa, it waa almost too bad a place for a human
being to be illlmured in such an horrid abyss."
Digitized by Coogle
408
OF
FAMOUS ASTROLOGERS.
LIFE OF HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
HENRY CoRNELIUs AoRIPPA, a learned philo-
sophel' and astrologer, was born at Cologne, on the
14thofSeptember, 1486, and descended from a noble
and ancient family of Neltesheim, in Belgia: desiring
to walk in the steps of his ancestors, who for many
generations had been employed by the princes of
the house of Austria, he entered early in the service
of the Emperor Maximilian. He had at first the
employ of secretary; but as he was equally quali-
fied for the sword and the pen, he afterwards turned
soldier, and served the Emperor seven years in his
Italian army. He signalized himself on several
occasions, and as a reward of his brave actions, be
was created knight in the field. He wished to add
the academical honours to the military ; he there·
fol'e commenced the study of law and physic.
He was a man possessed of a very wonderful
genius, and from his youth applied himself to
learning; and by his great natural talents, he ob·
tained an extensive knowledge of almost all arts
and sciences, and was early engaged in the search
Digitized by Coogle
40!)
ofthe mysteries ofnatnre. The prodigious compass
of his knowledge astonhched every one who con-
versed with him. He carefully informed himself of
every science, and of course was profound in the
R0t1ycrusianand Alchemkal arcanas. Be wascele-
brated throughout Europe, most of the Courts of
which he visited. The history ofhis life, as recorded
by Bayle, is curious and interesting:-sometime,.., iu
all the pride ofliterature, he was disputing in schools
and universities ; and other times, in courts and
camps ; then, in the shops of projecting mechanics,
and in the laboratory of hermetic philosophers.
The prejudices of the times in which he li\'ed
often brought him into and he W8M some-
times cited before the civil tribunal for a sorcerer,
and his poor dog was even dreaded as an evil demon.
At other times, it is recorded, that he practised
"Magic, Necromancy, and similararts."-Although
it was, probably, his surprising skill in Judicial
Astrology, that caused these absurd rumours, since
we find he was daily consulted hy, and cast the
horoscopes of, kings, princes, and warriors.
He was here in England in 15to, and did wonders
in the astrological art; and in 1529, so great was his
reputation as a prophet, that having cast the nati-
vity of Henry VJII., and predicted many surprising
things (all ofwhich came to pass) to the knights and
retinue of the Court, the King of England gave him
an invitation to settle here, and offered him a mag-
nificent pension, to becomethe "Astrologer Royal.''
Which invitation, however, he thought proper to de-
cline; most likely, on account of hiR knowledge, by
meansofhisscientific skill, ofHenry's realcharacter.
He practised astrology £tt most of the Courts of
3 F
Digitized by Coogle
410
and many marvellous legends are on re-
cord of his profound knowledge of the stars. He
is even said to have predicted the very day and
hour of the death of a highly celebrated hero of
those times. However, be it as it will, he was the
first mathematician of the age. He died in 1535.
Some of his works evince admirable skill, and are
filled with proofs of his extraordinary genius. The
most celebrated of these, in Latin, is his treatise of
"Occult Philosophy;" a rare ·work, and calculated
to hand this author's name down to the latest
posterity.
A I'ABOUS PRENOIIASTBOLOGEB.
JoHN BAPTIST MontNus, a celebrated French
astrologer, often mentioned by English writers, was
a native of Villa and received his diploma
for the practice of physic, at Avignon, in the Pope's
terl'itories, in 1614. His ardent uc:sire to under-
stand the progress and secret laws of nature, led
him into many dangers, many of which had neai·ly
proved fatal.
.Vhile he was in Hungary, he met with a peasant,
who, like our countryman, Jedediah Buxton,
made great progress in numerical calculations, with-
out knowing how to make a figure ; and applying
these calculations to the revolutions of the planets
and signs, inspired Morinus with such a taste for
astrological calculations, that upon his retum to
Paris, he gave himself entirely up to the siderial
art. Accordingly, in 1617, finding by his calcula-
tions, that his friend and neighbour the Bishop of
Boulogne, would soon be imprisoned, he went and
Digitized by Coogle
411
iat'ormed him; but that prelate, though an artist
also, laughed at his prediction ; tiM
prowtl the truth of Morinus' art in a short time.
The Duke of Luxemburgh, brother to the Con-
stable de Luines, took him under his protection,
where he remained for nearly nine years: but fore-
telling to that nobleman a fever, which threatened
him within two years' time, he was discarded, and
the Duke died witii11.the time predicted.
As a lasting proof how highly his astrological
ahilities were accounted in those times, it may be
stated, that Cardinal Mazarine consulted him, and
Ciri:Jinal Richlieu granted lum a pension of two
thousand livres, and procured him the mathema-
tical chair in the Royal College. The Count de
Chavigny, Secretary of State, regulated all his mo-
tions by Morinus' advice; who, at that time, gained
great credit by foretelling the death of the great
Gustavus Adolphus; and whose daughter, the
famous Christina, was a great admirer and bene-
factress of his.
Among other authenticated statements of his
wonderful skill in physiognomy and genethliacal
astrology, it is upon record, that he foresaw almost
every state occurrence of importance that after-
wards befel the nation. Upon sight of a portrait
of the famous Cinq Mars (who was beheaded for
treason) before he knew who he was, he declared
he would lose his head. Within sixteen days' time,
be hit the event of the Constable Lesdiguin's
death ; and in six, that of Lewis XIJI., by inspec-
tion of their nativities. He was the most consi-
derable writer upon mathematical subjects in his
time, as his disputes with the celebrated Gassen-
Digitized by Coogle
412
dns, upon the subject of the Copernican System,
testify. Cardinal Richlieu was his friend to hi8
death, which happened in 1656, aged 7:J years.
All his works, which mostly consist of small,
curious tracts, are extremely rare, and indeed, now
difficult to he procured at any price. His princi-
pal piece is his " Astrologica Gallica," in Latin,
4to., Paris, 1057, which Is a most learned work, but
little known, it is tnte, in England, yet well worthy
the astrological student's attention. However,
Lilly, Gadlmry, and their numerous followel'8,
have very much availed themselves of his siderial
labours.
A KEAPOJ.ITAK ASTB.OJ.OGEB..
THOMAS CAMPANELLA was a native of Stilo, in
Calabria, and at a very early age became a· Do-
mmtcan. His taste for singularity, induced him to
oppose in a public dispute, a mataphysical syl-
logist; who, out of envy upon being overcome by a
youth, insidiously accused him, to the state, of
conspiring against the kingdom of Naples. This
affair became serious; and he in consequence bore
twenty-seven years' imprisonment; during which,
he sufl'ercd the torture called the question, ordinary
and extraordinary, seven times, and did not obtain
his liberty, hut at the intercession of Pope Urban
VJII.; after which he came to Paris, where he was
protected by Cardinal Richlieu and Lewis XIII.,
nnd died thet·e in 1G39, aged 71 years.
During the time of his imprisonment, he trans-
anted Ptolemy's Mathematics, from the Greek, and
composed his Astro]og·ical Predictions and Judg-
Digitized by Google
413
JDellt on Nativities, agreeably to the doctrine of
Ptolemy, in Latin. This work, which is not
known in English, is much celebrated in France ;
and bas been translated into French by the Abbe
Deschamps, in 3 vols. 8vo. His other works
are merely polemical; and entirely in the disputa-
tivt' style of the age he lived in. His "Atheism
Triamphatus" gained him most notice; and such
was his astrological skill, that the ministers of
state constantly consulted him upon the affairs of
Italy.
A rB.BlfCB MATBBMA'J.'JCIA. .&KD
.&STD.OX.OGBB..
JAMES OzANAM,"an eminent mathematician, was
• born in 1640. He was the youngest son of a very
opulent ·family, and designed for the church by
his father, who had given him an excellent educa-
tion. He studied divinity four years, rather out
of obedience than inclination; but upon his
father's death, he quitted that study, and applied
Jrimself wholly to the mathematics, for which he
had a singular genius. He afterwards taught that
science at Lyons, and was, for his generosity to
two foreigners, his scholars, by them recommended
to Mr. Dageoesseau (father of the Chancellor)
who sent for him to Paris, with a promise to assist
hi!Jl to the utmost of his power. Our author,
therefore, came and settled at Paris, where he aban-
doned his inclination to gaming, to which he bad
been very much addicted, and devoted himself
himself entirely to the mathematics. He met with
pretty good encouragement at Paris, till the war
(which was occasioned soon after the year 1701,
•
Digitized by Coogle
414
by the Spanish deprived him of all his
scholars, and reduced him· to a very melancholy
state. It was at that time, he was admitted in the
Roy&l Academy of Sciences, in quality of an Eleve.
The singular knowledge he obtained in the doc-
trine of nativities, may be gathered from the fact,
that having cast his horoscope and brought up the
anaretical direction, he was so firmly persuaded of
his death, (as seen therein,) that although he was
without any sickness either of body or mind, he re-
fused to accept of some foreign noblemen for
scholars,. alleging that he slwuld soon. die, tU 1Us
nativity foretold; which he actually did, April 3,
1717, of an apoplexy, in less than two hours,
being then 77 years old.
It is not without reason, that his contemporaries
have ascribed to him considerable knowledge in
the starry science, seeing the foreknowledge of his
own death is a confirmation thereof; although, like
Dryden, the poet, he chose not to affect any scien-
tific display. His name, as a mathematician, was
equally as famous as for his other pursuits; his
works, which are very numerous, have Qlet with the
approbation of the learned of all countries, parti-
cularly his "Mathematical Recreations," which
remain an incontrovertible proof of his great inge-
nuity. Mons. Gurpt has made much use of thjg
work, though neither him, nor Dr. Hooper, his
tr.mslator, have had the candour to acknowledge it.
....
Digitized by Coogle
416
A rAKOVS . . .:r.ISB
WILLIAM LILLY, an eminent English astrologer,
in the seventeenth century, carried the art of the
siderial influx to a height, and the temper of
the times fh.vouring the celestial science, that no
material step was by the court, without firt-t
consulting Mr. Wm. Lilly. His "Merlinus An-
gliciis Junior," the "Supernatural Sight," and
"The White King's Prophecy," contributed much
to his fame, in the distracted time of Charles I.
While that king was at Hampton Court, about
July or August, 1647, he was consulted whither his
Majesty might retire for safety ; and, in 1648, he
was consulted for the same purpose, while the king
was at Cari8brook Castle, in the Isle of Wight.
The sameyear, he published his "Treatise oftte
Three Suns," seen the preceding winter, as
an astrological judgment upon a conjunction of
Saturn and Mars. This year the Council of State
gave him in money, .fifty and a pension of
an hundred pounds per annum. In 1648and 1049,
he publicly read and explained the first part of his
Christian Astrology, for the improveBlent of young
students in that science. In 1651, he published
his "Monarchy, or No Monarchy." During the
siege of Colchester, he and John Booker were sent
for to encourage the soldiers, assuring them that
the town would soon be taken, as hideed it was.
In 16.52, he published his "Annus Tenebrosus..,
In his almanack for the next year, he asserted that
the Parliament stood upon a tottering foundation ;
upon which, be was confined for thirteen days. In
Digitized by Coogle
1654, he had a dispute with the learned 1\fr
Gataker, who, in his annotations on Jeremiah x.
2, had reflected on Mr. Lilly. In 1655, he wa.-.
indicted at Hicks's Hall for giving judgment upon
stolen goods, but was acquitted.
In 1659, Captain Cox brought him, from the
King of Sweden, a gold chain and a medal, worth
about fifty pounds, on account of Mr. Lilly's
having mentioned that king with respect, in his
almanack of 1657. In June, 1660, he was taken
into custody by order of the Parliament; by whom
he was examined concerning the person who cut
off the head of King Charles I. The same year, be
sued out his pardon under the Great Seal of
England.
The plague raging in London, he removed with
his family to his estate at Hersham; and in Octo-
bet·, 1606, was examined before a Committee of the
House of Commons, concerning the fire of London,
which happened in September that year.
; His last publication was his " Guide for Astro-
logers," translated from the Latin of Guido Bo-
natus; a good piece: but his principal work is the
'Christian Astrology," a book, than which, there
'S not a better extant, upon the subject of horary
astrology, in the English language.
After his retirement to Hersham, be applied
himself to the study of physic, and by means of
his friend, Mr. Ashmole, obtained from Archbishop
IO_;heldon a license for the practice of it. A little
before his death, he adopted for his son, by the
name of Merlin Junior, one Henry Coley; and at
the same time gave him the impression or' his
almana<'k, after it had been printed for thir.ty-six
Digitized by Coogle
417
years. He died in 1681, of a dead palsy. Mr.
Ashmole set a monument over his grave, in the
church of Walton upon Thames. Mr. George
Smalridge, then a scholar at Westminster School,
afterwards Bishop of Bristol, wrote two
one in Latin, the other in English, .upon his denth.
A SOJ.DDia AB'D ' '
S1a GEoaoE WHARTON, a soldier and a poet,
mmous for his loyalty to Charles 1., in whose cause
he suffered much, and was long imprisoned, was
born in Westmoreland. He spent the greatest
part of his patrimony in the service of Charles 1.,
for whom he raised a fine troop of horse, which he
commanded in person. When he could no longer
keep the field, he retired to his studies, which he
pursued with uncommon application, particularly
that of astrolog!J : his progress in this art was
suitable to his passion for it. He was the author
of almanacks, ·mercuries, and several astrological
pieces : we are indebted to him for a chronological
account of all tho remarkable occurrences in the
civil war,. printed under the title of the His.
torian's Guide, and much improved afterwards by
Mr. Salmon, in the Chronological Historian. . He
had a knack of Yersifying, which be used much
in his astrological works : those were well suited
to the enthusiasm of the times.
Upon the Restoration, he was appointed pay.
master of the Ordnance, and created a baronet,
which set him above 'the profession of an author.
He died August, 1681. His works were pub.
litshed by Gadbury, 8vo. 1683.
3o
Digitized by Coogle
418
A BOBEBIAN ASTROLOGER.
CIPRIAN LEOVITIRES, was a celebrated Bohe-
mian astrologer, and the most skilful astrologer of
that country. He was born in 1540, and owed all
his knowledge entirely to his own industry; for he
was not so much as taught to read, and could name
and place upwards of 1000 stars before ke could
write. In 1565, he foretold that the Sultan Soli-
man the Second, should take Sigatha, the strongest
place in Hungary, in the very face of the Emperor
and his army, notwithstanding what they could do;
which happened accordingly. In 1569, he had a
conference with Tycho Brahc, who visited him on
purpose. He died young. in 1574. We hal·e of
his, in print, in Latin, a description and history of
Eclipses, in folio; Ephemerides, from 1564 to 1574,
and afterwards continued by other hands to 1607,
in 8vo ; these are very scarce : a curious work en-
titled " De Judiceiis Nativitatum," 4to. 1570.
And there has since been published a translation
from some part of his works, and called in English
"An Astrological Catechism ;., but, as it does him
and the translator no credit, we shall pass it over.
A SCOTTISH ASTROLOGER.
IN the latter part of the 13th century, there lived
in Scotland a man named THOMAS LERMOUTH, who
was considered as a prodigy, from his skill in horo-
scopes, and foretelling future events. He bad fore-
told, many ages before it happened, the union of
England and Scotland, in the ninth degree of
Bruce's blood1 with the successiOn of Bruce him-
Digitized by Coogle
4J9
to the Crown, being yet a child. The day
before the death of King Alexander, he told the
Earl of March, that before the next day at noon,
such a tempest should blow, as Scotland had not
felt many years before. The next morning proving
clear and serene, the Earl rallied Thomas with the
mllacy of his prediction. " Noon ;, JWt yet pall,"
reptied Lermouth ; and soon after, arrived a messen-
ger with news of the King's sudden death.
"This," cried the seer, "is the tempest I (oresaw (
and such indeed, it eventually proved.
A ROliiAR ASTROLOGER.
THRASYLLus, a famous mathematician and as-
trologer, was in the retinue of Tiberius, when the
latter lived in exile at Rhodes; and, notwithstand-
ing the very unpromising aspect of his affairs,
Caius and Lucius, who stood in his way to the
throne, being still alive; yet would the astrologer
be continually flattering him with hopes of suc-
ceeding to the Empire. Tiberius putting no faith
in the prediction, which he sul"pected to be a con-
trivance of his enemies; to b(•tray him intQ some
treasonable that might affect his life, de-
termined to make away with him privily. The
house he lived in was washed by the sea, over
which projected a tower, whence he resolved to
cast him headlong, with the a."'sistance of a trusty
and vigorous servant, whom he had made privy to
hiK designs.
On the day appointed for the execution of his
purpose, having summoned Thrasyllus to attend
him in the tower, "I charge you," said Tiberius,
Digitized by Coogle
420
"by all that you hold dear, say whether that be
true, which you have so confidently affirmed to me
concerning the Empire!"-" What I have affirmed,"
replied Thrasyllus, is by the stars ordained to
happen, and my prediction will soon be accom-
plished." " If," said Tiberius, " the stars reveal
my destiny, what may be their pleasure concerning
yours T' upon which, the astrologer presently
erected a scheme, and having considered the situa-
tion of the stars, changed countenance, and with
unaffected perturbation exclaimed, " My situation
is hazardous, and my end not far distant." Where-
upon Tiberius, embracing him, said, "Till now,
Thrasyllus, I had regarded your predictions as an
imposition, and had intended your death a
punishment for your deception."-Not long
wards, the same Thrasyllus, walking with Tiberius
on the beach, discovered a ship under sail, at a
considerable distance. "That vessel," said the
astrologer, "has sailed from Rome, with messen-
gers from Augustus, and letters permitting your
return ;" which the event verified ; and not long
aft<'r, Tiberius became Emperor of Rome, as the
astrologer foretold. :; '· _
•
Digitized by Google
I'ATAii
No. I.
t:VJNCING THE WONDERFUL POWER OF ASTRAL
AGENCY OVER LIFE AND DEATH.
" For Heaven
Is as the of God before thee set ;
Wherein to read his wond'rous works, and learn
His seasons',' hours, or 'days, or months, or years."
SRIGADIERt
M A.C DO WALL,
Bo••·MGY 6th,
' ,, , 7H.64M.,·P.5f.' .,
'I '1 11:
.;Lat,67 30 N...
;! i : .;. , · 1 I ,
JKJL'l'OK.
Digitized by Coogle
422
In again introducing this i11,teresting subject to
the notice of my readers, I cannot but express my
warmestexultation, atthesingular successwithwhich
myscientificlabours, relative tothetheoryofplanetary
influence, and the imparting of that sublime and
\'aluable knowledge, have been attended.-The nu-
merous testimonials which I have received from
almost all parts of the habitable globe ; from tire
metropolis of England, to tlte slwres of the Atlantic
Ocean; call forth my most grateful acknowledge-
ment: especially, since so many learned enemies to
the doctrine of prescience, (previous to the perusal
of my writings,) are now become the warmest vo-
taries of that celestial science, which unveils the
future, and which has thus a claim on the atten-
tion, that no other science of the present day can
possess ; since it approaches nearest of all others
to the attributes of imperishable knowledge :
• • • • "' " By Cavour sent
Down !rom the Empyrean, to forewarn
Us timely • • • • • • •
For which ; to th' infinitely Good we owe
Immortal thanks!'
MILTON.
My present subject, in pursuance of the same de-
sign, namely, the instruction of the scientific ob-
server, is the remarkable nativity of a brave and
·courageous officer, who was slain, in action with
the Burmese, at Wattygoon, in the month of
November, 1825.
And as I predicted his death several years be-
fore it took place, I have deemed it worthy of
insertion in the following pages, particularly as the
calculation of t.he Fatal Direction, was preserved
Digitized by Coogle
423
by me in the MS. copy of the horoscope the native
himself receiYed.
By ioapecting the celestial diagram of his na-
tifJity, we find that his chief signiftcator (or ruling
star,) was the fiery planet Mars; who was placed
in the degree of his exaltation, and wOH.de1jully po-
teal i1l IM lwroscope; in trine to the Sux, who
was on the very cusp of the western horizon ; and
in a sextile ray to the planet Jupiter: which latter
star was arising at his birth.-Admirable testimo-
nies of a mind generous yet courageous ; firm in
action, and lion-like in battle, but possessing feel-
ings of refinement and sensibility, that would do
honour to the brightest or th& most elevated in
life. A skilful biographer records the following
particulars of his life and death :-" He landed as
aCadet in India, in February, 1737, and in January,
1799, commenced his military career, under the
command of Gen. Wellesley, now Duke of Wel-
lington. At the memorable siege of Seringapatam,
he commanded one of the Grenadier
which formed part of the storming column. He
took the field in 1812, in Mahratta country; was,
in 1815, at Hydrabad: in the following year, be
surprized and defeated 3000 Pindarries, and re-
ceived public thanks ; he was in a variety of battles
until the year 1824, when be was promoted; and
on the breaking out of the Bu1-mese war, he sailed
with the expedition for Rangoon, where he gained
fresh laurels. On the ntpture of the Armistice in
November, 1825, be was placed in command of
two brigades of native infantry, and directed to at-
tack a body of Burmese at Wattygoon. After a
night march of upwards of 20 milCH, he met thet
Digitized by GoogIe
424
enemy on the 16th November, and drove them
before him, till he reached some breast-works, and
was in the act of gallantly cheering his men, when
he was shot in the forehead by a mu,sket ball, and
died instantaneously!"
It was in the year 1821, that I calculated his na-
tivity, by the particular desire of a brother officer,
as expressed in his letter from India, and who de-
clared his intention of showing the result ·of my
skill to the native himself; but I am not capable of
ascertaining whether he did so, or not. However,
I soon perceived by inspecting the scheme, that
the geniture portended imminent danger of'Diolent
death: for therein, the Sun; who is Hyleg, or giver
of life, is conjoined with violen.t fixed stars, in con-
figuration with no favourable rays ; and the enemies
of life, particularly Saturn, the destroyer thereof,
is posited in the fiery sign Sagittarius, in square to
Mercury, who rules the HEAD, and as such, cer-
tainly denoted imminent danger byfire arms or the
liands of tnan-as any student, who is at all conver-
sant with the science, must know. The coincidence
of his death, being exactly verified, is at first sight
. rather remarkable ; but, in fact, only serves to prove
that the planetary bodies have the most wonderful
influence over the destiny of mortals. I predicted
that his forty-fifth year, would be the tennination
of his earthly career, and in an hostile manner,
as before stated; for the SuN, who was Hyleg, at
the age of 44. years and 6 months, met with the
opposition of SATURN, his mortal enem!l; and be-
yond which time, I declared my opinion that he
could not possibly survive. The calculation thereof
will evince the trutlt of the l'5cience.
Digitized by Coogle
THE
AS'l'BOLOGICAL DDlECTION
OF THE
SUN AS HYLEG,
TO
THE OPPOSITION OF SATURN
All TB&
•• IJtstroutr of &tft,"
ARITHMETICALLY CALCULATED.
The SuN being exactly on the cusp of the western
lwrizon, his pole is 57° 30', or the latitude of the
country; and when SATURN arose, he came to the
Solar Rays by diametrical opposition-to calculate
which, proceed thus :- o ,
To the right cucerasion of 17 257 59
Semi MCturnal arc of f1 add 127 48
385 .7
From which subtract the Imum Coeli Ml 56
Remains the arc ofdirecti01t 43 51
which answers in time, to 44 years, 6 mm•tks of his
age, and the exact time of his deatlt ; which event
was rendered still more certain by the Sun coming
to the zodiacal opposition of Saturn, also in the
48th year. I trust this example of the fatal power
of the malific planets, will be acceptable to the
astral studt'nt•.
• All correspondence apon It requestf'd to be polt
lfllid, to Ma. R. C. Smith, MatAmwticiall, ami .l•lroll"m<'r, :'1/u. 7.\, Ca•tlc
Strt'ct Ecut, Oxford Strt•ct, l.ondon.
:l II
Digitized by Coogle
426
ANCIENT ENCHANTMENT.
" A m01nt>nt tlwn, the volume spread,
And one short spell, therein he read,
It had much of magic might ;
Could make a J.ady seem a Knight:
The cobwebs on a dungeon wall
Seem tapestry in lordly hall ;
A nul shell seem a gilded barge,
A sheeling seem a palace large,
And youth seem age, and &gil seem youth-
All was delusion, nought was truth.
He had not read another spell
When on his check a buffet fell,
So fit•rct•, it stn·tch'd him on the plain,
Beside tht> woundt>d Dcloraine."
La!! of tJac Lad MiuliYl.
According to 1;-roissart, enchantments were for-
medy tJ:;.;cd e\'Cii in war. In 1:331, when the Duke
of Anjou lay before a strong castle, upon the coast
of l\:aples, a N ollered to " make tht·
ngre so III!JCke, lltat iltegtt·itltin slwl thynke tlwl there
is a great bridp;e on Ihe s,e, (by which the castle
was surrounded,) for ten men to go a jr01tt; and
1rheu llteg witl1in tire castle, se litis bridge, tkeJJ will
be so afrayde, tlutt tltey slwl yelde them to your
mercy." The Duke demanded-l;oayre master, on
this hridge that ye spake of, may our people go
thereon assuredly to the castell, to assayle it1 Syr,
qnod the enchantour, I dare not assure you that;
fm· if any that passeth on the bridge make the sign
of the crosse on him, all shall go to noughte, and
tht•y that he on the bridge shall fall into the see.
Then the Duke began to laugh ; and a certain of
young knightes, that were there present, said, "Syr,
for God-sake, let the mayster essay his cunning:
Digitized by Coogle
4:27
we bfrall leve making of any signe of the crosse on
us, for that tyme." The Earl of Savoy, shortly
after, entered the tent, and recognised in the
enchanter the same person who had put the castle
into the power of Sir Charles de Ia Payx, who then
held it, by persuading the garrison of the Queen
of Naples, through magical deception, tltat tile sea
was co·
ming over tire walls. The Sage, avowed the
feat, and added, that he was the man in the world
most dreaded by Sir Charles. " By my fayth,
quod the Erl of Savoy, ye say well; and I will,
that Syr Charles de Ia Payx shall know that he
hath gret wronge to fear you. But I shall assure
him of you ; for ye shall never do enchant ent, to
deceyve him, nor yet none other. I would not
that in tyme to come, we shuld be reproached,
that in so high an enterprise as we be in, wherein
there be so many noble knyghtes and sqyres as-
that we shulde do any thyng by enchant-
ment, nor that we shulde wyn our enemys by such
crafte. Then he called to him a servant, and sayd,
go and get a hangman, and let him stryke otf this
mayster's head, without delay : and as soone as the
Erie had commanded it, incontynent it was done,
for his was stryken otf, before the Erie's
tent."
1-,ROISSART, VOL. I. 391, 392.
" Where Is the Nrcromancor t let him bring
His treasury of charms, rich syrups, herbs
Gathered in edipre; or when shooting atara
Sow Earth with pearl ; or let him call his sprites,
Till the air thickens, and the golden noon
S.ote by hls wings, is t11n1ed to auddcn midnight J"
CaOJ.T,
Digitized by Coogle
4:.!tl
A MARVELLOUS TALE OF
ENCIIANTDIENT.
IN a very rare old book, which " treateth of the
lyfe of Virgilius, and of his death, and many mar-
vailles that he dyd in his lyfe-time, by wyche-crafte
and nygramancye, throughe the helpe of the
devylles of hell," mention is made of a very ex-
traordinary process, in which " renovation of life,"
was attempted. It seems that Virgil, as he ad-
vanced in years, became desirous of renovating his
youth, by his art. For this purpose, he
constructed a solitary tower, having only one nar-
row portal, in which he placed twenty-four copper
figures, armed with iron flails, twelve on each side
of the porch. These enchanted statues, struck
with their flails incessantly, and rendered all
entrance impossible, unless when Virgil touched
the spring, which stopped their motion. To this
tower, he repaired privately, attended by one trusty
servant, to whom he communicated the secret of
the entrance, and hither they conveyed all the
magician's treasure. "Then sayde Virgilius, ID)'
dere beloved friende, and he that I above alle men
truste, and knowe mooste of my secrete." And then
he led the man into a cellar, where he made a fayer
lampe, at all seasones burnynge. And then sayd
Virgilius to the man, " See you the harrell that
standeth here?" And he sayd, Yea : " Therein
must you put me ; fyrste ye must slee me, ancl
hewe me smalle to pieces, and cut my hed in iiii
pieces, and salte the hed under in the bottom, an(l
then the pieceR thereafter, and my ·herte in the
Digitized by Coogle
429
myddel, and then set the barrel under the lampe,
that nyghte and day, the fat therein may droppe
and leak; and ye shall ix days long, ones in the
day, fyll the lampe, and fayle not. And when this
is all done, thell shall I be renewd, and made
younge agen." At this extraordinary proposal,
the was sore abashed, and made some
scruple of obeying his master's commands. At
length, he complied, and Virgil was slain,
pickled, and barrelled up, in all respects according
to his own direction. The servant then left the
tower, taking care to put the copper thrasher8 in
motion at his departure. He continued daily to
visit the tower, with the same precaution. Mean-
while, the Emperor, with whom Virgil was a great
favourite, missed him from the Court, and demanded
of his servant where he was. The domestic pre-
tended ignorance, till the Emperor threatened him
with death, when at length, be conveyed him to the
enchanted tower. The same threat, extorted a
discovery of the mode of stopping the statues
from wielding their flails. " And then the Em-
perour entered into the castle, with all his folke,
and soughte all aboute, in every comer, after Virgi-
lius ; and at the last, they soughte so long, that they
came into the seller, where they sawe the lampe
hang over the harrell, where Virgilius lay dead.
Then asked the Emperour, the man, who had made
hym EO herdy, to put his mayster Virgilius so to
dethe : and the man answerede no word to the
Emperor. And then the Emperour, with great
anger, drewe out his sworde, and slewe he there
Virgilius's man. And when all this was done,
then the Emperour, and all his folke, a naked
Digitized by Coogle
430
childe, iii tymes runnynge about the harrell, say-
inge these wordcs, ' Cursed be the tyme that ye
ever came here!' And with those wordes, vanyshed
the chylde awaye, and was never sene agene: and
thus abyd Virgilius in the harrell dead."
Virgiliu:-;, bl. let., printed at Antwerpe.
MICHAEL SCOTT, THE
" In these far climes, it was my Jut
To meet t.he wond'rous 11/ic/ull'l Scott.
A wizard of such dreaded fame,
That when in Salamanca's cave
Him listed, his magic wand to wavt>,
The bells would ring in Notre Dame.
Some of his skill, he taught to me,
And warrior I could say to thee ;
The words that cleft Eildon hills in thrCL':
And bridled the Tweed, with a curb of stone ,
But to speak them were a deadly sin,
And for having but thought them my heart within,
A treble penance must be doni'.
When Michael lay on his dying bed,
His conscience was awakened ;
He bethought him of his sinful del'd,
And he gave me a sign to come with SlH.•cd.
I was in Spain, when the rooming 1osc,
But I stood by his bed, ere evening' close ;
The words may not again be said
That he spoke to me on death-bed laid ;
They would rrnd this Abbnye's massy na\'e,
And pile it in heaps above his grave.
I swore to bury his mighty hook
'fhat never mortal might therein look ,
And never to tell where it was hid,
(Save at his Chief of Branksomc';: rlf•('(l) ;
Aml when that need was past nml r/n
,\gain the \'olume to
Digitized by Coogle
43l
I buried him, on St. Michael's night,
When the bell toll'd MM, and the moon waa bright
And I dug his chamber among the dead
When the floor of the chancel was stained red.
That his patron's cross might o'er him wave.
And aeare the fiends from the wizard's grave.
It was a night of woe and dread,
When Michael in the tomb I laid I
Strange sounds along the chancel past,
The banners waved without a blast.
Lo I Warrior l now the cross of red
Points to the gra'ftl of the mighty dead I
Within it bums a wond'rous light,
To chase the spirits that love the night.
With beating heart to the task he went,
His sinewy frame o'er the grave-atone bent,
With bar of iron heaved amain
Till the toil-drops fell from his brows like rain.
I would you had been there, to see
How the light broke forth so gloriously ;
Stream'd upward to the chancel roof
And through the galleries far aloof!
No earthly ftame blazed e'er so bright
It shone like heaven's own blessed light.
Before their eyes the wizard lay,
As if he had not been dead a day.
His hoary beard in silver roll'd,
. He seem'd some seventy winters old;
His left hand held his !Jook of ,.;gAt,
A silver cross was in his right;
The lamp was placed beside his knee :
High and majestic was his look,
At which the fellest fiends bad shook;
all unruiled waa his face,
They trusted his soul bad gotten grace.
And when the priest bla death-prayer bad praJ'd,
Thus unto Deloralne be said:-
'Now speed thee what thou hast to do,
Or, warrior! we may dearly rne:
For those tlaou fltfJg'at ttot look upOtt,
Are gathering fast round the yawning stone1'-
Digitized by Coogle
432
Then Delorainc, in terror took,
From the cold hand the mighty 6ook.
With iron clasp'd, and with iron bound,
He thought as he took it, the dead man frown'd.
When the huge stone sunk o'er the tomb,
The night return'd in double gloom ;
For the moon had gone down, and the stars were few:
And as the knight and the priest withdrew,
'Tis said, as through the aisles they past,
They heard strange noises on the blast.
And through the cloister galleries small,
Which at mid-height thread the chancel wall,
Loud sobs, and ·laughter louder, ran,
And voices, unlike the voice of man ;
As if the fiends kept holiday,
llccause those spells were brought to-day."
&ott.
Digitized by Coogle
4'33
A MARVELLOUS LEGEND.
IT was a glorious evening in the summer of 1793
-sky and cloud blending in one uniform flood of
splendour. The brightness of the heavens was
reflected on the broad bosom of the Saale, a
river which, passing Jena, falls lower down into
the Elbe, whence the commingled "aters roll
onward till lost in the Noordt Zee.
On the banks of this stream, not ·more than a
mile from J ena, sat two persons enjoying the
delicious coolness of the hour. Their dress was..
remarkable, and sufficiently indicative of theia·
pursuits.-Tbeir sable garments and caps of black
velvet, their long streaming hair, combed down ther
shoulders and back, and the straight swords sus-
pended from their right breasts, denoted them to
be two of the burschen, or students of the Univer-
sity of J ena.
' Such an evening as this,' said the elder youth,
addressing his companion, ' and thou here ?
Thyrza is much indebted to thee for thy attention.
Thou a lover!'
'Thyrza is gone with her mother to Carlsbad.'
rejoined his companion, ' so thou mayst cease thy
wonderment.'
' So far from it, that I wonder the more. A true
lover knows not the relations of space. To Carls-
bad! why 'tis no more than-but seht! who have
we here?'
3 I
Digitized by Coogle
4.H
As he spoke, they were approached by a little
old man, whose garments of brown serge appem·ed
to have seen considerable service. He wore a
conical hat, and carried in his hand an antique
gold-headed cane. His features betokened great
age; hut his frame, though exceedingly spare,
apparently healthy and active. His eyes were
singularly large and bright; and his hair, incon-
in some respects with the rest of his
appearance, crowded from under his high-crowned
hat in black and grizzly masses.
'A good evening to you, Meine Henin,' said the
little old man, with a most polite bow, as he
approached the students.
They returned his salutation with the doubtful
courtesy usual in intercourse with a stranger,
whose appearance induces an anxiety to a'\·oid a
more intimate acquaintance with him. The old
man did not seem to notice the coolness of his
reception, but continued: ' What think you of
this?' taking from his pocket a golden watch richly
chased, and studded all over with diamonds.
The students were delighted with the splendid
jewel, and admired by turns the beauty of the
manufacture and the costliness of the materials.
The elder youth, however, found it impossible to
refrain from bestowing one or two suspicious
glances on the individual whose outward man but
little accorded with the possession of so valuable a
treasure.
He must he a thief and have stolen this watch,
thought the sceptical student. ' I will obscne
him closely.' ·
But as he bent his ey<:s again upon the stranger,
Digitized by Coogle
435
he met the old man's look, and felt, he knew not
why, somewhat daunted by it. He turned aside,
and walked from his compamon a few paces.
'I would,' thought he, 'give my folio Plato, with
all old Blunderdrunck's marginal comments, to
know who this old man is, whose look bas startled
me thus, with his two great hyrena-looking eyes,
that shoot through one like a flash of lightning.
He looks for all the world like at ravelling quack-·
doctor, with his threadbare cloak and his sugar-
loaf hat, and yet he possesses a watch fit for an
emperor, and talks to two burschen as if they were
his boon companions.'
On returning to the spot where he bad left his
friend, he found him still absorbed in admiration
of the watch. The old man stood by, his great
eyes still riveted upon the student, and a some-
thing, not a smile, playing over his sallow and
furrowed countenance.
' You seem pleased with my watch,' said the
little old man to Theophan Guscht, the younger
student, who continued his fixed and longing gaze
on the beautiful bauble : ' Perhaps you would like
to become its owner1'
' Its owner!' said Theophan, 'ah, you jest;'-
and be thought, 'what a pretty present it would be
for Thyrza on our wedding-day.'
' Yes,' replied the old man, 'its owner-1 am
myself willing to part with it. What offer do you
make me for it ?'
' What offer, indeed; as if I could afford to
purchase it. There is not a burche in our university
who would venture to bid a price for so preciol\s a
jewel.'
Digitized by GoogIe
436
• Well then, you will not purchase my watch r
'l'heophan shook his head, half mournfully.
• Nor you Mein Herr1' turning to the other
student.
' Nein,' was the brief negative.
' But,' said the old man, again addressing Theo-
phan, • were I to offer you this. watch-a free
present-you would not refuse it perhaps 1'
' Perhaps I should not: . perhaps, which is yet
more likely-you will not put. it in ruy power.
But we love not jesting with strangers.'
' It is rarely that I jest,' returned the old man ;
' those with whom I do, l!leldom retDrt, But say
the word, and the watch is yours.' - .
' Do you really,' exclaimed Theophan, his voice
trembling with joyful surprise-' do you 1eally say
so! Ach Gott !-Himmell! what shall 1-how can
I sufficiently thank you 1'
' It matters not,' said the old man, ' you are
welcome to it. There is, however, one condition
annexed to the gift.'
'A condition-what is it 1'
The elder student pulled Theophan by the
sleeve: 'accept not his gifts.' he whispered; 'come
away, I doubt him much.' And he walked on.
'Stay a moment, Jans,' said Theophan ; but his
companion continued his steps. Theophan was
undecided whether or not he should follow him;
but he looked at the watch, thought of Thyrza,
and remained.
'The condition on which you accept this bauble
-the condition on which others have accepted it-
i:-, that you wind it up every night, for a year,
before sunset.'
Digitized by Coogle
437
The student laughed. ' A mighty condition,
truly-give me tb.e watch•.
'Or,' continued the old man, without heedingthe
interruption, ' ifYO#fail iafu{filling the c01Ulitum,
you die withi• six lwvrs after the stopping of the
fi)(Jlcla. It will stop at sunset, if not wound up
before.' ·
' I like not that condition,' said Tbeophan. ' Be
patient-I must consider your offer.'
He did so ; he thought of the easiness ofavoiding
the possible .calamity ; he thought of the beauty of
the watch-above all, he thought of Tbyrza, and
his wedding-day.'
'Pshaw I why do I hesitate,' said he to himself;
then turning to the old man, ' Give me the watch-
}agree to your condition.'
' You are to wind it up before sunset for a year,
or die within six hours.'
' So thou hast said, and I am content; and
thanks for thy gift.'
'Thank me at the year's end, if hou wilt,' re-
plied the old man, ' meanwbile, farewell.'
' Farewell I I doubt not to be able to render my
thanks at the end of the term.'
Theophan was surprised, as be pronounced these
words, to that the old man was
'Be he who he may, I fear him not,' said he, 'I
know the terms on which I have accepted his gift.
-What a fool was Jans Herwest to refuse his offer
so mdely.'
He quitted the spot on which he stood, and
moved homewards. He entered Jena, sought his
lodging, put by his watch, and, lighting his lamp,
opened his friend's folio Plato, (with Blunder-
Digitized by Google
438
th-unck's marginal comments,) and endeavoured to
apply to the Symposion. But in ten minutes he
closed the book with impatience, for his excited
mind rejected the philosophic feast; and he strolled
into the little garden which his chamber-window
to think of the events of the evening,
and, with a lover's passion, to repeat and bless tl1e
name of his Thyrza.
Time waned, and the watch was regularly wound
up. Love smiled, for Thyrza .was not cruel. Our
bursche had resumed his studies, and was in due
time considered as one of the most promising
students of the whole University of Jena.
But, as we already observed, time flew apace;
and the day but one before the happy day that was to
give to Theophan his blooming bride, had arrived-
which been looked forward to with such joyful
anticipations, and Theophan had bidden adieu to
most of his fellow students, and taken leave of the
learned professors lectures he had attended
with so much benefit. It was a fine morning, and,
being at leisure, he bethought him in what manner
he should pass the day. Any novice can guess
how the problem was solved. He would go and
visit Thyrza.
He set out accordingly, and was presently before
the gate of David Angerstell'& garden. A narrow,
pebbled walk intersected it, at the top of which
stood the house, an old quaint black and white
building, with clumsy projecting upper stories, that
spread to almost twice the extent of the foundatioiL
A quantity of round, dropsical-looking flower-pots
were ranged on either side of the door. The case-
ment of a projecting window was open to 1·eceiH
Digitized by Coogle
439
the light breezes that hlew across the flower IJeds,
at which a young female was seated-a beautiful,
taper-waisted girl, with a demure, intelligent coun-
tenance, light twining hair, and a blue, furth·ely
laughing eye. True as fate, that blue eye had
caaght a glimpse of her approaching lover. In a
moment he was by her side, and kissed with eager
lips the soft little white hand that seemed to melt
in his pressure.
The l<wers met in all the confiding tenderness of
mutual affection; happy mortals l the moments flew
fast-fast--so fast that-But let us take time.
They had strolled out into the garden ; for the
considerate parents of Thyrza had shown no dis-
position to interrupt tl:eir discourse further than
by a mere welcome to their intended son-in-law.
The evening was one of deep, full stillness-that
rich, tranquil glow, that heightens and purifies
happiness, and deprives sorrow of half its bitter-
ness. Thought was all alive within their breasts,
and the eloquence of words seemed faint to the
tide of feeling that flashed from their eyes.
Theophan and Thyrza rambled, and looked, and
whispered-and rambled, looked, and whispered
again and again-and time ambled too gently for
his motion to be perceived. The maiden looked
on the sky: ' How beautiful the sun has set,'
said she.
'The sun set !' echoed Theophan, with a
violence that terrified his companion-' the sun
set I tAen 1 am lost I We have met for the last
time, Thyrza.'
' Dearest Theopban,' replied the trembling girl,
'why do you terrify me thus1 Met for the last
Digitized by GoogIe
.uo
time! Oh! no, it cannot he. \Vhat! what calls
thee hence ?'
' He calls wlto must he oheged-Lut six short
hours-and then, Thyrza, wilt thou bestow one
thought on my memory 1'
She spoke not-moved not :-senseless and in-
animate she lay in his arms, pale and cold as a
marble statue, and beautiful as a sculptor's dream.
Theophan bore her .swiftly to the house, placed
her on a couch, and called for assistance. He
listened, and heard approaching footsteps obeying
the summons-pressed his lips to her cold forehead,
and, springing from the casement, crossed the
garden, and in ten minutes was buried in the
obscurity of a. gloomy wood, or rather thicket,
some mile or thereabouts from J ena.
by the passionate affliction that fevered
his blood and throbbed in every pulse, Theophan
threw himself down on a grassy eminence, and lay
for some time in that torpid state of feeling in
which the mind, blunted by sudden and over-
whelming calamity, ceases to be aware of the
horrors of its situation, and, stunned into a mockery
of repose, awaits almost unconsciously the con·
summation of evil that impends it.
Theophan was attracted from this lethargy by
the plashing rain, which fell upon him in large
thunder-drops. He looked around, and found him-
self in almost total darkness. The clouded sky,
the low, deep voice of the wind, booming through
the trees and swaying their high tops, bespoke the
approaching storm. It burst upon him at length
in all fury! Theophan hailed the distraction,
for the heart loYCs what assimilates to itself, and
Digitized by Coogle
...u
his W88 wrung almost to breaking with agony. He
stood up and shouted to the raging elements! He
paused. and listened, for he thought some one re-
plied, He shouted again, but it was not this time
in mere recklessness. Amid the howling of the
tempest he once more heard an answt>ring shout :
there was something strange in the voice that could
thus render itself audible above the din of the
storm. Again and again it was the same; once it
seemed to die away into a fiend-like laugh. Theo-
pban's blood curdled as it ran-and his mood of
desperation wu exchanged for one ofdeep, fearful,
and ovef8trained attention.
The tempest suddenly ceased; the thunder died
away in faint and distant moanings, and the light-
ning flashes became less frequent and vivid. The
last of these showed Theophari that he was not
almte. Within his arm's reach stood a little old
man : he wore a conical hat-leaned on a gold-
headed cane-above all, he had a pair of large
glaring that Thc•nph:m bad no difficulty in
iastarrtly recf)gniztng.
Wben the momentary tiasb bad subsided, .the
11tudent and his companion were left in darkness,
aad could with difficulty discern the
fonn of his companion.
There·wait a long silence.
' Do yov. remember me ?' at length interrogated
the JWysterioUB stranger.
Perjtdly/ replied the student.
' Tlia• it- well-1 thought you might have for-
gotten me; wits have short memories. But perhaps
,_. d& •t aspitte to the character.'
3K
Digitized by Coogle
442
' You, at least, must be aware 1 have no claim to
it, otlwrwise I had not been the dupe I am.'
' That is to say, you have made a compact,
broken your part of it, and are now angry that you
are likely to be called upon for the penalty. What
is the hourr
' I know not-1 shall shortly.'
' Does she know of this ? you know whom I
mean.'
'Old man!' exclaimed Theophan, fiercely,' be-
gone. I have broken the agreement-that I know.
I must pay the penalty-of that too I am aware,
and am ready so to do ; but my hour is not yet
C(JIIle : torment me not, but leave me. I would
await my doom alo·ne.'
' Ah, well-1 can make allowances. You are
somewhat testy with your friends ; but that we will
overlook. Suppose now, the penalty you have
incurred could he pretermitted.'
The student replied with a look of incredulous
scorn.
' \Veil, I see you are sceptical,' continued the
old man; 'but consider. You are young, active,
well gifted in body and in mind.'
' What iR (hat to thee? :"till more, what is it to
me- now?'
' Much: but do not interrupt me. You love, and
are beloved.'
' I tell thee again, cease and begone to-Aelll'
' Presently! Yon are all of these now-what
will you be, what will Thyrza Angerstell be, to-
morrow?'
The student's patience was exhausted; he sprang
on the old man, intending to dash him to the earth.
Digitized by GoogIe
443
He might as well have tried his strength on one
of the stunted oaks that grew beside him. The
old man moved not-not the fraction of an inch.
' Thou hast wearied thyself to little purpose,
friend,' said he; 'we will now, if it pleases you,
proceed to business. You would doubtless be
willing to be released f\-om the penalty of your
neglect?'
' Probably 1 might.'
' You would even be wilhng that the lot should
fall upon another in preference to yourself1'
The student paused.
'No : I am content to bear the punishment of
my own folly. And still-oh, Thyrzal' He groaned
in the agony of his spirit.
'What! with the advantages you possess! the
prospect before you-the life of happiness you
might propose to yourself-and more, the happiness
you might confer on Thyrza-with all these in your
reach, you prefer death to life 1 How many an old
and useless being, upon whom the lot might fall,
would hail joyfully the doom which you shuddE-r
even to contemplate.'
'Stay-were 1 to embrace your offer, how must
the lot be decided-to whom must I transfer my
punishment ?'
' Do this-your term will be prolonged twenty-
four hours. Send the watch to Adrian Wenzel,
the goldsmith, to sell ; if, within that time, he dis-
pose of it, the purchaser takes your place, and you
will be free. But decide quickly-my time is brief,
yours also must be so, unless you accede to myterms.'
'Bot who are you to whom iR given the power of
life and death-of sentencing and reprieving?'
Digitized by Coogle
444
. ' Seek not to know of what concerns you not
.Oqce more, do you ?'
'Jiirst, tell me what is your in offering
me this chance?'
' Motive I am naturally compassionate.
But decide-there is a leaf trembling on yonder
bough, it will fall in a If it reach the
ground before you determine-Farewell!'
The leaf dropped from the tree. 'I cBfiSeftt !'
exclaimed the student. He looked for the old
man, but found that he was alone. At the same
time the toll of the midnight clock sounded on his
ear : it ceased-the hour was passed, a'IKi Ire lived I
It was about the noon of the following day thal
the goldsmith, Adrian Wenzel, sold to a customer
the most beautiful watch in Jena. Having com-
pleted the bargain, he repaired immediately to
Theophan Guscht's lodgings.
'Well, have you sold my watch?'
'I have-here is the money, Mein Herr.'
' Very well : there is your share of the proceeds.'
The goldsmith departed, and Theophan stwrtly
afterwards directed his steps towards Angerstell's
house, meditating as he went on his probable re-
ception, and what he could offer in. extenuation of
his behaviour the day before.
Ere he had settled this knotty. point to his satis-
faction, he arrived at the garden gate. He hesitated
-grew cold and hot by turns-his heart throbbed
violently. At last, making a strong effort at
self command, he entered.
At the same window, in the same posture in
which he had seen her the day betore, 83t Thyrza
Angcr:slell. But the Thyrza of yesterday was
Digitized by Coogle
blooming, Bllliliag, anti cheerfUl-to-day she was
pale and wan, the image of hopeleae 80l'I'OW ; even
as a rose which some rode hand has severed from
its stem. Theophan's blood grew chill ; he pro-
ceeded, and had almost reached the porch of the
boue when Thyrza perceived him. With a loud
cry she fell from her seat. He rushed into the
room, and raised her in his arms.
She recovered-she spoke to him. She re-
proached him for the agony he had y
caused her by his cruel conduct the evening-lwfore.
He obtahaed a hearing, and explained just u much
of the history of the watch as related to its pur-
cbaee, and the condition annexed to it. This he
asserted was a mere trick of the donor, he having
broken the condition and being yet alive. They
wondered, he with a1fected, and she with real sur-
prise, that any one should have beea tempted to
part with so valuable a watch for the NUe satis-
6\ction of terrifying the recipient. However, loTe
is proverbially credulous; Theophan's explanation
was believed, and the reconciliation was complete.
The lovers had about a quarter of an
hour, wheft Tbyrza suddenly reverted again to the
sabject of the watclt.
• It is strange,' said she, ' that I too am connected
with a watch similar to yours.'
•Bow-by what means!'
•Last night I lay sleepless-'twas your unkind-
nese, Theopban-' _
Theophan hastened to renew his 'fOW8 ami sup-
piM:ations.
•Ah, well! you know I have forgiven you. But
as I lay, the thought of a watch, sueb 3.8 you de-
Digitized by Coogle
446
scribe, presented it&elf to my mind; how, or why,
I cannot guess. It haunted me the whole night,
and when I rose this morning it was before me still.'
' What followed, dear Thyrza ?' enquired the
anxious student.
'Listen, and you shall hear. Thinking to drive
away this troublesome guest, I walked out. I bad
scarcely left my home two minutes when J saw a
watch, the exact counterpart of my ideal one.'
'Where-where did you see it?'
'At our neighbour's, Adrian Wenzel's.'
'And-you-you !'-His words almost choked
him.
' I was impelled hy some inexplicable motive-
not that I wanted or wished for so expensive a
jewel-to purchase this watch.'
' No-no I' exclaimed the agonized student, 'you
could not do so !' He restrained himself by an
exertion more violent than he had believed himself
capable of. He rose from his seat and turned
away his face.
Not now, as before, did his anguish vent itself in
passion and violence. It seemed that the infliction
was too heavy, too superhuman a calamity to be
accompanied by the expression of ordinary emo-
tions. He was deadly pale-hut hls eye was finn,
and he trembled not.
'Theophan,' said his mistress, 'what ails you?
and why should 'what I have said produce so fear-
fu1an effect upon you? 1 shall-
' It is nothing-nothing, dearest Thyrza. I will
return instantly, and tell yon why I have appeared
so discomposed. I am not quite myself-! shaH
return almost immediately. I will walk but into
Digitized by Coogle
447
the lane, and catch a breath of the fresh breeze as
it comes wafted from the water.'
He left her, and passed out of the garden. ' I
could not,' said he inwardly, 'tell her that she was
murdered-and by me too I'
He hastened on without an object, and scarcely
knowing whither he was directing his steps, passed
down the path which led by Angerstell's house, in
that depth of despair which is sometimes wont to
deceive us with the appearance of calmness. He
bad no distinct idea of the calamit.y he had brought
npon Thyrza-even she was almost forgotten ; and
nothing but a vague apprehension of death, con-
nected in some unintelligible manner with himself,
was present to his mind. So deep was the stupe-
faction in which he was im·olved, that it was not
ontil some one on the road had twice spoken to
him, that he heard the question.
' What i1 the time ofday ?'
Theophan looked round, and encountered the
large, horribly-laughing eyes of the giver of the fatal
watch. He was about to speak, but the old man
interrupted him.
' I have no time to listen to reproaches : you
know what you have incurred. If you would avoid
the evil, and save Thyrza, I will tell you how.'
He whispered in the student's ear. The latter
grew pale for a moment, but recovered himself.·
' She shall be safe,' said he, ' if I accept your
terms? No equivocation now-I have learnt with
whom I deal.'
' Agree to what I have said, and fetch hither the
watch within half an hour, and she is delivered
from her doom. She shall be yours, and-'
Digitized by Coogle
448
• Promise no more, or give thy promises to those
who value them. Swear that she shall he safe I 1
request no more-wish for no more on earth.'
' Swear I' repeated the old man; by what shall]
swear, I pr'ythee? But I promise-begone and
fetch the watch-remember, half an hour; and,
bark I thou accedest to my terms?'
'I do!'
So saying, Theophan sped back to the house,
unchecked even by the loud laugh that seemed to
echo after him. He had walked than he
had any idea of, and swiftly as he sprang over every
impediment to ltis course, one-third of the allotted
time had elapsed before he reached the room in
which he had left his beloved.
It 'was empty !
' Thyrza! Thyrza !' shouted the student-' the
'mtd1 ! the watch ! for Heaven's sake, the
watch!'
The reverberation of his voice from the walls
alone replied.
He then rushed from chamber to chamber, in a
state of mind little short of desperation. He de-
scended into the garden; the dull ticking of the
family clock struck on his ear as he passed it, and
he shuddered. At the extremity of the principal
walk he beheld ThyTZa.
'The watch ! the watch ! as you value your life
and· my but haste, haste-not a word_.a
moment's delay is death!'
\VJthout speaking, Thyrza flew to the house, ac-
companied by Theophan..
' It is gone,' said she ; I left it here, and-'
' Then we are lost ! foJ give thy-'
Digitized by Coogle
.un
1 Oh ! no, no, It is here,' exclaimed she, '
Theophan! but why--'
He li&tened not even to the voice of Thyna ; one
kiss on her forehead, one look of anguish, and he
was goner
He sped! he flew !-he arrived at the spot where
he had left the old man. The place was solitary ;
but ou the lj8Jld were traced the words-The time
u past!
The student fell senseless on the earth.
When he recovered he found himself on a couch
but mournful glances were bent upon
him.
1 Thyrza ! Thyrza !' exclaimed the wretched
youth, 'away to thy prayers I but a soul like thine
has nought to rf'pent. Oh! lf'ave me-that look!
go, go!'
She turned away, and wept bitterly. Her mother
entered the room.
' Thyrza, my love, come With me. The phy-
1idan is here.'
• What physician, mother! is it-'
' No, he was from home, this is a stranger; but
there is no time to lose.' She led her daughter
from the apartment. 1 Your patient is in that
room,' flhe added, to the physician. He entered,
and closed the door.
The mother and daughter had scarcely reached
the stair-head, when a cry, which was almost a yell
of agony, proceeding from the chamber they had
left, interrupted their progress. It was followed
by a loud and strange laugh, that seemed to shake
the building to its foundation.
mother called, or rather screamed, for her
3L
Digitized by Coogle
4.50
husband ; the daughter sprang to the door of the
patient's chamber ! It was fastened, and defied
her feeble efforts to open 1t. From within rose the
noise of a fearful struggle-the brief exclamations
of triumph, or of rage-the groan of pain-the
strong stamp of heavy feet-all betokening a death-
grapple between the inmates. Suddenly, some-
thing was dashed upon the ground with violence,
which, from the sound, appeared to have been
broken into a thousand pieces.
There was a dead silence, more appalling thlll
the brunt of the contest. The door resisted no
longer.
Thyrza, with her father and mother, entered the
room : it was perfectly desolate. On the.floor were
scattered innumerablefmgments of the fatal watck.
Tlteophan was"heard ofno more.
On the fifth day from this terrible catastrophe, a
plain flag of white marble in the church at-,
recorded the name, age, and death of Thyrza
Angerstell. The inscription is now partly obliter-
ated; so much so as, in all probability, to baffie
the curiosity of any gentle stranger who may wish
to seek it out, and drop a tear on the grave of her
who sleeps beneath.
Respecting man, whatever wrong we call,
May, must be right, as relative to all.
In human works, though labour'd on with pain,
A thousand movements scarce one purpose gain;
In God's, one single can its end produce;
Yet serves to second too some other use.
So man, who here seems principal alone,
Perhaps acts second to some sphere unknown ,
Touches some wheel, or verges to some goal;
'Tis but a part we sec, aud not a whole." Po•a.
Digitized by Coogle
461
...
&BTBOLOGIOAL 008 V BRSATJOITS.
No. II.
TAll: EN JROM TRi MEMORANDA OF THE MB.RCURII.
Pre.,ent, RA t•HA EL; and Members.
llaplurel. " All hail to you, brother studentl'l:
well met, once more in the Temple or Science :
what discussions are to bt: proposed by our worthy
President !"
President. " Allow me to p.-oduce the nativity
of a lady, whose name has, I believe, been most
foully and unjustly calumniated; but in which, I
believe, when the attention of the Society has been
gained, there are many cviclcnt signs of strong
menta) powers, and of real genius."
II. B. " May I anticipate our worthy President
by that female genius (notwithstanding
the tribe of puerile, half-Parnas....ian, Poetesses of our
time, who load 'Keepsakes,' 'Gems,' 'SouvenirM,'
&c., &c. with their lucubrations) is extremely rare,
even in the age of puffing. The nativity is of
course the more acceptable."
Omm:s. " Of course; and a scientific treat to
this assembly."
Capt. B. "Although a devoted admirer of the
fair and gentle sex, I am fain to flay, the effusions
with which our periodical publications are cram-
med, are fuh:ome.-1 presume, Mercury and Venus
l1a\·e but little to do with our modern writers.''
II. W. "Although Colbur" would make us be-
Digitized by Coogle
lieve all England rings with the praises of hie
coterie of writers, with La:dy Morgan at their
'head-"
C. L. " I crave pardon for this interruption, I
for myself esteem Lady M.'s genius.''
H. W. " And so do I ; but I like not egotism.''
Capt. B. " Nor do I; but we are interrupting
our worthy President, I fear.''
President. " Brother students, I now call your
candid attention to the horoscope of HER RoYAL
HIGHNESS, THE PRINCESS OLIVE OF CUMBER-
LAND. The figure was given to me by herself.
Here is the scheme."
NATUS
.llpril 'l'iirtl'
1771.
Digitized by Google
463
Capt. B. " This is indeed a carious Datinty,
and as such, I mon that it be inserted in the
archives of our Society. Presuming the horoscope
to be correct, there is a position in the scheme,
which at once establishes the cleverness and skill
of the lady in question ; I mean the conjunction of
the Moon and Mercury : I can now myAf!lf Lelieve
wlt.at our worthy President bas named, that the
lady has been the victim of some manifest hard-
heartedness."
RapluJel. " Our worthy fnend speaks truth ;
observe, brother students, the aspect of Venus with
Herschel, in quartile to both Saturn and Jupiter:
who can count upon faithful or sincere friends with
such an ominous aspect 1 And I am led to believe,
that her ' Highneas' has suffered more from the
treachery of her own sex, than from any other class
of persons. The lord of the ascendant seems to
have had also some power here, for you will per-
cave Satvn the ascendant, and is opposed
to the lord of the second ; a plain reason why the
lative has been so tossed about by the whirls of
fortune. Yet, as Jupiter ari6u, I may be bold to
prolllise 'a perpetual deliverance from difficulties.
It is VNy likely that the year 1831 will prove of
laetiug import to the Princess, since Jupiter in-
grtii!U his radical place, and MJZiilu Sol, Mercury,
aDd Lana. I trust she will experience a rise in her
fortunes, ere the yearwanet:; but Saturn returning to
hiaown sign at birth, has a tendency to create delay."
Capt. B. " Mars in the second house ruling the
tenth, is a presage of great losses; but will give a
baadsome income, annuity, or allowance, /1'0711
i• power.-Am I right, Raphael'"
Digitized by Google
464
.Rapkatl. "Although Mars invariably causes
profusion of money when so placed, he is symbolical
of much good; and I hope, sincerely, his presages
will be fulfilled!'
P1·esident. " Here are some memoranda of
' directions,' which her Royal Highness, I remem-
ber, told me, were the calculation of agentleman at
Cambridge University.
" They are as follows :-
Year•
EB to the t::. of f1 59 2
to the * of 59 8
»to the zodiacal * of
with latitude ti2 4
]) to the t::. of 62 10
0 to the * of f1 in the
zodiac 64 0
0 to the t::. of 65 0
. $ to the * of t 61 2
" The Princess is now in her 59th year, and I am
myself of opinion, that the approaching arcs are
evidently the forerunners of some remarkable good
fortune."
Raphael. "Undoubtedly they are, and I would
only hope the arcs are correctly calculated."
Capt. B. "I will go over them on my return from
my next voyage, and communicate the result to you,
brother students ; unless Raphael would favor us by
placing the horoscope on his zodiacal Planisphere."
Raphael. " I will, most assuredly, do any thing
that can at all gratify this learned Society."
Omnes. " The thanks of us all, Raphael, are
your due."
Raphael. " I owe this Society, each and indi-
vidually, much gratitude; a gratitude which time
itself cannot efface."
Digitized by Coogle
Capt. B. "I have a piece of information in
store for this Society, at which I am certain, you
will envy my being the first to announcethe intelli-
gence.-Brother students, 'THE ROYAL BOOK
OF FATE•; has at length appeared I How eagerly
the literary world, and the public in general have
devoured its contents, I need scarcely say I Jts Four
Tlwwand and Ni-,ety curious answers, are really
ORACLES! what more can I say 1 Here, gentle-
men, and fellow students, is Raplaaef1 said work."
President. "In the name of each member, indi-
vidually and conjointly, 1 present to Raphael the
&ientific Crown,' which we have long prepared, al:'l
a reward for his arduous labors, in promulgating
the curious work now before us."
Raplaael. "That its mystical influence may still
further stimulate my mind to the pursuits of the
divine science, to which I have allotted my days,
tArov.gh weal and woe, is the prayer of the Society's
most humble and devoted servant."
President. " Gentlemen, we all join most trub'
in this wish of our Secretary. But I cannot con-
clude, nor dissolve this present meeting, without
also calling your attention to the astonishing in-
stances of foresight, evinced in the Hieroglyphic of
this year's 'Prophetx. Messenger,' (1830). Well
may the author have exclaimed,
" Furloa1 Man, tla6 ,lery ltilr,
Wama o( dangerfrom alar I
While thy cruel upecta abew, •
T1111e1 o( wretched want and woe !
Btrl(e ud perU : warlike Ire,
lJfld dire I
May Heueu atert thy (atalllre ,..
• P1•bli611td by J. &I, Bmr, '-doll.
Digitized by Coogle
••
Rapkael. " Gladly would I have consented,
that even the scientific honors this night bestowed
opon me, had been withheld, rather than my poor
unhappy country should have been the scene of
such distress, as it at present exhibits : I presurnP,
tfJt ' tntluente of tbt malignant
.atats,• is now too manifest to be denWJ, by even
the casual observer. We should, I believe, in vain
search over the pages of a century's records, to
trace similar events to the present EVIL year."
Omnes. "Wesltould; and therefore, it
serves as a greater instance still, of your singular
foresight."
President. " A good nigl1t to you all, brother
students, and may all happy Stars and Planets
influence your destinies, till we meet agam.-
Raphael, accept our obeisances.-Adieu."
" In heaven's great and constant effort for our
welfare, is capitally written the dignity of man.
That is a key to the moral world, and opens and
explains the reason of all God's, otherwise myste-
rious, conduct in it. Every step of which is
evidently calculated for man's present, or future
felicity; or both. The long shining series, the
golden chain of all God's marvellous acts, from the
beginning to ihe close of time, speaks his uninter-
rupted regard for human nature; and what can
more loudly proclaim human dignity than this r·
YouNG's Centaur not Fabulous.
Digitized by Coogle
GIJOIIIANCY.
THE SENTENCE
ov
trontunttto
41fD
41 'I'BB
IVDGB.
3M
Digitized by Google
4bll
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 00
0 0 00 00 00
00 0 0
0 :>
0 0
00 00
Questions. Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life . . Moderate• Life •• Lorig.
Money Moderate. Money Fort1111ate.
Honour Good. Honour . Yery good.
Business • . Good• Buslllllll • Ezcellcnt.
Marriage 'O'I"tHDU. Marriage Fort1111alt.
Pregnancy " datlgi!Ur. Pregnaney " d4vgltttr.
Sickness • Perllow•. Slekneu DOIIhl/•l.
Imprisonment Long. 1mprisonllllllt Lorlg.
Journey • Eril. Journey • Sqft.
Thing lost Ftl'llttd. Thlngloat . Fo111td.
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 00
0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0 0
Questions. Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life lllean lengtla. Life Long.
Money Evil. Money Good.
Honour lllOllerate. Honour Fa'IOfff'flble.
Business . 111oderote. Business Good.
Marriage lndifferfflt. Marriage
Pregnancy Female. Prc>gnaney " ..alt.
Sickness . Dubious. Sickness • Heala.
Imprisonment Come out. Imprisonment
Journey • Hur({ul. Journey • Good.
Thing lost Fouttd. Thing lost '"-.ttd.
Digitized by Coogle
•469
0 0 c
Q 00 00 0 ..
0 00 00 0
Q o·o c 0 oc 0
0
0 c
oc
ltJ QMidoiiL ........ QuellIa& ......
.: ur. • . . SAort. Llle •
lir MOIIIJ . Moaey . . ....
ifr Ho11011r • . RWI. Roaoar. Jt-.
• BulaiM. Ulo4• Buallll• •
1:11 Mantqe VlReiJ. lllllft'l.qe
!!11 Prepabef • r..crll. Pnpaey Mille.
:Ill Bielnlea • DNt.\. Blcbla. llellltll.
-lmpri1611melit No,.,._, Jmprl101lBieD\ BIIM f'llfrcaletl.
Jnun.y • lA*. J ••....,.. GtHHI.
Thinr lon ParCjMul. 'RlBr lott • LUIIIf.-d.
,
.....,
/
Q :> QQ 00 00
00 0 0 . QO
0 0 0 00 0
Q
0 Q
Q o . Q 0 Q
0 Q
0 0
-o o 0 0
Aa••en. QllldOU. .......,
/
UCe • r-g. LICe • LtAg.
MooeJ . . Rz«u..t. Mner . F.,.,_.,..
Roaour • Good. Ronow. . Good.
Eztfllft£. Bush••· 1lzerllftl.
Marrilp F,..._,. M..... Fmw....,.
•
.._ Pl'8pllaC!J' ......
Slet1111 H..W.. H...
c...-. lmpriMdlent
'-'·
loame,. JOUI'IIIJ , . s- ..........
'l'lllnJ loll FOIIIICI. Thblt loll • F,_,, I
I
. I
o;9,tized by Google
0 0 0 0 00 0 0
00 0 0 00
0 0 0 00 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
Questions. Anawert. Qaeltlou. Aniwen.
Life •• Ill. LICe • M-.
Money. Mea•. Money M-.
Honour Etril. Ronoar M-.
Businest Buaineaa M-.
Marriage. Marriage. Geod.
Pregnancy l<'emak. Pregnancy • .d dftgikr.
Slckne... Dtall. Sickness • DtGIA.
Imprisonment Not ot1C. fmprlaonment IU.
Journey . UtifortfHtatl. Journey • IU.
Thing lost NotftYHd. Thing lost Notfnrtd.
i.. J
00 00 0 0 0 0
00 0 0 00
00 0 0 00
0
0 0
0 0 00
0
0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
Question•. Antwere. Questions. Answeri.
Life • . Long. Life • Slr.ort.
Money. Euel/nt. Money Sv,#Nr&t.
Honour Good. Honour IU.
Business Good. Business Mea•.
Marriage. Marmge .
Pregnancy A girl. Pregnancy A d.twgl&ttr.
Sicknesa • HtQ/A. Bicknell •• HltlltA.
Impriaoblllent Lor&g. lmprieonment
Journey Late. Journey IU.
Thing lost Foulld. Thing lost FoNJ&d.
Digitized by Coogle
411
0 0 Q 0
00 0 Q 00
0 00 OQ 0
0 00 0 0 00 0
0 Q
0 0
00 0 0
QMitioDio A1111ren. Qaea\lou. ADI'trM.
Life • .- • 8Aort. Life .. LMg.
llo118J • Money • Bida.
Hoaou B.U. Honour Gnat.
llluiaew .. lhll• Buineu M-.
.Murta,e.
·-· Marrla«e. FIWCIItr'llble.
Pres-aeJ A dtJwg/11«'. Pregnancy .A-·
8ld:II8H •• Dtlbfou. Slctneu •• H«ll/J&.
lmprisoD.ant OtltbJUI. lmpriloa-nt Well Ollt.
JOUDeJ Perllou. Journey . Rmln.
PartftiHI!.. 1'1ling lolt FIIUd.
,
0 0 0 0
0 Q. 0 0 00
Q 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0 00
Qaestiona. Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life •• Meofl. Lire •• Bftl.
M-,. lfld(ler'lflt. Money. Bftl.
HoDOGr Good. Honour Ef11l.
Ball-. Meoa. Bulneu JWU.
Marrtap. Meoa. Marrlsge. Ult/arftnUJle.
Pres-ey Dnb(fv.l. PregnanCJ 4fll4id.
llcbeu. H«ll/J&. Slcknets • Dtlbion.
lapriloaent &oiiOIIt. lmpri80U1811t
JOUDeJ • Good. Journey • Gootl.
I 'N.f loll Nolf-.d. 'nling loet . Noltobefornrd.
----
Digitized by Google
0 C) 0 0 00
00 00 00 eo
00 00 00 00
00 0 0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0 00
0 0
Qladou. Aoawen. Qu•dool. ADI'!'tn.
Life .• S/uwt. Life •• !Arlq.
Money. Eril. Money. Good.
Honour Eril. Honour Eri'.
Busineu Busineas M,..
Marriage. Ef!U. Marriage . Ul\fortwMtt.
A davg/&ter. Pregnancy Ferull.
Sickness • Heollll. Sickness . H«Jll!.
Imprisonment c-ovt. lmpriaonment .4 g«HHC'Ml.
Journey M-. Journey s..
Thing loat . Notfuod. Thing loat Fowrtd.
0 00 0 0 0
0 0 00 0 0 00
00 00 0 0 oo
00 0 0 oo
0 0
00 0 0
00 0 0
0 0
Questions. Answers. Queationa. Allawen.
Life .. ]Jean. Life .. M-.
Mooey. lr&diJfere'lll. Money. Me-.
Honour Afcan. 'Honour E.U.
Business Moderate. Businea u.,.,.,.
Marriage. Alcan. Marriage • u,..,.
Pregnancy A Pregnancy I· Dotlgltlilr.
Sickoess • HenUA. Sicltaeu .• B.&
Imprisonment Slorrl. ImpriaoUIIIIIlt p,....,._
Journey Retllrt&. Journey
Daa; ··-
Thing lost Fowul. Tblng loll • NtA,IWtttL
"---
o,9itized bvGoogle
-
0 00 00 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0
0
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
Q II 11 .u..... Alllwen.
Ule •• BAort. Lite , •
...,. u--.. Mon8J • MtGfl.
H-.r Honov Eril.
BaliDMe • Bril.
Marn.,.. u...,. Marriqe. Ulllady.
Prepuq .o.w.... PrepucJ A-.
IJuwbCffll. 8leh"a • DeGU..
.,...,, lmprllo_.t Bltq.
JoaraeJ • N,.._ J011mq •• &tv....
Thlat lCII& No4fft!ML Tblaf loa& • I'OHtl.
00 0 0 00
00 00 00 00
0 0 0 0
0
0
00 00
0
0
00 00
00 00
0 0
Q........ Aanera. QIIIDidOnl. An1wera.
Life ••• ·. SAorf. Life ••• M-.
MoneJ •• Eril. MoneJ • • Mtaa.
Rooou Urtfore-11. Honou
BaliJMia. .s.iL BulDeu Bad.
u...,. Marrlap.
p......,. A,... Prepan8J • .--.
&let.., •• HIGUl. &let_. •• H«<UJJ.
u.. lmprliOIIIIIIIlt .I. good lftd.
lOVIMif , • IlL Jo•naeJ • •
...,.,..
'l'ld¥ ••. N411.,fvwall. 'l'blDJloat • l'ollttd.
Digitized by Coogle
4.64
0 0 0 0 00
0 0 00 0 0 0 0
0 0 Q 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 - 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
Questions. Answers. Queatlo81. Auwen.
Life .. Long. Life . . Lorlg.
Money . Good. Money. Good.
Honour Good. Honour F-f'Gbk.
Business Good. Busineaa Good.
Marriage. Et>il. Marriage. Good.
Pregnancy .d fllllle, Prepancy .df-..Je.
Sickness . Heall/a. Sickne11 . Dti/Mu.
Imprisonment LaU. Imprisonment Good-'·
Journey Good. Journey Good.
Thing lost Notfoutul. Thing lost FD-1.
0 c 0 0 00
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
Questions. Answers. Questions. Anawen.
Lift> Short. l.ife lWil.
Money . Urtlvclcg. Money /WU.
Honour Et>il. Honour /WU.
EvU. Business Utlltldy.
Marriage . U'lfortulllltt. Marriage . Brill.
Pregnancy Looktotl&t lat. Pregnancy o-glller.
Sickness . Do11b(ful. Siekneas .• Bt1iL
Imprisonment Dubiou. lmpriaonment Pmlou-
Journey .. Ef!il. Journey Good.
Thing lost, . Notfowftd. Thing lost Nolp..J.
Digitized by Google
4H!J
0 0 0 - 0 0
'"'
0 0 c 0
0 0 : ::
0
0
0 0 0
e 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
QeMtiODI. Questions. Anawen.
Ufe .. Life . . Jllralf.
.._,. VfllwltJ. }lone)' . FortteiUJU•
a_, E.U. Honour MeaN.
..... Bad. o.. Geod•
Muriqe. Vrtlwllf. . Mtft.
Prepuacy A da•gi&Ur. Pregnancy A-.
lickDeu • bt.w.u. Sickness . HeaU/a.
l•prilonmeot Lmcg. Imprisonment Good
Joaney IU. Journey IU.
TbiDtlo" Thiog lost Ft1WMI.
oc 0 0 0 0
0 Qll 0 0
0 0 d 0 0 0 00
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
6 0 0 0
0 0
Qaesdon1. Question!.
Lite .. Good. Life Lmcg.
Moaey . Ftn'Ctlf&IIU Money . Good.
Holloar Goad. Honoar Good.
Builldl Lwlty. BullDell Lwty.
lllarriap . Good. Marriqe. Happy.
Prepuey A-. Pregnaaey
8iclales1 • ., Bicknell . Htoli.A.
laprlloDJDifnt Not ..e. Imprisonment !Awg.
Jouu.t Slmr. lontMy t'rditNI.
'I'Wiag lott FOICad. Tiling loll FOflflll.
3 N
Digitized by Google
400
THE ASTROLOGER.
No.8.
OBSERVATIONS UPON THB
llrumal lnl)'tttUJ, Ot I!Rintet 4!lluatttt,
1830.
·-
-·
BY A CORRESPONDENT.
f:ol't ingrttt tuto
'fi
Dec. '1:2d, 1830.
7h. 8m. Morniug.
Digitized by Coogle
To til Editor qf til Fmailillr Jf.1trologer.
SIR,
The annexed figure is the map of the heavens
for .the commencement of the Winter quarter.
That division of the zodiac distributed to Sagittary,
ascends; and that to Libra, culminates. Of cour:-e,
Jupiter is the sovereign of the horoscope, and
occupies, in company with Mercury, Venus, and
Sol, the celestial sign Capricorn, the palace of
Saturn-a position which, considered abstractedly,
is but imbecile; yet, as he is angular, and possesses
the dignities of Luna and Saturn, with whom he is
in amicable aspect, and also those of Venus, be-
tween whom and Jupiter no radial connexion
exists, his weakness is rendered strength, and
what is singular, he is seated in the exaltation of
Mars, who flings towards Jupiter a quadrate ray.
The strength of his benevolent purposes is in-
creased by these several circumstances, except that
of his claiming the dignities of Mars, with whom
be has no friendship. The Moon, Venus, Mars,
and Saturn, have therefore wonderful power in
Capricorn; and the good and the evil indicated by
their aspects, are rendered more powerful than if
they had no dignities in the sign ; and, conse-
quently, when favoured by good, or beheld by evil
a.o;pects, Jupiter is more powerful in his good and
evil significations ; and which preponderate, the
good or the bad, is difficult to decide. The com-
bination of four planets in one sign, and in the
ascendant, I cannot but regard as curious.
Jupiter is of the nation at large, its
pecuniary affairA, the great and powerful, both in
Digitized by Coogle
46b
the church and the state, the established religion,
and of freedom. He designates also, the honour,
the friends, and the enemies of the nation. The
application of the Moon to a sextile of Jupiter, will
produce in the people efforts to lighten the
that press upon them, as contributors to the revenue;
to obtain greater influence in the legislature, and
<unong legislators ; and to march on in the road of
freedom. He.- rays are, however, impregnated
with the baneful influence of Herschel, raising up
obstacles, delays, and unforeseen contingencies, ot
an unfortunate nature. And I behold her as th(
Herald of the Lord, proclaiming to more than tht
usual number of the poor, the rich also, and th1
great, and the powerful, " Thou shalt die and no·
live." It may be, that the King will experienct
bodily indisposition : but of this I am not certain
But what is more awful, the grim messenger i·
working his purposes by unnatural means ; for
foresee suicides. And the Moon is the precurso
of evil, in regard to employment; for, alas! she in
timates starvation and its concomitant train of woes
She has not reserved for England only her dread
ful denunciations; but some neighbouring nationto
Portugal, France, and continental states adjaceo
to France, as Holland, Rome also, are compre
hended and denounced. I behold the sea tern
pestuous, and receiving with boisterous eclat, th
victims of its rage. There are represented by her
in addition to her other significations, sudden an•
strange casualties, evil in their kind. But hE>
sextile will modify the banefulness of her translat.Cf
influence; but for this sextile, tremendously awft•
would be the effects of her affliction.
Digitized by Coogle
4G9
This eextil.e ray, is probably of ga.j'wl significa-
tion ; and as the Moon represents, by nature and
position, navigation and our neighboUI'll, abe
out advantages to be gained from theBe sources.
V$11.9, absorbed in her glory by the superior splen-
dour of the Sun, and aesquiquadrate to Taurus, and
Taurua beheld by the square of Herschel, are indi-
catioos not favourable to the prosperity and happi-
uess of the sister Kingdom. But httter tirne1 for
her are dawning; troubles, great mortality, and
perbapa iMurrectiOilS, must precede. This judg-
ment I found upon the facts, that Venus is combust,
that she is in trine with Saturn, that she is applying
tu the conjunction of Mercury, to thf" square of
Mars, and to the conjunction of Jupiter; and
Jupiter being besides, located in a sign along witb
lter, and·io. which she has dignities. From this
commixture of astral agency, may J'lf'sult t.he death,
or the scandal of some lady; detraction, treachery,
and unhappy unions; females will in general be
obnoxious to Saturn, tile greater infortu.e is in
tbe 8th house of the figure, in the sign Virgo, on
tbe cuaop of the 9th, into which he no sooner gets,
than he retraces his steps, and bends his course
towanls Leo. A circumstance this, worthy oi
notice. He is the hearer of many summonses to
the aged, to the British tars, to the illustrious, from
this transitory and probationary scene. Rome and
France will likewise experience the desolatiDg rays
of SaturB. And as the 8th, is the Sth from Aries,
he apares not the young, the gay, the dissipa.ted,
the talented, nor women in child-bearing. And, in
sbort, posited as he i8, he is the herald of calamities
aad troubles. Ruling the 2d of the figure, and the
Digitized by Coogle
470
abode he bas taken up being the 5th from Aries,
he is not o( very fortunate import to speculators,
to those particularly who speculate in money. The
aspects of which he is the recipient, are all good: he
is in reception with Mercury, and the latter planet
is applying to the square of Mars, quintile of the
Moon, and conjunction of Jupiter. I think, that
from these things, there is plainly .betokened the
future amelioration of the condition of the country;
Saturn signifying agriculture, and the agriculturists
themselves, and by position in regard to sign,
foreign commerce. The annuals cannot be very
fortunate: artists, poets, and public writers, are
exposed to evils, to controversy, and it may be,
that some one will experience prosecution. Herschel
in the 2d! in semiquartile to the Moon! a portent
of pecuniary distress existing among the labouring
classes. Is it a portent of anotlter "LATE PANic?"
Russia needs no greater affliction, in my judgment,
than to have Herschel on its ascendant: a country
by no means friendly to England, her ascendant
afflicting our money-house. The square of Mars
and Jupiter-a sad aspect-the great must be pre-
pared for the ills Mars has in store for them: con-
tention about money matters, and agricultural sub-
jects, of no good import to the military, nor to our
neighbours. Is this aspect mt indication of war;
or of some difference between England and a
neighbouring state? Patriot is a term in general;
of sham importance-a mere epithet-that defacto,
signifies the subserving of private interests to the
interests of a party, under the pretext of serving
the country. The truth of this, will, I believe, be
experienced, if the stars, as no doubt they do,
Digitized by Coogle
471
speak truth in regard to th1s matter. What
there to do in regard to India and Turkey!
. IsAAC SUGDEN.
Bradford, York1mre, Oct. l, 1830.
THE ELEMENTS OF
IVDICJIAI. ASTBOI.OG'I'.
BY THE SAME CORRESPONDENT.
A planet is debilitated or strengthened by
aspect. This accession of strength, or deduction
from it, must always be considered; and a planet
thus invigorated or weakened, must be judged of
as it would be, were it strong by essential dignity,
or weak from the want of it. For a planet bene-
volently aspected, is as strong as by house, or ex-
altation; and unfavourably aspected, as enenated
as by essential debility•.
Planets strong, are good presages; planets weak,
are bad presages. But then they must be con-
sidered in regard to their sovereign prerogative,
their locality, and their nature.
Suppose the ) be the ruler of the J2th, and
posited in l:S in the lOth. Here the ) does not
signify evil, though she ia the ruler of an evil
bouse.
Suppose again that y, were the ruler_ofthe 12th,
and in the lOth in the sign exaltation. The
nature of this fellow is evil. let him be where he
• Thb b u e11e0Ual tnath, It to be DO...s.-ED.
Digitized by Coogle
472
will. But however, the evil is mitigated, or rather,
it is comparative, owing to the strength he poaseese!
in His government and · position would seem
to imply comparative good, rather than evil: in
other words, that though he be an evil planet, and
fond of an evil house, yet being exaited by sign, he
is significant of good ; and especially is he a good
significator of any thing wherein is concerned.
It follows, that a planet having dignities in any
house, is of fortunate signification, in what respects
that house, and its lord or lady.
A planet, essentially dignified in the house of
another, shows friendship and mutual assistance;
and a planet, debilitated in the house of another,
is indicative of hatred and hostility between them.
Hence, THE FRIENDSHIP AND ENrtiiTIES OF THE
PLANETS.
The planet to w bich another is applying must
be considered, in order to determine the issue of
the thing signified by the applying planet ; and
the planet .from which another has separated, must
also be duly considered, with a view to the ascer-
taining of tlte cause of that which is past, signified
hy the separating planet.
To illustrate the 1st ruie: suppose that 11 be the
lord of the 2d house, and posited in 'l.&, but in sex-
tile aspect with 'lf. or . 11 is now strong ; (or by
the impression of the beams of the benevolent
planet, by a powerful aspect, he is as powerful a
significator of good, as he would be, were he
posited in .o.. The good or evil bstokened h,
planets must be inferred from their nature, their
locality, or their government.
Planet-, are also strengthened or weakened by
Digitized by Coogle
473
Amue. The houses of the heavens are angular,
succeedent, or cadent. Angles are the most power-
ful in the production of either good or evil. Next
to them in power are the succeedent houses. The
cadent are the weakest. But in regard to houses,
it must always be remembered, that a planet,
govern what house soever it may, angular, succeed-
1 ent, or ca(lent, is most powerful in that house.
It is of the utmost importance, to consider the
mrength or weakness of the dispositors of the
planets ; for a planet, by locality, may be extremely
weak, and yet, from the strength of the ruler of
that house, good is indicated.
It must not be supposed, that the 0, », and
being convertible orbs, that therefore their strength
or weakness, by sign or aspect, iH a thing of no
material consequence. On the contrary, tlley are,
like the rest of the heavenly bodies, fortunate or
unfortunate, as they are strong or weak, irrespec-
tively of the nature of the planet or planets in
aspect with them.
Planets are strong or weak also, as they are
above or below the earth, oriental or occidental,
swift or slow in motion.
Things good or bad are orought 'to pass by the
strength or weakness of the planets, essential or
derivative, as explained above.
Bad houses, having rulers of evil natures, or
possessed by unfortunate planets, · are rendered
more evil in signification; and, on the other hand,
having rulers of benevolent natures. or Inhabited
by fortunate planets, their evil signification is miti-
gated in proportion to the strength of the benevo-
lent go\·emor, or of the benevolent inhabitants.
3o
Digitized by Coogle
414
DisEAsEs.-The ascendant strong, and the 6th
nouse governed by a benevolent, or possessed by
oenevolents, and the l> in aspect with fortunes,
prenote good to the querent in respect to health,
and especially if the lord of the ascendant has dig-
nities in the 6th, or there be reception between the
lords of the 1st and 6th, or the l> strong in a sign
governed by the lord of the 1st, or in which the
lord of the 1st .has dignities. But if the ascendant
be afflicted, evil, with reference to health, is indi-
cated. If the ascendant he free and strong, and
the 6th house be afflicted, or if the ]) be aftlicted.
no matter whether she rule the 6th house or not,
indisposition is betokened. Again, sickness is in-
timated, by the affliction of the governor of the Ist
by the ruler of the 6th. From the ascendant,
therefore, the 6th house, and the ruler thereof, or
the J>, but chiefly from that which most afflicts, is
disease inferred. If the lord of the ascendant be
afflicted by other planets than these, their affliction
is not indicative of disease, but of evil, d·enoted by
the nature, the locality, or the government of the
afflicting planets.
" Exactly mark, ye rulers or mnnklnd,
The ways of truth, nor be to justice blind;
Consider, all ye do, and all yll say,
The holy demons to their God conny,
Aerlaltpirits, by great Jove designed
To hi! on earth the guardians or 'I!Wlkbul,
IDY!sible to mortal eyes t11ey go,
J. s•••••.
And mark our actions, good or bad, below ;
Th' Immortal spies with watchful care preside,
And thrlee ten thousand round their chargn rli.S..
They can reward with glory, or with gold,
A pow•r they by di'flne permi11ion bold."
Digitized by Coogle
476
umo:LOCJIO.U.. aowveauTJon.
No. III.
TA'I:BN PROII TBB IIBIIORAJIDA OP TBB IIB&OtJBIJ.
• • • • • • • • • •
Pruidelal. "What is your opinion, Raphael, of
the' Part of FortvJU 1' Has it any real truth in
nature 1"
" Like most other students who have
been ulf-tavgAt, this worthy Society will readily
suppose my path in science was obstructed by
numerous difficulties: scarcely an author who has
written upon the • trtltettal Stt,' as old Haly
terms it, but cries up those numerous non-entities
to the skies ; one of which, the ' Part of Fortune,'
undoubtedly is I I have made it my uniform cus-
tom to dive as deeply as I could into the centre of
these and have frequently calculated
direction to the said in different horo-
scopes; but I regret to say, that this theoretical
signification, (as it is termed,) is literally of J&either
intport, aignijicatioft, JWr ejfect, either in good or
evit"
J. L. .. And is this, Raphael, the result of your
-candid and impartial investigation 1"
RapAael. " It is : and there are, I believe,
t1eve-ral of my brother students, who have come to
the same conclusion ; who were even bigoted in
favour of this singular chimera."
Om.a. " Your dietum, Raphael, then, sets the
question at rest ; ' i11 secula seculorvm,' as the
Catholics say. Let the opinion of Raphael, the
Digitized by Coogle
,\strologer, be preserved in the archiTes of the
.i\1ercurii !"
President. "The Wishes of the Society meet
my entire approbation; and in this case, the worthy
members mayrest assured, that 'to hear, is toobey!'"
[A. lwd lcnoclting i• heard al tAe door qf tAe llloVrrill 1/u -
ber• are and vpots tAe IGIIW beiftg opcud, Cape. B. il
ant&Otu&«d: the ffleleome Aim, and IN lllll:rt, lNurillg ia Ail
lwnd att ezquuUely botlnd ; 1u dilplaye ou qf flu tflriouiJ·
n'To11gllt piaU•, and bo!l1• Co tAe -wy, flliCA tu.e _,.,u.]
Capt. B. "Are ye all prepared with charms,
spell, and vigils? have ye each pronounced your
orizons? have ye each, brandished-
Your croas or Rowan, ud bead or Yew ;
Your sigll, wet with hallowed dew I
Your taliamu, seal, and sacred Tell ;
Your black-letter mble, by atol'd Prieat bleat I
Your lameD, your wud ;
Your charms at commaud I
Your Tenaiu 1.11d myrtle;
Your mystic woTe kirtle !
If ye hne them, prepare;
ADd let scoll'ers beware I
For a strange guest I bring, that may ueed 61lCh tctrird·tblag;
A ft'itell, a fair witch; brother members, I briD!f 1.
" Yes, brother students, I have the felicity to
present to your notice the famous ' BtttfJ of
Uapf)atl.' May she fascinate your attentions
with all that is good, and wondrous, and lQvely:
tllay her potent influence also extend to the Eight
Thousand readers of her author's works ; and may
the name of Rapha£l thus be quoted, as the mystic
word that fascinated the literature of the nine-
teenth century ; impelling mankind, by gentle and
subtle means, to behold the heavens ; and by ad-
miring the master-piece of the universe, therein
contained, learn to adore the great Creator, who is
so magnificently visible in his works ! Gentle-
men, and brother students, I present you with
Digitized by GoogIe
4'1'1
'RAPHAEL'S WITCH,' or the Oracle of the
Future."
OmttU. " Let the fair, and gentle, and learned
'Witch,' be placed in our library-the library of
the Mercurii-and let her occupy the choicest niche
therein, out ofdue and merited respect to Raphael."
• • • • • • • • • •
Raplw.el. " According to custom, I now pre-
sent the society with a curious nativity ; the time
thereof was accurately taken, and presented me
by my friend J. M.-a. scientific gentleman of great
worth. It is-
Qe Mattbttv of an Insane 11Jtteon.
EDWARD PIERCE,
tiora
April 26, 1795,
0 49 P.ll.
JDitlJ
In May, 1830,
buane for many gear•
previous to his death.
Digitized by Coogle
478
PLANET'S LATITUDE. PLANET'S DECLINATION.
w 0 47 N. 12 28 N.
146 s. 18 20 N.
1f. 022 s. 19 8 s.
022 N. 19 11 N.
0 ............ 18 37 N.
I 12 s. 8 56 s.
2 50 s. I 13 N.
]) 028 s. IT 41 N.
" The following are the zodiacal aspects of the
planPts :-
l> A , sesqui. 0 , 0 0, et quintile
semi. 0 0, * ,* ,ab semi. 0 1f.
ab semi. 0 , ad semi. 0
0 o 1f., d o 8 II• o
"In my opinion, the zodiacal and mundane
square of and II, and the sL•miquartile and
sesquiquadrates of by which he is terribly af·
flicted, were astral causes, so plaully poi11ted out as
precursors of the dreadful calamity which befel
this man, that they evince as admirable (though
disastrous) a proof of Astrology, that could be well
brought forward. My brother members will
readily discover what were the fatal directions
which gave the first decided proof of insanity at
the age of 13 years, and those which caused his
dissolution. He was a person well off in worldly
circumstances, and the foregoing is his real name;
which I have thought proper to give, in order to
prevent any signs of collusion or deceit."
President. "This is indeed a treat to us ; and
in the name of the Society, Raphael, be pleased to
receive our thanks."
Rapluul. " ' Dominus vobiscum,' as our pious
Catholic forefathers of old were wont to say. The
Digitized by Coogle
479
Society shall have my utmost gratitude, both in
thoughts, words, and deeds."
H. B. " At the request of the Society, on a
former meeting, when the works contained in our
library were spoken of, it was proposed, to give a
printed of Raphael's Worksl"
0Jtmes. " The society wish it, in order that
no Pseudo Astrologer may pilfer aught of hitJ
fame."
Pl'esident. " Here, brother members, is a cata.
Iogue of the various original Publications, in due
order, as they have progessively appeared before
the public tribunal; written by Mr. R. C. SMITH,
Mathematician and Astronomer, under the literary
appellation of RAPHAEL!"
J. . . . . of ... &ildlntt tteatuv:
nddiGgro...
?. tnt lhlok of J-J(rftt. Clfld Taln qj'IM lHGd I
S. «.. jllnaal of a.tnlog. or Boeot qftAe Stan I
'· «te JiJoot of Jr- a• Ul•llllwaud MSS.ftn'ffleriJ • tAe
,.._.;.. qftAe E4rl qf E-.rI
6. or 8\-ale ofa.at.
CJ. Cte thtnlogn'; (1M,_,., Work.)
7. fnJtetic Jlltttnpr; - A•••al.
s. 5aptutt Ulikt. or 6mle of"'
Ontnes. "A goodly list enough, for one author,
in the short space of :six years I l!ut let us hope the
list will be trebled, yea, quiJttupled, ere our worthy
Secretary lays down his pen, and bids adieu to
the dissemination of Celestial lore.''
Raplaael. " Brother students, your wishes, I
hope, will prove prophetic.''-
• * * • • • • •
. . . .. . . • •
Digitized by Coogle
TRANSLATED FROM
A RARE FRENCH AUTHOR;
n.v J. P.H.lfER, E•q., Stwdent qf Ocevlt Plt.lloHpl&y.
,\u auc'ent Gcomanccr in his study.
Au exl1 aordiuary JJlellwd of discovering any o11e's
P1·oper Name, b!J Geomanc!J.
It is here that we will give a curious method,
to know the N amt of a pttson, of a titg,
or of anv otfJtt tfJtng, be it what it may; so
Digitized by Google
481
that if you would discover the name of a thief, or
of a worthy man; of a traitor who is in a state, or
the natural father of a foundling, of a murderer
who has committed homicide, &c., you will follow
these rules.
B c D F G H K L
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 () 0 0 0 0 0 o · 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
·:·1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 () 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
M N p Q R SorZ T · X
The figure being cast, you will see the name of
the unknown; but before you make the distinction,
you must know the number of syllables it ought to
have. That is why you must note that if the judge
is a fixed figure, and the two witnesses moveable,
it will only be of one syllable. If the judge and
one of the witnesses are fixed, it will be of two ;
and of three, if the two witnesses and the judge are
fixed. But if the judge only is moveable, you will
only pay attention to the two witnesses, who will
denote, as we have already said, two syllables.
Lastly, if the judge and one of the witnesses are
moveable, the name will be of four syllables ; and
of five, if these three figures are moveable.
This being understood, you will only take the
figures ofthe first, second, and third, ifthe name is of
one syllable ; and if it is of two, you will add the
four, five, six, and the others in the same way. But,
orasmuch as the figures in particulars denote only
3P
Digitized by Google
.482
the sixteen you ll).Ust have recourse to
other places to find the vowels. For that effect,
.you will place A upon the first three figures, E on
the three following, I on the three others, 0 on the
three last, V on the witnesses and judge ; and you
will remark, that the angular figure which has the
least points, will place its vowel in the first sylla-
ble, even at the beginning, if it is fixed and mascu-
line; but those which have the most points, will
place the vowel at the end of the name; and if
they are equal in points, you will place them in
their natural rank, that is, where you find them.
As for the consonants, the four angles, and the
first witness, give the five consonants which ought
to begin the five syllables of the name, if it happens
that there are so many. Note, that if the figures
of the angles are fixed, the syllable will be but of
two letters; it will be of three, ifthey are moveable;
and of four, if a moveable figure follow them; and
that is all we have to observe, to find any name
TO DISCOVER NUMBERS
BY GEOBANCY.
Those who have put this art in practice, have
produced the Table of ttU1Ubtt6 in this form.
6 0 0 16 18 0 6 6 0 0 20 DO 0 6
8 0 Bl fl I) 12 6 p 0
0 0 0 0 3 0 0
0 400 R o 0 60 0 500 50 0 'I
I
I 0 f;() 116 ()
!I
0 0 2 14 .• 0 II I l
5 0 0 fiO 100 0 0 25 af 0 1
0
I o o q 14
" lt
0 90 1500 0 0 4 50o 0 2&
Digitized by Google
2 • 14 7 0 0
• 4 0 0 14 • 0 0 0 . ,
0 0 0 0 7 0 0 18
8 0 0 !I 0 .0 0 eo o cJ
8o 0 100 11 0 14 10 0 0 eo fl 0 0 ,. i
4 0 10 18 0 0 I 8 0 0 41 I& 0
8 0 14 10 0 0 8 15 0 8o 0
8 0 40 0 0 8 28 0 0 0
0 0 90 89o 0 9 9o 0 12 8000 0
There are no rules to put this table into practice ;
nevertheless, as there are but four parts to the
ftgure, namely, the head, the heart, the thighs, and
feet. I think that each number, which attaches
itself in the figure to either of those parts, can be
taken in its value according to its sitllation, where
you find the figure; ao that it it is in the angles,
you will look at the head, in the succeedents, to
the heart, and cadents, to the thighs, and in the
houses of the judge and witnesses, you will pay
attention to the feet ; and by this means you will
make a total numr.tt, by the collection of all
these little numbers. This can be practised to
know how much money is hid, how much the mer-
chant will gain in traffic, &c. ; the numbers to the
right signify the gain, and those to the left are the
Dumbers of 1088.
TO DISCOVER COLOURS
BY GEO•••cnr.
The third curious observation that we will make
here, will be concerning teloun : that we will
disco•er bJ the means of figures ; for it is ne"e.
-.:ry to pay attention only to the bouee of the
question, aad the figure which is found there
cleaolal die colour. But if you doubt the proper
Digitized by Coogle
484
house, you will observe where the EB is placed. To
render this curious research easy, here is the table
of fiBUtt9 anb tOlOUtS; and we will see in the
end, the fit place for (B, and the point of instruction.
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0
White Pale
0
0 I 0 0
0 0
000 I I
0 0
IColo"' of..,,ICltroo o..... l
0 0 0
0 0
0
0
0 0
0 0
Vermillion
Ruddy
0
0
0
0
Yellow
n
I Red
0
0 0
0 0
0 0
Grct>n
0 0
0
0
0 0 0
! Violet Blue Azure Flaxen Grey
0
0
0 0
0
0 0
00 00 0 00
0 0 0 0 0 0
00 00 00 I 0
0 0 0 0 0
I
Grey Blackish Black Colour
The liJ4tt of ..ifortune is very considerable in
Geomancy, not only to know the figure of the colour
which we wish to know, or the precise number
that we are looking for, but also to decide every
other case of which a demand can be made; for
the said EB following in a bad figure, promises
nothing advantageous; on the contrary, you ought
to look for every good, when it arrives in a good
figure. Here is the manner to find the Part of
Fortune :-you must count all the points which
occupy the twelve houses, and divide that number
Digitized by Coogle
by twelve, and the numher which remains denotes
the for instance, if you have seventy-six points,
you divide by twelve, there will remain four, which
denotes the fourth house, where you ought to place
tet •art et ,lortunt.
AI, for the point of instruction, it serves to
denote the ttubject of the question ; for that effect,
you must observe what figure passes from the first
to another house, and the house where it passes
to, indicates the subject of the demand.
There are Tarioua arguments from natnre and reason, besides
lllole infallible ones adduced from holy scripture, in favour of the
IOII)'a immortality, which seem to me incapable of any solid and
lltiafactory IUIIIwer. Mr. Addison has thrown some of them toge-
ther at one Yiew, in those well known and justly admired lines'
ftich he pots into the month of Cato .-
" It must be so--Plato, thou reaaon'st well!
Ebe whence this pleasing hope, this fond desire,
This longing after immortality ?
Or whence thia secret dread, and inward horror,
Of falling into naught? Why shrinks the soul
Back on herself, and startles at destruction?
'Tu the divinity that stirs within liS ;
'Tis heaven itself, that points out an hereafter,
And intimates eternity to man.-
Tbe soul, secured in her existence, smile•
At the drawn dagger, and defies its point.
The stars shall fade away, the sun himself
Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years,
But thou shalt ftouriah in immortal youth,
Uahan amidat the war of elements,
'fte wnok ofma&&er, aud the cnlla of ..w..•
Digitized by Google
486
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. !J.
OBSERVATIONS ON
TBE SPRING QUARTER.
1831.
20b. 21m. P.K. ,,
i:Pring Quartet,
21811Jlarch,
1831.
Digitized by Google
487
The apriaa quart.r commences when Gemini
-=eDd1. ud whea therefore Mercury asaumes the
SOTONignty of the horoSCQpe. He is poiited in the
eleveQth, in the aign Piaces-asign depriving him of
etteDtialstrength; a Mign in which Venus, Jupiter,
3lld Man, retain dignity ; &Dd, aa if by conniv;wce,
Jupiter, Mans, aDd Mercury, bavQ exchanged prero-
for Jupiter and Mars are located in the
dignjtiee of Mars beholdrt Mercury, and
Mercury Man, with a aspect-an aspect the
more powerful, u Mercury it in reception, though
weak reception, with The Moon is not back-
ward in lending her aid to Mercury, byapplying to a
trine relation to him : JtQ that, tbouch the lord of
the celestial figure is weak, these acci-
dental circumstances nmdctr him strong. His sig-
nification therefore fortunate. By nature, he i•
the grand repre&elltativQ of the preae, of public
writers, of trade, and of e111ba8Biet; by government,
oftbe people of England, of the nation's PlOney, of
speculatione, of the youth of both and of all
pleasqrable ; by position, of friends-a
position that ipapr.aaea these aignatuNt of fate, viz.
that the people will be frieode to theJDJelves, that
unani._.ity will prevail atnong them, and that the
pretJS will be " friQndly Jupiter, the
governor of Mercury, Md the of thct
great, of the aristocracy, and of the government,
dou JWI •wc4 favour Me"\llf ; but Mamt doea,
impertiq fire Qr flpirit iJltQ tht and tht
V i• remarkably tthy-the «<Mn• q
quite <:OJ', llut JDust tht
MiU'i if filii by of whicb
bJ thtt qumtil't coJUMtJiOA be lla.t wif.ll
Digitized by Coogle
466
Mars. Remembering this, and that the sign Pisces
is peculiarly pregnant with evil when possessed by
evil influence; and in the evil degrees, Mercury
may presage strange calamities, fires, violence; be-
cause, ruling the 2d as well as the lst, he is not in
his vengeance a sparer of property. Mars in Gemifli
will, I fear, prove a destructive portent in relation
to our metropolis. In Flanders, things seem not
yet to be settled-war, internal and external, or
commotion of some sort, exists, and which affects
London, yea, England, and England's pecuniary
resources. Whether it designate war, and involve
this country in it, I will not peremptorily declare.
Embassies are however on the wing, and the affairs
of Holland are prominent, for look at the Moon.
If there he war, England does not favour Belgium,
does not take its part ; and the poor Dutch King
is in regard to revenue, in a poor condition. Por-
tugal is cmtsterned, and England affected. How
singular, that the interests of this country seem to
be, and indeed are, so wound up with those of
other countries, as almost to be identical. Look,
Mercury is at once the representative of England,
and of France, and of Flanders, and, being in
Pisces, of Portugal ; and Gemini is on the cusps of
the 1st and the 2d houses, Virgo in the 5th, and
Cancer, the ascendant of Holland, on the 3d. The
common people of this country are yet but in a
very bad state ; but this state is ameliorating, for
the Moon is applying to the biquintile of Herschel,
and then of Jupiter. Foreign trade is very de-
pressed, and agriculture ! ye8, agriculture can
scarcely be worse off; for, behold how old Saturn
afflicts that branch of trade. To Italy and Rome
Digitized by Coogle
489
thereare, I think, betokened tremendous visitations
or Providence; and this strikes me, that London
is obnoxious to some epidemic disorder, for Mars
rules the sixth. Venus in the twelfth, ruling the
sixth, in evil aspect to Mars, and Venus being the
representative of the fair, shows them to be ex-
posed to sickness, calamities, and secret evils.
Ireland is also in an unenviable predicament.-But
look at the mid-heaven-at Jupiter in conjunction
with Herschel! what an aftlictionl betokening evils
to the great of the land, to the government, to the
nation's·friends, and to the character or credit of
John Bull! and to a KING some severe stroke
o( illness or death! Look again ; the moon's south
node is there I characteristic of itself alone of evil
and woe. Russia is badly off, and perhaps the
Czar will die. • A more friendly connexion is
likely, I think, to be.attempted between Russia
and England ; however that be, England will ulti-
mately come off with bad grace. Saturn in the
4th, is descriptive of funerals of note. Finis.
IsAAC 8trooEN.
Jl-..oll tJfld CrocodiltJi11 .S.gltJrul.-Tbere have beenrecently
diteovered in the pariah of Motteaton, on the aonth aide of the
Lie of Wight, the bones of that stupendous animal supposed to be
the Mammoth, or Mastodon. Several of the vertebte or joints of
the back-bone meaaare thirty-six inches in circumference. They
correspond exactly in form, colour, and textare, with the bones
found in plenty on the banks of the Ohio, in North America, in a
Yale ealled by the Indiana Big Bone Swamp. Also, in the parish
of Northwood, _
on the north side of the island, the hones of the
Crocodile recently been found, hy the Rev. Mr. Hughee, of
Newport. 'J'hey seem to have bdonged to an animal of
apeeiea, whose body did not exceed twelve feet in length. The1r
calcareous nature is not altered: but the bones of the Mastodon
(found on the eouth side of the iabuid) contain iron.
3Q
Digitized by Coogle
490
THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE!
Part the First.
At the request of the Editor, a gentleman of
perfect chemical skill, and well versed in classic
lore, as also in mathematical and philosophical
knowledge, and of no mean talents in the astrolo-
gical art, has undertaken a series of papers to il-
lustrate the possibility·and truth of the Alchemical
Art, whichhas for itsgrand object the Transmutation
of Metals, the Elixir Vitte, &c; which the ancients
are said, by credibk kistoriam, to have known, and
performed wonders therewith.-The Editor of this
work trusts these singular essays will prove highly
agreeable to the readers of the Familiar Astrologer,
as theyare at once rare, cw-ious, extraordinary, and
learned! He would also just mention, what the
writer of the disquisitions ,did not seem aware of:
viz. that Dr. Woolaston and Sir Humphry Davy
each pursued the Hermetical Science for a consi-
derable period ; and during the pursuit thereof,
hit upon most of their invaluable chemical disco-
veries. The Editor's informantwas a Mr. Wagstaff.
a highly respectable bookseller; formerly residing
in Brown's Lane, Spitalfieltls, London ; who was
well known, a few years back, for having the choicest
collection of Alchemical works and MSS. of any
one in England. He knew many persons who had
followed up the theory of the Hermetic art, as given
by the old autlsors; but with little success, as tbe
Alchemical writers above all other authors clouded
their dissertations with far-fetched enigmas, dif-
Digitized by Google
491
lcolt to penetrate, or. eve• gueu .at, except by
sdtpt•.-He informed the Editor, that Sir Humphry
Davy, and other great chemists, were coDStantly
purchasing these Alchemical works of him, aDd
employed him to collect those publications, whether
in print or MS., whenever and wherever he could
procure them. He likewise told the Editor (of
this work) that he could prove these gentlemeo
believed in Alchemy secretly, whatever were their
publicopinions : and that he was credibly informed,
a series of experiments were generally carried on
at His Majesty's Mint, to ascertain the growth of
gold, and its chemical foundation, &c.
SECTION I.
AN ESSAY ON THE
· It may perhaps appear singular, that in theae
times, w.hen knowledge is so generally diffused,
tbat men believe but those things which can be
proved with almost mathematical exactness ; that
taescieKes generally, have attained to such a height.
of perfection, and that the deep and mysterious
atadies of our forefathers, are now, by most men.
treated idle chimeras, and .children of a sickly
ucy ; that a man should dare to run the risk o£
beiag t;hQught a fool an impoetor, by attempting
torevive again thelong condemned and long forgot-
ten Of 81tbtmJ). But I write for those
men who read and jtulge for theuuehlu; for those
Digitized by Coogle
492
who will not allow their ideas to be enslaved by the
trammels of modern philosophy ; which were forged
by men, who, in their own self-love and self-suffi-
ciency, believed it to be impossible, that sciet&ees
should exist, which their all-powerful, all-penetrat-
ing genius could not fathom : and who, unwilling
to own their insufficiency, condemned as futile
those things which had baffled their utmost en-
deavours to attain. How have they condemned
the profound science ofAstrology? How the science
of Hermetic Philosopy? How all the other sciences
that the ancient wise men and magi followed? I
answer, that they have condemned them from their
ignorance of their simplest laws or precepts! Let
them, if they can, bring forth their proofs of the
untrnth of the mystic sciences; let those who con-
demn the ancient art of Astrology be put to the
test; and it will be found that not one of them is
capable of bringing up a direction, or even of casting
a fignre. How then is it possible that thE-Se men,
possessing· no knowledge of these arts, can have the
power of reasoning on them, or of showing their
defects? it would be just as reasonable, to take as
a law the opinion of a child on the intricacies of
Algebra! But let their criticisms be what they
may, let them attempt what they will, THESE ARTS
HAYE REMAINED, AND WILL REl\IAIN, BRIGHT AND
RESPLENDENT AS EVER; even when the progeny
of those who have condemned them, shall have
passed from the memory of man, and their puny
and ephemeral slanders and inventions shall have
been forgotten, and not one trace of them existing.
to cause the student to smile at their ineffectual
endeavours. I have taken upon me the pleasing
Digitized by GoogIe
493
task of laying before the unprejudiced reader, the
history, theory, and application of the •ennettt
lrt : and I shall endeavour to prove, that it is not
so impossible to attain to the knowledge thereof,
as those who have failed in the study have endea-
voured to prove
SECTION II.
If I were to endeavour to trace '!I'IUI SCIJIIrCB
o• to its origin, it would be vain and
foolish ; as its commencement is lost in those times
which form the infancy of the world. The patri-
archs of holy writ possessed it ; and it was to the
influence of it, that they owed the enjoyment of
that lengthened life that strikes us in the present
day with wonder.
Hermes, who is supposed to have been
porary with Abraham, is the first author who has
traced its principles, and who has placed them in
order; but being unwilling to disclose it openly to
the world, he invented hieroglyphics and symbo-
lical characters, under the veil of which he sent it
forth to the people ; it was from his writings, that
the various schools and temples among the Egypt-
ians, the Greeks, and the Druids, were formed,
and where the Priests alone explained it to their
disciples.
'I7te .Ardiau studied it wit/& er.tlauiann ; and
Setet seeDl8 to have been the inventor of distil-
Digitized by Coogle
494
latory apparatus, which no doubt he contrived, to
aid him in his complicated experiments, before he
had discovered the simplicity and facility of the
art. After the crusade, the study of this science
became common in Europe ; and a philosopher or
learned man, in those days, would have been very
little thought of, if he had not some smattering
of the art.
From the toils and labours of these men, from
their unremitting exertions and multiplied experi-
ments, we have gained the arts of Pharmacy and
Chemistry ; and the names, Raymmul Lvlly, Co.ftt
Bernard of T,.cvisan, Sendivogius, Philalethes, will
always be remembered: I cite these names in parti-
cular, as I am certain, that tfJt» f)O a 1Jnftd
ltno\Dltbllt ot tfJt art. The manipulation,
theory, and all the technicalities ofthe science, exist
in their works ; and all is explained and laid open to
the student, except the real names of the first
matters to be employed. This they have all
zealously concealed; and the ignorance of it, has
been the stumbling-block of almost all who have
endeavoured to attain a knowledge of Alchemy.
Towards the middle of the seventeenth century,
the study of the art began to decline ; and at the
present time, a man would hardly credit you, if
you told him, that there was existing, a single
attf)emtst.
Digitized by Coogle
495
SECTION III.
q, of. fll• art.
I now arrive at that p:trt of my Treatise, which
must give to the reader an idea of the possibility•
of the existence of an ART; by means of which,
the operations of nature may be performed in less
time than she takes to bring the stubborn metals to
perfection in the Earth's womb. It is evident, that
all things must have a beginning, and likewise
diierent stages of perfection : Man is not born at
once in force and vigour, neither does the tree
Lring forth its fruit at once ripe and fit for food !
We are all positive of thi::;, and we know that all
things, whether vegetable or animal, require time
to come to perfection: wuy then :-:hould we believe
that mineral productions are exempt from this
Jaw? Jfwe look at a ptttt of 6oUJ, can we for
a moD;Iellt it as the work of ail instant?
is it poBSible that it has gained its metallic splen-
dour, its ductility, maleability, and beauty all at
oace ? or is it to be supposed that the metals were
all created at the moment when our terrestial planet
was launched from the Creator's hand into im-
mensity?
This cannot be possible; as we have on record
itlstances of mines having been worked for a con-
siderable number of years until nearly exhausted,
and shut up for a length oftime; and when re-opened
they have been found abundant in ore, and fit for
• Tile eGJr&Yta, aoc.ompuln thl1 article, Yllllllutrate the lnJenl·
ou wrller'• Theory on Alcllemy.-ED.
Digitized by Coogle
49(j
working. THIS PB.OVES ..-.rAI.S
DO GB.OW AND IXCB.BASE. Our nextobject
is to ascertain what their beginning or root is,
where it is to be found, and what is its nature. The
root is a substance which is neither metallic or
mineral, but partakes of both ; and arises from the
putrefaction and decomposition of both mineral
and vegetable bodies ; it is soft and maniable, some-
times one colour, sometimes another: the metallic
germ is frequently found in it, and it is so common
that there is not a child but what knows of it ; and
yet this plentiful and well known production, Is
the womb or vehicle which is most fit for the
astral anb ..-truttifuing ..1firt of tbt
fllitorUr ; to work its slow and secret opera-
tions in, on the formation of metals; it may
be found and seen everywhere; it is common in
fields and marshy places ; it is not necessary to dig
deep in the bowels of the Earth for it, as it is fre-
quently found at the depth of a man's leg.
This matter the philosophers called their "t74St,
and with reason too-for it holds the Sttral
,Spirit in itself, and contains it in all its work-
ings, until it putrifies with it, and becomes one
body with it, :md then it acquires the name of the
first matter, "hich is so earnestly sought after by
those who tie\ ote themsehes to the study of the
:!rt Of JQrrnttG. I must now say something of
the Astral Ol' universal spirit-the I.DI"B, J:IIIUI,
AND SOUl. 01" PB.OCB.BA.'.nVE XATVJUI;
Ly means ofwhich all things are brought forth, li,·e,
and increase ; and whose generative power is felt
to the very centre of the Earth. All men know
that they cannot live upon food alone; and that if
Digitized by Google
4!J7
they were deprived of air they would droop anfl
die. Neither would a plant live or thrive without
it. We must not pass over the action of light in
silence : let a vegetable be planted and kept in
the dark, it will grow, because it bas sufficiency of
air, hut it will come forth sickly and yellow ; but
let but one small ray of light fall on any of its
leaves, and it will be found that that part wiH
quickly assume its healthy garb of green : and if
a man be exposed to continual darkness, its effects
on his mind and spirits is quickly viMihle
We have now convinced ourselves that light and
air are necessary for the growth, well being, and
life of men and vegetables; and those who have
read the Emerald Table of will remem-
ber that he says the following wonts : 44 Qat
'lfJitfJ te dobt, ie ltlct ttat wtittJ te IJt=
ntattJ :" so that subterranean productionslikewiSt"
require the assistance of these two agents of nature.
Now this leads us to the following enquiry : do the
invigorating principles of light and air act, one
independent of the other! or, do they from their
onion give birth to a third, which affects all things,
whether above or below the earth, in an E"qUal
manner! We must naturaiJy conclude that this is
the case, as neither light nor air in an isolated
state can penetrate the depths of the earth. The
generative essence of nature then, is a subtle fluid,
compounded of light and air, which is capable of
penetrating all things. This is what the Philoso-
phers call their astral their water of the
Son and Moon, &c. ; and this is what the hermetic
student must learn to obtain, before be can com-
mence his operations in the art ; for this purpose
3R
.
Digitized by Coogle
493
«fJt IJIJtlotopfJtt't l.oabttone must be dis-
covered, for it has the power of attracting this
fluid, and of giving it a substantial form. I cannot
disclose openly what this is, but l can tell the
student that it frequently takes the form of tlte
caoss; and in this emblem are contained more
mysteries tkan it would be right to divulge openly
to all men; for this reason, it is called the sign of
Redemption, as by its power and assistance, the
Philosophers prepared their medicine, which had
the universal power of bringing to a perfection,
far beyond that which nature alone can do, both
animals, minerals, and vegetables ; and it restorf'-S
man to his primitive state, and adds new fire and
vigour to his body and mind.
The proper time for the recolt of this fluid, be-
gins when tf)t .sun enttre tfJt sign of tf)t
ltam, on the 20th or 21st of March, and con-
tinues till he quits the sign of the Twins, about
the 20th of June. It must be gathered after sun-
set, when the Moon is at or near her full ; and
the wind must not blow violently at this time; the
Sun's rays are reflected by the Moon, and the air
is strongly impregnated with the tlUilJ,
or Nitre: it is adviseable to turn to the north
during the time of gathering; and if the st\ldent
has been fortunate enough to divine the
of this fluid, let him seek it in A MINE OF THIRTY
YEARS STANDING, and he will then be able to
obtain the spirit in the form of a viscous tluid:
and the .$tone of tfJt .Magi, their -medicine
and universal solvent, is nothing more than this
fluid, carried to its highest pitch of concentration
and fermentation : it may be considered like con-
Digitized by Coogle
499
densed fire, and is brought to this state of purity,
by being frequently fermented and putrified with
the mineral matter.
ZADB.IBZ..
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 10.
tlttrologtul Conttpo1lbnu aub fQunttt,
Jr.IA 1M Editor'• &.twk•for 8tvde11t•.
To the .Editor of tl1e Familiar Astrologe1.
MosT RESPECTED S1a,
Permit a young student in the Astral Science to
offer a few remarks to your notice : with the moat
exalted idea of your abilities in this sublime piece
o( ancient learning, 1 feel agpured that, as a pro.
moter of the science you you will excuse
the liberty I have taken. I was hom at the time
stated in the enclosed horoscope, (which I am
certain is perfectly correct,) in a small town, a few
miles distant from Sheffield ; which, by obsena-
tion, I compute to be in the lat. of 53° 24' N., and
about 1° 30' west of Greenwich.
My nativity, I conceive, is rather remarkable,
and deserving of your attention. I was hom, to all
appearance, dead ; and when came to the ses-
quiquadrate of the 1> by period, I narrowly escaped
drowning, (but without receiving much injury,) bJ
o,9itized by Google
.)00
from a brid:;c into the river; the o to
the ascendant, was accompanied with a :similar
accident; again I escaped, but with a severe cold:
when seven years and a half old, my right leg and
left foot were severely scalded ; and it was be-
lieved, from the agony I was in for several
afterwards, that I should dit>; hut two months after
the accident, I again perfectly recovered, without
experiencing the least inconvenience from it to this
time. It is worthy of remark, that when formed
an 8 to the D, i. e. returned nearly to his radical
place, by period, as shewn in your Manual of
Astrology, viz. eighteen years and a half nearly, I
had a severe illness, which was protracted until
the f'ffects of I;l 's 8 to the were pa:-t.
I ha\'e not :o:een the effects of Moon to the de-
clination of 1;,1 described; but it wnrthy of notice,
that at the exact time this a!'pt•ct (if ! may so
term it) took place in my nathity, I was appren-
ticed to a master and professiur_, wldcb were en-
tirely contrary to my incliuations ; during my
continuance in this situation, I experienced many
remarkable circumstances, as singular as unac-
countable; but when the * to the asc. took
place, I was freed from a situation I always dt'-
tested, and was again sent to school, where I pur-
sued my studies with the greatest application and
success. I have become acquainted with most of
the known arts and sciences; amongst which are
Geometry, Trigonometry, Geogmphy, Navigation,
and Astronomy ; these haYe always been my
fitvouritc studies. From my childhood, I have
had a strang.e propensity to the occult sciences, ancl
three or four months ago, I purchased Siblt•y,
Digitized by Coogle
.'iOI
Coley, Salmon, and some other authors; in perusing
whose works, I found little satisfaction ; for from
such a mass of contradiction and error which these
books contain, I could scarcely select any substan·
tial knowledge or valuable information. A short
time ago, I had the satisfaction of seeing "Wilson's
Dictionary," and your "Manual of Astrology• :"
but even Wilson frequently contradicts himself;
and in finding the Planets' poles, he adopts an
erroneous method, contrary to a more correct rule he
has given in another part of the work. Upmt. peru-
i7tg tile H lJooft ot tfJe I wcu pwfectl!l
and have worked the following directions,
according to the rules there given ; but having no
instructor, nor any one capable of discovering an
error, I have taken the liberty of sending them for
your inspection, and (if necessary) correction.
Permit me to obsene, sir, 1 entertain a hope that
you will comply with this request, under the pre-
sent circumstances. I have always had a great
inclination to go to sea ; and I shall feel extremely
grateful, if you will give your opinion, whether
such a situation would be fortunate or no ; for this
is the only profession for which I have any predi-
lection; and I learned the art of Navigation aboP
six ag9, with a firm resolution to gratify m)
inclinations with the first favourable opportunity
that transpiredt. I should describe my person and
• A few remainills copies of this work, which is out of priut,
aay be had of the Editor, 75, CaaUe Street But, Oxford Street.
wtter• on the aubjeet, mut be prul paU.
t J, iD the 9th, in 8 to and V, are not only UDfortaoate for
DaYal profeasioos, but forcshcw shiJlWreek and fear of a fatal end.
Digitized by Coogle
502
manners, but I am persuaded that you will discover
these from my horoscope, much more correctly
than I can describe them myself, was I ever so
sincere and undissembling : suffice it to say, I am
five feet nine inches high, rathPI' slender, but
moderately well proportioned. The following is my
horoscope and the calculations I have made, towhich
I beg to requestyour attention; and at the same time,
if you discover any thing remarkable therein, I gin,
you permission to make what use of it, together
with these observations, you may think proper.
Natus est 1811,
July 14th, lOh. 82m. P.u.
Lat. 63 24 N. Lcm. I 30 W.
Die Solis,
R.A. 0 US 14+167 59 ==
271 13=R. A. Mid-Heneu.
Digitized by Google
0
t§:
N.
il_
CJ
0
a
....-
(")
-
=
::S(J;I
....
=-(")
-·
5:3$
(") -·
I: 0
-=
....
'<
s· r
(") (")
e.§
(") .....
e. e.
=
=
CJq -·
.. =
'Ci)',...
==-
(JI
=-(II
-·"'
(")
-(")
.- I:
-I
I
A.D. a....
.Latllll<l.. DeoUaalloa. .LoaIIlade. Pole of Polet.
Horo...,,..
I# 0 :.ON. 15 59S. 22'.l. 28 22 41
I
4489
- :
l1 1 11 :s. 21 MS. 260 43 i 3:.! .;6 14 87
'lf. 0 25S. 22 82 10 1 34 3-l 13 9
I
-
8 8 OS. 22 4S. 232 18 33 5 43 30
I-; -
21 45N. 113 14 32 30 28 33
i
i 0 35 s. 22 52N. 8740 3488 514
--
0 28 N. 28 SON. 101 44 35 50 lis 33
1._:_.14 17 s. 12 44N. 17 43 I 40 48
....dlal'llal •••• o. D.lalhe O. .A. ...... 41••
Are. -tunal Pole of tile ...... .
Are. Hoi'OMope.
"-... Plu. PoL
6'1 19 112 41 198 47 16 26
-
57 14 122 46 227 571 6 1
124 3-l 55 28 1 47 88 5 8t
199 13 122 8'1 1
56 55 128 5 8
122 80 57 80 146 45 1221
124 88 58 4 2 18
125 50 M 10 187 S4
107 48 72 171 27
·---·
504
have done by Trigonometry,) but I am fearful I
may have committed some errors in finding the
Planets' poles, so I the operations worked in
full, as follows* :-
lst.-The Pole of Mercury.
R. A. of
R. A. of I. C.
Distanee of from the I. C.
101 44
91 13
10 31
St>al. Arc. R. di.t. Dilr. of dr. of ro•.
As 54 10 90 10 31 17 28
17 28
10 31
6 57 Asc. Diff.
Sine of Ascensional Difference 6 57= 9,08280
Cotangent Declination 23 30=10,36170
Tangent of Pole 15 33= 9,44450
2d.-The Pole of Venus.
ru 13
R. A 87 40
3 83
S•m. Art. R. dl1t. Dill'. tlr. R. 4111.
As oS 24 : 90 : : 3 33 : 5 46=3 33=2 13 A. D.
Sine of Ascensional Difference
Cotangent Declination
Tangent of Pole
2 13= 8,58747
22 52=10,37496
5 14= 8,96243
• The principle upon which these problems are worked is eorrect.-ED.
Digitized by Google
3d.-1.'he Pole of Man.
R. A.M. C. 2'71 18
R. A. 8 •· •• •• ... •• 282 18
8816
Sea. Are. R. dlat. our. or ctr. R. "- ·••
A.a 56 55 : 00 : : 38 55 : 61 82-38 55==22 8'7 A. D.
Sine of .A.acenaional Ditl'erence
8
Taogem of Pole
22 87= 9,58497
22 4=10,89214
43 80 9,97711
"
.._
,.
4tb.-The Pole of Jupiter.
R.A.I.C.
R.A.'Jl. ... ... ... ... ...
91 . IS
82 10
9 8
...,....
a-Are. R. dlat. DUr.orc.P. R.dlat.
AIM 26 90 : : 9 8 : 14 42-9 8=6 39A.D.
Sine or.A.acenllioual Ditrerence
Cotangent Declination 'Jl.
Tangent of Pole 'Jl.
. . .
5 31)= 8,99822
22 61=10,87582
18 9= 9,3681W
The Pole of by tbe same method is 14 37.
The Pole of Herschel 44 39; the Pole of the
Sun 28 23; and Pole of the Moon 40 43.
3 8
Digitized by
:>06
The following are calculati,ms of all the aspectR
which the Moon can possibly form with the other
Planets, by direct motion:-
lst.-) to semi * The aspect taUs in M 22 47, where
the Moon's Latitude is 4 34 S.; Declination 14 2 N.
R. A. )
) A. D. under its own Pole
45 25
II 13
0. A. ) und<'r ditto 34 12
For the R. A. of the Asp<'ct.
As cosine of 14 2=9,98684
To cosine of 52 47=9,78163
So cosine of 4 34=9,99862
To R. A. of Asprct
Tangent )
Tangent Declination
Sine of A. D.
Right Ascension of the Asp<'ct
19,78025
9,98684
51 34=9,79341
40 43=9,93482
H 2=9,39785
12 25=9,33267
A. D. of ditto under Pole of tl:c Moon
51 34
12 26
0. A. of Aspect under 1\loon's Pull:!
0. A. Aspect
0. A. of the )
Arc of Direction
39 9
34 12
4 57
39 9
o1gitized by Coogle
007
I have calculated all the directions to the Moon
exactly in the same manner, and should be glad to
learn that the above specimen is correct ; ·for upon
further consideration, l it would be super-
fluous to insert calculations of the whole; for if thill
aspect is truly calculated, I can ?ouch for the
others being tight also.
The following is a list of the aspects to the as-
cendant in mundo, and the Moon in the zodiac by
direct motion, equated by Naibod's measure of
time.
A1cnedmtt to the ::luiquad-
rate by perio •
y,, MI.
Ale. to the A of 0 2 62 211 Ofthis and the two follow-
8
dil't'ctions I remem-
A or 11 8 35 9 ber nothing.
cor f 10 81 10 8 Accident by water.
9 26 9 7
.or, 14M 1 Freed from apprenticeibip.
a 18 0 18 3 A dangerous illness exactly
at this time.
Seequiquadrate 11 18 7 18 $ Still indi!!posed.
Aseveretum ofthe same ill·
aw 18 84 18 10 nea, hastened by the e
oft to the ) •
Semiqaartile 1l. 18 40 18 II Still slightly iudiapoeed.
E.ffects oftlte arcs according to the Editor's opinioa.
Ale. to lbe Quintile 21 21 il 8 Activity in businf!ll.
cor 0 ... 22 2 i2 4 Diecredit and trouble.
Semi c
vexation by means or fe-
24 9 24 6 mnlea, and unpleasant
eventa.
cSortbe) 2629 26 11 } Marriage, travellinJ
and first scenee tG
A oft 2729 27 ll life.
Digitized by Coogle
.sou
r•. ••·
* of 2884 '29 0
}Great
Quintile or 0 3S82 34 0
Sesquiquadrate 8627 37 0
J.gatalam.
SemiCJuartile of 11 3786 38 2
*ofSol 41 12 41 10
Semi* 42 37 43 3
A of J# 41 0 41 7
cS of 1l 46 23 4i I
8 46 4-1 47
Semiquartile of 0 50 47 51 6
cS of 51 51 5\l 7
Sesquiquadrate ij 52 14 :>3 0
cS of 64 41 05 7
The above are the principal directions to the
ascendant; and, as in this cnl'e according to the h1le,
it is Hyleg. I feel particularlydesirous to know what
direction will prove mortal*, and be the terminu11
vitm. I am at a loss to ascertain why the 8 of 0,
sesquiquadrate of and 8 of fJ, falling so near
together, did not cause death instead of
and the semi o of lf. nearly at the same time, I
should nuagme, would rather add to the evil tl)an
• These arc the fatal Arcs which threaten life:-
Ascendant to sesqulquadratc of t tn 0
Ascendant to semiquartile of . . • • 38 II
) to the sesquiquadrate of fl . . . . . 89 7 IJfatt.
It ·11 pos&ible the may outlive the first two, but by no llleabt certnin.
as tha two princil'al aphetical points are l itiated. I baTt my doubts whetb•·r
he will live o'fer 87 years.-ED.
Digitized by Coogle
decrease it•: however, I may be mistaken, and
shall esteem it a great favour. if you will pay par-
ticular attention to this query; and also give a
judgment of the effects of each particular direc-
tion, both to the and to the Moon.
• t !
T/&e follmDiag ari t'M zodiacal to tile
Mocm. Dirtct motion.
J) to the Seequi. of8 by period
*of0
*oru
aof 1
Semi*of · ·
8 37
4 57
7 8
i7 iS
9 l'i
'1'1-
'YI. /111.1
I I o
S. G l Of the effects of these I
5 0 j know nothing.
- - . -·
7 3 severe 8Ca!t.l at 7y. 6m.
j both 8 and being
7 7 tn.watery ilgna. .
9 4
8eiai 0 of 0 t6 8S 16 10 ••••
aof 8 by period
Semi*
Biqnintile of W
aof 11
Semi* ore
cS of U
d
18 6 Severe linea.'
. ,
20 :10 20 10 }
:Fortunate. .
29 56 so "
!
So 1
·1 Dangerous in the high('it
SO i!) degree.
30 35 Sl 0 Good.
1 53 Si 4 l Very fortunate
33 7 35 8 .s
&.quiquadrate of w 39 t 39 7
lliquintile of 8 4o s8 .n s .fatal.
• Tile lle!Olquartlle of prellrnd ure at dala perlocl.
Digitized by GoogIe
510
2'llw
1'1. J/1.
Sesquidrate so 18 51 0
& 50 25 51 2
A of.JI 55 5 55 11 These Arcs come at a
period of life the naliYe
& of(!) 62 39 6S 7 will oever see.
A oft 67 10 68 2
.Biquintile of 11 69 23 70 5 J
That the ascendant is Hyleg, I think is beyond
dispute ; for if the » had claimed that office, there
is great reason to believe that the 8 of 8 by direc-
tion, and the semi o of , about the same time,
would have proved fatal : your opinion on this
point will he most gratefully ·received. In the
course of my study of this most beautiful science,
I have collected the following queries, some of
which appear very mysteries-andwhich, in addition
to the above, I most ardently desire, Sir, that you
will answer •.
Why is Naibod's measure of time considered the
most rational t 1
Why, in horary questions, do angles give less
time than succeedents1 and succeedents than
cadentst 1
Why is the significator's pole, in finding the 0.
• In thle respect the natiY6 is In error, 1M M- u Hrkg; and the reuoa
the 8 of t did not proYe fatal was, because a II in sodiacal parallel to
both 'lf. and at birth.
t Ezperirnce the criterion whereby these matten are jlldpd1
I have only to remark, that tt justifies the author's choice of the meuare Ill
dme, termed Naibocl'•.
t The aame remarkl ho>ld good with respect to this query.
Digitized by Coogle
511
A. or the place of the aspect, taken in preference
to the pole of such aspect•1
Are the eft'ects of directions, as described bv
Wilson in his " Dictionary of Astrology," unde.r
the article Promittor, to be depended on or nott 1
Are the aspects invented by Kepler, as the semi-
sextile, semi o, &c. equal or similar in their eft'ects,
to those used by the ancientst1
Is it your opinion, that zodiacal directions to the
angles are of no efficacy? if so, for what reason do
you reject them, particularly when the ascendant
is Hyleg ; as every other author (which I hal·e
seen) has taken them into consideration§ ?
Are the centiloquia of Ptolemy, Hermes, Tris-
megistus, and Bethem, as they are published in
Coley, genuine 1 if not, where are they to be
found son? '
Have you experienced the efficacy of parallels
or declination, as Wilson lays particular stress
upon
•• Have Ouranos, Juno, Ceres, or Pallas, any in-
fluence on mundane affairs?
• This Ia aeeordlniJ to true matbematleal prlnelplel, ud 11 notblniJ more
than -rlag tbe upect by, or aDder tbe aame plue u the alpllleator.
The eonltructlon of tbe zodiacal planispbere, would e:rplala tbia to tbe
aatiyf'• •ll•factlon.
t Neither Wihon, nor uy one elle, OUIJht to be depended on, further than
tnatb j111tiBea. Some of hie Rule1 for directions are no doubt erroneoa1.
; Tbe author'• opinion 1D tbi1, 11 ginn ID tbe "Manual."
Esperleoee doe• DOt warnnt direetlou fit 1M IOdiM made to tbe
1 Some orthese are pnulne, othen not ; but all are worthy attention.
• There CUI be no doabt of tbelr eftlcacy.
•• ¥ AM, undoubtedly. IJiftt lnlluenee In natl'flties, lllld all IChemes or
beaYea ; bat the tulnoUU• J , , f , and ban DOt been 1aftleieotlr
panaed u ret, In natal aehemes, to form any eorl"\'c& jadpent thereon.
Digitized by GoogIe
Are mundane directions of the Planets, equal
force to zodiacal directions1 and are those formed
hy converse motion. equa. in power to others•.1
Are the extracts from Gadlmry's Astrological
relative to the events of published
in the "Astrologer's for and 3,
to be relied upon 1 and have they v.erified by
experience t 1
'Vhere can a complete system of Geomancy
Magic be procured? and under what titles p
In the foregoing judgments I have given on
these subjects, I shall feel extremely grateful to
you, sir, if you will take the trouble to point out
my error; and you will much oblige, sir, a sincere
lover of the science, and .
Your most .
DAVID PARKES.
Sheffield, Dec. 27th, 1830.
-------------····.--·
• M1111dane directions are of equal force, whether direct or coanrae, ud
are very powertlll.
t Of this the Editor cannot say much ; not hnlng veriPed tbem.
Works on Geomancy are verv rare, and high-priced. The prelelllwork
!/
elucidates the subject materially, but further information on tho aeienoe of
Geomancy, will be given in the 11m rerierof "The Astrologer oftbe Nille· .1
teenth Century," which the a.uthor h preparing, or In some similar worl !
Work& on MAGIC are still than on Geomancy; but Agrippg. 'l'riiM· "
mice1, and Arbatcl, arc the best printed autbou; yet the chief IIOCI'f!tl ol ,,
Occult Philosophy are confined to Manuscripts. The present Work COD·
tains many secrets of a Maglca\ kind, not to be met with Ji
It
Digitized by Google
513
AREMARKABLE VISIT TO RAPHAEL
qe asttotogtr.
It was late in the dreary dusk of an autumnal
eve, in the year 1828, that tke Astrologer bad newly
trimmed his lamp, and sat down to serious contem-
plation I){ an astronomical problem, which involved
110me l'emarkable phenomena, when a furious
ringing of the Bell belonging to his study, and a
simultaneous loud and hasty knocking at the door
of his residence announced a visitor, one who was
apparently little gifted with the virtue of patience,
for scareely deigning to wait the announcement of
his name and business, the intruder entered with
Ul ail' of nonchalance and self-conceit, that told of
his being something more than one of ordinary rank.
The Stranger appeared to be a man far advanced
in the vale of yean, evidently youth bad deserted
his footsteps for many seasons ; but still a certain
hilarity of manners, a kind of forced elastic spring
in his walk, and a restless jerk in his motions,
though by ·no means ungraceful, announced
desire to appeal' as one who yet enjoyed the
ings of health and vigour.
He entered the Astrologer's study, and took, al·
most without bidding, a seat. The Astrologer,
customed to the eccentricities of rank and genius,
paused not to notice these peculiaritie• in his
client, but puraued hi& seientiftc calculations to the
end of the problem, when the Stranger addressed
3T
Digitized by GoogIe
514
him, and in a tone of mild and gentlemanly polite-
ness, requested the favc.;ur of the Astrologer's at-
tention to his 'Futtlre Destiny.'
'I '"'as born,' said .the· Stranger; ' in the me-
ridian of this goodly Metropolis; but,' added he,
' I know not with sufficient preCision the hour and
minute of my entering the world to establish data,
I presume fur the theme, you philosophers term
the Nativity. :' But I have in some former period
of my sojournings read many of the books of the
ancient astrolog·ers, and from my recollection, (for,'
said he, ' I quote from memory, other mowentous
cares having of late years engrossed my entire
attention) I remember that a famous man of your
profession mentions various methods, independent
of what I believe is termed the Genetltliacal art, for
ascertaining one's fate and fortunes. I think the
Sage gave the preference to-'
'Horary Astrology,' replied Raphael, filling up
the gap in the Stranger's remembrance.
' It is even so,' said the Stranger, • and I
earnestly and respectfully crave the knowledge I
am confident you, Raphael, can impart to me.'
' It shall be done,' replied the Astrofoger, ' For
the stars are kind and beneficent to mortals in all
cases where knowledge of the future is sought,
would they hut revere the wise dictates of pre-
science; albeit the present generation are becoming
daily more beheving in the celestial science-the
march of knowledge being evidently commenced,
and who knows where its wondrous powers may
terminate, or what mighty lever may yet be dis-
covered to set the vast springs of human intellect
into action.'
Digitized by Coogle
' Your opmaon, with some slight reservation,
corresponds with my own; replied the Stranger;
who then caught hold of a new publication that
laid on the table, and began earnestly to peruse the
contents, as if unwilling to give any interruption in
the matter requested.
Seeing theAstrologer drew forth his Tables,
consulted his Ephemeris,' and cast the Horoscope,
or map of the heavens for the hour and moment of
the enquiry, according to the known and established
rules of the siderial ·art. But astonishment and
awe ·quickly pervaded · his C()untenance ; for the
Radix before him was indeed singular: it had the
Sun, Lord of the Horoscope, in fair and powerful
aspect with the Moon ; and Mars, who governed
the culminat.iJlg angle, in trine to Venus ; J upitep
was posited in the House of Wealth; Mercnr.
located in the North angle; and the Georgian star,
Herschel, touclied the cusp of the Sixth Celestial
House as the visitor entered. Signs which the
Astrologer knew portended the Stranger to be one
of high rank, - title,· and illustrious by ancestry.
Moreover the Moon had separated from a number
of minor· and some superior conjunCtions, which
foreshewed one surrounded by the pomp, retinue.,
and vanities of earthly state. Thus far, was it well,
nor did the countenanceand bearing of the Stranger
belie the verdict of the heavenly orbs; being even
in age dignified, and his form portly.
But' .wrapped m a loose and ample cloak of a
Spanish make, and sombre texture, little of his other
garb was visible ; and except that on one gloveless
band glittered a ruby of surpassing brilliancy, no
part of the Stranger's vestments implied the station
Digitized by Google
of his birth ; but his form and bearing were those
of aristocratic command.
The Astrologer perused the celestial figure before
him with vivid interest, for the forthcoming aspects
of the orbs were malignant, and cloudy were the
portentous omens of the planetary agents I The
Moon went suddenly to a quartile of Mars ; then
came forward a trine of Herschel, himself violently
afflicted ; next followed the Lunar conjunctionwith
Saturn, in the House of Death and the Grave! The
Astrologer needed no farther gaze, for enough was
clearly elicited before him to prophesy of some
forthcoming calamity, difficult, if not impossible to
evade. But his reveries were cut short by the
Stranger, who anxiously enquired, and rather in a
confused manner, (seeing, perhaps,the Astrologer's
more than usual thoughtfulness) What good or
bad fortune the stars had allotted him ?'
' As to the first,' replied Raphael, ' I behold be-
fore me the certain testimonials of one who bas
basked soothly in the gay retinue and smiles of
fortune; who has perchance travelled, sojourned,
and seen countless multitudes; who has wealth,
power, and fortune at his beck and bidding ; who
waits but to breathe his wishes, and they are ful-
filled, even to the utmost scope of possibility.'
•Jt is suck as you have said,' replied the Stranger;
' I give you full credence for the futun, since you
have revealed the irtefragable past. But apropo1,
I would have you Raphael read a more deep
sentence in the page of fate- Wllat say yow of "'!!
lij
. . .,
'e.
' As to that particular,· replied Raphael, •sorry
indeed am I to be the prophet of evil; from the
Digitized by Coogle
617
too sure and fatal configuratiohs here congregated
before me, which are many, to tire you with the
technical enumeration. I grieve to announce but
a brief career indeed, to the present enquirer!'
• H(JfiJ lwief, Mil you l' eagerly enquired the
stranger.
To answer this question more faithfully, the As-
trologer once more consulted the horoecope, in
hopes also to see, if possible, some sign of mitiga-
tion to the impending calamity. But in l'ain : no
friendly ray interposed to stay the fell and ireful
the chief significaton, especially the
Jf0011, hastened fr >m evU to evil : the renwning
planetary indices, met junction after junctiun ;
quadrature after Astrologer with
unfeigned reluctanee and grief of mind, anaounced
that •eatfJ l»at fOfttela within the short space
of two years I
' Brief inM.dI' remarked the Stranger : ' the
view Raphael you have afforded me into futurity,
I must confess, is of no cheering kind : but as it
becomes all to ponder well on our finite existence,
I cannot but thank you for the results of your cal-
culation.'-' But one word more ere we separate;
shall my posterity flourish 1'
' Of that,' replied the astrologer, rest assured :
for OM of your race I perceive, will have a fame
transcendant and unequalled, either in victorious
deeds, or some signal achievement, political or
military; but the exact affinity is (lubious. More-
over, I perceive the omens of mighty changes as
connected with your name and lineage.'
The stranger seemed more than U8Ually pleased
with this prediction; and inwarm and friendly terms,
Digitized by Coogle
lH8
proceeded tocompliment the Astrologer; expressing
his ardent conviction that the 'stars spoke truth;
and that ' Astrology was veritably a noble science.'
-He shortly afterwards took leave, in the same
strain of gentlemanly amenity : but more saddened
and less impatient than when he entered; the pre-
diction seeming to be impressed on his mind-how-
ever, previous to leaving the astrologer's residence,
he left, either by accident or design, an enamelled
costly card; from which the real station and title
of the visitor was manifest. It was even as the
astrologer had suspected ; he was a man of tltt
lligllest rank in tlte kingdom! (hence the reason
for his concealment of his day and year of birth,)
and as to thefulfilment of the horoscope, the reader
need only be told, that the visitor was no other than
HIS LATE MAJESTY 6t0fD't tfJt ..iYOUftf).
Digitized by Coogle
619
I'&TAL BOBOSCOPBS.
No. II.
· Qe Of .filtH 1&11111 tlllridt,
Dngltw of IM of 1M Jflumtg".
Ob I what Ia ll(e ,_ meteor blue, that tlet
Acrou tbe uure heaY'a'a htrh nalted plain;
Whea abot, 'tla roM-ita beaaty qalckly dlelo
ADd tDI'DI to droll and OOIDaOD air qaln I
'Til bat at leut, a transient lower, that bloom•
At rl•lar morn-ore brlsbt at aooo-day ••• ;
Bat mark I tbe bllsht Ita tender fona co••-·
Aacl eDCla the work loos .,. bia eoune Ia raa !
FANNY WRIGHT,
BORN
.Augrut 16th, 1826,
0 h. SO m. A.M. 61 32 N.
Dit'b
Ja11t1arg 3181,
9 b.•.•
i D lp -Din setoqni D to 'lf., 0 D oriental.
Digitized by GoogIe
That ' we must all die' is a truism too extensively
known to need repetition ; but when the grim
monarch comes with his hideous visage and without
ceremony, snatches away the young, the gentle,
and the beauteous, where is the heart that Joes
not respond in sympathy? where the bosom that
does not feel a pang at the doleful tidings?-
TbDS, human glory flits away,
Tbe gaudy pageant of a day I
Tbe banner proud, tbe tropbied ball,
Before tbat mighty dart muat fall!
And all that once made liCe 10
Must feel that ceaseless mower's I
The nativity here displayed, is that of 4 /ovelu
child, fair and comely even in death : whose featqrffi
were moulded as 'in Parian marble;' and
bust, even in the coffin, might have been mistaken
for the most exquisite touch of the sculptor's chisel.
-The daughter of a lady possessed of great per-
sonal attractions, taste, and literary skill; whose
amiable qualities seem to have been inherited in a
more than ordinary degree by the lovely deceased,
Cte subject of the present calculatio11.
By ref<'rring to the horoscope, the student will
perceive that the testimonials of short life are nu-
merous, strong, and unequit•ocal:-the asctnbant
is vitiated by the malignant presence of Saturn, in
Cancer ; w4o was in his detriment, by sign, and in
quartite to Venus: the Sun is in quartile to Mars,
and the Jtltoon in sesquiquadrate to Jupiter: ·thus
each of the tltree hylegiacal points in the Nativity
were affiicted ; 4 surt anb mantfttt pr,.
sagt of an early btatb.
to the drod I Tbe Toice of nature erie$,
E'en l)'er the grave where guilt or frailty lies;
.\Ld, oh! bow lovely do the tints return,
Of every \'irtue, in the urn 1 ·
Digitized by Google
621
I have before said that "fair in form," and be-
decked witb each iniwtine gract', the deceased
was the exact epitome Qf what Astrologers
express by .the h£11 ·featur.ee .. ·.the
Cancer, and the mild govemment of the Mloon
tft Squattut; ,the IaUer..was indeed her..tnw
"N.to.l Plmtet." It 1was hence, that she was
almost idolized by all those who knew Mer..
cory being in close conjuncticm with Jupiter in his
exaltation, had . she lived, .would nave
made her a prodigy in literature, and
ICience. Astrologers well know thill aspect
foreshews matchless intellect, and trancendant
talent ; and, as far as these were developed in re-
lerence to .her extreme youth, the student will.be
gratified to leam, that the oracular presages were
each and all fulfilled. In fact, the fair child's un-
derstaadiBg aud mental quickness were frequently
apostrophised, as beiag her years;" s9
truly do the "shining orbs .above," both rule and
govern our most minute actions. But these high
qualifications, alas ! are no antidote to the shaft of
the stem . ..Too &equently do they ap-
pear and vanish, as it were, in uUer mockery of
-earth's short-sighted mortals I Even as some clear
light, that·beginning to unfold its welcome radiance
amidst a wide sea of darkRess, is lost.to the gaze of
the beholder, ere he can be certified, .(much less
enjoy,) the bright chamcter of its .radiance I For,
alas I youth·aftd beanty find no protection from1the
cold hand of death. Yet the lut fatal summons
wu, ·in this iastance, ·both Jleet and sudden.. Jt
was, I remember, one morning in the month of
January, that ·I called at the residence of her
3u
Digitized by Coogle
522
parents, and found the fair subject of this article in
all the roseate liue of health, gratifying her friends
by her infantile endearments. To me, I must con-
fess, the early attractions she possessed, was a scene
of vivid interest : for amidst the (at best) iron
realities of our wearisome life, I have ever found
the soft, engaging, and innocent arts of children,
their playful, unsophisticated prattle, etc. a..;; one of
the few scenes of transitory, but real enjoyment,
this world affords! Soon, however, how changed
was the scene ! a fortnight afterwards I
called, and her little "angelic" form was wasting
with sickness-s.tretched upon a couch,with weeping
attendants around, a burning fever "drank up her
blood."-Her cabinet of childish toys was
for the nauseous drugs ofthe apothecary; the mufiled
knocker, the stolen whisper, the soundless step, the
shrewd and sombre looks of the physician, all told
of the impending danger! and, alas! too trUlJ}.
In an agony of tears, her fond parents requested
me to calculate her horoscope, and ascertain her
fate: she conjured me by the ties of a parent, to
dispatch her word if there was any hope. I did so,
hut tl1ere was none! ·
A few days afterwards, the Destroyer came; and
all that was so fair, and innocent, and lovely, was
committed to tbt 9iltnt tomfJ.
Reader! if thou art a parent, thou wilt tceep at
this recital! but if thou art not, 1 am confident the
sad truths, which thus "press upon mortality," will
cause thee to sympathise truly therewith; for the
remembrance thereof, f ven now, has the power to
draw tears from thy frif nd,
RAPHAEL,
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
i23
AND
FROM A RARE OLD AUTHOR.
No. I.
Hippocrates prince of physick, sayes, that the
physician cannot be accomplished in his art, if he
have not the knowledge of Astrologie ; so I may
say that the Chiromancer is not perfect nor accom-
plished if he have not Physiognoinie, which is
1cientia qu.t natura Jiomi11um ez ·aspectu corporU
judicatur, ,l.,.o Tov ,V<TIV'fJHII'pAl"ew, u: facie addivi-
nare, et per judicia cognoscere. Or other-
wise, for a more clear definition thereof, it is a
science whereby the conditions of men and their
temperaments are fully known by the lineaments
and conjectures of their faces. It consisteth in
two things, that is to say, the complexion and
composition of the body of man ; both which do
manifestly declare and shew the things that are
within tlaP. man, bythe external signs; asbythecolor,
the stature, the composition and shape of the mem-
These two sciences are so joined together
and united, that theynever go one without another,
and to make profession of the one without tbe other,
Digitized by Coogle
a vain thint;. Thest> sciences are joined together
by the ancients, even by the satyrist, :-
Spatium lustrabit utrumque,
Metarum et fortes ducet, frontemque manumque,
Prabebit fati crebrum popysmaroganti.
And yet, when he describes his Zoilus, he doth
it by the filthy spots and signs of his body, and not
by those of his hand; for the Chiromancer may
not see every one's hands ; and sayes of this
Zoylus,
Tristis
Oceurras fronte obdncta, eeu Marsia victus.
POST.
Vultus gravis, horrida sieca
Sylva eomae, nullus tota nitor in cute, qualem
Prrestabat calidi eii·eumllta fascia visci,
Sed fruticante pilo neglecta, et squallida crura.
How
Like conquered Marsia, with a cloudy brow 1
' And afterwards,
A heavy countenance. hair,
Like a rough wood, naught fashionably fair,
But as ore laid with birdlime: on thy thighs
Thbugh meagre, ugly shrubs of hair arise, &c.
So Martial describes his,
Crine ruber, niger ore, brevis pede, lumine luscua,
Rem magnam pnestas Zoile si bonus es.
Squint-ey'cl, club-foot, red hair, and swarthy face,
A wonder Zoylus ! .if the le.ast ofgrace.
Homer in the second of his Iliads, and the
eighteenth of Odusses, describes Thersites and
Irus mischievous and evil speakers by the linea-
ments and composition of their bodies : see here
the description.
Digitized by Coogle
626
It ieeaiecl here that uature ueeds nald be,
JmplOJ'd to fo11e out all deformity,
He waa plll'blind, enunp ahoulder'd too, ud lame,
Sharp head, and ill-bon'd body out of frame,
Bur a long a1ul folio ear,·
In brief eo agly aa to woader were.
'j .. I ' •
1
o 1 : I
·'
As for the second, he hiiQ. forth .without
ought 10f beauty, big, and cowar<tly, _and such as
Lucian representa his Happelopin ; for the great-
..,. of.the body diminishes the courage, as.Aristotle
and the soul fo1lows the composition of1 the
body., tbat ie to :&C\1 the marks : so tb.'Hte.me. poet
deacribes and Achilles of a middle stature,
Ubi consequently coura.gio1UJ. .
· -By the humours and the·inward
)*t of the is so truly known, that Socrates
Philosopher, whereof the oracle
iteelfbatb given this testimony, ,&,ap,
Socrates the most1_Vise among yet
heing· by hie Physiognomy (by a philo.
sophe:r in .th"t science) was the most
and unJumdsom 'Of ,all men Hying, and loBt
as to lust and luxury. His disciples laught at
judgement, as utterqr false. Socrates reproving
tbem, My. friends, these things according to
nature should be. so indeed, but I have corrected
the vices of my nature by the rule of reason : as if
be should 13ay, the imperfections of nature may be
reformed by virtue, and that a man may in some
10rt retJUt his destiny, if he be and allay his
i1J fate with a .syrrup of. punishment shame
that .must follow. There is a story to this purpose
taken out of the learned Pasquier in his curiosities
of France. In the reign of Lewis the 12th, the
Digitized by Coogle
526
Duke of Nemours, nephew to the said king, and
his Lieutenant General, in all the countries beyond
the mountains, deliberating to give battell to the
Spaniard, some days before the battel was at Capry,
together with most of his captains : the lord ofthat
town was called Albert Mirandula, a very learned
man, and cousin germain to the great Picus Miran-
dula. This lord, in his entertainment of the said
Prince and his captains, mentioned a judicary
Astrologer which was with him; a man very expert
in that science, aged sixty years, and very famous
for his predictions. At the request of the Duke of
Nemours he was sent for, to whom the Duke pre-
sented his hand, who after many words of comple-
ment, told him, that he should give battel to the
Spaniard and the Viceroy of Naples, and that he
should gain the victory; but he advertized Mon-
sieur de Pasise and de Bayard, to have a care of
him, for he should be killed in that battel ; he told
the said gentlemen all that should come to pass;
and more particularly he told one called Jacquin
Caumont, an ensign bearer in the company of
Captain Mollard (who had done him some injury,)
that he should be hanged within three monetbs,
which happened accordingly: and to all those. to
whom he had told their fortunes, it happened ac·
cording to what he said; and he looked as well
upon the fhce as the hands, as the said Pasquier
says, and yet he did not look upon the hand of the
said Jacquin, but only on his face.
In the same manner H. Sanurenda the·good
monk, revealt.'d to Charlt•s the 8, King of France, his
ad\cntures by his Physiognomy; aud told him the
success of voyage, and return from the king-
Digitized by Coogle
dom of Naples, which business rendered the said
Sanurenda suspect to the Pope. Therefore not to
insist any farther on these discourses and histories,
which the reader may finde if he please, in the
authors before mentioned ; I shall only for to con-
clude, say, that I may without tediousness advance
into my instructions, that no man can well fortell
any thing, and judge of Chiromancie without Phy-
siognomic. Therefore 1 shall give an epitome and
abridgement, such as I shall conceive necessary
for instruction.
AN EPITOMIE OR ABRIDGEMENT OF
PHYSIOGNOMIE.
The Hebrews have extremely honoured this
science of Physiognomie, and the Scripture gives
you the Physiognomie of Jacob, Moses, David,
Absalom, Jonathan, and many others. The com-
pilers of the Talmud have made a treatise of it,
both of Chiromancie and Physiognomie, called
Massecheth Jadaim, that is to say, the
treatise of the hands ; where they distinguish
Pbysiognomie from Metoposcopie, which is indeed
but a part of Physiognomie, which the Greeks
11Dderstood well, saying, p.ETo:nrlur"cnro• dwo -rov p.e-rwov
oral nctriCO'IT(iv, i. e. a science whereby things to come
are known by the aspect of the forehead. These
Greeks knew also Umblicometry, and divers others;
hut as for Physiognomie, they placed it according
to this figure :
Digitized by Coogle
52d
And to represent it more clearly, the whole is
placed after.this manner.
, The forehead..................... t 1\Ian.
The right eye •••••••••••••••••• 0 Sol•
.The left eye ......... •• ........ J) The Moon•
.The right ear..................... iter•.
left ear •••....••..•••••••.. f1 Saturn.
'.fhe nose •••••...•••..••......••• Venus.
. ' .
'fbe mouth ••••••••••••••••••..• Mercury.
And as for the signs of the zodiac upon the
face, they are attributed, accomodated, and .plaeed
thus.
• Cancer ............... In the forehead the zellith.
.Q Leo .................. The right eye-brow.
fiJI. Virgo ••••••••••••••• The right check, ·
.a: Libra ............... The i·ight car.
"'· Scorpio.............. ThP
Digitized by Coogle
t SasiU., ••••.. •• The right eye.
·,y Capricorn •• •• •• The chin which i1 udlr.
::z: Aquarius •••• •• •• The left eye brow.
X Pieces • • •• •• • ••• The left cheek.
'Y' Arlee. • ••• • • •• • •• The left ear.
M Taurus •• •• •• • •• • The middle of Uae /orebead.
o Gemini ••• • ••• • •• Tbe left eye.
So the Greeks and Hebrews have ordained and
constitute<} them for the profit of the knowledge of
this science, of which Part the Second shall treat.
AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES.
Mr. Warden has presented to the French Aca.
demy his work entitled Researches into the Anti-
quities of the United States of North America, and
bas accompanied the presentation with some very
interesting details, adding several notices, not less
curious, of the monuments of Palenque, in the
ancient province of Guatimala. The first of these
antiquities, hidden for so long a time in the thick
forests of the New World, consist of considerable
works, which extend from the south shores of Lake
Erie to the Gulf of Mexico, and along the Miss6uri
to the Rocky Mountains. These monuments, of
Yarious form and size, and the objects of antiquity
di&covered up to the present period, comprehend.
1. fortifications; 2. tumuli; 3. parallel earthen
walls ; 4. subterraneous walls of earth and brick ;
6. openings in the earth, which have been called
wells ; 6. rocb with inscriptioDs ; 7. idols ;
3x
Digitized by Coogle
.'>30
shells belonging to other countries; and, 9. mum-
mies. One of the fortifications, situated in the state
of Ohio, covers a surface of above a hundred ac1·es,
and is surrounded by a wall of earth, twenty feet
thick at its base, and twelve feet high ; and by a
ditch of about twenty feet wide. On the fortifica-
tions and on the tumuli, trees ha,·e been found of a
prodigious size, and on which four hundred annual
circles of vegetation are distinctly observable. It
is to be remarked that the modern Indians are
ignorant of the use of tumuli, and do not make in-
trenchments. The idols in the state of
Tennessee, and at Natchez, in the state of Missis-
sippi, the marine shells of the genus murex, found in
an ancient fortification in Kentucky, the mummies
of the calcareous caYerns in the same state, ami the
hieroglyphic inscriptions on a rock in the state of
Massachusetts, are also vet·y important facts in
considering the great of the origin of the
Americans. According to Mr. \Varden, it may he
inferred from tlwm, that the valley of Ohio, from
the country of Illinois to Mexico, has been inha-
hited by a people Vt'l') different from that by which
it was occupied at the epoch of its discovery hy thl'
French colonists of Cana(la and Lfmisiana. Every
thing respecting the origin, the duration, and th<'
extinction of that people is enveloped in impene-
trable mystery. It l'annot, however, be doubtf'd
that it was much more civilized than any Indian
people existing when America was di:o;covered.
Nevertheless, thal civilization was trifling compared
wath thP civilization of the ancient inhabitants of
Palenquc. Tlu· rf'mains fonnrl in the latter country
prove that its monuments must have rivalled thoile
Digitized by Coogle
of the greatest cities of Europe ; and that its people
must have arrived at a high cultivation of the intel-
lectual faculties. The line of fortifications and
tumuli, extending itself from Mexico to the great
lakt:B of the United States, it is not impossible but
that the ancient inhabitants of Ohio were a colony
from Palenque, placed there to facilitate conquest
and commerce. This quef-ltion might be if
any competent person would examine the skulls of
the skeletons found in the valley of Ohio, and
compare them with those found at Palenque; the
pointed bead and the physiognomy of which differ
from those of all known nations. The monuments
of Palenqu6 are certainly the most astonishing dis-
covery that has been made in America. They
prove that the continent called the New World
was peopled much more anciently than baa hitherto
been supposed, since it contains vestiges of arts,
respecting which tradition is silent, and which
probably belong to a period more .remote than that
at which the annals of the European nations begin
to be sustained by hi8torical evidence.
NEW, LO!!T, ANU VARIABLE STARS.
Notwithstanding the attention of the mind of
man has been in all ages ardently bending its intel-
lectual powers in researches amidst the celestial
regions, and of late years aided by the exquisite
instruments which have enlarged the sphere of the
heel stU's beyond all that could be conceived, it
must be admitted that, notwithstanding these vast
Digitized by Coogle
532
acquirements, we are but on the very threshold of
the science of Astronomy; and the conviction il!
pressed home to the mind, that ere its flight be
unfettered, and capable of expatiating through the
vast range of the unin•rse, the spirit must lJe re-
leased from its present enthralment, and arrayed in
the vestments of immortality.
What is it we contemplate when we fix our eyes
on the brightest of the starry train ? a glittering
point, concerning which, we only know that the
body which sends forth such a stream of radiance,
is inconceivably too remote to borrow its lu"tre
from the sun of Gur system, or from any other sun:
for, of such a glorious orb, if existing,
would be visible: we believe the star we thus be-
hold, to be itself a sun---the fount of light, the soul
and centre ofrevolving worlds: we know that, as far
as human ingenuity has contrived instruments, the
distance ofthis shining body is beyond computation;
though such is the minuteness of modern instru-
mental graduation, that angles, fomlerly considered
to he insensible, are now measured with the greatest
accuracy. Where calculation fails, imagination
takes up the wondrous consideration, and in vain
attempts to date the period when this bright orb
tirst shone forth in pristine beauty; and as we are
ignorant of its origin, we are equally so of the
period when the hand that moulded the orb shall
return it to its original nothingness. When we
survey the glorious host, " stars denst:ly thronging
still," we cannot suppose them merely twinkling
lights to garnish the blue vault of heaven-to afford
speculation to the philosopher-to excite the ad·
miration, and add to the delight ofman. Retummg
Digitized by Coogle
f10m the 'YUt survey, we mustconfess that all these
glittering gems, which are displayed in the celes-
tial arches, are enshrined in mysterious oh.curity :
Wt" see, admire, and speculate ; but the soul falls
prostrate in attempting to unravel these material
wonden, which are as inexplicable as infinite space
or eternal duration. We judge there are new crea-
tioDS, pure and beautiful, from the sudden appear-
ance of new stars ; unless we may euppoae that
their light, after having traveraed apace myriads of
years, has just reached ourearth : we may conclude
from the disappearance of others, that the awful
mandate has been issued forth, and brilliant systelll8
have been blotted from the ample pap of the
universe.
Among some which have been recently seen 1n
the heavens, and are called New Stt1r1, are those
in the following coD&tellations :-Lacerta, Peneus,
Bootes, Hydra, Monoceros, Cepheus, &c.; and of
those which have been termed Lint Star1, are three
in Herculee, and others in Cancer, Peneus, Pisces,
Orion, and Coma Berenices. A very remarkable
atar appeared in the year 1604, near the right foot
of Serpentaritts; it surpassed Jupiter in magnitude,
and ita brilliancy exceeded that of every other star :
when near the horizon it ahone with a white light;
bat in every other situation it asmmed alternately
the varying colours of the rainbow. It gndually
diminished in ctplendour till about October, 1
when it disappeared, and has not been seen since.
There is also anotherclass of stars in the heavens
which aftbrd comiderable apeculation to the phi-
l()f;()pher. These are the YGf'idi. 81u.r1, which
having attamocl a cenain JM&imma of brilliaDcy,
Digitized by Coogle
.534
by degrees suffer a diminution of it, in some in·
stances so as to vanish entirely, and re·appear, in·
creasing to their former splendour; and this varia·
tion occupying a limited portion of time. Many
have been the hypotheses to account for this
periodical change : the solar spots sanction the idea
that these stars are suns, having very large spots
ou their orbs, which, by their rotation, are alter-
nately turned from and towards our system. Others
have considered the phenomenon sufficiently ex-
plained, by supposing large planets circulating
round the stars, which, when in conjunction, inter·
cept the light. Another opinion is, that their
exceedingly swift rotation generates a very oblate
spheriod; and consequently when the plane which
passes through the axis of the spheriod is turned
towards our earth, the light appears at its mininum;
and when its equatorial diameter is similarly po.
!'ited, its maximum of brightness occurs. This
of the planes is accounted for from the
action of immense planetary masses, whose orbits
are considerably inclined. We have somethingana-
logous to this in the nutation of the earth's axis,
which is caused by the inclination of the moon's
orbit, and the obliquity ofthe ecliptic. The number
of stars ascertained to be variable is fifteen, and
those suspected to be so, thirty-seven : the most
remarkable of the former are-
Varylnrlhgnllade. Period otVarlallou.
.D. H. .II. II.
Algol in Perseus ......... 2d to 4th - 2 20 40 60
/J Lyrre .........••.......... 3 to 4.6 - 6 9 0 0
., Antinoi ..••.••••••• ••••• 8 to 4.6 - 7 4 16 0
A Star in Sobieski'sahield 6 to 7.8 - 62 days.
8 Cephei is subject to a periodic variation of 5
Digitized by GoogIe
days, 8 hours, 37 min. 30 sec. in the following
order :-It continues at its greatest brightness
about 1 tlay, 13 hours ; it gradually declines in J
day, 18 hours; is at its greatest 'lbscuration about
1 day, 12 hours; and increases in 13 hours: its
maximum and minimum of brightness is that be-
tween the third and fourth, and betweeen the fourth
and fifth magnitudes.
In the years 1783, 1784, 1785, Pollux in Gemini
was observed to be considerably brighter than Cas-
tor; in Flamstead's time, the reverse was the case,
he making Castor of the first, and Pollux of the
second magnitude.
On these mysterious points (the appearance and
disappearance of some stars, and the gradual de-
crease and augmentation of light in .others) it is
highly probable, that not only the.present age, but
future generations, will continue to remain in ob-
scurity : every particular connected with the fixed
stars so nearly approaches to infinity, that nothing
short of Infinite Wisdom can direct the intellectual
powers in the development of its sublimities.
ttemadable 1JtopfJettt•.
In a notice of Valentini's Military ReflectionR,
mention is made of the prophecy of the dissolution
of the Turkish empire, or at least of the expulsion
of the Turks from Europe, by which it is supposed
that they may be in some degree discouraged. The-
following is a copy of this prophecy, authenticated
by the Turkish original, as I find it in Sansovino's
collection of Treatises relative to the history ofthe
536
Turb, published about the middle of the sixteenth
century.
" Our emperor will come he will take the
dom of an infidel prince ; he will take also a red
apple, and will reduce it under his power. If be-
fore the seventh year the sword of the Christians
shall not be drawn, he shall he their lord till the
twelfth year ; he will build houses, plant vines,
enclose (furnish) gardens with hedges, beget sons.
But after the twelfth year from the time he reduced
the red apple under his power, the sword of the
Christians will appear, which will put the Turk to
flight."
The original is as follows :-
" Patissa homoz ghelur, csiaferun memle keti
alur kuzualmai, alur capzeiler, iedi Vladegh keleci
esikmasse on iki yladegh onlal'UJD beglirhider:
cusi iapar, baghi diker, bahesar bayhlar, ogH kesi
olur, on iki yldenssora Christianon keleci eseikar,
ol Turki gheressine tuskure."
By the t·ed apple the Turks understood some
great and very strong city; and the prophecy was
supposed to be verified in the capture of Constan·
tinople. The periods of seven and twelve years
must of coo.Me lw:v.e been conBidered as mystic.
Some supposed each year, like thejubilee, to com-
prehend fifty years, some a century, some 366
years.
This prophecy has not merely descended by oral
tradition, but, though, not found in the Koran, is
recorded in works of the highest authorit,-, and re-
garded with the utmost respect.
I will now give a version of the same prophecy,
t.raoalated from tae Persian by Georgienltz.
Digitized by Coogle
637
" lmperator n09ter veniet, gentilium regnum
capit:i, rubrum malum capiet, aubjugabit. Septem
usque ad annos, ethnicorum gladius si non resur-
:exerit, duodecim usque ad annos in eos damina-
bitur, domum mdificabit, vineam plantabit, bortos
•pe muniet, et filium et filiam habebit : duodecim
poet annos Christianorum gladius insurget, qui et
Turcam retrorsum protligabit."
I shall conclude with another prophecy, men-
tioned in one of his works by Leo the philosopher,
emperor of Constantinople.
" Familia fiava cum competitoribus totum Ismae-
lom in fugam conjiciet, septemque colles possiden-
tem cum ejus poesessoribus capiet."
Be mentions also a column in Constantinople,
the inscription on which WM explained by the
patriarch to signify that the Muscovites and some
other European power would take the city of Con-
stantinople, and, after some disputes, concur in
electing a Christian emperor. Leo reigned in
886.
3Y
538
FATAL HOROSCOPES.
No. III.
a NattbttJJ of .SfJott l.tft.
0 I
284 8
Mrs. EMMA SMAR·r,
BORN Dec.
Of1. 30m. P.M.
IDirlJ in Jlarcll,
182!1.
Like to the falling of a star,
Or as the flight of eagles aro 1
Or like the fresh Spring's gaudy hue,
Or sHYer dropa of morning dew ;
Or like a wind that chafes the flood,
Or bubbles which on water stood,
Digitized by Google
B'naub ia --•IM•.INrfMJ'cl upt
b call'cllD, ud paid to Dlfbt.
The Wiucl biCIWI 01ll, the babble diM.
'l'bllpriDf ute.becl ia A•._..llel •
'l'be dew's Vleclap-tbe star II •bo&-
Tbe iJPt II pul-acliiWI to,..or.
fbe fair subject of the preceding horoecope wu
the accomplished daughter of Mr. John Varley,
the celebrated artist, and clever Astrologer. She
was a female of some pretensions to genius, and
eminently handsome. Her features and the gene-
ral expression of her countenance, bore a most
utmWAing ruemblllnce to the portraits handed
down &o us of the lo'Vely, but unfortunate Mary,
Queen·of Scots. · .
The student will perceive anotbfr remarkable
proo( bow far the language of the Stars may be
relied upon, in _life and death, by inspecting the
foregoing horoscope ; which is the more interest-
iag, as its correctness for the purpose of Astrolo-
gical research, was the chief object of the deceBBed
native's parent at the time of birth.
The SuN, who has recently culminated, and is
still near the Sooth Angle, within the apAetical
limita, is to be rf'garded as •ultg. He is in the
constellation Capricorn, in zodiacal parallel to Mars,
and in semiquartile to Venus, while the planets
Mars and Mercury to which he are each
terribly vitiated by the obnoxious and fell quartiles
ofSatum and Herschel. The MooN, another sig-
nificator of vitality, is in square to the Sun, Mars,
and Mercury, and likewise in malignant opposition
to botb the infortunes, from the six.tb and twelfth
boaaes of the Celestial figure. These are too sure
and certain presages of an untimely end-of short
Digitized by Google
b40
life-and of premature <lissolution. And even 10
tt probtlr.
By a post mor_tem examination of the deceased,
it appeared that she laboured an organic
disease of the /teart ; which affected her to such a
degree, that she could scarcely ever walk with
quickness, or bear the least fatigue. But the
immediate termination of the existence was by
a
"
njlammation. The following is a list of the
..1Fatal artrs, both before and after dissolution.
Yet1r1 NoratAI
0 to the semiquartile of t converse 19 0
}) to the semiquartile of !,1 converse 19 10
0 to the quartile of f7 !1 IOJ
0 to the semiquartile of f7 converse 22 0 1m
l> to the zodiacal parallel of !,1 fJ llf
Ascendant to the mundane t!t. of t 28 I a.t\
0 to the semiquartile of 'I converse 24 4
D to the :.!odiacalsesquiqundrate oftlle 0 26 4
D to the semiqunrtile of 26 II
frfJt trimt of Jltatb was at 23 years and 3
months: and the student will at once perceive
that the train of directional arcs which preceded
and succeeded, were of the most positive descrip-
tion, going from evil to evil, till death ensued.
I deem this example well worthy the student's
attention, on account of the great nurnher of mull-
dane aspects in the ..
11«tal lloll, that foretold
mortality. Probably, those incredulous and bigotted
persons who deny the Siderial Art, and look upon
the bright and shining orbs above us as mere spec-
1acles, placed merely to amuse the sight of us
short-lived mortals, will perhaps attempt to gain-
say the truth of the example. But, ht it rememhertd,
that the hour and minute of birth was taken by a
Digitized by Coogle
641
skilful Astrologer, who above all others would be
most accurate in the equation of time ; and on that
account there can be no possible collusion.
Wean no more the marriage train,
All unmated Ia the lover I
Death has taken the place or paiD,
Love doth call ou lon ID niD ;
We, and yeara of hope are o•er I
No more Wtllt of marriage bell,
No more ueed of bridal favour J
Where Ia ahe to wear them well f
You. betide the lonr tell,
Goae J with all the loye he pn her I
Paler thaD the stone she Ileal
Colder than tbe wlnter•s :nomlug I
Wherefore did abe these deaplae,
(She with pity ID her eyes,)
Mother•a care, aod lonr•a waraleff
Youth aod beauty, ahall they 110t
Lut beyond the brief .. to•morrow t••
:M.. A prayer : aDd then foi'Jo& I
Thla the tnaeet lonr•a Juaot J
Thla the lAUD of ha.aa IOliOW t
Digitized by Coogle
b42
CELESTIAL MAGIC.
PART 1.
weriHUU..frotJ& G beGvt(f11lly fllagkal MatttUnipl,Jtii'WriJ
ill tlte ponerriOfl qftM tekbraud Mr. Riell.ard Co.lt(jy, a .....
lsagogical instructions how to know good Spirit.
from bad, when they appear.
.Stuns.
The Signs of appearance, both of Goon ANGEL&
and EVIL SPIRITS are, and ought, carifullg to be
well observed by reason, they are fol'egoers of
such appearances, and whereby are, k.nown the
differences thereof, which is a matter of material
consequence, as hereafter shall be more plainly
shewed forth.
· coelr angels mobtb.
Ifgood Angels, or elemental powers, or other-
wise dignified spirits, of a benevolent or symboliz-
ing nature with celestial powers, and allied to the
welfare and preservation of mankind, are moved
and calledfortk to visible appearance in a CHRISTALL
sToNE, or glass receiver, as one usual way or au-
tomary form ia among the learned Magicians, then
the sign of their appearance seemeth most like a
vail, or curtain, or llJfM h«<utiful colour
in or about the glu1 or ltOM, as a bright cloud. or
Digitized by GoogIe
u
T.., ''-
'-!'
< >
........ >
-
"'-
-
..
'
Digitized by Google
,·
,,
.. ...
·ti.
f. ·..••
Digitized by Coogle
643
other pretty kind of hierogllpbical ahew, both
atrange and very delightful to behold.
It is therefore to be remembered, that the Magi-
cal student ought to ha'e for his purpose a clamtal
stone, of a round globick Conn, very clear and
trlaleparent, or other of like diapbanity, or ball of
clear and solid glass, with a little hole oa theo top,
.tlike form, of any convenient bigness or diameter,
according as can reasonably be obtained or made,
ad the same to be set in a fonn ; and also the
9lasees to be made with a stalk or ahank fixed
tlilereto, and so to be put into a socket with a foot
Ol'· pedestal to stand upright ; the stone being
called by the name of a shew stone, and the glus
\y the Dame of a glass receptacle ; or in practice
or action upon invocation or motion, made for
spiritual appearance, there shall either be a wax
candle on each side thereof, or a lamp behind the
seaae, ·buming flvrirag tiN time of action, set oa-a
table apart, fittH and furnished for this purpoee.
Bat if appearance hereof aforesaid he moved for by
o.t of the shewstone or christal giRl@ ;
011 if..yet, notwithstanding appearance happen to
shew themselves out of them, yet tlu ng.t tif their
appeararace will be very delectable and plea.la11l ;
nrious, amazing the senses to behold, as a shining
brightll888 or sudden flashes, or such like .simili-
tudee, Tery splended in or in the place where
aaioo is made, or.appearance monel.
... ltU.'otitien-
When I•vocatiola is made to any of the c&LESTU.L ·
POW&as, or digaified:elemental spirits of light, and
app aa:noee ia presented, and visibly.
Digitized by Coogle
sit<-weth itRclf, either in the shew stone or christal
glass, or otherwise out of them ; then view the
very welJ, aud also take notice of its corpora-
tore physiognomy, or features of the face, vestures
or garments, deportment, language, and whatsoever
else may be worthy of note, by reason of making a
fine distinction between the appearance of good
Angels or Spirits, and others that are evil, and of
knowing the same without being deceived ; for
although evil powers or spirits of darkness may be
invocated, moved, or called forth to visible appear-
ance, and consulted withal and made use of, in
such concerns or upon such actions, wherein by
nature and office they may be commanded to sene
in all such matters as thereupon are dependent,
and as the necessity thereof shall be suitable and
requisite ; but then actions with them are different
both in time, and place, and order, and also the
manner of operation, which by them are diversly
and severally else where, hereafter inserted and
shewed forth in its proper place ; therefore do the
magick philosopht:rs give tltis caution, saying, be-
ware that one action, operation, or secret in the
art, be not mixed with another.
aetton apatt.
But let celestial, elemental, and infernal actions,
operations, and invocations, be used and kept
apart, according to the method and manner as are
in particular ascribed, and properly referred unto
each ofthem. Now then, obJerVe, that the appear·
ance of celestial and benevolent angels, and other
dignified elemental spirits of powen of light, are
to be thus known or distinguished from those that
Digitized by Coogle
are infernal, or evil powers, or spirits oldarkness.
T.U good angel•, or dignified power• of ligAt u
aftn'U4id, are in cou11tenance rery fair, betJwtifvl,
affable, nnili•g, amiable, afld tU!UJlly ofa jlazen or
goltlM colmwed !lair; in behaviour orgesture, cour-
teous and Criendly; in speech, very gentle, mild,
grave, and eloquent, using no vain, idle, or super-
6uoua language in their discourse ; in their corpo-
rature very handsome, straight, comely, well-
favoured ; and in every limb most exactly formall
and well composed ; their motions, sometimes to
be plainly perceived, sometimes swift, and some-
times interceptable, both in their appearance, coun-
teua.uce, and departure ; and their garments, of
what fashion, form, and colour soever, are likewise
Tery fair and beautiful, or Oriental ; and if it be of
many colours or strange fashion, yet they are also
very splendid and rare, and lively to behold; and,
ill mort, they are celestial and dignified in all their
appearancet, as they are in countenance and corpo-
rature, without the leastdeformityeither in hairyneae
in the face or body, or a swarthy complexion, or
any crookedness, or any ill shaped member of the
body; 10 also their garments are clean and un-
eoiled, without spot or blemish, and untom or
ragged, or anywise dirty with any filthy soil. and
always embrace the word MERCY !
81Jptarantt.
When the appearance of any celestial angel1, or
angelic powers of lis'ht, or dignified elemental
spirits, are visibly shewed forth, and by good testi-
mony or diligent obaenation well known to be 10,
3z
Digitized by Coogle
then, with due reverence given thereto, may be said
as followeth :-
llttttbt tbtt6.
WELCOME be the Light of the Highest, and wel-
<'Ome be the of Divine Grace and
Mercy unto us, the true servants and
of the same, your God, whose name be glorified,
both now and for evermore.
or
Atnd if the appearance be good, then it will stay;
but if not, then it will immediately vanish away, at
the reheiirsing of the word· MERCY. . But if any
evil power shall appear in the place of that which
is' good, or instead, and impudently withstand a:od
opposing; t4ten vanish it as in this case. Bvil
spirits are to be dealt with in manner and·form as
hereafter is inserted ·in its place, by reason those
powers or spirits. lVho ·are: by nature evil,. and so
ate contrary to hy:nature ffUI,Y '""'bt
dealt ·witlt as· in those actions, or · ·nor
those oflight, by-nature good, to be moved
in reference tothat otherwise.pr.operly·appertameth,
or belongeth by nature and to.the·eYil.q»irits
or powers of darkness, more than a8' '(or theiJiassist-
ance, and so· aceording for deliveranee..fi'OID any
violent surprize, assaults, illusions, or other infernal
temptations, or envious attempts.
.apJJearan,t.
·Now then; if by those· obiservations:N.e
nppe:t'ra1lNJ is understood;·atrd found to be celestial
aad of-good, ai'·to IJe
Digitized by Coogle
li41
powers of light, and 10 likewise of good, as
iagly waa invocated, moved, or called forth to visi-
ble appearance by name, order, and office, to such
appearance say thus :-
•naaniJ.
A..re 1011 the same whom we have moV«< and
called forth to visible appearance, here before us
at this time, the name (N) or who else are ye, and
ofwAat ortkr, and what il your MMB, that we
may so aote of you, either as you may be ranked
in order amongst the blessed angels, or otherwise
known or called by any of mortal man : if you be
of celestial or elemental verity, and so of charity,
you cannot mislike or deny these our sayinge.
ane\Dtr.
Tlaen if it maketh any answer, as peradventure it
D,Jay, then make reply according as the nature of
discourse requireth. But if it make no answer,
then repeat the words aforesaid, Are you the same,
&c. &c. ; it will shew tbrth or tell its name,
order, and office; the which when itis known by
hearing, then will Rpeak or otherwise shew forth;
say then as followeth :
lrltfJo tt te.
If you be (N) as you say, In tlu name ofJesus,
tluJt all wicked angels are justly condemned; and
yet h!J tlu mercy ofGod in the merits ofCArist, man-
lcind elect are to be sa11ed.
Whereunto it will then return a ee.tisfactory
auswer, or else it will depart and be goae away;
then if the appearance be good, as may be known
Digitized by Coogle
548
by the answer and the reasons thereof, that was
tnade or given to the aforesaid proposition, say as
followeth:
i'Ptak to tfJe
0 ye servants and messengers of Divine grace
and mercy, and celestial angels, or angelic pow
of light, or dignified elemental spirits, and mediums
of benevolence to mankind, servants of God, you
both now at this time, and are and shall be
unto truly and sincerely welcome, humbly desiring
you to be friendly unto us, and to do for us in
whatsoever it shall please God to give by your
order and office unto you, for the better knowledge
of mankind living on earth, and to make us par-
takers of true science and sapience, in the undefiled
and secret wisdom of the Creator.
malJe.
And if any answer shall l>e made hereunto, or
any discourse frum hence should arise or proceed
hereupon, then hoth wisdom and reason must be
the principle conduct in the management thereof;
but if there be silence, and no discourse from
thence, then begin to make humble request for
answer to such desires and proposalls, as in a cer
tain writing is contained, which ought to be in
readiness with you, and then will the effects of all
things be undoubtedly, and with good success be
determined.
lntrutiott.
The sign ofintrusion, or appearance ofevil, when
action or invocation is otherwise made for mo\'ing
or calling forth celestial angels or intelligences, or
o,gitizedbvGoogle
their dignified powers, or elemental spirits of light,
are not apparent or visible, to be any ways discem..
ible than your shapes, forms, gestures, or other
little principals in appearance, quite contrary in
behaviour, language, cloathing, or vestures, to those
above related, and to be obse"ed of the good, &c.;
neither are they herein otherwise to judge of them
than as intruders, tempters, and illuders, on pur-
poee, if possible, to deceive and alao to destroy the
perseverance and hopes of obtaining any benefit.
by celestial and good mediums, by reason they are
degraded and deprived of power to send or shew
forth any fort>going sign of their appearance, in
those such superior actions, invocations, or moving
only celestial or dignified elemental powers, and to
visible appearance, herein no ways to have farther
notice of them, to be vanquished or sent away as
before hu been said. Obse"e then the corpora-
tive forma and shapes of evil powers, or 11pirita of
darkness, in their appearances, by forcible intru-
sions of the kind ar1 eMily dilcowmlfrDIA tiM good
l'flt«r• and spirits of light, as now shall be declared,
as followeth :
.EVIL POWBRS, or 1pirit1 ofdar/tfiUI, are •gly, ill
{afJOW«l, mad betutlg i" 1/w.pe and appearance ;
wherein obeerve, if they do appear in upright or
human stature, then either body, face, or oovering,
are quite contrary to the other, before specified of
good ; for although an evil or infemal spirit may
appear in the likeness of an angel of light, especi·
aUy in the time and place when good angels Or
Digitized by Coogle
spirits· ol light are moved, invocated, or called
fOl'th, forming very nearly, so evenal-
most to eight exettt
ingeuiousl1 discovered by any ...bte"ation,
amd ·dearly may· be discerned- quickly ·by tbeir
ragedness, ·uncleanness of their ganneDta, and(\if.
ierence.of their countenance in •
beanty,
and other decent composures Qf the body, Jaa.
guage, and behaviour, and Ute CQrporal difrereace
of theJimbs, or bestial similitutlee., who in times.do
usually and suddenly make their appearance, aad
as readily shew forth motions, gestures, and speak-
ings unusually bl88phemous, or dift'ereut
language, altogether dissonant and contrary LotJ1
in manner and matter, to that of the celestial
angels, whiCh also mag .lie ·.tCHm by the
diligence of·a sober and curious speculatar. which
notable intrusions they make (Ill· this action, pro-
perly to destroy the re&80n, hope; airul judgement
of the and by great errom. and other
ignorant mistakes; not· only· to deceive and con-
found the· more solid and genuine
capacitys of man labouring therein, but aJso.fD dis-
tract the senses, and thereby lead the understandiDg
into a and therein to weary¥d tire us
with verity of doubt and desperation, not knowing
how to·uiU'ILvel the Gordian knot, or to be satia&ed
or delivered from the hopeless batbythe
help of lcarian wings ; from hence it may be UDder·
stood, thatevil8piril1alldporoer1 ofdarkrlal, Mllllf
appeal'Gl impwlefll i1Jtruder1 i11 ti..s ofgood ae-.
and ill place where invocation is made for the
moving BDd calling forth of auy good angels, or
clignified elemental spirits or powers of light, tD
Digitized by Coogle
Ml
visible appearance, ·than at any other time and
place, which as unto themselves shall be indif-
ferently by order, office, and name: invocated,
moved. and called forth to visible appearance, for
mch theirassistance, as by nature and office,wherein
they are accordingly serviceable and suitable to the
occaaion, wherein they are commanded. There-
fore, in such actions are to be only referred unto
those of eTil powers or spirits of darkness, those
actions we say are differently set apart, and to
be distinguiShed both in time, place, order, and
method, and other aforesaid, &tc. so they may be
moved and called forth, commanded and con-
ltrained, and according so dealt withall, and used
u the present action shall require, and the discre-
tion of the invocant shall find agreea.ble to the
nature and office ; so then it is observable, that the
evil spirits may be invocated and dealt withall,
difFerently, or apart by themselves, according as
aloresaid; but not in such place, or in such time, as
when action or motion is made for the appearance
ofany celestial spirit of light, and other elemental
powers or different spirits by nature good as well
as evil, and other wandering spirits, none resident
in orders certain of like nature, &c. may be con-
strained and commanded by invocation properly
thereto referred, with seTeral app1U'tenant rules
and observations inserted therein, as ample and at
large shewed forth ; but celestial angels ud other
elemental powers, by nature and office benevolent
or good, may not be commanded nor constrained
by any invOC1Ult; they are only to be moved and
caUed forth by humble entreaties, thereby acquir-
ing fayour and friendship.
Digitized by Coogle
allfJta \Dittlt'b latn'btrt tOIII.
KNow THEN, if at any time and place, where
action or motion is made, and humbly entreated,
earnestly besought, for the appearance of any celes-
tial power, &c., and wicked intruders shall impu-
dently thrust themselves in place, and would
enforce credulity into the speculator, and that it
shall be plainly discovered, tke11. 8/tall Ike mo.gi-
cian dismiss, discharge, send away, and banish tl&em
from hence, after the manner hereafter shewn, in
the second Part of this magical formula.
Digitized by Coogle
AND
VERDATI!l FROlf RARE OLD AUTHORS.
No. II.
How tAe Nativity ma9 be by Ph!Jsiog,unlue;
the which is demorutraUd by tAat of a PriacB
dime by tAi1 Science with its true significaticncs
cult1araced in tAis place for "" ezample to tAt
C1lriou
" Jlultus ua tf)t teberal temperammtt.
First, he that is cholerick having Satume in hie
radix ruling, is pale, having his. eyes deep in his
head, looking downwar<\s, slow-paced, red eyes, or
like those of a cat, and little. Secondly, if Saturn
be in the nativity in the ftegmatick radix of any
})erson of either sex, he is naturally fat, the colour
of the eyes, and the eyes themselves like lead, and
all about them there is as it were a bruisedness ; he
is slow in all his actions, and carries himself herein
in a courtly manner. 3. When Saturn rules, is in
the nativity of a melancholick person, it causes the
man to have his face awry, ill favoured, and a fool,
being of divers colours, 8ad, {earfull, having the
4A
/ -
Digitized by Coogle
eyes most commonly asquint. He is nasty, slo-
venly, clownish, unconstant, hath a stinking breath,
is thoughtfull, desiring great things, but most mis-
chievous, nay shall be hard to believe any thing of
the Divinity, but a mocker and insolent, going
proudly and gravely; he shall have thick lips, the
shoulders very fleshly; and marks at the knees and
he shall pass away his life in a tavern, or in
a cloyster for to carowse it. 4. But Saturn partici-
pating of the sanguine humour, which is the royal
one, and the best of the temperaments, the pro-
perties are these : they have the voyce sharp and
strong, they are merry and jovial; but there are
very few that have Saturn chronocrator, are of a
sanguine humour; as for the face, they have it fair
enough, but the colour like an olive, red eyes with
bloody spots in them. So much for the physiog-
nomy of the Saturnines; now for the Jovialists.
I. He that hath Jupiter in his nativity, in the
cholerick significant, is of a white complexion, hath
a long beard, and is bald in the forehead, the hair
reddish or yellowish, very soon angry, yet wise. 2.
If the said Jupiter rule in .the nativity of a flegma-
matick person, is of a good stature, and well
proportioned, fair-haired, his nose like a trout's,
black eye-brows, a green eye, and bleared. 3. For
the melancholy, Jupiter is seldom in such na-
tivities. 4. As for the sanguine 'tis there
that Jupiter governs most; a sanguine person hath
the body white, the face somewhat red, the eyes
not altogether black, white teeth, high forehead
with four apparent lines therein, the which signifie
good husbandry, wisdom, and liberality.
Digitized by Coogle
o Bultng in t1Jt etbtral •umoure.
1. When Mars iti lord of the nativity of a cho-
leric person, the party is red as if he were sun-
burnt, hath a round face, eat's eyes, and bleared; a
cruel countenance, arrogant and proud ; he is bald
on the crown of the head, of a middle stature, the
forepart of his head big, the nostrils issuing out,
and when he goes he makes but short paces, he
goes lightly and is of himself given to evil. As
for the woman of this humour, she is described by
Martial in these verses, upon the kissetf of Philena.
Car nou balrio te Philena ? cal.a ea.
Cur DOD buio te Philena? rnfa ee.
Cur noa basio te Philt'na f Jusca ea.
&c.
2. But being in the root of the nativity of a
ftegmatick, he makes him reddish, or yellowish, of
a illlal.l and sudden nature, a great contester,
talkative and a lyar; he is bald on the crown of
the bead, hath a broad face and great head, he
looks on the one side in an arrogant manner : this
Datw-e is m•t'-!h given to be vicious. 3. When
Mars as Lord of a melancholick nativity, it makes
the party have a threatening countenance, and
have tbe marks in the face. IfAries be ascendant,
he is crump-shouldered, hath a long face, the head
ia tile form. of a pyramid, the hair of a chestnut
wlour, great eyes and yellowish; to be short, the
person is guilty somewhat of folly. 4. If Mars be
in a sanguine nativity, which happens very seldom,
tbe persoa will he very well featured, round-faced,
8axen-Jaaired, green-eyed, the countenance gentle
at drat, but the speech bold, prGud, and menacing.
Digitized by Coogle
556
ltultng ill ttu
As for Mercury, he never is but in three com-
plexions; if it Le a dJOl£'rick, the person is of a
great stature, lean and of a leaden colour, and sad,
having not much hr.ir, wild eyes, and deep in the
head, with narrow lips and short teeth. 2. When
he is in the nativity of a melancholick and is re-
trograde, the party is incredulous, subject to many
vices, and is always marked Ly natut·e, looking a
:-quint, wry mouth'd, wry neck'd, aud crump-
shouldered : such was Richd. the 3. King of Eng-
land. 3. When it is a humour, the man
'-'
is well disposed, Loth in his corporal and spiritual
proportions, when Mercury is lord of his nativity.
0 tuhng tn tbt
But for the Sun when· he is alfridary or lord ofa
cholerick, he causeth him to be of a brown colour
with some small redness, fleshy, having very great
c·yes, well bearded and well haired, the head great
and round, and of a middle stature; he is a great
dissembler and cautious.
z, tultng tn tbt ..1Flegmatiqut.
1. The Moon is most commonly significatrix in
flpgmatick nativities, for which reason they are
called Lunar; they are very white, intermingled
with a little red, having the head great and thick,
the eyebrows joyning together, f.'\ir eyes, but haply
unequal : if Cancer })(' the ascendent of those
persons, they are fat beyond measure. 2. When
Digitized by Coogle
6S7
she is in that of a melancholick, she him
corpulent, fleshy, fit to make a monk on, having
the head fit to wear the cowle, curled hair; a long
beard, but not handsom; there may be also some
signification of gluttony, as having a great mouth
and thick lips, especially the under lip.
' Bulinl tf)roup tf)t eebtral Jlumore.
1. Venus is never but in flegmatic nativitieM ;
the persons are courteous, amiable, gentle,
having the body white, gentle speech, the hair
thick, handsomly curling or crisping; their natural
mark is in the neck, which is very fair: they have
black eyes, whereof the ball is yellowish, which
doth as it were bum or shine. A maid born in
this constellation will not long keep her virginity,
if she be high-nosed, which commonly happens.
Now by these phyRiognomies well considered
(which he must needs do, who pretends to the
knowledge of these sciences) one may make the
horoscope very easily, taking one or more questions
concerning some one whom we wish well unto, and
would know his present and future contingences.
First, having by the lineaments of the face known
what planet was lord, let us see if he derive of the
nature of that planet, having the lineaments of the
face such as we have described ; if they are con-
formable without any difference, then infallibly
that person is born in the first bouse or face of that
sign of the Zodiak which is referred to that planet.
As here we have a man that is white, fair spoken,
having a long nose, fair hair and thick, a brown
eye ; he is born, Venus being ad iulal', in the first
Digitized by Coogle
part of. which is the uouse of that
planet: so proceed Ly way of question, having
proposed it to and observed the hour and
minute, taking the month and the day, you will
certainly finde this sign Taurus, whether it be in
the house of life which is the first, or it be the
tenth which is Hilygiak, and is the house of dig-
nities and honourB ; and from the figure you shall
thereupon erect, you may draw most certain signi-
fications, as Belot did for a young German Prince,
whom he had the honour to see in the suburbs of
St. Germain at Paris. " My proceed (saith he)
was thus, without desiring to know the day or
hour of his nativity, or his age. Having observed
his physiognomie ; I saw he was fiegmatique, bad
black hair, red eyes, great eye brows, the mouth
sufficiently rising up, great teeth, a fat neck, ancl
all the body full enough; my question being made
the lU day of March, at 7 of the clock in the
morning, in the year 1623. I found that the
ascendant of this physiognomical question was
Libra in the 10 degree, which is the last of the
first part. My question was to know how long
this Prince should live, what should be his actions,
fortunes, and misfortunes; briefly what should
happen in his days : I erected this figure, and
thereupon made certain quadrains and resolutions,
that my friends might understand the significations
of the said figure, and the things portended to this
young Prince. Which here for the obscurity
thereof I have omitted, the figure will inform you.
I confess he hath left it dark, but there is a key to
unlock thia mysterie.
Digitized by Coogle
tbe Jl'igure i1 thu to be coa.cetved.
The Teath HoUM 12
Elenoth Holl8e 10 of
Twelfth House 17 of IIJI.
Ascendant 10 of 6
Second Houe aof "1.
Third Houe aof l
Tbe oppo1ite 1ig111 and degrees make complt!at the Figure.
THE PO!IITION OP THE PLAJfBTI.
f7 in the 3 of 'tY, the North Angle.
'lf. In the 13 of IIJt.
8 in the 2 «.( 'Y'
0 in the 2 of l
in the 13 of 'fi, the North Angle
tf iu the 22 of I
»in the 8 ol u, tlte Angle of the 9 Houso
Thit Figure II Geomautieally fom1ed.
Gf tfJe JJtab anb tts .Jubgnnmts.
The learned and knowing Hippocrates, in the
sixth Book which he wrote concerning ordinary
Diseases, says that by considering the head of a
man, it may be judged of the whole body, that
being the most apparent of all the parts of the
body, and is not covered nor masked, and especi-
ally the face, which at the fii'Bt sight is seen of all,
that so may be judged of the temperament and
actions of the person. Now in our science of
Physiognomie, the form, proportion, and dimen.
sions of the head are to be considered ; for by it,
and it8 form, we judge of the minde contained
therein, which is that that distinguishes us from
bea.sta, and makes us kaow the breath which is
said to ha'e been blown into our face by the per-
fection of an tlaat 80 he might giYe 111 the
Digitized by Coogle
.560
epithite of Saints, which is the 1nark which all wise
men aim at for the obtainment of that immortality
which is desired by pure wisdom. That therefore
we may come to this discoYery, it is thus:
A little head is never without vice, and most
commonly is guilty of little wisdom, but rather full
of folly, which is naught and malicious.
A great head doth not signifie any perfection of
manners, though there may be sometimes, but not
often, goodness of nature; the most perfect is the
round head, which is depressed on both
sides after the fashion of a sphear compassed about
with its zodiack. The best form of a head is
moderate, as greatness and thickness, and of a
decent and convenient roundness, which before and
behinde is tempered with a little compression.
The brain, one of the noblest parts of the body,
is according to the form of the cranium, for if the
cranium be corrupted, the brain is so too. The
head of man, hath proportionably more brains then
all other living creatures; and men have more
brains then women, and the head of mau hath
more joynts then any other creature. So the well
formed head is like a mallet or sphear, there being
some eminency before and behinde ; the form of
the middle ventricle should be a little compressed,
so the cogitative faculty is the more notable. If
the forepart be depressed, the man is of no judge-
ment; if the hinder, he hath no memory, having a
great weakness in the motion of the nerves, and
consequently of all the parts of the body. The
strength of the brain is demonstrated by the
strength of the body and nerves, as also by the
breadth of the shoulders, the breast, and the lateral
Digitized by Coogle
Ml
parts, called hypocondres, whicn are the junctures
of the live( to the spleen. The head which is of a
handsom and decent form, augments the sense and
virtue, and denotes in the man magnificence and
honour; but if deformed, the contrary.; the judge-
ments we shall thence draw are these.
l. A head not beyond measure great, denotes
persons fair, wise, and well conditioned, studious,
having a strong and .great memory, given to the
reading of good books.
2. Those that have the bead out of measure big,
are commonly foolish, indocile, not far from a little
madness : they do nothing that speaks any genti-
lity of spirit, but live sadly in a perpetual melan-
choly, or happily gluttony.
3. When the head is big proportionable to the
body, the sinews of the neck big, and the neck
it self strong, it is a sign of choler, mag-
nanimity, and a martial humour.
4. When a man or woman have the bead long
and sharp like a pyramid, or sugar loaf, it denotes
a man shameless, who in his youth had a vivacity
of spirit enough, which at the age of twenty years
vanished away: many such heads may be seen
amongst us ; such persons are gluttons and great
eaters, rash and bold, which proceeds from the
dryness of the brain.
6. A head well composed, and of a good form,
according to the dimensions of the body, and if
the ventricle before be well formed and well tem-
pered ; for the apprehension of species proceeds
from heat and moysture, and the retention pro-
ceeds from the draught in the hinder part ; a head
thus formed, signifies goodness and wisdom.
4B
Digitized by Coogle
6G2
6. A head having the middle ventricle somewhat
compressed towards the sides, denotes the cogita-
tive faculty, natural, diligently rati-
onative and eloquent, which proceeds from the
union of the spirits that are in that place; those
who have the head thus, are learned and knowing.
7. A head that is altogether spherical, signifies
mobility, inconstancy, forgetfulness, little discre-
tion and wisdom.
8. The head very little is necessarily an evil
sign ; and the less it is, the more folly there is;
the person is subject to sickness, because of the
small quantity of brains, the ventricles being nar-
row, wherein the spirits being pressed, cannot
exercise their functions, as being shuffled together
and smothered ; whence it comes that their imagi-
nation is neither free nor good, and their memory
is slippery : such persons are very cholerick, and
hasty in all their actions, and are more like St.
Mathurin then Socrates, and are commonly verti-
ginous, and exceed not 56 years at most.
9. A head out of measure long, and oblique in
the organs, denotes impudicity and imprudence,
they are like the swine, as Porta says, wearying
themselves in the defilement of venereal actions.
10. A head that is low and flat, denotes impu-
dence and dissoluteness : a head high before, folly
and stupidity of spirit.
II. A head that hath as it were a ditch behinde,
and is depressed and hollow, denotes a man subject
to wrathfulness, being of a melancholick humour;
this head hath some likeness to that of a camell.
12. A big head with a broad forehead, is like
that of an ox, having a large face like a gyant, it
Digitized by Coogle
denotes a man slow, gentle, yet laborious and ex-
treamly indocile.
13. When the head is straight, and almost t1at
in the middle, of a middle size, it denotes that man
hath a good strong understanding, that he is coura-
gious, and fears nothing as to the affairs of the
world, that he is indefatigable in the vicissitude of
fortune, and that all the aftlictions that can happen
to him, cannot make him quit his constancy and
conduct, but is firm amidst the most outragious
accidents; if he have a high forehead, he is per-
fectly martial.
ef .flletopotcopf, anJJ tOe ttgniticattoat Of tte
aaJJ t{Je •lanett placeJJ ttJmoa.
attotJJtag to tOtt
Metoposcopy IIi a sc1ence depending of Physi-
ognomie, which we have defined to be a science
of judging of things to come by the aspection on
the forehead, as also of knowing the temperaments
of any one. No divination is certain, unless it be
joined with, and assured by Astrology, which at
present is the certainest science for the prediction
of things to come ; and the joyning it to the other
sciences of divination, renders them more recom-
mendable and more perfect; for Astrology u the
f()Undation of w/,at ever concerru the prediction of
tllings to come. That is the reason that in our
Metoposcopy, for the greater perfection thereof,
we accommodate the seven planets, as you finde
them in this figure.
Digitized by Coogle
Of the significations of the said planets, we shall
discourse after the description ofthe forehead. The
forehead is a part of the face, situate in the sin-
ciput, confined by the eyes, the root of the nose,
and the temples; and by the accidents thereof,
is discovered sadness, joy, clemency, gentleness,
severity, humanity, frowardness, wisdom, folly, si-
lence, whence came these proverbs, Frontem expor-
rigere, frontem extmhere: and Aristotlesays, Frons
verecundice et lwnoris sedes; for it is a neighbour
to the place of the fancy, being, as it were, the en-
closure of the common sense in the hither part of
the brain. The forehead hath its dimensions, that is
to say, latitude, longitude, roundness, and fulness;
the latitude begins at the root of the nose, where the
eyebrows discontinue; and ends with the first hairs
neer a branch of the hollow ''ein ; the longitude is
from one temple to the other ; the longitude and
Digitized by Coogle
latitude make the roundness, when all thing are
well joyned together ; and the plain foreheads are
such they are depressed and without elen-
tion. The diversities of foreheads are, the gre-.lt,
the little, the round, the ovall, the lean, the fat,
the broad, the narrow, the collected, the confused;
as for the lines and veins, they are, the cloudie, the
straight, the concave, the slender vein. Upon the
forehead we place the seven planets upon the lines
as is to be seen in the figure ; on the nrst line neer
the hair is "', on tbe second '1f., on the 3. t , on the
4. 0, on the 6. and lowest i , and upon the
nose.
The Moon on the left eye, au.d the Sun on the
right. Venus at the root of the nose. Of the situa-
tion of the said planets and their significations we
shall speak of after the significations of the diversity
of foreheads, sith these two are all that is compre-
hended in all the science of Metoposcopy.
1. A great and spacious forehead signifies a slug-
and fearfull person, that is compared to the
0% ; most of those that have the forehead such, are
people of good consciences, not given to do any
hurt, they are very fit to become lawyers.
2. The little forehead denotes the person indo-
cile, wicked, and given to mischief; believing no-
thing but his own foolish opinions ; they are com-
pared amongthe beasts to the cat or rat of Pharaoh.
The .Emperour Caligula had it so ; so also was be
an epitome of all cruelty and cowardise, and would
never believe any person of authority.
3. The broad forehead represents a person glut-
tooout and unclean, (especially in the intercourse
oi the teXet,) as having somewhat. of the nature of
Digitized by Coogle
the swine : such persons are given to flattery, pro-
fessing in shew all manner of friendship, but be-
hinde a mans back they are his enemies, speaking
evil and offensive words, and scandalous to those
whom they pretend an affection to. Bartholomew
Codes of Bulloigne says, that a forehead great and
broad on all sides, without any hair, or as it were,
bald, signifies an audacious and understanding
person, but sometimes malicious and very wrathfull,
and not legal, and oftimes a great lyar.
4. A forehead pointed at the temples of the head,
so as the bones do almost appear without the flesh,
signifies vanity, inconstancy, little capacity, and
not much resolution in business, but changeableness
every moment.
5. He that hath the forehead somewhat swollen
by reason of the thickness of the flesh, at the tem-
ples, as if he had jaws or cheeks full of flesh, it
denotes the person very couragious and martial, it
is one of the marks that a great captain should
look for in the choice of his soldiers; moreover
those that have such foreheads are proud, easily
angry, and forward to engage themselves in
combats.
6. A square forehead, denotes according to
Aristotle, magnammity: Quadrata frons (saith be)
pro faciei ratione mediocris magnanim(}s ostendit ob
similitudinem leonis. Those that have such a fore-
head are couragious as lions, and are compared to
them because of their strength, courage, and pru-
dence. See Porta.
7. He who hath the forehead wrinkled and low
in the middle, and seems as it were double in the
face, neer the nose, that is to say frowning, wherein
Digitized by Coogle
l)67
there is a valley or descent, is a simple person,
magnanimous in adversity, and fortune is very cruel
and cross to him.
8. Ht: that is bald, or hath little hair on the fore-
part of the head, having the forehead plain, and the
skin delicate and smooth, which the Greeks call
unless it be the superficies of the nose, is
unconstant, wrathfull, and ill-conditioned.
9. He that hath the forehead gathered together
and wrinkled, is a flatterer, and hath somewhat of
the nature of a dog ; he flatters, hut it is for to
deceive.
10. The concave forehead, which hath pits and
mounts, is a signe of fearfulness, deceit, cheating,
and ambition. Adamantius saith, A.spertl fronle
ne gatuleal, neque qua: fossas monticuws
OfiUI.ia namque luec signa versutiam et injidelitatem
nunciant, et interdutn stultitiatn et ituaniam: be
which hath a frowning, wrinkled, and capred fore-
head, which is a word comes according to Varro,
from caperala, el crispis carprarum comibus as.rimi-
lalur, is of a Saturnine humour and melancholick,
and denotes one that thinks more than he speaks,
premeditating his conceptions before he effects
them. Such a one was Philip Melancthon ; these
persons are of a gentle humour and familiar con-
versation ; if the person be very rich, the greater
is the melancholy, as saith Albertus Magnus ; Qui
•em.per frontis ru/(aS contractas habenl, melancholici
et res magnas cogitare
12. A clear forehead without wrinkles, signifies
a faimes11 of minde as well as of body, but a mali-
cious disposition given to debates, suits, and con-
tentions; the most part that have it so, have not
Digitized by Coogle
568
mnch devotion ; the great Sidonius Apollinaris
that Epicurus had it so.
13. A forehead neither strait, nor lean, nor
smooth, nor rough, but between all, signifies a
round-dealing friendship without deceit or circum-
vention.
14. The cloudy forehead, and having black
marks, signifies boldness ; and such persons are
likened to bulls and lions, who are in perpetual
choler.
15. Those who have much carnosity about the
eyes, so that thetr eye-brows hang down like those
of hounds, are fraudulent, cruell, and unmercifull:
deriving their cruelty from beasts of prey. Sely-
mus, the emperour of the Turks had them so, and
he was cruel, bold, a great, indefatigable, and
severe warriour. It is said also that Charles Duke
of Burgundy had them so too.
16. A forehead, that upon the first sight appears
sad, severe and austere, shews a strange and bar-
barous humour, prone to all cruelties. Such are
the Arabians, Cannibals, Anthropophagi, people
that know no pitty ; if it happen they be of a
melancholick humour, they are likely to devour
their own children, as saith a learned author,
" Which 1 ·have myself observed in one of that
humour, who was executed at Eureux. His name
was Taurin, living neer a town called I.e Ventes,
\Vho transported with madness and cruelty, had
eaten his own children; there were some thought
him wizard, which was not true, it being only folly
<seconded by melancholy and solitude had trans-
ported him to that inhumane action.
17. A depressed and low forehead, denotes an
Digitized by Coogle
569
effeminate person ; this kinde of forehead euits
well with a woman ; for a man that is so, hath a
low and abject soul, is fearfull, servile, effeminate,
cowardly, and carried away with the many words
of a great talker, for there is not much assurance
in their words, yet he is overcome by the SJleech
ofthe most simple man that he stands in fear of.
Now seeing we have represented all the fonns
ofthe forehead, in pursuance of our Metoposcopy,
we must treat of the lines of the forehead and their
significations, and afterwards of the characters of
the Planet.CJ, and the Planets themselves, which
signifie, according to the places where we shall
place them in the forehead, an abridgement of this
great world.
The lines of the torehead have longitude, lati-
tude and profundity, and hegin at one temple and
end towards the other; the which lines by their
aspect, represent unto us the evil or good fortune
of the person ; those veins are Planetary. A Pla-
netary line is that which is referred to of the
Planets, which are placed on the forehead,, as is
before mentioned : but because that in all fore-
heads there doth not appear perfectly all the lines,
we shall d1·aw our more particular judgments from
those of the Sun and Moon which infallibly appear
on all upon the eye-brows, that of the
Sun upon the right, and that of the Moon on the
left; but it is more casie to judge of those who
have all the lines, some having them more appa-
rent, others less. The first line which is that of
Saturn, appears neer the hair; that which is under
it is Jupiter's, the third belongs to Mars, the other
four are in the nf thf> forehead, as the Sun
4c
Digitized by Coogle
570
and Moon upon the eyes, Mercury neer the grissell
of the nose, Venus above it between the eyes. So
there you have the number of the planets observed,
and them placed according to the celestial rule;
Saturn highest, .Jupiter next, then Mars, the Sun
under Mars, Venus fift, Mercury under her, and
the Moon neer the left eye-brow, and the Sun at
the and Venus at the root of the nose; and
by these places we are shewed the analogy and
proportion which there is between the great and
little world, even as experience confirms it, and
reason demonstrates these motions, being like those
of the heavens; the nose and the bone of the Vertex
being the imaginary poles whereon these planets
move.
In these lines we must observe the characters
which are given them as marks of the planets, and
are the infallible signs of the temperaments, and of
man's life, that we can discover; whereby we also
know the duration and length thereof. These
marks are crosses, circles, warts, and such like cha-
racters, which commonly are found in men's fore-
heads; and it is to be considered upon which veins
they are; for without doubt, the man shall deriH
somewhat from that planet where the character
shall be, rather then from any other. The signifi-
cations of the planetary lines are either general,
when they are accommodated to all the lines of the
planets, or special. The general significations of
the lines of the planets, afford us these canons
and aphorisms.
I. The lines of the planets either all in general,
or each in particular, some are fortunate, others
uufortunate: those which are fortunate, are those
Digitized by Coogle
,')71
which are strait, or bend a little towards the nose,
if they be equal, continued, and not dissected, nor
distracted, nor barred in like obelisks.
2. Those that are not well placed and unfor-
tunate, are those that are much winding, approach-
ing a semicircle globe, or obelisk.
3. Simple and straight lines denote a simple,
good, and honest soul, without any malice.
4. The oblique, inflexed, and sometimes the
distorted lines denote variety : craft, cheating, to
be short, all mischief and deceit.
6. Il the right line of the forehead be oblique,
that is, on the side attributed to the Sun, it signi-
fies malice.
6. I( the veins of the masculine planets look
towards the left side, and be plain ; and if that of
Mercury, which is sometimes masculine and some-
times feminine, look towards the feminines in the
same manner, it denotes nothing but evil.
7. Many lines signifie nothing else but a muhi-
tude of changeable affairs.
8. The fewness and simplicity of the lines, de-
notes a certain simplicity in affairs.
9. When the lines encrease and decrease, they
represent some great affair, according as the cha-
racter of the planets shall denote.
10. Jupiter'sline being mean and reflected,shews
aome great and happy gain with honour and good
report.
The general significations of the planets most
commonly include the special ; that is to say, some
planets are referred to certain lines, as we said, or
judged of them.
1. If the lines be great and not winding, long
Digitized by Coogle
( that of Saturn and Jupiter, as also those
of Sat11rn and Mars ;) and very apparent, they de-
note most exorbitant and mischievous actions.
2. If the line of Jupiter be longer then that of
Saturn, it denotes riches, and all other things that
are obtained by Jupiter.
3. If the line of l\'lars exceed the others, let the
captain that chooses souldiers observe it; for those
that are so, are great warriours, and have no other
ambition then to raise a fortune by the war; and
if there be a cross upon that line, and
not a semicircle, it speaks a very cholerick humour,
and a good fortune by following Bellona.
4. A line broken or discontinued, especially that
of Saturn and denotes misfortune in war.
5. If two lines or three be in the place of Mer-
cury, and if they be apparent and straight, simple
and equal, they denote the person eloquent and
wise, and very honest.
6. If there be more then three lines, and be
straight, and bending at the extremity, the)' signifie
loquacity, prating, detraction, deceit, inconstancy,
lying, simulation, and dissimulation.
7. If the lines be such in the forehead of a wo-
man, she is talkative, abusive, prating, a scold, a
sorceresse, given to unlawfull arts, knowing some
foolish verses, useless in incantation.
8. Two or three lines being at the root of the
nose and cut in the middle, signifie a lascivious per-
son, and one much transported with that vice.
9. The line ofthe Sun being perfect, long enough,
and not interrupted or cut, signifies honours and
riches given by and Princes.
10. The Moon line being clear, distinct and per-
Digitized by Coogle
573
feet above the left eye, signifies much travel into
strange nations, and some abode by the way.
And this is all we have as to the of
the forehead, of which depends Metoposcopy.
Yet to satisfie the ingenious reader, I will particu-
larlydemonstrate the same, and then I shall bestow
the next chapter for to treat of what is superna-
tural in this science.
frfJat tfJe stbtn t'lanete, bttng 4)1attb on
tfJt fortfJtab, tbt nutlbt of tfJe
Zobtac are tfJere also \DttfJ tfJtir
anb lnttlltgentte.
can be no greater sympathie, then is be-
tween the celestial and elementary bodies. There
is (as 1 have often said before) such an analogy be-
tween all our members and the superiour bodies,
that there is no member which is not governed by
those influences either generally or particularly
The harmony of these stars is the total of our body;
as to the particular parts, all in all, as the face in
general, and in particular the forehead. And
fore the ancient Hebrews called these celestial
bodies by the names of spirits, and have attributed
to them secret intelligence& and genii ; and those
over whom any particular star, as 11, ']f., do
powerfully govern, are powerfully actuated by the
intluence of that star, or its Genius. Now upon
the forehead may be discovered the 1pirit or go-
verning genius; as if it be Saturn, it is Sabathiel
who hath two onder him, which are referred to his
Digitized Coogle
57·1
two houses, that is Capriel to 'IS, and Aquariel to
::::, or else Gediel and Deliel. If it be Jupiter that
governs the forehead, it is Zedekiel, who hath these
two, Sagitariel and Pil'ciel, on Acabiel, DagimieJ.
If it be Mars, it is Madimiel, and his houses, Tele-
teriel, Acabriel, or else Ariel, Scorpiel; if it be the
Sun, it is Semeliel, or Leonie!. If it be the Moon,
Jarchael, or Levanael, her house Sartamiel; if it
be Venus, Mogahel, her houses Suriel, Maniel. 1f
Mercury, Cochabiel, his houses Tomiel, Betuliel;
the latter of these referred to Mercury, was that
which governed Appollonius Thianneus, which
he knew by the Brachmanes ; and that is it which
with that of the Moon that is next the earth, and
consequently easie to be allured and drawn to us:
Arbatel gives the faculties of this Spirit, Betuliel
to Aratron, whose faculties and spirits are 1. To
transform tne most vile mettals into fine gold and
silver. 2. To turn treasures into charcoal, or
charcoal into treasures. 3. It teaches Chymistry,
Magick, and Physick. 4. It appears like little
men as pigmeys. 5. Makes men invisible, and 6.
Makes sterile things fruitful. It is an easie matter
to know whether the person be governed by it; for
if he have four lines above the root of the nose,
and if those lines be hollow, and make the extre-
mity wrinkled, doubtless the person is governed by
it; if besides he be melancholick ; sometimes the
lines are fair and clear, as Apol. Tyan. had them.
And that denotes a great force in the possession of
this spirit, nay speaks apparent miracles. I be-
lieve that the brothers of the Rosecrusian possesse
it ; it is an order sprung up within these late years
'n Germany, that at present doth miracles throughall
Digitized by Coogle
675
Europe. These brothers have some admirabll'
secrets of the sciences mentioned before, together
with an ardent zeal towards the superior powers,
and enter acquaintance with all knowing men who
acknowledge the true God, and part not from them
without doing them some good. They know al-
most all things to come, as may be seen by their
predictions. They have taken the name of bro..
tbers to avoid the vanity of that name of fathers
forbidden in the Scripture; they know the lan-
guages of the countries where they are to dwell;
tbey are well acquainted with the tongues, the
Hebrew, Chaldean, Syriak, Arabick, and all the
Oriental languages, the Greek, Latine, Italian,
Spanish, French, Sclavonian, Germane, and make
l.exicons of them, moreover they are skilled in the
Civil Law, the Galenick and Paracelsick Physick,
the Aristotelick and Ramick philosophy, the liberal
arts ; to he short, they are an epitome of all
sciences. As fol' their religion, their tenets are
very pure. Henry Nehusio a German physician
accuses them for Anabaptists, for having the
opinions of Socinas ; tis true they have no certain
place for their prayertf, which require great medi-
tation; they live in an unanimous society, abound-
ing with money ; their vows are somewhat neer
those of Appollon. Tyan. but besides the plurality
of the Gods they also possess his genius ; they
have the lines before mentioned above the root or
grissel of the nose, and so they are discovered, as
also may be known the diversity of the lines where
the Planets are situated, and their characters which
may be seen in Cor. Agrip. in the 3 book, and 29
chap. of his Philosoph. Occult. which I would not
Digitized by Coogle
576
put down here, to avoid prolixity. Butwhen once
they are known, it may be judged of the Genius
and temperament by the inspection of the fore-
head, which is the only subject of Metoposcopy.
Of tf)e .JubgemmtfJ. of tf)e .atanntrs,
anb or. tf)e llob». IJ» tf)e ttolour,
anb aettbentfJ.
The colours of the and especially of the
face, denote the humour and inclination of the
person ; and by the external colour and accidents,
the Physiognomist must judge of the internal and
faculties of the soul. As blackness in a man if it
he shining, is a sign of adustion, as well in the
members as in the hair. The black colour denotes
a man slow in his actions, not much given to war,
as IJeing of a heavy and feal"full humour, without
courage, if not occasionally; but he is cautious,
neat, and subtile, and fit for counsel, or for some
secret nay a treason if need be; such
was Ulysses, who carried the garland in the Tro-
jan victories, and was preferred before Ajax ; the
most part of those who are so coloured are born
towards the south parts. A green colour that is
obscure and black, speaks a cholerick person;
those who are ruddy or altogether red, and are
lean withall, are neat, cunning, and subtile; which
is the reason of this proverb : Few little men are
humble, and red faithfull; but those that are big,
fat, and have the hair of the head of another
colour whether it be chesnut or olive colour, are
Digitized by Coogle
\..·/ .-
JO\'Jahs!s and pl'{)pk·, open without pailll-
ing or cheating; but it the hair Le black, Lcware;
the proverb
Of n rl'tl hc:tnl aud Lb.ck hair,
(f tl1'a1t wi•l', thou'lt ha\'c a cnrc.
Those that have the face pal<>, ami leaJy, yet
have the forehead red, and the cy('s dcprc:<st·d, are
extreamly shamefaced, much subject to passion and
choler; they arc never at rest with themsC'ln•s,
thinking always that some others plot and conspire
against them ; all fancies are phantasmes to them
if melancholick ; the fingers of their hands st•em
mountains; the least sight unaccustomed to them
seems to be a place full ot furies, which is the subject
of their discourse; and indeed by such sick minds
as these, these doleful places have bei'U illVl'Hted ;
poets and others hal"e drawn their dc·scriptions
from these fantastick imaginations, and thence de-
scribed the pains and torments which art;there exer-
cised. The Abbot Odo was of such a colour, and
he was the fir:-;t that since the year of salvation,
hath given us these <kscriptions, which have been
subscribed unto anti J'l'l'ei,·ed by them that be-
liel'ed them.
. A whitish red colour, which the Latines call
candidier, and the Grcl'ks M.Kov signifies
a man debonair and familiar, and couragious and
gallant as to matter of war. The learned Galen in
his Art of Mec.lidne, !"aith, Signum optimtl! tempe-
raturtJ?, id est calida! et lwmiclt1!, esse colorem com-
mixtum e.c albo et rubro. And Aristotle as to
the significations of it, !'ays, In idea ingeniosi, mmt-
strat candidurn colorem, optimum ingenium denolare:
4 D
Digitized by Google
and smce him Alhertus .Magnus : Color me({ius
inter album et ·rubrum, declimms ad prunum, est
clarus boui iugenii ct bonorum index. It IS hcltl
that Alexander the Great was of this colour, though
Apelles painted him sordid and dark coloured;
hut Plutarch represents him to us of this white
ruddy colour, a colour whereof the sweat is VC'ry
sweet and pleasant, and such had the said Alexan-
der, as Aristoxenes represents him: for my part,
J am of opinion that such persons arc jovial, and of
good conversation, desiring nothing so much as
mirth; they ·ha\'e a good understanding, hut not so
much as to employ it in the study of the
they are cholerick and couragious, hut their choler
lasts not long; most part of your northern people
are of this colour and complexion. A high white
colour is to he admired among those that
they love beauties ; it is very recommendable in
women, and much desired by those who affect to
half their age in the pleasures of this life,
which are for the most part the pains of their lire:;,
that they may atterwanh.. bait the hook for the
zealous ones of these times to catch others. Tis
tnw this colour is W'l"Y fit for a woman, who of her
self is lnxnrions and fearfull; hut not to a man,
for it would speak him effeminate: Arist. in his
says, Albus color in lwmine excedens, de-
monslrat j'a!mineum. \Ve have amongst us somr
kindreds that are thus excessively white; and the
women are extremely luxurious ; and the men
tender, fearfull, short-sig·hted, and like to take the
occasion of doing any imposture.
'l'he brown colour minglf'd with pale, which the
Lafinel' call sub/ividus, the Greeks i. f.
Digitized by Coogle
subtlavus, denotes a glutton, a great talker, one
easily angry and one that speaks immoderately ; it
also signifies folly joyned with cruelty ; and the
most part of those that -embrace novelty in matter
of divine worship, are of this colour: they will
have men receive whatever they conceive in their
corrupt imagination, and ad\'ance with their tlattc•·-
ing speeches, as articles and decrees of heaven; by
thi:1 reason, and by their sottish imentions they
make men beleeve and adore things whereof anti-
quity that adored a plurality of Gods, would he
ashamed, and Herodotus would blush to write, as
being too apparent impostures. These persons do
much envy others, and especially those of their pro-
fession ; as for the pale, Martial says,
Omnibus invideas Livide, nemo tibi.
Those that have a flushing colour, are not far
from madness, as having extraordinary heat. Pole-
moo says, Color jlmnmeus furiosoJ i1tdicat: Alber.
Magnuo;, lguitus color cmn lucentibus oculis ad i11-
sa11iam vergeutem hominem 110/at. This colour.de-
notes not only an ardent desire of things present
and of small consequence, but also things to come;
for there wants not a vivacity of spirit. Tis thought
the prophetess Cassandra was of this colour, having
shining eyes; such.were David, Daniel, and Esdras,
who in. their fury have spoken great things at cP.r-
tain times. A squallid colour doth not signifie
any thing but strength, as Aristotle witnesst=>s, Qui
ill figura fortis t•iri tribuit colorem squallidioretn
avx;'I'Jpcln-£pov. The most part of those that are given
to the wars, are no sheep or cowards, and hate
Digitized by Coogle
those that trim up and ''arnish their complexion;
as for them, they arc squallid, and all dustythrough
their military exercises, not studying any thing hut
stratagems and feats of wo.r, to the end they may
transmit an immortal fame to posterity.
.Jubgements of tbc Jlatts attotbin!J
to tbett fiSUbstatttt anb tolour9.
. The hair is one of the parts that adorn the head
of man, but especially of a woman; for a woman
of quality husbands them to the advancement of
he1· beauty : the Apostle permits her to please her
husband. . The ancient Gauls wore long hair in
token of their liberty; in the Old Testament there
is mention of the hair of Sampson and A Lsalom,
,,·hich was also bestowed upon the daughters of
Jerusalem for to adorn themselves withall. Lycur-
gus commanded his citizens to wear their hair
that so they might be more fair and decent. Cha-
rilaus being asked why he wore his hair long,
answered, Quia e.t· omui ornatu !tic pulchrior foret,
':\·c. Sihius ltalicus in the commendation of
Scipio,
I
:!'lfartia ('oma, nrr pour rrtorquct,
hn·,·:or.
hair, the ports 8ay, are the prisous ,.(
o;9rtized by Google
Cupid, and heretoforf', nay nt the lac.li(•s
make rings and bracelets of it, as Martial witnesses.
d.:! l1•to p('cean•rat orbc
Annulus, inccrtft vix ucut• ueu.
The hair therefore Leiug a part of Physiognomic,
we draw the:--e Judgements from their substance,
which we shall lay down here by way of aphorisms
and
I. Hair that is thick, atid :;oft, denotes a man of
much and of a constitution cold and
moist; for the farther the Lrain is from heat, the
head is more hairy ; the heat of man that goes to
the superiour parts everywhere the skin of
the head, and makc:-s a certain humour to issue out
of the pores ; and the more subtile part of this
humour vanishes a''ay, hut that which is more
gross remains within and turns into hair, which is
more solid then the fleshy skin, and the hairs are
broader then the so long as the impetuosity
and force which drives them out is great.
2. \Vhen the hair hangs down and is soft, it
denotes- a humid complexion and sanguine ; and
when they grow fast, it is a the body will
.shortly decline to dryness, and not to moisture.
And when the heat and draught are joyned, the
hair comes out fastest, and more thick.
3. Much hair denotes a hot person, and the bigness
thereof his choler, and that he is soon angry: this
plenty of hair happens more to young then to old
men and children ; for in these the matter is more
\apourons then moist, but in young men the <.'on-
trary; whereJurc contraries follow tl1eir contnu·1es
Digitized by Coogle
4. Abundance of hair in young children, ::;hews
complexion increase:'>, and augments with
melancholy.
5. Curled hair and black, denotes heat and
drought; the people of the south have it for the
most part alike, especially the Ethiopians; it pro-
ceeds from the crookedness of the pores; as for
their signification, Aristotle says, Qui capillos nimis
crispos lwbent timidi stmt, et ad JEt!tiopes ,·ife,·untur.
u. Hair standing up an end like the prickles of
a hedge-hog, signifies a fearfull person, and an ill
courage; of the hair that falls upon the forehead
towards the nose, Aristotle says, ot -r8 'To
7rpos 'T€
11 avdcn>..>..ov 1Ei(T£, ava,£povral
1rpos -rovs >..eov-ras.
7. Smooth and plain hair, denotes a person of
a g-ood understanding, placable, courteous, tract-a-
bit•, and somewhat fearfull.
8. When the hairs are delicate and clear, they
!'ignifie a man of a weak complexion, and subject
to As for the colours of hair, we must
in the first place consider the climate ; for the
meridional people are for the most part black and
curled ; the northern, who inhabit cold countries,
are flaxen-haired, of a yellowish colour, their hair
being full and close, and therefore they are not
altogether cold, but rather their temperament and
humour is wry hot, the heat in the Winter time,
being locked up as \Ye see in the bosom of the
earth. As for the rest, the Oriental have their hair
of a chestnut colour, fair and very small; the Occi-
dental have it blacker and more rough ; yet it is
not absolutely a:-sured that all those couutries
should have them so; for such a one is black
o;gitizedbyGoogle ·
583
hath black hair; he that hath them yellow or
flaxen, white; red or brown, may be to have
them fair, &c. As for their significations they
are these.
1. White hair signifies a great frigidity, as may
he seen in old men, whoRe hair becomes white by
reason of frigidity and siccity, as it happens to
vegetables which when they dry, change their
black or green into white ; and that happens many
times after great drying diseases.
2. We are to mark that there are but four prin.
cipal colours of hairs, viz. black, red, flaxen, and
white or grey: the white proceeds from want of
natural heat, or corrupted flegm, yet they signifie
slippery and evil conditions.
3. Black hair proceeds from an excessive adust
choler, or adust and hot blood.
4. Red hail denotes a head not adust but dimini-
shed and moderate.
5. Hair of the colour of gold, denote a trcach.
erous per:-on, having a good understanding but
mischievous. Red hair enclining to black, signifies
a deceitfull and malicious person, whose sweat is
most loathsom and fit to make the narcotick un-
guent with the blood of the lina of life of a dead
man, .and other ingredients, as may be seen in
Porta's Natural Magick.
6. Chestnut coloured hair, denotes a fair and
just person withont deceit. So much shall suffice
as to the hair.
o;g,llzedbyGoo le
The principal eHicacy and perfection of
ognomie consisteth in the eyes, as being KaTor.ipuv
Speculum Animi, the doors or outlets of
the brest, the index of the countenance, the con-
and dispensators of the cogitations, the
minde is apertly conversant in the eyes as in a
market, they Lciug indexes of love, mercy, wrath,
and : the mimic resolute, the eyes prosi-
liate, being· Lc mble, they in love they ure
amorous, i!c hatred rewngefull, the heart checrfull
they smile, being :::orro\vfull they languish. Where·
fore we may from the eyes discover the good or
ill of per:::ons ; therefore Homer call_.
l\Iincrva a Lluc-eyed lass, and \"enus hlack-eycJ,
a·;wv €
A.tKw7rtoa, to represent the prudence of the one
and luxnry of tile other. And that is the reason
the left eye is attributed to ; for if in a
woman t!Jat eye Le shining, and move, the eye-lids
fat, it much inclination to lasciviousness,
especially if that woman be olive-coloured or yel-
lowii'ih with Iter black eyes, as Venus is described
by Hesiod never look for any
shamefastne:--s in snch a woman.
I. Great aud big· eyes, denote a slothfull, bold,
and lying person, and a rustick and unsavory
mimle.
2. Eyes of di\'ers colours, e:o-pecially the right,
which is attributed to the Sun, denote a man
agitated with divers passions and opinions, espe-
cially in matters of religion; it is said that Michael
Senet had them so.
Digitized by Coogle
3. Eyei; deep in the heac], that is to say, hollow,
denote a great minde, yet full of doubts; if they
are green, they signifie admirable knowledge, yet
accompanied with malice, luxury, and envy; if
they are red, it discovers the nature of the cat.
4. Eminent and apparent eyes of a wall colour,
denote a simple, foolish, and prodigal person.
5. Sharp and piercing eyes that decline the eye-
brows, denote a deceiver, and a secret and lawless
person.
6. Little eyes like those of a mole, or pig,
denote a weak understanding, and one fit to he
made a curkolcl, as who believes all is said to
him.
7. Beware r-quint-eyes, for of a hnnured tltere
are not two faithfull.
8. Eyes that mo\'c much, and look slowly, yet
sharply, and that with some recJination of the flesh
of the eye-hrows, denote an unfaithfull, slothful),
and riotous person.
9. The worst of all eyes are the yellowish, citron,
and cerused; beware of them, as also of those who
when they spPak to thee twinkle; for those that
have such eyes are double minded; if it be a
woman that doth so with her left eye, trust her not
ar; to the faithfulncsg of her love, and observe where
she casts her amorous looks
tlfU!9iognontital 9igne talttn from tfJt
parte of tfJt
1. The angles of the eyes over long, indicate
malevolent conditions.
\ E
Digitized by Coogle
:l. The Angles being short, a laudable nature;
if the angles neer the nose are they inti-
mate a hot constitution, and improbity.
3. The balls of the eyes equal, declare
unequal, the contrary.
4. The circles in the eyes of divers colours, and
dry, declare frauoulency ami ,·anity; but moyst,
dt>monstrate fortitude, prudence, and eloquence.
5. The lower circle grcen, and the upper black,
it is a certain sign of a dect>ptious and fraudulent
JWrson.
6. And lastly, eyes of a m·e:m higne:-:s, clear and
m·e signs of an ingenious and honest man.
et tfJe JF«tt.
A fi.tce \'Pry flcshie, signifies a fe:ufull person,
merry, Ii discreet, lu xuriou:-:, fait hfull to
another, importunate to obtain his will, but pt·c-
2. A lt'an fac<", denotes a man wise, of a gc)otl
but rather cnwll than mercifull.
:3. .:\ round and little f:IC·e, (knotes a man
pk, W!'ak, and of an HH'lliOry .
.t. 'Vho hath a lonf!: and lean face, is audaciou,;
in words and det·ds; he is riotous, injurious, ami
luxurious.
r;, IT<> that hath a broad and thick face, is
downi,-h, and a boa!':t<·r.
fi. llt' t lnt i!': of a p:tlt• colomed face, is not
lu·althy. and hatl1 an oppilation of the spleen.
o,gitized bvGoogle
tiH7
7. He that hath it vermillion, is good, wise, anc.l
capable of all good thidgs.
8. He that hath it white, womanish, soft and
colc.l, is tender and effeminate; this colour suits
well with women ; for such arc good natured, but
fit for men.
9. A red face, denotes according to the proverb:
a bot complexion.
l 0. A violet or leady colour, signifies a mischiev-
ous person and Satumine, who does nothing but
plot treasons and pernicious enterprizes: such was
that of Brutus and Cassius, as also of Nero. So
much for that, now we come to speak of the
humours.
fl)f tfJt fOUf J!?U1UOUfG, Gf
of .Man.
The Hebrews transported with deep medita-
tions in their ghematry, attribute high and secret
things to the quartenary, which Pythagoras, who
had been a little nursed in their school, had ob-
served as a most mysterious number, calling it
Tetractin; and their great and solemn oath was by
that number, as may be seen by these verses,
Jnro ego per sanctum purl\ tibi mente Quateroum,
iEtcmae foutcm naturae, animi6.m parcntem.
Now the reason why the Hebrews honoured this
nwnber, was because God had appeared to them
in this name, M'ln" four-lettered, which was so
venerable that no nation hath translated into its
proper idiom and natural language, but they have
Digitized by Coogle
588
given it four letters, that they might correspond
_ with the Hebrews, as the' Egyptians, Arabians,
Persians, Mages, Mahumetans, Greeks, Tuscans,
Latines, French, Italian, Spanish, that is to
say thus, Th,eut, Abla, Sire, Orsi, Abdi, 8Eot, Esar,
Deus, Dieu, Dios, &c. by the four letters ofthename
of God; the Hebrew mecubalists comprehend this
all, as well the celestial world as the elementary,
and by the secret of their ghematry, placed their
table thus.
'fhe Elemen-
tary World
The Crlestial
World
The Erito'mi-
Bcd World
lI
Jod
'I
Fire
1\fichael
Choler
He
i1
· Air
Raphael
Blood
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Vau
'
Earth
Gabriel
I Cheth I
I Watl'r
1\IclancholyI Fll'gmc j
These worlds thus placed, represent unto us
\Yhat we should look for as the greatest secret of
; for this great world, ·called by the Greeks
Megacosmos, composed of the first number, is of
four elements: the second, according to R. Joseph
of the four principal angels and the third, of the
four temperaments or humours, which· compose
this little world, which is man's body.
1. From these complexions, we shall .for our
o,9itized bvGoogle
physiognomical learning, ousenc, that the chole.
rick humour dryes a man, hinders not his growth,
but causes it to be without bodily strength, and the
to be hasty m all his actions.
2. The sanguine Ol' aerial humour, causes the
body to grow with a beauty in the face and fat-
ness : the changeth not in his misfortunes.
:>. The humid complexion, which is according
to the nature of water or tlegme, causes the uodie
to be soft, and of little strength ; the persons are
fearfull, and sleep not too fast, but are lightly
awaked, and through fear.
4 . The melancholick humour, causes the body
to grow slowly, but the minde advance!', and these
are the men that are worthy of great speculations
(yet without fidelity) for such men do not much
regard tntth, when they would pleasure those whom
they are obliged to, hut only look on what they
tlu·mselves imagine.
I have now done with Physiognomic, the rules
which have been delivered, being enough for those
who would comprehend this Art, without any
further discourse. Let then the desirous to learn,
read and peruse them.
THE LINES AND THEIR SITUATION IN THE HAND.
1. The line of the heart, or of life, encloses the
thumb, and separates it from the plain of Mars.
2. The middle natural line begins at the rising
Digitized by Coogle
of the fore-finger, near that of life, and ends at the
mount of the Moon.
3. The line of the liver begins at the bottome 01
that of life, and reaches to the table-line, making
this triangular figme r:..
4. The table-line, or line of fortune begins under
the mount of :Mercury, aml ends near the imlex,
and the miudle
5. Venus girdle uegins near the joynt of the
little fini!,·er, and ends between the f(we-finger, and
a. The is between and l>. Also
called the ferient, aferiendo, from smiting,
7. The wrist contains those lines tha.t separate
the hand from the ann, called rasceUa.
As for the judgements and significations of the
said line:-:, we shall see them elsewhere: let us now
see our other ligures.
trut ani'J l)rrfttt i!Jt£Jtrtptton of tbc.
The bands are the principal parts of the l1ody :
tlte anatomists divide them into three principal
part:-:, that is to say, the wrist, the body of the
hand, and the fing;ers; the hcst description of them
is in the Theology of Hippocrates; but by Chiro-
mancers these three parts are called the palm; a
word which Apuleyus useth in his Golden Asse,
calling that part Dea Palmaris, which we in Chiro-
mancy call the plain of Mars. The second is
called the hollow of the hand, which is from the
Digitized by Coogle
PXtremitie of the other side of the thumb towards
the little finger, which we call the mount of the
hand, or of the Moon. The third are the five fin-
gers, which are to be noted by their names, which
according to the physitians are such, Pollex,
Index, Medius, Annularis, Auricularis, which I
ha\'e represented lJefot·e in three fingPrs, and not
with. any more, because I would he guilty of no
confusion, as lndngine, Codes, Corvus, and many
others. You are then to note, that the thumb, as
being the first, greah-st, and strongest, is so called,
and dedicated to Venus, and hath such a mark •
The next is called Index, the indicative or demon-
strative finger, because with it we point at any
thing : the old philosophers have called it so, and
among otlwrs Socrates, who for that reason is
painted, pointing with that finger at a woman, that
represented nature : and this finger is attributed to
Jupiter, and signatcd with the character of
The third is called the middle finger, because in
the middle, some call it physitian, because that
with it are touched the privy parts, when some-
thing is amiss. The Latines call it verpus, from
the word ''erro, which signifies to rub. And
Orus Apella in his Hieroglyphick, represents an
infamous person, by that finger. But in old time
this finger with the thumb and fore-finger reprt'-
sented the Trinity, or the hand of Justice of our
Kings. It may be yet seen in some ancient edifices,
and particularly at Plaisy in Galie, whereof the
president Fauchat, in the seventh book of his
history of the declination of the House of Charle-
maigne treats at large. This finger is Saturn's, the
mark f7. As for the ring-finger, -which is so
Digitized by Coogle
called, because commonly a rmg Is worn on it,
especially on the left hand ; the physitians and
aJtatomists give the reason of it, hecau:-5e in the
finger there is a sinew very tender and small that
reaches to the heart; wherefore it ought tu wear a
ring as a crown for its dignity. But besides ob-
serve, that in the ceremonies of marriage, they
put the matrimonial ring: on the thumh, whence
they take it, and put it on every one till they come
to this, where it is left. Whence some who stoo1l
(as Durand in Rational of Divine Office:-5) to
discourse on the:'ic ceremonies, say it is done be-
cause that ting·er answers to the heart, which is the
seat of love and the aflcctions. Others say, be-
cause it dedicated to the Sun, that most
rings are of gold, a mettal which is also dedicated
to it: so that by this sympathy it rPjoyces the
heart: this finger hath for the Sun this mark 0.
The last and least of all is called the ear-finger,
because commonly we make use of it to make clean
onr car:-:, as if it were some instrument. We
read that Dionisius or Denis the Sicilian tyrant,
would neYer make u=-e of any other instmment to
clean:-:c his mrs, fearing they should give him some
poysoned instrument, as being a Prince very fear-
full and distrustfnll, whose life was miserable in
his tyranny, because of the fear imprinted on his
soul. The finger is attributed to Mercury, the
sig-n In these verses yon ha\'e a short and
1earncd description.
Est Pollex sed iudkc gaudet
J:> 1\Jcdium, Sol mediumqur. tenrt ; •
l\linimum ; ferentcm candida Luna,
p,,,,idt't, in Cnvea 1\fars sua castra locat..
o,gitized bvGoogle
:>93
Thus
Venus the thumb, .Jove in the index joyes,
Saturn the middle, Sol the youthfull toyes :
Stilhorn the least, Luna the fcricuts,
In t':lVN\ 1\fnrs delights to pitch his tents.
Now all these fingers have certain at their
roots or which are called mounts, attributed
to the Planets, to which is added that apparent
flesh, which is and belongs to the percussion of thEt
hand; the four principal fingers have twelve joynts
or to which are attributed the twelve signs
of the· zodiac, and to each finger one of the seasons
of the yf·ar: as to the index, which is we give
it the Spring, and to each joynt one of the of
that season; to the highest Aries, tu the middle
Taurus, to that of the root Gemini, which are thus
marked, 'l', H, n. The little linger, which is Met·-
cury's, hath the Autumn, anfl conforms to that of
Jupiter, they reprcl"cnt the two Sea!'Ons,
which are equally milde anrl temp('ratc; whereof _
the two first signs arc f>fJUinoctial, (that is to say
make the nights and days of a ). The si.2;ns
of the Season of Autumn, which are to
this finger, and placed as the others art>, Libra,
Scorpi11s, and Sagittary, thus marked, 111, .t.
Che middle finger, whieh Lelongs to Saturn, re-
/ presents ·winter, a rigorous Season; hath Capri-
corn, Aquarius, and Pisc('s, marked 'f5', ::::, x.
The ring-finger, whieh the Sun's, h:lth for
e, A, tiJl. And the!'c two Seasons ha\'e in their
first monelltR the two sol:;;tices, that is, when the
Sun neither nor but :-lands :-;till
in the extremities of the zodiac, in the zenith, as
. 4 F
Digitized by Coogle
594
to its elevation, and in nadir for its declination.
These two angles being represented in the hand,
we must imagine the zenith at the end of the
middle finger, and the nadir neer the wrist, where
ends the line of life, so it represents an ovall
figure.
We may· represent it according to the third fol-
lowing figure, imagining the zodiac from the fore-
,finger ahout the thumb and. mount of , which
shall be comprized ·in the oval of the zodiac; and
we will also imagine our signs placed ; Aries on
the rising above the wrist ; Taurus on the mount of
Venus; Gemini on the branches of the line of life,
(which denote our life). On the first joynt ofthe
fore-finger on the second .Q, on the third IJ,
leaving the thumb apart, as being an imperfect fin-
ger, because it hath but two joynts, which is the
first number according to the Arithmeticians, called
flat, and hath not s_o many perfections as the ter-
nary or three, which is the second number. This
half circle we call arctick. As for the other half
circle meridional, whi.ch we call antarctick, we be-
gin it at the top of the ring-finger, and place the
first sign, which on the first joynt of the finger;
on the second nt, on the thia·d t . At the extremity
of the table line, Capricorn ; in the middle of the
mount of the Moon =; and nt>ar the wrist on the
other side, Pisces ; so that the seven Planets will
be enclosed within the zodiack.
It is to he noted that every mount, (as I shall
shew more at large in the rules of the Science,)
signifies and denotes something worthy of
consideration ; as that of Venus love, that of l
honours, that of f? misfortunes, that of 0 riches,
Digitized by Coogle
.595
that of sciences, that of If milita•·y atchieve-
ments, and that of the Moon afflictions and dis-
eases ofmind. I shall pass no further in the notion
and significations of these mounts, reserving it to
another chapter. But ere I conclude, I will say a
word of the lines and observations of the hand, as
much as shall be necessary in this place.
. In the enclosure of the hand there are six lines
or cuts, (as hath been shewed already,) whereon
depend the three principal parts of man, that is to
say, the head, the heart, and the kidneys, on which
depend the three worlds; that is to say, the Intel-
lectual, Celestial, and Elementary; they are thus
placed.
The Intellectual
The Celestial
The Elementary
lTo the llead
To the Heart
To the Kidneys
ITo God
To Heaven
•ro the Element•
SO THE LINES OF THE HAND.
Tbe Table Line j To the Head ITo God
The Middle Nat
The Line of Life
ITo the Heart j lleuen
Line of the Stomach
The ww;eossion
The ITo the Kidneys ITo the Elements
To understand these lines, you must know first,
that tlte table line takes its force from the whole
head, and that it begins at the percussion of the
hand, (where is the mount of Mercury, situate
under the little finger,) and reaches with two or
three branches, and commonly without, under the
fore-finger where it ends ; and sometimes it is
joyned with the middle natural line, both of them
answering to the head, and with that of life make
an angle, which ends between the mounts of Venus
and Jupit<'r.
o;gitizedbyGoogle ,..-
The second line of tlte head, called the middle
natural line, is that which begins at the mot of the
line of life, and passes through the middle of the
palm, between the mount of Mars and the Moon,
aud advances under that of Venus, and commonly
to the table, as hath been said before.
The third, which is the line of life, called also
the line of the heart, begins at the mount of the
fore-finger, and ends near the \\Ti:4, separating the
mount of Venus from the triangle or palm.
The fourth, called that of the li,·er or stomach,
under the mount of the Moon, and makes
the triangle of Mars, thwarting the middle natural,
or straite line, joyning with that of life, above the
mount of Venus. ·
The fifth is the wrist, which are those spaces
which appear in the joynt of the hand, where there
are two lines at least, and four at most, and divers
cuts advancing towards the mount of Venus.
As for the it is the si:-tet· of the line of life,
which ever follows it, whereto we adde the percus-
sion, 'vhich is the outer part, whi('h moves when
we s!rike a:1y thing. These are the most remark-
able parts of tlti:s science, which are to be much
ohservPd in matter of divination, as being the
priJ:<"iplt-s of Chiromancy.
<Df tt)e tJni:ltrtionfS of tJ)c JQanlJ' in grnrral, anl:J
panirutarlv of tlJr Jl).,mil:::'Writst.
You have already kuown the seven lines of the
hands, answering the seven mounts, or seven planets;
now ) ' Oil are to learn the judgements which you are
Digitized by Coogle
to draw from them, that the prolixity may not
dispatience any man, and that every one may be
easily instructed. I give you first of all this hand
before the chapter, wherein is comprized a great and
true part of the Chiromantick judgements that I
have found infallible ; that hand alone can instruct
any man whatsoever to make judgements, and to
tell particularities and rarities, to make himself to
be admired in the eyes of those that affect this
science, which he will thereby render much desir-
able. After the meditation, and the lesson of the
hand, I will give you rules and tables upon every
line or part of the hand, and demonstrate the whole
science in divers figures,· and visibly unfold the
substance of the trut.)l in near seven hundred apho-
rismes, for your better instruction, to make you
able to judge of things past, present, and to come,
with all assurance: which rules I have found true;
yet I could not possibly comprehend them in the
hand, because of their number and diversity of
accidents, both good and bad, which they denote
and signifie; therefore I will take them by parti-
culars, in such conf'picuous maner, that never was
presented to any English eye before this.
1. When there are four lines In the hand-wrist all alike, and well coloured,
they aigoifie to him that hath them, that he shall liYe eighty or an h11ndred
years; but if there be two little boughs above, mailng a sharp angle, It de-
notes that the party shall hnc tha succession of an heritage fall to blm by
the death of some one ; and in hi3 old be shall rise to honoure accordiug
u be Is capable; he shall be of a good dlsrosltlon, and healthy.
2. It must be here for a second rule, that we allow to every line
which is upon the which separates the hand and tbl! arm, so many
thirty yetns, u It may be sl'en in this figure. We may also comprehend
therein all the ages of the givers of years, as the fiftr·eigbt of Saturn; and
. by thia also may be known the humour and comrlexloo of the persoa.
The forty-seyen of Juriter, the eighty-two of the Sun, the elshty-tb..-e o(
Venus. the eighty of the hundred which the Moon giYes, and the
forty-nine of Mars, all which 111ay be known accordin8 to these lines.
Digitized by Coogle
li98
3. When there are but three llnu in the hand-wrist, If' they be saperlcial
and broad, the liCe shall be sixty years, but abounding in riches In yoath,
and declining to ponrty in that age; if' the first line be thick, the RCOilCl
thin, and the third small, that signifies in the 8ret age riches, in the secood
diminution, in the third augmentation.
4. If' there are but two linea, the lif'e will be but sixty years at most, and
subject to diseasu.
6. To have but one, signifies death not af'ar oft'; but when the first line oC
the hand-wrist Is crooked, and the rest straight, with a right angle and -
tinued, it denotes weakness as to temporal things.
6. If' you find the lines scattered abroad in the band-wrist, it
man of little understanding, but couragious enough, and shall not exceed
f'orty years.
7. Let him that bath lines crossing one another in his hand-wrist, take heed
orthe sword of Justice.
8. When the first line i1 gross and thick, and the second subtile, and tbe
third thick and broad, it portends in the flrat age great riches, in the secood
.diminution, and much misfortune, for then Saturn will reign in Alfrldary; ia
the third age he will recover himself again In riches and good fortane; and
in the fourth again, misfortune and poverty ; if the fourth line be 1111&11,
death, with the penury of all things. is prenoteol.
9. If the lines of the hand-wrist lie scattering and spread abroad, so that
they touch not one another, but crookedly passing dinrs wayes, they •II·
nifie a man of a great ingenuity, and guilty or much curiosity; that be ea·
tertains high cogitations, and is of a heightened courage, aymlng only at tbe
highest things; eaale to violate the laws of his Sovereign.
10. When a line crosses the wrist, and crookedly spreads it self towards
the line of life, it signifies a sickness; if it he pale, it signifies death near;
if it be black, it denotes the approach of a disease, wherein the party aball
languish long, by reason of the corruption of blood.
I I. When there is a crooked line traverses (after the manner of a bow,
the lines of the wrist, it denotes the man shall be of a servile relation, or tbat
shall be a stare; if there be two, It represents, that be that hath such a
thing, shall be by justice condemned to the gallows, or shall end his life
miserably.
12. If the lines of the hand-wrist ore doubled towards tbe mount of Lana,
and if one line ascend towards the line of the stomach, and be uneven, it por·
tends great tribulatious and adversities, nay secret assassinations, cheats,
hostilities, and all pernitious actions.
13. If those lines are red and pure, they denote the party martial, and that
he shall raise him a fortune by the \nrs, that he shall be fortunate in all com•
bats as much as he can desire, and that he shall not want the honoun of
U. Jf you Jind tbe lines of the wrist in the manner of a chain, espeeially
the first, it signifies a laborious life, yet not unsuccessfull; and be ahall by
his labour, get together much wealth by his commerce both by sea and land.
and especially by sea, If lines be red and whitish.
16, When it happens that many lines spread themselves abundantly, aad
end towards the mouut of Luna, It demonstrates long expeditions,
by sea and land, peJpetual peregrinations, and a vagabond life.
Digitized by Coogle
599
16. Among the lines of the band-wrist if there be one that thwarts them,
and all the plain of Mars; and advances even'to the mount of the Sun ; it
presagea unexpected honours and riches, which will come suddenly, as also
the fnour of some great Prince and dignities.
17. if any line of the wrist fall down to the palm, and the hol-
lo" of the hand, through the line of life, and if it be red, it denotes a debility
of understanding, and weakness of body.
18. When there is a triangle ncar the mount of the Moon, beginning at the
linea of the wrist, If it bo on the band of a woman, it denotes she Is corrupt
even from her tender age, and Hhall be given to all sorts of unclean actions,
in the ftowre of her age, and shall be infamous.
19. If there be crosses upon the hand-wrist of a 'IIJ()man, it is a sign she is
abamefac'd, chaste; and if there be one in the middle, looking towards tbe
field of Mars, It denotes that certainly that woman shall be a widdow at
twenty-nine years, and in her widdowhood shall take some religious habit,
and shall live the rest of her time in great devotion.
20. When the lines of the hand come to the fiat of the hand, it signifies di-
nraity or opinions, and a great inconstancy in resolution.
A TABLE OR ABUIDGEMENT OF THESE Rl!LES FOR
THE EASIER OF 1'HEIU.
TilE HAND WRIST IS REFERRED TO
The long wrist without intersections Strettgtla qfmembrr• anti corut.;ncy.
signifies,
The abort wrlsted, cut, and dissected, Wea.hu• of botly t.tod fl. intiL
elgniOes,
If the lines of the wrist look towards
those of Saturn, they denote Vallily, and l.!Jiltg.
II that line branches itself towards the
mount of Jupiter, It denotes
If the contrary,
When U cuts Its branches between
the Core-finger and that of Saturn,
I( there be crosses or stars in these
lines, they denote
When there are only &tars. it
When the lines which look towards
llorto11rr, digrritic•, and riclae1.
Pot!erty.
Tlae man 1/taU betrOtllldtd in ltir fltad ;
tlrc rroman 1/aaU die i11 clailtl-betl.
TratttJUillity oflife ill old age.
To tromtfl, miifMlune and illfamy.
the mount ofVenus make a triangll', lnce•t, attd otller ri111 qftli•ltoftufy.
lt denotes
If those lines tend towards the lie- lrrtrgrity qflife, aiUI t1aat hntg.
patick line, It shews
R table of tf)e Natlt.
THE NAILS BROAD.
1. He or abe that bath the nail thus, ia of a gentle nature, and good enough,
but yet guilty or aome pusillanimity, and a rear to apeak before great persons,
huing not biJ speech at command, and being guilty of a certain bubfulncss.
i. If about these nails there happen to be an excoriation of the Oeah,
which ia commonly called polnta; In these large nail• It the party
r ·-
Digltized by Google
given to luxury, yet fcarfull, a: d commonly guilty of some excesse at his
ordinary.
3. \'l'hen there is at the extremity, a certain white mark, it signifies ruine
as to means, that shall happen for want of providl.'nce, through negligence;
the party hath more honesty then subtility, and fears more a frost in the
moncth of May, then the loss of a battcl.
THE NAILS Wll!TE.
-1. He that hath nails white and long, is sicLly and snhj ect to much in·
flrmity, and especially to (.,avers; he is neat, but not \"ery strong, because
t•f his indispositions.
2. If upon this white, there appear at the extremities someuhat that is pale,
that a short life, that shall happen by sudden death, it n:ay be the
for such persons are fat and of a jo,·ial humour, yt:t participating
with melancholy, or Saturn, and are not merry but by chance.
3. When at the begiillling of this nail, or at the root, there appears a cer·
tain mixt redness of div..rs colours, like the rainbow, it denotes the mao
cbolerick and ready to strike, who delights much in combats, battcls, con•
fticts, and duels, contemning every one without any respect.
1.. \\"hen the extremity is black, it speaks the man given to
and that his desires are not extraordinary, but content themselves with a
mediocrity.
NARROW NAIJ.S.
I. Whosoever ha!h such a nail, it may be pH·sumed he is a person co·
{Ctous of the sciences of venery and falconery; that he smells of the bird of
prey, yiz. is prune to do his neighbour a dammage, and canuot live without
hateing his neighbours and kindred.
2. When the nails are long ond narrow, the person hath somewhat of the
nature of the eagle, will commaud lesser birds, and kill them ; fiie high ill
contempt of those who are more then himself, having the heart always raised
to ambition and soveraignty.
LONG NAlLS.
When the nails arc so, it notes the person well-natured, but distrastfu1\,
that will not confide in auy man, as being from his youth conversant witb
deceits, yet not practising them, and that becaus!' the over goodness of nature
which is in him doth rather love reconciliation then differences.
OBLIQUF: X AILS.
1. Signitie deceit, and that the person is given to over-reach his neigh·
bour, to make deceitfull bargains, that tht•re may be matter of circumrenlion
and deceit; he bath no courage, nor any greater desire then to see a full
parliament, and when htJ sees it, thinks himself one of the greatest
of the world.
2. When upon these crooked nayls there are certain white little marks at
the extremities, it signifies a slothfull person, of little judgement, yet desires
mostto be beard, though he hath offended no body; there is an ioS('parable
cowardise in his ruinde, and that through the avarice which it
Digitized by Coogle
001
J.ITTI.E .\JJ."'.
1. _
Lillie and round nails d•·note a angry, of a
eonvenation, that is murc enclining to hatr"d then otherwise, bdle\ ing all
thin!fs to be suhj eel to him.
2. If the little nails be crooked at the extremities, It denotes the person
tlerce and proud, and entertains no desire which doth not speak pride and
high dignities.
ROUXO NAILS.
Signille a cholerick person, yet of good nature, and soon reconciled ; he
is dt!sirous of, and lovf.'S the st•cret sciences, yet with an honest mindc, with-
out any design to hurt any body, doing what he doth for his own aatisfacticn.
FJ.ESIIY NAILS.
Slgnllle a calm gi vcn to idleness, and will rather skejl, cat, and
drink, then take a town by some warlike stratagem, or havb any c¥11 design
against his nl'ighbour.
PALE ANO BLACKE NAILS.
Denote a person Saturnine, suhject to many diseases, and withal! guilty
of many and tricks to decciye his neighbour, for these accidents are
derived from Jupiter and Mercury.
REO AXO :\lARKED NAILS.
8ipitle a cholerick anti martial nature, givt-n to cruelty; and as many
little marks as there art.', tht·y so many evil desires, which !t·nd rather
to the hurt then the good of his neighbour; these nails have the nature and
complexion of 1\larh, and of v..nus for their nriety.
And this shall sutlic" for the Xails, let us now the Hand in generail.
ttcular ltulet for tf)e JQ«n'bt.
As for the general predictions of the what
my judgement is of them, I shall deliver with as
much brevity and truth as I can possibly; the hands
being as it werP, the wherein we see
the soul and the aflcctions.
1. If thou Hndcst any at the top of the lingers, beware ofdrowning or
falling Into the WP.ter; and obsrrve in what it is, that thou maisl know
what mor.elh this misfortune will han pen to thee, and prevent it.
2. If thou lind two under the joynt o( the thumb, It denotes great
inheritan('.e and possessions ; but If there bo but one, It denotes no great
wealth. If these lines be great and apparent, the person hath some riches,
about whieh he is in debates and law-auits.
1. If between the joynts of tho thumb there be two lines streached out and
well united, the person will he a gamester; but by mean' of his ffRmt.g he
ahall be In danger of his life: hut if they be disjoyncd, or winding and
c:rnoked, be is like to fall into thievl's' hands, and be robbed.
4.. If be a hand that hath two lines joyned togctht.'r, within, under the
4G
Digitized by GoogIe
()02
last joynt or the thumb, it denotes danger by water ; but if they are pale, i.
signifies that it hath happened in childhood, or that it will happen late; bu.
if these lines are without, they threaten some loss by fire.
6. A woman that hath lines at the root of the thumb, upon the mount of
Venus, so many lines as there are, so many children shall she have: if thty
verge towards the oul&ide of the hand, so many men shall have to do witb
her, or marry her.
6. If thou find the first joynt of the thumb having a line that joyns to it
within from the part of the fore-finger, he that hath it shall be hanged; and
so much the more certain, by how much the more the said line represents it,
and descends from the table line: but if the said line be united without, and
not within, it is a sign the person shall lose his head; if it be envirooed all
about, the man shall be banged.
7. When the table-line is crooked, and falls between the middle and fore·
finger, it signifies effusion of i>lood, as I said before.
8. When thou flndest upon the mount of the thumb, called the mount <>f
Venus, certain lines thwarting from the line of life to it, the person is luxuri·
ous, and for that reason shall be hated of his friends andsuperiors ; but "'hen
thou fi ndest two lines near the thumb fair and they signific abund·
once of temporal weulth.
9. The mount of Venus SIVelling up and high in the hand of any one, signi·
lies luxury and unchastity.
10. If thou find a ha.nd that hath a cleft, with three small branches, the
person that so hath it, shall be hated of great men ; but he sba.ll be a great
dissembler, and for that rea.son shall not fear them much.
II. If thou find the line of lifll separated, or divided into halfs, the penon
shall be wounded with a sword in his body.
12. If a woman hath the palm of the hand short, and the flnger11 long, it is
a sign she shall bring forth with great pain and difficulty.
IS. When thou seest a hand something long, and the fingers somewhat
thick, it is a sign that the person is slow, idle, of a phlegmatick complexion,
yet a good body, and very modest.
J.l.. When thou findest the palm of the hand long, and the fingers of a good
proportion, and not soft in the touching, but rather hard, the person is in•
genious, but changeable, given to theft, aod vitious.
lie that hath the hand hollow, solid, and well knit in the joynu, is
likely to live long ; but if over-thwarted, it denotes shortness of life.
16. He that hath the band according to the quantity of his body, and the
fingers too short, and thick, and fat at the ends, is denoted to be a thief, a
lyer in wait, and furnished with all evill, a paragon of vice, t!J& more he bath
the fingers filled towards the ends.
17. When the palm of the band ia longer then its due proportion requires,
and the fingers more thick, by how much they are the more short it aigni&et
the man idle, negligent, a fool, llnd t>roud, and that so much the more, by bow
much the hand is more brawny.
18. He that hath the hands long and great, is liberal, good-condicione4,
crafty, hath a great spirit, and is a good counsellour, 1.11d (althfull to his
friends.
19. He that hath the hand shorter then it should be, according to the pro-
Digitized by Coogle
603
portion or bit other lllelllbers, ilia a alga or a rreat talker, and that he ia ·a
rlutton, Insatiable, Injurious, and a cenaurer of other meaa actions.
20. He that bath the florers turning backward•, Ia an unjust person, sub-
tile, logenioua; and the more neat hia fingers aeem to be (u being more dry)
the more mlschieYoua ia he, and adYancea into all nill, as if be were at
emnity with nrtue; when the linea or the joyata are all alike, take heed of
such scnanta.
21. He that bath fingers well united and eloae, ao that the air can
hardly pass bet ween, Is a curious persoo, aod Yery careCull about his alf'aira.
22. Whtn thou see•t one that hath the 8ngers retorted at the hlghelt
joynt, and turned backward orderly, as it appears here, it is a sign of an
cn•ious person. lnda!(ines and Sannarola say that he is enYioua: but It Ia
a nrtuous enyy or l'mulation, and the JH•rson a pwfessed tnemy of •ice.
23. 11 thou ftud one whose fingers are dispersed, and thicker at the joynta,
and between the joynta small and dry, as if the llesh were taken away, It de·
# notes poYerty and misery. The men that are thus quallfted, are rreat
talkers, and suUer poYerty by their over•great wisdom.
2 >. Who bath the fingers in such a manner as that they strike one another,
as it were beating a drum, It is a airn that be Ia In his
thoughts, and hath ill opinions of others.
23. lie that when he ia in diacourae with others, hath a custom of atrikiniJ
with his banda, and cannot abstain from it, bath aome Imperfection In his
understanding, aod his miod beior onrwhclmed with many alralra, It ia as it
were confuted.
i6. Ifthou lind one whose bands ahake when be reacheth them forth to take
aomewbat, it denotes that he is no cholerick person. There are others that
haYe this infirmity through the too much use or wioe; therefore caution is to
be used.
When you see a man who when be eats, opens bit mouth, and stoopa
it to his hand, or to the meat which he holds, it is a alga he ia a glutton, and
an enemy to all the world ; and he that in the ume actioo pulls down his bat
oyer bia eyes, Is a treacherous person, and giten to all manner of flee, and
such a one as wise men avoid.
18. Obaer'fe the finger of Mercury, or the little Sorer, IC the end thereof
esaeed the last Joynt or the anoular or ring-finger, such a man rules In his
bouse, and bath his wife pleasing and obedient to him ; but If It be abort,
and reach not the joynt; that man bath a shrew, an lmperioua commanding
woman, that wears the breeches ; If one hand dilf'er from the other, (as it
may do,) having In one tho little finger exceeding the joynt, in the other
shorter, then It denote• one wife a shrew, and the other courteous; and you
may know bow to distinguish by obaenlng tho bands; for If that hand that
shews the lines the moat conspicuous, hue the little 8nster long, passing the
Joynt of the annular, then the first wife Ia rood; if that band have the
shortest tloger, then the flrat wife Is a shrew, and so of the other.
The Jut of these Rulea Is worthy obaerY&tion; for on it depends Cbiro-
Domy, or the acleoce of the alight o£ the bands, nry necessary to who
desire to be gameatera. • '
The foregoing extracts upon these curious sub-
Digitized by Coogle
liO-!
will he furtlwr elucidated by the
plate on Palmi:->try wltich accompanies these
and to which I refer the reader.
As multiply, is nll\·eiled, nud theory h··comes morr
C'asy. \Vt' have Ia tt'ly witnessed expPrimeuts at
'l'oulon hy Count de U--; and a public document, uow in t'X·
stPn•·e, ptn\'••s a remark:thlc fact. It describes what took
on the 15th of l\Iarch, ll";\0, ht the dc•partmeut of Ger!', at the rl'·
sidcnee of the Justice of Pt•nee uf the cnnlon of Condom, in the
pre<:'tu·e of p·•rsol!''• 1'\'ery one uf whom arc well known to us•
•Jc•an ---,a fanner, aged 23, was atllictl'd with an abcess
from upon the inner aml npp<'r part of the thigh. The
snrg-.·o:ts ll'ho IHtPuded him, decl•li'<'llthat cure puncture would be
J>racticnhl:•, h!tt the n·•ptin•d g-reat prudence, and much
hc••a•tse the erural :trl:•ry crossecl the tumor, developed
i!t a friu;hl fnl ma;,nl•t-. Cnunt dt• B--, whose mngnetic skill is
n·m:1rkahl:•, pluu:rittg' n•.. paii•·ut into the magnetic state,
tlten·hy to prorluc<' somna;uhnlism, and insensibility upon
the part of tht1 body whc•re the operation was to be performed.
In that condition, he said, tlwy might spare the farmt'r the pain
and inevitable ia his tlll'n stat•·· 'fhe proposition was ac-
ceptl'd. In abnut two minntPs the patient was placed in the mag·
nc·tic· imnwdiatPI\' followed, but without re-
markahle y. 'fh<' farllH'r ·in answer to a qut'stioo put
hy lais magm•ti.'l·r, that ]t,. !onked in rain for his illness. He could
not St't' it, nor thf' caust• of it. 1\t that moment Doctor Lar--
Jll'rfnrnwd, with tlw gr.•ntest sldll, the surgical operation which
lta•l lH'o'n considf'rct! nt•c••s,:ary. He applif'd the bbtoury several
tintf's, and prolluc·,·cl the <h:in•d cll'rct. 'fhe dre!'sing was then
m:ule in the usual mauuer. thP. whole of the operation the
pali--ttt rernaint•(l immo1·ahle n mnguetic sleep was
ttndi,t.urhe•l. Upou thr proposition uf all the medical men, Conut
•L· B-- destroyed thr state in wloich the patient h:ul
1-:·rn plutt!!l'd, and awokf' him. Dodor R-- then approachetl
hita, :111cl askl'd wlwtl!•'r hP was willing tn submit to the opcratinn.
-"If it 111ust he so," the palic•nt, "I will Docror
H-- tlu-11 aut:ounc••d that it (jltile tn n·c·omm•·rul it,
)...,..,,..,, it dnuP. 'J'lt,. aslttrti,:htllt'nl of tltt• patient in-
1dtt'll they maclt• hint st•c the dn•s,itt". lie had ft'lt uo-
n11d ouly n:mcnt!Jt•!·:•tl tltr al'lina of c.,,7nt H--, wlt.·n tltr
larl··r ''i'!'li:·cl th•• palm of his hand to (tltt' paticut's) forehtl&d
to llt:th<' ltiut sleqt.
Digitized by Coogle
t;o.)
auiJr
Tlte old Astrologers' lloroscope of tke Plarutary
HOROSCOPE
OP TilE
of tlie lfTeekly
CHRO. OCRATORS,
FROM THB
lllstroiogrra
" And now let us speak of the dny and the hour,·
lVhrrcin Sigils, and Charms, and Stan bear power I
First :\hRcURY rules tho IVrcl!lndcty clear,
Then J UPlTBR, T/&wr11lay, deigns to hear:
VENUS, on Frida.l/. love's soft
And SuuaN, on Sat.rdag, mirth abjure•;
Digitized by Google
UOu
Sad champion of woe !-Then next,
And Suntluy, when clowns like lordlings are drcst,
ln holiday clothes, to mak•!S his claim;
While rhc .\100:-.1 go\·erns Monday !-Thus cV•!r the same:
Do the Planets nl>o\·c us, fo·ailmorlals protect,
And wonders mr.st ·:as'ly ellcct,
Su the Scns of old times. tht• Astrologt•rs sage,
in each kaf of !heir timc-honour'd page,
That moolals gi\'e credence tu-morcu\·r they •ay,
1'/u 1tlwlc Unin·•·.,c uo1rs to lh<'fil'nutmrnl'• ""'II!J!
A JWitL'I' ltltic/1 till' !JI'Culcsl Cll'cfri!JIIlo obr!J."
Tire Aslrulo,!!,·crs of olclen time, of tile
I:Jth mul I H h a Trismcgislus, ./ulius,
llcrmiscus, Albuuw.!!,·ar, and Esclmidus, have left
on record :t variety of :;nch like cmious :;nper-
There are "a full grele store of tltese,"
(to nse the words of an old and quaint "in
dirers boke:-;, many of which are as it were her<le to
he gotten at.'' The following Table I have care-
fully tran:-;cribed from this "Astt:ologer" of the
ddcr ages, hoping it might prove acceptable to my
readers. The original Table is richly emblazoned
in the manuscript from which this is deri\'ed; a
proof how much in ,·og:nc these super:-;titions were
of yo1·e. A ppendl·ll to the Table, on a scrip of
parchment, J decyphercd the following singular lin£>S.
" From :\rabies shores, a sage pilgrim came,
\Yith hi,; scrip, 2nd his vcste, and famous his name:
" " spa!«• full gifted of sterrcs on high<!,
iiP rt•<l<- noen's fates in the bryghte blew skye!
.\:.d ' ""the said he, that man is W}'ldl',
lly "'I'll) strc lt·de, and fainc begyl<le:
\'• Ito ,houldc vcntarc the pow're of yon mansyons above,
T,, falt,.r•c. or checte, or or disprove I
For "irh the orbyt of eche bryghte sunne,
A •,. ""'"'''"'s pcrfl'clt·tlc, and wonderes bcgunne I
!\I y<lstc t1w cra<ll" of youthe, mydste the mornynge of lyfe,
Mydsre the rc dawne 8r manhoode, the aapectet are ryfe;
Digitized by Google
607
Mydste the war shoute-the tourney-the gay chcnlrye,
Mydate the bath•ile-the •lt·the doome-the glad Yict'rye;
Yon messengeres (air, yon Planctes so bryghte,
From their beauteous throne< and housen of lyghtc;
Rllk all tlty11ge1, o'er all thynges, their they fulflllt',
And are gonm'd alone, soothe, by th' Almyghty will."
FROM THE OLD ASTROLOGERS,
FOR NATIVITIES.
l> iu 'Y' in Natioitie8.
Then she is a mighty qucene
or great renowne and reputation;
fair, lightsome, pleasant, great
bodied, and well made, and will
be quickly angrie.
l> in n in Natioitiea.
When she is in D , she is
poore and miserable, having
lost S(lme of members, doing
her bu!'iness and affairs very ill_
and unprofitahle. She is of ill
uature AD(l coudition, ill clad
and or ill couvenmtion in life,
aud against eating aud drinking.
]) in M in
She is then quren or a great
and mighty realmc, or good
humanitie, keeping her realme
in good pt'ace and tranquilitie ;
she doth good justice, and is or
all men well beloved; loveth
rest and joy, and is something
given unto the pleasure of the
llcsh.
]) in 'loa in JVotirntiea.
In , she is a quecne of great
power and a great realme, tak-
ing from and.giving unto whom
she plcast>th, and is or an abso-
lute power and authoritie ; a
lady of wisdom, beautie, and
prudence, and is well beloved,
autlaorised, and obeyed in her
realme.
Digitized by Coogle
---------------,
D in Sl. in Nativities. J) in ll}l. in Natit•itie8.
1II n 'sh·· is a qu.-cne cro\\'ncd, \Vhl'n she is in I1Jt she is very I
but yet wii lwut authoritic to do ml'l;wcholie and slum-
or co•mn•·wd, !>nt is in contl'mpt bering, ill-apparcllt•d and doth-,
and of all them of her ed, lodtog pick that•ks an1l do-\
realme, nne Iii' at it:g uothing that is gnud.
sure as ho•
I
) in Ht in .Yrtlidlil'8.
' I
She is then a qnel'ne crownrd, I \Vhrn she is in llt, is!
and doth none other thing- but i a \\":Jillnn of great al!d evil\
<'at nnd drink too much, 110thing l hl'ing the ot' I
at her business: shr !Ill uch C\"ils which come to h..,-
iscarelcssc and recklesse, taking iaud to others, am! all by her :
uo pleasure hut in mirth, as in ignorance. 1
1
.
dancing, rihaldry, songs, ballets, I
rnnuds, companie of women, and j l
of other things of 1
I
. I . lt.T t . ., . I . .' . '. I . . .
) 111 zn 11'1 .zea I ) Ill t; 1,1 ., r
t u·tlu·s.
\Vllen she is in t ,she takl'th. \Vhrn shP. i.- i!l s),,• n
plens•tre to shoot in rross-hows, Inohle and m:g-i.ry lHlr, fait .
:ltH!to hear the pike and hal-,. handsomo
•, wl'lln•atl••, wcil doth-
herd, am! to joust in tourney. ed, and of g11od flatlic a11tl f.•:n•.'. i
I )in :::: in Natit•itirs. ) in-:-< in N .lfidiits. -
I \V!Jen she is in ::::, she is n Wh<'n shr- is in :..; , she is n!
lady loving hunting and great woman out of ordf'r, and carPt!Jl'
pursuit of them, which aH>idc nothing for hire dc.thcs, bnt
afore her, she never stayeth in all her pleasure is to huut, and
one place, she always goeth And to play at cards, dice, and such I
cometh without rest, a11d taketh other games which wnstt>th her,
1hings in hand which serve to subslaucr, and she careth not l
no use, ns well in her diet as in much for her business.
her alfairs.
Digitized by Coogle
()0!)
a frafJle of tf)t §ortun.ttt IDa»t of tf)e liattk.
T() PerBons wl1o lla'Oe tlw 11/oon in any of the Tweloe Signa.
FR0-'1 ALCABITIUS, A ASTROLOGER.
I
I
I
The Moon in 'Y' at Birth. The )loon in at Birth.
i
I
Their fortunate uay i11 Their fortunate day is
I
I Tue11day. Priduy.
I
,
I The l\loon in n at Birth. The Moon in e at Birth.
I Their fortunate day is Their fortunate day is
I
WedueJ·dfiy. 11/onday.
I 'I'he !\Juon in Sl at Birth. The )l•lon in l1)l. at Birth.
I
Their fortunate day il>• Their fortunate day is
Sunday. Friday.
The :\loon in at llirth. The 1\foon in nt at Birth.
Their fo1 I uuatt• tlay is 'fheir fortunate day is
Saturd'.I!J. Tueaday.
I
I
.,
The l\loon in I at Birth. The l\loon in 'fS at Birth.
Their fortunate day is Their fortunate day is
Thuraday. lllonday.
I The l\foon in ::: at Birth. The 1\loon in X at Birth.
I
I Their fortunate day is Their fortunate day i1
I
;
Saturdag.
41i
Digitized by Coogle
610
a ft:alJlt of tfJe IJianttaru jfortuncs,
ACCORDING TO Tl!E ASTROLOGERS OF THE MIDDLE AGES
IThe J<'m·tune qf ptriOitM
born on Jllonday.
I Those who fortune to
· he born on the day of
tho. D· or Monday, will
be great flit·
ting about, rarely sct-
tled-nc:ver rich, never
poor. Skilful in medi-
cine, chirurgery, and
I ..hold arts. N otlong
liv.,d, happy in ma·rriage
ami woman's love. Their
fortunate number is 2.
Their fortune lays to
the south. They ure li-
ahle to perils by tlw sea,
and in the art of 8uids.
Fnrlunr nf pet·sol!.l
bam o-• Wecl·nesclaiJ.
Those on
the day of i,i. shall
to high authority.
in judgement over their
AIbeit ne\'l"l'
rich. Tlu•ir fate lit•s
every where, as they
abounrl in skill. l:t mar-
riage they are ill-match-
ed. In thcil· mi<ldle age
cast down, and ri•ing
again to pow,·r. Sub-
ject to imprisonment.
Commonly they arc tra-
vellers. 4 is their num-
ber.
I I
The qf persoll8 ' The Fortuftt' qf pmou l
1
born 011 Tut•day. i bort1 011 Friday,
• ' • ; The day of 2 -con· I
By th1s thou shalt gJVe stitutes them happy, but
them _the of not lucky oYer much.
<!, VIZ. rtch by They love both wine and
f?rce and nolence. Short, women, are prone to jol· ;
ang_ry, lily, but in danger by 1
v1c1ous at t1mys. Dotng , poison. Their nmn- 1
b_cst. by de· ber is 6. Their fortune !
or worktng arts. , west. 'fhey will in·
SubJeCt to hurts by steel,' herit dead men's goods. !
and to wounds on the 1 1
head. number The ForluM of ptriOJU ;
8, and thctr fortune ts born on Sal11rday. 1
north. . I
On a J, 's day-they
li'ill lead a lifo of sor·
Tlte FortuM qf person• row and labour-neHr :
rich, ahJa)'B in jeapor.;
born °11 Tlr.ur•day, dy. numbers art''
On the day of'll., those I and 8. Commonly the)' J
who are born, shall rise dieingrief,orinastrange l
to be rich, usurers, or fashion.
keepers of wealth; set- i
The Fo-rtuu of perroiiS l
ting small store by rich- bon& OJ& SwJ&day.
es, but having plenty. 1
In peril by great cattle, On a 8 day-they will '
r f db • d · L I
or tour- ootc £'asts. to power an nc..es.
1
Lucky in marriage.- to have much money, to
·rheir numbers are band be knightly or noble. \
7. Enstwarll nn<l south- and of renown. But rril,
ward lays their fortunes. fated in the nuptial rit<'' · l
They are long lived, , Southward lies thfir•
for the most part, and lucky star, and g is their :
lucky. fateful number.
Jlife is not their lot. I
- - - --- -
-------------------- - - -'
Digitized by Google
till
The foregoing Tables will doubtless prove ac-
ceptable to the reader, on the score of exemplifying
Ancietd Traditions : on any other ground their
utility is dubious. They are transcribed verbatim
from the ancient authors, with the mere alteration or
the obsolete orthography. I subjoin the
metrical &tiJtnb of tbt Jl..unar fSJtlee.
"'The Moon io .Am1, life is long,
In TaurKI, Gemilli, strong I
But when the Moon in Leo striYea,
Full short and painful are men's llns I
In Virgo, thou'lt behold her true ! ·
Happy and just, and amorous too I
But still men's years are abort and few I
Then \'lew her swln through Libra speed ;
The Yital ll11me she'll constant feed,
And famous makt1 in act and deed I
Wail! when in SeOTpio sbe punuea,
The SagiltariaJ& arrow I Thews,
And alnewa potent grace tbla latter lifal
Long life.and happy then is thine I
In CaprkorJtu, In .Aqtcari., abort,
Bat PUce• constant the fatal dart s•
Digitized by Coogle
(j}2
FATAL HOROSCOPES.
IV.
'"Life's fitful gleam,
Death 's doleful dream,
J'ult·, I ween."
A FE.i\1ALE,
OLD Al'TIIt>:•.
non:s June Ilith, lSll,
4 h. A.M. 51 32 N.
Drowned ltersrlf on the
Night of the 17th 1Jiay,
18'28.
o,gitized by Google
61:l
0, Hgleg, zod. par. to 'l:., and t
(•) 8
cS 'U
8 t
It is rarely, or ever, that the true horoscope of
these wretched unfortunates can Le obtained; but the
other day, the mother of the female whose Nativity
is given above, came to ask some advice relative to
her affairs, which were in a precarious situation,
and from her I procured the exact day and hour of
her daughter's birth, therefore the student may rely
upon the truth of the diagram.
It will he readily seen, by this example, how
clearly the fate, tbtn tn ltft anlr lrtatb. may
be read in the Star:-:, at the hour of our first enter-
ing the limits of this sublunary region: where care
and toil-danger and sorrow, bear such powerful
rule. 1;-or the ,$UU is here the Ilgleg, or apheti-
cal lie is in exact opposition to Saturn, from
''iolent signs, and Mars in opposition to Venus,
from watery signs ; Jupite1· is also afflicted by
Saturn's body and nPar approximation. So that
neither of the benefic Planets could save, on ac-
count of their being vitiated and afHicted by the
harbingers of C\ il. The pn·=-ag:t·s of an untimely
end, and of a 41 trurl brato," (ns the old Astro-
logers term it,) an: m:will·:-:t.
All that I could learn of her death, was as fol-
lows :-On the fatal eYening wbel'ein these baleful
vlanetary orbs pwmptcd the full idea of self-de-
!'ltruction, it appears she observed her step-father,
(a wicked and dissolute man,) come from a house
"of ill fame," anJ upon his observing her watch-
ing him, he thrcall'ned some personal 'iolence, and,
Digitized by Coogle
(j)J
I helie\'e, struck her; which it seems, hmt lwr
fPdings in particula1· a manner, tLat she went
out late in the evening, lUtb tomntitttb GUitibt
hy drowning herself.-A sad memento of the
dreadful effects of \'ice, where the example assumes
a markerl manner, and where a violence in the
pas=-ions gC'ts the mastery of reason. Yet hundreds
of :such like instances are annually occurring I
The following curious, and very ingenious devict,
may amuse some of my readers. The sentence
" Rqjorm alone can save us now," may be read 484
diflerent ways, beginning at the letter R in the·
centre:-
wonsuevaanacanaaveusnow
on suevaanacecanaaveu suo
nsuevaanacenecansaveusn
suevaanacenonecanaaveus
uevaanacenolonecanaaveu
evasnacenola/onecanaave
vaanacenolamalonecanaao
aanacenolamrmalonecanaa
anacenolamrorma loneca.na
naceno/amroforma/onecan
a.cenolamrofcformaloneca
cenolamrofeRcformalonec
aceno/amrofc formaloneca
nncenolamroformalonecan
anacenolamrormalonecana
aanacenolamrmalonecanaa
vaanacenolamalunecanaav
evaanacenolalonecanaave
uevaanacenolonecanaaveu
suevaanacenonecanaaveus
nsuevaanacenecanaaveusn
onsuevaanacecanaaveusno
wonsuevaanaca.naaveusnow
Digitized by Coogle
615
CELESTIAL MAGIC.
PART 2.
C:f111icd Nrbatimfrom a Mflwtifully iUunailwted magkal Jlanuw·iill,fomttrly
in tile pollt.,ioll oflM «lebrautl Jl!·. Richard a."·
fro banisfJ tbe @Uil
SAY THIS ORATION.
The Yengeance of God Ia a t•o·edged sword, cutting rebellious anti
wicked apiritt of dsrkness, and all other usurping powers, In pieces; the
baud of God is like a stronA" osk, which, when it falleth, breaketh in pieces
111aoy shrubs ; the light or his eyes expelleth darkness, an4 the sweetness of
his mouth keepeth from corruption. are all those to whom he
sheweth mercy, and reseneth from temptation, and illusion of wicked In·
tnadera, defending them by his mighty power, under the cotert of divino
A"f&ee; not auft"ering his humble servants to be oyercome or oTerthrown· by
uy infernal assaulta. Now therefore, because yo11 have come hither, and
entered without license, seeking to entrap and ensnare us, and secretly con·
tplred by the.e your subtleties. to deceive and destroy ua and our in
the trne of these our sober, innocent, honourable, and celestial
actions, we do, in the great mighty name, and by the power of the most high
God, triumph Imperially over you ; ancl by the virtue, force, and
whereof, bo you and your powers vani•hed, oYerthrown, and utterly de-
feated ; and behold, by Tirtue of that celt•stial power, by divine grace fiivl'n
anto us, and wherewith we are potently dignified; and as heirs or God'a
promiae, through faith containing inherent with us, we do heleby wholly de·
flt"e and oterthrow you, and ye are totally nnquished: therefore we uy
depart, and Immediately bo·gone from hence In peace, without noise, turhn·
lence, Injury, harm, Yiolence, or other damage to ua, or this place, or any
other place or person whataoeter; and u you are of darknets, and the places
of darkness, and hne without any charge or permission enTiously Intruded,
thereby to ensare, deceln, or onrwhelm us, the diTine judgement
and Tengeance of the moat hiA"h God, for your wicked and malicious eon·
spiracy and intrusion, be your deserved reward; and u It was dell•ered to
you, so take It with you, that the malice which you hue shewn 111 may heap
yoar own destruction ; be ye therefore dismissed, and Immediately we say
depart hence unto your orders, and there to continua In the bonda of eon-
6oement during the diYine !•Ieasure of tbe Higheat.
by Coogle
lf tlw,l/lli'C !JCl ubstinale and imjJ/l{hlll, wultriil
not depart, 011l rather will withstand tlw C011li!Witds
t!J. Iftc J.llagiciau, icl !tim SU!J as fullorcelll.
Do you thns itn :Hulcntly 311tl obstinately refuse, 1Cl dcj:art fr,,m
our prcseiH'i' , from the 1\tH.I perniciously atiL" Hpt yl't fttrthi..."r
us: in tht> nawc of J t·sus, ,._
-e say, ye and he yc in•-
nu·dlal£'1y gcH\•' away from !t•'ti<"C; U.itd so Lt• it llllt•t you, ttl
word nf(;od, \\hich jcdgl'tlt fromt•\ilt:lltl_) worsl', fto!n ,,or-e
unto coufusio1•1, frnm Collfu ... l.-;l. U!l\:'l froilt untn t!:tn;-
llation. fn1Jn u:1tu t: ·rn:.l d"ath. L' . l'art 'H-'
tht• !alit cry, fttl!ain Wi !!t p,j::c:.• of ill p:tlli .
•dl!lL 1\\
(lll l', us a fit r,•warJ unto }'Oll r wl l·krd. i11alicious and lhl' tJ1·ti o:
ml·rcy gra l·iou:-;!y d"li;·er us from you.-..
And if no cde."'ti:d ;1W(cl, or ot!wr :-;pirit
of <tll[H ar in f1laCt' to :l'ld a\Y:-:\·,
l J. ,.
or :-=t·al np ally ,., icke<l or in:·,-rilal p:rit or :-;pirit' oi
darkiH'.':-;, '"' appearann· i:-; prt':'<'lltcd, a notori-
intrll(lC'r in tlw time and phce, "hen cele:-tial
or dtcnwn!all with cli:.;·r,ifil'd power:" of
arc in aml operation.
Tlten ], : rlu• di·,neet :\Ll:.6cian, \\ iih prudl'llt
p:t:':-' l:Jlt, L <. r· (::Ji·.:;t·ui n·.:_,ard to hilll"C·li", cou-
t rul·.:, to rl',..pectirc
and olJ,.;cnntions; \i lin, l1y tl·e otlice of
will wHiolliJth·, not onlY coulr:;d the
and f;.il'nd:-.l1ip of ti:e ,:,.];·· ti:d ar;•"•:el", and
d \'11}(.n Ld' "Jld M l!L'r I){')](•\ ()ll 'II t :cpiJ' ii 0 r 1:t' I0
r, h:i" ;wd Cllm(ort, ;n:d to ranqtJi:-;h and o\·1'1·-
cnml· :d! c·vil :p;rih :llld )H)\\ lTS of !Jtlt
:1\..:o l1c 1:::\ 1' pn\'. 1·r to cnlillttatld, call furl h.
• 11d ::il ..Ji:try ;::rih ::1:d t•<
Digitized by GoogIe
Gl7
all natures, orders, and offices, both good and evil,
light and darkness, or otherwise relating thereunto,
and bring them to such obedience, as according to
their severall and respective natures and offices,
they may be so commanded and constrained to
serve and obey.
8 SttoniJ lntroiJUttton.
\Vhen invocation, and replication thereunto, is
amply made, according to time, method, and order,
and the celestial angd or intelligence thereby
moved, doth appear, or any other angel or intelli-
gence of the hierarchy, then mark and ob-
serve well the manner, shape and form, corpo-
rature, gesture, vestments, and foregoing sign
thereof, ancl if in all symbolicallikelyhood and pro-
bable symptoms, the apparition seemeth to be no
less otherwise conjected, that which is from hence
to be expected, although that very intelligence that
was moved and called forth by name, doth not ap-
pear, hy reason it is of the superior order of the
hierarchy, who are not always sent, arc usually go
forth, neither are moved to visihle appearance, but
of especial grace and divine pleasure, more imme-
diately unto choice and peculiar nssels <?f honour
accordingly appointed immediately by the Holy
Ghost, to fulfill the command of the Highest, but
yet some or other or more of ·the celestial powers
of the same order as aforesaid, more inferior in
degree, may be moved hereby to descend and ap-
pear, at the earnest request of the Magician, and
perform whatsoever shall be requested, according
to its nature and office.
4 I
Digitized by Coogle
Gl8
8oob oc J!Jab'.
It cannot be unknown to any discreet Magician,
that whensoever any good angel or celestial intelli-
gence is moved, or called forth to visible appear-
ance, but abo that evil spirits, and infernal powers
of da•·kness, are immediately ready to encroach and
appeat· in the place of good angels; therefore, it
hehoveth to be very careful, and greatly observing
thereof, hoth the method and manner how to know
rig·htly and di:4ingnish the appearance, and how to
Yanquish and banish evil :o:pirits when they intrude,
and enter into place and presence, to deceive and
overwhdm we have sufficiently .and at large
and shewed forth in onr hogogicall )lre-
tilCc, hf'fore annexed thereunto; therefore, we shall
in thi" place only shew forth a method of our greeting
the apparition of any celestial angel, or dignified
power of li;.;ht; and when, by t'lll the prescript rules
gin'n, that apparition is truly known to he celes-
tial, and of good, then humbly receive it with ample
lwnevolcnce, saying as followeth.
rcrribr a goob npprnt·antc.
Wclt·omc be til<' li!fltl rflhc /li[Jitrsl, am/ ll'cicome beth{' mrssCIIf!CI'S ofDil·btr
r.rarc and Jlacy 1111lo 11s , the il'llt' ,,fl'l'tllll.< a11d 11'0/'shippas o.ft!tr same your
God, "·hose 1wmc br yliJI'ifict/, /;ulh uow wttlj'o1· r1·crmo1't'.
i!lC:tf)rn tnoum to lle goob.
H the appearanrc i:-; perfectly known and under-
stood, alid by all ami tokens perfectly known
to be celestial or ang-dieal powers of light, then
with due n·,·t·reneP, f'ay as followetl•.
ttrrrtutng goolJ nngtlt.
0 thou S!'rnnts and rnessengNs of difine grace and m<.>rcy, and
angds or intellig<'nrc, powers of light, or dignlliL•d elemental spirits and
Digitized by Coogle
619
aaadJUIIII or beoetoleace to maakiad, len'&D&I or God, you, both DOW &1 tbfs
time, and always are, aad shall be unto us, truly aad sincerely welcome.
Humbly deairinr you also to be friendly, and to do tor us Ia wbataoeYer it
shall pleue God to rite by your order and olllee unto you, Cor the better know-
ledre aad benetlt ot mankind liYing here upon earth, aad make us partakers
of true science, Ia the undefiled aad alucere sacred wisdom of your Creator.
flnlbJer.
And if any answer shall be made thereunto, or
any discourse from hence should arise or proceed
thereupon, then both wisdom and reason must be
the principal conduct of the management thereof;
but if there be silence, that no discourse ariseth
from hence, then begin to make request for
answer to your desires and then will
the effects of all things, undoubtedly, and with good
success, be determined.
.:fitar or
But if tht·re should any lear, d;Htbt, ot·
or cause or jealousy he had or macle of any ex-
pected apparition, or any angel or intelligence of
celestial or other elemental power of light,
celestially dignified, or otherwise; if at any time
there should appear a spirit which you do not think
is of good, nor ofthe Q_rder you mo' ed for, or ha\'e
any mistrust of it, the which you may easily per-
ceive by (orm, and abo by its answering you in
your question, and then you may say as followeth.
tro flnobJ \Dbo tt tt.
In the name ofJesus, who art thou? then, perhaps,
it will say, I am the sen·ant of God; then ) ou may
say, art thou come from God? art thou sent from
him with good tidings or messuage? then, perhaps, it
Digitized by Coogle
<UO
will :say to you, or such like what l
am, he knoweth of whom I bear ! Then
you may its name, saying then, what is your
name, eithf:'r as it is notifieu among the blessed
angels, or called by any mortal man? if you be of
verity, and so of charity, you cannot dislike my
Then it will tell you its name, or say
nothing at all : but if it doth tell you its name,
then you may say to it, if you be in the name of
.Jesus, say that all wicked angels are justly con-
,]emned, and that by the mercies of God in the
merits of Christ, mankind elect is to be saved !
Then it "·ill give you a sufficient answer to satisfy
you, or else it will be gone from you; and then, if
it be of good, and hath answercu your request, then,
perhaps, it will say, .tlws much thou hast required;
then you may say, I lliJ so, for so is judgement
and against the impenitent, and his mercy
to his elect, testify truth.
lrbtn you ntau ask vour btstrt.
We thought good to instance thus much, for
better information and although a full
narrative hereof is amply and at large shewed
forth, in the foregoing hogogicall PrefacP, both as
to knowledge, and receiving of good angels, or
celestial intelligences, or other elemental spirits or
powers of light, or celestially dignified ;
and for the knowledge, vanquishing, and drhing
away of all evil spirits and infernal powers of dark-
ness, whensoever any such shall forcibly intrude, or
make entrance or appearance, instead of celestial
Digitized by Coogle
and good or other dignified elemental
powers of light, in the time and place of these
actions, purposely to deceive, confound, and, if
possible, destroy the and expectations, and
benefits of the philosophers, in thei; elaborate in-
dustry, and care, and earnest addresses unto the
angels and Llessed intelligence, or digni-
fied elemt'ntal powers, or other spiritual mediums
or messengers of divine grace, for the true know-
ledge and finding out the use of all physical and
metaphysical arcanums, or secrets in a superior
profound mistery, which can not otherwise he
known or found out, but by the divine light and
conduct of angellical ministry, and other spiritual
reYelation and instruction by such mediums and
benevolence to mankind; and through the divine
grace, mercy, and goodness of the Highest, as are
by nature, order, and office, thereunto pre-ordi-
nately decreed and appointed. But as touching the
insisting any farther of this matter, we think it
needless; since it is more fully treated in the fore-
going preface, which we advise to be well under-
stood, by a due and serious consideration, before
a!ly or unadvisedly proceedings art: made
herein. Observe, also, whereas we hal·e severally
and particularly mentioned celestial angels, or
blessed intelligences, and other dignified spirits of
light, who are by nature and office good, and also
friendly unto mankind, and generally inserts
them together with material distinction ; yet let
grave and sober Magicians take notice what con-
sideration be first had, of what angel or intelli-
gence, of what spirits, and of what orders, office, he
would move or call forth ; and so in particular to
Digitized by Coogle
(j.,.)
--
make mention thereof according, and not other-
wise, whereunto every thing ought by nature, de-
gree, order, and office, properly to he referred.
Here endeth the lsogogicall Preface, or Second
Introduction.
n Prauer to fle tatlr fltfore tbt mobtng, or .cautng
fort{) anu of t{Jt tntrlltgenttfJ to bifJtfJle
l\pprarance, IJU tf)c folloUJir.g 'tVfJ
or proborattonfj.
0 almighty, immortal, immensl', incomprehensible, and most high God,
the only creator of heaven and earth, who by thy word alone hast in thy
omniscience, among the rest of the marHilons and wonderful works,
and appointed many hierarchies of sacred celestial angels, from this mighty aod
unspeakable throne unto the ftery region, as ministering spirits of severall
names, naturt's, degrees, ordl'r, ancl offices, residing in those eleven orbs, or
spheres, placed one above the othea·, and the proper mansions o' those
blessed angels or me11iums, or superior messengers, both mediate and imme-
diate of divine pace, light, and mercy, and amongst the sons of men, from
the beginning of tim.:, called sacred, celestial intelligences, from the orb,
ro·gion, or clement of, from the su; Prior to the inferioa·, in the and
respccth·e orbicular man;ious, orders, nud offices, d<> before 11ace, to
obey thy commandments and most high commands, as in thy divine will and
pleasure, in the unity of the blessed Trinity, is decreed and appointed; and also
hy thy most gracious and me-rciful permission to minister unto, and to illumi·
nate the understanding of thy SL'n·ants, the sons of men ; ami by their frequent
appearance, nrbal converse, friendly community, aogclicall archidoctions,and
justincts, continually from time to time, aud at all times,
(llr,·c:in;J", instructing, and them in all true scionce and sapience,
and also to fulfil thy divine will and gocd pleasure therein, to all such of thy
IPI •nhle and true servants, whom thou art graciously to shew fonh
thy hPuntiful and paternal mercies, we, thy most sinful and undutiful scr•
nnts the least of thy blessings; yet with an assured confidence of thy
], ·'1 \t•nly benignities, do, in thy holy fear, humbly prostrate ourselves before
t!>y nln at thtl sacn·d feet of thy fatherly goodness and rle·
nwncy, in all contrition of heart and t•arnestrJCss of spirit, humble beseeching
thy omnipotent majesty to have mt•rcy, pity, and compassion upon us, and to
pardon all our sins and offences that we have committed against thee; and ia
thy goodness, graciously to dignify us with celestial dignity, by the
power of thy holy spirit, and grant that these thy glorious ministring angels,
or blessed intelligences, who are said to go\·crn and reside in the nine OibS,
ordt•rs. and hierarchies, as they arc severally and rl'spectively therein placed
and over, that is to say, in the moveable heaYen, in tlk!
Digitized by Coogle
623
order of seraphins, Ha!«tl in the highest orb, or starry heuen or firmament,
in the order of cherubins; «anilr or ZapOttel. and «ontel in the seventh orb
or heaven of Saturn, in the order of thrones ; or Zabtitl in the sixth
orb, or heaven of Jupiter, in the order of dominations; in the fifth
orb or heaven of Mars, in the order of potentates ; and Oriel in the
the fourth orb of heaven, of Sol, in the order of virtues; an.ul in the third
orb, or heaven of Venus, in the order of principalities ; Hanatl in the se-
cond orb, or heaven of Mercury, In the order of archangels; 6abritl in the
lint orb or heaven of Luna, in the order of angels; messengers of diYine
grace, the superior to the inferior, residing and bearing omce in each
respectivH orb of henen, and hierarchies, severally and distinctly, In gene-
ral and particular, and also all others, thy beneyolent messengen, spirits of
light, residing in the orbicular spheres, angels, orders, mansions, divisions,
and the by thy divine goodness an.d permission, and at nur humble
request, in•itations, and invocations may descend and appear to us, in
"riltall stonr or glaCJ!l, which we shall call receptacles, as all cqn-
nnient for the receiving of all angellical and spiritual presence in their ap·
pearance, and so for that purpose set here before us, for that they which we
beseech thee Lord to bless and to dignify, first with thy omnipotent confir-
mation, and secondly, by the Influence of the angelical confirmations, hy
tbem conveyed therefore, and conjoined thl'reunto; and also by their splen-
did presence, and that in and through the samt>, they may transmit their
luminous rays, or true and real presence, In appearance, to the sight of our
eyes, and their voices to our cars, that we may plainly and visibly sN•
an:J audibly hear them speak unto us, or otherwise to appear out of them,
and be,ides them visibly to be see!! and heard of us, as shall please tby
divine will, and shall best and most benefit our benefit and comfort, and also
betllling our eonveniency in these actions, inquisitions, matters of things
that we thus humbly bestlech thee to ghe and grant unto us, and all things
else that shall be necessary for us, which great bent:fits thou bast bet>n
pleased mercifully heretofore, to omit and give our and forefathers,
and also, lately to such nf thy senants u we have humbly, faithfully, uo-
fefgncdly, and obediently besought thee for truo wisdom, by divine and ange-
lical inspiration and Instruction, which they have fully eujoyed by the mi -
alatry of thy sacred angels.
trbe nine great ttlestta11teys, ot angc::
lttall lnbotations.
Moving or calling forth to visible appearance the
governing angels or blessed intelligences, and all
other of the cele:-.tial ministring angels and mediums
spiritual of divine light; grace, and virtue, located,
residing, and bearing rule in the seven orbs, hca-
Digitized by Coogle
vens, mansions, or spheres, as they are primarily.
attributed and properly referred to in the seven
Planets, the starry firmament, .and first mover, who
therein acccording to every and each of their re-
spective hierarchies, orders, and offices, whereunto
they distinctly appertain, do serve and obey the
commands of the most high God, and both imme-
diately and mediately. as messengers and servants
spiritual of divine grace and light, and mercy, ful-
filling his omnipotent decrees, determinations, and
appointments, as dispensable and disposed of at
his omniscience, will, and pleast1re, and who are
frequently conversant and familiar with such holy,
pious, and deYout-living on earth, whensoever they
are by them called forth to visible appearance, as
e:ther may or fitly shall be qualified therefore, or
otherwise endowed with celestial gifts, blessings,
and confirmations, by angelical mystery or dhine
grace, more superior.
Moving or calling forth to visible appearancl'
the celestial hierarchies of angels, of the order of
seraphins, whose principal governing angel or
blessed intelligence, bearing rule, is Mithratton,
and residing in the ninth orb, mansion, or sphere,
called the primum mobile of the first moveable
heaven.
Digitized by Google
(};! .j
lrbt uraucr, or lnbotation.
0 you rlorious, great, sacred, and celestial angd, or blrsst·d who
art called and all otlwr, the ccll'•tial angeh, serunts of the mo•t
hith, omnipotent, inunt,nsc, eternal (lod of hosts, the only
creator ol heaven and l'arth, and of all things whatsoever. both celestial, elc·
mental, animal, vegetable, mineral, and reptile, or inti•·c·s that is coutain..d
therein, or compreht·nded, and serving as mini.;tering angd•, present alway a
before at his most high, sn1• rior, and divine and appoiutmt·nt•, in
the order or hierarchies of an;;.·!s called and rc,iJing in the ninth
heaven, and bearing office, rule, and power, in the ma,hion, orh, or
called the first we, the scruuts also of the llight·st, rc\·crt'ntly hcrtl
present In his holy ft·ar, do call upon, hcmt.ly reqnt•st, entreat, and
move you to Yisible in, hy. and through thi» most excellt•ut, in-
great, mighty, signal, sacn·d, and divil;e namr of the most high God,
'Ef)ria. and his numerical att ri1>ut,., 1.\rtfirr. •·ho sitteth in thc most imperial
and heaHn, hefortl whom all tlw hosts and chnir .,f cclt•stial ange"'s
IDCcssantly sing, mJpp.v!J;mJn,fJ.tllrlu)a. And by the s<·al of your cr<·n·
tion, being the mark of character of h<>liness unto you, a11d by the orcuIt
mystery, secret Yirtue, anti t•fficacy and influence thereof, dignifying and run-
lormins you in order-, name, nature, corporality, with divine, :,·lc•·
tial, angellical, immortal, eternal, and sublime excellency, !flory, power,
purity and perfection, good and love, first unto the service uf the most high
God, and his divine laws and commands, and next unto the chargt•, <"are, con-
duct, council, comfort, bendit, and of his senants, the sons uf
mea, liYing on f'arlh, to inspire, i and give tht•rn unto the knowledge
and way of truth, and all true physical and meta1>hysical science, either im-
mediately from the lloly Ghost, unto more choice vessels of honour, or mcdi·
ately by divine and permission from your self or selves, unto the sons
ol men, servants of God dwelling on t'arth, whensoever you shall be of them
lnocatf'd and forth, and thereby moved to descend and app,.ar unto
them, and by all aforesaid, and hy the great sisnal virtue, power, dignity,
n:cellf'ncy, and tftlcacy thereof, both immediately, primary, and mt•diately,
teeondary, by mNliums nf dt.·ine lit.:hi, grace, and mt'rcy, u ordi-
nately dcprndent, and so thcrchy and accordingly diffusing hy SI'Ve•
ral emanations prr•p<>r, a simholizing power a:Jd virtue, from the superior to
the Inferior, we do humhly brsef'ch, earnestly request, and incessantly In·
treat you, 0 you benevolent, and sncrcd angel, or blessed intel-
ligence, whn, said to be the prinripal celestial angel, or blessed
Intelligence, governintt the ninth heaTen, mansion, orb, or sphere, called thtl
first mover, togdher with all othPl"M, the benevolt•nt, aacrt·d, and celestial
angels or intellig..nce, ministers of trn:h, or true science and sapience, both
eell'stial and terrt>sti.1l ritual of light, and ml'diums of t.livine
rrace, hraring rult>, and in the ordrr, or hierarrhy, and
otllce, called !-rrapbint, in the ninth ht>avcn, orb, or aphere, of the first
moYer, from thr s11perior to the inft>rior, in and particular, jointly
and teferally, eYNJ, each one, by ••like and degree respccti\'ely, and to
up and gather toge:!ler, and some one or more o( yon, as it shall
4K
Digitized by Coogle
plt•ase God, hy dhine permi"i"n, to move and defcend from your celestial
mansion, or place of residence, in this Christal Stont·, or Glass Htcci\·er, an,l
therein to appear tisibly unto us; and we do also enlrt>al you would be
favourably plt.!ased, in and throu!(h the samt•, to your true angdlical
and real presence, plainly unto the sight of eyes, and your ,-oicc to our ears,
that wp, may visibly see you, and a•Hiibly hear yo•t spt'ak unto us, or other·
wise to appear out of the same, ns it shall please Gorl, and you his scrnnU
of divine grace, and messl'n;•,.s of as seemeth most met't, proper,
pertinent, or best befitting tl•is action, a:•l'earance, occasion, or mattt'r, and
the shew plainly and visibly unto us, a foregoing sign, or test of your ap·
pt·arance; and we abo yet farther humbly request, earnt·stly entreat, and
beseech, and undeniably move you, 0 you benevolent and glorious angel,
and Intelligence, Methratton-together with all others, sacred
celestial angels, or intelligences, from the superior to the inferior ill power
and officP, residing in the ninth orb, or s;>herc, called the first mon:ablc hca·
ven, and serving the divine decrees. commands, and appointments of the
highest, in the office and order of Seraphims, in, through, ami Ly this sig·
nal majesty, and powerful name of your God, ond his athi!Jutc,
and the grPat efficacy, virtue, l'""'"r, preulcncy, and supe-
riority thP-reof to gather together every, each on•· joitttly, and by itsdf, res·
pectively and severally to move and descend from ) our ct>lostial mansion, or
place of residence, apparently visible to OUr eyt·S in this .;tont, 0\'
0'1.11!1 standing here bdo're us, as bl'i"g St'nt for your purpose, or
otherwi!IB out of th<• same, ns it shall plt·ase God; and by you, his senanu
of Divine Light, and l\lercy, setemeth best befitting this action;
and also be friendly unto us, and by your angelical and celestial
Illumination, and favourable assistance, familiar Society. mutual corresp-.n·
dency, verbal converse, continual comrr.unity, and sacred instructions, both
now, at this present time, and at all other times to inform and more rightly
direct our more weak, depraver!, stupid. and ignorant intdleet, judgf'mcnts,
and understandings; anti to conduct us by your instincts and at•
chidoctions, into the lnrr.inous pathway of truth, leadin!( and giving entrance
into ports. cities, and palacc3 of wisdom, and true sapience ; and to make us
partakers of undefilecl knowledge, without whose anf;elical guide, spiritual
conduct, blessed assi>tance, and b.-nevolent ad,·ertist·ment, it is very difficult,
if nut imposstble for u•, or any mortal on Earth, to find, or obtain, or to be et•
teemed worthy of cntranc" into your tt•stimony : wherefore we humbly en•
treat an'l move you, 0 you great, sacred, and ccl£'stial ministring angel or
intelligence and all other the presidt•nt and inft·riour augds and
servants of the most lligh God, presiding and officiating in the uiuth Heaven,
orb, or sphere of the first mover, in the order of hierarchy of angt' ls
called who all obediently serve and readily fulfil his
decrees and commandments in his divine dispt•nsations, and appointments ac-
cording to your general and respective offict•s, in, by, and through his inrf.
fable, imperial, great, signal, and divine name. and his numeral attribute
and by power, virtue, and efficacy we the servants of the
same your God, and by the strength and force of our hope and faith in him
for 01\·ine assistance, grace. and mercy therein, do earnestly rcqurst, power-
fully invocate, and confidently DlOVe you, and call you forth to yisiblc ap·
Digitized by Coogle
627
dearance here before as ln this 6.rillta[ i>tonr, 0t C!JlaM Jlteeibn', or other·
wiae oat, as it shall please God, and is given unto you so to do, and likewiae
Co ahew visibly unto us a foregoinr aigo or your •rt•arance: 0 you
aenants of mercy, and all other the celestial mini•trlng anrell,
measengera, and mediums of Divine grace and light from the superior power
and permission in the name of the Highest. desceud and appear, and •lslbly
thew jointly, and aeverally, and retpectively, unto ua ln thia
or GLut lltaibrr. standing here before us ; or otherwise oat
of the same, 11 It shall please God to appoint and permit you ; and to shew
us a proceeding sign thereof, and by your immediate angelical inspiration,
and information, aud chit.f tt>aching, to help, and aid, and auiat na
both now, at this time pr<·st·nt, and also at all other times, and places, when·
loner and we shall inYocate, moYe, or call you forth to Ylslble
appearance, and to our assistance in whatsoen-r truth, subject. matter, or
thing appertaining thereunto in all wisdom and true sapience, both celestial
and terrestial, and that shall be for as ; and also as any other
emergent occasion shall properly and duly require, to the adnnct>ment and
and a.Wing forth the glory of God, and the imJifOYement of our welfare, eom-
fort, and benefit of our worldly and temporal estate and condition, while yet
we lite; and likewise In all such matters or things whatsoefer else you shall
be necessary for to know and to enjoy, even beyond what we are able to
aak or think, 'Which the Almighty Gifcr of all good gil'll shall, in his bounti-
ful and patt>r11al mercy be gradou•ly plt·ased hereby to gife you, and refeal,
and •hew unto us, or utherwisc to hl•stow upon us, 0 you !frPat ln!fPI,
or bl('ssed .fflctbratton, anb all otf_trr vou rtlt5ti.tl angdf of tbt
orbrr of ;rrapbims. Jltrbium& of Dibtnt grace anlJ mrrrp, .fN!nistm of tntl
anb unbrrstanbing, anb tttbantt of tf_tt .fflcst 1b,ig1) Ql:ob, partieularly re-
cited and spokt•n of, iorocated, mo\"t'd, and called forth to ti•i·
bltl appearance afor,,said. lw;rrnb blt !Iii!!. and by the power of superior com-
mission from ntH' or mntc nf you app('ar 1'isihly l1ere before us as for t!le
1cnants of the .:\I,•st God, whereunto we move you all, jointly and
teTerally in your power and pn·s•·ncc, .,.h.,se works shall be a aong tJ(
honour, aod the praise of your God in Creator. 21mtn.
Let the foregoing Invocation Le devoutly and se-
riously read; then make a pause for aLout 9 minutes
of time, or a little more than half a quarter of an
hour; ami if nothing appear neithPr within the
Chril'tall'tone, or other\\ ist' out of the same to vi-
t;iLle appearance, then read with good devotion the
following replication, 4 or 5 time:-; observing the
like time aforesaid Letwixt each replication.
Digitized by Coogle
628
0 ye glorious angel or blessed intelligence, who by name is called Atrttf&
ton. and all oth"r ue s;acrcb crlt!lti.1l angr.lll of ttr orbtr of ;rrapf)i11111. re11iding
or located by mansion, orb, or sphere of heaven, called the ttrimum jRGbilt.
or tf)e finil mobtable particularly recited, mentioned, moved, &1•:1
called forth to ,·isible appearance, as in the foregoing invocation; and ba•h
of lately, and more at large, rehearsed, humbly solicited, and nrn·
estly requested by the virtue, power, force, and elftcacy whereof, and of all
the royal word' and sentences therein contained ; and also by the misbty,
great, powerful, and excellent name of the Most High God, and bis
numerall attrihute Uttf)tr; or otherwise by the truest and most especial
name of your God, we, the servants of the Highest, re•erently, here present,
in his holy fear, attending his divine grace, mercy, and good pleasure, pater·
nally unto us herein, do, by the strength and power of our faith, hope-, and
confidence of, and in our God, and our confirmation in his holy spirits, dig·
nifying us with superiur power and perfection, humbly entreat, and earn·
estly request, and powerfully move you, 0 you great angels or blessed in·
tclligence, from the superior to the inferior, in general, and particular, enry,
each oue, for and by itself, rt>spt:r.tinly by degree, nature, and oftice, resid·
ing in the mansion or 9th orb of the first moveable Heaven, and seniog the
commands of the Highest in the order and hierarchy of angels called .;t:<
rapf)iml; mobe, fttrtfort, @ J!OU llttat anb gloriDul angtL or
some one or more of you, 0 ye sacred celestial angels of the order of its
rapf)iml, by degree, nature, and office; and by the power, Yirtue, and efli·
cacy of all aforesaid,. descend and appear unto us, In this t!lrilfal
Z.tone, or Gla!lllirceibtr; or otherwise out of the same here before us, as it
shall please the 1\lost High God, and also J!llU, telrltial f8rHmgn'1 af
Dibine grace anb mtrQ!, and to shew forth plainly unto us, some remarkable
tign or token foregoing your coming anb apptaranre; and to be friendly unto
us, aud to do for us as for the servants nf the Highest, whereunto io his
name.toe bo again tarntlltlp rrqnnt anb mohr )!OU bolt in pciDrr 41lb
whose friendship unto us herein shall bl' a song of honour, and tbe praise
of your God in your Creation. amm.
*
*
*
*
•
*
*
*
•
•
*
•
*
*
*
*
*
*
The manuscript here ends with the example of
"tlte fir:4 key:" hut this will no doubt, lean• Celts-
,tial JJlagic sufficiently exemplified for the amuse-
ment of my
Digitized by Coogle
629
FATAL HOROSCOPES.
No. IV.
«bt Nattbit» of an Infant.
MALE CHILD,
SON 01<' HENRY SHORT,
BoRN Dec. 16th,
1824,
4b. 15m. A.M. 51
DIED at 18 lJiontha old,
Digitized bycoor
630
" Antl brief arc the 1igns of mortal life,
When Saturn and Jllm·s in power are rife.
Wht·n the lights of the sky,
Thnr g-litter on high,
Arl' 'J""'·til'd and cros>cl,
'' ml their influence lo•t-
Ry the IH'ams of the fatal designers of woe,
As mMtals will quickly d',cover unti know,
ny !ht• /loro•cojle's th ·•m,
to come!
Or wheth<·r the Sun,
As tht• Lord of givC"r of
Ot· the .!loon silver queen, <lispt'lling night's fears,
lluk the lf!Jlrg! 'fhc will c!Pscry
The o111ens of Life or qf Dcatlt in till' Sky!"
.USS. of ALDUMUAR·
This Nativity was given me by Mr. Short, the
father of the child, who is a student in the
,SritUff. It was accurately taken, in point of
timt:>, .Ly a correct watch, and may be confidently
relied npon, a"' an e:\ample for the student to hold
forth to uubdie\ crs.
The child died at the age of months, of
(or \Yater in tile brain,) and by
"'ing the horo,:-copc of its df',:tiny, the student
will pl'l"<'l'iH· t:w .H::oon a principal significator, in
mntulane and zodiacal q:;::rtile to .fllllrG from
f'igns ; the ili(•vitaLle tc"'timony of a brief
<· xi:-tcnce ! 1t i"' aho \\'<Wt hy of notice, that the
Moon was in a t!,!n. likewise afllicted
l>y the zodiacal s<pmrc of 3}upttfr. and the serni-
<;nartilc of the ,S-un. The lallcr planet being in
a mnndane :-cmi:•quare to the 3!Jctnbant. but
:-anu· tiuw that lw was in zodiacal
rate of J},,;.ti1fr. So tlmt t"ach of the three
nphcta's \\ ('l't" vitiatt•d ill a gr(·ater or degree,
<tuite :-ullicient to deuy lon;.r,evity. The following
Wt•re the declinttlious of the heavenly Lodies:
Digitized by Coogle
631
0 23 20 s.
]) 16 0 s.
l!> 0 :"V.
lf. 17 21 N.
& 20 0 s.
i 21 20 s.
tl 25 0 s.
1;;1 2.S 0 s.
By this it will be seen that the llloon lwtl
parallel of Jupiter : but that planet laying lwtween
the declinations of Saturn and Mars, and uei11g
afflicted by the mundalle 8 of & , was depived of
his benefic influenr('. J:Jtiltb itt was
consequently certain to happen, and it was there-
fore no wonder that the ominous influence was so
completely btrifitlr.
IIow dread the thou!(t•t, that not a mnm••nt n,•,.ts,
But with it, many a soul hath "Ming'd away
1'o that eternal dct·p, into whose wom!J
Six thousand Years hnc buried all tht·y hor!'!
while around unvalu,·tl pleasures throug,
Ar.d in a glowing atmo:.l'lwre cf >milo s
'Vc play with time, infants do with tnys-
Afar, how often Death grinnirg o'er
The new-Uug graves, or weaving "iw.h to storm",
Or plucking seamen from the pi rail!
Or lau,hing, where the thunder-bolt hJ< tla,h'd
Some dari.•;.: ,.·and'rer to the earth ! Till' floo<l
And blast-the fiery breath of clouds-dist•ase
And horrors, broken hearts,
And exiles in their damp-wall'd dungcnns dooru'd-
Oh I each and all wnuld melt a moral tear,
U l..nown or felt, from l'leasure'• sated eye.
Digitized by Google
THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE.
Part 2.
iOf tf))t of
Nature presents us with one of the materials
for the practice and perfection of this
art, ready formed to hand and fit for use, as the
body, matter, or 'l:Tttfjf in which we work, is found
in the bowels of the earth,· according as I have
stated in· the former part of this treatise. The
ast'ral spirit is a liquid, f.:'lir and clear, like water,
and without the enjoyment of which, no man could
live. . With two materials we begin the work
of Hermes, and for this commencement we must
take nature for our guide; for in like manner as
softens and gives to the earth its fructifying property,
by rain and dews, so we imbibe our solid matter
with our astral spirit.
By this means our matter becomes incorporated
and combined with the generative essence of nature,
contained in our water ; in this manner, by frequent
imbibitions and desinations, our matter
dead and putrifies, and in it ari:-:es af:·ain
to a more perfect state of according to
the universal law of sublunary things. It must not
be that hecause the matter becomes dry,
that it retains nothinp; of the virtue of the former
imbibitions: it mcrely the aqueous part:, and
J will endea\·om to prove this to those who may
Digitized by Coogle
11ot the of ChC'midry, and yet
},e inclined to stutly the art of Alchemy. I will
takf' f(>r example the formation of Clanher's
If you take a portion of Caustic or Carbonatl' of
SoJa, on one part, auu some Sulphuric Acid on the
other, am) you imbibe the Soda with the Acid, they
l\·ill mutually neutralize one anotht-r, an<l you will
obtain a liquid which is neither a<.:id nor alkaline;
and an intrmate and electrical coJ;.IJination will
have taken piace Let'' C'C'il the t\m bodies from this
liquid. l>y evaporation you may obtain crystals,
whi<'h \\ill be composed of o;:c p:•;"t o1· atom of
Soda, two of AciJ, ami l\', eniy of Y. akr: if
sulle1· the--e to dry,.ot· ercn if yon calciile
them, you will UC\! ' :· Le :t:,:c to nwkc tl.cm loo,e
more than the :W p:trh (•i' ,·,:;.: ,•r; ti1c Acid will
remain in a fixed and f'olid ,,·ith the calcined
So we must cm:ceiYc tite theory of our im-
hihitions; when om· matter it still retains to
the ...! ral <.·ontaine:d in our water.
Haring the readC'r thus far,
we will procf'ed to the practice nf the
fmbibttton!S, or c.r
tJfJtlof1opiJtcal !:1n·tutu.
For it w1ll he nece:-'f'Ul')' to have a f'ma1l box,
with a door, ahout a foot hi!!;h, l.:n its top and
bottom pierced with holPs, an:i a ire g-rat-
placed rather more than half way 11p on the in-
side; on this shelf you can plact· an
dish, of glass or \\'edgewood war<·, '"· l.ich will con-
tain the mineral matter, and at tLe huttom of the
4 L
Digitized by Coogle
lJox a common ni;ht lamp, with a small floating
wick, "ill cause sufficient heat for all the vractice
of' th,, work, which ought never to <>xceed that of
the whil:4 hatching; this may surprise some
pcr:-;on:':, but I do not \Hite for charcoal hurners, or
fo1· "ho sr·ml ;;':ll1l np their chimnies by the
intensity of th<'y r·mp!oy; this sort of work i:;
nwn,lv de:- i.rov:H"' nature, and cannot be called an
imit:1t.ion. B;1t rc·turn to our :-the mi-
nc·ral nntter mw-;t be divided into small piecrs
ahout the size of and watered with our liquid;
care mn;-;t !w taken not to give too much or too
little, hnt a,; mnch as it will suck up and no
more; ii 1:m--t 1h<·n he placPcl in the warm air oven,
and to dry completPly. This precess mu:o:t
he contin11cd unl il :-;ndt time a!' the mntter becomes
saturated n.ntl pn·g·11ant with the spirit;
will mmetimes after fortv, at others after fiftv im-
. .
Lihi!ion:-:, often from two to three days drJing,
and fn'llW'ntly npon watering it, it will make a
:->mall cracklin!.!' if :'mall, white, and brilliant
be ob:·wn :·d, it that too much water
!:;_, hct'll added at a till1('; \\hen it beg-ins to he
it la' COIIICS clammy, forth a
of gr:ne:-:, and gradually changes colour, be-
ronws Ll:ic!..:i:-:h, as J have sometimes seen it, as if
ink had l;ccn spotted 0\ er it. This is the
of the putrefaction; it proceeds on, and at be·
conws brnwn, hlack, scaly, and crusty, like pitch.
Tllis lllf' old a:lepl' called by divers names, as
cro\i·s k<11l, 0,:('. \Vht>n it has attained to this, it
mu:--:t 110 lm>:;·er be but lPft in the gentle,
O\l'll hPat, it will again change colour, and a light
co\our will :':oon he perceived to encircle the
Digitized by Coogle
in which it is placed. This will exteml ibelf
through the whole matter, which will :shortly be-
come light coloured and white all OH'r; this is
called the first and j,.. in the
fJbtf060Pbltlll .{:lrt•tttrJ.}, w!Jich reCjUires to·
he sublimed six other titnes to bring it lo its per-
fection. These sublimation;-; are the as the
fin:t; this white rw·rcury must w;ain be imhibed
until it putrifi,·:-:, cklll:::e" co!our, and bcco!IH:s white
ag-din; it must tlm!-i go tliruu;..;-h the purilka-
tions, which is sometimes called the white
doves of Diana, &c. When hare arrin:u at the
seventh sublimation, you must next proceed to se-
parate the pure from the impure, which is·done in
the following manner: the white substance proceed-
ing from the seven :-ublimations, must be
in our astral <uul suffered to crystalizt>, "hen
there will form on the top a sort of cottony ma:-;s,
w•ry bt·illiant, and this is the loug; desired,
and much for, 1\Iercury.
Unflerneath will be found other salts, which may
be brought to per!.ection by a continnation of the
work, and below all, a pulp will subside which you
mtJst keep carefully, as it contains the sulphur of
the Magi. Hermc:-; tells you "not to tltrow away
your ashes, for they contain tlte ofyour heart."
The next step is
Prwaratton of tbt Sull)bur.
The abo,·e-mentioned pulp must ),e imbibed
" 'ith our astral spirit, until it becomes putre1-cent
it will then gradually change its colour to that of
red, and is in this ·case the tinging· spirit and blood
Digitized by Coogle
( .. ..
)._
,(J
of the n c( ,._ i,:l l:n1d1 Ly
:!11 !:r·,·.:w!ic ,., ril· it iill< .
· l. 1
,:· cardully,
:::,:1 · ·,.;"·"1, d ( : .::.l1 '· ::icll \\!lich
j, ,.,,;· l..; ;:,,. .. .. ;..; oi· uo usl', anti
!l:::y !w L:.·.
.;.-..1 ;::.·.L' llo·,y l:'hown how
11
!<• a:ll':('l . ' r .·,·,l:.n·,i t\', u matters fi.lr tlleir
' . .
\\ :ti!'.l
\:. '1·; • L
- . i; ' .
, ,1,
i =
, . > 1:11\ <
-il •:1::.· of Ll:e
· ,. ·:- o.' l··•...;il \ ·•k11tim·
.. . . . . .• .. _.1 '- • • • - t
; . .! \·.. .. .1 rrd \rotnan
\ , • ' c·'- . I. • .' [ I ( ! 1 q,;)•pli:-h tLi:":, Llil'
i__ .. ic '..;__; .; _
_ :1 p:·oce0d i:t the follo,,iug·
n:a,l:-ti•:· ::.:: 1 ::. t into two parts;
our· <·[·, _:: _,.; , : ::: :t j, ; :,:.,.; thl'othermu:<t
1:,· : , · .. : :t ; ,_ , ' .· . :. ;,;,I I•JtL..;t be imbibl'tl
': : , .:·_., <; _,,_ .. [i :·-.1 iii ;::--;!·al \\akr:
!. 1 :: : . , ,;i 1
· C
\ t -c, " .tl rt·qllii·e forty or fifty iin-
L! :.:. ': , ... . :· \.. ;c:: ;l ,., ::1 iltLI <"Ill our and putrify.
;, ·' ,;, ·' . .. , 1: :·:.·..·· :·· >; cl::npleated, and you
(, : l,
IH ..,, >" I
...,
I : I : " · ''(_I \.
, : l • ,-. , ll I . •. .. : •' . '
_, ,, o:l:t it·almatter; it will
;: id i:-; then callt.>d the
· 1 a:· .·.-din,::,· to the enigmati-
., ', ·.. ;,t·n it hac; attained this
: ii o.:oc n pa:-:--: from
;,, tltat. 01 Luna, and
. ' bi·iiliant \'.
I > '
,._
.., ' f )
r:::\ .1 . ' ; . •: : · . · ; . ,:,.d t:.:tl uf ,:u:-:kv _:.ntur1t. t!.t•
pt-.1•:· ; ,,: ;, :.-: leO'-'. ;,,. :;;i!\d i·
.-.; tirst of p· r-
k.-t ! cl:. : · ... ! lt::: not o > ' ,·, ' H!.l-' a medicine u-
1'· :· r(·-·, fur hotly; but it has
!.' ,..,, ;: .. ,;::w,: th· i·.. \\nuf<t('till;.!,'Olll1Wtals,arul
Digitized by Google
converts them, m proportion to its tiegreet:; of mul-
tiplication, to the nature of sih·cr. Still must the
process be contiuueti; the brilliancy will vanish,
and whiteness "ill anti a greenish colour
will pervade the whole. This is the stgn of your
entry to
trbt Urfan of
Care I.e taken tl1at your tire be not too
strong; the ha:-; already g-ai11cd a high degree
of subtility, allfl it ought to lw go' erneti :o-o that the
mass remains at the bottom of the by judici-
ous and careful working, the colour ag-ain
a yellowish tint ensuPs, then reti(Iish, lemon colour,
anti thus begins the
i\rign of
:\11 igneous natmc is now abundaut in the mat-
ter; it marches on towai·ds the reti; the fire must
here !H' strengthened, aud it is here that the portion
of which was form('rly put asitle, will be
found nt'Cl'.""ary, and it he necf'ssary to continue
the work with tile li:ptid. This being tionc,
the red colom "ill become dl'eper, a tint of regal
purple will he I hen let the student's heart re-
joice, as this is the si.
.:n of
£be .:.f 0.
\\'e h:ne now arriYPd at Ollr last lah:lllr, and the
han P!"t is at hand; the purp!e coluur gnl\\ s darker,
an<l at la.
..:l the matter will l'l'tnain in the Ht:-oc, of a
black red <:olour, nul unlike a fre:-:ldy precipitated
Digitized by Coogle
638
po\Hler ofCassiu!", coutaiuing·a 1ar;.re po•·tion of
If the student to procef'd on, and to
ad,·ancc a:-; far as part nf the "ill-admit,
hC' must here commence the
Which is tnC'rdy exact rel'apilnbtion of the
fon·;;oin;; lllanipuLt;!o:;s; i):tt beware of
proceeding· lwyoild Li:>th multiplication; here
the mediciue bccomc·s too !-;tron.
:; ami to be
contaiued in any n •:--:--el, it throug-h glass like
olive oil through paper. :i\ly limits ha\'c' not allowed
me to treat of this subject in t'O detailed a manner
as I could haYe wi;,hed, or I would hare pointed
out to the stndeut its intimate relation with the
mysterit:>:-; and ct'rcmuui(•s of l woHld
Lare :-:hewn that the mythol(lgy teaches this art in
hut, ho\\P\l'l', I !tan' ;;u:H•nsfarasmytiruc
nnd placf' allo" lc11· the present, let others do the
saute 011 I hi:-:, nr "hat suhj,_.cts the)· have a know-
ledge of, nlHI it 111ay b!' t h · means of mutual im-
pro,·enwnt to us all, in the and learning
of the ancit'nt l\bgi, of "hich there is not a more
ardent anrl a(Lnircr th:m
Your \\dl-\\isher,
ZADKIEL.
Digitized by Coogle
()39
" I waiteII you u was me taught also,
The four aplrits, and the bodies seveno
By ordne, as oft I ht!rd my Lord hem nevena.
The firtt spirit, quicksilver cleped is;
The orpimente ; the yeYis
Sal anmouiack; and the brimstone.
" The bodies aenne eke, "hen here anon,
gold is ; and Uuna, siher we threpe;
.fftart, iron; ltltrrorit. quicksihllr we clt·pe;
5;-aturnut, lede ; and .Jupittr, is tin,
And 1:7enul, ec.pper, by my fader lr.in."
The following are the directions of aceldJrated
writer on Alchemy, George Ripley, who wrote his
Compound of Alcltemie in the 16th Century, and
addressed it to Edward IV.
" First calcyne._ and after that putrifo,
dy•tUl, lllblyml', tleacende, and fuc;
With aqua Yitae oft t)'ml!s both weet and drie,
And make a marriage the bodye and spirite hetwh:te;
\Vhich thus together naturally, if ye can myxe
In losing the bodie, the water shall congealed
Then shall tht• ladic o.ly ultt>rly of the flyxe,
lliceding auo.l changing c<>lours u ye shall see.
The tJ.ird tltt,l/, again to lyfe he 5hal1 uprise,
And deYour byrds and beastes of tlte wilderoesse ;
Crowt·s, pyes, pecocks, and meYies;
The phenix, the eagle whyte, the grytron of fearfulnesse;
The green lyon and the red dragon he shall distresse,
The whytc dragon also; the antelope, unlcome, panthere,
'With otllPr byrds, and bcastcs. hoth more and lesse,
The basaliske also, which almost each one doth feare.
In bees and nubi, he aball arise and ascl'nde
Up to the Moone, aud aitb up to the 8unne,
'fhro' the ocean sea, which rounde ia without ende,
Onely shypped \Yithin a little glassen toone;
When be cometh thither, then is the maistric wonne.
About which journey greate goode shall ye not speede,
And yet yo shall be ;tlad that it was begonne,
Patiently if yc list to your work attend."
The following is extl'acted from GEBER, a rcnowrv..d
Philosopl1er of the olden time.
Digitized by Google
640
"Now let the high God of nature, blessed and glorious, be praised: who
hath revealed the series of all medicines, with the experience of them, which,
by the goodne!S of his and by our incessant labour, we hue
searched out, and hue sei•n with our eyes, and handled with our hands, the
completement thereof sought in our magistery. Uut if we have coneealt\11
this, let not the son of learning wonder; for \fe have not C<>ncealed it from him,
but hue delivered it in such as it must nt>cessarily bt- bid from the
evil and unjust, and the unwise cannot discern it. $tons of Dodrillf.
ttal'ft If 1 anb !If blill tinb lllD!It mrllrnt gift of 6ob. rtGtrbcb for !IOU ontv.
Ye sons of folly, and wickedness, and evil mauners! fly away from this
science, because it h inimical and adverse to you, and will precipitate yoa
into the miserable sta:e of poverty. For this gift of God is absolutely by
the judgment of DiJine Providence, bid from you, and denied for ever."
KING Hanu.
The celebrated RAYMOND LuLLY is said, while
on a visit in London, to have converted a mass of
50,000 pounds of Quicksilver into Gold; from which
Edward I. is said by the Alchemist, to have coined
the first rose-nobles, or according to others, the first
guineas. He is said tQ have rendered his name
famous by this exploit, as well as by the following
feat:
" Such art of multiplying is to be reproved,
But holy alftimJ! of right is to be loved ;
Which treateth of a precious medicine,
Such as truly maketh gold and silver fine.
Whereof example, for testimony,
Is in a city of CGtalony ;
Which Raymond Lully, knight, men suppose
Made in 1nm images the truth to discloae ;
ThJee were good silver, in shape like ladies bright
each of them were gold, and like a lmirht
In borders of their clothing, letters did apJIC!Ire,
Signifying In sentence u it aheweth here :
11'il'lt !t.rtue.-" Of old h01'1hoea (said one) I was yre,
Now I am good lilf!er, as good as ye desire.
!-rronb ;t«tur.-I (said another) Iron fd from the mine,
But now J am goldt, pure. perfect, and line.
$;1tltut.-Whilome was I, copper of lln old rL-d paone,
Now am I rood rilNr, aaid the third WOIII&D•
itatut.-The fourth said, I was copper, grown in the filthy place,
Now Jam perfect gold, rr.ade by God's grace.
Digitized by Coogle
tl-t I
§tfth i'latur.-Thr fifth sni<l, I \las •ilr·cr, pNfer.t, thorough tint',
:\ow Rm I [•t·rf,·ct gold, excellent, better than the pritn•!.
i"l.tluc.-1 "as a of /pad w<·ll nigh too hun:.lrct.l p·rr,
Ant! to all men !(Oot.l •ilr·rr, I appr·nn•.
;!fbtnt{l ;;t.uue.-The lleatl, am goltl mat.lc for a mastery,
But truly my fell owes are nearer thereto than 1."
I shall conclut.le this article by another extract from 6tllrr. " If they
aay," exclaims be," philosophers and princes of this world have desired this
science, and could not find it, we answer, tflfl! lit. For princes, though few,
and especially tht· ancient ant.l wise men in our time, have, as is manifest, by
their lnt.lustry fnunt.l out this science, but would never by word or writing
discover the same to such men hcc..use they are unworthy of it. Therefore
they not any to this sci<'nce, conceive an error In their mint.ls,
and thence j uclg" that none ha vo fount.! it. But If they otherwise arguoJ that
is not chnnget.l ioto qJrdr•. we again say tf)rp lie; as they are more
accustomed than to speak truly of these things; for srEctu 11
INTO SPECIES in this manner: namely, when the individual of one species i&
changed into the indivit.lual of another.
We see a 1rorm both naturally and by natural artiOcc to l•r b11nted into a fly,
which differs from its srecil's, and a calf strangled, to be turned irtlo bee•,
iltlo clar11tl, ant.l a clog •tranglcd iato n·orm•; by the putr<'faction of
el.>ullition. Yet IDe bo not tflis, but Naturr. to IDr abmint&lrr. botf) IIJt
Nlllt. Likewi>•· nl"'· not metal•, but :-o.·tlturc. for whom
to 11rt we prr·pare thill mJIIPr; for she h)· herself acts, nut lilt; yet wt• 11ro
ht!f admiai ,: rators. fir.
OF SCrENCE
RAPIIHI. I"" n gn·at nnmhrr of !tilers from hi• Country C'orrc•
pondcnts, th" l'lanisphrre mntlc usc of in calculating
NATIVITiri. II•• has now t: e sati,faction to pnblidy announct', that
Mr. OX J.EY, an :\Iath•·>11atician, anti Brotlll'r Stut.lt•nl in the art,
has puhlisll<·d a (:0.\II'I.ETF. SET OF PI. ·\:\ISPIIERES, which together
with a Book of Explanations, may be bat.l of any Bookseller. In at.ldition to
this, Students will he glad to learn that an ELEMENTARY TREATISE uros
AnaoLor.Y is prl'pllring, by Mr. D. PARKES, of SREYPII!LD, w.hose corrc•·
pondence appearo at paf\'O 4-00 of the present wPrk, which will tend greatly
to advance the Rcienc<'.
4 1\1
Digrllzed by GoogIe
THE DmiB CURED.
In the 9th volume of the Philosophical Transactions of tbe
Royal Society of London, a curious case is gi\•en by Archdeacon
Squire, of a person who, after having been dumh for years, re-
covered the use of his speech by means of a frightful dream.
"One day, in the year 1748, he got very much in li(luor, so
so, that on his return home at night to the de\ 1zes, he fell from
his horse or four times, and was at last t::ken up by a neigh·
hour, and put to bed in a house on the road. He snon fell asleep;
when, tlreaming that he was falling into a furnace uf boiling wort,
it put him into so great an agony of fright, that struggling with
all might to call out for help, he actually did call out aloud,
nne] recovered the usc of his tongue th:.\t moment as as
he e\'C'r had it in his life, without the least or alteration
in the old sound of his voice."-Jforre/1'8 Phi!u8op!ty of Slup.
l'ROPHETIC DISCO\'ERY.
Some boys at play in a field near "'incheap, known by the name
of the Green Field, the real name ot wbwh is the .Martyr l'ieJJ,
from the numerous burnings and torturings which took place in the
reign of Mary, there discovered, near Buck's Oast, to the hole
in which torment of every description used to he inflil'tcd, an earthen
vase, inside, and in excellent preservation. Two ancil'nt
l'oins were dcposited within, a ring, and a curious sort of dirk, the
haft of whith is studded with silver. But these are not all the
curious contents contained in this ancient vessel. A piece of parch-
ment rolll·d tight, bearing the following singular iuscription, \Va5
found at the bottom:-
"1M<>, Januario 12.-[A byUer fn•st,,J
"Profesye.
" In ye yeare 1631 theyre sballe be migbtye trobles. Ye contrye shalle
be on yc brynke of destructione, but tbeyre shall aryse menno abouo.J·
inge In vlrtew and talente wo shalle restor It to healthe and soundenesse aod
cau&se the pt>ple to lyve in prospcrytye. Ye power turned apynst ye pcple
ahalle be yet•lded to its ryteful owners."
The vnse and contents remain for the inspection of the curious
at the cottag·e lll':tr ti1e Oo.st.-KNdi8h 1831.
Digitized by Coogle
GEO:MANCY.
•
THE
llF
..-Jfortunl Jltajor
ASD
.Mtnor
AS THE
.JUDGE.
()44
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 00
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
Questions. Answer!". Questions. Answers.
Life . . Long. Life • Lo•g.
!\Ioney • Fortunate. Money E.retlltlll.
Honour Gootl. Honour Guut.
Business Favourablt·. Business Luci•J·
IMarriage. Lucky. Marriage. ForluMk.
I
I
Pregnancy llu:ardou•. Pregnancy ! Doub(ful.
Sickness . llcaUit. Sickness . ·I llea.Ui.
Imprisonment Ddit•erancc. Imprisonment , Co111t: out.
I
Journey Sl01r. I Journey . I Good.
I I
Thing lost
_I__ Found. __I IThing lost I Fond I
I _I
c 0 0 0 I 0 0
c 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
c 0 0 0 0 0 c 0
0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
Qucition;. Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life Lortg. Life-. Lottg.
Money Good. !\Ioney Good.
I
Honour Good. Honour Ezcrl/ftl.
Business Good. Bualnesa &il.
Marriage • Evil. Marriage. IUlld.
Pregnancy Fnnak. Pregnancy A. .aid.
. Ileal/h. Sickness . Qt.id MollA.
Imprisonment Soo11 out. Imprisonment DeUwratr.,
Journey . Mean. Journey MtQa.
Thing lost PartfOIIflll. Thing loat
I
.
....
Digitized by Coogle
645
.... 0 0 0
0 0 c c 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 00
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
Answl'rs. Answers.
l.ife lmlijfaenl. Lift!
Furtunute. :llonuy . L1u:ky.
Honour Favourable. llonour Good.
Busine;;s Excellent. Businesa Good•
.\larriage . Fortunate. Marriage. FortvfiQU.
Pregnancy A aon. Pregnancy ..4-
Siclmcss lieu!!h. Sickne1s Htalt!.
l•nprisonmcnl C"mc out. Imprisonment S0011 o.t.
Journey Lncky. Journey Good.
'
\ Thintr lost l'artfouml. Thing !oat lo'o•lld.
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 c 0 0 0
c 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
o' o 0 0
0 0 0 0
Question•. Answers. Q11eationa. Answers.
f.ife Short. J.ifu Lortg.
-'Ioney Jlcan. !\Ioney Lucky.
Honour Good. Honour Propili0111.
I8u§iness Lvclty. Business Proquro111.
Marriage . Crou. Marriag'!l. Good.
Pregnancy Doublj'vl. Pregnancy A 1011.
Sil'kness Dnngt'ro-.u. Sicknen . HtaUA.
lmpri1onmeot C:orru: out. Imprisonment Come
Journey IU. Journey Di.ffk11U.
IThing lost . Partfmwd. Thing lost Pm·t foufld.
Digitized by Coogle
().H)
0 0 0
0 0 - 0
-
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0
0 0
Questions. Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life Jloderate. ILife
·I Meaxl!llOAg.,
Money . /Ileal!. IMoney . t"ltiucq.
Honour I11djffermt. lruliffnnt.
I
Honour
Business Dubi.nc•. Business • Comllli.r't.
. Ill. Marriage Jleaa.
Pregnancy Female. Pregnancy A 1011.
Sickness • Da"9ff011•· Sickness • /lealtl.
Imprisonment Nvt Olll. Imprisonment Delirerall«.
Journey Ret11m. Journey • DorWifvl-
1Thing lost F111111d. Thing lost Notfownd.
0 00 0 0 0
0 0 0 00 0
0 0 0 0
0
0
0 0
0
0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 00
Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life . . Moderate• Life •. .lletUtlyloftg.
Money • ParUy good. Money. Iflilflertrcl.
Honour 11/tan. Honour Lwclty.
Business • lndiffert'llt. Bnsineas Eril.
I -
Marriage. llldiffert'llt. Marriage . ero.•.
Pregnancy Ftmale. Pregnancy Afmudt-
Sickness • 1/taltl. Sickness • 1/m/111.
Imprisonment Come out. Imprisonment Sooa 01111.
Journey . Quid. Journey L•rt!l•
Thlnlf lost PartfOII'Itd. Thing lost Nolfond.
Digitized by Coogle
()47
c 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 ..... ""' 0 0 0
- .....
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 : 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
Questions. Answers. Questions. Answers.
Life Short. Life Sufficient,
Money lllcaH. Sufficinlt.
Honour E11il. Honour Sufficient.
Business .'tloderate. Bu»iness SujJiciertt,
Marriage. Unlucky.
1
1\larriage . S".DicieJCl.
Pregnancy ..4 girl. Pregnancy A fiUiid.
Sickness .. Deatla. Sickness Deatlt.
Imprisonment Die itt prl6att. Imprisonment Deaf/a.
Journey DijfietAU. Journey l.:ntud:y.
Thing lost Part found. Thing lost Fo11flll.
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
Answen. Answen.
Life Sltort. Life .. Mrmt,
Money DtUI. !\Ioney •
Honour Dud. Honour Sufficient.
Bu•iness t:nludry. Buaineas Sujficicnt.
Marriage. Crou. Marriage. Sujficicnt.
Pregnancy A girl. Pregnancy Dubiou.
Sicknesa llcaltla. Sickness . Pn-iluu1.
Imprisonment Come Old. Imprisonment Come out.
Journey Jleart. Journey Eri/.
I
Thing lost Not found. Thing lost Part found.
I
_____]
Digitized by Coogle
(j4H
0 c c :;, 0 0
:;;) c 0 c
0 0 0 0
,...
""
- :;, 0 0 0 0 0
0 ·0
0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
Questions.
Lifo Long. Lifo Short.
lllonPy Good. :\Ioney Mean.
Honour Mean. Honour Good.
Busint:s;;. Lucl•.'f· Business. Sufficient.
!\Jnrringe Mean. :\lrlrriage !lloderate.
Pregnancy A son. Pregnancy A son.
Sickness. Ileal/h. Sickness. A rclirj:
Imprisonment Evil. Imprisonment Dubiou1.
Journvy . Cr·o!,,, Journey • Et-il.
Thing lost .Found. Thing lost Partfound.
--
- - - ----
0 c 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 :;,
c 0 0 0 0 0 :;,
0 c 0 0 ·0
0
0 0
0 - 0 0
_,
0 0 0 0
Answers. Q uestions. ,\nswrr"'.
- --- -
Lif._, I
I
Short. Life Et'il.
'
:.Ioney I IJ,tllll'k!J. :\Ioney Ill.
'
llonour I E!'il. Ilonotir Ill.
I
Businrss I Cro!s, Dusin\'sg nad.
I
.'lardagc
I Cross• l\larriagc Dad .
Pregnancy
I Male. Pregnancy Feuwl,·.
Sickness .
I
Ill. Sickness . Er·il.
Imprisonment
I
Ill. Imprisonment Long.
J ourney r:rit. J ourney Utifortunalc.
Thing lost
·I l\'otfound. Thing lost Not found.
Digitized by Google
0
0
0
0
0
0 0
0 0 0 0
0
0
Answers.
Life Shtnt.
}Ioney Dad.
lfonour Et•il.
Business Ill.
Marriage • Croar.
Pregnancy • Femah.
Sickness • PerilotU.
Imprisonment Pt'f'ilqur.
J oumey •
Thing lost Notfourul.
0 0
0
c
c c
:::-
0
0 0
Questions.
0
0 0
c
c
Life • Long.
Money Y"'!J !]OOd.
Honour Good.
Buaineaa Lucky.
Marriage • LNclry.
Pregnancy A ron.
Sickneaa • •
Imprisonment 0Nt kite.
Journey Ywy good.
lnst
649
4 N
0
0
0
c 0 0 ::
c ::
0
c·
0
0
0 0
0
Questiona. Answers.
Life • . Bad.
Money. Dad.
Honour Et!il.
Business . Eril.
I M . c
arnage • ro,..
Pregnancy DNbiour.
Siclule11 • • Pcrilotu.
Imprisonment ONt ill pai11.
Journey Eril.
Thing lost Not foqruJ.
0
0 0
0
0
Questlon9.
Life
Money
Honour
Business
Marriage .
Pregnancy
Siekneas •
0
0
Imprisonment
Journey •
Tblngloat
0 0
0
0
0
Answers.
Long.
nood.
Good.
LHcky.
Lttcky.
Davgfttcr.
LORg.
Long.
Tcdiowr.
FONrul.
Digitized by Coogle
0 0
0
0 0
0 0 0
0 0
0
0
0 0
0
0
0 0
Questions. Answers.
Life Mw11.
Money Mean.
Honour lttdi.Jfrrt:wt.
Business Mea11.
. .t.loclerale.
Pregnancy A girl.
Sickness • Dubiou•.
Imprisonment Late ovt.
Journey IU.
Thing lost Foun.tl.
00
0
c
0 0 0
0
oe
00
Life
Money .
Honour
Business
c
0 0
0
0 0
Answers.
!Short.
Evil.
Ill.
Mean
I
EfJU. I
D11biovl. ,
!Uarriage .
Pregnancy
Sickness Death. I
Imprisonment, Out n·ilhfear. \
Journey •• I .t.lean.
I
I
Thing lost Foulld.
650
0 0
0
0
0 0 0 0
0 c
.o
0
00
0
0
Ans...eu.
Life Long.
Money Lut:l.:y.
Honour GfY'Ul.
Business Lut:lr!l.
Marriage . Forl•nnlr.
Pregnancy A 1011.
Sickne.s Long pining.
Imprisonment Ltn&g alwtt.t.
Journey Slow.
Tblng lost Fallnrl.
0
0 C"
0
0 0
Life
!\l011ey
Honour
0
0
0 0
0 :>
=
c 0
Slwrl.
JU.
Business • Batl.
Marriage Cro.<t.
Pregnancy A girl.
Sickness JHath.
Imprisonment Lau.
Journey • m.
Thing lost
Digitized by Coogle
I
0
0 0
0 0
c e o
0 0
0 •
0
Questions.
Life
Money
0
0 0
0
0 0
An<wer<.
Long.
Mean.
Honour Good.
Business Good.
Marriage Lucky.
Pregnancy Female.
Sicknoess 1/cal!l&.
Imprisonment Comt out.
Journey Slo•r.
Tbing )o1t Part fond.
0
c c
0 :;
c
Questions.
0
0
0 0
0 0
c
0
!\
1
Life ..
Money.
Honour
I.o:.g.
Lxt:lry.
Good.
Bu1ine1s
Marriage
Pregnancy
Sickness
Imprisonment
Journey
Tbing lost
FortwwU.
FmtlfiGU.
A lOll.
1/taltlt.
Late out.
Sknr.
Fox11d.
.H.l1.
0
0 0
0
0 0
Questions.
Life
l\Ioocy
0 0
0 0
0
0
0
0 0
0 0
0
Answer<.
SIIOI'l, -,
llhan.
'Honour E!"il.
Business lllea11.
l\Iarriage . Crotl,
Pregnancy A ron.
Sickness • J/caltla.
Imprisonment Die there.
Journey Kat be,
Tblng lost Parlfuund.
00
0
0 0
0
Life
!\loury
Honour
Busineu
Marriage
Pregnancy
Sickill.'ll •
0
0
0 0
o-o
Imprisonment
Journey
Thing lo5t
0
c 0
0 0
0
Answers.
.Motltrat.-.
Good.
Good.
Lvclcy.
Lwky.
" 1011.
Long.
Lon!J.
Doubtflll.
Fourul.
..
...
Digitized by GoogIe
ASTHOLOGICAL COHHESPO.:\fDENCE.
TO TilE EDITOit OF TilE ,bTROI.OGEit.
Sit:,
The resolution of a question by Horary A:-tro-
is often upon that peculiar relation
existing among· three Planets, technically termed
.. m-ranf.'lntton of i..LhlfJt:' The immediate
ion fi·om, and application to, an aspect, by
one and tltc same FLmct, i:" a m Prlium connexion
that has acr!a!r1•d tilL
· distinction and
title of "Translation of J.iglit"-the interrening
orb hcin!-! to tran:>late the lig·ht and virtue
of t II<' l'lanet with which it is connected, by a
srpomliug rny, to that \\llich it is approaclting, by
a friendly or mali!-!n aspect.. Vcncrable as this
doctrine appears from its age --yet, as antiquity
cannot :-:urdy claim tmd iscriminating homag·e, blind
acquiesccllce in all tlw doglllas to which she is
superstitiously attachC'd, I cannot discon·r its trutll,
and b<'g hct· 1-lightwsi:·s pardon, for my presump-
tion in f(ue,;l ioning o1w of her pt:ecept:-:, and sub-
mitting it to the ordeal of reason. It is an adagt>,
that "example is lwttcr than precl'pt," and in
obedience to thi:-, and to that law implied in the
title of yo.ur excellent I will, for the
benefit of the common reader, make the subject
familiar hy to have sepa-
Digitized by Coogle
rated by four degrees from the square of and to be
within two degrees of the scxtile of 'lL, well; here,
say the ancients, is a translation of light-here
tran:-lates the and virtue of to 'lL. But, sir,
I affirm that site does not. So then, the ancients
and I join issue. Venus is in SfJUare 'to and I
admit that she is thereby atHicted; and further, nGt
only that the influence of 0 extends begond the
degrees of her sextile with 'lL, but also that this
relation is decidctlly fortunate. \\'hat is the in-
ference? why this, that is both ·aftlictt:d and
and which will prevail, the evil or the
;ood, is a decision dependent upon the superior
strength of 'lL and o. What! sir, that because the
benevolent aspect of 'lL, is in some degree counter-
ac:ted by the e\il aspect of o, that because thereby
the powet· of J<lJ>itcr\: is debilitated, does it
follow, that ll<' is imprC'gnatcd with the evil nature
of 0 , and that this e\ il nature is communicated to
him by ? ? And is not this the absurd conclusion
comprehended in the doctrine of "Translation of
Light?"' It hP remembered too, that i is
taking her leaYe of r:S, that she is departing, and
that, consf'qnently, the unfriendly influence exerted
by that Planet, is declining.
sir, is it, ns of your rt>aders may per-
haps unimportant to under:-:tand this, and
every other principle of Astrology, philosophi-
cally and clt>arly. l;or, how is it possible, prac-
tically to apply any scientific principles, correctly
_and successfully, which are not correctly and justly
understood? How is it J>Ossihle to deduce just
argument from erroneous data! As in every nattu·al
and cience, so in Astrology, one
Digitized by Coogle
principle mode of reasoning that is demanded, is
analogy. What then is the analogical argument to
be drawn from the aspect of ab. 0 cr ad. *
Suppose the query, "Shall I obtain the money due
to me?" Suppose further, that 'lf. be the sovereign
of the ascendant, that cr be the lord of the second
hou:-e, and that no applying aspect connects 'lf. and
f'{ow bis is the ;u·::;·umt'llt-ns is fast pro-
gressing towanls a gracious relation with 'lf., and
le:n ing: the evil aspect of t ; as she is the intenne-
diatc Planet, so she is the rcpn•seniatire of :,;oine
intermediate person, who, as the application of is
deci(ledly propitious, will perform for the querent
some good ojjice, an<l who, as the separation of i
is from an Ct'il \\'ill experience some diffi-
culty in the performance of this good otlice, the
species ofwhich is denoted by t ruling the money-
house. But, :-:ir, let the Astrological reader argue
t't·om the ::lHiction of 'lf., hy the translation to, and
con;--;cqnent impression upon him, of the evil nature
of t hy '?.and he is perplt·xed in the labyrinth; to
egr1 ""from \1 hich, h('\\ iii Jiud it
to fnllow the thread of tlte reasoning abo,e.
Poor lady ! she is atnicted, and, forsooth, afilicting
1(. ! Her sextile is good, but it is also bad !-bad,
because it is mmle while is in !':(} uare to that evil
fellow 6 ! She is taken captive by two fellows on
either sidt• of her; one of whom treats her roughly,
llltt to the other to be applying for assist-
auce. lllit tlwn, fooli;--;h woman, she should not
strt'ugthcn the hands of her enemy, by rendering
her friends of less clli.:etual power to help her : but
what, to the language of nobility, can she do in
such an
Digitized by Coogle
655
The opinion is entertained hy writers, that
the Sun is a sort of 1/crmil-a kind of misanthro-
pist, having a prcuilection for rctinmcnt, and an
antipathy to to tlaat degree, which brings
into active operation his malignant
whenever any of his otf..,pring to :q:proach
within the circle of his influence. His llll"'Ociabi-
lity must, I think, be traced to the imagiHation of
Astrologers, who considering him, and for this con-
sideration I acquit them from all blame, possessed
of supreme power and in the solar system;
this possl'ssion with the cardinal defects,
!'llpreme pride and unbound£>d contempt for the
almo:'t iwnmparahly puny, and inunensc1y less
g-iftt·d atlt'!ilbnts upon him, and of him,
who, in" h:tt•Ycr dory II!I'Y are decked, derive it
from him. I :.1l11dP, :-.ir. f,> the doctrine of <!!01n::
that :.:•·Jwrally ill-undC'rstood, and con-
Sl'IJUr·ntly, JH'I'\t'l'tl'U UOctrine-ill Understood and
perverted it be. if the errors upon this subject,
transmitted from writer to writer, he implicitly
followed as leading to truth. In your excellent
"1\fANUAl..," a work u.:hiclt I beg to recommend
to tlte attentive, and most serious perusal, of tlwse
u·lw trislt to fumislt lltemselvcs u:it/, tl1e 1·eal, the
pure priuriplt's tif Astrology, divested of the dross
of antiquity, and the errors of superstition-you
contro,·ert the doctrinf', and oppose it by experience
" Some writers imagine, tl1at Plaucts near tile Sun,
are rendered thereby weak and unfortunate; this
Digitized by Coogle
()56
is, a!' far a:-: the author's experience leads him to
judge, hy no means ,;,e case, unle:-:s other
should give testimony thereto: indeed, it is quite
evident, that many Planets within GO zodiacal
degrees of the Sun, are typical of an eminent
name."-MA!\t'AL OF AsTROLOGY,p. 80.
Now, sir, what. is combustion? It is the situation of
a Planet wit bin 8 deg:rees of the Sun: it is therefore
the absorption of the of the Planet, by the im-
mense}y snperior effttl;!,·en('e of the luminary. It
i!', in few p!ain words, the Sun's outshining a Planet
that is in conjunction 'Yith him. But it is afiirmed,
tl1at the Sun in such ca-.es afflicts. I should be
glad to know lww? l!nfortunately for the sup-
porters of this allc;:,;\1 ;Pn, they have nothing to
substitute for arg:unwnt, l:11t the mere i'pse di.t·ii of
this author and that . S(lme rea(lcr here gi\'es a
j,;d.-e of thP lwad, anti though alarnwd
for the fak of authority, l1P is to rctr(>;\t
before innovation, :<-tron1-dy defended "· ith the
weapons of ar;!;ument, and accoutred in the
of truth, and driYen to seek lum in some holt'
or conwr of supl·rstition. 1 allinn, sir, tlwt tla:
Sun cannot h.'J 1wI ure, aud tltcnj'ure, cannot by his
conjunction '!/Jlicl. Thong·h the Sun is not a po"'i-
tive, it is a ur,!_!.·atire fortune; that is, it does not
of ilse{l-it does not afflict. Be-
cause, in itself, it has neither any positi,·ely good,
nor any lmd quality; th<'retore it has now
to impart, and is I ht-ref()rf' fortunate. The
good or cril of the Sun is, th<'n, like that of the
J\1 oon and J\lercnry, derimtive. \Vhy 1
these three, if unconnected with the rest of the
lu:an'nly orhs, or with themselves, hy aspect, arr
Digitized by Coogle
657
good or e\'il only from their position in the celes-
tial good or evil not being in them-
selves, hut derived to them from the heavenly
house; for, the reader l•now, that the houses
are in their nature good or e\ il. If, sir, they he
connected by aspect, the or therefrom.
emanates from the !'pecie:-; of a!-<pcct, mul from the
nature t!f tltc P/anrl, g:ood or had. They are there-
fore good or evil, the of the nature of
the Stars they bcholtl, in nddition to the good or
evil dcrired from hou;':e and a-.:pe<.'t. Tue .Sun,
then, a:-; wt·ll a:-; the 1\l oon and ;\I ct·cury, is a pOlcer-
ful recipi1·11t of the \irtue and iutiueuce of the
Planets, with which it is tied in the bonds of celes-
t.ial configuration.
In ag-reement \\ith tlw:-;c prin('iples, the conjnnc-
Lion of <'r 'lf. with the is a union remarkaLiy
and replete with eminent portt·nt...:-a .
friew!lg union, ha...:(•d U}'PH af1t·ction:'.', at:d the cor-
dial of ht>nc\olent ofl.lcc;-;-a union of
nature, of \irtliC', and influeuce. ..tlj/lir'led! no;
neither nor nor any other star, J:, .! , or Jcl,
can lJc aAlickd hy Leing in the immediate presence
of the sovereign. How can either 'lf. or Q, for
instance, be deteriorated by the Sun? }.'or its
nature does not, by its close al'sociation, undergo
any change. True, its light is obscw·ed. But, sir,
the Yirtue, or the intluence, or what appellation
soever rna)' be attached to it, which makes one Star
aforlune, and another an infortnnc, docs not, J ap-
prehend, con!'ist in light; if it does, tlte Sun attd
·Moon ougltt to he fortunes; .decidedly, and incon-
ceivably g-reater fortunes thnn 9 and 'll.. So then,
the contact of the with a Planet is not injuri-
4 0
Digitized by Coogle
ous to that Planet; and in a 1Vativity, the o 0
or is an argument, an incontestible argument,
of exceedingly good fortune.
Doubtless, the inquiry will be started, that though
a Planet accompani.Jd by the Sun is not substan-
tial(IJ prejudiced, yet, is uot tlte obscurati01t of its
LIGHT, an n;tfliction? Put, sir, the question, in
other "'onh:, Is not the splendour of the " king of
Jay" an evil, if it absorbs that of a Planet? Is not
inferior light prefemhle to immenl':ely superior?
Ancl the ab:.;urdity of the question is as palpable as
the light of the tliumal luminary. But and 11,
united to the Sun, are more fortunate, though their
g-lory is infinitely surpassed hy his, than if they
wel'e tlistmited, or than if they hore some other
fl'iendly relation to him. The Smi has stamped
upon him theit· image, for they hare transferred
their virtue an<l power, and thei1· effects are dis-
played hy the Sun in a most splendid, and in a day-
light manner. Operating by themsdves, their re-
1-'Ults would haYc been comparatively private, and
conHned "·ithin a ual'row sphere: operating through
the medium of tlw Sun, they work publicly and
eminently; tlwit· glory sltines forth in his; they
elevatf' the native, brill.!:!; him out t'' public view,
and secure po\\er and imperishable t:.une. Need I
attach a \\'ell, then, it is this: that I have
considered the d 0 or 2, in the abstract.
The obscuration of the light of a Planet, in
conjunction with the Su.n, has also in Jl}orarl)
an analogical import. The mode of
reasoning is this : as when a Planet is in 6 with
0, g:lory lost; lw is not seen as though he
were not; so the person or thing, signified l>y it,
Digitized by Coogle
6.)9
is obscured, is dead, or it is secret. .Again, if 0
signified the querent, and some honourable office,
then, supposing ad. cS 0, as is going towa)ids
the Sun, so the office is progressing towards the
qnerent. But suppose ruled the ascendant, and
0 the second house, then as is hidden in the
surpassing splendour of 0, so the querent would
be greatly reduced in pecuniary circumstances.
I remain, your constant Reader, ·
IsAAC SuGDEN.
Bradford, Yorksltire,
Feh. 16th, 1831.
- ..·---·-------------
TBB B.BD BAB.R'.
As I have no doubt my readers will feel partic':l-
larly interested, in every thing at all connected with
the fate of the persons whose Horoscopes are given
in this work, I beg leave to point out to their notice,
a work published by Mr. BENNETT, entitled," Tlte
Red Barn;" which, written by a masterly band,
details every particular connected with Corder, the
murderer, whose Horoscope is-given in this work.·
Vide page 223 of The Familiar Astrologer.
Digitized by GoogIe
FATAL HOROSCOPES.
(j 22 53
e
'lt. 10 59
:Xo. V.
DEBOlt.\Il RA \'EN,
Of'fvher 21st, 18'23,
tJurnt to lJratf)
TO Tim EDITOR OF THE FA:\IILIAR ASTROLOGER.
SIR,
The a\Jove figure I crectcrl for a child, which, as Clerk of the I
baptized and burled. Thin It would be of some sen-ice, to see whether
the dreadful accident with the rules of the Science, which, accordin«
to my weak judgment, I think it does in a very remarkable manner. It is
singular, that the night previous to the accident, I saw In a drt"&m the boa11e
in a complete flame of fire: uow, what can we uy to thole peraonswbo make
a laugh tl dreams, as well u at Astrology? but I know, by sad
there Is truth In both, and no man shall persuade me to the contrary. Tbe
drt>am and the occurrence is a fact whbh can be proved on oath.
I remain, your constant reader,
Eanttllarr, SNjfoUt. E. Cn.uTON.
Digitized by Google
661
According to the Earl of Essex's Manuscript.
Of"
DI E.\)lS.
EXAMPLE
:::::: :i =(I
:: :: ::. .:.
.. .. .. ..
.. ..
..
..
.. ..
..
This i• a aign qf
JJJont!J, Friuu.l•, ancl
mer·r!J Fortu11c.
In one part of the from which the
Royal Book of Fate was compiled, the method of
"foretelling by the cogitayciones of the nyghte," or,
in other words, the Interpretations of Dreams by
Geomancy, is set forth ; from which the following
Oracle is extracted.
In using this Oracle, the reader will observe,
that it is the figure in the 9th house of IM scheme,
from wlunce tlt.e judgment is derived. Therefore,
when any Dream is resolved, let the Student cast
the figure of Geomancy, and look to the emblem
which is in the 9th house, and tbe following pages
Digitized by Coogle
will give the interpretation. In this manner of
judgment, neither the judge nor the witnesses are
deemed of any power, to alter or nullify the figure
in the 9th. The reasons for this mode of judgment
are given at full length in the Manuscript, but are
u:o;eless here to recapitulate.
Oracle 1.
0
'Vhen 0 °0
0 0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 2.
0 0
'Vhen °0 °
0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 3.
c 0
\\'hen ° 0
0 0
0 0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 4.
0
'Vhen
0
is in the 9th
house.
0
0
0 0
0 0
This is a sign of money, friends. and
merry fortune.
0 0
0 "
0
0
The vision is right fortunate; bnt in
gold, silver, and goods, it is best. It
predicts also, joy in some unexpected
gift, or a friend.
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
The dream tells chiefly of news.
The absent will return: the signs also
read moderately in good and lucky
fortune; and oft-times the dreamer
dwells (on voyages) ncar waters.
0
0
0
0
The interpretation of the dream is
chiefly of some impending misfortune.
hard to be eschewed ; and it speak:oo
also of private enemies, perchance
also of a rival.
Digitized by Coogle
Oracle .'>.
00
When °
o0 d
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 6.
0 0
When ° 0
0
0 Q
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 7.
0
When ° 0
0 0
0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 8.
0 0
When 0 °0
0 0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 9.
0
When ° 0
00
0 0
is in the 9th
house.
663
0 0
0
0
00
Read this, to speak of dealings in
papers, charts, books, and writings,
and moreover of singular or divers
emplovments.
00
0 0
0
00
Interpret this to be a fortunate
sign; the dreamer will have his cogi-
tations granted ; but oft:.times he
buries a friend.
0
o e
e o
0
Take care an enemy does not in-
jure thee. Perchance something may
happenwherein a prison is uppermost.
The sign tells of some cause of a
sorrowful kind.
0 0
0
00
0 0
This dream is a sign of anger, tu-
mults,ill-blood,and deceitful advisers.
Be on thy guard-evil is at hand.
0
00
00
0 0 .
This is a right merry and pleasant
dream : it tells of carousals, jovial
meetings, friends, and banquets ; and
of good news at hand.
Digitized by Coogle
t
Oracle 10.
0 0
When ° 0
0 0
0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 11.
0 0
\Vhen 0 °0
0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 12.
e
When c ::>
0
0 0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 13.
0 0
"'hen
0
is in the 9th
house.
Oracle 14.
0
When °
0
0 0
is in the 9th
house.
(i(j l
0 0
0 0
c 0
0
Oft-times when the dreamer casts
up this sign, he is unlucky, liable to
sorrow, prone to some restraint, and
some friend may die.
. 0 0
0
0 0
0
The dream is felicitous: im·itations
and various signs of pressnts or gifts
follow. The dreamer is assuredly
about to change his present estate to
advantage.
0
0 0
0
0 0
The dreamer may well look out for
some deceitful person near his habit-
ation. And this may also, perchance,
forehode a loss.
0 0
0
0
0
The dream is foretold to be pros-
perouF\ and lucky ; fortune has some
advantage in store for him who ask5,
and there will be a journey follow.
0
0
0
0 0
Either this vision has no meaning,
or it forewarns too truly of mis-adven-
tures.
Digitized by Coogle
Oracle 15.
0
"'-hen °0 c:
0
as in the 9th
bouse.
Oracle 16.
0
'Yhen °
e o
0
is in the 9th
bouse.
(j(jJ
0
0 0
0
0
This is usually a sign of wedlock to
the single, and of utfspring to the
already united in matrimony. And
moreover it is various ways propitious
enough.
0
e
0 0
0
Usually this forebodes angry and
vehement words, quarrells and irk-
some passages in the dreamer's life
, and fortunes.
l\f11ny similar Oracles to the abovE>, are to be found in the Earl of Esse:r.•s
.1\1:-iS.• which will be inserted in the New Series of Tu Jf1trolager of WU.
Century, which the author is preparing for the Preas.
--·...- - ------ -----
A SINGVLAR PROPHECY.
The following curious Prophecy of the 1fith cen-
tury, is worthy notice at this eventful period.
In the latter age,
Cruel Battles will rage :
The Star of the North,
Will In anger come forth.
A goodly Kin!f,
Will J brinlf.
The Lion of War,
Will roar frnm
Then mark wf!Jl lht• 8llfns.
In the Sun pd and the Mooa;
By the111 shalt thou tell
Of England's doom I
.(p
o,9itized bvGoogle
666
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 11.
Nativity of 1llr. RICHARD DOLBEN,
Student i11 Astrology.
NATUS
January lOth, 1802,
11 h. 30m. P.M.
Lot.
55 57 56.
PLANETS' DECLINATION.
0 21 ts7 s.
l> 9 tsO N.
10 Sts N.
lL 10-40 N.
t 23 47 s.
23 16 s.
24 14 s.
, 2 vs.
Digitized by Google
uu7
TO TilE EDlTOR Ol:o' THE •'AMILIAR ASTROLOGER.
Beverle!J, Jan. 1831.
DEAR &tR,
In a former letter, which I sent to you some time
ago, I requested you to be so kind as to send me
my Nativity, for January 10, 1802. Since that time
I have had access to an Ephemeris, and have set
down aR on the lst page; and if you think that the
insertion of it in your Familiar Astrologer will
be of any benefit to Science, you are at liberty
so to do.
Since I have come to reside at Beverley, as a
Schoolmaster, I have invariably advocated the truth
of Astrology, and through me the Science has been
brought into notice, and your Prophetic Messenger
ha.;; had a good sale here, and also in the neighbour-
hood. I am very well known in many parts of the
East Riding, and am, what is generally called, a
PUBLIC CHARACTER, although not on account of
Astrology solely, but on account of the public
situations which I hold, and the general knowledge
which 1 possess of Natural Philosophy.
1 am, Sir,
Your obedient servant, ,
RicHARD DoLBEN.
The author, wishing to give as much publicity
as possible to the Science and its votaries, has, for
that purpose, inserted the foregoing Horoscope,
which bears the undoubted marks of
Digitized by Coogle
uub
Among the qualities attribul.cd to the eye in some
and o.:ce unircr;-;ally credited, was the
power of work e\ il awl enchantment by its
glances. The opt•J':ttion of the H rutl CUt'• (once
so denominated,) upon mankind, as being a pretty
general belief in past times, has been recorded by
many writers. that its effects ba,·e,
according to some historians, been so powerful as to
affect the mind of the individual upon whom they
fell; that eren ai'i('r the triumphants''
have hePn made :-ick in by the evil eyes of
lookPrs on. In Enropean in
Parlier thP fear of the fascination of chil-
dren hy an "eYil eye," made nurses l'ery careful
how they permitted to look upon them.
In Spain it \ras called mal de o)o$, and any one who
was :-:u.;;pected of kni1•g an "e\'il eye," while re-
garding- a child, forced to say, while observing
the intlmt, "God it." This notion, howeler,
is far more ancieut than the name of England. The
<tPil Roman•: g-are credit to il, when they
were in t!t(·ir high c::recr of g·lury. \\'e find, in
manv ancif'nt writl'l':-", to the malicious in-
1ltH'IH'e of \Yltat tl:f'y call t "\'icious" or "e\'il
eye.'' Tl;cocritlt:-", llor;tcc, Pn:-:ins, Ju,·enal, and
other:". allude to it in a \\:1)' not to he mistaken in
it ,;; alliaEce ,,·ith the later I hale
n<"rt'l' hf'anl wh:1t charms were used by our fore-
fatlwrs or the ancit=>nts the influence of the
"t·\'il f>Jc-· ·
Digitized by Coogle
Vervnin aud dill
Hinder witches from their will-
was, we know, a sovereign receipt against the
daughters of the Lady of Endor. Lilly has the
following chm·m to obviate the effect of an "evil
tongue," which, for sake, I will mention.
"Take unguentem populeum, vervain, and lt!fpericon,
and put a reu bot iron into ·it. Anoint the back-
bone, or wear it OJl the breast.'' Notwithstanding
this sovereign mode of guarding against an "evil
tongue," the evil eye seems to ha,·e been as much
proofagainst the wisdom ofour forefathers as against
our own. It would therefore, in the language of
the olden time, be an "insult to Providence," if,
after the experience ofour ancestors in such matters,
we presumed to attempt the discovery of an efficient
antidote.
In our times the " evil eye" still though
its operation may not be so much a matter of general
attention as formerly. It works still, in a manner
equaUy as injurious as when the "irradiations ·or
the visual orb were supposed to be solely confined
to the subtle operations of magic. The "evil eye,"
in modern days, is observed to be not less dangerous
in its consequences to its possessor, than to those
whom it fixes upon as victims of its malignity. He
smarts in heart-consuming anguish while he regards
the happiness of a neighbour, the success of an ac-
quaintance in an honourable calling, or the hard
struggle and 'Derited reward of literary assiduity.
No rank of life is beyond the glance of the " evil
. eye;·• no talent mailed against its deadly malignity,
no robe of innocence so pure as to conceal the
wearer from its blighting observation. The sensi-
Digitized by Coogle
670
of gPnins, with whatevet· art or science they
may be linked, are too often scorched Ly its fatal
g·aze. lt ulandlt'" c!Jeek of beauty, dries up
the :-;prin:;:-; or charity, extinguishes the noble:;t
,., ititers the blossoms of the sou\,
and ren<lns i11dill'en·ut the glorious triumphs
of virtuous age, by blasting the honours due to its
protr;wted perseverance in g;oodness. The ::-uhjects
of Yatlu·k, in the terrible hall of Eulis, had a heart
of self-wasting fire, which was <lisclose<l on putting
aside the vest. The man with the "evil eye" ex-
hibits the burning heart through the organ of vision.
Ilis glances explain what is passing within, as well
as if the rius an<l pericardium were pellucid crystal,
or the transparent summer atmosphere.
The "man with the evil eye" always looks ob-
liquely at society. His tongue may be silvery
smooth, tipped with vehet, dropping honey, like
l\e:-:tor·s, though blackness he beneath. He cannot
concf'al the glances that shoot insiduously toward::o
tJ,,. ohjt·cts of his hatred-glances, tha·t, were they
of a (as he "'ould thPy wcrf',) must
make perish all against whom they are directed.
I\o glance from the could be more fatal in
rPality than his glance, had he his wish. To pro-
\'oke the latent vengeance of the " evil eye,·• it is
a sufficient oflence to he fortunate : success is a
hrand on the forehead of another in its sight. The
lago of the "evil eye·' may ha,·e four
:-.enS('S of the five such as the he:-:t mig-ht :-:elect for
themselves; hut with him, thf'se only administe1 to
the !'OVf'reign lord of Yision, and exist suhordinate
to thf' "aspect malign." The man of the "evil
eye'' his heart ignite with tenfold violence when
Digitized by Coogle
671
excellence of any kind meets due reward. Who
but the man of the "evil eye" has, in hi8 own
opinion, a right to be fortunate in industry ?-who
but he has a lawful claim to the suffrages of soC.iety
and the crown of reward? The bonds of
are melted before him ; human sympathies dried
into dust; envy and f'elfishness furnish fuel to the
heart, and malignant flames rush from the " evil
eye" with terrible intensity. Lord of the ascendant,
the ''evil eye'' makes reason its nssal, and never
allows the claims of self or self-interest to be
balanced against common l'mse or ohligation. 18
the object regarded an artist? he may be a far su-
perior one to him of the "evil eye;" is he an
orator? he may far excel him'; or, is he an author,
and and patronized by
the public? it matters not: the baser passions have
put down reason, and drown{'(! e\·en a fool's degree
of reflection. The "evil eye" can see nothing but
what is tinged with its own green hue, and no longer
discriminates colour or form. The result is a con-
sequence mathematically correct-true to the very
point: emy and hatred the guiding star oi
the he pester society ,,·ith his diatribes?
-he mingles in them, to second the desires of his
heart, the venom of the snake, with the stratagem
of the fox, and the reasoning of the ostrich, which
hides its head alone from the hunter and f.<tncies
itself unseen. He has no l"ight btit for the objects .
of his malice, and loses the view of his own interest
tn the eagerness of ocular \'engeance. Is the owner
of the "evil eye" a trader ?-he looks fatal thing8
to his industrious neighbour's credit; is the owner
a female ?-she glances away her friend's virtue.
Digitized by Coogle
(ji;l
L'\Stly, the owner of the "evil eye" is an universal
enemy, whom man cannot trust, time marks out for
retribution, and-fiends alone can envy.
If society still hold one man to whom this alleged
power, anciently attributed to the organ of vision,
remains in action, let him be watched. The "evil
eye" cannot be mistaken: unsteady as the ocean
waves, it rolls around and about in fevered rest-
lessness ; now extended, it exhibits its orb clear of
the lid, surrounded by the white, in angry convul·
sion-now half closed, it questions with
and shallow cunning-now calm and dead as Lethe,
it represses the pale beam of its malice, and with
saintly bearing, seems piety itself, the herald of
cordiality, the star of friendship and rectitude. But
it is all the charmed disguise of the magician, that
he may make his spells the surer. The u tbU tJ)t
tfS fJtill tf)t fJ41Ut: its Tophetic beams are less
visible, only from the hope that they may more
effectually operate on the objects of their malignity.
May the readers of the Familiar Astrologet· ever
be from its hated So prays
their friend and well-wisher,
R _
aplwel.
Digitized by Coogle
673
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 12
I. F
II .A L z,
Born the 27th Jfarch, 1821,
10 minutes before 11
o'Clock, A.u.
am.
I take the liberty to lelld JO• the Corerolllf NaU•lty, far lDHrtioa ia you
nl•abJe papa, u I deem It nry aurprlllnr, and worthy :roarrader'• notice.
Tbe yoatb II bora 1M irir to grMt -ul, and he Ia remarkably quick Ia
r.-tti., m.ch 10, that lmlfht ..rely proaoaace him tbe clennat child
Ia EaclaDd. Tbe .tfftroloJicGl reuou ror which yoa will readily perceln.
To &116 BdUtw qftM Fa•Ular
4 Q
I remain, yoan, &c.
T.INc&
NaW BOND ITREI':T.
Digitized by Coogle
t.i74
irib' t"t
Upou which the Tale of Guy Jlla•rtering was founded.
BY TJJE Al'TIIOR OF WA.VERLBY.
The following tale was originally told by an old
servant of my father's, an excellent old Highlander,
without a fault, unless a preference to mountain-
dew over less potent liquors be accounted one. IIe
believed as firmly in tlte story as in any part of his
creed. A grave and elderly person, according to
old John MacKinlay's account, while travelling in
the wilder parts of Galloway, was benighted. \Vith
difficulty he found his way to a country-seat, where,
with the hospitality of the time and country, he was
readily admitted. The owner of the house, a gen-
tleman of good fortune, was much struck by the
reverend appearance of his guest, and apologised to
him for a certain degree of confusion which must
unavoidably attend his reception, and could not
escape his eye. The lady of the house was,
said, confined to her apartment, and on the point
of making her. husband a father for the first time-,
though they had been ten years married. At such
an emergency, the laird said he feared his guest
might meet with some apparent neglect. 'Not so.
si1·,' said the strang·er, 'my wants are few. and easily
supplied; and I trust the present circumstances
may even afford an opportunity of shewing my gra-
titude for your Let me only request
that I may be informed of tlte e.mct miuute lif 1'/ie
Digitized by Coogle
b7S '.J
I
birth ; and I hope to be able to put you in posses-
sion of some particulars, which may influence in an
important manner, the future prospects of the child
now about to come into this busy and changeful
world. I will not conceal from you that,I am skil-
ful in understanding and interpreting the movements
of those planetary bodies which exert their in-
fluences on the destiny of mortals. It is a science
which I do not practise for reward, for I have a
competent estate, and only use the knowledge I
possess for the benefit of those in whom I feel an
interest.' The laird bowed in respect and gratitude,
and the stranger was accommodated with an apart-
ment which commanded an ample view of the astral
regions. The guest spent a part of the night in
ascertaining the position of the heavenly bodies,
and calculating their probable influence ; until at
length the result of his observations induced him to
send for the father, and conjure him in the most
solemn manner to cause the assistants to retard the
birth, if practicable, it but for five minute1.
The answer declared this to be impossible ; and
almost in the instant that the was re-
turned, the father and his guest were made ac-
quainted \\'ith the birth of a boy. The ·astrologer
on the morrow met the party, who gathered around
the breakfast-table with looks so grave and ominous,
as to alarm the fears of the father, who had hitherto
exulted in the prospects held out by the birth of an
heir to his ancient property, failing which. event it
must have passed to a distinct branch of the family.
He hastened to draw the stranger into a private
room. ' I fear from your looks,' eaid the father,·
' that you have bad tidings to tell me of my young
Digitized by GoogIe
()76
stranger; perhaps God will resume the blessing be
bas bestowed ere he attains the age of manhood, or
perhaps he is destined to be unworthy of the affec-
tion which we are naturally disposed to devote to
our off..,pring.' 'Neither the one nor the other,'
answered the stranger; 'unless myjudgment greatly
err, the infant will survive tbe years of minority, and
in temper and disposition will prove all that his
parents can wish. But with much in his horoscope
which promises many blessings, tltet·e is one evil
influence strongly predominant, which threatens to
subject him to an unhallowed and unhappy tempt-
ation about the time when he shall attain the age
of twenty-one, which period, the constellations in-
timate, will be the crisis of his fate. In what shape,
or with what peculiar urgency, this temptation may
beset him, my art cannot discover.' 'Your know-
ledge, then, can afford us no defence,' said the anx-
ious father, 'again:-:t the threatened evil1' 'Pardon
me,' answered the stranger, 'it can. The
of the constellations is powe1:ful: but He u•ho made
tlte !telwens is mure poweiful titan all, if his aid be
invoked i1t $incerity and truth. You oughtto dedi·
cate this boy to the immediate service of his Maker,
with as much sincerity as Samuel was devoted to
the worship in the Temple by his parents. You
must regard him as a being separated from the rest
of the world. In childhood, in boyhood, you must
surround him with the pious and virtuous, and pro-
tect him to the utmost of your power from the
l'igbt or hearing of any crime, in word or action.
He must be educated in religious and moral prin
ciples of the strictest description. Let him not
enter the world, lest he learn to partake of its follies,
Digitized by Coogle
677
or perhaps of its vices. In short, .preserve him as
far as possible from all sin, save that of which too
great a portion belongs to all the fallen race o{
Adam. With the approach of his twenty-first birth-
day, comes the crisis of his fate. If he survive it,
be wiU be happy and prosperous on earth, and a
chosen vessel amoni those elected for heaven. But
if ·it be otAerwile'-The astrologer stopped and
sighed deeply. 'Sir,' replied the parent, still more
alarmed than before, ' your words are so kind, your
advice so serious, that 1 will pay the deepest atten-
tien to your behests; but can you not aid me farther
in this most important concern. Believe me, 1 will
net be ungrateful.' 'I require and deserve no gra-
titude for doing a good action,' said the stranger;
' in egpecial for contributing all that lies in my
power to save from an abhorred fate the harmless
Infant to whom, under a singular conjunction of
planets, last night gave life. There is my address;
you may write to me from time to time concerning
the progress of the boy in religieus knowledge. If
he be bred up as I advise, I think it will be best
that he come to my house at the time when the fatal
and decisive period approaches, ·that is, before he
has attained his twenty-first year complete. If you
send him such as I desire, I humbly trust·that God
will protect his own, tbroughwhateverstrongtempt..
ation his fate may subject him to.' ;He then gav.e his
host his address, which.was a country-seat- near a
post1town in the south of England, and bid him an
aifecti9nate farewell. The mysterious stranger de-
parted ; but his words remained impressed upon
the mind of the anxious parent. He lost his lady
w hile,his boy was still in infancy This calamity, I
Digitized by Coogle
(i78
think, bad been predicted bythe astrologer; and thus
his confidence, which, like most people ofthe period,
he had freely given to the science, was riveted and
confirmed. The utmost care, therefore, was taken
to carry into effect the severe and almost ascetic
plan of education which the sage had enjoined. A
tutor of the strictest principles was employed to
superintend the youth's education; he was sur-
rounded by domestics of the most established
character, and closely watched and looked after by
the anxious father himself. The years of infancy,
childhood, and boyhood, passed as the father could
have wished. A young Nazarene could not have
been bred up with more rigour. AU that was evil
was withheld from his observation-he only heard
what was pure in precept-he only witnessed what
was worthy in practice. But when the boy began
to be lost in the youth, the attentive father saw
cause for alarm. Shades of sadness, which gradu-
a11y assumed a darker character, began to overcloud
the young man's temper. Tears, whieh seemed
involuntary, broken sleep, moonlight wanderings,
and a melancholy for which he could assign no
reason, seemed to threaten at once his bodily health
and the stability of his mind. The astrologer was
consulted by letter, and returned for answer, that
this fitful state of mind was but the commencement
of his trial, and that the poor youth must undergo
more and more desperate struggles with the evil
that assailed him. There was no hope C\f remedy,
save that he shewed steadiness of mind in the study
of the Scriptures. ' He suffers,' continued the
letter of the 8age, ' from the awakening of those
harpies, the which have slept with him as
Digitized by Coogle
61U
w1th others, till the period of life which he has now
attained. Better, far better, that they torment him
by ungrateful cravings, than that he should have to
repent having satiated them by criminal indul-
gence.' The dispositions of the young man were
so excellent, that he combated, by reason and reli-
gion, the fits of gloom which at times overcast his
mind ; and it was not till he attained the com-
mencement of his twenty-first year, that they as-
sumed a character which made his father tremble
for the consequences. It seemed as if the gloomiest
and most hideous of mental maladies was taking
the form of religious despair. Still the youth was
gentle, courteous, affectionate, and submissive to
his father's will, and resisted with all his power the
dark suggestions which were breathed into his
mind, as it seemed, by emanation of the Evil
Principle, exhorting him, like the wicked wife of
Job, to curse God and die. The time at length
arrived when he was to perform what was then
thought a long and s.omewhat perilous journey, to
the mansion of the early friend wllo llad calculated
his nativity. His road lay through several places
of interest, and he enjoyed the amusement of tra-
velling more than he thought would have
been possible. Thus he did not reach the place of
his destination till noon, on the day preceding his
birth-day. It seemed as if be had been carried
away with an unwonted tide of pleasurable sensa-
tion, so as to forget, in some degree, what his father
had communicated concerning the purpose of his
journey. He halted at length before a
but solitary old mansion, to which he was directed
as the abode of his father's friend. The servants
Digitized by Coogle
GGO
who came to take his horse told him he had been
expected for two days. He was led into a study,
where the stranger, now a venerable old man, who
bad been his father's guest, met him with a shade of
displeasure as well as gravity on his brow. 'Young
man,' he said ' wlterifore so slow on a journe!f of
suck importance?' 'I thought,' replied the guest,
blushing and looking downward, 'that there was
no harm in travelling slowly and satisfying my
curiosity, providing I could reach your residence by
this day ; for such was my father's charge.' 'You
were to blame,' replied the sage, 'in lingering, con-
sidering that the avenger of blood was pressing on
your footsteps. But you are come at last, and we
will hope for the best, though the conflict in which
you are to be engaged will be found more dreadful
the longer it is postponed. But first accept of such
refreshments as nature requires to satisfy, but not
to pamper, the appetite.' The old man Jed the way
into a summer parlour, where a frugal meal was
placed on the table. As they sat down to the
board, they were joined hy a young lady about
eighteen years of age, and so lovely, that the sight
of her carried off the feelings of the young stranger
from the peculiarity and mystery of his own Jot,
and riveted his attention to every thing she did or
said. She spoke little, and it was on the most
serious subjects. She played on the harpsichord
at her father's command, but it was hymns with
which she accompanied the instrument. At length,
on a sign from the sage, she left the room, turning
on the young stranger, as she departed, a look of
inexpressible anxiety and interest. The old man
then conducted the youth to his study, and con·
Digitized by Coogle
68J
Tersed wtth him upon the most important points of,
religion, to sati:tfy himself .that he could render a
reason for the faith that was m him. During the
examination, the youth, in spite of himself, felt his
mind occasionally wander, and his recollections go
in quest of the beautiful vision who had shared
their meal at noon. On such occasions, the astro-
loger looked grave, and shook his head at this re-
laxation of attention ; · yet, on the whole. he was
pleased with the youth's replies. At sunset the
young man was made to take the bath ; and, having
done so, he directed to attire himself in a robe,
!'!Omewhat like that worn by Armenians, hal·ing his
long hair combed down on his shoulders, and his
neck, hands, ancl feet bare. In this guise he waR
conducted into a remote chamber totally devoid of
furniture, excepting a lamp, a chair, and a table, on
which lay a Bible. ' Here,' said the astrologer, ' 1
•nut leave you alone, tu pass most critical period
nfyour life. IC you can, by recollection of the gr<'at
truths of which we have spoken, repel the attacktf
which will be marle on your courage and your prin-
ciples, you have nothing to apprehend. But the
trial will be severe and arduous.' His features then
assumed a pathetic lilolemnity, the tears stood in his
eyes, and his voice faltered with emotion as he said,
' Dear child, at whose coming into the world I fore-
saw this fatal trial, may God give thee grace to
support it with I' The young man was
left alone; and hardly did he find himself so, when,
like a swarm of demons, the recollection of all hiR
sins of omission and commission, rendered even
more terrible by the scrupulousness with which he
had het>n educated, rushed on his mind, and, like
-t R
Digitized by Coogle
682
furies armed with fiery scourges, seemed determined
to drive him to despair. As he combated these
horrible recollections with distracted feelings, but
with a resolved mind, he became aware that his
arguments were answered by the sophistry of ano-
ther, and that the dispute was no longer confined
to his own thoughts. The Author of Evil was
present in the room with him in bodily shape, and,
potent with spirits of a melancholy cast, was im-
pressing upon him the desperation of his state, and
urging suicide as the readiest mode to put an end
to his sinful career. Amid his errors, the pleasure
he had taken in prolonging his journey unnecessa-
rily, and the attention which he had bestowed on
the beauty of the fair female, when his thoughts
ought to have been dedicated to the religious dis-
course of her father, were set before him in the
darkest colours; and he was treated as one who,
having sinned against light, was, therefore, de-
servedly left a prey to the Prince of Darkness. As
the fated and influential hour rolled on, the terrors
of the hateful Presence grew more confounding to
the mortal senses of the victim, and the knot of
the accursed sophistry became more inextricable in
appearance, at least to the prey whom its meshes
surrounded. He had not power to explain the as-
surance of pardon whi-ch he continued to assert, or
to name the victorious name in which he trusted.
But his faith did not abandon him, though he
lacked for a time the power of expressing it. 'Say
what you will,' was his answer to the Tempter; 'I
know there is as much betwixt the two boards of
this Book as can insure me forgiveness for roy trans·
g•·ession!'l, and saft'ty for my soul.' As he spoke,
Digitized by Google
the clock, which announced the lapse of the fatal
hour, was heard to strike. The speech and intel-
lectual powers of the youth were instantly and
fully restored; he burst forth into prayer, and ex-
pressed in the most glowing terms, his reliance on
the truth, and on the Author of the gospel. The
demon retired, yelling and discomfited ; and the
old man, entering the apartment, with tears con-
gratulated his guest on his victory in the fated
struggle. The young man was afterwards married
to the beautiful maiden, the first sight of whom had
made such an impression on him, and tht-y were
consigned over at the close of the story to domestic
happiness.
*•• Those or nry readers who are not In the po11e11lon ot the New Edition
ol Waterleyl'fnell, •Ul fetid Qla eelebratell a..-u wlah
Jreal pleaaurt'.
It will be seen from the following extract, that
Lawson, the author of the Hut«y,of North CaNJ-
Iina, believed in witchcraft and magic. Alluding
to an Indian doctor, he says-
" Some affirm that there is a smell of brimstone
in the cabins when they are conjuring, which I can-
not contradict. Which way it may come I will not
argue, but proceed to a relatioa or two, which I
have from a great many persons, aad some of them
worthy of credit.
Digitized by Coogle
tiB-t
• • • • •
" It was three days before he (the doctor) could
arrive, and he appeared (when he came) to be a
very little man, and so old that his hair was as
white as ever was seen. When he approached the
sick King, he ordered a bowl of water to be brought
him, and three chunks of wood, which was imme-
diately done. Then he took the water, and set it
by him, and spirted a little on him, and with the
three pieces of wood he made a place to stand on,
whereby he was raised higher, (he being a very
low-statured man); he then took a string of Ron-
oak, which is the same as a string of small beads;
this he held by one end, between his fingers; the
other end touched the King's stomach, as he stood
on the logs. Then he began to talk, and at length the
bystanders thought really that they heard somebody
talk to him, but saw no more than what first came
in. At last, this string of Leads, which hung thus
perpendicular, turned up as an eel would do, and
without any motion of his, they came all up (in a
lump) under his hand, and hung so for a consider-
able time, he never closing his hand, and at length
returned to their pristine length and shape, at
which the spectators were much frightened. Then
he told the company, that he would recover, and
that his distemper would remove into his leg; all
which happened to be exactly as the Indian doctor
had told. These are matters of fact, and I can, to
this day, prove the truth thereof by several sub-
stantial evidences, that are men of reputation, there
being more than a dozen people present when this
was performed, most of whom are now alive.
" After the bargain was concluded, the Indian
Digitized by GoogIe
685
went into the woods, and brought in both herbs
and roots, of which he made a decoction, and gave
it the man to drink, and had him go to bed, saying,
it should not be long before he came again, which
the patient performed as he was ordered; and the
potion he had administered made him sweat after
the most violent manner that could be, whereby he
smelled very offensively, both to himself and they
that were about him; but in the evening, towards
night, Jack came with a great in his
band alive, which frightened the people almost out
of their senses, and he told his patient that he must
take that to bed with him ; at which the man was
in great consternation, and told the Indian he was
resolved to let no snake come into his bed, for he
might as well die of the he had, as be
killed with the bite of that serpent. To which the
Indian replied, he could not bite him now, nor do
him any harm, for he had taken out his poison teeth,
and shewed him that they were gone. At last with
much persuasion, he admitted the snake's c01opany,
which the Indian put about his middle, and ordered
nobody to take him away upon any account, which
was strictly observed, although the snake girded
him as hard for a great while, as if bad been
drawn in by a belt, which one pulled at with all his
strength. At last the twitches grew weaker
and weaker, till by degrees he felt him not; and
opening the bed, · he '\\as found dead, and the man
thought himself better. The Indian came in the
morning, .md seeing the snake dead, told the man
that his distemper was dead along with that snake,
which proved as he said; for the man 8peedily rc
covered hia health, and became perfectly well."
Digitized by Coogle
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 13.
Nattbtty of a Murbtrtr.
JAMES TAYLOR,
BORN
Jfay 7th, 1786, 4h. A.IIL
BATH.
Digitized by Google
681
TO TilE EDITOR OF TilE FAMILIAR ASTROI.OGER.
SIR,
J send you the Nativity of Jamtl Taylor, a
native of Bath, who was hung for shooting a Coach-
man. merely in a dispute over a game of cards. He
deliberately walked up stairs, brought down a brace
of loaded pistols, shotone person dead, and with the
other weapon fired at &.DDther person who was pre-
.ent. The ball glanced from the edge of a door,
and thus his life was saved. The Horoscope was
sent me by Mr. Borrinsal, a gentleman at Bath, a
atudent in Astrology, exactly u before recited.
He was executed at Taunton, April lOth, 1809.
You will observe, the S•n i1 in (JU4rtilt ad ptll'aUel
lo &l•m, fJIUl in 19JUJrt to Marl, and Caput
Algol in the ascendant. I have only altered the
time given me one minute, therefore the
becomes Hyleg, and consequntJy, &t.,.,. l.o tlw
•id·hetJW:a will prove the fatal ere; which answers
exactly to the period of his execution J This being
a so notorious. will perhaps be wortlay
your acceptance.
J remain, your constant reader,
G SMITI'.
-!"i'g/4 Strtel, Cltelte1lllam.
Digitized by Coogle
What mere assertionwill make any manbelievethat
in one second of time, in one beat of the pendulum
of a clock, a ray of light travels over 192,000 miles,
and would therefore perform the tour of the world
in about the same time that it requires to wink with
our evelids, and in much less than a swift runner
occupies in taking a single stride 1 'Vhat mortal
can be made to believe, without demonstration,
that the Sun is almost a million times larger than
the Earth ? and that, although so remote from us, a
cannon ball shot directly towards it, and maintain-
ing its full speed, would be twenty years in reach-
ing it, it yet affects the Eal·th by its attraction in an
inappreciable instant of time ? Who would not
ask for demonstration, when told that a gnat's
wing, in its ordinary flight, beats many hundred
times in a second? or that there exist animated
and regularly organized beings, many thousands oi
whose bodies laid close together would not extend an
inch? But what are these to the astonishing truths
which modern optical inquiries have disclosed,
which teach us that every point of a medium through
which a ray of light passes, is affected with a suc-
cession of periodical movements, regularly recur-
ring at equal intervals, no less than five hundred
millions of millions of times in a single second !
that it is by such movements, communicated to the
nerves of our eyes, that we see-nay more, that it
is the difference in the frequency of their recurrence
which affects us with the sense of the diversity of
colour; that, for instance, in acquiring the sensa-
Digitized by Coogle
689
tion of redness, onr eyes are affected 482 milliOM
of millions of times ; ofyellowness, S42 milliOn& Of
millions of times ; and of violet, 707 millions of
of times per second. Do not such thingi
sound more like the ravings of madmen,· than the
sober conclusions of people in their waking senses'
They 'are, neYerthe}ess, conclusions to which aUJ
one may most 'certaiBly arrive, who will orily be at
the trouble of examining the chain of reasoning by
which' they have been obtained. · ·
BY A VETERAN.
"1 spent all (save the dawning) of a long day of
hard service, far from the din of European strife,
under the scorching skies of the EaSt. Even amidst
the forests of Nepaul, the name of Buonaparte
sounded like a spell. While his ambition was con•
demned, his genius was admired, his misfortunes
deplored ; often have I wished to encounter him
.face to face; the closest approach, however, that
fortune enabled me to make to him,' was apilgrim-
age to ·his tomb. When at St. Helena, I started
one mornh1g, with a small party of brother officers,
·to survey the spot where the remains of the world's
·agitator are deposited. The peculiarities of the
locality·have been laid the public so often,
4 8
Digitized by Coogle
690
and so amply, on canvass and on paper, that further
description is needless. The character of the
is profound and awful loneliness-a dell girt in by
huge naked hills-not an object of vegetable life to
relieve the general aspect of desertedness, except
the few weeping willows which droop above the
grave. The feeling of solitude is heightened by an
echo, that responds on the ·least elevation of the
voice. With what singular emotions I took my
stand upon the slab, which sheltered the dust of
him for whom the crowns, thrones, and sceptres,
he wrung from their possessors, would of them-
selves have furnished materials for a monument!
There the restless was at rest ; there the Emperor
of the French, King of Italy, Protector of the Con-
federation of the Rhine, Grand Master of the
Legion of Honour, reposed with almost as little
sepulchral pomp, as the humble tenant of a country
church-yard.
'After life's fitful fever ht> sleeps well.'
I withdrew my foot-removed with my handker-
chief the traces it had left upon the stone, and r.rare
a tear to the fate of the exile. I also was a soldier
of fortune-our party quitted the place with de-
jected faces, and scarcely a word was spoken until
we reached out· quarters.
" On the following morning a French frigate
arrived from the Isle of Bourbon, having on board
a regiment of artillery. The oflicers solicited and
obtained permission to pay a tribute of respect to
their old leader's ashes. I accompanied them to the
ground, and rarely have I witnessed enthusiasm
like theirs. On the wav not an eve was drv and
.. • ... t
Digitized by Coogle
GtH
some who had served immediately under 'the
Emperor,' wept aloud._ A.s ..Qe-clrer to
the spot, ·theil.. step becall\e 'harried mtd 'irregular,
hut the moment they saw the tomb, they fonned
two deep, and advan.Qed with uncovered heads,
folded arms, and slow and pensive pace. When
within five or six yards of their destination, they
broke off into single files, and surrounding the
grave, at uniform intervals knelt silently down.
The commander of the frigate, and the others in
succession, according to their rank, then kissed the
slab; when they arose every lip was fixed, every
bosom full. In a few days subsequently, the
officers of both countries met at Soliman's table,
and after dinner the first toast proposed by the
French Commander was, 'The King of England-
three times three.' I really thought that the ' hip
-hip-hurra I' of our ancient enemies '\\'ould never
have an end. An English gentleman returned
thanks, and proposed, ' The memory pf that Great
Warrior, Napoleon Buonaparte.' The pledgewent
solemnly round, each wearing, in honour of' the
mighty dead, a sprig of his guardian willow. The
ev,ening was spent in concord, many patriotic touts
were reciprocated, many good things were amid,
and the blunt sincerity of military friendshjp pre-
sided over our parting." ·
/
.'
/
/
'·
',
'
'
'·
Digitized by Coogle
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 13.
:Nattbity of one w{Jo attiJ a
meatb.
BORN
Sept. 4, 1804, 7"·P.M.
CHELTENHAM,
pied _in March, 1831.
093
TO TRB BDlTOR OF THE FAMILIAR ASTROLOGER.
Sra,
I send you another remarkable example. It is
the Horoscope of a Mr. Tovey, of Cheltenham,
with whom I was acquainted. I obtained the time
of birth from his mother. He died at the age of 26
years and 6 months, quitesu'nnENLY-on returning
from a party ofmidnight revellers, he fell down and
instantly expired. Tile. Moon i1 Hgkg, who we
find is receding from the Sun ; but is under his
beams, which of itself, I presume, indicates slwrt
life. The fatal arc, I take to be the parallel of
Mars, which she met in 21° 46' of nt,. I have not
altered the time a single minute, but have given it
to you as a scheme you may rely upon. The death
also was violent, according to cr's nature, and "
in
tlie 8th house. And here I wish the benefit of your
experience-parallels are said to be in every re-
spect, the same as the conju.nction in · effects;
Should you consider the 0 and l> , in a parallel .of
as an indication of short life, eqUal
with the cS 1 on this, your answer will oblige your
G. SMI'HI •
..
••• 1n ·reply to our correspondent's
query, I -have to state, that the ;mere parallel of the
)uminarles, would by DO means :life irDm
the positt&n; · but in tbe·zodiaca.l
1ets !are "fety powerful. ln titre ptuent :C.e,. o.ui-
ingeniou8 correspondent'seems 'to:have :ovaloOkai
the ·fact, that the Moon ·met the
drate of Mars, in the exactdegree· of the parallel.
gave it an additional ·
Digitized by Coogle
694
THE LEGENDARY STORY OF THO.l\IAS PERKS.
Autltentic Copy of a Letter sent to tlte Bislwp of
· Gloucester, by the Reverend JJ:lr. Bedford,
JJiinister of Temple Churclt, in Bristol.
B1·istol, August 2, 1703.
MY LonD,
Being informed by Mr. Shute of your Lordship'g
desire that I should communicate to you what I had
known concerning a certain person, who was ac-
quainted with spirits to his own destntction, I have
made bold to give you the trouble of this letter,
hoping my desire to gratify your Lordship in every
particular, may be an apology for the length thereof.
I l1ad formerly given an account to the late Bishop
of Hereford, in which there are probably some things
contained, which I do not now remember, which, if
your Lordship could procure from his Lady, (who
now lives near Gloucester,) would be more authentic.
About thirteen years ago, whilst I was curate to
Dr. Read, rector of St. Nicholas in this city, I
began to be acquainted with one Thomas Perks, a
man about twenty years of age,,wbo lived with his
father at Mongatsfield, a gunsmith; and contracted
an intimacy with him, be being not only a very
good-natured man, but extremely skilled in mathe-
matical studies, which were his constant delight, viz.
arithmetic. geometry, gauging,surveying,astronomy,
Digitized by Coogle
and algebra; he hnda notion ofthe perpetual
much like that wheel in ArchimeEies's Mathematical
Magic, in which he had made some improvements.
and which he has held was demonstrable· from ma-
thematical principles, though I could never believe
it. I have seen an iron wheel, to "·hich he intended
to add several things of his own invention, in order
to finish the same ; but, thinking it of no use, and
being otherwise unfortunately engaged, it was never
perfected. He gave himself so much to
that he could not only calculate the motions of the
but an eclipse alsoi; and demonstrate any
problem in spherical trigonometry from nla.thema·
tical principles, in which he discovered a clear 'force
of reason. 'Vhen one Mr. Bailey, minister of St;
James's in this city, endeavoured to set up a niathe..
maticat school, I advised him to this Thoma8 Perks,
for an acquaintance; in whom, as he told me. he
found a greater proficiency in those studies than he
expected or could have imagined. After this, he
applied himself to and would sometimes
calculate nativities, and resolve horary·questions.
When, by the providence of God, I was settled in
Temple-parish, and had not seen him for some time,
he eame to me, and, we being in private, he asked
my opinion very seriously concerning the lawfulness
of conversing with spirits; and, after I had given
my thoughts in the negative, and confirmed them
with the best reasons J could, he told me he had
C()nsidered all these arguments, and believed they
only related to conjurations, but there was an inno-
cent society with them which a man might use, if
he made no compacts Wlth them, did no· harm by
their means, and were:not curious in prying into
Digitized by Coogle
6U6
bidden things ; and that be himself had discoursed
with them, and heard them sing to his great satis-
faction; and gave an offer to me and Mr. Bayley at
another time, that, if we would go ·with him one
night to Kingswood, we Hhould see them, and bear
them both talk and sing, and talk with them when-
ever we had a mind, and we should return very
safe ; but neither of us had the courage to venture.
I told him the subtilty of the devil to delude man-
kind, and to transform himself into an angelof light;
but he would not believe it was the devil. I had
several conferences with him upon this subject,
hut could never convince him ; in all which I
could never observe the least disorder of his
discourse being very rational ; and I proposed (to
try him) a question in astronomy, relating to the
projection of the which he projected ·and
resolved, and did afterwards demonstrate from the
mathematics, so as to show at the same time, that
his brain was free from the least tincture of madness
and distraction.--Having this opportunityof asking
him several particulars, concerning the methods he
used, and the discourses he bad with them, he told
me had a book whose directions he followed, and
accordingly, in the dead time of the night, he went
out to a cross way, with a lanthorn and candle con-
secrated for this purpose with several incantations.
He had also consecrated chalk, consisting ofseveral
mixtures, with which he made a circle at what dis-
tance he thought fit, within which no spirit had
power to enter. After this he invoked the .spirit
by several forms of words, (Rome of which be told
me were taken out of the holy Scriptures, and there-
fore he thought them lawful, without considering
Digitized by Coogle
(j{, 7
how they might be wrested to his destruction;)
accordingly the spirits appeared to him which he
f'..alled for, in the shape of little maidens, about a
foot and a half high, and played about a circle. At
first be was somewhat affrighted ; but, after some
small acquaintance, this antipathy in nature wore
Qlf, and he became pleased with their company. He
told me they spoke with a very shrill voice, like an
ancient woman. He asked them if there was a
heaven or hell? they said there was. He asked
them.what place heaven was? which they described
as a place of great glory and happiness ; and he
asked them what bell was ? and they bade him ask
no questions of that nature, for it was a dreadful
thing to relate, and the devils believe and tremble.
He further asked them what method or order they
bad' among tbelll8elves1 they told him they were
divided into three orders ; that they bad a chief,
whose residence was in the air ; that he had several
counsellors which were placed by him in form of a
globe, and be in the centre, which was the chiefest
order ; another order was employed in going to and
from thence to the earth, to earry intelligence from
those lower spirits ; and their own order was on the
earth, according to the directions they should re-
ceive from those in the air.
This description was very surprising, but, being
·contrary to the account we haye in Scripture of the
hierarchy of the blessed angels, made me conclude
they we&'e devils, but I could not convince him of it.
He told me be had bade them sing, and they went
to some distance behind a bush, from .whence be
could hear a perfect concert of such exquisite music
as be never before heard ; and in the upper part he
4 T
Digitized by Coogle
698
heard something very harsh and shrill, like a reed,
hut, as it was managed, did give a particular grace
to the rest.
About a quarter of a year after, he came again to
me, and wished he had taken my advice, for he
thought he had done that which would cost him his
life, and which he did heartily repent of; and in-
deed his eyes and countenance showed a great al-
teration. I asked him what he had done. He told
me that, being bewitched to his acquaintance, he
resolved to proceed farther in this art, and to ha\'e
some familiar spirit at. his command, according to
the directions of his book, which were as follows:-
He was to have a book made of virgin parchment,
consecrated with several incantations; likewise a
particular ink-horn, ink, &c. for his purpose; with
these he was to go out as usual to a cross way," and
call up a spirit, and ask him his name, which he was
to put in the first page of his book, and this was to
be his familiar. Thus he was to do by as many as
he pleased, writing their names in distinct pages,
only one in a leaf; and then, whenever he took the
book and opened it, the spirit whose name appeared
should appear also ; and, putting this in practice,
the familiar he had was called Malchi, a word in
Hebrew of an unknown signification. After this
they appeared faster than he desired, and in most
dismal shapes, like se.rpents, lions, bears, &c. hissing
at him, and attempting to throw spears and balls of
fire, which did very much affright him, and the
more when he found it not in his power to stay
them, insomuch that his hair (as he told me) stood
upright, and he expected every moment to be tom
in pieces ; this happened in December about mid-
Digitized by Google
699
night, when he continued there in a sweat till break
of day, and then they left him, and from that time
he was never well as long as he lived. In his sick-
ness he came frequently to Bristol•, to consult with
Mr. Jacob, an apothecary in Broad Street, concern-
ing a cure ; hut I know not whether he told him the
origin of his sickness or not ; he also came to me at
the same time, and owned every matter of fact until
the last, and insisted that, when he did any thing
of this nature, he was deluded in his conscience to
think it lawful, but he was since convinced to the
contrary. He declared he made no compacts with
any of those spirits, and never did any haND by their
means, nor ever pryed into the future fortune of
himself or others, and expressed a hearty repent-
ance and detestation of his sins; so that though
those methods cost him his life in this world, yet I
hal"e great reason to believe him happy in the other.
I am not certain that he gave this account to any
other person but myself, though he communicated
something of it to Mr. Bayley, minister of St.
James's, in this city; perhaps your lordship may be
further informed by his relations and neighbours of
Mangotsfield, which lies in Gloucestershire, not
above a mile out of the road to Bath.
I have frequently told this story, but never men·
tioned his name before; and therefore, if your lord-
ship hath any design of printing such accounts as ·
• I have myselC seen a very curious Telescope, and a Yery in·
genious Fowling Piece, made by this said Thomas Perks; and in
my last tour to the Wet<t of England ( 1830) I found numerous ver-
sions of this particular accoUDt still extant among the peasantry
of Kingawoocl.-Rapluul.
Digitized by Coogle
700
these, I desire it may be with such tenderness to his
memory as be deserved, and so as may not be the
least prejudice to his relations, who have the de-
served character of honest and sober people. I am
Your Lordship's dutiful
Son and Servant,
ARTHUR BEDFORD.
JULY, 1830.
"aux au.r armes !" the tocsin sound-
What Frenchmen will be slaves 1
"Aux armes! aux armes !" the streets resound,
" Our hearths shall be our graves."
His blood-hounds the tyrant hath loosed for their prey,
And the lives of our brethren will gorge them to·day :
But the slayers shall die
Where their victims lie;
On their necks shall the foot of the freeman tread,
And the crown shall be tom from the perj urer'a head I
21
.. aux armtf. au.r Qf'mes !" o'er heaps of &lain
Come plant our freedom's tree;
" Aux armes! aux armes! its trophies Yain
Come rend from tyranny !
'Who will not with pride to the combat hie I
'Tis the crown of all glory for freedom to die.
Our fallen standard rear,
Unfurl it from the spear;
It's texture is dipp'd in the bow of the skies,
lt bas wav'd o'er a hundred flctories!
.J.
" \Sur armtf, au.r arme• !" our brethren bleed,
Our streets are red with death:
"Aux armes! aux armt>s !" the fierce war-steed
Tramples out infant breath !
Our sisters die by the despot's band-
En arant! and be free our native land!
Youth and grey age unite
Amid the ranks of fight ;-
Then France, in the brightness of .Freedom's flame,
Shall consume the pale lily that brought her shame•
.. au av.r IZTMnr·
Digitized by Coogle
70J
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 14.
a Bemarlable Mattuttu.
ROSINA PROCTER,
BoRM Aprll2d, 1831,
11 h. -. Cl.clf Time,
or 11 h. II m. 21 a. A.M.
liOLAa TIM&.
]) Jl. Jl. 0. • 111. • '4, Jl. i· e s
cS 0
cS II
Jl. 8 'U, Jl. 8 'I
*0 ....
*
o1gitized by Coogle
702
I insert this nativity at the request of the child's
father, (who is himself a clever student in astrology,)
chiefly to exemplify the extraordinary number and
efficacy of the planetary aspects. The ) in A to
and governing the ascendant, and in * to will
cause the nativee to be one of the most ingenious ot
females, skilful and ready in all the ordinary acquire-
ments of the fair sex; and although somewhat ir-
rascible, yet morally inclined, and generous spirited.
The cS of 0 in *to '1(. and ¥ is an excellentsym-
bol for marriage in a female horoscope : 1havelittle
doubt the nativee will marry a " gentleman of for•
tune," or one vastly above her own statiop in life,
and so many planets above the earth. The 0 in his
exaltation : the reception and aspects of and
the favourable A of the luminaries, foretel afort.u-
nale destiny. But as the ]) is much afHided bytbe
8 of t, in youth, the nativee will be weak and
delicate, and amazingly subject to enemies after-
wards. The lord of the second angular in the tenth
generally causes marriage to an eminent professional
character, and is excellent for gain by any kind of
public business, &c. &c.
THE NEW ASTROLOGER OF THE 19th CENTURY.
In answer to several hundred correspondents who have written to Raphael
respecting this projected new work, the author beg• lean to state, tbat It
will form a Companion to the Familiar Astrologer; contalninr, a tolfiPltl•
Syrtem qfGeomartcy,from the Earl qf E11u'• MSS. ; an A.trologital Ditti·
orwry; and a great quantity of CuriotU u also, ffiJ.tk Siglll.
SigiU, Plate•, and TalinrwM, the greater part original. Orders for this
work should be forthwith forwarded, poft paid, to Mr. Wriglat, 4, Pa.terfiM•
ter R011>, who will readily procure it for Raphael's readers. It can be bad
also of Mr. BettneU, or his Agent1.
Digitized by Google
703
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. ).5.
--------
• ttemarlafJl» btrifitb Jtotatu euestion.
KAY 18, 1830,
IOh. som.A.u.
QUESTIOM,
If King Gco.IY 81wuld
recOfler or die1 ·
I am induced to this example·a place in my
present work, as an instance how far the power of
the stars may be relied upon : even where kings and
enlperors are concerned, and also in hfe and death.
o,9itized bvGoogle
70-i
At the time specified in the above figure, a gen-
tleman holding an official.situation under the Govern-
ment, wrote me word (as a secret, for politicians are
liable to error, and so are all men who judge from
appearances alone) that there was "a decided change
for the better in his late Majesty's health," and that
he expected a recovery was possible ; although it is
but fair to state, that.this gentleman at the same time
expressed his deference for my scientific opinion, in
to that of the physicians. Having cast
the figure, I soon found testimonials enough ofap-
vroaclting deatlt: such as the student will readily
perceive are visible in the sun, lord ofthe 4th angttlar
in the king's ascendant (the lOth house): Venus, sig-
nificator of the king vet-ging to a quartile ofJupiter,
lord of tlte Bth house, and Jupiter, lord of the 8th
house, from tlte lOth, going by retrograde 11wtion, to
the quartile of tile lord of tlte king's ascendant: IM
moon in semi-quartile to Mars, disposed of by that
planet ; Mars, disposed of by Saturn, and Saturn
surrendering the whole influence to the Sun, who
was angular in the monarch's houseoflife. 1 imme-
diately wrote down my prediction THAT THE KING
WOULD NOT RECOVER HIS ILLNESS, BUT DIE WITHIN
TWO 1\IONTHS AT FARTHEST. The letter, and presage
contained therein, can be proved upon oath as being
sent to the gentleman in question, as I requested
the letter to remain sealed, over the first part of June,
in order that no possible evasion could be alleged to
the astrologer. The reader will receive this exam-
ple of an exemplified horary question gratefully from
The Author.
Raplw.el.
o,gitized bvGoogle
705
No. 10.
ltf)e Natibit» of Jtent» "tJ. of Stanet.
48 SJ
f) .
- CD
co
-
2 86 A. Jr. •
I •
- -
48 60N.
4u
Digitized by Google
70{)
a6trolog-tcal .SPttulum.
,. Latitudes.
lj,l 0 1'l s.
2 4 s.
I 33 S.
0 6 s.
2 0 s.
I 2';' N.
D 5 7 N.
Declinations. Right Aseeosioo.
fol 23 3i s. 0 185
l) I 30 N. 184 1
6 50s. 141 47
t 13 11 s. )) 96 2
12 ON.
"
10 45
2 16 s. 'lf. 347 38
0 2 30 s. 212 6
l> 28 24 N. IJ 2G4 32
Pole of the D 26 30 - -
Pole of the 0 25 0 - -
Semi-.o\rcs.
f1ll9 56 N.
h 91 43 D.
'lf. 81 7 D.
t 105 32 N.
lOt 4 D.
92 :iG D.
l> 1'll3 12 n.
0 9l 5'! X. I
H. ·r. 21 2-t
H.T 15 29
0. A. D 80 23 o. A. 0 186 31
The observations and judgment upon this
cope, the reader will find in my Prophetic Messen-
ger for 1832. I have inserted the figure and the
Astrological Speculum appended, in order that the
reader, and especially the student, may have a cor-
rect pra.·t'is for to work an authentic example.
The arcs and the figure, with other et celeras. 1
have calculated by Trigonometry. Here, I subjoin
a list of the arcs of direction both in degrees and
time, according to NayLod's measure.
The )) to the rapt parallel of J;. in mnndo -
'l'lte 8 to the mundane 8 of J, direct motion
'l'hc 0 to the zodiacal 8 of J, - - - -
The D to the mundane sesquiquadrnte of
converse motion - - - - - - - -
The )) to the zodiacal 0 of J, teit!t latitude
'1'ht> ;.> to the mundane parallel of r.onrcrsc
Are•. Yn. Mntb•.
2 47
4 57
5 5
5 53
6 3
6 43
2 10
5 0
5 I
6 0
6 I
G to
Digitized by GoogIe
707
'the ascendant to the mundane Semi-quartile
of - - - - - - - - - - -
'fhe ascendant to the mundane Semi-quartile
of the 0 • - - - - - - - - -
The J> to the mundane eof ¥ converse - -
The l> to the zodiacal quartile of J,, without
latitude - - - - - - - - - -
The J> to the progressive 6 (•ecDffdar!l
fftOtion) . - - - - - - - - - -
The ascendant to the mundane * of the J) -
The l> to the mundane 0 of converse
The mid-beano to the mundane quio. of
The J) to the zodiacal A of with latitude
The ascendant to the mundane Semi-qaartile
of - - - - - - - - - - -
The l> to the progressive cS of J# (•econdarg
motio11) - - - - - - - - -
The ]) to the zodiacal A of without lat.
The ]) to the mundane 0 of direct
The J) to the mundane 0 of 0 direct
The J) to the mundane * of converse
The 0 to the mundnne St>mi-quartile of 8
converse - - - - - - - - - -
*The l> to the mundane A of U direct
The J> to the cS of progressive (
mo#on) - - - - - - - - - -
Tile J) to the of J, - ditto - - ditto - -
*The Dto the mundane 0 of I) direct - -
Th'! Mid-heaven to the mundane of -
The 0 to the mundane 0 of l) converse -
The Mid-heaven to the mundane A of the0
The ascendant to the muodnne e of U - -
The 0 to the mundane 8 of U converse -
The .l\Jid-heaven to the mundane* of -
The 0 to the mundane Semi-quartile of ¥
direct - - - - - - - - - - -
The 0 to the bpdy of cr zodiac and mundo
Tht> l> to the mundane sesquiquadrate of
direct - - - - - - - - - - -
The J> to the mundane sesqniqnadrate of 8
direct - - - - - - - - -
The J) to the mundane Semi-quartile of J,
converse - - - - - -
The ]) to the rapt parallel of 8
Arc•. jvn.Mnth•.
6 48
8 16
8 42
8 49
t 47
12 87
12 38
12 39
13 6
14 68
16 10
16 89
16M
18 )9
19 3
21 'l3
14
2! 67
'l3 40
u
'l6 48
'l8 64
30 19
31 49
32 34
33 )9
34 64
40 6
6 II
R 6
8 10
r IOi
u ))
9 Ill
12 10
12 10
I'! io
13 3l
)4 0
u 2i
16 6
16 IOl
17 3
18 7
19 4
19 10
21 6
21, 8!
22 7
23 4
24 1
7
26 2
29 6
30 9
32 3
83 1
33 10
36 6
40 8
Digitized by GoogIe
70B
The reader will, upon comparing this list of arcs
with those given in the Prophetic Messenger fm
1832, discover a trifling error in those twu directions
marked thus •, which he is desired to correct with
his pen : they crept in through the of
the Printer of the Prophetic Messenger, and which,
if the Author had left unnoticed, might probably
have furnished some enemy to the science to doubt
the truth o( his astronomical calculations. I have
received many letters upon the propriety of work-
ing an example of directions in full ; and I gladly
embrace the present op-portunity of thus complying
with my brother students' wishes.- While descanting
on this subject, it may be as '._Veil to insert the fol·
lowing quaint pmphecy of .IJ-lorinus, a ·celebrated
Gallic Astrologer. It runs thus, and is very singu-
lar. The ortlwgraplty only I hal·e modernised
" The royal Fleur-de-'lllct will fall :
And Saturn'• rays shall master all !
Cruel Jllar• with strife shall !(age,
Fleet foot in amaze I
Then the bolt of JotJt will roll :
Shaking Eart'J from pole to pole.
Anon a Morm-l!lstar arises,
Erst a gift that star comprises:
While a quartiu and a trine,
1\lany noble hearts shall join.
Then comes a black Eagu ;
Whom many shall iuveigle:
Night sweeps gloomy o'er
Nation's soon no more!
A jier9 Comet 1trikt1 dread
Multitudes lie dead I
A Flag is hail'd by a mighty one!
Earth's wonders are more than done!
Ere half begun !-sly Saturn creepsl
Time's Scythe cruelly sweeps!
The glittering stara burn dim
But then arises HIM
Who shall conquer even the Dead !"
i have seldom penned a more curious legendary
prophecy. I trust the reader will think it with me.
worthy notice.
Digitized by GoogIe
700
Metlwd cif working Ike Poles cif the Celestial
Houses.
TO TilE EDITOR OF THE FAMILIAR ASTROLOGER.
HoNOURED SIR,
I am not aware that the following method or de-
termining the Polar elevations of the houses (which
by intense study I have discovered,) is given by any
author.-Thns, for example, let it be required to
find the polar elevations in the figure, given at
page 002 of the present work.
Firat for the Pole of the Fijtk Horue.
The R. A. Sun ia 113 J4 0. D. oftbe 5th
-1 Sun noct. are 19 10 - Sun R. A.
::a lU 13
liS 14
-R. A. I. C. =
94 4
91 13 +dist. Sun from 5th
7 &9
2 &1
The Sun dilt. from &tb ho. = 2 51 Sun'aA.D.underpoleof5h=10 50
To tine A. D.
Add cotang. dec. -
Tang.
10 50 = 9 27416
21 45 = 10·89907
26 14 = 9·67810
"Which ahewt the pole of the 5th bo. to 25,14
Digitized by Coogle
710
2. For the Pole of tl•e Si.rtl• Houae.
! Sun sem. noc. arc
-San dist. from 5th -
Sun dist. from 6th
19 10 0 D. of 6th ho.
2 51 - Sun R.•4.
16 19
)51 \3
ll3 14
37 59
As the S•m bas past the cusp of the
Utb, subtract his dist. 16 J!)
Sun A. D. under the pole of the 6th = 21 40
To sine A. D.
Add cotang. Sun dec.
21 40 = 9·56727
21 45 = 10 39907
Tang. of the pole ef 6th = 42 47 = 9·96634
The Poles of the Asc. and 7th are, of course, equal to the lat. of the
plaee-but may be determined in the same manner, thus,
3. For the Pole of the Seventl• Houae.
J Sun sem. noc. arc - 38 20 0. D. of 7th ho.
- Sun dist. from 5th - 2 51 - Sun R. A.
nn dist. from 7th 35 29
- Sun from 7th
Sun A. D. under pole of the 7th
To 11ine of A. D;
Add cotang. dec.
Tang. of the Pole
32 30 = 9·73021
21 45 = 10 3990'7
53 24 = )0·)2928
181 13
118 u
6'7 M)
35 29
3230
The Pole ·of the 6th will be the Pole of the 2d ; and the Pole of thr
3d the same as the Pole of the 5th. Had we found their Poles, inw...J
of the above operations, the process would have been thus :
Digitized by Google
711
4. For the PoltJ o tho 7'J.ird.
R. A. Sun -= 118 14 R. A. of the Suo = 113 H
Add l Sun's arc - 19 10 -0. A. of ad ho. = 61 I:l
-- --
1a2 24 52 1
- R.A. I.C 4 - 91 13 - Sun diat. from 3d = -'111
--
Sun diet. from 8d - 41 11 Sun's A. D. under pole
of the 3d - = 10 50
--
The A. D. being thus obtained, proceed for Pole as before.
6. Jlor tlae Pole of the &ctntd.
Sun dist. from 3d = 41 11 R. A. Sun
Add i Sun aem. arc = 19 10 - 0. A. 2d bo.
Sun dist. from 2d ho. = 60 21
- S.lln diet. hum 2d.
'· 113 H
31 13
82 1
= 60 21
Sun A. D. under 21 40
The Pole ofthe econd as before.
6. For the Pole the .1/•ccntlanl.
R. A. Sun 113 U R. A. Sun
Add Sun aem. noc. arc 30 - 0. A. asc.
113 14
1 13
170 44 112 1
- R. A. I. C. 91 18 - Sund"'.fm. C1lepofasc. 79 31
Sun dist. from aac. = 79 31 Suo A. D. under 32 30
The Pole of the Ascendant, which is the same u before found,
under the Pole of the 7th; consequently, having this A. D., the
Pole may be obtained as before.
From these, and other operations in various
schemes, I am led to conclude, that the Poles of
every house, except the ascendant and 7th, are
moveable ; depending solely on the place of the
Sun.
o,9itized by Google
712
2. That the Poles of the houses vary for every
other planet; that is, each planet, when directed in
mundo, requires a different polar elevation to be
given to each house, (distinct from other
planet,) in order to determine its distance from the
cusp of that house ; otherwise the distance cannot
be correctly found by 0. A. or 0. D.
Hence, in directing a planet to mundane aspects,
we musttake its distance from the house forming the
given configuration-according to thepolar elevation
of such house, determined by the planet whose dis-
tance is require4, as above.
· But in erecting a true figure of the Heavens, the
polar elevations of the houses will always be de-
termined by the Sun, at the time the figure is
erected for.
As I observed before, the most correct and simple
method of taking distances is by R. A. and the
exact proportional parts of the arcs, &c.-by which
the truth of the above Theories may easily be de-
termined. This method is given in your Manual
of Astrology.
If these observations are deserving of a place in
your invaluable work, I shall feel highly gratified
by seeing them inserted.
I.cemain, Sir,
Your most respectful correspondent
S/,ef!icld, Oct. l. 1831.
and obliged servant,
D. PARKES.
Digitized by Coogle
713
RAPHAEL'S THEOREM FOR TilE
CELESTIAL POLES.
1. Let 1: be the unknown quantity, or the Pole of the house re-
quired to be found.
7. Assume 1: to have the greatest declinatiun of the Ecliptic,
Yiz. 23 28, either JV. or 8. aa being above or under the Earth
in all cm1ea.
8. Find the aacensional difference of .r thus, To the Ta11gent
of the declination, add the Tangent of the place's Latitude; and
the sum will be the Sine of the Aacensional difference of 1. To
this ..be. Dif'., add 90 degrees ; and the sum in either caae, will
be the semi-arc of If.
4. For the right diatance of If, if it he the Pole of the 9th or
lith, i of the aemi-diternal arc is the right distance from the Mid
if the Pole of the 12th or 8th, I of the aemi-diurnal arc
is tbe right distance. 'If it be the Pole of the 2d or 6th, I of the
8nti-nocturnal arc is the right diatance from tbe lmum ('a!li: if
it be the Pole of the 3d or Mh, l of the arc \Vill be the right
distance.
5. Then My, aa the semi-arc of 1: is to 90 degrees, so is tbe
right distance to the ditrerence between its circle of position, and
that of the Meridian : which proportional part, subtracted from its
right distance, or the difl'erence between the two, will give the tme
Aacensional difference of1, under its own Pole.
6. To the aiM of this Aacensional ditrerence, add the cotangent
of the declination, the sum will be the tangent of the Pole of 1,
(or ohhe House in question.)
EXAMPLES.
In the Lat. of 55 degrees, required the Pole of the 5th House!
1. Let If be the Pole of the 5th house.
Tancent of the declin. of If 28 28 S.
Tangent of M • -
The nne of this, is 88 19
Add 90
9·63761
10·1&477
128 19 The semi-arc of 1
4x
Digitized by Coogle
714
of this semi-arc is the rigM distance of z - 42 46
Theu by the Golden Rule, say,
As 128 19: 90 : : ·12 46 to the
Proportional part = 30. 'Vhich is the difference between the
circle of Position and that of the lUeridian.
42 46 right distance z
Subtract 30 0 proportional part
12 46 The asc. Iliff. of x underits own polr.
Sine of 12 asc, diff• .r
Cotaug. Me. 23 2B add
'fang!mt of Pole of.r 9·70674
= to 26 58 (or what is near enough for the Student to
work from 27 ;) which is the true Pole of x, or of the 5th houae.
in Latitude 55 degrees.
In all othercases the student may pursue the same method, which
is, I flatter myself, perfectly simple and easy
ASTROLOGICAL AUTHORS.
To CorrcspondeJIU,
Ever ready to further the cause of Science, and to oblige its votaries, Jb-
phael has, at the request of numerous correspondents, annexed the folio•iDS
Jist of prices to the Astrological Works mentioned in this Book. Of \hole
mentioned at Page 479, the price of the .11&trologer of the l9tl& Ceftl.ttry, co-
loured plates, is .£I Is. ; of The Book ofSpiriu, 61. 6d. : of Tile Maawal qf
Asll·olog!J, lOs. ; of The Ruyal Book of Fate, 61. ; of The Royal Boolr of
D1·cams, 5s.; of THE ASTROLOGER, I&.; of the Pro,lltetie
lolc•srll!fCr, annually, 2$. Oct.; of The Witch, Ss. 6d. Also the price of tbe
ItED BARN, a h(qhly illlrrcslin.IJ f!'ork, and extremely well written, is l&.
The price of Mr. Oxley's fl'ilh Book ofrifermce, is .t1 \\a. 6d.
loll·. Pm·kcB' Trcatisc not being complete, the price is nol known.
But to save trouble, correspondents may ha1·e any, or all oftbe above works,
by writing to the Author of the Familiar A.-troloyer, PosT PAJP, aud enclos-
ing the sums above named. RAPUAEL's addreu u gif!m al tiLe Erul qftlu
Wo1·k.
Digitized by Google
716
THE ASTROLOGER.
No. 16.
J.P.
BoRN May 28th, 1807,
8 h. l:S m. P.lf.
Digitized by GoogIe
716
DECLINATIONS•
• 21 32N.
)) 6 20 s.
11 10 os.
" 10 45 s
'lf. 17 43 s.
8 8 0 N.
25 0 N.
15 30 N.
I have inserted the Nativity of Zadkiel, in order
that those of my readers who are curious in Horo-
scopes, may be possessed of one, remarkable in its
positions, configurations, and aspects : my limits
forbear further remark, but I think the figure
worth inspecting. And thus, courteous reader,
RAPHAEL concludes the jfanttliar
76, Caltle Street, EtUt, O:iford Street,
Nov 11th, 1831.
l> :::: cS 'lf. et ft} •
THE END.
W.lll. & S. Knight, Printtr•,
II, Bllhor'• Court, Old Ball•l'·
Digitized by Coogle
