{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1832__stone___letters_on_masonry_and_anti-masonry.pdf","mytitle":"Letters On Masonry And Anti-masonry","mylang":"de"}
0
L£.TTERS
Olf
MASONRY AND ANTI-MASONRY,
ADDREiliiED TO THE
•
HON: JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
BY WILLIAM L, STONE.
=
" Wbat I knew td b~ trne, that I will declare: and what I ~I It to be my d~ tore-
preaan~ tbat I will have the boWn- to publi.lb."-l'Diorn l'lcDlDIIte.
NEW-YORK:
0. HALSTED, CORNER OF NASSA.U AND CEDAR-STREETS.
1832.
Digitize byGoogle
Soc -r\\1). 32-
.¢oe: ~q ,~ 1
EMTI:RI:D ACCORDING TO ACT OJ' CoNGREss,.in tho•year 18~2, by 0.
HuSTED, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United State•
for the Southem District of New-York, in the Second Circuit.
aoa&aTION,PatNT.
Dicit1zed 'Y
Google
. . .
CONTENTS.
LETTER l.
JntrodociO'Y-Giance at tbe recent 1ta1e oC Political Partlee--Orlcfn ol ADII·-ry-P~e­
liminary view of tbe Esellemont. J:I Errat11a.-l- llae !Jut oao,lo tile ._ -·
tence of tbtlleu.er, for" inbabLl&Dll,', read" iJI.•titatie••·''
LETTRR 11.
Speeulati\·e Pree·IDUOOlrJ-Aulbor'• h*iation llfto tho Dot,. of Entaecl Appn~~tlc&­
•·eelln~• ot dltapp<llntment-bnhtems and let!oo,. of tbe DeJ.---FeUow CraR'a De-
gree-Piea.•ing solemnity oftbe opeoing-Recularity and""'"" of tbe Lodc-Jiefuwlo.n
ol c.bar&OJ ofnncou• carous•I&--EmbleOll and lnotructiODS or tbe Dearee.
LETTER Ill.
Freem•oonry continued-Sublime Dllgree or M38ter Muon-Atfeclln1 Rltual-Ceremonlea
and emb!emJ- Shako~perue-A Btrilung coincidenr&-Tbis a fayorfte derree-At.wdity
of its h~oilory-lt• leJends an lmflO'lUre-Opinion oC Grand Mllller Daleho--Of P...,.
- ;lluart-llramalic character of it• ac:tion-Dangerou.. tendency oC ill obllpllo-
Graod haUing sign-Aiennder and Jttdas Maccabaua•.
LE"M'i:R IV.
Freermsoruy contlnoed-M3rk Mn.1er'a decree-Belonp to lbe fello.,..-crai\-More thaa
threed•crres prohibited by law in En~tand-The oame in Scotland--Cau- oC mulllpli-
caliou of de~r...,..-Opening ora M3rk Lodge-110 c:eremonleo-&lriptAtml allegory-110
apphc.11ion-Uegree of Past Muler- lto ceremoni__,wkward precllcament-.Lotwre
and cl~.>rgc of this degree.
LETTER V.
FrPern<UIOnry contino•d-D~~ree or MOill Excellent !1138ter-IIO reremnnte.-DIIdleatlon of
the lt:tnlt1e-Su1, ,mnn'~J pmyt·r-Luek~Dispoted nulnWJCrlpt of Henry VI.-E.ro.lla.tioJl
to tile d~l!ree of Royal Art11- Re:t!loM lor peneverlng- HJ.;tnry llnd trad.Jtio01 oo wbieh it
I!! foUI~<td-Jo•·ah -HIIki>h-Hutrlab-Joeephu•-Er.ra -Zerubbabal, &c.-Introduction
oi tilt! t.1ndit1 .l.te-~:mblems -Scenic Representnlious-Deenrauoo..-Anractive PBI'IIQ-o
try-;\b,unlity c1f iLl le.;{.'ntl:e-Real hi~tory of the de!;r"t!e-fo.:dwdrd Charles Stuart-JIIu.
ruiuiim- ~li•t:tke of AhlJe Dnrruei-Introductiun of the Royal Arch into America--M.
HoyeJ-Tl•o J)uke of Orteans-ScoLcll Mllaoory-Koigbt of Sl. Andrew.
LF.TTER VI.
Do•ri'CO of Knl~htln od - Roynl nnrl i"e!eot ~lasters-Tho lnelr.•ble dtg,......_Freneb Ma-
e':mry -Iu ti~:C:: : Ity-K night of RH~ Crll:O~ ·· It~ hist,lfy-Court of Darlua-Arocryphal J&-
l!end-llnpo~ lnJ! SC..l'Ji it represent'llitms-Knlghts or Multa---Shipwreck or Pnui-Hospl·
l-lilcts-·Knt!!llls u:· St. John - t)i" R !wlpoj-I-J.aslory-R..1ymond De Puy-d' Anbre.on-
The T~rupla·ri- :li...•ory oftheurdl."r-~Uu~o de Pago
mis-lnstituted durina: the Cruade.--
Piatlipthe Fair-Cittmeaat V.-Order Bllflpn.~~t:ll-~"reneh TempJan-AnU·chr11tlaa-.Not
tkl w&ti.J Lbe .!m~riCG.n-8olemn and atfc:cting cercmoolea,
LETTER VII.
E:xaminnllon nf the nature of tho mnsouic obllentions-Bernard•o Light-Old man-rlpl-
~t111r6preoM'ntation un-;wrred-The nature of rn350nle secreta-What they really aro-&-
ue~)' nnd silence virtues-The bindin~~: lOree of promites-J?r. l'aley-lnterpolatlona in
tile obligations-Ubli&alions properly understood, notlnco.-ent with tbe taW!! of Ood
11u1 n10n-Ch>rgeo and uplanation•-Ubjoc:t.ioos to extra-judicial oellu-Prlll:bard'o re-
vellltioM- Alltbe penalll.. uiUJIOIIniJlC.
o;g~ized byGoogle
iv CONTENTS.
tE'M'ZB. vm.
Rapid a\etcb of the blltory of Freemaonry-Fondn<Neven "f Repul>licana for tile merit of
ullquity-.\odenon'o hiblory-Anledlluvlan Maoobry-Frontthe ftood to the bulldln~ of
8olflrnon'lt•mple-- Ricllculouo absurdity "r the<e protenno.-Lawrie's history- Egyp.
ti11.n priesl.-lotlian nrchi~cta-LaniURif" of Symbols- Eplcure&n&-EieUiinian myJ1etlet-
KuicJt'8.u rnysteri-- rylhOU:Hrt'&ll8-The £4J&ent'I-Gernum notionsuf &Juonry-l:iemen-
tiniao c.•tiderat""e--Ur. Dr,lcho'a opiuion of the absurdity of tlu.imiog David, Solomon,
aod lbe two Jtlbna, u Masona,l<c. · ·
LE'M'ER IX.
Same 111~ject COIItinued-NicboiM !'tone-The Drulrls-The Romano-Picto-!'cot.-Ilr.
.l;lenry'• occount-Collelia Artoficum-Anrieut edificeo-,\thel•lllo-i!:dl!•r-E,Iward the
ConfeS8or-1'homu faine'e opiniona-Tbe Rnsicruat.1n1-ltnm=a.n Rnd Greek colleges-
PI'OKription of .ua..-onry on the continent-Dr. Plot-F&rRt AUthentic record of Freema-
.anry-Tbomu Alhmole-, the J:ut of the Roalcruslan:5--l\fasmny In lhtt rei~n ot Anne-
Rivnl Gnnod Lod1eo on En~land-Origin of Ma.!tOnry in Scotland-Kilwinine-Lords of
llollln-Reouacitallon of Mruoonry In 1717-Duke of Buccleugh-1723-Duke of Ritb·
DJOnd-ExtelllloD of Enpish Haaoory over the world.
LETTER X,
B.afutatlon of 1be charg•• of lntldellty-At.urd notiona of double llcnlftCAtloaa and Inter·
preUJtione--Be..,na why Freemaaonry1 on Ill own ruelill, obould be 1'1>11oqulabed,
I&TTER XI.
William Morp~~-Hia llfe-Marrlace with Lucinda Pen41e~<~n-'1llo diAracter-Orilln of
the dlfllcultW. between blm and lbe M1180n.-llts """""latlon with Dovld C. lllller-
M<IrC"n'o exclusion from the chapler at llalllvi~-Reveoge--Suppooed \'rail of l'olchpn 10
.New·Yort-Prepan1lonll for betrayln&the aecreto of Maaoary.
LE'M'ER XII.
Jtumnn nr the Intended pabllcatlon-Atll'mpts of tbe M1180RS to n•goelate with Morpn-
Advertloed u an lmpootor-Mio,.,pr-ntaLinns upon this suhjeci-AgltatJono amon1 tbe
Muona-Ventloua prooocullun~Arrh·HI uf Johuo, •• a spy and pnrtner of MUier-a..t
arreo4ud lmpriounmentof)!o,pn-.Ruu~~ackluc of Mrs. Mortao'sapartmenL
LETTER XIIJ.
lndloe""'t newapnper publicallons-G~neml Lnfoyeue-Consplmcy for tbe destruction or
Miller'• ofllce-Mortln~ of the conopimtortt at Stnlford-A night expedition and failure-
Col. BCLwyer-atternptlo b•rn the prinllng office hy Howard-Pro,·ldentlal fo u•tratlon of
tbe piHn-Expedltion t•l Chesebono and 01hers, from Canandni~ua-Dr. BuUer-Arreat
nnd lnth8por\&liun of Morgllrl to Canandai1ua-1'rhtl and &CCiuittal Cor peth larceny-im·
prlsonmenl at CannndniJu& for debt-Reflecti,•ne-Juurney of Mr•. Morp.n to Canandal~
aua, In pu1anlt or ht>r hu.ibanci-Delivery or Dlo'liiU:'I'crii'(s-Cruel dilappolntmen&.-ber
return ID Batavia-OtTer•of '"""""'' lllpport rejected.
LETTER XIV.
Gathering of cans~lmtorsln Batavia -Au,.! Rnd abduction of Mlller-Hia lmprloonment Ia
alodiJttalStatf.,rd-intervtew wiLh John--Juurney toLe Roy, nuencted b~" DlOb-Hil
re.Jeue-Es traordlnary abl-enee or the magistratea of llnl.llvia un Utat day-their more ~•~
traordlury CJnvenallona-couduct of tbe MdiiOM-RelleeUono.
LETn:R XV.
Charity to lllro. MoJTin-An ,..ent •ent to Caunnd•l::ua-Hyoterlouo letter to Mil. Mor-
l•n-Diocov~riel of tho agent-t.;onspirncy nt Cln•n<lal1ua, and obduction of Morpn
from the prloon-Cheoeboro, Lawwn.l:'nuth, Whito•ey, &c -Myoterlouw movemenll ofll
canioae,ln the nl~ht, from Canandaigua to Honford'• Landln~-l'u•plcious clrcu..-a-
c:ee-Publle meetinp at Balllvia-lnr- of the exchement-Appnlntment of rommil·
t--Correopnndence witb Gnveroor Clmloii-Flll't rn.elnmRtlon-Prn,ress oftbe exl'lte-
ment-Nun>erouo -tinp-Covin•ron Lodg-ca..of Elder Bemard-Cooducl ot the
MUIJDI-Polilleat oympl<lii-RelletUona.
LE'M'ER XVI.
Publication of Morpn'o dr.:loou...,._. Condurt ofMor..n-loqulry Into lla morality-Atdl·
"""""n Paley-Dr. Browo-Morg-•n'•t"'rftdy no justUieatloo of lbe M-.
LEl''l'ER XVII.
l'alae ftii'OI'b reapecllnt Morpn•o aboenee--Doubto amon1 ~ '!llluono-Variety of rn-
--l"ln&IDdiclmeoll of Frendlaod ~d Idler aDd prudunatloa lll0oftr-
Digolized by Coogle
v
JIOf Clinton-Prope911of llle ezc~-lndletment of C~IH!Io and Cllben 111 0,111·
rlo-Fwtber inveAI~•lione of tlOUUIIIU.oott-M,.terlolu earriftC~ traeed alon~ ilaj; Rld1e
l1....s In Lewlotun and Younptown-Eii Bn~ce-Col. K.~a«-Oraod lurJ or liJonro&-
Letter of llover001 Cllrlloo tn the AUorney General.
LETTER XVII(.
Trial or ChMebom, La-.n, SawYer, and Sheldnn,Al CanandaJcaa-MyoiA!r\coou abooa"" 1>1'
Mtll<!il-8llanll" letter to General SoloiUon Van a-Jaer-AU boo& llholdon pleaded
f!tllllj-SIIeldoa u'llually eo~Wictod....:a..aoarlul ot J11d1e Tb,...p oa ,..., aellle--
Mlller brouJbl up on an auacb111011t.
LETTEll XIX.
Correspondence between lllr. Talbot and Governor Cllntoa-Correapnndo- belfte11 GoY·
ernor t-'lioton,tbe Earl of Dalbouale, aud lllr Pere,rloe Malliand-lnvealiptlou 111 Upper
Callllda.
LETTER XX.
Jlettuitof llle trial of Ch-lonm and othfors, aaaatlafaelor]'-laere:wtn, doa!U- Protreoa ofthe
ncnernent at''"' weat-Poputar m""tiDC•-Denundiltiooaoflbe M-, and U"' pJMo-
Retlectlone of the people upon tbe llrottrlai-Reaetlon-the ~tlwr wri.,. to Mr. jjpeo-
etr-Palnlbl news (rom the we<t-ldte rep<•rlo-John Brandt-lmputatlonoupon tbeGrand
Cbapter-Repotted murder or Morpn,-Ex~tmiO.Uiono or Foct Niapra-1 ettero from lbe
Lewt.wn Commltle&- Panic amnnathe people at the we.c-Reply or Mr. •pencer-
Conftrml"llthe llutb<tf'o wont &Jtprebenoiono- Delltrmlnatlou to pubtiob bo!diJ-Smllb and
Whitney abteonti-Attempto to "'""' thom In Albaay-Colo•,.l Kln1-Vtaua OGnmor
Cllntoo-Wuhlnlton-FII<!Il to tbe nottbweot.
!.ETTER XXI.
Mulln« of tbe 011nd Jtoral .\reb Cb~pler-t::rpeclalloM of tbe peopleond the IUI.U..
Ahouou-SIIanp conduct of tb~t b.>dy-Letter of a (clend-ApproprilllinQ of ._, fl»r
the bene4t ol the cnoepinlton.
LE1'TER XXII.
Prosre. of tb~ uelteiiM!nt-Ani•Y tem;..,r of 1111> people-DIIIIcaltiN Ia clmrehee-The
PJPUtar violence prod..- a re·aetion-llanpra of popular eulte--MeoN of CDD·
llnulnc the excitement at tbe w•-Condud o( a pand jury at JlalaYI.t-further lndlet·
cnenllln Onwlo-Cue ol IIOW1trd, aliao Chlppertleld-l.lepoeiU...of John MRnn-Paln·
fut dioel,.ureo-Howard a........b--Con~urt or k-1" N-·York-Avery Allen-
Aulbor.. lnv-'PUo.,._Howard helped out of the COIII!ltry bJ tile 111- ill New-York.
LETTER XXIIJ.
Further correopondente between Governor Clinton nnd Mr. TalbaC-8peellll - p of tho
latter to the. LeliMnture-Thlrd proclamallon-Meetln« or tbe Lewiiiii>R t:nnventlon-
lntereounclnveatiJallnn:t-Ad~iliortal d'llcloln__.Morpn trued into Canada and beck
to the mapt.lne of FOri Ni~eara-Funher rumor• of b• mutder-Horrld partlcalara-
DIICIOIGreo of Htram B. Hopli.in>-CondDd of «rand JIUJ at Nillpr-And ol Bruce.
LETTER XXIV.
Memoriala or the Lewlaton convention, and or tbe JM!OPle, to tbe LePt~atare-Proeeecllnp
thereon-Act pot<e•l concerning kldllllpplna-Grand jurleoor Mon.,. and N1aca11-'frlale
or french, Ga''"'"'• and otbero, at Batavl.t~Unaccountable ""''llillal ol Gan--Alten.-
tlon•of tbe pub:lc ree:lng-Faltle "'porto •l'•ln put In citwlalloG noopeelio1 tba uloteace
of Morpo--Soid to be livill& In l.'anada,-Ud io lloalon.
LETTER XXV.
Mtetlnsof tbe Onmd Lotlse In New·Yorlt-Arrlnl of Bruce-lnre"lew with the aatbor-
TI"' autbor'o reception by - or &be membera Ia the Orand I.odp-Ca._ of U..lr
bootlllty-His preYIOlll wrlltnp aplntl the Morpn outnp-TlueateniDI letter (rom
Wubla~n-V•~• of money co Ell Bruee--loveattptlooe o( tbe author-Sap~ maa·
11er of Morpn•o deatb.
LETTER XXVI.
ID-jutlpd muonle eeleblltlon of St. John'• Day, at Bata•la-Wonderful elcllii--Pre.
paralillllll (or buollliUeo-The day ~ bJ wltboal•riouo evU.
I.ETTER XXVII.
SeeoD4trtala at Canandaii!Ua.ofCoe, Hoyward1t'leymour,and oCban-Pnblle In- Ia the
trlala contln-.-Partleo aeq111Ueti-M....,. or &lea and Clullna-t.o IIIIo valley oftbe
M•llllppl, aacl ArUDa:u, ill ~t ..r Kln11 81Dllb1 and Wllhaey •
Digitized by Coogle
1
Yi CONTENTS.
LETTER xxvm.
Publk damor at &be aequlualt oC &be defeadallllo-FIUtber diKio.un~~ from Niqua-Puhlie
mind lntbmeoi-AIItl ......,'7 ....,.,_ polltk:ai-I'Jepva&lo• for tbe electlon-Bemova1
ofEli Bruce flUID tbe Drllllllty-Body IOund .t Oat OrdlaniC....,II:-Coroner'a lnqaeot-
lnle"""nt.-Bepon tllat i t - Morpn'o body-8uppc-.l mlracle-.Dialnt.erred-Anotber
I~PrODouoced to be Morpn-Tremend.- est:lte11111nt-G,_. 1\lne.U-Atrlval of
M ro. M..roe from Canada-Euminatlooa-Body ap.ID dloinlemd-ADotber blqueot-
~.,.h•ed to be tbe bodvof Timo&by Monroe-Rea<tlon-Da•n ofpopular deluaion-
Publle mell&ial at Rodleoter-Tbe Lewllton comml~ deoounced-Remarbble ~
of R. H. HIII-Confeaaion or tbe murder-Arreol or HIU-Rio ditodlarp-Thomu HamU-
Ion-Hio ouddeu dinppeonmce at Buftolo-&ppooed deatb-Enllemeot-lmpootaro-A
dloclceure In Mlehipo-&dward Hopti01-Leuer from Governor c..toGovemor Cllntoo.
LETTER XXIX.
Dealh of Gov. Cllnton-Aapeniooo upon hi• ellaraeter-Jameo Gaooon-Calumny of Clin-
ton by N. B. Bolleau-Vtndiealion oC hlo charoecer-Meetinl of Oeneral Grand Chapler
In New-York-Richatdmn,. depceltion In Rhude lllland-Morpn·a mnnuiiCli'tts laid
before the General Grand Chapler-Aulhor'a Letler to Col. Inapp- Col. Knopp•ireply-
Corre.pondenc:e between Gov. Clinton and Jacob Le Roy-Including a denial of Gov.
ClloiDnof the alanden aplnat him-Summing up.
LETTER XXX.
Renuncintioos or Ma.Mmry-Cooventlon or renouncing Maso01 at LeRoy-Their allinna-
ttooo of the diiiCIOIIU"" of Morpn-Dioclotoues or the hillier degreea-Spuoiouo Obli-
pllono-Memorlal to Coo1,__Dehale thereon-Le Roy Con•·ention of Mouch 6-lto
Proeeedlnp-Govemmont or the !'tate devolvea on Lt. Gov. Pill:her-Speelal Meo..ge
to the Lealolature-Proceedlnp thereon-Special Couniiii-Danlol &I<JOeley appolnted-
Unjust eenoureo upon blo conoluet-Return of Oerlln&IIOUIII and Bate~~ from an unsucc:e.-
ful mloolon after the ru~ltiftll 1o Mbteouri-Col. KiD1 elud.,. tbem-Hil o1ran1e reluro ID
Younptowo-Ue publiabeo au Add,__...,bange In the charotter of Anti·maoonry.
LETTER XXXI.
Trial of Eli Bruce, Turner, and llarrow-Rejeetlon of Glddln11 ao a wltne.-Deelsion of
Judp HoweU-P...,......Icatlng t...umooy ef John Jactoon-Convlclion of B"""'-
Jiemarto npon tbe r•jectloa of Ghldloll" as a wito-plnioooln lbe New-York Slate
Conveatloll.
~
LETTER XXXII.
Polltleal Cam(lll!ID In New-York, In IS!lS-Preparationa for the Stale and PresldenUal
Elecdooo-Nailoaal Hepulollcftn Convenlion nl Utica-Nomination of Judge Thomr->n
and Mr. Ora.....r-Anll-maoonlc Convention at Utlca-Nominallou of llr. Grnn~er for
Governor and ~lr. Crary-Mr. Oranpr dedlneo the last nomination and orc•1•1B the
llrol-Aati-Manna nomlo•le Solomon l!outbwlct-Jackooo Convention ot Herklmer-
Jir. Adamo'o Letter respecli111 Freemuony, puhliobed nl the Weot-Hels charged, under
'oath, wUb belnc a MUOD blmoelf-D<!olai-Reault of lhe Election.
LETTER XXXIII.
Mretln& of the Legiolature or lll99-0ov. Van Bu,.,n•o M""""Ce-Report of the f:l1>e<inl
Coul\lllli-ReporiBthereon or botll bran.-bea ofthe Leaialalnre-Leuer of Bow~n Whitint
to the Cammluee or the A.embly-Letter of Special Coull8el to the same-Renewal of
popular clnmour-Geue""" Convention-Holland Land Companr-Beeoad Anli-.Maoonie
Stale Coovention-Prooeedla.. or tbe oam-Unfuunded lnferen.,.,. reopeetlnl ceriain
acto of lncotporatlon-Propooed monument to the Memory or Morwart-Reoign.~tlon of Mr•
.M-'ey-J. C. 8J111nter appolnled Special Coun~~~lln hlo plaee-Enten vlgoiOUIIy upon
the dutlett of bllt olllce-Oov. Van Buren nlllgno-Lt Clov. Throop-Hilt parting Add,....
1o the Sonale, 1ivln1 oll"enee ID the Anti·matOOno-Meetinc of Maooao at Rochester-'l'ltelr
renunciation, wltb a p--Unalllfactory-Reaoorur why-Chorgeo agalnollbe Cbap-
te<, and Encampment at Rocheoter.
LETTER XXXIV.
Ontario s-lnno of May, 18!l9-EII Bruce'I cue-Hiram B. Hopkins leotlfte• new fact•
aplnll blm-Death of Burrace Smltb-Trlal or John Whitney and Jame• Gill!&- Ell
Bruce _,ft,._Whitney convleted-Bruc:e and Whitney 111n1enced ID intlorloonment-
Atlellllalw ahoWD them by tbe MunDo while In Prllton.
LETTER XXXV.
Collduetoftown Clerlt of Brlll'nyTreopeellnl Juroro-Hio trlal-lrritaUon of the M._,
trecauoe or tbelr parwec:nllona- be Cler&Y-RIIUOIIII wby ., many of tbem nre Maaone
-Proceecllnp or reiJciou• aaeta aplnot tbe Mao.lns-Bapt181 conventlono-Rev. Mr.
~.. LeUer-Coovendoo a& Wblt!aborouab-And eloewbere-Of the ~~~B~Ciated
Jleltrmed Synod-.&.o<loled Synod oft5cotland-Tbe Preobyterlan Church-Proceedlnp
In PIIUirarl In 1811G-Srll0d of 0e--rn.byler)' or Roclteoler-General Union
Mee&lo&ID Oneida.
...,__- .
Digitized r,yGoogle
. ~·~·~--------------
CONTENTS. vii
LETTBI\ XXXVI.
Pn.cution ot t.be trlala by Mr. Spencer-lndlclmen&ll In a - E m * - era.
aboeuce of wttn-.e-c- of Harr-Of Onon Parkhuni-Oyer and Terml- In !!loa-
,__Romaotic Incident-DeYOllon aad berolc: coru\uct ola - to ••• ber llwbeDd-
Rey. Francis B. Cumin&-<.;Jamourabatee-Electlooaol 18119.
LETTER XXXVU.
Trial of Ellbo Mather, befo"' Jodp Gardlner-Cballeoc.,. ol M-lc: Jwro-Teol"-J
as to lbe narure or t.be Obllgatiorut-EscJ.nou of ~Matber acqnllted-Mo&lrlll ror
a oew trial denied by lbe SUpreme Court.
LETTER xxxvm.
L"'tlllature of le:IO-M-p of lbe Aello& Govemor-ltepalt oflbe Special Couiiiiii-
Gh•u offence to lbe M....,a In tbe Leiilllawre-De.,.__Jadp OU:dlDer directed 10
brint up tbe •- of Malber--Anotber Aotl-muoole Slate Coovention-IDqllirJ .-pect-
inl tbe conductof the Grand ':.:bapii!I'-Lqillattve ~p-Report ot tbe AUOl'MJ' ~
Generai-AuU-muonry becomeo tlloroqbly pollti~Polllic&J feellop Ill lbe ~
-Mr. Sl"'ncer'• Reoiauation, and relllllnrt-Tbe OoYemor'o YlocllcailoD-Pu.bllcat.lae of
Spencer • private correrrpoadence-Appolotmenl of Mr. BlrdMye-..Yiew ol Jlle COR·
duct of Governor Throop.
LETTER XXXIX.
Meens adopttd for prolonging tbe excitement- Ex&raordlnary cue ot ft'JIO"'Id M.-
murder In BeiCUt-lnveeU&ation or llai• CMO-BeaaoDI wby 1111 nolto be belleYed.
U:rTEit XL.
Speelal Cireuit or Niogara-Jn<f8e Marcy-Trial of Exeklel Jeweu-TIIItlmooJ on llle
N111ure of MMOilie Ohllgatlooro-DeeilioD of Jodae Marey upon tbill Q.talloJ>-Unes-
ampled C.:ondact of Maoonlc wn--contempe ol Coart.il and lmprilnnment ot Tor·
ner-Tbe oame of Eli Bmce-Coocluct ot Jolla Jac:aoo- Ia &qu!Yocal TeollmaiiJ-
Coaducl ot William P. Da.nlelo-Acqalttal of Jewell.
LETTER XLI.
Trial of Solomon C. WriaJrt ao4 Jeremiah Browa-Uuaceountable ACI!IIIIIal of tbe n..
fendan-Lemuel De Foreot-Bb llrUlp otory reapectiD& tbe Deal!!otLortaa S~
LETTER XLU.
Eolabllobment of a Paper at Rocbeoter by tbe M&M~Ito Coune-lndlded for a Libel oa
a JatJ-Caoe of lbe Coolur, at Fort Ann-Conduct of tbe MaooDI tbeJeOn-E~ ol
1830-lleoolto In tbe peatlnereaoe of Anti·-tJ-M)'IteriooatMe of Elder WltbereR
-ln~ Leller from Waobln&too County delaOina tbe whole HlatorJ of that re-
markable eue-Seeond Trial and Acquittal of Jameo Ollllo-Seoaioa ot the IAIIolatuJe
or 1831-M..... of Ooveroor Throop-Report ofthe Specie! CoiSnoei-Jiefual 0t Juqe
Garcllner to try any more ot tbe Moraan Cooaplratorro-c.:CODpllmentto Mr. Wbi&IDI-
LET1"ER XLUL
Special Circuit or Ninpra in February and Mardi, 1831-Judp Nelooll preoldea-Trlalo of
Elllbe Adarnt, and ot Parkbllllt WltilnoJ' aDd otbero-DUIIcullJ of Obta.lninl JWGft'-
NIIIUre of M111011le Obllplionii--Loton Lawoooowora ao a Wltne•-Joba WbltneJ, the
-oraamuo Turner-A new and lmponaat wllnMI In tbe penon of J...,. A. Shed
-Edward Oiddinp-HII !nlldellty-Alteratioo ol lbe Law ot Evldeoce-Oiddlllp
owom u a Wru.--HII damnln&lelliii'Oily hilbly Important-Jury .ur.ecw-In tbe C..
of Adams, and aloo In tbe otber ea..
LETTER XLIV.
Trial of Norrt1811 Shepherd noel Timothy Maxwell- Rev. Lacina 8mltb-Conduet ollletlla-
ny Cbepeer-Commilleeo oentto Canandeipa, Rocbllller Lockport, ao4 llulllllo, to con-
cert.,_.,,.. for oupprtll!ing Morgan•s Book-Jobn J;elt;;n apln-Pro<eedlnp In tbe
Lodp Room at Lncltpon-Abondooment ol tbe Prooeeutlon-Lut Meo.p of tbe Go-
vernor, and llnal Report of the Special C<Junoel upoa IIIII oabject.
LETTER XLV.
M380nie Exllibitiona-Amaolnlf cueln Cbenanp-Hulowe C. Wilhereii-Nawre of Ma·
oonie Oeremoaleo and Obiii&Uoiiii-Trlal and tuqulttal ot Solomon C. Wrl&llt, for Perja-
ry-C.. or Gould &l!ainot Weed, for Llbei-Diapooltlon oftloe money Yote<fby tbe Orand
Cllap:er In llfl7-:\fore proved thnn General Gould'o friends wuld hove wllbed-1110111
bnpartant featu""' of the Llhellelluulnv..-~&attd-lly wblcll - · · dootbliC111," vntllcl
- obtalnl'd by the PlniDIIJf.
Digitized 6yCoogle
viii CONTENTS.
LETTER XLVI.
c.dacl oC !be New8J18per P,.. namlned-Mr. aulb unrered-lleuona for the eoune
IDea by lbe 1'.--Tbe denDDclallono n01 entirely jUO(,-Antl-111810no required too
_.,-Party Bplrlt-118 ell'ocll npaa tile subject of Free DlocUIIIoo-Amerlc:an tDCMie of
Proocrlptioa-Et.-.. Prlnclplel upaa whlcll lbe • - of tlllo Country 111e eola-
bllobed-'l'be Liberty of liMo p,_,and l.. llcen-, •errdUii!renl lllilla-Cbarac&er
o1 !be P,.. ol B~-ud Fraa ce-laeampetency oiiiWiy Edllon.
U:TTBR XLVII.
~-Wr.&- tbe lllle oC Morpnl-Revlew of !be 8._,.-Coadacl ol Wll--
Jilo ilaatll IMl Marpn - anarilered-EYidenceo oupportlnl IIIII oplnloa-Teotlmony
flOOD VariDCIIII-Tbe prlnclpel EMC:utloneno dnd-Furtber telllmoa7 fftllll a ftllet)' or
_..,. at !be Willi, - bi'OUIIK out .., tbe Trta~tatleu for puUiD& llfGipD to
Ilealb-lnpnlouolilode oC drawiJII iota-lfAIUIIIr oC 1111 deub-aeGectloao.
LBTTER XLVIU.
ItlllldrY u In wlla& ntnt tbe Muenlc J:.odcN and c~ and lhe M-belll or !be Order,
IMI'IIdaally or collectl'lely, were concemed-Erroaeciiuo •Inn tr.& ba"' beta eatertalned,
MID !be ~at Orpaludoa o( tbe at.mlc bodlei-Revlew of tile Blolory Upall tbe
q-"'a eumlned In IIIII Lelter-Teotl~~~or~y ol Thnmu G. OreeD, "'""""II~ tile Loclce
Ill Bolllolo-TeoliDICIIIy l'mm otber qaar~..-Furlller napllulatlon of tbe Hlolnry-M'a.
- ~nJ:r IDCUipalnd a& tbe W•, ae IDDI&rated r.... a YDrtet:r oC rac~lllinl
apoltlllo....._
LBTTEll XLIX.
DrawiD& In a .._Twelve- wbJaD·J'OI)d men lboald abaacJon !be lnolltutloa of
Spec:uladye M.llll)'-8appoltetlla Ualo Cdlcl.-oa by lila opiDioa ol Ca.-llor Wat-
wU'tll.
APPBIIDIX.
<:ciallbiJDia 'flrillT oCPapenaD4 ~.
Digitized byGoogle
LETTERS
.&DD&&IS&D TO
THE HON. JOHN Q,UINCY AD.\.MS.
LETTER I.
NBw-Yoax, Nov. 20, 1831.
SIR,
I have been honored by the receipt, in due course of
mail, of your favor of the 27th ultimo. The readiness with
which you have assented to my request to be allowed the
opportunity of addressing a series of Letters to you upon
the subjects ofspeculative Freemasonry and Anti-masonry-
topics of such deep and general interest at the present
time,-and the kind and encouraging terms in which that
assent is expressed, demand my grateful acknowledgments.
It was not without diffidence, more, indeed, than I shall
probably receive credit for, that I was induced to prefer
such a request. But a variety of circumstances, weighty
and powerfu1 in themselves, together with an impression
that the labor I propose to perform, may be attended with
some benefit to the community, excited and divided as it
now is, and threatens long to be, by the distracting question
I am to <'.onsider. have impelled me to the undertaking.
1
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER I.
The formation of the Anti-masonic party, which is now
extending itself in various directions, and its effective or-
ganization, create an era in the political history of our
country. Parties will always exist in republican govern-
ments, and indeed, in all governments where the elective
principle is recognised. But heretofore~ the dividing lines
of parties have been drawn, generally, with reference to
certain prominent principles of the constitution, or policy of
the government. Or, whenever the coincidence of opinion
respecting the principles and action of a free government,
becomes so general, that room is scarcely afforded for op-
position, on the breaking up of old, new parties are formed
in respect rather to men than principles. Parties, originally
fonned upon principle, in such cases, degenerate into fac-
tions. The political history of our own country affords
ample illustrations of the soundness of these propositions.
From the period of the adoption of the federal constitu-
tion, down to the close of the last war with Great Britain,
the people had been divided into two great parties only.
The division originated in differences of principle, touching
the powers vested in the general government under the
federal compact; but after the accession of Mr. Jeflel"llm.
to the presidency, the principles of opposition, down even
to the close of Mr. Madison's administration, were rather
to be found in relation to the policy of the government.
than to the principles upon which the government was it·
self constituted. Nevertheless, the dividing line was cleruly
defined, and always distinctly understood; at least by the
leaders of the difterent parties, and by their intelligent sup-
porters.
At the close of the late war, however, a recurrence, by
the majority, to the leading measures which bad been so
long and so strenuously advocated by the opposition, dis-
armed the latter ; and after a few feeble and very partial
efforts to prolong the contest under the old watch-worda and
..
LETTER 1.
•
banners' of the respective parties, the ltrik cealed, and a
truce ensued, which continued nearly to the close of the ad-
ministration of the late president .Monroe. Nor, in the
contest for the succession, was the attempt to rally the for-
mer parties, as such, successful. At any rate, it was but
partially so-although the old party watch-words were
rung in all their various changes, by a considerable portion .
of the public press. The contest of 1824, was essentially
for men. There were four candidates for the presidencyr-
at one period five ;-and yet, with the exception of one of
them, tb.e success of whom was identified with the odious
practice ofcongressional Ci!-Ucussing, no controversy respect-
ing the cardinal principles ofthe government was entertained
by either. The general course of national policy to be
pursued, internal and extenml, was believed to be establish-
ed ; and few persons, warring in the ranks of either of the
candidates, contemplated any essential change or departure
therefrom. StiU, much strife and bitterness of feeling were
engendered during the conflict ; and the passions were
wrought up to a degree of excitement, if not of positive
anger, which forbade their sinking back into that state of
repose which could have been desired, on your accession 10
the chief magistracy of the republic. The calm that foJ..
lowed was deceitful. The a.'lpirantS who had been con-
tending in the ranks of the various unsuccessful parties, and
fragments of parties, were alike out of place ; and if they
had no common bond of union by virtue of any principle,
they had at least a common object, and therefore a common
interest in acting together, in any new enterprise promising
a more propitious result.
The ancient party land-marks having aU been erased, and
the party watch-words having lost their charm, as the ex-
perieoce of the preceding contest had well demonstrated. it
was apparent that an entirely new organization was necel-
sary : a combination wa.s reqyired among materials of tbt
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER r.
most heterogeneous and even opposite qualities, possessing
no single property or principle of cohesion, save only what
may be found in the pregnant and comprehensive phrase-
8BLF·INTERE8T. Nor did the managers find it necessary to
look fora termofgreatersignificanceorpower. A new party,
numerous and active,sprungupsuddenly,as ifsummoned into
·existence by the wand of another Prospero. The disaffected
of all schools were united,-the Georgian contemner of the
treaty-making power; the SouthCarolinian nullifier; the Vir-
ginian strict-constructionist ; the free-trade advocate--(as a
certain description of speculative political economists call
themselves, in contradistinction to those who would foster the
industry of their own country by protecting duties, when
necessary ;)-and the tariff men of Pennsylvania and Ncw-
y ork;-men ofrival interests, and ofopposite, and even con-
flicting opinions-all, all combined in the formation of a new
party, without reference to antecedent creeds or principles,
and with the sole view of self-aggrandisement and power.
Their numbers increaaed beyond precedent or measure :
so that after a repose of twelve years and upwards, the
eountry once more found itself divided into two formidable
political parties-one of them as we have seen, (the youngest,
and, very speedily, the strongest,) so utterly heterogeneous,
among its own members, upon every subject but the passion
for power, that, were that principle of action removed, we
might have anticipated for them the fate of the fabled war-
riors who sprung from the dragon's teeth of Cadmus, on the
casting of even a stone amongst them.
- But of all the parties to which I have adverted in this
brief retrospect, and of all the factions, and fragments of
parties, which at different times, and in different sections of
the country, have broken off and divided upon questions of
temporary interest and expediency, it may be predicated
that the principles of their organization and action have
been pretty well understood by the people. They have ei-
Digitized by Coogle
·-
LETTER t.
ther been combatting for what they supposed to be consti-
tutional principles, or for measures, or for the success of
personal favorites, or openly and avowedly for a new division
of the spoil. And in either case, the dividing lines of these
parties have been well defined. The circumstances out of
which they sprung-the principles upon which they hav~
been maintained,-and the objects intended to be effected,
have been, among intelligent men at least, well understood.
Such is not the fact, however, with respect to the Anti-
masonic party, of which, since it is to form my principal
theme, I ought, perhaps, to have spoken with less circum·
locution. That is a political party sui generis. There
was none ever before like unto it. Nor will its likeness,
probably, be found in any political party to 'arise hereafter.
It is of but recent origin, and yet is already powerful in
numbers-striking deep root in the land, and spreading far
and wide its branches. Its progress has hitherto gh·en the
lie to prediction, and in its strides it has outstripped the cal-
culations of its friends. Already is its weight heavily felt
in our elections, and it bids fair, at no distant day, to exer-
cise a prodigious influence, for weal or for woe, in the poli-
tical concerns of the republic. " Behold how great a matter
"a little fire kindlcth." It is but little more th9 four years,
I believe, since the commencement of this new party. It
had its origin in a small town in the interior of this state,
with reference, solely, to a town election. Since that period
it has drawn into its mnks nearly one hundred thousand free
and intelligent electors of the state of New-York.; it has
almost divided the vote of Pennsylvania; it has planted it-
self deeply in the soil of Massachusetts; it is spreading in
other of the New England states, in Ohio, and elsewhere;
while in Vermont, like the rod of Aaron, it has so far
swallowed up both ofthe former parties, as to have obtained
the control of the state government. Nor is it of factious
partizans, or disappointed office seekers, that this party is
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEll I.
'COOlposed. It is a truth, let partizan oppoJ19nt8 say what
they please to the contrary, that it comprises among its
members, as great a portion of wealth, and character,-of
talents and respectability,-as any party of equal numbers,
_
_, ever formed in this or any other country. And yet I am
constrained to believe, that this party, possessing such num-
bers, and such moral as well as political power, is far from
being well understood. or properly appreciated, by a vast
majority of the people of these United States. I am con-
C-strained to say-for I know the fact-that many gentlemen,
filling a wide space in the public eye-eminent for their
talents, and distinguished for the soundness of their learn-
ing, and the extent of their political infonnation-have no
just knowledge or conception of Anti-masonry. They look
upon it merely as a party, originating in a spirit of fanati·
cism,engaged in a crusade against an innocent institution,
and proscribing, without reason or justice, all the membera
of that institution, whether innocent or guilty. They know
little of the merits of the case ;-doubt, or affect to doubt,
whether any great crime has been committed to justify the
excitement out of which it sprung,--and are still leu in-
furmed as to the wi,de extent in which, in the course ofthese
!.etters, truda will compel me to admit the Masonic institu·
tion has been compromised by the dark transaction to which
I am referring.
Allowing what I have just been saying to be true, and
that it is so, I know from extensive and close personal ob-
aervation,-may it not, sir, be a matter of profitable inquiry,
to ascertain the cause of this want of information, with a
view, if possible, by a subsequent investigation of facts, of
removing the obstacles to a more general difii.tsion of light
and truth?
In searching for the origin of Anti-masonry, we di8cover
it as proceeding exclusively from the fact, that in the year
1826> a great outrage was committed in the western part
Digitized by ~-'?-~gle _ _
-
LE'!TI!ll r.
'
of New-York, against the peace of the people and the mao
jesty of the laws. An extensive conspiracy was formed.
against a free citizen, commencing in his seizure and abduc-
tion, and ending in his murder. The men engaged in this
foul conspiracy, thus terminating in a deed of blood, belong-
ed to the society of Freemasons ; and the life of the victim
was taken, as a punishment for a disclosure, on his part, o{
what have been deemed the secrets of that institution. The
fact of the abduction and murder having been satisfactorily
ascertained, the people of that section of country, laboring
under a very honest feeling of indignation at the perpetra-
tion of such an outrage, set themselves about a thorough
investigation of this black transaction. But they soon founcl
their investigations embarrassed, by Freemasons, in every
way that ingenuity could devise. At that time, by the then
existing law of the state, grand jurors were selected and '
summoned by the sheriffs of counties. In one county, sus-
picion was strongly fastened upon the sherifi' himself; and
the grandjurors smnmoned by him refused to find bills, where
the ez-parte testimony was on all hands believed to be suf·
ficient to put the offenders upon their trial. In some instan-
ces, where convictions were had for the lesser crime of ab-
duction, the parties offending, so far from having beenexpel-
led from their respective lodges for their crimes, received a.id
and comfort from their brethren. In others, some witnetaetJ
stood mute; others were believed to have petjured them-
selves ; while in other caees, the Masons on the petitjuries,
would refuse to convict, even where the testimony was
strong as proofs of holy writ. The arm of the law was
raised, and the power and authority ofthe state invoked and
exercised in vain ; while the grand supervising bodies of the
Masonic instituti.on, were themselves ·strongly suspeeted of
favoring the cause of the accused. The natural conae.
quenee of such a chain ofcircumstances, was to increase the
excitement of the people at every new developement o{facti!,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER I.
and to chafe them into a yet more angry mood, with every
rruccessive disappointment. A large portion of the press,
moreover, either observed an ominous silence, or attempted
to heap ridicule upon those who honestly believed the blood
, of an innocent man to be crying from the ground for ven·
\ geance.
Thus irritated and inflamed, the Anti·mason8 no longer
confined their denunciations to a few misguided Masonic fa·
natics at the west, but proceeded in no measured terms, to
denounce the whole fraternity, and to hold the institution of
Freemasonry itself as directly responsible for the alleged
murder. At one time it was said that the Grand Lodge, at
another that the Grand Chapter, and at another that the
General Grand Chapter, had directly authorised and requir-
ed the murder of the victim-whose name, I need not add,
was WILLIAM MoRGAI'f. Nay, more, an illustrious citizen,
now no more, whose life was a pattern of public and private
integrity and virtue, and whose name is proudly associated
with the glory of his country, was basely coupled with the
conspirators ; while newspaper files, and the records ofcoro-
llers' offices, were ransacked for cases.of suicide, to be charg·
edas so many additional murders upon the Freemasons. A
aumber of seceding Masons disclosed a series of oaths, pur·
porting to be those administered in the lodges and chap-
te~ which, unexplained, look frightfully enough, I admit ;
but which, according to the construction put upon them
by the Anti-masons, would not only cover every crime
and every enormity, against the laws alilte of God and
man, that Masons could commit, but would compel the
participation in crime, of all who have taken such obliga-
tions. Feeling keenly the injustice of such sweeping de-
nunciations, the Masons, in turn, became highly exaspera-
ted. Thousands and tens of thousands of men, as virtuous
and as pure in their lives and conversation as any in the re-
public-men exaltctl by their talents, and the splendor of
Digitized by Coogle
I
\
..
LETTER I. 9
their public services-or for their piety and benevolence in
the walks of private life-ofa sudden found themselves charg-
ed with infidelity, blasphemy, and murder. They could
not brook it. Many thousands of them were only nominal-
ly Freemasons. They had joined the society when young
men, as a benevolent social institution, relinquishing it in a
few years, to attend to the more important concerns of life.
but without perceiving any harm in it. There were thou-
sands and tens of thousands more, preserving their relation-
ship to the institution, who absolutely not only knew noth-
ing of the abduction and murder of William Morgan-but
who had actually never heard ofthe person,or his book, until
months after his bones were whitening at the bottom of the
Nia,onra. And again, there were thousands of Masons, u
well as others, who believed, (and many of them so believe
unto this day,) that the whole story of the abduction and
murder was an ingeniously devised fiction, get up for the
purpose of realizmg a fortune from the sale ofa book-pre-
tending to be a revelation of the secrets of Freemasonry.
All these classes of Masons felt not only insulted, but ag~
grieved, at the wholesale charges brought against them.
When personall}' assailed, it was in vain that they opened
their mouths in explanation or defence, or that they expres-
sed the deep abhorrence with which they Jooked upon the
erime that had been committed. They were roughly told
that those oaths, those horrible oaths, were upon them, and
that consequently it was utterly out of their power to speak
the truth of the order. The effect upon the social relations,
in many peaceful communities, was such as all good men
could but deplore. Friendships were broken amongst neigh-
bors; the harmony ofthe social ~side was destroyed ; the
pastors of the christian religion were driven from their
flocks, and exemplary professors thrust rudely fivm U.1e QQIU•
lnunion table.
•
Digitized by Coogle
•
10 LETTEll 1.
_ Thus aJ'O!IIe a mutual state of distrust and exasperation,
[ ..Many thousands of honest and intelligent men have brought
themselves to believe, that Masons have so bound themselves
by horrible oaths, that they are disqualified for perfonning
the duty even of good citizens-much less for discharging
faithfully the duties imposed by civil trusts of any descrip-
tion whatever. And they are consequently from year to
year appealing to the ballot boxes for such a decision from
__ the people, a'S will sustain their views. While on the other
nand, the great majority of the Masons, particularly be-
yond the state of New-York, and the numerous body with-
. in the state, who feel a proud consciousness of their own
individual honor and integrity, and who condenm the Mor-
gan outrage as much as the m011t indignant Anti-mason can
do it, are bent on opposing the crusade against them with
equal pertinacity. Sorry am I to add my fears, that the ob-
stinacy on both aides, is but too often indulged at the ex-
pense of what the partiesknow and feel to be the true inter-
ests of the country.
Such a state of feeling, it will readily be conceded, is in
no wise favorable to a calm investigation as to the merits
of the controversy. On the one hand, the Anti-masons per-
sist in holding the whole Masonic fraternity guilty-impu-
ting that guilt to the nature of the institution itself-and ~
fusing to allow any explanations as to the manner in which
freemasonry was received, understood and practised by vir-
tuous and intelligent men. Such explanations, they affect
to believe, would not only be ez-parte, but unworthy of cre-
dit, on account of the "horrible oaths." Indeed they invert
the sound maxim of the common law, which declares that
every man is to be considered innocent until be is proved
guilty, and believe every Mason guilty who is not proved
innocent. On the other hand, an equally strong prejudice
against the Anti-masons, has prevented the vast body of Ma-
Digitized by Coogle
...
LETTEll I. 11
aoos, who are in truth and in fact innocent of all the charges
directly advanced, or insinuated against .them, from that
full and impartial inquiry into the whole history of the Mor·
pn outrage, which its importance demands. The conse-
quence is, that they are not aware of the extent to which
the Masonic institution of this state, stands compromised in
relation to the Morgan outrage, and the subsequent efforu
to succor, and even to screen, tbe guilty. They, on their
part, moreover, look upon the Anti-masonic publications
as ex-parte, and will not believe them.
Here, in my opinion, lies the great difficulty in question.
The mutual hostility of the partie~ engendered as l have
related, has prevented that calm and deliberate search after
truth that is needed. These asperities must be softened.
The Anti-ma.99ns must be made to perceive, that, whatever
they may think of Freemaaonryitself, their indiscriminate
pl'OI!ICription of its members, whom they know to be pure and
virtuous, patriotic and upright citizens, is cruel and unjust.
·The Masons, on their ~ must in like manner be made to
perceive, that there has been great cause for the excitement
and indignation of the Anti-masons. They must likewise be
made to perceive, that the masonic institution, having over a
wide region of country been corrupted and abused-nay,
stained with blood which its officers have not tried to wipe
away-is liable to be so abused and corrupted again; and.
therefore, that it cannot and ought not longer to be sustained.
To produce these results, is the design ofthe undertaking
upon which I have now commenced. In the minds of many,
the attempt may argue on my part no small degree of
presumption. Still, I have the vanity to believe I shall be
in a degree successful-that my labors will tend, in some
small measure at least, to advance the cause of truth and
justice. The Anti-masons know me well. They know that
from the outset, my course upon the subject of this unhappy
excitement, and the tra&ical cause of it, bas been opea,
Digitized by Coogle
12 '!."ETTER J.
straight-forward, free and independent. They know that
neither threats, nor abuse, nor motives of eelf-interest, have
deterred me from speakingor publishing the truth-and the
whole truth. By them, therefore, I shall be read and be·
lieved. The intelligent and virtuous members of the .Ma-
80nic fraternity likewise know me. They know me as a
Mason, who, for ample cause, as will be seen hereafter, has
not attended the sittings of any lodge, since the atrocity of
the west was discloeed, but who has nevertheless made no
renunciation. By them, therefore, I likewise trust I sball be
read, and I hope also by them to be believed. In any event,
my aim will be impartiality and truth. The search for the
latter, I am aware, will be laborious, even if it can at all
times be discerned. " Truth," to borrow a beautiful simile
from .Milton, "came onoe into the world with her divine
"master, and wu a perfect shape, most glorious to look oo: ·
"but when he ascended, and his apostlesafter him were-laid
"asleep, there straight arose a wicled raceof deceivers, who
"as the story-goes of the Egyptian Typhon with his eo011pir.;
"ators, how they dealt with the good Osiris, took the virgin
"Truth, hewed her lovely frame into a thousand pieces, and
"scattered them to the four winds. From that time eversince,
"the sad friends of Truth, such as durst appear, imitating the
"careful search that Isis made for the mangledbody ofOsiris,
"went up and down gathering up limb by limb still as they
"could find them." Like the widowed divinity of the my-
thology, I, also, shall search up and down after the acattered
members of the victim ; and although I may not promiae in
bringing together every joint and limb to mould them as
Isis did, into "an immortal feature of loveliness and perfec-
,.tion," yet I trust I shall not fail in presenting her plain.honest
features, though in humble garb, to the recognition of the
public.
It is no part of my design to write a vindication of Free-
tniiiOnry., as such. Its. cbaracter, its usefuloels. and its rn-
Digitized by Coogle
- - - --
'
LETTER 1., 18
pectability are gone, and its officers and members, through-
out the Union, would act wisely to bury all their tools and
implements, and inscribe the name ICHABOD on the cap-
stone. But it will be my object to describe Freemasonry
as I received, understood, and practised it myself, and as it
has been received, understood and practised by the hundreds
of excellent men-of sound heads, and pure hearts,-whom
I have known to be Freemasons, and with whom, before the
black outrage which has disgraced and destroyed the insti-
tution,.I have had the happineas to associate in the lodge
room. H~g discharged this d1.1ty to those of my brethren
who arc worthy citizens, and having, (as I hope I shall be
able to do,) relieved them from a heavy weight of the odium
unjustly cast upon such Masons, I .shall next proceed k, give
a full and impartial history, without fear, favor or affection,
of or for any one, of the origin, rise and progress of Anti-
masonry-nothing extenuatiDg, nor setting down aught in
malice-embracing an account of the original quarrel with
Morgan, together with a succinct history of the several tri-
als that have taken plaoe in relation to the subject, with all
the pertinent and material facts elicited, in testimony, togeth-
er with such other incidental information as may be found
iateresting and authentic.
You will perceive, sir, that 1 have entered upon a wide
field of investigation; but I hope in the course of the winter
to accomplish the task in a manner that will be equally a.-
tisfaetory to yourself and the public, while at the same time
its tendency may be to allay excitement and animosity, and
to produce a better understanding among good men now
widely apart, but who love the country and its inhabitants
with equal ardor and sincerity. .
I am, sir, with sentiments of high respect,
Your very humble .ervant.
Digitized by Google
LHTEJliJ,
LETTER II.
NBw-YoaK, Nov. 25, 1831.
So,
Punuing the design ofthis correspondence, in the man-
ner indicated in my former Letter, it will be first in order
to·speak of the Masonic institution as I first became ae-
quainted with iL My object in making this exposition is
two-fold, viz: to show, not only, (as I have previously inti-
mated,) how gentlemen of intelligence and moral worth,
have received and understood the subject, but to show also,
how they could consistently remain attached to the institu-
tion, so long at least aa they supposed it to be free from
crime, and incapable of abuse, notwithstanding the ridicule
which has been cast upon its ceremonies by caricature-re-
presentations. Much of the language of Freemasonry is
allegorical ; and the emblems and symbols used, are, many
of them, pregnant with useful instruction. The moral vir-
tues and duties, and some of the soundest religious truths,
are imprinted on the mind, and impressed upon the memory,
by lively and sensible images ;-and although I have never
witnessed any of the burlesque representations to which I
have just referred, I can yet easily perceive how they may
be rendered exceedingly ridiculous in the eyes of a popular
audience, by a mock display upon the stage. But this fact
is no evidence either ofweakness or folly,on the part ofthoee
who are actually receiving moral instruction from these
symbolic lessons, in a well regulated lodge room.
It was towards the close of the year 1815, that I was
initiated into the first, or entered apprentice's degree of Ma-
sonry, in tho lodge at Hudson, in the county of Columbia.
Digitized by Coogle
LliTTEll ·u.
(N. Y.) I was moved to take the leap inthe dark, more by
that prurient curiosity incident to our species, than from any
other consideration. In common with others, I had heard
much of the antiquity of the order, but bad never taken the
trouble to examine its valUlted pretensions, and cared little
about them. 1\'!y impression was, that it might possibly
date its associa~d origin back to the period of the crusades,
but probably no farther. Certainly, the idea that by joining
the soeiety, I was to become possessed of some mighty se-
cret of priceless value, and infinite importance, or that my
mind was suddenly to be illuminated by a blaze of intellec-
tual light. after entering the lodge room; was far from being
entertained. Still, however, after having been conducted
through the ceremonies, which were well administered, by
expert officers, and which, with the explanations given, ap-
peared, to say the least, very harmless, candor obliges me to
confess that I felt not a little disappointed. But it was a
disappointment at. I knew not what.-a sort of undefinable
sensation-neither a positive feeling of dissatisfaction, nor
of chagrin, but yet a little of both. Probably I felt some-
thing like the Syrian leper, when the prophet. instead of
going out and " doing·some great thing," told him simply to
go wash himself in the river. There were at the time
about a dozen of us, yoWlg gentlemen, at lodgings together,
several of the elder of whom were already Masons of some
years standing ; and whenever these returned from the
.lodge, it was often the habit of the residue of the circle, to
indulge, sometimes in harmless pleasantries at their expense.
and at others in severer satires. And it is not Wllikely that
these very conversations were the immediate cause of our
joining the institution. I use the plural pronoun, because, to
my infinite surprise, when I was 'brought from darkness to
light.' to use the language of the craft,-being the last of a
number of candidates admitted on that evening,-! foWld se-
veral ef my daily companions initiates before me. An
Digitized by Coogle
16 LETTER -II.
eclaircissement was now inevitable, and the fact was of
course disclosed, that we had each taken the preparatory
measu~s for initiation with so much secrecy that neither
had indicated his intention to his most confidential friends.
Two of the nwnber were promising young clergymen, one
of whom is now a divine in Philadelphia, distinguished nlike
for his eloquence and his piety. I could easily diseem that
the feelings of all these were in unison with my own. Nor
did the same observation, in regard to all the eu~. escape
the attention of older members of the fraternity, and they nc.
cordingly very soon re-assured us, by stating the fact, that
the first step, or degree, was merely intended to introduce
the candidate into the lodge, and that the higher mysteries
of the order would be disclosed to us afterwards. In the
mean time the lectures appertaining to the first degree, and
the charges, were duly recited to us, and with eftect. I
have already mentioned, incidentally, the importance of hav-
ing officers who understand their duties, and who are withal
men of intelligence, and education. To the want of presi-
ding officers of this description, may probably be attributed,
in a great measure, the deplorable tr!lnsactions of which it
will hereafter be my duty to speak in tenns of the strongest
condemnation. On the present occasion, however, there
was no cause offo.ult-finding upon this score. The emblems
of this degree, of which I shall speak more at large, in an-
other communication, when I come to discuss tile charge
brought against the institution of infidelity, were happily
and readily explained. The most prominent of these em-
blems, was the star in the east, which guided the eastern
Magi to the humble couch of the infant Saviour of men.
There were other emblems, teaching, first, the propriety of
maintaining regularity of life, and attending to the due im-
provement of time, by conforming to the prescribed rules for
which, eight hours were allotted to repose, eight to labor,
aftd eight to the service of God. Secondly, the cleansing ef
Digitized by Google
LETTER 11; I?
eur hearts and· minds from every vice, was inculcated-
"thereby fitting our bodies, as living stones," for that spirit·
ual edifice built by the great architect of the univene, be-
yond the stars. There were other emblems in thia ·first
step, representing human life as being chequered with good
and evil ;-pointing to·the comforts and blessings that sur-
round us ;-andimpressing upon our minds the neceaity 9f
our ~liance upondivine providence. Our imperfect condition
by nature was likewise adverted to, and the state of perfec•
tion to which we hope to arrive by a virtuous education.
eided by the blessing of God upon our own endeavors, and
a due observance of the holy scriptures, as pointing out the
whole duty of man. Indeed every thing in this degree wu
adapted to impress upon the mind of the candidate the necet-
lrity of maintaining purity of life and conduct, in order to
ensure a happy immortality. The badge ofthedegree, we
Were informed, was a white lamb-skin-an emblem of in-
nocence and purity of life. Our minds, we were told, \Vere
to be continually directed to heaven ; and in explanation of
the emblem of a ladder upon the .Masonic carpet, we were
referred to that singular vision of Jacob, so expressly sym-
bolical of the universal providence of God-the flight of
eteps uniting earth and heaven, with the ministering angela
continually ascending and descending-watching over us,
and, aa it were, conveying the wants of man to his maker,
and bringing down the commands and the bleuings of his
maker to his creatures. Instructive lessons were likewise
inculcated upon the moral duties of brotherly love, the relief
of the distressed, and the attribute of truth, as the foundation
of all virtue. This part of the exerciae was succeeded by
a satisfactory explanation of the four cardinal virtues of
temperance, fortitude, prudence, and justice. The result of
the performance,on the whole, imparted satisfaction; and the
ceremony of closing the lodge, the utmost BOlernnity and
order being preserved, was strikin& and qrwable. The
3
Die itlzed ~y Google
18 ~TTE& n.
beautiful words of the closing prayer:-" May the blesq
" of heaven rest upon us, and all regular Ma110ns ! May
" brotherly love prevail, and every moral and social virtuo
"cement WJ," with the universal re.aponse of" Amen"-fell
upon our ears impreBaively.
On the next night of meeting, the initiates were of courae
allowed to be present at the opening of the lodge : and
equally impressive on that occasion was the ceremony, as
at the conclusion of the last mtting-every thiug being con,.
dueled in such manner as to inculcate respect for those in
authority, with ~lemn reverence and adoration for the dei-
ty, whose blessing and direction in our labors, was invoked
-not in a light and thoughtless manner, as some may per-
haps infer, but with the gravity and decency of a well regu-
lated cboreh. The charge on openinga lodge,is in the wordt
of the· 133d paalm :--J4 Behold I how good and how plea·
." sant itis for brethren to dwell together in unity I It is like
" the preeious ointment upon the head, that ran down upoa
" the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went down to the skirts
" of his garments ; as the dew of Hermo~ that descended
" upon the mountains of Zion ; for there the Lord eom-
"manded a bleuing, even life .for evennore." Such a
charge, being appropriately pronounced·to an audience ap-
parently feeling the force of every word, was certainly weU:
calculated to arrest the attention, and, for a time at least, to
soften the uperities of temper, to chasten the mind and the
heart, and in all respects to make a favorable impression,
even upon those whose temperaments and habiu were not
of a deci~edly religious character. .
And here-(for I shall probably not have a better place)-
it occurs to me to answer an oft-repeated accusation against
the Masons,· which has not been originated, like many othen~.,
since the Morgan outrage, and the consequent excitemen~
but which is of long standing : I mean the charge of in-
temperance, and riotous excesses, in the lodges ; and that~'
Digitized by Google ...._
_
LHTJ:Jlll. )9
b, at the expense of the funds, collected. as it is pretended.
i>r charitable purposes. I knpw not what may have been
the practice in lodges, and among Ma.soD.s, capable of plot·
ting the abduction, and compassing the murder, of a free ci··
tizen. But I do know, that within w.bat was once tke wide
circle of my Masonic acquaiDtance, the charge is wholly,
andin all re(Jpects, untrue. There are portioOB of the cere-
monies, that necessarily create some noise, and apparent
confusion, and whicb, bei.ag heard in other pa.rta of the hous-
es containing lodge-rooms, may, and probably have, at
times, induced the opinion, that the soqnds arose from carou-
sals, and obstreperous mirth. Yet, as far as my observation
bas extended, such waa not the facL When I first joined
the order, and fur about two yean tbereafter, it was the
custom " to call frOBl labor to refreshme.~at," to be technical
again, for a short time before the final closing of the lodge.
But the refreshments were invariably of the most simple
description, being co11fuaed w crackers ud cheese, an~
.tOmetimes a cold cut of ham, with a moderate supply of
eider, or !lpirits .and water--Dothing more. Wine was ne-
ver introduced, except on the two festivals of John the Bap-
tist, and the Evangelist-these two being the only festivals
the celebration of which was allowed within the lodges.
Even those simple and very frugal refreshments were pro-
hibited, however, in the year 1817, by the Grand Lodge, and
from that day to the present, no &f'dent spirits have been
.allowed within the lodges. When the lodge was ternp>rari-
Jy closed, for re.freslunent, the members were told that they
might enjoy themselves with innocent mirth; but the charge
was explicit-" You are carefully to avoid ex:cess. You
Mare not to compel any brother to act contrary to his incli·
... nation, or give offence by word or deed, but enjoy a free
"'and easy conversation. You are to use no immoral or
..obscene discourse, but at all times to support with proprio.
'".t,y, the dignity ofyour character."
Digitized by Coogle
L'E'l'TEll It.
It ia true that in 1101ne of the more select lodges, such u
tJte Holland Lodge, and the Adelphi, in this city, suppert
are spread, at the cloee of the winter monthly cominunica-
tions ; and collations ofcold tongues, fruits, &c., during tho
warm eeuon. But these meals are, in all caset, paid for
"y the private subscriptions of members. In no instance,
previously to the year 1827, did I ever know, or even sus-
pect, a prodigal or improper use of the fund sacred to the
cause ofcharity. And in no societies of men, ueociated rot
any purpose whatever, have I unifonnly witnessed more
grave, orderly and decorous conduct than in the lodge room.
The prayers of the various services are as devotional as the
excellent liturgy of the episcopal church ; and whenever
clergymen have been present, as members, or visiting~
reo, the practice has usually been to lay aside the fonna,
and request them to officiate in their stead. I have oow ia .
my eye, several clergymen, some of them in this city, emi-
nent for their talents and piety, to whom I could appeal for
the correctness of this declaration. So far, then, as it re-
spects the charges of riotous and excessive eating and
drinking, of disorderly and unseemly conduct in the lodge-
room, and of wasting or perverting the charity funds, I.
trust that I have succeeded in effacing the misrepresenta-
tion. Yet, still, I am not prepared to deny, that the tenden-
cy of frequent lodge meetings, operating upon men of weak
minds and idle habits-men, in short, who ought never to
have been admitted as members-may not always have
been of the happiest description. The frequent association
of numbers of men, at taverns, particularly in country villa-
ges,and the keepingof late hours,havealways an unfavorable
effect upon the morals of those wllo thus assemble together.
But the effect is equally pernicious, and equally certain,
whether these collections are occasioned by Masonic lodg-
etr,·or sheriffs' juries, or justices' courts, military trainings,
cattle shows, or country auctions. And if Masons fall into
Digitized by Coogle
L.ETTJ:Jl 11. 11
habits of indolence or mtemperance, in eoD~equence of clus-
tering together at public houses. they do 10 in defiaace
alike of the example and instruction of the lodge-room,
where they are solemnly charged " to avoid all irregularity
" and intemperance." And if, therefore, the same vices be.et
the haugen-onof petty courts, and the loungen about ooua-
try stores, &e., why should the Maaonic lodges alone be
·singled out lOr condemnation 1 Bot I have ~
farther than I had intended, and must return to the subject
directly in hand, viz : the second degree, or «ep, of Free-
masonry.
In the course of the eeremoaies of this second, or fellow-
craft's degree, there was a recapitulation of the ceremonies
of the first. The emblems of the degree, we were told,
were the plumb-line, the square, and the Jevel-the first ad-
monishing us to walk uprightly before God and mao ; the
11ee0Dd, to square our actions by the square of virtue ; and
the tbird, that we are all travelling upon the level of time,
" to that undiscovered country from whose bourne no tra-
.. veller returns." The idea of the plumb-line is taken from
the prophecy of Amos, vii. 7, 8, which is read in conferring
the degree. The lessons and lectures of this degree are
copious, embracing the definitions of operative !Yld specula-
tive Masonry ; some account of the globe and its uses, well
' adapted to a juvenile class in a common school ; brief and
correct accounts of the five several orders of architecture,
of which, however, we were told that no more than three
were revered by Masonry, viz: the original Doric, Ionic•
and Corinthian orders. Next followed an analysis of the
five external senses, of hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling,
tasting. To this succeeded a rapid explanation of what
were deoomioated the aeven liberal arts and sciences, viz:
grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, music and
utronomy.....ell ofwhich, with the illustrations thereto added,
would ao doubt have been vastly edifyina to the younger
Digitized by Coogle
Jl LBTTER 01.
imnates of a boarding acbool, and would, tmqneatieoably,
have imprinted on their tender minds many wise and seri-
oua truths. With a charge to study these liberal arts ; to
believe that Masonry and Geometry were originally the
same thing ; to observe the rules and regulations of the or-
der ; and an admonition never to palliate or aggravate the
ofFences of our brethren, but in the decision of every rule to
judge with candor, admonish with friendship, and reprehend
with justice, we found ourselves fellow-craftsmen, " worthy
41
and well qualified,"-sad the lodge was cloeed.
Thus far my companions and myself-for we continued
to tra,·el together the whole journey, after Masonic light-
had certainly made no discovery of any grand secret ; but
a we had seen nothing that struck us as being particularly
obj ctionable-nothing, in fact, but what was promotive of
philanthropy and benevolence-of pure morality, if not of
the more active principle of religion-and as we were pro-
mi d much of the " sublime and beautiful" in the degree
next in order, we were induced to proceed.
Accept, sir, the renewed aaaurances of my high conside-
ration, &e.
LETTER III.
NBw-Yo~ Nov. 27, 1831.
SIR,
Having described my entrance into the portals of the
Masonic edifice in my last communication, the next duty en-
joined upon myself, is the discussion ofthe third step ofFree-
masonry, viz: "the sublime degree of a master Mason.•
It is the obligation supposed to be given in this degree, iD
connexion with that of the seventh, or royal arch, against
which the greatest objections have hoeD railed by the Anti-
Digitized by Coogle
-
. ... qp .. ..- -
LETTER Ill.
GWIODic party; although you, sir, have usured me, that the
obligation supposed to be administered in conferring the
first degree, is quite enough, in your view, to establish the
wicked characterofthe institution. You will, however, have
perceived, sir, that in neither of the preceding degrees, of
which it is believed a true and faithful account has been
given, have I spoken of the obligations. My object in
avoiding tbem at the present time, is, that they may be
made the subject of separate coDSideration, in a subsequent
letter.
After the lodge has been regularly opened in this degree,
the work is introduced, on the entrance of the candidate, by
the reading of that beautiful and exquisitely touching portioa
of the penitential hymn of king Solomon, ca1Jed the Ecclesi-
astes, xii. 1, 7,-"Remember now thy creator in the days of
":thy youth," &c. In the course of the ceremonies, there ia
a prayer of deep devotion and pathos, composed ofsome o{
the most sublime and affecting passages of that splendid sa-
cred drama of Axaby, the book of Job. This prayer in-
cludes a portion of the burial service of the protestant epis-
copal church, and is full of tenderness and beauty. The
working tools of the master Mason, we were informed, were
the same as those used in the preceding degrees, with the
addition ofthe trowel-an implement used in operative Ma-
IODI'Y in spreading the cement which unites the boilding into
one common mass; but in speculative Masonry, it is a fig-
urative instrument for spreading the cement of brotherly
love. The emblems presented and explained in this degree,
were-the pot of incense, indicating that a pure heart is
ever an acceptable sacrifice to the deity, "and as this glows
" with fervent heat, so should our hearts glow with grati-
" tude to the great and beneficent author ofour existence, for
• the manifold blessings and comforts we enjoy." The book
ofconstitutions, guarded by the tyler's sword, teaches watch-
fUlness and caution, in our thoughts, words and actions.:
Digitized by Coogle
L:E'fTEll III.
The aword pointing to a naked heart, denotes that justi~
will sooner or later overtake us; while the all-seeing eye,
reminds us that our thoughts, words and actions, though hid-
den from the eyes of men, are ever scanned by the search-
er of hearts. Hope, is of COilJ'lle indicated by the anchor,
and the ark is to waft those who spend their lives well, over
the troublesome sea of life, into that peaceful haven, "where
" the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at
"rest." We were told that the 47th problem of Euclid is
introduced into this degree, as a stimulus to Masons to be-
eome lovers ofthe arts. The hour glass and the scythe, were
duly e:r.plamed; the fonner as an emblem of human life, the
.-nds of which are swiftly running away; and the latter to
abow how easily the brittle thread of life is cut, and what
havoc is made by the scythe of time. The last emblems ()(
this degree, are the three steps delineated on the Masonic
carpet, representing the three stages of human life-youth,
manhood, and age. In youth·we were charged to be in-
dustrious and acquire knowledge, as entered apprentices ; in
manhood to apply our knowledge in a suitable discharge of
our duties to God, our neighbors, and ourselves; and in age
to enjoy the consolations of a well-spent life, in the hope of
a glorious immortality. Another definition which I have
seen in a book upon Masonry, but never heard in a lodge,
is, that the three degrees, or steps, are emblems of the three
. divine dispensations of grace,-the antediluvian, the ma-
sonic, and the christian : the first inculcating the religion
of nature ; and the ·others the existence of a God, and our
duty to him and our neighbors. I know not whether this
has ever been used in a lodge. But that the antediluvian
age was the era of natural religion, particularly, is not a very
sound proposition in theology.
The illustrations of these several emblems, as in the pre-
~ding degrees, were well enough ; but still I cannot deny
that they have the appearance of puerility. I have ofteQ
Digitized by Coogle
- ----......__ ~; ---..J
--
LETTER Ill.
been amused, however, at the close resemblance. existing
between the explanation ofthe hour glass,which no doubt has
been correctly handod down to us, "in due and ancient form,"
and a memorable passage of Shakspeare. In the etplana-
tion ofthis emblem, the candidate is admonished, at the close,
almost in the very words of the great dramatist,-" Thus
.. wastes man! to-day, he puts forth the tender leaves ofhope;
"to-morrow blossoms, and bears his blushing honors thick
• upon him ; the next day comes a frost, which nips the
• shoot, and when he thinks his greatness is still aspiring,
• he falls, like autumn leaves to enrich our mother earth."
It has been urged by unbelievers in the high antiqui-
ty of Masonry, that the bard of Avon, who has ranged
air, earth, and ocean, in search of similes and figures of
speech, would in some way or other have alluded to the
Freemasons, had the institution been known in his day.
Undoubtedly some of the heroes, wise men, or clown!! of
his plays, would have had something to say of, or about,
Masonry,-some commendations to bestow upon it,or satires
to play off at its expense, had the society been then in exis-
tence. The fact, I believe, is true, that Shakspeare has not
allowed either Falstaff, or Dame Quickly, or any other of
his real or imaginary characters, to allude to the institution.
And yet Cardinal Wolsey, when "bidding farewell to all his
"greatness," soliloquises in the same terms, quoted above,
with scarcely a change of words, and those only makini the
language rather more poetical.
"This is the state of:nan; to-day he pute forth
The tender leaves ofhope, to-morrow bloseome,
And bean~ hie blushing honon1 thick upon him:
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost ;
And when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
Bie gl"''atn<'!!fl is a-riP<'ning, nips his root,-
And then befalls, ael do."
Now, whether Shakspcare borrowed from the archives
of Masonry, or the Masons from Shakspeare1 i~ a point
4
Digitized by Coogle
~6 LETTER III,
which I will leave it for the wisdom of others to determine,
in such manner as may best suit their own views.
This third degree is a favorite with Masons generally,
being considered rather as a cl1ej aa?uvre in the craft, not
even excepting the more exalted degree of the royal arch.
Indeed, properly speaking, there arc but three degrees of
ancient Masonry, all others having been engrafted upon the
original stock, within the last hundred years, as will more
fully appear hereafter. It is in this degree that king Solo-
mon is first introduced as an illustriousexemplar ofMason--
ry ; and it is here, also, that the lights of Masonic tradition
are first suffered to shine upori the candidate~lights whose
rays, of course, never gleam athwart the vision of the lJD4
initiated world.
The ceremonies of this degree, exclusive of the mere
fOrms of proceeding in imposing the obligation,and giving the
moral instructions already noticed, are dramatic, and there
is an enactment of a tragedy-not a real one, however, like
that of Niagara-but a representation intended to exempli-
fy a singular instance of virtue, fortitude, and integrity.
In the course of the lecture, the history of the building
of Solomon's temple is adverted to, and if the lodge-room is
well furnished, a drawing of the edifice is exhibited-such
as we all have seen, though upon a larger scale, drafted.
of course, from the WlScientific and altogether unsatisfactory
account of that splendid monument of the wealth of the
wisest of kings, as contained in the books of Kings
and Chronicles. Explanations are attempted of the size of
the temple, the number of columns, pilasters, &c., and a
\'ariety ofarchitectural details, which it is quite unnecessa-
l"Y for me to enumerate. The account of the scriptures.
corroborated by Josephus, is given, of the number of work-
•nen employed in the preparation of materials, and in rear-
ing tllis wonderful structure. The 70,000 porters of bur-
dens, of the scriptures, arc masonically called entered ~ ·
Die itlzed ~y Google
. -a.. _ _ _ __ ...;;.,.
LETTER Ill,
ptentices ; and in like manner, the 80~000 hewers of stooe,
are denominated fellow-crofts. The sacred historian in-
forms us that " Besides the chiefof Solomon's officers that
" were over the work, there were three thousand and three
"hundred which ruled over the people that wrought in the
" work." The Masonic tradition assures us that these 3300
were masters; and over the whole number, three grand rna~
ters presided. These three grand masters were Solomon,
king ofIsrael ; Hiram, king of Tyre; and Hiram Abiff, the
chief artist, and the widow's son, mentioned in 1 Kings, vii. ·
14, and again, 2 Chron., ii. 13. These three grand officers
had systematized the orders of Masonry-they alone pOs-
sessing the master Mason's word. It was intended, of
course; by the numerous entered apprentices and fellow-
crafts, that when the temple was completed, and they should
go forth upon the wide world for employment, the bond of
union formed while building the temple, should be pr~rv­
ed ; while it was believed that the reputation acquired by
having been engaged upon such an edifice a.s the mighty
temple of the Hebrew Deity, would give them advantages
over all other Masons, wherever they migh.t go. The
master Mason's word, in the possession only of the three
grand masters, it was understood, was to be given at the
completion of the temple, to such of the fellow-crafts, &c.
as should be found worthy-but it could only be given by
the three. However, three ruffians, named Jubela, Jubelo.
and Jubelwn, jealous lest they should at Jast be turned
away ignorant of the inestimable secret, finally way-laid
the grand master artizan, in the sanctum aanetorum of th&
temple, where he was wont, daily, to go to worship God and
draw his designs, with the intention of extorting the secret
from him, or taking his life. Faithful to his trust, the wi-
dow's son retained the secret, and the ruffians murdered him.
They buried him secretly, and fled. Pursuers were sent in
ali directions-the villains were beard of on the way to
Digitized by Google
LETTED. IJJ,
Joppa.--some ofthe fellow crafts, in pursuit, overheard them
bewailing their conduct from the cleft of a rock in which
they had secreted themselves ;-and, to make a long story
short, they were arrested, and taken back to king Solomon,
by whose order they were masonically executed. The
murdered body of Hiram was afterwards found, by a mere
accident, where it bad been buried, in a hill-side. In deposit~
ing it, the ruffians had planted over the grave a shrub of
cassia ; some person, when ascending the hill, taking casual-
ly hold of the bush for support, it came up, and the loosen-
ed earth beneath it, created a suspicion which led to the dis-
covery. Solomon, with a lodge of fellow-crafts, went out
to raise the corpse. With the death of Hiram, the master's
word was lost, because it could only be given in the pre-
sence, and by the assistance, of three-and at that time only -
three persons possessed it, viz: Solomon and the two' Hi-
rams. In this dilemma it was agreed that on raising the
body, the first WQrd spoken should be and remain a substi-
tute for the lost master's word.
Such is an outline of the story represented in the pro-
cess of conferring the " sublime degree of a master Ma-
"son;"--and it is clearly as clumsy an absurdity,-as gross
a fiction-as.ever was palmed upon the credulity of man,-:-
violating alike history, probability, and common sense. Nor
is it only recently that the imposture has been confessed.
It was so admitted twenty-nine years ago, by the Rev. Dr.
Dalcho, a distinguished member of the craft, then grand
master of South Carolina, in a masonic oration delivered
by him in 1803. " I candidly confess," says the Rev.
grand master, " that I feel a very great degree of embar-
" rassment while I am relating ·to ministers of God's holy
''word, or to any other gentleman, .a story fom:tded on the
"grossest errors of accumulated ages ; errors which they
"can prove to me to be such from the sacred pages of holy
1' writ, and from profane history, written by men of integri-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER DI. 19
" ty and talents, and that, too, in a minute after I have
" solemnly pronounced them to be undeniable truths ; even
"by that very bible on which I have received their obliga·
" tion." Professor Stuart, of Andover, one ofthe most skill·
fulliDo"llists, ~d learned men in our country, has also shown,
from the internal evidences ofour own books, that the whole
story of these as~ssins, as narrated in the legend, is an im·
posture, since, most unfortunately fQr the authenticity ofour
tradition, the names of the ruffians, Jubela, Jubelo, and Ju-
belum, have been clwnsily fonned from the Latin language.
and not from the Hebrew, to which they have no affinity
whatever. All Hebrew names are significant, and have a
Hebrew shape-a fact of itself conclusive upon this que.
tion.. Yet, grossly improbable as the tradition is, in a weD-
instructed lodge, where the officers and members are expert,
and thoroughly understand their duties, I have repeatedly
seen the whole tragedy of the death, burial, and resurrec-
tion of the unfortunate Hiram, represented with no small
share of dramatic eflect. But, sir, I fancy you will be rea-
dy to exclaim-" How could men of sense ever submit to
"have such absurdities palmed upon their understandings,
" or how listen for a moment to such self-evident and puerile
"fictions !" l'erhaps a reply to this query may be found in
that trait of the human character which delights ~n scenic
representations. Statesmen and philosophers attend thea-
trical exhibitions, where the most absurd and preposterous
scenes are enacted-scenes founded on fiction, and attended
with the grossest improbabilities of time, place and circum-
stance. What can be more absurd than the courtship of
Anne by the murderer of her husband, in Richard lilt
What more unlikely than the espousal of a swarthy Moor
by the fair Desdemona, in Othello 1 What more preposte-
rous than the character of Caliban, in the Tempest1 And
yet these dramas are not only attended by philosophen,
but those philosophersoftenenter into all the pseudo-phrenzy
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER Ill.
of the actor, and sympathetically weep over distress which
they know to be feigned. The fact I take to be this. Men
of infonnationmust, in all instances, know that the tradition
is idle, and the tale, with all ias attending circumstances, an
imposture. But still, they find themselves involved in the
institution," of their own free will and accord,"-at every
step they have been exhorted to works of philanthropy and
benevolence,-they have been told much respecting the
glory of science, the beauty ofvirtue, and the value of truth;
-they find themselves in the midst of an agreeable social
circle, and even the sham-tragedy itself, though ludicrous on
sober reflection, is yet evidently intended merely to incul-
cate a strong lesson of PIDBLITY ;-the whole ceremonies,
moreover, instead of exhibiting the frantic riotings of bac-
channals, as many have represented, being often chastened
with solemn religious associations, in a manner remarkably
pleasing and picturesque. It is this aspect of the case, as I
have reason to believe, that has induced thousands and tens
of thousands of intellectual and virtuous men, to adhere to
Masonry, notwithstanding its frivolities, and its fictions.
'fhey have found nothing hurtful in it;-if there be trifling in
some portions of the ceremonies, it takes place only amongst
themselves; and they concur in the sentiment of Horace,
that " dulce est desipere in loco." Itis agreeable, moreover,
as a social institution-and of great use on account of its
charities•
. Still, on reflection, I am free to declare my later convic-
tions, that this degree has not been altogether hannless.
There are no doubt many thousands of weak and igno-
rant men, who have taken the story of Hiram Abift' for
solemn verity, in all its details. Such men would not stop
to reflect tl1at the 70,000 entered apprentices, and 80,000
fellow craftsmen, of whom they had been told in the lecture,
were in fact not Israelites, but the slaves of the Canaanitish
race, with whom, of cow'Se, Solomon and his officers heid
o;g;u~ed by Coogle
LEa.'TER IU, 31
no more communication than a southern planter does with
his negroes ;-nor would they think of the absurdity of kil·
ling Hiram Abiff in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple,
before the temple itself was built, and where, even when it
was built, king Solomon could .not enter, but only the high
priest once a year. Nor would they stop to reconcile all
the other difficulties which stamp fiction on every point of
the relation. When, therefore, Morgan was murdered--if
such were his fate,-men thus blinded, or thus ignorant,
may have supposed that they were only acting as Solomon
did in respect to the imaginary Jubcla, Jubelo and Jube-
lum,and as he would have done had he then been present,ancl
had Morgan been in his custody. And yet, on the other han4
-(lor I propose to hold the balance impartially)-candor
requires us to admit the Jlpplication of the rule, that we
ought not to argue against the use of a thing from its ~.
Addison has been universally deemed not only a moral wri-
ter, but a pious man. Yet, even from his writings, abUBeS
have sprung. The anecdote is familiar, of a young man iR
London, who, not long after the publication of the tragedy
ofCato, committed suicide, leaving that work, his pistol, and
the following sentiment in justification of the act, upon his
table:-" What Plato said-what Cato did-and what Ad·
dison approved, cannot be wrong."
It is this degree in which the grand hailing sign ofdistress
is collferred-a sign which has been represented as being of
such a potent, irresistable, and dangerous nature. Some of
the Masons have inferred, that when Alexander of Macedon,
according to Judas Maccabeu.s and Josephus, on approach-
ing the holy city with his victorious legions, was so suddenly
disarmed, on the approach of the high priest in his robes,
accompanied by his pontifical retinue, to meet him, the
change was wrought by the influence of Masonry-the
grand hailing sign. According to the legend, the high priest
and the conqueror mutually and simultaneously recognised
Digitized-by Coogle
•
LETTER IV.
each other as brethren ofthe mystic tie. Hence, it has beea
argued,·the sudden change of the conqueror from the belli~
gerent to the pacific and friendly temperament. While
there is no just foundation for this supposition, it is, never·
theless, a well attested fact, that numbers of American ofli·
cers, during the war of our revolution, were rescued from
the blazing faggots of the savages in alliance with England,
by the talismanic influence ofthat signal. That it was ever
perverted to a bad use, I have no knowledge, nor any suffi-
cient reason to suppose.
The final charge in the master·s degree, contains nothing
requiring particular note.. It is shorter than the charges of
the preceding degrees, and directs the new made brother to
inoulcate universal benevolence in precept and by example ;
to preserve the ancient land-marks of the order ; to correct
the errors and irregularities of uninfonned brethren ; to be
faithful to his vows ; to recommend obedience and submis-
sion to superiors ; courtesy and affability to equals ; kind-
ness and condescension to inferiors; and in aU respects to
IUStain a reputation of virtue and honor.
With great respect, I am, &c,
LETTER IV.
NEw-YoRK, Nov. 30, 1831.
S1a,
The degree of speculative Masonry next to be consid-
ered, is that of 1\fark Master. It was incidentally mentio11w
ed in my last communication, that, properly speaking, there
were but three degrees of ancient Masonry, although mo-
dem innovators, in this and various other countries, ha,·c
increased the number to seven. But three degrees only are
now allowed by law in England. In the year 1799, an act
Digitized by Goo le
.... ~--- --------==-~ ---
Ll:TTER IV.
was passed by the British parliament, entitled " An act tOr
" the suppression of societies for seditious and treasonable
"purposes," which prohibited the meetings, or administering
the oaths, of any masonic bodies, excepting the lodges of
ancient YOfk Masons, then in existence, and comprising
only three degrees. By the provisions of that act, the for-
mation of new lodges was in effect prohibited, and those
already in operation, were to be suppressed, unless they
were registered under oath, and complied with certain strict
legal provisions, intended to prevent their becoming dan-
gerous to the state. On receiving this act, the Grand Lodge
of Scotland issued an address to the fraternity under ita
jurisdiction, directing the several lodges to take effectual
steps for enforcing its observance. Every lodge so observ-
ing and enforcing the law, was within six months to apply
for a renewal of power to hold their meetings; and every
lodge not so complying with the law, and affordingevidence
thereof to the grand lodJc, was to be expunged from the
grand roll.
The first masonic work ever printed, was that of Dr.
Anderson, which I have now before me. It was published
in London, in 1723, and treats of only three degrees. As
this work was an authorised collection of masonic consti-
tutions, in connexion with a fabulous and very pompous
'history of the institution, the profound silence observed as
to all degrees above the third, or master Mason's, is very
strong evidence that, one hundred and nine years ago, no
other degree was in existence. The .first lodge authorised
1n America, was in New-Jersey, in 1730, and the next in
·Boston, in 1733,--both under the constitutions of Ander-
son. In Lawrie's ·History of Freemasonry, and of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland, an official authority, published
at Edinburgh, in 1804, I find an instruction to the provin-
cial grand master," to inquire into the orders and degrees
"of Masonry practised," and" probibitizli the practising of
5
Digitized by Coogle
84 LETTER IV.
"any other than &. Job'• Muonry, conshiting ofapprm-
" tice,feUotD-craft, and mtUter TIUUon, the only three d~
"grees sanctioned by the Grand Lodge of Scotland." And
the united Grand Lodges of ancient and modem Masons, in
London, declared, in 1813, "that all ancient Freem~Uoxry
"u yet contained ia tire jir1t three d~greu."
Itis certain, therefore, that but three degrees canbe law-
fully practised in the United Kingdom, although I have an
impreuion that others are clandestinely conferred. The
mark-master's degree, however, of which I am now about
to speak, has ever been given in England, in connexion with,
and as a part of, the second, or fellow-craft's degree. Such
it in fact must have been ; and I can divine no reason for
the separation, unleas it wu supposed that by this multipli-
cation of degrees, the resources of the society would be
increased in a corresponding ratio. Another reason, per-
haps, may also be found; applying in some instances, in the
fact, that by multiplying the number of degrees, persons
who valued their character, and wished their association to
be select, could exclude from their intercourse in the lodge,
all such persons as bad been improvidently or improperly
introduced into the inferior degrees. But even in this ,·iew
of the cue, I can perceive no cause for interposing the third
degree between what were evidently, at first, two consecu-
tive sections of the same chapter in the science. Never-
theless, it is so laid down in the books, and in the practice;
and I shall "go.,·ern myself accordingly."
The charge at the opening of the lodge in this degree, i8
as follows:-" Wherefore, brethren, lay aside all malice,
.. and guile, and hypocri1ies, and envies, and all evil speak·
"inga, if 10 be that ye have tasted that the Lord is gra-
..cious, to whom coming u unto a living stone, disallowed
" indeed, {)( men, but chosen of God, and precious ; ye also•
.. as living 1tooe1, be ye built up a spiritual house, aJt holy
" priesthood. to otfer up sacrifices acceptable to God.
Digitized by Coogle
--.a._ - - I ~ ~
LETTElliV.
·• Wherefore, nlso, it is contained in the scriptures, Behold.
" I lay in Zion, for a foundation, a tried stone, a preciou.
" corner stone, a sure foundation ; he that believeth shall
•• not make haste to pass it over. Unto you, therefore,
" which believe, it is an honor ; and even to those which be
" disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the
"same is made the head of the corner. Brethren, this is
•• the will of God, that with well-doing ye put to silence the
" ignorance of foolish men. As free, and not using your
"'liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of
"God. Honor all men : love the brotherhood: fear Goo."•
No fault can be found with the spirit of this exhortation,
although it must be confessed, that, where the writer of the
fonnulary, in adapting the Jesson to his purpose, bas devia-
ted from the sacred text, he has not improved upon the
language of the apostle. In sober earnest, however, I can-
not refrain from expressing, in this place, the strong dislike
I feel at any alteration or modification of the pure words of
inspiration, for whatever purpose, even when such alteration
may have been made from the best possible motives. There
is danger in every innovation upon the sacred text.
In conferring the degree, the aid of another tradition is
called forth. The story is, that the degree was instituted
to enable the overseers of the work to detect impostors, on
paying the wages of the fellow-craftsmen,-for which pur-.
pose every craftsman had a sign, and a mark of his own,
known by the proper officer. The penalty for a detected
impostor, wns amputation of the right hand. It happened,
on one occasion, that a young fellow-craftsman discovered
in the quarries, a peculiar stone, of singular form, and beau·
tifully wrought. Throwing away his own work, he brought
this specimen up for inspection, which, being neither a
square, nor an oblong square, was rejected by the overseers,
. • Vide i. Peter, c:hap. 2.
Digitized by Coogle
t.ETTJ:lt J'Y',
and thrown away among the rubbish ; the young man co&-
fessed very frtnkly his otfence,--that ofsubstituting another's
work for his own,-but stated that he had been induced to
bring up the stone only in consequence of its peculiar form
and beauty. He was readily pardoned. Subsequently,
when in the act of completing one of the arche1 of the foun-
dation of the temple, the key-stone was found to be want-
ing. It had been wrought in the quarries by our grand mas-
ter Hiram Abilf himself, and designated by his own mark.
Search was made for the stone ; the circumstance of the
young fellow-craftsman was recnlled ; and the key to the
arch was found where it had been cast away as worthless.
In the progress of the ceremonies, all of which are enacted
in a dramatic form, the master again descants upon the archi-
tectural knowledge and taste of Solomon's time, and reca-
pitulates the history of the building the temple ; the number
of workmen engaged upon it ; and the modes adopted for
pWlishing the guilty, and rewarding the virtuous. Various
passages of scripture are cited during the ceremonies, which
it would be quite unnecessary to quote at length.• They
alJ, excepting the two last, refer to the repeated figurative,
or symbolical references of the scriptures, both in the pro-
phecies and the gospels, to the Saviour of men, as a stone, a
ehief corner stone, a precious stone, an elect stone, &c.,--
used by the inspired writers to signify his perfection, his
finnne88 and perpetuity, as the foundation and supporter of
the whole christian church, and the work of man's redemp-
tion. The passage from Ezekiel seems only to have been
introduced because of certain words analagous to the name-
of the degree.
The key-stone above mentioned, a pattern of which with
ao little inconvenience, is carried about in the moving cere-
• Vjd~ Rev. ii. 17.; !. Chron. ii. 16.; PMims cxviii:.~9.; Matt. xxi. ~~·.i
Mark xu. 10. ; Luke :u. 17. ; Acta 1v. 11. ; Rov. w. 13. ; and Ezetwj~
~liv. I, 3 & 5.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER IV.
monies by the eandidate, contains, as I have before observ-
ed, a mark. Tlus mark is a circleformed ofcertain letters--
but though cabalistical, their secret mearung is not of the
least use or importance to the public, and is withal entirely
harmless. Every mark-master has a right to procure an
engraving ofthese letters, upon a piece of plate, or a medal ;
he is to choose his own peculiar mark, which is to be en-
graved within the circle of letters, and never to be changed.
This mark may be of use in cases of pecuniary extremity.
A brother mark-master wishing to borrow a sum of money,
can pledge his mark for the faithful payment thereof ; and
it would be disgraceful, and cost his expulsion, not tore-
deem it. Whenever a mark-master Mason sends his mark
to a brother requesting a loan, the latter cannot return it
even though it be inconvenient to make the loan ; (or, even
though the brother thus applied to should entertain a dis-
trust as to the re-payment of the money,) without accompa-
nying it with the sum of twenty-five cents, or a half shekel
of silver. The reason for this last regulation is this:-The
person sending for the loan, might be in distress even for
food, and the small sum of twenty-five cents would always
· afford temporary relief-or at least a meal of victuals to the
hungry. The practical illustrations which accompany this
portion of the lecture, are peculiarly striking and effective.
The candidate is taught how poor and needy, destitute and
helpless, he may become; and in his own person he feels tho
dependence, whic~ in the hour of misfortune, may one day
overtake us all ; and he feels, also, the necessity of relying
upon the hand of friendship and charity in the hour of trial
The representation may be pronounced puerile by those who
witness the counterfeit presentments ofthe show-men; but
I am free to confess that it impressed a lesson upon my mine:\,
which I hope will never be effaced.
The working tools of a mark-master, are, the mallet and
chisel, the explanations of which are not important. In the
Digitized by Coogle
88 LETTER IV.
brief chatgo to the candidate in this degree, he is exhorted
to lead a pure life, that in the end he may not, like unfinish-
ed and imperfect work, be rejected and thrown aside, as un-
fit for that spiritual building, " that house not made with
"hands, eternal in the heavens." Before closing the lodge,
the parable of the laborers of the vineyard, who murmured
at the good man of the- house because those who came at
the eleventh hour received as much wages as those who had
toiled through the heat and burden of the day, is read by
the master. There is a practical illustration of the parable,
which imparts interest to the degree, and instruction in the
application.
The fifth degree, being that ofPast 1\faster, is next in or-
der; but as it does not profess to advance the candidate
much farther in his journey in search of the grand arcanum
of the order, it can be very speedily disposed of. It is cal-
led the Past Master's Degree, from the circumstance that
every man must pnss the chair of the master, before he cnn
preside over a lodge of master masons. The degree is usu-
nlly conferred by chapters of Royal Arch Masons; but any
master mason, on being elected to preside over a lodge, is
entitled to receive this degree, without placing himselfwith-
in the jurisdiction of the chapter, and must receive it,
before he can enter upon the discharge of his official dutie~.
\Vhen, therefore, any Mason of three degrees only, is elect-
ed master of a lodge, a pro. tern. lodge of individual past
masters is organized, specially, for the purpose ofconferring
this degree. And when a master Mason has thus received
it, he is eligible to the office of master of the Grand Lodge,
:tnd thus becomes grand master. Hence, sir, you will per·
eeive, that a man who is not in fact a high Mason, may ne-
vertheless be dignified by a grand title. Such is in truth the
position of a distinguished citizen of Kentucky, who is now
a candidate for that exalted station which was lately filled
by yourwelf. He has" passed the chair," but is only a Ma-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER IV. 89
son o( three degrees ; and having once, many years ago,
been elected as grand master of the master Masons·of Ken-
tucky, it has suited the present views of clamorous and
uncandid partizans, to make the attempt of exciting the
Anti-masonic prejudices against him, by proclaiming him to
be " a high Mason." What measure ofsuccess will attend
the unworthy effort, remains to be seen.
The chief object of this degree is to exemplify the neces-
sity of government, and to enforce upon the minds of thoao
who are called to govern, the importance of qualifying them-
scives for the akillful and efficient discharge of their duties.
The ceremonies of the degree are extended to no great
length ; but they are such as strongly to impress upon the
newly-elected master, a sense of his own deficiencies in the
matter ofgovernment, and the need he has of promptness
and energy in preserving the discipline of the society over
which he is to preside. The process of conferring the de-
gree-teaching by practical illustrations-is apparently
grave, though withal rather amusing. After the lodge is
opened upon the third degree, the master receives inteUi-
gence from witltout, that some sudden emergency demands
his presence in anotlter place, and he must consequently
leave the chair, and resign his office. He therefore calls
upon the brethren to elect a successor. Various candidates
are put in nomination-all of whom appear actively to elec-
tioneer for the station. But they arc successively voted
down, and in the end, the unsuspecting candidate finds him-
self chosen master of the lodge. If he nttempts to resign,
it is to no purpose, and after making all the excuses he can,
pleased, nevertheless, with his early popularity among the
brotherhood. he ascends the chair, decorated with the jewels
of the station. The old master retires, and the new one
attempts to proceed with the business which is now rapidly
crowded upon his attention. He knows nothing of the rules
t>f proceeding ;-the lodge becomes confused ;-every cfiort
Digitized by Coogle
40 LETTER IV.
he makes to preserve order, but adds to the confusion;-
every member endeavors to augment his embarrassment;-
he forgets, in his own confusion, the instructions as to the
method of preserving perfect silence, if nothing more, which
he had a few moments before received from his predeces-
sor ;-UDtil, in the end, thinking he has been elected in good
faith, and believing, from the conduct of the brethren, that
he has sudderily become one of the most unpopular of men,
whereas he had perhaps just been exulting at his popularity,
he yields up his office in perfect despondency and conster-
. nation. The old master then kindly re-appears, and soon
teaches him how to command order ;-for, indeed, as to
obedience, it frequently happens that a scrupulous compli-
ance with his own ignorant and inopportune mandates, has
occasioned the very confusion which had appalled him. The
new master is then advised to resign, whereupon he begins
to comprehend the part he has been acting, and gladly es-
eapes from the irksome situation. I shall never forget my
own embarrassing exploits when first called to this trying
station.
It is unquestionably true, that in the proceedings I have
attempted thus briefly to describe, there is often much con-
fusion and not a little merriment,-arising solely from the
perplexity, and the ludicrous conduct, performed with sober .
gravity, by the candidate. I admit that the laugh, at a man
thus circumstanced, may... argue want of grace;" but the
eouplet must be finished in extenuation ; for " to be grave,"
would " exceed all power of face." Still, there is nothing
wicked, or malicious, or riotous, in all this ; although the
noise may have been misconstrued by those without the
lodge, into the wild uproar of revellers. But, a single rap,
at the proper moment, hushes all into instantaneous silence.
Indeed there is no body or society of men on earth,-nQ
meeting or assemblagc,-under such strict, immediate, and
etlective control,. ae a lod~ or chapter of Muons.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER V. 41
The lecture of this degree which· the candidate then rc- ·
ceives, is divided into numerous sections, and is very long.
It treats of the government of the society ; the disposition
of rulers ; and illustrates, (as we have just seen) the requi-
site qualifications. It includes the ceremony ofopeningand
closing lodges in the several preceding degrees. It com·
prebends, also, the forms of installations and consecrations,
as well in the grand, as in local lodges. Instructions are
likewise given at length for laying the foundations of build-
ings, and for their consecration. The initiate is also particu-
larly taught the forms ofconducting the funerals of deceased
brethren. It would be alike tedious and unnecessary for
me to enter into details upon any of these points. All the
exercises and recitations are printed at large in the various
formularies extant, and so far as I have compared them, the
discrepancies are few and unimportant. The charges to
the master and wardens of a lodge, are appropriate, and
unexceptionable. Indeed, I should feel myself bound in
justice to cite a passage from the charge to the new past
master, in this place, were it not for the consideration that
it may possibly be more appropriately used elsewhere, be·
fore ·this discussion is closed.
I am, very respectfully, &c.
LETTER V.
Nzw-You:, Dec. S, 1831.
Sill,
The sixth degree is that of "Most Excellent Master."
It professes to be a representation, on a small scale, of the
ceremony of completing the work of Solomon's temple, and
its dedication. All there is of tradition connected with thi1
G
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER V.
degree, is embraced in the following morccau of unauthenti-
cated history:-" When the temple of Jerusalem was fin.
•• ished, and the cap.stone celebrated, with great joy, king
"Solomon admitted to this degree, only those who had prov-
" ed themselves worthy, by their virtue, skill, and inflexible
"fidelity to the craft."
In opening the chapter upon this degree, the members
kneel around the altar, inclining their heads downwards,
with an air of solemn reverence, while the most excellent
master reads that noble lyric of the royal Hebrew poet,
the xxiv. Psalm. "The earth is the Lord's and the fullnes•
•• thereef," &c. During the ceremony of receiving the can-
didate, the cxxii. Psalm is read, commencing-" I was glad
" when they said unto me, let us go into ~e house of the
"Lord." After the candidate has taken the obligation impo-
sed by the degree, the members form and march in proces.
sion, during the singing of an ode, set to appropriate music.
The only additional ceremony performed while the proces-
sion is thus engaged, is the adjusting of the cap-stone in a
mortice ofan arch, which has been sprung across the room
from the columns of Jachin and Boaz-mcre temporary
erections, of course. The sixth chapter of ii. Chronicles,
with the first four verses of the seventh, are also introduced
into this degree, containing Solomon's prayer ofunexampled
sublimity, at the consecration, together with the account of
the resting.ofthe cloud upon the temple, and its blazing forth
with insupportable splendor before the awe-struck legions of
Israel, while the glory of the Lord filled the house, and the
celestial fire flashed upon the sacrificial altar.
The charge to the candidate contains little that requires
special note. He is again admonished not to sacrifice his .
good standing by misconduct, and directed to acquire a per-
fect knowledge of all tl1e preceding degrees, that he may be
able to dispense light and truth to his uninformed brethren.
Digitized by Google
••
LETTER V.
In closing the chapter in this degree, the members kneel
around the altar as before, while that truly beautiful Psalm,
the xxiii., is read by the most exceUent master.
Thus, sir, have I attempted to gi,·e you a brief, but, I hope,
intelligible account of my travels though six degrees of Ma-
sonry, in quest of the great secret light to which we were
constantly approximating, but never destined to reach--cer-
tainly not in that effulgence which we had been led to ex-
pect, and of which the Masons were wont to boast, if not
expressly by words, at least by wise and knowing looks,
and airs of mysterious importance, whenever the subject
became one of conversation and inquiry among the uninitia-
ted. In saying that I was travelling" in search ofthe great
secret light," you will please not understand me as writing
in forgetfulness of what I have asserted in a fonner Jetter.
I anticipated the discovery of no astounding secret. Still, I
believed with Locke, in one of his annotations upon an an-
cient masonic manuscript found in the Bodleian Library, in
the hand-writing, as it was supposed, of Henry VI. Of the
"art of keeping secrets," mentioned in the manuscript,
Locke says :--" What kind of an art this is, I can by no
"means imagine. But certainly. such an art the Masons
" must have ; for though, as some people suppose, they
.. should have no secret at all ; even that must be a secret,
.. which, being discovered, would expose them to the highest
" ridicule ; and therefoce it requires the utmost caution to
•• conceal it."• This was in truth about the measure of my
belief. The result will appear in the sequel.
I have now arrived at the seventh degree-that of the
Royal Arch. This is the principal of the four degrees con-
ferred by a chapter, as the third degree is chiefest in the
lodge of master Masons. In the first two degrees, the as-
• The authenticity oftheletter of Locke, from which I have here quoted,
has been qu('stioned latterly by ~ome of the over-zealous Anti-muon~c wri-
ter& ; but so far as my ob~~ervatloo has extended, I have eeen no ev1deace
whateFer ofits spuriouaoeBL
Digitized by Google
44 LETTER V.
piring, and often disappointed, candidate, is continually ur·
ged on to the third, as that which will realize all his expec-
tations, and satisfy all his desires. So, also, of the seventh,
after the candidate has stepped from the lodge-r09fllt into
the court ofthe chapter-it is in the Royal Arch degree only,
he is told, where the full fruition of light and knowledge is
to be enjoyed-where the aspiring student, like another Pro-
metheus, can, as it were, steal sacred fire from the chariot
of the sWl to kindle his genius, and hold converse, face to
face, with immortal truth herself, in all her perfection and
beauty. To quote the books of the craft, "this degree is
"indescribably more august, sublime, and important, than all
" which precede it ; and is the summit and perfection ofan-
" cient Masoury. It impresses on our minds a belief ofthe
"being and existence of a Supreme Deity, without begin·
• ning of days, or end of years, and reminds us of the rever-
" ence due to his holy name." Whether it was owing to
these considerations alone, or whether because of the perse-
verance ofmy companions, or because disappointed curiosi-
ty yet occupied a comer of my head or heart, I do not ex-
actly recollect ; certain it is, however, that I resolved to
proceed to the end, and, if there were any secret, tofind it-
if any mystery to soloc it.
In opening the chapter upon this degree, the members
assemble around the altar, kneeling reverentially, as in the
degree of Most Excellent Master, and joining hands, while
the third chapter of 2. The88alonians, 6-18, is read by the
high priest. The ceremonies of opening having been com-
pleted, and the chnpter declared in readiness for the despatch
of business, the candidates for exaltation arc introduced,
and the work commences. The conferring of this degree
occupies a long time-four or five hours, of continued ac-
tion. Its traditions are as follows : The. Royal Arch 1\fa.
210n is taught to belit!ve, from the silence of the scrip-
tures, at certain periods, concerning the book of the law,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER T.
and the light of tradition, rabbinical and masonic,·that the
world is indebted to Freemasonry for the preservation of
the Mosaic dispensation, or the pentateuch. It is asserted,
that, previously to the time of Ezra the scribe, who correct-
ed, revised, and re-wrote some of the sacred books, there ia
no mention of more than one copy of the book of the Jaw-
namely, that written by the inspired lawgiver himself. Not
a word is said in the scriptures of this book, from the com-
mencement and during the reign of Manasseh, down to the
time it was discovered, accidentally, as it would seem, in the
reign of his grandson, Josiah. Hilkiah, the high priest, had
thoroughly to inspectand repair the temple, and while thus
employed, as the sacred record itself informs us, he acci-
,dentally discovered an authentic copy of "the book of the
"law of the LOrd, given by Moses," and carried it straight-
way and laid it before the king. The king commanded him
to read it aloud; but when Hilkiah arrived at those passa-
ges, which denounced God's anger against idolaters, and
speak of the punishments which should come both upon the
people and their sovereign, in the event of hi~ transgressing
their commandments, Josiah's horror and dismay rose to
the highest pitch.• From the whole scripture account of
the finding and reading of the law, the inference is irresist-
ible, that it had been lost-that the king, alike with the high
priest, and the people, were all, in a great measure, ignorant
of the book, and of its contents. Such, certainly, is the fair
interpretation of the account of the transaction in the ii.
Kings, and also of the copy of Ezra, as recorded in the
Chronicles. Josephus corroborates this opinion; and the
same view is clearly entertained by Henry, the pious ·and
learned commentator, who says "the spring of life was shut
"up"-" the fountain sealed," to Josiah ; and after the dis-
covery, he says "the things contained in the scriptures were
" new to Josiah."
• Glcig'a Hlst. Bible.
Digilited by Goog e
46 LETTER V.
It is also said this invaluable treasure was again missms
from the reign of Josiah, until the days of Ezra, after the
return from Babylon. Over these two dark and gloomy
periods a veil is cast, which, as the masonic writers assure
us, none but skilful Masons have been able to rend asunder.
The prophetic eye of our grand .master Solomon was of
course enabled to foresee future events. He foresaw that
wicked men would sway the sceptre, who would jeopard
the existence of the holy law itself; and he, consequently, in
the erection of the temple, provided a place of safety for the
deposite of the sacred treasure, the knowledge of which
was intrusted to but few. When the idolatrous Manasseh
ascended the throne of Judah, to preserve the book from the
rude hands of infidelity and violence, it was hidden away,
and remained in its place of security until found by Hilkiah,
as before related. Again, towards ·the close of the reign
ofJosiah, foreseeing the wickedness ofhis son and successor,
and also the destruction of the temple, and the carrying
away into Babylon, Huldah, the prophetess, once more se-
creted the law in a place where it remained until the return
. from the captivity. It was then discovered by Ezra, Zero-
babel, and their associates, on 'the removal of the ruins of
the old temple, preparatory to the erection of the new ;-
as illustrated practically in the course ofgiving this degree.
The fact of this deposite, was a masonic secret-although
the Masonry of Huldah, being a female, is not properly
avouched. But another branch of the tradition runs thus :-
At the destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, three
Masons of the degree of most excellent master, were tak-
en and conveyed among the captives to Babylon, where
they remained until the restoratioo, during the reign of Cy-
rus of Persia. They were then liberated and permitted to
return to the holy city, to assist in the rebuilding of the tem-
ple. After travelling many days over rough and rugged
roads, they an·ived at the outer veil of the tnbernacle, or
Digitized by Coogle
---
....
LETTER V. 47
sacred pavilion, erected near the ruins of the temple, in imi-
tation of the tabernacle of the wilderness. This tabernacle
was an oblong square, enclosed by four veils, or curtains,
and divided into separate apartments, by four cross-veils,.
including the veil at the western entrance. The veils were
guarded by armed sentinels, stationed at the place of en-
trance through each. At the easternmost end of the taber-
nacle, sat Haggai, Joshua and Zerubabel, in grand council.
to examine those who applied for permission to assist in the
glorious work of rebuilding the temple. The three most
excellent masters before referred to, and who must have
been pretty well advanced in life by this time, were, on their
arrival, introduced to the grand council-accepted as sound
and robust men-furnished with tools and implements, and
set to work in clearing away the rubbish, preparatory to
laying the foundations of the new edifice, with an injunction
carefully to preserve every thing that might be discovered
appearing valuable for use, or curious for ex~ination.
When the candidate is introduced, a long prayer is read
from the book of forms, or offered extemporaneously by any
clergyman who may be attendance. The tedious ceremo-
Dies then commence, representing the carrying away ofthe
captives, chained, to Babylon; the application to return and
build again the holy city and the temple; the rugged roads
over which they were obliged to travel, and the obstacles
encountered and overcome. In the course of their labors
among the ruins ofthe old temple, they strike upon a secret
vault, into which they descend,-as the three most-excel-
lent masters before mentioned are supposed to have done,-
and among other discoveries they find a box, standing on a
pedestal, curiously wrought, and overlaid with gold. This
is brought up and delivered to the grand council, by whom
it is opened, and is discovered to be none other than the
ark 9f the covenant, containing the long lost book ofthe law,
..Digitized by Coogle
48 LETTER V.
the pot of Manna, and Aaron's rod, which "budded and
'4 bloomed bl0880ms, and yielded almonds."• On the lid of
the box, were three mysterious characters, in a triangular
form, and within is discovere~ a key to the same, which
are found to signify the incommunicable name of the deity
-Jehovah-a name which the modem Jews superstitiously
decline pronouncing. From this brief-and it is a very
brief abstract-the design of the degree will readily sug-
gest itself. It is intended to inculcate a belief, that, under
providence, the christian world is indebted to Freemasonry
ror the preservation, and discovery when lost, of the book
of the law, and also the highest reverence for the name of
the deity. It likewise has a direct bearing upon another
tenet of Masonry, viz: that the appropriate name of God,
and a knowledge of the Supreme Being, have been preserv-
ed by this institution, in every country where Masonry ex-
isted, while the rest of the world, and the people of those
heathen nations where it did exist, but who were not initia-
ted into iis mysteries, were sunk in the darkness of pagan-
ism. During the process of conferring the degree, a great
multitude of passages ofscripture are recited, some ofwhich
are historical, while others are striking for their sublimity
and beauty, deeply impressive and devotional.t The lec-
ture which succeeds, embraces a variety of historical par-
ticulars respecting the_first, and the rearing of the second
temple, together with rapid glances at the history of the
Jewish nation itself, from the days of Solomon to the return
!rom the captivity-all of which must be familiar to those
who read their bibles, and the next best book of Jewish · '
bistory-Josephus.
• Numb. xvii. 8-10.
t The followin~t are the passages referred tn :-l~~aio&h, xlii. 16. Exo. iii,
1-6. !I Chron. ix.ui. 11-20. Ezra, i. 1-3. Exod. iii.1~14. Psalm.e:t:i.
cxlii. cxliii. Exod. iv. 1-10. Hawo1i. ii. 1-9-23. Zcch. iv. 6-10. John,
i. 1-S. Deut. xui. 24-2G. Exod. xn. 21. Exod. xvi. 32-:lt. Numt.
:nii. 10. Heb. ix. 2-5. Amos, ix. 11. Exod. vi. 23. i. Cbron. chop. x.
I
Digitized by
·.
Ui~TTEI\ Y.
As a scenic representation, this degree, when conferred
within a chapter-room which is appropriately furnished, is
far more splendid and effective, than either of its predeces-
sors. The pattern of the chapter is taken from the rich pa-
vilion-temple, erected by Moses in the wilderness. The
curtains are of blue, purple and scarlet-the first being an
emblem of universal friendship and benevolence ; the second
of harmony among brethren and everlasting truth ; and the
third inculcating fervency of our devotions to God, and zeal
in promoting the happiness of men. The robes of the offi-
cers, of yet richer materials and more brilliant colon-that
of the high priest being made after the pattern of the pon-
tifical robes of Aaron-together with the jewels and various
insignia of the order, combine, with the other fanciful deco-
rations, to make up a very attractive pageant. And the
actual adventures encountered during the work of the de-
gree-the kindling of curiosity, and the excitement of toil
and sudden· vicissitudes, prevent the candidate from any
close scrutiny at the time, in regard to the bearing of the
circumstances represented, or the history, real or tradition-
a), upon which the degree is founded. Subsequent reflec-
tion, on the part of intelligent and well-informed men, satis-
fies them very shortly, that the facts upon which the degree
is founded, are too absurd to render the legend probable,
could even its existence be traced back the half of a thou-
sand years. With such, however, where there is in fact
no delusion, and with whom the history and the traditions
are received exactly for what they are worth, and no more,
no harm can arise, as I can perceive, from these attempts to
impress lessons of the moral virtues by actions and symbols
addressed to the senses. But I fear that it is not so with
great numbers of unenlightened and simple-minded men.
Mingling these traditions with the little biblical learning
they may have picked up, they are exceedingly liable to
·eonfound them altogether, and attach Qs much importance to
7
Digitized by Coogle
•
LETTER V.
the legends of the lodge-room, as to the inspired records
themeelves.
In the final charge of the candidate exalted to this de-
gree, he is told, that the rites and ceremonies developed
therein, have been handed down through a chosen few, un-
changed by time ; and he is exhorted to regard them with
the same veneration, and transmit them to his succeSSOI"'
with the same scrupulous purity. He is again admonished
as to the faithful discharge of his duties to his brethren and
his creator-" the sacred source from whence all earthly
"comforts flow"-and is told " that having attained this de-
" gree, he has arrived at the sununit and perfection of Ma-
" sonry." After the charge, the companions assemble, and,
kneeling again around the altar, the chapter is closed with
much solemnity.
Ofthe history ofthis degree I cannot speak with desirable
certainty.-lt is asserted, but with how much truth I have
not the means of deciding, that the first warrant was granted
by Charles Edward Stuart, son of the pretender, to hold a
chapter of an order called the &otck Jacobite, at Arras, in
France, where he had received many favors at the hands of
the Masons. This chapter, it is also said, was subsequent-
ly removed to Paris, where it was called Le Ckapilr.
tlArru, and is, in fact, the original of our present Royal
Arch chapter. The author ofAhlman Rewn gives the form
of a royal arch prayer, which is, in truth, very pious and
devotional, and speaks of the degree as existing in England,
as far back as 1744, quoting a passage from Dr. Fifield
lYAssigney, as authority. The author himself says he be-
lieves " the degree of royal arch to be the root, heart and
"marrow of Masonry."
Many of the opponents of the Masonic institution have
believed, or affected to believe, that in its character ahd ob-
jects, it partakes largely of the nature of the HolyVehme-
the secret tribunal of W estphalia,-which figures so adVaA•
•
Digitized by Coogle
L&TTER V. 51
tageously in the wild legends ofGerman romance, andwhich
has been so .effectively introduced in one of the later talea
of the unrivalled novelist of Scotland. Others, again, and
in great numbers, have not hesitated to stigmatise it as en-
tertaining principles in common with the dreaded llluminism
which is believed to have been so potent an agent in preci-
pitating France into the terrible revolution of 1789-'93 ;
the i.nfiuence of which has not, even to this day, ceased to be
felt in Europe. But these suspicions are altogether idle and
groundless. The Abbe Barruel, it is true, cites an anony-
mous German discourse, entitled the " Ultimate Fate of the
"Freemasons," which was pronounced on the breaking up of
a Freemason's lodge, and in which the author gave divers
reasons why the lodges should suspend their labors, "since
" Dluminism had intruded itselfinto .Masonry." But the soci-
ety of the Illuminati was founded by Weishaupt, at Ingol-
atadt, more than thirty years after the Masonic institution
had been transplanted to America I It was in 1730 that
Freemasonry was brought to the then colonies of America,
and the society of the Illuminati was instituted in 1776. It
is true,as the authors ofthe Conversations Lexicon state, that
the constitution of the " tnll(!;htened," and the organization
of the society, "Were taken partly from the Jesuit11, an~
"partly from the Masons." But even the Abbe BarrueJ him-
self, anxious as he was to blast the reputation of Masonry,
does not aver that Illuminism drew its origin from the craft,
"since the fact has been made to appear"-1 quote his own
words-" beyond all doubt, that the founder of Dluminism
"only became a Mason in 1777, and was two years after-
" wards [almost] wholly unacquainted with its mysteries."
The association of the Illuminati was founded upon the high-
est professions of morality and virtue. In its most flourish-
ing condition, it is said to have numbered more than two
thousand members, among whom were individuals of dis-
tinguished talents and high rank. ·And, however wicked
Die itlzed ~y Google
LETTER V.
may have been the intentions of its founder, or to whatever
base uses it may have been prostituted in the course of its
brief existence, I think that Freemasonry cannot justly be
charged with any of its abominations, even though some of
its forms may have been borrowed from its printed ritur.ls,
or then unwritten, though not entirely secret, ceremonies. I
mean to be understood here as speaking more particularly
of ancient Freemasonry of the three first degrees only ; for
the evidence of the existence, at that period, of the sub~
quent degrees is questionable. I have already stated that
the establishment of the first lodge of Masons in this coun-
try, was in 1730. The first lodge in France, upon the same
system-the English--was instituted five years earlier, and
the first in Germany, five years later, viz: in 1735. The
first royal arch chapter was established in America, by M.
M. Hayes, a Jew, at Boston, in 1764. Hayes had been
appointed inspector general of all Masonic institutions in
America, by Stephen .Morin, another Jew, who received
his authority from the Grand Consistory of Paris, in 1761.
The grand commander of the consistory, at that time, was
Philip Louis Joseph, then Duke of Chartres, afterwards
Duke of Orleans, and subsequently Mons. Egalite, the fa-
ther of the present king of the French, and one of the most
profligate of princes. This prince was high in the confi-
dence of the French Masons, and was grand master 'et Ly-
ons. He became a member of the jacobin club in Paris ;
and, after sacrificing Louis XVI. ·and voting fOr his death,
in the convention, was himself, within a year, borne to the
llCaffold, amidst the scoffs and insults of the populace. The
first grand chapter in the United States, was instituted in
1797. ' It was two years subsequently to this period, that,
by the act of the British Parliament, mentioned in a former
letter, against the administration of unlawful oaths, all other
than the three ancient degrees, were virtually inhibited in
the three kingdoms. Of these higher degrees, as they are
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER V.
given in France, Barruel says :-" After the three first de-
" grees, they cast off all restraint,-throw aside all emblema
"and allegoricalfigures,-and openly act upon the princi-
.. ple of war against Christ and his kingdom, and against
" kings and their thrones." It is possible that this repre-
sentation of the alarmed French ecclesiastic, may have cau-
sed the provisions of the English statute referred to. But
no representation could be more unjust and scandalous, as
it respects the royal arch Masons of the United States,
from whatever source their degrees may have been taken.
According to the Abbe's disclosures of Scotch Freema-
sonry, there are several striking coincidences between the
order of the Knights ofSt. Andrew's, and the degree of the
royal arch, as deacribed in the present letter. But his ac-
counts of the lower degrees of ancient Masonry, are so ut-
terly at war with the truth, as the degrees have been con-
ferred in the United States,-such outrageous and unblush-
ing misrepresentations, or rather fictions,-that ve_
ry little
confidence is to be reposed in any of his assertions. Be
these things, however, as they may, the scriptural and tra-
ditional history of the degree is equally as fabulous as that
of the master Mason. Even Dr. Dalcho pronounces the
claim that the book of the law was preserved by the
Masons, and discovered by them, as revealed in the legend,
to be unsupported by "any authority, sacred or profane."
Copies of the law, he says, very truly, had been multiplied.
Daniel the prophet had a copy during the captivity, as also
had Ezra ; and there is no doubt that many others had ~
pies likewise.
1 am, sir, very truly, yours.
Digitized by Coogle
L&TTEJl VI.
LETTER VI.
N~:w-You, Dec. 10, 1831.
S1a,
I have already asserted my own belief, that there are but
three degrees of Masonry, having any possible claims to an-
tiquity-and even those, I shall by and bye show to be of
no very ancient date.-In the minds of all Masons, howev-
er, ancient Masonry closes with the degree of royal arch-
described in my last communication. All the subeequent
degrees are admitted to be distinct from Freemasonry pro-
per-of modem date-and of little comparative importance.
I have taken three degrees of knighthood, viz: the Red
Cross, knight of Malta, and the Templar's degree. I &ave
likewise taken two intermediate degrees, between the royal
arch and the red cross, viz : the degree of Royal Master, and
that of the Select Master. Both of these are intended as
additions to the masonic traditions respecting the IICCret
vault, the loss of the master's word, by the dee.th of tbe wi-
dow's son-the preservation of the book of the law, and the
discovery of the same, together with the long-lost master's
word, as represented in the seventh degree. I will not tres-
pass upon your time and patience by going into the details
of the ceremonies, and baseless legends, of these degrees.
The first is trifling ;-the second very pretty as a spectacle,
and amusing in its action. The lodge is arranged with
great order, and with a view to effect; and the decorations
arc tasteful and imposing. The design of this last mentioned
degree, professedly, is to exemplify the qualities of Jl18TICB
and IIERcv. That both are of very modem origin, there
can be no doubt. Had they been framed cotemporaneous-
o;9~uzed by Coogle
LBTTJI:Jl VI•.
ly with the system to which they have been attached as ad·
denda, the royal master's degree would have been interpo--
sed between the seeond and third ; and that of select mas.
ter between the fifth and sixth.
The ineffitble degrees, so called, I never woq)d consent
to take-having always entertained a horror of every thing
approachiog.the Illuminism of infidel France and Germany.
I had no knowledge of there being any connexion between
them, but having at an early age perused the startling worb
of the Abbe Barruel and Robison, upon this subject ; and
having likewise, in once passing through an ineffable lodge.
room, had my " yowtg blood" frozen by the sight of the em-
blems-among which were an automaton head, disfigured
and bloody, and a more substantial •• dagger" than that
which the guilty Macbeth, in his distempered imagina-
tion, " saw before him," I had no desire to form a more in·
timate acquaintance with those degrees. Indeed, such was
my caution upon this subject, that I did not venture even
upon the first step of masonry, until I had been satisfied by
the solemn assurances ofa gentleman of character and great
moral worth,-a gentleman who was then, and remains yet,
a royal arch Mason--that there was not the remotest con-
nexion between the institutions. The clenunciations of
French Masonry and Illuminism, by the Abbe, had well nigh
taught me to believe, that monsters more terrible than the fa-
bled hydra, or the serpents which 'destroyed Laocoon, arose
from their altars. In my imagination I had beheld order,
government, and ~ligion, writhing and agonizing in the
accursed folds of these dragons;andexpiriog by their blast·
ing breath. Th~ Abbe had almost convinced me that the
dreams of Condorcet, the blasphemies of Voltaire, and the
daggers of Robespierre, had all issued from the privacy of
the lo<ige-room, heaping the tragic horrors of that period
upon the devoted head of revolutionary France. But the
assurances of my friend, a gentleman of education, and of
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VJ.
e:r.emplary conduct in all the relations ofsociety, convinced
me that in Freemasonry simply, I had nothing to apprehend
upon that head. With assurances from such a source, I en-
tered the lodge ; and you have my experienr..e, in Masonry
proper, be{ore you, in the preceding letters. A compendious
notice of those degrees of knighthood which I have taken,
will form the subject of the present communication. And
even this brief outline of these degrees, would have been
entirely omitted, as having only a slight bearing upon the
great object of these letters, did I not foresee that some re-
ferences, to at least one of them, will be necessary before my
present labors can be closed.
First in order ofthese three-and they are of the highest
rank ofall the honorary degrees,-that ofthe Templars being
ehiefest-are the Knights of the Red Cross. Why it is so
called I am not able to determine, since it has no relation
whatever to the religion of the cross, and is, in fact, neither
taken from the old testament dispensation, nor from the
new. Nor, indeed, is this chivalrous order mentioned in
any Masonic book of more than fifty years old. Still,
u a pastime, it is one of the most agreeable of the
whole series, and is, perhaps, less objectionable than any
other. It is ~onnected, in its traditions, with the prepara-
tions of the Jews tor returning from the captivity, to rebuild
the temple; and the whole history may be found, almost
in the terms set down in the formularies, in Josephus,• and
likewise in the Apocrypha.t After the elevation of Darius
Hystaspes to the Persian throne, Zerobabel, who had
been made governor of those Jews already returned
from the captivit)(, revisited the Persian court, where, hav-
ing been an old friend of Darius, he is preferred to a post of
honor in the palace. Having, on some occasion, made rt
.
• Ant; book xii. chap. iii.
t t. Esdras, chap; iii. Ami h·.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER YI. 67
~eat feast for his princes, his principal courtiers, and other
officers ofstate, the monarch, on retiring to bed, atter a short
slumber, awoke, and was unable again to compose himself
to sleep. Falling into a conversation with the three guards of
his body, he proposed three questions for a disputation on
the following day-promising that the successful orator in
the contest should be clothed in purple and gold ; drink in
golden cups ; ride in all the splendor of oriental magnifi·
cence ; sit by the side of the king ; and be called his cousin.
The questions were : which is the strongest-wine 1 kings 1
or women ? and whether Truth was not stronger than
either 1 At the appointed time all the princes and wise men
being collected, the questions were discussed. The first
contended for the power of wine ; the second for that of
women; and the third, who was Zerobabel, asserted the
superior power of women ; but, above all, he contended that
TRtJTH was far stronger than either-stronger than all
things ; it being immortal, eternal, and co--existent with the
deity. The victory was awarded to Zerobabel by accla-
mation ; and when the king commanded that he should
make some request in addition to the promised reward, the
Hebrew reminded his majesty of a vow he had formerly
made, that in the event of his ever being called to the throne,
he would rebuild Jerusalem and the temple; and restore
the holy vessels taken thence by Nebuchadnezzar. The
request is of course granted with alacrity. There is con-
siderable discrepancy in the narrative, as given by Jose-
phus, and the apocryphal writer, particularly in reference
to the maimer in which the scene is got up in the Persian
court. Whiston, in his note upon the passage, prefers the .
authority of Josephus, which is followed by the Masons,
while the arguments upon the questions are taken from Es-
dras. The enacting ofthe scenes, in a dramatic form, main-
ly constitutes the ceremonies of this degree; and when the
8
Digitized by Google
LETTER VI,
JCenery is rich and appropriate, and the officers and mem-
bers understand their parts of the play, it is susceptible of
affording a pleasant entertainment. The principal interest.
where there are men of intelligence present, capable of ex-
temporaneous speaking, arises from the discussion ; as the
speakers are not confined to the forms, so that the chain of
argument, and the points to be illustrated, are preserved.
The object aimed at in this degree, is the inculcation of the
power and importance of TRUTH. ,
The order ofthe Knights ofMalta, is usually conferred in
connexion with that ofthe Templar-the latter being consid-
ered of far the greatest importance. It professes to be
founded principally upon the shipwreck of Paul ; and the
chapter of the Acts relating the particulars of that event, or
the latter portion of it, is read during the ceremonies.
Whether it has in reality any connexion with, or resem-
blance to, the order of the Hospitallers of St. John of Jeru-
salem, subsequently known in the history of chivalry, a&
Knights of St. John, Knights of Rhodes, and lastly of Malta,
I have no means of determining. As that order, however,
was only extinguished as a military association, during
the war between England and the French Republic, when
the island of Malta, given them by the Emperor Charles V.,
after their defeat and expulsion from Rhodes by Soliman
and his 30(),000 Saracens, fell into the hands of the First
Consul, (then on his way to Egypt,) it is possible that re-
semblances in certain rites and ceremonies might exist.
But I must be allowed to doubt whether Raymond de Puy,
were he to descend and visit a modern encampment, would
recognise any of the ceremonies, which were approved and
confirmed to the order by Innocent II., in 1130. Neverthe-
less, the masonic writers-for the Masons are tlie only her-
alds ofthese modern institutions of mimic chi,·alry--attempt
to identify the orders mentioned, as one and the same--so
Digitized byGoogle
,.
LETTER VI.
that, in imagination at least, the grand master of one ofoar
little encampments, ranks with d' Aubresson, holding at bay
the fierce legions of Mahomet It
If, then, I am compelled to dot!bt as to the antiquity of·
the knights of Malta, in any thing like their present organ-
ization, how much stronger must be thote doubts in respect
of the Templars-an order that has been suppressed for so
many centuries 1 The Templars were the oldest military
order in the world. '5h.e principal ·founders of it were
Hugo de Paganis, and Geoffrey, of St. Orner's, and the cre-
ation of the order was patronised by Baldwin II., king of
Jerusalem, who gave them an apartment in his palace, near
the temple of the holy sepulchre. Hence the name-
TEMPLAas. According to their original constitution, they
were obliged to devote themselves to the service of God,
under pledges of living in perpetual chastity, poverty, and
obedience. In the year 1228 of the Christian era, they
had acquired stability, and the order was confirmed by the
Council of Troyes-their grand master residing in Paris,
after the Croises had lost the Holy Land. The order con-
tinued to increase, and by their deeds in arms, acquired
great wealth and power. But as they became rich and
prosperous, they were affirmed to have grown shockingly
arrogant and corrupt-to say nothing of luxuriousness.
Ultimately the order was suppressed, under the most terri-
ble circumstances of infamy and severity, by Philip the
Fair, of France, A. D. 1307. It is very probable that the
accumulation of wealth, and the acquisition of power,
brought the usual evil consequences in their train ; but un-
prejudiced historians have w~ll doubted the truth of the
allegations brought against them by their foes. There had
been a quarrel between Philip and Pope Boniface VIII.,
during which the monarch found himself excommunicated,
and his kingdom laid uilder an interdict. In this contro-
·Yersy, the Templars espoused the cause of the Pope, while
· o;9;uzedbyGoogle
. LE,TTEB VI.
the Knights of Malta sided with Philip. After the death of
the Pope, Philip became reconciled with his successor,
Boniface IX., and also with his successor Clement V. Phil-
ip now meditated revenge upon the Templars, and addres-
sed himself to the Holy See with success. The hapless
knights were hunted and seized throughout Europe, in the
year above mentioned, and those who would not confess
the horrible charges preferred against them, were put to
death by cruel tortures. The accusations against them
were-the holding ofa correspondence with the Saracens,-
iDsulting the majesty of God,-trampling upon all laws hu-
man and divine,-t~pitting upon the picture of the Saviour,
and bowing in worship to a cat, and a wooden head gilded
and crowned, &c., during the ceremonies of initiation.
Many of the knights most solemnly asserted their innocence,
but to no purpose.-for in 1312, the whole order was totally
suppressed by the Council of Vienna, and many innocent
men were put to death under the most exquisite tortures
that human ingenuity and cruelty could devise. History,
and romance, have alike labored to exalt, and to defame,
this devoted race of men. The Abbe Barruel, and Profes-
sor Robison, have both given the fullest creden<::e to the
most atrocious of the calumnies propagated against them.
IIJdccd, in the distempered imagination of the Abbe, no man
who enters a lodge-room, after the first three degrees, can
again come forth, save as a monster of impurity and crime.
My own opinion is, that the Templars were, comparatively
speaking, the innocent victims of the revenge and cupidity
of Philip.
The historical reader will, probably, at first blush, deem
the preceding sketch of the Templars' order, as uncalled for,
if not out of place, in a running narrative like the present.
But it seemed to me necessary to bring into view the char-
acter of the original institution, a'lP the crimes allcdged
against it, in order to contrast it Wlth the order of Sj>ecula-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VI. 61
tive knighthood, professedly derived from it, ofwhich I am
now particularly to speak.
There is not the remotest resemblance, in any one re-
spect, either historical or traditional ; in the design, object,
or intention ; or in the manner of conferring them, between
the Templar's degree, as described by the Abbe Barruel,
and that conferred in the Unitcd States. There, we are in-
formed by the credulous Ab~to whom I refer thus fre-
quently, because it is by him that most of the prejudices
existing against the Masons before the fatal year 1826, and
by the dark deed of that year revived and strengthened,
have been created-there, in France, "they admit into this
"temple with equal indifference, the Christian or the Jew,
" the Turk or the Idolater, in fine, without distinction of
"sect or religion."• And again,farther on, the Abbe says:-
" Many circwnstances relating to this degree, made us be-
"lieve, at first sight, that it was connected with lllumininn;
"but on a farther examination we fmd it to be only a farther
"explanation of the Masonic allegory. Here, again, the
••.candidate is ttansformed into an assassin. Here, it is no
"longer the founder of Masonry, Hiram, that is to be aven-
" ged, but it is Molay, the [last] Grand Master of the
" Knights Templars, and the person who i~ to fall by the
"assassin's hand, is Philip le Bel, king of France, under
"whose reign the order of the Templars was destroyed."
The Abbe labors throughout toshow, that the whole design
of the masonic system, is gradually to undermine the faith
of the candidate in christianity,-substituting deism in ita
place,-until this degree is reached, when all disguise is
cast aside; and the assassin-candidate is taught, that his
revenge against Philip le Bel, is now to be directed against
all kings and priests. As applicable to this country it
would read-against all government and religion.
• Anti-monarchical C<>Depiracy, chap. s.
............. Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VI.
Now,ao far from this horribly wicked design being true,
the Templar's degree in the United States, is founded en-
tirely upon the christian religion. Its rites and ceremonies,
deeply and powerfully a1fecting, are, in their representa-
tions, intimately connected with the closing scenes of that
glorious plan of redemption, in which the Son of God died
ignominiously, as a means, through faith in his atoning
blood, of reconciling'fallen man with his offended Crea-
tor. Neither ·the Jew, Turk, nor Infidel, can take this de-
gree. The candidate, before he can cross the threshhold
of the encampment for that purpose, is obliged, under cir-
cumstances ofdeep solemnity, to avouch his belief that Je-
sus Christ came into the world to save sinners; and also, that
he will even wield a sword, should it become necessary, in
defence of the religion taught by him, and to the truth of
which he affixed the seal of his blood. He is also required,
with equal solemnity, after due time aflorded for sober and
secluded reflection, to avouch his innocence ofany crime un-
.repented of, which would render him unworthy of the de-
gree to which he aspires. Thus much, the substantial truth
()f which I solemnly affirm, I trust will be sufficient to re-
pel the charge, first above quoted. As it respects the other
misrepresentation, that the candidate is made to personate
a revengeful assassin, which character, for the attainment of
certain objects, he is required to maintain ever after, it is
equally unfounded and untrue. On the contrary, with us,
the candidate is made to represent a pilgrim, in pilgrim's
weeds, performing a seven years pilgrimage with bread and ·
water, statl~ scrip and sandals; and while enacting this part,
he is instructed in some of the most benign lessons of hu-
manity and charity, to be found in holy writ. He, in the
next stage, personates a pilgrim warrior, ready to wield his
sword in defence of the christian religion ; and subsequent-
ly, he represents a pilgrim penitent, '·isiting the holy sepul-
chre. In the course of the ceremonies, the account of the
Digitized by Google
F
•
LETTER TI,
apostacy of Judas is read, as recorded in the first of the
Gospels,• by way of an admonition always to persevere in
the paths of honor, integrity and truth. Among the em-
blems, at one stage of the degree, is the Holy Bible, on
which lies a hwnan skull, representing mortality resting
upon divinity ; and teaching that a faithful reliance on the
promises therein revealed, will afford consolation in the
gloomy hour of death, and insure inevitable happiness in
the world to come. ,A, number of very solemn and a1fecting
lessons from the christian dispensation of the scriptures, in
addition to those just cited, are read in the course of this de-
gree.t After the reading of St. Matthew's accouQt of the
ascension, 1!- transparency is disclosed, brilliantly represent-
ing the triwnph of the Saviour over death and the grave,
and his sublime flight to the regions of the skies. An a~
propriate hymn is sung at this stage of the exercises ; and
when well performed, this splendid and awful representa-
tion of the conclusion of the hallowed sacrifice of the Re-
deemer of the world, is deeply imposingand aftecting. The ·
candidate is then addressed by the prelate, in language full
of pathos, tenderness and devotional feeling, which cannot,
and, in most cases, I venture to say, does not, fail of making
a solemn impression.
Such is an outline of the character and principles of the
Templar's degree, as conferred in the United States. Its
foundation, it will be perceived, is in the christian religion,
and its ceremonies of a nature that cannot be otherwise than
of the most solemn description. There is no room for
mirth or amusement in the Templnr's degree ; and although
some of the representations may appear unmeaning in thia
enlightened age, or at least fit only for the dark centuries
of monkish superstition ; and although objections may be
• Matt. uiv. 14-25. and 36-49.
t James, i. 1-10, 26, 27. A portion of' the 2d chap. of' Jam!'~<. M:11t.
xxvii. 24-38. Al'ts i. 15-2G. Matt. nvi. 36-60. Matt. xxviii. ·Act~
xxviii. 1-8. Jobn111 GospeL xi.x. 19. John .x.x. 24-28.
Digitized by Coogle
64 LETTER VI.
raised by the scrupulous, against such uses of those awfully
solemn and touching portions of the book of life, yet I feel
myselfabundantly warranted in saying, that, whatever else
may be said of it, still it is not an anti-christian order. I
have not gone into a minute description of all the rites and
ceremonies of the degree; but have faithfully developed
all the facts and principles upon which it is found.::d, and all
the details which it is essential for the world to know. I
have never mingled in more solemn assemblies, than in an
encampment of Templars, engaged in conferring this de-
gree. I have seldom heard voices more tremulous than
those I have heard reciting the affecting lessons contained
in its ritual ; and I have seen and felt that every heart was
swelling in unison. Still, I owe it in candor to add, that I
have never been altogether reconciled to the conferring of
it, and have felt many misgivings, respecting it. Its repre-
sentations have appeared too solemn-too deeply affecting
-too intimately connected with the immortal interests and
destiny of man, to be handled by those of unclean lips-by
any one whose piety is not of the most fervent and unques-
tioned description-by any one, in short, whose office it is
not to minister at the altar in holy things.
When this degree was first introduced as an appendage
to Masonry, I know not. The first meeting of Knights
Templars in America, so far as I am informed, was held at
Philadelphia, in May, 1797. Professor Robison, of Edin-
burgh, a Mason and a distinguished scholar, speaks of the
order as "fictitious,"-in saying which he is unquestionably
correct. He states that " it was formed in the lodge of the
"Knights of Benevolence, at Lyons, in France, and wa!l
"considered the model of all the rest of the mimic chiv-
" airy."
Very respectfully, yours, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
....
~TTER VII.
LETTER VII.
NBw-YoRK, Dec. 16, 1831.
Su.
I propose in the present .letter, to glance rapidly at the
Dature of the masonic obligations; not, sir, for the purpose
of vindicating the whole, or any part of them,-(for under
my present views, the multiplication, even of legal oaths,
should be avoided as far as it is practicable to do so; while
all extra judicial oaths, are always highly improper,)-hut
simply for the purpose of showing how those obligations
have been administered, received, and understood, by virtu-
ous and intelligent men. " Swear not at all," is the com-
mand of Him who spake as never man spake, " neither by
•• the heavens, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it
"is his footstool, but let your yea be yea, and your nay,
" nay ; for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil:"
and although in the imperfect condition of human society,
a literal compliance with this divine injunction has been
deemed impracticable, yet it is a golden rule, which ought
never to be transgressed when its violation can be avoided.
Nay, more: any society, secret or otherwise, that adminis-
ters oaths, must be dangerous to the well being of the com-
munity, ifthose oaths can be supposed by any one who takes
them, to be of higher obligation than the laws, or if they can
be so far tortured as to allow of such a construction. That
the obligations of the masonic order, in some portions of our
country, have been thus construed, and thus acted upon,
will appear so clearly before this discussion is closed, as to
render denial impossible. And this single fact, were it un-
supported by any other circumstances, would, in my mind,
f)
Digitized by Coogle
66 UTTER VII.
be sufficient to render it obligatory upon the Muons to re-
linquish the order.
In making the preceding admission, however, I must be
allowed, in behalf of all those virtuous and intelligent citi-
zens with whom I have formerly usoeiated as a Mason, ut-
terly to disclaim any and all constructions of thoee obliga-
tions, at variance with the laws of God or man, or which
conflict with a proper discharge of all the moral, social, and
religious duties of life. It is to the provisio08 of the obli-
gations of the third 11nd seventh degrees, I believe, that
the greatest exceptions have been taken, and which have
provoked the severest condemnation. What the precise
terms of those obligations are,.after the numerous publica-
tiona that have been made since the developements of Mor·
gan, it would be unnecessary for me to repeat. Indeed, it
will be found that although there is a general concurrence
in the provisions, very wide diversities of language have
existed ; and from some of the disclosures that have fallen
under my obeervation, I am not without apprehension that
serious innovations upon the establiahed forms, have been
designedly made. For the purpose of this examination, I
shall adopt the obligations as they appear in Barnard's Light
on Maaonry-the more especially since the general accu-
racy of those obligations, as they have been given in the
western lodges of this state, has been judicially established
by the testimony of Masons who do not believe in the bind-
ing force of such obligations when they come in conflict
with the laws.• To sustain the other point, alsa-thnt of
a wide disagreement in the phraseology of these obligations,
as given iD different places-1 beg leave to refer you to the
enclosed copies of the obligations of the seven degrees, as
they were given twenty-nve years since, in the lodge and
chapter of an eastern city. They were copied by a friend
* Sec Appendill A.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTJ:Il VII. 67
\
of mine, more than twenty years ago, from the manUICript
of a gentleman, who had been master of the lodge, and high
priest of the chapter, and who now occupies, with diltin-
guished ability, a high judi~ial station in his native state. I
have this copy in my possession. The fonns are the same
that were used for a long series of years in the city to which
I refer ; and when Royal Arch Masonry was introduced
into Rochester, in this state, these fonns, from the identical
papers before me, were then and there introduced and
ndopted.• The obligation of the seventh, or Royal Arch
degree, as contained in this manuscript, you will perceive
is almost as widely different from that contained in Barnard's
book, as the poles are asunder.
The principal objection to the Master Mason's obligation
is raised with reference to that portion which is supposed to
read as follows :--" Furthennore do I promise and swear,
"that a Muter Mason's secrets, given to me in charse aa
" such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast as
"in his own, when communicated to me, murder and trea-
" son excepted'; and they left to my own election." The
last seven words of this aection, are, in my apprehension, an
innovation. I have not been accustomed to hear the obli-
gation eo conferred ; but even if I am in error upon this
point, the explanations under which this, and aU the other
obligations are given, and the charges which follow, conchl·
sively show, that among men of principle and sense, they
have never been received as binding one Mason, under any
possible circumstances, to coDCP.al the vjllainy of another.
The simple fact as to the taking of these obligations, is this.
When the candidate is brought to the altar, he is premon-
ished. that he is about to take upon himself a ao1emn obliga-
tion. That obligation, he is told, will be imposed upon him
in the same manner in which it baa come down to them,
• See Appendix B.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VII.
and in the same terms in which it has been taken by others.
In taking it he is likewise told, that whatever may be the
peculiar forms of expression or phraseology in which the
obligation is given, he is expressly to understand, that no-
thing therein contained is to interfere with his political ot
religious principles ; with his duty to God ; or the laws of
his country. He is also assured, that the obligation will be
repeated slowly, and if, at any time, at any stage of it, he
objects to any part of the oath. he is at liberty to state his
objection ; and should the explanations prove unsatisfacto-
ry, he is as11ured that he shall be as safely conducted out of
the lod3c, as he was brought into it. I give these explana-
tions as Jreceived them, and as I have been in the habit of
seeing them conferred upon others. If the practice has
been different elsewhere, in the west, the class of Masons,
in whose behalf I am making them, are not to blame. I
know that a very different notion prevails, as to the manner
of introducing a candidate; it having been widely and in-
dustriously affirmed, that the moment the candidate crosses
the threshold of a lodge-room, he is deprived of all freedom
of action, and is compelled, by terror and threats, if not by
positive force, to proceed. And I have been astonished,
since I began this investigation, to find that Elder Bamard
has himself affirmed this misrepresentation. His words are :
" The reader will here learn one reason why those who en-
" ter a lodge, never come out, until they have taken the
" degree. The candidate is made to promise upon his hon-
" or, that he will 'conform to all the ancient e11tablished
" usages and customs of the fraternity ;' hence, let him be
"ever so much opposed to the ceremonies of initiation, or
" the.oath of the degree, he cannot go back, for he feels
"bound by his promise. Should he, however, feel constrain-
" ed to violate his word, the persuasions, and, if necessary,
" the threats ofthe master and brethren, counsel him to go
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VII. 69
"forward !"• There is not, sir, so far as I have any know-
ledge of the usages of Masonry, a single syllable of truth in
the passage I have here quoted. Nor do any of my mason-
ic acquaintances hesitate to declare, their utter and entire
ignorance of even a single instance wherein any such con-
straint was ever practised or even thought of. On the con-
trary, through the whole system, from the lowest to the
highest degree, every step is the result of the most entire
freedom of thought and action. And if a contrary prac-
tice has prevailed, it could only have been, as I have had
occasion to rematk before, amongst men who were capable
of compassing a deliberate and atrocious murder.
But again : while the obligation is administered, the can-
didate supports the holy bible between his hands ; and when
it is completed, he is obliged solemnly to pledge himselfthat
he receives that book as " the rule and guide of his faith and
"practice." The square and compasses are placed on the
top of it, as it lies open upon the altar. Of these he is told,
that the square is a symbolical admonition, that he is to
square his actions by that book, while the compasses teach
him to circumscribe his views and desires within proper
limits, and keep his passions within due bounds. I care
nothing for the assertion lately made, that the bible is only
placed there to gull and deceive the christian, while the
square and compasses are for the infidel to swear by. The
fact is not so. Is it then to be believed, that men of acknow-
ledged talents and worth in public stations, and of virtuous
and frequently religious habits in the wallt.s ofprivate life-
with the holy bible in their hands, which they are solemnly
pledged to receive, as the rule and guide of their faith and
practice-and under the grave and positive charge from the
officer administering the obligation, that it is to be taken in
strict subordination to the civil laws,-can underetand that
~ Damatd's Light, p. li.
Digitized by Coogle
70 LB'I'T.IIIIl vn.
obligation, whatever may be the peculiarities of ita pbrue-
ology, as requiring them to countenance vice and criminali·
ty even by silence 1 Can it for a moment be suppoaed, that
the hundreds of eminent men, whose patriotism is unques-
tioned, and the exercise of whose talents has helped to make
up the "measure" of the nation'sglory i-can it be believed,
that the hundreds of eloquent divines, whose talents and vir-
tues have sheda lustre upon the church history of our coun-
try, and who, by their walk and conversation, have, in their
own lives, illustrated the beauty ofholiness;-isit to be credi·
ted, that the tens ofthousands ofthose persons ranking among
the most intelligent and virtuous citizens of the most moral
and enlightened people on earth ;-is it, I ask, possible, lhat
any portion of this community, can, on calm refiection, be-
lieve, that such men have oaths upon their consciences, .
binding them to eternal silence in regard to the guilt ofany .
man, because he happens to be a Freemason, no matter
what be the grade of offence, whether it be the picking of a
pocket, or the shedding of blood 1 It docs rCillly see.m to
me impossible, that such an opinion could, at any moment,
have prevailed, to any considerable extent, amongst reflect·
ing and intelligent citizens. Yet, still, I am aware that an
awful example of fact can be cited against me. And I am
also aware, that the authors of the example to which I refer,
have not been treated by the whole masonic fraternity
with that degree of indignation and abhorrence which they
justly merited. On the contrary, it is but too true, that, in
some instances, i~norance and fanaticism have conspired to
extepd aid and comfort to those, who, with good cause, are
believed to bt: of the guilty number. Still, however, I must
protest against the construction attempted to be put upon
the obligations, as being directly at variance with the inter·
prctation always given them by those with whom I have
formerly mingled in intimate fellowship among masons-.
Digitized by Coogle
J.BTTBJl Til.
Allow me, sir, to punue this10bject ofmasonic secrets a.
little farther, since I shall probably not have a better op-
portunity for disclosing my entire views upon this much-
discussed feature ofthe masonic institution. From the pe-
riod at which I reached the summit of what is called ancient
Masonry, I have held but one opinion in relation to masonic
eecrets ; and in that opinion I have always found my intel-
ligent brethren ready to concur. It was this: That tile u-
&tnlial~ecret. of MtUOnrg, couilted i• 110tlling more tM1&
the rigu, grip•, paJ11-worda tntd toketl1, e11e1llial to tile pre-
.m-vatiof& of1M IOCiety from 1M inroad& of impo1tor1; to-
gether tDitA certai1& tymbolical emblenu, tke tecbical tmu
appertai11ingto tDAich •erved aJI a IOrl ofuni~rllll lmtgtulgt,
by which tJae mem!J6n of the fraternity could dUti•pul
eack other, in all place• aad cmtatriu w~ lodgu wre
iutitrded, and ccmdalcted liU thoH of the Unit«l State•.
Such, and such only, have I been accustomed to consider as
the essential secrets of the order--eecrets of not the least
consequence to the world, but which were essential for the
preaervation of the society. All the principles, history, and
traditions of the order, I have always made the subjects of
free conversation. whenever it was desired. This opinion
is moreover sustained by the text-books of the order.
The Monitor says :-"Did the particular secrets, or pe-
"culiar forms prevalent among Masons, COftBtm,u the
"e1BenCe ofthe art, it might be·alledged that our amuse-.
"ments were trifling, and our ceremonies superficial.
"But this is not the case." The Rev. Salem Town, long
the Grand Chaplain of the Royal Arch Chapter of this state,
whose book on speculative Masonry has been sanctioned by
the highest masonic officers in the country, expressly de-
clares, that " our leading tenetS are no secrets." And again,
"by a full and fair exposition ofour great leading princi-
"pies, we betray no 1ecret1." So have I always held and
acted; and I have never been able to repress a smile of
Digitized by Coogle
72 LETTEJl VII.
contempt, whenever I have occasionally eecn the foolish
brethren putting on airs of reserve and mystery, and shak-
ing their heads with owlish gravity and wisdom, if the se-
crets of Freemasonry should by chance become the theme
of inquiry and conversation. In regard to the grips and
pass-words before mentioned, such have been common with
many other societies. It is so with the celebrated Tamma-
ny Society; it has been so until very recently, with the
Phi Beta Kappa, a purely literary society ; and it was so
with the old and much-calumniated Washington Benevolent
Society. Nor in either case, so far as I am informed, has
danger been apprehended merely from the 1ecret.
So far as it respects the secrets of the lodge-room, in gen-
eral, I have regarded them as conventional only-to be held
no more sacred .than the conversation at the table of a pri-
vate dinner party, which every gentleman is bound in honor
not publicly to repeat. It is usual when a candidate is pro-
poeed.for membership of a lodge, that his habits and char-
acter be canvassed, and it would be disgraceful to betray
the confidence ofsuch discussions. In like manner, it would
be a violation of faith, to state, that such or such a man had
applied for membership, and been black-balled. In cases of
applications for charity, moreover, it would be alike dishon-
orable and unkind, to proclaim the names of the petitioners
upon the house-tops. These things, therefore, are secrets-
but only conventional secrets-such as most other societies,
and even boards of bank directors, must necessarily have,
as well as churches, and presbyteries, and synods.
Secrecyandsilencewere qualities zealouslycultivated,and
strictly enjoined, by many philosophers of antiquity; ·when
observed withdiscretion, and not illegally, they are eminent-
ly conducive to the peace and happiness of humnn society
-the grand conservators of well regulated social inter-
eourse ;.-and numerous are the occurrences within the ob-
&e~tion of us all, tending to show that the art of prc~en•-
___ Digi~ ~yGo<?sls...::
LETTER VII. 78
ing them inviolate, is often a desirable and laudable attain-
ment. "A tale-bearer," says Solomon," revealeth secrets;
"but he that is ofa faithful spirit concealeth them. Disco-
" ver not a secret to another, lest he that heareth it put thee
"to shame, and thine infamy turn not away. He that keep-
"eth his tongue, keepeth his own soul." To the same pur-
pose we read in the book of Ecclesiasticus: "Whoever di•
"covereth secrets, shall never find a friend to his mind.
" Love thy friend, and be faithful unto him ; but if thou be-
" wrayeth his secrets follow no more after him: for as a
" man hath destroyed his enemy, so hast thou lost the love
"of thy neighbor. As for a wound, it may be bound up ;
"and after reviling, there may be reconcilement : but he
"that bcwraycth secrets, is without hope."-These are the
words of wisdom, and my regard for the secrets of the
lodge-room had ever " this extent--no more."
The foregoing expositions, like every other contained in
these letters, have been made with all possible fraokness
and sincerity; and I trust, sir, that after reading them, you
will do me the justice to believe, that should a brother Ma-
son tell me, as a secret, that be had robbed a store, I should
very speedily make the matter public in the police office ;
or, should he say that he had helped to murder William
Morgan, I should as certainly help the civil authorities to
put him in the way of being hanged. In one word, sir, no
Mason is bound by any obligation, to keep the secrets ofan
unworthy brother ; and whenever a Mason, knowingly and
wilfully and criminally, violates those restraining acts which
are necessary to secure the life, liberty and happiness of
the citizen, he becomes unworthy of confidence, and the
obligation of secrecy is cancelled by the higher obligation
which rests upon every good man, to maintain TUB suPRE·
KACY oF THE LAWS. Such is now, and ever has been, my
construction of this feature of the masonic obligations ; and,
such, also, is the·construction of those Masons with whom I
10
Digitized by Coogle
74 LETTER VII.
have associated or conferred. In it you will perceive, sir,
that my vtews are more rigid than those laid down in the
books. "A promise cannot be deemed unlawful," says Arch.
deacon Paley, "where it produces, when perfonned, no ef-
" feet, beyond what would ha,·e taken place, had the pro-
"mise never been made." "Upon this principle, promises
" of secrecy ought not to be violated, although the public
"would derive advantage from the discovery. Such pro-
"mises contain no unlawfulness in them, to destroy their ob-
"ligation ; for, as the infonnation would not have been
"imparted upon any other condition, the public lose nothing
"by the promise, which they would have gained without it."•
It remains, in the present letter, that I should offer some
explanations upon that portion of the obligation supposed to
be taken in the Royal Arch degree, which, unexplained, has
been considered so highly exceptionable. That section, u
it has been proved, judicially, at the west, reads as follows:
-" Furthennore do I promise and swear, that I will aid
"and assist a companion Royal Arch Mason when engaged
"' in any difficulty ; and espouse his cause,so far as to extri-
" cate him from the same, if in my power, whether he be
"right or wrong. Also, that I will promote a companion
" Royal Arch Mason's political prefennent, in preference to
•• another of equal qualifications. Furthennore do I pro-
"mise and swear, that a companion Royal Arch Mason's
" secrets, given me in charge as such, and I knowing them
" to be such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my
" breast as in his own, murder and treasox not excepted."
First nnd foremost I have to remark, upon the passage here
quoted, and which has so justly called forth a large measure
of the public indignation, that the pledge in favor of the po-
litical prefennent of a companion, and the words "not," in
the italicised passage, are infamous interpolations. The
obligation has never been so given, within the range of my
• Moral Phi. chap. v.-of Promisee.
Digitized by Coogle
- -~ - ~- ·-:-... - ...._
LETTER VII. 75
masonic experience, and is not so sanctioned or allowed by
the Grand Chapter, having jurisdiction in the premises.
Nor have I, as yet, found a Royal Arch Mason who recol-
lects ever to have heard the obligation so gi\·en. The po-
litical interpolation, either in this, or the third degree, has
been traced to Vermont, whence it was brought into this
state by a gentleman who has occupied an exalted office in
this state, and who now holds a seat in congress. As to
the other, and more heinous alteration, I know not whence .
it came ; but there is no doubt of its having been so given
of late in the western region of New-York. But the fact
was not known among the brethren in this quarter, until
long after the Morgan outrage began to be looked upon as
a reality. Still, the circumstance that this one obligation
has been so essentially altered-how much you can readily
perceive, on comparing the form of which I am speaking,
with the old manuscript form, to which I have already re-
ferred you-is a very strong argument against the longer
existence of the institution. Nor am I certain that other
alterations may not have been made at the west, which are
yet undisclosed; for I have been informed since the com-
mencement of the present series of letters, that some time
prior to the Morgan outrage, a western Mason came to
this city, and lingered about the lodge-rooms several weeks,
with sundry additions to the whole series of obligations,
which he stated it to be the wish of the western brethren
to have introduced into the system. The professed object
was, to bind the Masons together with a stronger tie, and
also to render a disclosure of the secrets a more difficult-if
uot a more dangerous, matter. His propositions were
promptly rejected, and he returned somewhat dissatisfied.
Whether the measure with which he came charged hither,
was one of precaution, or of preparation, in anticipation of
what subsequently took place, I have no means of det.et·
mining. My own conclusion is that it was.
Digitized by Coogle
76 LETTER VII.
The clause respecting the inviolability ofsecrets, repeated
in the passage alx1ve quoted, and also in the two preceding
obligations, having already been discussed, it only remains
that I note the explanation respecting the obligation to help
a brother out of difficulty, whether right or wrong. The
allegation respecting this feature ofthe obligation,is,that Ma-
sons are bound by it to rescue one another from the officers
and ministers of the law ; that if a Mason is involved even
in legal difficulties, his brethren are bound by their solemn
oaths, to help him out-" right or wrong." If he is in the
custody ofan officer, he is to be rescued-ifarraigned at the
bar, he is to be acquitted. It is not sa-nor is there even
the semblance of truth in the charge. The interpretation
invariably given to the candidate upon this point, is simply
this :-That if you find a companion Royal Arch Mason in
difficulty, or in such danger as to peril his life, you are to
· rush to his assistance, without stopping to inquire as to who
was first in the wrong, lest while you are making the inqui-
ry, the man might be killed. But in all cases where you
attempt to rescue a brother, the eflort is to be directed so!dy
to his personal safety for the time lx>ing-as in case of his
having been set upon by a mob ; and it is expressly charg~d,
that whenever officers are in pursuit, or the companion
who may have commanded assistance by the sign of dis-
tress, is charged with any offence, in all cases, he is to be
handed over in safety to the custody of the civil,authorities.
Such, I repeat, is the charge invariably given in every pro-
perly regulated chapter, upon this feature of the obligation;
and it would require a degree of stupidity not often found,
so far to misunderstand such an explanation, as to warrant
the construction that has been given to the passage.
But, sir, I do not desire to leave the fact resting upon my
own individual assert;on, that a Mason is bound, in all ca-
ses, to yield a full, unqualified, and implicit obedience to the
laws. This truth is explicitly asserted and maintained in
Digitized by Google
LETTER VII. 77
the established formularies. I have already mentioned that,
on taking the first obligation, the candidate is so instructed
by the master ; and that instruction, or explanation, is en-
joined upon him with each successive degree as he advan-
ces, until it would seem impossible that he should forget it.
In the charge, moreover, on the first degree, the candidate
is told :-" In the state, you are to be a quiet and peaciful
"subject, TRUE TO YOUR oovERN!IIENT, and JUST TO YOUR
"COt:NTRY; YOU ARE NOT TO COUNTENANCE DISLOYALTY Oil
"REBELLION, but patiently SUBHIT TO LEGAL AUTHORITY,
"anrl conform with chee•fulness TO THE GO'I.""ERNMENT OP
"THE COUNTRY IN WUICH YOU LIVE. In your outward de-
" mcanor be particularly careful to avoid censure or re-
" proach. Let not interest, favor, or prejudice, bias your
"integrity, or inilucnce you to be guilty of a dishonorable
"action." . But even this is not all. When the master-elect
of a lodge, is installed into his office, he receives a solemd
charge from the Grand 1\Iaster, of which the following are
the first four items :--" I st. You agree to be a good man
"and true, A."iD STRICTLY TO ODEY THE MORAL LAW. 2d.
"You agree to be a peaceable subject, AND CHEERFULLY TO
"CONFORM TO TUE LAWS OF THE COUNTRY IN WWCB YOU
" RESIDE. 3d. You promise not to be concerned in plotsand
"consptracies against government, DUT PATIENTLY SUBJO'l'
"TO TilE DECISIO!'i'll OF THE SUPREME LEGISLATURE. 4th.
" You agree to pay a proper respect to the civil mag1strate,
"to work diligently, live creditably, and act honorably by
"all men."
Upon these facts and explanations, I confidently rest the
ease, with respect to the points discussed in the present let-
ter. And I do appeal, with some confidence, to you, sir,
and all others who may chance to look upon these sheets,
to admit, whether I have not successfully repelled the pre-
vailing idea, that because a man has taken the masonic ob-
ligations, he is necessarily bound by those fearful oaths, in
Digitized by Coogle
78 LETTER VII.
certain emergencies, to resist the laws, to conceal the most
guilty secrets, to shield evil-doers from justice,--nay, more~
to participate in the foulest crimes himself l I am not dis-
posed to deny-and if I should do so, the truth would not
sustain me-that the Masons have taken a series of oaths-
more or less, according to the progress they have made-
of appalling and startling import to those who hear or read
them unexplained ; but I do solemnly affinn, that, with the
explanations and reservations with which they have been
taken by intelligent and virtuous men, so far as my observa-
tion has extended, they contain nothiog which needs lie op-
pressively on the conscience of any man. Whatever may
be the cumbrous phraseology with which they have descend-
ed to us, they are taken as being in strict subordination to the
government and the laws, both ofGod and man. The Holy
Bible is solemnly received as the RULE AND GUIDE OP THE
MAsox's FArrH Aim PRACTICB--8.Dd he pledges himself to
obey the KORAL LAW, which is summarily comprehended in
the TEN coJI!IIANDllf.ENTS. Are we, then, to be told, that obli-
gations taken subordinately to these pledges, require us to
bear false-witness, and to commit murder 1 The candidate ·
is solemnly charged to discountenance DISLOYALTY andRE-
BELLION-not tO be COnCerned in PLOTS and CONSPIRACIEs--
but cheerfully to conform to the LAws, and the GOVERN-
XENT, wherever he may reside, and in all cases to submit
to the civil authorities ;-and are we yet to be told that we
arc to KEEP the SECRETS of JIURDERERB and TRAITORS, and
RESCt!E PRISONERS from those very CIVIL At:TUORITI£81
And yet the public has been over and over again assured,
by certain fanatical prints-for fanaticism, and prejudice,
and obstinacy, in this matter, unfortunately exist on both
sides-that the culprits who have undergone the penalty of
the law, or who arc yet in dlll'lUlce ,·ile, for their concern
in the Morgan business, are merely undergoing the penalty
of the CIVIL, for their obedience to the llA.somc LAW I I
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VU. 79
trust I need waste no more words in repelling the odious-
imputation.
Upon the subject of the masonic obligations generally~
the same candor which shall govern, throughout, these dis-
sertations, obliges me to confess, that I do not consider them
by any means free from objections, even were they never to
be imposed upon any person incapable of correctly under-
standing them. Aside from the sound objections which ex-
ist against all extra-judicial oaths, they are unnecessarily
prolix, and indefensibly puerile. Indeed, long before the
Morgan affair, I have more than once held conversations
with some of the high masonic officers, in regard to the
propriety and expediency of a thorough revision of those
obligations, with a view of expurgating them of their un-
seemly verbiage, and unmeaning penalties.• And but for
the consideration that these proposed innovations would so
far have removed the landmarks of the order as to destroy
the universality of the language of the craft, and thereby
render the institution useless to those brethren travelling
abroad, or to those, who, by sickness, or other misfortunes,
might find it necessary to appeal, when from home, to dis-
tant lodges, for assistance, I believe the proposition would
have been favorably entertained.
The penalties mentioned in the several obligations, I have
pronounced " unmeaning." So they must always have
been ; for it is not pretended that the duty of inflicting them
is any where prescribed to any officer or member of the
fraternity; and certainly the candidate could never inflict
the whole ofany one penalty upon himself. Any one, moreo-
ver, who should attempt the execution of the sentence, would
alike violate the laws ofGod and man, to observe which he
is under a yet stronger pledge than the masonic obligation.
• In the year 1730, when Pritchard made the first disclosure of the se-
crets of Ma~onr\·, there were but thrrc de~rccs, and but one obligation for
tbt· whole three,"which was short, o.od comparatively inoffensive. Vide AJ?"
pend.ix C.
Digitized by Coogle
80 LETTER VU.
The truth is, that a simple expulsion from a lodge, or chap-
ter, with a public advertiS(!ment of the fact, is the only pen-
alty, for any offence, which the Masons, previously to the
Morgan outrage, have ever, to my knowledge, consitlered
themselves authorizcd to inflict. As an illustration of
this assertion, I may perhaps be excused for stating a case
in point. No longer ago than the year 1824,-only two
years before the Morgan outru.ge-I myself introduced a
resolution into the Grand Chapter, requiring the High
Priest of a subordinate chapter to show cause why he should
not be expelled. The accusation was the same as that for
which Morgan died, viz : the writing and revealing of ma-
sonic secrets. The charge was investigated, and he wu
expelled. He is yet a living witness that his throat was not
cut am:oss, nor his tongue torn out by the roots, nor his body
buried in the rough sands of the sea. I am warranted,
therefore, in predicating of the penalty, that it is as unmean-
ing as it certainly is ridiculous.
But these oaths are all wrong. Whatever might have
been the fact at the time of their origin, thcy nrc now in
exceedingly bad taste. The time may possibly have been,
when some strong bond of union was necessary for the safe
enjoyment of free political and social intercourse. But
such is not the case now--especially in these United States.
In like manner, the time may have been, in the ruder ages
of man, when oaths were necessary for compelling the ob-
servance of the moral duties. But it is not now the f..'lct.
Perhaps, also, oaths may once have been nccc~sary to en-
force the exercise of the charities of life--although charitics
thus extorted, would indeed be a fri~id bounty. But chari-
ty, in the present day, requires no such enforcement. There
is, however, a still higher reason why tl1esc oaths should be
discarded and abjured: it is the divine injunction already
quoted-SWEAR NOT AT ALL.
I am, sir, your obedient servant.
.tETTER VIII. 81
LETTER VIII.
NEw-YoaK, Dec. 20, 1831.
S1a,
In no one particular, probably, have the votaries of spe·
culativc Masonry been more actively assailed, or with great-
er-justice, in the estimation of the world, than in regard to
tltc high antiquity which they claim for the order. The
ridicule which the institution has been obliged to encounter
in this respect, more frequently just than unjust, has arisen
from various causes. Of these, the love of antiquity may- ·
be cited as first. Notwithstanding the frequent boasts of
republicanism, that its citizens are free from the pride ofan..
cestry, and that no man can "borrow merit from the dead-
" himselfan undeservcr"-and consequently that every man
must be the architect of his own character and fortunes ;
still, the mind delights in looking back through the dim and
mellow light ofantiquity, for examples of wisdom and know-
le~<7C, and valor. And I honestly believe that the sturdiest
republican amongst us, would not think more meanly of
himself, should he be toldof the existence of proofs in the
herald's office, that he was lineally descended from the Tal-
hots, or the Howards ; from the Black Prince, or John of
Gaunt. So with the MasoDl! ; their institution becomes
more hallowed in their eyes, in proportion to the fancied
remoteness of its origin. Another, and perhaps a still more
efficient cause of the idle and preposterous claims Jo anti-
quity, put forth by the Masons, is found in the ignorance
and credulity of a large portion of the brotherhood, who
have mistaken the assertions of masonic lecturers, touching
1hc immemorial f'Xistencc of what they choose to call the
11
Digitized by Coogle
82 LETTER VIII.
principles of Masonry, for the institution of :J-Icisonry ihelf,
as at present organized into lodges and chapters! I cannot
but confess, moreover, that the manner in which the writers
of the masonic rituals have spoken of their claims to very
remote antiquity, has been peculiarly well calculated to fos-
ter and strengthen the delusion, among uneducated men,
possessing neither the time, nor the means, for adequate
investigation.
Of all books to try the patience, and excite the disgust,
of a sensible and intelligent reader,. I would prescribe the
earlier masonic historians. The wretched absurdities, and
the clumsy misrepresentations, with which they abound,
would scarcely be credited by a person who has never ex-
amined them, were the half to be told. The first of these
writers, was James Anderson, D. D., whose book of Mason-
ic Constitutions, prefaced by a history of Masonry, " col-
" lected and digested by order of the Grand Lodge in Lon-
" don, from the old records, faithful traditions, and lodge
" books," was published in 1723. It was revised, continued,
and enlarged, by John Entick, M. A., and published under
the sanction of a committee of the Grand Lodge, in 1756.
I have a copy of that edition now before me; and, by your
permission, will illustrate the justness of the character be-
stowed above upon these histories. It is proper here to
premise, that, in its ancient history, Masonry is used in a
sense equivalent to the LIBERAL scu:J!(ct:s, but particularly
OEOliBTRY-and vice versa. Upon this assumption, the
early masonic history dates the commencement ofthe mason-
ic institution, with the beginning of time, and begins its
history with the work ofcreation. With these explanations,
I proceed to cite a few passages from Anderson and En-
tick:-
" All things necessary for man's felicity were perfected
"by the ARcHITECT and GRAND MAsTER of the Universo
"according to oEOliETRY, &.c."
o;9,tized by Coogle
0$ co
LETTER VIII.
" How ADAM: exercised himself in that noble scieflce, in
' "his paradisaical state, does not certainly appear," but, "we
"cannot in any wise suppose him to have been ignorant of
"the liberal sciences, much less ofgeometry."
"Adam instructed his descendants in geometry, and the
"application of it to whatsoever crafts were convenient for
"those early times."
"Cain, with his family and adherents, being expelled
"from Adam's altars, and pre-instructed in the principles
" of g~ometry and architecture, forthwith built a strong
"city, &c. ; and called it Dedicate, or Consecrate, after the
" name of his eldest son Enoch ; whose race, following his
"example, improved themselves, not only in geometry and
"Masonry, but made discoverie~ of several other useful
" arts," &c.•
" The descendants of Seth came nothing behind those of
" Cain, in the cuitivation of geometry and Masonry : this
" patriarch greatly profited in those noble sciences, under
" the continual tuition of Adam, with whom he lived till the
"year of the world 930, and succeeded him then in the
"grand direction of the craft ; who, as a monument of his
"superior abilities, and love to posterity, foreseeing the uni-
" veraal desolation which would happen by fire and water,
"and deprive mankind of those arts and sciences already
" improved, raised two huge pillars, one of brick, the other
•• of atone, and inscribed thereon an abridgement of the arts
"and sciences, particularly geometry and Masonry, that if
" the pillar of brick happened to be overthrown by the ftood,
"that of stone might remain; which Josephus tells us was
• The readiness to receive Cain into the muonic brotherhood, certainly
!!howe a ~.atholic feeline amongst them. If it were not in aU respects too
grave and solemn a subject for a jest, we might question Cain's title to the
distinction, unless it were on account of bning Morgaoised his brother
Abel:
Digitized by Coogle
84 LETTER Vlll.
•• to be seen in his time, in the land of Siriad, by the uame
"of Seth's, or Enoch's pillars."•
The world becoming wicked-" Methuselah, with his son
"Lamech, and grandson Noah, retired from the corrupt
"world, and in their own peculiar 'family preserved the
••good old religion of the promised Messiah pure, and also
•• the royal art [of Masonry,] till the flood."
The ark is built, according to the principles of Masonry,
and Noah, his family and the cargo arc housed therein, when
we learn that-" From these Masons, or four grand officers,
"(Noah and his sons,) the whole present race of mankind
"are descended."
" Being all of one language and speech, it came to pass
" as .they journied from the east towards the west, they
·.. found a plain in the land of Shinaar, and dwelt there to-
"gether, as Noachido:, or sons of Noah-the first name of
"Masons."
The tower of Babel is built; an observatory on the top
of it ; the language of the builders is confounded ;-and the
people dispersed-" All which shows, that, after the disper-
" sion, they still carried with them the knowledge of .~.lfa­
" sonry, and improved it to a great degree of perfection."
" Nimrod, or Belus, the son of Cush, the eldest son of
"Ham, and founder of the Babylonian monarchy, kept pos-
" session of the plain, and founded the first great empire, at
" Babylon, and became Grand ./J'Iaster of all :Masons, after
" the general migration."
• This legend of the ma110nic writers, continues to be cherished to this
day, by all the f.Uthful. But in citing JoscphU!I, Anderson, and his long
train of follower~, forget to quote the cc·mment of Dr. Whiston, the learned
translator of the J cwiab historian, upon the pusagc respecting the pillars in
question, wherein, to say nothing of the absurdity of the su'ppositJon, that
the fabled pillars could have been discovered aficr the fountains of the great
deep bad been so ctf.·ctually broken up, it very satisfactorily appears that
Josephus mi~took ~elh or Sesostris, kmg of Egypt, who is supposed to have
erected the pillau refcrl'('d to, f.Jr Seth the aon of Adam.
Digitized by Google
LETTER VIII.
11 From Shinaar, the scie1lce and the art were carried to
"' distant parts of the earth, notwithstanding the confusion
• of dialects, which gave rise to the .lfason's faculty, and
"universal practice of conversing without speaking, and of
.. knowing each other by ngru and tolcem.,
" Mizraim, or Menes, the second son of Ham, carried to,
" nod preserved in, Egypt, their original skill, and much cui·
"tivated the art." And-" The successors of Mizraim,
• who styled themselves the sons of ancient kings, encoura·
"ged the royal art, down to the last of their race, the learned
" king Amasis."
" The history fails in the south and west of Africa I" and
the posterity of Japhet, scattering off to Scythia, Norway,
Gaul, Britain,and America,lost the art-careless fellows that
they were!
But-" The offspring of Shem propagated the 1cience and
"the art, as far as China and Japan."
"Abraham, born two years after the death of Noah, hv.d
"learned well the science and the art, before the God ofGlory
"called him to travel from Ur, of the Chaldees," and" He
" communicated his great skill to the Canaanites, for which
"they honored him as a prince."
Isaac, Ishmael and Jacob, of course, were taught the sci·
ence by their fathers. Joseph was so well instructed by hi.
father," that he excelled the Egyptian Mas011.8 in knowledge.
" and was installed their Grand ~laster, by the command of
"Pharaoh."
" Ancient- Masonry recognises Melchizedeck, as one of
"its most venerable patrons !"•
• I(any thing could add to the folly of this pretension, it mij!bt be found
in the fact, that it ill not known by mortal man who Melcbizedeck wu.
Semc believe him to have been Christ, or the Holy Ghost. Moses and.
} 1aul speak of him as a man ; but all we arc told of him is, that be was king
of Salem, and pri('st of the Most High God. The Jews and Samaritana
will have him to be Sbcm, thgir ancestor. The Arabians insist that. be ":U
11 grond-aon of Sbcm. Jurieu BllYB he was Haul; and Dr. Owen claima IWa
ae a d~dant of J'apbeth. He was a Muon, no doubt!
Digitized by Coogle
86 LETT.£1\ VIII.
The Israelites practised but little Masonry in Egypt,
until " they were trained up" to the building of two cities
with 8tone and brick, for the Egyptians, " in order to make
" them expert MasoM, before they possessed the promised
"land."
" In their peregrination through Arab.ia to Canaan, God
"was pleased to inspire their Grand ..tlfader, Moses, Joshua,
"his Deputy G. Jll., and Aholiab, and Bezaleel, Grmtd
" WardeM, with wisdom of heart," &c. to build the taber·
nacle, &c.
"Moses excelled all Grand lrla8ter1 before bim." He
" ordered the more skillful to meet him, as in a grand
" lodge, near the tabernacle, in the passover week, and
" gave them wise charge1, regulatioM, &c., though the tra-
" dition thereof has not been transmitted down to us so
" perfect as might have been wished."
"Joshua succeeded in the direction, with Kaleb, his De-
" puty, and Eleazer, the High Priest, and Phineas his son,
"as Grand Wardens."
After the conquest and settlement of the promised land-
" The Israelites made a prodigious progress in the study of
"geometry and architecture, having many expert artists, in
"every tribe that met in lodge8, or societies for that pur-
" pose," &c.
"T~e city of Tyre, Sor, or Tsor, was built by a great
"body of Sidonian Masons, from Gabala, under their Grand
" .1\laster, and proper princes," &c.
" The Phrenicians built, in a grand and sumptuous man-
" ncr, under the direction of Sanconiathon, Grand Master
"of "lfasons in that province, the famous temple of Da-
" gon, at Gaza, and artfully supported it by two slender
" columns, not too big to be grasped in the arms of Sam-
" son," &c.
"In after times Ahibal, king o(Tyre, repaired and beau-
4 tified that city; and so did his son Hiram. Being himself
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VIII. 87
" a Muon, he took the direction of the craft upon himself,
'"and became a sumptuous Grand Master," &c.
" During all this period, the Israelites, by their vicinity to
.. the artists of Tyre and Sidon, had great opportunity of
"cultivating the royal art, which they failed not diligently
" to pursue, and at last attained to a very high perfection,
"as well in operative Muonry, as in the regularity and
" discipline of their well-formed lodges, WHICH, THROUGH
"ALL SUCCEEDING AGES, llAVE HITHERTO SUITERED NO
"CHANGE!"
These quotations have been .extended farther than was
really necessary for the mere exhibition of the most absurd
and ridiculous specimens ofthe history ofthe order; Buthav-
ing commenced them, it occurred to me that it might per-
haps contribute to the amusement of the reader to be fur-
nished with a brief but genuine history of the order, from
the moment when " the fiat of light was given," to the time
of the building of Solomon's temple-comprising the first
grand division of the masonic annals. That portion of the
history, as above given, may be considered complete, ex-
cepting only the particular details of the workB of the dis-
tinguished Masons mentioned, such as the building of cities,
towns, towers, &c. ; for every work of architecture and
sculpture, during the long range of centuries, from the city
of Cain, to the temple of Solomon, including the ark, the
tower of Babel, the pyramids and the Sphinx, are claimed
as the fruits of regular masonic orgaOization I
Such, sir, is the early history of Freemasonry, as written
in our books ; for although I have in these citations, follow-
ed Anderson and Entick, yet, with unessential variations of
language, the substance is much the same, with very few
exceptions, among all the masonic historians with whose
works I am acquainted, down even to the lectures of the
Rev. Salem Town, late Grand Chaplain to the Royal Arch
Chapter of this state. Among the exoeptions t" 'vhich I
Digitized by Coogle
88 LETTEll V.lll.
refer, are Lawrence Demott, author of the original Ahintan
Rezon, who very happily ridicules these ancient pretensions;
and Dr. Dalcho, of whom I have already spoken in a pre"
~ding letter.
Nor does this description of history close with the erec-
tion of Solomon's temple. The same veracious writers,
with aU possible gravity and candor, discourse to us of the
Masonry of all the principal oriental nations that rose,
flourished and tell, from the days of Solomon, to the decline
and fall of the Roman empire. David, we are assured,
was the last distinguished patron of the ancient masonic
principle, previously to the regular reorganization of the
institution at the building of the temple. Solomon's Ma·
sons rapidly dispersed themselves over the whole civilized
world, carrying with them, in all directions, the lights and
blessings of the order : and from this period, to the advent
of the Messiah, and indeed long afterwards, the kings and
priests, the nobles, and mighty men of the eat1h, are spoken
of as Masons and .Grand Masters, with as much familiarity,
and with as little doubt or hesitancy, as we refer to the
events of cotemporaneous history. we are told that an
the Jewish kings of David's lineage, were Grand Masters;
all the High Priests were Masons ; " Zerubbabel, and
"Joshua the High Priest, and Haggai, the prophet, were
"skilled in ancient Masonry, and very distinguished patron.'!
"of the craft." We are told of Grand .Master Nebuchad-
nezzar, and Grand Master Seleucus Nicanor ; Grand l\Iastcr
Cyrus and Grand Master Cambyses ; Grand Master Ptolo-
my Philadelphus, (whose son was the last grand officer in
Egypt;) Grand Master Julius Cresar, and Grand Mas-
ter Constantine. Alexander, of Macedon, was expelled
from the order ; but it is a well established fact, that Ho-
mer, Zoroaster, Simonides, Socrates, Lycurgus, Solon, Py_
thagoras and Plato, were all very expert 1\Iasons--they
having visited Egypt, where the lodgt's wer8 !Vst organl~
Digitized by Coogle
U'l'TE1l \Tllt.
zed by Abraham, and were admitted into tbe sublime mys-
teries by the Egyptian priests. In short, it is difficult to
con~ive of pretensions more absurd. or of assertions more
preposterous, than those which comprise the whole matter
of masonic history, until within the last twe centuries; and
it is no cause· of marvel, that the uninitiated, when they hear
these pretensions put gravely forth as facts, should treat
them as vain, idle, and ridiculous.
These absurdities, however, are not believed by all the
initiated. Many there are who have never lward of them ~
others treat them with becoming contempt ; while others
again, who would claim Adam and Noah, Job, Solomon
nod Daniel, as Masons, if pressed upon the subject, would
explain their meaning to be, that these ancient gentlemen
*'were Masons in their hearts," and that all good men are
Masons. With many Masons, however, nothing rnore jg
intended to be conveyed by spealing of particular indivi~
duals as having been Masons antecedently to the buildiog
of Solomon's temple, and the heathen philosophen subse•
quently, than that they possessed a knowledge of the being
and existence of the one only true God.
The most sensible -writer upon this subject, whom I have
consulted, is Alexander Lawrie, whoee history of Freema~
sonry was published in Edinburgh, in 1804. This -work is
written in an attractive style, and bears evidence of exten-
sive research. It was published, in part, as an answer to
the works of Barruel and Robison. Rejecting the antedilu-
vian nonsense of his predec~ssors. and much that is post·
diluvian likewise, Lawrie nevertheless falls 'into the com~
mon error of confounding the operative stone masonry of
tlll ages, wi'h the speeulative Freemasonry of modern times.
He believes that its formation was gradual, with the pro-
gress of civilization among the ancients, as the study of
architecture advanced, and men associated together for im~
provement; but he.admits that the first. and the onlyobject
~~
Digitized by Coogle
..
LETTER VIJI.
of the Masons, was the mutual commtmication of know·
ledge connected with their profession ; and that those only
could gain admittance into the order, whose labors were
subsidiary to those of the architect. In process of time,
the ambition of the Egyptian priests prompted them to seek
and procure admission into the society. " When they had
" accomplished this purpose, they connected the mythology
"of their country, and the metaphysical speculations con-
.. cerning the nature of God, and the condition of man, with
" an associatitll formed for the exclusive purpose ofscienti-
" fie improvement, and produced that combination ofscience
"and theology, which, in after ages, fonned such a conspi-
" cuous part ofthe principles of Freemasonry.'' Lawrie, in
fact, supposes Masonry to have originated in Egypt; to
have been transplanted thence into Greece; thence into
Asia Minor, by the loniQ.D architects; and thence into
Palestine, prior to ~building of the temple. He of
conrse reads Freemasonry in those dat·k mysteries of the
Egyptian priests, from whom Moore has borrowed his
beautiful, but impossible fiction of the Epicurean. He also
discovers evidences of the order, ·in the rites and ceremo-
nies, of the Eleusinian mysteries of the Greeks, and also in
the organization and ceremonies of the Dyonisian architects.
The idea of teaching moral and religious truths by sym-
bols, and affecting to have high mysteries ,in charge, may
very likely have been borrowed by the Masons, from a
vague knowledge of those ancient mystic associations.
Thus, it is asserted, that there are masonic hieroglyphics
and emblems etched upon the Egyptian obelisks. The ig-
norant and credulous Mason, raises his eyes in wonder at
the intelligence; but the scholar, and the man of science,
would reply, that if there were indeed any such emblems-.
of which, however, Champollion has given us no informa-
tion-the Masons have doubtless adopted them from the
obelisk, and not the sculptor from the Masons. Much cu-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VIII. 91
rious infonnation respecting these ancient mysteries, might
be brought within a small compass, without travelling far-
ther in the search than the introduction of Rollin-probably
the ultima Tkule of masonic investigation upon this point ;
but the transcript would only encumber these desultory
speculations. So far as my own researches have extended,
I find nothing to sustain the masonic pretension; that these
ancient mystics were, in any manner or form, to be viewed
as cognate institutions. Pliny does indeed relate an instance
in whicq it is said that Anaxarchus, being apprehended by
somebody, in order to extort his secrets, bit his o•vn tongue
in the midst, and spit it in the tyrant's faee-; choosing rather,
as the legend goes, to lose that organ than to discover those
secrets, which he had -promised to conceal. Possibly the
hint of one of our unmeaning masonic penalties, may have
been borrowed from this questionable incident.
Equally difficult, in my apprehension, would be the task
of finding any verisimilitude between Fceemnsonry and the
mysteries of Ceres and Proserpine, which were borrow-
ed from Egypt, and celebrated with so much strictness in
several of the Grecian states, particularly in Attica. These
mysteries were held so highly sacred, that it was believed
the neglect of them would call down the divine vengeance
upon the offimder, who was therefore ignominiously put to
death. Indeed the neglect of these mysteries was one of
the charges which hastened the death ofSocrates. Accord-
ing to the masonic writers, the christian fathers, some of
them, at least, have labored to prove that the know4ldge of
the true God had been preserved by these mysteries ; and
Warburton, after a laborious investigation, bas arrived at a
Rimilar conclusion. His theory is, that those mysteries
consisted of scenic representatioDS, inculcating a belief in
the Deity, and a future state of inunortality. Among their
emblems were those of KOBTAL LD'B; of DBATR; and of
or!lloaT.u. LIPE ; and the exhibitions ofthese mysteries, A.riJ.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VIII.
tide"s declared to be "the most shockingand most ravishing
" representations." In the same way, then, that Abraham
and.Melchizedeck were Masons-that is to say, inasmuch
as they possessed a knowledge of the Deity, if Warburton's
h.ypothesis be correct,-in so far, and no farther, were the
priests of Egypt, and the Eleusinians, Masons. The only
other coincidence between these mysteries and any thing
connected with Masonry, exists in reference to the Tem-
plars. With the Eleusinian initiates, as the candidates
entered the temple, they purified themselves by washing
their hands in holy water, and received as an admonition,
that they were to ·come with a mind pure and undefiled,
without which the cleanliness of the body would be unac-
ceptable. Certain questions were likewise propounded to
the candidates, strange sights and noises were . seen and
heard, vivid flashes of lightning blazed upon the eye-balls,
and deafening peals of thunder broke upon the startled ear.
The modern Tempiars do not practise the latter experi-
ments upon the nerves ofthe candidates. But in the gloomy
chamber of reflection ; in the solemn questions indicated in a
former letter; and in the ablution in pure water, as a testimo-
ny ofsincerity and innocence ; we have a coincidence which
could scarcely have been the result of accident. Still, the
similarity of course proves no ancient connexion between
the institutions, since nothing could have been easier·than
to adjust the latter in some respects to the facts related of
the fonner; while the designing pretender might very easily
flatter himself, that the existence ofa strong resemblance in
the ceremonies reported of the one, and practised by the
other, might, by the ignorant, be greedily received as proof
of regular succession, and the common origin of both.
Comparisons have been instituted by Lawrie, and other
masonic writers, between the Kasidean and Pythagorean
fraternities, and the Freemasons ; and very strenuous efforts
aave been made to connect the erdei with the christian e~,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER VIII.
by strong supposed resemblances between the rites and ce-
remonies of Masons and the Essene~ sect among the
Jews, the origin of which is unknown, as well as the etymo-
logy of their name. They are first mentioned in the book
of Maccabees, about B. C. 150 years. They lived in soli-
tude, and bad all their possessions in common. Certain
examinations preceded the admission of candidates to their
society. If his life had been exemplary, and if, during his
noviciate, he appeared capable of curbing his conduct, and
regulating his life according to the virtuous and austere
maxims of their order,. be was presented with a white gar-
ment, as an emblem of the purity of his hearL A solemn
oath was then administered to him, that he would never
divulge the secrets of the order ; that he would make no
innovations on the doctrines of the society ; and that be
would continue that honorable course of purity and virtue
whichhe had commenced. They admitted no women into
the order, and they had particular signs for recognizing each
other. So great was the reserve of the members of these
people, who dwelt along the western coast of the Dead Sea,
like hermits, that nothing of their secrets ever escaped
them, for which reason the most learned have been Wlable
to say in what those secrets consisted. Philo says they
sacrificed no living creature, and that they shunned cities.
Josephus says they sent presents to the temple, but offered
no sacrifices there. They had purer ideas of God than the
Jews commonly entertained, a strict code of morals, and a
Pythagorean manner of life. Instead of performing exter-
nal rites, they devoted themselves to prayer and silent
devotion, scrupulously observed the sabbath, were extreme-
ly abstinent, and healed diseases of every kind by roots and
herbs. They rejected the subtleties of the Pharisees and
Sadducees.• I have spoken of this sect with greater mi-
nuteness than I should otherwise have done, because of the
• Vnle Ency. Americana, ·Josephus, Reinhard, LawriE'.
Digitized by Coogle
..
94 LETTER VIII.
efforts that have been made by writers upon the subject of
secret societies, especially ofthe German schools, to identify .
Freemasonry with the Essenes, and not only this, but to
prove that Christ and his apostles were members of the Es-
sene mystics, and that it was by means of secret associa-
tions that Christianity was first. propagated-a supposition
which finds no warrant in history, sacred or profane. Some
of these writers have contended, that Jesus Christ himself
was connected with the Essenes, and others that he was the ·
founder of. a secret society of his own, and that the Gnos-
tics, the Ophites, the Basilidians, and other sects of mystics,
were branches of the society thus founded by the Saviour.
Among the most conspicuous of these writers, are Carl
Leonhard, Reinhold, Bahrdt, and August Kestner. It is
affirmed " that the whole Mosaic religion was an initiation
"into mysteries, the principal forms and ceremonies of
" which were borrowed by Moses from the secrets of the
" Egyptians." This is the system of Reinhold, in his work
upon Hebrew mysteries, and religious Freemasonry. It is
Bahrdt, who more particularly attributes to the Saviour the
plan of christianizing the world by means of a secret socie-
ty; while Kestner alledges it in respect to the apostles and
the christian fathers of the first century. He gives ami-
nute account of the organization of a secret and powerful
confederacy, by Clement, after the fall of Jerusalem, and
the death of his instructors, Peter and Paul, which extended
throughout the Roman empire. The design was to advance
the sacred cause of christianity, by means of the society,
the members of which were carried through the degrees
of a symbolical and mystical system ofinstruction. In aid of
the project, some of the Clementinian confederates are said,
hy their cunning, to have " purloined the records, and pri-
" vatc books of the so called secret society of theologians,
"established by John the Evangelist; and the founder of
" the confederacy connected the consecrating ritual ofJohn's
Digitized by Coogle
~-- ~- - - -- -
LETT:Elt. VIII. 95
" mysteries, with Jewish and heathen ceremonies and mys-
" tical symbols of a masonical character, and thus, after
"establishing a christian priesthood, ordained a mysterious
" worship of God, which was introduced by its missiona-
" ries and abettors into all parts of the then civilized world."
On the martyrdom of Clement, his society had been ex-
tended into almost every region, and numbered a million of
adherents. Domitian was aware of its existence, but could
not touch it. Trajan persecuted 1\Dd put many thousands
of them to death. But Hadrian, being fond of the mechanic
arts, the members continued to mask their societies under
the guise of operative mechanics, and thus secured his fa-
vor. Antoainus Pius guarded the confederacy with great
strictness, politically, but favored them in other respects.
Marcus Aurelius caused himself to be initiated into their
myt~teries, and became their protector; Polycarp was one .
of the spreaders of the society ;-and Kestner pretends to
trace it down, noting the opposition it was from time to
time fated to encounter, to the Montanistic rebellion, when
it obtained a decided victory.
Reinhold's work was published in 1788. It was answer-
ed by Eichhorn, and several others, of the· orthodox Ger-
man schools. Among these, was the celebrated F. V. Rein-
hard, who, in his last enlarged edition of the " Plan of the
" Founder of Christianity," published in 1798, refuted the
skeptic most decisively. An edition of this admirable work,
has lately been published in this country, from the revised
edition of Dr. Heubncr, professor of theology at Wittem-
burg. A reply of much critical skill and learning, and of
equal conclusiveness, to the work of Bahrdt, above mention-
ed, has also been written by professor H., and inserted in
the appendix to Dr. Reinhard's "Plan." As this valuable
work is now before the public, in an English dress, it would
be a waste of time to add a synopsis of the facts and argu-
ments, by whic:h these skeptics have all been triumphant!:·
Digitized by Coogle
96 LET'l'i!R VUt,
refuted. Nothing, indeed, can be more absurd, than ~
allegation both in respect to Moses, and Christ, with his
apostles, and their successors. Those arguments were, in
o. great degree, cabalistic; and a hidden mystery was
sought in the language of the Saviour, and the writers of
various sacred books and epistles. which would destroy
their simplicity and beauty, and indeed their •hole eharac-
ter as a revelation of the simple word of the Creator to his
creatures. Nothing could have been more foreign to the
plan of Christ, than the idea of putting the hidden springs of
a secret society into operation, for the execution of the pur-
poses of his glorious mission. The Essenes were the only
secret cotemporaneous society among the Jews; but we
no where read of his visiting the district of country where
these hermits lived; while, on the contrary, his whole life
was one of unrestrained frankness, and his labors were of
the most public character. Wherever he went, he was
thronged by thousands ; he was continually an object ofthe
most jealous watchfu1ness on the part of the elders and
rulers of the land ; and he was only able occasionally to
steal away, under cover of the mantle of night, into the
fields, for his hours of solitary devotion. But it is idle to
pursue the subject. Those who believe with the skeptics
who thus audaciously attempt to connect the Saviour with
societies of a masonic character, or with any secret society
whatever, must, at the same time, strip him of his divinity;
for, like the infidel writers who have attributed the mira·
cles of Moses to necromancy, so in regard to Christ-ms
miracles have, also, by those who would invest him with tho
habiliments of Masonry, been declared to partake of tltc
same nature-to have been wrought by ,·irtue of arts and
enchantments, the knowiC'dgc of which was acquired by
him during his residence with his parents in Egypt, and
perfected in the secret socicticll, after his return to Juden '
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEJ\ Vlll.
lf every writer upon Masonry had exercised the candor
and good sense of Dr. Dalcho, the late Grand Master of
South Carolina, of whom I have spoken before, we should
not have so much cause of chagrin, as must be experienced
in wading throftgh the wretched absurdities which are to
he encountered in such investigations as the present. In
the notes to an edition of the Ahiman Rezon, published by
him, he very candidly says-" Neither Adam, nor Nimrod,
"nor Moses, nor Joshua, nor David, nor Solomon, nor Hi·
"ram, nor St. John the Evangelist, nor St. John the Baptist,
"belonged to the masonic order. It is unwise to assert
"more than we can prove, and to argue against probability.
" There is no record, sacred or profane, to induce us to be.
"lieve that these holy and distinguished men were Freema·
" sons, and our traditions do not go back to their days. To
''assert that they were Freemasons, may make the vulgar
" stare, but will rather excite the contempt than the admira·
" tion of the wise. Let Freemasons, then, give up their vain
" boastings, which ignorance has foisted into the order, and
" relinquish a fabulous antiquity, rather than sacrifice com·
., mon sense." In another place, the same reverend and
judicious Grand Master, speaking of the festival days of the
two St. Johns, remarks:.-" Why either ofthem should have
"been chosen in preference to any other day, is, perhaps,
"difficult to explain. I know of no connexion between
" these eminent servants of God, and the Freemasons. I
"now-write as a minister of the God, to whose honor and
•• glory my life is devoted, and to whom I must, ere long,
"give an account of my stewardship. I think I run no hnz.
,; ard of contradiction, in saying, that if these most holy men
"were now permitted to revisit the earth, they would great-
" ly wonder at finding their nan1es enrolled as patrons of
"an institution of which they had never heard ; and there
"can be no question of the fact, that if they were now to
"apply for admission into any of our lodges, they would be
. 1~
Digitized by Coogle
98 LBTTER IX.
"utterly incapable of working their way in." These are
plain truths, to which every enlightened Mason, if he speaks
truly, will respond" Amen."
With high consideration, I am, &c.
LETTER IX.
NEw-YoaK, Jan. 8, 1832.
Sta,
In regard to the antiquity of Freemasonry proper,-1
mean as it has descended to us from the English, for I deny
that it has any affinity or relationship with the infidel asso-
ciations of France, of any degree, whatever agency the
Duke of Orleans may have had in commissioning a messen-
ger to bring it hither,-it is exceedingly difficult to arrive at
any satisfactory result. All its histories are, comparatively,
of modern date, although they plunge deep into the twilight
of m·ttiquity, with as much boldness as though they had the
-whole Alexandrian library to cite as authorities. This ab-
t~cnce of unwritten early history, is ascribed to an irrepara-
ble loss sustained by the lodges in 1720, by the burning of
the ancient records of the order, together with a learned
and elaborate historical treatise by Nicholas Stone, a curi-
ous sculptor of that day. These records were burnt by the
over scrupulous members of the order, who, alanned by the
publication ofconstitutions, and the formularies of the craft,
teared that other disclosures, jeoparding the existence of the
80Ciety, might follow. In more modern times, as will by
and bye appear, it might have been my uuhappy name-
«nke, and not the manuscripts, that would have been con-
demned to the. flames.
It was not, sir, my design, when I commenced this branch
of tho discussion, in my last letter, to draw very largely
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER IX. 99
from the books upon the subject,-aware, as I very well
am, that few persons could hope to call your attention to
any historical infonnation, with which your mind is not a}.
ready stored. Yet, as this question, the antiquity of Jl[a.
sonry, has been much debated, and as these sheets must ne.
cessarily fall under the eyes of others than yourself, I have
thought it might not be altogether a waste of time to collect
and throw into this popular form, such items of general in·
formation, respecting it, as I could conveniently bring to.
gether within a reasonable space. I trust that you will
therefore pardon me, while I dwell somewhat longer upon
this point, even though I should find it necessary to go yet
further into detail.
All the encyclopredists whom I have found leisure to con-
sult, have noticed the institution more or less at large, and
several have appropriated considerable space to the subject.
Dr. nees cites Preston, a masonic historian, and Past Mas·
ter of the lodge ofAntiquities, largely, and with approbation.
This writer supposes the introduction of Masonry into
England to have been prior to the Roman invasion-that the
Druids were in possession of the masonic secrets, and prac·
tiscd their customs, and that Cresar and his generals were
its ardent friends and supporters. After the Romans left
England, the labors of the order were obstructed by the
irruptions of the Picts and Scots ; but the institution revived
again with the introduction of christianit_v, by St. Austin,
who was its zealous patron. So says Preston; but Dr.
Dalcho declares the idea of Austin's coming over from
Rome, as the minister of Freemasonry, to be as great an
absurdity as the supposition that the book of the law owes
its preservation to the Masons. The Bishop came over to
England at the head of forty monks, instead of Freemasons.
The English historian, Henry, attributes the origin of
the Masons in England, to the difficulty experienced, in
e.arly times, of obtaining enough men of skill, to build the
Digitized by Google
100 LETTER IX.
churches and monasteries of the middle ages; and that,
consequently, architects and builders were favored by the
Popes with indulgencies, to augmenlo their nwnbcrs. ID
support of this position he quotes an author, the name of
whom I have not been able to ascertain, stating that some
Greek refugees, with Frenchmen, Germans and Flemings,
formed a fraternity of architects, and, procuring papal bull~.
ranged from nation to nation, where churches were to be
built, encamped in huts by themselves, and framed regula-
tions for their own government, according with the pecu-
liar circumstances of their occupation, and the lives they
were leading. " l\fasonry was restored, and some other
"arts connected with it, introduced into England," says
Henry, "towards the end of the seventh century, by two
"clergymen, who were great travellers, and had often visit-
"ed Rome, where they had gained a taste for the arts."•
This sentence, separated from the context, might be sup-
posed to apply either to speculative or operative Masonry,as
the reader might choose to construe it. But the historian pro-
ceeds to inform his reader, that the two travelling ecclesias-
tics were, Wilfred, Bishop of York, afterwards of Hexham,
and Benedict Biscop, founder of the abbey of Weremouth.
Biscop, we are told, made no fewer than six journics to
Rome, collecting books, pictures, statues, and other curiosi-
ties ;-then crossing over into France, he collected anum-
ber of Masons, "and brought them over into England to
" bu&ld tlleir churches and monasteries, of stone, as they did
"in Rome." In the same way, theyscntoverto France for
glass-makers, &c. The historian then proceeds to give a
gorgeous description of the magnificent church built by
these l\Iasons at Hexham, the ground for which was given
by queen Etheldreda. A cotemporary historian quoted by
Henry, describing the grandeur of this structure, conceives
that the plan of it must have been inspired by the spirit of
,. Vd. 4, Lon. ed. of 1789-Chaptl'r on tbr Art~.
~;9;uzed by Coogle
LETTER IX. 101
God, such was the grandeur of the design, and the splendor
of its execution. But in all this, Dr. Henry makes no allu-
sion whatever to a regularly organized society, and evident.
ly intends to be understood as referring to operative builders
--.stone masons--and nothing more. This construction·is
rendered still more obvious, from the manner in which the
author speaks of the introduction of 1\fasonry into Scotland.
In the year 710, he informs us, in the chapter already
quoted, that there was not so much as one church of stone
in the kingdom, or an artist in Scotland who could build
one. Naitan, king of the Picts, wrote to Ceolfred, abbot of
Weremouth, entreating him to send him over some masons,
to build a church of stone in his kingdom, in imitation of the
Romans,-promising to dedicate the edifice, when comple-
ted, to St. Peter. Bede, who was then living in the abbey
of Weremouth, states that " the reverend abbot Ceolfred
"granted his pious request, and sent masons according to
" his desire." These, again, were operative masons ; but
Henry, nevertheless, was of the opinion, that the masons
thus introduced into England and Scotland, were descend-
ed from the CoUegia Artiftcum of the Romans, and that the
masonic institution of his own times, was derived from thoae
travelling artizans.
Chambers's Encyclopredia, (London edition of 1781,)
speaks of the institution as" a very ancient society, or body
" of men, so called from some extraordinary knowledge of
"masonry or building. They were very considerable for
"numbers and character, consisting principally of persons
"of merit and consideration." It is, however, admitted by
Chambers, to be very doubtful when the order was introdu-
ced into England. "Some," he says," have traced the ori-
·• gin of Masonry, in general, to the year 674, when the
''manufacture of glass was introduced. It is certain that
"after this time, many of the public buildings in England,
"' in the Gothic style, were erected by men in companies,
Digitized by Coogle
,
102 LETTER IX,
"who, it is said, called themselves FREE, because they were
"at liberty to work in any part of the kingdom they might
"select." Others have derived the institution of Freema·
sons from a combination among the masons not to work
without an advance of wages, when they were summoned
from several counties, by writs of Edward III., directed
to the sheriffs, to assist in rebuilding and enlarging the cas·
tie, together with the church and chapel of St. George, at
Windsor: accordingly, it was said that the masons agreed
,on signs, tokens, emblems, &c., by which they might know
one another, and to assist each other against being impress.
ed, and to avoid being compelled to work unless FREE, and
on TJIEIR owN TERMS. The end, thus far, appeared lauda-
ble enough ;-tending only to promote social intercourse,
friendship, mutual assistance, and good fellowship.
The true re.cstablishment of Masonry in England, says
Dr. Recs, "is dated from king Athelstan; and there is stin
"existing an ancient lodge in York, tracing its origin to that
"period. After the decease of Athelstan, the Masons were
·"'dispersed,and remained so, until 960, when they were col·
"lected under the reign of Edgar, by St. Dunstan." "It
" again declined until the reign of Edward the Confessor,
" when they were swnmoned to the building ofWestminster
"Abbey, in 1041." From this period its history is traced
.with great particularity, by Dr. Rees, down to the acce•
sion of George 1.-The narrative gives a rapid view ofthe
vicissitudes ofgood and ill fortune which attended the pro-
wess of the institution during that period, together with the
names of the whole line ofGrand Masters, and distinguished
patrons, both in church and state, according to the testimo-
ny of Preston-which is as doubtful as the greatest skeptic
~ould desire.
The author of the Age of Reason, wrote a tract in con-
nexiou with the third part of that infamous work, upon the
origin of Frccmasrmry. But notwithstanding his usual sa·
Digitized by Coogle
t.ETTEll IX, lOS
gacity, he also has suffered himself to be deceived as to ita
antiquity. A full disclosure of the secrets of Masonry was
published by Samuel Pritchard, in 1730, who made oath to
the truth ofhis work, before the lord mayor of London. As
Masonry was then constituted, Pritchard's disclosures were
as full and complete as those afterwards made under the ti-
tle of "Jachin and Boaz," or the later revelations of Mor-
gan. There was then but one obligation for the three de-
grees, and that was much shorter than either of those at pre-
sent in usc.* Paine takes the revelations of Pritchard for his
guide, and endeavors to prove that the institution was deriv-
ed from the religion of the Druids, who, he says, were wor-
shippers of the sun. He also supposes that both Masonry
nnd the Druidical religion came from the fire worshippers,
in the east. His argument, in regard to the Druidical char-
acter of Freemasonry, is founded chiefly upon the fact, that
the sun is a masonic emblem ; that frequent references arc
made to the sun in the rites and ceremonies of the lodge ;
that masonic edifices, are always erected "due east and
''west;" and that the words of the formularies-" as the
"sun rises in the east, to open and adorn the day, so does
.. the Worshipful Master stand in the east to open and adorn
"the lodge," &c., convey the same allusion. But there is
neither history nor tradition, to support the hypothesis of
Paine. His premises, therefore, being false, his conclusions
arc equally so ; and if, as he asserts, there be really a coin-
cidence between the ceremonies of the lodges, and the rites
of the Druids, the masons must have adopted them, as they
are alledged to have accommodated to the same object the
emblems and insignia of the Rosicrucians, which were the
tools and aprons of the handicraft masons. Other writers,
however, have mentioned the Druids as having practised
rites and mysteries, corresponding, iu some respects, with
• Vide·Appcndill G'.
l '
Digitized by Google
104 LETT.l!:R IX.
those of the Masons. But these ceremonies were believed
to have been derived from the Pythagoreans. There was
a similarity between the fraternities of the Druids and the
Pythagoreans, according to Henry and others, as well in
their forms and mysteries, as in their religious and philoso-
phical opinions. But this fact docs not help to sustain the
hypothesis of Paine.
The Encyclopredia Britannica has given a condensed#
but a still better history of the society, than that of Recs,
although it is very evident that, for the most part, both have
drawn their information from the same identical sources.
And the article" .Masonry," in the 8th vol~1me of the Ency-
clopredia Americana, a valuable work now in the course of
publication on the basis of the German Conversations Lexi-
con, contains a more compact, and, on the whole, I am in-
clined to think, a better account than either of the works to
which I have yet referred. Disregarding, as it ought, the
idle traditions connecting the society with the Greek or
Egyptian mysteries, or claiming its descent from the Diony-
sian architects, or the Pythagorean society; denying, also,
and with equal justness, that it sprung from the Templars,
the Jesuits, or the Rosicrucians, or even from the common
corporation of masons, the last mentioned work entertains
the opinion in common with Henry, that spcculati\·e Mason-
ry, as I have just mentioned, was derived from the Collegia
Artiftcum of the Romans, or societies of architects and ar-
tificers, who sprang from the Collegia, and were transplant-
ed over the various countries of western Europe, in the
train of their legions. There was no town, however small,
and no province, however distant, visited by the Roman
arms, where some of the Collegia did not exist, until the
downfall of the empire. Many of their members were, of
course,transplanted to Britain,but driven thenceby the Scot~
and Picts, as I have already noted. Nevertheless, they still
r.ontinued to flourish in other European countrit..:~, wh()nr;~
Digitized by Google
--
LETTER IX. 1<15
they were subsequently invited to England, by Alfred and
Athelstan, to assist in building their castles, abbeys and
convents, and on repairing thither, received letters of protec-
tion from the Pope and the King, extending to them certain
privileges, as I have already mentioned, upon other authori-
ties. " They then united, under written constitutions, foun-
~ ded upon the ancient constitutions of the Roman and
"Greek colleges, and the provisions of the civil law. Their
.. religious tenets, being often objects of suspicion to the or-
" thodox catholics, and often differing amongst themselves,
" were not allowed to obtrude in their meetings, and were
"of course kept secret. Secrecy, moreover, was the char-
" acter of all the corporations of the middle ages, and down
" to the most recent times, the corporations of mechanics
" on the European continent, had what they called 'secrets
"of the craft,'-eertain words, or, sometimes, absurd cere-
" monies, by which they pretended to know each other. To
" this it must be added, that the corporations of architects
" in the middle ages, were descended from the times of an-
" tiquity, so that their societies had received, in the times
" when the Romans adored all gods, and listened to all phi-
" losophical systems, impressions derived from the Greek
"philosophical schools, particularly the stoic, united with
"some fragments of the Egyptian mysteries, and subse-
" quently modified by notions acquired in the early times of
"christianity, particularly from the Gnostics, which led to
" certain doctrines and sacred ceremonies, clothed, accord-
" ing to the spirit of the time, in symbols, and constituting
" their esoteric mysteries." In time, these masons, or ar-
chitects, thus assembled in England, formed schools of the
fine arts, to which many respectable artists, native and for-
eign, resorted for initiation. Such was their character so
late as when Inigo Jones presided over the orcl.cr as Grand
Master.
14
o;9,tized by Coogle
106 tETTER JX.
I do not pretend, sir, nor do I wish to prove, by auy o(
thesc;J gleanings from the books, that Freemasonry, in the
manner and fonn of its organization during the last centu-
ry, had an existence as a charitable and social institution, ir-
respective of any particular labor in the advancement of the
arts; but that the societyhada very ancient being,in England,
in some fonn, I think cannot be doubted. All the circumstan-
-ces and incidents stated of its early history, may not be true.
Doubtless they are not : but still, there are facts and evi-
dences enough, which cannot be questioned, to sustain this
position. St. Alban is said to have been a great friend to
the masons, and to have obtained a charter for them to hold
general cooncils, or tnsemblytt, as they were called. The
wages of the operatives were at that time-about A. D.
300-a penny a day, the workmen being found. These
circumstances are said to be mentioned in a manuscript
written in the time of James II.--anly that this latter ac-
count makes the wages of the masons to have been 3s. 6d.
per diem, and that of the bearers of burdens 3d. per diem.
In regard to the particular agency of St. Alban, in procuring
a masonic charter, however, I confess myself rather incre-
dulous. But I am inclined to believe that a lodge was insti-
tuted in Yorkshire, about the year 916 of the christian era.,
The tradition is, that the lodge was instituted at Audley,
ncar York, by a charter from Athelstan, under the patron-
age of the king's brother Edwin, whose seat was at Audley.
Certain it is, that there is a very ancient lod0te at York, and
for a long succession of years the meetings were held there,
and the lodge is believed to have been continued in regular
succession at that place, down even to the present day,
where the original charter, written in Anglo Saxon, is yet
I
preaerved. The employment of the members of this lodge,
in its early career, was the building of monasteries, abbey&
and churches.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER IX. 167
Attempts were made during the rebellion in the reign of
Henry V., to inculpate the Masons as the authors of it, but
without success. After Gloucester's execution, the king
himself became a member of the order, and is said to have
paid great attention to it. He perused and sanctioned its
constitutions, and many of the nobles followed his example
in favoring the society. In 1425, during the reign of Hen-
ry VI., an act was passed against the meetings of the chap-
ters and congregations of Masons, in consequence of an al-
ledged inter(erence with the business and wages oflaborers.
The society was at that time organized under Henry Chich-
ley, Archbishop of Canterbury, who was the Grand Mas-
ter. The act was supposed to have been procured by the
illiterate clergy, who were hostile to the secrecy observed
by the society-believing that they had an indefeasible
right to be made acquainted with all secrets, by virtue of
.auricular confession ; and the Masons would not confess.
The Arehbishop, however, had sufficient influence to pre-
vent the execution of the law. But the Roman catholics
have uniformly been the most bitter oppm,ents of the insti·
tution in Europe, since its revival in England, and propaga-
tion from thence to the continent, about one hundred years
ago. It was speedily proscribed in France, the Netherlands,
Italy, Spain and Portugal ; and in our own day, the decrees
of the latter powers against it, have often been echoed in
thunders ·from the Vatican-probably because it infringes
upon the privileges which they wisb to enjoy themselves.
Auricular confession is sacred. No menace nor power can
extort from the priest a secret so sacredly and inviolably
reposed. The catholic priest, if a true catholic, will have
his throat cut across, and his tongue plucked out by the
roots, before he will reveal the scerets of the confessional.
But when a rival despository of secrets is created; it is quite
vne autre cllOse. It must beput down : it is heretical
Digitized by Coogle
108 LETT£R IX.
Elizabeth w1dertook to suppress the order altogether;
but was diverted from her purpose. James I. patronized
the lodge of Scotland, and settled a revenue of :£4 Scots,
to be paid by every Master Mason to a Grand Master, to
be a man nobly born, or a clergyman, his appointment to be
approved by the crown.
The earliest historical mention of Freemasonry, as a so-
cial society, corresponding, in several respects, with the in-
stitution of the present day, is contained in Plot's Natural
History of Staffordsllire. Dr. Plot was a learned philoso-
pher, and an antiquary. He was a member of the Royal
Society; historiographer to the king, and also, at one time,
librarian and keeper ofthe Ashmolean Library and 1\fuseum,
at Oxford. His account is so curious and instructing with-
al, and so important, as being, in fact, the earliest classical
record of the existence of the society in this form, that I
make no apology for transcribing the whole passage :-
"They have a custom in Staffordsltirc, of admitting men
" into the society of Freemasons, that in the moorelands of
"this country seems to be of greater request than any where
"else, though I find the custom spread, more or less, all over
"the nation ; for here I found persons of the most eminent
"quality, that did not disdain to be of tlus fellowship ; nor,
"indeed need they, were it of that antiquity and honor that
"is pretended, in a large parchment volume they have
"amongst them, containing the history and rules of the craft
"of Masonry, which is there deduced not only from sacred
" writ, but profane story ; particularly that it was brought
" into England by St. Amphibal, and first communicated to
"St. Alban, &c. Into which society, when any arc admit-
" ted, they call a meeting, (or lodge, as they term it in some
" places,) which must' consist at least of five or six of the
"ancients of the order, whom the candidates present with.
"gloves, and so likcwb·c to their ''"ivc~. and entertain with
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER IX. 109
"a collation, according to the custom of the place. This
" ended, they proceed to the admission of them, which chief-
" ly consists in the communication of certain secret signs,
"whereby they are known to one another all over the na-
" tion, by which means they have maintenance whithercvcr
" they travel ; for if any man appear, though altogether un-
" k~own, that can show any of these signs to a fellow of the
•• society, whom they otherwise call an accepted Mason, he
"is obliged presently to come to him, from what company
"or place soever he be in; nay, though from the top of a
" steeple, what hazard or inconvenience soever he run, to ·
" know his pleasure and assist him ; viz. if he want work, ho
"is bound to find him some; or, if he cannot do that, to give
"him money, or otherwise support him till work can be
"had, which is one of their articles; and it is another, that
"they advise the masters they work for, according to the
"best of their skill, acquainting them with the goodness or
"badness of their materials ; and if they be any way out iA
"the contrivance of the buildings, modestly to rectify them
"in it, that Masonry be not dishonored ; and many such like
"that are commonly known. But some others they have,
" (to which they arc sworn after their fashion,) that none
"know but themselves, which I have reason to suspect, are
" much worse than these, perhaps as bad as this History cL
"the Croft itself; -than which there is nothing I ever met
" with, more false or incoherent."
This work was written about the year 1666. Thomas
Ashmole, for whom the author, Dr. Plot, was sometime
librarian, was likewise a philosopher, an antiquary, and a
man of great learning. He was admitted to the f1"eedom of
the Masons' corporation, in London, in 1646. He was the
last of the Rosicrucians, and was given much to the study
of alchemy and astrology. Ever employed in advancing
tl1e cause of science and learning, his labors were indefati-
gable in procuring collections of medals, manuscripts, and
Digitized by Coogle
110 LE'£TEil IX.
rare and valuable works, particularly upon those sciences iR
the study of which he took so much delight. The Freema-
t!Ons have eYer been anxious to claim him as one of the
.craft; and he speaks himself, in his private diary, under date
of March 10, 1682, of receiving a summons to attend a
lodge, the next day, at Masons' Hall. Under date of March
11, he gives an account of attending the lodge, and notes
down the names of new members " admitted into the fel-
" lowship ofthe lodge." He also mentions " a noble dinner,"
of which he partook, " prepared at the charge of the new
"accepted Masons." The fact that Ashmole was a Rosicru-
cian-the last of the number, as it is said-may, perhaps, be
nlken as an evidence that there was possibly some re-
semblance between the ceremonies ofthe Masons, and those
of the order of the rosy cross. As the masonic society was
undergoing changes at the period of Ashmole's membership,
his attachment to the mysteries of his favorite order, then
extinguished, may have induced him to incorporate some of
their rites and ceremonies with those of the Masons.
During the greater part of the reign of Anne, the society
declined, although it was revived, or rather tcceived a new
impulse, in 1705. It was at about that time determined that
l;he privileges of the order should not be confined to opera-
tive masons, but that persons of.all trades and professions
might be admitted to a participation with its mysteries.
This innovation, in the reign of Queen Anne, is much to be
regretted. It is known and admitted that of the arts, only
one has declined, and that is architecture. Recent edifices
may be more gorgeous and costly, but in taste and gran-
deur, the moderns are unquestionably far behind the archi-
tects of even the Gothic ft!,res. This may have been owing
to the encoura~;cment formerly bestowed upon them. When
a particular pursuit is greatly rewarded, either by wealth
or fame, it is with almost entire certainty advanced to ex-
"CCllence. In feudal times.--when the little learning extant
Digitized by Coogle
\
LETTER IX. Ill
was confined to the cells of the monks-when few could
read and fewer write-when crosses, seals, and armorial
bearings were substituted for the sign-manual, it cannot be
surprising that the architects, then the ~ost popular, envied,
and "rewarded," of operatives, should have endeavored to
eeeure to themselves and their order a monopoly, by avail-
ing themselves of those modes of secrecy and appropriation
which corresponded with the spirit of the times.
The general assembly of.the Grand Lodge of York, had
continued to meet as usual, even while the society was not
prosperous. In the year last mentioned, there was a large
convocation at York, under the direction of Sir John Tem-
pest, and many persons of worth and character were initia..
ted. Previously to this date, another Grand Lodge had
sprung up. That of York was called the "Grand Lodge
"of England." Its rival, in contradistinction, arrogated to
itself the title of "Grand Lodge of all England." They
were on amicable terms at this time i but difficulties at
length arose which produced a breach that has never been
healed.
There was also a quarrel, of long standing, between the
York Masons and those of Scotland, arising from their re-
epectiv(' claims to priority of antiquity. Even yet the dif..
ferences between them are not healed in all parts of the
world, as we have recently seen in the difficulties encounter-
ed by our late accomplished minister to Mexico,-Mr. Poin-
sett. Wherever Scots Masonry has been planted, its mem-
bers affect to despise the English, and will not listen to the
prior claims of the latter. But in Scotland, as in England,
the early history of $peculative, is confounded with opera-
tive Masonry. Their earliest date is 710, at which period,
as I have already cited from Dr. Henry, their king sent
over to England for masons to build stone churches. They
claim their actual descent, as corporate or organized bodies
from the lodge ofK.ilwinning. Their trade was organized bf
Digitized by Coogle
112 LETTER I:S.
corporation, in common with other trades in Scotland, for
the purpose of raising funds for the support of their poor,
sometime between the years 1520 and 1560. About the
year 1645, William St. Clair, lord of Roslin, was authori-
sed by the trade, to purchase and obtain from the king, " li-
" berty, freedom and jurisdiction over them, and their sue-
" cessors, in all times coming, as their patron and judge."
The grant was signed by William Shaw, master of the
work ; Thomas Wier, mason, of Edinburgh ; and Thomas
Robertson, warden of the lodge of Dumfermline and St.
Andrews, "witl& our hands laid on tire pen, by tlre notary,
"at our.command, because we cannot write." The masonic
courts continued to be held at Kilwinning under the direc-
tion of the Sinclairs of Roslin, until the year 1736-that is
to say, for the period of 106 years--during which time, as
Lawrie informs us, Masonry flourished, and many charters
and constitutions were granted. At the last mentioned pe-
riod, the earl of St. Clair resigned, and renounced his right
and title, by virtue of the grant of 1630, to the office of
"patron, protector, judge or master, of the Masons in Scot-
" land." A Grand Lodge was then organized, and tllC earl
was iminediately chosen Grand Master. Speculative 1\Ia-
sonry was then engrafted upon the order, and from that
period Freemasonry, as it is now universally understood, is
to be dated in Scotland. Kilwinning. however, continued
to grant charters, and gave the Grand Lodge some trouble,
as the York 1\lasons did in the sister island.
But to return to England. At the moment of turning
my attention to the masonic history of Scotland, I had ar-
rived at a distinguishing landmark in its English history. I
refer to the memorable year of 1717, and the celebrated
meeting at the nppletree tavern, of which so much has been
said by the Anti-masonic writers.
In the rapid glance I have taken of its antecedent his-
tory, I have aimed at touching only a few of its most pro-
Digitized by Coogle
....-
LETTER II. liS
minent fuatures,-purposely omitting all unnecessary de-
tails respecting the names of the kings, and prelates, and
nobles, and eminent artists, who are claimed to have been
its patrons and Grand Masters, as well as of the different
eras during which the society was in prosperous or adverse
circumstances. It is of little importance to the subject of
the present inquiry, whether the society was depressed
during the wars of the roses, or whether, after a long and
lingering existence, it rose with the accession of the House
of Brunswick. Suffice it to say, that, whatever were the
vicissitudes it experienced, or whoever were its officers and
patrons, the Masonry of that period was a very different
nffair from what it is now ; for it was only in this same year
of 1717, that it received its existing " form and pressure."
After its renovation in the reign of Anne, the society had
again declined, until there were but four lodges existing, in
which the ancient symbols and usages were preserved. A
meeting of members was .held at the appletree tavern, in
London, at which it was resolved to change the essential
characteristics of the society, by relinquishing it as a school
of architecture, and moulding it into an association of
brotherly love and truth. The constitutions were remo-
delled in 1721, upon the basis of that of York; and in 1723,
its charitable character was imparted to it by the Duke of
Buccleugh, who first suggested the raising of funds for the
relief of distressed Masons. It is not contended, however.
that at the before mentioned meeting of the four lodges, in
London, in 1717, to resuscitate and reorganize the order, it
at once assumed the form in which it has since been hand-
ed down. Its rites, and its mysteries, its ceremonies, and
its legends, had been gradually accumulating. But the ac-
count which, in his candor, Lawrence Dermott, secretary
of the London Grand Lodge, and author of the original
Ahiman Rezon, gives of the resuscitation. show~ that thf'rf!
Hi
Digitized by c:_oog!~
114 LETTEtl JX.
was a necessity for it, to keep the order from speedy extinc-
tion. He states, that, at the time mentioned, 1717, somG
jolly companions of the fellow craft, met together, and re-
solved to form a lodge for themselves, endeavoring to recol-
lect, by conversation with each other, what had formerly
been dictated to them, and when they could not .recollect,
they substituted something of their own, tor the forgotten
matter. There was not one among them who could remem-
ber or perform the master's part, and they created it anew.
Some of the . brethren objected to the continuance of the
aprons ; but the older members insisted that they should be
retained, since they were abont the only signs of Masonry
then remaining among them. Such, says Dermott, was the
beginning of modern Masonry.
The earliest masonic procession took place in London, at
the installation of the Duke of Richmond as Grand Master,
June 24, 1724. They were now called " Free and Accept·
"ed Masons." \\'hy they were called free, we have seen,
in the freedom, compared with other trades, which the ear-
Her members of the craft enjoyed by virtue of indulgences
from the popes, and privileges granted them by the kings.
They were called accepted Masons, because, though not Ma-
sons in fact, they were, nevertheless, accepted as such.
The boasted mysteries ofthe order, originally meant no more
than the mysteries of any other trade. The " art and mys-
" tery" of every trade, was a customary form of expression,
and is yet preserved in the indentures of apprentices to
every species of handicraft workmanship.
From this period, the institution has spread itself rapidly
over every part of the world where the English have form-
ed intercourse. Into the United States, then the Br:~ish
colonies, it was readily transplanted, as well as into the con-.
tiguous nations of Europe, although the Roman Catholic
_Sec, and. the absolute monarchs of Spain and Russia, have
Digitized by Google
LETTER IX. 115
ever been strongly averse to it, and have made frequent ef-
forts for its extirpation. Travelling lodges· have often
accompanied the British and French armies, and were fre-
quently held in the American army of the revolution. Some
of the chiefs of the North American Indians, were created
Masons by the English ; and the British residents at Cairo,
as I have recently been informed by a valued friend, who
has a personal knowledge of the fact, have imparted their
masonic wisdom to the Sheiks and principal Arabs. Into
India, the order was introduced as early as 1770. In 1779,
Omrah Bahauder, the eldest son of a distinguished nabob,
was made a :Mason in the lodge of Trinchinopoly. The
news having been transmitted to the Grand Lodge in Eng-
land, officially, a letter of congratulation was sent to him,
by a noble hand. It was answered by a letter written by
the young nabob, upon vellum, in the Persi.afl character, and
enveloped in gold cloth. This letter has been framed and
hung up among the decorations of the lodge. But the
more the order has been extended, the less intimate has
become the connexion of the lodges ; secessions . have
taken place; new systems have been established; rivalry
has often occurred ; to the first three degrees of apprentice,
companion, and master, additional ones have been added ;
until, in fact, it would be a difficult matter to give a general
character of Masons, iri various states and countries ;-so
numerous are their lodges; so dissimilar their degrees, and
so various their characters.
There can be no necessity, however, for continuing these·
historical sketches, in ,their particular incidents, through the
last fifty years ; during which period, English Masonry has
in all places where it existed, been much the same. Allow
me, therefore, to draw this branch of my subject to a close.
I have the honor, sir, to remain,
Very respectfully, yours, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
118 LETTER X.
LETTER X.
NEw-YoRK, Jan. 20, 1832.
SIR,
Freemasonry has enough to answer for, without being
in anywise burdened with false accusations, the offspring of
ignorance, or prejudice; or of wilful calumny. I must
therefore crave your indulgence, sir, for a short time, before
closing this first branch of these investigations, while I re-
pel one of the most serious charges that have been prefer-
red against it. I mean that of christian infidelity. This i.IJ
an accusation I have often heard made, as well before, as
since, the fatal occurrence which has caused the particular
excitement against the masonic order. And when combat-
ting the calumny, as I have frequently done, it has often
been gravely asserted, by intelligent men, and even by learn-
ed divines, that all its emblems had been artfully devised,
by wicked men, in forms leaving them susceptible, at one
and the same time, of double significations ; and aJI its lan-
guage, in the same manner, by some hidden cabalistic ar-
rangement, made to bear a double interpretation ;-so that,
while in the apprehension of virtuous men, the apparent ex-
planations and readings, inculcated principles of the strict-
est morality, and the most beautiful precepts of charity, in
their true meaning, they were, in reality, nothing less than
the darkest and most impious lessons of infidelity. But,
notwithstanding the fact, that many disbelievers in the doc-
trines of the christian religion, have unfortunately been
admitted as members ; notwithstanding the laxity of moral11
on the part of others : and notwithstanding, also, the obj~c­
tionable forms of the obligations, the charge is unqualified-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER X. 117
ly, and in all respects, untrue. Indeed, so utterly unfounded
is the accusation, and so directly to the contrary is the fact,
with respect to every degree with which I am acquainted,
that I cannot but flatter myself its falsity has been rendered
evident in the course of the preceding expositions,-none of
which, by the way, have hitherto been written with imme-
diate reference to this point of the discussion. The idea of
the double readings, and the double and directly opposite
interpretations ofthe efnblems and symbols used in the work-
ing of the lodges, is too preposterous to require a grave
refutation. And if I had not actually heard the objection
seriously made, and its truth as seriously contended for, by
reverend divines of no ordinary reputation, I should have
slipp<>sed it must require an uncommon degree of credulity
in any one, to believe even in the existence of such an opin-
ion. The thing is in itself impossible.
Nor do I apprehend it will appear very probable, in the
eyes of most men, that in the very first step ofan infidel in·
stitution, the initiate would be presented with the bible, as
translated "by order of the most high and mighty prince
"James," with a pledge that he receives it as the "rule and
"guide of his faith and practice." The bible is accompanied
by the square and compasses, and the charge is in the fol-
lowing words:-" The Holy Writings, that great light in
"Masonry, will guide you to all truth; it will direct your
" path to the temple of happiness, and point out to you the
~• whole duty of man. The square teaches us to regulate
" our actions by rule and line, and to harmonize our conduct
" by the principles of morality and virtue. The comptUses
"teach us, properly, to circwnscribe our views and desires
"in every station ; that rising thus to eminence by merit,
·"we may live respected, and die regretted." Really, sir, it
strikes me, that it would be a most extraordinary procedure,
for a club of infidels, to attempt building up and sustaining
a perpetual association of infidel men, upon such a founda-
Digitized by Coogle
118. LETTER X.
tion. The BIBLB !-the book or books,-the lively oracles
of the M9st High,-the revelation of his will to man,-the .
humble christian's richest treasure,-containing, as it does,
those divine rules of conduct, and those precious promises,
on which alone he builds his hopes of a blessed immortality,
in a world oflight,and life, andglory:-The BmLB!-the ob-
ject of the infidel's scorn and dread,-containing as it does,
the awful threatenings of God's vengeance upon the evil-
doers :-surely it will not be contended that sucu A BOOK
has been selected as the basis of a society of unbelievers !
Had it, on the contrary, been " The Age of Rea$on," which
the speculative Mason received as the ground-work of his
religion, and the basis of his morals; and had the blasphe-
mies of Voltaire and Lalande been prescribed as their text-
books, instead of the moral lessons and allegories of which
I have spoken in the preceding letters, the case would have
been far different-but scarcely worse than it has been re-
presented.
Again: not only has the institution been charged with
infidelity in general,-that is, with a universal disbelief in
things holy and sacred,-but the specific charge of Deism,
and a. disbelief in the divine mission of the Satiour of Men,
has been predicated of the order, by those, who; probably,
would not be quite so uncharitable as to accuse it of down-
right Atheism. But, here again, I stand ready to meet our
accusers at the threshhold, and plead the general issue. I
have already, in the exposition of the Templar's degree,
shown that in the orders of knighthood, a belief in the Sa-
viour, is an essential pre-requisite ; and, consequen.tly, that
neither Jew, Turk, nor infidel, can become participators in
those degrees.
It is true, however, that from the circumstance that what
~s called ancient Masonry, is derived from traditions and
historical incidents, supposed to be connected with the old
testament dispensation, the belief in the identity of God the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER X. 119
Father and the Son, is not specifically required ; yet the
symbols and emblems of every degree, from the first to the
seventh inclusive, point to, and distinctly indicate, a belief
in the doctrine of the Trinity. Among these emblems, in
the very first degree, is the blazing STAR, in commemoration
of the sTAR IN Tn.t; EAST, which appeared to guide the wise
men to the place of the nativity of the Messiah. In former
times, lodges and chapters were dedicated to king Solomon;
but latterly, they have been dedicated, either to John the
Baptist, or the Evangelist," because they were chri1tia1ts."•
And although in the general lectures upon the lower orders,
it has been usual to charge the initiates, as they proceeded
from step to step, to adhere to those essentials of religion
in which all men agree-leaving each individual to exercise
his own private judgment as to creeds and forms,-yet it
is expressly enjoined in the lecture on the "temper and
"qualities requisite in those who would be Freemasons,"
that they " cannot tread in the irreligious paths of the un-
,, happy LIBBRTINE, the ·DEIST, Or the stupid ATHEIST." Nor
is this all : in the first prayer of the first degree, the aid of
the Almighty is invoked, that the candidate " may devote
"his life to His service," that he may be the better "ena-
" bled to display the beauties of v.irtuousness to the honor of
.. THY holy name." Another prayer for tho same degree,
has the following passages:.:.-" Most holy and glorious God I
" the great architect of the universe ; the gh·er of all good
"gifts and graces ; thou hast promised that ' where two or
" 'three are gathered together in thy name, thou wilt be in
" ' the midst of them and bless them.' " And " we beseech
''thee, 0 Lord God, to illumine our minds through the in-
" fluence of the SUN OF RIGHTEOUSNESS, that We may walk
" in the light of thy countenance," &c. One of the prayers
for the opening of the Royal Arch d('grce, concludes in
~ Yide Abiman R•:zun, Nrw-York erl., 18M.
Digitized by Coogle
120 LE'l''l'ER X.
these words:-" This we most humbly bcg1 Il'f TRB ~AM•
" AND FOR TilE SAKE OF JESUS CHRIST OUR LoRD AND SA•
" nouH." In another place, the Saviour is recognized in
the significant title applied to him by the prophet Daniel~
.. THE ANCIENT oF DAvs."• In short, sir, I might multiply
proofs and authorities, of the same description, to an inde·
finite extent. But I imagine that enough has been said upon
this point. If the facts here stated, do not amply vindicate
the order from the accusations to which I have adverted, I
must confess my lack of knowledge as to what would be
considered competent testimony, and my want of ability to
· execute the task. But in any event, however much the in-
stitution may have been corrupted by bad, or misunder-
stood or misused by ignorant men, I trust I have succeeded
in showing, that good and pious .men may very weiJ have
joined the order, and retained their standing as members,
during their whole lives, without compromising their reli-
gious faith and principles, "though founded upon the pro-
•• phets and apostles, JEsus CHRIST himself being the chief
".Corner stone." I know that many such have been its mem-
bers, and that many such even yet continue attached to the
order, though I hope they will shortly be persunded tore-
linquish it. They have been instructed " to practice out of
•• the lodge, those duties which they have been taught within
"it ;" they have labored by their amiable, discreet, and vir-
tuous conduct, to convince others of the goodness of the
institution-believing it to be one in which the burthened
heart might pour out its sorrows to their brethren ; to
which distress might prefer its suit; whose hands were
• And yet the Rev. Joel Parker, late of Rocheeter, and now of the city of
='<P-w-York, bas certified in a letter, and statl'd from the pulpit, in a sermon
which bu been printed, that "the religious worship of masonry is purely
"theistical." "Freemasonry," be says, "makes many prayers, but they are
"prayers offt~red up without the acknowledgment ofa Suaour." The rev-
"'rend gentleman could nP.ver have attended properly instructed ma~nic b~
dies, or his memory has bPen treacheNUB ; or, he could neYer havl' mvt>FU.
pted the snbjcct.
Digitized by Coogle .JI
t -
L:ETT:EB. X.. 121
guided by justice, and the hearts of whose members were
expanding with benevolence. These, having received the
holy scriptures as "the rule and guide of their faith and
"practice," have endeavored to acquit themselves with re·
putation and honor, and sought to lay up for themselves a
crown of rejoicing which would endure when time shall be
no more.• To these individuals, of pure and honest mo-
tives,-of worthy and honorable conduct,-whose charity
''white as the angel's wing," thinketh no evil,-it may seem
marvellous that I add my conviction, that, notwithstanding
all which can be said in favor of the order, by the most un-
prejudiced and impartial men ;-that, although I do not
believe the principles of the institution to be of themselves
immoral or irreligious ;-that, although I do not believe it
was ever contemplated that the laws and obligations of Ma·
sonry should come into collision with the laws of the land;-
that, although !'do not believe the great body of the Free-
masons of our country, had any previous knowledge of, or
participation in, the great.masonic crime of the west ;-and
tha , although I do not believe that the Morgan conspirators
have any of them been tried or punished for deeds which
they were compelled by the terms or tenor of the laws of
Masonry to commit ;-yet, I say, notwithstanding all these
considerations, and maugre all that can be said in its favor,
I am fully persuaded, after much examination nnd reflec-
tion, that, upon its own merits, and independently altogether
of the events that have transpired since the summer of 1826,
THE ORDER OF SPECULATIVE FRBB:'IIASONRY OUGHT FOREVER
'I'O BE RELINQL"ISHED. To this conclusion I have arrived
from the following considerations, among a variety of oth-
ers that might be enumerated, viz :-
1. The main superstructure, in its history and traditions,
and its pretensions, (in its present organization,) to antiquity,
• Vide charge to the mal'tcr, at the in~t111lation of a lodp.
16
~;9~zedbyGoogle
lH LETTER X.
ie founded, to a very considerable degree, in fraud and im-
posture:-
II. Its rites and ceremonies are puerile and frivolous,-
altogether beneath the dignity, and unworthy of the atten-
tion, of enlightened and educated men : it is vastly behind
the age:-
III. From its inutility: At the present period, when know-
ledge and civilization have taught the nerves to vibrate to
the touch of sympathy, and when the diffusion of christiani-
ty has so widely cultivated the graces of philanthropy and
benevolence, men do not require an accumulation of barba-
rously-constructed oaths, to compel them to practise the
social duties, and the moral and charitable virtues :-
IV. From its inutility in another respect : In an age and
country like this, where the freedom of speech is uncheck-
ed ; where opinion is as free as the air we breathe, and
where all are dwelling in the broad blaze of religious light.
symbolic representations, and allegorical emblems, can be
of little use in imparting ethical instruction, or the science
of theology, to adults, of either sex:-
V. Its legality may wel.J be questioned: All extra-judicial
oaths arc uncalled for, and improper, if not contrary to the
spirit of the civil laws. The divine command is-" SWEAR
l'JOT AT ALL":-
VI. Attendance upon its calls and its duties, occasions a
great waste of time. No instruction is given in the lodge-
room, now-a-days, whatever may have been the fact in times
past, either in literatw·e ; or in the arts ; or in the exact sci-
ences. The frequent meetings of lodges, which arc general-
ly connected with public houses, is very liable, moreover,
to beget idleness and dissipation, especially among the
weaker brethren :-
VII. There is a growing jealousy among the people, of
Becrct societies, their character and influence ; and then"
Digitized by Coogle .:.
•
LETTER XI. 1!8
have been more reasons than one, to warrant that jea-
lousy:-
VIII. If the institution has been abused,-if evils have
resulted from it,-the same abuses, and the like evils, may
proceed from it again.
These reasons, to my mind, are abundantly sufficient to
sustain my proposition : but, if there be any who think
otherwise, there are other reasons at hand, of infinitely
higher moment, not only rendering such a measure proper
in itself, but DEMANDING the DISSOLUTION ofthe INSTITUTION
in a voice POTENT AS THUNDER. This fact, as I trust, will
be made most satisfactorily to appear, in the history that ill
to follow.
With respectful consideration, I am, &c.
LETTER XI.
NEw-YoRK, Jan. 25, 1832.
SIR,
In the pleasant and flourishing village of Batavia, the
shire town of Genesee county, in this state, resided, in the
years 1825-'26, a man by the name of WILLIAM MOR-
-GAN. Perhaps it would be more proper to speak of
him as "a sojourner" in Batavia, "and the region round
"about," rather than as a permanent resident. As this Wil-
liam Morgan was the \'ictim of the dark tragedy which is
to form the subject of the following narrative, and is cer-
tainly destined to live in history, for a length of time little
anticipated by those who most foully made way with him,
some preliminary account of his life and character may nat-
urally be expected. I have exerted myself not a little to
procure information upon both points. Of the fonner, how-
cver,little can be ascertained. Respecting the latter, more
Digitized by Coogle
124 LETTER XI.
can be said than will do good to his memory. · But I shaU
"drag his frailties from their dread abode," no farther than is
necessary to the just and impartial accomplishment of the
present history.
Morgan's last place of residence, previously to his ap-
pearance in Genesee county-for it was in Le Roy, a vil-
lage some twelve or fifteen miles distant from Batavia, that
he first made a halt-was Rochester. He was a native of
Culpepper county, Va., where he was born in 1775 or 1776.
Of his life, down to the time of his appearance in Roches-
ter, as I have already intimated, but little is known. Ma-
ny stories have been put into circulation respecting him, as
well by those who have thought it expedient to apotl1eosize
him for the advancement of their political purposes, as by
those other individuals, who may have supposed that his
blood would leave a lighter stain in their skirts, if they
could induce the public to believe him to have been unwor-
thy of the life that was taken away by treachery and vio-
lence. Thus, on the one hand, he has been extolled as a
man of virtuous habits and principles, who had borne a
captain's commission in the army, of which he had proved
himself worthy, in sundry engagements in the southern
campaigns of the late war with Great Britain, particularly
in the signal achie,·ement with which that contest was clo-
sed, at New-Orleans. On tl1e other, it has been represcn~- ,
ed that he was a pirate in the gulf of Mexico, during the
greater part of the war ;-that he was one of the celebrated •
gang of Lafitte, infesting the Delta of the .Mississippi, whose
principal rendezvous was upon the island of Barataria;-
and, being a favorite of that daring freebooter, was some-
times entrusted with the command of separate vessels in
their desperate service. These pirates, ygu will recollect,
were pardoned by president Madison, on the eve of the bat-
tle of New-Orleans, in which brilliant affair they were rc-
:rorted to have donP. excellent scn·ice. From thence. as_the
Digitized by Coogle
,LETTER XI. 1~5
same class of reports inform us, Morgan returned to Vir-
ginia, where he led a dissolute life until the year 1819; /
when, it is added, that, with the assistance of a gang of
reckless associates, he took the young girl of sixteen, who
subsequently became his wife-Miss Lucinda Pendleton-
by force from beneath her father's roof. To none of these
relations do I attach the least credit or importance. The
narrative of his military career, is understood to be one of
those idle,tales which designing men have found it conveni-
ent to usher forth to the public, in aid of their own sinister
designs. The statement of his having been attached to the
pirate-gang of Lafitte, in the absence of the least evidence
of the fact, may be set down as a calumny, added to the
guilt of murder ;-while the story of the abduction of his
wife is of the same infamous character. Other reports,
cruel as the grave, touching the honor of the lady, were put
into circulation by men who had deprived her of a husband;
but those generous friends who espoused her cause, and
sought so diligently to vindicate the majesty of the laws,
took prompt means to wipe from her character the foul im-
putation ; and the legal evidence of her marriage, under a
license from the court of 'Vashington county, (Va.) was ob-
tained, and published in the spring of 1827. The simple
fact is, that Morgan, by his own confession, was a private
soldier in the army, and nothing more. In giving an ac-
count of his military career, he stated that he was in " most
"of the battles south of the Potomac." He did not particu-
larise, nor did he ever mention, as I am most credibly in-
formed, the battle before New-Orleans, as one of the scene.
of his own exploits. These facts are derived from an im-
partial source-from a gentleman in whose employ Mor-
gan was once.engaged. They were obtained from his own
lips, and arc therefore to be received as true, so far as the
principal is to be crC'ditcd as a witne!'s in his own behalf..
Digitized by Coogle
126 LETTER XI.
Morgan was an operative mason by trade. Those who
have published favorable biographical sketches of his life,
assert, that, by an industrious application to his business,
in Virginia, he had accumulated a respectable property in
1819. It was in the autumn of that year, that he marri-
ed Miss Lucinda Pendleton, whose father, I am told, is, or
was, a respectable preacher, of the methodist episcopal
thurch. Two years from the period of his marriage, he re-
moved from Virginia, to York, in the province of Upper
Canada, where he was connected with a brewery. This
establishment being S!lbsequently destroyed by fire, he re-
moved back again to the United States, and located himself
for a time at Rochester, where he labored at his former oc-
cupation, in the capacity of a journeyman. From Roches-
ter he removed to the county of Genesee.
In person Morgan was of middle stature, say five feet six
inches in height. His general appearance, for a man oflow
circumstances in life, was rather prepossessing ;-a com-
pact and well turned person, with a high forehead, bald, and a
quick, intelligent, but sly and sinister-glancing eye. His
education had been nothing more than that received in a
common English school ; but he had added to his original
stock of learning by considerable reading ; and being a man
of quick intelligence, and rather acute observation, be was
enabled to pass as a sort of oracle amongst the lower class-
es of loungers in the precincts of village inns. Indeed,
whatever may have been his course of life previously to his
residence in Canada, his indolence, and his habits, after his
return, were such as very naturally to throw him into the
associations of such a circle. Although not exactly a com-
mon drunkard, to be which, according to certain legal de-
cisions in tllis state, it is required that a man must be in a state
of intoxication more than one half of the time, still he was
.,ontinually mingling "hot rebellious liquors with his blood r
Digitize~ b!Coogle
..,.,-===-==-~
LETTER XI. 127
-his nights, and sometimes his days also, were spent at tip·
pling-houses; whilo, occasionally, to the still greater neg-
lect of his family, he joined in the drunken carousals of the
vilest and most worthless of men. His disposition was en·
vious, malicious, and vindictive; as I am assured by a very
estimable and pious man of Genesee county, in whose vera·
city I have the fullest confidence, and in whose employ
Morgan was at one period engaged.
Such, I have reason to believe, is a fair description of the
character of William Morgan. He was, withal, what is
termed, among the craft," a bright Mason,"--Or rather, he
professed to be such; for, as it will presently be seen, it has
been questioned whether he was a .legitimate member of
the brotherhood. Be that as it may, however, he was a
very excellent proficient in aU the wisdom of the three
primitive degrees of ancient Freemasonry. Too indolent
to dig, he nevertheless was not ashamed to beg-at least
from his masonic brethren,-and what his scanty earnings
lacked in affording him an indifferent and precarious sup-
port, was made up by masonic charities,-in devising means
to procure which, he was remarkably ingenious. It is one
of the faults of the institution, that it not unfrequently pro-
duces just such oracles of its wisdom-eunning and artful
men, having an air of .the shabby-genteel ;-with col-
loquial powers rather above the ordinary range of uneduca-
ted persons ;-while, at the same time, it furnishes enough
of weaker brethren, to form a listening circle, sufficient in
numbers to add to the imaginary importance of the oracle,
and happy in the privilege of contributing to the temporal
wants of such travelling luminaries.
The original difficulties between Morgan and his mason-
ic brethren of Genesee, sprung, as it is believed, from a
combination of untoward circumstances. While residing
lt .\.e Roy, transiently, or otherwise, he became intimately
associated witlt Maj. James Ganson, a man of respectable
Digitized by Coogle
128 LETTER Xl.
standinci, who had formerly been a member of our state le-
gislature, and also ·sherifl" of Genesee county. It wns
at Le Roy that Morgan was exalted to the degree of a Roy-
al Arch :i\Iason, on the avouchment of Ganson, as to his
knowledge and skill in the preceding degrees. But it is
affirmed, that the brethren at the west could never ascertain
in what lodge, or whether in any, .1\lorgan had commenced
his masonic career ; and some doubts arose whether he had
not, after all his boasted knowledge of the mysteries of the
order, ,succeeded in palming himself upon them as a true
mason, while in fact he was an impostor. At about the
same time, the masonic edifice, at Le Roy, for the accom-
modation of the Knights_Templars, was projected. Upoo
this building Morgan l~d a contract to labor, but, by somo
means, be was disappointed, and mutual heart-burnings
upon this subject, followed between hin1sclf and Ganson.
Such was the posture of affairs at Le Roy, whence the
scene now shifts to Batavia, which had become Morgan'~
more permanent place ofresidence. Here, another occur-
rence transpired, which at once placed " a great gulf be-
" tween" him and his brother l\fasons, and aroused his angry
feelings to the highest pitch ofresentment. It was early in .
the year 1826, that the few Royal Arch Masons of Bata-
via, determined to apply to the Grand Chapter of the state.
for a charter to constitute a chapter in that nllage. By
some means or other, contrary to the desire of the more
respectable portion of the applicants, the petition was pre·
sented to Morgan, who, as might have been expected, Yery
readily added his signature to the names already upon it.
In masonic usage, it is a matter of course that all the sign-
ers of an application for a lodge or chapter, become regu-
lar members, when such lodge or chapter is instituted. "So
.. it is written in the bond." But Morgan's character had
now become so well understood, and his habits so bad, that
his association was not desired among the original prom~
Digitized by Coogle
- - - ;;;:; -
~-
LETTER XI. 1!9
ters of the object. They consequently destroyed the first
petition, and set another on foot secretly, by which the char·
ter was obtained ; and in which, on its arrival, Morgan
was surprised and mortified to find that his own name was
not inserted. He could now become an associate only by
the unanimous consent of the more fortunate members ; and
as that consent could not be obtained, he was of courtl6
excluded. Stung with rage at this treatment from his
"companions," it is presumed that he was not long in form-
ing resolutions of revenge.
• There was another person who was an important actor
in the earlier stages of the Morgan business, whom it now
becomes necessary to introduce upon the stage. I allude to
Col. David C. Miller, then, as now, the editor of a village
paper published in Batavia. 1\filler was a man of respecta·
ble talents, but of irreligious character, great laxity of moral
principle, and ofintemperate habits ; which latter, however,
I have since heard, with great satisfaction, have been re-
formed. His conduct had alienated his best ann most sub-
stantial political friends, and a rival newspaper had just
been established by his old political associates, at about the
time of Morgan's removal to that place. These circum-
stances had occasioned Miller great pecuniary and political
.depression ; and there was little of moral principle to deter
him from embarking in any enterprise affording a promise
of retrieving his declining fortunes. Miller had many years
before taken the entered apprentice's degree, in Albany-
and thi~ was all he knew of Masonry. But a similarity of
tastes and habits had brought him and Morgan into the re-
lations of intimate association, and it was but natural that
they should discourse to each other of their private griefs.
Morgan had commenced writing something upon the sub-
ject of Freemasonry, for what purpose it is not known, as
early as the winter or spring of 1825. He was at a mason-
ic hotel in this city, for a short time, iD thct ~ourse •f:that
17
o;g;u;ed by Coogle
L.ETT.ER XI.
year, ud waa often closeted with a man of considerable
talents, and some scholarship, who had been expelled from
the fraternity the preceding year, for a breach of his ma-
lOnic faith, in writing and exhibiting certain masonic mat-
ten that were then aupposed to be unwritten. Parts of biB
manuscripts had been shown by Morgan to his friends. be-
fore the occurrence of the difficulties I have specified, and
before, u it was supposed, he had any idea of making the
pubU~tion ; although I strongly suspect that he purposed,
eventually, to betray the masonic secrets from the outset.
Such is \be natural inference,from the character ofhis prin-.
cipal associate, during his visit to this city ; and while here,
.he was urgent in his inquiries of a masonic acquaintance of
tiline, as to the place ofresidence of a masonic brother some-
where in New-Jersey, where, or of whom, as he said, be
)Joped to obtain a more perfect knowledge of the higher de-
erees. Be that, however, as it may, after his rejection from
the new Bat4via chapter, in the manner above related, be
was s~denly transfonned from an ardent and zealous friend
9f the masonic institution, into its public, determined, and
illveterate foe; and, having become possessed of the fact of
the existence of his manuscripts, Miller at once conceived
the idea of turning them to their mutual pecuniary advan-
tage. This was hls firat and only object, naturally suggest-
ed by his increasing wants, and by a stock of principle only
proportioned to his interest. Morgan's imaginary wrong~.
granting even that be had not before contemplated making
the disclosure&, made him a willing listener to propositions
artfully made. Thus the bargain \Vas struck ; partners
:were enlisted who were to furnish the means of publishing
the book, and to share the profits ; which, by Miller's owa
IUbsequent confession, it was supposed wo\Jid be very great.
I am. sir, with high respect, &c•
..
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XU.
}.ETTER Xll.
NEw-Yoatc, Jan. 30, 1832:
SIR,
The design of Morgan to publish a full disclosure of
the secret rites and ceremonies of Freemasonry, and his
partnership, for that purpose, with Miller and others, were
soon known to the public. In fact the intended publication
was announced openly. and without disguise, early in the
summer of 1826. Little attention, however, was paid to
the subject for some weeks. The more respectable and in-
teUigent portion of the fraternity gave no heed to it ;-others
supposed the project was merely to supply travelling chap-
men with an additional stock of marvels ;-whilst others,
yet, believed that should any publication be made, it would
fall still-hom from the press, attracting no more attentiont
and commanding no more confidence, than did the neglect-
ed book known by the title of "Jachin and Boaz." By de-
grees, however, some little agitation began to disclose itself
by whispers, and low munnurs, and occasional movements
among "the lesser lights" of Masonry. But these move-
ments, however slight at first, like the gentle currents of ait
that, before a tempest, at first scarcely rustle among the
leaves of the forest, which is doomed speedily to bend and
break beforeits violence1werethe precursors ofa stonn,that
has swept with wild and desolating power over a wide por-
tioJt of our country, and which it may yet require years to
allay. Day after day the uneasiness among the brotherhood
was observed to increase ; and the circle of those persona
manifesting their ill-concealed restlessness and apprehen-
Digitized by Coogle
lSI LETTER 3:11.
sion, was eontinuaJly extending its circumference. These
symptoms were exactly what the projectors of the work
most desired. Should the book be ushered forth unoppo-
sed, and unnoticed, no faith would be placed in its contents,
and few sales would reward the publishers. But the mo-
ment it should become evident to the community, that the
Masons themselves were seriously opposed to the book,
they could but perceive thnt the curiosity of the public
would be irresistable, and the demand for the work unlimi-
ted. Threats at length began to be heard in whispers, that
the Masons were determined, by some means, to suppress
the book ; and discussions concerning the matter were
most injudiciously admitted into the newspapers;-thereby
contributing to quicken the kindling flame, and causing ma-
ny more of Miller's subscribers to withdraw from the sup.
port of his paper.
It was at about this stage ofthe difficulty, that, as it is be~
lieved a negotiation, was entered into between the Masons
and Morgan. 'fhey had some conferences, and strongly
expostulated with him against the course he was pursuing.
Morgan appeared to relent in his purposes, but complained
of being so connected with Miller, that he found it difficult
to extricate himself. The result of these negotiations.
was. that Morgan apparently repented of his design, and
agreed to suppress the proposed publication ; and he even
went so far as to deliver up his manuscripts, protesting that
those which he surrendered, embraced the whole. In a.
short time afterwards, however, it was ascertained t11at
Morgan had been doubly treacherous ; and that, while he
pretended honestly to relinquish his purpose, and give up
his papers, he had deceived them with imperfect draughts,
and fragments of copies, while the copy prepared for pub-
lication, was, at the very time, in t11e possession of Miller,
who was then proceeding with the work.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XII. ISS
Connected with the last-mentioned feature of the transac-
tions under review, were certain advertisements respecting
Morgan, which appeared in sundry newspapers, and of
which great use has been made by the anti-masonic party.
Morgan, as I have intimated in the preceding letter, was ia
the habit of visiting his masonic brethren, in the principal vii- ·
Iages of that section of country, and living much of the time
upon their friendly bounty. He had been to Canandaigue,
a few months before the period of which I am now writing;
and among the first consequences of the deception he had
practised, in pretending to surrender his manuscripts, was
an advertisement in one of the Canandaigua papers, in the
words following :-" Notice and caution. If a man calling
"himself William Morgan should intrude himself on the
"community, they should be on their guard, particularly
"the masonic fraternity. Morgan was in this village in
" May last, and his conduct, while here, and elsewhere, calls
" forth this notice. Any information, in relation to Morgan,
" can be obtained by calling at the masonic hall in this vil-
"lage. Brethren and companions are particularly request-
" ed to observe, mark, and govern themselves accordingly.
" Morgan is considered a swindler, and a dangerous man.
" There are people in this village who would be glad to see
"this CapL Morgan. Canandaigua, Aug, 9, 1826." This
notice was copied into the Batavia papers with great alacri-
ty ; and, in a very short time afterwards, a paragraph, of
similar import, was inserted in the paper published at Black
Rock, with an additional statement, that the fraternity had
"amply provided" themsf!lves against Morgan~s impostures,
and his swindling propensities. Great pains have been
taken to create an impression, that both publications were
written in view of the arrangements then making for the
tragic event which followed. But such, I am free to assert,
and I do it with all confidence, was not the fact. And al-
though it is an interruption to the regular proiJCSS of ~e
Digitized by Coogle
184 LETTE. XII.
transactions which DOW begin to accumulate on my hands,
stil~ justice requires that these publications should be pla-
ced in their proper light ; and this feature of the subject
may as well be disposed ofhere, as elsewhere. The charge
of Morgan's being an impostor, was founded upon the sus-
picion of Maj. GaRSOn, and others, that he was not a true
Mason in the first three degrees, and had therefore obtained
his exaltation to the higher orders, by fraudulent represen-
tations. That of being a swindler, rested upon the fact
which \vill more prominently appear presently, viz: the
borrowing, by Morgan, of some wearing apparel at Canan-
daigua, which he did not return. The m&BOnic caution
near the olose of the advertisement, has DO peculiar or dan-
gerous signification, as has been alledged ; and the whole
paragraph, is, in truth, and in fact, nothing more than a re-
gular masonic advertisement, such as -have been common,
time immemorial, to put the brethren on their guard against
unworthy and expelled members. StiU more, however, has
been made of the Black Rock publication, particularly in·
consequence of the words "amply provided." From this
phrase it has been industriously argued, that provision for
the murder of Morgan had even thus early .been made ;
whereas, at this period, there is no reason whatever to sup-
pose, that any measure which should result in Morgan's
personal harm, had been even remotely contemplated. But
so much use has been made of the paragraph referred to,
that I have taken especial pains to investigate the whole-
matter. The result is, to me, perfectly satisfactory. I
know the author of that publication well ; and equally well
do I know him to be utterly incapable of countenancing an
•mlawful transaction involving moral guilt. The facts are
simply these :-The author of the paragraph in question,
took up his residence at Buffalo, in 1822. He was in the
habit of scribbling articles for the Buffalo and Black -Rock
papers; but, although a Mason, neither had he before. the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEll XII. ,
Morgan outrage, nor has he since been in the habit ofvisiting
the lodges there. This gentleman had seen the Canandaigua
advertisement, but knew nothing further of Morgan, than
that he was repre~nted ~sa man who was travelling about
the country, and sponging a living from members of the
fraternity. An erroneous article had been published in the
Black Rock Gazette, and tltc paragraph under considera·
tion was written to correct iL He took the paragraph to
the office in his own hand; the chirography was not dis·
guised; the authorship was never questioned, or denied;
nor was the paragraph itselfarraigned as breathing a threat
of murder, until the gentleman, many months afterward1,
became a partner in another paper, which was in oppoti•
tion to the anti-masonic party. It was then, only, that he
was assailed, as having spoken daggers, alth~ug~ it had
been merely his intention to say, that, J>y unmasking an on.
worthy pretender, the fraternity had " amply provided"
against his future extortions from those whose bounty he
had claimed as a brother. The author knew nothing of the
outrages against Morgan's person, until after they had
been perpetrated ; and granting even that the intention•
of the MaS()ns of Batavia, whatever they at first might
have been, were known in the lodge of Buffalo, this gentle-
man, from his entire neglect of masonic affairs, would hard·
ly have been consulted, or in any manner advised in the
premises. The editor of the paper in which the note was
published, moreover, was not a Mason ; and it is absurd to
suppose that a writer who was plotting murder, woi.lld
have selected such a channel to throw out his signals.
The mutterings of the storm began shortly to be heard at
a lesser and still a lesser distance. The Masons were 00.
served to assembl3 in clusters, as though in anxious consul·
tation. Miller was vexatiously prosecuted for sundry small
debts, and the collection forced with unusual harshness.
Threats were darkly hinted! that the. intended publication
._o;9;tizect by Googl':_
186 LET'l'ER Xll.
should at all events be suppressed ; and Miller, becoming
actually alarmed for his own personal safety, or affecting
to be so, took measures for defending himself in the event
of an assault. Morgan himself was likewise hnrrassed by
the law ; and it appears that there were actual demands
against him, justifying recourse to this last expedient for the
collection of debts. He had recently been prosecuted in
the Supreme Court, for a heavy debt owing in Rochester..
and execution being issued, was bailed upon the goal limits
by Nahum Loring and Orange Allen. In the midst of the .
excitement moreover which was now growing up in the vii~
lage, (i.e. on the 25th of July, 1826,) he was committed to
the custody of the sheriff of Genesee, at the suit of Nathan
Follett, and was again bailed upon the limits. These latter
t:ircumstances, sir, will probably strike you as being alto.-
gether unimportant in a narrative like the present. In them-
selves they are so ; but they will nevertheless be found to
have important bearings in the sequel. A variety of schemes
were now on foot to arrest the progress of the dreaded
work, and among these, in order in some way to extort the
surrender of his manuscripts, was the device of entangling
the author in the meshes of the law, as the spider involves
the struggling fly in the perplexities of his web. Another
plan was, to circumvent both author and publisher, by pro-
curing an artful accomplice to insinuate himself into their
confidence, so far as to become a partner ; by which means,
it was presumed, he would be able, at some stage of the
work, etfectu~lly to destroy it. Such an instrument was
found in the person of a rpan calling himself Daniel Johns,
for whom they sent a long distance into Canada, at the ex-
pense, as it subsequently appeared, of the encampment at
Rochester. On his arrival in Batavia, Johr.s put up at a hotel.
Being a man of plausible address, and great cunning, he suc-
eeeded in ingratiating himself into Miller'a confidence, and
having plenty of mQoey to advance in the enterpriSEl, 1M-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER Xll.
'
187
'1Vas received as a partner, and into full confidence. Gan-
·son seems to have been the employer and instigator of
Johns. But his success in destroying the papers, does not
appear to have been complete; although during their ope-
rations, Ganson boasted that he had spirited away a part of
the copy, and left the work in such a condition that Miller
could not proceed with it.
Morgan, with his family, was boarding at this time, in the
eompact part of the village ofBatavia; but for the double
purpose of security and retirement, while engaged in com-
posing his book, he occupied an upper room by himself, in the
house of a Mr. David, in a distant and less public part of
the town. On the 18th of August, while engaged in his
place of retirement, three persons, named Johnson Good-
will, Kelsey Stone, and John Wilson, residents of the vil-
fage, but holding no official situations, in company with the
constable of the town of Pembroke, fourteen miles distant,
named Daniel H. Dana, came to the house of David, for
whom they at first inquired ; but no sooner had they enter-
ed upon the premises, than they rushed up into Morgan's
apartment, where he was then engaged in writing, and
seized upon his person by virtue of an execution, together
with all the papel's there to he found. Morgan was instant-
ly hurried ofl to ptison, without being allowed a moment's
time to procure hail for the liberties ;-the sheriff, who had
been observed hovering near at the time of the arrest, join-
ing the party, and walking with them to the prison. This
was of n Saturday afternoon ; and as a matter of course,
unless Morgan should procure hail before the commence-
ment of Sunday, he would he compelled to remain in close
eonfinement, until Monday. No sooner, however, had the
prisoner's friends heard of his arrest, than they came for-
ward to procure his enlargement by bailing him out. But
from the moment the key was turned, until after 12 o'clock
at night, when it had become too late to transact secul~r
IR
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XU.
f>usines«, neither the sheriff nor the jailor eould be folllMi,
although every pgssible exertion was made for that purpose.
}n the absence of ootb these officers, there Was of COurse DQ
one present whocould lel the offending debtor to bail. Ear·
ly in the eYening of the 11nme day, Goodwill, and the con·
stable ,Dana, together with l\lr. Thomas M'Cully, the credi·
tor at whose suit .Morgan was now in prison, proceeded tQ
the boarding house of the latter, and entered dae apartment
of Mrs. Morgan, which was in the second story, and de-
manded ifthere were any property to satisfy the execution.
Mrs. M. protested that they had nothing. The creditor
then went below; but the officer, with C'..ood.will, pretending
not to be satisfied, commenced a general search, tumbling
over trunks and bo:'ltes, and examining whatever papers ami
letters came in their way. Finding one small trunk con-
taining a few papers, they seized upon and carried it off~
assuring Mrs. M. that should they find any papers therein
of consequence to her husband, they would be returned.
While, however, these people were thus employed above
stairs, a confesS:on escaped the lips of the creditor below,
which at once establishes the foul nature of this whole trans-
action,-proving it, beyond question, to have been the com·
mencement of that series of abuses of the civil law, which
have since so repeatedly occurred, in conne:~.ion, more or
less direct, with this subject. M'Cully then and there ad-
mitted, to a young woman in the house, that, although he
should like well enough to find property sufficient to satisfy
his debt; yet, " he cared not so much about that, as he diJ
" to get sonre papers belonging to Morgan." On finding
one of the trunks locked, and being told the name of the
owner, he said " be did not wish that to be enmined, as the
"owner was a Roy:rl Arch Mason."
It is scarcely necessary to comment on the total illegu.lity
of this latter transaction. Having the body of the debtor in
tustody on final process, the debt was satisfied in the eye of
o;9,tized by Coogle
J.~TTER DL tat
ihe 1aw; and the whole proceeding, as related to the seizure
of the property, was a flagrant trespass, for which all the
parties concerned were liable to prosecution, and the con-.
~~table to punishment. But it most be admitted here. that
it was all worse than a trespass from the beginning.
Msrgan remained in prison, of necessity, until Monday.
when he was admitted to bail. . During Sunday, he waa
Yisited by many 9f the Masons who were iateresting them-
selves to iaduce him to relinquish the publication of their
mysteries. But RO particulars of their confcrenees, so far
as 1 am iBformed, have transpired. There can be little
doubt, however,that the sole and entire object of tltis whole
proceeding, was (Q coerce their prisoner into a BUNender
of his all-importaat manuscripts. It was for this purpose.
and none other, that the execution .flad been issued ; .that it
had been thus intleeeatly serveli ; tllat the sherUf, and his
jailor, and the deputy, •has disappeared, and remained ia
concealment, Uftttl. it became too late for .Morgan .to -avail
llimself, uatH another week, of:the humane provision which
evea a barbarous law has made f"r the co111fort of those
who might otherwise remain forever immured wi\bin bolts
Qlld bars, for the crime 0f indebtedDess. .In ODe word, it
was a shameful prostitution of the forms-sf la-w, for the at-
tainment of a private purpose, which, if forcibly accom-
plished, would also have been illegal. Failing in the first
-object of their visit at Morgan's private room, and also ia
their search ·of &is wife·s ·a,artment, time was wanting to
-effect their purpose in some other way. His confinement
in prison, might, peradventure, operate upon his fears. The
·aoft arts of persuasion, under such .circumstances, might be
used with better effect. Or, ifnecessary, the harsher means
of intimidatioa might be t·csorted to, when the victim was
1hus eomplesely ·within their power. But neithe.r threats
tDor entreaties were found availing.
.Accept, sir, the .assurances.of.my high regard.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XIU.
LETTER XIII.
NEw-YoRK. Feb. I, IS:i2.
Snt,
During the fifteen or twenty days immediately suc-
ceeding the occurrences mentioned in my last letter, the ex-
citement continued rapidly to increase ; and the pumber of
strangers suddenly appearing and disappearing, at Batavia,
without apparently having any particular business in the
village, awakened unpleasant suspicions. Some further
publications were made in the newspapers, and among them
was nn essay, on the 1st of September, intended, probably,
to allay the fever,by inducing the Masons tobelieve thatthere
wasnotthe slightest dangeroftheirfavorite though unsubstan-
tial edifice being overturned-declaring that it had outlived
Thebes and Palmyra, Troy and Babylon,......and that neither
" the thunders of roynl indignation," nor " the lightnings of
"popular fury," nor "the malice ortreachery ofman," could
shake its time-honored walls, which, sustained by " wisdom,
"strength and beauty," would stand until the last day of
doom,-or rather, to continue niy quotation from the essay
itself,-despite of all these, " it would endure till the last
" syllable of recorded time."• But it was all to no purpose.
It became daily more manifest that there was a growing
determination to suppress the intended publication, at any
• Bmwn's hi~tory of the excitl'ment. Surely, in the esmy to which J
have 1-eferred, the author co•Jld not have been any farther serious, than
in his dcsi~n to pacify his weaker brethren. If he really believed, him-
eelf, what ho> •aid, the delu8ion must hove left him before now. The
"uri6dom" of the order, he mentions as one of its pillars. 1 his is ma·
BOnic, I know. But it reminds me of a remark made by Gen. Lafayette, at
the tim~ the Maanna were pulling the good old General about in thia city,
etrivin~ among each other for the h••nor of giving him110rne of the higher, de·
gre~s. "To-moi"JTIW," 11nid he, •· I llJJI tn visit the schools; I am to drne
with the maynr; and in the evening I suppose I am to be made very UIUt by
the Freemason• !" I never shall forget the arch look with which he uttered
the irony.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XIII. r41
and every hazard. And it has been asserted that even thus
early, "the intenseness of their anxiety betrayed the par-
" ties, in very many instances, into an avowal of intentions
"and feelings, showing how little they were disposed to re-
" gard the laws of the land, and the lives of their fellow
"citizens, if the violation of the first, and the destruction of
" the second, should become necessary to effect that oij..
"ject."•
The next measure resolved on for accomplishing the de-
struction of the manuscripts, was a night attack upon the
printing office of Miller, in the hope of seizing either the
copy, or, if printed, the sheets of the work, or both. In-
deed they had reason to suppose, from certain infonnation,
that portions of the work were printed, and nearly ready
for distribution; another portion was also said to be in type,
and nearly ready for the press. For the execution ofthis en-
terprise, forces to the number of between forty and fifty
men, were collected from the ranks of the faithful in the
surrounding country, -for the excitement among the craft
had now become very extensive,--and a rendezvous estab-
lished at the public house kept by James Ganson, at the
village of Stafford, six miles distant from Batavia, to which
place he had removed from Le Roy. It has been given in
evidence that some of the persons collected for the execu-
tion of this branch of the conspiracy, came from a long dis-
tance-'scveral even from Upper Canada. A number went
upon this expedition from Buffalo, and twenty-five were
expected from Fort George: Supper had been bespoken
at Ganson's for this company, for the night of the 8th of
Septembcr,~'lt which time and place they assembled, and
nt a late hour of the night, proceeded on the expedition,
under the conduct of Col. Edward Sawyer, a high Mason.
of Canandaigua. Before the conspirators ha~ arrived at
t Rrport or the! Lewiston coiDIDittee.
o;9,tized by Coogle
LE'I''l'1CR XIII.
the printing office, however, they were infonned that, by
80J11e means, Miller had been appriBed of their intended at-
tack upon his castle, and had consequently made prepara-
tions for defending it. He had·indeed collected some fire-
anns for the occasion ; and so well satisfied were the inva-
ders of the fact, and so little disposed were they to jeopard
their own lives or limbs withal, even in the cauae of Free•
masonry, that the assault was relinquished, and the forces,
in the gray of the morning. dispersed. Some of~ party
returned back to the place of their evening's rendezvous,
where Col. Sawyer was bitterly reproached for the coward-
ice which had resulted in the entire failure of such a fonni-
dable expedition. One of the causes assigned for the dis-
persion, was the arrival of the western atage, before they
bad C()ncluded upon their measures, thereby rendering dis-
covery more likely,before they could proceed to the work;-
but it was unquestionably the villainous.smell of saltpetre,
which caused them to hesitate, and ultimately to disband
themselves,-each one taking the best care of himself that
~could.
But the design upon the printing office was not yet aban-
doned, and a yet more atrocious crime was attempted
within two days afterwards. It is only by degrees that
men become criminal. And how often would the lesser
crime go uacommitted, could he who contemplates it, for~
see the deep abyss of guilt into which, possibly, this very
first transgression will ultimately hurry him. So in the
present instance : some of those who had intended no more
than a forcible entry, and a robbery of a few sheets of man,.
uscripts, foiled in that enterprise, now resolved upon the
capital offence uf arson, and all its direful consequences.-
On the night of Sunday, the lOth of September, the people
of Batavia were startled from their slumbers, by the appal-
ling cry of fire. The flames were bursting from the stair-
way of the printing office of CoL Miller, but had been.,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER Xlll~
early discovered, and assistance was so promptly rendered,
that they were soon got under, without occasioning any con-
siderable damage. Miller's offices were in the upper sto-
ries of two wooden buildings, with a stair-way between
them ; and the lower stories of both, were occupied, to the
number of sixteen persons..--so that the lives of all these
people were jeoparded by this diabolical act ; while, more-
over, had the expectations of the incendiaries been realized,
a large portion of the village would probably have been in-
volved in the common ruin. Indeed the calamity was
averted ooJy by a signal interposition of Jlrovidence. It
appears that a number of teamsters had arrived in the vil-
lage on the evening of this memorable night, and stopped at
a public house nearly opposite the printing offices. Howev-
er, unable, all of them, to procure lodgings in the tavern, and
the weather being mild and pleasant, 80llle of them took up
their residence, for the night, in the body of a covered stage
eoach, standing in the strctet near to the offices. The flames
were therefore discovered ·,!le moment they burst forth. A
number of barrels of water, caught from the eves of the
bouse during a recent shower, were likewise standing iu
providential readiness for the occasion, and the catastrophe
was thus averted. Although the materials for kindling a
fire were found on the spot, such as cotton balls saturated
with turpentine, and other combustibles, which had beeu
thrown under the stairs, while the sides of the buildings had
been smeared with the same liquid, in order ro ensure their
more rapid destruction,-a dark-lanthern being also found
in the street a few yards off;--yet, from the expedition
with which the flames were extinguished, there were not
wanting those who insinuated that the torch had been ap-
plied by Miller's own hand, in order to increase the cry of
persecution, and excite the sympathy of the public in his
favor. The cruel device was effectual for many months ;
and the im llrcssion that st~ch was probably the fact, was not
Digitized by Coogle
144 LETTER XIO.
removed from my O\vn mind, until the spring of the ensuiug
year. All this, however, in due season. Suffice it for the
present to say, that the evidence, in the end, was most
abundant, that the dark deed was attempted by at least one
of the ringleaders of the fruitless expedition of the preec·
ding Friday night.
It was on the morning of this same Sunday, the lOth of
September, that Mr. Nicholas G. Cheseboro, one of the
coroners of the county of Ontario, and master of the lodge
in Canandaigua, applied to Jeffrey Chipman, Esq., of the
same village, for a warrant for the apprehension of William
Morgan, on a charge of petit larceny. It appears that dur-
ing the month of May preceding, when on a visit to Canan-
daigua, Morgan had borrO\ved a shirt and cravat of a man
named Kingsley, the tavern-keeper with whom he lodged,
which articles he had not returned. Such was the nature
of the larceny charged, and the necessity of the case which
demanded the issuing of a peace-warrant on the christian
Sabbath ! It is but justice to Kingsley, however, to say,
that he had never an intention of entering any complaint
in this matter, until prompted thereto by Cheseboro. But
be that as it may, the warrant was granted, and directed to
Cheseboro, as Coroner, who, taking with him a constable
named Halloway Hayward, and four o:her persons, viz:
Henry Howard, Harris Seymour, Moses Roberts, and Jo-
seph Scofield, immediately proceeded for Batavia, in an
extra coach, engaged expres~ly for that purpose. The par-
ty was recruited, from time to time, on the way, it being
joined by Asa Nowlan, an inn-keeper, at Avon; hy John .
Butterfield, merchant, of Caledonia, and at Lc Roy by
Ella G. Smith. At this latter place, the warrant was en·
dorsed by a justice of the pt.•ace, of Gmcsce-a cere-
mony necessary to gi\·c it force and Yirtuc in that county.
'l'he party proceeded thence to the late rendezvous at Gan-
~n's, in Stafford, where they supped ; and it is in cYit!cnce
o;~;uzed by Coogle
LETTER XIII. 145
that all the party seemed well aware, that the object of this
journey was the arrest of Morgan. While at Ganson's, the
})arty ofCheseboro were introduced to a Dr. Samuel S But-
ler, of that place, who was dispatched in advance, to Bata-
via, with a message to William Seaver, master of Batavia
lodge, and to Nathan Follett, who has formerly been men-
tioned. Leaving Stafford, with Ganson as an addition to
the company, they proceeded forward towards Batavia,
but when within one mile and an half of the village, they
were met by Dr. Butler, with a message from Follett that
they should not come on-(in so large a party, probably
meaning,)-lest their appearance in Batavia should cause a
fresh alarm. After a short consultation, the party now se-
parated ; several of the persons, and among them Chese-
boro and Hayward, the constable, proceeded to Batavia,
on foot, while others returned with the carriage.
Early on the following morning, (the IIth,) Morgan was
atTested by Hayward, and brought to a tavern kept by .Mr.
Danolds-Morgan making no objections to going along
with him, and breakfasting with the officer and his aSio-
ciates. An extra coach was again engaged for the return ;
but while preparations were making for their departure,
Colonel Miller appeared, and objected to Morgan's being
taken away, on the ground that he was then on the limit~,
and, of course, in the custody of the sherifl" of Genesee:
Miller, being his bail, feared that should he be carried be-
yond the prison limits, he (Miller) would then become re-
sponsible for the debt and costs. In answer to tlus objec-
tion, it was maintained, that, inasmuch as the warrant was
issued in the name of the people, for a criminal offence, the
officers had a right to hold his person, and take him to Ca-
nandaigua. Morgan made no objections himself, and volun-
tarily entered the carriage, according to the account of
Brown; but the narrative of the Lewiston committee,
which appears to have been drawn up with great catttien,
19
•
Digitized by Gobgle
146 LETTEll XIII.
conveys a different impression. MiUer, it says, was rudely
pushed aside by Danolds, the inn-keeper, who closed the
door, while Cheseboro, mounting upon the ouiside, direc-
ted the coachman to drive fast, until they should crOBS
the line of the county. The coachman, it appears, was
suspicious that all was not right; and being reluctant to
prOC'..eed, was persuaded by Cheseboro to keep on to Staf-
ford, on the assurance that Ganson would then become se·
curity against all responsibility-and this responsibility
was assumed by Ganson. At Le Roy, Morgan was told
by Hayward, that if he cho~e, he might go before the ma-
gistrate who had endorsed the warrant, and be discharged,
on giving bai~ for his appearance to answer to the charge,
at the ne~t term of the General Sessions of the Peace for
Ontario. It may have been that Morgan, being thus' away
from home; felt that it would be difficult for him to procure
bail, sliould he make the exertion ;-but he said he preferred
going on to Canandaigua, where, as he believed, he could
I '
soon satisfy Kingsley, that, although he bad not returned
the trifle of clothing, yet he had no intention o( stealing it.
The distance between Canandaigua and Batavia, is fifty
miles; and the party having Morgan in custody, arrived on
their return, at about sun-set. The prisoner was imme-
diately taken before Justice Chipman, and examined upon
the charge preferred against him, but which soon fell to the
ground. It appeared that he had merely borrowed the shirt
imd cravat of Kingsley, and of course there was nothing felo-
nious in the transaction. On being discharged from this pro-
secution, however, in which a Mason, by the name of Loton
Lawson, appeared on his behalf, he was immediately arrest·
ed by Cheseboro for a small debt of two dollars, due to one
Aaron Ackley, ~mother tavern-keeper in Canandaigua, and
for the collection of which Cheseboro produced a power of
attorney. Morgan admitted this debt; judgment was taken
'by confession ; and an cxecuti6n was sued out on the spot.
•
Digitized by Coogle
L'&TTE'R XIII. 147
Having no money to satisfy it, he pulled ofT his coat, and
made a tender of that ;-but the officer refused to take it,
and the unhappy man was forthwith taken to prison, and
locked up at about 10 o'clock in the evening. It was on the
morning of that day, that the sun last dawned upon his
freedom.
Frequent and labored attempts have been made to create
an impression, that the proceedings respecting Morgan last
narrated, were had in due course of law. But the trans-
action itself, and all the circumstances attending it, are too
transparent not to be seen through at a glance. If the pro-
secution for the larceny was instituted for an honest pur-
pose, to vindicate the offended law, and bring an offender to
justice, why was the business not taken in hand sooner T
Why was the matter of the shirt and cravat suffered to lie
along from May till September ? And why did not KiQgs-
ley take the a1fair in hand of his own motion himself1 Why
was Cheseboro so deeply interested in the matter, and
whence the necessity of taking along so large a quota of
the pMte of Ontario, for the security of a poor man, who
seems certainty to have been rather a submissive and quiet
citizen 1 How happened it, also, that these men were so
ready to halt at Ganson's on the way 1 What meant the
mission of Dr. Butler-his errand back, and the disper-
sion 1 How, moreover, are we to account for the manner
of Cheseboro, on leaving Batavia with Morgan 1 And how
happened his ready preparation for the second suit, for the
paltry debt of Ackley's, and the indecent haste with which
.Morgan was hurried o.ll· to the gloomy prison-house, if this
matter was nothing more than a fwr and proper legal pro-
cedure 1 The fact is not so : for notwithstanding the subse-
quent trial and acquittal of Howard, Seymour, Roberts,
Scofield, and others who accompanied Hayward and Chese-
boro to Batavia on that occasion, on an indicunent as par-
1icipants in the conspiracy, there is yet testimony of a di-
Digitized by Coogle
148 LETTER xnr.
rect and conclusive character, showing that this transaction
was most foul ;-that it was, in fact, another prostitution of
justice, and a solemn mockery of the laws of the land.
The unexpected arrest of Morgan, so early on the mo~
ing of the 11th, and the suddenness of his departure in the
custody of the officers from the village, had left his wife
ignorant either of the cause of his abaence, or the direction
in which he had gone. Becoming uneasy at his continued
absence, on the forenoon of the 12th, Mrs. Morgan sent for
Mr. William R. Thomson, the sheriff, to procure tidings, if
possibl(>, upon both points. Mr. Thompson gave her the
particulars of the arrest, and the charge against him,-add-
ing, that he presumed the allegation respecting the shirt and
cravat was a mere pretext to get him away. Mrs. M. then
inquired whether it was probable the restoration of her
husband could be procured, provided she were to give up to
the Masons the papers in her possession. Mr. Thompson
thought a surrender of the papers might effect that object;
but he would give no pledge upon the subject. He how-
ever advised Mrs. Morgan to take the papers, go to Ca-
nandaigua, and make the attempt,-stating, at the same
time, that it would not do for any person to go along with
her but a .Mason,-he not being one himself, as he then
alledged. ~ir. T. then proposed that Mr. Follett, or Mr.
Ketchum, should be requested to accompany her on the
journey, for which purpose he went and saw those per-
sons upon the subject. Returning soon afterw~ds, he
said that neither of them would go, unless they were al-
lowed previously to see and examine the papers, as Follett
said, "they were not going on a fool's errand." To this·
proposition Mrs. M. objected for some time, lest she should
be deprived of them. But on the assurance of Mr. T. that
they would not keep them from her, she assented. Follett
and Ketchum then came to the house, and after looking over
the papers for awhile, agreed to proceed with the aftlictH
Digitized by Coogle
- A
LETTER XIII. 149
woman to Canandaigua, as she had requested. They de·
parted from Batavia at about 4 o'clock in the afternoon, and
stopped at Stafford. Mrs. M. was then· taken into a back
room, where her guardians were joined by Ganson, and the
celebrated Johns, heretofore particularly.mentioned. They
all thereupon proceeded earnestly to examine the papers,
talking over them in low tones of voice. Johns was asked
if they were the same papers which he had seen in the of.
fice, and replied that they were, with the exception of one
degree, which was yet missing, and of which he gave a par-
ticular description as to the manner in which the manuscript
was folded. After some consultation by themselves, Fol-
lett announced to Mrs. M. that he could go no farther with
her; but that as Mr. Ketchum was going to Rochester, he
would proceed with her to Canandaigua-assuring her, at
the same time, that K. was a gentleman with whom she
need not be afraid to entrust herself. Taking the paper!'
with them, Mrs. M. proceeded forward with K., to Avon.,
where they tarried for the night. They arrived at Canan-
daigua about noon of the following day-Wednesday, the
13th of September.
During the journey from Batavia, the feelings of Mrs. M.
had been sustained by the confident expectation, that she
would not only meet her husband on her arrival at Canan-
daigua, but procure his release, even were she to find him
in duress. The charge under pretext of which he had been
.so rudely torn from his family and home, was of such a pal-
try nature, that it could not be doubted that in the wonder-
ful papers, which were now in her trunk, she had a chann
that would readily dissolve all the bolts and bars that might
stand in her way. But hope was a deceiver. Ketchum,
after an absence of some time, returned to the inn·at which
they had stopped, stating that he had not been able to find
her husband ; adding that the Masons looked upon him as
a friend of 1\Iorgan'il, and being apprehensive that he had
Digitized by Coogle
150 LJ:TT.El\ XIII.
come to get him away, would hold no conversation with
him. He then asked her for the papers, and taking them
with him, promised to do ail in his power to ascertain where
her husband was, and bring her the intelligence. Hour af.
ter hour passed away, without any tidings, during which
time her apprehensions bncame painfully oppressive. To-
wards evening, however, he again returned, and infonned
the distressed woman of her husband's having been there;
of his trial for larceny ; his acquittal, &c. ; together with
the particulars of his second arrest and imprisonment for
debt. But although he truly added that Morgan bad sub-
sequently been taken from the prison, by a man who had
paid the debt, and carried off in a close carriage, yet he
stated the falsehood, that this debt had been paid by a man
from Pennsylvania, to whom he (Morgan) was indebted,
and at whose suit he had now been carried thither. He
then coldly asked Mrs. Morgan, when she wished to return
home to Batavia. The de!IE)late woman replied that she
would go immediately, as she had left a child but two years.
old, and, without money, was there, among strangers, with
an infant in her anns only two months old.
Once more was the poor woman left alone, while her
guardian went to take a passage for her in· the stage. Re-
turning again, in the evening, a scene occurred of the most
interesting and painful description. He found Mrs. Mor-
gan traversing the room, in the bitterest anguish, relieved
only by the tears which were flowing down her cheeks.
Though beyond a doubt he was deeply in the plot, yet he
could not withstand the passion of her grief; he could not.
it seems, sufler her to depart under the cruel deception
which he had attempted to practice upon the now wretched
woman. Accordingly, after surveying her for a few mo-
ments in her distress, he took her to a scat, and attempted .
to sooth the bitterness of her feelings. He assured her that
he did not know where her husband was,-tha't his place of
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XIII. 151
concealment was not known,-but that if she would permit
him to take the papers to Rochester, he thought he should
be able to discover him. He then told her that a part of
the papers which they wanted were missing,-particularly
the illustrations of the mark-mMter's degree,-and he urged
that, on her return to Batavia, she would find the remainder
of the papers, if possible,-assuring. her, moreover, that if
she could ascertain where the sheets of the first three de-
grees, already printed ·by Mill&, could be found, and give
him information at Rochester, by letter, he would give her
twenty-five dollars, and the lodge would pay her one hun-
dred dollars more. Mrs. M. declined making the attempt
to obtain the papers, or printed sheets, from Miller, and said
she would not receive the money. She also hesitated about
giving up the papers now in her possession, fearing, as she
frankly told him, that it was their intention to keep her hus-
band in concealment until they should obtain them all, and
then take his life. He again pressed her to write to him at
Rochester, and inform him as to the state of public feeling
at Batavia, in regard to the taking away of her husband.
'He gave his name on a slip of paper, "George Ketchum,"
and on taking leave, made a solemn pledge as follows :-" I
" promise, before my God, that I will not deceive you, but
" will do all I can to find out where he [Morgan] is, sod Jet
" you see him : I have no doubt when I get back to Roches-.
"' ter, I can find out more, and I Wn.k I can find where he
.. is."
Ketchum had paid her passage, and he now gave her two
dollars to defray her expenses back to Batavia. Thus was
this unfortunate woman left-a stranger, in a strange place-
homeless-friendless-with an infant at her breast, and an-
other child at fifty miles distance, which, though not quite
so young, was, nevertheless, equally dependant and helpless.
Her husband-no matter what were his faults, he was still
her husband, the father of her. children-had been torn from
Digitized by Coogle
16!. LETTER XIII.
his family ; and with a heavy heart, she was now compel-
Jed to return, after a fruitless search, equally as ignorant of
his fate, or of the place in which he had been concealed, as
when she had set out upon the bootless mission.
Mrs. Morgan departed from Canandaigua, on her return,
in the first stage, for Batavia. Arriving at Le ~y,
James Ganson again made his appearance, and joined her
in the coach. He stated to her that he was then on his way
to Batavia, to make arrangements for her support, because
her husband would not be seen by her for at least a year,
and perhaps more; although he assured her that he had not
been killed. But he told her that in any event, she should
be well provided for, that her children should be sent to
school, &c. In a few hours after the disconsolate woman
had reached her desolate home, moreover, she was visited
by the same Thomas :M'Cully, at whose suit her husband
bad been thrust into the Batavia prison in August, and who
had assisted in ransacking the house for the anxiously-sought
manuscripts. The object of his visit was to infom1 her that
the lodge had appointed him to provide for the support of
. herself and children, and that he had engaged lodgings for
them at the public house of Danolds, at which place her
husband bad been detained after his arrest on the lOth,
until be was thrust into the carriage, and taken away. The
offers, both of Ganson and M:'Cully, were promptly rejected
by Mrs. Morgan. If compelled tq live by charity, she pre-
ferred receiving it from different persons than those by whom
her misfortunes had been brought upon her.*
• It appears that the proffers ofmasonic auistance which I bnve mention-
ed, were not all that Mrs. M. received. It ia stated in the report ofthe Lew-
iston committee, that " about the first of Mnrch, 1827, Henry Brown, Esq.
of BatavioA, said to be Grand Commander of the Knightl! Templar& Encamp-
ed at LeRoy, called at Mrs. Morgan's lodgings, and exhibited to the wo-
man with whom she boarded, n bag containing, ns be eaid, silver dollars,
which he profeued great anxiety to give to her without delay. 1\lrll. Mor-
aan never sent for the dollars, and they were tnken uwuy by Mr. Brown,
but it is not known to what use they were subsequently appropriated."
Q.ver,: Wu this tbe Henry Brown, who wrote the nurrative of these
impol1&nt tran1111ctions, Cor the bcnet:t ofthe l\!asons 1
Digitized by Coogle
LETTElt XIV, 15S
'From the circumstances of the arrest of-~forgan, by Hay-
ward and Chesebor?, and those attending the journey of
Mrs. Morgan, as disclosed in the foregoing narrative, there
can, I think, be no doubt of the correctness of the opinion I
have expressed a few pages back, viz; that all the legal
part of the8e proceedings, was but a solemn mockery of
law and justice, the fonns of which were knowingly prosti-
tuted to subserve the vilest purposes, to the deep ond last-
ing injury of the unotfending man who was immediately
concerned, even though he should have escaped from the
toils which had thus been spread for his destruction l
l have the honor, sir, to remain yours, &c.
.tETTER XIV.
NEw-YoRK, Feb. 5, 1832.
~nt.
It was early on the morning of Tuesday; the 12th of
8eptember,-the morning of Mrs. Morgan's departure in
quest of her husband,-that Col. Miller received an anony-
mous note, the chirography of which was unknown, inform-
ing him that an attempt was that day to be made to take
his office by assault, and, at all hazards, to wrest from his
possession the manuscripts, :md probably the printed sheets
also, of his proposed masonic publication. This notice
was shown by Miller to some of his friends, and a consulta-
tion held to determine what was besno be done. Miller's
office was already armed by two swivels, fifteen or twenty
guns, and several pistols. Some were disposed to treat the
threat as an idle one ; but recent occurrences admonished
the majority, that it was the dictate of prudence to be on
their ·guard. A number of the villagers, therefore, armed
themselves with club~. and repaired to the neighborhood of
20
Digitized by Coogle
lM LETTER XJY•
.00 office, to be prepared to repel force by force, should the
information conveyed by the note prove to be well founded.
It was well that this precaution was,adopted; for, at about
the hour of 12 o'clock at noon, the village was once more
invaded by a gang of between sixty and seventy men, arm-
ed with heavy sticks or clubs, newly prepared, all appear-
ing as if cut at the same time, and for the same purpose ;
and the persons wielding them, were all, or nearly all, en-
tirely strangers to the inhabitants of Batavia. There was
much cons1ernation in the village, at the appearance of such
a formidable array of at least partially armed men: for the
singular arrest of Morgan; the manner in which he had
been hurried away ; and the doubt and uncertainty that
hung over his fate, were subjects already in the mouths of
the people. Added to this, should a riot ensue, it was now
ascertained, that there was not, at that time, a single magis-
trate in the villagc,-they all ha,·ing, by a strange and sin-
gular coincidence, been subpwnaed into a distant town, as
witnesses. The rendezvous of this party was at the house
of Danolds; but they had doubtless been advised of the pre-
parations made to give them a warm reception, should they
attempt any oft(msive measures, as well by the friends of
Miller, as by Miller's own garrison, armed as it wa.s by
1wivels and fire-arms of various c~ibre,-for they made no
demonstration towards the office in a body. Along with
this company was a constable from Le Roy, named Jesse
French, who alledged that he had a warrant for Miller, and
from the intimations given out, it was supposed to be a
criminal process. French, with a single assistant, proceed-
ed to the office and arrested Miller, who made no resistance,
although one of his men called for a pistol, but repaired
1 with the officer to the inn of Danolds. Here he was de-
tained a couple of hours, but was not prevented from com-
municating with his friends, nor from consulting with
counsel. He was afterwards placed in an open waggon.
Digitized by Google
· LETTER XIV. 155
with se\·en strong men, strangers to him, who were all arm-
ed, as above described ; the constable mounted on horse-
back; and in this manner, attended by the mob, increased
by a number of the people of Batavia, they proceeded to
Stafford, where, in the face of his remonstrances, and those
of his counsel, who followed him, he was forced up into
the third story of a stone house, and placed under a guard
of live men, in a lodge-room. To all inquiries as to the
nature of the warrant under which he had been tak~n, the
replies were vague and evasive ; but both .Miller and his
counsel were again and again given to understand that it
was a criminal process. By some means or other, however,
Miller had learned that the process had been sued out by
his evil genius, Johns, who has been already twice men-
tioned. This man, who had been in pretended partnership
with Miller, had only left him three days before,-having
aucceeded in purloining a part of the coveted papers ;-
while, as it was said, 1\Iiller had managed to get hold of
aome thirty or forty dollars of his cash. But be that as it
may, Johns now suddenly made his appearance in the lodge-
room, and marched quickly up to Miller with a drawn
sword. The latter remonstrated with him on the subject of
his conduct-to which Johns replied, with a faultering
tongue, that he .was only performing what he had been
commanded to do. ·while thus in confinement at Stafford,
. Miller learnt that the process had been issued by a magis-
trate at Le Roy; but his guards told him he was not
to be tried there-nor by any ordinary tribunal. He was
not to stop at that' place ; but was going where .Morgan
was. In reply to a question from him, what tribunal he waa
to meet, and where Morgan was, the answer was equally
aignificant and laconic-" You will see !" A number of
Miller's friends were admitted into the lodge-room, at their
request ; but the great and unnecessary delay at this place,
and the refusal of those having Miller in custody, to pro- •
/ .
Digitized by Coogle
156 LETTER XlV.
ceed on to. Le Roy, where the warrant wa!! returnable,
created a suspicion that they were waiting for night-fall, that
under the mantle of darjmess, an opportunity might occur
to play the prisoner foul. It was not until dusk in the eve-
ning, that the party proceeded onward to Lc Roy, four
miles. The journey was not unattended by noise and tu-
mult-a coAsicterable pn~ty of :Miller's friends having fol-
lowed on from Batavia. On arriving at Le Roy, French
proposed to take his prisoner to atavern, in which was a
lodge-room ; but ~Iiller and his counsel both objected to
this arrangement, and insisted upon going directly before
the magistmtc, which was accordingly done. Leaving the
priooner before the justice, French then went in pursuit of
the plaintitf,-for it now appeared that the warrant was
tnercly a civil process, issued on the application of Johns,
for the recovery of certain monies advanced by him to
Miller, while he was acting as a counterfeit pa11ner in what
·Miller, at the time, supposed to be their joint speculation.
After waiting about half an hour, the officer not having re-
turned himself: nor made a return of the warrant, and no
•
plaintiff appcarin;;. the magistrate discharged the defendant,
and told him to go \vhcre he pleased. Just as he was leav-
ing the office of the magistrate, with his friends, French
cnmc up in company with Johns. and made an attempt to
arrest him ngain ; but he did not succeed, and Miller esca-
ped to a public house. French and his party rallied again,
and made several additional ctTorts to seize him upon the
same warrant, but the attempts were all ineffectual ; and,
'finally, the friends of Miller succeeded in forcing him into a
carriage, in which, late in the night, he was returned safely
to his home, and his family were, consequently, once more
rciiPvcd from the terror occasjoned by the extra~rdinary
transactions of the day.
It requires no arg·umcnt upon the preceding statement of
facts, to show, that the process of the law was again, for a
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER .XIV. 157
1hird time, abused, and its majesty insulted, by tlus pretend-
ed legal arrest, and .the outrageous circumst~s attending
it. It was well that a portion of the people of Batavia
had been made acquainted with the intended visit of these
audacious disturbers of the peace, coming under the cloak
of the civil law. But why was it, that all the magistrates
of the village, had been .summoned into another town, as
. witnesses, on tlud. day? A state of things might have
arisen, in which the presence of the magistracy would have
been of the utmost consequence. Is it not possiblc,-nlJy,
probable, inasmuch as the conspiracy was widely extended,
and its members very numerous,eith_er that the magistrates
were willing!y absent,or that, without their own knowledge,
perhaps, their absence had been procured precisely at that
time, to favor the views of the conspirators 1 The latter is
the most charitable inference ; and yet, there is an anecdote
on record, remaining, as far as I am informed, uncontradi~
ted, which amply warrants a contrary conclusion. Two of
those magistrates, residing in the village, were Masons.
One of these remarked, to a third person, before his return
from Bethany, (the town to which he had been taken by
subprena,) " that he (the person addressed) need not be sur-
" pri~d, if, on his return to Batavia, he should find Miller's
" office levelled with the earth." The gentleman to whom
the·remark was made, inquired, "if they, being justices of
" the peace, thought such proceedings right?" " Why,"
replied one of them, " if you found a man abusing your
"marriage bed, would you have recourse to the law, or
" would you not rather take a club, and beat his brains
" out?" Comment upon this short but emphatic colloquy,
is unnecessary.
Th~re wa11 now a brief pause in the progress of events;
_ but it lasted only a week or two. It is true, that an im-
perfect statement of the occurrences was published in Col.
Miller's paper, and possibly copied by a few--a very few-
Die itlzed ~yGoogie
1S3 LETTER XIV.
publishers elsewhere ; but very little attention was paid to
the story abroad-probably, in the first instance, from an
impression that the rwnors related to some trifling local af-
fray, which had been greatly magnified, and which possess-
ed little, if any, public importance. I well recollect that
the first knowledge I possessed upon the subject, was de-
rived fro~ one of Miller's papers, which caught my eye at
a public house in New-Jersey, on the day of commencing
n journey to Baltimore and Washington. It made but a
tfa.usient impression upon my mind ; and seeing nothing
further upon the subject for some weeks, during my ab-
sence, and even after my 'return, the circumstances had all
but escaped my memory, until they were revived late in the
autwnn, by the unpleasant reports; and symptoms of high
excitement, which began to reach us from the west.
In and about Batavia, however, a strong feeling of dis-
trust soon began to pervade the unmasonic community,
touching the cause of the protracted absence of Morgan.
More than a week had passed away, and there were no
tidings from him ; while the manner in which those of the
Masons conducted themselves, who had clearly been either
directly concerned in the transactions before related, or had
looked on rather with approbation, than otherwise, was lit-
tle calculated to allay the public apprehension. Instead of
expressing any anxiety themselves, they jeered and laughed
at those who did. Nor did they hesitate, occasionally, to
justify their conduct in carrying him away, and even to de-
clare, that any punishment he might have received, was too
good for him. Indeed, their carriage was such, in various
respect~ as to offend many good citizens, and to excite the
suspicions of those who would, otherwise, have been tl1e last
to·entertain a belief that friends and neighbors, of so much
respeetability, could have been concerned in any transac-
tions involving positive crime. It was apparent that they
supposed 'their stratagems to prevent the publication of the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XY. 159
hated book, had been crowned with complete success. NG
publication was yet issued from .Miller's office; Johns,
three days before Miller's.arrest, had succeeded in purloin-
ing a portion of the manuscripts appertaining to the upper
degrees, and marring somewhat more; and Ketchum had
obtained from Mrs. Morgan the original manuscripts of the
first three degrees. These, therefore, were strong reaiiODS
why they might imagine that the work had been effectually
suppressed, and they exulted at their supposed success, in
terms of unqualified and undisguised triumph. Little did
they think that the prize obtained of the wretched woman
was valuele~. But it was so ; she having, in fact, obtained
the papers from Miller, for the purpose of negotiating with
the fraternity for the liberation of her husband, after he kad
nofarther use for them. That portion of the manuscripte
·which had been embezzled by Johns, was sent to New-
york ~y an express, to be laid before the General Grand
Chapter of the United States, then holding its triennial con-
vocation in this city. Of this circumstance, however, I
shall speak more at large hereafter, in connexion with the
name of an illustrious individual, now no more, who has
been most infamously calumniated, not only in regard to
the precise occurrence to which I now refer, but likewise
in connexion with the whole transaction.
With sentiments of great respect, I am, &r.
LETTER XV.
Nzw-Yoax, Feb. 8, 1832.
3t~
The desolate condition ofMrs. Morgan, after her return
from Canandaigua, pennyless, and, for aught she knew.
husbandless likewise, did not escape the attention of the
Digitized b~Coogle
100 LETTEJl XV.
humane citizens of Batavia. She had rejected the proffer-
ed bounty of the lodges, and, under the circumstances, she
had done right. Poor indeed must she have been, to have
acted otherwise. · But although I would by no means un·
dervalue the charities of the lodges, which, as I well know,
before the institution had been so greatly abused, have sent
· forth their beneficence in countless streams and rivulets, car-
rying gladness and comfort to thousands of the destitute and
afflicted, yet, fortunately, in this favored country, charity is
not confined to the members of the fraternity. · There are
hearts to feel the woes of others, and hands to administer to
the wants of the destitute-to cheer the widow~s heart, and
wipe the tears from the orphan'. cheek-in every village
that studs the face of our beautiful land. .The kindest sym·
pathies of these were enlisted in behalf of Mrs. Morgan,
and the necessary measures were taken by the benevolent
to provide for her immediate wants. Meantime, day after
day passed away, without seeing, or hearing. a word from
Morgan ; and from frequent inuendoes, and dark givings-
out, it became a doubtful matter whether his return was to
be expected at all. It was therefore determined to despatch
•
a messenger to Canandaigua, to make inquiries as to his
probable fate, and ascertain, if possible, the place of his con-
cealment, or learn the direction in which he had been taken.
The mystery of the case was hourly becoming deeper ; nor
was it in any degree dispelled, or the anxieties of the wife
lessened, by a letter which she received from Ketchum,
dated at Rochester, September 14th, two days after he had
parted from her, at Ca1:1andaigua. This letter exhorted her
to make herself contented-assured her that her husband
was well; but protested that the writer _could neither tell
where he was, nor which way he went. It cautioned her
to keep her own counsels-to be faithful to his directions,
given her at Canandaigua-in wltick case, he assured he,.,
she wouldfind friends,-admonished her NOT TO BXCBANG&
Digitized by Coogle
L&TTER XV• 161
.o\ WORD WITH TUB PBRSOK WHO BAKDBD BBR TilE LB'l"l'Bil-
told her to write to him if she wanted money-and charged
her to burn his letter up as soon as she had perused it. Of
course such a communication only tended to increase the
mystery already shrouding the transaction, while it also in-
creased the now rapidly awakening suspicion, not only that
· all was not right, but that there was something to, be dis-
closed, flagrantly wrong. ·
The agent selected for the purpose above mentioned
proceeded to Canandaigua, and entered upon the duties of
his appointment. Morgan, it will be recollected, had been
lodged in prison on the evening of Monday, the 11th of
September, on the execution procured by Cheseboro, and in
the manner already related. The information procured by
this agent,-Timothy Fitch, Esquire,-seemed but to in·
crease the mystery he was attempting to penetrate. He
procured five depositions, and made a sixth himself, in
which he detailed certain important information communi-
eated to him by the keeper ofa livery stable, named Hiram
Hopkins. These statements disclosed the following extra·
ordinary facts : Morgan was thrust into prison, at about the
hour of 9 o'clock in the evening. Immediately afterwards,
on the same night, a man named Loton Lawson, hired a
horse of Ackley, avowedly for the purpose ofgoing to Ro-
chester-distant thirty miles. He returned early in the
morning, and went immediately to bed-infortning Ackley,
the inn-keeper, that some gentlemen from Rochester would
call for him in the course ofthe day. In the afternoon, two
rnen from Rochester, viz: Burrage Smith, and John Whit·
ney, called, agreeably to the intimation. Lawson being
aroused from his sleep, came down stairs, and all three went
out together. In the evening of this day-September 12-
(at which time, it will be remembered, that, under delu-
sive guidance, the alarmed and distracted wife of Morgan
was engaged in her incflectual pursuit. of one. who Re·
21
Digitized by Coogle
1~ LETTER XV.
vcr was destined to return,)-Lawson went to the jail,
and applied to Mrs. Hall, the wife of the keeper-her hus-
band not being within at the' time,-for permission to see
Morgan, and have some private conversation with him, for
which purpose he desired to be admitted into his cell. This
request was refused, and eventually Morgan was called to
the door, where some conversation took place between
them. Lawson informed the prisoner that he had come to
pay the debt and costs, and release him ; and asked him
whether, on being discharged, he would go home and stay
with him that rught ; to which proposition Morgan replied
in the affirmative. Lawson thereupon requested Mrs. Hall
to let him out, and he would satisfy the execution. But the
request was declined. Her husband not being at home, Mrs.
H. was properly cautious in her proceedings ; and beside~
the execution being locked up in a desk, she could not as-
certain the amount due. Lawson then said be would pay
the amount of the execution when Mr. Hall came iu; but
Morgan, being then undressed and in bed, replied that it
was no matter. that night-the affair might as well be left
till morning. Lawson, however, insisted upon doing it that
night, complaining, at the same time, of being much wearied,
in consequence of having been running about for him [Mor-
gan,] all day. He then went out, as be said, to look for
the jailor, and returned in about half an hour, averring that
be had been at eYcry place where it was likely he should
find the keeper, but without success. He was now accom-
panied by a man named Foster, as he called himself, but
which Mrs. Hall believed was an assumed name. She
thought he was one of the prisoners on the limits. Lawson
again pressed Mrs. Hall to release Morgan, proposing to
leave five dollars, a sum much greater than the amount due
on the execution, by way of indemnity. The proposal was
again declined-the lady stating tJmt she had understood
\hat !Uorgan was a rogue,--that gn.:at pains had beeu taken
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XV. 168
to secure himr-and she did not wish to let a rogue out.
Lawson pressed his request importunately, and offered to
leave fifty or a hundred dollars in pledge, to bring her hus-
band oft" harmless, if she consented. But she was inexora-
ble, and he again went away. While theiie proceedings
were going on without the debtor's apartment, Morgan him.
~~elf seems to have had 110me misgivings as to the motive of
the proffered kindness--observing to a fellow prisoner," that
"should that man [Lawson,] prove a traitor to him, he would
"not give much for his lire." The applicant soon after·
wards returned once more to the jail, accompanied by Col.
Sawyer, and both urged Mrs. Hall again, very strongly, to
Jleceive the money, and release the prisoner. Being still
resolutely refused, they went away in pursuit, as they said,
of Cheseboro, whom Mrs. Hall knew as the plaintiff in the
suit. On following them to the door, Mrs. H. saw two men
near by, one of whom proved to be Chcseboro himself. On
eoming up to the jail, he directed her to let Morgan go, as
these men, he said, would pay the amount of the execution.
and he wanted no more of him. The money having been
counted down, Mrs. Hall took the keys, and wp going to
release the prisoner, when Lawson interposed, and said he
would go with her-stepping at the door at the same time,
and giving a shrill whistle. Mrs. H., again looking out of
the door herself, perceived a man, whom she had seen with
Lawson at an earlier hour of the evening, coming towards
the steps. On reaching the outer door of the prison, Law-
son told her, as they entered, that she need not lock that af.
ter them; but there were other prisoners in CWltody, and
she insisted upon doing it. She unlocked the door of Mor-
gan's apartment, and Lawson, calling to him, directed him
to hasten, and dress himself quickly. On coming out of the
cell, Lawson took him by the arm, though not in an unfriend-
ly or forcible manner, and they departed. Before Mrs. H.
had secured the f.'\Stcnings of the prison. however, she heard
o;9,tized by Coogle
164 tETTER XV.
the cry of" murder," and hurrying to the door, saw Mor~
gan between Lawson and the other man, who had preYi-
ously approached the steps, at the signal of tbe whistling,
struggling with all his might, and crying out in the most dis-
tressing manner. Both Lawson and the other man had
hold of his arms ; Morgan exerting himself in vain to get
loose, and crying out until his voice was suppressed. as if
bysomething thrust suddenly into, or placed over his mouth.
or across his throat. At this time, and while they were
dragging him away, Cheseboro and Sawyer were standing
near by, without showing any concern in the transaction,
which was passing before them. Morgan having been tak-
en out of sight, a violent rap with a stick, was made upon
the curb of a well, and a carriage drove pnst, following in
the direction taken by those who had dragged him away.
Immediately after the carriage passed, Cheseboro and Saw-
yer went off in the same direction-the latter picking up
and taking with him the hat of Morgan, which had been
lost in the affray. It likewise appeared, from the evidence
of a woman, who resided opposite the jail, that sundry men
had been walking, sitting, and standing, about the premises,
during a great part of the evening, appearing to be much
engaged in consultations, which were carried on in an un-
der-tone of voice. Among these men she recognized Cbese-
boro, Sawyer, and a man named Chauncey Coe. This
woman likewise heard the cries ofdistress, as ofone in peril-
ous circumstances ; and from the suspicious conduct of the
persons before mentioned, had apprised her husband of her
apprehensions that all was not right. After the noise upon
the well-curb, she saw the carriage of Mr. Hubbard, with
his gray horses-it was a bright moon-light night-driving
down the street, in the direction taken by the men, it being
at the time empty ; but it soon re-passed, taking the direc-
'tfon to Rochester, having several persons in it. These facts
1\'ere all distinctly corrowrated by other deponents. One
Digitized by Google
LETTER XT.
of them, on hearing the noise, went to the door, and seeing
'the struggle, stepped up to Col. Sawyer, who was a little
behind, and inquired what was the matter 1 To which he
replied:-" Nothing, only a man just let out of jail, has
" been taken on a warrant, and isgoing to be tried." Saw-
yer being a respectable man, the answer was satisfactory.
The statement of Hubbard himself was, that he had been
engaged by a man whom he did not know, to take a party
in his carriage to Rochester, on the night in question ;-he
expecting them to start from Kingsley's tavern. At about
9 o'clock in the evening, however, a man came and stated
to him, that the party had gone down the road towards Pal-
myra, and would get in when he overtook them. He there-
upon drove down the road past the jail, as requested, until
he saw several men in the street, who directed him to stop.
He did so, and five or six of them got into the carriage,
directing him to turn round, and proceed to Rochester.
Stopping but twice on the way, they arrived in Rochester
at about the dawning of the day, but passed immediately
through that town, and proceeded to Hanford's Landing,
three miles below, where be understood it to be the de-
eire of the party to obtain a vessel. He drove about
eighty rods beyond Hanford's, towards the ridge road,
where he stopped-there being no bouse nearer than Han-
ford's. His party alighted here, in the road, near to a piece
of woods. He then turned 'about and cfrove back to Ro-
chestcr,-meeting two carriages, even thus early, one of
which was of a green or cinnamon color,-and thence pro-
~ded home,-not knowing either of the party who had
ridden with him; nor received any pay; nor observed any
violence practised towards any one of the company.
Such was the information obtained by the investigations
at Canandaigua ; and it may readily be imagined that a de-
velopement offacts so extraordinary in themselves, was little
.calculated to allay the excitement now rapidly enkindling
Digitized by Coogle
166 LETT.Eit XV.
in ~tavia, and the country adjacenL Although there was
no positive testimony that Morgan had been carried away
in the caniage, which made the unusual night-ride from Ca-
nandaigua to Rochester and Hanford's Landing, yet the
circumstantial evidence was so strong as to leave no ra-
tional doubt that he had been spirited away, in the manner
related. The circumstances of the transaction assumed a
more alarming character, and a darker shade of suspicion
was cast around them, at every, new disclosure. · It had
already been ascertained, that, when the attack upon Mil-
ler's office was to have been made, on the night of the 8th
of September, there was a party of fifteen or twenty men,
eonnected with the conspiracy, assembled at a tavern four
miles west ofBatavia, who had come all the way from Buf-
talo; a large party had gathered at Stafford, six miles east,
composed of men from many quartcrs,-some of them even
from Canada. These had marched into the village, through
difierent parts of which squads were distributed. Others
had gathered there from Lockport and its vicinity. And
the occurrences and discoveries made nt Canandaigua, pro-
Ted, very satisfactorily, that, in that village, and in Roches-
ter also, there were men of character and respectability,
intimately associated with, and some of them active agents
in, these transactions. It was therefore clear, that the con-
spiracy was widely extended, comprehending in its ranks
men high in the confidence of the public, and against whose
good names the breath of scandal had hitherto never whis-
pered a reproach. These facts began to arrest the deep
attention of the public. A fellow citizen, an American free-
man, guilty of no crime within the cognizance of the laws
of the land, and living under their protection, had been re-
moved from among them by means unknown, and in a man-
ner unexampled in the annals of the nation. He had been
kidnapped in the face of day, under the disguise of the law,
awl held in duress by its fonns, ~mtil the arrangements for
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XV. 161
his _abduction were completed; after which be had been
hurried mysteriously away, and left among men unknown,
under circumstances of time and place, awakening the
strongest suspicions that the crime of murder had probably
been added to the other outrages that had been witnessed.
Under this aspect of the case, a public meeting was con-
vened at Batavia, on the 25th of September, and another on
the 4th of October. These meetings were numerously at-
tended, and their proceedings were of an impressive char-
acter. The very fact, perhaps, of the poverty, and low
standing of the victim, contributed essentially to the inter-
est of the occasion, and the determination of the people to
\LSCertain his fate, and, if possible, avenge his wrongs.
The facts laid before the meeting were such as caused the
lightning of popular indignation to flash from the eyes of the
assembled multitude. It did not-it could not appear-that
all those who belonged to the masonic fraternity, were con-
cerned in the conspiracy. Many of the most respectable
of these were among the foremost in resenting the outrage
upon the laws; and demanding an investigation. But it did
ap~ar, that an those engaged in the conspiracy, so far as
the facts had been ascertained, were Freemasons-the most
zealous and active of the order. And there were not
wanting those amongst them, who ridiculed these manifesta-
tions ofthe public feeling, and added t,o the public indigna-
tion, by laughing at their anxiety to ascertain what had been
done with the absentee. A committee of ten highly respect-
able citizens was appointed by the meeting, with instructions
to follow up the investigations that had been commenced,
in order, if possible, to discover the person of Morgan, if
living, or his body if dead, and bring the guilty to punish-
ment. This committee entered upon the immediate dis-
charge of its duties, and published a notice to the public7
briefly setting forth the nature of the outrage that had been
committed--acknowledging the fears entertRined that Mor-
Digitized by Coogle
168 LETTER XV.
gan had been murdered, but expressing a hope, at the same
time, that he might only have been kept in concealment, or
imprisoned in Canada-and calling upon the people gene-
rally to assist, by the discovery, if possible, of the victim, in
allaying such painful apprehensions. The committee like·
wise eent an agent to make inquiries along the road from
Hanford's Landing to Lewiston and Niagara.
On the 2d of October, the committee appointed at the first
meeting of the citizens at Batavia, addressed a letter to Gov.
Clinton, enclosing him a copy of the proceedings of that
meeting, together with the depositions which had been tak-
en at Canandaigua. In that letter, the committee invoked
the prompt interposition of the governor, that a speedy and
vigorous investigation might be had. " The excitement
" which pervades the people in this section ofthe state," say
the committee, "for many miles around, has assumed an ap·
" pearaoce which we think is a just subject of alarm-an ex-
.. citement which it will be difficult to restrain or allayf un·
*less the cause be investigated and removed." They there•
fore prayed the governor "to take such measures as might
" be within his prerogative to redress private wrongs, secure
"individual rights, and restore public peace and tranquil·
"lity." This letter was received by Gov. Clinton on the
6th ; and on the following day his excellency transmitted
to Mr. Talbot, chairman of the committee at Batavia, hi11
first proclamation upon this subject,......setting forth the evil!t
to be apprehended from such violations of the public peace
as those complained of, and enjoining it upon the state offi·
cers and ministers of justice to pursue all proper and cffi-
eient measures, for the apprehension of the offenders, and
commanding the co-operation of the people in maiutaining
the ascendancy of the laws.• This proclamation was en-
elosed in a private letter, of which J find the following draft
among the papers of that lamented man:-
"' Vide appeDdi.a, 11.
Digitized by Coogle
- ~- - ~-- - _ _____J
LETTER X.V. 169
"Albany, 7th of October, 1826.
"GUTLBMEN,
"I received your communication yesterday, by Mr.
Evans, and after mature deliberation, I have come to the
conclusion that the enclosed paper, which you are authoria-
ed to publish, will answer the purpose of maintaining the
peace and good order of the communi!Y· Indeed, I do not
see how I can interfere to a greater extent at present.
Any forcible opposition to the execution of the laws which
annot be put down by the civil authority, must be met in
another shape ; but, as it does not appear that any such
has been exhibited, and I trust that none will be, the ma-
gistrates of the county must proceed, in the ordinary
channels ofjustice, to arrest the offenders, to vindicate the
rights, and to protect the property, liberty, and persons, of
individuals, and to maintain the ascendency of the laws :
and if there should prove to be any delinquency on this
occasion, measures suitable to such default will be prompt-
ly pursued.
"As it appears that the principal offenders are known, I
have not thought it necessary to offer any specific reward
for their detection and apprehension ; but I am willing to
pay any reasonable and necessary expenses that may be
jncurred for those purposes. Deeply regretting, and en-
tirely condemning the outrages of which you complain,
nothing shall be wanting on my part, that is due to the oc-
casion, and the emergency. Nothing can justify a resort
to personal violence, or an aggression upon the peace of
society ; and no person can be punished for his acts, how-
ever deplorable or depraved, except by the legitimate
authorities of the country. . I am, &c.
" DE WITT CLINTON.
" To THEODORE F. TA.LBOT, and others,
11 A Committee in behalf of the citizens of Genesee
q county."
22
_ o;9;uzedbyGoogle
170 J.ETTER XV.
The effect of the meetings nt Batavia, in directing the ,
public attention to the subject, was prodigious. Every man
who attended them, returned to his home in a high degree
of excitement, communicating his feelings to his neighbors,
who, in turn, imported like feelings to others, until, like tho
apreading fires which sometimes sweep with irresistable
and desolating fury over the wide prairies of the west, that
whole district of country was agitated by an unappeasable
spirit of indignation. The example of convoking public
meetings was followed in many other places, particularly
in the counties of Livingston, Ontario, Monroe, and Niaga-
ra, in each of which similar committees were appointed,
and the determination was nearly universal, that the mys-
tery should be probed to the bottom.•
Unhappily, however, a very difterent feeling pervaded
the bosoms of a portion of the masonic fraternity, which
was but ill-concealed ; nay, this counter-feeling was fre-
quently and openly avowed. I have already more than in-
timated this disgraceful, and, to me, exceedingly painful
fact ; and in order to a just understanding ol the case, and
to show how it happened that the public mind became
wrought up to so high a pitch of exasperation against the
whole masonic fraternity, not only there, but elsewhere,
without discrimination, or distinction of persom:, it is neces-
sary that I should be more specific. It is unquestionably
true, then, that those of the fraternity who were directly .
accessary to the abduction, so far from countenancing the
generous and righteous spirit which had gone forth, either
openly justified the act, or treated the matter with levity
and ridicule. Even the distress of Mrs. Morgan was scout-
ed by them, not only in conversations, but repeatedly in the
• Deputations from tht'!'f' committPf'S eub!'4!qucntly assembled nt Lewis-
ton, o.s o. convention, and framctllhc ct>ltbratcll report of the facts whit'h
bad bf-t'n dit'itcd by their Plt'rtions: That report was dra11·n up with jll'Cat
care, and the gcnrn1l acnnacy of II! BlntcruPnts hns PlooU the trst of lhe
moBt rigid enminntion• .To its pages l ~h.UI hove frequent recourse ia cc.m-
pWn&tbep~ntoanu~T~
Digitized by Coogle
---------- ---- _j
LI!T'l'Elt XV. 171
public newspapers ;-in many of which the whole subject
was treated as a hoax, while by far the greatest number, it
was passed over in comparative silence. Chcseboro had at
one time declared that " .Morgan had gone where Miller
" would never see him again." We have the evidence of
the Rev. Mr. Barnard, of the baptist denomination, whose
veracity is unquestioned, that previously to the abduction,
when the publication was talked of, a Royal Arch Mason,
then, also, a clergyman, in good standing, remarked, " that
"Morgan's writing Masonry was the greatest piece of de-
" pravity he ever knew ; that some measures must be taken
"to stop it; that he would be one of a number to put him
" out of the way ; that God looked upon the institution with
"so much complacency, that he would never bring the per-
" petrators to light." &c. After the abduction, and while
his fate was a matter of doubt, Mr. Barnard states that the
Masons in that neighborhood, justified the abduction, and
the murder o.lso,-should a murder have taken place. A
meeting l>f the Covington Lodge, to which Mr. B. belonged,
having been co.lled, for the purpose of concerting measures
of agreement among the fraternity, Mr. B. attended, and ex-
pressed his abhorrence at the conduct of their brethren, in
this matter. His rebuke at once kindled the lodge with an-
ger, and he was scandalously assailed with abuse. A
Knight Tcmplar present, declared, that ir Morgan had been
writing Masonry, and if his throat had been cut, and his
tongue torn out by the roots, &c., he CQuJd not oomplain in
not having justice done him. For dissenting with firmness,
from such horrible principles, Elder B. was expelled. Gan-
son, who has so often been mentioned, jeered at the commit-
tee, and told them, " that if they could hang, draw and
"quarter all the Masons who had a hand in his abduction,
" they could not get him back ;" he declared that " he was
" not dead, but was put where he would stay put, until God
" Almighty should call for him." A public officer at Buf·
Digitized by Coogle
172 LETTER XV.
falo, deeJared his astonishment that Miller should have beeR
permitted to proceed so far-(as far ,only as they then sup-
posed he had,)-in printing the book, adding, " that should
"Morgan come there, there were twenty men who would
"take his life in less than half an hour." In the town of
Attica, a Mason, who had been a member of the legislature,
said :-" If they are publishing the true secrets of Mason-
" ry, he should not think the lives of half a dozen such men
"as Morgan and Miller of any consequence in suppressing
"the work." A Mason in Le Roy, a physician, and for-
merly a sheriffofthe county, declared, that" the book should
"be suppressed, if it cost every one. of them their lives."
A magistrate of the same town openly declared, that "if he
"could catch Morgan on the bridge in the night, he would
'\ " find the bottom of that mill-pond"-pointing to one near
) by. A judge of the court of Genesee county, remarked,
that" whatever Morgan's fate might have been, he deserv-
" ed it-he had forfeited his life.'' A Royal Arch Mason in
LeRoy, declared," that Morgan deserved death, and he
"hoped he had received it"-" a common death," he added
"'!a& too good for him." Another magistrate, always count-
\·- ed a worthy citizen, asked-" What can you do 1 what can
,1
1 "a cat do with.a lion 1 who are your judges 1 who are your
I
~·-" sheriffa 1 and who will be your jurymen 1" The mem-
bers of the committee were ironically asked-" have you
"found Morgan yet ?" They were assured that their ef-
forts would be unavailing. Gentlemen were cautioned
against acting on the committees ; and were openly told,
that whatever the Masons might have done with Morgan,
it was all right-it was a matter of concern to none but
themselves ; that they had a right to deal with their own
members according to their own laws, &c. Such, sir, was
the language-not, by any means, of all-but of far too
many members of the fraternity, in the region where the
outrage was committed. Nor were t,beae remarks, and
Digitized by Coogle
L:£TTER XV. 178
thousands ofothers of similar and shocking import, confined
to a single neighborhood, or spoken in a corner, as you
will have seen. And as these facts and declarations were
repeated from mouth to mouth, and spread abroad over the
face of the land, is it strange, that the excitement should
have been created,-that the anger of the people should
have been stirred up,-that their wrath should have burnt
like a furnace? Nay, sir, would it not have been far more
strange, among a people like the American, if such a spirit
had not been awakened 1 It was a "blessed spirit," as it
was once emphatically declared to be, by the gentleman
who at the present time is governor of New-York. True,
it is deeply to be regretted, that in the progress of the ex-
citement, it was carried to such extremes, and that the pub-
lic vengeance was so far directed against the innocent as
well as the guilty. Allowance, however, iB to be made for
the people, from the peculiarity of the case. The authors
of the outrage were active Freemasons, and it was in their
zeal for the safety of that institution, as they openly avowed.
that they had done this thing. The great body of the peo-
ple, who had been aroused into action upon this occasion.
were not Masons. They knew nothing of the constitution
of the society. They only knew that its proceedings were
veiled in impenetrable secrecy,-of such societies the peo-
ple are always jealous.-and they supposed that once a
Mason, always a Mason. They had no idea that more than
two thirds of those who have taken the degrees, speedily
relinquish their attendance and membership ; and that, for-
getting, soon afterwards, what little they have imperfectly
learned, they fall back among the people, and remain, in
fact, during the whole after-course of their lives, Mason.-
merely in name, without retaining a sufficient knowledge of
the mighty mysteries, to work themselves into an Entered·
Apprenticea' Lodge. These were facts which the uninitia-
Digitized by Google
174 LETTER XV.
ted, forming the great mass of the people, could not know
or comprehend. Hence, in their denunciations of the se-
eret crime they were now endeavoring to disclose and
avenge, they very naturally included the whole body ;-
the more readily, beyond a doubt, because of the silly
boastings of weak members of the brotherhood, in regard
to the extent, the power, the influence, and the universal
identity of the masonic institution, in all ages and countries,
and under all circumstances, together with its universal
knowledge of all things connected with it. Worse conse-
quences followed still. Aspiring politicians seized upon the
opportunity to convert a high and holy feeling of indigna-
tion, to the purposes of their political advancement. The
people were stimulated on the one hand to push matters to
the extremes of persecution ; and persecution, in any cause,
begets opposition. The next, and a necessary consequence,
was to arouse the feelings of the whole fraternity, and, with
few exceptions, array the innocent and the guilty in the
same ronks.
While the storm of popular fury \Vas only directed against
the heads of the guilty, the inactive and merely nominal
members were bidding it roll on ; but when the anathe-
mas of the assai~ants began to be hurled in a spirit of bitter
and vindictive persecution, against all those,"without any
discrimination, (unless by public renunciations they confes-
sed themselves to have been either knaves or fools,) who had
ever entered a lodge-room, they rallied in defence of their
own rights. Thus hundreds, and perhaps thousands of
l\Iasons, rose up in opposition to Anti-masonry, some of
them even mounting t!te apron again, who, but for the belief
that they were persecuted, and for a spirit that would not
brook being trampled on,would ha,·e bidden the Anti-masons
God-speed, without the thought of ever crossing the thresh-
hold of a masonic temple again. Still, it wiH appear in
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVI. 176
tile developements of this history, that the public had but
too frequent cause to continue their jealousy and hatred of
Free-masonry.
But I forbear. This digression is probably too long al-
ready. _ I have been drawn into it, in this place, rather un-
awares. It is, however, a just view of this feature of the
case ; and from it I trust you will perceive, that, even in
the early stages of the excitement, the faults were not alto-
gether upon one side. Could the entire body of Free-ma-
sons, who were as ignorant as myself of the whole Morgan
business, until mouths after it transpired, have looked upon
the matter as I have uniformly done, I can but think that the
result, so far as it respects the public and political tranquili-
ty of those portions of the country where Masonry and
Anti-masonry have come into collision, would have been
widely different from what we have seen.
I•am, sir, very truly yours,
LETTER XVI.
NEw-Yoa:a:, Feb. 10, 1832.
Sm..
Alltraces of Morgan had been lost at Hanford's Land·
ing ; and the hope, for a time entertained, that he might
even yet reappear, when his kidnappers should have either
succeeded, or failed, in their attempts to suppress his book,
either by compromise or intimidation, had disappeared.
And yet, regardless of the deep manifestations of publi£
feeling around, and the tempest breaking fearfully in all di-
rections over them-with a fatuity illustrating most fully
the Roman maxim, that the Deity first afflicts with mad-
nes those whom he intends to destroy,--the authors of the
mischief were still exulting in the belief that their ·great oh-
Digitized by Coogle
176 LETTER XVI,
ject had been accomplished, and that the wonderful te\'ela·
tiona which were to have buried all the wisdom of Solomon
beneath the ruins of the masonic temple, had been effectu-
&lly suppressed. It \\'as at this crisis, when the Masons
were reposing in fancied security, and ridiculing the efforts
of the various committees of investigntion, now in full ac·
tion, that, Qf a sudden, the hated wol'k, to auppreu which,
80 much pains had been taken, so much time and money ex-
pended, and 80 many crimes committed,-was iiiSUed forth
to the world. It purported to be a complete and entire re.
nlation of the secrets of the first three degrees of Free-
masonry, and was accompanied with a notice that the il·
lustrations of the higher degrees, would be shortly forth·
coming. The discomfiture of the conspirators was com•
plete ; their chagrin unspeakable ; their anger without
bounds ;-and many and bitter were the impreeationt
showered upon the head alike•of author and publisher.
It forms no part of the task I have assumed, to discuss
the claims which these revelations have to entire authentici-
ty. Upon this point the public were probably enabled to
draw a tolerably correct conclusion, from the unparalleled
exertions made by the fraternity, in the first instance, to
suppress, and when that end had failed, to discredit them.
The distant masonic associations, ·moreover, were taught
to believe there was danger to be apprehended from these
disclosures, by the arrival of confidential messengers from
the officers of the Grand Lodge of New-York, with an ad·
ditional check-word, to guard the lodges from the intrusion
of" Morgan Masons,"as the readers of his book were called.
This check-word I have never received as a Mason ; but
I am told the fraternity have not been strong enough to keep
it, and that it is published, among other precious secrets, in
"Allyn's Ritual." If these circumstances do not fix i.he
character of the revelations in question, perhaps a still
stronger inferenc~ may be drawn from the fact. that Mor-
•
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVI. 177
~au, whether dead or living, was every where, by the united
voice of Masonry, denounced as a PBRJURED TRAI'I'OR to
the iiHltitution. He could not have been a ?RAI'I'Oil, if his
revelations werefictions, but only an impostor upon the pub-
lic, as the world believed the author of" Jachin and Boaz"
to have been.
But in any event, although Morgan has been canoilized,
as it were, by the writers upon Anti-masonry, yet I cannot
help looking upon his conduct as most unjustifiable and
wicked. If he had actually received the first three de-
grees within the doors of a regularly constituted lodge, be
was certainly bound by the strongest possible consider&·
tions, to maintain his promises inviolate, unless, as some of
the anti-masonic writers have falsely contended, those pro-
mises were extorted by coercion, in which case of course,
they had no validity; or, unless the faithful performance
of such promises, should become unlawful. Thus, if he
were summoned into a court of justice, and the due execu-
tion of the civil law required of him the disclosure of the
secrets of the order, he would be relieved from the inferior
obligation. Nay, it would be his duty to disclose the ee-
ercts. And here, as one of the objections to the order of
Masonry itself, the advice of Paley is directly to the pur-
pose-" never to give a promise which may interfere in the
" event with duty ;" " for," says he, " if it do so interfere,
" the duty must be discharged, though at the expense ofthe
"promise, and not unusually of good name." Paley thua
sustains my view of the case, in its fullest extent. But, set-
ting aside his oaths, which, being extra-judicial, I am dispo-
sed to treat only in the light of solemn promises, or vows,.
his violation of them, as such, cannot be justified, unless,
from the strongest convictions of his conscience and judg-
ment, he was persuaded that the promises were in them-
selves unlawful. "The guilt of such promises," says the.
ethical philosopher just quoted, "lies in the maJUnr, not in
23
Digitized by Coogle
178 LETTER xn.
"the breaking, of .them ; and if, in the interval betwixt tho
.. promise and the performance, a man so far recover his
"reflection, as to repent of his engagements, he ought cer-
" tainly to break through them." But no such case of con-
science could haw arisen with .1\Ic.rgan, so long as he con-
tinued to practise the social and benevolent duties inculca-
ted upon him as a 1\Iason, unminglcd with any of its abuses,
or, so long as he had perceived no abuses to charge upon
the order--and I have never heard that he alledged any ;-
"for,"says the same standard authority, "a proRlise cannot be
"deemed unlawful, where it produces, when performed, no
"eflect, beyond what would have taken place, had the pro-
"mise never been made." This rule may be considered a
sound one, except perhaps, in a class of extreme cases, of
which Morgan's was not one. His case, besides, was nei-
ther of these, nor was he prompted to the disclosure by the
burdenof secret oaths which he abhorred. On the contra-
ry, he was actuated by two of the worst passions which
infest the human heart-AVARicE, and REVENGE. The fact
in respect to the latter point, I have established in a former
communication. It will be equally easy to prove the other
point; and not only thut, but to show, that in using the
means ofobtaining the lucre he coveted, he was at the same
time desirous of escaping public responsibility, by a resort
to the 'same secret oaths which have been so violently-con-
demned. His feelings of vengeance had been aroused by
his exclusion from the Batavia chapter ; and in gratifying
this passion, he saw, or thought he saw, a sure and certain
"way to wealth." .Accordingly, amongst the papers found
when his premises were first searched, was a written oath,
or obligation, subscribed, and certified to have .been sworn
to by his partners in the proposed publication, wherein they
solemnly promised and swore, on the Holy Evangelists of
Almighty God, not to communicate or make known, in any
manner, to any person or persons in the known world, the
.
o'l'''ze. bvGoogle
~ ~- -~..J
·-
LETTEll Xvt. 179
intentions of their principal.to publish a book upon the sub-
ject of Masonry, "neither by writing, marking, or by insm-
" uations," or in any other manner whatsoever. There was
likewise foond among the papers, a bond ~xecuted to Mor-
gan, by Miller, Russel Dyer, and John Davids, his three
partners in the work, in the penal sum of five hundred thou-
- sand dollars, conditioned for the payment of_
one fourth part
of the money that should be received from the sales of the
book. There was, moreover, another paper, being the copy
of a letter purporting to have been addressed to these part-
ners, by which it appeared that they already bad had a
quarrel, in anticipation of the division of the profits to
arise from the sale of the publication. A copy-right was -
taken out for the work, and it was supposed that the sales
would inevitably be enonnous. Indeed, Ketchum, in his
conversations with Mrs. Morgan, during the journey to Ca-
nandaigua, told her that if her husband had man~.-rcd the
business with discretion, he might have realized a million of
money. Such, undoubtedly, were the excited expectation~
of the parties themselves.
I repeat therefore, that Morgan has no claims to the hon-
ors of martyrdom, on the score of moral obligation. The
motives for his disclosures were clearly sordid and hue;
and his conduct in making them was consequently in every
sense unjustifiable. If he was a true .Mason, his revela-
tions were so many violations of confidence, faith, honor,
and, which is above, and over all--of TRUTH, " Confidence
"in promises," says Paley, ·"is essential in the intercourse of
•' human life ; because, without it, the greatest part of our
"conduct would proceed upon chance. But there could be
" no confidence in promises, ifmen were not obliged to per-
" form them ; the obligation therefore to perform promises,
"is essential, to the same ends, and in the same degree."
" There is no vice," says lord Bacon, "that doth so cover
"a man with shame, as to be found false and perfidious."
Digitized by Coogle
180 LETTER XVI.
The eaee of other members of the masonic fntemity,
however, who have disclosed the secrets of the institution,
or borne testimony to the general accuracy of Morgan's
illustrations, as for instance, of the members of the Le Roy
convention, to be more particularly mentioned hereafter, is
widely different from that of Morgan. So, also, in respect
of many clergymen, and other pious individuals, who have
taken the same course. These gentlemen, as we are bound
to believe, have acted from a high and powerful sense of
moral and religious duty. They have seen that a succession
of lawless outrages, ending, most probably, in the perpetra-
tion of a great crime, have been committed by Masons, act-
ingavowedly as such. They have likewise seen Masons, on
the stand, maintaining that the masonic is of higher power
than the civil obligation. And they have been made to believe
-whether_truly or not, ·does not affect the moral character
of the case-they have been made conscientiously to believe.
that the crimes which they have seen, or of which they have
heard, have sprung f~om the nature and principles of the in-
stitution itself; and that those crimes are not only sancti011·
ed, but in certain emergencies, REQUIRED by its obliga-
tions. H~nce they have renounced, and denounced, and
eoncurred in the exposure of these nlledged obligations,.
with the view of aiding in the destruction of an institution,
fraught, as they have recently been taught to believe, with
so much Iniquity. Nor, if we come to the point of strict
construction, have they disclosed any secrets, since those
things can scarcely be called secret, which are published in
thousands of shapes and forms, to the whole world. But
even were it otherwise, those late, or remaining members
of the order, of whom I am now speaking, under the cir-
eumstances supposed, would fi,nd a suffi~ient warrant for
the course they have taken, upon sound principles of moral
philosophy. For, says the reverend and learned John
Brown, " inall YOWS and promissory oaths, the matter must
Digitized by Coogle
LJ!!TT:Ell XVI, 181
"be both lawful and expedient, and in our power to per·
"form, and the end must be to glorify God." •• Nothing,"
says the same writer, " can be more manifest than that
"we may bind ourselves to what is just and lawful, to neces-
" Sa.ry duties ; and that though a promise, oath, or vow,
" cannot bind to sin, yet in any thing not siuful, being taken,
"it binds to peri>imance." But, " no command requiring,
"or bond .engaging, to any thing sinful, can include in it
"any real or valid obligation." In such matters, a man's
conscience must of course prescribe the line of duty.
I have touched upon this branch of the subject, as con-
nected with its consideration ; but have not thougnt it ne-
cessary to go further and deeper into .the discussion of the·
questions of moral obligation which it involves. In some
new treatise on moral philosophy, it is not improbable that
the nature of masonic oaths, and the validity or invalidity
of the obligations they impose, may be learnedly and logic-
ally discussed, by &orne unprejudiced and enlightened wri-
ter. I am aware that a strong argument may be made, and
sustained by the opinions of the highest uninspired authors.
who have treated of the duty of man, from Cicero down tct
Archdeacon Paley, to prove that masonic obligations are
not only imperfect, but actually void. And I am not pre-
pared to say, that the same conclusion may not be drawa
more directly and forcibly from the literal commands and
prohibitions of the sacred writings, taken as the sole basis
of morals. I am also aware, that the binding force of aa
oath, by which the juror pledges himself not to do a parti-
cular act, has been discussed in our legal tribunals. The
fttates of New-York and Virginia passed laws, requiring aD
who sought admission to the bar, or who were appointed to
.any "Civil office, to take and subscribe the oath against duel-
. ting. It has been found expedient to expunge these laws
from the statute-books of both states ; and the inference is,
that even such an obl~tion, though bearing the sanction Q{
Digitized by Coogle
18'! LETTER XVII.
a judicial oath, was considered as doubtful, imperfect, or
dangerous in its nature. But such an abstract investigation
is foreign to the purpose of these letters, or, at least, unes-
sential to it.
However base and perfidious Morgan's conduct had been
towards the masonic fraternity, it affords not the slightest
justification for their outrages upon his property, or his rights
of life and liberty. We live in a land of law, as well as of
liberty; and to the laws we are all amenable for our good
conduct, and by them only are we punishable for the bad.
Were it otherwise-were private associations of men, or
secret societies, formed for no matter what purpose,-allow-
ed to incorporate penal Iaws with their social regulations,
and permitted to execute them, there would be no longer
personal safety in the land ; and the secret chambers ofthe
lodge-room would become ns terrible as the ear of Dioay-
si us, or the subterranean vaults of the sacred vehme.
I am, sir, very truly yours.
LETTER XVII.
NEw-YoRK, Feb. 12, 1832.
Sue,
Having thus failed in the principal design of defeating
~he publication of the disclosures, the conspirators, and their
friends next attempted to divert, or allay, for a term at
least, the tempest of popular indignation which had set in
with so much violence. For this purpose an intimation wu
given out, and very rapidly and widely circulated, that the
disappearance and protracted absence of Morgan, was noth-
ing more than a nue de guerre, to create and sustain an ex-
citement, amidst the noise and alarm of which a countless
number of worthless books might be sold for three or four
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVII. 183
times their cost. The device succeeded to an extent that ·
could hardly have been anticipated by its authors; and such,
for a long time, was the prevailing belief, among at least
nine-tenths of the people ofthe northern states. I say north·
ern 1tates, because I have been seriously informed, within
a few months, by gentlemen of distinguished consideration,
from th~ southern states, that, in those states, they do not,
many of them, even yet, believe in the reality of the causes
ofthe Anti-masonic excitement ; considering the whole story
of the abduction and subsequent fate of Morgnn, to be a fic-
tion, invented solely to subscrve local political objects. Tho
fact is, the atrocity of the deed was such, that men were
exceedingly reluctant to believe it possible that it could
have been committed, in the manner, and for the paltry pur-
pose described, and by persons of so much respectability.
Beyond the immediate region of the excitement, therefore,
for a very long time, but little heed was paid to the clamor,
the murmurings of which only were heard at so great a dis·
tanee. Masons.--! speak of the great majority who were
not in the secret-and those who were not masons,-alike
believed it impossible, that a free American citizen could
thus be kidnapped, in open day, and carried with unlawful
violence, against his own consent, for hundreds of miles,
through a thickly settled territory, occupied, too, by a peo-
ple distinguished of all others in the country for their mo-
rals and their intelligence. That a man, under such cir·
eumstances, and among such n people, could thus be drag-
ged away into exile, and perhaps murdered, by means of
a conspiracy, embracing, as it was alledged to have done,
hundreds of such people, was too improbable a tale to ob-
tain ready credence ; and it was not believed, for many
months afterwards, and until confirmations strong as proofs
from holy writ, from hundreds of conspiring circumstances,
and the lips of clouds of witnesses, rendered longer disbc-•
lief impossible. There were, likewiso, a variety of other
Digitized by Coogle
·------- . :>oo.--
184 LETTER XYII.
8tories afloat, during the several months to which I refer,
all tending to distract the public mind. Among these were
rumors that the absentee had been taken to Niagara, and
had passed over voluntarily into Cnnada, with an intention
of joining the North Western Fur Company,-he himself
desiring as much to remove beyond the influence of Miller,
as the Masons wished to have him do so. Another story was,
that he had been sent to Quebec, to enlist on board a ship of
war. And another, and yet more probable tale, arose from
the circumstance that within the fortnight after Morgan had
been taken away, a sloop was wrecked on lake Ontario, of
which all the crew and passengers perished~ It was sup-
posed that Morgan must have been one of these passengers.
Indeed all were anxious to believe any thing, rather than
the horrible accusations against so large a number of men
as it wall by this time known were leagued in the conspi·
racy.
None of these tales, however, diverted the committees in
the west, from the efficient discharge ofthe duties devolving
upon them by the nature of the case. At the October t<'rm
of the General Sessions of the Peace, for the county of Gen-
esee, bills of indictment were obtained against James Gan-
son, Jesse French, Roswell Wilcox, and James Hurlburt,
for a riot, and for assaulting, and falsely imprisoning Col.
Miller. The finding of these indictments was the first legal
proceeding instituted in the Morgan business.
From the 7th to the 26th of October, Governor Clinton
received no further information from the Batavia Commit-
tee. Understanding, however, from the public paper's, that
no tidings had been heard of Morgan, and fearing, from the
tone of the reports from the west, that the outrages bad
been of a much more serious and aggravated character,
than he ·had at first supposed, the Go-vernor transmitted to
the committee at Batavia, his second proclnmation, accom-
pnied by the following letter :-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVII. 185
.. G&NTLBMBN,
"Albany, 26th October, 1826•
" Underatanding that William Morgan is still missing,
I have thought it advisable to i88Ue the enclosed proclama-
tion, offering further rewards, which you will please to see
published in the newspapers of your, and the neighboring
counties, and in handbills, if you conceive it advisable. The
expenses of which I will pay.
" I will thank you for such further advice as in your
opinion may lead to a full developement of the outrageous
proceedinga that have occurred in your vicinity.
" I am, gentlemen, &c.
"DE WITT CLINTON.
"T. F. TALBOT, Esq., and others, committee, &c."
By this second proclamation, various rewards were of·
fered for the apprehension of the several offenders in the
outrages complained of, and a specific reward for the dis-
covery of the place to which the person of Morgan had been
conveyed, in order, to quote the language of the d0cwnent
itself, "that the ommders may be brought to condign pun-
"ishment, and the violated majesty of the laws thereby ef-
" fectually vindicated." All sheriffs, magistrates, and other
officers, were again enjoined to activity in the discharge of
their duties on this occasion.•
It was early in November before this proclamation was
issued to the public in the region of the excitement. In the
mean time no little fault had been found by the people of
the west, because of the moderate tone of the first procla-
mation, and the absence of any specific reward. Complaint
was likewise made of the second, because of the small
'amounts of the several rewards proposed,-the highest be-
ing only three hundred dollars. But at the time it was is-
sued, from the causes stated in th,e first part of this letter,
neither Governor Clinton, nor his advisers at Albany, coulcl
+ Vide appendill E.
2.4
___ o;9;uzedt>yG
~ogle_
186 LETTEil XVII.
have had any just idea of the enormity of the oftence, or of
the extent of the excitement.
DUring the months of November and December, the ex·
eitement continued to increase, and extend its sphere of ac-
tion among the people. At the November tenn of the
General Sessions of the Peace for the county of Ontario, in-
dictments were found against Nicholas G. Cbeseboro, Loton
Lawson, Edward Sawyer, and John Sheldon, for a conspi-
racy to seize William Morgan, and carry him thence to for-
eign parts, and to secrete and confine him there. A second
indictm~nt was likewise found against the same parties, for
carrying the conspiracy into execution. These indict-
ments, by consent of parties, were sent to the Court of
Oyer and Terminer, to be held at Canandaigua, in January
then following. Meantime the committees were engaged
in pushing their investigations with all possible perseve-
rance and assiduity. In the course of their inquiries, they
ascertained some further particulars respecting the myste-
rious night-ride, from Canandaigua to Rochester, or Han-
ford's Landing, in no wise calculated to lessen their appre.
bensions for the safety of Morgan. · The carriage driven by
Hiram Hubbard, as formerly related, stopped at the village
of Victor, ten miles from Canandaigua. It was first driven
into the yard of the tavern, kept by Dr. Thomas Beach.
and from thence into the yard of one Enos Gillis, in the rear
of the b~ of the last-mentioned personage, and about for- ·
trrods from the house of Beach, entirely out of sight of the
road. Amohg the company in some way connected with
this mysteriously moving carriage, which ~as not allowed
to stop where it could be seen for any time, was a man by
the name of James Gillis, who then resided at Montmoren-
cy, in Pennsylvania; and it is supposed that his presence
among the conspirators affords a BO!ution to the remark of
Ketchum, to Mrs. Morgan, at Canandaigua, that a man from
PGIUlSylvaoia ha,d taken hor husband off in a private car-
Digitized by Google
---- --·
LETTEll XVII. 187
riage, having a warrant for him. lames Gillis now took a
horse from his brother's stable, and proceeded forward. A
hostler was likewise sent to bring out a horse for Lawson,
whom he knew, and on returning to the tavern, he heard Dr.
Beach, in speaking earnestly of &ome one, declare : " Dama
iim, he ought to be draum and quartered." James Gillis
was seen the next day, but disappeared immediately, and
was not found again for many months. Enos Gillis was ex-
amined before the grand jury in November, but soon after·
wards removed away, and never afterwards showed himself
in the county, or country, where it was probable he might
be called on to testify. Hubbard's carriage was closely
eurtained on his way to Hanford's ; but the curtains were
rolled up after he had discharged his company in the road,
near the forest. The agents dispatched by the committee,
to traverse the line of the ridge road, ascertained that be-
fore Hubbard's carriage arrived at Rochester, which wu
just at the breaking of the morning light, a carriage belong-
ing to Ezra Platt, a Royal Arch Mason, and the keeper of
a livery stable, in that town, was procured and sent for·
ward in advance of the Canandaigua carriage, and directed
to stop at a sequestered place near Hanford's tavern. A
variety . of circumstances not essential to the narrative,
proved, very clearly, that the carriage which started thUI
early out of Rochester, was intended for the relief of that
driven from Canandaigua to Hanford's. Indeed, when cal·
led before the grand jury, Hubbard himself swore that tbe
party which left his carriage in the " secluded" place, got
into that which had been sent from Rochester, and which,
after taking up his passengers, proceeded thence, on the
ridge road, towards the Niagara. This carriage was next
particularly noticed at Clarkson, fifteen miles further west,
jn consequence of its stopping in the middle of the road,
while the driver alighted for a moment, and went into the
tavern. The carriage then proceeded on. with the curtaimt
Digitized by Go~le==
.188 LETTER XYIJ.
kept cl01e down, although it was a very warm day. Two
and a half miles further on, at the house o(a Mr. Allen, the
carriage again stopped, and the horses were changed-the
fresh team being taken from the field where t..liey were
working, for that purpose. The driver from near Han-
fOrd's to this place, soon afterwards absconded, and was not
heard of for a long time afterwards. The mysterious car-
riage, closed carefully as before, arrived at Gaines at about
12 o'clock at noon, on the 13th of September-passed di-
rectly through the village, and stopped about a mile west
of it, in the rpad, at a distance from any house. At this
place Elihu Mather came up, with a pairof horses belonging
to his brother, James, who lived at Gaines. These horses
were placed before the closed carriage, and Mather him-
~lf, although a man of property, engaged in a good busi-
ness, mounted the box, and drove on, to the surprise of the
inhabitants along the road, who knew his circumstances.
On his return, he stated that he·had driven the carriage for
his brother. When the close carriage arrived at Ridge-
way, a man named Jeremiah Brown, supervisor of the
town, and formerly a member of the legislature, suddenly
took his horses from ploughing in the .field, fed them, and
placing them before· the mysterious carriage, mounted the
box himselfand drove on to Wright's tavern, nearly north
of the village of Lockport. At this place the carriage was
driven into the barn, and was so strongly guarded, as to
prevent any persons-and there were many collected there
-from holding the least communication with, or even from
seeing it. There was to be an installation of a chapter at
Lewiston, on the 14th, the day following, on which occa-
sion a clergyman, of Rochester,-yet in orders, unfortunate-
ly for the church, though in another state~elivered the
address. He is represented to·have given a most extraor-
dinary toast at the dinner of the celebration, which may be
noted hereafter. But it has nothing to do in this place.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVII. 189
This clergyman, however, was the only pasaenger in the
stage from Rochester for Lewiston, which preceded the
carriage whose progrO&s I am tracing ; and on arriving at
the town of Ridgeway, he stopped the stage long enough to
send into the field, for Brown to come to him in haste : He
did so, and they held a private conference. When the close
carriage came along, Brown very readily and spontaneously.
as it were, took his horses from the plough in the field, to
relieve those in the harness of the carriage, as I have just
mentioned. There were many people at Wright's, some
of whom wore armed, as it appean;d, and it was told the
committee, by some one at the house, that they had had or-
ders to prepare a supper that night, for a nwnber of Ma-
sons. The care with which the carriage was sec!uded, in-
duced some inquiries, and it was rumored about amongst the
people, that it contained a prisoner whom it was necessary
to guard. At about 10 o'clock, that night, this carriage
drove away from Wright's, towards Lewiston, and when
it arrived at Mollineaux's tavern, four miles farther on, Eli
Bruce, the sheriff of the county of Erie, in which they then
were, was with it. He went into the house, woke up the
, landlord, and desired him to put a fresh pair of horses be-
for~ the carriage. The son of Mr. Mollineaux opposed let-
ting the horses go, unless he went with them himself, as he
said they were young, and he was opp<)sed to placing them
in the hands of strangers. Bruce, however, would not list-
en to this, but pointing to Brown, said he had a careful driver•
.Mather stopped at this place, and Brown drove Oil-re-
turning to ~lollineaux's just before day light on the morn-
ing ofthe 14th.-The horseswere very much exhausted,hav-
ing been driven twenty-six miles, as he admitted, since he
had taken them. The next trace of the mysterious car-
riage discovered by the committee, was the information,
that during that night, Bruce, with Samuel Barton, a stage
proprietor, caJIPd at the Htage office, at Lewiston, for a car-
Digitized by Coogle
196 LETTilR XVII.
riage and horses to go to Youngstown. A· driver, named
Corydon Fox, was called up, who harnessed a team to a
carriage. He then called at a tavern, as directed, for
Bruce, who got into the carriage, and directed him to drive
round into a back street, in front of Barton's dwelling house,
which he acordingly did. Arriving there, he found a c&.r'o
riage, without horses, standing in the middle of the street,
with the curtains closed down. Bruce here descended
from the carriage ; and Fox, wbo kept his place on the box,
saw a third man assist him (Bruce) in taking a man out of .
·the other carriage, and transferring him to their own. Not
a word, nor a whisper, was uttered during this movement,
and the same gloomy silence remained unbroken until they
reached Youngstown., six miles. At this place they stop-
ped in front of the house of Col. King, who was called up
by Bruce. While the latter Wit$ holding a conversation
with King, the driver thought he heard a call for water
from within his carriage, and Bruce replied-" Yes, you
shall have some," but none was brought. King now came
out, and entered the carriage with Bruce; and Fox was
directed to drive towards Fort Niagara.-about a mile dis-
tant. They stopped near the grave yard, about eighty
rods from the fort, towards which four persons who de-"'
scended from the carriage, directed their steps. Bruce
shortly turned round, and calling to Fox, dismissed him, by
telling him to go about his business.
Such, in substance, was the purport of the information
~ollected by the committee, during the months of Nov('mber
and December. It will at once be perceived that this nar-
rative,• taking it in connexion with the history of the occur-
rences at the Canandaig•1a prison, as given in a former let-
ter, reduced it to a moral certainty, that Morgan had been
thrust into the carriage, at Canandaigua, and kept in a state
'
• Abridged from the report of the Lewiston committee.
Digit. edbyGoogle
LETTER XVII. 19J
of duress, until Bruce and others left the carriage near the
burying ground, close by the fort at Niagara, in the gloom
of night. This moral ce~nty, as it respects the identity
of the person who was taken from the carriage driven by
Fox, was increased, by "his conversations, on the morning
of the 14th of September, with a Mason by the name of
Paul Mosher. In relating his night jaunt down to Youngs-
town, Fox stated, that when King came out of his house, oD
• stepping up to the carriage, he thought he understood him,
[King,] to say, "what, Morgan, are you here I".Moaher not
knowing what to make of the affair, spoke aucceasively to
two other Masons, who .both expre88ed a belief that the
person alluded to was Morgan. And one of them com-
mented on the imprudence of Barton, in having sent a dri-
ver who was not a Mason, on such an errand. Fox, who
had been speaking of the circumstances about the village
of Lewiston, was admonished to keep his own counsel, at
the peril of losing his place ; and within a few days after-
wards, his lips were sealed, as it was hoped, by ~ving the
honors ofmasonry conferred upon him, free from the custo-
mary fees and c~ges. Such. a 1tep could not have beete
taken, witJaout a dilpeuation by ~ xMnimotu "ote of tit.
.lodge. But with all this chain of circumstantieJ testimony.
there was yet no satisfactory legal proof of the facts, which
had thus, beyond doubt, transpired. The story, however,
was told to the public, and it is not to be supposed that such
an excite~nt as had already been kindled, would burn
Jess fiercely with these additional materials for combustion.
The connexion of Bruce with the mysterious carriage,
having been thus satisfactorily established, he was ar-
rested on the 29th of December, and brought before a ma-
gistrate at Youngstown, on the charge of having forciblyt
and without due process of law, held William Morgan in
iuress for tome time, and having secretly and illegally coa-
1'eyed him thence to parts ~own. Five witDessee were
Digitized by Google
"
192 LETTER XVII.
examined before the magistrate, and the facts already con-
nected with the name of Bruce, were clearly established.
Bruce made neither explanations nor defence ; but as no
proof was adduced on the examination, that a William
Morgan had been forcibly seized and carried away from
Canandaigua or elsewhere, nor that force, violence or ·re-
straint, had been exercised upon the person of any indivi-
dual in the carriage, he was discharged.
On the assembling of a grand jury for Monroe county,
in this same month of December, the presiding judge of the
court strongly charged them to investigate the circumstan·
ces ofthe outrage, which was then the leading theme ofdis-
course in all mouths. They called many witnesses before
them, but failed in eliciting any satisfactory information, al-
though of the number examined was Ezra Platt, who had
furnished the carriage from Rodlester. Edward Doyle, one
of the witnesses, refused to testify, lest he should criminate
himself. The jury found no bills ; but having ascertained
that Morgan had been taken through that county, they
made a presentment, stating that fact, from which the
foUowing passage is quoted :-" From the great caution
• which seems to have been observed, in keeping both !\for•
" gan, and the place of his destination, from the view and
"knowledge of all but such persons as may have been con-
" fidentially entrusted with the design, and who would de-
" cline giving evidence, upon the ground that it might tend
"to criminate themselves, the grand jury have found it ~
"possible to establish, by competent testimony, the unlaw-
" ful agency of any citizen in this county, in that transac-
" tion.~
Another public meeting was now called in Rochester, and
committees upon the subject appointed. This meeting was
attended by Burrage Smith, and John Whitney. A Dum·
her of masons were placed on the committee. But it was
soon ascertained, by the otl.f'r members, that "llll their pro-
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XVII. 198
"ceedings we~ divulged by these mai!onic associates, not4
"withstanding an honorary obligation to the contrary."
The sitting of the Court of Oyer and Terminer for the
county of Ontario, at which the first indictments were to be
traversed, was now approaching; and, as the excitement
was very great, the District Attorney of that coWlty, Bowen
Whiting, Esq., believing that if the persons indicted were
tried by counsel there, the public excitement would not be
allayed, let the result be what it might, addressed a letter
to Governor Clinton, on the 7th of December, making this
representation, and requesting the attendance and assistance
of the Attorney General at the trials. This letter was re-
ceived by the Governor on the 11th, and a copy thereof im-
mediately, on the same day, transmitted to the Attorney
General, as appears from the following note from the Gov..
ernor himself:-
"Albany, lltk December, 1896.
"Sra,
" I enclose to you a copy of a letter from the Diatrict
Attorney of Ontario CoWlty, by which it appears that your
attendance at the Oyer and Terminer, on the 1st Monday
in January next, in that COWlty, is considered highly impor•
tant.
"Concurring with the Circuit Judge, and the District At·
tomey in that opinion, and hoping that you will find it not
inconvenient to attend on that occasion, I consider it my duty
ao request it. "I am, &c.
"DE WITT CLINTON•
.. S.urmu. A. TALcOTT, Esq.
".Attorney GeMral."
~
The Attorney General did not atteria the trials, but for
1'hat reasons I am not informed.
I ~ve the honor! &c.
25
Digitized by Coogle
IN LETTER XVIII.
LETTER XVIll.
·NEw-YoRK, Feb. 14, 1832.
81a,
The Circuit Court, and Court of Oyer and Terminerp
for the county of Ontario, commenced its sittings on Mon-
day, January 1st, 1827. The present governor of this stater
then a circuit judge, presided, as80Ciated with whom, upon
the bench, were, the Hon. Nathaniel W. Howell, first judge
of the county, and judges Younglove, Atwater, and Brooks.
The first of that series of extraordinary trials which have
occupied so wide a space in our judicial annals during the
last five years, was now' commenced, by the arraignment of
Cheseboro, Lawson, Sawyer, and Sheldon, on the several
indictments heretofore mentioncd,'to which they severally
pleaded not guilty. Great interest was manifested on this
occasion, by all parties. Deputations from the different
committees organized by popular meetings, were in attend.;
anee, and more than one hundred witnesses, who had been
aubpmnaed, were present, together with an immense con-
course of people. The case, in all its features, was without
a precedent, and a deep and universal anxiety existed amoog
the people, to have the dark mystery unriddled. The bar
presented a formidable array of counsel on the important ·
occasion, embracing most of the professional talent in that
region of country. The prosecution was conducted by
Bowen Whiting, the District Attorney, assisted by seven
other counsellors, viz : John Dixon, Wm. H. Adams, J.
Wilson, T. F. Talbot, H. W. Taylor, 0. Benjamin, and C. ·
Butler. The counsel for the defendants were, John C•.
Spencer, M. H: Sibley, H. F. Penfield, and W. Hubbell.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVIII. 195
On Tuesday morning, the second day of the term, the
public prosecutor moved on the trials. The first witness
called was David C. Miller, but to the surprise of every
body, it was found that he was absent. Subpamaed by
both parties; and having borne such a promin~nt part in
the transactions which had so deeply agitated the commu-
nity, and being, moreover, so much interested in having the
guilty punished, his absence was a matter of astonishment.
It having been satisfactorily shown to the court, that Miller
was at home in Batavia, and in good health, attachments
were granted at the instance of both parties, and. the trials
were postponed, to allow time for their return.
On Wednesday morning January 3d, the motion to bring
on the trials was renewed,-when Cheseboro, Sawyer, and
Lawson, severally withdre'! their pleas of not guilty, and
pleaded guilty to both indictments ;-reserving the right to
move the court in arrest of judgment upon either. The
counsel "for Sheldoa then stated that he admitted that the
offence charged in the indictment against him, had been
committed, but denied having had any participation there-
in. Under tltese circumstances the case went to trial; but
it will readily be perceived that the admissions of the de-
fendants only left it necessary for the prosecution to identi-
fy Sheldon with the conspiracy. Of course the scope of
the inquiry was greatly narrowed, and the interest propor-
tionately lessened. The particulars of tl1e taking of Mor-
gan from the prison, and the active participation of Lawson,
the presence of Cheseboro and Sawyer, &c., was proved
accurately as I have related the facts in a former letter.
The wife of the jailor testified, that according to the best of
her knowledge and belief, the defendant at the bar, Sheldon,
was the same man who.came to the jail with La~vson, calling
himself Foster, and who assisted in dragging Morgan away.
A number of witnesses were examined to prove an alibi;
and the testimony was very strong that the defendant had
Digitized by Coogle
\
196 LETTJ:ll X.'VUJ.
been sitting at Kingsley's tavern the whole evening ; that
he lodged there that night ; and consequently that he could
have had no participation in the transactions at the jail.
There was, however, among the witnesses on the part of
the prosecution, a Mr. Green, an inn-keeper, from Batavia,
w!J., swore, positively, that the defendant came to his house
late in the evening of the lOth of September, took supper,
and lodging, and breakfasted there on the following morn-
ing. He, (the defendant,) entered into conversation with
the witness ; said that he had been suspected of having
kindled the fire in Miller's office, and desired him, (the wit-
ness) to recollect that he had lodged in his house that night.
The defendant talked a good deal upon the subject of Mor-
gan's proposed revelations, avowed himself a Royal Arch
Mason, and said he had been in that neighborhood several
days, to assist in suppressing the book. He likewise sent
for Kelsey Stone, with whom he held some private conver-
sation; and while there wrote a letter in hieroglyphics, which
he addressed to General Solomon Van Rensselaer. The
witness, a respectable man, was very positive, as to the
identity of Sheldon, and, in regard to all the circumstan-
ces-particularly of the letter, which he saw the defendant
sign with his own hund, 'John Sheldon.' On the other hand,
Kelsey Stone was introduced as a witness in behalf of the
defendant, and swore, that according to his best recollec·
tion, he was not the man whom he had been sent to meet at
the house of Mr. Green, in Batavia. The person whom he
had there seen was a stranger, to him unknown; but he was
confident Sheldon was not the man. In other respects, hia
testimony fully confinned that of Green. It was proved,
howe\·er, by the Canandaigua witnesses, that on the morn-
ing after Morgan had been carried away, the defendant had
appeared to know much about the suLjcct. To a Mr. Pres-
cott, he had said, " Morgan is carried off: I know all about
"the business, but shall not tell you. I know who w.ent
Digitized by Google
LETTER XVIII• 197
.. intothe jail after Morgan-he does not live in this village-
" Morgan has gone where the people of this country will ne-
.. ver see him ; but if his family will accept the funds which
"the Masons have provided for them, they will be well
"enough off." The impression of the jailor's wife, that the
defendant and the man Foster, were one and the same per-
son ; the positive testimony of Green; and confessions like
that which I have just quoted, from the lips of the defendant
himself, were too strong against him, and he was convicted.
Sheldon, afterwards, made a deposition, which was filed of
record, and in which he swore that he was not at the jail at
the time referred to; that he had not been at Batavia within
eight years ; that he had never seen the witness, Green,
until in court on that occasion ; that he had never visited
the jail in company with Loton Lawson; that he was not
the man whom the jailor's wife had supposed to be Foster P
and that he had never seen or known William Morgan.
His admissions upon the subject, he also deposed, " were
"made in the way of romance, and from amusement only."
And so it afterwards appeared ; for it was by subsequeJ1t
disclosures clearly proved, that Sheldon was in truth and in
fact an innocent man, although the witness, Green, was ab..
solved from the imputation of perjury, from the fact which
afterwards appeared, that the mysterious stranger who ~as
at Green's house, under the circumstances mentioned, was
a Mr. Averill, from Orleans county, whose dress and ap-
pearance so strongly resembled those of Sheldon, as to
occasion t:1e mistake.
Among the witnesses sworn upon this trial, were, Bur-
rage Smith, and John 'Whitney, of Rochester. Both of
them objected to answering any questions, because, in do-
ing so, they apprehended that they might criminate .them-
selves. After being well instructed by the court, however,
as to their privileges, they testified in part. Smith admitted
thnt he carne to Caoondaigua from llochester, on the 12th
I
Digitized by Coogle
198 LETTER XVIII.
of September. He also admitted that he saw Lawson, but.
declined answering the question whether he had heard any
conversation between Lawson and others about carrying
Morgan away. His objection having been overruled by
the court, he then admitted that he did hear Lawson in con-
• versation with three or four of.tters, upon that subject, on
the side-walk, near the jail. He left Canandaigua on the
evening that Morgan was taken away, between 6 and 8
o'clock. He admitted that he was at Lewiston, attending
the installation of a chapter, two or three days afterwards.
Being asked if he saw Morgan at Fort Niagara, his counsel
objected to the question, and the court set it aside, as being
irrelevant. Whitney testified to the fact of his coming to
Canandaigua on the said 12th of September, in company
with Smith; but declined telling at what time he departed on
his return, lest he should criminate himself. Corydon Fox,
the stage driver from Lewiston to Youngstown, was also a
witness upon this trial. He testified merely to the fact of
having driven a carriage, sometime in September, with
closed curtains, down to the river. Three or four persons
got out of the carriage, but he did not know that either of
them was Morgan, or that any person in the carriage was
confined. He only knew one of the persons who rode with
!Jim on that occasion, and that one was neither of the de-
fendants.
I have already stated that Sheldon was found guilty by
the jury. They were absent only one hour, On Friday
<'Vcning, January 5th, the counsel for the defendants moved
Hll arrest ofjudgment upon one of the indictments, arguing
that the defendants could not be convicted both for a con-
spiracy to do an unlawful act, and also for the doing of that
act ; and they ~ailed upon the public prosecutor to elect the
indictment upon which he would take judgment. After
argument upon both sides, the court decided that judgment
should not be pronounced upon both indictments, but that
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVIII. 199
in each case, as soon as it should have been pronounced
upon, a nolk prossequi should be entered upon the other.
On the following morning, January 6th, the defendants ap-
peared at the bar.tor judgment, and several witnesses were
called, and examined by the public prosecutor, in aggrava-
tion of the case.. Among these Mrs. Morgan was examined,
and her appearance and manner made a favorable impres-
sion in her behalf. But no additional facts were elicited.
Depositions were then put in by their counsel, to be heard
in mitigation of their offence, by three of the defendants.
Cheseboro deposed that he had not seen Morgan since the
night of the 11th of September, when he was taken from
the magistrate's office by the officer who committed him to
prison. He knew it was intended to take Morgan away,
but supposed that he had consented to go freely, and he
was not aware that any force bad been employed against
him. · Their object was to remove him from beyond the
neighborhood and influence of Miller, who was, as they be-
lieved, inducing him to publish a book, disclosing the secrets
of Masonry, which they thought was calculated to bring
disgrace upon the order. He declared that he had had no
hand in any subsequent transactions in respect to Morgan ;
that he had been informed that Morgan had been carried
into the county of Monroe-since which time he had not
heard what had become of him, and knew not where he
was. But in opposition to this, it was testified by Israel B.
Hall, called by the prosecution, that on the morning after
Morgan was taken away, he called on Chescboro to explain
the transaction. The lp.tter replied that Morgan was where
Miller would not get hold of him-he guessed he might be
on board of a ship; but avoided giving direct answers.
Sawyer deposed that he had never seen Morgan until the
same evening ofthe 11th September, in the justice's office,..-
that he had heard nothing previously ofany desiills against
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XVIII.
him,-thnt he was not aware of any intention of taking him ·
from the jail, on the evening of the 12th, until Lawson met
him during the evening in the street, and asked him to go
to thejail to persuade the jailor's wife to release 1\forgan, on
his paying the amount of the execution. He thought dur-
ing the whole time, that it was all a matter of willingness
and consent on the part of Morgan, to go away, until after
be came out into the street, when he expressed h;s reluc4
tance, and the struggle ensued, at which the deponent was
surprised. He did not know how much resistance Morgan
made, or how much force was applied to compel him to go
along. He was prevented from interfering by the surprise
into which he was thrown, but deeply regretted that he had
not interfered. This omission was the only criminal part
of his agency in the matter, with which he could reproach
himself. He followed after Morgan, at the distance of some
rods, and saw him taken into the carriage. He concurred
with Cheseboro ·as to the motive of his removal, and declar.
ed that he had never seen Morgan since he entered the car·
riage, and knew not what had become of him.
In addition to these depositions, a number of the most res-
pectable citizens of Canandaigua were examined as to the
general habits and character of the defendants, and these
testimonials were in all respects strongly in their favor.
In behalf of Sheldon, the deposition which I have already
noted above, was put in and read. Chescboro, .Sawyer,
and Lawson, all deposed that Sheldon, so far ns they were
acquainted with the transactions in question, was entirely
irmocent. But the jury had not so found him, and he wag
sentenced with the others. In the address with which Judgfl
Throop prefaced his sentence, he was, I think, particularly
forcible, and his remarks were so just, and so well expres-
sed, that a few passages may, very properly, be transcribed
·from it:-
Digitized by Google
LE'l'TER XVIII, 201
"Yoa llaw been con'ficted," Aid the judge, "ofadaq,wickechnd pre-
a\lmptu0ua c:rime--.ucb an one as we did hope would not in oqr day hue
polluted this land. You have robbed .the stAte of a citizen, a citizen of hia
liberty, a "·ife of a husband, and a family of helpless children of the endear·
ments and protecting care of a perent. ·And whether the unfort111!8.te vic-
tim of your rage baa been immolated, or ia in the land olthe living, we .,
ignorant, and even you do not pretend to know. 'It is admitted in this easP,
and atan.
da proved, that Morgan was, by a hypocritical pretence of friend·
.ship and charity, and that, too, in the impoRing shape of pecuniary reheffo a
distressed cand poverty bound prisoner, beguiled to entrllllt himself to one of
your number, who eeized him, u aoon u a confederate arrived to hia aid,
almost at his prison door, and in the night ti•ne hurried him into a carriage,
and f.Jrcibly transported him out of the state. But, great as are the individ.
ual wrongs which you have inAicted on these helpless and wretched human
beings, they arc not the heaviest part of your crime. You have disturbed
the public peace-you have dared to raise your parracidaJ arms against the
laws and constitution of your government-you have asswn~ a power
whicH is incompatible with a due subordination to the laws and public au-
thority ofyour state. He was a citizen under tho protection of our laws J
you were citizens and owed obcdionce to them. 'Vhat hardihood and wick•
edneu then prompted you to ateel your hearts ag.Uuat the ci.Ums of humani-
ty, and to dare set at defiance those laws to which you owed submi•~ion,and
wi.Uch cannot suffer a citizen's liberty to be restrained wit!{ impuni~y. with-
out violating its duti<-'1! of protection, assured to every individual undrr the
BOCial compcct. • • • • • • • • • • •· • • • • •
OUr laws will reaent eueh attacks as you have made upon their 80\'ereignty.
Your comluct has creat<·d, in the pcopl'\ of this section of tho country, a
strong feeling of virtuous indignoti,m. Th<' court rPjoices to witnessJt.-to
be made !lUre that a citiz('n's p•mwn cannot be invaded by lawless violence,
without ita being felt by every individual in the community. It ia a bleaeed
apirit, and we do hope that it wiU not 8ubside-that it will be accompanied
by a ~ca;~cless \-igilance, and untiring activity, until every actor in this profli-
gate conspiracy is hunted from his hiding place, and brought before the tr'-
bunals of the country, to receive-the punishment merited by his crime. We
think that we see in this public aenlllltion the spirit which brought us into
existence as a nation, and a pledge that our rights and liberties are destined
to endure. But this in not all; your off~nce was not the result of passion
auddenly excited, nor the dc>t>d ofone individual. It was preconcerted, delib-
eratod upon, and oanied into effect, by the dictates of th~ secret councih
and conclave ofIDIUIJ actora. It takes its deepest hues of guilt from a con-
llpiracy-a crime most dreaded from tho depravity of bP-art it evinces, the
power for unlawful purposes which it combines, and from its ability to defY
the power nfthe law,andits uhimate danger to the public peoee. Hence it is,
that the crime is considered full, when the wicked purpose is proved to havt
been formed; and the subsequent ce.rrying into effect the object of the ccnr.
•piracy, does not, in tho eye of the law, elevate tbe de2fCc of the ~IJ\e·:'
211
Digitized by Google
LETTER XIX.
· In conclusion, the court intimated its regret that the law
had only made the oftcnce of which the defendants were
guilty, a misdemeanor, instead of a felony. The omission,
it waa supposed, had arisen li-om the great improbability
that such a crime coukl ever be committed iu this cowltry ;
but the court thought it could not discharge its duty, with-
. out depriving the defendants of a portion of that liberty,
which, in the plenitude of lawless force, they had taken
from Morgan. I.awson was tlten sentenced to two years
imprisonment, in the county jail ; Cheseboro, to imprison-
ment for one year, in the same place; Sheldon to an impri-
somnent of three months; and Sawyer to one.
On the day before the adjournment, Miller was brought
np befortl the cot.rt tmder the attachments that had been
issued on Tuesday, to answer lor his contempt. It appear-
ed by his answers, on oath, to the intmTogatories put, that
although the subprenas had been served, directing his at-
tendance on Monday, yet, that he did not leave his home
until Wednesday; and that after tra...-elling to Avon, he
digressed from the road into another town, upon private
· business. He further stated that no fees had been tendered
to him at the time of the service of the subprenas, and tha1
he had not aDY money himselfto bear his expem;es. Under
these latter circumstances, he was discharged by the court.
Thw much for the first of the " Morgan trials."
I am, sir, very respectfully, yours, &c.
LETTER XIX.
NEw-YoRK, Feb. 15, 1882.
Sur,
On the 2:ld ofNovember,Governor Clinton had received
a long letter from Mr. Talbot, ofthe Batavia committee, ex-
pressing the satisfaction of the committee at the course that
Digitized by Google
LE'I'TER XIX.
had been pursued by him. "If," says this letter," we have
" not sooner addressed you on this subject, it has not been
" for want of a desire to assure you of our regard and rc-
" spect for you as our chief magistrate. I had no hesitation
•• in assuring my friends here, that 11. violation of the laws
"would in every case meet with your strong and marked
... censure, and that all would be done by you that we had a •
"right to expect. I well remember the course you pursu-
" ed when mayor of New-York, and I felt then, as I do now,
"perfectly confident that neither your personal influence,
"nor your official authority, could be brought to the aid of
*'any improper plan, whatever was the object of those con-
" cerned." Regretting tl1at he was not able to furnish any
aecurate information as to the fate of Morgan, Mr. Talbot,
the writer, then proceeds to detail to the Governor, an nc- ·
count of the mission of the persons who had been sent to
make inquiries along the ridge road, together with their
discoveries, tracing Morgan, as they suppo9ed, into Cana-
da, or to fort Niagara. Repeating the stories that had been
circulated in Canada, that Morgan ha«l been murdered by
having hit! throat cut, by two ruffians in disguise, (his body
having then been sunk in the river,) the writer yet expresses
his doubts, from the number and respectability of the persons
concerned. in the abduction, as to the fact of the murder.
Some circUJnf!tances are then stated which induced the wri-
ter to believe that Morgan was confined somewhere in the
Canadas. A man had been seen, by a~cidcnt, who was
chained, and who cried fur food, which wns rcfnscd, while
he was plied with d1ink, &c. Another report was, that
)\{organ was confined at Quebec, on a charge of trcasona-
bic practiees, &c. After speaking of several legal steps
that had been tak-en, and referring to the conduct of the
sheriffs of Genesee and Niagara, the letter proceeds-" We
.. shall very soori make further attempts to elucidate this
"'dark and singular transaction. The election for a few
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XIX.
" days diverted attention from i.t, but the public excitement
"rather increases than abates." "Perhaps I have written
"more than is proper, or agreeable to you. I will, for my·
"self, assure you that the second proclamation gave great.
" satisfaction, and served at once to enable your frienda to
" put down every idle suggeation relating to your views of
111 the transaction."
To this letter, of which I have presented as ample an
abridgement as the case requires, the subjoined answer wu
returned by Governor Clinton :-
".Albany, 8th Janury, 1827.
"81-Rt
" I have received your letter of November, in behalf
of the Batavia committee, appointed in the case of Morgan,
and I deeply regret the whole transaction, as well as the
failure of the attempts to restore him to his family. I am
not, however, without hopes of ultimate success. If in a
state of duress, he is prob~uly detained in one of the Cana-
das, under false pretexts. I have written to the Governor
of Lower Canada, at Quel.cc, and of Upper Canada, at
York, stating his abl!uction, and requesting their humane.
· interpositions in his bchaH~ if confined in any of the forts or
prisons under their government, and I strongly anticipate
favorable results. There arc a number of circumstances
which induce me to concur with you in the opinion you
express, B!,"llinst his being murdered. I do not think that
the men engaged in the conspiracy, if as respectable as you
intimate, would stain their hands with blood ; and if bent
on such a horrid crime, we can hardly suppose that they
would carry Morgan to such a distance, and expose them-
sci\'es so unnecessarily to detection. But, when the demon
of fanaticism is at work, there is no knowing to what
extent of mischief and turpitude he may lead his disci-
plea.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTE-R XIX. ·
10
I am persuaded, however, that the body of Freemason~.
so far from having any participation in this affair, or giving
any countenance to it, reprobate it as a most unjustifiable
act, repugnant to the principles, and abhorrent to the doc-
trines of the fraternity. I know that Freemasonry, pro-
perly understood, and faithfully attended to, is friendly to
religion, morality, liberty, and good government; and I
shall never shrink, under any state of excitement, or any
extent of misrepresentation, from bearing testimony-in favor
of the purity of an institution, which can boast of a Wash-
ington, a Franklin, and a Lafayette, as distinguished mem-
bers, and which inculcates no principles, and authorises no
acts, that are not in perfect accordance with good morals,
civil liberty, and entire obedience to government and the
laws. It is no more responsible for the acts of unworthy
members, than any other association, or institution. With-
out intending, in the remotest degree, a comparison, or im-
proper allusion, I might ask whether.we' ought to revile our
holy religion, because Peter denied, and.Judas betrayed 1
" It appears that the abduction of Morgan from Canan-
daigua, took place on the 12th of September, and that the
Batavia meeting was held on the 25th. The affidavits pub-
lished by the committee of that meeting, sufficiently indica-
ted tho perpetration of the outrage ; and it is to be regret-
ted that a judicial accusation did not immediately take
plac:!, as it might, at that early period, have led to the dis-
covery of .Morgan. On the 6th of October; I received your
communication, and on the next day issued the first procla-
,mation. I took it for granted that the offenders would be
apprehended, and that .i\Iorgan would be discovered and
1·cstored. But seeing, accidentally, in a Batavia newspa-
per, that these expectations were not realized, I issued, on
the 26th of October, another proclamation, offering speci-
fic rewards. I regret that, after the first communication, I
Digitized by Coogle
!Ott· LZTTEll XJX.
did not hear from you until the 22d of November. In say-
ing this, I do not intend the least blame,-the confusion and
derangement which must necessarily have grown out of
such an unprecedenteq and abominable transaction, must
present a sufficient apology for any omission on the part of
those who have been meritoriously engaged in detecting
and punishing an outrage which would scarcely be believed
were it not so well authenticated.
" I observe some imputations in your letter on the con-
duet of the sherift8 of Genesee and Niagara. If any accu-
sations, supported by testimony, are presented, I shall take
due notice of them.
" I pray you to nceept for yourself, and to present to the
other members of the committee, my acknowledgments of
the laudable performance of your and their duties, as good
and faithful citizens, in a case 5o greatly to be deprecated,
and which certainly demanded the energetic interposition
of the friends of liberty and good government.
"I am, &e.
" DE WITT CLINTON.
" Tn~:ooou F. TALBOT, Esq., Batavia."
I trust, sir, that in the perusal of the preceding letter,
you will bear in mind that neither the distinguished writer,
nor other members of the masonic fraternity, at a distance,
was then aware of the extent to which the Masons of the
west were inculpated, directly or indirectly, in the trans-
actions in question. Nor had the controlling bodies of
the order been convened, or taken any part in the premi-
ses, at that early period of the transaction. But these mat-
ters will be subjects of after consideration. The follow-
ing is a copy of the letter addres~ed by Governor Clinton
to the Governors of the two Cnoadas, as mentioned in the
precodiog communicatioo.
Digitized by Coogle
ra.
LETTER XIX.
a Alha11y, 6th January, 1827.
'I Sot,
" A person of the name of William Morgan, otherwise
called Captain, or Major Morgan, resided, for some time,
with his family, in Batavia,,in this state. He is said to have
been a native of Virginia, and to have carried on, at one
time, the business of a brewer, at York, in Upper Canada.
He is described as about five feet eight inches high-well
built-light complexion, and between forty· five and fifty
yeanJ of age During the last year he put a manuscript in-
to the hands of a printer in Batavia, purporting to be a
promulgation of the aecrets of Freemasonry. This was
pasaed over by the great body of that fraternity, without
notice, and with silent contempt ; but a few desperate fana-
tics engaged in a plan of carrying him off, and, on the 12th
of September last, they took him from Canandaigua by force,
as it is undentood, and conveyed him to the Niagara river,
from whence it is supposed that he was taken to his Britannic
Majesty's dominions. Some of the offenders have been ap-
prehended and punished, but no intelligence has been obtain-
ed respecting Morgan, since his abduction. I have, there-
fore, to appeal to your justice and humanity on this occa-
sion, and to request your excellency to cause inquiry to be
made respecting him, and, ifhe is forcibly detained, to direct
his liberation, and to communicate to me the results. It is
conjectured that he is confined iQ some fort or prison, under
false pretences.
" I am persuaded that no apology is necessary for thilf
intrusion on your time and attention ; and, permit me to
assure you, that I shall always be happy to reciprocate your
humane interposition, and to evince the high respect with
which
" I have the honor to be, &e.
"DE WITT CLINTON.
·• The E.\RL OF DALBO'CSIE, Quebec."'
Digitized by Coogle
!08 LE'fTER XIX.
A duplicate of the same 'letter was, at the same time, ad·
dressed to Sir Peregrine .Maitland, the Lieutenant Governor
of Upper Canada. Answers from both these functionaries
were received in due sea!lon, which, as the originals are
before me, I will transcribe for your perusal :-
"CASTLE OF ST. Lt:WJ!II,
"Quebec, 25th January, 1827.
M SIR,
"I have had the honor of receiving your excellency's
of 6th January, instant, making inquiry for a person of the
Dallle of Morgan. '
"It will ·give me much pleasure to comply with your
wishes on this !lubjcct, and no time shall be lost in sending
you whatever information I can obtain. At present I can
only say, that nothing has been heard of him in this province.
of Lower Canada ; and I may add that I am very certain
he cannot be detained in any clandestine manner in the Up-
per Province. The information, however, which I have
required of Sir Peregrine Maitland, shall be transmitted,
co soon as I receive it.
"It gives me much pleasure to sieze this opportunity to
express to your excellency the high respect and esteem with
,which
" I have the honor to be
" Your excellency's most obedient,
"Humble servant,
"DALHOUSIE,
" His excellency
"DE Wrrr CLINToN, Esq. &c. &c. &c."
The annexed letter is the reply of the Go,·emor of tht
tTpper Province :-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XIX,
"UPPII:R CANADA,
" York, 5th FebMI4ry, 1827.
"Sm.
" I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yom
excellency's communication of the - ultimo, and to ac-
quaint you, that,_ to meet your desire, I have directed a n~
tice to be inserted in the Government Gazette, oftering a
reward of £50, for any satisfactory infonnation that shall
be given respecting William Morgan. Should any thing in
eonsequence be learned, regarding him, I shall not fail to
~municate it to your excellency.
" I have the honor to be, sir,
" Your excellency's most obedient.
" Humble servant,
"P. MAITLAND, LieuL Governor.
'" His excellency,
" Da WITT CLINTON, Governor of New-York."
In order, at once, to complete this correspondence, it will
be necessary for me to anticipate the progreBB of my narra-
tive, by transcribing for your perusal, in this place, the sub-
joined communication from the Earl of Dalhousie :-
" CASTLE OP ST. LBWU,
" Quebec, 3llt Mard, 1827.
,. Sia,
" I have the honor to inform your excellency that hav-
ing caJJed upon the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada,
to communicate to me any information he could obtain, re·
specting William Morgan, the person mentioned in your
letter of the 6th January last, the Lieutenant Governor hu
frtated to me that no such information has been received
from him, although he had caused a reward to be offered,
~ on the part of the government, for any authentic intelli-
gence respecting that individual. He funher il;lo~ m~
27
Digitized by Coogle
210 LETTER XIX.
that the report of Morgan's having been heard o( in that
province, bad been publicly and positively contradicted, by
those penons who were accused of having a knowledge of
that circumstance.
" I have the honor to be, sir,
"Your excellency's most obedient,
" Humble servant.
" DALHOUSIE.
"His excellency,
"Ds Wrrr CM...'\"TTN, E.q., &c. &c. &c."
Neither the Earl of Dalhousie, nor Sir Peregrine Mait-
land, however, could well have been ignorant, that several
Canadian citizens were, beyond a doubt, very seriously in-
volved in the conspiracy. An attempt to procure an inves-
tigation on the Canadian side of the frontier, had been made
early in January. It having been satisfactorily ascertained
that Morgan had been taken into Canada, a member of the
Niagara Committee crossed tile river to Niagara, (com-
monly called Newark,) while a grand jury was in session..
"He went before the grand jury, and proposed to furnish .
" them with the names of witnesses residing in Canada, if
" the grand jury would agree to investigate the matteF.
"Afterconsulting together, they resolved to do so; and they
.. were accordingly furnished with the names ofseveral Ma-
" sons residing in the town of Niagara, which is more com-
" monly called Newark, wf\o were believed to be impor--
ff tant wimesses. The jury adjourned soon after. The.
•nen day the complainant was informed that after the ad-
" journment of the jury,. the witnesses who had been desig-
" nated, had been conversed with ; that after the assembling
·" of the jury in the morning, they had consulted the district
"judge, and, thereupon, had resolved to do no more in the
"premises. The complainant ascertained that the district
" judge was a Freemason, and that the foreman and a.por-
o;9,tized by Coogle
UTTER XX• Ill
... tioo of the jury were also Masons." This relation w~
derived by Mr. J. C. Spencer from the gentleman who
'Was the CQnlplainant.
Very respectfully. &e.
~ETTER XX..
NBw-YoaK, Feb. 1?', 1832.
Sta,
The result of Ute trial narrated in my last letter but
one, gave no satisfaction to any body. Not a leaf of the
mystery was unfolded ; not a particle of doubt, upon any
essential point, removed.. The three most prominent ofthe
parties indicted, had precluded any investigation of facti,
by pleading guilty to an offence that could not be punished
as a felony; while the fourth had only been convicted in
consequence of his own vain-glorious boutings over his
~ups, being at the same time, as it was very soon made te
appear, entirely innocent. The apparent indifference ~
Miller, moreover, in neglecting to come forward promptly,
in a case with which he was personally so intimately CODo
nected, and his dilatoriness by the way, after he had start-
ed,-for it was DUUlifest that in such a case he could have
encountered but little difficulty in procuring money for only
a fifty miles journey,-all these circumstances together, con-
•pired to create a momentary pause in the public mind ; and
even to inspire a doubt in the minds of people at a dis-
tance, whether, after all, a mock-tragedy might not pos-
sibly have been enacted at the west, the denouement of which
even Col. Miller, one of the abducted, was not very &Jllt·
ious to disclose. Such, I must have the candour to admit,
was, for the moment, my_ own impression, as recorded edi-
torially in the $aiDe nUJ:Qber of the Commercial Advertiser,
Digitized by Coogle
tl! LETTER XX.
in which the trial was published at length. Indeed I be-
lieve the opinion was very general in this quarter of the
state, after the perusal of the trial, that Miller w:~!l then ac-
quainted with the place of Morgan's retreat, and had absen-
ted himself from court only to avoid being compelled to
testify to that fact.
But a very different opinion continued to prevail at the
west. Morgan did not re-appear ; and circumstances were
continually transpiring in the neighborhooe of Fort Niaga-
ra'-which daily produced a stronger and yet a stronger
conviction, that he had been most foully dealt by. Many
public meetings had been held before the trial of Chesebo-
ro and his associates ; and many more were held immedi.
ately afterwards, from which were issued resolutions and
addresses of the most spirited description. The people
were enraged that the punishment ofthe oftenders was me-
ted out S'> lightly by the court at Canandaigua, and the
couct itself was in some places denounced. The Iaws of
the state were assailed, because, in the opinion of these pop-
ular meetings, no adequate punishment for the crime ofkid-
napping a free citizen was presClibed, and resglutions were
adopted requesting the legislature to supply the deficiency
in the statute-book. It was declared in a convention of
Seneca county, that an outrage bf unparalleled atrocity bad
been committed; and that the courts of law had been ap-
pealed to in vain for the pu&Ushment of tbe otfendet$, which
declaration was at that time untrue, as there had then been
no cause for complaint upon this bead. The court had fear-
lessly discharged its duty on the only occasion which had
offered for judicial action, but parties are always hurrying
to extremes. Freemasonry was now more fiercely denoun-
eed than ever. It was pronounced to be highly prejudicial
to the well being of society-and it was asserted that the o~
ligations which the Masons were under to each other, forbade
an impartial discharge of their duty, "to unoftending citi-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XX. 21S
• zens" and the community at large. A secret and invisi-
ble power was declared to have oontrolled the course of
justice ; and the sentences at Canandaigua were denounced
· as an insult to an enlightened people. It was at this peri-
od, when the whole country beyond the Cayuga bridge was
in a whirlwind of passion, thatpolitical Anti-masonry dates
its origin. At a joint meeting of the people of the towns of
Batavia, Bethany and Stafford, it was resolved," to with-
,, hold their support at elections from all such men of the
"masonic fraternity, as countenanced the outrages against
"Morgan." This resolution was followed by one at Sene..
ca, directed, without exception, against all Freemasons, and
resolving that " they would not vote for Freemasons, for
"any offices whatever." The ominous silence of a large
portion of the newspaper prefls upon this subject, began
now to attract the attention of the public, and a resolution
waspassed at ameetingofthe town$ ofPembrokeandAlexan-
der, by which the people assembled" pledged themselves to
"discou111ooe the circulation of any paper, the editorofwhich
"so far muzzled his press as to exclude every fact in relation
;. to these outrages." This resolution was followed up very
promptly by the meeting of Seneca county, where it was
resolved, "that the silence of the public journals on the sub-
"ject was alarming, and that the meeting would take no
•• newspapers which did not publish the facts and public pro-
"ceedings respecting the outrage;" concluding by a threat
to discourage the circulation of all such papers. These, I
believe, were the first denunciations of the press, for its con-
duct in this matter. That there was some reason in their
~omplaints, I cannot with truth deny ; but the threatening
spirit of the complaints, was not the wisest course to be
pursued, in order to remedy the evil. A courteous expres-
sion of the public feeling upon the subject, might have done
good. The lan~ac of menace, must necessarily result
·always, a.s it then did, in positive evil~
Digitized by Coogle
il4
The more people·re8ected upon the trial of Cbetebor()
and others, the stronger were their coovictions, that there
must be important facts undisclosed. At the d.istaDce ofNew-
York, from the ecene of action, however, it could hardly be
expected that we should understand the cause of this great
agitation, as weU as could thoee immediately in ibl neigh-
borhood. But from the multitude of the popular meetings,
which had increued immediately after the trial referred to,
and from the many suspicious, though frequently contradic-
tory and improbable rumors, which were borne aloag upoa
every breeze from the west, it occurred to me that I had
perhaps formed a somewhat too hasty opinion, on readiag
that trial. On reviewing it, moreover, I was forcibly im-
pressed with the fact, that, while Cheaeboro and Sawyer
had put in depositions in mitigation of punishment, Lawson
had not done so. He had made an affidavit going to excul-
pate Sheldon, but of himself he was silent. He had been
the chiefagent in taking Morgan from the prison. He bad
gone with him to Rochester: it was known that he was at
theLewiston installation,on the 14thofSeptember:andsome-
body had been moet strangely transported along the Ridge
Road, at the same time that he must have been travelling
that very way;-and that somebody, between midnight and
morning, ofthat day, after being removed from the carriage
at Youngstown, had very mysteriously disappeared in the
midst of thick darkness. It was known that Lawson return-
ed from Lewiston, late on the night of the 14th ; and yet
he had pleaded guilty to aU with which he stood charged
in the indictment; and when opportunity afforded him a
chance to speak, he had not broken silence in his own ex,.
culpation. He had not ventured the slightest assurance,
to quote the language ofthe judge in his charge, " that Mor-
" gan had not been immolated as a victim to their rag~ or
u that he was yet in the land of the living." I likewise re-
flected more seriously upon the fact, that they bad pleadel
Digitized by Coogle
LETTElt XX. 115
guilty by the advice of counsel not often disposed to yield,
in any case where high intellectual and professional talent
can hope for success.
It waa under circumstances and impressions like these,
that I took the liberty of addressing n confidential letter to
my friend, John C. pencer, Esq., of counsel for the defend·
ants, stating the doubts and fears under which I was labor-
in,, and re pectfully requesting from him any facts, oropin·
ions, upon the subject, which he might feel at liberty to com-
municate, without interfering with his professional duty to
his clients. Before, however, any answer from Mr. S.
could be received in due course of mail, a variety of addi-
tional circumstances, of a painful nature, had been received
through other channels. With a degree of spirit and per-
severance suited to the high object in view, and with an ar-
dour which no discouragements could repress, the delegates
from the several committees before referred to, proceeded
again to Lewiston, immediately after the Canandaigua trial..
to renew their investigations. They counted seventeen
resolute men, and the number would have been somewhat
greater, had not a portion of the committee, deputed from
Rochester, where the excitement, on both 11ides, had rapid-
ly assumed a high degree of exasperation, been deterred by
the threats of the Masons from joining their associates on
this occasion. The visit of these committees, since known
as the Lewiston convention, was not very acceptable to the
fraternity in Lewiston and its vicinity. Many ofthe Ma-
sons from that and the adjoining towns, assembled at Lew~
iston likewise, some of them armed, and all breathing forth
the most violent rage, nnd uttering many vindicative senti-
tnents, and even threats, towards the members ofthe com-
mittee. On one occasion they rushed into the room in
which they were assembled,extinguished the lights,and heap-
ed every possible epithet ofcontumely and rage upon thoso
engaged in these praiSe-worthy investigation.'!. Their o~ject.
Digitized by Coogle
2Hl LETTER XX.
was,clearly, to proYokc a controversy, and thus bring on a di·
rect personal and physical conflict. But the committee wu
composed of men of prudence, .who suffered none of these
things so far to move th m a to divert them fr m the stea-
dy pursuit of the "1" at obj ct whi h with a in,..Je eye, th y
were pursuing. ub. equ ntly a conference was held be-
tween the parties ; but it only re ult wa a h · r f
obloquy heaped upon the conv ntion, by the Di trict Attor-
ney of the county, a royal arch Ma on who insu ted that
these gentlemen had no right to come into hi ounty, t
investigate criminal matters \vhich he wa competent to-
manage himself.
Having a case in hand of so much delicacy, and enviroo-
ed with so many, and such peculiar difficulties, to which
rnay be added the strong inducements which many persons
had to lead them astray, by false infonnation, it may well
be conceived that the task of the committee was one of great
difficulty. Many of the idle reports \\ith which the com-
mittee were perplexed,were also put into r.irculation through
the newspapers, tending to confuse the public mind, and
unsettle every opinion as soon na fonned. One of the8&
1ales was, thnt an arrangement had been made between the
.Masons and Captain John Brandt, a son of the celebrated
Mohawk chief by that name, to take Morgan from oif their
hands, and transfer him to the British Xorth Western Fur
Company; but the imputation was indignantly repelled by
the descendant of the Indian hero, under his own band, and
in n manner bearing the impress of truth. Another story
was, that Morgan had been taken to Fort George, on the
Canadian shore, tried by a masonic tribunal, and executed
by a young Indian. There wn.s yet another report, that~the
Masons ofCanada had been requested to take Morgan down
to Quebec, and cause him to be shipped on board of a ves-
sel of war, which request being refused, he was put into a
boat above the falls, cut adrift, and thus hurried over the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XX. 217
cataract into eternity. None of these stories were true.
But before the investigations of this meeting of the conven-
tion were closed, they received information, which induced
them to believe, that after Morgan had been taken from the
carriage, near the burying ground, in Youngstown, he had
been carried across the Niagara, blindfolded, pinioned, and
gagged ;-that he had been taken into the lodge in New-
ark, (U. C.) where, after much deliberation, the Masons had
refused to incur the responsibility of disposing of him ;-that
he was then taken back to the American side, and confined
in the magazine of Fort Niagara ;-that he was there tried
by a masonic council, pursuant to an express order from
the Grand Chapter, and put to death in the manner prescrib-
ed by one of the ma8onic penalties, viz : by having his
throat cut, his tongue tom out by the roots, &c. ;-that
while the poor victim was in confinement, awaiting the sen-
tence of death which had been passed, he had begged for a
bible, and halfan hour's time for preparation, which requests
were brutally denied him. A number of letters, written by
members of the committee, minutely detailing the circwn-
stances disclosed to them, and the conclusions at which
they had arrived, were published, which created a univer-
sal feeling of horror among that large portion of the people
who had not taken sides with the conspirators, or resolved
to believe nothing upon the subject. And yet, although the
committee had received information leading them to such
conclusions, they had not obtained one particle of positive
testimony_.:.nothing which could warrant an application, at
that time, to grand juries for bills of indictment. They had
themselves visited Fort Niagara, and ascertained what
was the internal arrangement and condition of the maga-
zine, which was a strong stone apartment, previously
to the memorable 12th of September ;-afill, from ocu-
lar examination, they were fully satisfied that some
_person had been confined therein : of this fac4 th~re
28
Digitized by Coogle
218 LETTER XX.
were many indications of a positive and unequivocal
character. There were also marks of great violence
having been used, as though by one in confinement, who
had struggled to release himself. But beyond this, and cer-
tain doubtful appearances ofblood, they could, as yet, prove
nothing. That "a deed without a name" had been commit-
ted, all were prepared to believe ; but by that time, those
who would have gladly spoken, dared only to whisper in
surmises ; and even these half suppressed inuendoes, were,
in some instances, given only upon solemn pledges that
their names wete not to be used. The prevalence of such
a panic, among enlightened people,.-a people unosed to
fear-is not the least remarkable itature of these strange
transactions. It is probably to be .:ccounted for upon the
simple principle, that the apprehensions of men are always
increased, in novel situations, when they are involved in
darkness. The secret and invisible power of Freemasonry,
was, at that time, a subject occupying all minds-the theme
of every tongue. Its power, and its strength, and the ex-
tent of its influence, were magnified a thousnnd fold. Its
secret meetings, however, were held, and, without pausing
to reason or reflect upon the matter, as one deed of dark-
ness had, beyond a doubt, been enacted by its instigation,
people seemed to think that others might follow, by the
·same unseen hands, as often as it might be deemed necessa-
'ry to suppress the testimony of one, or denounce vengean~
for disclosures made by another.
It was precisely at this crisis, and, if I do not misrecollect,
by the same mail which brought the correspondence of the
Lewiston Committee, of which I have been speaking, that I
-received a reply to the letter addressed to Mr. Spenct>r.
Without going much into particu1ars, Mr. S. wrote me,
that, from the facts and circumstances with which he had
been made acquainted, "there were strong reasons for be-
"lieviftg THAT THE WORST I COULD HAVE HEARD WAS TRl"E."
• Digitized by Google
LETTER XX.
From that moment, my own course was decided. While.
baiting between two opinions-weighing and balancing the
aiJierent accounts daily reaclwig us from the west.---..~arce­
ly lulowing which to believe, or, whether to reject the whole,
-I bad published but little upon the subject, until the re-
port of Cheseboro's trial was received. Convinced, how~
ver, at last, that there was substantial cause for the excite-
ment, my resolution was taken, regardless of consequences..
to discharge my whole duty to the community, as a public
journalist. But I also determined to hold the scales with
an even band; and while all facts of importance should be
published, and the guilty denounced in terms of just and
merited indignation, yet I was not to be driven to confound
the innocent with the guilty, or to publish all the wild tales,
and inflammatory speeches, and resolutions, which might
issue from excited popular meetings, or be poured 'forth in
the colwnns of village newspapers, now starting up in vari-
ous places, like mushroons of a night,-determined, as waa
clearly perceptible, not only to ride upon the whirlwind,
and direct the storm, but, in more ways than one, to turn,
the righteous indignation of a generous people, to priva~
&C<'..ount. In one word, my object was impartiality and truth•
and although the ultras, of both parties, have often been dis--
pleased because I chose to persist in pursuing the evea
tenor of my way upon this subject,-guided alone by ~
rule of rigbt,-and although both have, more than once, at..
tempted to make me feel the weight of their power, still, 1
have the satisfaction of knowing, that, with singleness o{
purpose, I have endeavored to discharge my duty honestly,
and fearlessly; and I have many substantial reasons for be-
lieving, that the course which has been taken by the papers
in which I have a deep concern, has been such, in general,
as to command the approbation of the wise and the good.
On closing its labors for this time, the Lewiston Conven-
tion did not dissolve itself, but only adjourned. Tbe last
o;~,tlzAd by Coogle
LETTER XX.
act of the meeting, wns to petition the Legislature, which
was then in session, for aid iq pursuing the investigation. A
memorial was prepared, and soon afterwards tranm1itted to
Albany, praying that an additional and greater reward
should be offered for the apprehension and conviction of
those engaged in the abduction and probable murder of
Morgan, and likewise for the appointment of a special com·
missioner to prosecute the matter, and, if possible, bring the
offenders to justice.
The letters from Lewiston, to which I have referred, were
written at various periods, from the 12th to the 30th of
January, inclusive. Like all the preceding developements,
though clouded in uncertaintras to the facts, the tendency
of these letters was still more to inflame the public mind ;
and the flight of two men, who were strongly suspected as
principals in the outrages, just at this time, also tended to
strengthen the public confidence in the general accuracy of
those disclosures. The persons to whom I allude, were,
Burrage Smith, and John Whitney, of Rochester-the wit-
nesses, on the trial of Cheseboro, and others, who were so
much afraid of criminating themselves. · These men both
privately left their places of residence, while the Lewiston
Committee was yet pushing their inquiries on the Niagara.
A m('mber of the committee, from Rochester, was in Al-
bany, on the 1st of February, and saw Smith in that city.
Bowen Whiting, Esq., the District Attorney of Ontario,
who, although a Mason, had so ably and faithfully discharg-
ed his duties on the late trials, as to command the universal
approbation of the public, was likewise in Albany. The
moment he was apprised by the Rochester gentleman, of
Smith's presence in that city, he applied to the police jus-
tice for a warrant for his arresL This was early on the
morning of February 2d. The warrant was granted. But,
although constables are very plenty in Albany, still, from
circumstances that have never been explained, the warrant
Digitized by Coogle
LETTJ:ll XX.
was not pblced in the hands of an officer until late in the
afternoon. The officer repaired immediately to the lodgings
of Smith, but the bird had flown. I do not intend to incul~
pate the magistrate in this matter ; but there were a variety
of circumstances inducing a belief that Smith had been a~
prised of its being unsafe for him to remain longer in that
capital ; and the fact that the magistrate was an officer in
the Grand Chapter, did not escape the public attention, and
was the subject of unpleasant remark. Smith and Whitney
having each a family, and both being respectable men, doing
a good business at Rochester, were immediately afterwards
known to have fled the country. They came to this city;
and the rumor at the time was, that they were so impatient
(or at least one ofthem was) to get to New~Orleans, that they
were put on board of a ship outward bound, at the Hook-
a boat having been sent nearly thirty miles, to overtake her.
Col. King, whose name has already been introduced in the
preceding narrative, and who must necessarily be spoken
of again, fled yet earlier before the storm-he having left
the district of excitement in December. Governor Clinton
afterwards informed me that King called upon him, as he
passed through Albany, and behaved very strangely. He
thought him partially deranged. King applied to him for
a loan of money, which was declined. He then requested
an appointment, or a recommendation for an appointment,
which he wished to obtain at Washington. This request
was likewise declined. Leaving Albany for Washington,
he shortly afterwards drew upon Governor C. from that
city, for two hundred dollars, without the least encourage-
ment or authority, and succeeded in getting the draft
cas}Jed. While at the seat of government, he procured the
situation of sutler at Cantonment Towson, in the remotest
part of Arkansas Territory, to which place he repaired.
lrnvin~ his family at Youngstown.
Very respectfully yours.
Digitized by Coogle
UTTS& XXI.
LETTER XXI.
Naw-You, Feb. II, 1832.
SIR,
The eyea of the anti-masonic public were now turned
in a di.fierent direction. It was known that tbe aoouaJ
convocation of the Grand Royal Arch Chapter commen•
ces its sittings on the first Tuesday in February, in each
year, at Albany. On the one hand, 10111e of the leaders of
the conspirators had declared, that their proceedings in re-
garli to Morgan, had been enacted in obedieoce to the
Grand Chapter ; and although the tale could not, by poasi·
bility, be true, inasmuch as that body meets but oDCe a
year, and it had not been in session since the February pre-
ceding the abduction ; yet it was unquestionably believed
by many Masons, who had been led to participate in the
outrage. And on the other, the greater number of the Ma-
sons were di.claiming and disavowing the transactions alto-
jether. The Masons, however, were, at this time, divided
into four classes, and it is proper that the preciae distinctionl
sbould be stated here, that they may be retained and al-
lowed, on all proper occasions, in the coune of the narra-
aive. I st. There were the guilty Masons~ and their imme-
diate confidants, if not allies. 2d. The thorough-going Ma-
sons, who, though not actually guilty, nor previously aware
of the intended procedure against Morgan, were still rathet-
dispoaed to think, if they did not actually say, that the actors
had served the traitor right. ad. A small number ef retired
Masons, wbo had resumed their aprons in consequence of
the spirit of persecution that had gone abroad, and who, as
men conscious of their. own rights, and their own innocence,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEJt XXI.
felt ~d to resist the intolerant spirit of Anti-masonry.
4th. A much larger body of Masons than either of the
preceding, who, having virtually relinquished the institution
long ago, and ceased to care much about it, were now mere
passive Masons, condemning the outrages, if they could
be made to believe them true, as strongly as the most ve-
hement of the Anti-masons could do ; but doubting, ne-
vertheless, whether it could be possible that any substan-
tial cause existed for the excitement.
· The most zealous, and I may perhaps say, unreasonable
of the Anti-masons, believing, as they djf. or affected to do,
that the outrages had been sanctioned ~ the Grand Chap-
ter, had no right, of course, to anticipate the manifestation
of any special indignation against the conduct of their
western brethren, in this matter. The first and second
classes secretly took their own measures, as will be seen in
the result. But the third and fourth classes ofthe fraternity,.
as I have classed them, and the great body of the people not
belonging to the order, did look fotward to the adoption of
some strong and decisive measurt.3 on the part of the Grand
Chapter, which should clear its own skirts, and proclaim its
t.wn innocence. ·
That lawless outrages had been committed in the name of
Freemasonry, was- known to all : that those outrages had
been concluded by a fearful act, was believed by many :
and that, at least, three members of the fraternity had been
convicted, and were at that time in prison for their crimes,
was a matter of public judicial record. Equally well
·known was the fact, that the local masonic bodies to which
those convicted brethren belonged, had taken no measurett
to manifest their displeasure at their conduct. Under cir-
cmnstances like these, what more just or natural expecta-
tion could have been entertained by an anxious public, than
that the highest masonic body in the state, if guiltless in a11
these matters, and in no wise cognizant thereof, should, at
Digitized by Coogle
LET'l'h XXI.
once, have assumed an attitude that would have vindicated
its members from all suspicion ? It is true that the Gl'8Jld
Chapter bad no right to expel the offenders from the re-
spective chapters to which they belonged. Nor, in regard
to those who were Masons of three degrees only, had they
any jurisdiction in the case. But they bad power to insti-
tute the most rigid investigation into the causes of the ex-
citement at the west, and they were not destitute of funds.
They had power to demand explanations from the local
chapters, and require them to show cause why their char-
ters should not be taken from them. They had power, and
means, for offeringI heavy reward for the apprehension and
conviction of the offenders ;-and they had among them
the ability, if the disposition had existed, to put forth a mani·
festo, showing, at least, that they were in earnest in any dis-
claimer they might proclaim to the public. Did they do
so 1 Did they do any of these things ?-1 am ashamed,
and was grieved at the time, to be compelled to reply, that
they did not.
The Grand Chapter met, and elected its officers ; and in
publishing the list, it was somewhat ostentatiously announc-
ed in the Albany Masonic Record, that upwards of one hun-
dred and ten subordinate chapters were represented-
which was an unusally large nwnber. But so far from tak-
ing any efficient step in the great matter before the public,
which was then agitating all minds at the west, and array-
ing friends, and neighbors, and christian brethren, and
churches in fierce unchristian hostility against each other,-
wbat did they do 1 Why, sir, they contented themselves,
by issuing to the public a tame and spiritless resolution,
with a preamble, setting forth some.common-place and ab-
ltract propositions about personal liberty, and "the bless-
• ings of our republican institutions,"-admitting that there
bad been a violation of those rights under the " alledged~
pretest of the ID&fOoie name, &c., and ~nding by a simple
Digitized by Coogle
LETT~a XXI.
disclosure of all individual or collective knowledge of the
transactions in question.• And this was all! Sir, it was
a mockery. The crisis, and the occasion, demanded a doc-
wnent of a diff'erent stamp. Nor was a proclamation, of
any description, alone sufficient to satisfy the public. There
should bave been resolutions of inquiry ; an efficient com-
mittee of investigation, in whom the public would ha,·e re-
posed confidence ; and a heavy reward. But none of these
things were done. An empty " whereas," and an equivocal
denial, was all that the Grand Chapter could do by way of
appeasing a population of three hundred thousand souls,
who had been thrown into an unexampled state of excite-
ment by the conduct of members of the fraternity. Some
of those members bad been arrested ;-they had confessed
their guilt ;-they were then immured in a prison ;-and
yet there was not even a rebuke of their conduct at com-
mand I I repeat, sir, it was a mockery : it was an insult
upon the people. For of what value, can it be suppo•
was such a disclaimer in the eyes of the public, when they
knew very well, that there were present in the Grand
Chapter, at that very time, in full communion, and passing
upon this very resolution, some of those very conspirators
tbemeelves I Such, sir, was the fact. Need we marvel,
then, that this preamble and resolution gave no satisfaction
to the public ; that it was viewed with disgust ; that it was
transparent, and was looked upon rather as an evidence of
guilt, than of innocence 1
Most heartily, sir, do I wish I could here dismiss this act
in the drama. But truth requires at my bands a disclo-
sure upon this subject, which, I believe, has never before
been made, in its details, and which speaks in a voice of
thunder against the ma.'lonic institution in the state of New·
York. By the very tenns of the boasted proclamation put
• See Appendix, F.
29
Digitized by Coogle
226 LETTER XXI.
forth by the Grand Chapter, it will be seen that it came
before that body as the report of a committee. Two of
the members of that committee were, the late Adjutant Gen-
eral Beck, and a gentleman who was then a distinguish-
ed member of the legislature, of great moral worth, and a
professor of religion, whose daily walk and conversation
adorn his profession. Believing, as these gentlemen did,
Otat the outrage upon Morgan was highly alarming, and
supposing that only a few miguided zealots had been.en-
gaged in it, they accepted appointments upon the committee,
with a determination to do every thing in their power to
bring to light the truth. The committee had two or three
meetings; and the gentleman to whom I have alluded, but
who does not desire to have his name introduced to the
public in print, .expressed himselt~ as did some others, very
indignantly at the attack upon Morgan. One of the mem-
bers of the committee, however, was bold to hazard the as-
sertion, "that if Morgan had been put out of the way, he
" deserved it." But he was immediately told that such lan-
guage could come from no man, who knew what Masonry
was, and what the laws of God and man require. After
due consideration of the subject committed to them, the
committee prepared a report and resolutions, with the dis-
sent of the member last referred to, recommending the of-
fering of a reward of one thousand dollars, for the discovery
of the murderers, together with a declaratory resolution,
denying any knowledge, on the part of the Grand Chapter,
as to the persons who had been engaged in the crime. .
When the report was introduced, the resolution propo-
sing the reward was most furiously assailed by some of the
New-York, and the western members, and although defend-
ed by the late Gen. Beck, with my friend, and some others,
IT wAS REJECTED ! So also was the preamble of that re-
port rejected; and a strong attempt was likewise made to
1·ejcct the concluding resolution, but it did not succeed-
Digitized by Coogle
·- - _
__. ..._
-
. LETTER XXI. 227
although the gentlemen who had introduced the report,
considered that it had received its death-blow, so far as any
attempt at investigation was to be undertaken, or serious
exculpation made of the chapter itself. Why, it was urg·
ed, in the' debate upon the first resolution, be unwilling to
offer a reward for the detection and arrest of the offenders,
and thus show to the world the sincerity of the regrets we
profess, and the truth of our protestations of innocence 1 In
reply, sentiments were advanced, (particularly by the dis-
senting member of the committee, who lived westward of
Ontario,) which not only breathed the spirit of the wildest
fanaticism, but were shocking to the feelings of the friends
of the report. He was not allowed to proceed by the
·chapter ; and my friend left the lodge-room for a short time.
But judge of his surprise on returning into the- chapter, to
find that a resolution, granting to the committee of charity
for the use of " the western sufferers," a term well under-
stood, the SUm of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS, had been offered
and passed sub silentio. Such an appropriation was with-
out pre~edent or parallel. " Its object," says my friend, in
a recent letter now before me, " I could not mistake. It
" was to give relief to the western brethren. I made some
" inquiries, but obtained no satisfactory answers. The
"next winter, while at Albany, I heard some complaint
" from one of the officers of the chapter, that the money
" had been drawn by General Gould, of Rochester, and that
" no satisf.'lctory account had been given of the manner in
" which it had been expended."
Referring again to the course ofthe Grand Chapter respec-
ting the Morgan affair, my friend remarks:-" The whole
"business appeared to me to be done to smother up the af-
" fair, and I felt very much dissatisfied with the rejection of
"the resolution proffering the reward. I so expressed my-
" self in the chapter, and declared my firm conviction, that I
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXD.
"the course pursued was a death-blow to masonry ;-and
"although no prophet, my prediction has been fulfilled."
This, sir, is a revelation of truth. I submit it to you, sir,
and to all others who may chance to peruse it, without
comment, further than to add-for there are hundreds who
have heard me declare my unbelief in the existence of such
a spirit in the Grand Chapter at that time,--that I myself
have only obtained the secret history of that convocation,
since the present correspondence was commenced. This
declaration is due as an act ofjustice to myself.
Very respectfully, &c.
LETTER XXII.
Naw-You, Feb. 20, 1832.
s...
Wholly unsatisfactory as was the faultering disclaim-
er put forth by the grand chapter, yet the conspiring Ma-
sons and their allies, and those of the fraternity who yet
loped for the best, pointed to it for some time as a vindica-
tion, nt least of the constituted authorities ofthe order. But
it had no effect upon the public mind in the excited districts,
and but very little elsewhere. Indeed at the west the ex-
citement continued to increase, if possible, more rapidly
thnn ever. Meetings were held in all directions; the peo-
ple seemed to have relinquished all other business ; and the
standing theme of conversation, in the tavern, the counting-
room, and the work-shop ; in the field, and by tbe way-
side ; at home and abroad ; was Morgan and the Freema-
sons. The disclaimer of the Grand Chapter was pronoun-
ced cold, heartless and insincere ; and a degree of passion
began to be exhibited which threatened serious results. Not
f)n)y wero coWlty conventions called, but numerous meet-
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTEJt XXII.
iDgs were held in the various towns, and the most sweep-
ing resolutions passed, often breathing a spirit of penecu-
tion and revenge against the whole body of Masons ; de-
nouncing the officers and ministers ofjustice ; con~emning
the sheriff of Canandaigua for the lenity extended by him
to the conspirators in confinement·; and proclaiming an in-
terminable war against every Mason, and, I may add, !Jl
some instances, against aU those who should refuse to join
in the crusade against them. Every term of vituperation
supplied by a language that is sufficiently copious in epi-
thets, was freely used. The resolutions proscribing :Masons
as unworthy to hold any offices whatever, were multiplied;
the most positive pledges were made, that none such should
ever thereafterwards receive their suffrages at the elections;
and as the town meetings, usually held in that country in the
month of March, approached, arrangements were made for
carrying their resolutions into effect at the polls. The de-
nunciations of the press were continued in the bitterest
terms, and proscriptive resolutions, against all papers that
did not demean themselves exactly as the committees de-
sired, were sent forth in showers. That the people had
some cause for their distrust and jealousy of the press, I am
not disposed to deny. The truth will not allow me to do it.
But of this subject hereafter..
The war was likewise carried into matters of religion.
:Ministers of that gospel which breathes "peace on earth and
"good will to men," were denounced; and although their
walk and conversation during the whole of their lives might
have been pure and blameless, yet the popular mandate
went forth, that, unless they forthwith renounced their Ma-
sonry, they were no longer fit to minister at the altar. In
some places the people resolved that they would not eveo
hear a minister preach, unless he renounced the lodge-room.
Several clergymen were dismissed-" the relations which
'' had Aubsisted for years between the putor and his flock.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
" were burst asunder-brethren and communicants of the
" same church, refused to partake of the holy sacrament, so
"long as it was tainted by a Mason's presence-the dearest
" relations of social life were severed in twain-brother was
"anncd against brother, citizen against citizen, and neigh-
" bor against neighbor. The groans of Calvary were lost,
"and the precepts of the Redeemer forgotten, amidst the
"universal cry of" where is Morgan 1" And echo answer-
ed where?
The violence of these proceedings began to create a re-
vulsion in the public sentiment without the boundaries of
the agitated district. Good men, who knew, and felt, that
it was " a blessed spirit" in its origin, now hesitated, paused,
and inquired to what such things might lead. Morgan, it
was true, was yet absent, and the mystery ofhis disappear-
ance was as dark as ever. But there were so many con-
tradictory and conflicting stories afloat, that the mind was
literally "in wandering mazes lost." And what contribu-
ted again to raise doubts upon the subject, were the facts,
that one man, as it was now on all hands admitted, had been
unjustly convicted. Another, who had been strongly charg-
ed as a principal in the alledged murder, by the Lewiston
committee, had been exonerated by two of its principal
members, from any knowledifit of, or participation in, the
erime-Or rather, (for he was now dead,) his memOTy had
been relieved of the reproach by that committee. In addi-
tion to these circumstances, another m~mbcr of the same
committee, had authorised the editor of a paper at Batavia
.to declare to the public, "that no signs,of blood, Ol" any
·• other probable evidences of the murder of Morgan, had
" been discovered at Fort Niagara." This was in direct
~ontradiction of what had been understood as one of the
principal discoveries in the magazine. And, in sober truth,
what with these contradictions, and the honest, and sincere,
and spirited deniru of Brandt, of which I have already spo-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIJ. 281
ken, from the testimony now before the public, all the ma-
terial discoveries of the Lewiston convention during its
January visit to the frontier, had been successively discred-
ited. It is therefore not at all strange, that there should
have been a pause in the public mind at a distance from
the scene of the commotion. The history of the world
forms, fer the most part, but a humiliating record of the
crimes, the vices, and the follies of men, arising from the
indulgence of selfiShness, or the still baser passions of the
human heart ; and this history is fruitful in examples of the
dangers resulting from popular excitements. However
just and holy may be the feeling in which they commence,
the moment they obtain the mastery over reason and the
law, there is no foretelling the lengths to which an excited
populace may be hurried, either by the unrestrained power
oftheir own passions, or by the uses to which their origi-
nally honest indignation may be moulded by the artful and
aspiring demagogue. Mankind are essentially the same in
all ages and countries, modified only by circumstances of
climate, education, and their civil and political condition;
and these advantages have never yet so fiu exalted the hu-
man character, as to raise the mass ofmen above the preju-
dices, and the passions of party, or to place them beyond
the reach of flattering and knavish leaders. The history
of New-England furnished a striking example of the extent
to which a popular excitement can be carried, even amongst
the best informed and the most pious race of men that have
ever existed. Without recurring to the bloody annals of
France, the gun powder and the Popish plots in England,
furnish evidence to the same effect; the.Saviour of Men fell
a victim to a popular excitement in Jerusalem, which in·
timidated the Roman government ;-On one day the peo-
ple of Lycaonia could scarce be restrained from offering sa-
crifice to Paul and Barnabas, and on the next the same peo-
ple were excited to stone and drag them ignominiously
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
through the streets, leaving them for dead in the suburbs ;-
and, not to multiply examples, in returning to our own
country, at a comparatively recent day, we have seen the
civil authorities of a fair city at the south, paralyzed by a
popular excitement, and· its streets reeking with.the blood
of its murdered citizens. In one word, there is as yet no
sufficient evidence but that any large mass of men, heated
by excitement, no matter how created, might be so wielded
by another Antony, as to be made gladly to apply the torch
to the house of that same Brutus, who was the cbiefc8t idol
of popular idolatry one brief hour before. Cautioned by
facts and reflections like these, the discredit that had for the
moment been thrown upon the revelations of the Lewiston
convention, although Morgan was still absent, and his ab-
sence unaccounted for, had the effect of checking the pub-
lic feeling in other parts of the state, if not ofcausing a po-
sitive re-action.
But in the excited region, there were ample causes for
keeping the elements in commotion. Several of the per·
· sons who went from Canandaigua to Batavia, to arrest
)
Morgan on the trumped-up charge of larceny, were tried
at the General Sessions of Ontario, held during the month
. of February, or' which I a~-now writing, on a charge of
\ forcibly seizing and falsely imprisoning Morgan ; but they
1
were acquitted, on the ground that they were protected by
the warrant for his arrest. But the manner in which Dr.
S. S. Butler gave his testimony, was the cause of. dissatis-
, faction. This gcntlemnn, it may be recollected, wns the
same who had been sent fi>rward from Staftord to Batavia,
on the evening of September lOth, to anuounce to certain
friends in the latter place, the approaching visit of Chcse-
boro and Hayward, in pursuit of ~organ, with the war-
rant. Connected with this individual also, was the still
more important fact, that, on the organization of the grand
' jury for the term of the Genesco Court of Gencr:U Session~.
Digitized by Coogle
--- --- ·-
LETTER XXII.
for this same month of February, and when it was probable- /
that some further judicial proceedings would be instituted !
upon this subject, this Dr. Butler was appointed foreman. ,
He was a Knight Templar, and a large portion of the jury ;
were Masons. Of this fact the foreman was not slow to -
avail himself. To one of the jurymen, also a Templar, he
remarked :-" A majority of the jurors are Masons : we
" have got the stuff in our own hands : our friends must not
" be indicted !" The promulgation of such facts as these,
was calculated to produce fresh irritation. It was the first
direct evidence yet disclosed, that Freemasonry was, at
least in that section of the state, endeavoring to impede the
march of justice, even' in its very sanctuaries ; and glad
should I feel, could it truly be said it was the last. But it
so happened, that the sheriffs of all the counties of that dis-
trict of country, were at that time Masons. As the law of
New-York then was, the grand jurors were selected and
summoned by the sheriffs. And it generally occurred that
large majorities of the juries so summoned, were Masons
likewise. This was the fact in January, at the Niagara
General Sessions. The Lewiston committee were then
making their investigations along the Niagara frontier; and
Eli Bruce, the sheriff, summoned sixteen Masons upon
the grand jury. No applications, however, were made at
this term, for indictments ; but it will, by and bye, appear
to what uses Mr. Bruce did bring his Masonry, at a sub-
sequent period, in this very respect. -----i
At the term of the Court of General Sessions o( ;
Ontario, just mentioned, the -grand jury renewed the
inquiries in the case of Morgan. They found a bill
of indictment against seventeen persons, for a conspi-
racy to kidnap and carry away that person, and for
falsely imprisoning and carrying him to parts unknown.
These persons were James Lakey, a physician, Chaun-
cey H. Coc, Hiram Hubbard, John Butterfield, Jamu
30
I
\
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
Guion, fonnerly a member of the state legislature, As&
Nowlen, Harris Seymour, Henry Howard, Joseph Sco-
field, Moees Roberts, Halloway Hayward, a constable,
James Gillis, a respectable fanner, John Whitney, Bur-
r-ae Smith, Simeon B. Jewett, an attorney and counsel-
lor at law, and Willard Eddy. ·
The preceding details bring this eventful history down to
the close of February ; and along with " the ides of March,"
eame fresh disclosures of deep and awakening interest.
There was a bookbinder, by the name of Richard Howard,
alias Clipperfield, or Cbipperfield, a foreigner, who had been
atrongly suspected of a participation in the Morgan outra-
ges, but down to this period, no circumstances had trans-
pired, sufficient to warrant his arrest. He was known
to have been at Batavia at the commencement of the out-
rages, or at about that time ; and from his own conversa-
tions, and admissions, at various times, it was by many sup-
posed that he was also at Fort Niagara, on the 14th, and
probably a few days afterwards. I was told at Buffalo, in
the autumn of 1829, of the manner in which some of the
presumptive testimony, in the case of Howard, was obtain-
ed ; and as the same process was adopted in other places,
and with similar success, it may not be amiss to note it in
this place, as an evidence of the deep and universal interest
which pervaded the community in that quarter, upon this
subject, and of the persevering efforts of people, whether
committee-men or not, to disclose, if possibJe, the hidden
mystery of the fate of Morgan. With thi~,Yiew, .in.aome
villages, the inhabitants were, in fact, committees of the
whole. It was so in Buffalo; and many ofits citizens were
continually provided with pendls and paper, to note down
every word, hint, or incidental remark, which they might
hear in the course of the day, bearing upon the matter up-
pennotlt in their thoughts ; and with these memoranda they
were wont to meet in the evenings, for a comparison of
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
ROtes. These notes not unfrequently reflected light upon
each other, and in the case of Howard, had afforded almost
sufficient matter to authorise an arrest. But an affidavit
was now received by the committee at Batavia, which left
no further doubt of the propriety of such a procedure. It
was the deposition of John Mann, then of Buffalo, stating,
that in the latter part of the preceding month of August, or
early in September, and a few days previously to the at·
tempt to burn Miller's office, in Batavia, he took a ride with
the said Howard. While they were riding, Howard appli~
ed to the deponent to procure for him a keg of turpentine-
avowing that he wished to obtain it in order to "switch"
Miller's.office therewith, it being his determination to burn
that office, and thus prevent the publication of a book re-
lating to Freemasonry. Mann declined purchasing the
article, for the want of money, as he alledged to the appli-
cant. Sometime afterwards, subsequently to the attempt
upon the office, (the deponent proceeded to say,) Howard in-
formed him that he did make the attempt. Having procur-
ed the turpentine, and purchased a broom at a store a short
distance west ofBatavia, with which to spread the combus-
tible liquid, he set fire to it by means of a dark lanthern, and
as the fire blazed up, he fled. Some person, as he suppoeed,
followed him, but he turned upon him, and, dashing the Ian-
them in his face, succeeded in effecting his retreat. Thete
details, furnished under oath by Mr. Mann, corresponded
so exactly with the circumstances tinder which the fire must
have been kindled; the walls having been swabbed with
turpentine, and the dark lanthern found near by ; that an
officer was forthwith dispatched to Buffalo, for the purpoae
of arresting the incendiary. But the messenger was direct-
ed to consult with some confidential friends at Buffalo in the.
first instance, and be governed by their advice. After a
private consultation, it was determined not to arrest How-
ard, for reasons with which I am not acquainted. It wu
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
believed by them, however, that he would not leave tM
place, but would be forthcoming at any after-time when he
might be wanted-and the messenger thereupon returned to
Batavia ;-such precautionary measures having been taken
at Buffalo, as it was.supposed would prevent Howard from
knowing that he was suspected. Other information having
been received by the committee, a messenger was a second
time despatched to Buffalo; but Howard had suddenly disap-
peared. A second deposition was now spontaneously fur-
nished by Mr. Mann, of a yet darker character, going to
confinn the suspicion, not only that a dreadful alternative
had been adopted by the conspirators, at once to silence
Morgan and the story of his wrongs, but that Howard had
been one of the leaders in the tragedy. Mr. Mann, in this
second deposition testified, substantially, that at about the
time he heard of the abduction, Howard informed him
that Morgan had been taken to Fort Niagara, and impri-
soned: that those with him, [1\forgan,] had drawn lots, to
deci<!,e who should execute his masonic penalty upon him ;
and that the lot had fallen upon him, the said Howard. Ac-
cording to the deposition, Howard appeared to be much
distressed about it, but seemed to think that he had only
performed his masonic duty. Howard held several subse-
quent conversations with the deponent upon the subject ;
but although he gave him to understand that the penalty had
been executed, he never afterwards spoke of his own agen-
cy in the transaction. Mr. Mann himself stated that he
had felt unpleasantly in keeping such a secret ; and that,
finally, after advising with his friends, he had determined to
make the disclosure.
These depositions were of a startling character ; but, had
it not been for the flight of Howard, from the eccentric tem-
perament of Mr. Mann, who was well known to us in this
city, they would not, unsupported, have made a very deep
imprgssion here. .Mr. .Mann, originally a blacksmith, had
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
relinquished the trade, and after a regular course of atudy
been admitted to the bar in this city. Not succeeding, how-
ever, in the profession, he retired to the country, and resum-
ed his early occupation. I knew him very well, in 1820-
'21. Soon after he made these depositions, he became
positively insane, and in a few months afterwards, died
a raving maniac. His unfortunate end threw still more
doubt upon the truth of his statements, as it is by no means
an unusual occurrence for those whose minds are diseased.
to fancy their best friends, or even themselves, to be guilty
of the blackest and bloodiest crimes, but of which they are
_perfectly innocent. In process of time, however, circum-
stances enough have been revealed, to prove, very satisfac-
torily, that, even if he were crazy, so far as Howard wu
concerned, there was certainly some " method in his mad-
" ness." Nothing further has ever been heard of Howard,
except that on fleeing from the west,· he came to this city,
where he had before been employed as a journeyman book-
binder. It was on or about the lOth of March, 1827, that he
absconded from Butr~lo. In March, 1829, a man named
Avery Allyn made an affidavit in this city, setting forth,
among other things, that in March, 1828, he attended an
encampment of Knights Templars at St. John's Hall, for
the purpose of perfecting himself in the higher degrees ;
that during the evening, the Templar who officiated as
Prelate, stated to him that they were certain of Morgan's
death; that the person who had executed the penalty of his
obligation upon him, had been in that encampment, and con-
fessed himself to have been the one ~ho gave him the fatal
blow.. Another Templar, during the same evening, made
a corroborating statement to Allyn ;-and both avowed that
after consultations upon the subject, they had furnished the
man money, and sent him to Europe. Allyn admits that he
himself thought it was all right at that time, and for a con-
sMerable time afterwards.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXII.
When this deposition appeared in an Anti-masonic paper,
which fretted its hour upon the stage in this city, and soon
departed, I was exceedingly shocked. I had not believed,
however wickedly a portion of the fraternity had conducted
in the west, that the Masons of this city, or any portion of
them, had been cognizant of the Morgan business, either ac-
tively or passively, or in any manner consenting thereto.
The affidavit was so full, explicit, and circwnstantial, that
it wore the appearance of truth ; and yet, the fact, that, by
his own showing, the author had acceded to the propriety
of the course of the Masons on the occasion referred to, and
had concealed this horrible truth for the space of more than
a year, added to certain other unfavorable circwnstances
which it is needless to mention, conspired, altogether, to
make me question his veracity. He had, moreover, incul-
pated a gentleman in his statement, who, before and after.
wards, I had the strongest reasons for believing as innocent
of all knowledge or participation in the affair, as I am my-
self. Still, I was determined diligently to investigate the
matter ; with which view, I devoted a large portion of each
day for a week,and entered upon a thorough course ofexami-
nation and inquiry. The result then was, a full and entire
belief, that not one word of Allyn's statement was true ; and
so I have expressed myself times almost without nwnber.
But since my present investigations were commenced, I
have satisfied myself that I was unable to reach the facta
ofthe case ; and that, however Allyn might have been mis-
taken in some of his details, and as to the identity of the
gentleman to whom I have alluded, there was yet eaential
truth in his story. I have recently been informed, in a man-
ner which leaves not a particle of doubt upon my own mind,
that Howard was in this city, at or about the time mention-
ed. I believe that when he fled from Buffalo, he proceeded
along the shore of the lake to the village of Erie ; thence
through Pennsylvania and Maryland to Baltimore ; that, OD
Digitized by Coogle
- LETTER XXIII.
hia arrival there, he engaged a passage on board of a ship
for a foreign port ;-that he was closely pursued ;-that on
proceeding from his hotel to the ship, then about getting un-
der way, he espied his pursuer on the deck of the ship be:-
fore he had quite reached it ;-thathe instantly changedhis
direction, unperceived, directing the porter to take his bag-
gage away, u be bad made a mistake as to the dock ;-that
hejumped on board of a steam-boat, and succeeded in reach-
ing Philadelphia, where be consulted a lawyer. Thence he
came to this city. I believe that he was at St. John's Hall;-
that some unworthy Masons of this city,-but :who they
are, I know not,-did cherish and provide for him, knowing
his situation and his crime. I believe, further, that he wu
taken across to Long Island, by the aid ofhis masonic friends
here, and finally put on board of a packet-ship, bound for
England, from the lower extremity of Long Island, at the
entrance of the harbour at Sandy Hook.
I am, sir, very sincerely yours.
LETTER XXIII.
NEw-You, Feb. 22, 1832.
Snt,
Gov. Clinton had written to Mr. Talbot, chairman of
the Batavia committee, on the 7th of February, expressing
his surprise that of late he had heard nothing from him.
He mentioned rumors of further important disclosures
wbicb were ~d to have been made, and urged him to fur-
nish all the authentic intelligence upon the aubject that.
could be obtained, desiring also to know the views of the
committee respecting any further measures that ought to be
adopted for the discovery and punishment of the offenders..
.Mr. Talbot, in behalf of tho Batavia committee, replied
to the above-mentioned letter on the 1st of March. In tlWt
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXUI.
reply were enclosed the depositions of Messrs. Trumball
Carey, Timothy Fitch, and Hinman Holden, testifying to
the diecoveries which had been made by the committee of
investigation at Lewiston, of which they were members,
afFording the strong reasons for believing that Morgnn had
been put to death, which we have already seen, and direct-
ly inculpating Bruce, the sheriffof Niagara. The deposi-
tion of John Mann, the substance of which has also been
given, was enclosed in this communication from Mr. Tal-
bot, accompanied, however, by extracts from a letter from ·
a professional gentleman in Buffalo, who was consulted in
the premises, and who seemed exceedingly reluctant to be-
lieve in the guilt of Howard, at the same time bearing
strong testimony to his integrity and industry, and the
general excellence of his character.
To this letter GOv. Clinton replied on the 7th of March.
It was then understood that the report of the Lewiston
convention, was in a forward state of preparation. In re-
ference to this statement, the Governor, in his answer, which
was addressed to Mr. Talbot, remarked:-" AJs soon as
" the publication of the Lewiston convention appears, I will
" come to a definitive resolution as to the course to be pur-
" sued by me. I wish you would expedite this measure as
"far as is in your power. As the next step on my part
" may involve important consequences, I hope to have be-
" fore me all the light that can be furnished. Will you also
" favor me as soon as possible with the result of the Buffa-
" lo investigation?"
The letter from which the preceding quotation is made,
was followed by another ofwhich the annexed is a copy~
"Albany, lith Marth, 1827.
"Sra,
" In reviewing my letter to you of the 7th of March
instant, I think it proper to avoid all ambiguity, by stating~
Digitized by Coogle
•
LETTER XXIII. i41
explicitly, that immedia\e measures ought to ,be adopted for
proving and testing the allegations contained in an affidavit
respecting a person criminated at Buffillo.
"In the affidavit of Messrs. Carey, Holden, and Fitch,
it is stated that the sheriffof Niagara county, was concern-
ed in the abduction of .Morgan. I wiah this charge to u-
aume a specific shape, and to be accompanied by all the ev-
idence that can be produced, in order that he may have a
hearing, and, ifguilty, be ejected from office.
" I should be gratified in knowing whether any exposi-
tion of this affair is to be made by the Lewiston convention,
or any other body of men. As most of the information is
aid to emanate from Dr. T--, it would be important
to have his affidavit, and such testimony as can be adduced
to support his statement apd character,-both of which have
been seriously impeached.
"I ba•e only to add, that I am detennined to Ule every
meana in my power, to develope all the mysterious pro.
ceediaga connected with the abduction of Morgan, and to
bring the oftenders to condign punishment. Sooner or Ia·
ter this will in all probability be accomplished ; but tho
eooner it is done, the better ; and I rely up<)n your continu-
ed and faithful co-operation as good citizens, and useful
members of society.
"I am, &c.
" DE WITT CLINTON.
... TBBODOilB F. TALBOT, Esq."
On the I 7th of March, Governor Clinton spontaneously
communicated a special message to the assembly, in the
following words ;-" Gentlemen : The abduction of William
" Morgan being an act of unprecedented violence, has justly
"excited unequivocal reprobation; and the apprehensions
" which are entertained of his fate, have produced general
"alarm and anxiety. Understanding that this subject is
31 •
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XXIII.
"ander the consideration of your honorable body, I have
" thought it proper to communicate to you all the informa-
"tion in my power respecting it; and this I should have
" done before, had I not been apprehensive that a prematUJ'e
• ·disclosure might have.interfered with pending investiga-
" tiona. If any future intelligence of importance should be
"- received, 1 shall not fail to communicate it." Accompa-
nying this message were a considerable number of papers,
comprising copies of the correspondence which had taken.
place between his excellency and the western committees,
together with a variety of other docwnents relating to the
subject of the outrage, and the several proclamations already.
noted. The message and documents were referred to the
committee of the assembly on courts of justice, to which
had previously been referred sundry petitions and memqrials
of the people on the same subject.
Two days afterwards, viz. on the 19th of March, his ex-
eellency issued his third proclamation, by which an increa&-
ed and specific reward of one thousand dollars was oflered
to any person who should restore Morgan to his family, if
living, or discover and bring to punishment his murderers, if
dead ;-and a free pardon was tendered to.any one of the
accomplices of the crime, who should make a full discovery
of the offender or offenders.•
At the time this proclamation was issued, a delegation
from the western committees was again on a visit to Lewis-
.ton and Fort Niagara, following up the investi8ations that
had formerly been made, but as yet with no decisive re.-
sults. A number of ad4itional depositions were collected
by this committee, and a variety of facts and circumstances •
elicited, strengthening the former conviction, that Morgan
had been brought to, and imprisoned in, the fort, and that
there were many individuals implicated in this part of the
.• See F« _simik, in the Appendix.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIII.
mysterious transaction. Among the depositions so collect-
ed, was one from a man named Paul Mosher, to whom Fox
had told the eircwnstances of his night journeyfrom Youngs-
town. The story of Fox, as related on the morning ofSep-
tember 14, was widely different from his testimony on tho
trial of Cheseboro and others. He at first informed .Mosher,
when he had received no caution of concealment, that there
was a man gagged and bound in the carriage ; and be
thought he had heard him called Morgan. But Mosher
also swore, not only to the threat of Fox's employer, that be·
should loee his place if he was not silent, but that a short time
afterwards, Fox was made a Mason at Lewiston, for which
purpose, a special lodge was called. In January following,
when interrogated in court, as it has been shown, Fox swore
that he heard nothing of Morgan, nor did he see any force ap-
plied to any one whom he took to Youngstown. The em-
ployer of Fox had likewise afiorded other evidence that
some transaction had taken place that was wrong. He had
'been heard to speak of sending a man down to the fort, as
there Was trouble ; he had !laid, " that another man must be
•
" smuggled away, to blind the transaction ;" and on the
morning after he had spoken of the trouble at the fort, be
had said, " he guessed that all was still enough." Another
deposition was obtained from a Mr. Tryon, who had been
at a ball at Lewiston, on the night of the 14th of Septem-
ber, after the installation. As he was proceeding towards
Youngstown, between three and four o'clock in the morning,
it being a clear moonlight night, he met five men walking
from the direction of Youngstown, towards that of Lewis-
ton~ viz. Timothy Shaw, Samuel Chubbuck, Gen. P. Whit-
ney, James L. Barton, (the employer of Fox,) and Noah
Beach. Such a night-walk, for such persons,-for they were
all men of standing in the community,-was unusual. The
committee also obtained, at the same time, a deposition of
Edward Giddings, the fonncr keeper of the fort, and the
oig111zed by Coogle
144. LETTER XXIII.
personage who has subsequently figured so conspicuoualy
in the Morgan trials. But this document is an exceedingly
eautioua one. The committee had made another cloae in-
tpection of the fort and magazine. Gidclings, at this time.
occupied a small ferry-house, near the fort, directly on the
baak of the river, and sometimes entertained travellers.
He IMLd Charge of the fort for several months previoualy to
the 1st of August, 1826, on which day he left it, and gave
np the key. He had left the magazine in perfect order. It
was now deranged, and there were many decisive evidences,
aot only that it had been occupied, but that somebody had
heen confined therein; for the braces which had been ap--
plied to the door, and the marks of violence within, were
ury distinct and convincing. Giddings made full expla-
nations as to the order in which he had left every thing in_
the fort and magazine on the first of August ; but pretend-
ed that he could not account for the derangement of the va-
rioUs fiXtures, and the appearances indicating that the ma-
gazine had been occupied by some one held in durance.
Whert distinctly asked, however, whether he had not been
ealled up by Bruce and Colonel King, on the night of Se~
teinber 13th, be declined answering the question; but added,
that al\ould he be legally called upon, he would attest to all
be knew. A clue to the fact indicated by the question thus
put, was afforded in the following manner :-" On the mom-
" ing of the 14th of September, a party of ladies and gen-
.. tlemen proceeded in a steam-boat from Youngstown to
" Lewiston, to attend the installation so repeatedly spoken
" of. Bruce and King were on board, and, among other la-
" di~. was Mrs. Giddings. During the passage, one of the
" ladies familiarly asked, what he meant by going about at
" nights, nnd disturbing people, and calling up her hus·
" band"-" Yes," observed Mrs. Giddings, " they came too,
" and routed up my poor husbaud."
Digitized by Google
pa
I.
I
LETTER XXIII.
Many other circumstances, all tending to the same con-
clusion, were elicited at this time, by the committee. There
had previously been a strong suspicion that Morgan bad
been taken to the house of n prominent man at Newark, a
member of. the provincial parliament of Upper Caaada.
'The imputation became so annoying to him, that be pab-
.lilhed a letter, intending it to go forth u an eatire OODU..
diction ; but it was so equivocal and evuive, as to excite
still stronger suspicions against him. The committee, dur-
ing this examination, arrived at all but positive .testimony,
that, although Morgan had not been taken to his house on
the night of September 13, yet that the gentleman referred
to had been called up late at night, and had seen Morgan
on the Canada shore. They also satisfied themselves, from
testimony too strong to be resisted, that Morgan had been
takento the Masons at Newark, who reftaed to receive him,
and-that he had been thence taken back again to theAmeriean
shore. Here their direct and positive testimony coded.
But in addition to these circumstances, and many others
which it would be too tedious to enumerate in this place, the
committee ·obtained a deposition from a medical gentle-
man of Upper Canada, a Mason, who had been informed
by a brother Mason, that Morgan had been thus brought
across the frontier, refused, and sent back; and that be
had subsequently been put to death at Fort Niagara, and
his body sunk in the river. The informant of this gentle-
man justified tbe deed, as being no more than was due to
the expositor of the aecrets of the order. The tale was re-
peated to this gentleman, in December following the out·
rage, together with the particulars of the execution, as men--
tioned in the letter giving an account of the first meeting
of the committee at Niagara. The last informant, on being
interrogated as to the state of mind of those who had been
guilty of putting him to death, stated that they were much
troubled ; one of them had nearly gone crazy ; and that
Die itlzed ~y Google
LI!'I'TER xxrn.
others had declared they would willingly deliver up every
thiog they had, could they only bring Morgan back. It
wu also added that the execution had \Jeen perfonned
asreeabJy to directions from the General Grand Chapter, the
fimda of which were to be used to defray the expenses of
fiDes. &c., should they be diacovered and prosecuted. A ·
member of the Geneeee Committee, happening to be at
Lockport, had been infonned while there, by a respectable
inhabitant of Niagara county, "that he had been for some
" time put working on the Weiland Canal-that a friend,
" .
who resided in Canada, near the canal, had a few days
"before ea.Ued on him, and exacted a promise from him to
"go to Batavia, and communicate to the committee that
~·Morgan had been taken to Fort Niagara, in the night, put
" into the fort, and detained there three or four days-that
"·they tried to get the Masons on the Canada side to take
"him, but they .refused-that afterwards two ruffians llad
" taken him out, cut his throat, and tied his body to a
" rope and stone, and thrown it into the lake-that he had
" been told so by Masons, of which society he '!':IS a mem-
" ber, and that he conscientiously believed it-that his name
• must not be used, or given in; for if it was known that he
"had infonned he should fare no better." All this, howe-
Ter, was but circumstantial and hearsay evidence, and would
be wholly insufficient to convict of any capital offence, eTen
should attempts be mo:de to obtain indictments. But as
yet, however strong the suspicion, there was no proof to
establish the commission of any crime, beyond that of the
original abduction. Nor, after months of investigation, had
it been ascertained that any thing farther respecting
Morgan's person could be proved, than his getting into the
carriage at Canandaigua. All else was circumstance, con-
jecture, and mystery ; so skilfully had their plans been de-
vieed ; so exactly executed ; and the secret so faithfully
kept.
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXIII.
But the eonspirators took very efficient measure'S fOr es-
caping indictments even for the minor offence of the ab-
duction. The parties suspected disappeared ; witnesses
were spirited away ; and when attempts were made to p~
cQre indictments, witnesses often declined to testify, alledg-
ing that they could not do so without criminating them-
selves. I have already spoken of the first grand jury, af-
ter the abduction, summoned by Bruce, for the county ·of
Niagar&., of which he was sheriff. In like manner, each
successive grand jury summoned by him, or under his or-
ders, while he continued in the sheriffalty, was composed, a
strong majority at least, of Masons ; and the public prose-
cutor of that county was also a Mason, who knew all about
the affair. Hiram B. Hopkins, a Royal Arch Mason, and
one of Bruce's deputies, has declared that he bad directioue
in summoning the grand jurors, to select at least three-
fourths Masons-Bruce telling him at the same time, thal
it would not do to have all Masons, as the device would 0<>
casion suspicion. Hopkins states that when he bad inquired
of them how they expected ill the end to escape detection
and punislullent, they always assured him they wer! in no
danger, as they would have to deal only with Masons. At
the April General Sessions of Niagara county, 1827, of
twenty-one persons present on the grand jury, thirteen were
Masons, of whom one was subsequently found to be an im-
portant witness, and another was afterwards himself indict-
ed as an actor in the conspiracy. It was before this jury
that complaint was made against Bruce, as one of the con-
spirators ; and a scene of corruption took place on this ex..
amination, unsurpassed, probably, in the annals of judicial
iniquity ; too flagrant, indeed, almost, for belief. Every pos-
sible effort was made by the jury, to shield Bruce. Another
witness desired to be excused from giving evidence, beoauae
he was a poor man, and the fact of his giving testimony. he
said, would ruin him. He was excused ! One witness, not-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIII.
\1rtthstanding all the cunning in putting the questions, actu-
ally testified to Bruce's own acknowledgement of having
had an agency in carrying Morgan away. Questions, which
had been prepared 'carefully beforehand, in writing, and
furnished to memben of the jury, and which it was believed
would elicit the truth, were not allowed to be put by the
majority. The revelation before referred to, which was
made to a respectable man when at work upon the Weiland
Canal, wu testified to before this grand jury. One juror
insisted that the witness shoUld name the person who gave
him this information, but he refused, and nearly, if not quite
all the other jurors present, sustained the witness in his refu-
lal, and he was allowed to retire without answering the
queation. --It has also been stated, without contradiction, so
far u I have been able to ascertain, "that a series ofques-
.. tiona, to be propounded to the witness, had been so framed,
• that the witnesses coUld answer without eliciting any dan-
..gerous information. This must have been the case, or real
"perjury must have been repeatedly committed, on the in-
" vestigation before them. All the important witnesses, to
., trace the whole abduction from Rochester to Fort Niagara,
"were examined before this grand jury ; the same witnesses,
" upon whose testimony, bills were afterwards found in other
" cases, and convictions had. Thirteen of the witnesses ex-
.. amined before this grand jury, were subsequently indicted,
"not one of whom protected himself on the examination,
"on the ground that he should criminate himself. Three of
"them, were afterwards shown by the testimony of Eli
"Bruce himself, to have had a criminal agency in the ab-
"duetion. Edward Giddings, in his published ' Statement of
"'Facts,' says he was subpamaed before ~s grand jury,
''which much alarmed those who were implicated. One of
" them informed Giddings that he would go and see the fore-
" man, and state to him Giddings' situation, that he might
"know how to question him, so that his answers might not
Digitized by Coogle
a
LETTER XXIV.
1 " injure others. He subsequently informed Giddings that he
"had told the foreman what Giddings knew ofthe affair, and
"that the foreman would put no question but what Giddings
"could safely answer." Nay, more than all, "while this
"jury was in session, the foreman took Eli Bruce privately
" into a side room, and was there with him some time. And
" this grand jury, so far from finding any indictment against
" Eli Bruce, or any other person, drew up n presentment
" to the court, that they had discovered nothing which would
" authorise them to find n bill against any person, and also
"framed and sent a memorial to the Governor, in which
" they stated that there was not a shadow of testimony im-
" plicating Eli Bruce, as guilty of, or aecessary to, the ab-
" duction of Morgan, with the exception of one witness,
" who was so contradicted, and whose general reputation
" was so bad, that they did not place any reliance upon it." ·
This, sir, forms but a single chapter of the deep and
wide-spread iniqui.ty which has impeded the march of jus-
tice in relation to the Morgan conspiracy. And there are
more to come. Is there, then, sir, let me again ask, any
cause for special wonder that the people should have been
excited-strongly and fiercely excited-while such trans-
actions, under the pretext of a due administration of the
law, were taking place under their own eyes!
Accept, sir, the assurances of my respectful considera-
tion.
LETTER XXIV.
NEW·YoRK, Feb. 25, 1832.
SIR,
It was on the 6th of March, 1827, that the memorials
of the Lewiston convention. and others, upon the subject of
!12
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIV.
tbe abduction of ~organ, were first presented to the Hoose
of Aseembly of the New-York Legislature. The prayer
of the petitioners was for the enactment of more efficient
laws for the punishment of the crime of kidnapping ; for
the adoption of more energetic measures for discovering the
authors of the outrage complained of; and for the appoint-
meat of a specinl commission, or tribunal of justice, for the
trial and punishment of the offenders. The memorials wcrey
ia the fint instance, referred to the committee on courts of
justice, but subsequently they were taken from that com-
mittee, and entrusted to a special committee, of which Mr.
Granger, of Ontario, was chairman. This committee made
a long report upon the subject, on the 4th of April. After
setting forth, briefly, the extraordinary facts of the caae,
and examining the nature of the testimony by wh.ich they
were sustained, the committee arrived at a conclusion Wl-
favorable to the creation of a specinl tribunal for that sec-
tion of the country, clothed with specinl and peculiar powers
for investigating the transaction submitted to their conside-
ration. They did propose, however, two important re&O-
lutions, the first of which authorised aud empowered the
Governor to issue his proclamation, offering a reward of
five thousand dollars, for the discovery of the said William
Morgan, if living ; and the like sum of five thousand dol-
lars, for the murderer or murderers of Morgan, if dead.
The second resolution proposed the appointment of a joint
committee of the two houses of the legislature, consisting
of two members of the Senate, and three members of the
Auembly, whose duty it should be to visit the region of
the excitement, now including seven counties, with power
to send for persons and pnpers, to inquire into the facts and
circumstances connected with the abduction, and making il
their duty to report their proceedings to the next succeeding
legislature, that such measures might afterwards be adopt-
ed, as the liberty nnd :iafety of the people rt.-quircd. Tile
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIV. 151
report ud resolutions were ordered to lie on the table and
be printed.
They were called up for discussion on the lOth of April,
and underwent a long debate. Mr. Granger explained the
views.of the committ:ee, and defended the report with dis·
tinguiahed ability. · The friends of the report were oppol8d
to the erection of any new legal tribunal, not only from the
intrinsic difficulties that would attend such a measure ; but
from a belief that such a novel court would tend to incl'eue,
rather than diminish, the excitement ; but it was believed
that the appointmenLof a special committee for investigate
ing the whole matter, clothed with the power of the legil-
lature, would inspire the people with tonfidence, and allay
the agitation of the public mind. The resolutions were
strongly opposed by several gentlemen, among the foremoat
of whom, were, Mr. Bucklin, of Jefferson; Mr. Moseley, of
Onondaga ; and Gen. Root, of Delaware. The leading ob-
jections were, that the amount of money proposed to be of•
fered as a reward, would open the tribunals ofjustice inthe
excited region, to such scenes of fraud and perjury, stimula-
ted by cupidity, and pushed on by the frenzy of ~ public
mind, as would jeopard the best interests of the people, and
involve alike, the innocent in ruin with the guilty. It wu
not believed, by the opponents of the report, that tbe case
was beyond the reach of the laws ; and they contended
that a committee of the legislature might as well be sent
in pursuit of every absconding murderer, as in search of
those who had abducted Morgan,-for, as yet, there was
no testimony of his having been killed. Neither the com·
mittee in the report, nor did its chairman in opening the
debate, make any allusion to the institution of Freemasonry,
as having been the cause of the outrage, and the conae-
quent excitement. But the institution was introduced by
the opponents o{the report ; and Mr. Bucklin made several
statements that had an evident effect against its adoption.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIV.
Being himself a Mason, Mr. B. stated, as an evidence of the
dangerous extent to which the excitement had arisen, that
but a few days before, a gentleman from the west, under-
standing that he was one of the order, plainly told him that
he must of course know all about the Morgan business ;
whether be was alive ; and, if so, where he was. Mr. B.
likewise commented upon the inflammatory and violent pro-
ceedings of the public meetings at the west, among which
had been several assemblages of the ladies, who had resolved
that their daughters should never be married to Freema-
8008. He further stated, that, as chairman of a committee
to whom the subJect of public executions had been referred,
bC had reported a bill, directing the sentence of the law, in
capital cases, to be carried into effect in private. . For this
report he was directly threateneJ, by letters from Batavia,
the writers of which conceived the bill to be a project for
shielding Freemasons from the disgrace of being hung in
public I Mr. Granger strongly deprecated the course ofthe
debate. The committee had hoped that the resolutions
would be acted upon without reference to the character or
conduct of any secret association. They had denounced
none : they had spoken of the transaction as a violation of
the rights ofa citizen, owing allegiance to, and protected by,
the government, and he expressed his surprise and regret
at tho course that had been pursued by the gentlemen op-
posed to him. The result was the rejection of the report,
by a voto of 74 to 23.
On the 16th of April, however, an act was passed mak-
ing the abduction or kidnapping of any person felony, which
had only been a misdemeanor before ; and tl1e punishment
was prescribed to be imprisonment in the state prison for a
tenn of not exceeding fourteen years. Thus ends the le-
gislative history of Anti-masonry for the first year.
Towards the close of the month of March, the stonn
raged so fiercely against tllc fraternity, tl1at a few of its
Digitized by Coogle
----- - - -- -- ----
LETTER XXIV. 259
members at Batavia, oflcrcd a reward of one hundred dol-
lars, for the discovery of those who had set fire to Miller's
office. This prodigious effort was made seven months af.
ter the transaction, and after those in the secret very well
knew that the oflbnder was safe from arrest.
A grand jury assembled again in Monroe county, in this
same month of March. A majority of them were Masons,
~d the efforts for a farther investigation of the conspiracy,
were so faint, that no indictments were found. At the
Court of Oyer and Terminer in Niagara county, held in
April, and also at the Court of Geneml Sessions in the same
county, for May, grand juries were assembled; but Bruce
had packed them with large majorities of Masons. The
conduct of the April grand jury has already been noticed,
in anticipation. That of May was of so decidedly a ma-
sonic character, that it was deemed entirely useless to make
any complaint before it.
At the Court of Oyer and Terminer, held in the county
of Genesee, in April, 1827,-the Hon. John Birdsall, of tile
eighth Circuit, presiding,-came on the trial of Jesse
French, James Hurlburt, Roswell Wilcox, and James Gan-
son, who had been indicted in October of the year before,
for the outrage upon Col. Miller. French, Wilcox, and
Hurlburt, were found guilty, and sentenced to close con-
finement in the countyjail for different periods-viz. French,
the officer, as it will be recollected, who served the warrant
under color of which Miller had been carried away,-was
sentenced for one year, Wilcox for six months, and Hurl-
burt for three. The whole history of the outrage, as elici-
ted upon this trial, corresponds, with great exactness, with
the account given in a former letter. It appeared, in addi-
tion to what I have there stated, that when Miller was ta-
ken into the lodge-room in the stone-bouse at Stafford, the
door was" tyled" by two armed men. When Johns came
in with a drawn sword, he advanced in a threatening man-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIV.
·ncr upon Miller, until, after expostulation, he appeared to
releDt, and gave the faltering reply heretofore mentioned.
It also appeared upon this trial, that the money, for there-
covery of which a feigned suit had been C()ftllllenced in t.IWI
most extraordinary manner, was actually presaed. upon
Miller's acceptance by Johns. It was proved, very dis-
tinctly, by eeveral witneaes. that Ganson was regularly ap-
pointed the captain, or leader of the armed mob which went
to Batavia on that occasion; that he was there in person;
was also with them in Stafford, where they halted so long ;
and likewise at Le Roy, where, during the difficulties, as
formerly related, Miller was rescued, and taken home by
his friends. It was also satisfactorily proved, that they had
no design of carrying Miller to the magistrate, but were
clearly intent on taking him, to use their own language,
"where Morgan was." Mrs. Morgan, an unimpeachable
witness on the trial, testified that Ganson informed her that
he knew the mob was going to Batavia. On her return
from the fruitless mission to Canandaigua, in search of her
husband, Ganson had assured her, that if she never saw her
husband again, she should be supported ; he said he was
very much obliged to her for giving up the papers, adding,
that if they had not beep given up, Miller's office would
have been torn down. It had, therefore, saved them a great
.deal of trouble and expense. Miller, he declared, deserved
a worse fate than her husband, and would be punished
worse, for they had two hundred and eighty men at their
.command. But, notwithstanding the testimony of this de-
scription, and the indisputable fact, that he was appointed
~he leader of the gang in the lodge-room at Stafford, before
they proceeded for Batavia, Ganson was acquitted. Although
.there were no improper practices resorted to, either with
.t.he witnesses or jurors, on this trial, that attracted the at-
tention of the court, yet the result excited more attention,
.and induced more suspicion, from the fact of the acquittal
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIV.
of the man who was known and proved to have been the
captain of the band, and the main-spring of the expedition,
while those who acted a subordinate part, were convicted.
As to the witnesses who were implicated more or less in
the transaction, there was the prevarication and forgetful-
ness common to most interested witnesses, and nothing
more. Ganson, however, though a high Mason, was a man
of standing, of wealth, and of influence. Great efforts were
made by his counsel ; and the presiding judge has informed
me, that although his acquittal was a matter of surprise to
him, yet he has been as much disappointed in the verdicts
of juries, both before and since that trial. Two other in·
dictments were fou~d against Ganson, at the same term of
the court,.......one for a conspiracy with Daniel Johns and
George Ketchum, to obtain Morgan's manuscripts, or print-
ed sheets,-the other for a conspiracy with sixteen others,
to destroy Miller's office.
Not the least remarkable feature of the Anti-masonic ex-
citement, was the successive alternations which for a long
time took place in the public sentiment. I do not speak.
now, of the public feeling in the disturbed district, for
within the boundaries of that territory, enlarging as addi-
tional towns and counties caught the fever, the spirit, once
awakened, was much the same. It was speedily aroused
to the highest point of excitation, when, after exhausting it-
self with over-action, it settled down into the solemn and
deliberate purpose of prosecuting an endless war against
.Masons and Masonry. But at a distance, where the. facts
and circumstances appealed to the judgments, rather than
the feelings, of men, the effects were different. With such,
the thousand stories set afloat hy those interested upon both
sides at the west,-the one party wishing to increase and
extend the excitement, and the other to dimini~h it, the per-
plexities in which people were continually involved, were
very great. The Anti-masons, or rather that portion of
Digitized by Coogle
LETT£1t XXIV.
them whose chief object was to make a living out of i~
were equally ingenious and industrious in the multiplication
6f masonic murders ; and many were the suicides, long
gone by, and forgotten by every body save the coroners
who had sat upon them, or the editors who had chronicled
'them, that were now raked up in all their terrific details,
and the half-remembered circumstances so warped and em-
bellished, as to make it appear at least possible that in fact
the deceased might have been murdered by the Masons.
Stories of this class were greedily published, and as greedily
believed by thousands of people, who never troubled them-
selves to inquire into the circumstances, or even the pro-
babilities of the respective cases. On the other hand, the
Morgan abductors were equally active in distracting the
public mind, with regard to the absent victim of their ven-
geance.
The reluctance of the people eastwardly of the Cayuga
bridge, to believe the worst that had been asserted, was very
great ; willing ears were consequently lent to every tale,
wearing an air of probability, going to exculpate the accu-
sed from the more aggravated part of the accusations under
which they were laboring, if no more. Various accounts
of the existence of Morgan, were coined and put into cir- ·
culation, and some of them given with so much particulari-
ty ofthe times, places, and circumstances,under which he had
actually been seen, as also by whom, and so plausibly told
withal, that the former opinion, viz : that Morgan was in
fact living, and only keeping out of sight until the books
could be sold, was extensively revived in the month of May.
The account of his havin~ been seen somewhere in the inte-
rior of Canada, keeping a retail ~roccry concern, though
widely circulated, was not much ercditcd. But there was
one statement published at this time, which I am free to
confess greatly staggered my own belief in his death. It
mu:st be rccullel'tcd that the Lewiston convention had not
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXIV.
yet put forth its official report, as digested from ~ evidence
they had obtained. Bruce, when first arrested, and brought
before a magistrate, in December, had been discharged, be-
cause it did not appear, from the evidence adduced, that
any such person as Morgan had been with him. The trial
of Cheseboro, had not traced the absentee twenty rods from
the jail of Canandaigua : that of Ganson and others, scarce-
ly involved the name of .Morgan, as Miller only was direct-
ly concerned in that transaction : Mann, who had made
the disclosures·respecting Howard, was now insane :, other
occasional disclosures from the Lewiston committees had
fallen into disrepute. All the attempts to procure indict-
ments in Monroe and Niagara counties, where the suspi-
sions ofguilt were fastened upon certain persons the strong·
est, had failed. And the manner in which those grand ju-
ries had been summoned, and the gross violations of their
duty, in shielding the persons implicated, by preventing the
disclosure of facts, and thus stopping the fountains of jus-
tice, as I have already stated, were not yet known to us in
the eastern and southern sections of the state. Accustomed
to the regular and harmonious movement of all the machine-
ry of our civil and criminal courts, and the steady adminis-
tration of the laws, in their purity and their might, we
could not suppose,-the possibility of the thing was not
dreamed of,-that the judges and magistracy of the land
could be thus mocked, and the sword and balances of Jus-
tice herself, snatched fi·om her hands, by the primary
inquests-the grand jurors of the land-selected, as they
had ever been, and were yet supposed to be, from the most
intelligent and respectable yeomanry of the country. And
when the accused had been again and again pronounced
guiltless by these preliminary tribunals, if I may call them
such, nothing could be more natural and proper than that
we should again pause and suspend our opinions. It was
under circwnstances like these, that accounts, apparently
32
•
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIV.
well authenticated, reached us from Boston, that Morgan
himself had been seen in that city. Davids, one of hi•
partnen in the book concern, had been in New-York ~~eve­
raJ weeks during the winter, and it was now said he was in
Boston, where a large edition of the masonic revelations
was printing in the Spanish language, with which New-
Orleans, and the people of Mexico, were to be supplied.
Circumstances were stated, with an air of sincerity and
truth, that even Loton Lawson, Whitney, and Smith, were
all 88Cretly interested in the book, and that the former had
encountered the imprisonment which he was then arufferingr
as a part of the scheme,-knowing that he was sure to come
out of prison with a fortune,-while Smith and Whitney had
departed for New-Orleans, to take charge of the adventure
in that part of the world. But the most imposing part of
the tale was the circumstance reported, that a gentleman
from Batavia, a Mr. Brown, whose name was given, and
who was well acquainted with Morgan, being in Boston
upon business, had actually seen him in the street. Mor-
gan, it was asserted, was partially disguised, and when
accosted by name, by his former neighbor, appeared some-
what disconcerted at first; but drew his cloak close around
his face, and turned off into another street. He was pur·
sued for some distance, through various streets and alleys,
and ultimately avoided a positive disclosure, by losing him·
liClf in a crowd of people. The editor of a paper published
at Pawtucket, conduded the account as follows :-"Such
"are the facts stated at the time by Brown, of whom we
"know nothing, hut have only the particulars from a gen-
"tleman who received them from Brown himself, and from
"others to whom he related them, in lloston and Newbury-
" port, where he gave an account of the matter. We do
" not huitate to say, that our autl1ority i$ respectable and
"authentic, and that we shall at all times lwld ounelt~es re-
" sponsible for tlte statement we have made." This state-
•
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXV.
ment was fully corroborated by the Masonic Mirror, pub-
lished in Boston, the editor of which positively avowed his
belief that Morgan was in that city, living incog., and pre-
paring to extend the book speculation, as before mentioned.
These accounts created a re-action in the public mind,
which continued for several weeks, although circumstances
JOOD transpired to convince me that they were but another
auempt to deceive.
I have the honor to remain, &c.
LETTER XXV.
NEw-Yoax, Feb. 27, 1832.
Sra,
The next step of this important history, was the an-
.Jlual communication of the Grand Lodge of the statei which
assembles in the city of New-York, on the first Wednes-
day in June, of each year. This body has the supreme
government and control of the lodges of Master Masons,
u the Grand Chapte.r has of the Royal Arch ; and I looked
forward to the meeting with no little interest. Dissatisfied,
as I had been, with the Grand Chapter, albeit as yet igno-
rant of the iniquity of its secret counsels, I hoped, on this
first assembling of the Grand Lodge since the perpetration
of the Morgan outrage, that a thorough investigation would
be set on foot by this body,-the conduct of the lodges un-
der its jurisdiction, supposed to have been either directly or
indirectly implicated, inquired into,-and the charters of
offending lodges withdrawn, &c. I had another purpose in
view. I did entertain a hope, that, from my extensive ac-
quaintance with the fraternity, and by the help of my Free-
masonry, I should be enabled to penetrate the great secret
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXV.
of Morgan's fate. And I accordingly devised SU<'h schemes
as seemed best for the accomplishment of that object.
Adayor two previouslyto the meeting oftheGrand Lodge,
I had the honor ofa call from Eli Bruce. I was aware that
he bad been cited by Governor Clinton to show cause why he
should not be removed from the sheriffalty of Niagara, for
his alledged participation in the Morgan outrage. Indeed,
although Gov. C. has frequently been censured for the deli-
beration with which he proceeded in this matter, as well as ,
upon other points of this controversy, yet it is a fact, as must
already have been seen from one of his letters, that it was
at hi~ suggcstic:n, after he had seen the deposition of Mo-
sher and others, that a complaint against Bruce had been
formally laid before him. Mr. Bruce stated to me that he had
come to New-York to make his defence,-Gov. Clinton
having left Albany for a visit of a few weeks to this city.
He presented me a letter of introduction from a valued
friend, one of the most intelligent and estimable gentlemen
in the western country, and in whose judgment I have great
confidence. This gentleman spoke very kindly of Bruce ;
stated that he had visited the county of Niagara, nnd inqui-
red particularly into the causes of .the excitement ; that he
believed Bruce to be an injured and innocent man ; and in
conclusion desired me to examine the papers which formed
the defence which Mr. B. was about to submit to the Gov-
ernor. As Mr. B. himself joined in this request, I did so,
and passed a very long evening with him. In looking over
his papers, I found them materially defective, ns a defence,
and after a long examination of him, by way of question
and cross-question, although he exerted himself greatly to
persuade me of his entire innocence of the whole transac-
tion, and his ignorance of Morgan, I yet came to the conclu-
sion that he was clearly guilty of aiding in the abduction.
Of the murder, or any participation therein, I did not then,
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XXV. 261
nor have I ever since, believed Bruce to be guilty. I believe
he is naturally a kind-hearted, and an amiable man. We
parted late in the night, and I have never had any conver·
sation with him since. Gov. Clinton was absent from the
city, during tho whole time of Bruce's visit,.-being then on
a tour through Connecticut and Vcrmont, visiting the Farm-
ington Canal, and exploring the valley of the Connecticut,
with a view to the improvement of its navigation to Barnet,
in the latter state. The hearing, therefore, did not take place
until September. His defence consisted chiefly, if not alto-
gether, of affidavits, the object of which was to impeach the
character of Mosher, and to discredit the statement ofCory- .
don Fox ; but there was no attempt to explain the part
which he himself ·had enacted ()n the memorable night of
the 13th September, either by his own affidavit, or any affi.
davits from his friends. He was removed from office by
Gov. Clinton, and the act was a righteous one.
I was not a member of the Grand Lodge. Those only
arc such who are actually masters or wardens of lodges for
the time being, or who arc past-masters of lodges. Of
course I could only exercise my right of visiting it, without
participating in its deliberations. This it had been my prac-
tice for years to do : and, full of hope that I should find
that right worshipful body engaged in deliberating upon
some efficient measures for an investigation of the cause of
the excitement yet raging at the west with all its original
virulence, I repaired to the lodge-room as usual. Little,
however, did I imagine the reception with which I was to
meet from a portion ofmy brethren. There were many old
friends with· whom I met as cordially as in former times.
·But there were others whose countenances frowned darkly
upon me ; while others, still, assailed me with angry and
violent language, charging me, with eyes flashing revenge-
folly, with being a deserter, n revealer of secrets, an Anti-
mason, &c. There was much excitement and irritation in
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXV•.
the circle that gathered round me, and it was declared by
one or more, that if they could only obtain copies of some
of the articles which I had written against the abduction of
Morgan, there should be a resolution for my expulsion on
the following day. I repelled their upbraidings with aU
possible calmness, and assured them that if they would call
at my office early on the ensuing morning, they should have
the use of our files of papers to make as mnny copies as
they pleased,-adding, that I would assist them in the eearch
with the utmost pleasure.
On the following morning two or three of the brethren
called upon me, and the files were examined. If, sir, you
will pardon my prolixity upon tliis point,-a point, by the
way, which, though apparently interesting chiefly to myself,
is not altogether without interest to the public as connected
with this transaction,-! will cite the passages from IJlY
editorial writings, which had given such mortal offence.
By these citations,-and they shall be very brief,-,you will
be the better enabled to judge as to the temper and disposi- ·
tion of the body from whom I had been hoping to see a
thorough investigation of the Morgan business undertaken.
I have already stated the determination to which I came,
so soon as I was convinced that the high-handed outrage
complained of at the west, had actually been committed, to
publish, fearlessly, and independently, the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so far as that could be eli-
cited, of the whole matter. And I was likewise determined,
that the voice of no Anti-mason should ring deeper than
mine, in the denunciation of the crime. Accordingly, in the
course of an editorial article on the day upon which I re-
ceived the letter from Mr. Spencer, before referred to, viz:
on the 13th of February, 1827, I held the following lan·
guage:-
" We feel it a duty to state, that, not satisfied with the
f' newspaper accounts, we have written to a gentleman of
Digitized by Coogle
LETT:£1l XXV.
•• high standing, whose official relations enable him to speak
" with more than common authority ; and the answer just
, " received, has made an impression far different from what
" wehad hoped, or anticipated. In one word, then, although
" there is as yet no direct and positive proof of the fact,
" we have but too much reason to fear that the worst is
" true ; and that a few misguided, heated, and ignorant rna-
" sonic fanatics, have inflicted a wound upon the fraternity
" to which we have felt it a pleasure to belong, which it
" will require years to heal, and fixed a stain upon the cha-
" racter of the institution, which all the waters of Niagara
"cannot wash away."
Much to my astonishment, the article from which I have
quoted, called forth a reply in one of the gazettes in this
city, in which, whatever the fate of Morgan might be proved
to have been, the aggressors were justified. My rejoinder
was prompt and equally decided in its tone. After giving
concisely my views of the nature of the masonic obligv.-
tions, my article, published on the 20th of February, wu
concluded thus:-
"Away, then, with these sickly attempts to extenuate
" the conduct of the aggressors in this affair. Be Morgan
" dead, or be he living, there is no masonic excuse for the
" violation of the civil law. If he be living, let the ma-
" sunic fanatics who carried him off, make it manifest. Let
"them produce him, if he be yet within their power, or
" prove the fact, if (as they were then pretending) he is
" concerned in a plot to keep out of view until his fortune
" is made by the sale of his J>ook. But if he has been put
" to death, let none 'lay the flattering unction to their souls,'
" that his blood is not in their skirts. What though he had
" proved recreant to his principles, and violated the oath he
"had taken to preserve the secrets of the order,-shall a
" band of men, in a moment of indignation, deliberately
" put to death a fellow-being, who, for the same offence, if
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER 'XXV.
"committed against the state, would only be consigned by
" law to the state prison !· It cannot be. Every Mason
" should set his face against such monstrous opinions. We
" repeat it, as a member of the masonic fraternity, that if
" Morgan has been put to death-God forbid that it should
" prove so-his blood cries from the ground for vengeance
" as loud as did the blood of Abell"
Ten days afterwards, the mail from Washington brought
me a threatening letter, which, having been somewhat cele-
brated from its frequent quotation by the Anti-masonic wri·
t.crs, I may, perhaps, as well insert in this place. It had
the Washington post-mark, and was dated
" Wasltington, February 25, 1827.
"SIR,
" Your remarks relating to the case of Morgan, are
fraught with ill to the order to which you unworthily belong·;
and if justice is done you, you also will have your throat
cut, for writing and printing certain things appertaining to
our ancient science. You spoke of 'obligations,' and their
interdictions and exceptions. I can only at this time assure
you, that my business only prevents my coming directly on
to you; but the 4th of June will be time enough, you damn-
ed 'recreant,' when and where you shall see 'a sprig of
locust.'"
There was no mistaking this letter. It came from a Ma-
son. It was conceived in the same temper and disposition
which had conspired against the wretched Morgan ; and it
breathed the same spirit that was afterwards manifested
towards me by a portion of the Grand Lodge, in conse-
quence of the identical publications which called it forth.
The letter was published at the time with such comments
as its insolent fero~ity seemed to require: and I made many
unsuccessful effort::; to ascertain wh0 was the author. One
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXV.
of the Morgan conspirators, and doubtless a principal, was
at Washington at or about the time the letter was written,
and he was probably the instigator of the threat, if not the
writer.
But to return again to the Grand Lodge: after looking
the articles over closely, the idea of arraigning me as a
traitor was abandoned ; and the gentlemen left me with
the most positive assurances on my part, that they might at
aU times depend upon the strongest opposition from me,
against all infractions of the laws, for whatever purpose, or
by whomsoever committed. After these occurrences, how-
ever, I entertained no farther expectation that any efficient
movement on the part of the Grand Lodge, to inquire into
the western outrages, or even to censure the authors, would
be adopted. But I was not even yet prepared to witness
~ open and unblushing grant of money, by the Grand
Lodge, to one of the most active conspirators. Such, how-
ever, was the fact, as I have already had occasion to state
to the public. The grant was not great, it is true ; but it
was large enough to determine the principle. Eli Bruce
had asked for a donation of two hundred and fifty dollars,
to make up for losses, in consequence of what were called
the persecutions against him, by the Anti-masons. One
hundred dollars were voted to him, and the residue of the
sum was made up by contributions from individuals in this
city. It is doubtless true that a portion of the members of
the Grand Lodge believed Bruce to be an injured man.
And the hostiHties of the Anti-masons had been so indiscri-
minately waged against the members of the fraternity, that
they naturally felt a sympathy for such as they might be in-
duced to believe had been persecuted. But it was known
that Bruce was laboring under the strongest suspicion, and
that the chief magistrate of the state, who was also the
highest masonie officer in the country, had ordered him to
show cause why he ~;hou.ld not be removed from the office
34
o;9,tized by Coogle
266 LETTER XX\',
of sheriff, the duties of which he had so greatly abused.
There were, moreover, in the Grand Lodge at the time,
nwni.Jers of the leading members of the order, who could
not liave been ignorant of the real nature of the transac-
tions which had disturbed the peace of the west, or of the
relation in which Bruce stood to those transactions. Un-
der these circumstances, when I saw that appropriation
made, my own course was taken. I IIAVE NE'\'ER caossED
TliE TIIRESIIOLU OF A LODGE-ROOM SINCE.
The Grand Lodge adjourned, without attempting even so
much as a resolution in te~timony of its own innocence, or
by way of a rebuke to offending brethren. I pushed my
own investigations, however, on my own account, and suc-
ceeded, as I then supposed, in a tolerably accurate ascer-
tainment of the !acts of the case. A friend of mine, a dis-
tinguished Mason, who had formerly resided in Erie coun-
ty, on ·the Niagara, but was, at the time of which I am now
writin6, Hheritl' of Huron county, Ohio, while on his way to
this city, lingered a week on the Niagara, for the sole pur-
pose of satisfying his own mind as to this extraordinary
case. Knowiug the leading members of the order in that
county, he felt a strong degree of confidence that he should
be able to penetrate the mystery ; and he did so, to hi1 own
satisfaction, sa,·e only in regard to the names of the actor•
in the closing scene. He arrived at the conclusion, that
Morgan was taken over into Canada a second time, and
carried upon the Canadian shore twenty-five or thirty mile.
·above Niagara, ncar the fc•ot of Lnke Eric. He was there
taken, at the ck:!clltour of midnight, to the river's edge, and
a heavy stone lllatle f:1!lt to his body. He was next 1ashed
upon a plank, which was moored along side of a boat. Four
persons thl'n entered the boat-OilC Englishman, one Cana-
dian, and two Americans-and rowed out into the middle of
the stream, whnt• tlu: enrtl binding the victim to the plank,
was cut, and th~' \\retched man ca:;t into the embrace of
Digitized by Coogle
..
LETTER XXVI. 267
the dark and angry wave, sweeping impetuously towards
the cataract. Morgan, it was said, neither wept, nor spoke,
during this dreadful scene: but the drops of perspiration
stood.heavily upon his face. Such was the relation, which,
for a whole year, I so fully believed that I wrote to a mem-
ber of the Lewiston committee a full account of the tragedy.
But I have since been told t'--t my letter was very chari-
tably constr~d into an attempt, on my part, to deceive the
committee, and prevent them from finding the remains of
the body, in search of which, they were then ~weeping the
bed o( the Niagara.
My informant, who is no longer of this world, visited
New-York again, in the spring of 1828. We had a full
conversation upon the subject, and he now assured me that
he knew not what to believe, since he had no doubt, from
subsequent investigations, that he had been deceived in the
former relation throughout.
I am, sir, very truly, yours, &c.
LETTER XXVI.
NEw-YonK, Fob. 28, 1832.
Sra,
It would puzzle the ingenuity of man to devise a more
injudicious and unwise measure, on the part of the Masons,
than that which next demands my attention. It was so irri·
tating in itself, towards a community, already excited almost
to the highest pitch of exasperation, so uncalled for and un-
necessary, that I can scarcely refer to it, even at this late
day, with any patience. I allude to the public celebration
of the anniversary of St. John the E vangclist, which occur-
red on the 25th of June. ·The stated festivals of the masonic
order, arc those of the two Johns, the Baptist, and the Evan-
o;9,tized by Coogle
268 LETTER XXVJ.
gelist, both of whom are claimed as having ~n illustrious
patrons of the order, although both were in " the celestial
" lodge above," many centuries before those below were
dreamed of-but that is no matter. One of these anniversa-
ries occurs in December, and the other in June; and it has
been the custom of most lo~s to pay special attention to
one or the other,-rarely to~th in the same year,-and
still more rarely to distinguish either by a ptthlic celebration,
and a procession, &c. The persons most ambitious for
these displays, have usually been young lfasons, and recent-
ly created lodges and chapters, at times when they could
march forth with their new jewels and robes, their bright
crimson sashes, and ample draperies of silk and purple, and
the various other glittering insignia which go to make up a
brilliant pageant. These recreations have always been ve-
ry harmless, so far as my own experience and observation
enable me to decide; and they would doubtless have con-
tinued pleasant and agreeable divertisements, so long as the
wisdom, and the deep and hidden mysteries of the order, re-
mained undisclosed to the profane gaze of the vulgar.
It would have argued exceedingly bad taste, however, in
a country in which all can rend, and where the secrets of
the inmost recesses of the order were hawking about at
every corner, for a shilling, or twenty-five cents at the ut-
most, even under the most peaceable circumstances, for the
craft to have essayed another public spectacle, where, if
they could continue to look grave themselves, they surely
could not escape the smiles and the ridicule of the specta-
tors. But in a community burning with such an excitement
as that which now raged over the whole country, to attempt
to brave public opinion by such a display, disclosed a lack
of wisdom, of tact, and a want of knowledge of human na-
ture, rarely to be met with. The manner, moreover, in
which the business was taken in hand, was equally ill-judg-
ed. Not content with the customary mode of announcing
Digitized by Google
.... ..
LETTER XXVI. 269
the intended festivities, the notices were sent forth six weeks
in anticipation of the period, and in a style of bravado, os-
tentation, and contempt for public opinion, calculated at
once to arouse into action all the angry passions which pru-
dence itself could at any time scarcely restrain. The fra-
ternity were summoned to the gathering, fa.r and ncar,
''Knights, companions and brethren," to make up the array,
and march forth in all the pride, pomp and circumstance
of" glorious Masonry,"--as in times when it was allcdged
that the world were striving in vain to gain their secrct,-
a treasure, which they f.'lin would have had the uninitiated
believe as far above price, ns tho precious stone of the Tal-
mud, which, being suspended in the ark of the covenant for
tho dispensation of light, illuminated the interior of that sa-
cred casket with the resplendent beams of its own celestial
radiance.
The effect of this procedure upon the public mind, may
readily be imagined. Of itself it was sufficient to give of-
fence to all those, who, from the recent occurrences in Ba-
tavia, now held the institution in abhorrence; but, seized
upon, as all must have foreseen it would be, and as it was,
by those who had an interest in continuing the agitation, it
provoked an excessive fermentation. On several previous
occasions, rumors had been set afloat which tested the public
feeling in a manner too unequivocal to be disregarded. The
slightest indication that the Masons had yet some lingering
designs against Col. Miller, had more than once brought
swarms of the people into the village, with arms, as if for
bloody combat ; and now that a large muster of Masons
had been summoned, a single whisper getting abroad, how-
ever b~less in its origin, or ~inister in its object, was suffi-
cient to cause armed hosts to spring up as vigorous and bold
as the Macedonian phalanx. It was even so. The ap-
pearance of the notice was the signal for the tocsin, and it
was sounded with great industry, and incredible effect. Pub-
Digitized by Coogle
~70 LETTER XXVI.
lieations of a highly inflammatory nature were put forth ;
the most infamous insinuations as to the real objects of the
celebration were published ; and every possible effort that
could be resorted to, without transgressing the law, was
made, to excite the apprehensions, and the passions, of the
populaoe against the masonic order. The object of the ce-
lebration was known to all. It could not be mistaken. It
was de8igned solely to show the Anti-masons that they were
detennined not to be put down by clamor, or by what they
cooaidered a persecuting crusade against the whole, for the
misdeeds, as all pretended, and many believed, of a few. It
was in all respcocts pacific, and yet it was got up !!Q}ely in a
spirit of resistance to that current of prejudice, and that
tide of popular opinion, which was rolling in against it with
a swell that became heavier with each successive up-rising
of the sun. The idea of another masonic outrage, by those
who had-most indiscreetly, it is true-undertaken this
celebration, was too absurd to be entertained by a man in
his senses, for a moment ; and yet it was asked in the anti-
masonic papers-" What can be the object of calling so
"many Masons together 1 Why should the members of
" distant lodges and chapters be summoned 1 Whose hou-
" scs are to be burnt or demolished 1 Who is to be kidnap-
" pcd and murdered 1" These questions I have copied
from a Batavia paper of that day ; and I might select many
more appeals to the fears, and the passions of the people,
uttered in the same strain. Nor were they without effecL
A county meeting of the people was called to aSiCmble at
the court house in the same village, on the same day, and it
was intimated that it would be advisable to come anned.
Accordingly, at the time appointed, while the Masons were
gathering into the village, sin:;ly and in pairs, with no 'other
anns than those hanging from their shoulders, or perchance
their squares and.compasses, and the rods of the stewards,
the extraordinary spectacle was exhibited of a whole pco-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVI. ... 271
pic, a!l it were, in motion. The number of Masons who as-
sembled, was about three hundred ; but the people flocked
in from all directions, and from distant towns and counties,
not by tens and hundreds merely, but by thousands. Some
were armed with muskets, some with bludgeons, and others
with large knives. The muskets, however, I believe, were
chiefly, if not all, deposited in places without the Yillage,
where they could readily be procured if the bloody Masonl'l
should attempt to run off with any good citizen, or cut the
throat from ear to ear, of any of their own treacherous
members.
Thus did one of the most quiet and peaceable of villages,
in the midst of a most staid and intelligent community, pre-
sent the extraordinary spectacle of a populace in arms, to
the number offrom five to seven thousand, for no other rea-
son than because a few dozen Freemasons had resolved
once more to appear in the streets with their sashes, their
silk gowns, and their aprons, and to hear n moral lecture
commemorative of the character and virtues of St. John;
inculcating the usual lessons of charity ; and concluding
with an impressive exhortation to the members to illustrate
by their lives, that exclamation of the Psalmist--" behold
" how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell to-
"gethcr in unity !"
These movements were not contemplated by sober and
reflecting men, without great apprehension for the result.
lt was but too evident from the temper of the assembled
multitude,-from the frowning brows, and flashing eyes,-
that but a single spark was wanting to fire the train. A
single hostile act from one of the proscribed order, would
have brought on an afiray that would have added a bloody
page to our history. Happily, however, the day passed off'
without any serious disturbance. The Masons marched
through the streets, and marched baek again. Home jibes
and jeers were uttered at their oxpensc; a waggon was se-
•
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVII.
veral timos rudely driven across their path, or through their
ranks, to annoy them ; and a few stones were cast into
their ranks without effect. But they conducted themselves
with as much prudence, while engaged in their f~te, as they
had shown of the opposite conunodity in coming thither,
under the circumstances, for such a purpose. The Anti-
masons held their meeting at the court house-such as could
get in-for the whole town was fiUed ;-an oration was
pronounced by a gentleman of the bar, and an address de-
livered by a clergyman. A series of resolutions were pas-
sed, denouncing the legislature for refusing to aid, by a spe-
cial enactment, the investigation of the dark conspiracy ; a
convention of delegates from the several counties animated
by the excitement, was invited to assemble in the course of
the following month, " to adopt measures for the public
"safety," and fresh denunciations were uttered against the
press. At night the multitude dispersed, and went quietly
to their own homes-the Masons burning with resentment
at the insult and contumcly with which they had been treat-
ed-yet too wise to manifest it by any overt acts ;-and the
Anti-masons cherishing the bitterest hatred towards the fra-
ternity, and yet restrained from any deeds of violence, by
that habitual respect for the laws, which is rarely lost sight
of by any collection of our native citizens, and which illus-
trates the glorious fact, that as yet, there is in the United
States no such thing as an American mob. Long may we
be entitled to the proud exception. I am, &c.
LETTER XXVII.
NEw-YoaK, Feb. 29, 1832.
SIR,
On tl1e 22d day of .May, 1827, came on the trial ol James
Lakey, Isaac Evcrtson, Chauncey H. Coc, Holloway Hay-
•
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEJl XXVII.
ward, Hiram Hubbard, John Butterfield, James G8DIOII
Asa Nowlen, Harris Seymour, Henry Howard, and Mueea
Roberts, before the Court of General Sessions for the coun-
ty of Ontario-Judge Howell presiding. These penona
had been indicted for a conspiracy to take William .Morgan
from the jail of Ontario county, to kidnap and remove him
to foreign parts, without the jurisdiction of the state, and to
secrete and confine him there ; and for actually carrying
-the conspiracy into effect. Undiminished interest was mani-
fested by the public in the progress of these successive
trials, and large collections of people attended, as in the
case of Cheseboro and others, in the preceding January.
Counsel for the people, Messrs. Whiting, (District Attor-
ney,) Wilson, Dickson, Talbot, and Benjamin. For the de-
fendants, Messrs. Marvin, Sibley, Penfield, Adams, HubbeU,
and Barnard.
_ In sketching this trial, and the several others that are to
follow, I shall, as far as possible, avoid minute details, and
repetitions of facts heretofore related, although references
to such facts will often become necessary. My object, how-
ever, will be, to give all such new facts and circumstances,
as are from time to time brought to light, and all those
points of the several cases, which will best illustrate the pe-
culiar character of this great conspiracy, and the conduct
of those who were engaged in it.
The triat' of Evertson, named in the present indictment,
was postponed, in consequence of the absence of a material
witness ; and in the course of the proceedings, a nolle pro-
3e(JUi was entered by the public prosecutor, in regard to
Butterfield and Nowlen. The case involved the arrest of
Morgan, at Bata,•ia, on the morning of the lOth September,
1826, and his transportation to Canandaigua. Colonel MU-
ler was the first witness called. He testified, (in addition
to the particulars heretofore historically related,) that when
be came up to the carriage into which ~1organ had already
35
Digitized by Coogle
274 LETTER XXVII.
been thrust at Donald's house, Hay\vard stepped forward,
and declared-" Morgan must and shall go." On being
·spoken to by .Miller, Morgan at first paid no attention, and
witness was surprised to see his appearance so much chang-
ed. His color had departed, and left an ashy paleness, and
his eye seemed fixed and glazed. Miller spoke to him with
more energy, upon which he started, and was partly rising,
when he was commanded by some one to "sit still,"-upon
which the door was suddenly shut by Danolds. This last
fact was flatly contradicted by Danolds, in a subsequent
part of the trial. Dr. Butler, the messenger who went for-
ward from Stafi<ml to announce the approach of Cheseboro
and Hayward, andtheir party, to arrest Morgan, testified to
the arrival ofthe Canandaigua party at Stafford,and his intro-
duction to them. The doctor stated that he tried to dissuade
them from their purpose of taking Morgan away, assuring
them that it would be bad policy. But they persisted, say-
ing:-" lYe have started for that purpose, and s"all go on."
The witness said, that as he was then going to Batavia, he
was requested to inform Follett and l\Iajor Seaver of their
approach. He did so; and Mr. Follett ·expressed his re-
gret upon the subject, as the village had already had trou-
ble enough respecting Morgan. As witness \vas returning
to Stafford, on meetiug the carriage, he advised them, at
the request of Follett, to suspend the procedure. But they
were, most of them, determined upon accomplishing their
purpose ; and although the carriage was turned about, and
driven back to Ganson's tavern, Ganson himself being with
it still, yet the others proceeded forward to Batavia on foot.
The driver of the coach from Batavia, whose reluctance t~
proceed ha.~ formerly been stated, was likewise called as a
witness. ChcseLoro rode on the box with him, and kept a
sharp look-out behind, ns though apprehensive of a rescue.
He declared that l\Iurgan should not Le taken from them
alive. He heard David:> (Miller's partner) remark, as they
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XXVII. 276
were about starting from Danolds's--" they are going to
"smuggle Morgan away." Justice Chipman, who had
issued the warrant, related the circumstances attending the
issuing thereof, and the trials which took place on its return,
ending in Morgan's being taken to Canandaigua jail. All
the parties named in the bill, were clearly identified, as hav-
ing been engaged in the movements at some stage of the
proceedings. Dr. Lakey was at his office when the war-
rant was taken out, and on its return ; and Kingsley swore
that it -
Was by Lakey's advice and urgency that he was in-
duced, against his own better judgment, to apply for the
warranL He had sometimes said that Morgan had stolen
his shirt and cravat, and that the Masons ought to pay for
it ; but did not believe the taking of the articles amounted
to theft. The residue of the investigations related to the
imprisonment of Morgan, and his being taken from the jail.
They were long and minute ; but the testimony did not
vary in a single essential point from that given on the trial
of Chescboro. In addition, however, to the witnesses for-
merly examined, there were some others, who gave a few ad-
ditional particulars touching the occurrences between the jail
and the carriage. A lady, not called before, heard the
whistling, saw the scuffling, and heard the cry of murder
three times repeated, together with a desponding groan that
followed. She saw nine men, of whom Coe was one, while
two were dragging a third along. A black boy, now first
examined, saw six men put 1\forgan into a coach, and he
also saw Cheseboro stufl' a handkerchief into his mouth.
George Ketchum, who will be recollected as the companion
of Mrs. Morgan from Batavia, when she came in pursuit
of her husband, was likewise called as a witness. He tes-
tified to the fact of his having known Morgan at Rochester,
in 1824, and of his coming with Mrs. Morgan to look for
her husband. While she was at the tavern, he saw Chese.
boro, Coc, and Evortson, and was informed by the first,
Digitized by Coogle
t76 LETTER XXVII.
\hat Morgan had been taken away the night before, by an
officer from Pennsylvania. This was the falsehood, as you
will recollect, that was told by him at first to the disconso-
late woman; but nothing appears on this trial, going to
ehow that Ketchum himself might not honeFtly have be-
. lieved tbe story at the time. Mrs. Morgan was again exa-
mined, but her simple narrative remained unaltered. An
important witness was then called upon the stand, from
whom the first legal testimony was elicited, of Morgan's
having been carried through Rochester to Hanford's Land-
ing. Mr. Sibley, of Canandaigua, a silversmith, was called
to testify to revelations that had been made to him Ly Sey-
mour, one of the parties to this indictment. The witness
objected at first to make the disclosure, as he was very re-
luctant to repent the confidential conversations of a friend.
His examination was very long, occupying a part of two
days. It soon became evident, that in the regular progress
of his testimony, other names than that of Seymour, would
be divulged; and the counsel for the defence objected to this.
The question was reserved for consideration, and the exa-
mination proceeded, tl1e names of all persons not now on
trial, being omitted. On the morning of the second day,
however, the counsel for the people succeeded in obtaining
a rule for the naming of two other persons, to whom the
witness had alluded, as being concerned in the conspiracy
to suppress the'book. It appeared from Mr. Sibley's testi-
mony, that Seymour had given him an account of all the
measures adopted by them to get Morgan into their power,
and the manner in which he had been taken away from the
jail. Seymour was one of those who went to Batavia after
:Morgan. It was the second attempt to take him away.
About two weeks previously to the time in question, a gen-
tleman came·fttom Batavia to Canandaigua, and consulted
with Cheseboro and others respecting the proposed publica-·
tioa, and Cheseboro declared that it must and should be
.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVII, 217
suppressed. Reymour informed him, that after the man
[Lawson,] had succeeded in getting Morgan out of jail, he
was taken arm in arm, and Jed along a few yards, when he
was introduced to another person as a friend, but under a
feigned name. On reaching the street, Morgan resiated,
and witness thought he was told by Seymour that he
was bound and blind-folded. He was then placed in a car-
riage, and taken to Hanford's Landing, where he was
taken out, placed in another carriage, and carried along
the Ridge rood to I..ewiston; thence down to Youngs-
town, and confined in the powder-house of the fort-
" and that," he added, " was the last they had heard from
" him." A number of other witnesses were called, who
proved sundry particulars of the journey, such as the
procuring of a carriage at Rochester, the collection of peo-
pleat Wright's, &c. Platt, the livery stable keeper of Ro-
chester, testified that he supposed he was furnishing the car-
riage for a party going to the Lewiston installation. No
one had ever paid him for it. Wright, at whose house, not
many miles from Lockport, it will be recollected there wu
so great a collection of people, also supposed they were all
going to the installation. He confirmed the statement as to
the carriage having been driven into his barn. Eli Bruce was
subsequently called upon the stand, and after several objec-
tions to answering questions, lest he should thereby crimi-
nate himself, he admitted that he had seen Burrage Smith,
of Rochester, on the afternoon of September 13th, but de-
clined saying where he had seen him. He also declined
answering the question, whether he was at Wright's on that
day, and likewise refused to say whether he was acquainted
with William Morgan. He atlmitted that he was at Lew-
iston on the 14th of September, and that he WJM at Fort
Niagara on the 13th and 14th or 15th. TO'flle question
whether he was there on the 15th, he declined answering.
He answered promptly the question whether he was there
on the 14th, 15th, and 16th. He deniedJlaving ever seen
Digitized by Coogle
278 LETTER XXVJI.
Loton Lawson, until within a dny or two of his present ex- ,
amination, in the prison ncar by. The court excused him
from answering the question whether he had heard any con-
versation about Morgan on the J3th ; and in consideration
of the appeal of Bruce to the court, on the ground that the
transactions under discussion, were the subject of a com-
pleint against him now pending before the governor, and
also at the suggestion ofthe public prosecutor, that the grand
jury had just then found a bill of indictment against the wit-
ness, he was excused from any fupher examination. I
omitted to mention one fact stated by Sibley, viz: that in his
conversations, Seymour expressed deep regrets at what had
been done, and the part he himself had acted. But another
witness was called, who swore that, in January, after the
offence was committed, Seymour declared " he would go
" bare-footed and bare-legged to New-Orleans," through
jeopardy, to do the same thing over again. A Mr. Perry,
who was watching with a sick person, on the back street in
Lewiston, where the party changed carriages, saw a man
taken out of the first coach, and put into the one that drove
into the street after it. He appeared to be helpless, as
though intoxicated, and his head was bound up. Noah
Beach nod Parkhurst Whitney, testified, that a large party
went down from Lewiston to the fort, on the night of the
14th; but they did not search the fort, and neither of these
witnesses saw William Morgan.
Several witnesSes were called for the defence, the prin·
cipal ofwhom was Nicholas G. Cheseboro. His examination
was very long, but the substance of it, as taken down by the
prosecuting attorney himself, was, that there was no under-
standing between him and the defendants, " of any thing
" to be done to Mor,~,ran, other than the bringing him from
" Batavia to Canandaigua, and trying him." " The idea of
" Morgan's going west, originated in Canandaigua, after
" the discharge from the warrant ; and Cheseboro did not
" understand that.}dorgan 'was to leave the jail, until near
,...
.
Digitized by Coogle . """
LETTER XXVII. 279
" night on the 12th." He also swore that his motives in
prosecuting Morgan, were to convict him of stealing, and
thus to suppress the publication of his book. They were
apprehensive that Miller.would come from Batavia, pay the
debt, and release him, and a communication was there-
fore sent to Morgan's friends at Rochester, informing them
that he was in jail for debt. Towards evening, on the 12th
September, several persons communicated to him the pur-
pose of removing Morgan; they were the same persons
who had been informed of Morgan's imprisonment, by the
communication sent to Rochester,-and he, (Cheseboro,)
asserted, that he had hired the carriage in which Morgan
was carried off, and paidfor it. There was no doubt of all
the parties to the indictment having been more or less con-
cerned in getting Morgan to Canandaigua, and into jail ; but
the indictment was for taking him out, and transporting him
to parts unknown; and of the intention, or conspiracy, to
effect this object, Cheseboro solemnly declared that neither
of the defendants were " by words, significant signs, hints,
" writings, or in any other manner apprised."
The cause, having lasted four days, was submitted by
the counsel without argument. His honor Judge Howell,
gave an able and luminous charge to the jury. The proof
to establish both the conspiracy and the consummation, was,
he said, full and conclusive. That Morgan had been un-
lawfully kidnapped and carried oft; was/abundantly cer-
tain, and that he had been subsequently ~nlawfully put to
death, there was but too much reason t9 believe. All ex-
ertions, praiseworthy to those who had made them, and
honorable to the country, had thus far failed to develope the
nefarious transaction. Exertion and investigation, how-
ever, ought not, and would not, cease, until this abominable
crime should be exposed, and the perpetrators of it punished.
These defendants, continued the judge, if innocent of the
offence eharged in the indictmcHt, must not sutler tor the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVII.
foul and black deeds of others. Courts arc established to
protect the innocent, and punish the guilty ; and it is better
that ninety and nine guilty men should escape, than that an
innocent person should suffer. After briefly stating the ev-
idence, and explaining the law, he gave his opinion, that the
testimony, though abundant to prove abstractly, all that was
aJledged, did not bring the charge home to the defendants.
The time of the court, he remarked, had, notwithstanding,
been profitably spent in eliciting testimony which must ul-
timately unravel this horrible my'stcry.
The jury, after a short deliberation, returned a verdict of
Not Guilty. Eli Bruce, David Hague, Orsamus Turner,
and Jared Darrow, of Lockport, were at the same time in-
dicted for a conspiracy to kidnap William Morgan. Orsa-
mus Turner being at Canandaigua, was arrested, and dis·
charged on a recognizance to appear at the next term of
the court, and answer the indictmenL His own recogniz-•
ance was in the swn of one thousand dollars, and two sure-
ties of five hundred dollars each. Paul Mosher, Corydon
Fox, Edward Giddings, and Ebenezer Perry, were at the
same time recognized to appear as witnesses at the same
term.
In the course of the investigations before the grand jury
at this court, it was ascertained that Col. King was at can-
tonment Towson, at one of the farther extremities of the
territory of Arkansas. Smith and Whitney were also be-
lieved to be residing somewhere in the valley of the lower
Mississippi, and the idea was suggested of Sending a spe-
cial commission to apprehend nod bring all three back as
fugitives from justice. The testimony produced to the
grand jury, would have warranted the indictment of Col.
King, as one of those most deeply involved in the great
crime. But Gen. Whiting, the District Attorney, had spe-
cial reasons for not wishing his indictment in that county.
After the ri:sing of the court, thill ofticer entered into a full
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIII. 181
correspondence with Gov. Clinton upon the subject of tho
additional disclosures, furnishing him with a transcript of
the testimony taken before the grand jury, and suggesting
the expediency of deputing messengers to the far west, in
search of the fugitives. The Governor entered fully and
cordially into his views upon the subject, and the trust was
confided to Mr. James Garlinghouse, sheriff of Ontario, and
Mr. Phineas P. Bates, the late sheriff. It being understood
that King was in the service of the Uuited States, at a
military post, Gov. C. opened a correspondence with the
War Department for the purpose ofobtaining the necessary
orders, to secure the assistance of the officers at the remote
military posts of the west, and such other facilities as D)igbt
the more effectually insure the success of the mi~sion. Gov.
Barbour, then at the head of the War Department, compli-
ed most readily with the request from Gov. Clinton, and
the officers departed with every reasonable encouragement
of success.
I am, sir, very·truly, &c.
LETTER XXVIII.
NEw-Yonx, March 1, 1832.
Sta,
The result of the preceding trial gave no satisfaction
to the public. The acquittal of the defendants was clearly
' just, according to the evidence; but the excited multitude
were bent on having somebody punished, and it is at no
time an easy task to make the great body of the people per-
ceive the nice distinctions of the law. There was conse-
quently much additional clamor, and the excitement, which
had not .raged quite so furiously during the summer solstice,
again bade fair to blaze forth in all its primitive fervor.
36
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIII.
There were causes, other than the public disappointment
at the result of the trial, moreover, that contributed to in-
fuse fresh activity into the angry elements. Immediately
after the defendants were acquitted at Canandaigua, a pub-
lication appeared at Rochester, purporting to give a correct
and true account of all that had taken place at Niagara.
respecting Morgan, from the moment he is lost sight of in
the testimony as given by Sibley, of the confessions of Sey-
mour. The facts detailed in that account, if true, were
such as to harrow up the souls of all who read them. By
some means or other, likewise, the substance of various hor-
n"ble disclosures, said to ~ave been made to the grand jury
of Ontario, during the recent sittings of the court, foUBd
their way into the newspapers ; and the public mind at
once became highly inflamed. Those salutary principles
of the law, which have been established, u well for the se-
curity of innocence, when unjustly accused, as to prevent
the escape of the guilty, were entirely lost sight of; and po-
pular prejudice, refusing to listen for a moment to the dic-
tates ofreason, could only perceive more distinctly in each
su~ive trial, the power of the strong and invisible arm
of Freemasonry.
There were other causes, likewise, contributing to keep
the feeling alive, and even to increase it. The annual elec-
tions of this state now rapidly approached; and the oppo-
nents of Freemuonry were seen on all sides, at the west,
arraying themselves under the new and singular banner of
Anti-masonry. There is probably no state in the Union,
where the elections are more earnestly contested than in
New-York, or where the parties are more thoroughly dis-
ciplined-particularly the party, at present, and for several
years past, composing the majority. But wherever the
Anti-masons had carried the Morgan qm~stion to the polls
at the town clc~tion!l early in the prccctlin.~ spring, with ve-
ry few exceptions, thcy had bccn succc!lsful over both of
Digitized by Coogle
liJ5F - -
LETTER XXVIII. 288
the old parties ; and by their dispositions for the coming
contest, (the first week in November,) it was very evident
they had no design of losing an inch of the ground already
obtained. Neither of the previously existing parties, h<?W·
ever, could at first be made seriously to believe that such a
party as this, organized upon principles, and avowedly for
the attainment of objects, wholly distinct from those hereto-
fore oonnected in any manner with either our state or na-
tional politics, could obtain any extensive or durable foo~­
hold in the country. But pamphlets, and handbills, and ar-
guments, and all the usual ammunition for the prosecution
of an electioneering campaign, were alike thrown away
upon the converts to the new party. To every appeal,
the reply was-" Where is Morgan ?" " Bring us back
.Morgan." "Down with all secret societies." ·
Eli Bruce yet held the office of sheriJf of Niagara; and
the people, without heeding the causes which had hitherto
prevented the decision of his excellency the Governor in
that case, munnured loudly against that revered chief ma-
gistrate for the delay ; and the circumstance was used to
the best advantage by those who had embarked their for-
tunes with the disciples of the new political creed. This
weapon, however, was wrested from them on the 1st of
October, by the appearance of the Governor's proclama-
tion, for the removal of the offending sheriff. Fault had
been found, most unjustly, with the tone of the earlier pro-
clamations of his excellency upon the subject of the abduc-
tion. But with this there was, I believe, no complaint on
that score: it was sufficiently energetic and decisive even for
the most zealous Anti-mason. This proclamation set forth
that the delinquent officer " had been heard in his defence ;"
that "in the investigation of the accusation, it appeared that
"it was completely in the power of the accused, if innocent,
" to establish his innocence ;" that " in order to afford him
" an opportunity for that purpose, the decision on the com-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIII.
"plaint had been suspended for an ample time, but that he
"had given no explanation of his conduct." It also set forth
the fact, that at the recent trials at Canandaigua, when call·
ed upon as a witness, " he refused to testify on several
" material points, on the ground of self-crimination ;" from
all of which the Governor declared his belief, "that he was
" a participant in the said abduction, and had thereby ren-
" dered himself unworthy of the official station which he
a occupied," &c. ;-for which reasons his removal from the
said office was definitively pronounced.
But an incident of an unlooked for, and, in its consequen-
ces, of a most extraordinary character, followed so closely
upon the heels of this proclamation, that the political friends
of Governor Clinton, among whom I had the happiness to
bear a part, were not enabled to turn it to the smallest pos-
sible advantage. On the 7th of October, 1827, the body of
a stranger, who had been drowned, and washed ashore by
the surf, was discovered upon the bench of 'Lake Ontario, at
.the entrance of Oak Orchard Creek, about forty miles from
Niagara, on the American territory. An event of this
description is by no means unusual on the coasts of naviga-
ble waters ; and in the regular discharge of the duties of the
living towards the dead, in such cases, a coroner was called
on the present occasion, and an inquest held, which resulted
in the body being pronounced that of some person to the
jury unknown, who hnd perished by drowning. It was
thereupon decently interred. It was much bloated, and in
a highly putrid state, when discovered. It was therefore
necessary to commit it to the enrth with all convenient
s~d. So far, there was nothing worthy of note in the
occurrence. But the scenes which followed, were of a
truly extraordinary charncter ;-pres~nting one ofthe stron-
gest illustrations afforded in all history, of the easy mastery
whi~h an excited imagination somf'timf's obtains over the
hufiUln underst:mding, and also of the general !'!ympnthy
Digitized by Coogle
•'
LETTER XX\'IIJ.
which exists between different minds when wrought upon
by the same causes. " When the common feeling of dan-
" ger, and the animating burst of enthusiasm," says Sir
Walter Scott, "act on the feelings of many men at once,
" their minds hold a natural correspondence with each
"other, as it is said is the case with stringed instruments
"tuned to the same pitch, of which when one is played, the
"chords of the others are supposed to vibrute in unison with
"the tones produced."
The little mound had scarce been raised, and the turf
planted upon the stranger's grave, before it was unluckily
suggested by somebody, that the body might possibly have
been that of William Morgan ! The name was no sooner
pronounced, than the report spread, with electrical rapidity,
that the body of l\lorgan had actually been washed on
shore at Oak Orchard Creek, and that he was hastily bu-
ried by those who had known him when Jiving. Nothing
could have been better calculated to awaken the sensibili-
ties of the people, and rekindle the embers ofthe excitement,
which, though they had never been quenched, were burning
with less intensity than when the fires burst forth in their
primitive wrath, than such a report. The utter improba-
bility, or, rather, the physical impossjbility, that the body
of a drowned man could have been so far preserved in the
waters of Ontario, regardless alike of the hunger of the
fishes, the action of the waves, and the heat of a summer's
sun, for the long period of thirteen months, as to be identifi-
ed, seems never once to have occurred to the people on this
occasion. Or, if such a doubt was suggested, the prompt
reply was--i• Murder will out!" and it was fiercely contend-
ed that heaven itself hnrl directly interposed a miracle, that
the murderers might no l(lnger escape the vengeance of the
offended laws. The whole country, therefore, rang with
the exclamation-" Morgan is found." E,·en here, in New
York, I was startled from my sleep, early in the morning,
Die itlzed ~y Google
LETTER XXVIII.
immediately on the arrival of one of the Albany steam.
boats, by a herald from the county of Monroe, who could
not repair to his hotel until he had announced to me the
brief message-" .Morgan's body has been found !"
No sooner had the reports of the discovery spread to
Rochester and Batavia, than the members of the respective ·
committees of investigation hastened to the county of Or-
leans, where the body had been driven ashore, and on Sat·
urday, the 13th of October, they repaired to the grave, and
caused it to be disinterred and examined. A variety of
striking resemblances were at once discovered between the
body, putrid, and black, and swollen as it was, and their re-
collections of William Morgan. Indeed so strongly were
these gentlemen impressed with the belief that it was none
other than the remains of the absentee, that they took mea·
sures for holding another inquest, and caused the body to
be carefully guarded, lest it should be stolen away by the
Masons, until they could make arrangements for that pur-
pose. Mrs. Morgan was sent for, together with various
witnesses from Rochester and Batavia, who had known
.Morgan most intimately in his life-time ; and on Monday,
the 15th, a second inquest was held, in the midst of a large
collection of people, who had spontaneously assembled ;,for
every bosom now glowed anew with the excitement. Even
the conspirators themselves began to fear for the result, and
sent their counsel-and they had a large portion of the bar
constantly in pay-to see that no unfair means were adopted
to create an impression that the body was that of Morgan,
without good and sufficient proof. The trial for poor Mrs.
Morgan was painful beyond description. Not only to havo
all her wounds thus torn open afresh, but to be compelled
to examine the remains or one whom she came prepared
to believe had actually been the husband of her bosom, in
their present loathsome condition--awakening, as it must,
every painful sensation she had already suffered-must
Digitized by Googl
LETTER XXVIII. 287
have been a task almost beyond the endurance of woman.
The examinations were protracted and minute, and several
witnesses were sworn, who had known Morgan intimately.
Among them were two physicians, of whom, a few years
previously, he had been a patient, at Rochester. And the
resemblances between the living and the dead, were most
striking and remarkable. Mrs. Morgan had not a particle
of doubt of the identity of the body-fully believing it to be
that of her husband. It was bald, and had a grey beard,
with long white hairs in the ears. It had much· hair upon
the breast ; the left arm had the mark of inoculation upon
it ; the teeth were double all round : and in all these re-
,- spects, the resemblances·were said to be exact. Two of
Morgan's teeth had been extracted : the dentist who had
extracted them was now present, having the teeth with
him ;-the body before them had also had two teeth extract-
ed on the same side of the face, and the teeth held by the
dentist, fitted them as exactly as though they had been drawn
from thence; while the hair, hands, feet, nails, fingers, and
toes, in Mrs. Morgan's opinion, were exactly like those of
her husband. A surgical operation had been performed
upon the large toe of the left foot, which gave it a peculiar
conformatioq ; and precisely so was it with the body under
examination. In short, it appeared, most conclusively, and
beyond a doubt, from the testimony ofmany witnes~s, phy-
sicians and others, that the body was that of William
fdorgan, and none other. Only one difficulty remained,
and that was a mere trifle : there was not a single article of
the clothes fow1d upon the deceased,-no portion of his
dress whatever-that had belonged to Mr. Morgan. Mrs.
Morgan, and various others, testified to his apparel, minute-
ly, and no doubt truly; and neither shoes, stockings, shirt,
cravat, vest, coat nor pantaloons, corresponded with those
of Morgan, either in fi1rm, texture, or material. And a
number of religious tracts were found in the pockets of the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIII.
deceased, not of American, but of English typography-
issued from the British Tract Society. These discrepan·
cics, however, were not of the least possible consequence.
The body was indisputably that of Morgan. Of this fact
the testimony was decisive. And as for the clothes, why
the Masons were not fools ; and when they killed Morgan,
and cast him into the angry torrent of the Niagara, they
took care to change his garments, and furnish the corpse with
some religious tracts as passports to the other world. So
thought, and so reasoned, the multitude ; and so decided
the second coroner's inquest. The body was thereupon
officially declared, by the inquest, to be that of the long
lost and now found WILLIAM MORGAN.
The next step was the funeral. The body was removed
with great parade to Batavia ; a prodigious sensation being
of course created through the country traversed by the
melancholy procession. It is scarcely in my power to gh·e
an adequate and just account of the popular feeling at this
particular crisis. Though I should color ever so highly, the
picture would yet fall short of the reality. The welkin
rang with the direst imprecations, not only upon the actual
murderers of Morgan, but upon the whole body of Free-
masons, far and near, not a man of whom but was believed
to have been acquainted with the murder, and consenting
thereunto. The contest of the election was thickening, and
the funeral show was not hastened too rapidly. Meantime
the tidings spread, and hundreds and thousands of people
once more poured in upon the village of Batavia, to join in
the funeral obsequies of the great Masonic Martyr. A
funeral discourse was preached, and at the close of the
solemn services, the body was once more committed to its
kindred earth, amidst the tears ofthe widow, and the curses
of the people, deep and bitter, ~gainst the .1\lasons. Then
·what showers of handbills, and addresses, and appeals to
the passions of the people, were sent lorth, in clouds, upon
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIIf.
the wings of every breeze. " The majesty of the people I"
" The triumph of justice over oppression ;" " Morgan's
" ghost walks unavenged among us ;" " Murder will out;"
" Masons have had their day ;" " He that sheddeth man's
" blood, by man shall his blood be shed ;" " The voice of
" thy brother's blood cries to me from the ground I" These,
and such-like expressions, were now the watch-words ancl
rallying signals of a political party; and the stiJI small voice
of reason and reflection. was drowned amid the univer-
sal din.
But the body that had been so recently, and with so much
pomp and circumstance of woe, reinterred, was not yet
suffered to lie quiet in its repose. The Masons, during the
whole progress of the investigations respecting the body,
and the subsequent enactment of the funereal scene, had
scouted the idea of its being that of Morgan ; and many
even denounced the mournful parade, as an unreal mockery
of woe, for political effect. With some of the participators
in the proceedings, there might have been justice in the im-
putation. But it was not so in respect to the multitude. With
them, there was no affectation in the matter. They believ-
ed what they heard, and were inspired vvith feelings of hoty
indignation at what they believed. Be that as it may, how-
ever, an advertisement which appeared in one of the Can-
ada papers, ncar the· frontier, happened to attract the at-
tention of some of the persons interested in proving that
the disputed body was not that of Morgan, and it was the
means of an eclaircissement, of an astounding character to
all those engaged in the scenes I have just been describing.
From this advertisement it appeared, that in the month of
September, then last past-that is to say, some five or six
weeks before the last interment, a man by the name of Ti-
mothy Monroe, of the town of Clarke, in New Castle Dis·
trict, Upper Canada, having gone in a boat to ~ewark, was
drowned in the Niagara river, while on his retllrn. A s{e-
37 '
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIII.
scription of his person, his clothes, his cravat, and the tracts,
at once pointed to the body found at the mouth of Oak Or-
chard Creek, as that of this same Timothy Monroe; aud a
reward of one hundred dollars was offered for its discovery.
The widow of Monroe, and her son, were soon apprised of
the transactions detailed above. She therefore came directJy
on, accompanied by the young man, and a friend who was
acquainted with her deceased husband. It was charged
upon the Morgan conspirators, that she had been informed
by them of the circumstances respecting the body, and that
the expenses of her journey were also paid by them. But
whether this charge be true or not is of no consequence,
since these circumstances could neither alter the truth, now
about to be developed, nor make one hair of the deceased
white or black. Mrs. Monroe came over to the county of
Orleans, and was first examined by three members of the
Lewiston committee, us to the clothes that had been found
upon the body of the deceased ; and here, again, there could
be no mistake. The clothes, every article of them, were
those of her husband,-those which he had on when upset
from his boat in the Niagara, and the tracts had been seen
in his possession at Newark, on the day he·was lost. In
regard to his apparel, there were a variety of circumstances
and marks, and peculiarities touching the various garments,
about which there could be no diversity of opinion. The
color; the description of cloth; the flannel shirt, which
Morgan had not ; the fashion of the garments, and even
the particular darnings of the stockings, were all minutely
described, and marks referred to which had not been de-
tected by the committee, that made the matter certain. Re-
specting the pantaloons, the son had purchased the cloth;
and his mother had cut and made them. The pattern be-
ing scant, a part of one of the legs had been eked out with
another piece of doth, &c. Mrs. M. then proceeded to
Batavin, where the corrupting spectacle of mortality was
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXVIII. 291
once more tom from the embrace of its parent earth, and a
third coroner's inquest held upon it. Another close examina-
tion succeeded, in which many of the former resemblances
between this body and Morgan, were not now discovera-
ble ; and among others, on a re-examination, it was found
that the teeth had not the peculiar and distinguishing char-
acteristic of being double all round in front, as was the case
with Morgan, and five had been extracted from this body,
whereas Morgan had lost but two. In short, without de-
scending into further particulars, it now appeared beyond
doubt or cavil, that the body was that of TIMOTHY
MONROE, late of Upper Canada.
This result was received with high satisfaction by the
western Masons, generally. Those who had beenengaged in
the conspiracy, had their own reasoDB for rejoicing at the
discovery of the truth of tku matter, proving that it was
not the body of Morgan; while the still greater number of
the order, who were yet hoping against hope, that the out-.
rage was not so great as had been charged, and that Mor-
gan might yet be brought to light and life-but who, in any
event, were determined not to give up Masonry on compul-
sion-had yet room to hope on still. But the discovery of
the mistake, to call it by no harsher name, came too late to
ereate a re-action in a political sense. The last coroner's
. inquest 'sat on the 29th of October. The election com-
menced on the following Monday. And under the watch-
words which I have already indicated, the new party
achieved a victory in several of the agitated counties, of the
most decisive description. Serious inroads were made in
others ; and from that day to the present, I have seen no
diminution of their numbers, nor marked any abatement of
their energy.
As it is my purpose to embody facts rather than to in-
dulge in speculations, in these desultory essays, I shall not
stop to remark at length upon the extraordinary inciden~ cif
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXVIII.
tile preceding narrative. I question not the integrity of
the majority of the actors in these scenes ; and the witnesses
who so completely establishcJ the fact that the body of
Timothy Mooroo was actually that of William Mor-
gau, are not in the least obnoxious to censure on the
score of veracity. But the case presents one of the stroog-
est iastances within my recollection, of the efiects of a po-
pular delusion upon the human mind-and it may perhaps
aib-d a suitable subject of philosophical investigation for
some future Dugald Stuart.
Although it .came too late for political effect, yet there
was somewhat of a re-action, after the exposition of the
case of Monroe's body. A large public meeting was held
at Rochester,.and several addresses were delivered-some
of them, however, by tho counsellors of the conspirators;
but this fact was lost sight of for the moment, in the indig-
nation ~h at the imposture. A series of resolutions was
likewise adopted, well written, temperate, and dignified. In
these it was declared, as the opinion of the meeti11g, that
the committees of investigation had exceeded their instruc-
~ns, and perverted the sacred cause in which they had
engaged, to political and proscriptive purposes. It was
ieclarcd that the efiorts of those committees ought to
U.ve been merely auxiliary tQ the ministers of justice, and
that in the exercise of the powers confided to them, they
gught to have confined themselves exclusively to such acts •
as were necessary and proper to bring the perpetrators of
the outrage to legal trial and punishment. They were
charged with having proscribed a large and respectable
portion of the people without proof, censuring individuals up-
on mere suspicion, and with attempting to organize political
parties for the promotion of selfish and ambitious purposes ;
with breaking up families, and exciting neighbors against
neighbors. The meeting pledged itself to use all possible
exertions to discover Ihe falc of Morgan, and to bring ll~e
o;g,lilFd l'y GoogIe
LDil'TER XXVIII. 29S
perpetrators of the outrage to punishment; and in conclu·
sion, they denounced the Morgan committee as altogether
unworthy of lhe public confidence. In the aspect of the
case, as it was then presented, these resolutions appeared
very just and proper. But the people, who were some·
what indignant at first, soon returned to their former state
of feeling; and in the end it appeared that some of the con-
spirators themselves, or at least those who had even aided
them by money toabscond,were atthe bottom ofthis meeting•
.·whilst the proceedings in regard to the body of Monroe
were going forward, a circumstance occured at Buffalo, of
rather a singular description, which created considerable
interest for some time, and occasioned, but for the moment
only, a partial diversion from the fresh impulse given to the
excitement at Batavia. A man calling himself R. H. Hill,
came voluntarily forward, avowed himself the principal of
the murdcrc~:s of Morgan, and surrendered his person to
the civil authorities. He was thrown into prison, where he
wrote a confession of his participation in the bloody trans-
action. He declared that he had been induced to make the
acknowledgment from the stings of conscience, for having
assisted in taking the life of a man whom he had never seen
before. He would not disclose the names of any of his as-
sociates, inasmuch as they had each bound themselves, by
the most solemn and fearful oaths, that, should either of
them ever be detected, they were to abide the penalty of
the law, without betraying the names of either. He de-
clared himself ready and willing, nay, anxious, to under-
go that penalty, and seemed pious and penitent. As the
crime was supposed to have been committed in the county
of Niagara, Hill was transferred to the jail in Lockport,
where he was kept until the cmpannelling of the first grand
jury. He then went before that body and repeated his con..
fessions. But his talc, unsupported by any other evidence,
and uncorroborated by circumstances, was discredited, and
Digitized by Coogle
294 LETTER XXWH.
he was ultima.tely discharged as one having a mind diseas-
ed. Since his liberation, I have never heard a syllable of
or from him.
The year 1827, however, was not to pass away without
one further illustration of human weakness and credulity.
Almost from the origin of the Anti-masonic excitement, the
country had been infested with mountebank Anti-masonic
professors of Masonry, travelling about from village to vil-
lage, giving lectures upon the subject, and professing to pre-
sent the public with practical representations ofthe process of
working in lodges,and conferring the various degrees of Ma-
sonry. These exhibitions have, for the most part, been made
for lucre, after the example of strolling professors of slight-
of-hand dexterity, the feats of fire-eaters, sword-swallC!,wers,
&c. Among the earliest of these travelling merchants of
vendible nonsense, was a man named Thomas Hamilton.
His character will appear presently. Although a very ig-
norant man, he was, in truth and in fact, one of the boldest,
most impudent, and, for a time, most successful of im-
postors. He had the art, for several weeks, of imposing
himself upon a portion of the religious community, and
succeeded tolerably well. Having, however, been a Free-
mason, and seeing how well the illustrations of Masonry
I
by Morgan, had taken with the western public, he resolved
to turn the same thing to his own private account. He ac-
cordingly commenced delivering lectures against the craft,
and preaching Anti-masonry. Crowds of people thronged
his exhibitions ; and many were the towns he visited where
the excitement had not yet broken out, but which he speedi-
ly wrought up almost into a state of delirium upon the sub-
ject. Not content, however, with this harvest of populari-
ty, he must needs play the hero, and become all but a second
martyr to the cause he had espoused. He was an intem-
perate man, and having, on one occasion, while engaged in
the work of imparting intellectual light to the good people
Digitized by G ogle
LETTER XXVIU. 296
of Avon, imposed too heavy a quantity of alcohol upon hia
stomach, became sick, and a portion of what he had swal-
lowed was ejected. The landlord was a Mason ; of which
fact he availed himself, in connexion with the circumstance
of the wtdesigned emetic he had taken, to prefer a charge
against his host, of an attempted assassination of his pre-
cious self. A full account of the suspicious circumstances
was written, certified to by five respectable citizens of Avon,
and published in the newspapers under his own hand. The
poor landlord was astounded ; but there was no resisting
the popular prejudice against his caste, and he was obliged
to submit to the imputation. He did not submit quietly,
however, but instituted an action of slander against one
person who had helped to circulate the atrocious calumny."'
Hamilton, meantime, fled from that part of the cowttry, and
pr~eeding westward to Buffalo, succeeded in producing a
great excitement there. His lectures were crowded, as
they had been in other places, and he occasionally embellish-
ed his exercises with recitals of his own personal persecu-
tions from the Masons, and their blood-thirsty attempts up-
on his life. Finally, the day after he had uttered one of his
bitterest philippics against the craft, he was missing. No
traces of him could be discovered ; and many were the
dark surmises respecting his fate that were breathed forth
in mysterious whispers. On the following 'day, nothing
could be heard of Mr. Hamilton. But on the next, there
was a discovery. News was received that a man had
been found drowned in the Tonawanta Creek, but a few
miles from Buffalo, and the conviction flashed at once
upon the minds of the good people, that it must be the
corpse of the ill-fated Hamilton. His life had once before
been attempted; and now,. alas! he had doubtless been
called to pay the penalty of his masonic obligation. The
• The bmllu:<l recovered a hancl>'<•n•t· norclict of <lamngc~, the jury, by
consent, hein~ cornpo~ed entirely of Auti-ma~ouB. •
..
Digitized by Coogle
296 LETTER XXVIII.
body had bceri interred ; but no matter : a party imme..
diately proceeded from Buffalo, with witnesses, and all·the
necessary implements for opening the grave. They arriv-
ed at the spot, and the body was speedily raised once more
above the earth. Happily, however, there was no excuse
for pronouncing it to be that of Hamilton; and the compa-
ny returned; somewhat disappointed, it is true, in the pre-
sent result, but still believing that the man for whom they
were seeking had been mysteriously made away with. But
on reaching the village, their anxieties were speedily re-
moved by the martyr himself. He had just crawled forth
from a tippling stew, in the outskirts of the village, where
he had been lying for several days in a state of beastly in-
toxication. It was time now for the fellow to change his
theatre of action. He accordingly fled eastwardly to the
county ofOntario,-pursued his lecturing for a short period,
-was taken into the domicil, and the confidence, of a kind-
hearted Anti-mason-abused his hospitality,-and, in the
end, attempted an outrage upon his daughter, a girl of ten-
der age, for which he was sentenced to the state-prison for
seven years.
You may suppose, sir, that this last is an exaggerated
representation of the extent to which the credulity of the
people was abused during the great excitement. But it is
not so. The case of Hamilton affords but one instance,
although perhaps the most flagrant. I have recorded it,
however, in the words of truth and soberness.
On or about the 1st of November, 1827, Gov. Clinton
received a communication from Gov. Cass, ofMichigan, in-
closing an affidavit of an extraordinary character. It was
the deposition Clf Erastus Ingersoll, corroborated by the
statement of Amos Mead, both of whom Gov. Cass certifies
to be " citizens of character and standing, incapable of
"statingany thing but what they believe to be true," giving
the substance of a confession made to them in August, 'Of
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX•
. that year, of a man named Edward Hopkins. This maJJ
was at the time a resident of the county of St. Clair, in that.
territory, lately from Upper Canada, and a native of Berk-
ahire, in the state ofMusachusett& Hopkin~ declared tb!U
" he knew the circumstances connected with the death of
" Morgan ; that he, with others, had Morgan in charge se-
" veral days, at Niagara, and was present at, or below, a
"place called Schlosser, on the Niagara river, where anum-
" her of persons were assembled with Morgan, and held a
" consultation on the manner in which he should be di.spo-
"sed o~ and that it was finally determined to send~
"adrift in a canoe down the falls. He was accordingly
"put into the canoe, and pushed into the rapids of the Nia-
" gara, where he perished. Hopkins further stated that h~
"madegreat efforts to save the life of Morgan, and offered
"to become responsible for him, if his companions woul~
" deliver him·over to his care,-but they refused to do so.
" By whose hands the canoe was push~d oft; Hopkins could
" not tell, because he turned his back upon the perpetrators
"ofthe deed." Mr. Ingersoll further deposed, that Hopkins
waa ofa good family, of a respectable character, and a man
of truth and veracity. It proved in the end, that this story
could not have been true; and I have introduced it in this
place, only as affording anoilier instance of the distracting
uncertainty which at all times hung over this fearful subject,
and the difficulties by which the prosecutions were at every
step environed. Very respectfully, &c.
LETTER XXIX.
NEw-Yo.aJC, March 3, l8Se.
SUl,
In the person of Dz WITT CLINTON, the state of New-
york lost one t>f its brightest ornaments, and our country'
I 38
Digitized by Coogle
Lt't'tER XXIX.
a bene(actor of noble mould. He died at Albany, on the
evening of February lith, 1828, very suddenly,-haviog
discharged his official duties on that day, and written seve--
ral letters in the course of the afternoon. He was sitting
in his office, or private cabinet, at the time of his decease,
and had but a few moments previously been engaged infa-
miliar conversation with his son. But, audden as wu the
stroke of death, it was not unexpected, either by the illus.
trious man himself, or by his particular friends. It had
been evident for .a number of months, that a diteue :had
seized upon his constitution, which, without impairing his
faculties, threatened an early and sudden termination of his
proud and brilliant career. Indeed he had been premonish-
ed of his situation, but a short time before his decease, by a
medical gentleman, standing deservedly high in his confi-
dence, who was his intimate friend in life, and who has test-
ed the sincerity of his friendship, by an eloquent and wcH
earned tribute to his memory since dead.• When the friend-
ly monition was made to him, with all p<•~iblc delicacy,
and not without emotion, Governor Clinton received the
solemn intimation in a manner characteristic of the man.
He paused for n moment, as if indulging in deep reflection;
then raising his head, with the most perfect firmness and
composure, he replied : " I .tM XOT AFRAID TO nn: !"
An eulogy upon the charactur of this distinguished man,
whose memory is yet green in the nflcctions of the people,
and whose fame will long be cherished as a rich portion of
the national inheritance, would be alike unnecessary, and
foreign from the purpose of this narrative. Unfortunately,
however, in the present era of our political history, the gall
and wormwood of party, have been infused not only into
public, but into individual feeling. Neither exalted talents,
Ror purity of character in a public mau,-nor his cxtcnsrre
~>Dr. Dnid Ho&'l<·k.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX.
and indefatignble beneficence, and splendid scrvices,-can
protect him from·the scorpion sting of slander, while living,
ifa noisy partizan thinks he can further his sordid views by
the calumny. And even when he is dead,-when the pos-
thumous reward of greatness is bestowed, in the general
exhibition of those better feelings, which had been controlled
before by rivalry or self-interest, some hypocritical tears
will be shed over his remains, and sacrilegious defamation
will not only dare to attempt by violence an exposure of the
secrets of the grave; but to deface his epitaph, and to stain
his spotless escutcheon. So it was with DE Wrrr CLINTON.
The Anti-masonic party, as we have seen,had already been
organized for political purposes ; and it had made a first
and second demonstration with so much encouragement of
ultimate success, that those who had mounted upon the
whirlwind of the excitement, were determined to protract
it, that they might the longer soar upon the tempest. This
object could be accomplished in no other way, so effectually,
as by continuing to insist upon the positive guilt ofthe whole
masonic institution, in the matter of Morgan, through all its
extensive and distant ramifications, and likewise to impli-
cate its ~hief officers, and most distinguished men. De
Witt Clinton was High Priest of the General Grand Chap-
ter of the United States, at the time of his death. He was
ror the third time re-elected to that office in September,
1826, Gen. Jackson having been proposed as a candidate
ih opposition. His station, masonically, was the highest in
the Union; and whether viewed as a Freemason, or as a
statesman, he was the most shining and elevated mark to
be aimed at. If effective, the blow would indeed be sig-
nal ; because, if De Witt Clinton could be identified with
the project for the murder of :Morgan,-if the spells of
Masonry could bind such a man to so damning a deed, how
much less potency would be necessary to bring the common
men of the order into plans of the deepest guilt 1
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX.
It is but too tru~, as wn hn,·c already seen, thnt the n:une
of Governor Clinton had been early used at the west, in
connexion with the Morga!'{ outrage. Nor were the Anti-
masons the first, or the most to blame, for thus using it. If,
Sir, you have done me the honor to read the preceding letters
in detail, you will have seen that the idea was gcoeraiJy
impressed upon the minds of those in tht> secret of .Morgan•s
fate, on both sides of the national boundary, that the con-
spirators were acting under orders from a high masonic
power. Sometimes the directions for suppressing the book,
were said to have proceeded from the Grand Lodge; and
at others, the belief was entertained that they came from a
yet higher body-the Grand Chapter. To neither of these,
however, did De Witt Clinton then belong, but to the still
higher body of the General Grand Chapter of the United
States ;-and we shall see presently how even that body,
though innocent, was near being compromised in this la-
mentable affair. In connexion with all these bodies, the
name of Clinton was used, because it was identified with the
institution ; and in general conversation there was little dis-
crimination between its separate branches. But it was not
In this incidental manner alone, that the name of Governor
Clinton became associated with these transactions. There
is no doubt, that the authors of the co1t.<rpiracy mul the abdac-
tion, were themselves guilty of the additional critne of an
attempt, in the public opinion, to i'R.CUlpate kim in their ottm
guilt. Indeed, it is believed, that the kaden ofthe C011.8pi-
racy were enabled by the power o.flau name alone, to push
the subordinates in their plot, into its full and fatal e.ucu-
tion. For this purpose it was not only declared that they
had orders from Gov. Clinton to Fuppress the publication of
the book, but some of the co-workers in the iniquitous affair,
actually exhibited A LETTJ.:R, purporting to have been writ-
ten by the Governor, col!rMANDil'iO TilE strPI'RF.sstox OP TnB
BOOK AT ALL IIAZARDS. Major Ganson is believed to have
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX. SOl
been concerned in this imposture, although he has certified to
the contrnry, as will presently appear. He had repeatedly
been in the legislature, and WM a political friend of Gov.
C. There is,- therefore, reason to believe, that such repre-
sentations, coming from him, sustained by the exhibition in
some places, of a letter, which must have been forged, had
a powerful influence upon the minds of the weaker mem-
bers of the order ; and it is possible, that, coulda voice come
from the grave, it would appear that there was one, who, by
that deception, was persuaded to take the deepest plunge
into the sea of guilt. Be that, nevertheless, as it may, a
fouler calumny was never invented, even by the father of
lies himself.
It is true that Gov. Clinton was early reproached by the
Anti-masonic papers, for an imputed want of activity and
energy in pushing forward the investigations. But these
reproaches, and other kindred calumnies, were to be expect-
ed from zealous and unscrupulous partizans, in the midst
of heated election contests. We should be too happy in
our political relations, perhaps, if the blessings of our free
institutions were in all respects unalloyed. The strife and
bitterness of our elections, therefore, and the slanders and
obloquy which candidates for public office, are compelled to
encounter, may be regarded as the natural consequences of
the liberty which allows them. Nor, in the aggregate, can
their endurance be counted a very heavy tax, for the enjoy-
ment of such perfect freedom, as that which is guaranteed
to American citizens. Long in political life, and always
fated to encounter a fierce, and, at times, a remorseless and
vindictive opposition, Gov. Clinton cared for these political
attacks far less than mo.st men. Conscious, therefore, of his
own rectitude in this matter, the murmurings to which I am
now referring were suffered to pass by without notice or
regard. But when, in the autumn of 1827, he was specifi-
cally informed of the. higher calumnies in circulation rc.-
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER X3:IX.
specting him, at the west, and of the liberty taken with his
name by the conspirators, he lost no time, as you will ·per-
ceive before the close of the present communication, in
adopting such measures as seemed most judicious for arrest-
ing the progress of the atrocious slander. •
It was, I believe, during the last ''isit of that eminent man
to the city of New-York, that, unsolicited, he placed in my
hands, with a request that they might be carefully perused,
a bundle of papers, comprising a large portion of his cor-
respondence, and other public documents, upon this subject.
Of these papers, which have been politely re-loaned to me
by his son Cu.uu.zs CLINTON, Esq., I have already made
considerable use, in the course of the preceding narrative.
And UpOn these papers clone, so far as I have already
quoted them, I think I might confidently appeal to you,
sir, and to the whole community, whether they do not
amply redeem the character of Governor Clinton from
all insinuations, imputing a want of energy, promptitude,
and diligence, in the use of all measures judged by him to
be necessary and proper, in order to expose to light the
whole of those dark transactions, and bring the offenders,
whoever they were, or however many of them there might
be, to the tribunals of the law for punishment.
The earliest complaint which I recollect to have heard
from the Morgnn committees, against the conduct of Gov.
Clinton, was in reference to his first and second proclama-
tions. In the first, no specific reward was offered for the
apprehension and punishment of the delinquents ;-in the
IICcond, it wal!l contended that the reward promised was not
sufficiently large ;-and I think the same objection was
likewise urged against the last-with how much reason will
be seen. In regard to the first, it must be borne in mind
that the outrage was then supposed to have been confined
to a very few persons at Batavia and Canandaigua. Little
was known ill the time of the extent of the conspiracy ; or
Digitized by Coogle
---...............
LETTER XXIX.
of its·enormity ; and still less of the difficulty subsequently
encountered in the numerous and wearisome endeavors
that have been made to discover and punish: the guilty.
When the first complaint was made to the Governor, he
lost not a day in issuing his proclamation. His letter to the
committee, accompanying that proclamation, has already
been presented to your consideration, and need not be.re-
peated here. In that letter be pledged himself; u that 110-
~thing 1hould be wanting on his part dtuJ to the occarion and
"tke emergency." And I fearlessly appeal to the candor of
any man of good sense, to pronounc~, whether, under the
then circumstances of the case, that first proclamation wu
not of a sufficiently decisive and energetic character for
that "emergency;" and also, whether the explanation with
which the proclamation was accompanied, ought not to
.have been satisfactory. Was it reasonable to expect from
the chief magistrate, acting coolly and dispassionately, u it
was his province and his duty to act, a more marked and
severe condemnation of the outrage, than is expressed in
the letter referred to? Subsequently, when the transaction
began to assume a more serious aspect, a second procla-
mation was issued, without solicitation, offering various
specific rewards. Some months subsequently still, after the
disclosures respecting Howard, and the partial discoveries
made by the Lewiston convention had reached the Gover-
nor's ears, a third proclamation was issued, offering as high
a reward as the law would allow him to propose, even to
the full amount of the contingent funds in his hands. Nor
is this all : when the Governor became apprised that Bruce
was implicated in the transaction, he himself proposed that
a formal complaint should be preferred against the delin·
quent officer, that his conduct might be officially investiga-
ted. The eomplaint was made ; and, although a grand ju-
ry of Niagara, had, in a body, informed the Governor that
thf'rc wall no f'Yidrrwc· nf :Mor~an's having been within
Digitized by Coogle
L:ETT.Eil XXIX.
Bruce's jurisdiction. yet he was removed from office in due
aeaaon, as I have already shown. In my view, sir, leaviog
entirely out of the question the exalted character of Gov.
C., aod the elevated standard of morals by which he wu
BOVemed, these circumstances look very unlik.e any partici-
pation in, or cognizance of, the conspiracy, directly or in-
directly, either by signal, word, or deed. If Gov. Clinton
had, in any fonn or manner, been previously apprised of
the conspiracy, or had he in any manner favored it, it can
laardly be supposed that those who h8.d executed his purpo-
aes, would have tamely submitted to the loss of character.
houor, offices, and their personal freedom, without expoaing
him. If.they held his written letters, they would have been
exhibi&ed. If any person had received his approbation of
the plot, or his commands for its execution, viva twee, the
fact would have been proclaimed, and the name of Cliotoa,
"doubly dying," would justly have gone down
To the vile dust from whence it epruog,
Unwept, unhonored, and unsung.
And yet, io the face of all these facts, in disregard of all
these circumstanecs, the remains of this eminent patriot had
scarce become cold in their grave, before the vile calwnny,
which, during his lifetime had already been apparently ex-
tinguished, was revived in the broadest and moat cruel mao-
ncr. The death ofClinton had thrown our state into mourn-
ing, and created a sensation throughout the whole country, ·
equalled only,in recent times,by the simultaneous departures
to another world, on the 4th of July, 1826, of your illustri-
ous father, and his distinguished colleague in the revolution.
But the funeral ceremonies had scarce been concluded, and
the first shock of the blow given placf: to the more temper-
ed, though equally unequivocal evidences of deep and heart-
felt grief~ before the interested a.od envious harpies of de-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX.
traction were at work. Wretches who would have cow·
ered in his presence, like the spaniel before the lion, or
shnmk like the fig-tree withered before the lightning-glance
of his eye, were now engaged in poisoning the public ear,
like the arch fiend in reptile form, " squat" at the ear of the
mother of men. Not content ·with the repetition of the
stale falsehoods in whispers, a portion of the public press
was found base enough to lend its assistance in the ignoble
project of" staining with infamy a spotless name." As-
suming daily a bolder and yet a bolder tone, one short
month had not elapsed, before it was blasphemouslyjheralded
forth, that the deceased had been struck dead by the aveng·
ing arm of the Almighty, for his guilty participation in the
murder of Morgan,-to which, as the climax of audacity,
it was soon added, that, stung with remorse at the deed
which he had sanctioned, he had ended his life by his own
hand I It might well be supposed that such gross and mon-
strous fictions would have been too much for the popular
credulity, and that the most envenomed shafts of calumny,
directed at such an object, would fall harmless to the earth.
But "excited passion is a whirlwind that extinguishes the
" taper of reason,-a rushing flood that renders turbid the
" pure stream of the judgement, so th~t truth cannot be
" clearly discerned." And I am sorry to be obliged to add
my conviction, that, so far from making no impression, or
leaving even a transient one, the calumny is still at the
present day widely circulated, and by many religiously be·
lieved. You, sir, have yourself informed me, although you
lent no ear to the tale, that within a few months past, two
gentlemen in Massachusetts, of intelligence and respecta-
bility, had repeated the story of Gov. Clinton's guilt in this
matter, both of whom seriously affirmed the existence of
two letters from his own hand, proving the fact. And I have
now before me a printed address, under the signature of N.
B.J)oileau, Esq., an old and distinguished politician of Penn-
39
Digitized by Google
S06 L~TTER XXIX.
sylvania, in which the talc is repeated, without scruple or
qQB.Ufication, and with an improvement which has in no
(,)lher place fallen Wlder my observation. The charge of
~. Boileau, that Gov. Clinton was an accessary before the
fact, to the abduction and murder of Morgan, is explicit.
Nor is Gov. Clinton alone traduced by that gentleman. Not
content with this atrocious libel of the dead, the zealous ca-
lwnniatorendcavors also to inculpate tl1e governors of two
other states in the same transaction !
Had it not been for the puLlication of Mr. Boileau, to
. which I refer, and the statement of the two gentlemen of
Massachusetts made to yourself last autumn, I should pro-
bably have omitted the present chapter in this history. But
De Witt Clinton is dead, and cannot answer. His fame,
however, belongs to his cow1try, and it is a high and solemn
duty incumbent upon those who were his cotcmporarics, to
preserve that fame in its splendor, and his good name in its
purity. However great a politician may be, his memory,
merely as such, will scarcely sun-ive his death for a single
generation, unless he shall ha,·e identified his name with
some great deed in arms, or work of urt; by some success-
ful efiort in the ,moral improvement of our species, or some
project of national magnitude and utility, which will stand
as an enduring monument of the talents and enterprise of
the age in which it was produced. It is in this way that
the name of Clinton belongs to posterity. His popularity
will be immortal, because the iu!lucnce of his talents, and
the effects ofhis labors, will endure while our nation has an
existence. It is from considerations like these, having the
means in my possession, that I have thought it a part of my
duty, on the present occasion, to :;tep forward, and by at
once silencing the calumny, put to :;hame the traducers of
this eminent and excellent man.
Mr. Boileau, in his address to the people of Pennsylva-
nia last autuuu1, promu'lgated the calunsny of which I have
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX.
been speaking, in the following language:-" A seceding
"Mason from New-York, of high character and intelli·
" gcnce, informed me that when it was first rumored that
" Morgan was about to reveal the secrets of Masonry, a
" council was held in New-York, by the highest order of
" Masons, to consult on what means should be adopted to
" suppress the publication ; at which council, the Governor
" of New-York, and the Governor& of two other 1tate& tU•
" &i&ted in the deliberations, and at that council decided that
" the publication should be suppressed at all ha%ard8, AJW
"MoRGAN PUT ouT oF THE WAY. These facts are corro-
" borated by the strongest circumstances, furnished by tM
"judicial proceedings which have taken place, as well as
" other circumstances. Fellow-citizens, pause for a mo-
" ment, and view this appalling fact. Three chief execu-
" tive magistrates, of three different states, all sworn to see
" the laws faithfully executed. Yet under the paramou'Rt
" obligations of their masonic oaths, they deliberately join in
" council to sanction the commission of a most atrocious
" crime. We say the crime of MURDER is justly charg-
" ed to the masonic institution, and all those who still ad-
" here to that institution are totally ~orthy of confidence.
" The actual perpetrators of the crime deserve death," &c.
The charge against Gov. Clinton could scarcely be more
positive than in the form in which it is here presented. The
author of the calumny, in its present shape, and all his rea-
ders, well knew that De Witt Clinton was Governor of
New-York, at the period referred to. Nor can Mr. Boi·
leau escape the odium of the slander, upon the plea that he
has only repeated a story which had been communicated to
him by others. Repetition is not all. He goes farther, and
indorses the statement himself, by the declaration that the
relation thus given, has been " cor1·oborated by the judicial
" proceedings that have taken place, as well as by other cir-
" cumstances." In bringing forward such an accusation, and
Digitized by Coogle
908 LETTER XXIX.
a~tempting thus to sustain it, Mr. Boileau has assumed a
fearful responsibility. The repetition of a falsehood told
by another, is bad enough ; but language wants terms to
stamp with adequate detestation, the man, who, to calum-
niate the virtuous dead, will deliberately coin a falsehood
of _
his own, to sustain that which has been related to him.
Had Mr. Boileau confined himself to the repetition of the
falsehood, I m1ght have suffered it to pass unchastised.
But how dared he assert, in the face of the world, that the
slander which he was then posting on the winds of heaven,
had been corroborated by the legal proceedings of the
courts of New-York in the premises 1 He had no right to
hazard such an assertion, even though that, also, had been
told him-which he does not pretend was the case. The
legal proceedings of our courts are matters of record ; and
the testimony elicited in the various Morgan trials, has been
amply reported, and has become matter of history. It
would have become Mr. B., therefore, before venturing
upon such a sweeping assertion, involving character to such
an exten\o so important alike to the feelings of the living,
and the memory of the dead, to have looked into the facts
of the cilargc himse~ Had he done so, he would have
found, that there is·not a particle of truth, written or un-
written, in the statement upon which, with such singular
hardihood of assertion, he has presumed to venture.
I will not content myself, however, with a mere empty
denial of this accusation, resting on my own word. Its
principal feature is not new with Mr. Boileau, as we have
seen, although it has been greatly amplified in his hands.
-
The idea of this grand council in New-York, had its origin
at an early period in the history of Anti-masonry ; and it
would have been no easy matter for Proteus himself to have
worked more transformations, than the story built upon it
has undergone. Strange as it may seem, moreover, while
every version that I have met with has been essentially
DigltiZerloyGoogle
LETTER XXIX. 309
false, there was, in the outset, an incident of actual occur-
rence, which originally imparted to it a semblance of truth;
so that, like other historical romances of the day, composed
entirely of fiction, it was never~eless in its origin, appa-
rently fotmded in fact. It has long been my purpose to en-
lighten the public in regard to the particular feature of this
history to which I have just referred ; and I rejoice in the
present opportunity, inasmuch as I confidently believe it to
be within my power for ever to put the calumny at rest.
You may recollect, sir, the statement in a former letter,
that among the devices for obtaining possession of Mor-
gan's manuscripts, a portion of them were abstracted from
Miller's office, by his pretended partner, Johns, which pa-
pers were sent to New-York, by an express, to be laid be-
fore the General Grand Chapter of the United States, as-
sembled in this city in September, 1826. Johns took these
papers, I believe, on the 9th of September; and the mes-
senger who brought them, resided at that ti~e in Roches-
ter, although he was then, and is yet, connected with a
press in a more important location. The General Grand
Chapter commenced its sittings on the 14th of September.
The messenger arrived, and presented the papers with
the delivery of which he had been charged, on the second
day of the session, viz: on the 15th. The gentleman ap-
peared greatly agitated, and seemed to think himself charg-
ed with a mission of high importance. Governor Clinton
presided during that session, but was not present in the
chapter when this message arrived-Mr. Snow, of Ohio,
being in the chair of the G. G. High Priest for the time be-
ing. The papers were presented, and referred to a select
committee, of which· my friend Col. Knapp, then of Bos-
ton, was chairman. This committee retired immediately,
and after some conversation with the messenger, became
satisfied, that in a moment of excitement at the west, of
which, however, they had received no previous intimation,
Digitized by Coogle
910 LETTER XXIX.
the papers had been improperly obtained. The committee,
therefore, without opening the papers, dctermim·rl to report
immediately against receiving them, in order that they
might be sent back without delay, and delivered to the
owner. On returning into the chapter, they reported that
the papers which had been committed to them, appeared to
be private property,-paperswith which the General Grand
Chapter had nothing to do,-and they recommended tJmt
the messenger be instructed to return, forthwith, and deliv-
er them back to the owner. The report was concurred
in by the chapter, without a dissenting voice. Governor
Clinton came into the chapter afterwards, during the same
sitting, and having heard some intimation of what had ta-
ken place, made the inquiries naturally arising from such
an occurrence. The facts were explained to him, and he
declared emphatically his hearty approbation of the course
that had been adopted.•
Such, sir, in the briefest possible terms, is the history of
the real occurrence, which designing men have sought to
use ever since, as proof that the General Grand Chapter,
with Governor Clinton at its head, was necessary before
the fact, to the murder of Morgan. The circumstance that
• Since thi~ letter was written, I have received a pamphlet of nearly 200
poge~, containing the report of a committt·c of the Legislature of Rhode
Island, appointed to investigate the chnrges against Freemasonry. Amona
the witnesses examined, was Moses Richardson, who, in the course of a
long and very strancc deposition, makes the following ststcment:-"I was
"a member of the General Grand Chnpt11r, which was in session in thecity
.•• of New-York in Septemhrr, 1826, when the news was received, that Wil-
·" liam Morgan had bc<'n abducted; nnd the lamented' De Witt Clinton, who
·"presided at the meeting, immediately issued his proclamation, and offered
" fifteen hundred dollars reward for the oppr<'hcnsion of the culprits, and it
·" waa puulighed in the newspnper the next day, which was thought Rulli-·
·" cient." Mr. Richardson haR here fnllt>n into a number of very senous mis-
.takes, a~ will presently be seen by other testimony than my own. I st. The
J\CWB of Mor11~n's abduction was not then reooived. 2d. Gov. Clinton waa
not officially at!vised of the obduction until the 6th of October-three weeks
afterwards. His proclamation was issued on the 7th of October, and wu
first published about the 17th, at the west. Of course, it did not appr.ar "in
" the newspaper the next morning." It did not offer 1500 doUars, nor any
other specific reward. The rewards \Verc offered in subsequoot proclama-
C~cms.
Digitized by Coogle
""""'
LETTER XXIX. Sll
a portion of the manuscripts were thus sent to New-York,
was known immedi~tely afterwards, and it was that fact,
and that alone, from which the implication of Gov. Clinton,
and the distinguished masonic gentlemen then assembled in
New-York, from dificrent parts of the United States, in the
guilty transaction, has been inferred. A surmise was suffi-
cient, in the first instance, to set a rumor afloat. The broad
assertion of the fact soon followed. And it was thus that
a transaction, not only innocent in itself, but in the highest
degree honorable to the General Grand Chapter, to the com-
mittee to whom the papers were referred, and to Governor
Clinton himself, has been misrepresented and distorted, un-
til it has at length swollen into the atrocious accusations
which we have seen. But the misrepresentation did not
end with the story that the General Grand Chapter had ex-
amined the papers, and directed " their suppression at all
"hazards." In order to add to the plausibility, nay, to the
possibility of its truth, it became necessary to falsify dates,
and change the actual time of the meeting of the General
Grand Chapter. Morgan, it will be recollpcted, was taken
from Batavia, on the morning of September lith. He was
thrown into prison in Canandaigua, on the night of that
day. And on the night of the 12th, two days before the
meeting of the General Grand Chapter, and three days pre-
viously to the arrival of the papers in New-York, he was
kidnapped from the jail, and stolen away to the west. It
was therefore an utter impossibility, that the General Grand
Chapter, or Gov. Clinton, could have been consulted in'the
matter. This difficulty, however, was soon overcome by
the exercise of a little ingenuity, and still less of honesty.
Knowing that the great body of the people would uot speedi-
ly, if ever, be undeceived, the period of the meeting of the
General Grand Chapter was altered in the Anti-masonic
papers, and carried back into August ! This mi~crable
fraud gave the necessary time to impart con;-;istency to the
Digitized by Coogle
Sl2 LETTER XXIX.
story, and the purpose was for the time abundantly an-
swered.
I have had occasion, many months ago, to refer to the
transaction of which I have now given you some account,
and to expose the fraud in the alteration of the date, by the
Anti-masonic papers, although the facts were adverted to
very briefly. But as that exposition was unheeded by those
for whom it was intended, with a single exception,• J am
now prepared to fortify my own, by other testimony, ~
character of which will not be called in question. With a
view to the present essay, about a month since, I addressed
./ the following letter to my friend, Col. Knapp, whose name
has already been mentioned :-
"New-York, February 5, 1832.
"DEAR Sra,
" You are already acquainted with the fact that I am
engaged in the preparation of a work, intended for the pub-
lic eye, upon the subject of speculative Freemasonry, and
the Antimasonic~xcitement. In the course of the history
which it is my intention to give of the origin and progress
of Anti-masonry, it will be incwnbent upon me to notice, for
the purpose of repelling it, an infamous slander which has
connected the name of one of the illustrious dead, with the
unhappy transactions lying at the foundation of that excite-
ment. From the repeated conversations which we have
had together upon this subject, you will readily understand
the particular incident to which I would now call your at-
t~ntion--espccially as your own name has frequently been
connected with it by the more reckless of the Anti-masonic
presses. You were, as I well recollect, one of the represen-
tatives of the Grand Chapter of Massachusetts, in the Gene-
ral Grand Chapter ofthe United States, at its last septennial
• 'f. Weed, Elq., Editor of lhe Albany Evening Journal.
Digitized by Goo le_
- ~ •. ..
••
LETTER XXIX. SlS
convocation, which was held in the autumn of 1826; and
as you were what is called a working member, and of
course intimately acquainted with all its proceedings, I feel
no hesitancy in making the request I am about to prefer,
entertaining at the same time the fullest confidence in the
authenticity, and a due estimate of the value, of the infor·
mation which I know it is in your power to furnish me in
reply. Will you, therefore, be kind enough to favor me
with as speedy an answer as your convenience will allow,
to the following queries 1 ,
" 1st. Were you present in the General Grand Chapter,
in September, 1826, when a companion arrived from the
western part of this state, having in his possession certain
papers and manuscripts, to lay which before that body ho
alledged he had been sent hither as an express 1
"2d. On what day, and at about what hour, did this spe-
cial messenger arrive, and what was the peculiarity, ifany,
of his manner 1
" 3d. What course was taken with the said papers, in
the first instance 1
" 4th. What in the second 1
" 5th. Was the late Most Excellent General Grand High
Priest, De Witt Clinton, presiding in the chapter, on t.Mt
day?
" 6th. If aye, what was his conduct on that occasion, and
what remarks, if any, did he make from the chair on the
subject 1
" 7th. What was the final disposition ofthe whole matter,
so far as the General Grand Chapter was concerned, offi-
cially or otherwise 1
" By answering the foregoing inquiries, and also by fur-
nishing me any additional information that may be within
your knowledge or possession, calculated to assist in the
elucidation of this branch of my inYestigations, you will
not only confer a favor upon me, but do what is of much
40
Digitized by Coogle
814 LETTER XXIX.
greater and higher consequence--assist in rescning the
memory of a great and virtuous man, who has descended
to an untimely grave" with all his country's wishe1 blest."
from one of the most atrocious calumnies ever invented by
man.
" I am, sir, very truly yours,
"WILLIAM L. STONE.
" CoL. SAMUEL L. KNAPP."
To the foregoing letter I was promptly favored with the
following communication in reply :-
"New-York, February ~. 1832.
"DEAR SIR,
"I embrace this, the first opportunity I have had since
the receipt of your letter, to give you such answers to your
interrogatories as my best recollections afford. I was n
member of the General Grand Chapter of the United States,
nt their septennial convocation, in September, 1826, having
taken my scat as a delegate from the Grand Chapter of
Massachusetts. On the second day of the session, the se-
cond officer of the General Grand Chapter,--eompanion
Snow, from Ohio,-being in the chair, in the fore part of the
day, he stated to that body that a special communication had
been made to him from the western part of the state of
New-York, and suggested the propriety of putting it into
the hands ofa committee, before the nature of it was known
.to the chapter at large. This was agreed to, and I had the
honor of being appointed chairman of the committee. It
being stated that it might be a matter of importance, the
committee forthwith retired to consider the communication.
I went into the committee room without a hint upon the
subject. A young gentleman, whose name I never inquir-
ed after, presented th~ committee some printed pages and n
mamL~cript; stating. at the ~nnw time, that :-;cvcral of the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX. 315
masonic fraternity in his part of the country, had appre-
hended that some mischief might ensue from the publication
of such a work as the printed pages and manuscript pur-
ported to be, particularly in the state of feeling which he
said prevailed among the Masons in the west. The mes-
senger was in the highest state of excitement. The com-
mittee patiently heard his story, and having deliberated
thereon, returned the. messenger his papers without any
examination of them, telling him, distinctly, that it was a
subject in which the General Grand Chapter could take no
part. The committee having agreed unanimously in this
opinion, returned to the lodge room and made a verbal re-
port. This was accepted with but a few, or no remarks,
from the companions, at the time, and without a dissenting
voice. In a subsequent portion of that day, our General
Grand High Priest, De Witt Clinton, took the chair ; and
while in it, inquired if a communication had been made
from the fraternity of the west, and if so, what had been
done thereon 1 I stated to him the course pursued by the
committee and chapter, which met with his entire approba-
tion ; and he repeated the language which had been used by
the committee, that this body had nothing to do with the
subject, and that it was not worthy the notice o,f Masons.
The communication made no excitement in the General
Grand Chapter ; they then thought it one of those idle a~
prehensions frequently known among young Masons, and
there left it. A few hours after .the interview which the
messenger had with the committee, he came to me and ap-
peared dissatisfied, or, at least, disappointed, at the indiffer-
ence shown by the General Grand Chapter· on the subject
of his communication, and at this time let fall some hints
that the writer of the manuscript might at that time be in
prison for debt. My reply to him was, if he is imprisoned
for debt, go and raise money among the fraternity, to pay
Digitized by Google
916 LETTER XXIX.
the debts he is held foF, and discharge them, and see that he
has his liberty, and his manuAcripts as soon as possible.
" In this, as in all other intercourse I ever had with our
Grand High Priest, De Witt Clinton, I have ever found him
honorable and high-minded, and in a most remarkable de-
gree possessing the confidence and affection of all the mem-
bers of the General Grand Chapter, while at the head of the
institution, which was a period of nearly twenty years; and
how deeply he was lamented at his death, will be seen by
looking at the proceedings of the General Grand Chapter,
in September, 1829.
" Yours, truly,
" SAMUEL. L. KNAPP.
"To WM. L. STONE, Esq."
Conclusive, however, nay, triwnphant, as I think this vin-
dication might be considered, even were the case to be rested
here,-more especially when taken in connexion with the
fa~ and circwnstani"-CS touching the conduct of Governor
Clinton, in relation to the Morgan business, and the portions
of'his correspondence respecting it, which have been incor-
porated in several of the preceding letters-yet there is
other and stronger testimony in reserve. I have already
intimated in the present letter, that Gov. Clinton was in his
lif~time apprised, to some extent, of the ruipersions cast up-
on his characterupon this subject, and that he was not back-
ward in·the adoption of measures to rescue his own good
name from the obloquy. No further evidence of this fact
need be adduced-stronger testimony cannot be-than the
following correspondence, which took place between Gov.
C. and Jacob LeRoy, Esq., a gentleman of great respecta-
bility residing in the county of Genesee, a short time pre-
viously to tl1e lamented decease of the former :-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX. 817
"LeRoy, October 29, 1827.
"Mv DEAR SIR,
" You have, doubtless, been long acquainted with the
great excitement prevailing in this section of the state, in
consequ~nce of the abduction of Morgan ; which excitG-
ment, I regret to say, is increasing, owing to the designing
views of some of the leaders of the Anti-masonic pnrty.
Your name in this transaction,is now becoming conspicuous,
and some of our most respectable citizens have informed
me, that certain Masons have asserted that you have writ-
ten to them, authorising this act. I have endeavor~d to
trace it to its source, and in every iJ;Istance, where I have
been able to meet with the persons said to have made the
assertions, have found them slanders ; the person here, who
appears most conspicuous in making these charges, is said
to be Dr. puu. I have charged him with the fact, which
he positively denies. A number of our most influential ci-
tizens, your friends, knowing my acquaintance with you,
have requested me to write, and beg of you to answer the
following questions :--
" Did you know that any attempts were to be made to
carry off Morgan, previous to his abduction 1
"Did you ever, in conversation with Dr. puu, or Mr.
Bun, of Batavia, or any other Mason, lead them to sup-
pose you were in favor of his abduction 1
"Have you ever written to any Mason, authorising the
act 1
"Did you, while on your visit to this county, in the sum-
mer of 1826, attend any of their Masonic meetings 1
" Did y(lu, as has been stated by Southwick, tender your
hospitality to Col. King, while in Albany, knowing at the
time, he had been a participator in these transactions 1
" You, no doubt, may think I am bold and free in thus
questioning you, on subjects in which you may think I have
Digitized by Coogle
818 LETTEJt XXIX.
no concern ;-but, my dear sir, it is from the purest motives
(being perfectly satisfied in my own mind of the wicked-
ness of these charges,) that your exalted character, should
be shielded from such assassin-like attacks. I am persua-
ded your denial of these assertions will put the aulhors to
that disgrace which they so justly deserve, and put down
at once these infamous reports.
" I have again to beg you will not take offence at this
communication, coming, as you well know, from one, who
ever has been a strong friend and admirer of your charac-
ter.
" With the greatest respect,
" Believe me, most sincerely,
" To his excellency,
" Your friend,
"JACOB LE ROY.
"DB WITT CLINTON, Albany...
"New-York, NOT)ember 3, 1827.
" Mv DBAR Sia,
"I have received your letter of the 29th of October,
and have a full impression of the honorable and friendly
motives which governed you in writing it ;--I beg you to
accept my sincere thanks. I shall now answer it fully, and
satisfactorily, and with great pleasure.
"I have always condemned the abduction of Morgan,
and have never spoken of the measure, but as a most un-
warrantable outrage, and as deserving the most severe
punishment. I had no previous knowledge of any such
intention. I never gave it, before or after, the least en-
couragement, either verbally or in writing, directly or
indirectly.
You may recollect that I was in your county, in July,
1826. During that time I attended no masonic meeting,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXIX. 819
nor did I ever speak to Dr. FUU' Mr. nuu' or any other
person, in a way that would lead them to suppose that I
countenanced any outrage'on Morgan, or any other person,
nor can I recollect to have had any conversation at that
time, about,Morgan, or his intended publication. I cannot
think there can be a human being so base as to make such
an insinuation, seriously, and believing it.
'' The only time I saw Col. King, after the Morgan affair,
was on his way to Washington ; and then he called on me
in Albany, to transact some business for the state, when at
the former place, which I declined committing to his agen-
cy. I had no satisfactory proof of his being concerned in
that outrage. Indeed he introduced the subject himself,
disclaiming all participation.
"I have seen, if I recollect right, in Miller's Batavia pa~
per, an assertion that in virtue of an official station in Ma-
sonry, I might have avoided a discovery of the offenders,
or prevented the ofli:mcc. It is sufficient to say, that this
assertion is totally false.
" I have also seen, in a Lc Roy paper, say of the 17th of
October, an averment, from an anonymous writer, that he
had heard a Mason say, he would not have been concerned
in the outrage, if he had not seen a letter from me favora-
ble to the act. Although very reluctant to institute prose-
cutions against printers, yet, in this case, I am willing to de-
part from a general rule; and unless the printers disavow
the nefarious slander, and give up the name of the writer
for prosecution, which l authorise you to demand, I shall
not fail to bring them before a tribunal of justice.
" You may make such usc of this letter as you may think
proper.
•• 1 am, truly, your friend,
"DE WITT CLINTON.
"To JAcon LE Rov, E11Q.
"Le Roy, GenesP
r rounl!f, N. Y.''
Digitized .by Google
·,
~- LETTER XXIX.
"LeRoy, Ntmetaber 13, 1827.
" Mv DEAR Snt,
" Your favor of the 3d iost. came to hand in due
course, by which I' was much pleased to perceive, that my
communication was received in the friendly manner intend-
ed. On the receipt of it, I immediately called on the edi-
tors of our village paper, and demanded the author of the
libellous attack made on you, in their paper of the 18th.
They readily gave up the name, which I should have in-
formed you of sooner, but at the request of the gentleman
implicated, (whose name is James Ballard,) who wished I
should defer writing you, until he could procure some de-
positions to prove the source from which it had originated.
He has this day put me in possession of these documents,
with the wish that I should enclose them to you. These
papers will enable you to see ft'om whence the.slander has
its origin. Mr. Ballard's standing here has always been
very respectable, and he is a gentleman of considerable
property.
" There is no doubt in my mind, that a Jetter, purporting
to havebeen written by you, approving of this outrage, has
been circulated through this country ; but whether by the
:MMOns, as a motive to urge on people to this disgraceful
transaction, or by other persons for political purposes, I am
unable to say. No pains have been spared to satisfy the
people, of your being deeply implicated in the affil.ir. The
course you have now determined to take, however, will
unravel the mystery, and disclose to you a scene of villainy
you are not aware of.
"I have shown your letter to many of our respectable
citizens, who are perfectly convinced of the infamous slan-
der, from the frank and decisive manner in which you have
replied to all the questions submitted in my letter to you of
the 29th of last month. A very general wish has been ex-
pressed, that I should permit the letter to be published, but
Digitized by Coogle
LICTTBil XXIX. ftl
I-1iave declined doing 80, until I know your pleasure on the
•object. Most respectfully, your friend,
"JACOB LEROY.
" To his excellency,
"DB Wrrr CLD'f'l'Ol'f, .Albm.y."
"Albany, December 14, 1827.
- "Mv DBAR SIR,
"On my return from New-York, last month, I found
your letter of the 13th November, Mr. Ballard's of the same
date,•and theaftidavitsofFranklinMarsh,HiramGriflea,Eli-
as Cooly and Hollis Pratt,t fixing the authorship of the sian·
ders against me on James Ganson. Between that time and
this, my attention has been 80 entirely engrossed with the
recent and approaching session of the legislature, that I had
not time to attend to any but public concerns. I now thank
you for your very prudent and friendly course. Mr. Bal-
lard's conduct would have appeared in the same light, if,
instead of being the trumpeter of a vile slander, and what
he must have known to be such, he had consulted me, if he
couJd have possibly wanted any satisfaction, in a case of
slander so obviously diabolical. But as he has fixed the
authorship on Ganson, I shall require from the latter a writ·
ten document. If this ·is not satisfactorily furnished, an-
other course must be pursued. It may be proper to men· ·
tion, that the Morgan committee of Batavia, have, much
in honor of their candor, done justice to my conduct rela·
ting to this whole affair.
" I am, dear sir, with my respects to Mrs. Le Roy,
" Your sincere friend,
"DE WITT CLINTON.
"To JAcoB LB Rov."
• Vide Appendix, G. t Vide Appen~ !t.
41
Digitized by Coogle
sn LETTER XXIX.
".Albany, January S, 1828.
" My DEA.It Sm,
"Did you receive a letter from me dated the 14th 1Je..
cember last1 I wish to come to some conclusive reault
with Ganson. Who is Franklin Marsh, ooe of the affidavit
makers 1 If Ganson does not make the amende honorabl~
in writing, I shall institute a prosecution against him, if I
find, on the advice of counsel, that it will lie.
" I am your sincere friend,
" DE WITT CLINTON.
"To J&coa L• Rov."
"LeRoy, January S, 1828.
"Mv DEA.R Sra,
"I have this day received yours of the Sth, inquiring
of me whether a letter written by you on the 14th oflast
month, had come to hand. I did receive that letter in due
course, and did not concaive from its contents, it was youc
wish that I should have procured Ganson's refutation, but
inferred it was your intention to have demanded £rom him,
yourself, such a denial, as you should think satisfactory, or
I should have immediately attended to it. I have now had
drawn up as strong a denial of the charges, as could be
done, to which you have Ganson's signature, and which I
· hope will meet your approbation.• I should, were I placed
in a similar situation, desire the editors of our paper, to pub-
lish all , these affidavits, and also Ganson's denial, which
would at once satisfy every one that there was a lie betw~n
them, and show the baseness of the slander. You will par-
don the liberty I take in thus recommending the publishing
of these documents ; for, I think, as this libel has been open-
ly made, the refutation ought to be equally public.
• Vide Appcudi.~, T.
Digitized by Coogle
...
LETTER xm.
"Wt4h my respects to Mrs. C. and family, and my sin-
cere wishes, that you may be blessed with many happy re-
turns of the season, believe me, sincerely, your friend,
, "JACOB LE ROY.
" To his excellency,
"Ds Wrrr CLINTON, Albany."
" P. S. Franklin Marsh, of whom you make mquiries, is a
mason by trade, and with whom I am but little acquainted.
I am, however, informed that he is a man whose word is
entitled to credit."
The,sudden and unexpected decease of the principal in
the preceding correspondence, cut it short at this point, and
prevented its publication, or the adoption of any other mea-
sures in the premises. These interesting papers, and the
documents connected with them, are now, consequently, for
the first time permitted to see the light. I will not pause
to dwell upon them. To comment, would be but to im-
peach the understanding of the reader. I will, the~efore,
only add, upon this point, that, if a long chain of circum-
stances, bearing directly upon his innocence, prove any
thing ;-if the whole cOurse of his official conduct in this
matter, and his private, as well as his public correspon-
dence, are to be received in evidence ;-if the testimony of
unimpeachable witnesses, is to have its proper weight ;-
'and, if, superadded to all these, his own solemn declarations,
are to be received as the testimony of one, "whose word
" but yesterday would have stood against the world," then
is the refutation of the foul slander complete : the blot is
wiped from the patriot's escutcheon : his name, and his
fame, are triumphantly vindicated.
But while I refrain from comment, it is impossible to fore-
go reflection upon the circumstances of the diabolical ca-
lwriny, thus, as I hope, satisfactorily refuted. That Mor-
Digitized by Coogle
Ltlk-Ea XXIX.
ga was buely betrayed, and carried into capth·ity, we all
bow. That he was murdered, I have long smce ceased to
entertain or express a doubt, nor am I aware that in the pre-
cediDg letters, I have failed, on any proper occasion, to ex..
press an abhorrence, not only of that deed, but of the unjus-
tifiable methods that have at any time been taken to screen
the perpetrators from punishment. Even-handed jUitice,
however, requires that we should be equally unsparing in
the bestowment of merited censure upon tho~e who would
pursue their victim beyond the precincts of the grave.
Deeply as I deplore and execrate the usurpation by indivi-
dnals, of- the execution of public justice, it is impossible to
detach from the mind of any man engaged in furthering its
behests, the question of personal malice. The quo aRimo
is always sought by every juror, and exerts 811 influence
upOn his mind, in all its degrees and relations, from malice
prepense, sudden wrath, infatuated zeal, self defen<'.e, and
monomania, to absolute insanity and idiocy. The three first
claues alluded to, are never sanctioned by the tribunals of
jtlltice ; yet still, in meting out punishment, they are not
lost ~ght of; and in the stigma infixed upon the character
of the offender, they receive their appropriate gradation of
infamy by the public award. The case then stands thus in
contrast-Morgan, a man ofno peculiar estimation insocie-
ty, with no extensive family relations, and, by his own
shewing, essentially guilty of perjury, was, for the viola-
tion of his oath, unjustifiably put to death by infatuated Ma·
1001, not only without authority, but in shameful violation
of the laws of the land.
Governor Clinton, on the other hand, holding an impor-
tant public station-possessed of a reputation dear to him-
self and valuable to his country-surrounded by a large and
ioteresting family, and extensive connexions-guilty of ne
crime or indiscretion, on which even party vengeance could,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER~.
at any time, fasten, is accused by persons calling them-
selves Anti-masons, of the double murder of Morgan, and
of himself!
By as much as character is dearer to an honorable mind
than life, is the atrocity of wantonly destroying the former,
more infamous than taking the latter, even without the ex-
tenuating apology of infatuation. What relative or friend
of Gov. Clinton, would not infinitely have preferred that lle
should have been murdered, than that his character should
have been destroyed by such abominable imputations, if the
proofs of their falsity were not, fortunately and triumphant·
ly attainable 1 That they are so, affords no palliation to
the infamy of his accusers ;-and the attempt, either in this
state, or in Pennsylvania, to sustain the ca":SC of Anti-ma-
sonry by traducing the illustrious dead with a calumny so
foul and vital, can excite little less abhorrence than the
deed it proposes to avenge.
With great regard, I am, &c.
LETTER XXX.
Nzw-:Yo_.:, March4, 1832.
S1a,
The publication of the entire lectureS" of the first three
degrees of Freemasonry, including the obligations of those
degrees, by Miller, from the manuscripts of Morgan, bad
induced many members of the fraternity, to reflect more
seriously than they had previously done, upon the binding .
efficacy of those obligations, including, of COUI'8e, those of
the higher degrees. Alarmed, as many religious members
of the order were, in regard to the moral influence of the
institution, as it had been illustrated in the case of Morgan,
and the conduct of a considerable portion of the craft re..
Digitized by Coogle
S26 LETTER XXX.
speeting it, public renunciations had been frequent, almost
from the time the accounts of the outrage had been first
noised abroad.
These renunciations were not confined to the western
aection of country, nor to any particular calling. Mem-
bers of the bar, and of the clerical profession ; the merchant,
the mechanic, and the agriculturist, in many parts of the
country, within and without the state of New-York, came
forward, from time to time, publishing to the world their
renunciations of the order, together with their reasons for
so doing. It is no part of my duty to canvass the wisdom,
the necessity, or the policy, of adopting this method of ab-
juring the institution, and its obligations. It is sufficient to
state the fact ; but while I do this, I am free to declare, that,
from the character and intelligence of the greater portion
of those thus renouncing, we have no right to question the
purity of their motives. Having so renounced, and reason-
ed themselves into a perfectly sincere belief, that none of
their obligations either were, or ought to be, of any binding
force whatever, (being, in their opinion, contrary to the spi-
rit both of the civil and the divine law,) a convention of
Masons of this description was held at Le Roy, in the coun-
ty of Genesee, on the 19th of February, 1828.
The object of this convention was an interchange of sen-
timents upon the subject which was now engrossing so large
a portion of the public mind, and a full and free discussion
of the principles and obligations of the masonic institution.
The convention was opened with religious services by at-
tending clergymen, and organized by the choice of Leonard
B. Rose, Esq., as president, and the Rev. David Barnard,
secretary. After full discussions had taken place, the con-
vention adopted the following opinions, viz :-In regard to
the antiquity of the institution, that it was not ancient ;
on the score of morals, that it did not promote morality ;-
touching its benevole1tee, that it was not benevolent ;-i-e-
Digitized by Coogle
--· 0 d
LETT.ER XXX, 82'7
specting its ceremonies, that they were degrading, and op-
posed to christianity ;-and, in fine, that it was the duty of
honest Masons to expose the secrets and obligations of the
order to the world.
Morgan's book was then examined, and it was declared
by the convention to be a full and fair revelation of the first
three degrees of speculative Masonry. To the truth of
this declaration, thirty-five seceding Masons, of various de-
grees, "solemnly and sincerely testified," by subscribing
their names.
The convention proceeded to make what they have pro-
nounced a full and fair disclosure of the obligations of the
four higher degrees of ancient Masonry, together with the
degrees of knighthood to the Templar's inclusive. The
four former correspond with those contained in " Bernard's
" ·Light on Masonry," to the general character of which I
have been called to testify my own opinion, before a legal
commission. It is unnecessary to repeat that opinion in
this place. But in regard to the obligations of the Red
Cross Knights, and the Templars, as disclosed by this con-
vention, I am free to declare that I know of no such obliga-
tions in any degrees. Seven members of the convention
are represented in the proceedings, to have been knights,
and have sanctioned the obligations to which I refer. But
I am at a loss to conjecture where, or in what country, such
obligations cQ.uld have been devised, or by what masonic .
authority adopted. I have received those degrees, and as-
sisted in conferring them ; and certain I am, that such obli-
gations were new to me, when I saw them in the printed
report of the proceedings of this convention. My impres-
sion is, that they must have been devised westward of Al-
bany, and imposed upon candidates without the sanction of
any governing body. Indeed I am authorised to state, that
when the forms of those obligations were received in this
city, measures were taken by the Grand Eneampmcnt to
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXX.
ascertain whether any encampment under its jurisdiction
had in fact ever administered any such obligations, and if
ao, where, and by whom they had been imposed.
The concJuding acts of this convention were, the ap-
pointment of a committee " to draft a memorial to Con·
"gress on the subject of the prostitution of the fortress of
" Niagara, to the iDcarceration ofWiJiiam Morgan, by per·
" aons calling themselves Freemasons, without any legal
"authority for such violence and coercion ;" and also the
appointment of a committee of arrangements for a great
Anti-masonic celebration of the national festival, on the
4th of the ensuing month of July.
The memorial to Congress, as directed by the foregoing
resolution, was·presented by Mr. Tracy, in the month of
May following, andits reference to the judiciary committee
suggested. It charged that the military post at Niagara,
under the care ofofficers of the army of the United States,
had been made subservient to the illegal course alledged
to have been pursued in respect to Morgan, and prayed
that an inquiry might be instituted in Congress upon that
subject. Several gentlemen spoke on the presentation of
the memorial, and among others, Messrs. Tracy and Storrs,
of New-York; Barbour, of Virginia; and Wright, of
Ohio. It was considered by the house, that the investiga-
tion ofabuses of that description, if any existed, belonged,
in the first instance, to the Executive Department, which
had the charge and superintendence of the army. The
memorial, which, by the way, was accompanied by no
proofs, was therefore referred to the President of the Uni-
ted States ; and it was not heard from afterwards. The
course of the debate dearly showed, that in the then pos-
ture of political affairs, there was a general wish, on all
:sides, to rid themselves of any inquiry into such a matter:
and all parties seemed to acquiesce in the disposition thus
made of the memorial. The inquiry had such bearings, in
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXX.
many directions, that all parties in Congress appeared at a
loss how to handle a subject of so much novelty, and the
scope of which was not so fully or clearly developed,
as to enable any one to foresee the probable effect which
the investigation might have on th.eir particular views iD
the then approaching election.
Another convention assembled at the same place, on
the 6th of March following. It consisted of seventy-
nine members, representing twelve counties, and comprised
a formidable array of talent and high personal character
and wealth. General William Wadsworth was chosen
president of this convention, and Dr. Matthew Brown and
Robert Fleming, Esq. secretaries. It was by this body of
citizens, that the Anti-masonic party first received, avowed-
ly, its political" form and pressure." A series of strong re-
solutions was adopted, embodying, substantially, all the
charges that had been preferred against Freemasonry dur-
ing the controversy, repeating the denunciations of the or-
der, individually and collectively, and inveighing against
the press, after the violent example set in the primary
meetings of the people the year before. In many
respects, the committee, in drafting their resolutions, and
the members in adopting them, were not as scrupulous in
regard to facts, as they should have been. Among other
things the convention resolved, " that we disco'fer in the ce-
" remonies and obligations of the higher degrees of Mason-
" ry, principles which deluged France in blood, and which
" tend directly ,to the subversion of all religioq and govern-
" ment." Now I must be permitted to say-what I think
has already been shown in the earlier part of this exposition,
that these very respectable gentlemen .had made no such
discovery. Those degrees, in this country, at least, neither
profess~dly nor covertly, embrace any principles of the
kind. The convention also resolved, that they " lamented
" the entire subjugation of the press, throughout the Union,
42
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XU.
"to .the control of Freemasonry." Nothing could. have
been more unjust, or untrue, than this sweeping plOICrip-'
Uot1 of the whole of the public press, whatever may have
been the conduct of a portion of it, which, I Ul free to a6-
mit, was sufficiendy reprehensible. Resolutions were like-
wise passed, directing the raising of funds for the establil!b-
ment ofadditional Anti-masonic presses ; thanking the Lew-
iston committee for its great exertions to investigate the
mysteries of the Morgan outrage ; .and proposiag the fint
great Anti-masonic State Convention, to auemble in Uti~
on the 4th of August following. The objecta of coovom.,
such a convention, were sufticieody broad, as anwill admit.
It was stated to be ncceasary-" to take meuurea for the
"'destruction of the m~oaic institution; for s~ the
" liberty of the press, and asserting the supremacy of the
"Jaws; for protecting the rights and privileges of the eiti-
.. zens against the vindictive persecutions of members of the
" masonic society ; and to take into consideratioe .uc.\ ot.\-
" er businen as the said conv~ntion shall deem expedient in
"the furtherance of such objects." A memorial was, more-
<;vcr, directed to be sent to Congress, similar to that agreed
upon by the preceding convention, ju.t noted above ; and ia
conclusion, an address to the people was adopted, well eal-
'culatcd to prolong the excitement, and increase the populu
jealousy and hatred of Masonry. Among other recldese
assertions, it was declared to be a fact, without qualifica-
tion, that " to the bosom of Freemasonry every revoluti011
· "and conspiracy, which hns agitated Europe for the Jast
" fifty years, might be distinctly traced;"-that its princi-
ples were identically the same with Illuminism, &c.,-the
entire groundlessness of which a:;sertion I have heretofore
shown. In addition to this.address, a memorial was adopt-
ed, and ordered to be presented to the J.cgislature._praying
for the enactment of law11 prohibiting dw administration of
·the masonic ohligations.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXX. SSt
-By the decease ofGov. Clinton. the duties of chief magis-
trate, for the residue of the term, devolved upon the Lieut.
Governor-the Hon. Nathaniel Pitcher. On the 18th of
March, the excitement at the west not having abated, ~d
the -feeling continuing gradually to spread, Gov. Pitcher
transmitted a special message upon the subject, to the
SeDate-the legislature being then in session. As an apo-
logy for taking this course, the acting Governor referred to
the constitutional requirement, that the person administer.ing
the government should" take care that the laws are faith-
" fully executed." He then proceeded briefly to refer to the
excitement at the west, in consequence of the alledged
clandestine removal of a citizen of the state, and the uncer-
tainty of his fate. He also referred to the unsucceaaful
exertions which the citizens had made to develope the mys-
terious transaction, and to bring the offenders to jtlStice.
He did not directly censure the course that had been adopt..
ed by the people ; but suggested, that, while the trials and
convictions which had taken place, had rather increased
the mystery of the transaction, the efforts of the individual
citizens, though stimulated by a patriotic zeal, had not al-
ways been guided by discretion ; and had, therefore, as there
was reason to fear, tended rather to prevent, than to pro-
mote, a jUdicial developement of the truth. The fact of
the sudden and mysterious disappearance of an important
wi1~ was adverted to in the message as an alarming cir-
cumstance ;• and under all the circumstances of the case, it
was deemed advisable by the Executive, to recommend an
exercise of the constitutional powers of the Legislature, in
order to facilitate the discovery and punislunent of the of-
fenders. Some action of this kind, was judged by the Ex-
• In the auminer of 1827, ElWba Adams, a witnet~a who had been mm-
mnned to attend the trials at Cana.nclaigna, after r,roceeding 8.9 far lUI Ro-
ehaater, auddenly diaappeared, and wu not for a ong time beard froln, nor
could any traces of him be discovered for m11ny 111ontbs.
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTE'R XXX.
ec'utive to be equally due to the violated majesty of the
laws ; to the apprehensions of our fellow citizens, which
never could nor ought to be satisfied until justice was ob-
tained; and to those who had been, or might be, included
in the general and vague suspicions always produced by
such transactions. It was, said the message, an imperative
duty to the innocent, that those really guilty should be de-
tected and punished. AnothP-r inducement for the direct
interposition of the government, was found in the belief that
such a course would calm the feverish excitemeBt of the
public mind, and prevent designing men from perverting
that excitement to their own selfish purposes. The enact-
ment of a law was therefore recommended, authorising the
appointment of a competent person for the special purpose
of investigating the alledged criminal transactions in re-
spect to Morgan, and all the incidents connectedtherewith--
and who should be clothed with full and ample powers to
perform all duties necessary to a full and fair judicial de-
termination of the whole matter. The message was refer-
red to the committee on the judiciary, of which Mr. John
C. Spencer was chairman.
Perhaps it may be considered an unfair suggestion-but
still, I have not been able to banish the impress~on, that the
people may possibly have been indebted for this special
message, to the strong and decided indications of the united
and vigorous political action, which had then so recently
been manifested at the second Le Roy Convention. The
number of counties represented in that body, and the weight
of character and influence comprised within it, together
with its recommendation of a state convention, preparatory
to the next ensuing general elections of the state, shadowed
forth too clearly a monition to escape the lynx-eyed po-
liticians by whom the acting Governor was surrounded.
But, whatever might have been the motive for the sending
in of this message immediately after the proceedings of
Digitized. by Google
LETTER XXX. sss
the convention had reached Albany, it was a very proper
measure in itself, and might, with propriety, have been pro-
posed at an earlier period of the session.
Three days after the receipt of the message, a bill wu
reported by the committee, in compliance with the execu-
tive recommendation. It was oebatcd and adopted in the
Senate on the 25th of March, and sent down to the Assem-
bly for concurrence. The bill was taken up in that house,
on the 4th ,of April; and on the 15th it became a law.
Daniel Moseley, Esq., of Onondaga .county, was immediate-
ly commissioned by the Executive, to fill the important of-
fice thus created. This appointment did not give the peo-
ple in the region of the excitement, so much satisfaction as
had been felt by the passage of the law. Mr. Moseley wu
charged with a want both of talents and energy for the sit-
uation; and although the senatorial district in which he
resided, was strongly of his own political party, yet such
were the prejudices excited against him in the public mind,
that he failed in an attempt to be.elected to the Senate, in
the autumn subsequent to his apppointment. My own opin-
ion upon the subject is, that injustice was done to Mr. Mose-
ley, touching the discharge of his duties as special com-
missioner. His labors were as faithful as those ofany other
counsellor employed in those investigations, and he is more-
over a sound and virtuous man, whose fidelity in the trans- .
actions referred to, cannot be, and ought never to have been,
questioned.
The memorial of the Le Roy Convention, remonstrating
against the masonic obligations, and praying for the .pas-
sage of a law prohibiting them altogether, was presented in
the Assembly on the 19th of March-the day after the act-
ing Governor's message tn the Senate. This memorial was
referred to a select committee, consisting of Messrs. Childs,
Granger, and Wardwell. On the 2d sf April, following,
this committee reported a bill pursuant to the prayer of the
D1Q1t1zed by Google
LE,.TJ:Jl XXX.
memorialists, which, with the accompanying report, was
ordered to be printed. But no further mention of it ap-
pears on the legislative journals, and the presumption is,
. that ·it was never called up.
Early in the same month, (April,) Me88T8. Garlinghowle
and Bates, who bad_been despatched, as I have already sta-
led, to the southwestern part of the territory of the United
Statel, returned from an m~successful mission, and made a
report of their proceedings to the acting Governor. It was
known that Smith and Whitney, had fled to the valley of
the Millissippi. The officers went thither, but, although
they often heard of the fugitives, yet they could not succeed
in arresting them. Repairing to Arkansas, they were fur-
nished by Gov. Izard with the necessary papers, with which
they proceeded to cantonment Towson, upon the Red Ri-
Yer, twelYe hundred miles above its junction with the Mis-
si.aippi, and arrived there on the 14th of February, 18~.
" Mr. Garlioghouse went alone, and privately presented his
"papers to the commander of the station, while his com-
" panion remained without the fort. He exhibited the or-
" der of the Govemor,-a leuer from the Adjutant General
"oftile anny, under the direction ofthe Secretary ofWar,-
"and also a letter from Pol. Arbuckle, commanding officer
"at cantonment Gibson, and requested CapL Hyde, then in
" command of the station, to furnish assistance for the ar-
" rest of King, who, it appeared, was then there. This of-
" ficer refused·to assist himself, or to furnish assistance, or
" even to furnish a guard for his removal." He proposed,
however, to send for a lieutenant to accompany the sheriff
to King's store ; but the officer thus sent for could not be
found: and it afterwards appeared that the captain himself,
during the ab1e11ce of the messenger, held a conversation
with the very officer for whom he had sent ; and it also
appeared, that, after the sherift' had obtained another offi.
eer to accompany him to the store, the lieutenant referred
Digitized by Coogle
LKTTEB XU.
to, and with whom the captain had thus converset:I; had al-
ready anticipated the aheriB; and taken King e.way into tbe
woods. .Mr. Bates was afterwards informed by the afticer
mmself, of the fit.ct that he did thus take King aw.y, oa
1eamiDg that ~ra had arriveci to arrest llina for the
murder of Morgan, and that he bad ~d Kini• clerkto
take his horse to him, where he wu waiting iOr him in the
forest. The Cliicen who had thus favored the .eacape of
the fugitive, were understood to be Muons. Toattempta
pursuit, in the vast wildernesses of tile west, would have
been a hopeless wdertakiog. The idea was tberem
abandoned; and the messengers, after ~ a fnrltleas
search, eveD to New-Orleans, fer Smith aDCl Whimey,
returned to report the circumstances cL their bootlesa mil-
•ion.
The escape of King, aod the manaer in which, by IRa-
sonic connivance aud evell dimct BBiistance, he had been
enabled to ftee, gave very great offimce, and jostJy. A re-
presentation of the conduct of Capt. Hyde ..,.. made to
the War Department, aud that ofticer wu ol'llered into ar-
rest, and to repair to dais city for trial ; but nodHag fur-
ther resulted from that meaiiW'e. Before, however, suli-
cient time had elapsed for the public to give full 't'ent to its
indignation at the maRDer itt which King had heenenabled
to elude his pursuers,--that is to say, on the 17tho( May, he
soddenly te-appeared at Niagara, having vokmtarify re-
turned to hit fonner residenCe-whence his family had not
been reiDOVed. He immediately publishect a note in a
Lockport paper, under his own signature, addressed to
Messn. Garlinghouse and Bates, informing them of •ueh
return, and of his readiness " to transact any business they
"might have with him." Attempts had been made during
his absence, to procure his indietrnent for murder, but with-
out success. But he had been indicted for a misdemeanor;
and the second day after his apparition, he went voluntari-
' -
Digitized by Coogle
SS6 LETTER XXX.
ly to the ministers of justice, and was recognized, himself in
the swn of one thousand dollars, and two sureties in the swn
of five hundred dollars each, for his appearance at the next
term of the court. In a week thereafter, he published an
address to the public, respecting his case, well calculatedto
make a favorable impression in his behalf.
· This return of Col. King, after the escape at cantonment
Towson, and his subsequent conduct, are among the most
remarkable incidents of these extraordinary transactions.
People knew not what to make of it. His original flight
could not have been without cause; nor, unless he had ve-
ry powerful reasons for so doing, would he voluntarily have
retreated four thousand miles distant from his home, and
buried himself twelve hundred miles deep in the wilder-
ness, merely for the emolument of the paltry official situa-
tion he had obtained. Why, moreover, should he have
thus fled from the faces of his pursuers, if he knew he
could safely throw himself back into the hands of his accu-
. sers, and repose securely upon his innocence?. It was, in
all respects, an unaccountably strange movement; serving to
add another shade to the deep mystery, which it even now
seems likely will not be solved in all its ramifications, until
the great day of final account.
From this period the character of Anti-masonry began
tochange. Indeed the effervescence which, during so many
months, had kept a large section of the state in ceaseless
agitation, had been gradually subsiding for some time. It
was in truth impossible that it should be otherwise. There
must necessarily be a point, above which the passions can-
not rise, and a stage, beyond which popular excitement and
delusion cannot be carried. The crises-the highest peri-
ods of action-cannot continue long, ere the mind will break,
and fall into positive delirium. In these respects, the Jaw
of nature is as imperative in the physical, as in the natural
world. And while a strong popular excitement by sufficient
• o;9;uzedbyGoogle
LETTER XXXI• . 987
causes, may be impelled impetuously forward like the heav-
ing billow of the storm-driven ocean, yet when the stonn
is spent, it will fall back to its level, like the same angry
billow when it breaks. But although the effervescence did
thus pass away, and the troubled elements become more
tranquil, there was no mitigation of the hatred of Masonry,
and no faltering in the determination to put it down. The
Anti-masons were less clamorous, perhaps, but not the less
resolute in their measures,or fixed in their purposes. Those
purposes were still to pursue their investigations in regard
to the fate of Morgan-to detect and punish the oftenders,
if possible--and, in any event, to carry the question to the
polls at all our elections. To this end, measures were now
taken, and steadily pursued.
Very respectfully yours, &c.
LETTER XXXI.
NEw-YoRK, March 6, 1832. ·
SIR,
The next trial of persons implicated in the abduction
of Morgan, and hitherto the most important in its chara,c-
ter and results, was that of Eli Bruce, Orsamus Turner, and
Jared Darrow, which took place before the Court of Gene-
ral Sessions of Ontario, at Canandaigua, on the 20th of Au-
gust, 1828. These defendants, it will be_ recollected, had
been jointly indicted for a conspiracy, at the August term
of the same court, in the preceding year. The prosecution
was conducted by Daniel Mo~ley, Esq. the special coun-
sel, assisted by B. Whiting, E'sq., the District Attorney.
The case was opened to the jury by Mr. Whiting, who had
had much experience upon the subject. It was,ofcourse,ne-
cessary again to go over with the whole history of the con-
43
Digitized by Coogle
LETT;J;R XXXI.
tpiracy from the begiooing, when the warrant for the alledg-
ed Jarceny was issued against Morgan by Justice Chipman.
The only new points elicited by the testimony of t.bis ma-
gisa-ate, were, that when the warrant was granted at the
solicitation of Cheseboro, the latter-who well knew that
he was going .fifty miles into another county, to seize his
Yictim-told the justice that Morgan was then only about
.U miles oi: The warrant was directed " to the sher.i1f,.
"any conatahle, or to N. G. Chescboro, one of the coroners
"of this county." The particulars of the arrest of Morgan,
were proved by Halloway Hayward,and those ofhis being ·
talr.en fr.om the jail at Canandaigua, by the jailor's wife, as
before. Hiram Hubbard, the keeper of a livery &table, who
had driven the party from Canandaigua, to eighty or one
htmdred rods beyond Hanford's Landing, on the night of th~
12th September, again underwent a long examination ; but
his memory appeared to be very conveniently forgetful. He
heard a cry Qr shriek, while harneSlling his horses, but there
was no signal for Jum to start. The general details.of the
journey were the same as heretofore given, with the excep-
tion that at Victor, he did not recollect where they had
stopped,-whether at Beach's tavern, or at some distaRce
beyond-but he declared that be only stopped at the water-
ing trough, and was not certain that any person got out of
the carriage there. The testimony upon this point, was
widely different from that adduced upon it, at th_e. first trial
before Judge Throop, in January, 1827 ;-and it is surpris-
iog how a man could discipline his mind to forget so well.
At Rochester, just about day-light, one of the passengers
left the carriage, and was gone about fifteen minutes, when,
u the witness supposed, the same person returned, and re-
swned his seat. The witness scarcely recollected ~y thing;
bQt he presumed that he was told to drive to "Hanford's
Landing, as be did drjve there, and stopped to obtain pro-
vender for his horses, but found non~. He then drove fur·
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXI. . SS9
ther on, leaving his passengers, as heretofore recited, about
one hundred rods beyond that place, near a piece ofwoods.
lie did not recollect being told to keep the curtains of his
carriage down, on going out, but he rolled them up before
he reached Rochester, on his return. When the passen-
gers left his carriage, he did not observe them, particular-
ly, although he supposed he might have seen them, if he
had desired to do so. He left his passengers standing in the
road, and did not see them enter any other carriage. He
met two carriages on his return to Rocheste~ne a greea
one ;-and a man in a sulkey. On the first trial of Chese-
boro and others, Hubbard testified that he had not been
paid for this trip. He now acknowledged that Cheseboro
had paid him some months afterwards, while he was in
prison.
Ezra Pratt, the keeper of a livery stable in Rochester,
testified, that on the 13th of September, he furnished a hack,
either a cinnamon coloured or a green one, to go to the in-
stallation at Lewiston. It was called for by a man about
day-light, and he was told to charge "the Grand Chapter
"pro tem.," for the use of it. He made the entry thus in
his books, and had not been paid for the use of it. He
had hired a carriage to George Ketchum, to go to Batavia,
about the time of Morgan's arrest at that place-or the day
before, he believed. He did not hear of the abduction of
Morgan, until some days after it was said to have taken
place, and had no know ledge that he had ever been trans-
ported in his carriage. He did not know who "the Grand
" Chapter pro tern.," was, but presumed that somebody
would call after a while, and pay the carriage hire. A
number of other witnesses proved the movements of the
carriage at and about Hanford's, under suspicious-circum-
stances. Four or five persons were in the carriage, among
whom one of the witnesses recognized Burrage Smith, aa
he supposed. There was a man on horse-back, who ap-
Digitized by Coogle
340 LETTER XXXI.
peared to accompany, or pass the carriage.· This man
was Edward Doyle, of Rochester. Other witnesses satis-
factorily proved a carriage to have passed along the Ridge
Road, from the place where Hubbard had left his passen-
gers, towards Lewiston, under extraordinary circumstances;
not stopping at public houses, and being drawn by horses
belonging to persons living on the road; changed in bye
places ; driven by men who could not be ordinarily engag-
ed in such .an occupation ; and generally preceded by some
one to procure the necessary relays of horses. Solomon
C. Wright, the keeper of the tavern on the Ridge Road,
where, as it has been formerly proved, there was a ma-
sonic gathering on the 13th., and where the mysterious car-
riage was driven into the barn, was again examined, but
no new evidence was obtained from him. Six miles west
of this place, where the road from Lockport-the resi-
dence of Bruce-intersects the Ridge Road-lived Col.
Mollineaux, to whom, in the night of the 13th, Bruce applied
for hor!.'CS to go to Lewiston. Bruce called him up from
his bed-Obtained the horse!', and with the mysterious car-
riage proceeded forward, as I have formerly mentioned.
Corydon Fox was likewise again a witness on the present
trial. His testimony corresponJed in the main, with that
formerly given, as to the arri\·al of the carriage in Le\\;s-
ton, and its being driven into a back street in the night. To
this place he drove another carriage, took the passengers out
ofthe former, and proccedeJ down to Youngstown. The
particulars of the visit to the house of Col. King; his join-
ing them; and the leaving of the whole party ncar the bury-
ing ground, corresp·ondcd with his former relations. When
the carriage started from Lewiston, Bruce got upon the
box, and told him to drive to Col. King's. James Perry, of
Lewiston, who had testified on the former trial, that, while
watching with a sick..pcrson on the back street where the
carriage came up, he saw two persons transfer a third from
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXI. S4l
one carriage into another, repeated his statement as before.
The person was without a hat, and appeared to be intoxi-
cated. He also saw them take something like a jug from
the first carriage. But Fox _
swore that he saw nothing of
this, and, indeed, observed nothing strange or unusual in
the whole affair. He had often been called up before of
nights-and though never engaged in smuggling, was not
accustomed to ask questions about other people's business.
In a part of this testimony, it will be observed, Fox forgot
his revelations to Mosher, and he also now swore that he
had no recollection of having spoken of the circumstances
of that night, as being in any wise strange. But to a ques-
tion wl~etJ~er· he had not been taken into a lodge on tlte day
after this transaction, Fox appealed to the court for protec-
tion against questions that migltt criminate himse{f. The
court ruled that he need not answer the interrogatory.
Edward Giddings, a personage of great importance in
the future developements of this history, was now called
upon the stand as a witness, but objected to by Mr. Griffin;
of counsel for the defence, on the ground of his being an
unbeliever in the christian religion, and, therefore, an in-
competent witness. A number of witnesses were called
to establish this posi,tion. A man named David Morrison,
testified that he had known Giddings intimately since 1820;
had often heard him declare his opinion that there was no
.God ; and that a belief in any thing spiritual superior to
nature, was contrary to reason and philosophy. Giddings
used the term God, as equivalent to the laws of nature ;
but he always admitted that there was an inward monitor
pointing out good and evil. Morrison said he had receiv-
ed a letter from Giddings, in 1826, cnntaining the same ~cn­
timents, but he had never respondt'Cllo tlwt letter in wri-
ting. Another witness,. named Gray, from Canada, who
had resided a few days in the house of Giddings, in 1826,
proved that the latter had no belief whatever in futurity,
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXXI.
and prided himself on his philosophy. The Bible, he Shid,
was a pretty story to amuse children with. Giddings had a
fine library, and witness said they were in the habit of
reading and admiring Volney's Ruins. In all respects,
other than his religious \·iews, Giddings was a man whose
character was much respected. Gray first became ac-
quainted with Giddings in a masonic lodge ; and on-his cross
exlUJlination he admitted that he had come over from Can-
ada voluntarily to testify against him, because, as it was fear-
ed, he, (Giddings,) was probably intending to testify lOme-
thing against Mr. M'Bride. Another witness swore. that in
1816, Giddings had inquired of him what he thought about
the being called God-adding, himself, that he would as
soon kneel down to a cat, a dog, or a horse, as to the be-·
ing so called. The counsel for the defence then read the
letter of Giddings, above referred to, addressed to Morrison.
In this letter, among many other specimens of infidelity,
were the following sentiments.-" God has the same care of
" a man as of an insect, of an insect as of a tree, of a tree as
" of a stone. With him there can be no difterence or dis-
" tinction between beauty and deformity, virtue and vice,
"perfection and imperfection. Prayers are but mockery
" to his name, and ought not .to be encouraged." " All
"[that] men can do, cannot change him. He is not sus-
" ceptible of persuasion, and, as relates to man, he is in-
" capable of love or hatred." " l'his is my notion of vir-
" tue and vice ; that they do not refer to any .future time,
" but relate altogether to man in his present state." " My
.. views are not in accordance with the Bible, for that book
" represents the deity as vindictive, revengeful and in-
" consistent." The date of this letter was April 10th, 1827.
The counsel for the defence, himself, swore, that in the pre-
ceding month of May, he had called on Giddings, and held
some conversation with him about the approaching trials.
He told Giddings that they meant to shut out his_testimony,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXI.
but they were afraid .Mr. B--, (a zealous proselyting
professor of religion, since deceased,) would convert him.
To this Giddings replied that B--- was the last man who
could convert him.
To sustain the character of Giddings, and counteract the
preceding testimony against him, a number of persons were
called by the prosecution. One witness testified that he
had known Giddings fuurteen years, and had often held con-
versations with him on religious subjects, in which he had
always expressed his belief in a supreme being. He had
beard him so express his belief within fifteen months pre..
ceding the examination. He had never heard Giddings say
that man was not responsible to God, or that God would not
punish man ; and it was never questioned in the neighbor-
hood, but that he believed in a supreme being, and relied
upon his protection. Another witness testified to a perfect·
ly accidental conversation with Giddings, just about one·
year previously, while waiting at the ferry. This conver-
sation was astronomical, and Giddings then avowed his be-
lief in a deity, who created and superintended all things.
Nothing, he said on that occasion, came by chance. An-
other witneas, (the new sheriff" of Niagara,) who had known
Giddings seven years, having heard that he did not believe
in the existence of a God, asked him how it was. Giddings
replied that he believed in an overruling providence, or su-
preme being,-he [the witness] not recollecting which term
he had used. Giddings also added his belief that virtue was
rewarded, and vice punished. . The counsel for the prose-
cution here put in and read two letters ;-the first wasfrom
Morrison to Giddings, in which l£e responded fuUy to the
seatimen.U contained in the letter quoted above, although M~
had ju~ sworn that he had written him no reply. The se-
cond was a letter dated Cincinnati, Ohio, April 19, 1818,.
from Mr. Gidding~ to his wife, in which he twice recogniz-
Digitized by Coogle
L£TTER XXX!.
ed a God, and earnestly invoked his protection for health
and safety to return to his family.
The prosecution then proposed to adduce testimony of
the good character of Giddings ; but the court remarked,
that moral character, however stainless, would not obviate
the objection. The law requires a higher sanction for the
administration of an oath. The question of admitting the
witness to be sworn, was argued at length by the coupsel
of both sides; but the court, after consultation, ruled that
the sentiments of Giddings rendered his testimony inadmis-
sible. A person, to be a competent witness, must believe in
a supreme being who holds men accountable for their con-
duct. No man, said Judge Howell, can be a witness, who '
denies this accountability.
Elisha Adams was then called upon the stand. The coun-
sel for the defendants remarked, that as Mr. A. stood indict-
ed for a participation in the same offence, they hoped the
court would be careful that his rights were not invaded. A
long examination followed, but nothing of importance was
elicited from this witness. The only fact bearing upon the
question, was an acknowledgment that Giddings came into
the woods where he was at work, and requested him to go
and sec Col. King, Dr. Maxwell, and Obed Smith. On his
cross-examination, he said this incident occurred the spring
succeeding the outrage upon Morgan ; but he was also com-
pelled to acknowledge the fact, that King had left the coun-
try in the previous autumn, and was not at Youngstown at
any time in the.springof 1827.
The next witness called was John Jackson; and as hi8
evidence aflords a striking specimen of that description of
testimony which has contributed so much to the public dis-
satisfaction in regard to what have been called "masonic
" witnesses," I think it important to give his examination
without much abridgment. The report 1 am comprellling,
· o;9;uzedbyGoogle
s a
J
•
LETTER XXXI.
is that of the Anti-masonic Inquirer, of Rochester, which
Mr. Moseley, the special coWlsel, has certified to a commit-
tee of the legislature to be substantial~y correct. .John
Jackson lived at Lockport, in 1826, but was at the house of
Giddings on the night of the 13th of September; and on the
morning of the 14th- · ·
"They were all going to the installation at Lewiston; Mr. Giddinp did
not go; witness did not go with the rest; Giddings went to the fort in the
morning, accompanied by witness ; don't recollect what Giddinga carried
with him ; it might have been provisions ; Giddings had some drink too;
thinks he did take some food up ; don't know whether it was in his hand, op
hia arm, or tied round his body ; Giddings went ICIWanu the magazine ; wit·
ness did not Itt him open it; belieYes be saw the door ofthe magazine open;
supposes Giddings opened it; did not rtt any body in the magnine; beard
a noise; don't know what it was; it was a voice from the maguine; did not
•ee any body; don't know whether it was a man or a woman; it was the
voice of a person; did not ree Gidding~ leave any thing in the maguine;
don'.t know that there is any window to the magazine ; witness did not stay
there long; don't recollect what convenoation Giddings bad with the person
in the magazine; saw Giddings have a pistol at the house; don't recollect
seeing it at the magazine ; Giddings presented the pistol to witness, but he
declined taking it ; did not see Giddings lay it down; heard something said
at the magazine about a pistol, but don't recollect certain what it was ; don't
know eztJCtly whether (];ddinga opened t.lte door of the magazine ; thinks the
door was open, and that Giddmgs conversed with a man who was inside ;
don't know but Giddings said, "here is some Yictuals and drink for you;"
did not stand very near the magazine door ; might have been tl\·o rods off;
don'C recollect but that Giddings might have ~poken to the voice within,about
the pistol. When Giddinga opened the door, witness migltl have been look-
ing the other way; Giddinp did not go into the magazine; the noise waa
not very loud; don't recollect any words; beard the noise after he got away;
he was for making off when he hP.ard the voice; did not ue Giddings leue
any thing with the mlln ; did not see him take auy thing back to the bonae •
if he took provisions up, he presumed that he left them; saw Giddings take
the piatol up aa they started to go to the fort; witness thought it was time to
be missing, when lie heard the noise ; Giddings did talk to the man in the
magazine; witne&e did not atop to see any door abut."
To a question whether the witness carried the pistol to
the person who owned it, the counsel for the defendants ob-
44
o;9,tized by Coogle
S46 LETTER XXXI.
jected, which objection the court sustained. The court also
decided that it was improper to ask the witness if Giddings
told him that the person in the magazine was William Mor-
gan. On a second call to the stand, Jackson testified that
he had told a penon at Lewiston, on the same day, that a
man was confined in the magazine ; but the person towhom
he thus told it. was now dead.
Another witness was down at the fort three or four days
after the installation on tpe 14th September: he had heard
that a man was imprisoned there, and talked with Giddings
about it. but he did not visit the fort himself, although Gid-
dings went thither while witness was at his house.
The testimony on behalf of the prosecution ·was here
rested, and the counsel for the defence called Nicholas G.
Cheseboro ; but after a few moments of consultation, declin-
ed having him sworn.
The counsel for the prosecution then stated that the ex-
clusion of the testimony of Mr. Giddings had entirely de-
prived them of their testimony against Turner and Darrow,
two of the defendants. It was therefore proper for the jury
to pass upon their cases at that stage of the proceedings.
These parties were accordingly acquitted i1l6tanter.
Gen. Matthews, of counsel for the defence, now interpos-
ed an objection to the validity of the indictmmt. That in-
strument set forth a conspiracy at Canandaigua, in the coun-
ty of Ontario, to imprison and kidnap William Morgan,
and that in pursuance of that conspiracy, he was imprisoned
. and carried away, or in other words abducted. The truth
was, that Morgan was imprisoned there, in Ontario county ;
and so far as Bruce was concerned, accordin~ to the evi-
dence, he had only hP-lpcd to carry him away in Niagam
county, and confine him then•. lf Brul'c had th<'refore
committed any oflen~e. it wns that of lnl:o;t~·imprisonmf'nt.
in whir.h act the indil'ttn<'nt rnu.<;f h<' m~r~l'd. Thr~t c,tli·n<'~
•
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXXI• 947
.being local, the counsel contended that the county of Onta-
rio could have no jurisdi~tion in the case,-the defendant
having a right at common Jaw to be tried in the county ·
where the crime is proved to have been committed.
The points thus raised, wore ably and ingeniously argued
upon both sides. The court entertaining doubts upon the
question thus presented, intimated that should the defendant
be convicted, the sentence would be suspended until the
matter should have been carried up and decided in the su~
preme Court.
W. H. Adams, Esq., "ummed up the case to the jury for
the defence, and Mr. Moseley closed on the part of the peo-
ple. After an absence of four hours, the jury returned into
court with a verdict of GUILTY.
I must confess my surprise at this result, beeause, strong
as were the circumstances to warrant the belief that Mor-
gan was in the mysterious carriage that passed along the
Ridge Road, on the 13th of September, and also that he
was imprisoned in the magazine, I cannot perceive the
w~rrant which the jury had for rendering such a verdicL
For as yet there was no proof identifying Morgan, either
as having been in the carriage, or in the fort. No doubt
existed of the truth of the verdict, but it was clearly not
rendered accqrding to law and evidence. But that is a
question of little moment for present consideration.
The rejection of Giddings as a witness, was a sore disap-
pointment to the people. It was known from the partial
disclosures he had made to the grand jury, upon which all
the above named defendants were indicted, and from many
other of his declarations, that his testimony, if received,
would be of the · highest importance. Nothwithstanding,
moreover, the liberality of his opinions in matters of reli-
gion, his general character for truth and veracity, and in
all other respects, as a respectable and moral citizen, waa
decidedly good. The facts intended to have been proved
q;9;uzed by G(_)ogle
S48
,.,;
LETTER XXXI.
by Giddings, in regard to Turner and Darrow, were these:
It had been well ascertained by this time, that three or
four projects had been originally devised for carrying Mor-
gan away. One was organized at Buffalo, to take him
from Batavia thence; a second was to have taken him
from Batavia to Niagara direct, passing through Lock-
port. The third, for taking him to Canandaigua, was exe-
euted. But in connexion with the second, it was believed
that Turner and Darrow-both living at Lockport, and
the former the editor of a paper at that plaee,-had been
sent to Canada to negociate with 1he Masons there for the
reception of Morgan, when he should arrive. Failing in
this project, they returned, !ind, with Col. King and Gid-
dings, made arrangements for imprisoning their victim in
the magazine at Niagara, until the question of his final
disposition should be determined. Such, briefly, were the
facts, respecting Turner and Darrow, which it was intend-
ed to have been proved by Giddings, as also the personal
identity of the person confined in the Magazine, according
to the evasive, quibbling and reluctant testimony of
Jackson.
It is true that a part of the testimony against Giddings_:_
in regard to his religious belief-was of a questionable
character. The first witness, however, had neutralized his
own testimony by swearing to what was undeniably prov- ·
ed not to be true, before he left the court ; and another
witness had avowedly come from Canada, a long distance,
as a volwtteer to protect a gentleman who was more than
suspected of some participation in the outrage. But still,
the burden of proof was against Giddings, and the court
were clearly right in .rejecting him, both by the principles
of the constitution and the common law. The courts of
this state, when the bench was occupied by Kent, Spencer,
Thompson and Platt-ranking amongst the most exalted ju-
rists of the country-had maintained the principle-incor-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXJ. S49
porated, I believe in one of our statutes-that a beliPf in
the existence of a Supreme Being, and a.fulU1'e state of re-
wards and punisltmtmts, is nn indispensable requirement in
a witness. In the forma'tion of our new constitution, in
1821, a strong attempt had been made to overthrow this
principle ; but the project was successfully resisted by the
then Chancellor Kent, and C~ief Justice Spencer, together
with the late Rufus King, Daniel D. Tompkins and o~crs,
who contended that atheists and blasphemers must be held
in check, or we should endanger the security of life, liberty
and property, and the comfort and h&ppiness ofour families.
Chancellor Kent said in that convention-indeed it was ad-
mitted on all hands, for it could not be denied,-that while
the Christian Rcligiol) had never been declared, or intended
to be declared, the legal religion of the state, yet it was in
fact, the religion of the people of the state. It was the foun-
dation of all belief and expectation of a future state, and the
source and security of moral obligation. The statute di-
recting the administering of an oath, referred to the Bible
as the sanction to it, on the ground that the Bible was a
volume of divine inspiration, and the oracle of the most af-
fecting truths that could command the assent, or awaken the
fears, or exercise the hopes, of mankind. Mr. King observ-
ed in the course of the debates to which I have referred,
that while the religions of all mankind are by our laws tole-
rated, yet the religious professions of the Pagan, the Ma-
hometan, and the Christian, are not, in the eye of the law,
of equal truth and excellence. According to the christian
system, men pass into a future state of existence, where the
deeds of their lives become the subject of reward or pun-
ishment ;-the moral law rests upon the truth of this doc-
trine, without which it has no sufficient sanction. Our laws
constantly refer to tlus revelation, and by the oath w~ich
they prescribe, we appeal to the Supreme Being, so to deal
with us hereafter, as we observe the obligation of our oaths.
Digitized by Google
LETTER XXX~t.
The pagan world were, and are, without the mighty influ-
ence of this principle, whidi is proclaimed in the christian
system-their. morals were destitute of its powerful sanc-
ti()n, while their oaths neither awakened the hopes, nor the
fears, which a belief in Christianity inspires. Vice Presi-
dent Tompkins maintained the same doctrines, insisting that
the principle must be preserved, to suppress those outrages
on public opinion and public feeling, which would otherwise
reduce the community to a state of barbarism, corrupt it
purity, and debase the mind.• The principle was retain-
ed: and under it, the testimony of Giddings, on that occa-
sion, was rightly rejected.
I am, sir, yours, &e.
LETTER XXXII.
NBw-YoaK, March 8, 1832.
Sm,
The general election of this state, occurring in the au-'
turon of 1828, connected as it was, with the last election of
President of the United States, and as both were, with the
progreRS of Anti-masonry, requires a passing notice in this
place. That election was considered of the highest impor-
tance, both in reference to the affairs of the state and na-
,tion. On the decease of Gov. Clinton, the power of the
/ state had fallen entirely into the hands of those who had
~, been the most bitter and persevering in their opposition to
'-.him while living. Those, therefore, who had lost power
by that melancholy event, were anxious again to recover
it, and to place the executive department in the hands of
some efficient statesman, who would preserve the dignity of
• Vide Carter & Stone'• Reports, N. Y. ConYention, I'P· 463--1651 and
674-576. .
oi9;uzed by Coogle
LETTE'Il XXXII. SOl
our state government, by administering it for the benefit of
the entire people, rather than merely to answer the eelfisb
purposes ofa party. ln regard to the election of President
of the United States, likewise, deep solicitude was felt for
the result.
Through the whole contest of the election of 1824, the
people of this state had been very decidedly in favor of the
gentleman who succeeded, and of whom I should probably
speak more at large at this moment, were it not for conside-
rations of delicacy. And although the politics of New-
York have not been remarkably stable, yet for the first two
years of the administration to which I refer, it received the
cordial support of a very large majority of the people.
There had, it is true, been a great and visible change in
the sentiments of a portion of the people, arising from the
change of position of certain leading politicians who have
signalized themselves in wielding the destinies of parties in
this state ; but it was still believed, by the National Repub-
licans, that on a fair trial of strength, notwithstanc:Ung the
defections which had been witnessed on every side, a hand-
some majority would yet be found sustaining an administra-
tion of whose measures, irrespective of men, no complaint
had been made. But in order to justify such an expecta-
tion, it was indispensably necessary that all those opposed.
to the reigning powers at Albany, should act in concert.
No party could shut their eyes to the tact, that, as the Anti-
masons had been continuing and extending their political
organization through the spring and summer, with great in-
dustry and activity, no inconsiderable array of their strength
would be found at the polls of the western elections ; and
the political influence of that new party was rapidly extend-
ing into other sections of the state. Unfortunately, howe-
Vt!r, for the National Republicans, the acce~sions to the new
party, were ehiefiy from their own rnnks-the more rigid
.-
Digitized by Coogle
952 LETTER XXXII.
party discipline of the Tammany party, being at all timet
much better calculated than that of their opponents, to pre-
vent desertions. While, therefore, the friends of the then
administration, were thus divided by this novel schism of
Anti-masonry, the friends of the central power at Albany,
having, after two years of considerate balancing upon the
neutral ground of non-committalism, determined, in 1827;
to sustain the pretensions of General Jackson,-had been
reinforced by a portion of the old Clintonians proper, and
the disappointed expectants of place, of all parties.
These circumstances alone \Vould have rendered the po-
sition of the National Republicans sufficiently difficult, but
there were other peculiarities in the case, which added
seven-fold to these perplexities. The great body of the
supporters of the administration, and who were in favor o(
re-electing the President, in opposition to General Jackson,
in the old parts of the state, where Anti-masonry was little
known, cared not a rush whether the candidates for Gover-
nor and Lieut. Governor were Masons or not. But the
Anti-masons were determined, not only that their candidates
should not be Freemasons, but that they should be Anti-
masons : while a large number of otir most zealous and·
worthy political friends,-soundly with us both in state and
national politics,-being unrenouncing Freemasons, were so
bitterly hostile to the spirit of Anti-masonry, that we anti-
cipated,-not without reason, as it proved in the end,-that
great difficulties would be encountered in bringing them to
act together upon any subject. Still, discordant as were
the materials, it was essential to success, that they should
be brought to act together. In regard to measures of public
policy, however, both state and national, there was no essen-
tial difference of opinion between the Anti-masons and the
National Republicans; and hopes were for a long time en-
tertain~d, that a11 honorable compromise might be effected,
which woulrl be mutually satisfactory.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXU.
Ttie Le Roy Convention of March 6--8, had prescribed
the 4thof August as the dayfor holding their state convention
at Utica. It was well understood that Mr.FRANCIS GRANoB:a
would be named as their candidat~ for Gowmor. This
gentleman, a son of the former distinguished Post Muter
General, and inheriting much of his father's genius and po-
pular address, by a short and brilliant career in the state le-
gislature, ·had rendered himself a very general favorite
among the people. His course 'in the House of Assembly,
upon the Anti-masonic question, had been fair and liberal,
and yet so much in favor of the Anti-masons, that they had
set their hearts upon his election as Governor. It being aJ..
so well understood that the national administration had no
more decided friend than Mr. Granger, in this state, his
Anti-masonic friends flattered themselves that the National
Republican Party, although at that time out-numbering them .
in the proportion ofnearlyfour to one,would unite with them
in that nomination. The position, likewise, ofMr. Granger,
as a western man,-living in the richest and most ~autiful
portion of our state, from whence a Governor had never
been selected,..-and where he would be supported, as it was
supposed, with the greater Wlanimity, by a western esprit
du corps, gave him another advantage.
Still, it was feared, by the veteran politicians,-for the
younger men were generally iil favor of Granger,.:_that he
was rather too young a man to be proposed as a candidate
for the chief magistracy of the state. His fine talents, and
his great personal worth, were universally conceded ; but
in addition to his want of years, it was apprehended that he
was not yet sufficiently known in the older parts of the'
state, to command a strong vote for the office of Governor."
There were too many important considerations involved in
that election, to juJtify rash experiments. Hence it wa11
deemed advisable to convene an administration convention
at Utica, to meet a few days earlier than the day on whicb
45
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXII.
the Anti-masons had been summoned. The object was .
neither to discard Mr. Granger, nor to irritate his friends ;
liut, if possible, to conciliate them by measures, in which, if
they were reasonable men, as it was hoi>cd they were, they
would acquiesce,--in which event, victory over the com-
bined forces, and parti-colored banner of our opponents,
would be certain and triumphant.
For this purpose, it was necessary to select a candidate
for Governor, standing prominently before the public for his
talents and virtues, and who, withal, was no FreemtUon.
By voluntarily making this concession to the Anti-masons,
and in connexion with such a candidate, of high and exalted
worth, having Mr. Granger for the office of Lieut. Governor,
a confident expectation was entertamed, that there might be
a thorough unde1·standing, and a perfect coincidence of ac-
tion. Exactly such a candidate was found in the person of
SMITH THoMPSON-then, as now, one of the firmest pillars
of the national judiciary. He was most reluctant to allow
· his name to be used, and never fully gave his consent;-but
hislongand useful public l.ifc,-hisgreat purityofcharacter,-
his ripe scholarship,-his eminent services upon the bench
of the Supreme Court of this state ; in the cabinet of Presi-
dent Monroe ; and in the situation which he yet adorns,-
together with the fact that he had never been IL Freema-
son,-pointed him out a:~ the man, and the only man, who
could render the most essential scn·ice to his country, in
that emergency. Under these circumstances, therefore, he
was prevailed upon by the most pressing solicitation of his
friends, to allow the usc of his name as a candidate for the
office of Go\·crnor. The National Republican Convention
convened at Vtiea, on the 2:Jd of August, and with grf'at
enthusiasm and uuani1uity, nominated this gentleman f')r
Governor, and Mr. Grangl'r liJr the :o~ccoud office of the state.
Never wa.'l a nolllination more cordi:tlly received hy the
party fin· whose support it was intended, than this, and the
prospect of su~cess was thought to be very fair.
Digitized by Coogle
-------·- ----- -------~
-
LETTER XXXII.
The 9th of August speedily came, ana with it the Anti-
masonic Convention. But instead of showing any disposi-
tion to unite upon those nominations, there was a sudden
determination to oppose them. It was not enough that
Judge Thompson was not a ft-Iason; they had no evidence
that he was an Anti-mason. Nor, if he had been such,
would that have been sufficient ;-to be entitled to their sup-
port, he must be an Anti-mason, selected and nominated by
themselves alone. This convention, therefore, proceeded
to nominate an independent ticket for Governor and Lieu-
tenant-Governor-naming Francis Granger for the former
office,and Mr. John Crary for the latter. Mr. C. very prompt-
ly accepted the nomination, although he- had indirectly pro-
mised to decline, should Mr. Granger do so, and, only
two months before, had apparently been among those
who were most anxious to have Messrs. Thompson and
Granger nominated by the friends of the administration.
At the time the second nomination was made, Mr. Gran-
ger had not accepted the first ; and all eyes were now turn-
ed to the west, to learn the result_of his decision. It was
still hoped by the National Republicans.that he would choose
to abide their nomination,~in which event it was presum-
ed the Anti-masons would not think of naming another can-
didate, but generally acquiesce in the first nomination. Af-
ter nearly a month's consideration,--that is to say, on the
30th of August,-Mr. Granger made his election. He had
been placed in a very difficult and delicate position, by his
friends of both parties ; but at length, in a letter equally cre-
ditable to his head and his heart, declined the Anti-masonic
nomination for the higher office, and accepted that which
had been proffered him first. But the satisfaction of the Na-
tional Republicans at this result, was only momentary, and
they were soon taught that they might as well attempt to
grasp the lightning, or draw out leviathan with a hook, as di-
vert the new party from its purposes. The whole mass of it
Digitized by Google
S56 LETTER XXXII.
turned their backs upon the previous state nominations, al-
most as one man, and nominated Solomon Southwick as a
candidate for Governor! Not that they 1hought him a pro-
per person for that station,-not that there was the remot-
est possibility of hls success,-not that they even desired
success. But they were angry at having their favorite r.an-
didate taken from them, and this last selection, as they
openly told us, was made for the purpose of showing the
' irrepressible energy, and the indomitable spirit, of Anti-ma-
sonry!
With the month of September'came the Tammany-Jack-
son Convention, at Herkimer, at which Martin Van Buren
was nominated for Governor, and our present Governor,
Throop, for his Lieutenant. Divided as were the friends
of the national administration, none was so blind as not to
foresee, that the contest for the executive offices of the state,
was hopeless. Gen. Jackson, however, was a Freemason,
and Mr. Adams was not,-and hopes were entertained that
from this circumstance, the opponents of the fonner would
present an unbroken front upon the presidential ~lection, ·
whatever might be their minor differences. But " unto-
" ward circumstances" seemed to tread each other's heels.
Many of the papers then in opposition, with a degree of
recklessness but too common in our political controversies,
began to insinuate, and soon afterwards boldly to declare,
that Mr. Adams was a Freemason, as much so as General
Jackson. The natural effect of thls assertion was to drive
a portion of the Anti-masons back upon their original par-
tialities in the presidential contest, regardless of their con-
nexion with the new party. To counteract this ef&ct,
an individual at Canandaigua who had some time previously
written directly to Mr. Adams for information upon that
point, now published his reply, although Mr. A. had ex-
pressly enjoined his correspondent not to publish it. Un-
fortunately, as it proved, though evidently undesigned by
...
o;g,llzeJ 1 Coogle
_
__......,_______
_
LETTER XXXIT. S57
the wriicr of the letter, it contained an expression which
gave offence to many thousands of those most sensitive of
all beings, the acting Freemasons. In stating that he was
not a Mason, the writer had simply added, " that he never
" should be one." Nor was it very likely, after arriving at
his years, that he ever would, even though Morgan and
Anti-masonry had never been known. But all looks yellow
to the jaundiced eye ; and although the letter was strictly
confidential, and the gentleman to whom it was addressed
was positively charged not to publish it, yet the unfortunate
expression was greedily seized upon by the party jaekalls,
for the purposes of mischief, and many were the good men
who worked themselves into the belief that they themselves,
and the whole masonic fraternity, had been grievously insult-
ed! Certain it is, that t4e misrepresentation o( this very inno-
cent affair, had considerable effect in this state ; while it is
believed that the vote of Ohio for Gen. Jackson, was justly ·
to be attributed to the masonic indignation kindled there .
upon the subject of that letter.
The friends of the administration had yet another misfor-
tune to encounter. Just on the eve of the election, when
it was too late to counteract the calumny, a poor wretch
in the county of Onondaga,-then the eastern boundary of
Anti-masonry,-was induced to charge Mr. Adams with
falsehood, in .having denied that he was a Mason, and by
solemn affidavit to swear that he not only knew to the con-
trary, but tl)at he had repeatedly sat in lodges with him, and
that even so lately as 1817 or 1818, when, as he averred,
Mr. A. had made a visit to J>ittsficld, Mass. So high did
this profligate witness declare the masonic character of the
President to be, that extra lodges were called in his honor,
which he attended, the deponent himself being present !
The boldness and particularity of these charges, made un.
der the solemnity of an oath, were appalling. Those ac.
Digitized by Coogle
S58 LETTER XXXII.
quainted with the high and unblemishf'd charactf'r of the
President, knew that a foul perjury had been committed, as
the last deperate resort of party ; but among the common
people, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to counteract
so audacious an imposture. The western country was
flooded with hand-bills containing the perjuries of this
wretched instrument of political knavery; and although an
express was sent to Pittsfield, and counter-affidavits ob-
tained, establishing the falsehood of the tale beyond contra-
diction, yet the poison had done much of its work, before
the antidote could be applied.•
Such is a rapid view of the circumstances under which
the elections of New-York were held, in November, 1828,
when Anti-masonry first took the field as an organized po-
litical party, for state and national purposes. In regard to
the presidential election, all was done by the National Re-
publicans, that, under such circumstances, could reasonably
be required of them. They lacked but one of carrying an
equal number of the electors, with their opponents,--:and
that one was lost by a providential occurrence. In the
state election, Mr. Van Buren received 136,785 votes;
Judge Thompson, 106,415; and 33,335 votes were madly
thrown away upon Mr. Southwick,-by which means ~lr.
Van Buren came into the executive chair of New-York,
by a plurality only. Had the votes given for Mr. South-
wick been cast upon Judge Thompson, the political com-
plexion of New-York would at the present time have been
widely different.
This letter may perhaps be considered rather as an epi-
sode, than as forming a part of a continuous history ; but
• Mr. Adame wu at Washinron, in the dischar~ of his dntieau Se-
cretary of State, at the time he waa alledged by thr Wl'f'l<'hed affidavit-ma-
k"r to have hcrn in Pittsfi<'ld, in att<'n<lnncc upon the lodges, and, indeed, at
t.A.t tirue had never been in that dt'lightful town !
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIII. 309
it seems, nevertheless, to be an es~ential link in the chain,
presenting, as it ,does, a view of the peculiar traits of the
Anti-masonic party, as they were then developed, and
without which its history would not be complete.
' I am, sir, yours, &c.
LETTER XXXIII.
NEw-YoRK, March 10, 1832.
S1a,
An organized political party, exhibiting, in the first
year of its existence, a force of thirty-three thousand and up..
wards, and increasing daily, not only by accessions from
both of the other parties, (as men became converts to An-
ti-masonry from principle, or as the aspiring beheld new
paths opening to the foot of" young ambition's ladder,")
was not likely to escape the keen observation of the new
chief magistrate. The subject of the outrage upon Mor-
gan, and the consequent excitement, was, therefore, so- ·
lemnly presented to the consideration of the legislature,
in the opening message of the session commencing on the
6th of January, 1829. "That an act," said his excellency,
"so destructive to the peace of society, and the safety of
"its members, should have made n deep impression upon
"the public·mind, ought not to surprise us. It would have
" been an unfavorable indication of the state of our mor-
" als, and our respect for the laws, had it been otherwise.
" We have accordingly witnessed an excitement on the
·• subject, of great interest and extent, amongst a_portion
"of our citi~ens greatly ami justly distinguished for their
"piety, industry and intelligence. It would not be extra-
" ordinary if attempts should be made to pervert this honest
" indignation of the people, to selfish and sinister purposes.
Digitized by Coogle
960 LETTER XXXIII.
"But the charnctcr of those who really feel what they pro-
" fess on this subject, affords us the best security, that the
" success of such unworthy schemes cannot be great, or
"of long duration." Governor Van Buren then repeated
what his immediate predecessor in the state administration,
had said before him, respecting the duty of maintaining
the supremacy of the laws, and pledged his best endeavors
to pursue the legal investigations of the subject, that the
innocent might be relieved from suspicion, and the guilty
brought to exemplary punishment. On the whole, the
matter was adroitly managed in the message. The origi-
nal excitement was justified and commended ; the people
engaged in it were flattered; and the true thorough-going
party men were admonished, that it would be unsafe to
enlist in that cause, since it could not be of long duration.
Accompanying the message was a formal report of Mr.
Moseley, the special commissioner, rendering an account
of his proceedings in executing the difficult trust confided
to him by his appointment. After dwelling upon the diffi-
culties and embarrassments of the case, Mr. Moseley in-
formed the governor, that he had traversed one !ndictment
with success, and had traced Morgan to the magazine of
Fort Niagara, 'Yhere he was in confinement on the 14th
of September, 1826. "Here," said the commissioner,
"are the boundaries of the testimony. As to his fate sub-
" scquently thereto, it is not yet developed ; nor can it be
" anticipated, with much confidence, to be judicially deter-
" mined, by any tribunal over which men have control."
That part of the message relating to this subject, togeth-
er with the commissioner's report, was referred to a select
·committee, b::>th in the Senate and Assembly. The com-
mittee of the Senate reported on the 14th of Febru4ry;
and in reviewing the whole case presented to their consid-
eration, occasion was taken to rebuke his excellency for
the implied censure of the political action of the Anti-rna-
Digitized by Coogle
- ...-J
LETTER XXXIII. 861
sons. They declared that the political movements to which
the governor had alluded, had been characterized " by
"great devotion to principle, and activity and firmness in
" pursuit of the objects they had proposed." These move-
ments they maintained, had " proceeded so immediately
" from the bosom of the people, that the ordinary restraints
" of parties and their discipline, together with the efforts of
" those politicians who have heretofore inflamed public
" opinion, had been laid aside and regarded with utter in-
" difference. Satisfied beyond all question, that the evils
" inflicte~ on the state and country, by secret, self-created
" societies, were a thousan<lfold greater than any that for
" many years past had been conjured up by the devices of
" cunning politicians, the people," it was said, " have
" sought with wonderful unity of design, of principle and
" of effort, to destroy, by the peaceful exercise of their
" rights at the polls, the~ ~istence of the masonic, as well
"as all other secret associations."
Tho report of the committee of the House of Assembly,
was presented two days afterwards-the 16th. This was
a more ample statement than that of the other committee,
extending, with tho documents annexed, to nearly seventy-
, large pages. In presenting the history of the case, the
same ground was necessarily travelled over again, without
the discovery of any new facts. The report of Mr. Mose·
ley, which had been submitted to the committee with the
message, had been received with disappointment by the
public, because it was thought the commissioner had not
entered so thoroughly into the matter as he might have
done, and had not made as many disclosures, or indulg-
ed in so many dark speculations, as the public expectation
demanded, and the public taste required. Entertaining,
perhaps, a common feeling with the people on the subject,
the committee addressed letters to the special commission-
er, and also to l\lr. Whiting. the efficient district attorney
46
-
Digitized by Coogle
--
LETTER XXXIII.
of Ontario, who, ns we haH! seen, had had far the greatest
experience in these peculiar im·csti~ations, to know if either
of these gentlemen had any further information in their
possession, which could properly be imparted to the legis-
lature. 1\lr. W. wrote a very sensible communication in
reply, giving his views of the case, and such an historical
synopsis of the proceedings and dcvclopcmcnts made, as
were deemed suitable for the information and consideration
of the committee. "Down to this time," said 1\fr. \V.,
" I am not aware that any proof has been given on the tra-
" verse of an indictment, identifying Morgan at Niagara.
" It can now be established that he was in the carriage
"which passed on the Ridge Road, on the 13th of Sep-
" tcmber. Such is my information from a source in which
" I have every confidence. This proof has not been in
"our power Wltil very lately. No person who was en-
" gaged in the conspiracy at the frontier, except Bruce, has
"been convicted. Judgment has not yet been given
" against him, by reason of a question of law pending be-
" fore the Supreme Court, and which is not yet decided."
In regard to the outrage, l\Ir. \Vhiting, himself a mason,
expressed tlte following opinion. " The abduction of .!\for-
" gan is a singular and striking event in our history; and
"as in case of other irretrieYable evil!;', it is easier to Ia-
" mcnt it than to find a remedy. I have no hesitation in
"saying, that it has resulted from the confidence which
" members of the masonic sociery have felt in its power
"and influence; from a false estimate of the nature of that
" institution, and from nn opinion that they were bound to
"preserve it fnm1 violation and injury." In conclusion he
add~,-" It is worthy of remark, that it has heen proved
" or conceded, that all those who Ita\' C engaged in these
"outrages, were members of the masonic fraternity,-a
"fact not without llll'aniug in rclcn·m-c to the objects of
"the con~pira< · ~·."
Digitized by Coogle
2&
LETTER XXXIII. 368
Mr. Moseley's reply to the committ<'c, was short, and to
the purpose. He informed them, in substance, that he had
not submitted to the Executive a full report, because, in his
opinion, a just sense of propriety would not warrant the
publication of facts yet to become the subject of judicial in-
vestigation. There were already sufficient difficulties in
the way of empannelling juries, and he wished not to in·
crease these embmTassments. He informed the committee,
however, that since writing his report, he had elicited addi-
tional and mate1;a1 testimony in relation to the identity of
Morgan, and some precise circumstances that occurred in
carrying him of[ He had also, he said, been put in pos-
session of information of a gmver character, from a source
entitled to credit. The committee went largely into a dis-
cussion of the nature and tendency of the masonic obliga-
tions, as they had been disclosed in part byMorgan, and the
residue by the Le Roy Convention. These obligations re-
ceived their most pointed condemnation. In conclusion,
they reported in favor of continuing the office of special
commissioner for prosecuting the investigations, and, in or-
der to guard against the repetition of similar offences, they
likewise reported a bill prohibiting the administering of
extra-judicial oaths. The first of these recommendations
was adopted by the legislature. The second was not.
Notwithstanding the abatement of the popular clamor
marking the earlier history of the excitement, yet the Anti-
masonic feeling was sinking more deeply into the minds of
the people, and its influcnec continued gradually to extend.
Nor were the leaders sparing of time or money to sustain
the cause in which they had embarked. The result of the
preceding elections at the west, had taught them that they
had obtained a foot-hold, as a political party, and they were
resolved to lay its loundations broad and deep. For this
purpose, another state convention had been summoned to
meet at Albany, on the lOth of February, "to deliberate
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIII•
.
"upon, and adopt such measures as might be deemed best
"calculated to vindicate the laws of the land frllm masonic
"violence, and to redeem the principles of civil and political
"liberty from masonic encroachments." The county meet-
ings for selecting delegates tu compose this convention, it
was wisely considered, would again serve to prevent the
public attention from slumbering upon the subject ; and each
meeting afforded a fresh opportunity of embodying addi-
tional appeals to popular passion and prejudice, in the fonn
of addresses, reports, and resolutions. Nor was the occa-
sion left unimproved. At the Genesee Convention hcld for
this purpose, one subject was discussed ofa very questiona-
ble character. A committee was appointed to inquire
whether there was in existence, in those western counties,
any monied institution, monopoly, or other aristocratic es-
taiJiishment, which had been, or might be, perverted by
masonic influence to political purposes, or to exert an undue
influence upon the public mind. This committee reported
that the Holland Land Company,whose territory had extend-
ed over nearly seven counties, and to which the people, pur-
chasing their lands, were yet indeiJted to the amount of six
or seven millions of dollars:, was such an aristocratical in-
stitution. A-resolution was thereupon introduced and adopt-
ed, of an im1uisitorial character, directing the appointment
of a committee of six persons to institute an inq~iry, wheth-
er the agent of the company was a Mason,-whether the
sub-agents and clerks of tiJC land office, were Masons,-
whcthcr the patronage of the company was bestowed upon
masonic newspapers; and whether the power and influence
of the company was wielded in support of the fraternity
generally, and in hostility to the Anti-masons. This com-
mittee was likewise instructed to co-operate with the people
of the other counties ·on the extensive tract of the compa-
ny's lands, and, if necessary, to convoke a convention of de-
legates from those counties, to take further measures in the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIII.
premises, mould such measures be judged expedient. I am
not aware that any serious consequences followed the adop-
tion of these resolutions ; but when we consider the delicacy
of the relations between landlord and tenant,-between
debtor and creditor,-and the extreme excitability of a
large population upon such a subject, it cannot be consid-
ered otherwise than remarkable, that an inquiry of such a
nature should have been set on foot by men of unquestiona-
ble character, worth, and intelligence.
This second state convention of Anti-masons convened at .·
Albany, on the 19th of February, and held a session of
three days. It was most respectably attended-forty coun':)
tics being represented, by upwards of one hundred mem- ~
hers. The session was a very laborious one,-the printed
record of its proceedings extending to forty large and close-
ly printed pages. The reports, resolutions and addresses
of this assembly were exceedingly well devised to preserve
and extend the excitement against Freemasonry. Indeed,
the highly respectable gentlemen who composed it, must
have part¥-en largely of the excitement themselves ; for
more extensive drafts upon the imagination for facts, were
probably never made ; and yet, the character of the body
which sent them forth to the public, and of the individuals
who affixed their names to them, forbids the supposition
that they did not religiously believe all they stated. I Ir?ight
adduce many particulars illustrating the truth of what I
have just said, as to the character of these proceedings.
But a single instance shall suffice. Among the committees
for facilitating the labors of the convention, was one whose
duty it was to examine the statute bot;>ks of the state, and
ascertain whether they contained any, and, if any, what, le-
gislative enactments, in faY•n· of the Freemasons. This
committee reported, with great solemnity," that in cxamin-
" ing the statute book, they had ascertained that there exist-
" ed two public acts of the legislature, on the subject,-the
· Digitized by Coogle
L~TTER XXXIII.
" first, entitled 'An act to incorporate the Grand Chapt<'r of
"'the state of New-York, passed 31st March, 1818 ;'and
" the other, entitled ' An act to enable masonic lodges to
" 'take and hold real estate, for certain purposes therein
"'mentioned, passed April 16, 1825.'-both of wllich were
" eztraordinary in tlwir nature, and could have been procur-
'
"ed by no less powerful an influence than that wliiclt tile in-
" stitution it incorporates has long possessed, and, it is be-
" lieved, exercises, as well in our legislatit•c hall$, as in ou1·
"courts of justice.'' Then followed a long and grave :ngu-
ment, to show the dangers arising from the statutes refer-
red to, and the enactment of which could not have been pro-
cured but by the " power" and "influence" of all-powerful
Masonry. Now it so happens that the writer hereofwas a
humble instrument in obtaining both of those acts, so "ex-
" traordinary in their nature." As to tl1e first, the fact was
simply this: a Grand Treasurer of the Grand Chapter, had
been a defaulter, having appropriated all the funds in his
hands, amounting to the sum of five thousand dollars, and
upwards, to his own use. On being called to an account
for the default, he offered in payment of the debt, a tract of
)and, in the vicinity of Albany. But the Grand Chapter
could not purchase and hold real estate, without an act of
incorporation. It was for the purpose of securing that dcht,
and that alone, that a committee was appointed, of which
I had the honor to be chairman, to apply for a charter. I
wrote and presented the memorial and bill, and it was pass-
ed with but little opposition, and without the least particle
of masonic influence, other than a simple statement of facts.
The act of 1825 was passed merely to enable a few gentle-
men in this city to form a joint stock company, for the erection
of the noble Gothic edifice which now adorns a section of
Broadway. I had no personal interest whatever in the ap- ·
plication. But happening to he in the Senate chamher,
writing a report of legislative proceedings, one evening
LETTER XXXIII. 867
~uring the session of 1825, I heard a member of one of the
select committees, which were sitting in consultation upon
divers applications, remark, on reading the title of this bill,
-"Come, let us kill this, and have done with it;" to which
proposition his associates assented. Having some know·
ledge Qf the merits of the question, ,and there being no friend
of the application present, I immediately rose and stated
the simple object of the bill ; whereupon the committee,
neither of whom were Masons, very readily and cheerfully
agreed to report in favor of it, and the bill was passed.
Such, sir, and such only, were the objects in view, and the
means used, to obtain the passage of those bills. And yet
how wonderful the " power" by which they were obtained,
and how " extraordinary their nature,"-in the eyes ,of
this very respectable convention I It would be a source of
amusement, were the results· pertinent to the present inves-
tigation, to examine the proceedings of many of these Anti-
masonic conventions, and by divesting their statements of
the colorings imparted to them by the distempered imagi-
nations of their leading members, exhibit them to the pub-
lic in the simplicity of truth and innocence. The result
would prove many circumstances and transactions which
have been the subjects of clamor, to be as -unexceptionable
as christian man can desire. ·-
The great object of this convention was to devise ways )
and means for the more effectual and extensive political or-
ganization of the Anti masonic party. With this view, an-
other state convention was resolved upon, and it was like-
wise determined to convene a national convention of Anti-
masons, to meet in Philadelphia, in the summer of 1830. It
was further resolved, that the character of Morgan deserv-
ed an eulogium, and his services a "storied urn." A series
of resolutions were thereupon adopted to raise money to (
build a monument, and likewise to. make a suitable provi- \
sion fill' th(' support of Mrs. Morgan. and the education of
Digitized by Coogle
LJ:TT.ER XXXIII.
ber children. Although neither of these last-mentioned re-
solutions have been carried into effect, yet they probably
BAD THBIR EJ'PBCT.
On the 3d of March-Mr. Moseley having been appoint·
eel to the oftice of Circuit Judge, in the place of Mr. Throop,
elected. to the second office of the state,-Gov. Van Buren
Bent a !lpCcial message to the Legislature, announcing the
resigoatioD, by Mr•.K., of the office of Special Counsel, and .
tbe appointment of Mr. John C. Spencer in his place. A
more acceptable appointment could hardly have been made.
lD addition to his high professional ability, his untiring in-
dustry, peneverance, and zeal, in any cause he undertakes,
aDCl bia unbending integrity, afforded an ample guaranty
ilr the faithful perfonnance of the duties devolving upon
JMm by this new and important trust. These anticipations
were very speedily realized. Mr. Spencer entered forth-
with upon the duties of his office, and in the course of the
tame month was engaged a nwnber (If days in pushing ex-
parte investigations preparatory to further proceedings, be-
fore the grand jury of the county of .Monroe, at Rochester.
But his labors were impeded at every step by the obstacles
ahrown in his way by the members of the fraternity, and
their able array of counsel, always at hand. Among a
great nwnber of witnesses examined on this occasion, was
a .Maaon named Isaac Allen, who refused to answer the
Grand Jury whether a carriage stopped before his door on
the ladl of September, 1826, and whether a person applied
to him on that day for a pair of horses. He ob~ted, on
the ground that the answer might criminate himsel£ The
Grand Jury thereupon went into court, and the question
whether the witness should be peremptorily required to
anawer, was argued by able counsel on both sides. The
court decided affinnatively. But the witness persisted in
his refusal, and was committed to prison for a contempt.
At this term, two bills were found tor participation in the
Digitized by Coogle
- -- _ _J
LETTER XXXIII. 869
conspiracy, viz: against Simeon B. Jewett, an attorney at
law, and Burrage Smith. These persons had both been
previously indicted, but in a different cow1ty.
Gov. Van Buren having accepted the station of Secreta•
ry of State, in the cabinet of Gen..Jnckson, resigned the of-
fice of chief magistrate of New-York, in a few days after
sending the special message above mentioned, and the dis-
charge of the executive functions devolved upon Lieuten·
ant Governor Throop. This gentleman, it may be recol-
lected, had originally acquired considerable popularity with
the Anti-masons, by pronouncing it " A BLESSED SPIRIT" by
which they were actuated. On leaving the chair of the Sen-
ate, however, for the audience chamber of the state exe-
cutive, the now acting Governor addressed the senators at
considerable length, and in the course of his remarks, he
took occasion to speak somewhat at large upon the subject
of Anti-masonry. In regard to the excitement, as he had
first known it, the acting Governor declared his opinions to
be unchanged. He had himself partaken of that excite-
ment, and was yet in feeling with it, while confined to its
original and legitimate object. But he could not join them
in their proscription of the whole masonic fraternity. He
was no Mason, and was opposed to all secret societies ;
but he did not believe, " that a society which has enrolled
" amongst its members persons of all ranks and conditions,
" and many distinguished for piety, for the purity of their
" lives, and devotion to their country, could be founded on
" principles tending to subvert ail government, or exact
" obligations from its members incompatible with their duty
•· to their fellow-citizens, their country, and their God." In
conclusion, he declared his determination that political An-
ti-masonry "should meet in him A MILD AND TEliPERATE,
" BUT A STEADY AND ~FLEXIBLE, OPPONENT." From that
day to the present, there has been " a great gulf between"
· the Anti-masonic party and the Executive. The hostility
17
o;~,tlzAd by Coogle
S70 LETTER XXXIII.
has been mutual and ceaseless. Which party will in the
end be found most powerful, remains to be seen.
This letter is already sufficiently long ; but there is one
other incident in the regular progress of tlte history, which
requires noticing in this place. The crusade against the
whole masonic fraternity, whether innocent or guilty, had
been waged with such bitterness and eftect, and so heavy
was the load of popular odium beneath which its members,
without distinctiOn, were laboring, that the most respecta-
ble and intelligent portion of the craft at the we~t l;legan
now to see the propriety of yielding to the fury of the
tempest, by relinquishing the institution, and .resigning the
charters of their lodges and chapters. Accordingly, dur-
ing the present month of March, a convention of delegates
from the several masonic bodies of Monroe county, was
held at Rochester. Forty delegates were present, repre-
senting lodges, chapters, and an encampment of Templars.
After full consideration, it was determined to make a sur-
render of the charters of each of the bodies represented,
with a view of an ultimate relinquishment of the institution
of Masonry altogether. Having come to this resolution,
they published an address to the public, containing a decla-
ration of the reasons which had induced the procedure.
They wished the public fully to understand, that, in coming
to such a decision, they at the same time repelled the idea of
a tame submission to the denunciations so prodigally lavish-
ed upon them by their opponents. They denied the justice
of such denunciations, and invited a free but impartial in-
quiry into the reasons by which they were actuated in
coming to tills determination. These reasons were set
forth at large in the address-the duty of good citizens
to submit to the voice of public opinion, being regarded as
the most efficient of the number. They conceded that~
utter disregard of public opinion, when once clearly settled
and ase«'rtained, was unwise on the part of the citizen, un-
--- - - -
Digitized by Coogle
_________.
........~J
........----
LETTER XXXIII. 871
der any form of goTernment,-that, especially under such
a government as we have the happiness to enjoy, a reckless
opposition to the confirmed public sentiment cannot be de-
fended,-and, that it is not only unwise to treat it with in-
difference, but, where no violation· of principle is involved,
to set it at defiance is to be culpably obstinate. Public
opinion, they said, beyond all doubt, unequivocally called
for the relinquishment ·of their masonic rights; and under
such circumstances, they held that personal gratification
must be made to yield to the higher claims arising out of
thei-r relations to society. In regard to the abduction and
probable murder of Morgan, they declared, most solemnly,
" that the transaction had been uniformly condemned by
" them as an offence obnoxious. to the principles of Ma-
" -sonry, to the Jaws of the country, and to the laws of
" God." As it respected the character and principles of
Masonry 'itself, as they had received and understood it,
they denied "that there was any thing contained in it im-
" moral in its tendency, or in any wise dangerous to either
" civil or religious liberty, or opposed to the christian reli-
" gion." The address admitted that they had not arrived
at this determination to sever all their masonic ties, with-
out a considerable effort ; and although there were many
others, who, from pride of opinion, or from a repugnance
to the adoption of such a course, as it were upon compul-
sion, would look with displeasure upon the determination
tp which they had arrived, yet they exhorted all such "to
" remember that there lay before them a wide field for il-
" lustrating, practically, that wholesome rule, cherished by
" all good men, which enjoined it upon them • to restore bar-
" 'mony to society, when interrupted, if possible.'"
An impartial observer, knowing little of the previous
history of the controversy, or of the feelings which had
been engendered .on both sides, would have supposed that
in coming to this decision, the Masons had c;oncedcd all
Digitized by Coogle
S72 J,ETTER XXXIII.
that their opponents could have had the conscience to de-
sire. Certainly, if the professed, were the only, objects of
the Anti-masonic party,-if they were really and truly
warring against Freemasonry alone, for the single purpose
of procuring its annihilation,-they could require nothing
further from the Masons of the county of Monroe. And
had they manifested a disposition to rest satisfied with this
general renunciation on the part of those Masons who had
thus publicly surrendered their charters, there cnn be no
doubt that the example would have had a powerful effect
upon the fraternity, far and wide in the land. But the
fact was otherwise. In the course of the address, its au-
thors had said, that "they did not think the occasion called
"for on elaborate review, nor, indeed, for a serious refu-
" tation of all the absurd imputations and extraordinary
" charges which had been so industriously arrayed against
" the fraternity ; neither was it proposed to indulge in an-
" gry rebukes, and bitter sarcasms against the doubtful
" motives and unkind passions: which obviously had, and
'" still did, direct the movements of the master spirits of
"the exclusive party styling themselves Anti-masons.
"Such a course, although justifiable by the law of retnlia-
" tion, would not mitigate past evils, and might, perhaps,
" aggravate anticipated ones, which they were unaffectedly
"anxious to avert." In another parRocrraph, it was assert-
ed by the signers of the address, "that they felt and knew
" that they were.the proscribed and devoted victims of a~
"unholy ostracism." This language gave mortal offence,
and no sooner was it published, than it was siezed upon
by the Anti-masonic papers, and denounced with as much
virulence and acrimony, as though, instead of what it was
intended to be, a ·message of conciliation and peace, it hnd
been a justification of the murder of Morgan, and an order
for the death of a hecatomb of additional victims.
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIII. S1S
There was one unfortunate circumstance connected with
this address, affording the Anti-masons a pretext for -the
course, which, with one accord, they pursued in relation ~o
it. The misfortw1e through the whole of this controversy
has been, that the guilty and the innocent have been con-
founded together, and the latter have always been made to
suffer for the misdeeds of the form~r. It was so in the
present instance; for, although among the forty signers to
• this address we find the names of several of the ablest
professional gentlemen of tile west,-men of great purity
of character and of high moral and religious wort.h,-men
who would no sooner screen oiliers from the punishment
due to crime, tllan they would be guilty of crime them-
selves-yet, in the very same list of persons, ilius protest-
ing with the utmost solemnity against the outrage commit-
ted upon Morgan, were several of those known to have
been implicated, at least in a knowledge of the conspiracy,
before it was consummated, if nothing more. One of
these persons had been sent express to New-York, with
the purloined manuscripts; anotl1er, was the man into
whose hands the money voted for " the western sufferers,"
as they were called by the Grand Chapter, had been placed
for distribution. Beyond a doubt, three fourths of the
forty were entirely innocent ; and they, at that time, sup-
posed their associates to be innocent likewise. But not so
thought the Anti-masons, who had been engaged in the in-
vestigations previously made, and yet pending. TheY:knew
better ; and of course the surrender of their cbarJers was
denounced as being merely a make-believe transaction, apd
the address pronounced false and hollow.• In regard to
the Rochester Chapter and Encampment, both of which
had united in disclaiming all knowledge of, or participation
in, the conspiracy; and both of which had .denounced the
• In 1830, Jacob Gould, one of the signers of the renunciation in 18291
attested his rincerily by taking hi11 seat ii;t tho Grand Chapter, as a member.
Digitized by Coogle
514 LETTER XXXIII.
aetas offensive alike to the laws of God and man, it was
now specifically and boldly declared, publicly, and in so
many words, ''that that chapter and encampment employ-
" ed and paid a masonic spy, who, as the pretended ·part·
" ner of Miller and Morgan, was nearly two months rna-
.. turing the conspiracy.• He reported his progress, regu-
" larly, to the encampment; and when the plot was ripe,
" they sent some of their members to Batavia, and others
" to Canandaigua, to aid in its consummation. Members
" of that chapter aided to force their victim into the hack
" at Canandaigua, and formed a part of his guard through
"the whole route. When the hearts of some of the per-
" sons who had met to inffict masonic vengeance upon
"Morgan, shrunk from the task, this chapter and encamp-
" ment were referred to for further instructions. They de-
" spatched one of their members to Fort Niagara. • •
" • • • • Some of their members were compelled to
"fly, but they have been cherished and supported by those
"who remained behind. The outrage was distinctly re·
" cognized, by the chapter and encampment, by the fact of
"their retaining in their bosoms and fellowship, the men
" who committed it. Members of the chapter and en-
" campment, when called upon to testify in relation to the
"outrage, have taken false oaths." And these, it was add-
ed, are the "abmrd accusations," which the masons, in
their address, had declared unworthy of a " serious refu-
" tation." Subsequent disclosures, moreover, have shown,
that there was too much truth in these charges. But
whether true or not, at the time, was immaterial, since
tbere was no resisting such appeals to the popular passions;
and the measure which had been resolved upon by the Ma-
BOns, right and proper in itself, and unexceptionable in its
manner, as those who were not Anti-masons would gener-
• Johu.
Digitized by Coogle
- - ·----•w:.,._
......._J
LETTER XXXIV. 375
ally have supposed, entirely failed in its design. The war·
fare was prosecuted as vigorously as ever, alike against the
just and the unjust-for there was no discrimination amo~~g
the people, and every mason was believed to stand in all re-
spects upon the same footing.
Having thus failed in the object so sincerely and honeat--
Jy sought to be obtained by the majority ofthoee who pub-
lished the address, it is a source of much regret that the
effort was made in that quarter, and in the mode in'Which
it was attempted. The scornful manner in which that de-
claration was received, has ever since been pointed at by
the acting masons in other parts of the country, when they
have been urged to terminate the contest by a removal of
the cause, as an evidence that the cancelling of charters,
and the relinquishment of the order, will do no good. It
is not that, alone, as many of our friends believe, which
the opponents of speculative masonry desire : and since
what they consider a cruel persecution,-rui unconstitution-
al proscription,-does not cease with the giving up of a
lodge, they insist that they may as well hold on upon their
empty titles and gilded trappings to the end.
I remain, sir, very truly yours.
LETTER XXXIV.
Nsw-Yoax, .March 12, 1832.
~IR1
The exceptions taken to the indic~ent on which Eli
Bruce was tried and convicted at the Ontario Sessions, in
August, 1828, having been argued before the Supreme
Court, and decided against the defendant, the cause was
again brought before the Court of ~cssions at its May term,
in 1829. Hiram B. Hopkins was called and examined by
Digitized by Coogle
878 LET'JEJl XXXIV.
the court, in aggravation of punishment. He was deputy
sheriffofNiagara county Wlder Bruce, and resided with him
in the same house-the jail being under the same roof.
He testified, that, some six or eight days before the abduc-
tion, Bruce directed him to prepare a cell for the reception
of Morgan, whom he said he expected there that night.
Accordingly the most secret cell was put in order for that
purpose. Witness bad previously heard that Morgan was
to be taken away from Batavia, for revealing the secrets of
Masonry, and to be carried to Niagara. He also under-
stood that Bruce was concerned in the project. Morgan
was to come by the way of Lockport, and be lodged in the
cell thus prepared. He had been told that Morgan was to
be taken to, or by, Niagara, and put on board a ship of war,
for his masonic offence. Witness had made inquiries what
he should say, if called on as a witness, and Bruce instruct-
ed him that he might truly declare he knew nothing about
it, because he had never seen Morgan, in any part of the
transactions. Heretofore, witness said be had considered
himself bound by his masonic obligations not to make any
disclosures. But after he began to apprehend tqat Morgan
had been put to death, he had reasoned and reflected much
on the nature and character of those oltligatioos, and now
considered himself fully absolved from their longer observ-
ance. He had attended the installation of the chapter at
Lewiston, on the 14th of September, 1826, and learned
while there, that Morgan was confined in Fort Niagara.
At the same term of the court, came on the trial of John
Whitney and James Gillis-both of whom had been long
previously indicted for being concerned in the same con-
spi~cy. Whitney, it will be recollected, had fled to- Lou-
isiana, with Burrage Smith, soon after the public attentiob
began to be seriously directed to the circumstances of this
singular outrage. Smith died at New-Orleans, and, as in ,
the case of Col. King, Whitney had returned voluntarily,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIV. 977
after the unsuccessful embassy ofMessrs. Garlinghouse and
Bates, in pursuit of them. Gillis's name, you may recollect,
occurs in a former letter, as having been seen among the
kidnappers, at Victor, on the night of Morgan's being taken
from Prison. He fled to Pennsylvania ; but had been sub-
sequently arrested in Ontario, and held to bail.
The cases having been called, the special counsel decla'r·
ed his intention to have the defendants tried together. Gil-
lis had pleaded to the indictment, at a former term of the
court, but was not now present. Mr. Griffin, of counsel for
Mr. Whitney, requested that he might be tried alone; but
the special counsel objected, inasmuch as the cases of the
defendants were connected, and also on account of conve-
nience to the witnesses, many of whom were from a long
distance, and should be allowed to return home with all
suitable dispatch. 1\fr. Sibley, of counsel for Gillis, object-
ed to his being tried during his absence. He had attended
two or three terms of the court, to take his trial, but then
the prosecution was not ready. Living in another state, it
was fairly to be preswned that the notice of trial had not
reached him. The special counsel replied that Gillis had
never been prepared for trial when the people were ready.
At the last term of the court he was ready, but, by som~ fa-
tality, the people's important witnesses were not in attend-
ance, though they had been subprenaed,·and attachments
issued. The witnesses were now attending at great trou-
ble and expense. The court remarked that at the previous
term, tlte cause nf Gillis was announced as being ready for
trial tlte day before it was to have come on ; but two of the
witnesses were tlten discovered to lu~ve lUYSTERIOUSL~ DISAP·
PEAKED, and tlterefore the people were nqt ready. It was
under such circumstances that the trial had been put ofl:
and the court would not allow another postponement, if the
special counsel chose to try the defendant in his absence.
48
Digitized by Coogle
378 LETTER XXXIV.
The cause then proceeded-a jury was empnnnellcd
without much difficulty, and Mr. Whiting, the District At-
torney, opened in behalf of the people. The initiatory
testimony, relative to the taking of Morgan from the jail,
and forcing him into the carriage at Canandaigua was the
same, as in the histories given in all the preceding triaL
and mostly from the same witnc- es. In regard to the t p-
ping of Morgan's mouth with a hanclkerchicf, it wn · no\
indisputably proved to have been the act of hc::.tboro,
whose intentions, according t his own d po ·ition, \\ ·r o
very innocent in that matter. The night jouru y of Loton
Lawson to Rochester, on th e'·ening of .Morgan'· being
committed to jail, (September 11, 1 2G)' again pr \'Ccl,
as formerly, together with his return to annudaigua on
the morning of the 12th, a d the arrival thcr f Jolm
Whitney and Dw-rage Smith, on the afternoon of that day.
The teslimony of Ackley, at who ·e hou e they stopped in
Canandaigua, was on this occa ·ioll more full and minute,
than on his previous examination. It "·as now pro\'cd by
two or more witnesses, that at the time the carriage in
which Morgan was taken away, was moviug about the
street, preparalory to selling off, 1hcre was a horse and
sulkey standing before the door of Aekley's tavern. Smith
was seen in this sulkcy a few miuutcs before the carriage.
(having taken up l\Iorgau1 and a part of his kidnappers, in
the street,) repassed the tavern, on its way to Rochester.
The horse and sulkey were driven off at the same time. I
am thus particular in noting this fact respecting the sulkcy.
because it is an important circumstance in identifying the
parties. On the trial of Bruce, it may be recollected, it was
disclosed that a man, supposed to be Smith, drove up to, anJ
passed, the carriage where it had st~pped, about eighty or
one hundred rods from Hanford's Lauding, ami he appear-
ed thcu to the witne~, to belong to the party in the l'arriag~.
Digitized by Coogle I
J
LETTER XXXIV. S79
I
This sulkey will again appear in subsequent trials, as the
perplexities of these extraordinary transactions are disen-
tangled. Tea was prepared both for Smith and Whitney,
at the given hour ; but after waiting some time, Smith not
~oming in, Whitney took tea by himself. He went out ear-
ly in the evening, and did not return. Just before the sui-
key was driven away, Lawson came in and borrowed a
cloak of Ackley. This garment is mentioned because it
will be elsewhere referred to.
Hiram Hubbard, so often mentioned as the owner and
driver of the carriage from Canandaigua to H~ford's, was
again called as a witness. On his direct examination he
testified in effect, as on former occasions, mentioning two or
.three additional facts. There were five persons with him
in his carriage, of whom he knew neither. He was not ac-
companied by a man in a sulkey ; but a man passed him
in a sulkey, when two or three miles from Canandaigua.
He stopped at the reservoir in front of Beaclt's tavern, in
Victor, but only for a moment or two ; and this was the only
stop he made in Victor. At Hanford's house a man got out
of the carriage, and procured a bottle of liquor.• They
then drove on, and stopped in a field near some woods, one
or two hundred rods from Hanford's. His cross examina-
tion did not materially vary his testimony. He saw no
force, in putting a man into his carriage ; heard no com·
plaints on the way ; was told to take his own time in driv·
ing ; there were no changes in the number or persons of
his passengers on the way ; and when they got out he did
not observe that any person was bound. He was engaged
to go for this party by Mr. Chauncey 1-1. Coe,one ofthe stage
proprietors at Canandaigua, for whom he frequently did
jobs of the kind. He was paid, however, by Cheseboro,
.• Corroborating the testimony respecting the bottle or jug seen by the
W1tncas who w~ watchi11g with the sick man, at Lewiston.
Digitized by Coogle
sso LETTER XXXIV.
as has already been stated. Coe testified that he engaged
the carriage of Hubbard at the request of Cheseboro. ·Ha
could not tell how Smilh and Whitney left Canandaigua on
that evening. They did not go in· any regular stage.
A Mr. Scrantom testified to the fact of Whitney's being
in Canandaigua at the time of the abduction. He said to
witness, he had come to engage a journeyman stone-cutter,
and witness went with him to a shop, in quest of one.
The workmen were not at home. '\Vitness wished to send
a letter to Rochester, and Whitney oflered to take it, re-
questing witness to bring it to the tavern in the c01u·se of
the evening. He wrote hjs letter, and went by appoint-
ment, but could not find him at that place, or elsewhere in
the village. Nor was his name upon the books of any of
the stage offices. Whitney had seen witness several times
before the trial. In the fall previously, defendant had asked
witness how it had happened that Hall, (the jailor,) knew
of .his having been in Canandaigua on the evening of
the outrage. Witness replied that he had mentioned the
fact, though rather incautiously, and in sport. Whitney
then requested him to recollect the application for a stone-
cutter, and the conversation.
An important witness was now introduced in the person
of Mrs. Hanford, the wife of the innkeeper at the Landing,
so called. She testified to the carriage calling early in the
morning of the 13th, as heretofore related. Two persons
came into the house, of whom Hiram Hubbard was one, and
called for something to drink. They took a decanter to
the carriage, and when they r~turned with it, drank some--
thing themselves. One of them said-" He was damned
glad to get out of jail at first !" They appeared to talk sig-
nificantly with their eyes. She asked them if they had a
prisoner. They replied no, but only a man who had been
on the limits. Witness first heard of the abduction of Mor-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIV. S81
gan through a statement in the newspapers ; and the mo-
ment she saw the account, she was convinced by the cir-
cwnstanccs related, that Morgan must have been in that
carriage. She went immediately to her husband with the
account, and she had endeavored to call to mind the looks
of the two persons who came in at that time. Hubbard,
she was sure, was one ; liut she was not so confident as to
Whitney. The person with Hubbard looked like the de-
fendant, but was not so delicate in his hands, or his complex-
ion. Mrs. Hanford had left that place in April, following
the time of which she was speaking-having removed to
Pittsburgh, where they had been Jiving two years. When
the carriage drove off, the man who came into the house
with Hubbard, remained behind, and walked the stoop for
some time. There was something in the deportment of the
party at the time, that induced her to suppose there was
mischief a-foot. Hubbard inquired for oats ; but as there
were none in the house, he would not wait to have them
brought from the barn, as he said they must drive to Lew-
iston that day.
A man by the name of Gregory, who lived on the Ridge
Road, fifteen miles west of Gaines, testified to the fact of
meeting the mysterious carriage, on the 13th ofSeptember,
1826. Elihu Matthew was driving it, and there was a man
on the box with him, or in the carriage, who very strongly
resembled the defendant, John Whitney. Until witness
came to attend the present trial, he had supposed the person
implicated by this name, was Whitney the distiller. Wit-
ness had lived in Rochester, and although he knew not John
Whitney by name, yet he had seen the stone-cutter a hun-
dred times ; and it was now strongly impressed upon his
mind that the defendant was the man whom he saw on the
coach-box with Mather. He also met Burrage Smith with
a horse and sulkey, a little in the rear of the carriage. He
Digitized by Coogle
882 LETTER XXXIV.
had Adams's pel horse ; and witness told him he was driv-·
ing the animal too hard. Smith replied-" no matter-the
concern is able to pay for it."
Levi W. Sibley, a musician from Rochester, who attend-
-ed the installation at Lewiston, on the 14th of September,
proved thnt both Smith and Whitney were at Lewiston on
the morning of the 14th, between 8 and 9 o'clock. Wit-
ness went thither in the steam-boat from Rochester. Smith
and Whitney returned with them in the boat, on the eve-
ning of the installation. Neither of them went up in the
boat. In descending the river, the boat stopped at Youngs-
town, and Smith and Lawson stepped on shore,-askiog
the captain if there would be time for them to go up to the
fort. The reply was in the affirmative, if they.would go
quick. On returning to the boat, they came from the direc-
tion of the fort. ·
The Rev. Francis H. Cuming, (then of Rochester,) deli-
vered the address at the installation. He saw Smith and
Whitney there. He went to Lewiston in the stage, and
neither of those persons went with him.
The partner of the defendant (Whitney,) in the stone-
cutting business, proved that he left Rochester, in the win-
ter after Morgan's abduction, without apprising him of his
intention of so doing. He went away without settling his
affairs, or arranging their business ; and without making any
provision for the support of his family during his absence.
He returned in September, 1828.
A number of witnesses were successively examined re-
~pecting the circumstances attending the journey of the
closed carriage along the Ridge Road, but they testified to
no new fact of consequence. A young man named Ald-
rich, was next called upon the stand, but objections to his
beibg sworn were raised by the counsel for the defence,
ppon the same principles on which the testimony of Ed-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIV• sss
ward Giddings had been. excluded, on the trial of Eli
Bruce, in the preceding August. It was proved, on the one
hand, that in a conversation respecting the exclusion· of
Giddings, Aldrich had repeatedly declared that his own be-·
lief was the same. He did not believe in any future punish-
ment, and would not change :his principles for the sake of
being a witness. On the other hand, the prosecution prov-
ed that he had professed correct religious notions until he
was 18 years old,-that he was now about 24,-and that he
was a universalist, believing in punishment for sin in the
present world, but not in the future. . The question of his
admissibility, under such circumstances, was very ably ar-
gued on both sides. Judge Howell afterwards stat~d, that
there were great and increasing difficulties arising upon
these questions. The court !ldhered to the decision in the
case of Giddings; but a majority of the bench now. doubted
whether the case of Aldrich could be brought within that
rule. He therefore cheerfully acceded to the opinion of
his two associate judges, and would permit the witness t~
be sworn. The opinion of the court was then called for
on the second point, viz: the necessity of a belief infuture
rewards and punishments. Judge Howell, in reply, said
that he now concurred in the opinion of Chancellor WaJ-
worth, disagreeing with the doctrines heretofore maintained
by the Supreme Court. The present Supreme Court, he
stated, had also adopted the opinion of Chancellor WaJ-
worth. The witness 'was then sworn.
He lived in Dr. Beach's tavern, in Victor, at the time
}!organ was carried off. At about 12 o'clock at night, on
the 12th of September, he heard a carriage driving as he
thought, up to the house. Being in bed, he rose, and look-
ing out, saw the carriage a little beyond. Witness went
down to the bar, as somebody knoekcd, desiring to come in
to obtain something to drink. H.: had seen two or three
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIV.
persons standing by the door, and on opening it, both the
defendants, James Gillis and John Whitney, entered and
caned for a bottle of liquor. He gave them a decanter of
gin, which they took out of doors,-Gillis ofieril)g a three
dollar bill in payment, which witness could not change.
Gillis then promised to pay it in the morning, when the de-
canter should be returned. Witness knew Smith aud
Whitney wei!, having lived at Rochester, and believed that
he saw Smith with Whitney, on the steps. A sulkey was
there, and Dr. Beach called up the ostler to bring out a
horse to put into it. The party went off, and he saw no
more of them. The horse taken for the sulkey, was re-
turned the next day, by the stage from Rochester. This
testimony, it will be observed, essentially contradicts Hub-
bard's evidence on the former trials, and by inference upon
the present.
Two witnesses were successi\·ely examined, who proved
that about the same time of night, a carriage drove up to
the house of Enos Gillis,-a brother of James, who lived
a few rods farther on their route than Beach's. The cur-
tains of the carriage were down, and it was turned round
and driven through the gate, into Mr. Gillis's yard. It re-
mained thero some 20 or 30 minutes, and when driven
away several persons accompanied it on horseback. One
of these 'witnesses saw James Gillis, the defendant, ncar the
carriage, while standing thus in the back yard. If this was
the carriage, of which there can be no rational doubt, Hub-
bard is again explicitly contradicted, upon,a point where
an honest mistake was impossible. As to Gillis, the defen-
dant, another witness proved his returning, on the following
day, mourtted on his brother's horse. He said he had been
to Rochester, and seven or eight miles beyond ; and that he
came from CanandaiguJI, to his brother's house, on the pre-
ceding evening, in an extra carriage. If, again, it was
Digitized by Coogle
......_
LETTER XXXIV. SM
Hubbard's carriage that he came in, of which there is no
doubt, then Hubbard was again contradicted. The prose·
cution was here rested.
The first important witness called by the defence, was Eli
Bruce. He testified, that he was first informed that Mor-
gan was coming on the Ridge Road, on the evening of the
13th of September, by Burrage Smith, and another person,
now five hundred miles off, whose name he refused to give.
About six or eight days before that time, a gentleman call-
ed and requested him to proceed to Batavia, to take Mor-
gan away. It was stated that difficulties existed between
Morgan and Miller, and that the former would go away
willingly. Being sheriff of the county, and not wishing to
involve himself in any trouble, he declined the proposal.
At about the same time, Orsamus Turner called on him,
requesting that an apartment might be fittoo up for there-
ception of Morgan in the jail. He stated that Morgan was
expected there that night, on his way to Canada, and had
consented cheerfully to go away.• Witness was asked to
go to Wright's tavern, on the Ridge Road, where Morgan
was said to be,-hc having, as before related, been driven
with the carriage, into Wright's barn. Witness inquired if
there was any trouble, declaring that he wished not to be
involved in any. On his arrival at Wright's, which was
about 9 or 10 o'clock, he found Morgan there. They then
proceeded to Lewiston, and thence down to Niagara; David
..
Hague, now dead, and Morgan, being the only persons in
the c~rriage from Wright's to Lewiston. He was not at
this time acquainted with John Whitney. At or near the
gate beyond Wright's, a person passed them on horse-back,
whom he knew, but did not give the name. Morgan was
not bound, but only a handkerchief placed over his eyes
• Tltis was on the Sth-t the time of Sawyer'• expedition to Betuia,
which failed. The project then wae, to have carried Morgan direct to Lock.
port. The Canandaigua movement wa& a distinct plot.
49
Digitized by Coogle
- .. ,___
....._ _
886 LETTER XXXIV. ·
to prevent his seeing who were with him. On leaving the
carriage ncar the Niagara burying-ground, they proceeded
to the ferry near the fort, and crossed over into Canada,-
where Morgan was to have been put upon a farm. Morgan
did not get out of the boat on the Canada side ; and as the
Masons there were not ready to receive him,-their ar-
rangements for his reception 110t being completed,-he
was brought back to the American side,and placed in the ma-
gazine ofthe fort, to await the preparationsinCanada. \\'hen
Morgan got out of the carriage, he locked arms with Hague,
and another. gentleman who. joined them at Youngstown.*
Morgan conversed with Hague,-thcrc was no liquor in the
carriage,--and he did not seem to be enfeebled. He thought
he was among friends. ·witness left the fort before day-
light, on the morning of the 14th; had never seen Morgan
since, and knew uot what was do11e with him. Wright's
tavern was three miles from the residence of Bruce at
Lockport, at the intersection of a road from the latter place
with the Ridge Road. Witness saw several persons whom
he knew at _Wright's; and at the installation, a stranger
was pointed out to him as J11hll Whitney. To a question
as to whose charge Morgan had been left in at the maga-
zine, the court would not suficr the witness to reply-upon
the ground that uo persons but those t;pon trial, should be
implicated. .For the same reason, also, the court would not
allow the names of those who had crossed in the ferry-uoat
to be given. The project of taking Morgan away, ~vitness
said, was not concerted in the Hoya! Arch Chapter in Lock-
port, although it might have been talked over ir:cidcntally,
in a desultory manner, by the members, but he could nott·c-
member specifically the tiJlle. The next day after the in-
stallation witness rode back from Lewiston to Lockport in
a. sulkey. He knew not how Smith went to Lockport, nor
• Col. King.
o;9,tized by Coogle
__.,._
LETTER XXXIV. S87
how the sulkey came there, but understood that it was to be
sent home. He supposed it belonged eastwardly, and that
the horse attached to it was owned somewhere on the
Ridge, but if he had ever known, he had forgotten by whom
it was owned, or whither he was to send it. Such is a
faithful analysis of the testimony of Eli Bruce, on his first
examination as a witness.
Joseph Garlinghouse, called by the prosecutor, testified,
that he was commissioned by Governor Clinton to pursue
Smith and Whitney, for which purpose he started in Au-
gust, 1827, and proceeded to Louisville, in Kentucky-
from which place they had been gone about three weeks-
Smith to New Orleans, and Whitney to St. Louis. His
authority to arrest them did not extend beyond Kentucky,
and he was obliged to abandon _the pursuit. Whitney had
since stated to witness that he was at the time engaged in
settling some important business affairs with a brother-in-
law, who had left his wife ; and the knowledge of his ar-
rival in that region, in pursuit, had given his said brother- .
in-law an opportunity of taking the advantage, by which
circumstance, he, [Whitney,] had lost a thousand dollars.
Nicholas G. Cheseboro, called for the defence, swore,
that he did not know Whitney in the transactions on the
night of the 12th, at Canandaigua, nor did he now recog-
nize him as one of those engaged with them on that occa-
sion. Nor did he recollect having seen Gillis there on
that evening.
The cause lasted three days. It was summed up with
great ability by the counsel on both sides, and committed
to the jury by a brief charge ·from Judge Howell. The
jury retired at 10 o'clock at night, and returned a few
minutes before 12, with a verdict of GUILTY against
John Whitney, but in regard to the other defendant, Gillis, .
they could not agree, and were discharged. Whitney was
sentenced to an imprisonment in the county jail, of one
Digitized by Coogle
..
988 LETTER XXXV.
year and three months ; and Eli Bruce to the same punish-
ment for two years and four months. " During the whole
" term of his imprisonment, he was visited by Freemasons
"from every part of the United States, who repaired to
" his cell as that of a martyr suffering for the conscientious
"discharge of some high and imperative duty. Notwith-
" standing the atrocity of his guilt, so clearly established by
" the testimony of his deputy and his own evidence, yet
" crowds daily thronged around him, testifying their sym- .
" pathy and their respect. Every comfort that the laws
" would allow was provided for him ; and even ladies of
" character waited upon him in person, with delicacies pre-
" pared by their own hands. The same jail has often con-
" tained Freemasons, imprisoned for debt, who were never
" cheered by the visits, or solaced by the sympathy, of their
" brethren."
Very respectfully yours, &c.
LETTER XXXV.
NEw-YoRK, March 14, 1832.
SIR,
During the same spring a trial took place in the coun-
ty of Genesee, connected with this subject, which excited
some interest in that immediate neighborhood, though
scarcely heard of abroad. Those who have only listened
to the murmurings of the Anti-masonic excitement at a dis-
• tance, without actually witnessing, or feeling, the force of
the storm, will hardly believe it possible, that at the pre-
sent day, a case of the kind of which I am about to"speak,
could have occurred. Ten years hence, if the fact should
be-left unrecorded, it would not be credited for an instant.
The case was this: During the first wild tumult of the ex-
o;9,tized by Coogle
~ ._
LETTER XXXV. S89
citement, in 1827, in the deliriwn of their success at the
town elections, the project was broached of excluding the
name of every member of the masonic body from the ju-
ry box. The revised laws of the state gave the Anti-ma-
sons the power to do so, in all those towns in which they
had been successful,-it being the duty of the supervisor,
town clerk, and assessors of the several towns, annually to
transmit to the clerks of their counties respectively, an al-
phabetical list of the .tames of all persons in the said
towns, qualified and of sufficient understanding to serve u
jurors. It is likewise by that act made the duty of those
officers, annually to return a like list to the county
clerks, of all persons, so previously returned as qualified
jurors, but who have since died, removed out of the coun-
ty, or.become otherwise disqualified,-and the slips of pa-
per containing the names of persons so returned, are to be
taken from the jury box by the county clerk and destroy-
ed. Those returns are transmitted by the ·town clerks to
the clerks of the counties. It was under the provisions of
this act, that the officers of the town of Bethany, in the
county of Genesee, determined to exercise their brief au-
thority against the Masons ; and some of the most pious
and respectable citizens of that town were put under the
ban of exclusion, and so far disfranchised as to be returned
to the county clerk as " disqualified." The duty of this
officer was not discretionary ; and the names of the unof..
fending Masons of Bethany were withdrawn, and the slips
whereon they were written, destroyed. It may well be
supposed that among a people no less free than jealous of
their rights, such an outrage upon their civil privileges
would not be patiently or quietly submitted to. A com-
plaint was preferred to the grand jury against the town
clerk of Bethany, as the agent in the transaction, and he
WllS indicted, much to their credit, even by an Anti-mason..
ic grand jury. The indictment was tried at the court of
Digitized by Google
soo LETTER XXXV.
Oyer and Terminer held at Batavia, in April, 1829. "It
" appeared in evidence that those returned as disqualified
"jnrors were freeholders, and it was admitted by ·the de-
" fendant's counsel, that they were men of understanding,
"of intelligence and integrity; it was also admitted that
" they were returned as disqualified because they were Ma-
" sons. It appeared in evidence that great excitement pre-
" vailed in Bethany at that time, and that the exclusion of
"Mason from juries was frequently talked of, and generally
" conceded to be correct and proper. It appeared also by
" one witness that the town clerk was told that if he did
" not take care of their interest, (the Anti-masons) they
" would take care of him. The defendant, however, was
" proved to be a man of integrity and candour, and it was
"abundantly shown that he acted by the advice and coun-
" sel of others, and apparently with a view conscientious-
" ly to discharge his trust. The court charged the jury,
" that although the defendant had grossly mistaken his du-
" ty, they did not think there was evidence enough to show
"that he acted corruptly. They also charged that the de-
" fendant could not be convicted on the indictment, be-
" cause he acted merely as the clerk of the board of in-
" spectors in making the return." The court, therefore,
advised the jury to acquit the defendant, which was accor-
dingly done. The foregoing quotation is from Brown's His-
tory-a work which is in general too partial to allow much
reliance to be placed upon it, in matters of opinion; but
in the present case I am free to adopt the author's commen-
tary, when he declares his conviction "that the returning
.. of Masons as disqualified jurors was in violation not on-
" ly of the Jetter but of the spirit of the law. In criminal
" cases, however, the intention constitutes the sole criterion
" of guilt. Some palliating circumstances were proved on
" the part of the defendant, and it was, therefore, upon the
" whole perhaps right that he should have been acquitted;
'- - -
Digitized by Gooole
__:
"
:::._--~-
.......
:
LETTER XXXV. 391
"still it was equally proper that he should have been ar-
" raig~ed at the bar of his country for an act ·sanctioned
"neither by law nor justice, and which could not be done
" without trampling upon both."
The irritation arising from attempts like the foregoing, to
oppress the MasonS-without reference to their guilt or in-
nocence in the Morgan outrage,-was enough to render
the society of any neighborhood sufficiently unpleasant;
but the most unhappy consequences resulting from the ex-
citement to the social relations of the people, were connect-
ed with the institutions of religion. A very considerable
number of the clergy, of diflerent sects, belonged to the
masonic institution. Various circumstances had conspired
to bring them into the lodges. The Masons, themselves,
courted the. fellowship of the clergy, to increase their own
respectability, by acquiring a more sober and hallowed
character than the world were disposed to allow them to
possess ; for which purpose the Grand Lodge, several years
since, authnriscd their gratuitous admission. Such a re-
gulation in their favor, was naturally flattering to them ;
their curiosity respecting the supposed mysteries of the or-
der, was as easily excited as with other people ; and it was
very natural for them to suppose that by joining themselves
to the fraternity, they might increase their own usefulness
in the cause of their master. But the opponents of the Ma-
sons for a long time knew of no distinctions; and the divine
in the pulpit, with his deacons at tho altar, if they had ever
attached themselves to the proscribed order, were as likely
to be scorched by the burning zeal directed against the
craft, as the humble tyler with his drawn sword at tho door
of the lodge-room. The fiercest contentions arose in local
churches; clergymen were dismissed, or compelled to re-
sign their pastoral charges ; fcllo\"> -1 !1embcrs of churches
refused to partake of the sacred clewents of the supper at
the same table ; and, in one instance, a dcrgyman hca1·ing
Die itlzed ~y Google
892 LETTER XXXV.
the curse of Freemasonry, was personally assaulted in the
pulpit. From single churches, the spirit of proscription
entered many ecclesiastical bodies, threatening to produce
a wider field of spiritual disunion and desolation.
In these measures, I am constrained to say that the Bap-
tists, long ranking among the most unassuming and most
tolerant of modern religious sects, took the lead, by the
adoption, at the Genesee Consociation held in June, 1828, of
a declaratory resolution, " that they would neither license,
"ordain, or install, those who sustain any connexion with
"the institution of Masonry, or who will not disapprove and
"renounce it; nor would they give letters of recommenda-
" tion in favor ofsuch persons to preach in any ofthe church-
" es in their connexion." This resolution called forth a re-
ply, in a printed letter of twenty pages, by the Rev. Joseph
Emerson, of Connecticut, a member of the same denomina-
tion of religionists, which a judicious friend would never
have advised him to make public ;-for although the wri-
ter spoke many truisms, and said sundry sensible things, yet
he was clearly ignorant of the actual facts of the case in the
western part of New-York. He knew not what a load of
guilt had been incurred by a portion of the fraternity in
that section of country, which was then pressing the insti-
tution to the earth. Nor, had he been ever so well inform-
ed, was he the Hercules to remove the burden. His letter,
in fact, was such as might have been expected from a fanci-
ful sophomore, just "brought from darkness to light," who
had neither searched backwards for the history of the or-
der, nor looked forward to consequences. The effect was
obvious. The Consociation put forth a reply which not
only shivered his lance into splinters, but, from the mildness
of its tone, and the unpretending ability with which it was
written, while it left their assailant hors du combat, gave
them an advantage in the argument in favor of their resolu-
tion, which they would not otherwise have possessed.
Digitized by Coogle
__:;,..__.,........
......-- -
LETTER. XXXV. S9S
Other ecclesiastical bodies in the same connexion, followed
the example, and among them the Baptist Association, sit-
ting.in .the·same year, as I believe, in t~e cvunty of Sarato-
ga. A clergyman, by the name of John Lamb, :was exclu-
ded from the Baptist Church in Waterford, for being a l"ree-
mason; and the difficulties arising upon the subject in that
religious community, continued down to the last year, at
which time an ecclesiastical council was held to' consider of
' . . ..
the matter. The publications of the parties l()ad me to sup-
pqse that much ill blood had be,en exeited, and kept in quick
circulation, in reference to this subject~ during the whole
period since the excomm~ication of Mr. Lamb. In Octo-
her, 1829, the BaptU!t. Conference for the sta€e of New-
York, held a session at Whitesborough, in the county of
Oneida. At this meeting Freemasonry was a leading topic
of discussion, and a resolution was adopted declaring it to
be the duty of every member of a christian church, who
was a Freemason, to dissolve his coruiexion with that Insti-
tution ; hut exc~sing such members from disclosing mason-
ic secrets, or avowing any opinions as to the character or
tendency of Masonry. This resolution gave high dissatis-
facti~n to some of the Baptist assoCiations in the western
part of the state; -and the association of Chautauque county,
in September last; published a ~trong address and protest
against so lenient a resolution. Nothing short of a require-
ment of unqualified renunciations, in such cases, would sat-
isfy those western churches. ·· In the Baptist Association of
this parto( the state',' the principle·of the Whitestown Con-
ference seems to have been extended, and all members of
the church, who .wo~d not renounce visiting the lodge-rooOt,
were excluded from the sacramental rites of the religion
they professed. I do not know that in this city there was
anyoccasiontoenforee theregulation,butsucha principlewu
adopted, and is yet a rule t1f action with'that denornioatioL
. ·. 50
Digitized by Coogle
S94 LETTER XXXV.
The Associated Refonncd Synod ·of New-York, at a
meetingin Newburgh, in 1830, likewise took up the subject
of Freemasonry, and unanimously adopte.d resolutions ex;;
pressing their decided disapprobation of the principles and
usages of Freem~onry, warning their people against all .
connexion with the institution, and enjoining it upon all
church sessions under their inspection, to ·adopt effective
measures " to remove the conuimitiation from their Ghurch-
" es." Bui as this branch of the christian church is descen·
ded from the,Soots, their -
ecclesiastics find a sufficient war·
rant for -this procedure in·the an'!als of'the,ir own 4enomi·
nation. So long ago, even, as 1757, the Associate Synod. of
·Scotland passed an_
act, after great deliberation, requiring
the church sei!J!ions under their charge to make diligent
investigation among their people, to ascertain-whether any
ofthem had taken the masonic oaths. All persons who
shoUld be found to have rcceive_d them, -we~e required- to
renounce; and unless they did so, and e;x;pre$sed contrition
for what they had done, .they were "to be· repute~ under
" scandal, incapable of admission to sea1ing qrdinances, till
'" they answer and give satisfacti-on as before appointed:"
The sessions were .moreo\·er directed " to ptoceed unto
.. higher censure, as' they shail see cause,in the G8SC of per-
" sons_whom they may find involved in the said .oaths,
'"with special aggra\·ation, ns asking or relapsing into the
·~ same, in opposition to warnings against doing so."
In regard to the Presbyterian Church, and the cognate per-
suasion of orthodox Crngrcgationalists, I have seen but a
single case of a positiv~ inhibition of the sacramental ele-
ments to those professors ·who should refuse to relinquish
their Masonry.• In the year 1828 or '29, the synod ofGen-
• It ie prop<'r to ~tat~. h..wc,·,.-, 1!,.1t nppo>ili•.n to :\l:'"<•nrr tlitl not show
iteelf for the first tun<: 111 th>: Pn-,hyt<·nan Chnrch <•I tlw l ·n1tctl ~~~1<'1', nf-
tef the Morgan outraj!'<'. A strong rc·p<Jrt n~'llinPt tlw mR,..•nie inPtitutioo,
waa made in 1~26, in thC' ~ynocl of lh•• l'r<•,l•yleriau· ( '!n•~• h, a>"l'mhlctl at
Digitized by Coogle
- -A..-
LETTER XXX.V. 995
esee recommended the '~ithdrawal of their church memben
from the institution; but did not insist upon SIJch an act, or a
formal re_nunci~tion. - Adeclaration in the following wordi
was, however; recommended to the consideration of the
christian brethren:-" .J cheerf'utly ·make known for the
"satisfaction of my christian brethren, that I have discon·
'' ~inu~d aU corinexion with the institution of Freemasomy, ·
" and intend to remain so di_sconnected during my life ; and
•• that I recognise no obligations devolving on me in conse·
" quenee of masonic oaths, as binding me to do or counte-
" nance any thing·which is not in accordance With the mo-
"rality of the gospel, and ihe laws ofthe fund; as common-
" ly · understood amoag my christi~n brethr~n." Church
. difficulties having arisen in the state of Vermont, in' l830,
upon this subject, and attempts having been made to ex..
elude adhering Masons from their christian rights and pri,.
vileges, a large ecelesiastic~l council of clergymen with
their d~legates was convened at Danville, in that year.
Their proceedings were marked with mildness and wisdom.
They refused excluding their masonic brethren from the
rites of the church, but advised them to cease attending
lodges, although· they might not choose formally tore-
nounce ; and they als.o · recommended the adoption of a de-
claration, after the form of the synod -of Genesee. Bot the
series of resolutions adopted by that council, br~the the
genuine spirit of christianity-that-spirit" which sufi'ereth
" long, and is kind."
.The Rochester Presbytery, however, forming the excep-
tion made above, early ih the year 1829 published various
considerationS' with a view to remedy present evils, and
prevenf fu~ure ones, which required -the " ministers and
Pittsburgh. Long and animated debates arose -upon the 1ubject, and ita
consideration was postponed until apother year, when it _
was renewed. The
craft, however, trettPd the attack ·with a degree of indi1foreaoe borderina
upon contempt, and tho report wu never adopted.
Digitized by Coogle
...
LETTER XXXV.
" members" of the respective churches und~r _their im-
mediate charge, " absolutely to dissolve their connexioo
"with Freemasonry, and explicitly k> signify the same to
" their christian brethren." One of their reaso111 for re- -
sorting to this measure, is stated to be " the well-known
" instances of the employment of Freemasonry as an instro-
" ment of evil and designing men, in the history of 'IUu-
.. minism." In saying this, they spoke without credibie au-
thority, as I hnve alrendy shown in my eighth letter. But
this crro~ ·1s not very material ; while it is but justice to--l'e-
mark, that the general tone and scope of the address pub-
lished by the Rochester PresbYtery, was worthy, of much
praise. In one of their propositions they distinctly state,
that while 4' they wish their christian brethren to withdraw
" from the institution, they by no means-give their counte-
" nance to those methods of renouncing Freemasonry that
• involved a breach of fidelity,· or a violation of oaths, or
" other pledges of confidence, by which masonic brethren_
"may have bound themselves."~ They also enjoined it up-
on thei~ churches to make no hasty decisions, or rash ex-
communications ; and indeed the whole address was tem-
pered by that rpild and benignant spirit which is. every
where breathed in the tolerant doctrines of christianity.
·. But to illustrate still further, the extent, and the depth of
feeling, that came at iast to prevail among the religious com- _
munity at the west upon this subject, I can state, that large
public m~tings of professors of I:eligion of different deno-
minations, were repeatedly ~eld, for the purpose of consult-
ing upon the moral qualitie~ and tendency of Masonry, and
the measures proper and expedient to be adopted in rela-
tion to it. I have now before me the printed proceedings
of a large united meeting of this description, held in the
county of Oneida, on the 14th of January, 1830, the mea-
sures adopted at which were of the most decisive charac-
ter. Several members rose in the meeting, denouncing the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXV. 897.
institution, and then and there·renouncing it. ResolutioM
were adopted pronouncing it to be the duty of all profes-
sors of religion to withdraw, and ·declaring that unless they
did so, it would be the duty ofchristian professors to with-
draw the hand of-fellowship ftotn them. They likewise re-
solved that the masonia institu~ion was an obstacle to 'the '
spread ·o( the gospel, and ~at its e~re overthrow.must
precede the universal emancipation of the world from error
and sin. And' fina\ly, 1• a special day of solemn futing,
" .humJ"liation, and prayer, on account of the existence of
" Masonry in the church, and for the guidaJ&Ce and di.rec-
" tion of Almighty God, upon the manMr in which it uto be
" treated," was appointed.and set aparL- ·
But notwithstanding-the flow of pure _christian feeliQg
which charact~rizes the most .of their proceed.ings,-and I
have only referred to a few instances, as specimens of ma-
ny more,-I cannot persuade my~~Clf but that they were all
entirely wrong in principle. As to the worldly govern-
ment -Qf a church, its m~rnbers, or the governing eccl~u.
ticalpower,·have an undoubted right to prescribe terms, the
same as in ~ther voluntary compacts. So, also, as to the
leading doctrines of faith and.practice. But.in reg&J;d to
the heart and the conscience, every n;tan.must ·judge and
act for himself. Nor c~n any requirements be exacted, go-
ing beyond those prescribed by the Great Head of the
Church himself. Theology, however, does not properly
appertain to this discussion,-and I c~rluily dismiss this
branch of my subject, with the ~xpression of my hearty de·
sire, that there may hereafter be found too mu~ 'Wisdom on
all sides to allow any seetion of the christian chur.ch ever
again to be disturbed by such a question. .. ,
1 am very respectfully, yours.
Digitized by Coogle
S98 LETTBR XXXVI.
''
NEw-YoaK, :March 16, 1832.
~ra,
Under the conduct of Mr. Spencer, great activity wn•
manifested in the legal investigations of the conspiracy dur;;
ing the summer of 1~29: · In -the COUflty 6f Genesee, all
. '
~fforts to procure indictments for the conspiracy and ab-
duction, had hitherto ·proved unavailing, although, as we
have already seen, there had been indictments, trlaJs, and
convictions for, the outrages upon Miller. The special
counsel 'was however-determined not agiun tO be foifed in
his attempts to discover the persons in Genesee; ·who. had ·
been·engaged hi the conspiracy against Morgan. · At the
June tenn of the General Sessions, therefore, Eli Bruce was
brought, on a kabefU torptu, from the jail 9f Ontario, to tes-
tify before the ·grand jury of..Gene5ee. One of the stand-
ing eounliCl of the persons indicted in ,other c()ulities, was
in attendance, .however, and while Bruce was on his way
to the jnry room, thts gen-tleman placed a letter in his hands.
The consequenCe was, that ori being brought before the
-grand jury, he positively refused to be sworn as a witness,
and pers?sted in his refusal. Alarge body of ~asC?IlS had
eolleeted on t)le occasion, and _
Bruce was highly compli-
mented for his constancy and fidelity to the craft. · But su-
meroris other witnesses were examined, and indictments
werf} found against William R. Thompson; the sheriff: Na-
than Follett, Blanchard' Powers, and William Seaver,-all
of whom were respectable citizens. .
· In July, a Court ofOyer.and Tern1iner was held in Nia-
gax:a county, at which term it was in~ended to bring OJ! the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXVI.
trial of the indictments in that ooUDty. But the cases were all
removed by the defendants,,by certiorari, into the Supreme
Court.. The examinations were resumed before the grand
jury, but no additiOnal filet& ~ to have ~n elicited.
James Mather 'Yas examined as a witness, but his.Conduct
was such as to.subject him to ari admonition.from the court.
'H;is ans'\'Vers .were so .equivoe~ and unsatisfactory, how-
ever, that nothing could be extracted from him. , ·
The. continued absence of w~tnesses; was a perpetual
cause ·of · emba~ent to the public prosecutor ; and
strong eff()rts. were ,made between .the·J \lly .and AuguSt
terms of the cOurts, to·discover. and arrest Some of those
who had been secreted. It wail aScertained that one ·im-.
·pc)rtant witness, by the name of Harris, was in Montgom-
ery county. A warrant for his apprehension was taken
out, and 'an officer despatched for him with .all·posfiible Be-<
erecy: He was there on the arrival of the. Qfficer, ~ut b&o
fore a deputation eould .be .obtained 'from the sheriff or
Montgomery, a signal was "gi'Ven, sent, or handed," an4
the witness suddenly fled. Hannah Farnsworth 'was ano-
ther important witness in the case of. Solomoo C. Wright,
who had been indicted for perjury committed on the trial of
Bruce. She long had -batHed all atteotpts to arrest her1
but being at length taken~ was admitted to·bail• and -on a
promise in open court to appear and testify.she was releas·
ed. · She fled, and her recognizance w~ forfeited. Nor
could .she afterwards be found.
Another importaA.t absconding witness. was OrsOn Park-
hurst. . H~ resided at Rochester, with Ezra Plati, in Sep-
tember, 1826, when Morgan was brought to the village,
just a~ day·-light, and was called up by Platt, to drive his
carnage to.Hanford's Landing, wnere he received Morgan
and his abductQl"S from nllhbard's carriage. ParkhOJ11t
then drove on with Morgau :,ixteen mileS, to Isaac Allen's,
where fresh hor~s were in readiness. Immediately after
o;9;uzed by Coogle
LETTER XXXVI.
the transaction, he absented himself, and h~ been working
in different and distant places, until, in the summer of 1S29~
it was ascertained .that he waa reaiding in a sequestered
place in ·Ne\1f' Hampshir~: ·.
.·. " }Q *uguat, 1~, ·a court of ,Oyer and Terminer 'Was
" .held.for Monroe county ; and, as this was the last court
" at.whi~h a grand jury would ~ assembled .in that coun-
" ty, before the statute of Jimitati~ns. would attaCh upon.prO.
" secutio~ for .the conspiracy and·kidriapping, ptep~tions
"'were ·made for .a more thorough. investi~tion than had
.. yet been bad." Among others, an agent was emplC?yed
to go in pursuit of Parkhurst. . He ~as f01iDd, and brought ·
baek to within about forty miles of RocheSter, where he.
mysteriously escaPed f~ the canal bmit, in the night. and
wa.S not·afterwards he~d of. ·Having undetst~d that by
subsequent disclosl,U'e~ ·it ~ad been ascertained·that his es-
cape wa8 ow~ to the fOrtitude, the energy, ~d the affec-
tion of a woman, I w:rote· to Mr. Weed, th~ gentleman
who was employed as the agent in his disco:very 'and ar-
re~tt and who had hl!n ~n charge at the time, for the parti-
culars ; and ·as the incident parWces somewhat of the ro-
. . .
mantic, I begleave to enclose you the annexed extract from
the reply to·my communication:- _ · · ·
" ObtaiDing a iequiaition from~ govetnorThroop, for the apprehen-
tlioD of P&rkhal'Wt, u i. fugitive from justice, I found and apprehended
lliDl in th6 town'of Weatherefield, Vt.· Tlie pereona impUcated, ltnow·
.., that I wu in pqrnit ~-· of thorit UIOCi&tee, atationed men &t :AJ.
bally to watch tbe I~ and Iteam. boats. ·4-s We were stepping into tbe
star to go west from AJb&ny, Parkhqrat wu 1een by Elihu Mather; who
drove the Morgan carri~ .from .Gaines to' Ridgeway. He immediately
.communicated thec..ct to Mre PuTT, who wu then ieeiding &t Albany.
In the &heence ofber huband, whoa& indictment and con;iction were sale
to follow:Parkhant'• teetimony, Mrs P.,inswatly diepiled her au, lly u-
~ men'• appatel, obt&iftell a ealltey, which she ·dro~e with areat speed
to Schenectady, where 'she overtook the stage, and kept along in compuy
witJl Ul to tJtica,-without, how.
ever, &etting an opportunity of malr.inc her-
telf luaown to Parkhurat. '
..
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXVI. 401
"At Utica, we took a calal boat, and Mrs. P. kept on in the ataa- to
Weeda-Port, where she anticipated, and Bwaited our arrival. We reached
·there early in the evening, and ~rs. P. came on bo11rd. In the course of the
evening she got an opportunity to make her~elf known to Parkhurat, who
readily consented to make aa effort to escape. The project wae facilitated
by the captain, (who wa.s a Mason, and an acquaintance of PiaU's;) and
sending the helmsman to bed, the captain took that post himself. At about
one o'clock, while 1, who thought all danger and possibility of eacape wu
oYer, had fallen to sleep, the stem of the boat was laid ashore, and the
lady, with my false witnelll!, took the tow path, in the~epth of tJae Mont&o
auma marshes, and made a successful retreat.
" Park.hurat, before meeting with Mrs. Platt, bad made up hie mind to gd
to Roeheeter, and reveal all be knew, and bet •uld only have been induced
to escape, by just eucb an appeal ae was made to him. He bad been Ill
inmate of Platt's family nearly two years, during which time ho had had r.
aenre fit of sickness, and received the kindest attentions from Mra. Platt, of
whose estimable character all who know her bear cheerful testimony.
The welfare ofher family, and the liberty ofher husband, were in the banda
of Parkhurst. She had treated him when sick, with the tenderness of r.
mother, and he would have been less than human, to have been deaf to
auch an appeal. It was not until the last summer, that 1 aacertained in
what manner Parkhurat escaped. The devotedness of the action, on the
part of an affectionate wife and mother, entirely soothed the feelinga of
mortification occasioned by the escape of my fugitive."
It was believed that had the attendance ofParkhurst been
secured, he would have identified several persons in Ro-
ebester, as having participated in the conspiracy and ab-
duction. The only person indicted at this term, however,
was the Rev. Francis H. 8uming, then a settled clergy-
man in that place. He has since left the state. The in-
dictment against Simeon B. Jewett, was removed to the
Supreme Court at this term, by the defendant. At the
October term of that tribunal, Jewett made a mo-
tion to quash the indictment, on the ground that par-
tiality bad been exercised by town officers, in selecting
grand jurors from the ranks of the Anti-mason-, to the q ..
elusion of the muonie fraternity, and also that some of the
members of the grand jury had expressed opinions upon
the question of his innocence. The motion was denied.
51
Digitized by Coogle
-
LETTER XXXVI.
In September further investigations were made before a·
grand jury of Niagara, and indictments were found against
Henry Maxwell and Norman Shepherd. " An attachment
"was issued against John W. Beals, who had been duly
" subprenacd to attend this court as a witness, and had re-
u fused. to attend. He was a respectable citizen, and a
., Mason of high grade. He was arrested on the attach-
"meot, and gave bail to appear and answer for his con-
•• tempt. But he did not appear, and his bonds were for·
*feited."
But, notwithstanding the legal proceedings of the swnmer
of 1829, to which I have thus rapidly adverted, the public
mind seemed to have become more tranquilized, and less
clamor was heard at a distance upon the subject of Anti-
masonry. The character of the special counsel who had
been clothed with the whole power of the state to bring to
punishment the offenders, was such as to desern', if not to
oommand, the entire confidence of the people ; and it was
hoped, that a consciousness that !Ill which the law would
allow, and the zeal and ability of an indefatigable man ·
could accomplish, would have entirely allayed the excite-
ment, and stripped it, in a measure, of its political charac-
ter.. But as the November elections approached, the n&w
party again took the field with renewed activity, and the
result showed that rheir principles of action lmd struck
deeper root, and spread wider their brunches. The elec-
tions, it is true, were of less interest than those of the prece-
ding year, which involved the choice of a goYernor, mem-
bers "f congress, and a president for the t.:nion. But the
Anti-masons nevertheless turned out to a man ; marched
·up to the polls with as much solemnity as the Covenanters
in Scotland whilom went to battle ;--demanding "where is
" Morgan 1" and voting down all parties. They carried four-
teen of our western counties at this election, and one In the
eaatern part of the state. In many other counties where
~---~ ...:,_._-
Digitized by Coogle
------'--
LETTER XXXVII.
·the Anti-masons were unsuccessful, .they showed an aug-.
mented number of votes ; and the total number polled upo11
that question, was computed at about 60,000. No evidence
of" dying away," was read in that result.
Vcry respectfully, &c.
:LETTER XXXVII.
N~;w-YoKK, March 18, 1832.
SIR,-
The next in the series of trials of which I have given
.an abstract, is that of Elihu Mather, who was indicted for
.participating in Morgan's abduction, being accused of driv-
ing the carriage in which he was conveyed, through the coan-
ty of Orleans, towards Niagara; and the main question in
which seemed to be, whether or not he knew the fact, that
.Morgan was in it, and carried forcibly without his consent.
This case was brought to trial before Judge Gardiner, at
the Circuit Court held in the county of Orleans, in Novem-
ber, 1829. So much difficulty was experienced in empan-
nelling a jury, and so much contrariety of testimony was
taken before them, that the trial of the cause lasted ten days.
The first questions arose in the empannelling of the jilry
·to try the accused. Robert Anderson was called and chal-
lenged for principal cause, on the ground that the defendant
·and juror were both members of the masonic fraternity.
This was demurred to, and the demurrer sustained by the
judge, on the gr.ound that as nothing appeared by the plead-
ings as to the nature and objects of that association, it form-
ed no legal qualification, and consequently was not the sub-
ject of challenge for principal cause.
Anderson was then challenged for favor. Dr. Joseph K•
.Brown, on the part of the people, testified, that there waa a
Digj.Jjzed by Googl·
LETTER XXXVII.
point in an obligation he took like this-" that I will aid and
., assist a companion Royal Arch Mason whenever I shall
"see him engaged in any difficulty, so far as to extricate
"him from the same, whether right or wrong," and that be
knew of no exception or qualification. Daniel Pratt and
Archibald L. Daniels were also sworn, to prove a particular
intimacy between the accused and the proposed juror ; but
nothing on this head was shewn beyond the ordinary cour-
tesies of friendship.· Robert Anderson was then sworn on
the part of the defendant, and testified, that there was a
clause in the Royal Arch Mason's oath, which, without be-
ing qualified, was something to the effect mentioned by Dr.
Brown. That qualification he stated to be, that when he
saw a Royal Arch Mason in a quarrel with ·another, he was
to try to get him away, and give him a particular sign,
whether right or wrong in that quarreJ;.:_but that all obli-
gations, lectures, and charges, expressly required him to
obey the laws. The friendship between Masons, he said,
was similar to that which exists among members of church-
es and societies, liable to be severed by personal or politi-
cal considerations. Witness admitted, on cross-examination,
that he might have said at first that he did not believe Mor-
gan to have been carried oft' against his will-be then
thought it might possibly be a trick between Miller and
Morgan,-and had participated in the feelings of Masons
generally, on the subject. Had no particular opinion
whether Morgan was, or was not, in the carriage when it
arrived at Gaines, but was impressed .with tlie idea that, if
10, Mather must have known it.
Isaac W. Averil, Milton W. Hopkins, and Or$On Nichol-
son were aJso adduced by the counsel for the people. N~
thing of interest was elicited from the former witness, and
the main point bearing upon the case testified to by the two
latter, {in which they concurred,} was, that the inculcation to
be a iood citizen, and.obey the laws, was contained in the
Digitized by G90
....._---....____
. ~-=.o--=-=--__,__ ____J -
le
- iiliiili.1
I.ETTER XXXVII.
charge, and not in the oath~but that there was no obliga·
tion to protect or commit crime.
The judge instructed the triers, that if in their opinion it
was proved, contrary to the testimony of Anderson, that
the obligations were given without being accompanied at
tlte time by the explanation he had gh·en, it should exclude
him as a juror. E\·cn then, if they found evidence of at-
tachment or prepossession between them, sufficient to create
a bias which would not readily yield to testimony, it would
be their duty to pronounce him unqualified. The triers de-
termined that Robert Anderson did not stand indifferent.
John Dolly was also called ~s a juror, and challenged for
principal cause, which was overruled by the judge, and he
was then challenged for favor by the counsel for the peo-
ple. The proposed juror testified on this issue that he was
a mason of eight or nine degrees, and acquainted masoni-
cally with the defendant.
Joseph K. Brown again testified as to the nature and ex-
tent of masonic obligations, substantially as he did in the
,case of Anderson.
Orson Nicholson and Wm. Ruggles were also called, but
the results of their examination did not seem essentially to
vary the bearing of the point in issue from what it was in
Anderson's case. The triers however decided that John
Dolly did not stand indifferent.
Stephen Martin, Jr., was challenged for principal cause by
the defendant, on the ground that he had formed arid ex-
pressed an opinion of his guilt, and calltd Eldridge Far-
well, who testified that he had heard Martin say, that he
believed the masonic institution to be corrupt~that Mor-
gan had been carried away by Masons alone, along the
Ridge Road, in a carriage driven by Elihu Mather.-that
he knew Morgan was in it, and he (witness) believed him to
be guilty. The public prosecutor then offered the chaJ.
lenged juror to explain, who testified that he had no fixed
•
•-
Digitized by Coogle
·'406 LETTER XXXVli.
opinions of the prisoner's gwlt, other than such as· wete
founded on printed statements in the papers and reports in
eonvenation. If the evidence supports the circumstances
he has heard, then he has a fixed belief of the guilt of the
defendant, otherwise not, and in such case his pr~sent belief
would be removed. Upon this evidence the judge decided
that the chall:.mge for principal cause was sustained, and
the juror was set aside.
Samuel Clark, another juror, was ~ailed, and a principal
challenge for ca11se was made to him by defendant's coun~
sel. Upon bei.ng sworn as a witness, he testified that he
bad formed an opinion, but had not expressed it. The
court thereupon decided that the challenge was not sustain-
ed. He was then challenged to the favor by defendant's
counsel, and being again sworn, testified that he had fonned
an opinion that the defendantwas guilty. On his cross-E!x-
amination, he stated that his opinion was formed in conse-
.quetlce ef· reports, and ol what he had read. The judge
.charged the triers that if they believed the juror had now a
fixed opinion which it would require testimony to remove,
·he was disqualified, whether that opinion was founded on
rumor alone, or on rumor and printed statements. The
triers decided that the juror was not indifferent.
Carlos C. Ashley, a tales-man, (the panel being exhaust-
ed,) was returned by the sheriff, and testified that he had
.not fonned or expressed any opinion of the guilt or inno-
cence of the defendant. On.his further examination, he
stated that he had been for eighteen months a partner with
James Mather, the defendant's brother, in the tanning busi-
ness: that James Mather was rich, and furnished the capi-
tal, and that he, witness, was poor, and furnished the labor
for carrying it on ; that he had been in the employ of
James Mather three months before the partnership co~
menced, and that, during all that time, the subject of Mor-
iM's abduction had never been the subject of conversatioa,
t;ETTER XXXVII:
lllthough he had read the newspaper reports of the trials of
Bruce and Whitney. Had formed no fixed opinion of the
guilt or innocence of the defendant, and thinks he can hear
the testimony and give it its due weight, without any"strug•
gle in his own mind. The judge decided that the juror
was indiff<.>rent. He was aecordingly sworn, and the panel
being full, the trial proceeded.
Mary W. Hall, Israel R. Hall, Wyllys Turner, and Hi-
ram Hubbard were sworn; but their testimony relating
wholly to the abduction of Morgan from Canandaigua, and
to that part of his conveyance westward, which was pre-
oeding the place or time in which the defendant's alledged
participation in it commenced, it is not necessary here to .
recapitulate it.
Benjamin Wright, Esq., of Adams, in the county of Jef.
ferson, testified, that in the winter of 1828, the defendant
was at his (witness') office iri Adams, when a conversation
took place between them, in which he asked defendant about
the fate of Morgan. Defendant said he had no doubt but
that Morgan was dead, and went into a detail and mention-
ed several individuals, among whom was· one of the name
of Bruce. He said they were prosecuted so severely, that
unless the lodges and chapters should do something for them,
they and their tamilies must probably suffer, and asked wit-
ness about the state of the funds of the lodge and chap~
in Adams. Witness asked d~fendant what could induce
men of such standing as those he named, to engage in the
transaction of carrying otr Morgan. Defendant's reply
was, in substance, that it was done probably without-much
reflection. In the course of the conversation, the defend-
ant said he was called upon, while he was in or about a tan·
.yard, by his (defendant's) brother, or in a tan-yard of bia
brother, and at the time when he was so called upon, he
had no knowledge of Morgan'!t being in the carriage. Wit-
ness was a Freemason, and knew Mather as such. Being
.
.
Digitized by Coogle
'
LETTER XXXVII.
examined again, witness testified that defendant said tha'
had he known that Morgan was in the carriage when' be
was c..lled on to drive it, or what this business would lead
to, or something of that kind, he should have had nothing
to do with it, or he should not have driven the carriage.
Sarah Wilder testified to the identity of the carriage in
which Morgan is supposed to have been conveyed, whilst
it stopped at Clarkson.
Silas D. Luce, a stage driver between Oak Orchard and
Clarkson, testified that in going east, and within one and a
half miles from Gaines' corners, he saw a carriage coming
west, and the defendant just behind it, riding one horse, and
leading another, very fast. That the defendant soon over-
took the carriage which stopped, whereupon the horses
were taken out, and those brought by Mather harnessed
in. At this point of time witness passed the carriage.
When the harnessing was completed, the defendant got on
&he box and drove the carriage on. Witness looked back
and saw the man who had been driving coming towards
Gaines with the horses which had just been taken from the
carriage. Knew Elihu Mather well.
Israel Murdock testified, that on 13th September, 1826,
about noon, he was standing at the door of Joseph L. Per-
ry, at Ridgeway, about nine miles west of Gaines, and saw
a carriage coming up and a person driving whom he thought
to be the defendant. The next day he saw the same car-
riage coming back from the west, and Elihu Mather driv-
ing it. He then distinctly recognized tum.
Six respectable and unimpeachable witnesses here suc-
cessively testified to the fact of having seen Mather, at
different places on that day. driving the carriage westward·
ly. They all knew Mather, and one of them saw him on
the following day, returnirlg with the carriage.
W m. P. Daniels being sworn, was asked whether on the
evening of 13th of September, 1826, he, witness, was at
'
Digitized by Coogle
___.. -
LETTER XXXVII. 409
the house of Solomon C. Wright, in Ne.wfane. Witness
refused to answer, on the ground that it might criminate
himself. It was admitted that the witness was not under
prosecution, and the public prosecutor insisted that as the
time fixed by the statute of limitations in such cases had
elapsed, he was bound to answer. To this it was replied,
that it was now generally believed that Morgan was mur-
dered ; and if so, the witness might be indicted as an acces-
sory before the fact, which did not come within the statute.
The court sustained the refusal. He subsequently testified
that Wright kept a tavern at Newfane, on the Ridge Road,
about three miles northwesterly from Lockport, and seven
or eight miles east from Mollineaux's tavern in Cambria,-
that he does not know that defendant was at Wright's on
the evening referred to,-that Eli Bruce was at Wright's
on that evening,-thinks that Jeremiah Brown was there
at the same time,...:...and supposed that Brown and Bruce
left there in a carriage about eight or nine o'clock in the
evening. Some further questions were put, which the wit-
ness declined answering, and which the court decided he
was not bound to answer.
Daniels, the last mentioned witness, was a Mason, and
came .into court accompanied by counsel to whom here-
sorted on every difficult occasion, for instructions whether
he should answer or not. He not only several times declined
answering questions, but in one instance persisted in his re-
fusal, until the order for his commitment was nearly com·
pleted, when he relented. At one time, he referred .to a
written memorandum, and read his answer to the question
pressed upon him ; and from inquiry it was ascertained
that the answer had been written by his counsel!
Robert Mollineaux testified to the fact of being called up
in the night, and furnishing horses, as on former trials, and
Corydon Fox again repeated his story of the night trip
from Lewiston down to the fort, without variation. Mr.
52
Digitized by G
\
.ogle
410 LETTER XXXVII.
Perry likewise again testified to the fact of having wit·
nessed the exchange of passengers from one carriage to
another, in the back street of Lewiston. One of the per·
sons taken out eeemed to have a handkerchief bound about
his head, and had not the use of his feet.
David Maxwell kept the turnpike gate on the Ridge
Road about six mi!es east of Mollineaux's and near to Solo-
mon C. Wright's. On 13th September, between ten ud
eleven o'clock at night, a two horse carriage passed the
gatetothe west. The toll was paidbyJeremiahBrown,whom
he saw returning the next morning in the same carriage,
apparently asleep.
Here the testimony on the part of the prosecution closed.
The defendant called Israel R. Hall, relative to the trans-
actions at Canandaigua ; and also Corydon Fox and Fred·
erick B. Moon to describe the premises of Ebenezer Per-
ry, and how far it was practicable for him to have seen all
he related from the positioQS he described. ·
The defendant's counsel then called five witnesses who
testified that the character of the defendant, up to the time
of this transaction, had been always that of a good citizen,
peaceable, mild and orderly, and that he had been distin-
guished for the sobriety and rectitude of his conduct.
The testimony being closed, the counsel summed up, and
tbe judge having delivered a charge to the jury, in the
course of which he instructed them, that if the jury were
satisfied, upon a review of the testimony in relation to the
removal of Morgan from the goal in Canandaigua, (as they
probably would be,) that a design had been formed by
Lawson, Cheseboro and others, to forcibly abduct or kid-
nap Morgan, then the inquiry would remain, was the
defendant a party to that agreement 1 The judge also ad-
verted to the confidential rela,tion of the circumstances of
the abduction of Morgan, to Benjamjn Wright, Esq., in
which he said that if he had known that Mor~an was in
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXVII, 411
the carriage, he should never have driven it, u establish-
ing the fact, that, however, guilty Mather might be in aid-
ing the execution of the conspiracy, he was not a party to
it originally. The judge also charged the jury, (on a sug-
gestion made by the special counsel,) " that although they
" were satisfied that Mather assisted in carrying the con-
" spiracy into execution after its formation, that fact would
"not, in the opinion of the court, constitute him a p~."
The jury, after retiring from the bar, returned with a
verdict of Not Guilty. Messrs. Spencer, A. H. Tracy and
J. B. Coles for the people. Messrs. Mathews, 4Aiaml and
Barnard for the defendanL
A motion was made to the Supreme Court for a aew
trial in this case, by the counsel for the people, upon •
statement of evidence agreed to by the parties. It wu
argued at the January term of the court, and the cue de-
cided at the May term following, (1830,) of which a re-
port may be found in IV. Wendell, 229. Thirteen pointl
of exception were made by the counsel for the people 1
but the judgment of the circuit judge was sustained by the
Supreme Court on all the points but one, and that one they
did not deem to be such as could have influenced the jury
in rendering the verdict of not guilty. The motion for a
new trial was therefore refused. A very able and elabor-
ate opinion of the court was delivered by Judge Marcy,
but as my object is not the elucidation of points of law
but the facts in controversy, I have confined myself to
those parts only of the ?Oiuminous record that have a di-
rect relation to my purpote.
I have the honor, &c.
Digitized by ogle
.
41! LETTER XXXVIJJ,
LETTER XXXVIII.
NEw-YoaK, March 20, 1832.
Sra,
The Legislature of 1830, commenced its session on the
5th of January. In his opening message to that body, the
acting Governor referred to the Anti-masonic excitement in
the following terms :-" Although in some sections of the
•• state an unusual excitement has prevailed, I am happy
"to have it in my power to say, that it has not originated
" in a desire to change our constitution, or in a distrust of
"the integrity of our laws; but in an honest zeal, overflow-
" ing its proper boundaries; misdirected in irs efforts, and
"carrying into public affairs matters properly belonging to
"social discipline. Such feelings cannot long exist beyond
" the limits of their proper sphere of action ; and it is a
"source of gratification, that in this instance they give evi-
" dence of spe~dily subsiding into their natural and healthful
"channel." In framing this paragraph, his excellericy
must certainly have been guided rather by his wishes, than
by the actual facts, as disclosed in the returns. Twenty-
eight members of the legislature, electedsolely by the "ex-
citement," and an increase of nearly thirty thousand votes
from the preceding year, spoke a very different language.
On the 27th of January, the Executive transmitted to
both houses of the legislature, the report of the special coun-
sel, giving an accouut of his proceedings, and the result of
his investigations, since his appointment to execute the du-
ties of commissioner. This report was an able document,-
though much. of it necessarily consisted of a repetition, in
IUbstance, of the history of the outrage, and of the fact11
Digitized by Coogle
----·IL!t:L':IIW~~
LETTER XXXVIII, 41S
brought to light on the preceding trials. In addition to the
recapitulation of the earlier portion of the history, it con-
tained a detail of the material facts of the evidence which
had been disclosed to successive grand juries, and the testi-
mony, in extenso, of several of 'the most important witnesses
who had at different times been examined. !'fhe materials
were so arranged as to furnish an intelligible view of the
whole subject, down to that period, with the omission only
of particulars the publication of which might have the effect
of defeating the ends ofjustice.
'fhe legislature was summarily informed by this report,
ofall the legal proceedings past or pending, under the charge
of the special counsel. The period, within which prosecu-
tions for the Morgan outrages could be legally instituted,
had now expired, and no new indictments could be fmmd•
.Up to the last moment, however, the special counsel had
attended all the courts in the several counties, where indict-
ments could be procured, and examined witnesses before the
respective grand juries. New indictments had also been
foUnd in several instances where the preceding ones were
ascertained to be defective. There were at the time of
making this report, untried indictments pending in the coun-
ty of Niagara, against twelve persons ; in the county of .
Genesee,four; and two in each ofthe counties ofOntario and
Monroe. But two trials had taken place during the pre-
ceding year, viz : those of Whitney and Gillis, and ofElihu
Mather. The Court of Oyer and Terminer, which had
been appointed in the preceding April, for Niagara County,
had failed, in consequence of the indisposition of the circuit
judge. In July a special Court of Oyer and Terminer had
been held in that county, at which the indictments, thenpend-
ing there, were removed by the defendants, by certiorari, in-
to the Supreme Court. The Circuit Court appointed for
that county in November, had failed, in consequence of the
prolonged sitting of the court on the trial of Mather, in the
Digitized by Coogle
414 LETTER XXXVIII.
county of Orleans ;-so that the indictments in Niagara
could not be brought to triaL In the month of August, a
Circuit and a Court of Oyer and Terminer, had been held
in the county of Monroe, at which the only indictment then
pending in that county, was removed into the Supreme
Court by the defendant. At the October term of that court,
a special motion by the defendant was argued and denied ;
and at the term of the same court, for January, not closed
when the rep011 was written, the defendant interposed a
special plea in abatement. These proceedings had prevent-
ed th~·joining issue upon the innocence or guilt of the de-
fendant.
In regard to the difficulties encountered in pursuing these
investigations, the commissioner made several statements
of high importance. All but two of the persons the most
actively engaged in the conspiracy, as far as the facts had
been ascertained, were Masons of the Royal Arch degree• .
Some of the witnesses had escaped beyond the reach of le-
gal process ; others had peremptorily refused to testify, be-
iDg in the situation which it was supposed placed them be-
yond the legal means of coercion.
"From the memberll of the maeoo.ic fraternity, who still adhefed to it,
and who considered themselves included in the indiscriminate warfare of
which an account has been given, the special counsel said no assistance
wbate'f8r bad been received, although the occasions demanding it had been
frequent. With but few exception•, witn- who atiU beiODged to the in-
atitutiOD, bad been reluctant in their attendance at court, and apparently
iodiBJIC*Id to testify. Difficulties which never occurred in any other proae-
eution, bad been met at every step. Witneues had been secreted ; they
bad beeDNnt oft'into Canada, and into di&rent •tateeofthe Union. They
bad 00. apprised of proce• being inued to compel their attendance, and.
bad been thereby enabled to evade ita service. In one instance, after a
party implicated had been arrested and brought into this state, he was de-
coyed from the custody of the individual having him in charge, and fioally
eecaped. Thet~e occnrrencea, the commi.uioner aid, bad been 10 namerou
aacl ftriou, u to forbid the belief that they w~ die rwult of incliviclual
.diOrt alone, and they bad evinced the concert of10 many .,ent.a, u to indi-
~ -- - - I
o;9;uzedbyGoogle § _ ~
---II!Lwbl~
..
LJ:TTJ:R. XXXVIII. 415
eat.e m atenlin combination to - from puuiabment thoee charged
with a participation in the oft"mcee upon William Morgan. No nidence,
however, had come to the knowledge of theepecial counllel, to jllltify the
belief that the membera ofthe muonic inati~tion r-.llJ. bad been enp•
gee! in any such colilbination."
The report having been read, was referred, in the Senate,
to the committee on the judiciary. On the motion of Mr.
Maynard that it be printed, some opposition was manifest·
ed. Mr. Benton, of Herkimer, and Mr. Hubbard, of Che.
nango, spoke in opposition to the motion. The fonner gen•
tleman ·first desired to have the opinion of the committee to
whom it had been referred, on the question of printing~
Mr. Hubbard contended that the special counsel in framing
the report, had travelledout of the record-beyond the line
of duty. .He said the author might as well have sent a po-
litical pamphlet to the legislature, as such a document. He
was not required to give his opinion of the merits or demer-
its of any particular society. Mr. Maynard replied that if
the report ought not to be printed in furtherance ofthe view•
of one political party, certainly the printing should not be
denied to aid another~ There was great ~ety among
the people to see the document, and if the printing were re-
fused, it would only serve to kindle ai~,ew, and increase, the
excitement so much deplored. The motion prevailed.
It was stated by the special counsel, in his report, that,
from the peculiar circumstances of the case, he had deemed
it a solemn duty to object to the empannelling of any Royal
Arch Masons as jurors upon the trial of indictments against
their brethren ; and, on the trial of Mather, the objection
was sustained in the two instances in which challenges on
that ground had been made. In the trial of those challen-
ges, testimony had been taken at great length, as to the na-
ture of the masonic institution, and of the obligations im-
posed npon its members. But entertaining doubts whether
this testimony fell within that description of evidence which
Digitized by Google
416 LETTER XXXVIII.
the legislature seemed to have iqtended should be reporte~
it had been omitted.by the special counsel. In consequence
of this statement, Mr. Maynard, on the 28th of January,
offered a resolution calling upon the special counsel for a
full report of all the testimony given on the before mention-
ed. trial, on the challenges ofjurors to favor, in consequence
of their being members of the masonic fraternity, and who
were pronounced by the triers not to be indifferent: and
also requiring him to state the points or questions of law,
decided or discussed on said challenges, or affecting the
question of the indifferency of the said jurors. After some
further debate, an amendment, directing the judge who had
held the court, to make a report of the case, instead of the
special counsel, prevailed, and in that shape the resolution
was adopted.
Another Anti-masonic state convention was held in Al-
bany, commencing its sittings on the 26th of February.
Its objects were manifold. About one hundred delegates
appeared, notwithstanding ~e inclemency of the season.
Delegates to the National Convention, which was to as-
semble in Philadelphia during the ensuing summer, were ,
appointed, and arrangements made for the holding of ano-
ther State Convention, with immediate reference to the
next state election, then nearly nine months distant. A
memorial was adopted, and ordered to be presented to the
Legislature, praying for the appointment of a committee,
to inquire whether the Grand Chapter of the state of New-
yorl!: had interfered in the ad~inistration of justice, or in
any manner aided, countenanced, or protected the viola-
tions of our laws, or departed from the objects of its incor-
poration, or perverted the purposes of its creation. As a
reason for such an investigation, the memorial referre~ to
the charges publicly and repeatedly made, that money had
been appropriated from the funds of the said Grand Chap-
ter, for aiding in the escape of some of the persons accused
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXVIII. 417
of participation in the Morgan outrage, and fot the defence
and support of others of the conspirators. This memorial
was presented on the 6th of March, and after an ineffectual
attempt_on the part of its friends to refer it to a select com•
mittee, empowered to send for persons and papers! it was
ordered 'to lie on the table. It was called up, .however, on
the 8th ; but its opponents adroitly proposed so to amend,
as to send the whole subject to the Attorney General, re-
quiring that officer to examine and report, whether, in biJ
opinion, the Grand Chapter had misused its privileges, and
if 8o·, requiring hiin to file a quo warranto before the pr0oo
per court, to obtain a judgment of forfeiture. .An at!imuted
debate ensued, but ~he amendment prevailed. by a vote of
75 to 30. This movement was merely a device to get rid
of the subject as quietly as possible; and. it succeeded.
On the 16th of April, the Attorney General reported, that
an information in the nature of a quo warranto against a
corporation, could only be exhibited .upon leave granted by
the Supreme Court, or some one of its justices; and to ob-
tain leave, either direct or circumstantial evidence mO&t be
given of the truth o( the matter .upon which the informa-
tion is founded. .He had addressed a letter, on the lOth of
March, to Gen. Bellinger, President of the Convention,
~hose nam~ ,p .at the .head of the memori~, requesting
him to furmsli 11D-'tidavtt of such facts and circumstances
as would establish the truth of the charges against the Grand
Cht;lpter• . On the 16th of that month he received a reply,
stating, in substance, that the writer knew nothing of -the
facts, save what he had derived- from the newspapers, re-
ports, &c. He referred to certain persons, however, who
he supposed would be able to furnish information. ·· But on
inquiry of.these, the Attorney ~neral ~ad obtained no eYi-
deoce of the truth of the charges. The memorialists had
not stated the grounds of the charges, nor even averred that
they tbenieelTes beljem them. The Attomey c;en.,.l
53
Digitized by Coogle
418 J.ETTJ:R XXXVIII.
eaid he would not advise whether mere hear-say evidence
was sufficient to warrant a legislative· investigation; bu~
no such pr~ng as that contemplated by the resolution,
could be instituted by him in the absence of legal proof~
Nothing further was heard of the subject.
No further legislative proceedings took place during that
session, excepting the renewal, for another year, of the act
authorising the Governor to continue the services of lhe
special counsellor. But from the tone of Mr. Spencer'•
report, in which he had come directly to the point, respect-
ing the conduct of the western Masons on the Morgan
trials, be had given offence to certain members not to be
forgiven; and they avenged themselves by cutting his pay
down to the beggarly allowance.of 1000 dollars. This
measure was little short of a direct insult to Mr. Spencer,
although it was probably dictated more by party spirit,
than any other motive. This same spirit of party, is the
vilest demon which walks to and fro in our land. Its in-
terference is not confined to. the political relations of our
country, but is too often ielt in our social, and even religious
affairs. In the instance before us, the evidence was clelp"
as though written in sun-beams, that party spirit was poi-
soning the so.urces of the law, and the streams of justice.
The fact is not to be disguised-contradicted with truth it
cannot be-that Anti-masonry had become so thoroughly
political ; its spirit was so viudictive towards the Freema-
. sons, without discrimination as to guilt or innocence; and it .
was .in ev~ry respect· so unyielding, that, ahnost in the
words of Mr. Spencer's teport itself, " its effect had .been
• 11 to compel a more strictand close union among those mem-
" bers who still adhered to the institution, and to excite a
" sympathy in their favor among many of their feJJow-citi-
" zens; and thus to retard and obstruct the attainment of
\" its professed object." The ardor with which the ,Anti-
muons pressed their polilical dc~igns, abated the zeal both
..
Digitized by Coogle
• J
LETTER .XXXVIII. 411
of the legislature, and the Executive, inlhe prosecution of
the investigations. With the return of every. election, aa
the Anti-masons gained strength, in a corresponding ratio
did those in power, who began to tremble for their plaees,
oocome more reluctant in pushing fo~ward the prose?utions,
by reason of which theilnew opponents were so gr~atly
profitting. Indeed, from the very outset of this controver-
s-y, in every legislative measure proposed or attempted, it
was perfectly evident that the ruling majority were secretly
opposed to the adoption of any extra efforts to bring the of-
fenders to justice. Notwithstanding all their pretended
anxiety to have the mystery of the fate pf Morgan solved,
and the delinquents punished, there was always a lurking
feeling of reluctance visible in every motion of the majo-
rity, and in every debate. Not, perhaps, that they really
wished murderers to go unpunished, but theyfeared, in the
peculiar circumstances of the present case, that in the sam~
degree in which they were aiding the ends of justice, they
were likewise assisting a po1itical party that might ere long
push them from their places of dignity and power. It was
very natural, therefore, that this spirit ~hould have been
more observable during the present session of the Legisla-
ture, as had been fully exemplified in the reception of the
special counsel's report. More than sixty thousand Anti-
masonic votes had been polled at the late election ; and frOin
the preparations then making for the next campaign, there
was little reason to believe, that that number would be at-
all diminished. Most certainly it would not be, if, by the
energy, the talent, and the perseverance of the special coun-
sel, he should at last succeed in unravelling the mighty mys-
tery, (of which result he now began to entertain strong
hopes,) should thai mystery be found to have terminated in
the dreadful tragedy which was now on all•hands believed
to have marked its end. Looking at the matter, therefore,
as party politicians, they had no special desire to prOduce
•
Digitized by Coogle
-
LETTER XXXVIII.
any further disclosures ; and from the lUlbending integrity
of the special counsel, and his untiring industry, it was ob-.
vious, that nothing on his part would be wanting to probe
the matter to the bottom,-let the axe ofjustice fall wherever
it might. Such are believed to have been _
some of the con-
siderationa which entered into the minds· of the legisla-
ture, when in re-enacting the law rflaking provision for the
employment of the special counsel one year longer, they in-
eerted a proviso limiting his pay to th~ sum of 1000dollars.
Such, unquestionably, was the opinion of the special coun':'
~JCI himself, founded not alone upon the action of the leg~s­
lature, as we shall flee presently, although at his suggestion,
provision had been made for holding a special -Court of
Oyer and Terminer, early in the then ensuing s~mmer, at ·
which one of the. judges of the Supreme Court was to
preside.
Immediately affur the receipt of a copy of the new act,
thus continuing his appointment, but limiting his. compen-
sation, the special counsel addressed an able communica-
tion to his excellency the acting Governor, giving a histo-
ry, in language of firm but temperate indignation, of the
treatment he had received at the hands of the government,
almost from the day on which he entered upon his duties.
· From this document, in order to give a just. view of the
ease, it will be necessary for me to quote at considerable
length. The only inducements to his acceptance of the
commission, Mr. Spencer said, had been the hope of allay-
ing the fear!J and anxi«;lties which prevailed respecting the
sufficiency of the laws to punish the outrage which had
been committed, and the belief that a faithful and thorough
investigation would satisfy an alarmed community, whethr
er it resulted in the punishment of the guilty or not. In
the appointment of a special agent to manage the proeeeu-
tiou, Mr. S: contended that-
___.. Digitized by Coogle
-· - -~.:...-- ~......11!1-
....
~
LETTER XXXYIIL 421
" The government became the prosecutor, and in that, u in every other
executive function, it wae represented by the Governor. The special coun•
~ wae not to be a printe pi'OlleCutor, but the agent of the Execntin. Aa
liuch, it is JI!OBt eTident, he wae entirted to the aid, adTice, direction and
support of the Executive and of the other branchee of the governmenL In
order to exhibit the urgent neceBSity of euch aid and aupport, it could not be
neceBSary to· refer to the nature of the investigation, tho large number or
pei'IIOnl accused, their connexion with a powerful society, JUid their indirid-
ual inlluence : for, said he, your excellency and the whole co101nunity but
too well know the magnitude and amount of&be obstacle& to be encountered.
Whether-the whole constitutional power of the government would be'au!i-
cient to overcome them, was problematical; that any thing.short or that
Jh1Wer, would fail, was certain. Nothing but this com·iction could have jUII•
tifi~d the law directing the employment of a l!lpecial counsel. Under that .
conTiction, and with full and.entire confidence not only in the formal con--
currence of the uecutive, but in his sincere and hearty co-operation, he en-
terl'!d upon the duties of the employment to which Governor Yan Buren in-
Tited him."
Entering upon the duties of the office under such cir-
cumstances, he doubted not that he was to receive the sin-
cere countenance and support, not only of the Executive,
~rom whom he held his appointment, but from the legisla-
ture which had authorized it. But in this just and reasona-
ble ·expectation, he had been disappointed. He said:- ·
" Positive aid, beyond the J)crfonnance of foraral duties from which there
wee no escape, has in no instance been rendered me. And instead of re-
ceiving any countenance or support, 1 have been auft'ered to atand alone, an
isolated individual, carryingon the most lal>orioUII and difficult proeecutions,
u if they were private-suita instituted by me, and withoutany participa-
tion of the responsibility by the members of that government which employ.
ed me. Indeed their re.l!ponaibility has been diaclaimed by every mean•
which the circumstances would allow." ·
As evidence of the indisposition of the state government
to strengthen his hands in pursuing the arduous investiga-
tions in which he was engaged, he referred to the manner
in which the suggestions contained in his annual report had
been received, the debates in the legislature, to which I
oigitiz~d by Coogle
LETTER XXXVIII.
have already briefly referred, and to the act limiting his
compensation to such an inadequate amount. Upon this
latter point, however, he held the following highly honor-
able language :-
~·I owe it to myself to say that the amounl of the compens&tion ~·ould
not deter me from continuing in the employ of the government, if the cir-
cumstances justified, and duty required that continuance. 1t ia not in that
Yiew that 1regard the matter as worthy of a mement's thought; but it is,
that the amount proposed, the manner of the proposition, and the circum-
atance• under which it was made, furnish to my mind indisputable evidence
of the unfavorable sentiment• entertained respecting the prosecutions or the
agent conducting them, or both. The act presenta the singular paradox of
diaavowing as far as possible the agency it proposes ro renew, and of inlil·
ing the agent to pi"'Ceed, in such repulsive language as to render his .accept·
ance incompatible with the least self reapecL" ·
But the cause of complaint, in. Mr. Spencer's mind, at
least, did not terminate here: He proceeded-
11 1have to complain also, ·t1at my official com!Jiunications to your excel-
lency, have been divulged,-liD as to defeat my measures and bring undesen·-
ed reproach upon me. Those communications related to the means ofdis-
covering evidence of the fact of William Morgan's death; they were no(
only in their nature strictly confidential, but the .SUCCeBB of the measures
•uggested, depended entirely upon their being unknown to the parties and
their friends. Yet they became known to a ·counsel of .the persons impli-
. cated in the offences upon William Morgan. I can not comment on this
fact, in such a manner as to do justice to my feelings, and at the same time
preserve the respect which is due to the chic( magistrate of the state. It
muat be len to the consideration of all impartial men, with the single re-
mark, that as it interposes an insurmountable obstacle to all further com-
munications of a confidential character with your excellency, I should thus
be deprived as special counsel of an aid o.ltogethe r indispensable to further
plbceedings. That the reproach which the revelation of that corTCspond-
eoee baa brought upon me, is undeaerved, may at least be presumed from
the fact of your excellency's having continued my employment more than a
yesr after those communications were made to you."•
• M~. Spencer baa al110 elsewhere justly complained, that-" during the
prec:edin& ~inter,.the 1enate of the 1tate, of whom a laree proportion, if not
Big1tized by Coogle
- . _ _ _, --------..... ··---4-
LETT-Zll XXXYIII. 421
From these and other circumstances which Mr. S; enu-
merated, he believed that his services were no longer ac-
eeptable to the Executive, and the dominant party by whom
he was supported, and a sense of self-respect would not
allow him to retain the situation. He believed, moreover,
that, left as he was, without the aid of the executive arm,
the prosecutions, in his hands, would lead to no successful
re~ults,-while, possibly, some other· agent, more in favor
with the government, might better succeed in the vindica-
cation of the laws. Prompted by these considerations, Mr•.
Spencer resigned his trust as special eommissioner,-with
the assurance, that, in handing over his papers to his suc-
cessor, all possible asaistanee would be cheerfully rendered,
to aid in the further prosecution of the investigations-sev-
eral trials being then in a statE! of forward preparation.
The publication of this ytraordinary letter of resigna-
tion, produced a great sell88tion in the public mind. The
charges against the Executive, were of a very grave char-
acter, and they were preferred with too much explicitness,
to be evaded. They were accordingly answered, semi-of-
ficially, through the medium ofthe state paper. The charge
of having be~rayed the confidential correspon?ence of the
special counsel, so as to enable the counsel of the delin-
quents to profit by the knowledge they possessed of the
a majority, were mallOns, had pa~sed a re110lution calling on the comptroller
for a detailed account of all \he expenses incurred by the special coun.eel,
with all the \'ouchers for the items. The accounts and voucben were ac-
cordingly furnished and published, and thus disclosed to the world and the
accused, the name of every witness who had been eumined on the finding
of the several indictments, and who was relied upon to sustnin them. Eve-
ry facility was thus lt'Jven to the operation of the cauBCB that had 1!0 of\en
prevented witnesses from being found when they were wanted ; and, wben
found, had prevented their attendance; or, if they attended, bad produced
short and impcrfer.t memories. The efforts of an officer of the govemmeat
were thus repndiated by the government ihelf; 110mething worse tbaq in-
difference was exhibited at the 11\Jcceea of his exo; tiona ; and, instead of be-
ing sustained by the countenance of the government, he was left to contend
against the huge body of indicted indivJduaiA, and a~ainPI the whole ma-
chinery of mtt~onic combination, including the libels of the press, singly ·
and unaided."
Digitized by Coogle
LETTE:R XUVUI.-
measures taking by the prosecution to bring them to justice,
w~ flatly contradicted on oohalf of the acting Governor.
several publications w~re made, pro and con., and amons
them was a statement, under the hands of the counsel o(
the (',onspirators, declaring that neither of them, had
ever- received any information of the description referred
to, from tOO Governor, or any person ~nnected with the
Executive. The information alledged to have been receiv-
ed in consequence of a betrayal of confidence by the act-·
ing Governor, was likewise certified by one of the defend-
ant's counael to have been imparted to him ·by none other
than his own client. Two other documents were also dis-
closed, in a long and labored defence of the acting Governor,
viz :-A letter from the special counsel: of the· 29th of
. March, 1830, to the acting Governor, with the reply there-
to of the latter, dated the 6th fj April. The special coun-
sel's letter here referred t~ embraced many suggestion•
respecting the duties devolving on the writer as special
counsel, the expenses necessarily incurred, &c. &c., upon
which the advice of the Executive was desired. He also
dwelt briefly upon the difficulties wich still encoqtpassed
his path.in 'the prosecutions. These were represented to
be of the most formidable nature, and were thus enumerated
by himself, viz :-:..
" let. From the difticulty of diecovering witneuea. 2d. From the few
and alight means aftOrded by law to compel their attendance. 3d. FrOm
their reluctance and refusal to testify. And 4th. From the unceuing and ·
untiring mtertione of the Muons in the places wheN I have been, to thwart
every efiOrt, by getting wit.n.e~~e~ out of the way, and by every other device
to which human ingenuity can relort. I am eony, (he lldde,) to be compel-
led to gin this account of the conduct ofMuonL There aie eome hoclor-
ablt eJtCOptione ;' but they are tew."
But the prominent ~bject of this letter, wn to state to the
Executive the important fact, that the special counsel had
it at length in his power, as he believed, at once to bring the
Digitized by Google
L:ETTEB XXXVIII.
investigations to a successful close ;-to accomplish which
most desirable object, however, it would be necessary for
him to have the disposition of the swn of two thousand dol-
Jars, which. had been offered as a reward for the discovery
of the criminals, by the late Governor Clinton, and which
proclamation was yet in filii force and virtue. Liberty to
apply that sum of money, and also an assurance of pardoa
to the witness to be used, were accordingly requested. But
I will quote from the letter itself:-
" In proeKuting my inquiriea cooeeming the fate ot William Morpa.
there appeare a witneae of the utmoet importance, 1rho, L &II) JICDUadecl.
can cliacloae all the facta and circumstances of Morgan's death. His name
Ia Elisha Adams, and be is now indicted o.e an actor in the abduction of Mor..
gao. Ho baa hitherto refUBed to disclose. Without hia teatimony, we
aball never beable toeeteblish, judicially, the fact ofMorgan's death. I have
prevailed upon an old and intimate friend of hi11, in whom he baa the utmost
confidence, reaiding at Sackot•s Harbor, to visit A., who i.e now at Youngs-
town, surrounded by Muons, and to endeavor to prevt1il on him to tell the
whole truth. To accompli.eh this, it will be necessary toolfer strong induce-
ments. I propose therefore to apprise bim, that a nolle proeequi will be en-
tered on his indictment, that he wiU receive a pardon, and the reward offer·
ed in the proclamation of Governor Clinton, of ~arch 19th, 18i7. But I
ahould not feel authorised to do ao without the inallnction ofyour excellency
to that elfect ; and I preaume it will be indispensable that I ehould be able
to produce written-evidence of your directione. I therefoN reapecU\Illy lOti-.
eit your instructions on this head.''
This application, just and proper in itself, and usual i:o
the administration of the criminal law of England and Ame-
rica, was coldly and cavalierly refused; and it was this reo
fusal, that formed the basis of the charge of the late special
counsel, of a want of co-operation OD the part of the Ex-
ecutive. It is proper, however, that the acting Governor
should be allowed to speak for himself; and I will therefoN
quote all that part of his letter referrina to the point at
ibUe :-
Digitized by Coogle
4!6 LETTER XXXVIII.
" 1 understand that you consider the tntimony of Elisha Adams indispen.o
sable to prove Morgan's death ; that he stands indicted for his abduction;
and that you propoee a11 inducements to him to testify, that a. nolle proee-
qbi llhall be entered on hia indictment, that he shall be. pardoned, and that
be llhall receive the reward of f!IOOO, promiaed by Governor Clintoll'll pro·
damation. You aak my assent to this course. However desirable 1 may
consider it to bring to punishment the murderers of Morgan, I cannot give
my aasent to a measure which would have 80 strong a tendency to induce a
man, who now preaents to the public unfavorable points of character, to
commit peljwy. If it were in my power, and you thought it advisable, I
would pardon him, so as to take from him the nower of refusing to answer
under the pretence of criminating himself; but the 5th sec. of art. 3 of the
constitution, which confers on the Governor the power of pardon, limits it to
e&llell ' after conviction.' The most that can be done to reach this evidence,
is to eareise the common law power of favoritism to the accomplice who
gives material testimony, and 80 far as my aasent may be necessary and pro-
per, it shall not be withheld. But that the accused may not be deprived of
his legal rights, it is proper that c•ery inducement to testify, which may be
thus held out, 11hould be made public, that the jury may judge of the bisa
under which he gives evidence."
Of most of the acts of Gov. Throop, in regard to the ad-
ministration of the criminal law, so far as the executive ac-
tion has been required, I have had occasion to express my
decided approbation. Several cases are fresh in my mind,
in which his excellency has been exceedingly pressed for
pardons, or commutations of punishment ; and the course
he has taken on such occasions, with the opinions given,
have been such as to gain him credit both for his legal tal-
ents, and his firmness. But in the case under consideration,
I am confident that every criminal lawyer in the land, whose
judgment is unwarped by party feeling, would, without the
smallest hesitation, declare him clearly in the wrong. The
request, under the circumstances, was perfectly reasonable
and proper. 'fhe contingency had occurred which was
contemplated by Gov. Clinton, when the reward was offer-
ed i and had that distinguished jurist,-for he was alike a
lawyer and a statesman,-yct lived, it would have been
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXVIII. 427
promptly paid. The proclamation had not been revoked
by either of the administrators of the government since his ·
decease ; and it was therefore as much in force, as on the
day after the seal had been affixed to it. The suggestion
on the score of encouragement to bribery, made by the
Governor, and subsequently used as the burden of his de-
fence by all the '' arranged" presses in the state, was a mere
. pretext,-an attempt to frame a plausible and popular ex-
cuse for an act calculated at once to disappoint the expec-
tations, and cool the ardor, of the public prosecutor, while,
at the same time, it would most likely have the still further
effect of preventing those full disclosures, so anxiously
sought by the public. You may call it bribery, ifyou please;
but it would have been no farther a bribe, save only in·
amount, than is authorised by the criminal law of England,
and every state in this Union, in all cases where the ad-
ministrators of the law believe that the cause of justice can
be furthered, and the public interests benefitted, by the em-
ployment of states' evidences who have been participators,
directly or indirectly, in the crimes sought to be disclosed
and punished. Every states' evidence who receives from
the counsel for the prosecution, an assurance of pardon, on
condition of testifying against his accomplices in guilt, may
be said in the same sense to be bribed. And yet it is the
every day practice in our criminal courts to employ such
testimony, of which fact no man is better aware than Gov.
Throop. He has been on the bench ; and if, at Canandai-
gua, Loton Lawson had come forward as a states' evidence,
with a promise of making a full disclosure, I have no doubt
that the Judge's approbation of" the blessed spirit," would
then have prompted the measure. I regret being obliged
thus to speak of this act of our generally correct and esti-
mable chief magistrate ; but I feel that my censures are
just, and I do not wonder at the disappointment and chagrin
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEil XXXIX.
o( the special COW19el, on receiving such an unlooked for
and abrupt refusal.
The charge of the special counsel, that the Executive
bad betrayed the contents of his confidential letters to the
counsel of the conspirators, was not well founded. I have
no idea that Gov. Throop knowingly did any such thing. I
have heard a suggestion, however, which, if correct, would
account for the incident that induced Mr. Spencer to sup-
pose be had been thus trifled with, without compromising the
conduct of the Executive. In these high criminal matters,
as in all other state affairs, it was probably the practice of
Gov. T.,-certaioly it ought to have been,.-to call in the
advice of those official gentlemen by whom he is surround-
ed, and who are his friends. One of his cabinet counsellors
bad recently been a partner io business with a western
gentleman, who was at that period a member of the legis-
lature. And that fonner partner, and member of the legis-
lature, was so unfortunate as to have a brother among the
parties under indictment for the conspiracy. Does not thia
fact render the matter of easy solution1
I am, air, with respect, &c.
LETTER XXXIX.
Nzw-YoaE, March 21, 1832.
~~~..I have heretofore mentioned some instances, and hint-
ed at others, in which efforts have been made, from time to
time, by the political leaders of the Anti-masonic party, to
prolong the excitement by artificial means, and to rekindle
the dying embers with additional fuel, as occasion might
require. lt ia now proper to advert, in chronological or-
Digitized by Coogle
••••
LETTER XXXIX.
der, to another, and perhaps the most interesting of those
attempts. This was the publication in all the Anti-mason-
ic papers in this state, of an affidavit made at Boston be-
fore John W. Quincy, Esq., by Samuel G. Anderton, rela-
tive to an alledged murder by Freemasons, of one William
Miller, at Belfast, in Ireland.
The affidavit states, that in the spring of 1813, the depo-
nent revisited Belfast, (having been there before, and be-
come acquainted with Wm. Miller and other Masons,) and
was induced to offer himself as a candidate for the higher
degrees of Masonry. On the evening of the 4th of June
of that year, he went to the lodge room. . " The whole
" number of Masons there of all degrees, was seventy-one,
"or seventy-two. That night I took the degrees of Arch,
"Royal Arch and Knight Templar." Anderton proceeds to
say that during the same evening, and soon after he was dub-
bed a Knight Templar, he was told that a Mason would be
there who had violated his obligations, by saying that Ja-
chin and Boaz was a true book ; that he had broken his
oaths ; was a damned perjured wretch ; had forfeited his
life ; and ought not to live any longer among men or
Masons.
He (the deponent) wished to leave the room, but was
told that "it was never allowed on such occasions." They
were then·ordered to cast lots to see who should officiate
as executioners, and the lots fell (he thinks unfairly,) upon
three foreigners, viz, a Swede, a Dane and himself. The
Swede and Dane were strong, athletic men,-:-masters of
vessels,-and strangers to the deponent, who was struck
with indescribable horror and astonislunent, beyond any
exigency to which he had been previously reduced.
" Amidst all my other dangers," says he, " I felt that I was
" doing my duty ; but this I concluded would be murder iQ
" cold blood."
Digitized by Coogle
4SO LETTER XXXIX.
The narrator had been told in the course of the day by
Miller, that he (Miller,) was to be ·made a Knight Temp-
Jar that evening free of expense; and he (Anderton,) now
leamed that Miller was the individual about to suffer death,
and for whose murder he had been specially designated.
"I told them, (says Anderton,) I could not do it. I begged
"and entreated; told them I. had as lief have my own
" throat cut as commit such an act. My feelings were so
" distressed, and I expressed myself in such a manner, that
" after some time I was excused. The Swede and Dane,
"according to my best remembrance, did not object. Sev-
" era! others said 'they would help to execute any one who
"broke his obligations; that every Mason ought to help
"to do it,' or words to that effect." "They had a canvass
" cloth cap, or bag, to put over ~is head, and to come down
•• a little below the chin, rigged with small ropes or strong
"cords, fixed in the lower part of it, so as to slip easily,
"that when the cap was on, and the cords drawn each
"way, right" and left, the cap would be gathered tight UD·
" der the chin so as to shut his mouth, and at the same time
" draw so close round his neck and throat as to strangle
"him."-" It was now the black hour of midnight. The
" executioners took their stations a little to the left of the
" high priest." Miller having doubtless been decoyed by
the promise of being made a Knight Templar free of ex-
pense, was then conducted into the room, hoodwinked, with
his coat off, somewhat in the condition that candidates usu-
ally are. " He was led along slowly from the west up
" near his executioners, when some one said, ' Who comes
" there 1' 'who comes there 1' The answer was bawled out
"as they siezed him,' a d·'!!llled traitor; one who has brok-
" en his masonic obligations.' \Vith that he exclaimed, '0
" my God ! arc you going to murder me 1 0 my wife ! 0
"my children!' The agony, the strong struggle, and the
Digitized by Coogle
db. -~
LETTER XXXIX. 4Sl
" half utterance of these words, and the final shriek, as the·
" cap went over his head and face, pierced ·me to the heart,
" and was enough as I should think, to soften the hearts of
"savages, if "they had not taken masonic oaths."
" Those horrid sounds of the tortured vic~im seem still to ring in mine
ears. No sooner was the murderous enj> drawn over his face, and his whole
head enveloped, than, at the same instant, the Swede and Dane appeared
to spring with all their might and strength, dmwing each in opposite direc-
tions, by ropes or cords around his neck !! Poor Miller, after the most
frantic struggles, like a person in a lit, then settled down to the ftoor in the
most dreadful convulsions. Other Masons tell on him, while the Swede
and Dane, bmcing their feet against his body, still pulled by the cords! the.:e
while struggling on the ftoor, they cut his throat! and then cut his left breast
and side open, so as to show his heart!! Some, very few, M11110ns present,
seemed, by their looks, to express some sympathy and compassion, while
tho rest, using the most profane, revengeful language, with their lists
clenched, grinned with horrid approbation ! The body was then carried
down stairs, while seveml Ma~ons kept watch for fear of detection, and was
thrown over into Limekiln Dock! ! 1 got away from this scene of masonic
murder as soon as possible, with the most awful impressions. Before I left
Belfast, I heard by common report, that the body was taken up the next
day, and that a coroner's inquest decided that William Millicr tou'murlkrcd
6y periUM tmknotDn-or something to that effect."
Such is the relation of Samuel G. Anderton, and it is not
to·be denied that the publication of this tragical story made
for a time a deep impression upon the public mind. The
minuteness of its details, and the general air of probability
.thrown over it( was calculated to make such an impression.
1 felt it myself, and held repeated conversations with some
of my friends who were .Masons, and who were equally as-
tounded with myself. So important did I consider it, that
I Tesolvcd if possible to institute an investigation of its truth
or falsity. An American gentleman,--a Royal Arch
Mason, with whom I am iritimately acquainted,-who
had been much in Ireland of late, undertook the investiga-
tion. He was well acquainted with a gentleman in Bel-
o1gil1zed ~Y Google
'
LETTER XXXIX.
fast, a man of.intelligence and undoubted integrity, who
was not a Mason ; and it was deemed proper to seek
through him the requisite information.
The act alledged by Anderton to have taken place at Bel-
fast, was even more atrocious than the murder of Morgan.
It was more barbarous in its character, and perpetrated
officially, by a lodge, instead of being the act of infatuated
individua1s. Asswning this fearful aspect, both myself and
my friend detennined that if the investigation did notre-
sult in the refutation of Anderton's statement, we would
publicly renounce Freemasonry.
Pursuant to this arrangement, a letter was addressed on
the 15th of May, 1830, to Mr. Edward Tucker, of Belfast,
requesting full and accurate information on the subject. A.
copy of Anderton's affidavit, was inclosed, together with a
· copy of the affidavit of Agnes Bell, and a copy of there-
port of a committee in Boston,-the two latter, .however,
principally for the purpose of facilitating inquiry. There-
ply was not received until the 15th of October of the same
year ; but it proved most conclusively that the whole story
was a gro8s fabrication.
"If such an occurrence, aye Mr. Tucker, had taken place, it·is incre4i.
ble, that in a town like thie, where Uwu newspapers were published, 110 U•
traordinary a circumstance u the discovery of a man's body in the dock,
with his throat and aide cut open, should escape notice. Now, .U ~e papers
ot that period have been minutely examined, and not the alightest allllllioli
to such an event can be met with. In the • Commercial Chronicle' of 7th
orl3th of June, 1813, which I examined, there is a paragraph headed 'ano-
ther DUJrder,' butit is in relation to an old woman in Scotland, and baa refer.
ence to some shocking murders lately perpetrated in London. The time is
not very remote, and yet no one can be found in .thi1 place who rec:ollecte
any mch tragical death, or ite attendant rumon."
The story of Anderton had found its way to Ireland be·
fore my friend's communication had arrived there ;--an ex-
amination had been instituted ; and in relation to it, the
Digitized by Coogle
•
.-,._ ,
LETTER XXXIX.
Guardian, one of the most respectable newspapers in that
kingdom, remarks under the editorial head as follows:-
"We have made inquiry respecting this calamnious story, a.od find that
it ie a tiasue of falaebood &om beginning to end. No such peiiiOil u Wi&-
liam Miller wu ever admitted into any lodge in this town ; anti Mr. Allan,
the coroner, declares that he hu uamined his books, or registry, from a
period prior to 'the year 1813, down to the preeent time, and that no inqueet
wu held on the body of any individual oC that name ; and that jf aay re-
port ofsuch a murder bad been current in Belfut, he mu.t have heard it."
But the refutation was not left to stand upon mere aBler·
tion, however conclusive in its tertns, or however respecta•
ble. the affirmant. It was sustained by testimony under
oath, of which the following by the coroner would seem .to
be irresistible:-
." The voluntary deposition of Henry Allan, of Belfut, in the county ot
Antrim, in that part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
called Ireland, Esq., who, being duly sworn on the Holy Evangeliste, upon
his oath, aaitb, that he was appointed a coroner for aaid county in March,
1813, and bath replarlyreaided in Belfast aince that period, and beea the
only coroner resident therein ; and eaith, he baa carefully examined his reo
giater of inquests, and that he ne~cr did hold an inquest on any pemon ofthe
name of William Miller, nor did he ever hear of a person of that name hav-
ing been found dead in Belfast, or of an inquest having been held on any per-
8011 of that name ; and deponent bath presided at every inquest held in Bel-
Cut aince he wu appointed coroner, except one, on the bodiee oftwo men,
named Grimes and Menary, who were shot in a riot in North-street, Bel-
fast, on the lith of July, ISll."
The secretary of the lodge in which Anderton lays the
.scene of his tragedy, al~ made affidavit that there was no
man either of the name of Anderton, or Miller, admitted
into the lodge during the time of his secretaryship, which
embraced the whole period between 1811 and 1814. Eight
other persons, members of the lodge, testified under oath-
" '{bat they reepectively never knew a person of the name of W m• .Miller
.. a member of that lodr, nor does any -of them ever recollect a pe1110D ol
55
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIX.
&bat JWDe b&Yinl been a viaiter in that lodge; and lieponenta Fay, that they
De'fer knew any penon of the name of Samuel G. Anderton to have been
admitted u a Muon in that lodge, or u a Tisiter in it, tiOI" did lluJ ~w how
• pawA ftl IAe- of ~ rilAw ., • maNit or otAmoile." And the
deponenll flllther •• eneraHy awear that the lltatemeotemade in eaid aftida-
Tit rupectiag the aid Samuel G. Anderton, uving been admitted a--
ber ole.icllodge, o~t.erl71, and reepectlng the murder of a penon named
William Miller ia that lodge, are in all reepect., aud in every particular,
~ inftunone, aud aofounded faleehooda, u far u theee deponente ue
ooocemild, and u far ae theee deponente know, or have beard, no IIUCb
t.ranRc:tiou b&'fina eYer taken place."
Theae depositions were sworn .to at Belfast on tlie 31st
May, 1830, before C. M. Skinner, police magistrate for
.Belfast, and Henderson Black and Robert Thompson, Esqs.,
jus_tice• of the peace for the county of Antrim, and seem
in connexion with the representations of Mr. Tucker, and of
the editor of the Belfast Guardian, to form a refutation of
Anderton's story, as conclusive as can be established by hu-
man testimony.
It has indeed been asked what adequate motive could
have operated upon the mind of Anderton to induce him to
forswear himself? To this it may be answered, that it is not
easy at any time to assign an adequate motive for the vio-
olation of truth ;-and yet it is notorious that it is violated
from time to time, with and without the sanction of an oath,
and that too very often, with VERY small temptation. Pecu-
niary interest, and personal vanity, arising from the gratifi-
cation of becoming distinguished, are perhaps the most
common causes,-aud although we are not aware that the
former could have operated in the present instance, yet it is
easy to conceive that the latter might ; and that it would
possess additional inducement at a time of public excite-
ment.
But it has also heen suggested in relation to And<'rton,
how could he haYe inYented, by the mere force of imngina-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIX.
tion, a scene so minute in its details, and so vivid in its dra-
matic effect, unless it was founded in truth 1
Really I do not perceive in this narrative a greater min-
uteness or accuracy of detail, nor a more vivid creation of
fancy, than is often found in ordinary works of fiction, or
even in nursery tales. No man, in. relating a murder of
which he assumes to have been a witness, (whether true or
false,) would forbear to state the particulars in minute de-
tail, if he expected to be believed,-for the whole scene,
aDd each particular, of such an awful occurrence, must be
~~d to have made a deep impression on his mind.
't'btntator, therefore, would naturally be ready to meet
sucH~xpectadon ; and after the outlines of the piece have
ooen struck ~ut, it can require no very deep reach of the
imagination to fill up the shades and coloring of the picture.
But there are points and errors in this representation which
show that it was not drawn by the hand of a master. .
In addition to the extraneous evidence of its falsity, there
areinternal proofs of its want of accuracy and truth.
Sixteen years had elapsed betwee.n the alledged occur-
rence, and the date of the affidavit; and yet Anderton not
only swears to the year, and the month, and the day of the
month, on which the murder took place, but he also avers
that the number of Masons present was seventy-one, or se-
venty-two I Now had he been a teller, instead of a visiting
brother, it is hardly to be credited that he could have arriv-
ed at such extreme accuracy among a floating body. What
inducement was there for him to count the number T--or if
he did, how unusual it is that it should be treasured up for
such a series of years! I appeal for the teJJt of its proba-
bility to the experience of ev!'lry man who has been in the
habit of visiting a promiscuous assembly, of whatever cha-
racter. The very next sentence contains a falsehood. He
says, that on the night of the murder, he, the deponent, took
the degrees of Arch, Royal Arch, and Knight Templar.
Digitized by Google
LETT.EB XXXIX.
Now it is susceptible of the most undoubted proof that there
exists neither in this country, nor in Ireland, the degree of
Arch as contradistinguished from the Royal Arch, and yet
he asserts, as clearly as language can convey a meaning,
that he took three degrees the same night, of which two only
have ever had existenCe I Another part of the story is, to
say the least of it, very singular. The murder Wa& per-
petrated, it would seem, in an encampment of Knights Tem-
plars, and the offence was an averment by Miller that Ja-
chin and Boaz, a. book that does not profess to reveal the
secrets of the Knight Templar's degree, was true. Human
experience does not often· record the perpetration of gratui-
tour murders ; yet here is an accusation of the spilling of
blood by one set of men, in revenge for the w~ongs inflict-
ed upon another !
Without dwelling, however, upon the inaccuracy of stat-
ing that a highpriest presided over a Knight Templar's en-
campment, and various other inconsistencies, there is one
general and entire objection to its probability, which must,
I think, fully confirm the direct refutation tha~ has been pre-
sented in contradiction to the story.
This barbarous murder is alledged to have been perpe-
trated, not like tile supposed destruction of Morgan, in the
lone, dark border of a secluded frontier, but in the midst of
a populous ciiy :-no conclave arrangements had excluded
from witness or participation those who might betray the
horrid secret ;-on the contrary, the doors of the lodge-
room or encampment, were open not only to those who had
plotted the guilt, but to visiting brethren and strugcrs I
Nor is this all. The strangers are made ihe executioners--
a Dane-a Swede-an American-all foreigners, are to
perpetrate this foul deed, at the mere instance and request
of their Belfast brethren I The Dane, and the Swede,
made no objection ; but he, Anderton, was "so distressed,"
that they excWied him I!-Would men so deep in guilt,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XXXIX. 497
when they found a comrade so faint-hearted, have excused
him-Or would they not have plunged a dagger in his bo-
som to prevent his dangerous tales 1 And is it credible that
Swedes and Danes, rarely visiting the port of Belfast-
rarely speaking the language with correctness, and rarely
being able to understand each other; would have so readily
comprehended the foul offence of admitting Jachin and
Boaz to· be a true book, and have been so ready to embrue
their hands in blood to avenge the admission 1
Yet the super-remarkable incidents of this tragedy do not
end here. Unlike the skilful precautions that," as will here-
after·be seen, were us.ed in the case of Morgan, to prevent
the implication of each other, the Belfast murderers not
only perpetrated. the deed in ~he open presence of many
and " distressed" witnesses,-foreigners and visiting bre-
thren assembled from any and every quarter of the world,
-but such was their infatuation, that after strangling their
victim until he was dead, dead, dead-they cut his throat, ·
without the fear of its tell-tale stain upon the floor, and put
upon him the ma~onic mark, by cutting open his side and
left breast, so as to show his heart !! r· This, as the invok-
ed penalty of the obligation that he had iaken and violat-
ed, must have been done for the purpose ofprocUring tes-
timony to convict themselves ;-and then; to consummate
the evidence, the body, with this official label upon it, to in~
dicate the· perpetrators, is cast into one of the most p~blic
docks of the city L!!
When hwnan nature shall tread backward, we may be-
lieve the story of Samuel G. Anderton-but .until th.eno-
NEVE~ . .
With great respect, I remain, &c•.
o;~;uzed by Coogle
• •.J-
498 LETTER XL.
LETTER XL.
NEw-YoRK, March 22, 1832.
Sra, .
The next tlial was that of Ezekiel Jewett, which com~
menced on the 15th of June, 1830, at the Niagara Special
Circuit. Hon. William L. Marcy presiding. Counsel for
the government, Messrs. Birdseye, (special counsel,) Whit-
ney and Ransom ; for the defendant, Messrs. Matthews,
Griffin, Barnard and Mason. Mr. White appeared as coun-
sel for the masonic witnesses. Jonathan Aire was drawn
as a juror, and challenged by the counsel for the govern-
ment for principal cause, to wit, for being a Mason.
Judge Marcy, by consent of parties, was substituted for
the triers. Aire being sworn, testified ·that be was a Free-
mason, and· had passed through three· degrees. He baa
heard that the defendant is a Mason, but should not feel
hound to show favor to a Mason on trial,-nor had he ever
said that Masons should f!Ot be punished for their acts rela-
tive to this affair. He did not recollect the precise words
of the obligations he had taken, but be believed .he swore
by a book, which he had never read, but had looked into it.
His obligation was to live uprightly, but he did not consid-
er himself bound to show a Mason more favor than any
other man. There wps a sign of distress, and he believes
that if a Mason or any other person was in da0ger of his
life, he was bound to assist him. There was an exception
in the obligation to render assistance, but what it was he
could not recollect. He was bound to keep the secrets of
a brother Mason, but could not recollect the clause about
going with a master's errand. There had been no commu-
Digitized by Coogle
',
LET'J:ER Xt. 489
nicationl! by masonic signs or otherwise, between him and
the defendant now on trial. .
Milton W. Hopkins was now called aa a witness to show
the purport of the masonic obligations. It was objected by
counsel for the defendant, that before the testimony of wit-
ness coUld be introduced to show the purport of masonic
obligations, it must be proved that t_
he. maSQnic oaths were
similar in the different lodges. Witness then stated that he
had taken three degrees, besides one or two side degrees,
and was very conversant with Masonry. He had been in
many lodges in difterent parts of this state ; and all masonic
societies, with which he is acquainted, have the same signs
and tokens. He had been .in the masonic lodges in Canada, ·
and heard the obligations taken there,-the ceremonies were
the Sll!lle in Canada aa in New-York. He had heard the
obligation of a Master Mason taken in'""scveral different
places, and it is substruitially the sam~ in all places, and 10
are the ceremonies.
The court decided that as the testimony of the witness
showed that the masonic fraternity were the same throughout
the wor)d..:.._the oath or obligation of a Master Mason in one
lodge, ought to be received as prima facie evidence of the
oath or obligation administered to the juror.
The witness then proceeded to recite the substance of a
Master Mason's obligation, substantially as disclosed by
Morgan; after which he underwent a long examination .
upon the subject of the obligations and rules of the ord(lr in
general, which it is quite unnecessary to repeat in ~k~tching
the present trial. The witness said he was made a Mason
in Jefferson county, in 1817. There are weekly meetings
to rehearse the obligations ;-at these meetings it is usual
to go through all the masonic ccremonic~. He had learnt
the oaths so pcrlcetly that he could now repeat them verbatim.
lie had heard the obligations administered in different lodg-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER ·XL.
es, and they were the same in each pl&;ee ;~metimes,
however, a clause, not material, is left out, or, perhaps, a'
part is omitted by mistake. In 1827 he revealed these ob-
ligations to others than Masons. A lecturer, he said, was
sent every year from the Grand Lodge, for the purpose of
correcting errors, and seeing that the signs, obligations, &c.
are kept precisely t.he. same in all the lodges. The juri~
diction of the Grand Lodge of New-York is confined to the
limits of the state ; and he knew not of any connexion be-
tween the lodges in this state and the lodges in Canada.
Witness had never heard that political obligations were in-
.corporated into the oath in this or foreign countries. A
charge is given when a member is admitted: the charge is
written in a book. and is often read. The substance ofthis
charge is, to be good citizens, good men, and good Masons.
Charity and obedience to the Jaws are inculcated, and the
candidate is assured before taking the obligation, that it will
not interfere with.his religion or his politics. It was object-
ed by defendant's counsel, that if the charge was written, or
printed in a book, it ought to be produced, but the objection
was over-ruled by the court. The witness further stated,
that the charge enjoined upon the candidate to perform all
his relative duties as a citizen, but more particularly his du-
ties as a Mason.
William H~gkirs was now introduced. He stated that
the defendant was a Mason. He did not know of exactly
what degree, but he did know him to be a Royal Arch
Masof!..
Mr. Birdseye here· intimated to the court, that a connex-
ion by signs, &c. existed between Aire the juror and the
defendant.
The testimonyas to the qualifications Qfthejuror beingclo-
sed, and the counsel for the prosecution, and for the defend-
ant, having been heard, Judge Marcy, after recapitulating
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XL. 44l
the substance of the masonic obligations as disclosed in the
testimony of Hopkins, in·giving his decision, remarked, in
substance, as follows :-
" That the conclusions to which ho came in relation to the challenge to
the juror, (Jonathan Aire,) were, that the oaths taken by Muons are whol-
ly extra-judicial, and in a legal point of view, are not to be regarded as bind-
ing upon the persons to whom they are adminilltcred. If, by fair constrac-
tion, these oaths enjoined partiality to a brother Mason in the relation cL
juror and party, the engage~ent would not be strictly"and legally obligatory.
The taking of such an oath would not, therefore, be a prinripol c~J~Ue ofchal-
lenge to a juror. But, if, by the fair construction of masonic obligatioruJ,
and the juror'• underllanding of them, he had engaged to extend favor to a
brother Mason, when that favor would be an act coptrary to law, or in any
respect contra!): to his duty as a juror, the fact of his having placed himselt
under such an obligation, would be a good ground of challenge for favor,
and substituted as I am, by consent of parties, for the triers, I should feel it
my duty to set aside a juror on such a challenge, if it was sustained.
"It is quite uncertain what were the obligations which Aire took,-bu&
aasuming that they were similar to those in the ooth repeated by Hopkin.-
most of them, it will be observed, enjoin acts in accordance with high moral
duties ;-and all of them, I think, may apply to acts which do not necessa-
rily conftict with the laws of the state, or any duty enjoined by th0110 laws.
Considering the nature of these obligations, the assurance given to the candi-
date, before they are administered, and the charges tltat follow, I cannot eay
that a Mason could rightfully tuppose that he thereby became barred to do
any thing contrary to his duty as a good citizen.
" That there are Masons so infatuated as to entertain an opinion that
their masonic obligations arc paramount to thech·illaws, in some instances,
and that they Yiolated the latter by obeying the former, cannot now be doubt-
ed ;-but. I cannot fcld to the belief that such is the general condition o(
the order. To any of those who act upon such a principle, and form, as I
apprehend they do, an exception to the mass of the fraternity, I should hold
the objection now made to this juror as well taken. But in rcht:tion to this
juror, it does not appear that he assumed a masonic obligation cleatly in-
compatible with his civil duty ; nor is there evidence to call up a reasonable
suspicion that he ever regarded his masonic obligations in .any other light
than as subservient to his civil dutiee.
"If it had lieen, or could be, shown, that Aire entertained the opinion
that hie masonic obligations were inconaieten.t with hie civil dutiea u a ciU.
zen of this government,-that he bad in the slightest manner countenaaced
the outrage committed in this part of the 1tate,-or enn approved of the
principle on which the in(atuatei! men, en~&ged in that tranll&ction, proceed••
56
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XL•
..._... mould not be.itate to pronounce him di11qualified to take a eeat
atDDng the juro111 who are to try this cause. But, as he stands before thia
court, I cannot reject him without setting aprecedent that would subject to
a cballenge for favor, every Mason in the elate, in those CIUICI! where any of
the fraternity might be parties. Such a proccrding bas not yet been sane•
tioned, and, I tnut, is not y~t requir!'d, for the purposes of the due adminie-
ba&ion of jutice. I therefore decide that .Aire be admitted as a juror.""'
Nathaniel Denman was now drawn as a juror,-bcing
sworn as a witnes~ to prove his quali~cations to scrve,.-he
stated, that he was a Mason, and had, about two years ago,
sat in a lodge. The obligations which he had taken were
the same as detailed by Hopkins. He had met with the
lodge ten times or. more,-but had never heard any thing
said in the lodge as to the l\forgan ~ffair. He believed that
Masons carried off l\Iorgan, but never approved of it. He
yet believed himself bound to keep his oath. The grand
hailing signs of distress, he said, were given only when life
was in danger, and not on such a trial as the present. He
thought, however, he should show all the favor he- could to
a brother Mason.
The court thereupon put this question to the witness:-
Should you be disposed to show more favor to a Mason
than to a person not a Masop, on a trial ? The witness
replied that he did not know but he should. The court de-
cided that he was disqualified to sit as juror. All the jurors
drawn were challenged, and several others were set aside,
for having expressed an opinion touching the guilt of the
defendant at the bar, or of the masonic fraternity generally.
In several instances, the persons G,rawn as jurors, not Ma-
sons, bad expressed the strongest opinions, not only as to
the guilt of the defendant, but of every member of the ma-
aonic fraternity. Such jurors were of course set aside.
After a very brief opening by Mr. Whiting, to the jury,
in ~bich he explained the nature of the cause they were
t< Thit decision is substantinlly copied from the numu~(·ript notes of tbe
Judge himaelf, ('Qlitely furnished for ruy ~sc in the present work..
Digitized by Coogle
------------~-- ----·---rl'b
..~al·
- - - -- ·------- -------- -
- -- -· -
LETTER XL, 448
empannelled to try, and alluded to the more prominent facts
which the counsel for the government expected to prov«:, .
Orsamus Turner was called upon the stand. Before giving
his testimony however, the witness requested permission
to confer with his counsel, which was objected to by tho
counsel for the prosecution, on the ground that he had
known for ten days that he would be called to testify in this
cause. The court refused to grant the application. of. the
witness, at this stage of the trial, and the examination pro-
ceeded.
Turner stated, that in September, 1826, he resided il)
Lockport-was at that time a member of the masonic fra-
ternity, and knew the defendant, who then resided at Fort
Niagara, and was the keeper of the fort. The fact that one
William Morgan was about publishing a book relating to
Freemasonry, was known among Masons at the time just
mentioned. The propriety of suppressing the book was
discussed, and measures proposed for accomplishing the
object. One of these measures was Ute removal of Mor-
gan from his friends in Batavia. Certain persons in Bata-
via were consulted as to the propriety of this measure ; they
did not approve of it, and it was finally concluded not to
make any definite movement in the matter. Witness had
heard that Morgan was coming to this place, (LO<'kport,)
but at present knew not from whom he heard it. He was
also, ignorant as to any measures for his removal and con-
finement in jail.
The following question was now put to the witness :-
"Was the defendant one of the persons consulted with, in
" relation to separating Morgan from his friends at Batavia,
" as a means of suppressing the contemplated publication of
" n book concerning the secrets of Freemasonry ?" This
question the witness declined answering on the ground tlat
his answer might subject him to a similar prosecution-and
his counsel contended that the answer of the 'witoesa might
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XL.
involve himself in an indictment f9r murder,-as it was
. alledged that Morgan was murdered, and such was proba-
bly the fact.
The court remarked that the witness must know that a
crime had been committed, before he could claim the privi-
lege of not answering a question upon the groimd that the
answer might have a tendency to involve him in a prosecu-
tion· for that crime. The counsel for the people contended
that the prosecution had not set up any such offence as
rn\lfder,-that it was not in possession of any positive evi-
dence upon which to found such an indictment,-and that
the record of acquittal then before the court, exonerated
the witness from a~y prosecution for a misdemeanor.
The counsel for witness replied that the absence of such
positive evidence was no reason why the witness had not
cau11e to fear,-for the ''cry object of the inquiry might be
to elicit such evidence,-and the answer of the witness
might have a tendency to render him infamous, or disgraced,
and he would therefore submit to the court whether the wit-
ness should answer the question.
The court ruled, that .it was not sufficient to entitle the
witness to the privilege claimed, that the answer might
have a tendency to render him infamous or disgraced ;.-the.
question must be such that the answer to it will show di-
rectly the infamy, and the court must see that such wiU be
the case, before the privilege will be allowed. As to the
objection that the answer of witness may have a tendency
to implicate him in a crime or misdemeanor, or expose him
to a penalty or forfeiture, the court remarked, that the wit-
ness cannot be compelled to answer any interrogatory that
will involve him in a criminal prosecution. If the court
were satisfied that the answer of witness would furnish di-
rect evidence of his own guilt, or would establish one of '
many facts which together would warrant his conviction,
.then the privUege would be allowed. But the witness can-
Digitized by Coogle
ft . . J
LETTER XL.
not set up such a defence unless he knows thatrus answer
will so involve him. To entitle to the privilege, the answer
to the particular question put must so involve the witness in
an indictment. On the trial of Aaron Burr, for treason, a
witness was 11hown a letter in cipher. He refused to An-
swer whether he knew it or not ;-and the case before us
is similar.
The counsel for the witness remarked, that the cases dif-
fered,-because the witness is here asked whether he knew
the defendant was consulted anterior to the trial. The
court replied, that the witness must claim the privilege
when in danger : Burr's case was not like the present,-
there the concerting was a crime-not so here. The coun-
sel for witness further objected that the witness.did not rest
his refusal to answer on the misdemeanor, but on the ground
that a murder has actually been committed. Some inquiry
would then be had.
The Court said," you must establish that point: every per-
son who belped take off Morgan, would not be liable to an
indictment for his murder, as that crime might have been
committed in pursuance of other and subsequent counsels."
The counsel for witness suggested that if it were shown
that the witness was at defendant's house consulting with
persons on .the subject of Morgan's ab8uction, it might be
against him-it would bring home to him a knowledge of
the transaction.
The court replied-you think that this question may be
followed up by others that would involve him in ~ criminal
prosecution ;-when such arc put to the witness, he may
refuse to answer-:-but he takes his stand too soon.
Messrs. Griffin and Barnard, counsel for the defendant,
contended that the question was improper in regard to the
defendant, as the form of it obliges him to answer as to a
matter of fact. Can the witness say that defendant was
consulted if he had only the confession of the defendant 1
Digitized by Coogle
446 LETTER XL.
And should the .witness answer the question put to him in
the affirmative, the counsel may follow it up and interrogate
him as to the manner of his knowing it. If, then, he should
be required to answer, he might divulge the fact that be
communicated with the defendant himself-and thus crim-
inate· himself and become liable to a criminal prosecution.
The Court again addressed the witness and told him that
his privilege must be overruled, and that he must answer
the question. WitnesS--" I will not answer." Court--" I
" shall punish you then."-Before directing the clerk to en-
ter the rule, Judge Marcy observed, that the witness was
liable to be indicted for every contempt,-and that each
one must be entered on the record, as he shoUld direct the
District Attorney to find bills for each refusal separately.
The following record was then entered on the minutes
of the court.-
"Orl!amus Turner, a witness in the cause of the People v. E::ekitl JtVJett,"
having refused to answer the following question, "was the defendant one
of the persons con~ulted with in relation to separating Morgan from his
friends at Batavia, as a means of supprc,sing the contemplated publication
of a book concerning the Mcrcts of Frecmasonry,"-afier the court had
decided, that it wa~ a legal and proper interrogatory for him to aoswer:-
The court d.> adjud~e, that by such refusal he is guilty of contempt in open
court. It does, thcrcfoll', sentence him to pay a fme therefor, of two hul)-
drt>d and fifty dollars, and be imprisoned for the space of thirty days in the
jail of the county of Niagara."•
The examination of the witness being resumed, he was
asked-"Do you know that the defendant consented or
"agreed to prepare the magazine at Fort Niagara for the
"reception and confmement of ·william .Morgan 1"-The
• Durin~ Turner's confinement he was supplied by his masonic friends
with every luxury that the country eould furnish, and that money could pro-
rurc; he was constantly visited by his masonic brethren, and their WJVet!l
.and daughters; and at the expiration of his term ofimpriwomeot, waa con-
ducted from the jail to his residence in a coach aud four, with attending
• Muon, ahoutiAg -" the triamph of crime over justice !
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEJ\ XL, 441
witness refused to answer this question. It being nearly the
same question as the other, he feared it might involve him
in a criminal prosecutiop.-By the court-" you are asked
whether the defendant did agree to prepare the magazine.'1
-The witness replied that it was a leading question, and
he could not answer it without danger.
'The counsel for witness requested permission to consult
with him.~The court remarked, that the witness had im-
bibed strange and erroneous ideas;-that the court wished
to preserve the rights of the witness, but that the rigor of the
law must be enforced, if he refused to answer questions
pronounced to be proper ones by the court, from which he
is alone to receive the law.
The counsel for the witness thought the answer would
involve him in an indictment for murder. .
The question, 'at the suggestion of the court, was varied
and put in the following form,-" Have you heard the de-
" fendant confess or admit that he had consented or agreed
" to prepare the magazine 1" :\Vitness answered that he had
not-never heard him say that he had consented that the
magazine· should be used for the copfinement of William
Morgan.-The second question being again put, he an-
swered that he had no positive proof of it,-but ref':15Cd to
tell what proof he had-and urged the same objections as
before.
The witness was then asked, " Do you know whethez:
"the defendant was applied to for a place in or about Fort
"Niagara for the purpose of confining William Morgan?,..
-Witness refused to answer and claimed his privilege~
The court decided that he must answer. He still refused;
whereupon the court proceeded to pass sentence on the wit-
ness for contempt-and he was sentenced therefor to impris-
onment in the jail of the county of Niagara for thirty days~
The witness no~ having property, the fine was -not impos-
ed, as it would mitigate the punishment on the indictment~· ·
Digitized by Coogle
.~
-
..
..
LETTER XL.
The examination of the witness being again resumed, he
stated that he never heard defendant, in conversation with
others, one or more, admit that such application had been
made to him,-ne\'er heard defendant say that he had
agreed to prepare a place for Morgan,-and did not recol-
lect positively, that, in the presence of the defendant, he
had heard any person say, that the defendant had so
agreed-and did not know that the defendant was present
when the propriety of carrying off Morgan was discussed.
Witness being asked, " Have you ever been present at
" a conversation between two or more persons, at which •
" the defendant was present, on the subject of confining
"Morgan?" refused to answer. The question being va-
ried, was finally put thus: " Were you ever present when
" the subject of preparing a place at Fort Niagara, or at
" any other place in the county of Niagara, was discussed
" in the presence of the defendant 1" The court decided
the question to be a properone, and directed the witness to
answer it ;-but he urged his privilege, and refused-and
the court thereupon ordered another entry to be made of
contempt, and sentene<ld the witness to an imprisonment of
thirty days. ·
The ~xamination being again resumed, witness was ask-
ed, "if he did not go to Fort Niagara in September, 1826,
"and see Jewett?" but he again refused to answer. He
\yas then asked if " he did not swear so before the grand
" jury ?" The counsel for witness objected to the question,
and it was not pressed.
Eli Bruce was now called as a witness, but refused to
be sworn, saying, " he was once before sworn and exam-
" ined, and no good came of it." The court adjudged him
guilty of contempt in open court, and sentenced him to im-
prisonmen~ for the space of thirty days, in the jail of the
county of Ontario,-the witness being then a prisoner in
·the custody of the sheriff of that county, and having been
------- - ~--------
Digitized by Coogle
- -- __..___ - _ ..._ ______
LETTER XL.
brought up to testify in this cause by a writ of Habeas
Corpus.
John Whitney being called a"s a witness, refused to be
sworn. The court sentenced him also to imprisonment of
thirty days, and to pay a fine of two hundred and fifty
dollars.•
John Jackson was the next material witness called upon
this trial. He will be recollected as the person who went
to the magazine, in company with Giddings, on the morn-
ing after it was believed Morgan had been confined in the
fort. On being sworn, he was asked whether, on the morn·
ing of the 14th of September, 1826, he and Giddings, or
Giddings alone, went to the_magazine, but he refused to an-
swer the question,believing it to be an improper one, which
might subject him to an indictment for an ofience of high
magnitude. .
The court said he could not be prosecuted for the conspi-
racy ; a prosecution for that offence is barred by the statute.
Griffin-Witness does not wish to disclose the act for
which he fears a prosecution ; this is the very thing he
wishes to conceal.
Court-Do you suppose it would involve you in a pro·
secution for murder ?
The witness answered that he did not know how far it
would affect him; did not know it would involve him in a
charge of murder. Hehad been told by .Mr. Spencer, that
if he would tell all, he would protect him. ·
The Court-The witness cannot first presume·an offen~
to have been committed, and then claim a privilege not to
answer a question, on the ground that such answer would
involve him in a prosecution for·a presumed offence. The
witness must know that a crime has been committed, before
• While thellf! eheeta are pUlling through the preu, llearu from a Lpeit.
port papef, that Bruee and Whitney have both been tried thd sprin1, oa ia·
dietmenta for mi.edemeano... in 80 musing to be•wom, ud have eaeb beea
fined therefor in the Bum of two hundred and fifty dollara.
57
Digitized by Coogle
·- ~
LETTER XL.
he can claim the privilege. To claim the privilege on mere
presumption that such a result would occur, rendered wit-
ness guilty of perjury. If, however, witness would brave
heavea and earth, and commit perjury, it could not be help-
cdr By answering, the witness need not admit that he
murdered Morgan; but he must know it beyond-a doubt.
Barnard-Every man in the community believes that a
murder has been committed.
The witness now requested permission to confer with
counsel, which was granted. On his return, he still refused
to answer the question. The court repeated that witness
must be well satisfied that a crime had been committed, be-
fore he could claim the privilege.
The counsellOr the people here asked witness if he did
not testify on this point in open court, at Canandaigua?
Witness replied that he answered the same question,or one
of like import, on the trial of Bruce.
The court decided that if witness had once waived his
privilege, it could not grant him the privilege now.
Question repeated. " Did you go to the magazine on d1c
" morning of the 14th of September, 1826, before you went
" to Lewiston?" Witness, after again consulting counsel,
said he did go towards the magazine, in company with ano-
ther person : mighi. have gone within one rod of it ; it was
not defendant who w~nt with him.
Q. " What was your object in going to the magazine?"
Witness refused to answer, and the quc~tion was waived for
the present.
The question next put, was this:-" \Vas ariy thing car-
" ried by the person who went with you to the magazine?'~
And here I think I can in no way convey to you so correct
an impression of the character of this extraordinary trial,
as by quoting the residue of the examination of Jackson,as
t:,eported by 'Mr. Cadwallader, of Loekport. and furnished
Digitized by Coogle
j
LETTER XL•. 451
me by Judge Marcy. After the last mentioned question
was put, the examination proceeded as follows:-
"Witness thinks thf"re was; don'lt·ecoUecl e~Uy 111hat; thinks he had a
basket in his hand; don't recollect thllt he saw what was in it; it was co-
vered up with a doth or brown paper; did not see him carry a vessel with
drink in it ; does not recollect that he did so at any other time ; witness thinks
he did not ca·rry a vessel contain.ing drink towards the magazine; It wu a
small basket. The other man ~ent up to the magazine; thinks he did not
see tl.at person go into the magazine. Witness had to go by the window to ·
return ; the man did not return with him ; can't say positively that he aaw
him come back ; saw him when he was within a few feet of the house; can't
say whether he had the basket. At the magazine saw the man go towards
the door of it ; did not !ce any door unlocked; the outside door, which wit-
ness llllW, he thinks was down, or partly opened; the person was a little
ahead of him; did not sec him entcr; can't say positively but he did enter.
" Witness was next asked • if he heard the person ~ith him speak to any
person in the magazine 7' He objected to answering. The court decided
that he must answer. "Witness answered ' he did ;' a person in the maga-
zine replied: thinks he did not hear a noise before or at the time he stopped;
don't recollect thst the first he heard in the magazine was the above answer;
don't recollect that the person on the outeide called the one in the magazine
by narae ; don't recollect that he spoke to him as one he already knew.
" To a 'luestion, ' Whnt was the conversation that passed between the
person on the outside and the one on the inside?' counsel for defendant ob-
jected, on the ground that defendant might be implicated by conversation to
which he was not a party, or which was not held in his presence. The coun-
sel for the people disclaimed any such intention : they did not wish witneae
to detail aught that would criminate defendant, unless he were present: they
wished justice to be done, and nothing more. The court the'! instructed the
witness not to repeat any conversation that would go to implicate defendant,
unless it was held in hie presence.
" Witness answers to question, that he ' dont recollect:' something wu
l!&id: mo.ft forgets what: the import,-to the best ofhis recollection, wu •to
clear, to be oft' He "took the substance to be 'clear out,• ond he did CU.
out." Thinks the voice came from the magazine; he did not stay for an an-
ewer to be given ; he dropped what he had and ran : he dropped a gun, a
fowling-piece: got the fowling·piece from Giddings: don't know that it was
loaded: the person with him requested him to take it along: took it jor t4e
purpNe of gering a hunting! had before concluded to go to the installation,
eight miles ! put a bag on him to carry the game in ! the pen!On he Went
with said, • let us go a hunting" This was after breakfast. The voiee
witness heard caused him to run; it ' scared him.!' thinU Giddinp replied to
Digitized by_
Google
LETTER XL.
it ; don't recoDect the substance of the reply, nor any part ; recollects the
reply was very loud; don't recollect that it was threatening; the object of
the reply might have been to order the man to be quiet; can't be positive
whether it wu or waa not; his language might have been that ~f a man
speaking in a commanding or threatening manner; it is his impresllion that
it wu to induce silence on the part of the man in the magaziae ; heard t~
'l'oice, and then told his companion he would stay no longer, thinking it best
to be off; thioke the voice was u before stated ; don't think he staid to bear
the reply of hi• companion ; wu surprised to hear the voice from the maga•
line Nl IAGimonner; might not have been· surpri8('d if be had heard an ac-
companying voice ; it wu the IIIGIIfttr of the voice that induced him to run ;
lodged at his friend's bouse the night before ; don't rt'Collect a carriage com-
ing to his boll88, nor hear it, nor about it ; don't recollect Mto that any ·men
came to the ~ou.se that night ; he wu told 10 ; had no knowledge of it.
Witneaa before that time had been introduced to Colonel Jewett ; does pot
recollect that be saw him at the fort the evening previo~, nor before he went
. to the installation ; in the morning the steam-boat was at the dock going to
Lewiston; Giddings'~ family wugoing up; Gitldinge was the man be went
with to the magazine ; believes the fort was left in care of Giddings ; when
the troopa went ofF, Giddings wa.e left in charge of the fort, some time be-
fore September, 1826 • at the time of the installation, Jewett resided at the
meu hoiUC at the fort; can't swear that he bad charge of the fort at that
time. Witneaa went to the installation in the forenoon ; thinks he saw de-
fendant at Lewiston, and had conversation with him ; don't think he infonn-
ed him of the noise ; had 'specaal orders' when he left Giddings ; heard a
noise in the maga:r.ine before he went to Lewiston, it was a few minutes af.
ter the &rat time ; it wu a human voice; when he last heard the.noise be
wu pauing by the magazine to go to Lewiston ; had an en·an~ to do there;
be wu requested to inform certain persons there, that the man in the mags-
sine wu making a noise; Edward Giddings gave him the errand ; witoewe
did not communicate it to defendant at Lewiston, nor in his presence ; don't
bow that it came to Jewett's ear .that the man wu confined in the maga-
zine, except by hearsay; witness was requested to communicate hie mea-
age to certain persons who were named ; more than one or two ; not to the
whole inetallation; nor to the defendant, nor to any one living at Lewiston.
" Witneaa don't recollect that the man that went with him to the maga-
lline had any weapon; he spoke about a pistol; he had a pistol; don't know
u it was loaded; when near the maguine, the man spoke to the person in
the maga:r.ine; thinks he eaid, ' be still.; be quiet ;' never recollected that
any thing was said to the man in the inside about the pistoL Witness com-
municated his errand but to one person at Lewiston. When the mao in the
magalline said • be off'!' Giddings wanted witness to etop. The man that
witneu communicated hie errand to at Lewiston, started to go to the fort.
"Crou-exuained. Gidciinp at the bouae bad a piltol ; can't ay he I&W
i& after dae, lwttd."
Digitized by Coogle
---IIICIIISit~~«:t·
LETTER XL. 459
Theodore Fw Talbot and Bates Cooke were examined, as
to the appearances of the magazine, irr March, 1827, when
it was visited by them, as a committee of examination.
They described the strength of the apartment, and the
·marks of violence, as though some person had been confin-
ed therein, and made strong and violent exertions to force
the way out.
· A number of witnesses were int\oduced, among whom
were Hiram Hubbard, Mrs. Hall, Corydon Fox, Mr. Perry,
Robert Mollineaux, and most of those named on the for-
mer trials, proving the abductiun, and all the particulars of
thejourney from Canandaigua to Niagara ; but in looking
over several columns of the testimony, I find no facts, not
already mentioned, worthy of note.
William P. Daniels, was likewise called again upon this
trial. He knew Solomon C. Wright ; but on being a&ked
if he was as Wright's house on the evening before the in-
stallation of the Lewiston Chapter,-(that is,.when Morgan
\vas brought thither in the close carriage, and guarded in
the barn,)-he refused to answer the question, on the ground
that it might implicate him in a more serious crime than
that of a misdemeanor,-an indictment for the murder of
Morgan, as an accessory before the fact. The court again
explained the law, as in the instance of Turner's refu-
sal; but the witness still refused to answer. He also, for
the reason above given, declined answering the inquiries
whether Eli Bruce,~and Jeremiah Brown, were at Wright's
on the occasion referred to. The court here again inte.r-
posed, and emphatically remarked, that unless the witness
was altogether certain, from evidence other than that gene-
rally known, that there was a murder committed, and that
he would be in dl\nger of being indicted for it, upon the
knowledge affor-ded by his answer, he was guilty of perju.
ry, in claiming the privilege. .. It is, therefore," continued
the court, " ~ question of perjury or not with you,-nntl
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XL.
" remember, if the l.aws of man cannot reach you, the laws
~· of God will !" The witness then replied :-" that he
" claimed his privilege only and directly upon the ground
" that his answer to the questions would, as he believed, im-
" plicate him in the murder of Morgan." This, he answer-
ed, he said " under his oath, and with an understanding of
" the question."
Daniels was then asked if he had seen Elihu Mather or
Jeremiah Brown dri\·ing a closed carriage along the Ridge
Road, on the 13th of September, 1826. He objected to
answer, on the same ground as before. The court decided
that he must answer the question. He then consulted his
counsel, after which he replied-" No." Being farther press-
ed, he replied that he now thinks he saw a close carriage
pass, but docs not know who drove it. Being asked if he
knew that Eli Bruce was in that carriage, and pressed
closely upon the question, he again consulted his counsel.
He afterwards replied that he believed Eli Bruce was in
the carriage. Being further pressed, he acknowledged that
his belief was so strong that he had no doubt that Bruce
was in the carriage. He was at the installation, but did
not recollect seeing the defendant, (Jewett,) there. He
migltt have talked with Jewett afLenvards, about the con-
·finement of Morgan in the magazine.
Hiram B. Hopkins, the former deputy of Bruce, was like-
wise sworn. In addition to the circumstances testified by him
on the former trials, he now disclosed the fact, that when he
was exalted to the 'Royal Arch degree, in the month of Au-
gust preceding the abduction, he was informed after taking
the obligation, of the intention of Morgan to disclose all their
secrets. He was told that means would be taken to sup-
press the.book, and he was charged " to govern himself ac-
" cordingly."
A great number of additional witnesses were examined,,
to prove a variety of .corroborating facts and circwnstan-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XL. 455
ces of the case, which it would be a waste of time to enu-
merate. It was proved tha:t the defendant was the person·
in chatge of the fort and public property, at the time of
Morgan's confinement; but the prevarications and refusals
to answer, of the most important witnesses, whose testi-
mony, if honestly given, would beyond a doubt have estab-
lished the direct and positiv~uilt of the defendant, left the
case deficient in affirmative testimony sufficient to warrant
a legal conviction.· It will be seen by the sketch I have
presented, that whenever a question was put, bearing hard
upon the conspirators, it was either evaded, or, after con-
sultations with counsel, not answered at all, on the ground
of privilege.
The cause was summed up by Messrs. White and Bar-
nard for the defendant, and Messrs. Whiting and Birdseye
for the people.
I have been obligingly furnished by Judge Marcy with
the notes of his charge to the jury in this case, and regret
that I have not leisure to transcribe it for your perusal.
The judge said it was an important cause, but derived its
importance less from the immediate consequences in which
it might involve the defendant,or the specific nature of the of-
fence imputed to him, than from the very extraordinarytrans-
action which it has been necessary to disclose. The court
did not think it necessary, after six days of anxious applica-
tion, to recapitulate tho whole examination; and as to most of
the points of law, the judge said he had expressed his opin-
ions, in the hearing of the jury, in the progress of the trial.
He had been anxious to give, and in his juljgment had giv-
en the prosecution the benefit of all the rules of law that
could aid in developing the facts involved in this trans-
action, tending in any way to show in a legal manner, the
defendant's participation in the abduction of .Morgan. But,
while it was of vast importance to us all, that action and
energy should be given to our system, to which we owe
Digitized b:Coogle
456 LETTER XLI.
the security of life anJ property, yet there are rules for the
benefit of those who may be unfortunately involved in a
false charge for crimcs.-rules for the safety of innocence.
The most important of all these rules for the accused, is
the obtaining of an impartial jury. Upon this point great
pains had been taken ; and as t!lat matter had been submit-
ted to the court, he had endeavored to admit no person
upon the panel, who was not wholly indifferent to the ques-
tion of the guilt or .innocence of the defendant. The in-
dictment to be tried was for falsely i~prisoning Morgan,
and conspiring'to imprison and carry him to parts unknown.
There was no evidence to sustain either charge, unless the
jury should be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt, that
Morgan was in Fort Niagara. But no sort of connexion
between the defendant and those who took Morgan away
from Canandaigua, or those who had transported him
through that county, had been shown. In order to bring
the charge home .to the defendant, it must be shown .that
.Morgan was actually confined in the fort, and that the de-
fendant had some agency in bringing him there, and r..on-
fining him. Or, if the defendant knew of his confinement
while it existed, and had command of the place where he.
waa confined, and did not interfere in any manner for his
relief, it would be a just inference of guilt.
The jury retired at about 11 o'clock on the evening of
the fifth day of the trial, and returned in a few moments-
with a verdict of" NoT GuiLTY."
I am, sir, &c.
LETTER XLI.
NEw-Yoax, l\larch 23, 183.'::.
SJR,
The court proceeded immediately with the trial of
Solomon C. Wright and Jeremiah Brown, both of "hom
o;9,uzed by Coogle
LETTEil ILl. 407
had been indicted for the misdemeanor of.Morgan's abduc-
tion. Wright, it will be remembered, was the keeper of the
tavern at the junction of the road from Lockport, with the
Ridge Road-the house at which the kidnappers halted so
long, until Bruce joined them in the evening. A large par-
ty of.Masons, as it has repeatedly been mentioned, assem-
bled at his house on that occasion. After a late supper,
they proceeded towards Lewiston, with the closed carriage,
which had been driven into Wright's barn; and kept guard-
ed, until their departure. The first witnesses examined, as
in most of the preceding trials, were the jailor and his wife,
from Canandaigua, and others, proving the abduction and
night journey to Hanford's Landing. and the passage of the
closed carriage along the Ridge Road to Wright's. Hi-
ram Hubbard's testimony was of the same forgetful and
dogged character as that heretofore given by the same wit-
ness.
· David Maxwell, the keeper of the turnpike gate near by,
proved some mysterious conduct of wright, at the time
the carriage stopped at his house. Brown, the.other de-
fendant, was also abundantly identified; by .various wit-
nesses, as one of the persons with the carriage, at Wright's,
and afterwards at Mollineaux's, where Bruce procured a
change of horses. Brown drove the carriage.
Mahala Farwell, who had testified to little purpose on
the trial of Jewelt, now made some admissions, respecting
the absence of her husband, which, though not bearing di-
rectly upon the case in hand, disclosed another instance of
the activity of the accused and their friends, in preventing
the attendance of witnesses. Her husband was believed to
be an important witness; but although they had always
lived happily together, yet about three years ago, just be-
fore the holding of a court, he had left her. The belief
was, that he had been hired to abandon his wife for the
time being, and remain absent, until the affair should be over.
58
Digitized by Coogle
- -
--- - -
------
LE'JUI'ER XLI.
John Jackson was again sworn as a witness on the pre·
sent trial, and his testimony varied considerably in several
essential particulars, from what it was on a former trial. It
will be recollected that he accompanied Giddings to the
magazine, on the morning of the 14 of September, 1826.
According to his present testimony, he took a gtm, when
they went to the magazine, and Giddings had a pistol, but
he did not see him take a pistol. He did not take any am-
munition, and knew not that the musket was loaded•. When ·
Giddings went up to the magazine, witness remained sixty
or seventy feet off. He heard a man in the magazine, as
Giddings approached, saying " be otr." The voice was
loud, and witness dropped his gun and walked off pretty
lively,' because he was frightened, and thought it best to be
off. Witness did not recollect that Giddings mentioned the
name of Morgan ; but he, (witness) was sent up to Lewis-
ton, where the Masons were proceeding with the installa-
tion, with instructions to tell Col. King, and David Hague;
that the man in the magazine was making a noise, and_they
must come down. As he departed for Lewiston, in pass-
ing the magazine be again heard the roan making a noise.
He could bear his voice, but not the words-might have
heard him say" 0 dear!"
A sister-in-law of Wright's, named Hannah Farnsworth,
who cooked the supper for the party on the evening of the
13th of September, was now. called as a witness. Great
pains had been taken to procure her.attendance on the other
trials, for three years prcviously;but without success. On
her present examination, nothing was elicited of impor-
tance. She did not recoilcct any circumstance, implicating
any person whatever. Indeed she said "she did not feel
particularly called upon to recollect!" William P. Daniels
was likewise again sworn upon this. trial. After having
admitted that he saw Bruce pass on the Ridge Road With
the clo9ed carriage, at about ll o·clock on the Aight of the
Digitized by Coogle
•
LETTER XLI. 459
13th,-he was asked-did you see Je~miah Brown 1
Ans. "Can't say that I did or did not." The court object-
ed to this mode of answering the questian, and required of
him to tell what he meant by "can't say." The witness
replied that he did not sec him (Browu] on the Ridge Road:
and again, " supposed he did : believed he did : had no
" doubt it was the man now in court." He did not recollect
whether Brown drove the carriage or not. He was not
told by Bruce that Morgan was in the carriage ; but '' be-
" fore the abduction he might have heard the subject dis-
" cussed by individuals, and he might have heard it spoken
"of at Batavia I" The reporter of this trial,• a r.opy of
which has also been furnished me by the Judge who pre-
sided, as being in general correct, remarks, in regard to
this witness :-" We never heard a witness answer ques-
"tions with more reluctance than this man Daniels, and we
"never wish to see another like exhibition in a court ofjus-
" tice, of a struggle for mastery between the influence of the
"Masons, and those of the whole community."
A conversation was proved by Daniel Pomeroy, between
Col. King and another man, to the following effect. Wit•
. ness lived in the western part of the town of Lockport, and
attended the installation at Lewiston. He arrived at that
place on the preceding evening, and took supper with Col.
King and others, at the " Frontier House." While there, ·
that evening, witness was introduced to a stranger, from
Rochester, whose name he did not now recollect. Witness
heard the stranger say to King, that some person would be
there that night. King and the stranger then walked to
another part of the house, and were engaged in conversa-
tion. Tile witness walked up to them afterwards, and heard
the stranger say, as he came up to them-," He will be here
"to-night.? He did not recollect that the name of Morgan
• Mr. Cadwallader, editor of the Lockport Balanc('.
Digitized by Coogle
-----
-. . . -
LETTER XLJ.
was mentioned ift connexion with that remark, but the sub-
ject of Morgan's book was immediately introduced, and the
stranger observed,"" two or three degrees were written," or
"published," (witness did not recollect which;) but King
replied that " he tcauld take care ofhim." King knew that
witness was a Mason.
The next witness examined was Theodore F. Talbot,
Esq., with whose name you must long sin~ have become
familiar, as one of the most active members of the celebra-
ted Lewiston Committee of investigation. Talbot's ex-
amination was made in reference to a conversation which he
had had with one of the defendants, (Wright,) in March,
1827. Witness was then on a tour of investigation along the
Ridge Road, and called on Wright to request information
of such circumstances as might be in his possession, or
within his knowledge. It must be here borne in mind, that
Wright himself had been examined as a witness, on the
trial of Whitney and Gillis, and had then sworn that he
knew nothing in particular of the mysterious carriage which
• arrived at his house on the afternoon of the 13th of Septem-
·ber ; or of the carriage being driven into the barn ; or of
any particular reason for the assemblage of so ·many peo·
pie at his house, on that occasion; or of the arrival of
Bruce there that evening. Very different was that testi-
mony from the admissions made by him to Talbot, in
March, 1827. Mr. Talbot's examination as to that con-
versation with Wright, was long and particular-from
which it appeared that to most of the questions he had put
to Wright, he made evasiv~ replies, or gave no explana-
tions at all. He admitted that the carri~ge was driven to
his house, at the time specified, but did not admit that Jere-
miah Brown was with it, although he said Brown some-
times passed that way. But the circumstance of the cur-
tains being closed down, gave him no surprise. The col-
lection of so many people at his house, excited no attention.
.......-
Digitized by G
...oogle
- --- ---
LI!T'l'ER XLI. 461
Wright admitted to witness, that the faet of the singular
circumstances under which the carriage arrived, and the
fact that it was not driven up to the door, as was usual
with carriages, had excited some suspicions in the public
mind, but not with him. In answer to the question why
they drove the carriage into the barn, on so clear a night,
when Uiere was a convenient shed, he. replied that people
sometimes chose to have their carriages put in safe places.
He also had informed the witness in that conversation, that
he had l1imselj opened the barn-do01·s, to admit the carriage,
and that ~w unltitclted the ltorses from the carriage with his
own hands. When asked why, inasmuch as he kept ahos-
tler to take that part of the labor, he had left his bar, where
there was a crowd of people, to perform these offices him..
self_:_and why, when he had met the hostler coming to the
barn with provender, he took it from him, to feed the hor-
ses himself, he gave no explanations whatever, nor did he
. attempt to deny the facts. When asked ifhe did not think
it strange that travellers should have supped at his house,
and taken their departure thence at such a late hour, he re-
plied that travellers had a right to do as they pleased, and
he did ncit feel hurt about it. He told witness that the car-
riage returned about sun-rise the next morning-he did not
know the driver, but admitted that Jeremiah Brown was·in
the carriage. But he had not asked Brown any questions.
He admitted that when the carriage was driven away in
the night, it did not come up to the steps to take iri the pas-
sengers, and he admitted that he saw it drive away. Lo-
ton Lawson had been there at about that time-probably
coming from the west, the first or second day after the in-
stallation. I have given a very brief epitome of this ex-
amination, but it embraces all that is essential to the case,
and in the principal facts, the defendant's admissions and
declarations, soon after the outrage, were directly in con-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLf.
tradiction to his testimony as given on the tlial of Whitney
and Gillis.
A witness who was in the employ of th~ defendant.
Wright. testified, in substance, that he came in from work
rather earlier than usual on the evening in question, and
found a large collection of people at the house ;-most of
them had sticks, wh!ch he thought very large ones t<>"walk
with. Soon after he came in, he saw a movement, when
the whole company mounted their horses, and rode off on
the Ridge Road eastwardly ;-Wright did not go with
them, but some one rode his horse. In about ten or twen-
ty minutes afterwards, witness being up stairs, the compa-
ny returned, and as he thought there was an unusual bustle,
he went down, to see what they were about. He saw.them
driving the carriage into the barn. The entrance was high
and difficult. and several persons ·took hold of the wheels
and body to thrust it in. The doors were then Closed opon
iL There was much of whispering among the people, in
which Wright bore a part. Brown, the other defendant,
was also among them when they returned, and he heard
him declare to somebody-" it was a tedious job." They
took supper there : Bruce was amongst them, with Orsamus
Turner, the printer, of Lockport. The witness retired to
bed before tl1e company. departed, and he knew nothing
further that was material to the case. ·
Hiram B. Hopkins, David C• .Miller, and a number of
~thcr witnesses, were· examined by the prosecution, but
their evidence was not material, and the prosecution rested.
The testimony offered by the defence had little to do
with the case, any farther than that the characters oi both
defendants were shown to have been unexceptionable. In-
deed the counsel for the prosecution admitted this fact. ar-
guing therefrom, the evil tendency of the masonic institu-
tion, since, by its influence, such men had been involved in ·
Digitizedby Googl~ .. ~
tETTER XLi.
these breaches of the law. The witnesses examined to
other points, were, 1st. James B. Lay, ofBatavia.. He was
present at Danold's tavern, on the morning of September
11, when Morgan was arrested and carried away to Canan-
daigua·; but he saw no violence, although he observed con-
siderable excitement. 2d. Johnson Goodwill, also of B.ata-
via. He testified to the particulars of an interview with
Morgan, on Sunday, the lOth, when the latter voluntarily
introduced the subject of the book he was preparing. He
said he had been persuaded into the undertaking by Miller,
Davids, and Dyer, who had promised to supply him with
money, but had not done so. They had not treated him
well. He had undertaken the work on account of his 'poy-
erty, because he had no means of obtaining a living ; and
he would even then gladly relinquish and suppress it, if he
could get back his manuscripts. He had attempted to do
this, put Miller, he said, would not give them up. Morgan
expressed, very anxiously, a desire to be altogether rid of
Miller, and the witness offered him an asylum, with his fam-
ily, at his own house. He also .assured Morgan that if he
was so poor, there would be no difficulty in providing means
for his support, provided he would get back his manuscripts,
and stop the work. In regard to his difficulties with Mil-
ler and Davids, Morgan said to witness, he had written
them a sharp note, which he was apprehensive was SC\
much in the form of a challenge that they might take the
advantage of him, by·instituting a prosecutiop. The third
witness for the defence, was William R. Thomson, sheriff
ofGenesee, at the time of Morgan's arrest. He corrobora-
ted the testimony of the last witness, respecting the difficul-
ties that existed be.tween Morgan and Miller, and the strong
dc~manifested by the former to get entirely clear from
the)alter. The defence was re~ted here. . ·'
Messrs. Griffin and Barnard summed up for the ·defend•
ants, and Mcss~s. Birdseye and Whiting for the people.:
· ~·
___ .. -- Digitized by Googl~
464 LETTER XU.
Judge Marcy charged the jury with great clearness and im·
partiality, and the cause was submitted to the jury at the
close of the fourth day of the trial. The jury remained out
thirty-six hours, and then came into court with a verdict of
"NOT GuiLTY"-to the astonishment alike of the Bench,
the Bar, and the People. There is not-there cannot be; a
particle of doubt, that both of the defendants were concern-
ed in the abduction; though not as principals. They knew
that Morgan was a free citizen under constraint,-held un-
der such constraint without legal process,-and they were
not only assenting to his being thus held in duress, but were
aiding and assisting.
It was understood that ten of the jurors were for con· ·
victing the defendants ; but the two obstinate members
solemnly declared that they would stay out and die, before
they would consent to a verdict of guilty ; and the ten ac-
commodating gentlemen yielded. While this jury was out,
a Mason was detected in conveying provisions, wrapped in
a cloak, to the two "faithful" ~embers. He ~as a1Taign:ed
before the court, and promptly punished.
Just upon the heel of this trial, came out in the Anti·
masonic papers,another ofthoseterrific tales ofmasonic mur-
der, which had previously been interspersed between the le-
gal transactions so frequently occurring in the progress of
.Anti-masonrJ. It is a story of which I hardly know what
to make. That it was a masonic murder, perpetrated in the
same spirif with that which projected and executed the out-
rage upon Morgan, I am most unwilling-nay, I cannot
believe ;-and yet, there are most unpleasant features in the
narrative. The story is substantially this :-A Mr. Lemu-
el De Forest, said to be a well known and respectable inha-
bitant of the county of Livingston, publishe·d a deposition
embJ1!.cing the following extraordinary statement. In the
· summer and autumn of 1809, Mr. De Forest lived in Al-
bany, where he.became acquainted with a man by the name
.._., Digitized by ~oogle
· - _,_ ----....tae....___· - -
. . . . . . .
.,.~~'
LETTER XLI. 465
of Luring Simonds, a sash-maker by trade, and who had
been in the army. He was in the employ of Mr. Lucas
Hooghkerk, a respectable master-builder, in Albany: Si-
monds, in the course of his familiar conversations with
De Forest, informed him that when he came to Albany, he
had fifteen or sixieen h~ndred dollars, which he entrusted
to some masonic friends,-a firm,-which failed soon after·
wards, ~nd t<:!ok the l:iencfit of the act without paying or
securing •to rum thG amount of a shilling. In revenge
for being thus swindled, by his brethren, he determined to
reveal the secrets of the masonic order, and he proposed to
instruct the deponent, De Forest, ~n the mysteries. They
were in the habit of meeting upon .this subject, in an old un-
inhabited house, in Van Schaick-street;near the two-steepled
church. Simonds had taken three degrees, all of which he
was teaching to his friend De Forest. On one of these oc-
casions, Simonds had expressed an apprehension that he
might lose his life for what he was doing ; but the remark
was made rather sportively, and it passed off. After some
time had elapsed, on a Friday afternoon, when they were
in the old building, unobserved, as both supposed, Simonds
being engaged in giving him some illustrations of Masonry,
on a sudden .a man by the name of Webb, an English-
man of about fifty years of age, known to both as a Mason,
came warily up stairs, and exclaimed as he pointed at the
teacher of De Forest~-" Simonds, you villain ! You are a
"perjured wretch : I have caught ydu in the very act : lJI' I
"SHOULD CATCH YOU IN THE DARK, J SHOULD BB NONB TOO
"OOOD TO PUT A KNIFE INTO YOU!" Saying this, he. turned
upon his heel and disappeared. ·Bath parties were of course
s~ed at the surprise ; but Simonds trembled like an as- ,
leaf. His coun~naoce changed to an ashy paleness.
staggered back to a seat. A pause of a few mo-
~nsued, when he said-" Well : I will not give it up
• so;" and after another short interval o( silent astonishment.
59
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEJ,l XLI.
they separated. On the very next morning, at about 10
o'clock, word was brought to De Forest that his friend-·was
dying at a gambling house in the Colonie,-now the fifth
ward of Albany•. He hastened thither, and found Simonds
in the agonies of death ;-there was a ra\tling in his throat,
and green frothy matter was discharging from his mouth
and nose in copious quantities. While De Fore~t was
there, some eight or ten persons came in, and among them
a physician, who, after feeling his pulse, remarked that
his case was hopeless, and depa~d. Simonds died in the
afternoon, and a few friends made up a contribution for his
burial. No coroner's inquest sat upon his body ; his re-
mains were taken home to his house in Van Schaick-street ;
and interred on the following day, by the eight or ten per-
sons before referred to. l\lr. Hooghkirk, his employer, su-
perintended the arrangements for the funeral, and was him-
self a high imd active Freemason. The character of S~
moods was good, and he left a wife and two or three small
children. Such is the story, as sQlemnly sworn to by are-
spectaHe citizen. Mr. De Forest likewise declares that he
has never entertained a doubt of his friend having been
murdered by the Masons, for m~king the disclosures refer-
red to. And those disclosures, he adds, were in perfect
agreement with Morgan's illustrations.
The Anti-masons seized upon this tale as greedily as they
had done upon that of Miller, heretofore related ; but it did
not make so deep animpression, or cause so lively an ex-
citement. The most remarkable feature of the tale is the
coincidence between his own previously expressed appre-
hension of evil ; the discovery and threat of Webb ; and
the sudden and violent death occurring immediately after•
wards. But this coincidence might very well have been
caused by the threai, and the foreboding. The operation of
fear, might have suddenly disordered his mind. Such a
result is not only physically possible, but physically proba-
-
- .____...............-.-:;;...::::::.... Digitized by Coogle
... ~ ......
LETTER XLII. 4.67
ble; and while in this situation he most likely used the
means of self-destruction. There is yet another circum-
stance : he was at a gambling ltouse. Perhaps he had
spent his last .shilling : nay, his sixteen hundred dollars
might ha:ve been lost by" play. If so, what more natural,
or common, than that he should have preferred, in a mo-
mentof wretchedness and despair, to face death than a des-
titute wife and children ! .Simonds, beyond a doubt, died
A SUICIDE I
I am, sir~ very truly yours.
LETTER XLII.
NEw-YoRK, March 25, 1832.
SIR,
. There were several transactions in the year 1830,
which, though not exactly forming a part of the Morgan
history, are nevertheless entitled to notice, since they forci-
bly exhibit the spirit by which Freemasonry was actuated,
in all cases where the supposed rights of the craft were con-
cerned, or its rites and mysteries made the subject of le-
gal investigation. During the most feverish state of the
· Anti-masonic excitement, a newspaper had been establish-
ed at Rochester. the avowed object of which was to vindi-
cate the Masons from the aspersions, as they were called,
of their antagonists, .and to oppose the Anti-masons at all
points. This paper, which was conducted with more of
flippancy and smartness, than talent, was excessively
virulent in its.course, and during the period that Mr. Spen-
cer dischargedlhe duty of special counsel, he was the stand-
ing subject of its bitterest invective. The paper was es-
tablished by masonic contributions, and patronised al-
most exclusively by them. The cause of the persons in-
Digitized by Coogle
.. - - · .,
468 LETTER XLII.
dieted for the conspiracy, was warmly espoused by it, and·
they were represented as innocent and persecuted· men.
On the conviction of John Whitney, the jury was grossly
libelled by this paper-(The Crn:ftsinan):_for.which libel
the editor was promptly indicted. ... He was tried on this
"indictment in January, 1830, '\\;.en the jury could not
"agree on their verdict. It was afterwards ascertained that
"the disagreement proceeded from four Masons who were
"on the jury. He was again tried in June, 1830, when he
" did not even call a witness to prove the libels he had pub-
."lished, and he was conviCted without hesitation, and fined
"fifty dollars. The history of this case is introduCed in
" consequence of fts connexion with the main trials, and to
"exhibit one of the instances of the operation of masonic
" feeling in the jury box."
The trial of Calvin Cook tJs. Harvey Cook at Fort Ann,
in Washington. county, N. Y., i~ June, 1830, before Ben-
jamin Copeland, Esq., a magistrate of that town, will per-
haps illustrate still more clearly, and more unfortunately,
the influence of masonic obligations upon men who attach
an undue. importance to the institution. The controversy
grew out of the Anti-masonic excitement. The parties
were cousins, and were both MasonS-the former had sece-
ded, and the lattet adhered. The unpieasant feelings first
engendered by this contro.versy, resulted in .open feuds.
A succession of outrages were committed upon the doors
and machinery of the plaintiff's mills, which were directly
charged upon the defendant. He was importuned by his
relative to desist, but is said ·•o have replied that "he (de-
" fendant) should not wonder if plaintiffs house were burnt ·
"over his head, unless he seceded back fron?- Anti-masonry."
A repetition of the trespass having occurred, after the ad-
monition and threat, an action was instituted for the recove-
ry of damages, for the various acts of violence attributed
to the defendant.
-
·---........-~-----...-=r-~~::....:-~
Digitized by Coogle
- .. -~ --
· L'£TTE'R XLII. 469
The county of Washington had been, for a long ti111e
previously, infected with · Anti-masonry; and the parties
ranged themselves on this trial with as inuch appa~nt zeal
and bitterness, as on the trials in the west.
A jury having been summoned, Erastus Day was chal-
lenged by the plaintiff for favor, on the broad ground of his
masonic obligations. This was overruled, and he was then
challenged for cause, and triers appointed. The proposed
juror, being sworn, was asked if he was a Mason. He re-
fused, at first, to answer the question ;. but being'admonish-
ed by the court, testified that he was, and that he had taken
· seventeen degrees. Being interrogated as to various points
of obligation in the masonic oaths, he again ·refused to an-
swer ; and at length .told the magistrate that he considered
his masonic oaths superior to the oaths ~e had just taken
before the court !· Sylvester Cone, the next witness, reso-
lutely refused, at first, even to be sworn. He ~nally con-
sented, how~ver, at the solicitation of his frie~ds; but to
questions touching the secrets of the order he firmly refused
to reply ; and to those to which he answered, his replies
were dogged and· reluctant. The same unwillingness is
said to have been manifested by five other witnesses who
were Freemasons. . '
The plaintiff then called Messrs. William Brayton, Ben-
jamin Seeley, and Nathaniel Colver, who, it is presumed,
were seceding masons, and some of whom testified that in
the R'ayal Arch Oath, among the keeping of secrets, ~r-
. der. and treason were NOT ezcepted ; and that the members
of the·fraternity were required to help each other out of
difficulty, right or wrong ; and also·t.o promote the~r politi-
cal preferment. .
The report of f]le trial from which my information re-
specting this case.is principally drawn, and which should
probably be received with some grains of allowance, pro-
ceeds to state, as follows:
Digitized by Coogle
/
LETTER XLII.
. ;, Several cireuni.ltanc:ee tn.ntpiled during this trial, to illustrate the pecu-
liar nature of the mwnic fraternity, and.their dread ofinvestigation. Every
Muon, sworn or called u a witness, seemed unusually anxious to give 1lit
epfNott, that there wae nothing wrong in Masonry, and that there was no-
thinf wrong in the oaths, which ie IJwurill ought to diiqualify a man from
llliuiq u a juror; and they seemed grieved to the heart, that they should
· not be allowed to crowd thftr opi11Wn& down the throats of the triers, as in•
dubitable evidence. But when called.upon to let the triers have the plain
undiaguised lAote about Masonry, or masonic oaths, they were as silent 1111
the grave. While on the other hand, tbe other witnet~~~es seemed qnwiUing
So e:~preu any. opinion, but wished to state the facts, and let the triers have
them, upon.which to judge. On the eecond day, Mr. Coh·er was called as
a witrieu, and cross-examined by: Mr. Gibbs. He was aeked, ' did you
ever take an oath which you ~ed would bias you·u a juror 'I' Be re·
sfied, ' 1 will tell you what oath 1 did take, and the triere may Judge of it
theJIIIehoee; 1 took an oath in theee very words'-.- Here be wu &top-
ped by the cou~l, saying, 'I don't want the oath, I want -your. opinift,
wbe~her you ruppond the oath would bias you as a juror1' Mr. ColYersaid,
i{tbe court decided be should give an opinion to the triers, he would give it
with pi8U!Il6; otherwise he was unwillinif to obtrude any opinion upon
them, but wOIIId state the facts, and the points in the oath, a_nd let the triers
forti) their own opinion. But Mr. Gibbs urged the question ; the counsel
• for the plaintiff Withdrew his objection, and Mr. Colver answered, '1 did
take u oath, which, upon reflection, I was satisfied was designed, and di-
rectly calculated to set the laws of God and man at defiance.' Mr. Gibbs
did not uk·for a second opinion."
-~ ---
Much feeling was evident during the trial, and that of
not tbe most pleasant description. At times there was·an
·exhibition of pM!.Iion on the part of the sticklers·for Free-
·masonry, and a degree of sensitiveness,_rea~ly surprising,
when we consider the comparative ·unimportance of the
·occasion. Frequently the proceedings were interrupted by
the intrusiveness of the friends of the defendant, and the
~witnesses were openly and repeatedly told not to answer
;:the questions. The court, also, was chided for allowing
such questions to be put. But it is needless to particularize
:all the embarrassments that were thrQWn in the way of
:the proceedings. After the examinations were ended,
·.the question as to the competency of the juror, on the score
.of impartiality, wu summed up on both sides, and was
Digitized by Coogle
__________,__.,_ -----
LETT:£R XLII. 471
thereupon submitted to the U"iers under a charge from the
court. After mature deliberation, the triers retunied with
the decision that Erastus Day did not atand indifferent to the
parties litigant, and he was rejected from thejury.
When the trial ha,d proceeded for some time, a question
of title became involved in the cause, which at once took it
from the magistrate'sju~isdiction; and there, so far as I am
informed, the matter ended.
This trial, though unconnected with the Morgan business.
was yet one of the fruits of the Anti-masonic excitement,
and though unimportant in its results as to the parties im•
mediately concerned, was neverthe~ess far from being un·
important, in its bearing upon the masonic institution. It
appeared but too clearly from the testimony, that the Ma-
sons ·in Washington county, baye taken.their obligations in
~eir worst ·forms,-! mean as .tl,ley have been altered for
the worse, by ignorant and designing men, without the sanc-
tion of the higher bodies to which the lodges and chapters
owe obedience. It was also proved, beyond contradiction,
that where the obligations resting upon Freemasons, have
_been so given, so· received, and so understood, by its vota-
ries, they may very frequently, and very materially, inter-
fere with the impartial and due administration of the laws.
It was on this oC«?Rsion 8.!1serted, and I have never h~ard
the assertion contradicted, that ~e Masons present on the
trial held their obligations·tO be pp.ramount to ·the Jaws of
the land; ·and even bad the hardihood not only to set at de-
fiance, but to brave .the courfin terms ;-and when solemn~
ly sworn to answer such questions as should be put to them,
refu~d peremptorily to answer ai all! .
Under all the circumstances of the case, I am constrain-
ed to admit, that the juror in the foregoing cause was pr~
perly rejected ; and every Fr.eemason who has taken the
oaths as the .Masons. at Fort Ann seem to have done, and
who rcgard3 them in the same sense, and. holds them in tho
Digitized by Coogle
.. - ----
•
LJ:TT~ll XLII.
arne estimation of uperiority to the civil law, may ju tly
be con idered a having disqualified him elf from sitting a
an impartial juror, where his ma onic brethren are on trial.
The next movement of the Anti-masonic party was pure-
ly political. A governor, lieutenant governor, and mem-
ber of Congre s were to be elected, together with enators
and representatives of the state legi lature. For the pur-
pose of nominating candidate for the two former office ,
and making general preparations for the contest through t11e
countie , another Anti-masonic State Convention was held
at Utica, on the 11th of August, 1830. Forty-five coun-
ties were represented by one hundred and eleven delegates-
constituting in all respects a very intelligent andre pectable
body. Francis Granger was once more nominated for go-
vernor, and Samuel Stevens, of ew-York, for the second
office. Mr. Granger had been previously nominated by a
primary meeting of the National Republicans of Suilolk
county, for the same station ; and both nominations were of
a character so entirely unexceptionable, that the great body
of the ational Rep.ublican party felt di posed to give them
a cordial and hearty support. With the National Republi-
cans, who e attention was directed to the maintenance of
the great fundamental p!inciples of the federal con titu-
tion, no·w believed to be in immipent peril, and witb whom
state politics were consequently of but minor consideration,
the question of Masonry or Anti-masonry, WaS looked up-
on as o( very little comparative importance. So that the
honor of the nation, and the federal cqnstitution, could be
preserved, untarnished and unbroken, with a party .which
waa ~ntending for .principle, without regard to personal
considerations, it was a matter.of but small moment,. whe-
ther the state officers were Freemasons, or their opponent•.
No other persons, therefore, were nom~ated in opposition to
the candidates of the friends of General Jackson's adminis-
tration ; and a confident hope of succes was indulged by
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER ILJI.
the friends of the union ticket. But these hopes were not
realized. In the western country, where Anti-masonry first
sprang into existence, and where it had taken the deepest
root, the united friends of Mr. Granger carried every thing
before them. The holyday legions of the Persians were
not more completely routed by the phalanxes of the impe-
tuous Macedonian, than were the partizans of Governor
Throop, and the· friends of General Jackson, in the country
west of the Cayuga. In the western senatorial district, the
vote for the National Republican and Anti-masonic candi-
dates, was more than two to one. Mr. Granger crossed
the Hudson, coming east, with a majority of 1400. But
in proportion as Anti-masonry had become purely political,
so had Freemasonry, from the mere fact of feeling itself
persecuted and oppressed, become in a measure political
also ; and as it was impossible to make the .whole public
perceive that considerations of national importance were
involved in what was wholly a state election, thousands
and thousands of the National Republicans who yet adher-
ed to Freemasonry in the central counties, cast their votes
for the Jackson ·candidates,-not from any aft'ection for
those candidates, or from approbation of their principles,-
but from strong unminglcd hatred to Anti-masonry. The
result was fatal to the candidates in opposition. Instead of
polling, jointly, as we might well have done, 132,000 votes,
our candidates received only 120,000, and a fraction; while
the numbers of our opponents were swelled by our own po-
litical friends, to the number of 128,000 and upwards. Of
the number, 120,000, received by Mr. Granger, it is a fair
allowance to say that 76,000 were the votes of real Anti-
masons. This result was greatly to be deplored by the
National Republican party, from more considerations than
a simple defeat. It gave their opponents an artificial ap-
.pearance of strength, well calculated to draw over to them
the selfish and the wavering, whose business it is to wateh
60
Digitized by Coogle
-'74 LETTER XLII.
tbe political tides, and whose practice is to float with the
popular current. It also had the further effect ofstrengthen-
ing our opponents,by the accession ofall those whose princi-
ples sitlightly upon them, and who, having once voted with
that party, might easily be induced to suppose it would re-
dound to their ultimate interest to continue with their new
associatea.
The case of the Cooks, related in the earlier part of the
present letter, is not the only transaction connected with
the Anti-masonic question, and deserving of note, which
occurred in that section of the state in the year 1830. A
few weeks previously to the election just spoken of, the
public were surprised by a statement from the north, of
another masonic outrage, which, but for a seemingly spe-
cial interposition of Providence, would have been still fur-
ther aggravs,ted by an atrocious murder ! The story was,
that an attempt had been made upon the life of a respecta-
ble clergyman, by the name of Witherell, (who had re-
DOUD<'.ed the order of Freemasonry,) by his offended breth-
ren of the "mystic tic." In the first instance, few if any
persons in this section of the state, were disposed to give
credence to the tale. The death of Morgan, for having re-
vealed the secrets of the order, was not doubted ; but so
many persons had renounced their connexion with the in-
stitution subsequently to that event, and the boasted secrets
were so universally known, by all who had had sufficient
curiosity to inquire into them, that the possibility of another
masonic outrage, for such a cause, had not been thought of.
Nevertheless, the story was greedily caught up by the An-
ti-masons, and the best use made of it, to promote their
cause during the election; while the opposite party was
equally active in discountenancing the narration, either as
a fiction, or an imposture. The publications were so nu-
merous, violent and contradictory, that, for one,-and I be-
lieve I was not alone in my doubts,-! knew not what to
----- ~~ ~ -~- --
Digitized by Coogle
).__ .. -
/
LETTEil XLII. 475
make of the affair. If the relation was true, it was a very
serious matter : iffalse, no ordinary punistunent would have
been too severe for the authors of the falsehood. It was evi-
dent, however, from the conduct of the adhering Masoris
who were acting politically with the administration party,
that there was some foundation for the tale; and among
other devices for counteracting its influence upon the elec-
tion, the report of a formal trial was got up and published
throughout the state, minute in all its relations of time,
place, circumstances, the names of parties, witnesses, &c.,
in which it appeared to have been proved that the whole
story of the outrage was a fabrication, or that it had been
committed by som emember of the Elder's own family, pro-
bably with the knowledge of the whole. Before the polls
had closed, however, the fact was disclosed that this report-
ed trial, in all its details, was in itself a deliberate forgery l
There were, nevertheless, some subsequent legal proceed-
ings in the premises, ofa very extraordinary character, a full
report of which, of formidable length, was published by a
committee of the citizens of Washington county, early in
the year 1831. Still, this publication was considered alto-
gether ex parte ; it was too long for general perusal ; and
mad() but little impression upon the public mind. For my..
self I yet knew not what to believe ; but as the case was
one coming within the scope of my present investigations,
I resolved to probe it to the bottom. With this view I ad-
dressed a letter some weeks since, to a distinguished and
valued friend, residing in the neighborhood where the trans-
actions were said to have taken place, for such an account
of the strange and yet mysterious affair, as might be fully
depended upon. The following ample letter reached me a
few days since, in answer to my inquiries. I submit it to
your consideration, with the fullest assurance that my cor-
respondent is a man of the strictest integrity, and the most
scrupulous veracity :--
-- .. - .....:.,:._-
Digitized by Coogle
- ~
-'16 L:ETT:Ell XLII.
•Ia &118-mg your requeet to communicate to you •all I know' in rela-
tioa to the alledged outrage upon the family of Elder George Witherell, I
bue to remark,that it ia a long story, and a minute detail would weary both
you and myael£ Your request implies a doubt of the truth of the history of
that tranAC:tion, and the circumatancea growing out of it, already before
the public. How •hall IU8ure my.elf that my narration will be thought
entitled tomore credit7 At the Ame time, I feel that the request baa been
made in the 8incere desire to learn the truth, and it implies alao a friendly
confidence in the aource to which you hue applied for infonnation. U11der
dte lnftueoce of the feelings prompted by theH reftectione, I hue ,..,lved
to attempt a compliance. The tuk truly i8 .umewhat formidable, and its
aecation, while it diaaipateayour doubte, wLI excite your utoniabment ~d
may ahaaat your patience.
a You inquire who Is Mr. Witherell? It ia a pertinent question, and de-
HrYell a epecific anawer. He ia a Baptist elder; and for the last ten or
tweln tean baa pr<'aided oYer the Baptist chiii'Ch in the town of Hartford.
ID that alation, he has, during all this time, been a faithful and respectable
minister of the go•pel, adminiaLering ita·ordinance3, and teaching ita doc-
trinu to a numerous and intelligent community of christians. Hartford I•
a rich agricultunl town, in ibis county, and Elder Witherell'• society COD•
*edpriDCJpally of ill farmen, distinpiabed for their eobriety, religion~ de-
'fation and induatriou• habits. In this town, are two email yilJagee, distant
about a mile from each other. In one ofthem the Elder'a church isl~ted,
DAr which he reaide1. In the other village, there ia a Preabyterian church.
Ia bodt, i• the ordinary number of profeuional gentlemen, juaticee, petti-
"aers and con1tablea, with a competent proYiaion of 1torea, tuema and
mechan~'• ahopt. Here, too, ia a masonic lodge. The memben ofthe Bap-
tist church. being principally fannere, lived dispersed through the town, at
aome distance from the village, while lhtir inhabitantl belonged to n9 par-
ticular denominatioD of christians. There were the·clerke, bar-tendera,
oatlera and apprentices. I atate these circumatancee, becauae I think. they
eontain important testimony, furnishing eome explanation of an extraordina·
ry tran..ction, still shrouded in mystery and darkness. A large portion of
theH villagen were, and etill are, member& of the malOnic fratemity, and
amana them were aome ofthe leadina memben of the Baptist church. Un·
cler th- circumatance~, it wa1 not eurpriaing, that Elder Witherell yielded
to the A me inducement~ which have led 110 many clergymen of our country,
to aeek light and knowledge in the lodge. He became a Ma11on,-nd not
cliiCoYeriog the anticipated reYelationl in the lower degrees, he pi'Nted for·
ward to detect those that were concealed in the higher. He adY&aced to
the degree of Knight Templar, and n you may reaaonably auppoae, wu
ebarilbed aDd careued by the lay memben, u a worthy and accepted
"broth.-.
- --
-- -- Digitized by Coogle
- -.......,_«--~~ .. - ~ --· - ........ .- • • . ,..j
LETTER XLII. 471
"This wu the relation in which Elder Witherellatood, to the community
In which he lived, when the story of the abduction and murder of Morgan,
astonished the public by ita boldness and atrocity, and directed ita inqui.
riea to the constitution llOd ch~t.racter of Freemasonry. · The Baptist de-
nomination of christiana in our country, have been foremoat in aubjecting
Freomuonry to the test of religious diecipline. A large majority of Mr.
Witherell's church knew, indeed, that their pastor wu a Muon, but knew
nothing nfMuonry,save from ita recent developementa at the weat, and tha
publication• of the day. They called upon their elderto aver or deny their
truth. Like moat other Masons, whose consciences have been awakened
to the subject, he hesitated between the responsibilities of hie masonic obli·
gationa and usociation, and the convictions of religious duty. He propos-
ed to abstain from any further communications with tha.lodge, but asked to
be excused for the present, from a .
more decided renunciation. With such
evidence before tbem of the character of the institution u recent events fur·
nished, this did not satisfy his church. In the mean time , the neighboring
MasonP, both in and out of his church, \\'ere apprised of what wu going on,
and made a vigorous rally to support their brother in the conf11ct to which
be was exposed. They offered to add two hundred dollars to the stipend
paid him by his church, and to make good that atipend, should it be with·
drawn, or be be diamiased by his congregation. The reward offered, (to
give it no harsher name,) wu raised by contribution, bearing the names or
some of the county officials, residing more than ten miles distant, and who,
far from being Baptista, seldom viiited any church. The character of the
transaction, as well u that of the contributors, fortifiea the auertion, that
the object wu to sustain Muonry, rather than to support a christian minis-
ter. They were more anxious that the Elder ahould maintain his fellowabip
with the lodge than with the church.
"But, finally, af\llr a severe mental conflict, a sense of duty prevailed
over considerations of interest, and the Elder publicly renounced Freema•
aonry and forfeited the pecuniary reward. His masonic apoatacy instantly
exposed the Elder to the usual printions and disabilities. He encountered
at once, the most active and vindictive reeentmcnta and persecutions 'Ifthe
entire muonic fraternity, of his own and the adjoining towna. They with·
drew their subscription and their fellowehip-atigmatized him as ~a fool,'
for having forfeited such pecuniary advantages ; and as a 'petjured acoan.
drel,' for having violated his muonic obligationa.
"It wa11 immediately given out by the most prominent Masons of the
Yillage, •&lull El<kr WiC!antU cauld 1101 ruide Clalrt ;' and so far as peraonal
abuse, threata and intimidations could prevail, they -med reaol•ed to fulo
61 their own prediction.
"In this uncomfortable poature of affaira, in the c11ual absence of tho
Elder, on the 97th of September, 1830, at or about the ho-.r ofmidniah•1
~igitized b~G'?._~gle
..
478 LETTER XLII.
two men dittguieed in muke, with a dark lantern, armed with a dirk-cane.
or long knife, so polished u to reflect the light, entered the Elder's houae,
wandered from one door to another, leading to the chamber and adjoining
rooma, and ahortly entered the bed room of Mrt1. Witherell. One instantly
aeized her by the throat, and while seeming to make a pan at her bead with
the other hand, e:rclaimed, '!IG'' dmnned pnjllf'td normdrel, you 1Mll IUjftr tile
•ptMltiu of'Jf1UT ohligationl.' The other, holding the dark lantern, and the
knife or dirk, presented the light to the bed. They immediately left the
house, on discovering that the Elder wu absent. They wore no bats, and
their dieguises appeared like black silk handkerchiefs, tied over their faces
and beadtt. Mrs. Witherell want this time, alone, with herfamilyofemall
children, the eldest of whom, George R. Witherell, a lad then about fourteen
years of age, slept in an adjoining room; on hearing the exclamation in his
mother's bedroom, he sprang from his bed, terrified and cried out, 'father
• have you come home! father have you come home!' You ask me, ifl be-
lieve that this outrage was actuallycommitted 1 I answer, that the evidence
and cireumstanceR of the case do not admit of a rational doubt. The facta
already alated, it is true, depend, of necessity, upon the testimony of Mra.
Witherell and her son, who@e veracity had never before been questioned,
and cannot, now, be impeached. It will here be remembered, that the Ma-
sone themselves, bad al~ady borne ample testimony to the good reputation
ofthe Elder and hie family, by their great exertions to retain him in their ser-
Yice. · But there were independent circmpstances provect by other witneaees,
which cannotlie,and 'll'hich remove all doubt, ifany existed. The boy imme-
diately alarmed the neighborhood, and a Mr. Smith and Mrs. Chase carne in.
Itwas a rainy night,muddy foot-steps were distinctly imprinted upon the 11oor
and traceable from the house, and the track of a waggon could nlso be for.·
lowed some rods, where it was lost upon a hard surface of slate or gravel.
Another characteristic occurrence was a shrill whistling heard at the same
time, apparently in a remote field. These facts were proved both by M"'.
Chase and Mr. Smith. At the time, too, the facts were not denied, and
seemed undeniable. The Masons, instead of contradicting, were most anx·
!ous to resist the implication against themselves, by charging the transaction
to a conspiracy of the Anti-masons 'with the elder, and to this effect theyin-
dustriodsly circulated the story in all directions, the next morning, to the
distance of many milea. The character of Elder Witherell, and hi! frienda
in Hartford, forbids the indulgence of the slightest suspicion of this kind,
especially in the absence ofany assignable motive. This additional outrage
was not needed to atrengthen their abhorrence or confirm their condemna·
lion of Masonry; Besides, the charge of conspiracy, thus hastily alledged,
indicated a consciousness of guilt, or at least a just suspicion of it.
"To repel this sudden and infamous charge, and in compliance with the
advice of friends, the affidavits of !'drs. Witherell and her son, stating their
knowledge of the transaction as it occurred, were drawn up, and Slade D.
_..;;,.;:,, .
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLIL 479
Brown, Eeq., a Royal Arch Mason, residing in the same village; requested
to administer the oath. This he declined jar wanl ofjurisdiction, IIIUI buauu
1u would taOt admiAilltr on u;tra-judicial OJI.lh I !
" A similar application was made to Solomon S. Cowen, Eeq., anothl!l'
justice of H!lrtford, (not residing in the \'illage,) and another Royal Arch
Mason. And he, too, refused to administer·an extra-judicial oath I! Theae
proceedings were bad at an informal meeting, compoeed indiscriminately of
Masons and Anti-masons, some o( whom were from the adjoining town of
Fort Ann. ·
" On the refusal of these Royal Arch Justices to adminuler em ez:tra-judi-
eial Hth ! recourse wns had to Amos T. Bush, Esq., of Fort Ann, who, not
being a Mason, was Ices scrupulous. He administered the oath, and the
affidavits wt.-re made and published. The citizens of Fort Ann, for the pur-
pose of &c;uching out the agents in this nefarious transaction, iiUitituted a
commillce of investigation, composed of Masons and A.nti-masons. Subse-
quent events soon evinced the zeal and sincerity of the masonic part of this
committee, not in searching out the perpetrators of the outrage, but in sus-
taining Freemasonry against the inftuence of the aforesai.d affidavits. They
repaired hastily to Hartford, and there, with the above mentioned Royal
Arch justices, and other Masons, plotted a most extraordinary conspiracy.
It was thought indispensable to prostrate the reputation of Mrs. Witherell,
and her son. To this purpose, the authority of office, and the forms of law,
were made subservient. No circumstance had yet transpired directing even
suspicion !lgainst any individual, and no person could therefore make the re•
quiaitc oath, charging any individual with ofiCnce. The object, therefore,
was not to detect and pllnish the alledgcd offence, but to in11titute the form
of a legal proceeding, for the sole purpoee of impeaching the witne81108 call-
ed to prove the charge. It would bc.difficult to explain how such a scheme
could be executed without perjury, and the gross violation of official duty.
It was ncvcrthelesd devised, nod executed, under the counsel and active par-
ticipation of the magistrate who was to act the part of the exa~g justice.
But the co-operation of the person who was to play the criminal, was as in-
dispensable aa that ofthe justice, and ho was selected by concert and !lgree-
ment, and his consent obtained! Benjamin Hyde, the vill!lgc tavern-keep-
er, and also a Royal Arch Mason, was first proposed, and &lo111on S. Cow-
en, Esq., who afterwards took part in the pretended examination, actually
applied to him to stand criminal. The tavern-keeper very properly declined
the honor, not from a motive indicative of a high sense of honor or proprie-
ty, but from an apprehension that it might injure his tavern. An appliCil·
tion to Alonzo Hyde, his eon, was more successful. He entered into the
~ with great readiness. The scheme Willi now fully matured. Slade D.
Brown, the said justice, drew the complaint, setting out the principal facts
stated in the affidavits of Mrs. \Vithcrell and her son. Colonel John Hilli-
hut, of Fort Ann, a Royal Arch Mason, made oath that he believed thcu1
Digitized by GoC?gle
" -
,.,
LETTE1l XLII.
true. Alao~n ARen, another Royal Arch Muon, nore that he ' - ill·
'/ttrfiMtl that it wu ,_.,or reported, or nuped~tl that Alonzo Hyde wu
'one of the penoM impliu~U.' On this vague oath, the aaid justice iaeoed
his warrant in the name of the people, ud young Hyde wu arralted. All
the parties to thia affair, thus far, except young Hyde, were Royal Arclt Ma-
eons, and all thia wu done with the full knowledge by the said justice aDd
all the parties, that young Hyde wu not even suspected of the o&nc:e.
"Tbe couapiracy against Elder Witherell ani! hia family, ia prominent and
palpable. The court was organized, and what followed wu in good keep-
ing with what hu been already related. Process wu issued for Elder Wi-
therell, hia wife, and eon, to appear u witnesses in bebalt of the people.
They •er• ..,.,.,,d .wl IGkm into eu~tody, and lhe J"'"Uotter Hrtle perWiud to
go u '-'ge I Elder Witherell an~ hia wife were confined in aep&rate apart-
menta, on pretence of e~uring their attendance, and of preventing concert-
ed testimony. They were examined in succession in a manner comporting
with the character of the whole proceeding, and ita olmoWI design. Tircc
days were expended in questioning and cross-questioning these three wit-
nesses. They were IIUbjec;ted to every possible privation and indignity, and
treated like culprits rather than witneaaea. They bore the whole with due
patience and meekneee, and repeated over and over again the •me story
detailed in tbeir affidavits. Of coarse, not one word wu tesii6ed implicat-
ing young Hyde, or any other known individual. And yet a multitude of
masonic witnesaea were called to impeach their credibility. And this same
family, whom but a few weeks before, these ~~arne Muons were anxious to
retain among them, and for which purpose they had actually raised a liberal
aubecription, were now pronounced, by them, in&moWI and unworthy of
credit for repeating on this examination, the same story detailed in their affi.
duite. It will here be remembered,· that these affidavits had been taken
afteran open public e:raminatien, and that the oath of Colonel Jobo Hillibut,
one of the fraternity, affirming hia belief of llrir CniiA, wu the sole baeia
upon which all these proceedings rested. A parallel cannot be cited in the
history of juriaprudenee. A more groaa perversion of the forma of law, and
of official authority, for the purposes of slander, and detraction, and malevo-
lence, and oppreuion, hu never been practised. The court gravely tli.lelt.IT-
ed the prisoner, but convicted the witnesses for the people, by solemnly ad-
judging them unworthy of credit, and that no outrage had been committed !
A long report of the trial was immediately drawn out by Mr. Justice Brown,
and the testimony discolored and misreprest'ntcd in a manner to further the
design ofthe examination. Thia was forthwith published in all tbe masonic
papers throughout the state. Not to exhaust your patience, and to confine
myself within reasonable limita, I am constrained to exclude several chatac-
teristic features of the traDuction, and all the detail of the testimony. Theee
have already been given to the public in a minute and able report upon the
subject, drawn up by a committee ofgentlemen appointed for the purpoee,
Digitized by Coogle
~ - -- . ~
LETTER XLII. 481
by a convention of the Anti-masona of the county of Washington, to which,
for more l!pCcific infonnation, I beg leave to referyou.
"On a review of the wholealfair, it must occur to cvl!ry one, that theM-
rage of breaking and entering the privati! dwelling of Eldt•r WithereD, ' in
• the night time, and putting his family iri fcnr,' scarcely exceeded the profti-
gacy of the pretended examinstion. It must evar remain doubtful which
was the greater olfonce against private right and publicjustice and decency.
It is to little purpose that the first should be denied, while tho last standa
confessed."
The letter of my friend bears its own commentary upon
its face. As to the outrage itself, its objec~ and the names of
its authors, are alike shrowded in doubt and mystery. Of
the conduct of the Masons, however, subsequently, there
can be but one opinion.
In November of the present year, (1830,) James Gillis,
in whose Ca$e the jury had not, on a former occasion, been
able, to agree, was again tried at the Ontario Sessions, and
acquitted. ·No objections were raised by the special coun·
sel to the sitting of Masons as jurors upon this trial. Gil·
lis, it may be recollected, had removed from the state, to the
southwestern part of Pennsylvania, shortly after the out·
rage. He took with him an important witness, whom those
interested managed to keep away. The consequence was,
that on this second trial, all the testimony against him was
of a circumstantial character only, and was not considered
sufficiently strong to justify a col)viction.
At the opening of the session of the legislature, January
6th, 1831, the Governor again, and probably for the last
time, directed the attention of that branch of the govern·
ment to the subject of these prosecutions. He mentioned
the resig~ation of the special counsel in May, as an event
equally sudden and unexpected; and as he had " deemed
" it his duty to omit no proper measures for the vigorous
" prosecution of those trials," he announced the appoint·
menta of Messrs. Birdseye and Whiting, to continue the
legal proceedings left unfinished by Mr. Spencer.
61
•
~ - _ o;~,uzedbyGoogle
..,
...
•
LETTER XLII.
" It wu much to be regretted," his ncellcncy eaid, "that the ample
provisions heretofore made by special statute~, to puoitih the actors in thia
conspiracy, han not produced results as favmable to the cause of viodica-
tory justice, u all well-wishers to good order have duired. Money hu
been placed at the di~~Cretionary disposal of the officer intrDSied with the pro-
~eeutions, and baa been liberally expended by him. No item 11·hich be baa
certified to be necessary, has !x>en rPjected by the accounting officer, and no
justifiable aid, within the constitutional power of the Executive, during my
administration, bu been withheld. It is but justice to myself to say, that in
all cases where the Executive arm was nectssary to reach fugitives, who
bad taken shelter, from the ordinary process of·our courts, within the juris-
diction of other states, it bas been stretched oat for that purpose; and that
where, from accidental causes, courts were like to fail, for li"O.nt of presiding
officers, my exertions have always been unremitted, and uniformly succees-
ful, to sustain them." ·
Something in regard to this matter, by way of a vindi-
cation of his own conduct, it was necessary that the Gov-
ernor should say, after the severity of his arraignment be-
fore the public by the late special counsel. Less in his own
defence, than what I have just quoted, could not have been
expected. More would have betrayed a want of dignity.
The report of Mr. Birdseye, communicated with themes-
sage of his excellency, comprised a succinct history of his
proceedings under the special commission. Much of what
he stated, however, has already appeared in the condensed
histories of the trials conducted by him, already presented
to your consideration. On the trial of Jewett, Giddings,
who had been subprenaed as a witness, suddenly absconded.
His reasons for so doing will appear hereafter, as stated by
himself. It will be recollected 1hat this man had been in-
troduced as a witness on the trial of Bruce and others, in
1828, and rejected in consequence of his infidelity. 1\fr.
Birdseye, in the report before me, states one incident in re-
gard to this witness, which it is important should be preserv-
ed here, because of its Learing upon trials yet to be narra-
ted. On the arrival of the special coun~el nt Lockport, to
prosecute the case of Jewett, he says:-
Digitized by Coogle
-· ·- ---- ...-~ ~
--~--
LETTER XLII.
" I was nddressed by the defendant's counsel, to know if I should examine
Giddings. I took time to ascertain all the facts, so as to answer under-
standingly, but reciprocating the freedom which had dictated the inquiry, I
asked the defendant's counsel to say to me "·hether, if he were examined,
any attack would be made upon his character for truth and veracity. I rt•
eritled for ll"ftt'tr l.luJt his elatlracter, in ll&cl rupul, would Ml be tJUacktd, roa.
TREY JtN&w IT couLD xoT sa. Havipg made deliberate eumination as to
the extent of thu testimony in the po"·er of the prosecution to produce, to
sustain him on the m~tter of fact ruled against him in Ontario ; and aleo
having fonned a most deliberate conviction that that decision was erroneoos
in point of law, and after the assurance of tho defendant's counsel as to m.
character for truth and nracity, which I found confumed on inquiry, I felt
bound to say that !should examine bim if permitted."
In adverting to the case of the witness at Lockport, who
persisted, on the trial of Jewett, in swearing impliedly to
the murder of Morgan, in order to protect himselffrom an-
swering the questions put to him ; swearing, as the reason
for such refusal, that he might thereby implicate himselfas
an accessary before the fact, in the murder, and persisting
in the answers, after being cautioned by the Judge that he
would perjure himself by such answers, unless .Morgan was
in fact murdered, and unless he knew of the fact, and that if
the laws of man did not punish him, the laws ofGod would,-
the special counsel suggested whether the constitutional
guarantee that no man in a criminal case should be compel-
led to be a witness against himself, ought nvt to be placed by
a general statute upon a different footing than that of judi-
cial immunity from testifying, on the ground that such testi-
mony may be subsequently used for the conviction of the
witness. "Ought not," asks the special cotmsel, "the wit-
" ness to be compelled to testify; and would not his secu-
" rity from any ill effects of such disclosure be sufficient, if
"that testimony were inadmissible in any criminal case
"against himself?" A general statute, the special counsel
thought, would be preferable to any common law practice
of fa,·oritism, or the practice of giving rewards to witness-
es to testify; a practice occasionally resorted to by most
_. __o;9;uz_
ed by Coogle
LETTER XLIII.
governments, but not congenial to the feelings of our peo-
ple. ·
In the course ofhis report, the special counsel mentioned
the fact that Judge Gardiner, of the eighth circuit, had re-
fused to try any more of these caoses ; and he expressed a
wish that one ofthe judgesof the Supreme Court might find
it convenient to hold the circuit in Niagara, which, in con-
sequence of Judge Gardiner's refusal, had been adjourned
over to the second Monday in February.
In concluding his report, this officer passed a high com-
pliment upon Mr. Whiting, who had been associated with
him by the Governor, after the resignation of Mr. Spencer.
His previous acquaintance with the facts . and questions
arising in these investigations, as well as his local and per-
aonal information of the whole subject, added to his talents
and experience as a lawyer, rendered his aid most welcome ;
and his assistance was found very essential.
I am, sir, &c.
L.ETTER XLIII.
NEw-YoJli, March 26, 1832.
S1a,
The fate of William Morgan, as far, probably, as it will
eV'et: be disclosed by human testimony, will now rapidly be
developed. Another special circuit was held in the county
of Niagara, commencing in February, 1831, and extending
considerably into the month of March. His Honor Judge
Nelson, of the Supreme Court, presiding. At this circuit,
all the pending indictments in the case of Morgan, which it
was believed the public good required to be proceeded with,
were disposed of. The two principal trials were, 1st, that
of ThePeople v1. Elisha Adams ; and, 2d, the same vs. Park-
- Digitized by Coogle
__.....,_____<CL.--...oc.... - -- . ~- ....
LETTER XLIIl.
h1,nst Whitney, Timothy Shnw, No;th Beach, William Mil4 ·
ler, and Samuel Chubbuck. Both trials were severely con•
tested, and of long continuance. But as the alledged par..
ticipation of the defendants in the transaction, took place
while Morgan was in and about Fort Niag&ra, and as far
.the greater part of the testimony was the same on both tri-
als, I have thought it best to unite them in a single narra-
tive. For all the necessary purposes ofhistory, this course
will answer.as well, if not better, than a separate outline of
the respective trials ; while time and labor will alike be
saved, both to writer and reader.
The trial of Adams commenced on the 24th ofFebruary.
That of the other parties above mentioned, who were im-
pleaded together, on the 28th. 1\Iuch difficulty was expe-
rienced, on both trials, in obtaining a jury,-the greater
number of the panel having been.set aside for having form-
ed opinions against the defendants. A man by the name
of Raymond, a Freemason, was drawn upon both trials,
and excluded in each instance, by the court, for an unwil-
lingness to disclose the obligations he took as a Mason, un-
less the court should require it ; and also for having object-
ed to doing so, unless the court should peremptorily require
it of him, and for appealing to the court for that purpose.
The next juror called in the case of Whitney and others,
said he had formed an opinion ; but he had taken three de-
grees in Masonry, and had never taken any oath, that, ac-
cording to his understanding of it, required him to do any
thing contrary to the strict laws of morality, and religion,
and the laws of the country. It was enjoined by the rules
of Masonry, he said, to be g )Od citizens, and obey the laws.
He never felt himself under any obligations whatever to
show any favor to a brother Mason as a juror or witness.
[On the trial of Adams, when told by the court he must
disclose his obligations, the jur()r remarked that he thought
it was driving a man to a great extremity.]
LETTER XLIII.
Edward Bissell, a very respectable citizen of Lockport,
and a Royal Arch Mason, was called, and challenged to the
favor, by the special counsel. The obligation of the Royal
Arch degree, as disclosed in Barnard's Light on Maso~ry,
having been read to him, he was asked whether he had tak-
en the same in subsrancc, to which question, according to
the report from the office of the Lockport Balance, politely
furnished me by the Judge, Mr. B. said:-.
" The oatbe I took were materially different ; murder and treason were
npressly excepted, and there was nothing aaid in the oaths I have taken
about political preferment, nor about voting for a bro\h(;r Mason in prefer-
ence to any other man, as mentioned in the book. That part of the obliga-
tion which requires to assist a brother Mason out of trouble, whether right
• wrong, is al\\·ays explained in the lodges to mean, and I have alwaya un-
clentood it to mean, like this :-if I should see a brother Mason in a quar-
rel with another man, it would be my duty to go to him, and by reminding
him of his duty as a Mason, cndravor to get him away \\~thout inquiring
whether he \11"&8 on the right or wrong ..ide of the question. Jt would be my
daty to prevent the quarrel if possible. I think the oaths morally binding;
am should think it dishonorablo to ,·iolate them without a cause. I look
upon them in the same light tllat I should a solemn pledge of my honor in
any other ca~~e. The whole tenor and object of the lectures and other pro-
ceedings, is to inculcate a strict obedience to the laws of the country, and a
fdhful observance of the rules of morality and reli{rioo. With regard to
that part relative to keeping a worthy brother's secrets, if a brother Mnson
should communicate to u1e a secret involving tl{c commission or concealment
of a legal or moral crime, I should not consider him a ll'orthy brother, and of
course 11hould be under no obligations to keep it. In any legal proceedings,
I should feel myself under no obligations, on any account, to fnvor a brother
Mason more than any other man. The juror was admitted and sworn."
I have quoted this explanation thus at length, because it
110 closely corresponds with my own views, heretofore giv:-
en, of the nature of the same obligation,-which views, or
more properly explanations, were written two months be-
fore this report had fallen under my observation.
The first witness called upon both trials, was Loton Law-
~~;on, who gave an account of the taking of Morgan away
from the jail tn Canandaigua. Before Morgan was put in-
o;9,tized by Go~le
___...._,..
__
..___,._c_ -- -~---------!',.I
LETTER XLJli. 487
to the jail, witness had had some conversation with him in
regard to his proposed book. Morgan said he was in a
scrape with l\tiller, and wished to get out of it. Witness
went to Rochester, to communicate to some Masons that
Morgan was willing to be privately carried away. On
his return .Morgan was taken out of jail, as heretofore rela-
ted. Lawson deuied that he gave a signal at the door of
the jail, although he heard a whistle, but did not believe it
was connected with that affair. No force was used iu tak-
ing him from the jail. After he had left it a few rods, an-
other man came up, and said, "Morgan, you are my prison-
" er," upon which the latter cried murder; but on being
assured that he would not be hurt, he was pacified. No
force was used in putting him into the carriage, neither was
he blindfolded, or bound. He conversed as any body else·
would, and went willingly; sometimes the curtains were
up, and sometimes down ;-Morgan wished them to be
closed, that he might travel privately, and be kept away
from Miller, or from his knowledge,-that he might not be
followed by him. On their arrival at Haitford's, Morgan
made no objection to the change of carriages ; he was not
intoxicated, or drowsy, and nothing was given to make him
so. Witness went with the carriage to Gaines, at which
place he took another conveyance, and struck off to Lock-
. port, where he passed the night, and went into Lewiston, to
the installation, on the following morning. He did not,
while there, hear of Morgan's making any noise at the fort;
he was not himself at the fort, and had never been there.
He saw Parkhurst Whitney at the installation,-he being
one of the officers. He believed Whitney went down to
Youngstown, [to the fort,] in the boat, but was not certain.
When Morgan was asked why he had made the noise after
leaving the jail, he said he was sorry he had made such a
~uss. Witness saw no restraint used upon Morgan, on any
subject, during the day ; it was fine weather, and they had
-Brgitized ~Y Coogle
488 LETTER XLIII.
a pleasant ride. He complained much of Miller, who was
to have paid him five hundred thousand dollars, but he had
not furnished money enough for the expenses of publica-
tion. He was willing to go any where, to get away from
that man. ·
John Whitney, (tried formerly, it will be recollected, and
acquitted,) was sworn as a witness on the trial of Park-
hurst, 'Vhitney and others. He stated that he rode on the
carriage with the driver, -Hubbard, from Canandaigua to
Victor. He there procured a horse, and proceeded to Ro-
chester, on horse-back; thence to Hanford's Landing; from
which place to Wright's, he rode with Morgan in the car-
riage. Witness fully corroborated the testimony of Law-
son, in regard to the absence of restraint, and of liquor, ex-
.cept two or three glasses, and also to Morgan's willingness
to go. He did not recollect that any one had hold of Mor-
gan when they got out of one carriage into another ; they
got out and in like the others ; there was no scuffle nor was
any force used ; he had a talk with Morgan on the 'road ;
he expressed a willingness to go if his situation could be
made to suit him, and he was assured it should be so; the
object of keeping him secret, was, that Miller, and those
with whom he had been engaged in printing the book, should
not know where he had gone, so as to follow him ; he said
Miller had misused him, and he did not wish him to know
where he had gone ; appeared as anxious as any one to
keep his journey secret; witness saw no bandage over his
eyes ; no threats were used ; Morgan was told he could
not expect friends unless he used his friends well ; he said
he had done wrong, and was willing to get out of the
scrape; he knew they were going to Lewiston ; it was the
understanding that the arrangements to be made for him,
were to be as good in a pecuniary point of view, as the
speculation with Miller, in publishing the book; nothing
definite however, had yet been agreed upon.
Digitized by Gqoole
() • I
.........--.__ - --- - _............. ---~-~...
LET't:ER XLifl. 489
Isaac Fanvell was examined on both trials. He lived
near Wright's tavern, and was there when the- carriage
drove to the shed, towards evening, on the 13th of Sep-
tember,. 1826. He was requested by Wright to go into
the barn, wh&e the carriage was driven. He ther~ got
into the carriage, to sit with the man 'Yhom he had been
.told was Morgan, while the person whom he found in
the carruige with him~ went in to supper. He, (witness,)
was a .Mason ; and on inquiring what the dislurbuce was
about, and· who Morgan· was, they told him tlult he had
been publishing the secre~ of masonry, and gave him an
account of the manner in which they.had taken him away,
first from Batavia, for·stealing a shirt, and then from Can•
andaigua. · He inquired what they wete going to do with
him, and was tofd that they intended to take him to Cana•
.·da, where they would procure him to be sent on board of a
Britjsh ship of ~ar. Witness held rio conversation with
him, either by signs or weirds. ·The person in the carriage
had a handkerchief drawn entirely and closely over his
face. When witness entered the carriage, and the other
person left it to get his supper, he said :_:" You d--,-d old
" hag, if you open your head while I am gone, I will smash
·"you on myreturn." Morgan was helped out of the car-
riage, while in the barn, and soon taken in again. Witness
was told that the fact of his being there was to be kept a
sec~;et. He had talked with Wright about it before the car-
riage came up. Wright said he did n<it know what the
matter was, but a man came along in a sulker, and inquir-
ed if he had seen the Rev. Mr. Cumings, to which he repli-
ed that he had not. He was then directed by the man in
.the sulkey, that if a carriage should come along, he must
drive- it into the barn, and say nothing about it. Wright
added ·that he knew noi what it meanL ·
Eli Bruce was examined on both trials, testifying mucli
as on his former examination, with the addition of a few
62
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLUI.
particulars. Morgan's face, be said, was covered that he
mould not tee wbo were with him. He talked freely, and
wu not bound. When asked if be knew where be was,
be replied ~the was passing from Rochester to. Lewis-
too. On getting into the boat, be inquired what it was.
He was told, and then aBked if all was safe, v.ith which
assuran~ be was content. He was not landed on the Can.
ada shore. Witness supposed that Morgan was lo be pro-
vided foc-4hat he was to be placed on a farm, so_mewhere
back in the country, away from the knowledge oi influence
of Miller. When the Canada people refused to receive
him, witness thought it was beeause their ·arrangements
were not ~pleted. When on .co1ning back, Morgan WI.$
put into the MagaziDe, he, (witness,) supposed he wai only
to be kept there until thole arrangements bad been settled.
There was no .restraint upon Morgan's limbs.-he was not
bound, even in the boat. A man was left with~. to keep
him company at the magazine, l>ut witness did not.go'into
i& himself. He did not previously know Morgan; but '!a•
informed that it was a voluntary proceeding on. his part. .
or he, (witness) would have had nothing tc do with the ·af-
fair. When he heard, on the followipg day, at Lewiston.
that Morgan was uneasy, he had some misgivings; but sup-
posed from the character of the men, who were.with him,
that nothing dishonorable would be done, or any thing that
would affect his ovm character and standing. 'The last .
that he .had ever heard upon the subject, except by l'lllilor,
was, that he was quieted and contented. le had himself
hoped for the best,;,1nd said nothing-being a public officer.
He heard no expression from any one, that Morgan had
forfeited his life. He remembered of their fastening the.
magazine, but had not inquired into tl1e particulars -of~
ca.se.
John JackJOn, the person who accompanied Giddings to
the 1Jl8g8Zine, on the morning of the 14th of September,
tree' ;:,
·- -
LETTER XLIII. 491
1826, and who·was despatched to Lewiston, to informCol.
King that "the man in the magazine was making a good
" deal of noise,'' was again called upon· the ·stand. His tes-
timony on the present occasion, did not vary materially
from his former statements, especially that p-~ade on the
trial of·Brown and Wright. In addition to his former re-
lations, however, he now testified that he was at Ba~via
when Miller was arrested, on the· 12th of September ; and
when he.was first told that " there was a nian in the maga-
zine," he thought it must be Miller. Jle denied, however,
that his business at Batavia had any oonnexion With the
proceedings against · Miller. · He knew not for '\'Vftat ·that
individual was arrested.
There were .two witnesses sworn upon the trials of
Adams, and Parkhur.
st Whi~ney, and those impleaded with
him, whose testimony was of a peculiarly important and
decisive character. The first of these was James A. Shed,
now a practising lawyer.in Ohio, whose name has not be-
fore appeared on any of the trials. He test;ified that he
happened to bo at Fort Niagara, on the afternoon of l~th
~f September, 1826, when he was inquired of by Cal. Jew--
ett whom he previously knew, whether he was a Mason.
On replying in the affirmative, he was informed that a very
high-handed measure was about to be entered into by the
Masons, a parallel of which could no.t probably be found .
in the history of the world, unless in the case of King
Stanislaus, who was seized and carried offby the·Poles;-
that it was their intention to carry off Morgan for publish-
ing the secrets of.Masonry-take h.im .to Montreal or Que-
bec, and there put him on board a British vessel, if one
could be found whosa commander was a Mason. In the
evening of that d~y, witness, on·request, assisted to.·row a
boat over the river, in which were two other peiJODS be· ·
sides himself, one of who01 was Jewett. On reaching the
shore-, witness and Jewett went up to the village of Ni&B&·
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLJll,
ra, attended a meeting of eight or ten MasOns at a lodge ·
room, where the subject of Morgan's disposal was discuss-.
ed; one proposed harsh measures, and even .death. Anoth-
er repelled the proposal with indignation. The meeting
was broken up, nothing done, and the party returned in the
boat to Fort Niagara. On Wednesday, witness assisted to
remove powder out of the magazine, which wa, said to be
spoiling on account of dampness. On Thursday, he was
informed that Morgan had been brought to that place the
night p~viously-w~nt that day to Lewiston and attended
the ~nstallation. Returned the same evening. On the
Monday or 'fuesday morning following, · witness and
another person met Adams ooming from the m8gazioe,
who seemed to be agitated, and said he believed they had
taken Morgan awa:y. Went to.the magazine-:.Adamscall-
ed Morgan thrice, but- received no answer-unlocked the
door-entered-discovered ll quantity of straw which had
the appearance of having been lain upon by a man-an
ammunition box, flag silk handkerchief, pitcher, decanter,
and a plank·that was broken, on the floor. The straw was
removed, the boxes ta~en out, the phink refitted to its pro-
per place, the handkerchief destroyed, and the pitcher and
decanter carried down to Giddings's house. Witness heard
no explanation whether Morgan h~d been removedby the
Canada Masons or not. He was ·intimately acqurunted ·
with the· person who first spoke to him, and they had the ·
sign and "grip between them. Witness ·made no ·inquiries
of him as to the effect of this transaction ; but did make en-
quiries of him as to the propriety o( the measure ; he "said
it was· with extreme reluctance that he had had any thing to
do with it, but felt himself bound as a Mason. Witness re-
mained at Youngstown about six months ~fterwards, teach-
ing schQOl~nversed with Mr. Shaw, one of defendants,
at Lewiston, in the following January, who .stated that he
knew Morgan was there, and felt .very bad ab~ut it. Heard
. o;9;uzedbyGoogle_
~ ------ ~-·-----lllllllfttl.
~I
LETTER Xt.lll. 49S
Shaw endeavor to dissuade Giddings from disclosing the
atfair. ·
On his cross..e1:amination, witness stated that no one was
present attbe time ofShaw's admissions~never heard either
of.de(endants acknowledge that they had had·any part in the
transaction-never saw any of the persons who were pre-
se.nt at the meeting in Canada after~rds, exeept Garside,
;_who wished witness to introduce him to some Mason of
high standing, that he might get his permission to put Mor-
gan to death. Witness refused. . .
Orsainus Turner, whose na~e has become quite familiar
in .connC'Xion with these transactions, testified, insubstance,
that he was at Batavia some time before the abduction of
Morgan, and heard a goocl many hard things said. · He had
learned from sheriff. Thompson and others. that Morgan
was dissatisfied with Miller, and wished to get away, if the
Masons would give .him·an equivalent for the book he was
wr1tmg. With this view, he, (witness,} crossed over into
Canada, to complete the arrangements for taking Morgan
thence, and settling him upon a farm. This farm, it ·was
Wlderstood, was to be paid for by the Masons in Canada.
It was situated near the Short Hills, and was to be given to.
Morgan, on condition that he should take back the manu-
scripts already in Miller's possession, and si:ppress the book.
Witness supposed the bargain with Morgan had been made,
and that it was well understood on· both sides. Four men
were to be responsible ; and inde~d they had.offered to pay
Morgan a~ equivalent in money, should he prefer it. · On
his return from Canada, witness stopped at Youngstown to
take tea. While tea was preparing, witness and his com-
panion, Darr~w, walked to· the house of Mr. Giddings, who
-kept a tavern, where the subject of the removal of Morgan
into Canada, was talked over. It was suggested .that i\
might be necessary for Morgan to stop ther~ over night ;
·and, the question arose where he should be kept. Giddings
_ o;9;uzedbyGoogle
494 LET1'EB. XLIII.
proposed the magazine of the fort. and introduced witness
to a person, who, hP. said, would make the necessary ar-
rangements. From the rasb expressions 'which witness
had heard at Batavia, which he now mentioned to Gid-
dings, it was feared that some violenee·might be offered
to l\Iorgan, and ·this, they thought. would bave abad effect.
The qrrangen'lent for .taking him into Canada, was made for
the double purpose of preventing.violence, and suppressing
ttie book. Witness expres~ly told Giddings, .that the ar-
rangement had been made with a full understanding that not
a hair of his head should be hurt. Giddings, who felt as
he did upon the subject, was charged to see that no violence·
should be offered to Morgan. The information had been
communicated to witness by men of honor, in whom he
thought he could confide-men of charactet and standing.
After this interview with Giddings~ and the other man, on·
the night of the lOth of September, witoe88 had never
had any thing to do with the matter, directly or indi-
rectly. He 11ttended the installation of the chapter; at Lew-
iston, but.knew nothing in any wise inculpating either of the
pattie11 on trial. ·
. The· next witness called,_ and far the most important of
anv examined, on either of the long chain of trials, was
Edward Gidding~, who had be~n rejected; in consequ~nce
of his. alledged infidelity, on the trial of Bruce, in 1828.- He
wasagaili objected to, by the.counsel for the defence both on
th:e trial of Adams,and on that ofParkhurstWhitney anp otb-
ers, on the same ground as before, viz : his disbelief in· a Su-
preme Beingwhowill punish perjury..Alongtrialensued upon
this poirit, and the testimony taken irt respect to his religious
belief, was, if possible, still more contradictory than before~
It.was most clearly testified by several witnesses, that·
Giddings, on various occasions, had used expressions show-
ing that he doubted, if he did not disbelieve in, the irnmor-
tality ofthe soul, and the future accountability of man. , He
r ....... ore' .. Dig1tizect by Google
• t - ---- ~=-· . --
. --..
L.ETT-EB .XLIII. 495
8eemed to have read bad books, in an unenlightened man-
ner ;-books especially calculated to mislead the ~ulgar and
ignorant portion of the community, as they p~fess to com- .
municate a world of (to them) new information. I shall
not· incwnber these pages, already too much protracted,
with specimens of the evidence given on this trial, as to his
infidelity. He quoted much from Volney's Ruins ; than
which I do not know any book better calculated to promote
the cauile ofthe Arch Fiend, among the illitera.te. Aceord-
ing to this part of the testimony, Giddings did. not profess
to know wl~at. he believed in, beyond the consciouSness of
his own existence ; and a little more. loose r«;lading might
have taugbt him to doubt the evidenec or that. · .He had a
vague idea
. . ·~ Of the Grcu.t Whole,
" Who hath produced u.nd will receive the soul," .
but it was little tinctured with eithei- poetry or philosophy.
It was proved, on the other hand, .that he .had spoken at
iimes of tempor~l p~nishment as being the retributive jus-
ti~ of heaven fqr sins done upon ea.rth. A wide range of
testimony was allowed to be gone into ; ·i~ which it ~as
sworn that he was in•the habit of alluding to a God,-as an
overrul4lg Providence, in his letters to his children, and the
relations with whom he corrosponded. But taken altogeth-
er, as I have already stated, this testimony provQd that his
ideas as to the sanction .of morals, and his obligati.ons to- .
. wards his Creator and his fellow men, were crude and fan-
tastic. Had he been weli edur-:tted, he. would probably
have been either an enlightened christian, or ~ dangerous
skeptic.
It was well known, by the repeated publications of
Giddings, and by his .evidence given before grand ju-
rors, that his testimony was of the rughest consequence,
Digitized by Coogle
-~~------ --
LETT&B XLII[.
in theBe ~Is ; aad corresponding efforts were made on
both sides ; by the prosecution, to have him sworn as a
witneu, and- by the defence. to exclude him. A formida-
ble array of witnesses had CODflequently been brought
forward. both to impeach, and to sustain him, on other
grounds than his religious belief. There was one cir-
cumstance disclosed in· tbe course of this colJatenil inves-
tigation, which it·would be unfair not to mention. . By the
former Jaw of.this state, as settled by the Supreme Court,
on the opinion of the late Chief Justice Spencer, a belief, not
only in a ~ but in a state of future rewards and punish-
ments, was r~uired to make a competent witness. But in·
the late n:vision of our laws, the common law has been al-
tered ; and it appeared iri evidence on this occasion, that in
the conrse of a conversation between Giddings and the late
special counsel, Mr. Spencer, the former having complain-
ed of the law by which his testimony had been .exch1ded
at Canandaigua, the latter had told him that \he law would
prol:tably·be altered in this respecL Mr. Spencer was one
of the revisors of the Jaws and a member of the legislature.
The law was altered, and the two provisions upon this sub-.
ject are now incorporated in the statute book, in the foJJow-
ing words:-
"§. 87. Every penon believing in the exietenee !X a Supreme Being who
will poniah falee-aweariog, aball be admitted to be sworn, if otherwise c:om-
petent."
" § 88. No penon aball be required to declare his belief or dlllbelief in the
existence af a Supreme Being, or that He will punish false-swearing, or hia
belief or disbelief of any other matter, as a requisite to bill admission to be
awQl'll or to t.eatify in any Cue. But the belief or unbelief of everj pencSn
oft'ered as_a witneas, may be proved by othet and competent testimony."
· I do not inte_
nd any impeachment of the motives of Mr.
Spencer, by adverting thus to the above mentioned cir-
cumstance. I have no evidence that the proposed change
was made at his instance ; nor do I believe that, were such
LETTER XLIII. 497
the fact, however anxious he might have been to coavict
the Morgan conspirators, he would have aided in changing
the settled principles of the law of evidence for that pur-
pose. If the law had been erroneously expounded, and laid
down incorrectly in the books, it was proper that it should
be corrected; but the conversation with Giddings, as given
in the testimony, required explanation, and that explanation,
l conceive, has not been here improperly introduced.
The testimony having been closed in support of the com·
petency ofGiddings, his Honor Judge Nelson said, that the
more he reflected upon it, the more he was convinced, that
he ought not. upon this preliminary inquiry, to stop to weigh
and canvass the facts, and see on which side the balance
of proof lay. The witness was presumed in the first in-
stance, to be competent, and the defendants held the affirma.
tive, and were bound to sustain it, and as at present advis-
ed, he should always hold the party objecting, to make out
a clear and undoubted case of disqualification, before he
•
would exclude. Doubt ought to admit. He would there·
fore admit the witness, allowing the counsel to urge the
facts to the jury upon the question of credibility.
Giddings was thereupon sworn. He testified, that in
September, 1826, he lived at Fort Niagara, and kept the
ferry. About midnight of the 12th he was called up by Col.
King, who said he had got the d--d perjured scoundrel
who had been revealing the secrets of Masonry ; that he was
bound, hood-winked, and under guard; wanted witness to
take them over the river, and deliver him up to the Masons
in Canada, for them to do with as they thought proper ;
went over the river with them ; Morgan was sitting on a
piece of timber when witnes; went out of the house ; he had
a handkerchief over his eyes ; he was then led to the boat
by two men ; one had hold of each arm ; was not intoxica-
ted ; appeared to be very weak ; his legs were not bound ;
nothing was said to him before they got to the boat ; one
63
Digitized by G.oo le
- ~ ------ -
498 LETTER XLIII.
of the rnen, (Eli Bruce,) ~ailed for some watE!r, and.said the
wretch is almost famished ; ·there were four of ua with him ;
five, in all, including Morgan, went into the boat, viz: CQI.
King, Hague, Bruce, Morgan, and witness ; two of the
men, when we got over, went up to the town, (Niagara.)
While they were waiting in the boat, Morgan said. " the
"handkerchief pains me most intolerably ;" the man who
sat in front of him felt under the handkerchief, and said,
"it is not tight, keep silent ;" he the~ said, "gentlemen, I
"am your prisoner, use me with magnanimity;" the man who
sat before him pressed a pistol against his breast, and told
him if he said any thing more he would shoot him. Mor-
gan tried to put his hands into his vest pocket, and could
not ; witness then saw that his hands were tied behind him.
In about two hours they returned with intelligence that the
Canadians were not prepared to receive .:Morgan, where-
upon he was brought back and put into the magazine.
Witness had the key; went up the next morning to.~ive
him food and refreshments. They went into the porcb
door, and were about opeuing the door leading to the ma-
gazine, when Morgan said, you had better not come in; for
as there are but two of you, I can defend myself against you,
as I am situated ; I am determined not to be hl<'d to death.
John Jackson then said, where is that pistol, is it loaded, is
the flint in good order? for I will .shoot the d-d rascal ;
this was said in a loud voice to intimidate him. MorgaR
then cried murder and made muc~ noise. Witness request·
ed a man, (John Jackson,) who was going to Lewiston, to
send somebody to !ltill Morgan. A person, (Hague,) came,
and in going up to the magazi,nt>, he sai1l, " I know Morgan,
"and he fears me as he ,J, If'S t)JP. devil: )l<' wilJ make DO more
"noise after I sec him.'' Alierwards thirty more came, of
whom all returned except the six defendants. The collo-
quies that attended the interviews between them and their
prisoner, do not sef'm to be material to the issue. until the
le
...
LETTER XLIII. 499
evening of the 15th, when his further disposal became e.
matter of deliberation,-and it was at first determined to
put him to death. While they were proceeding to the ma-
gazine for that purpose, under the direction ,of Col. King,
one of them made an objection. He said he felt bound to
assist, but could not approve of the deed. They concluded
thereupon to defer the execution until they could send to
" the Grand Lodge now sitting at Jerusalem," for instruc-
tions. They apprised Morgan that they had determined to
send to the east for instructions what to do with him. At
this interview he said he thought that by climbing up on a
frame, he could see to read, and he asked for a Bible. He
also requested permission to see his wife and children ; and
these indulgencies were. promised to him,-but notgranted.
After leaving the magazine, they were joined by Adams,
and the manner of disposing of Morgan was again discus-
sed. One man said by putting a rope round his body, arms
and legs, and sinking him in the river, no trace of him could
ever be discovered. Miller said he could prove from scrip-
turethat it:wasrightto take his life; quoted a passage, but wit-
ness don't recollect whatit was; some high words passed be-
tween King and witness, who told King he would go and
release Morgan ; King was in a great passion, and told
witness to do it at his peril ; witness then gave him up the
key and told King he would have no more to do with it; he
(King,) took the key and gave it to another person. On the
17th, witness went to York, (U. C.) and returned on the
21st, when he wa8 told by Col. Jewett, tha_
t "they had
"murdered that man." The witness also testified to murder-
ous designs expressed by Garside, (the same person named
by Shed,) but they do not seem to have pertained to the
issue.
A cross-examination followed of considerable length, one
of the prominent points ofwhich was the disclosure ofterms
of pecuniary advantage, upon the performance of which the
-~ -~------
Digitized by Goo~le
- - ~ --
LE'l'TER XLIII.
witness had agreed to leave that part of the country, and
not appear as a witness. The Masons were very anxious
to have him go off, and made him liberal offers, and he at
one time agreed to go. The fact was admitted by Giddings,
but as that was a matter touching his credibility only, it
does not seem to be necessary to my purpose to enter into
the detail. The examination and cross-examination were
very long, and at times full of fearful and tragic interest.
Kneeland Townsend was next called. His testimony
related principally to the proposition that had been made
to tn1ence Giddings, by money. The witness (then a Ma-
son) approved of the plan ; but it was so evident, from his
own confession, that the witness was sointemperate and for-
getful, that very little reliance, it is presumed, could have
been placed upon his testimony, even if it had been impor-
tant in its character.
Four witnesses, viz: Oliver Grace, Gustavus W. Pope,
Loton Lawson, and Alexander Stewart, were then called
to invalidate the testimony of Giddings. They swore to
facts at variance with what he had asserted under oath, and
also to his different versions of the trans actionS--but these
were points for the consideration of the jury, as questions
of fact, rather than as involving any important principle.
The two next wirnesses called by the defendants, were
for the purpose of impeaching the testimony of Kneeland
Townsend, but their evidence was of little importance to
either party. The next and last witness, however, was
called by the prosecution, and his tes.timony was so impor-
tant that (especially as it is brief,) I give it entire as report-
ed:-
"Amos Broneon.-1 hed a eonvereetion with Chubbuck (~ne of the cfe.
feadante,) dey before yeeterdey : (this is Saturday, 5th,) we were talking
about Giddings's testimony ; be enid, as fer ns he has gone he hes told the
truth ; this is e misfortune that hns come upon us like the crash of an earth-
'iuake'; we co.uld not avoid doing u we did, and the first we knew it wu
---
--
........-··~ :r- Or
-~
LETTER :XLIII. 501
upon our sboulden ; at this time Gidding~ had got to where he told that
quite a number had come down from Lewiston, and six staid till after sup-
per, and had given the names of Beach, Chubbuck, and Shaw : I think
Mr. Birdseye was enQlining Giddings at this time.
"CrM8-e:ramined.-,Vas here day before yesterday as a spectator; am
here to-day as a witness ; I told this convel'!llltion to several before I went
home ; Chubbuck eaid that what Giddin~rs had sworn tu was as true as
what be had sworn to himself.II
The cause of Elisha Adams was ably defended by W.
H. Adams, Esq., and that of the people by the special coun-
sel, after which an elaborate charge was made to the jury
by judge Nelson.
The cause was committed to the jury at about"' o'clock,
on Saturday evening. On Monday morning the jury came ·
into court, and declared that they had not agreed upon a
verdict, and could not agree. Eleven of them were ready
to render a verdict of guilty; but there was one who would
never agree. Such being the state of the case, the court
directed the dissenting juror ·to stand up in the jury box.
He did so, and proved to be. the only Mason on the panel.
The jury was then discharged. ·
The case of P. Whitney, Shaw, Bench, Miller, and Chub-
buck, was also very ably and ·eloquently summed up by
Messrs. Griffin and Adams, for the defence, and by the
special counsel for the prosecution.
The Judge occupied an hour and a half in committing
this cause to the jury, as there was a great accumulation of
testimony to be analyzed, and spread before them in an in-
telligible form. The proofof the existence of the conspira-
cy was established, the judge said, as had been conceded in
the course of the argument, on both sides. The jury there-
fore, would not be under the necessity of examining that
point. It was not contended, on the part of the people, that
the defendants were otherwise guilty, than as parties to the
conspiracy, and this fact was the leading and important in-
quiry submitted to them. The question then arose, were
Digitized by Go2S.le
- -.. + •
LETTER XLIV.
the defendants, or either of them-for all or any of them
might be convicted-parties to the conspiracy, or to the
imprisonment of Morgan 1 That they were, was positively
asserted by Giddings, under oath ; and the Judge proceed-
ed to examine the character and weight of that testimony,
to enable the jury to give it its just value, retaining the
ground that he was an admissible witness, and leaving it to
them to judge of its credibility. The court a1so adverted
to the testimony ofShed,which only went to implicate Shaw,
and would not of itself, conceding the truth of it; be suffi-
cient for that. He deemed the question to rely mainly upon
the credit attached to the testimony of Giddings. lt was a
question for the jury to decide. It was their province to
pass upon the whole. If their minds were at rest on the
question of guilt, they should convict, regardless of conse-
quences ; but if not, if they bad any rationa1 and conscien-
tious doubts, their duty was to acquit.
On the morning of March 8th, the jury, having been out
all night, came into court with a verdict of" NOT GUILTY,"
in regard·to Timothy S~aw and William Miller. Not be-
able to agree respecting the guilt or innocence of the other
defendants, the jury were diacharged, and the court imme-
diately proceeded with another of these extraordinary
cases.
Very respectfully, yours, &e.
LETTER XLIV.
N~~:w-Yoa:K, March 26, 1832.
Sra,
The next and last of the conspiracy cases which came
to tria1, wa8 that ofthe People vs. Nonnan Shephard, and Dr.
.,.
LETTER XLIY. 509
Timothy Maxwell. The first witness called, was General
Jonathan K. Barlow, who resided in Genesee county in the
summer and autumn of 1826. The last time that be had
attended a lodge or chipter of Masons, was on·the week
immediately preceding the 15th of ·August of that year. .
The Mark-master's Lodge was first opened, and a conver·
sation ensued respecting the book which it'was said Morgan
was now publishing. The Rev. Lucius Smith, master of
the lodge, and High Priest of the Chapter, was in the chair.
I~ was in part upon the business of Morgan's book, that
the meeting was summoned. .There had been several pre-
vious meetings upon this subject, and a committee bad been
appointed to concert measures for the suppression of the
book, although of this committee the witness first heard at
the present meeting. A report from that committee was
announced, and one of its members ·rose and addressed the
chair, wishing to know where they should present their ac-
counts to be audited. ~e stated that the committee bad
been to Rochester and Buffalo,........and the witness believed
he added, " and Canandaigua :" but of this he was not quite
, certain. The answer in regard to the account, was--" You
" must present it to the auditing committee." It was here
intimated that perhaps .they had better hear the report be-
fore they acted upon it. The master then interr11pted the
discussion, by saying "it was not a proper place to receive
" the report. The lodge should be first closed, and the
" chapter opened." The necessary direction for that pur-
pose was thereupon given: all the brethren who had re-
ceived no higher degrees than the Mar~, retired ; and the
chapter was opened in due form. The committee was
then called upon for the report, and one of its members--
but not the one who had spoken up'~:l the subject in the de-
gree below-rose and made a report. He said:-
"We went to Rochester, and assembled the companions of the·chapter,
anti told them that ono William Morgun was ahout to print U1e secreta of
-- ..... -----..........----~
o;~;zedbyGoogle
U:TTER XLIV.
Muonry; that the oompani01111, ar a number of them, on being informed
•ho he was, knew Morgan-tUld after having heard.a relation of all the evi-
dences they had concerning the book, the High Priest of the chapter at
Rocbel!ter got up, pulled oft" his coat, stripped up his sleeves, an<l aaid,
1
Bring me the man that dare do that thing, and I will show yoa what te do
1
witll him.' The member of the committee who was U~akiog the report,
wu interrupted immediately upon saying tbia,and told {by the High Prie~)
it was unnecessary to report any further-that enough had been reported.
He aaid it tvas improper that the report should oome before the chapter, be-
cause, be aaid, 'we may have spies upon us-and what is done here to-day,
'U~ay be reftaled on the hoUBe-topa to-mo~w.' The Rev. High Prie.et went
on further to state, that it was not proper for the committee to report it in
common, but that they should keep it themselves, and do their own buai-
ne~&. Di.ection was then given to the chapter, to be cautious what wu
aid-to be diiCI'eet and carefuL On the same evening, out of the chapter,
witneas beard an inquiry made of the High Priest, by one who wu in tM
Marlt Lodge, {but had been exalted that night,) 'what the report of the
' committee was7' He (the High Priest);said-'Our committee know their
'own buaineas, and can keep their own counsels, and transact their own bu-
• linese--.nd it is noi fitting for you or me &o know about it.'"
The person here referred _to as having that night been ex-
alted to the degree of Royal Arch, was Judge William
Mitchell. The committee consisted of William Seaver,
Blanchard Powers, and Nathan Follett. It was Seaver
who first spoke of having the accounts for tbe expenses of
the committee audited." .There was a pretty full chapter
assembled on that evenin8· On the day following, the wit-
ness, (General Barlow,) started on a j9urney, and did not
return until the middle of October. His testimony was
fully confirmed by the examination of Judge Mitchell, who
was the next witness called. During a part of the evening,
the Rev. High Priest was clad in his clerical instead of his
masonic robes.
Benjamin Porter, Jr., called as a witness, resided in Ba-
tavia in 1826, and was sent, some time in July, with ames-
sage from William Seaver, to the High Priest of the Chap-
ter at Lockport. The message was delivered: it related
Digitized by Goo:le
----- --· ~-....---
-----~-- --- - . - - - -
LETTER XLIV.
to Morgan's book, and a chapter was called that evening,
which witness attended.
Gustavus W, Pope, lived in Lewis_
ton, and was acquainf:l.
ed with Dr. Maxwell. In the SJ>ring of 1827, witness had
a conversation with Maxwell, touching his having been at
Batavia, at the time of Morgan's arrest:-
" Witness asked him, familiarly, a qnest\on-said to him, 'Mac, it i1 said
you were at Batavia when Morgan was cn.rried olt' He said he was there,
~e euppO!rcd, at the time he was carriod olt His words were, ' I was there
at the time three days and three nights.' He snid he never saw Morgan,
or knew any thing about him-that he was there on his own busine-but
· if he could have got the old devil, he would have cr'ammed him intobiswag-
gon, and carried him olt Witness then said to him, 'you bayl! a good deal
to do with his Satanic majesty.' Ho replied thaL t.o bad. This was tho
sum of the .conversation. Defendant said there was quite art assemblage
of people ihere, a good many, at that time-that-he did n\lt know what their
busine88 was. 'Vitneasdid not understand who went with him, (Maxwell)
-thinks he said be went alone, in a one .horse waggon ; bad a patient
abOut ten mile• from here, and.having business at Batavia, he went througb.
WitnePs now lhinh he said somebody was with him, but can't be certain.
To.a question as to his testimony before the ltf&nd jury, witness answered,
that he did not remember what he.thcn testified-but that what he now re-
)ated was the truth, whatever he might l!a,.e sworn to before the grand jury I
On his cross-examination, witness stated that the forego-
ing conversation with the defendant was jocose-more in
sport than earnest. \Vitness commenced the conv~rsation
by way of a joke, aud both laughed heartily. And yet it
was on the testimony of this very witness, that. the bill of
indictment against defendant had been fourid I
For the fifth time, John Jackson was called-one of the
most unyielding non-mi-recordo witnesses ever brought up-
on the stand. He was at Batavia when Morgan was ar-
rested. Formerly he swore that ne went thither .on his
own .business-knowing nothing of the Morgan affair. He
now said he went partly on his own business, and to ae-
eompany David Hague. But his testimony was so full of
64
- -~ - - -. -
·
- ~ --------- o;9itizectbyGoogle _
..... _
LETTER XLIV~
contradictions, and so peculiar, that I depair of conveying
an adequate idea of its manner by analysis, and I must
therefore quote it without much abridgement:--
"John Jackson.-Was at Batavia after Morgan WILli taken away; went
&o~ here to Batavia; went alone ; overtook some folka that were going
that way ; overtook. Hague from ten to twelve miles east of Lockport.
Witness can't say whether he started in the morning·or in the evening;
ea.n't be positive w.hetber he had company all the way or not; went on
boi'Beback.. Thinks he did not go into the village of Batavia with Hague ;
separated about one mile this side of the arsenal. Hague rode on and left
";tnesa. Witness had conversation with Hague about suppreasing Mor-
gan's book, on the way. Hague was telling witness that a certain man bad
obtained a copy that Miller had. That was about all was said ! Hague
said he was going, and invited liim to go. Does not recollect that Hague
hired a horse for witness to go ; don't think Hague said he wanted him to
assist in suppressing the book. Arrived at Batavia same day, a little before
night; staid there one night. Witness was around the streds till after be
aaw the bustlein &rresting·Miller, and thinks he left there soon after. Was
informed by a merchant there, that Morgan had been taken away by the .
Masons, and that he suppos{'d they ·were going to carry off Miller. Did
not see Doctor Maxwell at Batavia; saw him three or four miles east of
there towards Le Roy, on the Canandaigoo. road. Witness saw a bW!tle,
and asked Maxwell, ' What's the matter now 1' . ' God !' s&id he, ' they
have got Miller ; they have taken .Morgan, and Miller was to go.' Wit-
neas went to .the tavern where they took Miller in Batavia 1 did not get any
breakfast ~at day; don't know the name of the place or tavcm. Other
persons were passing about there, but don't know who they were. Witneae
IUppOitd .11e went alone ; there were people on the road, but did not know
them; think• that he asked Mac if he knew Morgan, and that he was ta-
ken off"; Mac said be heard he was taken off by some men from Canandai-
gua, ~ut that be did not know the men. Witness left :Batavia the same
day he saw Mac at the tavern, and staid.at Carrington's (eight miles east
of Lockport) that night, or a few hours, till day-light; no one was with Mt-
nCII'I. Can't eli)' how long it w11,s before he 1\'entdown to thq fort. Witoeas
went to Batavia partly on his own business, and to accompany llagu.e ; that
was about all! He understood Hague meant to get the other copies of
.Morgan's books or disclosures. Saw rio others besides Hague that he knew
went on that bUsineSs. Did not see Shephard, and daes not know be went
out. Hague had before told Mtness what was going on; think• \t wu the
night before he, (witness,) started from bome. ·
By the Court.-Witneas supposed these copies were to be got by intngue,
Ule aarne aa the other• v.-ere; eupposed they eQuid get ~me l!tranrr t~
'h '
:~\ ·.' ·.· ~
o;9;uzedoy Goog~
LETTER XLIV. 507
make friends with Miller, and get liberty to read it, and then clear out with
· it. Don't recollect as any other way wns suggested. Thinks nothing was
eaid about takirig Morgan; don't recollt>cl as any thing wne said about Mor-
gan, only that he was tho one who wrofe it."
Jehiel C. S. Ransom, attended a meeting of the lodge at
Lockport, the ·first week in September, 182ft Measures
were proposed to suppress the p~blication of the book pre-
paring by Morgan. He understood that the meeting was
called for that purpose. He did not remember. seeing
Maxwell thE're, nor did he know. that Shepherd was pre-
sel)t. Eli Bruce, called again upon this trial : .attended the
meeting of the lodge mentioned by Ransom, but had no re-
collection whether either of the defendants, or even Ransom
himself, was present. Orsamus Turner was sworn likewise
upon this trial. He was present at the meeting·of the lodge
referred to; but did not recollect whether Shepherd was
there. Maxwell, he was quite sure, was present. They
were at first, ten or twelve. of them, talking over the s~b­
ject of Morgan's book, in the street, and finally concluded
to go into the..lodge-room, as being more retireQ. " He
" pad heard Maxwell was at .Batavia at the time Morgan
" was carried off, and witness went and asked him about it.
".He admitted that he was there, and told some of the cir-
. " cumstances-stating that Morgan had been put in the car-
" riage at Batavia, and had gone to Canandaigua. He relat-
" ed the circumstances pretty much as wiuiess had since
" heard them; it could not have been long after news came
" that Morgan had been carried off-thinks i\ was before
" the installation, but after he (witness) had been to Fort
" Niagara on the business. ·Defendant did not say how long
" he had been at Batavia, or that he went with Hague."
At this stage of the proceedings, the s~cial counsel,
finding, as the reporter in substance remarks, that ·the
witnesses remembered nothlng to the. put:pose, abandoned
the prosecution!i!, and the jury of course rendered a verdict
Digitized by Coogle
~i
I .
..
. ~:
LETTER XLIV.
of" NOT GrtLTY." The court was thereupon adiourned
without day. .
On the 22d of April following these trials, the Governor
·transmitted to the legislature the final report of the special
counsel upon the whole transactions arising from the con-
spiracy and the abduction of Morgan. In this n'.p<>rt, Mr.
Birdseye stated very briefly the results of the three trials
at the late Special Circuit Court, developing far more than
had been previously known of the true character, and the
closing scene, of that dark conspiracy, although there had
been no convictions in either case. The special counsel
considered that the disclosures warrant~d the opinion that
Morgnn's life had been taken; but there \,·as no testimony
inducing the belief that either of the persons yet under.in-
dictment, with the exception of Elisha Adams, was present
at the perpetration of the crime. And as to him, the belief
was rather a mattet of inference, than of positive proof.
Nor did the counsel suppose, that, with the e1cep1ion of
Adams, ~re was ariy person yet living, and within the
jurisdiction of the Cnited States, who was present wh<'n
the victim.was put t? death.
The testimony on the last mentioned trials, had left no
doubt of the forcible abc\uction of Morgan, although by
threats and delusive promises, he had been induced te re-
main passive during his journey from Canandaigua to Nia-
gara. In regard to P. Whitney, Beach, Chubbuck, and
Adams, the indictmentli against whom remained undisposed
of by rensdll of the disagreement·of the jury, no doubt ex-
isted of their having acted under the fullest knowledge that
Morgan was forcibly imprisoned in the magazine. Not-
withstanding the effJrts of the defendants, first to exclude
the testimony of Giddings, and then to destroy his credi-
bility, the special counsel declared his belie( that the truth
ef bia relation waa not impaired.
LETTER XLIV.
As to an indiCtment yet ~nding in Gen~aee, and another
in l\fonroo, the commissionergave it as his opinion that there
was not sufficient testimony within his knowledge to justify
him in bril'lging either of the parties to trial. In regard to
the first, there was also another objection, ~siQg from the
manner in whieh the indictment had been procured-less
than twelve jurors having agreed to fuid a bill. · This
bill, however, had been presented in pursuance of a com-
pact by the jury at the commenceme.nt of their session:
their ·body was very thin, and they had agreed that bills
found by a majority should be presented. In respect to tbe
case in .l\f9nroe county, (that of the Rev. Mr. Cumings,
now seltled in Pennsylvania,) Mr. Bir.dseye had been as-
sured by his predecessor in office, that it neither could nor .
ought to' be brought to·trial, until Simeon B• .Jewett was
placed in a sit!Jation to be eJtamined as a witness; and .
from the course this cause had taken, and ~e length of time
that must elapse before it could oo carri~d through the
Court of Errors, he did not think it would be right to hold
the indictment over the head of a citizen to await sucb
a. contingency. For. these, and other reasons, which he
was ready to communicate to the Governor, the special
counsel advised the entry.of a nolle prosequi in both cases.
In regard to the indictments against Adams, Whitney,
Chubbuck, and Beach, the special counsel intimated an opin-
ion that no further testimony could be procured, and no ad-
ditional facts developed; and of course the inference was,
that no good would result from further proceedings in the
premises. Should they be still prosecuted, however, the
District Attorney of Niagara, he thought, would be abun-
danlly able, with the lights of former investigations before
him, to take charge of the matter.. There would, therefore,
be no farth~r need of continuing the office of special coun-
!'el. The documettt.of which !'have thus presented a brief
abstract, is the last offi~ial paper .connected with the Mor- .
gan trial1. With continued regard, I am, &c.
Digitized by Google
510 LETTER XLV.
LETTER XLV. ·
NEw-Yoax, March 28, .1882.
SIR,
In the month of April, 1831, a case was tried before a
local magis~rate, in the county of Chenango, New-York,
.which deserves to be noted among the minor ocCurrences
of the present history. I have, formerly, had occasion to
. speak of those seceding Masons, who have traversed the
country, giving exhibitions of the process of conferring the
several degrees,.-broad caricatured · representations, of
course,.-but, probably, marked with strong resemblances.
T.here· have been two classes of these exhibitors, viz:-
thoee who have resorted to.the measure .as the most effec-
tual method of induci.ng the fraternity to relinquish the or-
der, and those who have practised the new vocation 11s
showmen, for the m~mmon of unrighteousness; Their re-
ception has been.different with different clas~s of the com-
munity. The wonder-loving uninitiated, have crowded
the.exhibitions to arrive at a practical knowledge of the
mighty mysteries of the craft ; those nominal Masons who
have forfeited membership by non user, and wh4? are anxi- ·
. ous to have the institution numbered among things forgot-
ten, have laughed at the joke of seeing fools so. readily
parted from their money ; while the zealollS adhering
Masons, who seem determined to be buried due ·east and
west with their aprons on, have been exceedingly annoyed,
without possessing either the wisdom, or.the philosophy, to
.conceal their vexation. In sotne places where these exhi-
bitions have been advertised, the Masons havemet in num-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLV• 611
. bers, and put them down. In others, they have deterred
the showmen by intimidations; and· in others, again, actu-
al riots, though none of a very serious description, have
pccurred. · · · . · ·
..
In the case of which I am now to speak; howe.ver, a still
diftcrent method was res~ed to, with a view of putting
. .
an end to these exhibitions altogether. The laws of this
state prohibit showmen from traversing the country, and
picking the pockets of the people by their exhibitions, with-
out procuring a license for each exhibitjon, from two mag-
istrates of the town ·where their kick-shows, or· feats ofjug'-
glery3 are to be displayed for the edification of the multi-
tude. 'The pcna~ty for each unlicensed exhibition of the
kina contemplated by the statute, is twenty-five dollars.
Much to the annoyance of my broth~r Masons of the town
of New Ber-lin, in the county of Chenango, a man by the
name of Harlowe .C. Witherell came among them, and
gave an exhibition, " for gain or profit," of wha-t he called
in his advertisement, " a practical demonstration of the first
"seven degrees of Freemasonry." Fired with indignation
at having their hallowed rites thus exposed to the vulgargaie,
at twenty-five cents per capita of the spectators, the over-
seers of the poor, to whoin the revenues derived from show-
men accrue, incontinenrly commenced a prosecution for
the recovery of the penalty attached to a violation of the
Jaw. Connected with the exhibition wer~ also a serieiJ of
painted illustrations of Freemasonry, which were specified
in the second count of the_ plaintitl's declaration.
Although the action was brought befor-e a justice ·of
the peace,_yet, its pature gave it speedy notoriety, and
im.Parted to it a high degree. o( interest in that community.
On the day of trial, .three lawyers Clppe&red on a side.
The counsel for the defendant demanded a jury. .A ·venire
was accordingly issued, .and a panel summoned by a con-
stable who happened to he a Master Mason. The counsel
--~-- - Digitized by Coogle
611 LI:TTEil XLV.
for the defendant challeaged the array, upon that grollJld.
aa4 alao becauae 10me of the jurors summoned were .Ma-
.oas, u likewile was one of the plaintifFs. · The counsel
for.the latter declined .arguing the question. The defen-
dant's COWUiel.then read from th6 statute, to show, that, if il
t!oDICable be in any way i11teruted against or in favor of
either.party, it is a good caUse of challenge. · The coun-
.el for the plaintifis replied, and denied the cause of chal-
Jeose.· The defence rejoined, and made a specific o1fer t()
prove that the muonic obligations are of such a natqre,. as
to ~i8qualify ita members fro.m acting impartially in a case
ol ~ kind. The co~ decided that witnesses might be
oalled and examined to the poinls specified by the defen-
dant's counsel. Three witnesses were then successiyely
callecl, who proved the fact, that the ·constable and one of
the pfajdtift's were Freemasons-the first a Master Mason,
aDd the second of the degree of Royal Arch. They all
swore, substantially, to the accuracy of.the obligations as
diJcloeed by .Morgan, and printed in Bernard's Light Oil
Masonry, to which I have already referred. Two of the
witne111es were examined at con~d erable length as to the
.Muter Mason's obligation, of which tRey gave rio very fa-
vorable impressions.
A third witness was then called, but the counsel for the
prol!leCution expressed a wish to go no further inio this
qaesticm, whereupon the array was qua.Shed by the court,
-"d a new venire issued and given to a constable who was
not a Mason, and by whom another jury· was summoned.
In·opening the cause ~to the jury, the plaintiff's counsel stat-
. ed the nature of the prosecution, al!d the grounds upon
which a verdiCt was claimed. The exhibition of Wither-
ell, which had been held without the permission of the mag-
istracy of the town, they maintained to be an "idl• show," ·
within the meaning of the statute which prohibits the I
exhibition of " idle shows, suCh as common showmen, .
-~-'
•I
I
I
o;g;uzedbyGoogle J
...r:~:: v r n • •
LETTER XLV. 519
"mountebanks, or jugglers usually exhibit." The Masons,
it was likewise said, ,\,ere "a distinct society," unlike all
"other societies." The exhibition, by the defendant, was
proved by two witnes~es, who described the ceremonies.
One of them, on his cross-examination, said he had seen
several performances, but had never seen "common show-
" men, mountebanks or jugglers" give such an exhibition.
The question "whether the defendant had stated that what
"he had exhibited was true Freemasonry," was objected
to by the prosecution-argued on both sideS--and the ob-
jection sustained by the court. The prosecution here rest-
ed their cause.
The counsel for the defendant in his opening, denied that
his exhibition was any violation of the statute. It in no
respect came under the section of the law prohibiting the
exhibitions "of common showmen, mountebanks ~nd jug-
" glcrs," inasmuch as it was a true and genuine exhibition
of Freemasonry. There was neither jugglery, trick, nor
deception; an~ they relied upon the proof of this fact for
the acquittal of the defendant. The first witness called,
was examined as to the nature of the cx~ibition. He gave
a minute account of all the particulars. On the swearing
of the second witness, an objection was raised by the coun-
sel for the prosecution, against calling upon Masons to
prove their ceremonies and secrets ; but, after argument
upon both sides, the objection was overruled.
The examination proceeded, and the witness proved the
correctness of the exhibition, so far as it related to the first
three degrees. Gen. Augustus C. Welch, a Royal Arch
Mason, and sheriffof the county, was next called. He un-
derwent a long and minute examination upon the general
tenor, and particular phraseology of the masonic obliga-
tions, and upon the rites and ceremonies of the lodge-room.
The general scope of his testi.mony, confirmed the substan-
65
~- ~- _ ·· · ~ ---. ~-- --
Digitized by Coogle
"
614 LI!TTI!Jl XLV.
tial accuracy of the obligations, as.given by Morgan and
Bernard, with the few and unimportant exceptions.
John Pike, a justice of the peace, also testified to the
general accuracy of the obligations, as read to him from
Bernard's book, although he pointed out a few variations.
Another witness was called; but the counsel for the pro-
secution said they were perfectly willing to admit that he
would testify precisely as the two witnesses last mentioned
had done, and they entreated the defence to persist no long-
er in this examination. The witness was, however, very
briefly examined respecting a few prominent features of
the obligations, and his testimony strictly accorded with
that which had preceded him. General Welch and Jus-
tice Pike were both examined very fully as to the ceremo-
aiu of the lodges and chapters-examinations which were
never gone into on any of the Morgan trials. Only a sy-
nopsis of their disclosures upon this branch of the subject.
has been preserved in the report of the case, as furnished
me by one of the counsel; but, as far as this abstract goes,
it corresponds with sufficient verisimilitude, to the Ritual
recently published by Allyn.
The case was committed to the jury at six o'clock in
the morning. At nine, the jury came into court, and stat-
ed that they could not agree. They were thereupon dis-
charged. Five were in favor of acquittiug the defendant,
and one for his conviction. Counsel for the prosecution,
Messrs. Nathan Beardsley, John Hyde, and Lyman J.
Daniels. For the defendant, Messrs. Noah Ely, Charles
A. Troup, and John C. Morris.
It is not the intrinsic importance of this case, in itself
considered, that has induced me to present a sketch of it
for your perusal. It derives some importance, however,
from the illustration it aflords of the state of feeling which
yet pervades a large portion of the people, in regard to
the masonic institution.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLV. 615
In May. 1831, Solomon C. Wright was brought to trial
on the indictment against him for perjury, at the Ontario
General Sessions. He had sworn that no suspicious car-
riage had arrived at his house in September, 1826, and
had denied other circumstances calculated to identify the
persons and the carriage conveying Morgan. On his trial,
it was abundantly shown that his testimony in these re-
spects was false ; but the court held that the materiality of
these facts, in the original case, was not sufficiently shown,
and he, too, was acquitted. This is the last trial that has
taken place, growing out OI'dle abduction of William
Morgan. ·
The next in order, is a trial before the Circuit Court of
this state, (Judge Vanderpool presiding,) held at Albany
on the 13th of September, 1831, wherein Jacob Gould was
plaintiff, and Thurlow Weed was defendant.
In the month of October, 1829, the defendant was edi-
tor of a newspaper at Rochester, (where both parties then
resided,) called the Anti-masonic Enquirer, in which three
publications were made, viz., on the 6th, the 13th, and the
20th of that month, constituting the grounds of the action
brought against him.
The first, viz., the paper of the 6th, stated that " some
" months after the abduction of William Morgan, a Ia~
"sum of money was placed in the hands of General Jacob
"Gould, of this village, (Rochester,) the then Grand Scribe
"of the Grand Royal Arch, ostensibly for •charitable pur-
" •po1u.' That a part of this money was paid to a gen-.
" tleman at Lewiston, and that other sums were expended
" at Gaines and Batavia--and that General Gould subse-
"quently reported to the Grand Chapter, that be bad used
" the money in the manner, and for the purposes for which
"it was appropriated."
In the next, viz., the paper of the 13th October, a letter
from General Gould was published, in which he stated that
Digitized by Coogle
:SI6 LETTEJ\ XLV,
.. In February, after the abduction of Morgan, I wa~ elect-
" ed one of the officers of the Grand Chapter, and as it is
"usual, )Jarticularly in masonic bodi<'s, there were funds
"appropriated for charity. Duri11g the year I held said of-
" fice, I received one hundred dollars, and expended it in
"small sums, nvt only' ostensibly,' .but really for charity,
"and it is the only money that e\·er came into my hands
"from the chapter, or any other masonic body, during that,
"or any other year."
To this letter was subjoined a comment by the defen-
./ dant, in which he asserted, that the plaintiff" paid fifty dol-
·, "Iars to a gentleman of Lewiston, to defray the expenses
:, "of .!\Irs. Monroe, her son, and the convict Cron, from
"Canada, to give testimony in relation to the body found
"at Oak Orchard Creek." He also averred, that in the
month of June preceding, a conversation was held in Ro-
chester between a distinguished counsellor at law wlwm he
named, and Jacob T. B. Yan Yechten, Esq., of Albany,
the successor of General Gould to the office of Grand
Scribe, in which the latter stated, "that funds had been ap-
•• propriated by the Grand Chapter, in 1827, for charitable
"pui·poses, six hundred dollars of ~hich were placed in the
" hands of General Gould, the then Grand Scribe, who had
"reported the following year, that he had expended the
"money for the purpose contemplated-but that he produc-
" ed no vouchers."
On the 20th October, the defendant copied into the Anti-
masonic Enquirer, a letter addressed by the plaintiff to the
editors of the Rochester Republican, in which he declares
that he is authorized by his sucressor in office, alluded to,
(Mr. V. V.) to pronounce the conversation mentioned, so far
as he is concerned, to be utterly f.'llse. He proceeds to re-
mark-" the statements also, that I paid fifty dollars, or any
"other sum to get Mrs. ~lonroc, or any other person from
"Canada, or the insinuation that I ever paid one cent to
LETTER XLV. 617
"aid any one concerned in the abduction.of Morgan, to get
" them clear of punishment, or any other person, is also
"false." To this communication, as well as to the former,
the defendant added comments on its republication. The
vituperative parts on both sides I shall omit, and present
only those substantial points lhat conduce to the issue. The
defendant repeats his former averment relative to the pay-
ment of fifty dollars by the plaintiff~ towards defraying the
expenses of Mrs. Monroe and Cron, (the man who came
from Canada with her in search of the body of her hus-
band,) and adds-" I shall prove (alluding to the allegationof
"Gen. Gould that he had commenced a prosecution against
" defendant,) that while he was acting, (or pretending to
"act,) upon a committee appointed by I he people of Mon-
" roe County, to investigate the masonic outrage, he fur·
" nished mone.IJ to enable at least one of the kidnappers to
"escape from justice. I shall I hen prove that he has de-
"liberately and solemnly sworn that he utterly disapprov-
" ed of the whole outrage, and that he had no agency in it,
''either before or after its commission."
The foregoing presents I he ground on which ~e declar-
ation, consisting of several counts, was framed against the
defendant. On the trial, the counsel for the plaintiff aban-
doned all the counts except the third, which charged the
plaintiff with furnishing money to enable one of the kid-
nappers of Morgan to escape from justice, and that he af-
terwards swore before a grand jury that he had no partici-
pation in the transaction before or after its commission.
To these charges they would strictly confine the inquiry.
Stipulations of counsel had been entered into relative to
the admission of certain facts, part of which were read by
the counsel for the plaintiff; and among which was the pub-
·Hcation of the paragraph recited. The remainder of the
stipulation, the counsel for the defendant proposed to read,
but it was overruled by tbe.,4!®rt, except that which ad-
. 4~ ~
Digitized by Coogle
618 LETTER XLV.
mitted Burrage Smith to have been concerned in the ab-
duction of William Morgan.
The defendant's counsel then offered to prove that the
article complained of, was in reply to the plaintifrs publica-
tion in the Rochester Daily Advertiser. This likewiae was
overruled, as wu also an offer on the part of the defen-
dant's counsel to read the wlwk of the article in the Anti-
masonic Enquirer of October 20th, upon a clatae in which
the plaintifF relied for damages.
The defendant then offered a stipulation admitting that
Butrage Smith was concerned in the abduction of Morgan
which was allowed and proved.
John 0. Cole, who bad been secretary of the Grand
Royal Arch Chapter of the state of New-York, from 1825
to the date of the trial, was next sworn. He testified that
a re10lution was passed by that body on the 1Oth of Feb-
ruary, 1827, in the following words:-" Re1oi'Ded, that the
"8UDl of one thousand.dollars be placed at the disposal of
"the trustees, to be by them, in their discretion, applied to
"charitable purposes." Gen. Gould, as Grand Scribe, was
ooe of the trustees of this fund, as was also the witness.
On the same lOth February, another resolution was passed
to place three hundred of the one thousand dollars appro-
priated for charitable purposes, in tht- bands ofJacob Gould,
.Or which he was to aecounL These resolutions were en-
tered in the regular course of their occurrence, on the
boob of the Grand Chapter. On the 9th February, 1827,
the day previous to the above appropriation, the foUowing
extract is found upon the I&Dle book.
"The receipts of the year will not equal the expenses of
JA the session by more than three hundred dollars. Numer-
~ ous applications are made for widows and orphans, and
"there are other pressing claims upon the funds." The
witneu further testified, that on the same day the commit-
* on charities made a report, appropriating, in small sums,
t'ET't:EB :l.tV. ~19
to various applicants, two hundred and ninety-five dollars.
which was all that could be bestowed in charities, without
encroaching upon the permanent fund of the Grand
Chapter.
Garret L. Dox, who was treasurer of the Grand Chap·
ter for many years, including the period alluded to, testifi·
ed that the usual mode of dispensing charity was to pass in
detail upon individual claims, after they had been examined
by a committee ;-was present when the appropriation of
one thousand dollars was made on the 10th of February,
1827 ; never knew an instance of general appropriation for
charity before, nor to so large an amount, either before or
since ; it was offered and passed, be .thinks, without re·
marks. Witness paid Gould (plaintiff,) three hundred dol-
lars out of the one thousand dollars appropriated, immedi-
ate-and subsequently paid one hundred dollars more on
plaintiff's draft-as also, at a still later period, one hundFed
or one hundred and fifty dollars on Gould's drafts, for which
sums plaintiff has never accounted, to witness's knowledge..
Garret W. Ryckman, who had been treasurer of the
Grand Chapter ·since 1830, produced the books, shewing
that nine hundred and fifty dollars were paid in 1827, un-
der the general head of " charity," without designating the
recipient. Witness was satisfied that the two hundred and
ninety-five dollars reported by the committee as before
mentioned, are not included in the entry of nine hundred
and fifty dollars. A receipt at the end of the year 1827,.
had been cut out of the receipt book. None other was mis-
sing from the whole book.
Robert Martin, testified, that in 1828 he was a member
of a committee appointed by the Grand Chapter, to audit
the accounts ofthe treasurer. Recollects among the vouch-
ers, a draft for three hundred dollars, with Mr. Watts's
name upon it, as money paid to Gould ; thinks also, there
was a draft of one hundred dollars from Gould. " In 1827
Digitized by Coogle
J,.ETTER S.LV.
"Dr. Eights, of Albany, wrote to witness requesting him /
" to get a draft for one hundred dollars, of General Gould.
" upon the charity fund. Witness called upon General
"Goold, receh·ed the draft, and sent it to Dr. Eights. Wit-
" ness did not shew Dr. Eights's letter to General Gould.
" There was nothing said about the object for which the
"money was wanted. Gould asked witness no questions
"and took no voucher."
The defendant's counsel offered to prove that ~uld had
made a communication to the public, in a newspaper, stat-
ing that he had received one hundred dollars from the
Grand Chapter, which he had expended iri small sums for
real charity, and that he had received no other money what-
ever from any masonic body for any purpose; but the mo-
tion was overruled by the cout:t.
Dr. Jonathan Eights testified, that as an officer of a lodge,
in Albany, having occasion to use some mol)ey for charita-
ble purposes, and knowing that Gould had the control of
the masonic funds for such purposes, he wrote to Mr. Mar-
tin to get a draft from Gould for one hundred dollars, which
was done, and the same was received by the witness.
To a question by defendant, as to what Dr. Eights did
with this one hundred dollars, the counsel for plaintiff ob-
jected. The court asked the defendant's counsel what they
expected to prove, who replied that they would prove by
Dr. Eights that this one hundred dollars went to Burrage
Smith, one of the kidnappers of Morgan, to enable him to
escape from justice, and was the same one hundred dollars
referred to in the clause upon which the plaintiff claimed
damages. The court decided that the defendant must first
prove that Gould knew the object to which the money was
to be applied. and therefore overruled the testimony.
The witness stated, in continuation, that Gould never
11.sked him to account for the money, nor did he ever con-
verse with him about its appropriation. Witness afterwards
Digitized by Coogle
s=e:
LETTER XLV, 621
received two drafts from Gould, of two hundred dollars
each, in favor of Edward Doyle, and drew therewith four
hundred dollars from the Grand Treasury, and deposited
the same in a bank!o Doyle's credit.
Samuel Barton was adduced to prove that Gould paid
fifty dollars to the witness, out of the one thousand dollar
fund, to defray, in part, the expenses ofinvestigating a body,
said to be Morgan's, found on the shore of Lake Ontario;
but the testimony was overruled.
Robert King testified, that S. P. Gould & Co. (of which
firm the plaintiff was one,) had an account against witness
and Burrage Smith, who were partners. When it was
rendered, witness told plaintiff that fifty dollars of it was
Burrage Smith's private account, which he, (witness,) would
not pay, oflcring to pay the residue. Gould told witness
that if he would pay the whole bill, he (Gould,) would re-
ceipt it, and give witness a draft on John 0. Cole, for the
fifty dollars which was due from Burrage Smith. The ac-
count was settled in the manner proposed, and witness took
a letter from Gould to Cole, in June, 1827, upon which he
got the fifty dollars. Smith had ·absconded the February
preceding. Gould told witness that it was'so arranged that
Cole would pay the order, which he did.
Mr. Cole, being recalled, stated that he paid the fifty dol-
lars to King, not out of his private monies, but from the
masonic funds.
General Vincent Matthews was sworn, by .whom the
counsel for the plaintiff proposed to shew that Gould, after
this action had been commenced, stated that he had never
received but one hundred dollars from the Grand Chapter,
and that it was distributed in small charities. They also
offered to prove, by the same witness, the truth of the whole
conversation attributed to]. T. B. Van Vechten, Esq., (as
published in the Anti-masonic Enquirer, of October 18th,
previously referred to,) from which the controversy and
66
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVI.
action originated. -objections were made to the admission
on both poin~s, and they were sustained by the court.
The plaintiff called no witnesses. The cause was sum-
med up by counsel on both sides, and committed to the
1
jury, who returned a verdict of four hundred dollars for the
plaintiff. A bill of exceptions was taken by the counsel
for the defendant, and the cause has been carried up to the
Supreme Court. It remains sub judjce, and I shall there-
fore forbear making the comments which such an unusual
course of proceedings, in a libel suit, would, under other
circumstances, amply justify.
With respect, I am, &c.
LETTER XL VI.
NEw-YoRK, March 30, 1832.
Sm,
The conduct of the newspaper press in regard to the
facts comprised in this eventful history, has been a prolific
source of complaint. After the sitting of the Le Roy Con-
vention, however, in February, 1828, the denunciations of
the press became less frequ_ent in popular meetings, although
the Anti-masonic conventions have. never ceased to recur
to it, and the subject has repeatedly called forth the finest
declamatory powers of the Hon. Richard Rush. But while
in the preceding pages I have more than once been con-
strained to admit that there has been a very grievous fault
in this matter, on the part of a large portion of the public .
press ; yet there has been much of exaggeration in the
charges so sweepingly urged against it ; and even Mr.
Rush, upon this topic, appears throughout to more·advaa-
tage as an impassioned rhetorician, than as an accurate
commentator upon matters of fact. Much, therefore, caD
Digitized by Coogle
... - -Fe
LETTER XLVI. 52S
be said on both sides. The charge is, that, by masonic
influen.ndmasonic power,-by the application ofgold in
somfinstances, and of threats in others,-the whole news-
paper press of the land, prior to the establishment of pro-
fessedly Anti~masonic papers, and the whole press except the
Anti~masonic, since, down even to the present day,-has
been kept dumb in regard to tl1e unparaUele~ outrage upon
Morgan, and the extraordinary transactions connected
therewith. To this extent, or to any thing like it, the charge
is untrue.
There arc several considerations upon this subject which
require weighing before it can be properly understood. In
the earlier part of ilie excitement, ilie apparent silence of
ilie press, especially at a distance, arose from a cause
which I have already cxplained,-the...Jncrcdulity, as bon-
est as it was general,-that existed in I:egard to the whole
matter. It was not believed that any.real outrage had been
committed,--or 'rather, J;erhaps, such were the doubts and
contradictions respecting the affair, that the conductors of
the press knew not what course to take, or what to say.-
When, however, it was discovered to be a reality, there
was by no means iliat degree of profound and universal si-
lence that Anti-masons represent to have been observed.
If I am not very widely mistaken, the earlier trials were
published in many papers. The Ontario Repository,-One
of the most faithful and vigilant of the public sentinels at
the west,-stationed in the midst ofthe excitement,-though
far from being an Anti-masonic paper, was, neverilieless,
prompt and full in its reports of the trials,--the greater
number of which were held in the beautiful village of its lo-
cation. The reports of that paper uniformly reappeared in
the journals with which I am connected, until all the facts
of the conspiracy, abduction, and journey to Fort Niagara,
had been published over and over again. Ample notices
were likewise published, from time to time, of the trials that
Digitized by Coogle
/
LETTER XLVI.
followed, in which every new fact was carefully noted, un-
til the last great trials came on at Lockport, whe.pother
case was published at once, and spread before the ~lie
with all its appalling and lengthened details. The occa-
sional proceedings of the legislature, including most of the
debates, were _also published to as full an extent as the
limits of an imperial sheet would permit, allowing a rea-
sonable share of space for the discussion of the various
other important matters crowding upon the public attention.
These facts arc referred to, not for the purpose of claiming
any particular merit, but merely to show, that 1\Ir. Rush,
and other declaimers upon this subject, have paid too little
regard to the actual facts of the case. There were other
papers which adopted the same course, until their conductors
honestly believed that the public had become thoroughly
acquainted with the leading facts of the case.
But the tru•h is, the Anti-masons required too much at
the hands of those publishers who were actuated by a sin-
cere desire to deal with the most perfec! fairness towards
aH parties. They required the republication of all the tri-
als, at full length, though column after column of the testi-
mony taken at each, was but a stale repetition of what had
often been proved and published before ;-they required a
republication ofall the reports and documents, which follow-
ed each other upon the subject, in one or both branches of
successive legislatures, though, like the trials, these papers
were again for the most part repetitions ;-and they :Jiso
required at our hands, a publication of all the reports and
speeches, and resolutions, and journals, which the thousand
and OM popular meetings and conwn1ions sent iorth, Q.e-
Juging the country for three or four years. A compliance
with requisitions like these, was impracticable. It would
have excluded almost every thing else of public interest, re-
epecting the affairs of foreign nations, and the high and va-
ried interests of our own country, from the columns of the
Digitized by Coogle
• LETTER XLVI.
largest papers in the Union ; while the small village jour-
nals, published but once a week.·which at best can do no
more than furnish an inadequate abridgement of the events
of the day, would have been smothered with Anti-masonry
iD a single month : and yet the charge against the press,
without discrimination or exception, was, that it had been
bribed, or awed into silence, by the Masons. Sir, however
reprehensible may have been the conduct of a large pro-
portion of the public press in this matter,-and that it was
reprehensible I have not hesitated to admit.--the evil was
not thus produced. I have no idea that either bribery, or
intimidation, was exerted to any considerable extent. _
There
might, it is true, have been a few individual cases, like that
of the threat of a man by the natne of Doyle, to an unpat-
ronised weekly paper in Rochester ; but, sir, you may rest
assured that the instances were exceedingly few. · My own
experience is not inconsiderable in this matter : the course
which I adopted as an editor, was such as to draw forth as
much h9stility from the conspirators and their friends, and
those who palliated their conduct, as that of any other in·
dividual in the country ; and, I am free to say, that although
some of our masonic subscribers have differed with me, yet
with the masonic proscriptions of which 1 have heard so
much, in the Anti-masonic papers, we have never been vis-
ited. It is possible that the establishment in which I am
interested, may have lost fifteen or twenty friends, from the
independent tone which has been adopted in regard to this
matter; but such a loss is unworthy of being mentioned. It
is not greater than is felt upon many other occasions. There
is scarcely any subject of morals or religion, or of the pub-
lic policy of the government, the free discussion of which
does not, at one time or other, give offence in some quarter;
and in all such cases, subscribers of papers whose minds
are too narrow to tolerate any difference with their own
favorite notions or opinions, resort at once to the withdrawal
Digitized by Coogle
•
LETTER. XLVI.
I
-
oftheir names, as the most convenient and certain mode of
retaliation or revenge ;-as the most powerful method of
exerting th~ir own intellects. These are occurrences with
which every editor who occasionally ventures to essay an
opinion of his own, must be familiar : but in regard to the
11ubject before us, I hesit_ate not to assert, that in the exer-
cise of this narrow-minded and American mode of attempt-
ing to shackle ·theJreedom of discussion, on a comparison
of facts, the Anti-masons would have little whereof to boast
~ _gn the score of liberality. While they have been talking of
the proscriptive threats of the Masons towards such papers
as should dare to publish the Morgan trials, they have them-
selves been acting upon the same principle. The proscrip-
- tive resolutions proceeding from their conventions and po-
pular assemblages, have been numberless ; while, so far as
my own experience goes, I believe I am warranted in say-
ing, that as many Anti-masons have testified their displea-
sure because I have not gone far enough with d~tn. as have
the Masons, because, in the opinion of some of that order,
I have gone too far. My object, throughout, has been
TRUTH without FEAR; and as the good public has always
more than made up the trifling losses Sl1stained from both
extremes, there has been additional cause for believing in
the soundness of the maxim, " in 'f'edio tutissimus ibis."
This practice of withdrawing subscriptions from papers,
. on every trivial occasion, for a mere difference of opinion
between the editor and subscriber, upon accidental ques-
tions, more frequently abstract than of national importance,
I have ventured above to denominate American. In no
other country, according to the best information I can ob-
tain, is it so frequently resorted to, as in this: and in my
view, it is but a sorry method of manifesting displeasure, or
dissent. With papers long established, and liberally sup-
ported, these individual instances of private proscription,
can have little effect ; but in respect of papers enjoying
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVI.
alender patronage, and struggliug for existence, they strike
at the root of the freedom of ·thought and discussion. In
this 1>9int of view, connected with the erroneous principle
upon which all our public journals are established, this il-
liberal system may be said to work essential injury. So far
as it goes, it is directly at war with free discus~on, and the
independence of the press. Far better would it be, in this
respect, if, in the work of composing and vending newspa-
pers, there was the same division of labor, which exists in
the European capitals. There, the editors and publishers
have no personal knowledge of their supporters, as such:
here, they are known to nearly all ; and the support which
newspapers receive, is but too frequently begged on the one
hand, and bestowed on the other, more in the fonn of per-.
sonal favoritism, than in the manly and independent course
of busi!less, in which favors are neither known nor acknow·
ledged on either hand. Where such are the relations be-
tween publisher and subscriber, there is no'such thing as the
freedom of the press. Every paragraph must be carefully
balanced, and frequently all its pungency and meaning
must be frittered away, to render it inoffensive to Mr. A., or
palatable to Mr.·B. Even gross official delinquencies must
remain unwhipped of justice, and the cause of moraljty left
to vindicate itself, lest peradventure the offending officer is
a patron! forsooth, or Mr. C. and Mr. D. do not acknow-
ledge the same criterion of orthodoxy, either in morals or
religion, which the publisher, according.to his sense ofduty,
would wish to uphold.
Let me not be misunderstood, however, as maintaining
the opinion that the subscribers to a paper have no right to
exercise this species of influence, or to manifest their dis-
pleasUTe in this way, under any, or even under very many,
circumstances. I am speaking only of respectable papers,
conducted by educated and responsible men,-by men who
have character at stake themselves, and whose principles
and general mode of conducting their papers, are upon all
Digitized by Goo.2_le
..---..:.,;.---- ~
•
•
• ••
LETTER XLVI.
great cardinal principlelf of government,.-upon all leading
measures of public policy-held in common by editor and
subscriber. It is in cases like these, that I condemn the
disposition so prevalent in this country, of endeavoring to
avenge every trifling disagreement, or even a casual error1
by stJjkiog at the pocket of the publisher. It is an ignoble
device, unworthy of all who are willing that the same free-
dom of t~ought and action should be enjoyed by others,
which they glory in exercising themselves. But when edi-
tors are d.erilict in their duty to the public,-when they be-
lie their professions, and degrade their calling,-when they
prove recreant to their principles, or habitually violate the
proprieties of the press, and the courtesies and charities of
social life,-when, from change of conductors, or for base
bribes, they turn their backs upon old friends and old prin-
ciples,-or when, from general licentiousness, ~rsonal
scurrility, a mockery of things sacred, and a disregard of
those principles of morality and virtue which form at once
the jewels of private life, and the true glory of the state,
.a newspaper becomes unworthy ofsupporr,and unfit to be re-
ceived into families,-then is it a high moral duty to discard
the offender, and make him feel the heaviest weight of public,
as well as of private indignation and scorn.· But in such in-
stances, the remedy should be effectually applied; for every
effort to crush the growth ofvicious principles,or to check the
career ofthose who disseminate them, which falls short ofthe
object, " serves no other purpose than to render them more
" known, and ultimately to increase the zeal and number
" of their abettors..,
But to return to the subject of immediate consideration.
There is a cause for the silence of a very large portion of
the press, in regard to Morgan's abduction, and the transac-
tions connected with, and growiJ1g out of it, which did not
probably occur to Mr. Rush, when he penned his first and
principal philippic, but which is the most prominent of the
..
...
LETTER XI.YI.
whole. I mean the withering, palsying spirit of party,
which has taken such ~eep root in our soil, and which ex-
ercises such a fatal influence upon our political and social . j
relations. Scarcely had the public, beyond the confines of
the original excitement, begun to believe that there had
actually been anoutrage, before the question assumed a de-
cidedly political aspect. This was at ooce fatal to .every
effort for a universal dissemination of correct information,
and for the cause pf truth. The eloquent Robert Hall re-
marks, that " When a public outrage is committed against
" the laws, the crime is felt in a moment." But this able
divine knew little of the natum of party spirit, as it is in-
culcated and fostered by the demagogues of the United
States. The spirit of party, here, lias neither a tongue to
speak, nor ears to hear, nor eyes to see, any thing that may
perchance militate against its favorite objects or idols.
Hence, from the moment that Anti-masonry began to array
itself aga.inst the powers·that be, the crime which had been
committed, could neither be seen, felt, nor e~posed, by the
conductors of the party presses attached to the majority.
You may perhaps, sir, be stm·tled at th~ boldness and np-
parent incongruity of the assertion, but it is nevertheless
true, that there is but little freedom of the press in this
country. Talk as we please of the despotisms of Europe,--
of the restraints imposed upon the mindand the tongue,-
! hesitate not to avow, that neither in England nor in France,
is the press held in such abject subjection, as the great ma-
jority of the American presses arc by demagogues, and the
discipline of party. It is said to be a difficult thing to draw
the line between the liberty of the press, and its licentious~
ness; but heaven knows that in this country the line is as
broad and as visible as can be desired. . We have licen-
tiousness enough on all sides, and upon every possible sub-
ject. The eye sickens at the profligacy of the press, and
the mind turns from it witP. abhorrence and loathing. With
67
Digitized by Coogle
Ll:TTER XLVI.
this portion of the press, the bitterness of party is mingled
in every thing ; and the ferocity of its attacks, is equalled
.only by the profligacy of its conductors. "Gorgons, hy-
" d.ras, and chimeras dire, are hannless monsters compar-
" e4 with such a press. No matter how virtuous, how in-
" noeent, or elevated, or noble, or persuasive, or beneficent
" the character nmy be, which is the object of its extenni-
" nating purpose,--be it Socrates, or Cato, or Peter, or
" Paul, or John Rodgers, or the Saviour of men himself;
.. there are neither eyes, nor ears, nor heart, nor compunc-
" tion, nor feeling, nor flesh, nor blood. The general and
"inexorable cry, crucify I crucify ! consummates the fat&
" of the victim." Still, with all this apparent liberty, it is
not that liberty of the press which is the safeguard of free-
dom. There is among the mere party papers, little of that
noble spirit of independence, that is exercised in England
and France, which assumes the right of free and manly dis-
cussion of every sul1ject in which the public becomes from
day to day in~rested, or which appertains to the political
or ciVil relations of the country. When a candidate is to
be assailed, or an incumbent hunted down,-no matter for
his senrices, his wants, the purity of his character, or his
claims upon the gratitude of his country,-" spare no ar-
" rows," is the maxim; while the cause of sound morals.
and enlightened government, and the love of truth, are a1
far from their thoughts as the remotest orb from the dull
sphere on which they arc unworthy to trend. It has been
well remarked by the anonymous aulhor. I ha,·e just quoted
above,that every go<Hi has its conntcrbahmcing evil. " The
" contemplation of the delightful freedom of our institu-
" tions, is most plca!>ant. But the extreme license, the
" coarse abuse.', the gross misrepresentations, the frequent
" and unprovoked as!laults of private character. the wanton
" dragging of namPs hcf(,Tf' the r.ublic f'ye,-these are great
" counterbalrmrine rvil;; of t'rt:Pdorn. for which there can
•
LETTER XLVI. 5Sl
•• be no effectual corrective, but the slow and distant one, to
" be found in an enlightened public sentiment. Whenever
" general feeling -shall be guided by gentlemanly tact, and
" correct conceptions ~f what•is right, and respectable, and
" dignified, and of good report, any.attempts of those who
" assume to sway that feeling, and direct the public senti-
" ment, to overstep the limits of de~orum, unsustained by it,
" would be at once repressed by a general and palpably in-
" dignant expression of the public award in the case. The
" rebuked party would be instantly awed back to propriety
" and duty. Unhappily, all the individual minds of which
" the public mind is composed, are soliable to be swayed by
"prejudice and passion; and there is so much temper in
" party feeling, mixed up with all the expressions of the
" public will amongst us, that it is long before we may pro-
" mise ourselves, that they, who are the most efficient in
" guiding public opinion, will find their land-marks, and
" stand corrected when they go beyond them." The fer-
vent prayers of all good men are needed, that this time may
speedily come ; for unless it does, it is greatly to be fear-
ed that the evil will have become incurable. A lax state
of political morals among the people, and a degenerate
press, operate with mutuai and fatal effect upon each other,
and the course at the present day is tending. downward
·with fearful rapidity.
None knew better than Mr. Rush this low condition of I
the party presses of the day ; the manner in which ·most I
of them had been established; or the effective party orga-
nization which they support, and by which in turn they
are supported. Whence, then, seeing that Anti-masonry
had become political, his surprise at their silence in regard.
to the murder of Morgan, and the fruitless efforts, legis}a.
tive, judicial, and by voluntary associations, made to dis-
.eover and bring to punishment the authors 1 It is not in
the case of Morgan alone, that more than a moiety of the
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XLVI.
press has been silent. There ha\·e beei1 other atroci~ics.
equalling the outrngc upon Morgan, that ha\'e been conceal-
ed from the readers of those paper!l, or denied, or extenu-
ated, for political purposes~ Look at the conduct of the
same description of presses at the present moment. Look
at the government papers, from which, if from any, the
people sliould receive .the fullest and most impartial details
, of the public ali'Iirs of the land. The snme vindictive spir-
\ it of party which I have been attempting to describe.: the
\ same suppressions of every publication calculated to ren-
' der even common justice to their political opponents: 1he
; same studied suppressions· of the truth, which marked the
course of the presses opposed to Anti-masonry, is openly
, practised,. and publicly defended. An English or French
' journalist, would scorn to suppress the speeches in opposi-
tion, in either the parliament, or the chambers: No mat-
ter how strong their party feelings, the presses on that side
of the Atlantic would nc~·or stoop so low as to deprive the
adversary of a fair hearing. The speeches and documents,
therefore, upon all questions of moment, are impartially re-
ported, and the comments of the editors, gi\·en thereon in
gentlemanly language. There i~ a degree of fairness and
manliness .in this course of political controversy, which
commands respect, and illustrates the true character and
uses of the freedom of the press. But instead of imitating
such examples, of candor and magnanimity, by publishing
the speeches of the soundest and most eloquent in opposi-
tion, our partizan·prints, from the government official to the
end of the catalogue-make a merit of substituting there-
[or, their own miserable commentaries and malignant dis-
tortions. ·why, then, I would again ask, should 1\Ir. Rush,
and the other leadt>rs of the Anti-masonic party, after they
had made the controversy political,-and it began to as-
Bume that aspect in a very short time,-dwell SO mucn
upon the silence of the presses -opposed to them1 That si-
~- - Digrtized byGoogle
I.ETT£R :XLTl. 693
l•~nce, I r.epeat, was only in conformity to the tactics,-to
"the systems,"-of .party discipline, ·and was in fact no
greater cause of marvel than is presented to our observa-
tion every month in the year. There may have been, and .J
there doubtless were1 papers conducted by ·Masons, who
refused to.brenk silence be.cause _they were such. But these
instances were fe.w ; and it is the baneful influence of party
spirit, and the tyranny of party "systems," and the artful
a ppl_
iances of controlling demagogues, to which. we a·re to
look for th~ causes of what Mr. Rush has called "the aun
" in;:cnsibility of the press" in regard to the murder of Mor- ,
gan. It was not, therefore, because Morgan was slain by
Masons, thilt these presses were silent; but because assist-
ance to those who were laboring to avenge the broken rna- !
jesty of the lawil, would have been injuring "the party."
And if ltnother Morgan, and yet another, were to be ab/
clucted, and mur.dered, every month, so that a political con~ ,
troversy would be made of it, the same course would again -
be pursued by the same men. It is indeed a deplorable.
state of things,-such as almost to induce a belief that the
press has become of questionable utility. _
Certainly, from
more than one half of the newspapers of the United
Sta~es, the people derive no benefit either on the score of
intelligence, or morals. The small modicum of knowledge
which is imparted to them, only leads them into error, and
instead of enlarging and liberalizing their minds, they are
narrowed by new-created prejudices, and blinded· by mi~­
representations that are not accidental. A great cause of
this alarming evil, is to be found in what the world igno-
rantly ei10ugh conceives to be a blessing,-the cheapness of
newspapers, and the facility with which new ones are
established. · In England, there is attached to the newspa-
per press, an array of talent and learning, which commands
the confidence and respect of the community. In France,
the great master spirits of literature and science-the first
Digitized by Coogle
LIITTER XLVII.
men of the age and country, are connected with .the press.
Hence, when it speaks, it is with a degree of force, and en-
ergy, and talent, calculated to render the press that effec-
tive engine of moral power which it was designed to be-
come. But it is far otherwise in this land of a thousand
newspapers. Five hundred dollars, raised by subscription,
willstart a press; every village must have its paper :jealous-
ies arise, and that paper must have its competitor. Person-
. alities soon take the pia& of argument, even upon local and
tr~ial maUers : flippancy is mistaken for wisdom ; smart-
ness for talent ; epithet for .argument ; and a reckless disre-
gard of the feelings of others; and of the courtesies.of life,
for that manly independence which ought to characterize the
guardians of the citadel of freedom. •
But nil duperandttm should be the wat~h-word of every
patriot: and though we have in some respects fallen
upon evil times, yet we shall do well to remember, in the
words ofRober~ Hall, "that wisdom and truth, the offspring
"of the sky, are immortal ; while cunning and deception,
"the meteors of ·the earth, after glittering for a moment,
" must pass away.'' ·
With high regard, I am, &c.
LETTER XL VII.
NEw-Yoax, March 31, 183.2.
S1a,
The judicial history of Anti-masonry is c)osed,. and
yet the inquiry remains :-" What was the fate of Morgan 1"
For no~withs~n<\ing the number and extent of the legal in-
vestigations described,-notwithstanding the number of
persons engaged, directly or indirectly, in the abduction,-
and notwithstanding, likewise, the fact, that some of the ac-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVII. 595
tors in the dark oonspiracy, had become witnesses for the
state, no evidence h8.d yet been elicited showing what was
the ultimate fate of,the wretched'victim; or, if his life had
been taken, marking, with judicial certainty, the persoDB of
his executioners. It is indeed one of the most extraordina-
ry features of this ~nspiracy, that, when the fatal secret ·
must have been known, (at least with sufficient certainty to
have indicated the principals,) to so many people, no diaclo-
stire should have been made of the particulars of the last
terrible act of the drama. Neither the apprehensions, nor
the jealousies, usually existing among partners in crime;
nor the hope of reward ; nor the compunctious visitings of
conscience ; had the effect to P.roduce any satisfactory 1~
gal disclosures, in regard .to the final disposition of Morgan,
after his confinement in the magazine.• This fact furnishes
the strongest possible illustration of the stt:ength of the· tie
which bound the conspirators together, while it ~ords au
unanswerable argument against the continuance of any so-
cial institutior whatever, that can·exert such a dangerou.
power, for evil,as well as for good, if indeed good can again ·
flow from it.
The difficulty of procuring testimony, was, from the be-
ginning of the legal investigations, the greatest obstacle with
which the prosecuto!s had to contend. Witnesses either
fled the country voluntarily, or were spirited away, or were
hired to f!.bsent themselves, in numbers, and·with a readi-
ness, altogether uneumpled in the judicial anorils of this, or
perhaps any other country. Often did it happen, that, when
the officers of justice h!ld .been'apprised of the existence of
· fresh testimony, or when they had become acquainted with
the place of retreat, far beyond the boundaries of our owo
1tate, of important witnesses, while they supposed the poa-
• Elisha AdatilR, might, perhape;ha•e formed an '''rr•ption to thi![l remark,
b:W not n mi"'onc('ption ot duty, on the part of Gowrnor Throop, indu~ed
him to withhold the re\Vard &bat hl\d bern oflered hy Govcmer Clmton.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVII.
aeasion of such knowledge was a ~ecret jn their own bo-
soms, such witnesses have been secretly apprised that the
officers would soon be upOn them, and were thus enabled
again to escape their vigilance. In other instances, have
these witnesses, when caught by surprise, while in charge
of the officers, been followed hundreds of miles by members
of the fraternity, interested in ~e fate of the accused, until
plans could be matured, and the means put into operation,
to steal them away from their keepers. In other cases still,
witnesses have no sooner agreed to make honest revela-
tions of the facts with which they were acquainted, than
they have been surrounded by their masonic brethren, and
so successfully dissuaded from their good resolutions, as to
become as silent and uncommunicative upon the subject as
the spbynx. Examples of this description have already
been noted in ~ progress of this history, and ot.hers might
be adduced were it necessary. -Money seemed to be of no
vaJue, in these matters. Travelling agents were kept in
pay, whose duty it was to visit the absconding witnesses in
their places of retrea~ and strengthen their integrity to-
wards each other. Even Giddings, much as they affucted
to discredit his testimony, was tampered with. and money
oftered him to any amount he might desire, ifhe would leave
the country.
Nor was ~is all. When, after encountering eYery diffi-
culty. the attenda·nce of reluctant witnesses had been secur-
ed, their conduct, as it has already been seen, was often of
the most exceptionable character. In many instances, the
.ma•ner of the witnesaes up()n the stand, was painful to look
upon. Whatever of truth was ~tainP.d, was absolutely
wrung from them. There was not only an almost uniform
evasiveness of manner, among the masonic 'Witoesses, bot
numerous cases of obvious and palpable falsehood. " Some
"of them exercised a species of casuistry, in relation t<? their
••judicial oath, which is not a little remarkable. It seems
-
LETTER XLVII. ~S7
" that those implicated had argued themselves into the belief.
" that there was no greater sin than the breaking of a ma-
" sonic oath, even in obedience to the paramount laws of
" ~e land; that if they told the truth in relation to the out-
" rage, they: should divulge a secret which they were ma-
" sonically bound to keep, which would criminate them-
"selves; and that, therefore, their only course was to tea-
" tify that they knew nothing about the affair. Strange as
"is the infatuation manifested by this reasoning, there was
" not wanting a counsellor of the Supreme Court, a Royal
"Arch Mason, to advise them, that if they were implicated
"in the affair, they might thus safely swear. Many wit-
" nesses, to whom circumstances almost unerringly pointed.
"as having a knowledge of, or being implicated in, some
" portion of the transaction, did come forward, and solemnly
" make oath of their entire ignorance of it ; while others,
" pretending to give an account of their knowledge of the
" transaction, testified in such a way, as to leave an impres-
" sion upon the mind of every auditor, that they had not
" satisfied that part of their judicial oath, which required
" them to tell the whole truth. Witnesses, in several in-
" stances, came iuto court with their own counsel, a cir-
" cumstance unheard of in courts of justice before, to ad-
" vise with them what questions they were legally bound
" to answer." The instances of peremptory refusals totes-
tify, in the cases of Bruce, Turner and John Whitney, have
already been stated, in the progress of ·the trials, too pro-
minently to be soon forgotten-for which contumacy they
were severally fined and imprisoned. But fines and impris-
onment, for this, or for the still greater offence of having
participated in the abduction~ were nothing. The prison-
ers were cheered by their friends without, and lavishly
supplied with the comforts and elegancies of life, not only
by individual contribution!, but by lodges and chapters,
hundreds of miles from the scene of action. Indeed, it
68
Digitized by Coogle
'
5S8 LETTER XLVII.
aeemed as if the guilty portion of the fraternity, and the
not guilty, who, by the cry of" PERSEcUTioN," had been
brought to sympathise with the sufferers," had set dow~
"and coolly counted the cost of the matter; and come to
"the determination, that it was wise to shut the door com-
" pletely against the bare chance of establishing the murder
"of Morgan, by any facts or inferences to be derived from
" their testimony, even though it should be done at the ex-
",.., of the liberty and property uf some of its members.
•!8~. iustanccs, the power of a portion of the fratemi-
.,iy~into collision with the laws of the land, in a rriost
"marked manner, and set them, and their penal require-
" menta at defiance;"
But notwithstanding all these difficulties, enough wu
proved to render the fact morally certain, that the misera-
ble and unhappy Morgan was basely murdered, by a band
of assassins, in obedience, as they erroneously, and wicke4-
Jy, and most unaccountably, believed, to the laws of specu-
lative Freemasonry. Such was the belief to which Mr.
Spencer had arrived, in the course of his laborious investi-
gations; and such, also, was the decided conviction of that
gentleman's successor in the office of special counsel. Mr.
Birdseye's language, in his final report to the Governor, is
this ::--"The information thus elicited, is sufficient, I trust,
"to satisfy the public mind as to the ultimate fate of Mor-
" gan : that he was taken into the Niagara, at night, about
"the 19th of September, and there sunk. Yet the evidence,
., " although apparently sufficient for all purposes of human
" belief, is not sufficient to establish, with legal certaintyy
" and according to adjudged cases, the murder of Morgan."
There was strong circumstantial testimony warranting
tbia conclusion, in addition to that elicited at different times,
upon the various trials. The information communicated to
Mr. Terry, and several other Masons, in Canada, immedi_
ately after the transaction, was ofa positiYe character." that
Digitized by Google
LETTER XLVII. 5S9
" Morgan had been murdered, and his body sunk in Lake
"Ontario."· The declaration of Ganson, (who, though he
was acquitted, was unquestionably one of the original con-
spirators,) to Mr. Lyman D. Prindle, who furnished a depo-
sition to the Lewiston Committee, was very strongly cor-
roboralive of this fact. "Let me tell you," said Ganson to
Prindle, who had expressed an opinion that Morgan might
have been rescued, "you know nothing about it: suppose
"there had been carriages at every road leading into Ca-
" naridaigua, ready to receive Morgan, in case he had been
" pursued; he could have been shifted; and let metell you
" it was the case : let me tell you, if you could hang, draw,
"and quarter, or gibbet the Masons who had a hand in it, it
"would not fetch Morgan back. He is not dead, but he is
"put wltere lte will stay put, until God Almighty calls for
"him." This is a strongitem ofcircumstantial proof,-for the
words, " he is not dead," mean just nothing at all. The
emphasis belongs in the last clause of the declaration; and
it was intended to convey a safe, and yet fearful meaning, not
to be misunderstood. At about the same period of time,
as iL appear~ from the depositions of two individuals of the
town of Byron, in the county of Genesee, Dr. Samuel Tag-
gart, of said town, stated that he had long been apprised of
the fact,-and that " he should not be afraid to bet a thou-
" sand dollars, that Morgan was not in the land of the liv-
" ing : that he had taken a voyage on Lake Ontario, without
" float or boat, and would never be seen again by any hu-
" man being." Another Mason, at Batavia, stated, at about
the same time, in reply to nn inquiry, that" Morgan had
"gone a-fishing. on the Niagara River."
Corroborative testimony, going to show that Morgan wae
put to death, has also b«:len disclosed in another, and unex..
pected quarter-Vermont. You will not, sir, have forgot-
ten the name of Dr: S. Butler-the same person who wu
sent forward from Stafford to Batavia, to herald the ap-
Digitized by Coogle
•
~40 LETT£R XLVII.
proach of Cheseboro's party in quest of 1\lorgan, on the
evening of September lOth,-the same Dr. Butler who was
subsequently selected, by the sheriff of Genesee, as the fOre-
man of a grand jury, whose duty it was to investigate the
circumstances of the outra6e, and who, as foreman, declar-
ed that they must not permit the Masons to suffer. This
Dr. Butler, it appears, sometime afterwards, remo\·ed to
Franklin County, in Vermont; and I have now before me
sundry depositions, from respectable gentlemen in that coun-
ty, setting forth that, since Butler's remo\·al thither, he has,
in repeated conversations with masons, admitted the murder
of Morgan to have taken place. On one occasion, during .
an intermission in the meeting of Mississqui Lodge, he sta-
ted that " .llorgan was killed, and that Col. William King,
.. and two others, whose names the deponent does not now
.. recollect, executed the penalty of his obligation, or words
., to that effect." To a remark that it must ha~·e been an
laonnrable business, as honorable men were engaged in it,
• truly," he replied," the most honorable we have in that coun-
..try I" And he further observed, that " he did not know
.. but the whole business would yet come to light, as there ·
.,was one who was called on as an evidence, and who, it
.. was feared, would disclose, the whole truth ; and that the
"sheriff said, if he did he should not get home alive!" On an-
other occasion, in the town of Enosburgh, Vermont, in re-
ply to a question put to him by a brother Mason, whether
he believed, that .!\forgan was in fact murdered? He said,
" there was not the least doubt of it, and that lu: justly de-
., served death I He further stated, that he might have
"known all the particulars about it-that Mr. Bruce, sher-
.. iff of,Niagara County, told him that .Morgan was actually
"put to death, and would have told him the whole transac-
.. tion, but, said he, • I told him (Bruce) to·stop; if Morgan
,. was dead it was enough. I also cautioned' him to aay
.. Dothina about it to any person.•
-- =r
o;9,tized by Coogle
LETTER XLVII. ~41
It will be recollected that on the night of the 14th, after
the installation, a party of fifteen or twenty persons, be-
sides those belonging to the fort, came from Lewiston, and
were in co:1sultation there,-taking supper at the house of
Giddings. During that night, consultations were held at a
meeting of these persons on the plain near the grave yard,
as to the manner in which Morgan should be disposed of.
All agreed that by the violation of his masonic obligations,
he had incurred the penalty ; they determined to execute
that penalty, and cast his body into the river. But while
they were proceeding to the cell for that purpose, one of the
number relented, and the execution was deferred. On the
following night another consultation, was held, having the
object in view. Giddings expressed a desire that Morgan
should be released, at which King became offended. Gid-
dings thereupon gave up the key of the magazine, which
was entrusted to Elisha Adams. Morgan was confined in
the· magazine until the night of September 19th, when, ac-
cording to the belief of Mr. Birdseye, and others who have
investigated the circumstances, he was put to death by be-
ing drowned in the depths of the Niagara.
Col. King, David Hague, and Burrage Smith, were all
dead, long before the investigations were brought to a close.
King died very suddenly, in the spring of 1829, at a pub-
lic house in Lewiston, the morning after hearing of the tes-
timony given· by Bruce, on the trial of John Whitney,-
after which trial, confident as he had been on his return
from Arkansas, he could have had no hope of escaping
conviction. These three men were doubtless engaged in
the final deed, together with Howard, who had escaped to
England. Elisha Adams, who received the key of the
magazine, where Morgan was confined, when Giddings
surrendered it, and left Niagara for York, died soon after
his trial. King is represented through the whole of the
transactions after Morgan's arrival on the frontier, as the
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEll XLVII.
most bitter and vindictive in hi11 feelings against him, for
having betrayed the secrets of Masonry. He was proud
of his masonic bonors, zealous in the cause of the institu-
tion, and the leader of the conspirators, after the victim
bad been brought within his power. It was he who awak-
ed Giddings in the night, when. Morgan was brought to
the brink of the river, with the exclamation-" we ha'l)e got
"tJae d--d perju.red ra8Cal," 4-c. It was he who repeat-
edly proposed, even as early as the night of the 14th, that
Morgan should be pul to death. It was King, and Bruce,
and Hague, who took Morgan, bound and hood-winked
from the coach, by the grave yard, near the fort, on the
night of the 13th. It was King, who endeavored to push
matters to extremities, by representing, as Ganson had done
at Batavia, that he was authorized to suppress the book by
a letter from Gov. Clinton; and it was he, who, with Col.
Jewett, signified to Giddings, on his return from ¥ ork, that
Morgan had been executed during his absence, and request-
ed him to walk the beach, and keep a look out for the body.
In corroboration of this latter statement of Giddings, a
piece of circumstantial testimony was elicited by Mr. J. C.
Spencer, before a grand jury, previously to the death of
King, which is directly to the point. The death of King
having prevented his being brought to trial, this testimony
never came out in court. It was this : A witness, (under-
stood to be Dr. Pope,) testified to the grand jury of Niagara,
that at some time, from two to six weeks after the abduc-
tion of Morgan, he heard that a body had floated upon the
beach, one or two miles below Fort Niagara, and that a cor-
oner's jury had been summoned to hold an inquest upon it.
Witness was at Lewiston, and saw Col. King walking to
and fro upon the steps of a hotel. King called to him, and
said-" Doctor don't you want a subject 1" He replied i.n
the negative; but King followed up his question by saying
that a body bad floated upon the beach, a coroner's jury
Digitized by Goo<Jle
"
~----- -
-
LET'l'Ea XLVU.
was a~ut to be held,-and the body would be buried-but
the dootor could take it to the fort, and have any room (for
the dieaection,] that he pleased. The witness answered that
the body would be of no use, as it had probably beenspoil-
ed by the water. King replied,-" the coroner has sum-
" mooed me; I told him I had business at Lewiston, and
" could not stay : I am afraid it is the body of Morgan:
" Should it prove to be so, we shall hear to-night. You
" must go to-night and take it up and hide it, and take care
"·of it: You must put it where it can never be found."
King was extremely agitated, and the witness was alanned
for him, as he evidently believed it was the body of Mor-
gan. The doctor answered,-" If you have got into any
"difficulty, you must work your way out of it,-I will have
"nothing to do with it." King thereupon turned to wit-
ness .and saidr-" You must go." Witness repeated "that
"he should notr-that he would have nothing to do with it."
Upon this refusal, the manner of King became changed,
and he said, as if in a jocose way,-" I guess it is Morgan
"-it is Morgan,"-nnd laughed quite heartily, as if he had
passed a joke upon witness. But the laugh was evidently
affected, and the doctor thought it any thing else than a
joke. KtNo KNEw 1m1 ro :aE A MAsoN.
This disclosure, taken in connexion with a request made
by King to Giddings, that he should watch the shore, lest
the body should float up and be discovert:d, is ofgreat im-
portance in making up a decision ; and, when added to the
numerous other circumstances, bearing upon th~ same
point, leads to the irresistabl~ conclusion that the murder
was perpetrated, in manner and fonn before indicated•.
But there is yet other testimon~·· Mr. James A. Shed, the
witness examined on the trials of Adams, P:Whitney, and
associates, and whose demeanor was such, through long
and searching examinationlll, as to acquire the fullest confi-
dence. of the court and lmr for integrity and veracity, has
Digitized by Coogle
LETTEll XLVU.
presented the world with another and most interesting sec·
tion of thi1 fearful history. The confession was made to
him about six moRths after the deed was committed, by a
Knight Templar.
On the 19th of September, eight 1\Iasons, having finally
determined to put their prisoner to death, believing, proba-
bly, that it would be safer to have a smaller number actu-
ally concerned in the execution, held a consultation as to
the best mode of proceeding. The object was to select
three of their number for exec~tioners, and to have the
other five excluded, and so exclud~d, that neither should
know who else, besides himself, was thus released, or, who
were the executioners. For this purpose, the following in-
genious process was devised :-They placed eight tiekets
in a hat, up~?n three of which were written certain marks,
and it was agreed that each one of their number should
simultaneously draw a ticket. They were instantly to se-
parate, before examining their tickets, and walk away in
different directions, until entirely out of sight of each other.
They-were then to stop and examine the slip of paper they
had drawn, and the five drawing the blanks were to return
to their own homes, taking difierent routes, __by which
means neither of them would know who had drawn the
fatal numbers, and of course no one of the five could be a
witness against the others! The three drawing the tickets
designated,-a bloody hand should have been the device,-
were to return to the magazine at a certain hour, a.
nd com-
plete the hellish design. The manner of his murder, is be-
lieved to have been by attaching heavy _weights to his bo-
dy, and taking him out into the middle of the stream in a
· boat, where, at the black hour of midnight, he was plung-
ed into the dark and angry torrent of the Niagara !-The
boat for this purpose was got in readiness by Adams, in
obedience to the commands of the vengeful conspirators.
But he, with all those deeper than himself in guilt, (except-
Digitized by Coogle
-
LETTER XLVII. 545
I
ing the villain Howard,) failing in being brought to justice
in this world, has been summoned to render an account at
the bar of a higher tribunal.
Such was the melancholy fate of William Morgan,-a
free American citizen, whose death is unavenged. He was
stolen from the bosom of his family by an infamous perver-
sion of the forms of law,-he was thrust into prison for
the gtatification of private malignity,-he was kidnapped
under the guise of friendship,-transported like a malefac-
tor one hundred and fifty miles through a populous coun·
try,-and executed in cold-blood by a gang of assassins,
under circumstances of as damning atrocity as ever stain-
ed the annals of human delinquency ! Nor was the crime
perpetrated by ignorant or hungry banditti, or for the lust
of power, or of gold. The circle of the conspirators, em-
braced, directly and indirectly, hundreds of intelligent men,
acting, not on the spur of the occasion, from sudden im-
pulse or anger, but after long consultations, and weeks, and
even months, of preparation. Those immediately engag-
ed in the conspiracy, were men of information, and of high
standing in their own neighborhoods and counties ; em-
bracing civil officers of almost every grade; sherift!J,Iegilt-
lators, magistrates ; lawyers, physicians, and even those
whose calling it was to minister at the altar in holy things.
Along the route of the captive, the members of the mason-
ic fraternity left their occupations, however busily or ur-
gently engaged, and flew at a moment's warning, to aid in
his transportation to the spot where his sufferings were
ended. A clergyman preceded him, moreover, heralding
.his approach from town to town, and announcing his cap-
tivity to the assembling brethren before whom he was si-
multaneously to deliver a discourse, dedicating a masonic
temple to the service of God and the holy St. John; and
enforcing the golden maxims of" PEACE, HARMONY, AKD
aaoTUERLY LOVE!" Arrived at the end of his journey,
69
Die itlzed ~y Google
S46 LETTER XLVII.
the wretched victim was imprisoned in a fortress over
which the banner of freedom was streaming in the breeze.
In vain did he plead for his life ; and in vain did he im-
plore the privilege of once more beholding his wife and
children. Nay, more, with worse than barbarian crueltyy
was his final request of a BIBLE, to sooth his last hours, and
point him the way to a brighter world,-brighter, far,
had he been prepared to enter it, than that upon which he
was in a few hours .forever to close his eyes ! And what
was the mighty offence of the miserable man, that he must
thus be hurried to his final account, ~ithout being allowed
a last farewell of his wife,.....;..without suffering a single ray
of divine light to glance across his path, or illumine the dark
atmosphere of his dungeonr-but sent to his dread abode
with all his imperfections on his head!---Why, forsooth, he
was about to expose the wonderful secrets of Freemason-
ry !-It was feared be would tell how "J>OOr blind candi-
" dates" are led about a lodge room by a "cable tow," and
how they kneel at the altar, at one time on one knee, and
at another time upon the other! It was feared he would
tell how they stumble over the emblems of " the rugged
path of human life," or bend with humility beneath " the
living arch !"
" I( it were eo, it wu a grievous fnult ;
And grevioualy hath Jrforgrm answered it."
It is but too true that his virtues did not plead like an-
gels in his behalf. But HuMANITY weeps over the deed,
while JusTICE was "trumpet-tongued, against the deep
damnation of his taking offr
Very truly and respectfully yours, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
- ..____,_...1
LETTER XLVIII, ~47
LETTER XLVIII.
NEw-Yoax, April 1, 1832.
Sra,
The next and only remaining inquiry, is, to what ex-
tent were the members of the masonic body, collectively,
or the lodges and chapters, as such, concerned in the con-
spiracy, which ended in the murder of William Morgan 1
That several lodges and chapters, and a large number of
Masons in the western part of this state, were parties to
the conspiracy before the fact,-that a very considerable
number of the fraternity were actually engaged in it,-
and that many more subsequently became cognizant of it,-
are facts which have been conclusively shown in the pro-
gress of the preceding narrative. But it is unfair and unjust
that the innocent should suffer in reputation with the guilty ;
and it has been an important part of my design to preserve
the line ofseparation distinctly in the preceding pages. But
notwithstanding all my anxiety, and all my efforts to re-
duce the circle of the guilty, with their aiders and abettors,
to the smallest possible circumference, it is yet much broad-
er than I could have wished, or than I hoped to have found
it, on a careful re-investigation of the whole matter.
It has been the impression of Anti-masons generally,-
and with many the impression has ripened into conviction,
-that the project of the abduction of Morgan was planned
and matured in the lodges, and that his murder was resolv-
ed upon from the outset. The idea haS likewise prevailed,
erroneously, as I flatter myself has already been shown,
that, from the very nature and constitution of the society,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVIII.
whatever is devised in one loJgc or chapter, must be known
to all, and whatever is known to one .Mason, touching the
interests and affairs of the craft, must be alike familiar 'to
all. Such, however, is not the fact. The particular local
measures of a lodge in Batavia, or a chapter in Rochester,
are no more likely to be known in the lodges of Boston,
New-York, or New Orleans, than are the purely local
transactions of the Phi Beta Kappa Society of Harmrd, to
the members of Yale College, or of Brown University. In
regard, moreover, to far the larger proportion of men who
are called Masons,-who, although they have long since
taken the degrees, have also long since ceased turning-their
attention to the subject, and are consequently l\Iasons only
in name,-they are no more likely to become acquainted
with masonic secrets, or masonic I ransactions, than those
JVho have never entered the vestibule of a masonic edifice.
For a long time after the outrage, it was my sincere belief.
that the crime was the work of a very small number of ig-
norant masonic zealots, wil hout the knowledge or coun-
tenance of persons of character or intelligence; and it was
much longer still, before I could bring myself to believe,
that any masonic body whatever, had in any wise been ac-
ceesary to the atrocious transaction. But these opinions
were successively forced to yield before accumulating proofs
that could not be withstood.
,-~ That the conspiracy was extensive, is evidenced by the
· whole history of the investigations. From the moment it
became known that Morgan's work was in preparation, it
excited great commotion among the Masons at Batavia,
and its immediate neighborhood. Consultations were held,
and various expedients suggested for preventing the publi-
cation, and for suppressing it, after it had been commenced.
The most flagrant of those means have been disclosed in
\he progress of the present work. .Morgan was alternately
fl•ttered and threatened; but to no purpose. His expecta-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVIII. 549
tions of immense profits were excited, and he already fan-
cied that he was half enabled to purchase an EJ Dor~do for
himself. He was therefore not to be persuaded, or purchas-
ed, to abandon his design. Consultations were then held upon
a larger scale, and the attention of the several masonic bo-
dies at Buffalo, Rochester, Lockport, Canandaigua, and
elsewhere, was called to the subject. We have seen by the
testimony produced by the state, on the last of the Lock-
port trials, that the Chapter of Bethany, at the head of
which was the Rev. Lucius Smith, had sent forth a visiting
committee to various masonic bodies, upon this subject. A
very particular account of the consultations of the lodge in
Buffalo, was furnished to the Lewiston Convention by
Thomas G. GTeen, who·made oath to the facts. From his
deposition it appears that he attended a meeting of the lodge
sometime between the 20th of August, and the 7th of Sep-
tember, 1829, at the invitation.of Howard, alias Chipper-
field. Tlus deponent presided on that occasion. The busi-
ness before·them was the threatened publication of Morgan,
and the most suitable means that could be adopted to sup-
press it. Howard proposed himself and another member,
as a committeee to attend to the subject. The motion was
agreed to, with an understanding that no measures of vio-
lence were to be taken. A short time afterwards, Howard
requested Green to go with him to the lodge-room that eve-
ning, where, he said, a few were to meet. In the evening,
the deponent started to go thither, and on the way, fell in
with Howard, but did not go to the lodge-room. They
walked together back of the village, where Howard and the
deponent had the following conversation :-Howard asked
Green if he was willing to aid him in suppressing the book.
He replied that he was willing to assist as far as was rea-
sonable and proper, or according to what was proposed at
the former meeting of the lodge. Howard requested a de-
cisive answer one way or the other-he wanted to know
Digitized by Coogle
&
' '
LETTER XLVIII,
whether he, the deponent, was for the Masons, or against
them. The deponent said he was for them, and was will-
ing to aid in suppressing the book if it was to promote the
interests of the masonic institution, and asked what plan
they intended to pursue. Howard said they intended to
go to Batavia and get the manuscript papers of the book;
they were to get them peaceably if they could, if not, by
force ; and if they could not obtain them without, they
would take Morgan and Miller and carry them off too.
This deponent finally consented to join the party, and-go t\9' ·
Batavia, for the purpose of obtaining the papers in:die
manner proposed. The deposition proceeds to give an ac-
count of the fruitless expedition to Batavia, on the night of
the 8th of September, of which a full narrative has been
heretofore given. It is in evidence that the chapter of Ro-
chester was consulted; and no doubt exists of the fact that
the profligate Johns was brought from Canada, and paid by
the Encampment of Knights Templars at Rochester. We
have the evidence, under oath, that a special.lodge was
convened at LeRoy, at 10 o'clock, A.M. of the day on
which Morgan was seized and carried away from Batavia:
and a cloud of witnesses have testified to the measures
concerted with reference to this outrage, in the chapter of
Lockport. Elder Bernard informs us, that five weeks be-
fore the outrage, the proposed work of Morgan was the
theme of conversation among his brother Masons in the
town of Covington, where he then resided, and that a Bap-
tist clergyman,--a Royal Arch Mason of high standing,
c1ecl1J.fed to him, that Morgan must be put out of the way,
-adding, that with so much complacency did God regard
the institution of Freemasonry, that he would be one who
would help to do it I Indeed it may with safety be said,
that the zealous and acting Masons, generally, west of
Canandaigua, were more or less cognizant of the measures
taking against .Morgan, and many of them actually con-
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVIII. 651
cerned. At Lockport, in December, three months after
the outrage, Bruce was elected Scribe of the chapter, upon
the express ground that he was entitled to the office, from
his exertions in the case of Morgan. Colonel King was
elected and installed High Priest of the chapter at Lewis-
ton, at the moment when he held J\llorgan a prisoner in a
solitary cell, seven miles distant, and had murder in his
heart; while a large assembly of Masons at the solemn
festival, were unquestionably assenting to the abduction.
But notwithslanding all their antecedent preparations,
they scarcely knew their own ultimate purposes. The first
determination was to suppress the book ; and all peaceable
means having failed in the accomplishment of that object,
arrangements were made for assembling a large body of
Masons from different and distant places, at Batavia, on
the night of the 8th of September, to act forcibly, if neces-
sary. A party of fifteen or twenty persons from BHffalo,
assembled at a tavern four miles west of Batavia, on the
afternoon of that day, and proceeded towards the village
in the evening. At the same time a party arrived in the
suburbs of Batavia, from Lockport. There were people
at Stafford from Canandaigua, and a large number were
marched from thence in the evening, under Colonel Saw-
yer. Mr. Green testified that a large party were expected
from Canada. The forcible removal of Morgan was at
that time contemplated ; but the project then, was to have
taken him directly from Batavia to Lockport, and thence to
Niagara. Various circumstances conspired to defeat the
execution of the design, at that time. Gr en supposes that
n piece of inadvertency on his own part, wa the means of
the fru tration of the scheme. The taking of Morgan to
Canandaigua, was a separate plot, not originally contem-
plated, and of uddcn device. Even the conspirator at
Batavia. were not aware of it, 11ntil the moment arrived for
its <'X r.ution. "Indeed," to 'Inn\' the opinion of l Ir. • peucer,
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVIII.
" no very definite purpose appears to have been originally
" formed. The immediate exigency seems to have been
" hi removal at all events, and his final disposition proba-
' bly did not enter into the calculation of tho e who were
« concerned in carrying him to L ewiston."
From the foregoing view of facts, which, nece sarily, arc
in part but a recapitulation it is rendered positively cer-
tain, that, o far from the abducti n .having been the device
of a fi w mad-men, in a moment of passi n, it was a work
of deliberation, and of exten ivc correspondence and con-
cert among the acting Ma on , individually and collec-
ti el , over a wide pace of country. T his conclu ion i
ine itablc,-the facts supporting it irresistible. The next
inquiry i ,-to what extent, if any, were the Mason , either
indirectly or collectively, at a distance from the scene of
action, concerned in this nefarious transaction? So far as
it regards a pre.,ious knowledge of the c n piracy, it i a
que tion of difficult olution. There is but little proof
either way. The as ertion of anson and KinCT, of hav-
ing had a previou corre pond ncc with overnor linton,
~ have already been refuted. They_ were never entitled to
a moment's consideration. Among the d po ition colle t-
ed by the Lewiston convention, was one of a Mr. Wild r,
of Genesee county, who swears to conversations with a
.Mason by the name of Grant, before and after the abduc-
tion. In the former, while conversing upon the subject of
Morgan' de ign to reveal the secrets of .Masonry, Grant
stated, that " they had sent to the Grand Lodge for in-
" tructions, and when they should get word from that
" bod , something' ould be done." In the subsequent con-
ver ation with the same man, and others, he was given to
understand that Morgan was dead. It is possible that
some of these infatuated men may have thus previously
written to offi er of the Grand Lodge, but hardly probable.
To the Grand L dge they could not ha 11e written, as it was
Digitized by Goo~le
LETTER XLVIII. 55S
not in session. General STEPHEN VAN RENNSSELAER was
Grand Master at that time, and ELISHA W . KINo Deputy
Grand Master ; and in the names of those pure, high-mind-
ed and honorable men, the public has an ample guarantee
that they were never even improperly approached.
From the statement of Giddings, it appears that Colonel
King did have a correspondence upon the subject with Mr.
Gibbons, a distinguished Mason of Boston. But the letter
~bit.ed by King from that gentleman, was written after
the altdqction, and was one of inquiry into the particulars
of tbeoutrage. But this correspondence was a natural, and
dQubtlcss an innocent one, since King was a near relative of
the writer, who had been a delegate to the General Grand
Chapter, to which the stolen manuscripts had so recently
been presented; and by which they had been so promptly
sent back. This circumstance, therefore, amounts to no-
thing. But there was another correspondence, which did
take place, and which deserves attention in this connexion.
It has been established beyond the possibility of dispute, by
disclosures made under oath early in the last year, that a
correspondence was opened between some of the Masons
in Batavia and its neighborhood, and the Masons of the
northern part of Vermont, in regard to Morgan's anticipat-
ed treachery to the institution. Letters were received
by members of Mississque lodge, in Enosburgh, from the
master of a lodge in Genesee, stating that a man by the
name of Morgan was about to reveal the secrets of the or-
der, and soliciting advice in the premises. Replies were
sent, advising to a course of moderation. Two letters upon
this subject, were written to Vermont, previously to the
outrage, by Dr. S. Butler, with whose name you must by
this time have become familiar. This correspondence,
however, proves nothing criminal, or even censurable, in
regard to the conduct of the Masons to whom it was ad-
dressed. On the contrary, they gave proper advice in re-
70
Digitized by Google
554 LETTJ:.R XLVIII.
ply. But it shows that there were some MaSOD8 far dis-
tant from the theatre of the excitement, who must have
been prepared for the event that did happen. A Mason of
high respectability, of Saratoga, has moreover informed
me, that, soon after the abduction, he was told by a digni-
tary of a chapter in that county, that "the western bre-
" tbren had approached the east in search of light• previ-
" Od.Siy to the outrage,-that Morgan would be conveyed
,. to Canada, and thence across the Atlantic,-and that him-
" self and family would be amply provided for."
No further evidence exists, of which I am aware, going
to establish the fact, or to countenance the belief, that, pre-
viously to the abduction, there was any general knowledge
or privityof the contemplated outrage, on the part of lodges,
ebapters, or encampments, eastward of the county of Onta-
rio. Would that no higher impeachment could be brought
against lodges, and chapters, and grand lodges, and grand
chapters, for their conduct in this matter, after the conspi-
rators had matured and consummated their wicked pur-
porses. But facts of an opposite cha~acter rise up in fear-
ful array to the contrary. To particularize the transac-
tions to which I now refer, in proof of this assertion, would
be only to repeat a variety oo details to which I have al-
ready had the honor to direct your attention in the progress
of these investigations. Still, a brief recapitulation seems
to be indispensable to the summing up of the case. I do
not wish to be understood, in what I am now going to say,
as inculpating, or intending to inculpate, the great body of
the lodges and chapters of this state, directly, as necessa-
ries to the abduction after the fact. But I do say, that while
great numbers of Masons individually, and some chapters
collectively, have laid themselves open to grievous censure
in thia respect, the characters of all the lodges and chap-
• Matonic languagP, noll·, I bPlinP, 'I'I'Pll underatoud.
Digitized by Coogle
__....,
_ ~
...
LETTElt XL'f'III. 655
ters of the state have been compromised by the grand bo-
dies in which all are supposed to be represented. In the
month of February,l827, five months after the perpetration
of the crime, the Grand Chapter rejected a proposition of-
fering a reward of 1000 dollars, for the discovery and ap-
prehension of the authors of it: while, on the other hand,
they appropriated the like sum of 1000 dollars, under the
pretext of unspecified charity, but in fact to be used for the
aid, comfort, and assistance of the criminals. In the month
of March, ofthe same ycar,Howard, one ofthe murderers,by
his own confession, was cherished by certain of the Masons
in this city : he was kept in concealment from the officers
of justice: funds were raised for him : and he was finally
smuggled across Long Island, and put on board of one of
the foreign packets, offGravesend or Coney Island. In the
monthof June, of the same year, the sum of 100 dollars was
voted from the funds of the Grand Lodge, to Eli Bruce ;
and the additional sum for which he had applied, was raised
for him by the brethren out ofthe lodge. In the autumn ofthe
same 'year, the sum of 100 dollars was appropriated from
the funds of Jerusalem Chapter of this city, for the benefit
of " the western sufferers," as the conspirators were called.•
Money for the same object, was raised by one of the en-
campments in this city; but to what amount, I have not
been informed. I have likewise abundant reason to be-
lieve, that other lodges and chapters of this city, contribut-
ed to the same object ;-and the sum of 500 dollars was
subsequently applied to the same benevolent purposes, by
the Grand Lodge. These facts are known: most of them
have aiready been proclaimed, as it were upon the house-
tops : and how many additional appropriations of the same
description, were made by other masonic bodies. at other
• The amount appropriated by this chapter at the time in question, baa
been stated at 500 dollars, by Mr. J. F. Hanks, who &rat published the fac~
but I have been positively assure.! by a t!entleman who wu then a high OI·
Jicer of that chapter, that the appropriallon wu oo more dian 100 dollal'll.
Digitized by Coogle
li5t5 LETTER XLYIIl.
times and places, for the same object, remains yet among
the undiscovered secrets of the order. But granting that
all the misdeeds of this description have been enumerated,
-that not a single dollar more was appropriated by either
lodge or chapter, or individual Mason, for the purpose of
retaining counsel for the accused ; of supporting the con-
victs in prison; of aiding in the escape of some; of pay-
ing the expenses of others ; and of assisting in the spiriting
away of witnesses,-is the catalogue not enough? Is fur-
ther evidence necessary to convince a virtuous community,
that the institution ought to be abolished 1 Do those Ma-
sons, who yet adhere to the institution, but who, neverthe-
less, would shrink from the commission of the most venial
crime,-who would "feel a stain like a wound,"-and who
have been kept in ignorance of these astounding facts, re-
quire more light to enable them to perceive that the insti-
tution is no longer entitled to the countenance or support
of good men and just ?
It has been said, however, in extenuation of most of these
appropriations of money by the lodges and chapters, that,
when they were made, those who voted for them, did so un-
der a belief that great oppression was experienced by the
accused at the west,-that, in fact, (when the appropria-
tions were made,) it was not believed that any very consid-
erable crime had been committed ;-and, in short, it has
been maintained, that those voting the money, honestly be-
lieved the accused, to whom it was going, to be innocent
and persecuted men. Such, I am willing to admit, to a
certain extent, was the fact ;-such, I have the best reason
for believing, was, in a very limited degree, the true state of
the case. But in all instances, the master-spirits knew well
enough the true state of t!te case ; and, both in the Grand
Lodge and Gra':ld Chapter, at the times of making the ap-
propriations, numbers of the conspirators were themseh·es
present,-wearing the lamb-skin emblems ofinnocence, and
Digitized by Coogle
LETTE'R XLVIH. 557
taking part in the proceedings ! Making, however, all
possible allowance for the erroneous views under which the
plea I am now considering supposes them to have act-
ed ;-making, also, an additional allowance for the sympa-
thies that had been awakened in behalf of their western
brethren, and for the indignation that had been kindled by
what wa~ justly deemed an undistinguishing, intolerant,
and indefensible proscription ofthe whole masonic body, for
the offences of a part,-it yet falls immeasurably short of a
justification for the helping away of Howard, and the ad-
vancing of money to enable Burrage Smith to fly to New•
Orleans, and Howard to England. Nor can even this excuse
avail to any extent, for more than a very short period.
Grant, if you please,-which by the way could not have
been the fact,-but grant, for the sake of the argument, that
a majority of the members of the Grand Lodge and Grand
Chapter, at the time of making those appropriations, did
suppose the accused were innocent, they must have soon
been undeceived. Upon what principle, then, are we to
account for their subsequent conduct 1 Trials of the con-
spirators were occurring every few months, and volumes of
appalling testimony were following each other, in rapid suc-
cession, placing the innocence of the accused, and of numer-
ous unknown accomplices, entirely out of the question,-but
no example was made of any of these. In the earlier part of
the excitement, several members of the order were tried
for the conspiracy, and convicted by their own confessions,
-bitt none of tlrese, even to this day, have been expel-
led from either lodge or chapte1._ Several more have been
convicted, after warmly contested trials, who, with the
former, have served out their respective terms of imprison-
ment,--but ·none of these have been expelled. Witnesses
have stood mute, braving the authority of the civil law,
even in the presence of the highest of our criminal tribu-
nals,-but ntme of these have been expelled. Other witness.
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLVIII.
ea have refuaed to testify, expressly upon the ground that in
doing 110,theymust criminate themsclves,-neitl4er have these
bun ezpelled. Witnesses have testified falsely, as their
subsequent examinations have fully proved,.--neit/4er have
lkse bun expelled. It has been proved in court, over and
over again, that the measures for the abduction of Morgan,
were concerted in the lodges and chapters of the west,.--
but the warrants fnr such lodges and chapters hatJe never
been recalled. Indeed, THERE HAS NEVER YET BEEN UTTER·
BD, FROJI THB W.U.LS OP EITUER LODGE OR CHAPTER, PROM
THE HJOHEST TO TUB LOWEST, AN EXPRESSION OF REAL C.
P·
SURE, OR OP HONEST INDIONATION, AOAINST ANY INDIVIDU.U.,
HOWEVER CLEARLY IT XAY HAVE BEEN ltNOWN THAT HEWA.8
EN~AOED IN DEPRI\"TNO A FREE CITIZEN OF HIS LIBERTY, AND
.trrl'INO HUl TO DEATH IN COLD BLOOD !
There is, however, one word to be said, before I close
the present letter, in mitigation of the offences of those who
were first engaged in depriving Morgan of his liberty.
There is no reason whatever for believing that his murder
was contemplated when he was first arrested, or by any of
those engaged in transferring him from the jail in Canandai-
gua, to Niagara. I have already said, that the carrying of
Morgan to Canandaigua, was not connected with the origin-
al' plan. That movement was projected and executed by
·cheseboro, merely for the purpose ofdisgracing him by the
imputation of petit larceny. When acquitted upon that
charge, feeling that it would not answer to allow Morgan
to return to his labors with the ability to excite the public
sympathy by the tale of his wrongs, Cheseboro procured his
imprisonment on the civil process, merely to give time for
them to mature some new scheme to suppress the proposed
disclosure of the momentous secrets of Masonry. The ar-
rangements for his transportation to Canada, were hastily
made, although it had been so long determined that some-
thin&should be done to suppress the book ; and the murder
int ss Digitized by Goo<Jle
" ___.
....
r
...
LETTEll XLIX.
of the m~n was rather the result of the imperfection of those
arrangements, than of previous design. In this belief I am
strengthened by the opinions of all the gentlemen, as I be-
lieve, who have acted as special counsel in the prosecutions,
and also of Mr. Whiting, their able and constant auxiliary.
Those who took him to the fort, calculated an nothing more
than his temporary confinement, until he could be sent away
into Canada, or to sea, via Quebec. But when the Cana-
dians utterly refused to receive him, and the conspirators
found him thrown back upon their hands, they were unex-
pectedly embarrassed. They had violated the law ;-they
feared to set their prisoner at large, to blazon the outrage
they had thus far committed ;-they could not advance, and
dared not recede. In this posture of affairs, they sent back
an express to Rochester, for advice. One of the conspira-
tors in that place proceeded instantly to the frontier, and
in an evil hour, excited by passion,-pushed onby fear,-
and laboring under a strong delusion,-they were led to shed
the blood of their victim. That blood yet cries from the
ground for vengeance !
I am, sir, with respect, &c.
LETTER XLIX.
· NEw-YoaK, Apri12, 1832,
SIR,
It is a subject of no ordinary satisfaction to me, and
will doubtless afford still greater relief to yourself, to find
thatthese somewhatdesultorycommunicationshaveat length
been brought to a point at which it can be said, in the words
of the wise preacher of old, .. let us hear the conclusion of
"the whole matter." At the close of the rapid sun·ey of
1pcculative Freemasonry with which the preceding essays
Digitized by Coogle
LETTER XLIX.
were commenced, a variety of reasons were offered, why,
in my humble opinion, the institution ought to be totally
abandoned, on its own meriU, independently of any charges
of malconduct that might have been preferred against it.
The more I have reflected upon this matter, the more strong-
ly have I become persuaded, that the reasons there set forth
are sound and just. Every hour of thought that I have
been enabled to devote to this subject, has but rendered the
conviction stronger, that Masonry is wholly inconsistent
with SOWld reason, and with the state of society at the pre-
sent day. Let it be granted, if its votaries please, that its
objects were originally laudable and humane, and are so
still, in the estimation of the better portion, and even of the
great majority of its members; yet, I would ask, why fortify
the performance ofduties so eminently incumbent upon us all
as men and christians, by.oaths and penalties, which, howe-
ver explained, must yet always sound barbarous and shock-
ing when repeated. The duties of the Gospel are not im-
posed by any such sanctions ; and I do believe this feature
of the society infinitely behind the age in which we live,
even if it be not more barbarous than would ever have been
openly tolerated in any age or commWlity. But, throwing
these considerations entirely aside, I am constrained to say,
that, in full view of the facts which have been disclosed in
the preceding irregular narrative, the institution of Free-
masonry ought to be 'entirely abolished for its demerits,-
.and that for the following reasons :-
I. On account of its laws and its obligations. Liberal
minded and good men seldom do wrong, whether they are
Masons or not. Masons of this character look to the spirit
of the obligations, and practice the virtues inculcated by its
lessons and its emblems. But we have seen in the course
of these disclosures, that a great number of Masons,-
perhaps a majority of the adhering members,-not only
believe the obligations to be binding, but are even ready
-m
Digitized by Coogle
- " .j
LETTER XLIX. ~61
to act ·upon them to the letter. They think every thing
about it means what it says ; and have shown that they are
ready to act accordingly.
II. Many of its members belieye the institution to be of
divine origin, They make it a substitute for religion: they
have beeri so taught, and are honest in the opinion: and.
when the case occurs, they act upon this belief. Such men.
though not by its spirit, are yet justified by the letter of the
laws. The institution therefore leads to fatal error, in re-
gard to matters of infinite moment to the immortal interests
of man.
III. The garments of Masonry arc stained with blood.
An American citizen has been sacrificed upon its altar, for
no breach of the civil laws of the land, but only for the vio.
lation of his masonic obligations. What has once happen-
ed, may happen again: and the only safe and secure disposi-
tion of the subject is to abandon it, and blot it out for-
ever.
IV. The power of Masonry has proved too strong for
the arm of the civil law. The cry which earth sends up to
heaven, when her bosom is stained with the blood ofa mur-
dered son, seldom fails to ensure just retribution from the
hands of her children : but in this instance it luu fail-
ed. "Although,"-says Chancellor Walworth, ·when
speaking upon this subject-" it is the duty of Masons, as
" well as of Christians, to throw the broad mantle of charity
"over the imperfections and frailties of their brethren, yet
"neither should ever permit themselves to extend its ample
" fokls for .the purpose ofscreening those who have disgraced
"themselves, and disturbed the peace of society by their
"crimes." Ought, then, an institution, which has exercised
such a power, to exist in a free country 1
V. The crime that has been committed in the name of
the institution, was not perpetrated, as it has been contend-
ed, by ignorant fanatics ; but the conspiracy embraced much
71
Digitized by Coogle
56! LI!TTER Xi.I:J:.
of the intellfgeace and respectability of that enl~htened
portion of the country, and the murderers themselves were
men of no mean consideration.
V1. The institution cannot vindicate itself from the stig-
ma of this outrage. On the contrary, by the course they
have taken since it was perpetrated, both the Grand Lodge
and Grand Chapter, have in fact assumed the responsibili-
ty of the transaction. For aught that those governing bo-
dies have done, the convicts in that outrage, are as good
MaSQn&--standing recti in curia-as any of us. Ought
men of principle and virtue to sustain such an institution,
or remain connected with it 1
VII. The conduct of Masons on the trials at the west,
is a sufficient cause for the abandonment. "Grand J urora
" were false to their oaths, to truly present. Witnesses
"upon trial were false to their oaths, to truly testify. Petit
"Jurors were false to their oaths, to truly try. Witnesses
" in some instances spurned the authority of the court, and
"refused to testify, and in other instances even to be sworn.
"Sheriffs corruptly returned partial grand juro~."
VIII. The constructions that have been put upon the ob-
ligations, by Masons under oath, in courts of justice, have
qisqualificd them from being impartial jurors, in cases where
a brother Mason is a party. Decisions to this effect have
been made in our own courts, of various grades, and in the
courts of other states, where the question has been raised,
andsuchisundoubtedlythelaw ofthe land. The takingofthe
obligations, as those to whom I refer have construed them,
is very justly a cause of exclusion from a jury in such cases.
And is it either wise or proper, to adhere to, and preserve,
an institution which operates such a disfran~hisement 1
·IX. The public sentiment is against the continuance of
the institution. Although I am not a believer in the infalli-
bility of the maxim "V0-1: populi voz Dei," yet it is no mark
of wisdom obstinately t~ persist in opposition to the declar-
. o;9;~zedbyGoogle .d
LETTER XLIX. 663
ed sentiments of the people, of all classes, and of all politi-
cal parties. The institution has lost all of veneration that
it ever possessed in the public ~nd; and now that the
grand arcana of the lodge room have been fully disclosed
to the rude gaze of the public, who among the order would
desire ever again to march forth in public with their robes,
and their lamb-skins, and their working tools, to encounter
the broad grins of the populace 1
X. Masons of pure hearts ~nd sound principles, owe the
relinquishment of the order to those of their fellow citizens
who have stood by them,-refusi1,1g to denounce the whole
body as fanatics and bigots, ready to commit crimes, if they
have not already done it, for the sake of Masonry,-du~ng
the bitter warfare of the Anti-masons. There are many
such, having no connexion with Masonry, but who, in re-
fusing to confound the innocent with the guilty, have incur-
red all the odium that has been heaped up~n the Masons
themselves. As no possible good can evermore come of
the order, its members owe it to this portion of the public
to abandon it.
XI. The institution is on the wane ; in most places·it is
dead ; and its torpid body can never be reanimated. As
well might they think of establishing Mahometanism in this
enlightened land, as to cherish the idea of re-establishing
Freemasoncy. There is no use in·contending, at this late
hour, ·that the principles on which it was built, are moral,
benevolent and virtuous;-public opinion is against it,--and
it is the height of folly to court disfranchisement and pro-
scription, when no possible benefit can arise from the sac-
rifice.
XII. H there are any who would still regard as a
sacrifice the abandonment of the order, I reply, that even
if it be a sacrifice, it is necessary for the public good. It
is only by the relinquishment of the institution, that peace
and aocial order can be restored in the regions of the Anti-
Digitized by Coogle
664 LETTER XLIX.
masonic excit~ment, and the public feeling brought again
to healthy action. Adhering to Masonry from mere obsti-
nacy against its opposite, will only keep alive, and spread
wider, the J;ancour and heart-burning existing over a large
space of our country.
XII. We owe the relinq~ishment of the order to the feel-
ings of the religious community. However much we may
deprecate the course that has been adopted upon this sub-
ject by most of the religious sects which are happily so nu-
merous in our country, yet we cannot doubt the purity of
their motives, and the sincerity of their opposition. They
know that a foul murder has been committed by a .band of
Masons, in the name of the order. They have watch-
ed the progress of the trials, and marked the con-
duct of the accused, as well as of many others whose la-
bors were directed-not in aid of the laws-but to shield
their friends from justice. Members of the order know, that
but a comparatively small number, were engaged in the
wicked transaction. But from the mysterious connexion
by which all the fraternity, individually and collectively,
have been supposed to be bound together, those who are not
members, know not how to discriminate, or .where to draw
the line of distinction. Hence the greater number are suf-
fering for the delinquency of the less. Ought not respect,
therefore, to be paid to the feelings,--call them the preju-
dices, if you please,-of nearly the whole religious public
in the United States, by which means alone, the ham1ony
of the christian church, as well as of the political world,
can be restored.
These are conclusions to which I have arrived, after
much reflection, and a long and laborious investigation of
the whole matter; and I might add to the catalogue of rea-
sons, which, in my poor judgment, ought to induce a vol-
untary, simultaneous, and universal abandonment of specu-
lative Freemasonry in the United States. I am well aware
Digitized by Coogle
LE'fTEl\ XLI:ll. 665
that many of my masonic brethren, will not at first coin-
cide with me in these opinions. Such have not .always
been my own views, as the public well- know. But I have
formed these opinions from facts of a startling nature,
as all who have done me the honor to accompany me
through these pages will have seen. I have likewise wit-
nessed how others have been affected by the influence of
this institution; and I have often been astonished· to per-
ceive with what tenacity men of pure lives, and good con-
sciences, cling to it. The minds of many excellent men
seem actually crazed upon this subject. The whole con-
sistency of their lives. is reversed when you come upon
the subject of Freemasonry. They appear to believe in it
as a matter of religion and faith, and whoever questions its
purity, and its excellence, is heretical. But I hope a more
liberal feeling is now beginning to prevail, and that
even many thousands who have hitherto refused to listen
to the voice of reason upon the subject, will now at least be
persuaded to take it up calmly, and reflect upon it. "I am
"satisfied," says Chancellor Walworth in a letter now be-
fo~ me, from which I have already quoted a ·few lines
abov~, "that the evils of keeping up the institution hereaf-
" ter, will more than counterbalance any good, which in
" this country can possibly be effected by it. And this
"has determined me, for ·the purpose of quieting the
"alarms of the community, and preserving the peace of
"neighborhoods, as well as to prevent divisions in the
"ch.urch of our Divine Master, to recommend that Ma-
" sons should submit to the reasonable demands of the
" public, to cease their meetings, and that the lodges sur-
" render up their charters." Yet Chancellor Walworth
is a Mason, and strongly opposed to politioal Anti-ma-
sonry. Such, however, are his honest opinions, and such
are the opinions of a vast majority of the most virtu-
ous, most intelligent, and most distinguished men of our
Digitized by Coogle
country, 'Without regard to teet, or profession, or party. I
-need not add, that such are my own opinions-as honestly
eatertainM, u they have been frankly and fearlessly ex-
presaecl.
I have the honor, sir, to remain, &c.
Digitized byGoog~
APPENDIX.
(&.)
[It - the aulbor'alntentloll lo ba'fe luerteclln tbll place the• - obllpdonl, u _....
eel In Bernard ; but tlllo work baa lleolll _..uy u!Anlded 10 m.cb fanller than w•ortp
lllllly con~oted, tbat,be mlllt eooGoelllmoelt"loIbe obllpllcu ofthetblnl andanentbde-
.,_, tbllae beiDithe 1110111-llal,and llldeed embnlciDI all tbellllm~ of the odaea)
OBLIG&1'JON OP A MASTER MASON.
'I, A. B., of my own. flee wDI ud eeeord.J I!' preoence or Almltl:bl)' God, and II"- Wor.
lllllpful Lodn of MU!er M-, ~-ted 1o uoa, and dedicate41 to ihe lloly order of 8L John,
do beoeby and berenn, m•C oolemnly and llncerely prvmlae and awear,tn addition to my
for-robl'l•tlons,thatl will notf,lft the de1~eeot a Meater Ill..on to anyone or an lollt-
rlor depee,nor to any other beln1 n the known world,exrep& It be to a true ....S lawful hro-
lber, or brethren, Maeter M-n, orwlthlo the body ot a jlllt tu1d lawflllly c...,.lltllleclloq.
ot aach; and not unto blm, nor unto them, wbom llball '-r 10 1o be, but auto blm aDd
them oaly whom llballllnd so to be al\er llldct trial and d_
ue eumtna&ICift, or lawfallDfOI'-
m>tiOII received. Furthermore, do I promlleand nrear, thai I will no& 1m the M-'1
word, wblcll I oball.,._fter receive, neltber Ill the lodp, nor ou1 ot 11, e'lcep& It be on the
l•e pnlna. of feiiOWiblp, and then not •bo'fe my breath. Furlbermole, do I protulu and
.....,, lhal"l will no& &lYe 1M lrand baUIDaelrn of dlalr-, ncep& lam In raJ tllltr-, or
fDr lbe betl'tllt ot.lbe -ft when at won; and obould 1-aeelbal atrn d'fen, or tbe _.
accompanylnt! 11, and the periOD who aa'fe II appeartna to be Ia dlltreaa,l will lly to 1118,..
lief a1 the rllll ot my life, abould tbera be a peater prdlablllll' ot ••IDI bitt 11111 U•a ot
-~~~~my own. Fartbermore do I pmmlle and awear, lball wnt no& wron1 tblllodpt'*
a btotber o( thla dep!ll, to the ftloe otonecent, knowlndy, myaelf, ""'auJIIr It to be -
by o&hera, If In my pow~r to preveat lt. hrUlermora, 6o I promlie and awear1 !bat f will
no& be at the lnltlattns, r-IDIJ1 tu1d ra181111 a candidate at - ~atcalloa, wltboula
reaotar dlapelllllllon from tbe Uraacl Lodp lbr the - · Ji'unllermore, do I ,._loe elld
awear tllet I will no& be at tbe lnltlattna, r-bi1 or rata1111 a caadldate In a claadl!llloe
lodlf'l,lknowln•ltto be IIIICh. Ji'urUlermora, dOl promlle and awear, !ball will ao& be at
the lnltllltlnll of an old man In do&ap, a yoona mtu1 In non..., lUI atbellt, lrreltaloaa l~r­
tlne. ldtoc, madmon, berm•pbrodlle, nor woman. Furthermore, do I pnJODIIe and _,,
that I will nne •P•"'k evil of a bro&her Maater II..a, neltber behind bla beck, ""' before bill
tRee, butwlllnpprlao! him of allapJVOBChln~ donpr, If In my power. I"Drtbntaora, do I
peootloe and awear that I will no& vlolale the cllullty of a M•• IIMOD'a Willi, mother,
allier,'" d'u~llter, I knowlniJ them to be aucb, nor eullhr II to be done by ""-• If In mJ
poW<'r tn prevent lt. Furtberm '"'• do I prOIDIIe and--· that I will aoppon the COIIIIIIa-
llon ot'the Gmnd Lodpof lbe Mate of--,under wblcll tblllodp II billd, and eonrona
to Alllbe by-laws, rulea, and ~latlona of thla • any other lodp ot wblclt f may at any
time twreafter becbme a member. Fllrlhennora, do I promJae and -•ar,lllall will obey
ell te~ulor lllpo, aummoM, or tokeno, alvea, btuldecl, aent, or tbrowato me, from the banit
or a bro&her 1\futer Maaoo, or from the body uf n jlllt and lawtlally toreltated lodp ot
auch, provided It be "'lthln Ibe lenl'b of IDY cable·tow. l'wcl,._,, a/,...Vo au
..,edr1 tA4t & Muter Mtuoa_~, ner•U, 6i'"" to .. ia c•crra u .-cl,aa4 1 iutti•6 U...
to •• ••u;A, •••U rli'•Ai• nl lttl&rl 4U i11'1'ioldl' i• 1'11J &rtUC u ia N ..,., elnc......_
"""''" lo ••, ,..,..,.,. ••" Ire•••• oscqull; au tler left 10 "'' •- cloca... Funber-
more, do I promlae and •w•ar,ll,.t I wlllao on a MUior M_..errand, wbeoe"' raqahecl~
eftn abtould I ha... to II" barer-, and barebeftded, lfwitbla the lenJtll ot my eaiiJe.low,
hrtherono"'• do I p10111laa end awear, tbatl wW ba aldlna and ualltla11ell poor Ind._,
M- ~. lbelr wlvea aact orphana. .,......,.v• tllaPeraecliOUIId tile pobe, • r.r •
In my power, wltboot l'llurlnJ myeelf or f&mUy tDetertelly. Faltbermore,dO I p,_loem6
-•r, lllal tr IUIY pan ot tblo my aoleliiD oatb or obll•don be omlllecl al tJu. lime tbat 1
will hold m,.,lf a,..nable IIHtreto, wbeneYer bif'ormed. To ell wllldll do- ••ly
a.od llaceraly promloe an~ owear, wllb a heel and lllledy porpoa ol miDd Ia-, 1o Jrwp
ond perform tho •Rme, blndln1 rnyaelf under no._ penal!)' than loiMft aay bacly ~
Ia two In U... raldot, aad tliYicled to the nortlo and -Ill, my bowela JJar-.t Ill ..... Ia II•
Digitized by Coogle
--- ~
APPENDIX.
entre, and !he utw. eeal~red befcnlhe four wincllt or heaven, tbal there michl nol tlll
le'llt lnlck or tracoo of ~membrlnco nlllllllD 111110111 men or MMono oloo Ylle and periuted a
wretch • l abould ""• went I .,er to prove wUtully 1u1;1y of rlolatlnl( any part of thito my
......., oa&b or obltaa,_ ofa M_, MMOD 8o help me Ood, aod lleep me -.lfaolaatbol
d• per'- ollbeoame.•
OBLIGATION OF A ROYAL ARCH IIUSON,
I, A. B.,olmy own r-wUI udaccnrd,in the p.-n<eof AtmichiJ Ood,and tbllthapo
let nC B.oy"' Arch M._.,eredeclto Oad,ud dedicated to tile hoiJ orduor 81. Jolin, do
.......,!'and..._., -oolemnly and olncetely prom• and IWftlr,ln addition to my for.
-r obllplioM. 1111111 l wiR "'" 'll•e the d.....,.. of Roy.J Arch M:uoon to any uoe of an
lnlillrlor d......,, nor to uy tllher beincln tbe Juaown world, ezcept it be In a true ud lawful
compuion Royal Areb ......,, or wltbrn till> body of a 11111 and leplly eo...Utuled chapter
of lllda, and noc auto him or unto tbem whom I ahaU hear 10 to be, b•llunto him or lbem
only whom I abell lind 10 to be, aller llrict ltlal, due enmlnatlcln, or lecal laformalian ,..
celred. Furtbetlllnre do I pmmitle and oweu,lh~tl will no\ clve !be Grand Omnillt Koyal
Arch word, wbk:b l ;la;ii hereafter receive, neltber in tbe chapter nnr out olll, ucept lbere
be ~nltwo c:ompen'- Roy.J Arch M-,who, with my..,lf,JMke lb...,, ud !ben toy
lllree tl- tbree, under a IIVIR& :udJ, nor above my breath. Furthermore. u.t I will not
......,..lbe ltMIAble dJaraelenl beloncln&to tbl• ""c'ee, or r•toln the key to tbe)h Ia my ~
....,., loal ......., II, wbe~~ever k <01111111 to nty ...bt. Furtbermon!, do l pmmlle OJid
owear,lbatl wW nor wnmalblo ehnpter, nor a comp&nion or tbll dqree,to lbe •11lae or
any tbinJ, kanwlncJy my~t>lf, or 111ft"eeo lito be done by tllhera, If In my power to prnenl it.
F~, do I pmmlle and ~Wear, lbat l will nrll be at the esallallon or a candidate to,
lblo depee, at a elandllltlne eha;>l«, I knowlnc lito be ourb. Furthermore, do I promile
and •waar,lball will no& .-Ia or be preaenJ at the e:rallltion ol "candidate to tblo ~­
wbo bea no& replarly NC181red lbe decree• or E~ Appreati<e, Fflllow c!raft, Mater
M-, Mull M-r, Pill~. Moot Extellent M-r, 10 tbebellol myllnow~ and
belief. F11rlhermore, lbllll will not uala or -more or 1.,. th.tn lbree eandiclatea e.saltecl
uone and tbe •me Ume. Furtherraore, lbat l wUI nnluaillt ur be p,.,..nlal lhtt formiD&
oropenlnaof a Royal Arch Cbapter, uniMitbere be preoent nirHi """tar Royal Arch •.a-
10111. Furlhermore, do I pn>mlle and owear, !bat l will not opeak ~vii ol a r<llll~n"­
Royal Arch II1110R1 oellber bebind bll beck nor bdOre bi• face, but will apprize blm ol ap.
pr011<bln1 dan..,., If In IDJ power. Furthermore, do I promlie and owear, lbat I will not
altlke &COIIIpanlon Royal Areb MMOR In qer,oo 81to draw biA blood. Furrbermore, do
J prou1ile and owear, !bat i will oupportlbe eonaltutlon of tbe Geoeral Grand Royal Arch
Cbepter oltbe Unlled &ate~ of A'118rle& allo tbe eonolitutlon of Gnrnd Royal ArdJ Chapter
of!be- under wblell tblo dlapter II beld, ud eoaform to alltbe by-lawo, rulea, :and,..
pta,_ ollbla, or any a&ber ebapter cf which I may bereal\er become a member. .Fur-
lbei'IIION, dol protDIIIe aiiClowear, !boll wiU obey oil ~lar alp, ..m_., or tokens
&lven, banded, -1, or lbrown to me. from the hand of a tompllnlon Roy.>l Arch M....,,
or from tbe body of a jllll and lawfuUy COOIIIIuled chapter of 111ch, provided it be wltbia
lbe ten&lb of my cable·IOW Furlbenllore, do l prouoile and owear,that! will aid and uaia
a CIIIDp&alon Royal Arch M-., wben encqed In any dlllleully, ud eopouee 1111 eauoe, 10
Jilt 81to exlrleate blm frotDibe •me, U Ia my p~wer, wbelber be be rlcbtor wmnc. Also,
lbatl wW pro11101e a compulon Royal Arch MMOD'I political profemoeot in preference to
another ofequ.J qual,llcatlona. Furthermnr~, dol promlleand awear,lbata companion
Royal ArdJ MMOn'• aeel'flCI,ciYen me In ehntp 81 oueb, ond I koowlnc lbem to be 101ch,
lball remain '!" •-te and inviolable in my brenll u In hlo own, ••,..,.,. &104 triiiJO'A 11.C
l&c<ptul. Furtbermore. do I prornlle ud IWar, tbat I will be aidinc and .-llliftll all poor
and ludfleD& Royal Areb M100111, lbelr wldowa and orpbane, wberever dleperaed oround
lbe ~"'• 10 ftlr as in my puwer, wllhoul material Injury to myaelf ar fomUy. All wbltb I
- oolemnly and llncerely pmmlle and owar, wltb a linn and -.If• reoolulion 10 par·
rumo the •me, wll.boatany equivocation, menial ,_rvatlon. or aelf ev81ion of mlod In me
whatever; bindln1 myoelf under 110-peoalty,tban lbat of harln1 my tkullrrrno&e <oft", and
aay braiDI expooed to the ac:orehln& ray1 of tbe 111n1 llhonld I erer llnowinaly, or willlnoiJ,
viOlate or Iran- any part oftbll my aolemo oatb, or obllpllon, of" Royal Ardl Ma-.
& h~lp meGod, and keep me lleadfall In the per1brmuaee oltbe Mme.
(B.)
OLD MS. COPY OF ROYAL ARCH OBLIGATION.
{II -tiN> antbor'tl lint Intention to hue lnaerted In this place, all the obllptiona, u
cnnoalned In tbl ohl MSS. mentioned In lbe text, lbnt the ,..der mt1ht be the beller enabled
10 jmlp how ra111dly llleae obllptlona bare been ln~lnc in teniJh, even wltbin the -
thhty years. But he •• tompelled to oupp,.. tbem, for lbe •me reaoon mentioned a-,
viz: obe already unr-n elllanl ollbe work. It may, however, be enoul(h to oemarll,
that nettber ol tbe obllpllono, In lbe lll'lltbree '*'-•u wrillen oatlo tbl>ae muuae rtpta,
11 roore than balf aolona u u- d~ by Marean. and In - uoe. The obllp.
lion• t'Or lberernalnlnc four det~reea or ancient~ • ., ealled,~m~ rary mach ahllrter.l
The KeY"' Arch obllpllon, oo loftll and cumhe..-, 81 liven above, II all eompriaed fn
the ancient rleual before me, onder tbe four brief ba4t follewlnJ :-" 111. ~·or- to con-
ceal tbe _.,.. ot.lhiildecrae;-lid. Not to 11"" lbe ltoyal Arch word, ualeM In lbe manner
Digitized by Googl_
e
__,. 1
"'leJCJ
:\PPENDJX, 3
In wbieb it ill recelvocl ;-3<1. Not to 118111! in the enltalioo or a ltoyal An:ll MUon, aa'-
live memberw are preooeat, nor more nor leoothaa Uuee nt any one ume ;-4th. To ald,oup-
port, pMCeet, and defend a Royal An:h Muon, even with the .word, It neces1ry.'• To
this Ia added the.penalty, u1l"f1111 by Mo'ban.
N. B. Thee MSS. Blve a more eenolble and intelif«lble, and a len exeeptlonabie,IICCOUat
ol the ••~o de'""" or M110011ry, tban any Olh<or work the author bu-n. Wblie Morpa
wu at Rocbeoter, theee p8J"'I'I were there, and already wrilleo to bio bando.
{C.)
The .foilowiol wuthe only obliption fur all three or the des.- or ancient Muonry, ill
the year lo30-only IO"l yearw ago. At th•t time there were but three degreeo known,_
" I hereby 110lemnly vow and ewear, in the J•reoence of Almighty God, ftna thla rl1bt
worablpfiiiMeembly,th" I will hail Bnd concedl, and uover reveal, the _,rela or eecrety ol:
M-or M...,ory tbatohall be revealed unto me, unl.. loatn~eand lawful brother,aller
an examillatlon, or in ftjusl aud worohipful lod2e of brothere and fellowo w•ll rnet. 211. I
furthermorepromioo ami vow, tbat I will not write them, print them, mark them,t.arve them
or eDIJ'Ilft lbem. or cause th~m toJJe written. printed, marked, carved, or enstraved on w;;d
(l{olone1110&o tl)e visible chiii'UCter Dr im1•reoeionof a letter may appeftr, whereby It may be
unlawllllly obtarned. Allllrilr, under no Je• penalty tban to have my throat eut1 my loiiSUO
taluon fmm the roof of my moullr, my heart plucked from under my left b..,..t, then 10 be
buried In the oaod of the-, the length of a cahl•·rop• from ohore, where the tide ebba and
Jlowo twice in twenty-four boure, my body 10 be burnt to a....,., my llllheoto he lli:IIUeled U(IOil
the r.... o( the earth, 10 that tbete shall he 00 r-mblanee of me amona M-. 8o help
roe Ood.''
{D.)
Firtt Pri>cla•atil>• •Itile Oor.,.,.or.
DE WITT CLINTON, Governor of the l'tnte of New-York,to•tnteofficet~antl
(L. S;) wlnioten or j111tlce In ""id ""'"'• and ~rlicularly In lhe' county of Geaeeee, aad
·the nei&hborlnc connties-Orutin~,
Whereu, loformalioo, under·oath, baa been tran11111tted to me by Theodore F. Talbot,
Eequire, ltod other cltlzeno of the county nf Ueneoee, aetlna ns a committee in beball ol the
people or thftt cocmty. rep.-ntinKthnt dlvere outrnfl"'' and opp,..,..iona bave OOen commit-
led on ll)e ri«bta ofpet10118 reoidin& in tbe villa11e of Batavia, and that dillurbanceo bave eo-
tued, wbieb ate ln,jurlooto, Md 111ay prove deotructive to peace and cood order In lbat quar-
ter. Now, therefore, I ~njoin II upon you, aad each of you, to pursue all proper and efll·
cftonl meaaureo for the appreheoaion of the oft'•ndere, and the prevention of future outraFS.
Aad I do alooo req.- the pod cillzeno of lhts sfatr, to co-operate with the civil authorillea
in malnlalnins the ucomdeD<y of law ftnd good or~er.
(tq
S..:oRd PrOG/amat'•••f lAc Oot>erur.
Wbereaa, il hao been repreoented to me, that Wlllia"' Mor•""• who wu unlawfully ec.n.
veyed from the jail ortbe county oft lntario, •omelimelo the lPOIIrh of Set•tembar Loot, hu
not been found, and that it miJ!hL haven bentfic'ud elfect in reatorin' bim 1o bio family aod
ill piOIIIotllll!the detection and punl.bm<nr of rhe perpetrarors orth,. violeal outre~te, If, Itt
addition 10 the proeeedin1 heretofore ndopled by me, a prociRmation waa i.ued olferlns a
•peelftc "'""''d for liteM purpoe..,:-NotD,IAer<for•, In order that the ofl'endel8 may be
brouKbt to r.olldlcn punlabment nnd the '"iolated ""'jeolly of rhe lawo thereby eft'ectually via-
dit.aled, I do hereby ofl'er, In addition to the n..uraneeo ofcompen80iion heretofore jliven, a
reward oflhtee hundred dollarw for the diocu\'~ry ofthe ol!'eudera and a reward ol one bun·
dred dollano lOr the diocovery of any and e\'ery nne of tbem, to be paid on conviction; and
aJ.n a further reward of two hundred doilan for authentic Information or the piaee where
the IRid Wtniam Morpn bu been conveyer!, nod I do enjoin iL upon alloheridlt, maciolralert,
and other olllceraand mlnlrtorw of juotlce to be vigilant and active in the dirtebarp or their
dotieo on thilr OCCMion. ·
(L
8
) In wilnet18 whereof, I llave hereunto IN'I my hood, and the pltvy 8881 &1 the city o(
· · Albany, thilr2111b day of October, Anno J>orolnll~ DJ:: WITT CLINTON.
T1iH PrOGinaatiDII of '"' Oooon•r.
WbereM, the IIMUUret adOJ"ed for the discover' or WOllam Morpn, after bil unlawfql
alldae&ion from CanandaiiiUfl in September last, ha,·e not been attended with llltea8; aoc1
wbereu many ol the good dtizen• of this ttate are under an imp..-lon, from the lapae <11
lime and Olher cln:nrnotan-, tbal he has been murdered :-Now, lbetefore, to theeod thai,
If Uvtnc, he may be reotored to hlo filmily,and, if murd.red, thai lhe perpetratoro may be
broucJtt to condltrn pnnlohment, I have thousht IIIIo l•ue thio proclamation, promlotns a re-
ward ol one thoataad doU&Nior the discovery of lba oll'euder or oll'ooders, 1o be peld oa COG·
72
Digitized by Coogle
APPBl.'D~•
. - ant • the c:ettlftCIIe of the AI~a-!,or cdleer pft1811C11tlJII.a the part of 1M
llale, tJy& the ~n or per-•dalmlnslbe oald lui menliaDed reward,lo or..., jaltly •-
ll&lettolhe oame-ser tloio proclam&lion. And I ful1berpromllea free parc~oo;..rar •laa
IUtborioed tlllder IM C<llllliiUlion oflbia IIGe,to IDr -pllce or co-opet.ror wboobiiJIII&Ira
a faU dlocover1 of lhe olreader« orlilnden. And do enjola II upon all ofti<eD aDd miD-
of juiU<e, and all <>lber pe..-.., 10 be vJsUanl and active In briJiablllo Jaoticethe perpetii-
IOieof a crime 10 abborrenlmbumaotty and 10 derop10ty from the~ o(lawud
JlfiOd order. . .
(L. 11 ) In wit- wbeleof I ba"' ber~unto eet my band aDd the prl't'J' oeal, &I the clly ol
. Albany, thlo 191b day of Mardi, AnooDumloll811'1. DE WIT!' CLlNTON•
. (F.)
hoal11.416..r .Jfuoaid< Rum,FI6.10.
Tile Grad Jloyal An:h Cbapeer of lbe 11a1e of New-York com-fed lllaaaal--
la lbio dly on Tuaday lul,and adjourned lbio day. llpwudl ofOilellaDdredand leD aull-
«dllllle cbapll!n were re.,_led. J'reviculto Ita odjourameat, the 6lllowiJII~
arerebad:-
To 111 MNt Es<1l11Jil tu Orrrtul Cbpler of tu But• 4( Nei/J- Y..-t ,_
Tba CGIIUIIIIIee ar,polaled by ruolutloa of the Graad Cbapter, oa the alralr of Wllllua
Morpn, rupeclf•l r r.,_-ttd •
Tbat IIIey bave a&leoded to lbe dudotl -lped lbem, aDd lb&l (11101 the Js..bly qiCallod
and IDIIawed -e of publici< feelln; oa lbilou~, ud from lhe llaJae aDd ~ed hlt-
patatlooa wbidlbave boen !brown upon Fr_., aDd lbe ...-Jc onler prunily,
your commluee deem il ptoper lbatlbia Graod Cbapler obould make a pa•llcu...-Joa of
Ira aeo.-olo lo relatloo In lbe alrair alluded to. Your comrniUee, u upraot.., of lbalr
vM>wo oo Uoe aubjecl embre<ed In lbio orport, wookl oll"er fer lbe coriold«&&loa of the OIU4
C bapler, lba followlui preamble and ....U.I.Iollll :-'-
Wbetllllt, lbe rtJihta of po...,..lllberty and aecurlly are JIIIUIDI.eed by tiler,_ CIOIIIIIIUI-
tioD, under which we, lbe memben of lbio Grand Cbapler, Ia COIIIIDOil with lbe ,.. of -
fellow c:lllzeno, bave the bappl-lo live: and whereat, we - die ~rvallotl of
lbeee rl1h1o of vllal Importance 10 lhe perpetully and full enjoytMDI ol the '*-iop of_.
republican lnallruliooa. and wber...,.,lbe common lly hu lalely w~ a violation oflbe
•-, under lhe alteced poelesl <>f lbe muonlc name and aaoedoo, (In the.,.. ol William
Morpo:) and where••· lhe principle. of our lnclenl and honorable lhlltllDlly eonttlo aolla-
inl which In lhe •li,h"e.t degreejusllfy or uulhorioe auch prooeedlop; bal, on lbe contrary,
do In alllhelr Ieneta and ceremonleo, encoomp and lnculc&le aj~l oubmiotion to lbe laW8,
tbe enjoymen! of eqUI•I rl,hlt by evety lncUvldual, and a bllb and elevaled lpirk of perooo-
al u well 01 nallonnl Independence:- .
Tlurefor<, Ruol~<d, lly rbla Grand Cbapler, lhal we II• memben, iodlvldoully, aad •
a body, do dioclo.lm all know~dge or approballoo of lbe aald proceedlop, Ia relatimiiD till
abclutUoa of IJJe """' William MofJBD; and !hal we diotpprovo of lbe ame,• a vlolallaD
oflbe ~~~aje"y of lbe lawll, nnd an lnfrlnl"menl of lbe ri&blaof pe.-1 llbert)',oecured to
every cttt..-o <lf our free ud bappy rrpubllc.
Ruolo1J, Tbatlbe foreaoln1 reJIOil, preamble ud r11101ulloD be -pabllobed.
A true Ullac& from lbe mhrlllet of the Grand Royal An:h Cllapter of lbe tlale of-New-
York.
JOHN 0. COLB, 0. &m-et.,.,.
(0.)
"Lc Rq, ~e. 1311, 1827.
"GoYemorCila-.,
11
8n1,
"I ba•e-a alel1er fr0111 you to Mr. Le Jloy, ttq-lnc blmtoclemaDd oflbe ed-
ltora oftbe o-&8 lhe aulbor of a eolllmoalcalion nddreaaed to you ID lbal peper. 1..
the aulbur. In your le\ler 10 lilr. Le Roy, you aay you bad no kaowledp of lbe otll..,.,
and bne never &lveu any advl<e no lbal outojeco. lfoucb are lbe (Ida, wblcb I ba.-e DO
,_,., 10 doubl, your name hM bfen UM'd for lbe ~of mo1h·011. Aad wbo ban• tb...
uoed II~ 'rhe MBJOnt. And why bove Ibey uoed 111 For lbe e:rp.-l"'fld" of lhtowtn1
their own cr1met upea your head. Your name hat hero uoed more or IN• by l!ofaoo• In
tblo -uoa Ollrbecountry, ever wince lbeoulfaiN; and altblt lime 1\majorlly of lbe people
&111 10 firmly In lhe belief lbat you wete conoulled on lbal!lllbjecl,lballllo enllrely uae'-
lo urp any argumenlo UJIOII !bet point In your favor. Allbe commen<emenl of ~ oatra-
... I did not believe any _,lions made by Maaono reopee&lfta yourlmowledp on tbatoub-
jeCL .l'lellber did I auppooelhaltbey would 10 oo (aru to lake llfe,ln vlolatloo ofall law.
Bul•lnee I bave beta convinced, In my own mlud,o£ lbe fiue of lbe uniOrtunale man, I
bave lbou1h1 lbol the leaden ol the oulrqee told aulborlly flooauome oomce or olber, and
wbal POOIT~ I do nol know. From .-rtlaoe maole by Maso~, (I'IIIJI'ICliJII you,) !bat ..-ere
enpled In !be dil&r->eefulalllolr, my lk•lb in your tepubllcan prlod~ wu CODIIderabl_r
aballee. I nm a M11111111, ftlld I have ever condemord lbe oulrope. fbe moroiDI lha11b1
N- wen' frollllblo p&..-e to BIRBvla,to arreot Col. l\llll•r, I and two 01 lhrea ccben Bia-
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. ' • 5
eel oar then reeble 'fCI._aailllt the proc:eedinp. We told them tbal the only way was 10
bllld perlec:dy •lit, tbatlftbey proceeoled,lhey would give a uedlt to tiM> work thalli other·
wlae could neftlr han. I waothentold by their leader, that older peroo• had been c:onault- •
eel; and anotberone •id thlll you had been wrlllen to, and that he bod 1wom ootln permit
k-[ permit the boot to be printed)-or sulf•r It to be done, If within bio pow• to prevent It,
and.., be would. .
"There 18 one !bing that! rt~~ret, nnd that Ill tblo, tbat I bad not lbrwarded !bat commu·
nicatlon tn you, tnotead or the Gazelle. Hut I had rather it would be ao It lo, tbao not have
been at all, for I hue aflidavill from M31008 tbot were enpeed in the fllltl'lllleo, which wUI
MJIIIItanliate my a.ertiono, and put the matter in a train that juotieeto yourself roqulreo.
lfr.·Lo Roy wUI forward yotr copl"' ol four allidavlto, three from Ma10no who wont to Bata·
Yla on the 1!1tb or t!eptewber,l8~,and one from Mr. Griffin, wbo Ia not a Muon. I p,...
oume )'Cilll' only object loto trace tn lh 100rce, [aod ucertain)lbe author or tbooe olanderouo
noporU. ARer perualnllbole allldavlls, you wIU be yuur own jud,e what couroe lo pumte.
"You..,..,.pectfully,
"JAMEd BALLARD."
[H.]
&eta •I NIVJ· York, j Franklin M.ir.b bel~ duly oworn de~ nnd ..,..,&baton the
Onu•• Co•"'J·••· tweiRh day of September, eighteen hundred aod tweoty·olx, tbil
deponent -In company with Jameo Ganoon, and one other peroon not now rerolleeted
by lbio deponent; that the oald James Ga...,., wao aoked If he bad authority from the
Gonrnor tn ouppren or prevent the printing or !be secreta of Maoonry, then about tn be
printed at Batavia · that !be 18ld Jamao Ganoon replied to !13ld queolion-" We baYe a let·
~er," at the 111ur,. Ume placing hla band n~~:ainot bla coot pocket, and tbnl tbl• depooelll
mnclnded rr'om !be manner,that the oaid Jnmno GaA!On replied to oald qullll.loo, !bat he
then had a written communication from the Governor of the otate of lSew·York, anthorW-
Iftllhe llllpp,..lon of tbetmbllcation of the 11814 oecreta ofM1180ory, and tbiodeponent then
believed !bat the 118id James Oanoon bad a letter from tbe Gvvemor on the oubj..t orp<e-
wlldnc the l8ld publication. FRANKLll'i IIIABSH.
1'ali:en aod ouboc:rlbed Ibis 12th day of November, 1827, before me,
S.SKINNER,J. P.
&are •I NaVJ·Yori, i Hiram Griflln,ofthe.town ofLe Roy, In oald county, belnc duly
o...,, c..u,,••· I owom accordloa to law duth detx- and •ay, that In the month or
Aua• or September 1.-, In a conver~~atlon wbltb tbio deponent had at that time with
Franli:lln Ma11b, of Le Roy, aforemid, In relation to the ootmce• and attacks made upon
the peroon and property of David C. Miller, or Bstavla, in 113ld county, In September eiAbteen
bandred and twenty-•Ix, theoald Marsh then declared In tbe pretence oftblo deponent, ancl
In tbe oaid convenation, that be, the .aid A1allh1 should not have gone 1o Batavia, If he
bad not-n a Jetter from De WIU Clinton, or the Governor, wblcb letter autborloecl blm
and o1her11 to talle !be couroe lo relation to .,ld Miller and hlo property which the)' did
take; and tbal be1 !be oaid Mo.,.h, wlebed tbe fault ohould fall or cnme upon the pe...,.
wbo aatborload tbem to take the COIII&e !bey did. IIIRAM GRIFFIN.
BllbiCrlbed and oworn tbillOtb day of NoYember, 18ll7, before m~
1
SAMuEL BKINNER,J. P,
S&a&a •I NertJ· Yori,l Ella~ Cooley heinc .July ownm depMeo and n,., that thla depo-
0•••••• Coaatr, u. I nent waa lu company with James Ganoon, on the tweU\b day of
September, eigbteen bnndred aod twenty-olx, and !bat the oaid Ja.....,. Gan1100, then ..ted
to thla deP'ment, o· In tblo deponent"• hearinR, that tbe Governor bad written on, or !bat
!etten bad been received from the Governo_rJ by him, directlnalhe manner of proceedln11
1o 1111ppree the publicatlun of !be oe«:nl!J of Maeonry, or of tile book, (theconveroatlon then
referrinc In the book Morgan and Miller were about publiohln• on !be secrol!J of Masonry,
al Batavia,) In the - knowledl• and belief of tbla deponent: and !bat tbio deponent
veriiJ belined from the aboYe otaternenl!J,that the 111ld Jamea Gan11011, or""""' otber per-
..., bad received a letter or· written communication from tbe Governor, directing a IIIIP·
p.-lon of the publication or aald book on the oecreta of llluonry,lhen about to be Ptlb-
liobed by the •lei Morpn and Miller, at Batavia. ELIAS COOLEY.
Taken and 10becrlbed tblo lllth day of November, 1827, before Ill!!_
JACOB BAR"lVW,Comm'er,"c.
Slate of N•• York,/ RollII Pratt beln( duly aworn, deJI('Oel and oaJI, tbRt nn the
o...u., Coalllr,••· Stwelllb dlly of September, eighteen hundred aod twenty·llx, tbla
depunenl w.. ln company with Jameo Gan<OO, and in a convol'llltlon about the recre111 or
MMDnry belnr revealed at Batavia, tbe ORid Jameo Gonoon Iold Ibis deponent that a man
bad been 1o- the Governor, or bad received a teller from him, aod tbi• deponent d0<8
not now recollect wblcb; aod tblo depoaent aol<ed blm wbo !bat man WM, and hb reply
wu, GaiuaB. Rleh. HOLLIS PRATT.
t!ublcrlbed and Bwom thlolith day or Novrmber, 1827, before me1
"· SKINNER, J. P.
Digitized by Google
6 t\PT'ENDilt.
(I .)
Stet• •I M10· y,..k,l Jalllfi!Gonoon.uf the town ofLe Roy,ln aid county, beina doly
• Oef&Uet (.'ovtuy, u. \sworn detJ~" ftDd saye, thnt the "tatement contained ln the atft.
davit of Franklin Marsh, that be, thio deponent, "was IIAIII.ed If Ire bad ftutbority fn•m
die Governor to auppre111 or pre\·eut the pnutinw (,r the seerel8 of' MaeonrJ, 1ben about to
be printed at Batnvi3. and that he, Uul'l dt"pont"ut, rephf'd :.0 rhe raid qn~lion • we haW"e a
leuer.' and nl 1~ Mn.e tlRte plact'tl bi~ hand~ UJ•ma hlit CORt porkf"t,'' i• nut tr~ ; end thil
depuDt:nt further eot~·:4.th.lt tilt> etatt·111ent in lhtl utfldavit of LJias Cot•lf'y, -1bft.t he, tbia de-
potteut, tlla&mito aa1d·Ctx•iey, or to o
my other JlerbOn, that Ilit'! Governor had writtc>a 0111
or th.
1t lett.en had been rewired tfmn him by UJi:t deponent, (or nny ·o1her pe1W1n1) dirett-
lnc the manner of proceeding to aupp""'• Ute publication ol tho secr.t• of Muonry, t>r of
&be book, •Olall!d In tile oaid atlldavit, lo not uue; and thlo deponent funbo.r sayo, that the
alatemenl contAined in the ~tlldavot of Hollia PmU,lhat be, thio deponent, in a convel'l8tl011
w lth nld Prau, abunt lite ~~e<relll of &Ja..•nry l"'i"l published at Batavia, told tbe aid Pran
tblll a man bad llren to -the G<>veruor, aad had a leu~r from him, and tbftl thlo d•pn-
aent named Galus 8. Rich n.IAIJCb l"'rwoo, iff \\hollywicbt>utfoo.ndalionin truth; and tbie
deponent !artber ays, lhat he hill never, on tmy occnsl011, said, nor dora be believe that hiR
e1eelleacr De Witt Clinton, WM in any manner roncemed, or euuntenanred, or had any
previW•Itnowlodce of tbe lnte '"""•t••and vroceedln~~>< in reiMion to William Morpn, ud
Ute auwr-ton of a publiration announced by hlmand D. C Illiller, of the -retaol' F.-
-nry: that the 11\Alry that a leuer waneceived by thl• deponent from Governor Cllnwn,
eutbor'-ing the 111~ioo of Mid JM:•bliCRtkm, or in 1e!etion lo the.mme,nr that any lettt-r,
or other writa~-n or verbal tomJ11U " i<-ati1m whatt:ver,. ba•i heen recdved by thW deponent
from Governor Clinton, il uuerly without foundati<ln-nelther wua &Q.)' tlutb letter, to the
ltnowledce of tbil deponeHl,or any wriuen or vetb:ll COIOmUnkatloo up<m the oubjocl te.
c:el•ed ill any other per><>n from ti<J\·rrnor Clinton. JAMES GANSON.
liworn UJd sut.crib<d thia !Orb day of Jnnuary, 182l', b<fore meJ.
J.\0011 BA!''l'OW, COIIllll!aololler-
EXTRACT FRO\t THE PROCEEDINGS OF TflE GENERAL GRAND CHAPTER.
[The annexed extract from the proceeding• of the General Orand Cbr.pler of &be Uaited
Blnll!l,lll their trlenn~•l me<ting, held In the city of New York, In September 1829, embra·
c:e• &be tribute of reo1>tet paid to the memory of De WIll Clintob by that body, 10ferrf>d to
at U1e clooe of the letiA!r of Col. Knapp, page 316. Itwu wriuen lJy Col. Knapp, and 1o u
feeiiD&allCI beautiful,u II is eloquent and just.)
Sep!<111b.. 11, 1829,
AFTI.Rl'fOOX U:JIIOl't.
Moe& Excellfont Cnmpanlon Knapp, from tbe rommllll!e appeinted on the oubjeet of the
dealltof Mo« Excellent De Win Cltnlon,tiwde the follow ins rrpnrl, to wit:
Tbe committ<•f! lltat had undrr consideration Ill~' oubject of a proper notire of our bereav·
-tIn thedcr~th of De Witt Clintnn, U1a fi1111 ufticer of !hill maaonic body, ull. leave to
report-
'l'hat, aa mote than nineteen monlba hnve elapaed ainc6 thia mournful neat, In tbeir
oplalon, the tllOWmllly funeral ru.,. ao ronwnn rrt to Ute huvin- of tec.·nt grief, and eo
proper In tbelr oeaaon, •bould be d"l'""""d with at tlus at..,linl; 01 obroudm~ our councll
duunber in black, or wet<rlnlft bedce of mouminJ for Utlny dayo, would add nothln« to
&be deep eeme we foel a• our loa, or lh roH!e lndel•bly In <.nr mind•, the recalleclloM ofbil
oerviceo ; but u no accld•nt nor iengtb of lime, ean ever rflbc:e1 or blot out bla name from
Ole pace• or bio country's hiOlory, or "'-n the wei~ht of bU. cnaraeter, we deem It mol!l
-and Jli'Oper, while tn ...km for the firot time afll!r hil denth,to leave on our recordo
a brief memorial of ao grrat and «ood a man na our lull! Hlgh Prieol. and alllo to tell the
world how t~lncerely we loved bim,aud to give our 1ucceasors, or UJoae who may 8flai'Cb
OQI ardliveo, berealler, 1<> understand whnt manner urmon toe tboo&JII blm; 10e •·bo llwd
tD bloday, and we10 rulded hy hi• counaelo.
S'or tn hhn were united, fii.Rlted ~eniufl, prufC'Iund af"ffuirements, a hnrpy tact iu bullnft~,
with lf88l p•li~nce, nnd unwearied ludullt<y. In tbe rnurnlng orure be 10011 up the noble
determinalk)O tn be ,:ren.t. nnd .to make u.scfu.lllUI tJ1c bi_lsi~ or tbnt gre:atn-.
He cnme to the dutie11ofa freemo.u when our ltepobhc, t-xhnu~tet.f with the &trugc\es (('lr
ludependence, waaa1temptin~ tC'I fh our in:Jtltutlon-t uprmlhe rights o( mnn, and the prtnci-
pltol ofeternal Ju•tice. hut there wao often ocen ollmid hanrl nnd vacillnlllll policy. In the
eonfllct of bonmopiuiun• he bohlly trok hi• part, and If his 7.eal at llmeo excited the f<'~
fll bil follow,.., billllltriollam won the heat!l of ltio oppon•nlll.
Tbe pootalo ~r knowledJe were tlt•n jn•t opening nnew, In thi1 eount>y, with the bolghl·
M promi-, and be wao dtnrruerl with all her path•. With tbe I""'P or pmlu• be held
Cite lomp of llclenc" lltrOit ~ h the wnnderingtr of lit~mlur~. nnd tM mna of polities: ond
moral, poUtlta.J and lite:nry lwnjrutiotl!'l rcceiv~ at!\•ilnt:tll;t'l!l from his lntel ~ ectnaJ tight: nor
1P88 he eontrnt to ren here~ (ur he tra\V ot B ~Innw thnt OmniJI!l'lenee when M llflllmpPd 100
.,_lures and marked tb& J
)hys:toc;non•y of the earth, (UI\'e intinmt10nsto m11n tbat br mt,ht
chan1eand lllljli'Ove theoa fealu,..,. for hie heneftl. II lo mind no ..,.,,.... conceh·ed than hla
~ Wlll'llrf'd whb u., J•rojt•ct, wbicl> Ire urrled into efii>ct; It was oo narrow plan, oo
Digitized by Goo le
~-~--
· ...1
.,_PPENDIX. 7
pitIIIII uporlment,ltwemf'd ~)' vlllllle ..,,_,.,or dt.trld pallttca; U. deei«<l- -byor
a muter mind, and !be extcutioo or an herculean arm: the - DC tbe Wilder- were
11nlt.od Wilblbe Atlanlle Oceaa. Ue oaw the labor tlallbed, a,.. beud the wiuoftl• ,...
7l1 ,-unwco it IO 6o IH~. In tbe mldoot of lheoe ard110ua laboN he did no& fOfiOt bow
much hwnan bappl- cte,endo upon well reaU~Jted alfeetlona, aad pennaDelll cbarllieo
and he ente:"ed tho pale of our order, nn• aiadlned lbe dllliel DC IIW8ler1 •lmo-, ,.;;d
prielt ; to teach obe 11norant and to elleck the wan.s.tn1 ; to feed tbe ltUt'f')'1clolM lbe
aaked, and to Implore bte.lnp upon all IMIJtiDd.
He wao mO<llllft.. welllllphyak:ally, brav._...d In tbepnetaalty of blo natuN, pllle4
tb ot mloerable floe11, wbo in tbe mild and .-1'111 day1tarniMI llteir pltl·.,..to the •an b
brilliant reftectiOILI to nllneol notice aad 1ai1J admlrat- from tbe wGIId ; but wlto were
not to be foomd when the ele-n18 were IIOIIbled. He polled It'- ......-wlqjD lite wlllrl-
wtn•, and ~Y br-.1 lite pelllnc• or the lliOfiD.
Hlo eneml&o rnlewln1 h'- life, are lillat wbea tilly eut up tbe IIDOIIIIl of IIIIo Ylrt-,
..,. blo frlmdo loYe blm !be...,.. when tllley -ntllte pda be"bu done : -lice """'
cbarJled him wltb anrlce, nor did olander ever wblopor tlilllte -.kl be c:orrapled by lOki:
If IOOI<IIIn,.. dlo ppolnted amlilllon In a JIIUD:lfiiD, II& tbe .... of ldt:e, aiJedced llta& lte
wu v•rto;d1 1n e ealmer - " ' ohe wu forceclJn eoor- lbet bill enon (lOr be wulllman
and could lhll be r- from them,) oprun1 fl'fiCD the l.......lat pallll&lon DC too Wat81 a lteart ;
and room '"" cuucb t:ooftd- In ""' pro(-0111 D( udmulated Yirtue I and eren OilY}'.
thai o..t wlllllel, 8nd !ben belle.- alllll,-owno, olnce he ...... tbal tbe only llllr"" be
ever '"thered In w• ~lory ; and ..U mate ackDDWiodp, t1tet the oDiy eolato tb.a he ten Mo
1111 orpblm children, 1o blo ramo.
Nlo uertlonl were no& !molted to tbe temporal wei.,. til hlo fellow - . fbr be llnew
tllllt tbe ezcelleney DC all"-lellp collllolaln divine uatb, and 1te wM ureatllll"' ill blo
eiiUru tod._miaate the 8Krad wrillnl•, bellevlAc tba& In tlteaa are lite or8Cieo til ~ and
the pn>mlaeo or evert•Un111re.
Hlo death bu beea deplored • tb:at ol oae wbo dH.toe early ;-bal It tile l""f'Dl-1
"-do or men.,. •• lll&llf nolle- on lbl journey oC lilo, Ail --ca..-ItaYa ..,_
alpt WbobuMt Up ao -II)'IIIOnUIDI!Dio 81 lte lla""lledonward 10 etemkf l - . aiJ 'WU
ftnlohed befhre ace bad ""!Uinld tbe auatalnlnl ..cr, or lite hllplDI baud.
lluch. Wu8Qr companion and bnotlter, the Jato clllrlolllcer 01 !bill Ge..at Orand Cbllp.
ter. •the prideD( lhooe wbo lived and acted wieb blm, ani an eJ:IIIIIple lOr""- wilD_,
ltPrufter uloe lc>lalte a diltlntpalobell•"t In lbe weir'fa of oar counuy.
1M lamed blocrDplleN Write blf" lire ; let ....ted utLIIIo cbilel bll -~~-~ and
IIIOI!Jd lila bull for •n ad'!'lrlnJ .-oP~e, wblle we wwc content ncaNII•• wltlt a ID~IUN
prollle dfhtm. tracecUn aola_.lbGiDeftt, wbln ltneelln1"' oar allara t b... tltere • -
ooa•Jiatlon Cor aa In ..11111 tbatlblo neteh li made, u ll w.,.., 11pon oar j6welo1 aad II to
bo worn on our b....... a.a emW.U, a fllllt .,.._Ind.,..,or.Jaio ...,.111lbaefo·
&mdll L. Knapp,
J-pb Jt. 8tapleloa,
Jooatbaa Nye, t:..,.;u.,.
Joel Clapp
o.Je1 L. btbbt.., •
Wbicb WM ...S, -pe.ed, and !be Ge-.1 Grand Secrdllt)' dlreaed to pneata cop)'
!llano( to tbe widow ot tbe cleeeMed.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Digitized by Coogle
