{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__anonymous___remarks_on_mr_baxters_narrative_of_facts.pdf","mytitle":"Remarks On Mr Baxters Narrative Of Facts","mylang":"de"}
PUBLIC
UQRAKY
O
F
ViCTQRuj
R E M A R K S
( on ^
MR. BAXTER'S NARRATIVE
O F F A C T S ,
CHARACTEKISING
Cfje Supernatural fHaniff^tationa
IN MEMBERS OF
M R . I R V I N G ’S C O N G R E G A T I O N ,
AND
OTHER INDIVIDUALS IN ENGLAND & SCOTLAND,
And formerly in the Writer himself.
IN A LETTER TO A FRIEND.
WITH AN APPENDIX
CONTAINING EXTRACTS OF LETTERS
FBOX
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE SUBJECTS OF THE MANIFESTATIONS.
Jjtcmrt! 3EBttton.
LONDON:
P U B L IS H E D B Y A . D O U G L A S , P O R T M A N S T R E E T ,
P O U T M A N S Q U A B E ;
J . HATCHAItD AND SON, PICCADILLY; AND
J . DAVENPORT, LIVERPOOL.
1833.
PU
6U
G
L4URARV
O
F
V
JCTORJA
LETTER, $c.
M x d e a r F h ie n d ,
T h e subject of the kind letter which
you have addressed to me is of very solemn import­
ance. One may well tremble at the apprehension
of being left to judge rashly, or to speak unadvisedly,
upon it. Nevertheless we are commanded to “ prove
all t h i n g s a n d we ought not to shrink from this duty
even from a sense of our own insufficiency. We are
not sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of
ourselves. Our sufficiency is to be of God. May
we be willing to be taught of Him; and may He give
us understanding in all things according to his word.
I rejoice and give thanks that the Lord has opened
your eyes, and the eyes of many others in this day,
to see that all his promises are yea and amen in Christ
Jesus. It is a blessed and animating truth that our
Lord has cancelled no part of that Testament in which
he bequeathed all gifts and grace to his church. The
word is not altered that went out of his lips: it
liveth and abideth for ever.
The promise of the baptism of the Holy Ghost,
for the fulfilment of which it was expedient that Jesus
should leave the world, and be exalted to the right
hand of the Majesty on high.—This great promise was
A 2
4
declared by St. Peter, on the day of Pentecost, to
belong to us and to our children, and to all that are
afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And, not to multiply proof on this head, the Lord
himself when in the world spake thus of the Comforter:
“ He will abide with you for ever.” .. Surely, therefore,
we ought still to look for the baptism of the Holy
Ghost; and if there be no change in the promise, we
ought to look for it after the manner in which it was
enjoyed by the Church at the beginning. We ought
not to limit the bountifulness of our God, who is rich
unto all that call upon him. Neither ought we to
neglect or despise spiritual gifts, which are part of the
promise, on the ground that the chief thing we
need is saving grace. The gifts are promised for the
strengthening of the grace*. They were needed in the
primitive church for uniting.the body, and edifying it
in love. The manifestation of. the Spirit was given to
every man to profit withal: and all were exhorted to
desire spiritual gifts, that the‘Church might receive
edifying. And surely we are not in a better state than
they were, that we should stand in no need of the gifts
they possessed. The excellency of man's wisdom is but
a poor substitute for them. Indeed it is no marvel that
there is so little edifying in the Church, seeing that the
manifestations of the Spirit, which .God ordained spe­
cially for this end, have been so entirely disregarded.
Mr. Baxter’s book is an important and extraordinary
production. ■ It is particularly important at the present
period, when the question of the gifts of the Spirit is
* See 1 Cor. xii. xiii. xiv.; Rom. xii.; and Ephes. iv.
5
awakening so much attention, and when the existence
of miraculous power in the Church or in the world is so
generally denied, there being no reason to question Mr.
Baxter’s honesty, his “ Narrative” proves clearly the
supernatural character of the work which he describes.
To have this fact established upon such evidence, may
tend, under God, to destroy the scepticism of many,
and even to counteract the evil which the publication
were otherwise calculated to effect.
Assuming, then, that the work is miraculous, the
great question before us is, whether the manifestations
be from God, or, as Mr. Baxter supposes, from Satan.
In dealing with so solemn and momentous a question,
how precious does the word of God appear! and how
needful to give heed to the Divine declaration: “ to
the law and to the testimony; if they speak not ac­
cording to this word, there is no light in them.”
It is evident from Mr. Baxter’s Narrative, that he
considers himself, and the others in whom the manifes­
tations appear, to be children of God. And there is no
reason why we should doubt this. But in examining
the Scriptures, there seems to be no instance recorded
there of a child of God being possessed by Satan and
used miraculously to do his work. Here then, at the
outset, we have reason to question the judgment he has
formed that the work is of Satan.
Again, Mr. Baxter describes the supernatural power,
when it came upon him, as quenching the temptations
of the world and the flesh—as lifting up his soul into
unwonted nearness to God, and filling him with light,
and love, and joy unspeakable. That any experience,
in itself so desirable, so glorious, could be the work of
a 3
•6
Satan, it is hard indeed to conceive. Mr. Baxter seems
at times to feel this difficulty himself. One passage of
Scripture, however, he has found which, in his view, is
sufficient to remove the difficulty and sustain his opinion.
He says, page 23, “ Looking back upon it now, I can
only say, all this demonstration of truth and holiness
would not have been permitted to deceive us, if we had
not forgotten the text “ as an angel of light.” Now
as so much is founded upon this text, it is of importance
that vve look into it carefully. It is found in 2 Cor. xi.
14. St. Paul is speaking of certain false apostles,
deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the
apostles of Christ.” “ And no marvel,” he adds,' “ for
Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.”
Now 'it is obvious that the meaning of the expression
here, “ an angel of light, ” must have some limits. ; It
cannot be intended to signify that Satan burns with
love as do the seraphim; or, like the angels which
excel in strength, that he does God’s commandments,
hearkening to the voice of his word. We must look to
what is told us of Satan’s work and devices in the word
of God, to know the extent to which the meaning
of the expression may be safely applied. It is both
daring and dangerous to go beyond the Scripture.
We need not hesitate to .say, that Satan appeared
as an angel of light when he beguiled E ve with the
fruit of the tree of knowledge, to distrust the kindness
and forsake the commandment of her God. As an
angel of light also, he appeared before the Lord Jesus,
when he tempted him in the wilderness and in the
the Holy City, by handling the word of God deceit­
fully, and by setting in array before him all the glory
7
of the world. We dare not say that these instances of
satanic subtlety, and no other, were in the mind of the
'Apostle at the time he uttered the words referred to :
but we have no reason to doubt that to such instances
the meaning of the expression and the extent of the
comparison are to be confined. That the temptation
of Eve was in his mind is certain, for he refers to it in
the preceding context. And Mr. Baxter himself speaks
of the temptation of our Lord as “ under the array of
an angel of light.” But be this as it may, where, in all
the Scripture, do we find Satan represented as the
author of experience such as Mr. Baxter describes in
the following passages of his book ?
‘ On one occasion, about a month after I had re-
‘ ceived the power, whilst in my study, endeavouring
‘ to lift up my soul to God in prayer, my mind was so
‘ filled with worldly concerns that my thoughts were
‘ wandering to them continually. Again and again I
‘ began to pray, and before a minute had passed, I found
‘ my thoughts had wandered from my prayer back into
‘ the world. I was much distressed at this temptation,
‘ and sat down, lifting up a short ejaculation to God
‘ for deliverance; when suddenly the power came down
‘ upon me, and I found myself lifted up in soul to God,
‘ my wandering thoughts at’ once rivetted, and calm-
‘ ness of mind given me. By a constraint I cannot
‘ describe,' I was made to speak—at the same time
‘ shrinking from utterance, and yet rejoicing in it. ’
(pageS.)
* After the sacrament had been administered, when
‘ kneeling to return thanks, the power came upon me
‘ largely, though the impulse was not to utterance—
8
‘ my tongue was rivetted as I was repeating the re-
*sponse, and my soul filled with joy and thanksgiving,
*and such a presence of God, as it seemed to me, as
*exceeded any peace and joy I had ever before tasted
‘ at that holy sacrament. When reporting to friends
*the proofs of the power being of God, this has always
‘ occurred to me, and has generally been felt by them
‘ as confirming the work; since, as we argued, none but
‘ the Spirit of God would, at such a season, be permitted
to enter in, and none but the Spirit of God could
‘ produce such fruits in the mind.’ (p. 10.)
‘ Whilst sitting with Mr. Irving and one or two
‘ other friends, the power was so abundant upon me,
‘ that almost every question which was asked, was
‘ answered in the power, and the wisdom and instruction
‘ which was given forth from my lips, was as astonishing
‘ to Mr. Irving as to myself.’ (p. 23.)
‘ After a declaration that the Lord would sustain
‘ me, there was added, “ By myself have I sworn, saith
‘ the Lord; by myself have I sworn, by myself have I
*sworn, that I will not fail thee; I will never leave
‘ thee nor forsake thee.” To none but those who have
‘ been spiritually fainting and ready to fall under a
‘ burden of weakness and temptation, and who have
‘ tasted the sudden refreshing of the Lord in the soul,
‘ filling them with holy joy and gladness, can I convey
‘ the idea of the refreshing strength which was imparted
‘ to me from this utterance; I was, as it were, girded
‘ with strength, and went on my way rejoicing.’
(P- 42.)
‘ After some further opening, the people were called
‘ to pray, and kneeling down, the power of utterance
9
‘ continued with me for about an hour, in prayer and
‘ intercession for the church and nation, king, ministers,
*and people ; for the outpouring ofthe spirit, the change '
*of heart and life, and the exhaltation of God in the
‘ earth.’ (p. 43.)
‘Much as was the false prophecy which was mixed
‘ up with these testimonies, and fearful as was the
‘ assumption of speaking by the utterance of the Spirit,
‘ I have been much confounded by the fact, occurring
‘ in this instance, as also in most others of the public
*testimonies in preaching; that Christ was preached in
‘ such power, and with such clearness, and the exhorta-
‘ tions.to repentance so energetic and arousing, that it
is hard to believe the person delivering it could be
‘ under the delusion of Satan. Yet so it was, and the
‘ fact stands before us, as a proof the most fearful errors
‘ may be propounded under the guise of greater light
‘ and zeal for-God’s truth.’ (p. -M.) -
‘ It is yet more mysterious, and yet not less true,
‘ that the truth so spoken was carried to the hearts of
‘ several who, on this day heard it, and these services
‘ were made the means of awakening them, so far as
‘ the change of conduct, and earnest longing after
*Christ, from that day forward, can be deemed ah
*evidence of it.’ (p. 45.) . .
* ‘ There has been, in all this, such a gracious open-
‘ ing to me of the realities of God’s love to us, and our
‘ union with Christ by the Spirit, that, though the
*Lord should not think me worthy of further humbling,
‘ yet shall I have reason to bless God for opening my
*eyes to the difference of knowing the truth in word,
‘and knowing the truth in power. Oh! that we were
10
‘ filled with the Holy Ghost, enabled to enter into
‘ fellowship with the mind of Christ concerning sin—
‘ how should we abhor sin; and concerning the love of
‘ God in Christ—how should we pray in faith to
‘ G od; and concerning the sanctification of the Spirit
‘ —how should we press on in the desire that
*every thought might be brought into the obedience
‘ of God. May the Lord strengthen us all to submit
1ourselves to his blessed will, and to lie in thankfulness
*under the power of his work.’ (Letter, p. 150.)
* From the time the power of the Spirit came upon
4me in London, I have daily, at intervals, sometimes
‘ more frequent, sometimes less, been conscious of a
‘ powerful inworking of the Spirit; leading me up into
‘ communion in Christ, and giving me a fellowship with
*the mind of Christ, and at times leading me, by pre-
‘ senting portions of Scripture, into an apprehension of
‘ the purpose of God in Christ, which I never before
‘ knew; and there has been added to this, such a con-
4straining towards utterance, to declare what the Lord
‘ has shewn to me, and yet such an utter incapacity to
‘ utter any thing of it, in the same power in which it has
‘ been presented to me, that I have seemed to myself
‘ shut up in prison, with an unspeakable enjoyment of
‘ liberty. Faith has always given me the explanation
‘ of it, and enabled me to be composed under it; and
<even in those times, when there has been no conscious
* presence of the Spirit, and Satan has been permitted
‘ to buffet me, the Lord has always sustained me in the
‘ faith.’ (Letter, p. 151.)
‘ The Lord has not opened my mouth before any,
‘ but thanks be to him, the power of his presence is
11
*with me in private; making me to wrestle in prayer,
‘ and to be carried onward towards the manifestation
‘ of his own indwelling power in Jesus by the Spirit.’
(Letter, p. 155.)
‘I musttestify, that,looking back upon all that ispast,
‘ whenever the potuer rested upon me, leading me up to
‘prayer, or praise, or testimony, or thanksgiving, I
‘ seemed to havejoy andpeace in the Holy Ghost, and
‘ I cannot even now, byfeeling alone, discern that it was
*not truly such.' (Narrative, p. 11.)
Because St. Paul has said, when speaking of false
apostles, deceitful workers, that even Satan is trans­
formed into an angel of light, is any one warranted
to add to the Scripture, and to say, that Satan is trans­
formed into an angel of holiness and love? “ An
angel of light,” Mr. Baxter says, “ is an array of truth
as well as holiness and love, which Satan is permitted
to put on to accomplish and sustain his delusions.”
This is a fearful statement; but we may rejoice, dear
brother, and I pray God that Mr. Baxter himself may
yet rejoice and give thanks with us, that no such state­
ment is contained or countenanced in the Scnpturesc
When an evil spirit came upon Saul, were the restless­
ness, and fear, and cruel envy which raged in his heart,
any proof that the Devil appears as angel of holiness
and love ? Had the temptation in the Garden
of Eden, or in the wilderness of Judea, even the
semblance of holiness ? Or do the sore pains of Job,
or the grievous state of those of whom it is said that
Jesus went about “ healing all that were oppressed of
the Devil”—or the cruel treacheryof Judas when Satan
entered into him—or the deliberate and sustained false­
12
hood of Ananias and Sapphira, when Satan filled their
heart to lie unto the Holy Ghost—do these things, or
any other manifestation of the power of Satan
recorded in the Bible, afford us any warrant to
assert, that Satan puts on, or can put on, the appearance
of an angel of holiness and love ?
It is of importance to remark, that in the history of
Mr. Baxter’s experience under the supernatural power,
it was no object of earthly ambition—no worldly glory
that was set before him, such as was presented by. the
arch deceiver to Jesus. What he experienced while
under the power had no tendency to draw his heart
from God, which is the nature and character of all
temptation. On the contrary, it set the heart free at
once from all the bonds and the ambitions of the
world, and raised it, and caused it to rest on the very
bosom of its God. Neither was it a mere array of
holiness and love without the man, which he might look
at and by which he might be dazzled •and deceived;
but it was the inward experience— the felt—the soul-
witnessed enjoyment of these precious graces. Mr.
Baxter therefore supposes, not only that Satan puts on
the appearance of love and holiness himself, but that
he also gives the experience of love and holiness to men,
in order to deceive and destroy them. Then surely
Satan may cast;out Satan in.order -to deceive. But
o u r Lord says he cannot, and him we will believe,
and in his words w e.will rejoice; and this joy no
man shall take from us. Blessed be God, there
is some distinction between light and darkness;
there is some definite meaning in the words “ by their
fruits ye shall know them.” There is no love, there.
13
can be none, in Satan’s heart; and he cannot impart
to others that which he has not himself. He has
knowledge, he has light. But love is of God alone.
And he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, for God
is love. It subverts the foundations.—it removes the
landmarks of all truth, to teach otherwise; it makes the
fruits of the Spirit to be no proof of union with Jesus.
Satan has light, but it is light which the Scriptures
elsewhere call darkness. The light which led our first
parents away from God is his; and the light which
keeps their children away from God is his; such as the
glory of the world, and vain philosophy, and the pride
of human learning, and science falsely so called. These
he has set up as the light of the world, and men, alas!
have bowed down and worshipped them from genera­
tion to generation. But Mr. Baxter no where de­
scribes the spirit that possessed him as clothed in light
like this. He could not call that spirit the spirit of the
Devil, till he had first called the Devil “ an array of
holiness and love.”
As to the spirit which has appeared in others, I
have already given my testimony*, so far as I am
capable ofjudging, that it is indeed the Spirit of holi­
ness. When the power first came upon my friends in
the west of Scotland, they were like men that
dreamed. They felt that the Lord had indeed heard
their cry, and turned their captivity. Then was their
mouth filled with laughter, and their tongue with
singing. I know that they were a simple and holy
people then; and they are a simple and holy people
, * See L etter to the R ev. H ugh M 'N eile, A .M . on the pre­
sen t M iraculous M anifestations in the Church.
B
14
still, their enemies themselves being judges. They are
not the false apostles, the deceitful workers, of whom
St, Paul speaks: nor are they the false teachers, against
whom St. Peter warns us, who through covetousness
shall with feigned words make merchandise of tbe peo­
ple. 'N or are they the false Christs which shall show
great signs and wonders, and deceive many, and if it
were possible even the very elect; for they are not
deceiving many, few being willing to admit that any
signs or wonders are done by them. Nor are they the
false prophets of whom St. John speaks—for they are
not “ deceivers ” as he names them: and it is not true
of them that, “ they are of the world, therefore speak
they of the world, and the world heareth them." See
the whole passage, on^the trying of spirits, 1 John v.
1—6, also 2 John 7.
As I have already said, .when the power came upon
them at the first they were like men that dream. The
manifestation of the spirit filled them with astonish­
ment as well as with joy. Since that period, for the
space of three years, they have not ceased to wait upon
God, searching his word with all prayer and supplica­
tion in the spirit; and they have a clear consciousncss
that their experience has not only accorded with the
word, but has been a living demonstration of its truth
and its power. Since that period also they have
walked in blamelessness before men ; and they have
sought, with all humility and many tears, wherever a
door has been opened to them—even within the breath
of the noisome and deadly pestilence—to bring souls to
Jesus, plucking them out of the fire. I speak thus of
| those I know intimately—and whom I have known
|
long. I give once more some extracts from their
letters'*—letters not intended for publication, but,
therefore, showing all the better the manner of spirit
they are of. In referring to such letters, I feel that-1
can say with confidence, “ these are not the words of
them that have a Devil.” And in speaking thus I do
not give the glory to them;—by the grace of God they
are what they are. O God, keep the feet of thy saints
evermore! And forasmuch as these are a bye-word
and a reproach in their generation, be thou their hiding-
place, and their exceeding joy.
, Considering the ignorance which has existed, and still
exists, concerning the doctrine of the gifts of the Spirit,
it is not a thing to be wondered at, should mistakes, and
irregularities, and occasions of stumbling arise. It is
obvious from the Scripture, that no gift—no manifesta­
tion—no in-dwelling of the Spirit, is so bestowed as to
destroy in any degree the responsibility of man. Man
is a moral agent, not a machine, and so God holds
every one accountable for the use of the gifts he
bestows. It is very important to bear this in mind ;
for it explains how an individual, or a church, may be
enriched with all utterance, and come behind in no
gift, like the Corinthians, and nevertheless, as among
them, that there may be irregularities and abuses most
displeasing to the Lord, yet not proving the work to be
other than Divine. It shows also that we have nd war­
rant to look for infallibility of judgment or of character
in persons who are gifted—that they are not to be our
light—that we are to go and buy the oil for ourselves:
and it teaches us, finally, thatourstanding as Christians is
15
♦ S ee A ppendix.
B 2
16
not to be in the manifestations of the Spirit, how edifying
soever these may be, but in the faith and the life ofJesus.
Two things appear to have contributed to overthrow
Mr. Baxter’s confidence in the present manifestations
as from God: namely, the failure, as he believed, of
certain prophecies which the spirit in him had uttered;
and the error in doctrine which he conceived was
entertained by individuals connected with the work.
With regard to the prophecies—if it be assumed that
all prophetical utterances are to be understood as
soon as delivered, and by every ear that hears them,
I cannot deny that difficulty, and failure, and falsehood,
are manifest in some things described In the “ Narra- •
tive ” as spoken by the Spirit. But there is no ground
in Scripture to make any such assumption, but rather
the contrary. The holy men of old who were moved by
the Holy Ghost did not always understand what they
themselves uttered. “ They searched what, and what
manner of time, the Spirit which was in them did sig­
nify,when it testified beforehand the sufferings ofChrist,
and the glory that should follow.” (I Peter i. 11.)
Daniel says “ and I heard, but I understood not.’’ He
did not bring the revelations which were made to him
to the bar of his own judgment, as things which he
would do well to disbelieve and discard, if their ap*
parent' meaning were not accomplished within the
apparent times that were named. Doubtless the
Spirit witnessed with his spirit; and he could trust God
to fulfil his own word, in his own time, and in his own
way. Here is the patience of the saints: here are
they that keep the commandments of God, and the
faith of Jesus.—I do not mean to say that the witness
17
of the Spirit is the only thing by which God gives tes­
timony to his word. But I do mean to say, that with
a pure conscience and faith unfeigned, that witness of
itself is sufficient.
The words which our blessed Lord spake while on
earth were ever the words of truth. -Yet were they
continually being'misunderstood and misapplied. When
he spoke of his flesh as meat indeed, and his blood
as drink indeed, many of his disciples, judging of the
word according to their own understanding, stumbled,
Siand went back, and walked no more with him. His
Swords were fearfully mistaken when he said “ Destroy
grthis temple, and in three days I will raise it up again.”
->The prophecy of his coming in the days of vengeance
-^when Jerusalem would be compassed about with armies,
j)vas very liable to misinterpretation; and to any who
'were looking for its fulfilment then, according to their
.jown understanding of it, apparent failure of the pro­
p h e c y , and perplexity of mind, might most naturally
have ensued. God promised to Abraham to give to
him, sadi his seed, the land in which he was then a
stranger; but Abraham possessed it not himself—no
not so much as a foot of it, save only a place for his
burial. Had he judged of God’s word after the flesh,
how often might he have stumbled ! But he could trust
God. He staggered not at the. promise through un­
belief; but- was-strong in- faith, giving glory to God.
In judging of prophetic utterances it must be re­
membered, as already hinted, that the responsibility of
him who prophesies, and of him to whom the word is
addressed, enters essentially into the question, and is
carefully to be kept in view. Prophecy is not syno-
E 3
1 8
nimous with prediction.' It is oftentimes delivered after
the manner, or rather after the nature, of a promise. If,
for example, it be an utterance containing good, the
word spoken may fail because of the want of faith ou
obedience in those to whom it was spoken. O f this
we have many examples in Scripture. The Lord
promised to bring the Israelites, whom he had delivered
out of Egypt, into the land of Canaan, yet they entered
not in because of .unbelief. An angel said to Paul
*' L o ! God hath given thee all them that sail with
thee;” and yet Paul said afterw ards,except these
abide in the ship ye cannot be saved.” In like manner,
if the word of prophecy bear a threatening of evil—
a burden of woe— it may be set aside—for the Lord is
very pitiful and of tender mercy—if the people against
whom the word goes forth confess their sin, and repent.
The Lord commanded Jonah to cry to the men of
Nineveh, “ Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be over­
thrown.” Yet in forty days it was not overthrown,
because the people humbled themselves before the
Lord, ‘and besought and obtained his forgiveness.
Jeremiah declared, by the word of prophecy, that
Jerusalem would be burnt with fire; and yet he after­
wards told King Zedekiah, that if he would go forth to
the King of Babylon’s princes, the city should not be
destroyed. (Jer. xxi. & xxviii.) .
It is not a new thing for a prophet to be tried by the
word which he is commissioned to deliver; nor is
it a new thing for a prophet lo stumble and fall under
such-trial. Jeremiah was tempted sore when the peo­
ple taunted him, saying, “ where is the word of the
Lord ? let it come now ” when the word of the Lord
19
was made a reproach and a derision to him daily.
H e said at one time, “ O Lord, thou hast deceived
me, and I was deceived.” At another time he said, “ I
will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in
his name.” But he adds, “ his word was in my heart
as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary
with withholding and I could not stay.” In like manner,
Jonah at the first refused to declare the word of the
L ord; and afterwards he was angry because the word
which he was charged to declare was not fulfilled.
“ And Moses returned unto the Lord and said, Lord,
wherefore hast thou so evil entreated this people ? why
is.it that thou hast sent me? For since I came to
Pharaoh he hath done evil to this people; neither hast
thou delivered thy people at all.” (Exod. v. 22, 23.)
It is proper to bear in mind that the prophecies
mentioned in the “ Narrative,” as having failed, must
be described there, at the best, only as Mr. Baxter
understood them. ' The utterances themselves are not
given us, and many things stated as prophecies may
have been only “ gathered ” from what was spoken.
That he was mistaken, and grossly" mistaken, as to
the meaning of some of the utterances, his own state­
ment proves. The others, which appear to him to have
failed, may have been more indistinct in themselves, or
more liable to misinterpretation. Witness the transac­
tion which occurred respecting the baptism of his
child, and the reception of the message sent by his
brother to his friends, as related in pp. 52, 53. They
expected the babe to speak immediately on being.bap-
iised, and they had “ gathered” from the utterances
that their friends would receive the message sent to
20
them, and conform to i t !immediately. :Mr. Baxter,
with great simplicity, adds, “ it is a remarkable fact,
that upon these two points, of the child’s immediately-
speaking, and the relatives immediately believing, on
conferring with those "who were with us when the
utterances were given, we were all of one mind, that
there was no authority for this expectation'from’the
words spoken/’ Is it not therefore very conceivable,
that when mistakes so palpable were made as to the
meaning of the utterances in these cases, mistakes as
great may have been made in other utterances,- but
respecting which no;means are afforded us of judging,
for the utterances themselves are not'given? After
relating the above circumstance about the child aiid
the-relatives, and acknowledging the mistake' he had
fallen into; and after stating moreover that “ a more
careful consideration of the utterances brought my
brother to see he had been in error upon the points
creating his doubt and unbelief,” it is not a little
surprising that Mr. Baxter proceeds in these words,
“ in the midst of such unexampled confusion7 I
scarcely knew hoif to' shape my movements.” Where
lVas the unexampled confusion then ? In his own mind
only; and yet he speaks and reasons'still as if it had
been altogether in the utterances.
Since writing the above I have seen a pamphlet
entitled “ The Spirit in Mr. Baxter tried by
Scripture," which contains, among other things, the
following remarkable statements, tending to confirm
and strengthen, in no small degree, the position
which I' have been led to take, relative to the pro­
phetic utterances.
21
• In all the reports of what the Spirit said, Mr. Bax­
ter has given his own interpretations of the utterances,
so that it is impossible to distinguish the one from
the other. A s; an example of this the following
instance is given, because it is quoted in a printed
letter as a false prediction. The passage in the letter
is as follows: ; In recording a prophecy which he
delivered concerning the rising of a personal Anti­
christ, he says “ the person who should be so energized
of Satan, and be set up as his Christ, was at a sub­
sequent period declared to be young Napoleon.” Now
we have before us the letter which Mr. Baxter wrote
at the time, giving a report of the very words in which
the utterance was delivered ; and therefore we have
an example of his capacity to understand what is
spoken. The words are as follows: “ The Lord
hath declared the man of sin is Napoleon the Second :
the sixth head was in the time of John; the seventh
is the divided empire headed up in Napoleon, who
seemed to stand out from it, and overthrow it, yet
joined himself in with it, and headed it. The eighth
head is the man of sin, whose power is now breaking
and bursting the Protestant forms ofreligion and state,
because they stood in the way of his manifestation,’*
&c. It is infatuation scarcely credible, that any one
should not perceive that young Napoleon was not
breaking and bursting the Protestant forms ofreligion ;
and that, therefore, Napoleon the Second must mean
another person, who shall be produced out of a confu­
sion and breaking up of all things, as Napoleon the
First was produced.
‘ He was made, one morning, in overwhelming power
22
‘ of the Spirit, to declare that he was to go to the Court
‘ of Chancery, to bear testimony to the conscience-
*keeper of the King, and then to a prison-house. He
‘ then went to the Court of Chancery: ;rio power of the
' spirit came upon him, and he was not cast into prison.
t * * # Mr. Perceval was present when Mr. Baxter
*so spake, and on his return home mentioned what
1had passed: a gentleman having been invited to meet
‘ Mr. Baxter, it was proposed to Mr. Perceval that he
‘ should be informed that his coming for that object
‘ would be useless, as Mr. Baxter would be in prison ;
*but Mr. Perceval said that he did not by any means
f conclude that such was necessarily the mind of the
‘ Lord in consequence of what had been spoken, and
*therefore would not have the gentleman put off. This
‘ circumstance shews that the word spoken, was by no
‘ means so unequivocal to others as Mr. Baxter rashly
*concluded it to be.’
In the account given above of the utterance respect­
ing the eighth and last headship of the Roman power, I
think I see the niost solemn and awakening instruction,
comparing it with what is written in the xviith chapter
of Revelations. In the account given by Mr. Baxter in
his “ Narrative,” this utterance stands out as a direct
and palpable falsehood. It is not to:be expected, there­
fore, that we should place implicit confidence in the
account that is given us of other prophecies that appear
to have failed. I will not charge Mr. Baxter with want
of candour, with which he too freely charges others;
but Surely his memory is very treacherous*.
» “ One of theinstances of failure adduced by Mr. Baxter, is
that ofa man tinder the power of Satan remaining undelivered,
23
It is written, “ he that believeth shall not make
haste. ” God will have the confidence of his people,
even in the darkest and most trying hour. His chosen
servants, more especially, he proves and purifies, that
they may be vessels unto honour, fitted for the Master’s
use. 'Nevertheless, in this process, vessels may be
marred on the wheel of the potter. The Scriptures
teach us this, and the Spirit in Mr. Baxter warned him
of it again and again. When laid in darkness, in the
deeps, the-soul may lose its staid and stedfast trust
in God, and then the enemy obtains advantage, and
confusion and perplexity cannot fail to arise. At such
a time, to have the power of Satan magnified in our
view, as if he were more of might than God, must be
indeed a fierce and fiery trial. But let us rejoice that
Satan is not omnipotent. Against all his malice,
against all his might, God is a refuge for us. The
essence of all scriptural truth, the very foundation of
all Scripture confidence, is, that they who trust in the
Lord shall never be confounded. Subvert this truth
and all is lost. But though heaven and earth shall pass
away, God’s word shall never pass away. If we ask
bread, he will not give us a stone. If we ask a fish, he
afterthe scriptural means had been employed. This is a mis­
take: on a Saturday Mr. Baxter rebuked the evil spirit, and
the man was delivered. He staid t
ill the rest were gone, and
then came in saying he was quite free; this was about ten
minutes after the company had separated. On the following
night he came to Mr. and Mrs. Caird, and told them he was
quite delivered; and on the Thursday following he returned
thanks in thepubliccongregation, forhavingbeen delivered from
an evilspirit. This Mr. Perceval told to Mr. Baxter, and itis
withheld.”— The Spirit in M r. Baxter tried by Scripture, p. 27.
24
will not give us a serpent. If we are tempted by
worldly thoughts, as Mr. Baxter was, and lift up our
soul to Him for deliverance, he will not moclt our
distress, and send us a devil. O no, I dare not think
thus of the God of faithfulness and love.
Of the advantage which Satan may have obtained
over Mr. Baxter through the flesh, while the power was
upon him, I will say nothing. I do not feel competent
to judge of this. It is written in Jer. xxiii. “ The
prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream, and
he that hath my word, let him speak my word f a i t h ­
f u l l y . What is the chaff to the wheat? saith the
Lord. ” W hich shows to us the responsibility of the
prophet, and the possibility of mixture in the utterance.
And seeing that the power comes upon a man at times
when no utterance is given with it, I can conceive that
a temptation may arise then to speak in the flesh, and
even to mistake it for the voice of the Spirit, because of
the presence of the power. But be that as it may, it
is much more easy, and much more scriptural, to believe
that a prophet may stumble and fall—that he may
be distrustful, or impatient—or presumptuous—or un­
willing to forsake all for Christ, than it is to believe that
Satan imparts love and joy to the soul, and converts
sinners to God, “ as far as conversion may be judged
of by a change of conduct and earnest longing after
Christ.” Mr. Baxter has been called to sore trial,
and we must not bring against him an unkind or
railing accusation. Yet we are bound to say that it
is a painful and fearful thing to see him display such
refined ingenuity and fixed determination, to make out
every appearance however fair, and every feeling how­
25
ever holy, to be the work of the father of lies. This
is, unwittingly, disseminating heresy of the most per­
nicious and destructive character. I have met with
more than one individual who are now afraid to' pray
for the Spirit of God, lest a power come upon them
like that which possessed Mr. Baxter, believing .‘that
power to have been from the Devil. This is, indeed,
making bitter the waters of the Spirit—it is poisoning-
the springs of life. 7
With regard to the doctrines to which Mr. Baxter
refers as heretical, and as proving the whole work to be
of Satan, I would remark in the first place, that it
seems rather strange he should have associated with
the people so long, without having heard any objec­
tionable doctrine brought forward, either in preaching
or in prophecy. It was while lie was absent from the
people that the suspicion of heresy respecting the
human nature of our blessed Lord first entered his
mind. It was brought before him by those who were
opposed to the work, and at a time when he was in
great darkness and perplexity. The spirit had never,
either in himself or in others, uttered any thing on this
subject to startle or distress liim. On the contrary he
testifies of the utterance again and again that it was
“ a glorious setting forth of Christ.” For my own part
I can truly say that I have never heard such exalted
testimony to the glory of Jehovah Jesus as I have
heard from the mouth of the individuals referred to
when speaking in the power of the spirit.
After Mr. Baxter’s suspicion of heresy was excited,
it appears that it was not till a diligent search had
been made through Mr. Irving’s writings, that any!
c
26
tiling objectionable could be found. At length two
sentences were discovered. They were the first ob­
jectionable words that Mr. Baxter appears to have
ever heard on the subject: and then the Spirit in him
did not confirm these but condemned them. ~It tes­
tified “ He has erred." • Mr. Irving’s mode of writing
on all subjects is peculiarly strong. Some of his ex­
pressions oii the subject of our Lord's human nature
are to me highly objectionable. I write this with pain;
for I esteem Mr. Irving very highly in love for his
works’ sake, and I feel myself, under God, greatly his
debtor. Some of the expressions I refer to, few persons
can understand in the way Mr. Irving himself under­
stands them ; and it is most right to be jealous on a
subject so sacred. And these expressions I believe
have: proved a stumbling-block to many, to prevent
them from inquiring into one of the most fruitful and
blessed doctrines of the Scripture, which Mr. Irving has
been otherwise singularly honoured of God to set forth.
It appears from one of his letters to Mr. Baxter, that
the Spirit by the mouth of a member of his congrega­
tion has testified to himself, that in certain words on
this subject he has erred. Having said thus much, I
am bound at the same time to state, that I think
the use which has been made of the expressions re­
ferred to, has been most uncharitable and unjust. It is
not the will of our God that we should make a man an
offender for a word. We must not take from a few
detached sentences a meaning which his other writings
contradict—a meaning which he himself says he abhors
from his soul. Nothing is more easy than to make
heresy of a man’s words, if inferences which may be
27
drawn from them are to be taken as his undeniable
sentiments. But if the man deny the inference, and
abhor the imputed doctrine, and all his other writings
contradict it, is it fair to charge him with maintaining
it? He may be charged with rashness, or indistinct­
ness, or irreverence of expression; but that is not
heresy. ; Let it also be remembered, that this work of
the Spirit did not commence with Mr. Irvingj nor with
his people. Some of those among whom it did com­
mence, are as entirely unacquainted with Mr. Irving’s
writings, as Mr. Baxter himself appears to have been.
None of them, either in Scotland or in London, have
ever been charged with using the objectionable expres­
sions : on the contrary, those whom I know have been
grieved by them.
It is painful to write, in controversy, on a subject so
holy as the human nature of our glorious Lord. Never­
theless it is needful so to write at the present time.
May the Lord himself preserve us in humble and
devout reverence while we are thus engaged. : ' .
The question at issue between Mr. Irving and his
opponents is not whether Christ’s human nature was
holy. For its spotless—its immaculate holiness, he has
always said he is ready to die. In one of his letters to
Mr. Baxter he says, “ it hath no other properties nor
propensities than those which may be predicated of
God—holy as he—pure as he—yet temptible, mortal,
and corruptible as ours—until the resurrection changed
its form and fashion altogether. ” Mr. Baxter’s sum­
mary of Mr. Irving’s doctrine on this subject is as
follows: (p. I l l ) “ That Christ Jesus, though God as
well as man, yet was a man in all respects such as we
c 2
28
are, and was by the power of the Holy Ghost, from his
generation to his death, upheld' in holiness and perfect
purity.” This is Mr. Baxter’s view of the doctrine he
impugns, apart indeed from the objectionable expres­
sions made.use of, which I am not careful to defend.
Now whether the above be a correct summary of. Mr.
Irving’s doctrine or not, it is at least admitted that he
holds the perfect holiness of Christ’s human nature;
The thought; of any thing sinful in Christ is the essence
of blasphemy.. The question, therefore, as I have said,
is not whether his human nature was holy, but whence
all its holiness was derived. It is not the fact about
which the controversy is, but the manner of the fact:
and this is a question of more importance than may at
first sight appear.
Mr. Baxter objects to the above summary o f doc­
trine, gathered, as he says, from Mr. Irving’s letters to’
himself, and confirmed both by his books and by his
conversations with him. Does Mr. Baxter then main­
tain, that Christ Jesus, though God as well as man,
and. ever most holy, yet was not a man in all respects
such as we are ?: I f he does, he is at issue with the
word of God, which declares that ‘‘it behoved him in
allthings to be made like unto his brethren.” Or does
he. mean to deny the oneness and sameness of Christ’s
human nature with.ours? If he does, the Scriptures
again contradict him, for it is written, “ He that sanc-
tifieth and they who are sanctified are all ofone.” And
"
■forasmuch as the children were partakers of flesh and
blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same. ”
Again, Mr. Baxter objects to the statemebt that the
human nature of Christ was “ from his generation to
29
his death upheld in holiness and perfect purity.” In
objecting to this statement, does Mr. Baxter maintain
that the' human nature which Christ took was not
upheld, or needed not to be upheld ? Is it not written,
‘^Behold my servant whom 1 uphold? " We may
say, with reverence, that his human nature was not
ours, if, of its own energy and power, it could stand
without Divine help, and overcome of itself all the
temptations of earth and of hell. It could not then
have been in all things like unto the brethren’s, and he
could not have needed the help, for which he so affect-
ingly and so unceasingly prayed. But if it were indeed
our nature which he assumed, and if human nature
generated holy, can of itself stand against all tempta­
tion, then might perfectly regenerated human nature
maintain itself in holiness without the abiding in it of
Divine strength, for the nature is one and the same:—
but this were contrary to all revelation.
But some objector may say that Christ Jesus was
God as well as man, and, therefore, that his human
nature, although not different from ours—although
verily that of the seed of Abraham—needed not to be
upheld, for He kept it evermore. Most true, he kept
it evermore, and, therefore, it was evermore upheld;
which is just the doctrine Mr. Baxter appears to deny.
Christ was indeed God as well as man; but it is to be
remembered, that the natures were ever distinct—
two distinct natures and one person for ever.” “ God
of the substance of his Father before all worlds: man
of the substance of his mother bom in the world—of
reasonable soul iand human flesh subsisting.” Mr.
Baxter will not affirm that the two natures were blended
c 3
30
in Christ. This were heresy which has been long con-*
demned by the Church. Will he affirm that either of
the two natures, in Christ was changed?... This also
were heresy, and yet he must maintain that the human
nature was changed, if he maintain that it needed hot
Divine upholding. And this were only in consistent
keeping with the doctrine, that Jesus Christ, although
God, as, well as man, and ever most holy, was yet hot
a man in all respects such as we are. ” ,
• I believe that much of the conscientious feeling
which exists against the doctrine set forth by Mr.
Irving, arises from applying to the person of our blessed
Lord, what he has written exclusively of the human
nature which he assumed, which was our nature and
no other. If I understand his doctrine on this subject,
it is simply this : that the Eternal Son of God, having
of his unspeakable grace consented to become man,
was generated .by the power of the Holy Ghost, free
from all taint of sin, original or actual; and that he
did, during his life here below, abide in perfect holi­
ness and fulfil all righteousness, living always by faith
on his Father, and finishing at length the work given
him to do, as the propitiation for our sins, by offering
himself through the Eternal Spirit without spot unto
God. :
I do not consider the question to be one of mere
.words. It nearly concerns the truth of God, and the
glory of Jesus, and the hope of his people; and there­
fore it is a question about which we do well to be
jealous. Till we apprehend with, some clearness the
doctrine of Christ’s human nature being one with oursr,
yte cannot feel the life which comes forth to us from
31
his experience and his example': nor can we know the
manner of his love in. descending to our low estate r
nor can:we see the advancement and the glory to
which our nature, is destined, and to. which it has by
him been brought. . .. i
The Son of God manifested his Divine excellency,
when he condescended to take upon him our weak and
helpless nature, and therein to do all our work, and
overcome all our enemies. It was his glory,to become
weak—to humble himself, even unto death: wherefore,
God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a
name which is above every,name, . This humiliation in
all its parts was a reality—not a mere name. “ He
emptied himself”—“ he made himself of no reputa­
tion”— “ he became: p o o r .” H e needed help, and
many and sore were the cries he uttered for it. Hejclt
what he said when he used these words, “ Save me, O
God, for the waters are come in unto my soul.” (Psalm
lxix. 1 .) Be hot far from me, for trouble is near.”
“ O my strength, haste thee to help me.’’ >“ My God,
my God, why hast Thou forsaken me. ” (Psalm xxii.)
Who “ in the day of his flesh, when he had offered up
prayers with strong crying and tears, to him that was
able to save him from death, and was heard in that he
feared ; though he were a Son, yet learned heobedicnce
by the things that he suffered.”. (Heb. v. 7.) It robs
Christ of the glory of his humiliation, to maintain that
this was not all a reality. It contradicts the plain words
of Scripture, and it prevents us from reaping tie rich
fruits of the consubstantiality of his nature with ours.
But blessed be God the record cannot be gainsayed;
In all things it behoved him to be made like unto
32
his brethren.” He suffered as we d o : he was tempted
as we are, yet without sin. He lived by faith, as do
his brethren, saying, “ I will put my trust in Him ”
(Heb. ii. 13). And again, “ The Lord God opened
mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned
aWayiback.” “ The Lord God will help me, therefore.
I shall not be confounded” (Isaiah 1. 5, 7). Oh, it
comes near the heart to think of Jesus as so truly our
brother. It seems as if in the weakness to which he
descended, we could enter a little into the mystery of
his love. In his sore sorrow, he said “ I am a worm and
no man ”— “ my strength is dried up like a potsherd,
and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws ” (Psalm xxii. 15).
Paul says “ Though he was crucified in weakness, yet
he liveth by the power of G od: for we also are weak
in (with) him ” (2 Cor. xiii.4). And it was no dis­
honour to stoop so low—it was no disparagement to
become so poor. H e came to do our work—to perform
the part of our nearest and truest kinsman. To visit
us— to be one with us, he came from the excellent
glory. And with all our sympathies, quickened and
refined by love and holiness ineffable, he bore Our
griefs and carried our sorrows * he drank the cup of our
misery; he felt, with sore amazement, the heaviness
of our guilt.' He came under the law of man’s being;
and he loved every man, and tasted death for every
man. He stood in very oneness with our nature, though
it was under the curse. And thus the Divine law, which
by;this nature had been broken, by this nature was
magnified and made honourable. By this nature also
the penalty of disobedience was paid: “ And since by
man came death; by man came also the resurrection
33
from the dead.”. But all this was done not through
the unaided strength of human nature, but through
strength Divine, anointing and upholding it by the Holy
Ghost, in the person of the lowly Jesus, who lived by
faith upon his Father, saying, “ Thou art H e that took
me out of the womb; thou didst make me hope when
I was upon niy mother’s breasts. I was cast upon
thee* from the womb: thou art my God from my
mother s belly (Psalm xxii. 9, 10. See also Luke iv;
1,14; Acts ii. 22).
- Mr. Baxter writes as though our blessed Lord, as
Mediator, had always been endued with the same
measure of. the Spirit, whether when in the flesh or
when in glory: But the Scriptures shew to us that He
received a measure of the Spirit at his baptism such as
He previously had not. He was thenceforth full of the
Holy Ghost to do mighty works which he had not done
before. It is also clear from the Scriptures, that there
was a further—an immeasurable fulness of the Spirit
given to him as the Mediator oh his ascension to glory.
John testified that Jesus was the Baptizer with the
Holy Ghost; nevertheless the Holy Ghost was not given
till;after Jesus was glorified. So John testified the
most glorious truth when he said, " God giveth not the
Spirit by measure unto him.” But this testimony of
John, as Mr. Baxter understands it, would deny that
Jesus received any greater measure of the Spirit after
his ascension -than before; it would teach that there
was no difference in the state of the Man of Sorrows,
who was crucified in weakness, and that of the Lord of
Glory who, after he had led captivity captive, received
gifts for men, ,even for the rebellious, that the Lord
34
God might dwell among them. In obscuring' in any
way the truth of Christ’s humiliation, he is robbed of
his glory, and we of our comfort, encouragement, and
strength.—But do I, while I contend for the real hu­
miliation of Jesus, entertain for one moment the thought
that he was not always very God of very God ? O God
forbid ! Then I should be denying his true humilia­
tion : for it was h is.being very God that made the
depth of his humiliation so overwhelmingly glorious. "
With regard to the second doctrine which Mr. Baxter
objects to, namely, the holiness of believers, I cannot
for a moment doubt that he both misapprehends and
mistates the truth of Scripture on this head. His rea­
soning upon the language of the Epistle to the Romans
is very unsound.—A las! that in this unsoundness he
should be so generally countenanced and supported in
the present day. ; In that Epistle S t.' Paul sets forth
three states of experience:—first, that in which all men,
whether Jews or Gentiles, are found by nature—dead
in trespasses and sins: secondly, that of those who
know the law—to whose conscience the commandment
comes, and who seek, but cannot attain to righteousness,
because they seek it in their own strength, and by their
own works: and thirdly—that of those who do attain
unto righteousness by faith—by union with Jesus as
their living head. (Rom. ix. 30, 32.) The language
which the Apostle uses in speaking of these three
states, each and all of them different in themselves,
Mr. Baxter applies indiscriminately to believers.
For instance, St, Paul says, “ There is none righteous,
no not one,” speaking of the natural state of men. Mr.
Baxter applies this to believers, contrary to the words
35
of St. John, who says, “ Little children, let no man de­
ceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous,
even as he is righteous.” Again, when St. Paul in the
viith chapter, from the 9th verse to the end, describes
the inefficacy of the law to give life and righteousness
to those who know the law and approve of it in their
consciences, Mr. Baxter also applies this description of
experience to believers—although they are declared to
be not under the law, but under grace,—not under an
impotent law, but under all-sufficient grace. It is true
the Apostle speaks in the first person, as if he described
his then present experience, and herein is the only
difficulty in the way of rightly understanding his words.
Nevertheless it is a common form of speech; and St.
Paul, who says elsewhere “ I can do all things through
Christ which strengtheneth me,”— “ we have the mind
ofChrist ”—'‘the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus
hath made me free from the law of sin and death,”—
could as little describe his own experience in these
words, “ la m carnal, sold under sin,” as St. James
could say of himself, when speaking of the tongue,
“ therewith curse we men.” The truth set forth there
seems clearly to be that the law could not deliver man
from bondage. It could do nothing for him but excite
his enmity and condemn his guilt. But was the Apostle
therefore not delivered from the bondage of the flesh
and of sin ? He says he was, and he gives thanks to
God for the deliverance through Jesus Christ his Lord.
“ For what the law could not do, in that it was weak
through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the like­
ness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the
flesh: that the righteousness ofthe law might be fulfilled
36
in us, U'ko tvalknol after the jlesk but after the Spirit.”
In the flesh of Paul, as in that of all men, dwelt no
good thing. In itself it was weak for all goodness!
and a new power, not its own, needed to be brought
in, to work for it deliverance, and to bring it into con­
formity to the will of God. This power is brought into
it through union with Jesus. He took pur flesh, in him
ever most holy, and shewed us, that although flesh be
weak in itself, yet, through the power of the Eternal
Spiritj every member of it may be presented as an
instrument of perfect righteousness unto God.
In looking at the viith chapter to the Romans, from
the 9th verse to the end, there is an apparent discrepancy
between what is said there, and the preceding and
subsequent context, from the commencement of the vitb
to the close of the viiith chapter: carnality and bondage
being the experience set forth in the one class of Scrip­
tures, and deliverance and spirituality being set forth
in the other. The discrepancy, of course, is only appa­
rent—not real. But the two classes of Scriptures must
be reconciled, else we cannot see the true meaning:
and they are entirely reconciled when we keep in view
the leading argument of the Apostle, who is proving,
that the law could do nothing for us in that it was weak
through the flesh, but that the life of Jesus could do
every thing for us, in that it was mighty through the
Spirit. Mr. Baxter makes no account of that class of
Scriptures which sets forth the deliverance. He dwells
upon the other class as descriptive of the state of all
believers, notwithstanding what is said, in the pre­
ceding and subsequent context of “ being made free
from sin”—“ free from the law of sin and death,"
Nay, what is more to be reprehended, he takes one text
which speaks of the deliverance, and uses it to support
the doctrine of perpetual bondage. He writes, page
101, ‘ What says St. Paul of every believer who is
‘ born again of the Spirit of God ? If Christ be in you^
>the body is dead because of sin! Here is no holiness
‘ of flesh, but a plain declaration that even those in
* whom Christ dwells the body is dead because of sin,
‘ and the flesh hath no good thing, but serves the law
‘ of sin.’ Mr. Baxter does not seem to see the dis­
tinction been holiness of flesh, and holiness in flesh.
But this is not the point in hand. It is most evident, as
well from the words of the original, t o fiey ato/ia vtKpov
St afiapnav, as from the immediate context, that the
Apostle does not mean in this passage, as Mr. Baxter
supposes, the body is dead in sin, but that the body is
deadfor sin—for the purpose of sinning—which is pre­
cisely a contrary thing. How else could St. Paul have
said, “ Our old man is crucified with him, that the body
of sin might be destroyeSTthat henceforth we should
not serve sin: for he that is dead is freed from
sin ? ” — “ If the Spirit of him that raised up
Christ from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised up
Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal
bodies by the Spirit that dwelleth in you. Therefore,
brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after
the flesh.” Nay, if, as Mr. Baxter supposes, the body
is to remain dead in sin, how could St. Paul again
beseech us by the mercies of God to present our bodies
a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God ? How
could he have called this our reasonable service ? How
is it also, that the same Apostle calls upon us to glorify
D
37
God in our bodies and spirits which are his ?—to yield
ourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead,
and our members as instruments of righteousness unto
God—to yield our members as instruments:of righte­
ousness unto holiness ?—It is indeed very clear, that to
be freed from sin, and to be sanctified wholly, in body,
soul, and spirit, is the requirement and the privilege
set before us in the Scriptures. For every short-coming
thereof we are guilty; and there is no hope for us when
we sin, but in the blood of sprinkling. Mr. Baxter
himself admits that this is the high requirement of
Scripture; and yet he condemns those who are seeking
to attain a state which God requires. He contends
that it is unattainable here. ' He admits that it is the
will of God we should be wholly transformed by the
renewing of our mind; but he denies that we can ever
“prove what is that good and perfect and acceptable
will of God.” He believes we must continue in sin
while we are in the body. But St. Paul says, “ God
forbid: how shall we that are dead to sin live any
longer therein.” St. John says, “ ye know that he was
manifested to take away our sin, and in him is no sin.”
“ Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not.’' “ We know
that whosoever is born of God sinneth not: but he that
is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked
one toucheth him not.” And St. James, in describing
pure religion and undefiled, says it is “ to keep himself
unspotted from the world.” Mr. Baxter admits that
we are to seek after this state. He believes we are to
seek after a state which he declares to be unattainable.
Then surely we cannot seek after it in faith; and St.
James says of the man-who is asking any thing without
38
39
faith, “ let not that man think he can receive any thing
of the Lord.”
Mr. Baxter, in page 114 of his “ Narrative,” speaks
of the encouragement which we have to be holy; but,
after stating what that encouragement is, he says,
“ that we may not be driven to despair by the view of
this unattainable holiness, &c.” Then in point of fact
the encouragement is not in the thing he first stated,
for that might drive us to despair; but in quite another
thing, namely, that God sees the perfect holiness in
Christ which he desires to see in us. I trust Mr. Bax­
ter does not hold the doctrine which is called imputed
sanctification, which is the very essence of Antinomian-
ism ; and from which may our God deliver the Church
in the present day, for, although not in name, in reality
it fearfully prevails. God looks for sanctification in us
through the life and righteousness of Jesus: and with­
out holiness no man shall see the Lord. Christ is not
the minister of sin. He did not do a work of righteous­
ness in our nature that righteousness might be dispensed
with, but that righteousness might be wrought in his
people, and all the fruits of righteousness produced by
them. He came not to make void the law through
grace, but to establish the law. He came to make his
people holy. He is their pattern.as well as their pro­
pitiation. They are called to fellowship with him: to
overcome as he overcame: to be as he was' in the
world.
It is entire misapprehension to allege, that the
doctrine here stated sets aside the imputed righteous­
ness of Christ. God forbid that it should. That is
the fountain—the living well of all our hope. Christ,
d 2
40
by his obedience unto death, wrought out for us ever­
lasting righteousness, through which alone we are ac.
cepted and justified before God. But I know not a
greater or more fatal delusion than to believe that there
js righteousness in Christ, in which we are clothed and
are safe, without being united to him through his life,
and so made living members of his body, walking not
after the flesh but after the Spirit. They only are
justified who receive the righteousness of Jesus—and
it is a living thing : the justification is unto life. The
saints in glory are perfectly righteous. Their clothing
is of fine linen, clean and white, and it is called the
righteousness of saints. But is it therefore their own?
No, verily. Nevertheless righteousness is a reality
there, not a mere name: and so ought it to be here.
The righteousness which is by faith is the righteousness
of God, and there is no other righteousness : and it is
unto all and upon all them that believe. It shews
itself to be righteousness in us, through his life flowing
into us, even as it was seen to be 'righteousness in him.
It is the same life in the members as in the head, and
it manifests its presence and power in the same righte­
ousness and true holiness. We are created anew in
Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before
ordained that we should walk in them. We are pre­
destinated to be conformed to the image of his Son,
who is the first-born among many brethren. The truth
as in Jesus (a passage I fear much misunderstood) is
not words, however sound: it is truth as manifested
in him ; it is living truth: it is putting off the
old man, and putting on the new man, which, after
God, is created in righteousness and true holiness.
41
(Eph. iv. 21, 24.) God has given to us exceeding great
and precious promises, whereby we are made partakers
of the Divine nature, and escape the corruption that is
in the world through lust. H e has promised to dwell
in us as his'temples, and to walkin us: and therefore he
calls upon us to cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the
flesh and spirit, and to perfect holiness in the fear ofthe
Lord. The Lord’s people are members of Christ’s body.
As his Father sent him into the world, so he sends them,
to be living witnesses, not only by their word, but' by
their walk, of the power and preciousness of his grace;
o ' and he says his Father is glorified as they bear much
£ fruit. God has sent Jesus to bless us by turning every
>. one of us from our iniquities. His name is “ Jesus,”
^ because he saves his people from their sins. And can it
^ therefore be supposed, that the Lord sanctions any such
o doctrine as that his people must sin as long as they are
m in the body—or that he cannot work in them effectually
O
- “ both to will and to do of his good pleasure?’’
Mr. Baxter affirms that Mr. Irving first brings down
Christ to a level with believers, and then exalts be­
lievers to a level with Christ. The Scriptures are good
authority for saying that he was made like unto us, that
we might be made like unto him. But because it is
said that believers are made like Christ, is it meant by
this that believers are Christ’s equals ? God forbid. In
all things he has the pre-eminence. He is their head—
their God—their glory—their all. How fearfully Mr.
Baxter has mistaken these doctrines when he calls
them the mystery of iniquity! Great indeed is the
mystery of godliness, God manifest in the flesh. And
there i3 another mystery nearly connected with this,
d 3
42
even that which has been hid from ages, and which is
now revealed, which is “ Christ in you the hope of
glory." Even now it is Christ’s life in his members—
the Divine nature in God’s children. Even now the
great Advocate prays to his Father, “ that they also
may be one in us, that the world may know that thou
has sent me.” But this two-fold mystery will have its
full revelation in the day of the Lord Jesus, when he
shall appear in glory with his Church, “ which is his
body, the fulness of him that filleth all in all,” ’
; What the full meaning of the baptism of fire may be
I will not presume to say. But I know that such a
baptism is promised by the faithful and true Witness;
and I know not what it will consume but sin, and the
traces and effects of sin. Mr. Baxter calls it the
master-piece of doctrinal delusion, to maintain that the
baptism of fire is for the burning out of all sin in man.
What it is for he does not say. Is it for burning out a
part of sin only ? Is it God’s will that we should be but *
partially holy ? Or has the baptism of fire, which Jesus
has promised to his people, no efficacy to accomplish
the purpose for which it is designed ? God is calling
us to all holiness, because he loves us, and because he
hates sin, and would have it abolished in us altogether.
He says, O that thou hadst hearkened to my com­
mandments ; then had thy peace been as a river, and
thy righteousness as the waves of the sea. But, alas!
man will set up his doctrines and traditions against
God’s plainly revealed will, and assert, notwithstanding
all God’s rich promises—notwithstanding God’s all*
sufficient grace, that we cannot be holy—that it is
pride and presumption to expect to be freed from sin
43
here: nay, that if we were freed from sin we should be
proud—as if sin were the cause and not rather the
hindrance of humility. If a spirit were now to appear,
working miracles and saying, ye cannot be holy while
ye are in the body—ye must remain carnal, sold under
sin—ye cannot perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord
—it is melancholy to think that such statements would
be received by many as the truth of God, although in
express contradiction to his own blessed word.
Do I mean then to maintain that there is such a
deliverance to be expected—such a blessedness to be
enjoyed here below, as will render the body no clog to
the soul, and make it no longer our desire that we
should be clothed upon with our house which is from
heaven 1 Most certainly not. Neither do I advocate
such a state of experience in this life, as that we could
for one moment stand otherwise than by faith in Jesus;
or such a state as is separate from a feeling of utter
worthlessness in ourselves, or separate from a groaning
because of the burden that lies upon the world. On
the contrary, I believe that one great branch of true
holiness here, is entering into the fellowship of Christ’s
sufferings, and bearing upon our hearts, in shame and
sorrow, the guilt and grief of our common nature, and
sighing for the deliverance of the whole creation, which
is in bondage until now.
I know that the doctrine which I have stated here
will not be acceptable to many, but it is not on this
account the less likely to be from God. The truth of
Scripture, as it is generally stated, gives little offence,
which is one reason for fearing that it is not generally
stated as it ought. May the Lord himself shew to his
44
dear people what their calling is—their high and holy
calling—now that the darkness is past and the true
light shineth—now that we are no longer servants, as
in the old dispensation, but sons.
I am not speaking here of what any particular people
are—I am speaking of what all God’s children ought to
be—ofwhat he would have them to be. I am not speak­
ing of the experience of Christians in the present day,
which is lowenough—but of Christian experience, as set
forth in the Scriptures, which is our true standard, and
which is very high. God sets no limits to our holi­
ness, and we have no right to set any. There is a
large blessing promised—even God’s full flood of
righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost:
but there is not room to receive it, our faith is so weak,
and our desire after holiness so low. I am not saying
that they are not Christians who are not in possession
of all the fulness that is promised— I am saying that
the fulness is great, and that all Christians are called
to take of it freely, and to bring forth the fruits of
righteousness continually, which are by Jesus Christ to
the glory and praise of God. Christ our elder Brother,
in the weakness of our nature, in the likeness of
sinful flesh, has overcome all our enemies, and ever­
more presented himself through the Eternal Spirit
without spot unto G od: and now we, the members of
his body, by the power of the same Spirit are called
to overcome the Devil, the world, and the flesh, and to
present ourselves a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable
unto G od; which is our reasonable service. O God,
let it yet be seen that thou canst form a people for
thyself, holy and without blame before thee in love!
45
Besides the more important mistakes already noticed
in Mr. Baxter’s reasoning, I would just glance at the
following:—He believes the gifts of the Spirit are still
the inheritance of the Church, and yet he believes he
was given up to a devil for coveting these gifts—for
obeying a scriptural injunction.—Elsewhere he says
that he received the spirit of Satan because of false
doctrine; and yet he is most careful to shew that he
never entertained the false doctrine—that it was others
who had not received the evil spirit, who were thus
heretical—not he who had received it.—He says that
the spirit in him and others was restrained in the
presence of any child of God who stood opposed to it
in faith; but he admits that the spirit was restrained
in the presence of unbelievers also: thus neutralizing
his argument, and shewing that it was not faith, but
unbelief which restrained the spirit.—He says the Spirit
ever suppressed the exercise of the understanding; and
yet he speaks much of the glorious light which it
brought from the Scripture,—yea, that the Spirit so
opened his understanding to perceive' the subtilties
of Satan, as to contribute mainly to enable him to
detect the true character of the worki—He says the
Spirit in him testified against select meetings; and
when he hears (erroneously, I understand) that select
meetings were resumed, he is grieved, because he thinks
the Spirit will thereby acquire greater advantage.—He
complains that the people will not confer with him j
and yet he told them he could not be present where the
utterance was without rebuking it.—He says that he
believes the tongues are a mere jargon of sounds; and
yet he recognised two languages which he knew, and
46
his wife recognised him speaking two others which she
knew.—He speaks of the manifestations as “ inanity;”
and yet he describes them, for majesty and power, as
“ like lightning rooting itself in the earth.”— He be­
lieves that the people in whom the manifestations appear •
are the children of God, and that therefore they worship
the true God, and his Son Jesus Christ; and yet he
classes them with the followers of Joanna Southcote:
he believes that they are given up lo strong delusion to
believe a lie, because they have pleasure in unrigh­
teousness, and if so, we know that “ they all shall be
damned*;” and he can account for the signs and
wonders among them, only by referring to Deut. xiii. 1,
where false prophets are spoken of, who seek to
seduce the people to worship the idols of the heathens.
I do not speak here of his want of charity towards
those with whom he was wont to take sweet counsel,
and go to,the house of God in company. 1 believe he
thinks he is doing them and doing God a service. I
am speaking only of the inconsistency of his reasoning.
And yet Mr. Baxter seems to think it safer to watch
by the light of his understanding than by simple faith
in God.—How instructive in every event is the word of
the L ord! It is written, “ Byfaith ye stand.” “ But
some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them,
and to purge, and to make them white, even to the
time of end.”
The Spirit which came upon Mr. Baxter was evi­
dently a mighty Spirit. On scriptural authority we
may venture to say, that had it been an evil spirit, the
* 2 Thess. ii. 12.
47
strong man armed, when he had possession, required a
stronger than he to cast him out. And yet this spirit,
as far as appears from the Narrative, was first detected,
and then overcome, by the power of Mr. Baxter’s
understanding.
Although the gifted persons in Scotland do not
agree in some things with Mr. Irving, it is not correct
that they have spoken against him in the Spirit. Neither
is it correct, that they spoke in the Spirit against Mr.
Baxter hunself. I know they have always believed
that he had the Spirit of God j but from what was re­
ported to them of his utterances, they were fearful lest
he might at times have spoken presumptuously. Mr.
Irving has contradicted what Mr. Baxter has stated, on
the authority of another, about his having desired a
prophet to speak more to the purpose. I have had
many proofs that there is a spirit of misrepresentation
abroad, distorting, in some instances unwittingly, every
thing connected with this work.
I have thus endeavoured, as the Lord has enabled me,
to examine some of the leading points in Mr. Baxter’s
publication. I trust that when his statements are
calmly viewed in the light of Scripture, and when people
recover themselves from the effect of the confident tone
in which his book is written, many who have been per­
plexed and ensnared by it may be delivered. I am not
so presumptuous as to imagine that I have given any
thing like a full statement of the important doctrines
treated of above. May the Lord bless any thing of
truth I have written, and pardon any thing there may
be of error. Neither am I so sanguine as to suppose
that I have removed all the difficulties which many see
48
to be connected with the work. I do not wish to speak
beyond my conviction. That there may be mistakes
and unfaithfulness in those who are the subjects of the
work, as well in going before the Lord on the one part,
as in not following him fully on the other, I can easily
conceive. I can believe also that in some who have
the Spirit there may be a mixture of the flesh mani­
fested, such as may, and must, lead to temptation and
a snare. In others there may be much excitement,
and no spirit but their own. We should expect such
things, and we should see in them the need there is of
caution and of discernment. Nevertheless, I am firmly
of opinion that the Spirit of the Lord is manifested
supernaturally in individuals in the present day: and
to this extent my testimony is most decided. That
Satan is also shewing forth his power openly is not to
be doubted. But this is no proof that the Spirit of the
Lord is not manifested, but rather the contrary. The
strong man armed keepeth his goods in peace, till the
Stronger than he begins to put forth his power. We
are commanded to try the spirits; which supposes that
there will be more than one kind—the true as well as
the false—else they need not be tried. Indeed it is as
difficult to get the admission from many that false
spirits possess men supernaturally in .the present day,
as it is to get the admission that the Spirit of God is
supernaturally manifested. In this respect it is an evil
time. When the Son of Man cometh, shall he find
faith in the earth ? Oh how one may sigh for his
coming; when all this strife among brethren shall cease!
when thy prayer shall be answered, O Jesus, and thy
people shall be one in thee!
49
■ We are certainly warranted from Scripture to expect
that when the Lord manifests the fulness of his Spirit,
in gifts and grace, it will be in the form of a church, as
it was in the beginning. But as to the proceedings at
the present period in London, in reference to this most
important point, I feel yet incompetent to judge. May
the Lord give his people grace to be faithful in all
things!
I have reasoned above altogether on the assumption
that the work is supernatural. Mr. Baxter I think
proves this to a demonstration; and I believe it on
evidence quite irrespective of his. I know an individual
who, when in a state of such weakness of body as to
be scarcely able to whisper, spoke in the power of the
spirit, in a full unfaltering voice, for five hours without
intermission, and without nourishment of any kind, save
the joy of the Lord which was given at the time, and
which was truly found to be strength as well as blessed­
ness. I feel very confident that it is not the character
of the work of Satan to bring health to the body, or
blessedness to the soul, or opening up of scriptural
truth, such as have most certainly been connected with
this work from the beginning,
r Dear brother, we live in an eventful time. There
is sifting begun ; and we may well cry “ Who, O
Lord, shall stand?” Blessed for ever be His name
who has said “ I thank thee, O Father, Lord of Hea­
ven and Earth, because thou hast hid these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto
babes.” Strong confidence in God as our Keeper is
now truly needed: yea, and consciences ever sprinkled
with the blood of Jesus, lest we stumble through
E
50
the uncleanness that is in us. God can—God will keep
us, if we commit our way unto him. -In child-like
confidence and submission let us seek his guidance
evermore. Light is sown for the righteous. His
coming is prepared as the morning. His word is a
light to our feet and a lamp to our path. The way
we are called to walk in is a narrow way. If the
eye be single we shall not miss i t : but if the heart
be in the'world we cannot find it. No sign shall be
given us such as the carnal eye will appreciate. It is
written “ cursed is the man that trusteth in man—
he shall not see when good cometh.” O God, deliver
us from the world, and from our own evil hearts of
unbelief, and from all trusting in an arm of flesh.
Shine thou into our hearts, to give us the light of the
knowledge of thy glory in the face of Jesus j and let
us not mistake thy work, or err from thy way.
Liverpool, May 13fft, 1833.
APPENDIX.
T h e following are Extracts of Letters written by
individuals who have received the Spirit in power, and
R eferred to in page 15.
g* 29th March, 1832.
►
j" Oh, we need every thing. God is little known. Little has
5^been received. In the deepest dust let us give all glory,
u.-honour, blessing, and praise, for what has been received. But
P iet the drops just quicken us to cry aloud, and not cease till
rs'tbe Lord fulfil his will, and shower down blessings. Oh, now
g for an entering in to the mind of God. “ The secret of the
03 Lord is with them that fear him.” Oh, let us cry out for i t;
3 for since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor
perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, besides
thee, what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him. Oh,
p let us know that word—
Q
.
“ I wait for God; my soul doth wait;
My hope is in his word:
More than they that for morning watch,
My soul waits for the Lord.”
Oh, there is such trifling. We know not our calling. Let
us pant; let us press forward. Oh, to be to the glory of
Christ; to have Christ magnified in our bodies, whether it be
by life or by death.
1 4 th May, 1832.
I felt some words in Moses’s song very sweet yesterday:
“ The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide
the spoil: my lust shall be satisfied upon them. I will draw
my sword; my hand shall destroy them. Thou didst blow
with thy wind; the sea covered them; they sank as lead in
the mighty waters.” This is just what is needed—the Lord to
arise, and scatter his enemies. The Lord to make bare his
own arm in the sight of the nations. Just when the enemy
thinks he is about to get his will, then the Lord shews strength
with his arm, and scatters the proud in the imagination of their
E 2
52
hearts. Oh, we need to know that the Lord is mightier than
the voice of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea.
He sit on the floods: he sits King, and ever shall. He will
give his people strength, and bless them with peace.
12th August.
“ Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of
the world.” Look not at what you are; look not at what you
have felt; look anew to the cross. See Jesus bearing away
your sins in his own body on the tree. God commendeth his
love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died
for us. See the mighty price at which you were bought, and
feel that you are not your own. Glory in the cross, and in the
cross alone. Oh, my dear Sister, has not looking lo frames
and feelings been a great snare to you ? The heart is deceitful
above all things, and desperately wicked. He that trusteth in
his own heart is a fool. Oh, see Jesus: see the Lamb slain in
the midst of the throne; and drink from the fountain of living
waters. See his blood cleansing from all sin ; and love much,
because much is forgiven. Oh, what a blessed thing it is, that
we are called to buy wine and milk without money and without
price. Whosoever will, let him take of the water of life freely.
Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth, for I
am God, and there is none else, the Holy One of Israel, your
Saviour. Hear the voice of Jesus, saying to you: Reach
hither thy finger, and behold my hands ; and reach hither thy
hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but be­
lieving. Cry unto him, My Lord and my God. See in Christ
given, all things given. All things are yours, whether Paul, or
Apollos, or Cephas, or tbe world, or life, or death, or things
present, or things to come—all are yours, and you are Christ’s,
and Christ is God’s.
25th September, 1832.
Oh may we ever know the blessedness of resting all on that
arm which was stretched out on the cross for us. The Lord,
in his great love and kindness, is warning us much of the evil
day that is fast coming. The other night I felt so much that
cry in prayer, Lord, shut us in—Lord, shut us in the ark, lest
the waters go over our souls; for the deluge cometh; Then I
was made to cry, Fear God, let him be your fear and your
dread. Fear nothing else; but oh, fear God, for in the fear of
the Lord is strong confidence. Then it was so much calling
us to walk with God, for, behold, he is at hand that betrayeth
me. Then it was a cry, Watch and pray, that ye enter not
into temptation; that none of us might be like Peter, saying,
though ail men deny thee, yet will I never deny thee; but that
53
we might watch and pray, trusting only ill the keeping of
Jesus; knowing that word to be true, As thy day is so shall
thy strength be; I feel much solemnized by it. May the Lord
keep us, indeed, meek and lowly in heart, ever willing to learn
of him who was meek and lowly, ever leaning on his arm, ever
hearing- his voice, and ever following where he leadeth. “ For
my sheep hear my voice and follow me, and a stranger will
they not follow.” I feel it right to let you know these things,
and as the Lord in his great love has in any measure made
them known unto me. May we indeed be strengthened to walk
with God, that we may be counted worthy to escape those
things that are coming on the earth.
30th October, 1832.
O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy
endureth for ever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom
he hath redeemed out of the hand of the enemy. Surely it
becometh me to praise the Lord, for he hath regarded the low
estate of his handmaiden, causing me, the most unworthy ofall
his children, in some measure to drink of the pure river of the
water of life, that floweth out from beneath the throne of God
and of the Lamb. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he hath -
indeed chosen the weak things and the base things, that no flesh
may glory in his presence. Pray for me, that I may be kept
low, having a meek and lowly spirit, ever lying at the feet of
Jesus, leaning on him who was meek and lowly in spirit; so
that the Lord may be able to use me to bis glory, for he re-
sisteth the proud,but he giveth grace to the humble. O to grace,
free, undeserved grace, how great a debtor! Bless the Lord,
O my soul, and all that is within me bless his holy name. May
the Lord speedily anoint you, and many many more where
you are to be his witnesses. Ask liberally of the Lord, for he
giveth liberally, and upbraideth not. Seek to be strengthened
with all might by his Spirit in the inner man; that you may
shew forth to principalities and powers the manifold wisdom
of God. Oh, let us ever remember, that it is for the glory of
Jesus that we should be filled with his Spirit; for unless we
realize this we cannot come with boldness asking it, and not ■
letting God go without the blessing; remembering this word,
without me ye can do nothing, but through Christ strengthen­
ing us we shall be enabled to do all things. The Word saith,
When the enemy cometh in like a flood, the Spirit ofthe Lord
shall lift up a standard against him. And surely the enemy
hath come in like a flood. Now then is the time to seek strength
—Almighty Strength,that we may be able to stand, yea, and to
be more than conquerors through him that loved us; for it is
to him that overcometh that he will grant to sit with him on
54
histhrone, even as heovercame,and is set down with his Father
on his throne.
26th Dec. 1832.
My dear friend in the Lord Jesus Christ,
To them that believe, he is precious, yea, precious precious
—the chiefest among ten thousand and altogether lovely; and
this glorious One is the first-bora among many brethren—only
the first-born, for we shall be like him—we are predestinated
to be conformed to his image, who is the brightness of the
Father’s glory, the express image of his person—the image of
the invisible God. No man hath seen God at any time; the
only begotten Son who is in the bosom of the Father, He hath
declared him.—Jesus Christ hath revealed unto us the Father;
•and O what a Father—what a God of love is our God ! Well,
well may we rejoice under His shadow which is spread over us.
O what a shelter are the wings of Jehovah! what a hiding-
place from the windy storm and tempest! What a quiet quiet
resting-place is the secret place of the Most High! O 'tis un­
utterable blessedness now to be hid in Him ; and what will it
be to see Him as lie is face to face. We shall be strengthened
to bear the full vision of his glory, when our vile bodies are
changed and fashioned like unto his glorious body. Dear
Sister, I can only speak to you of the love of Christ which
passeth knowledge—O that we might comprehend it ! that we
might be filled with all the fulness of God! It is iu seeing His
love, His unspeakable love, that we are constrained to yield
ourselves to Him as living sacrifices (for surely ’tis our reason­
able service) that he may fill us. He is no deceiver—He will
never give a stone for bread, nor for a fish a serpent. He is the
faithful and true Witness, and he has said, Ask and ye shall re­
ceive. A God of truth, and without iniquity, just and right is
He. Let all that would stumble or shake you just bring you
nearer to Jesus—come nearer to him with every doubt and
every perplexity. Look into his blessed word—it is a lamp to
our path, and a light to our feet. All things w oT k together for
good to them who love God, to them who are called, according
to His purpose—all inward conflict and outward trial.—Our
Father leads by a right way : every shaking will but place us
more firmly on the Rock, and here we can stand triumphant
amidst dissolving worlds. O come near to Jesus Christ—He
is the rock: His work is perfect. He will perfect that which
concemeth us. He will never leave nor forsake his poor
Church; but will bear her safely through all trials, and place
her on the throne beside him. Zion is engraven on the palms
of His hands. He will arise and have mercy on her. O what
a rest have we now in the promise, in the faithfulness of our
God. Hath He said it and shall he not do it ? hath He pro­
55
mised and shall he not bring it to pass ? The just shall live by'
his faith: though nothing is seen yet the promise is sure. Yea,
though all seems against it, yet there is a bright light behind the
cloud. The Sun of Righteousness shall arise with healing in
his wings, and shine forth on this benighted earth, which shall
yet be an earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. O how the
overspreading of evil makes us long for this time. A h! the
sin is heavy—heavy. ’Tis weighing down the earth. Infide­
lity, like a black mildew, is coming over all. On every hand
the cry is “ No God.” Oh the infidelity of this land is deep,
deep, and under many a specious form does it lurk. A l i v i n g
G o d is little, little known. Words, and forms, and doctrines
have taken the place of life which Jesus came that we might
have. Oh He longeth that life should be known, that it should
flow into the members, that fellowship with the Father and the
Son should be realized: ’tis to this we are called : ’twas to bring
us back to oneness with Himself, the Father sent the Son. He
spared him not, but was pleased to bruise him. Ah ! these are
words which eternity will unfold. Tis when we see him'
crowned with glory and honour we will remember Calvary—
the crown of thorns—the purple robe—the buffeting—the
spitting,—and think ’twas because He loved me. Then some­
thing of the Father’s love will be known in not sparing his own
Son. O how gladly will we take the lowest place, and cast our
crowns at His feet. Dear Sister, how I long to do it. O how
I long to ascribe blessing, glory, and honour to Him who sit-
teth on the throne, and to the Lamb for ever and ever. O I feel
that nothing but this can give utterance to the full heart: no­
thing but mingling in the song of the redeemed. O how loud
will that song be! how sweet the sound of'those harps when'
every chord strikes Jesus! Ah, it will be nothing but Jesus
then. Blessed be the Lord for such ahope setbefore us in the
Gospel; for the earnest of His spirit now—the sure foretaste
of a blissful eternity within the veil with Jesus. Were it not
that I know I shall one day worship Him as I ought, I know
not what could support—all is so imperfect that is done now—
so unlike the worship that is due to Him before whom angels
and archangels veil their faces with their wings; but imperfect
as our services are He does not despise them, but meets most
abundantly the feeblest attempts to serve him, He is so full of
pi‘y- _________
March 6, 1833.
It is the rod and the staff of our Good Shepherd that com­
forts us in our wilderness journey. He knows how to lead us,
how to try us, that we may be purged, and purified, and made
white. A h! he will turn his hand upon our dross, and purely
purge away all our tin. Oh.to be willing that he should do
56
this in his own way. Let him lead us into deep waters, seeing
it is through fire and through water we come to the wealthy
place j 'tis through much tribulation we must enter the king­
dom : and if for a season, if need be, we are in heaviness,
through manifold temptations, 'tis that “ the trying of faith,
which is much more precious than gold, might be found unto
praise, and honour, and glory, at the appearing of Jesus
Christ; whom, having not seen, ye love; in whom, though
now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy un­
speakable and full of glory.” Ah ! we have ever this one and
only source of joy, Jesus Christ; God’s unspeakable gift. All
our springs are in him, and, though every cistern be empty,
the fountain of God’s love is still full, full in H im ! and we are
called to drink, yea, to drink abundantly, to let our souls de­
light themselves in fatness. ’Tis those who have no money,
who have nothing, who are called to take of the water of life
freely; ’tis by Jesus Christ, who gave himself a ransom for
all, we come to the Father; ’tis not because there is any good
thing in us—O no, all our righteousnesses are filthy rags—’tis
in the Beloved we are accepted; in Him we have redemption,
through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins; ’tis
through his precious blood, which cleanseth from all sin, we
come to the Father. O come unto the fountain that is open
for you: think not of yourself at all, but of the Father’s love
in Jesus Christ to you; on you is its fulness poured. Let it
flow intoyou; open thy mouth wide; be a debtor to grace.
Seeing you have nothing in yourself, nor ever will have, re­
ceive in the name of Jesus, and for his righteousness sake.
All things are yours in Christ Jesus—only believe ; and surely
the more unworthy we feel ourselves, does it not make us to
feel more that ’tis all of love, free, forgiving love,that any thing
is ours. “ He that spared not his own Son, how shall he not
with himfreely give us all things.” O, His is a heart that gives;
He longs that we would receive. He longs to impart of his
own blessedness to his children, to make them partakers with
him in all things: in his joys and in his sorrows. He would
repose (He longs to do it) in his children: He seeks a resting-
place in their heart. lie would be one with them by making
them one with him. O ’tis such a mystery—God’s love—
that He should so love us as to seek to dwell amongst us, yea,
in u s! and yet we shut him out, we will not open ourhearts to
receive such a guest; but He will get a victory in us—in His
children. A h! we shall be made to see ’ twas all of grace :
we shall yet sing loud, loud the song of glory to grace. But
even now we can do it, for ’tis not all to come. Our commu­
nion with him is now begun. Oyes, ’tis a living reality to
meet him now in Jesus Christ, Oh, it is a reality, a blessed
blessed reality, to hold fellowship with him—to prove that He
5?
is 16ve—to dwell in the light of His countenance.—It does
indeed put gladness into the heart. His favour is life, and
His loving-kindness is better than life. How does a little, a
very little of His love, when He is pleased to let it into us,
now overpower us; and oh what will it be when the full tide
flows on u s; when our vile bodies are changed to bear the
exceeding and eternal weight of glory 1 O my Sister, to
what a height are we raised in Jesus Christ!—how has our
God loved u s! Well may we wonder and adore His wondrous
love even now, though it is little, little we see of it;—but
we shall know, even as we are known—it is the joy set before
us, that enables us to endure the cross: and it is a sure joy—
none shall pluck us out of the Father’s hand. Wearekeptby
the power of God through faith unto salvation—we are not,
as it were, carried blindly to glory; but we know that our
keeping, is in doing God’s will—“ He that keepeth the com­
mandments, keepetlr his own soul ”—Our care is not, how am
I to be kept? but it is to do the will of God—and he will
keep us—to remit the keeping of our souls to him in well­
doing, as unto a faithful Creator. We are next to look simply
to Jesus for grace to kngw and do his will, and he will pre­
serve us safe unto his heavenly kingdom. It is not faith at all
that would say, “ I know I am elected, therefore I shall be
kept, let me do as I will.” It is presumption. We are
elected unto obedience, and in this way we shall be kept.
There is much more in the doctrine than this, far more than I
am capable of writing about; but, dear Friend, it never can
be explained to our understandings fully; it is a mystery, and
ever will be so till that which is perfect is come. Now we
know in part: we are simply to believe, and lean not to our
own understandings ; it is a great snare to try to get light—the
knowledge of God, by our understandings. We must just re­
ceive the Word (the entrance of thy Word gives light) as
little children, and walk by faith. What we know not now,'
we shall know hereafter. The Life is the light of men: it is the
life, that is, Christ, we need to receive. It is a great mystery
that God has revealed His love to all, and yet that only the
election are saved, but secret things belong unto the Lord.
This we know, that it gives all glory to grace,—“ ye have not
chosen me, but I have chosen you,”—’tis all of grace, and iii
this we rest; not in our election, but in the l o v e that elected;
in the Father that drew me and gave me to Jesus : ’tis in
resting on this love we obey, for love is the spring of all true
obedience—and thu3 we are borne along, not by thinking of
ourselves at all, but of the love that sought and found us. We
have only to rest in his love—to be without carefulness, and it
is a blessed rest—’tis a sweet resting-place—’tis a peaceable
habitation. When all is unquietness and tumult around, in
58
the fear of tbe Lord is strong confidence, and his children shall
have a place of refuge. A Man shall be as a hiding-place
from the storm. O that men would hide in Him, now that his
arms are still open : but they are rushing farther and farther
away, seeking every shelter but His arms of love. Ah! how
many refuges of lies are there now in the land, which the hail
shall sweep away.—“ O that my head were waters, and mine
eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night, for
the slain of the daughter of my people.” Surely now, it is a
time to weep over this guilty, guilty land.—Weeping may, and
shall endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning—the
blessed, blessed resurrection morning, in which the upright
shall have dominion;—but we do willingly linger with our
God, although we long for the time, when a King shall reign
in righteousness, seeing His long suffering is salvation.—
How oft these words have comforted me, and made me willing
to wait with the long suffering patience of my God.
22d March, 1833.
Grace be unto you, and peace from God the Father and
from the Lord Jesus Christ. I have long been thinking of
writing you a few lines. May the Holy Spirit now guide my
pen, so that when I would write of the things that concern
the King, the Lord of Hosts, it may be as the pen of a ready
writer. Truly, His name is as ointment poured forth, therefore
do the virgins love him. O that he would draw us now as he
has never done. Nearness to God is what we now need, my
dear Sister; yea, it is being hid in the secret of his presence,
—it is having to do with the living God ; it is now to know
our high calling, no longer servants but sons, for the servant
knoweth not what his Lord doeth. It is now toknow our citizen­
ship, fellow-citizens of the saints and of the household of God;
even now walking about Zion and telling the towers thereof,
marking well her bulwarks and considering her palaces, that
we may tell it to the generation following, for this God is our
God, even for ever and ever; he will be our guide even unto
death. Blessed be his name, amidst all the stumbling and
power of the enemy we have a strong tower into which we
may run and be safe. The Lord says, surely he shall deliver
us from the snare of the fowler. He will keep the feet of his
saints: thy foot he will not suffer to be moved; therefore,
resting on the word, we need not fear though the earth be re­
moved, and though the mountains be carried into the midst
of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled,
though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof; there
is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy
place of the tabernacles of the Most High. And now, in this
5 9
evil time, our Father would have each of his children to drink
deep into this river, that we may rejoice and be glad in Him
even while passing through the floods on foot. For yet a little
while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry.
That morning, that blessed morning, is about to dawn; a
morning without clouds, when all the fears and shadows of the
dark night shall for ever flee away; when the glory of the
Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.
May the Lord keep us watching, praying always, knowing
that our enemy goeth about as a roaring lion, seeking whom
he may devour. May the Lord strengthen you, my dear
Sister. He has been with you in times past, and his word to
you still is, Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end.
I am with you, fear not; let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid, for Lo ! I am with you. May you know what
it is to lean on his bosom. Oh just to rest in his love, a love
stronger than death. O dear Sister, seek to drink deep of this
love. Oh our Father longeth to pour out the fulness of his love
into his children. Ojust be willing to receive: He longeth to
bless even with a father’s blessing. O just let the heart of your
Father be satisfied, for he hath said it is more blessed to give
than to receive. He would even now feed us with the finest of
the wheat.
23d April, 1833.
We have not an High Priest which cannot be touched with
a feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like
as we are, yet without sin. That there was in our blessed
Lord’s human nature what could be tempted I think-is plain;
but sin is not in being tempted, but in yielding to the tempta­
tion. This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our
faith; which was ever perfect in our blessed Lord, because he
perfectly knew his Father. He was the perfect man, filled with
the Holy Ghostfrom the womb, for in him dwelt all the fulness
of the Godhead, ever perfectly free from sin—the Holy One of
God. I feel it is holy ground, and, like Moses, we ought to put
off our shoes, and stand and see the bush burning, and yet not
consumed. May the Lord himself be your guide in searching
into this blessed truth. May he give you perfect liberty in
searching into it, yet keep you abiding in the word.
You ask me if I have any doubt in my mind as to its being
the Spirit of God that is in me when I am made to speak in
power. As in the sight of God I can say, I have not the
slightest doubt, because it is perfect love, and perfect joy, and
perfect peace, in as far as the Spirit is in me. And this not
only when I am made to speak, but often, in reading the word,
or in prayer, or praise ; and even now in writing, I feel the
same holy peace and joy, which no power but His, who is
60
Love, can impart. And while I have cause to mourn that I '
should ever do any thing to grieve that blessed Spirit for a
moment to depart from me, yet do any little hidingsjust make
his presence the more to be desired, making me to feel that
this is indeed a dry and thirsty land. But oh ! how little do
I yet know of that fulness which God would even now fill me
with, even till there was.no room to receive—
“
-filled even with
the fulness of God. May the Lord speedily give you, my dear
Brother, to know this. But, ob, it is the kingdom of God
within u s: we cannot tell it : each of us needs to know it for
ourselves : and none can understand it, but those who have in
some measure been partakers of it. But, oh, give the Lord no
rest till you know it, and then you will know what that
meaneth, “ I will send the Comforter.” This is God’s
work, therefore to him give the glory; for there is no part
of it mine. It is grace, free grace, even to a rebellious worm,
making known in some measure the exceeding riches of the
grace of our God.
30th April, 1833.
O how blessed to know at such a time as this what it is to be
under the care of the good Shepherd who gave his life for the
sheep—who, having loved his own which were in the world,
loveth them unto the end; and who hath said None shall
pluck them out of the Father’s hand. Oh, it is just to be hid
in his pavilion—closely wrapped in the arms of Eternal Love;
realizing'that word, “ The eternal God is thy refuge, and under­
neath the everlasting arms, and be shall thrust out the enemy
before thee.” Oh, there are many things now saying “ Abide in
me,” close, close to the good Shepherd, who carries the lambs
in his bosom.
