{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__boddington___university_of_spiritualism.pdf","mytitle":"University Of Spiritualism","mylang":"de"}
THE UNIVERSITY
OF SPIRITUALISM
BY
HARRY BODDINGTON
VOLUME I
PROPERTY OF
WINNIPEGSPIRITUALIST
CHURCI-i '""C
WINNIPEG MANIIOBA
Special Edition fcrr
THE PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
5, BLOOMSBURY COURT, LONDON, W.C.l
First Publislml in 1946
BOOK
PROOUCTION
WARECONCMY
STAJIII:WlD
THIS J300K7 IS PRODUCED IN COMPLETE
CONFORMITY WITH THE AUTHORISED
ECONOMY STANDARDS
MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
EBENBZIIR BAYLIS AND SON, LTD., THE
TRlNlnr PRESS, WORCESTER, AND LONDON
..
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGB
I THE DAWN OFI PSYCffiC SCIENCE 7
I'I "THE MAGIC STAFF" 20
m PRAISE FOR THIE PIONEERS 30
IV THE SEVEN PRI!NCIPLES 39
v FACTS VERSUS THEORIES - 48
VI THE ASCENT OF MAN 63
VII THE REliGION OF TOMORROW So
VIII MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA 95
IX HEALERS THROUGH THE AGES II8
X RATIONALE OF PSYCIDC HEAUNG 130
CHAPTER I
THE DAWN OF PSYCIUC SCIENCE
PSYCHIC SCIENCE has come to stay. As it advances,
superstition recedes. For the first time in the history of the
world the mystic links, through which angel guidance becomes
operative, are being aJJ.alysed and classified. The reputed miracle
was but the operation of a law misunderstood. Consciousness
is proved to be the onJy permanent reality in the universe; love,
the most potent forcoe which, with mental interests, forms the
ladder up which mankind must climb towards God.
The story ofthe murdered pedlar who was subjected to cross-
examination on the night of March 31, 1848, and thereby
established intelligent methods of communication between
embodied and disemlbodied humanity, has been told so often
that, beyond stating the leading incidents drawn from sworn
testimony of writers :md witnesses of the period, I shall refrain
from tedious details.
Interested readers can get these from scores ofbooks and news-
paper articles which criticised the experiments while in progress,
thus confirming their actuality. Interviewers collected sworn
statements and from these were compiled pamphlets by E. E.
Lewis in May, 1848, D. M. Dewey 1850 and Dr.J. B. Campbell
r8sr. These books followed: "Modem Sgiritualism: its Facts
and Fanaticism," byE. W. Capron (r855),' Sights And Sounds,"
by Henry Spicer (1853), "Footfalls on the Boundary ofAnother
World," by Robert Dale Owen, the founder ofthe Co-operative
movement, 1860, "!l.~odem American Spiritualism," ·by Mrs.
Hardinge Britten (1870), "Hydesville in History," by Mrs.
Cadwallader, and "The History Of Spiritualism," by Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle..
Briefly stated, it maty be said thatJohn D. Fox became tenant
of a house in Hydesville, Wayne County, New York State.
Inexplicable knockings took place all over the house and on the
doors while sentinels kept watch on either side. Mrs. Fox's hair
7
8 THE UNIVI!RSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
turned grey in a week. It was presently. discovered that the
knockings followed their two children from place to place.
They were separated, stood 011 feather pillows, insulated by
standing 011 glass plates and tested in every way human ingenuity
could devise. A code of signals was arranged and tl1us it was
discovered that a pedlar had been murdered and his body buried
in the cellar ofthehouse. Committees, formed atpublic meetings
in Rochester, reported the inlpossibility of trickery. Soon it
was discovered that hundreds ofpeople could produce the phe-
nomena by following simple illStructiollS. Fuller development
embraced all the psychic faculties mentioned by St. Paul in the
twelfth chapter of Corintlllam. Thus Modern Spiritualism was
born.
Spiritualists do not claim that tl1e Fox family were the first
to establish communication with the spirit world. But they
were the first critically to examine the phenomena willie in
progress and devise methods ofcommunication which are now
duplicated all over the world.
Prior to the Fox family residing at Hydesville, the previous
tenants, named W eckman, had been similarly disturbed. The
Weekmans lived there during 1846-7. They recorded the many
unsuccessful attempts made to discover the cause at work. The
sounds varied from footfalls in the cellar, where the pedlar's
body was later found, to loud raps on the floors, doors and walls.
Sudden opening of doors and systematic attempts to catch the
perpetrator of the annoyances signally failed. Their eight-
year-old daughterwas wakenedin thenight by feeling something
cold fumbling on her face. Her screams brought in her parents,
who took her into their own bed and it was a long time before
the terrified child could be induced to return. Mr. Weekman
heard his name called when he was alone. Their servant, Mrs.
Lape, while working in tl1e kitchen, saw the apparition ofa man
in the bedroom. She rushed offto fmd Mrs. W eckman, but by
the tinle they got to the bedroom the man had disappeared. Her
description tallied with that of others. It was presumably the
spirit form of the pedlar.
The most definite description of the pedlar was given by a
schoolgirl named Lucretia Pulver who livedwith theBell family
and saw the pedlar before he was murdered. The girl examined
THE JDAWN OF PSYC:WC SCLBNCE 9
the goods he offered to sell. The same day Mrs. Bell discharged
her with the excuse tbat she could no longer afford to keep her.
Three days later she was reinstated. Thereafter the uncanny
sounds and experiences became common occurrences. But the
pedlar who had prornised to visit her was never seen again.
Soon after the pedlar's visit, Lucretia had occasion to go into
the cellar and sank deep in loose soil. In her fright she screamed.
Mrs. Bell inquired the cause and explained the loose soil as the
result of"rats." Mr. .Bell soon afterwards got busy filling up the
"rat" holes. In view of the story told by the pedlar these state-
ments are significant. But Mrs. Bell was herself a haunted
woman and even the dog would sit under the window and how1
all night long.
John David Fox with his wife and two daughters, Catherine,
aged twelve, and Margaretta, aged fifteen, moved into their
home at Hydesville •on December, II, 1847. They were fre-
quently disturbed at night. Sounds as offurniture being moved
or knocking on the doors and walls were incessant. A curious
vibration accompanied the sounds. As time passed the noises
grew more alarming. They heard gurgling, as ofsomeone being
choked, and a body f:illing to the floor. Bedclothes were pulled,
cllairs travelled from their accustomed places. Once the children
were frightened by what seemed to be a large dog lying across
their feet. Presently they felt a cold hand passing over their
faces. Search for the author of these happenings was continuous
but useless.
Normal sleep became impossible. Mrs. Fox therefore moved
their bed into her room. On March 30 they were disturbed all
night. The noises sec:med to come from everywhere. Mr. Fox
stood on one side of1
the door and his wife on the other, but the
rappings seemed to emanate from the door between them. In
desperation they decided the house was haunted. Friday, March
31, 1848 was bleak a:nd cold, for snow had fallen. The family
retired early to their bedroom to snatclt some sleep before dark-
ness again produced 1the unwelcome manifestations. The wind
rattled the sashes. Thinking they might be loose Mr. Fox shook
them and Katie remarked that the rappings seemed to respond.
Every time he shook a window the raps would intitate the
number.
IO THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
An entirely new situation speedily arose. The girls, em-
boldened by the presence of their parents, started talking to the
spirits. Katie snapped her fmgers and said, "Here, old splitfoot,
do as I do." To their surprise the spirit responded with as many
raps as the child snapped her fmgers. Margaretta joined in the
game. Clapping her hands a number of times she called out:
"Now do as I do. Count one, two, three, four." The rapper
correctly responded. Katie now varied the game by making
motions as if snapping her fingers but without producing any
sound. The invisible telegraphist again responded correctly,
which produced the child's comment, "Only look, mother, it
can see as well as hear!"
That simple comment heralded the dawn of the great idea. It
recognised human consciousness possessing both sight and
hearing as tl1e operator of the telegraphic code at the other end.
Mrs. Fox was quick to put the issue to the test. "Count ten,"
she demanded. The number was rapped out. "How many
children have I?" she added. "Seven," replied the telegraphist.
She thought this a mistake, but the rapper insisted. Then she
remembered that six were on earth but one had passed away.
Test now followed test in quick succession. The ages ofall her
children were tapped out to order. A pause was made between
each one to distinguish it from the next. Before the seventh was
rapped out a little longer pause ensued followed by three
louder raps, which correctly indicated the age of her spirit
child.
Here we pause in order to note the implications. Hundreds of
houses had been similarly haunted, but nobody had the quick
wittedness of this American child to recognise the human
element behind the manifestations. The founder of Methodism,
John Wesley, left on record that similar hauntings occurred in
his home at Epworth. Many others have made similar state-
ments, but nobody had previously established definite communi-
cation and tested the manifestations while in operation. All
great scientific advances start from similar simple beginnings.
The fall of an apple witnessed by Newton set the stage for the
law of gravitation. The twitch of a frog's leg showed Galvani
a power that was unleashed, and Galvanism arose. A Stevenson,
noting power rushing from a steaming k,ettle, laid foundations
TBE D>AWN OF PSYCIDC SCIENCE II
for the steam engine :md the railway system. Colliding clouds
projected devastating lightning, but Franklin, as a kite flyer,
trailed it to earth. Lightning conductors soon made man
immune from its aotion and he has learned to harness the
electric forces and runs his trains, trams and lighting systems by
its power.
Similar great possibilities are gradually being revealed by
invisible communicators from the world ofspirit. Hell and the
concept ofa vindictive: God were the first to go. Angel guidance
is but telepathy from the greaterlife. Law is discovered operating
in all worlds both seen and unseen. The spirit of man clearly
recognises his relationship to God. He prompdy throws off
priest-created fears antd knowing that Truth is the language of
God dares to follow wherever it may lead.
The success of tht~ wlSeen operator merely whetted the
experimentalists' appe:tites for further evidence. A code was
d Ah f "Y "Sil "N"
arrange . s ower o raps meant es. ence meant o.
Special requests introdluced variations. When Mrs. Fox told the
rapper to knock twice if it was a spirit, it did so.
A man named Willliam Duesler had lived in the Fox home-
stead about seven year.; earlier. As no uncanny noises were heard
in his time he took a personal interest in the manifestations. He
was a painstaking researcher. He hunted up all the people, so
far as they could be found, who had lived in the house and thus
discovered that the disturbances began with the Weekmans,
who came after the Bells had left. Duesler improved the code
and his sworn testimo1uy explains his process. Ifhe got no reply
he reversed the question. "I asked ifit was an injured spirit and
it rapped," he said. "J[asked ifit had come to hurt anyone who
was present. It did not rap. I then reversed the question and it
rapped. I asked ifI or my father had injured it, and there was no
noise. If we had not injured it (please) manifest by rapping.
And we all heard thre.e distinct raps." He thus cross-questioned
the spirit about everyhody known to have lived in the house and
elicited d1e following: story.
The spirit rapper, claiming to be a pedlar named Charles B.
Rosna, said he was murdered by Bell, who buried his body in
the centre ofthe cella~r about four or five years earlier. He said
it was not any ofthe 1neighbours butJohn C. Bell, a blacksmith
12 THE UNIVER1STY OF SPIIUTUALISM
who lived in the house at the time he f.'disappeared." Bell's
name was obtained hy calling over the names ofthe neighbours
and all who had lived in the house prior to the Fox family.
Rosna said he was thirty-one years of age and he was murdered
in the bedroom at ~7elve o'clock, on a Tuesday night when he
and Bell were alone in the house. The maid, Lucretia Pulver,
and Bell's wife were away at the time. His body had been
carried down to the cellar early next morning and buried ten
feet deep. The spot was located by a Mr. Redfield moving from
point to point in the cellar and asking, "Was it here?'' This
method was repeated by Duesler sitting in the room above
while a Mr. Hyde, in the presence of witnesses, moved around
the cellar. Always the centre of the cellar was indicated as the
burial place. ·
The next move was to dig up the cellar at the place indicated,
but at three feet wa1
ter flowed in from a nearby stream and
stopped the digging.. In the summer of 1848 they restarted
digging operations. At the depth of five feet they found a
plank. Digging deeper they found pieces of crockery and
evidences ofquicklime and charcoal. Finally they found human
hair, part ofa skull and some human bones. They were satisfied
they had found the actual skeleton of the pedlar, but later
evidence shows that they had probably unearthed part ofanother
skeleton. The cellar was dug up over and over again to satisfy
sceptical minds.
Nothing further was discovered until about fifty years later
when schoolchildren, while playing in the now deserted "Spook
House," as it was called, noticed some human remains apparently
embedded in the crwmbling walls. William H. Hyde, as owner
of the house, thereupon made a further investigation. He found
that the crumbling walls were permitting part of a skeleton to
show itsel£ Further search revealed the fact that a cavity had
been formed by building a wall inside the outer wall. From this
cavity he not only recovered a perfect skeleton minus part ofits
skull, but also a pedl:ar's tin pack which was commonly used in
those parts fifty years earlier.
It will be remembered that the original diggers found part of
a skull in the course of their digging. The evidence thus sub-
stantiates the pedlar's story that his body was buried in cl1e cellar.
THE DAWN OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE 13
But what he falled to reveal Wai that it was later exhumed and
sealed up in what was thought to be a safer place-the cavity in
the wall. These details, much amplified, were given in
the "Sunflower" of December, 1904, and the "Boston
Journal," of Rochester, N.Y., for November 22, 1904, thus
finally clearing the Fox family from any suspicion of
deception.1
News of the rappings spread far and wide. Hundreds of in-
quirers from miles around tested the knockings. Following the
procedure ofthe neighbours they asked the ages oftheir children
and personal questions answerable by "Yes" or "No." One and
all testified to the impossibility of the Fox family producing
results by trickery. This is the usual conclusion of people who
hear of spirit manifestations for the first time. Correct replies
were everybody's stun1bling block. Even by trickery the Fox
family could not have answered the questions so satisfactorily.
These were quite outside their knowledge.
The family were so pestered by visitors that they gladly
accepted their son David's invitation to leave the house and live
with him on his farm two or three miles away. But their troubles
did not cease. The rappings followed them. Mrs. Fox's married
daughter Leah, thinking to break up the conditions, took her
mother and Katie to her home in Rochester, New York State,
leaving Margaretta with David. But the rappings continued.
The presence of either child apparently supplied the power the
knocker used. Eventually Margaretta was sent to join her sister
in Rochester.
At the suggestion of a Quaker named Isaac Post the spirit
rappers were asked to tap out their replies by means of the
alphabet. When the correct letter or cypher was named the raps
immediately responded. This marked a great stride forward in
the method of communication, permitting more detailed in-
formation to be given. Hundreds ofpeople visited the "Roches-
ter Knockings," as they were now called, and seriously tested
the information given. The results were so startling that they
readily followed the spirit instructions to form investigating
seances in their own homes. Each family became independent
1 B. P. Bartlett, or Cambridge, Mass., purchased the Pox cottage and moved it to Lily
Dale, New York, during April 1916. It is there preserved as a memorial to the Fox
sistcn and to Spiritualism.
14 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
researchers on a stric~!y scientific basis. This type ofindependent
research now forms the backbone of Modem Spiritualism.
Developing circles, following the simple rules originating
from the Fox sisters, found that nearly every home produced a
psychic or somebody in whose presence the phenomena readily
occurred. This centre of power was termed a medium. Cor-
roborative testimony from every country in the world
placed the phenomena on a scientific basis. The greatest difficulty
arose from emotionalists or religionists who grossly exaggerated
results or accepted them as proofof their wholly incorrect ideas
regarding the after-life. In later chapters I shall show the folly
of secrecy and how auto-suggestion as the basis of occultism
misleads investigator!:.
Spirit instructors everywhere emphasise the need for har-
monious co-operation among researchers. The formative action
of the mind is stress,ed and sitters told that their own minds
measurably affect all phenomena. The law behind the phe-
nomena was found to be exactly what the original Rochester
knockings taught. This consists of a blending of spiritual and
physical magnetisrns. These in tum are influenced by the pre-
vailing attitude ofmind of those present. Harmony of thought
and feeling is therefo1
re essential to good results.
One would think that this stupendous revelation was hailed
with joy by everybody. The contrary was the case. The Fox
family found therru;elves treated with suspicion and open
derision. Active persecution followed. The daughter Leah, as a
music teacher, lost most of her pupils. As the Fox family were
Methodists their parsons at first prayed with them that the
"curse" might be removed. Failing in their attempts to exorcise
the spirits they accused the family of being in league with the
devil. This last reso1rt of fear and ignorance is still active, and
modem mediums are facing persecution by the resurrection of
the antiquatedWitcbtcraft Act for following St. Paul's advice
to "desire earnestly spiritual gifts, but rather that you may
prophesy."
The Fox family begged the spirits to cease manifesting tl1eir
presence. They retorted with a request that they should hold
public meetings and prove their genuineness. The family
flatly refused to add to their troubles. The spirit intruders then
THE DAWN OF PSYCIUC SCIENCE I 5
told them they would leave as requested and would not com-
municate any more. The news was received with thankfulness.
But reaction soon set in. Only those who have been favoured by
sittings with good mediums understand what the loss ofcontact
with the spirit world means. The circle felt that the house was
deserted. Loneliness, in a very real sense ofthe word, followed.
Finally they begged the spirit people to resume their talks. But
not until they vohmteered to give the required public demonstra-
tions did the manifestations return.
The first public demonstration was given at Rochester on
November 14, 1849, in the Corinthian Hall. Margaretta was
the only known medium on the platform. Mr. Capron, as
lecturer, told the story of the knockings and the results. His
remarks were punctuated with clear and distinctive rapping all
over the hall. A committee offive was formed from among the
audience to test the medium and report to a later meeting. To
everybody's surprise their report was favourable. This did not
please meeting nun1ber two, so another committee was ap-
pointed from among them. Again the report was favourable.
They could fmd no rational explanation for the sounds.
The mediums never knew at whose house the tests would be
applied. There was no mechanism employed that could be
discovered. This incensed meeting number three, so yet another
meeting was arranged with a committee instructed how to
discover the "trick." The mediums were made to stand on
feather pillows . and insulated from electrical contacts by
glass slabs. Their clothing, stockings and underclothes
were previously searched. The women on the committee
reported that they had also tied the mediums' knees and
ankles to check any toe or knee cracking noises, a theory which
at this period held sway.
The whole committee testified that despite all their precau-
tions sounds were produced on the walls and ceilings. Even
mental questions had been answered. But the crowd was
determined to find them guilty of fraud. So when the third
committee had presented its report rowdies let offfireworks and
created disturbances. Matters got so serious that a burly Quaker
named George Willets forgot his passive resistance doctrine,
stood in front of the mediums and declared that nobody would
16 THE UNIVERSITY OP SPIRITUALISM
touch them except over his own dead body. The police soon
after escorted the mediums to their homes.
This utterly unreasonable attitude, so common in all countries,
proves how very little Christians understand the psychic
significance of tl1eir own Bible. The teachings of Paul andJesus
are clear. The twdfili, iliirteenth and fourteenili chapters of
Corintlllans give Paul's views, but Jesus expressly declared mat
after he had passed over he would send a holy spirit or holy
ghost to call to thei1r remembrance all tlut he had taught them.
I shall return to this: aspect later.
There are actually only two issues. Either the phenomena
were fraudulent or they demonstrated a mighty truili. But
bigotry never n;asons. Without examination the vast majority
accept a creed. Thereafter priests and authorities do their think-
ing for them. And to what a pass has this brought iliem. The
story ofa six-day cr1eation is taught on Sunday. On Monday the
same teacher will explain how geology, anthropology and other
scientific discoveries prove the earth to be millions ofyears old.
But iliey still persist that the statement of Sunday is correct
because Adam and Eve lived in the Garden ofEden six thousand
years ago and the genealogy ofJesus is traced backward to them.
ffthe earth is more than six thousand years old, that genealogy
is bound to be wrong. The furilier result is that educated
Christians altogeilie.r repudiate the first five books of the Bible.
They tead1 that the story of Adam and Eve was purely sym-
bolical. That being so, what becomes of the "fall of man"
through Adam eating the forbidden fruit? The whole story of
salvation by faith is built upon the necessity of God sacrificing
a portion of Himsdf, called Christ, and thereby rescuing His
own creatiotL It is because Spiritualists teach personal responsi-
bility and thus come into conflict with tllls unjust and UWlatural
libel on the wisdom ofGod that iliey are so bitterly opposed by
creedalists. But of this more anon.
The real trouble witl1 our opponents is that their unreasoning
acceptance of a crec:!d creates superstitious fears which prevent
iliem marching hand in hand with scientific discovery. Joan of
Arc was burned for seeing and talking to spirits. But public
opinion revolted at the horrible crime, so they canonised her
and now worship her as a saint. The same dark ages which pro-
THE DAWN OF PSYCmC SCIENCE 17
duced the terrible inquisition is responsible for two million
similar horrible deaths. The horrors of their torture chambers
have never been disputed.
Galilee was imprisoned for proving that the world is round.
Bruno was burned on February r6, r6oo, for teaching the
Copernican theory of astronomy. Roman Catholics were for-
bidden to read "The Revolution Of The Celestial Orbs" by
Copernicus, lest they realised that you could not go "up" to
heaven or "down'' to hell ifthe earth is a revolving ball.
Although scientists have had to fight priestly obstruction
with every advance they made, they are winning all along the
line. Truth is tl1e language of God and will fmally prevail. But
there is a further danger from this advance which Spiritualism is
now countering. The worship and fear of the priest is being
supplanted by blin4 acceptance of materialism. The great task
ofpsychic science is to salve whatever is valuable in both schools
of thought.
Psychic phenomena are everywhere fighting for recognition.
They have already laid the fetmdations of a new psychology.
All forms ofmental activity arc now being examined from what
is obviously a psychic angle. Mind is recognised as a creative
force and thus the creation of the world and the formation of
spirit homes and localities are found to be parts of an identical
process. The phenomena vyhich later chapters will present
illustrate this in so forceful a fashion that a new joy will enter
your soul as you look forward to liberation from the trammels
of the body and glimpse "the house not built with hands but
eternal in the heavens."
That those on the spirit side are ready and willing to help us in
our inquiries was shown very early in the modem movement.
As soon as the telegraphic code was adopted at Rochester, the
spirit commtmicators began to teach as well as demonstrate.
Attempts were made at various circles to explain the powers and
methods used, and all these various explanations are in general
agreement. The explanation given to the "Koons" circle, in
1853, will serve as a sample.
"Spirits," we are told, "in their communion with earth, mani-
fest through two primitive elements; namely, first, an electro-
magnetic element ofwhich the spirit body is composed; next a
18 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
physical aura, which emanates from the medium, or can be
collected from mate:
rial substances. . . . From the combination
of these two, namely, the emanations of the spirit and the
medium, a third or composite is formed, which is affected by
the atmosphere and other emanations.
• "From the preponderance of the electro-magnetic or spiritual
element, the laws of cohesion and gravitation can be overcome,
and through this spirits are enabled to dissolve and recompose
substances with gre:at rapidity, heave up and carry material
bodies through the :air, and cause them to float or sink in pro-
portion to the streng;th ofthe battery formed.
"It is this element which enables some spirits highly charged
with it to come into contact with matter, and thus to use pencils,
pens, etc., in writing, drawing and playing on musical intru-
ments. By aid ofthe physical or human aura-animal magnet-
ism-they cause concussions, raps, shaking offurniture and heavy
bodies; by this also t11ey produce spirit light, gathering it up so as
to form an envelope ofmatter around their own hands; condense
sound so as to be heard singing or speaking; and strike upon the
heavier instruments. This composite element is used more or
less in all modes."
Again: "The power by which spirits can act upon matter at all
is limited, ill understood even by themselves, and at present in a
merely experimental state of control; hence the quantity and
power of the mani£estations is determined by conditions too
complex and subtle, and as yet too remote from the sphere of
material science, for hwnan comprehension. Moreover, every
communication, howsoever transmitted through a human
organism, partakes so closely of the idiosyncrasies of the
medium that, whilst the idea may originate in the spirit world,
the form of the communication must assume the shape of the
medium's mind and the measure oftheir force.
".Beyond the occasional introduction ofa few words, sentences,
or forms ofwriting ;md expression it is almost impossible for the
mightiest controlling spirit far to transcend these limits; hence
their ideas not only sink to the level oftl1e mediums' capacity in
transmission, but often become so merged in their magnetism as
to lose the stamp of their spiritual origin altogether."
The last quotation contains not only an explanation but a
THE DAWN OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE 19
warning-emphasising the care that must be exercised in con-
sidering messages from the spirit side. Each investigator must
decide for himself the mental status of the medium through
which the communication comes-and accept or reject accord-
ingly. And each investigator should be properly equipped for
the full understanding ofall the phenomena he may witness.
CHAPTER II
"THE MAGIC STAFF"
AS the forerunner of modem Spiritualism, Andrew Jackson
Davis claims a large share in Spiritualist literature because his
writings and experience corroborate mediurnship all over the
world. After the Fox sisters had broadcast the knowledge that
spirit people could communicate with mankind, mediumship
became common over a wide area. It was immature and spas-
modic, and rarely reached the quality displayed by Davis. All
thought they were the special recipients of divine favours.
Presently they were surprised to fmd that Davis had not only
preceded them, but had generally been far more explicit. As a
natural consequence, he is more often quoted as an authority
than those who definitely claimed spirit guidance.
His "Nature's Divine Revelation" and "Harmonia! Philo-
sophy" did much towards shaping the foundations of Spiritual-
ism, which replaces blind faitl1 by a knowledge ofnature's laws
and in tum compels higher standards of thought. His visions
concerning the training of clllldren in the spirit world form the
basis of Spiritualist Lyceums. He founded the first in Dods-
wortll Hall, Broadway, New York, onJanuary 25, 1863.
He was born at Blooming Grove, Orange County, U.S.A.,
on August II, 1826, and passed to the higher life onJanuary 13,
1910, at Watertown, Massachusetts, in his eighty-fourth year.
He was a dunce at school, where his attendances lasted only five
months. The story ofhis life, failings and development will be
found in his books, "The Magic Staff" and "Autobiography."
I have specially drawn upon Davis's experiences in early life
so that students will realise that, like John the Baptist, he was
"filled with power by the holy spirit from his mother's womb."
In his case, the "holy" spirits were Galen and Swedenborg.
While still a child, he had to work in the fields, and tells how
one day he heard, clairaudiently, sweet, low, plaintive music,
in which was blended the refrain, "You may desire to travel."
20
" ,
THE MAGIC STAFF 2I
All work was forgotten for the moment, and he was filled with
an inexpressible and extraordinary yearning to know and love
everything human. It came as a revelation to the untutored lad, ·
who knew little enough of affection from the rough world
in which he moved.
Later, when wondering what the message meant, he got
the remainder, "to Poughkeepsie." Thus did the spirit world
implant in his mind what the modem hypnotist terms a "sug-
gestion." It had the effect of turning his attention to a district
in which arrangements could be made to facilitate development.
Spiritualists realise that we can all be led by a "holy" spirit,
even though we may not hear the actual voices.
In the autumn of 1839, the family moved to Poughkeepsie.
Arrived there, he got no solution to the meaning of his spirit
message, and bewailed the fact that helping his tfather to
make shoes hurt his obviously weak chest. Life became so
difficult that the lad was forced to peddle yeast from door
to door.
Returning from tlus occupation one chilly day in February,
1841, hesuddenly found himselfenveloped in a thick black cloud.
This was apparently an answer to the determination he had
just formed that he would never do anything so blindly again.
While fumbling about to unlatch the gate, all space was suddenly
filled with a golden radiance. A palatial residence with beautiful
gardens in which birds sang, opened out before his astonished
eyes, and he heard a voice that sounded like his mother's,
saying, "Come here, my child, I want to show you my new
home."
He ran to the begemmed door and knocked loudly. His
joy was so great that he quite failed to understand the warning
given by an Irish neighbour who opened it to him and said
that his mother was dying; had he no sense ofdecency?
He laughed aloud at her foolish fears, and bounded through
the enamelled doorway. In an instant the vision vanished. The
black pall surrounded him again. It fell, and he became aware
of his squalid surroundings once more by hearing the doctor
whisper, "She's dying." But he could not weep, or even be
sorry. The great overpowering sensation that his mother was
a queen in a beautiful palace excluded every other thought,
22 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
and though he constantly chided himself with lack of proper
feeling-for his mother was the only real companion he had
ever known-the impress of his vision remained for ever.
The next message was plain, but practical: "Eat plenty of
bread and molasses." He thought he was dreaming, but, as
usual, carried out the instructions with great benefit to his
health.
In the spring of 1842 he began to work for Ira Armstrong,
a kindly, thoughtful, devotional boot and shoe merchant,
who, finding the lad honest and reliable, practically allowed
him to manage the business. He taught him what was essential,
and evidently had great influence in moulding the young man's
mind. Further development came by contrasting rival preachers'
views, during which his "voices" poured oil on the troubled
waters ofhis soul.
In 1843 he submitted to an itinerant mesmerist named Grimes,
who failed to mesmerise him. A few days later, William
Levingstone, a neighbour, who had experience abroad of
mesmerism, was successful. Davis says the flow of blood
seemed to be arrested, but ten thousand avenues of sensation
apparently opened. Then came darkness and a terrible fear
of death. One sense after another that connected the mind
with the outside world seemed to close down. Yet when his
operator spoke to others he could hear him speak, but not the
replies.
Then came the command to awake. The voice sounded low,
distant, strange and unpleasant. He felt like one paralysed
and utterly helpless. This was followed by a whirling sensation,
and the dreaded ocean of darkness in which he appeared to
sink to the lowest depths of forgetfulness.
When he fully recovered consciousness he was surrounded
by a crowd ofpeople who assured him that during his sleep
he, while blindfolded, had been reading from a newspaper,
told the time by their watches and diagnosed their diseases.
The treatments were continued nightly, and thus the slumber-
ing faculties of the great seer were quickened into activity.
His success inflamed religious bigotry, and life became very
unpleasant for Davis. Presently matters were made easier by
living with his operator. It will stand to the eternal credit of
"rHB MAGIC STAFF" 23
Mr. Levingstone thar
t he gave up a sound business in order
to devote himself exclusively to helping Davis diagnose
disease.
Once again Davis's voices called him, and, rising from his
bed, he appears to have been levitated to the Catskill mountains,
a distance of forty miles, while entranced. His records at this
point are not suffide1ntly explicit to decide whether parts of
this experience were subjective. It would be quite possible
to travel in spirit, and experience the same sensations.
He felt as if "he was running at a wonderful speed." Here
he met his guides, G:alen and Swedenborg. The former pre-
1 sented him with a "magic staff," which he lost through losing
his temper. Later he begged that it might be restored to him,
and found to his am:cwment that it was but a symbol. Instead
of a staff he saw the £allowing words, glittering amid a golden
light: "Behold! Here iis thy magic staff: Under all circumstances
keep an even mind. Take it, try it, lean on it, walk with it, and
believe on it for ever.''
At the age of eighteen, while entranced, Davis stated that a
change of operator was necessary to fuller development. In
view ofthe work that followed, it is evident that, as he had not
acquired the necessary mental equipment for his guides to draw
upon, specially qualified sitters were needed to supply the
vocabulary with whi.
ch the revelations were to be clothed.
Spiritualists now realli;e that all who attend a seance form a
"field of consciousness," upon which the spirit people draw.
Inspiration thus becomes far easier than inducing deep trance
states.
Davis clearly outlines in "The Magic Staff" all the motives
that caused him to take various steps, but does not seem to have
fully realised the very important part his spirit friends played.
Spiritualists who read his books will be in a better position to
appraise the work of his unseen helpers, and note their careful
development of his powers. He selected Dr. S. S. Lyon as his
new magnetiser, and the Rev. Wm. Fishborough as an
amanuensis for the great work he presently produced,
dictating philosophic and scientific treatises without apparent
guidance.
I pause here to note the value of seance constituents. The
24 THE UNIVBRSJ.T¥ OF SPIRITUALISM
mental and psychic powers ofsitters form a storehouse ofideas
and material for spirit people to draw upon. Ifthe medium has
the necessary mental equipment, the work of inspiration is
comparatively easy. Where it is lacking, the subconsciousness
ofothersis necessary to supply a framework oflanguage adapted
to our understanding.
The folly of sensitives who refrain from reading, in order
that their own ideas may not interfere with their spirit messages,
is due to the fact that they do not grasp this law or w1derstand
the teaching of the most eminent spirit teachers. In Davis's
case we have to remember that, though ignorant of the most
rudinlentary elements of education, he was able to dispense
with even grammatical revision of his material. In course of
time, ideas that were poured through his brain became part
ofhis own consciousness. Magnetisers and sitters were not there-
after essential to his success.
There are three theories to account for thestate he termed the
"superior condition," into which he fell while receiving the
manuscript. Firstly, his guides, by controlling him, implanted on
his subconsciousness their own ideas. Against this we have to
remember he was not conscious of control. There is next his
own theory reduced to modern terms-he was able to contact
the ocean of cosmic consciousness through magnetisation at
first, and, later, by his own volition. Lastly, we must recognise
the ev~lutionist theory that self-consciousness is made up of
myriads ofpast experiences in the mineral, animal and vegetable
worlds during which we accumulate in our mental storehouse
memories and faculties which we are able to draw upon
subconsciously.
The action ofmany ofthe organs ofthe body is explained in a
similar way; at first they responded to our conscious volition,
accentuated by the urgent needs of the moment, but later
become automatic in action. But, whatever theory you adopt,
Spiritualists must never overlook the definite part played by
Galen and Swedenborg throughout Davis's career.
The mentalities of the physicist and the theological outlook
of Swedenborg, sublimated by later experience, is traceable
in all his writings. From 1845 to January 25, 1847, he delivered
one hundred and fifty-seven lectures on abstruse subjects. The
"tHE MAGIC STAFF" 25
records were signed by two hundred and fifty-seven prominent
people, proving that the ignorant village lad was really the
true author.
In March, 1847, he annotmced, while still entranced, that he
would presently be able to dispense with the services of a mag-
netiser. Soon after, by mere effort of will, he was able to
induce the "superior condition" whenever he desired. This
is regarded by most Spiiritualists as a clairvoyant or inspirational
state, definitely influenced by spirits of a high order.
In r866 he obtained a doctor's diploma at the United States
Medical College in New York in order to conform to the law
and legally practise as a doctor. He claimed to see every separate
material organ in the hody with accompanying vitalic essences
and encompassing aura.H "invested with a strange, rich, spiritual
beauty." Bodies were 1to him as transparent glass.
In Davis's original "manual of instruction" for children,
he emphasises the necessity for "drawing out" the latent talents
ofscholars and opposes the "cramming" system now in vogue.
He suggests that the Socratic method of question and answer
is the most effective. The pupil is thus compelled to exercise
his reason instead of adopting phrases by parrot-like repetition,
which actually hinders true soul expansion.
He, clairvoyantly, saw children trained in the spirit world
by the practical application of ideals and object lessons, and
desired that the childreltl of the future should become "realists"
by the same process. By marches, taught as if in play, they
learned the geography c•fthe earth and heavens, and by occasional
return to earthly homes they were shown how vice and
hypocrisy hinder spiritual progress. Groups of spirit children
had their stages of un£::>ldment indicated by specific colours of
clothing and of banne.rs. Kindergarten methods best express
Davis's ideals.
Andrew Jackson Da.vis is often believed to have taught a
fixed locality for his "Summerland," and the various states
he depicted. Each olf these was described as adjoining the
other in regular order, graduated to suit the type and quality
of its inhabitants, with a radiant source of light at the centre
permeating the whole. Explanations ofsuch conditions naturally
appear to us like materiial earth planes, but one has only to read
26 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
his explanations of clairvoyance and soul expansion to realise
that no earthly limitations can possibly apply. ,
The tendency of modem Spiritualism is to go rather to the
other extreme, and disregard all forms of limitation, because
time and space are unthinkable in a world where thought finds
instantaneous expression as action. The material means to the
end in view become unnecessary. There is no cumbersome
brain to move; no physical boundaries to surmount. Whether
it be a picture or a home, it can be built by thought-processes
we but dimly glimpse.
The experiences of the seance room illustrate the possibilities
and potentialities of the soul. Clairvoyance opens up the
possibly infinite extensibility ofconsciousness. A seer in England
may see what is happening to a friend in America, but, while
recounting psychic experiences during which his soul-sight is
thousands ofmiles away, his body is reclining in his own home,
and his normal faculties are functioning just as keenly as if he
was not also "present in the spirit" to someone in America.
For if he visualises a person who is a clairvoyant, his own
presence will be immediately perceived by the one he
visualises.
We thus realise that what are called "spirit planes" are merely
limitations of consciousness which can be removed as soon as
the ego realises the possibility of travelling yet farther afield.
This development, in tum, is only acquired as the soul develops
in love and wisdom. All spirit teachers without exception pro-
claim the fact that perfect attunement with God can only be
acquired by purity, goodness and service to humanity.
Thought-transference makes itself both seen and felt by this
unfoldment. The seer perceives a spirit, and may hear no sound,
but none the less a definite impression of the thought-projector
as well as his message is received. When prayer meetings
and healing circles •realise the true worth of massed aspirations,
they will give over ordering God to alter His plans, or do the
work man is quite capable of doing for himself, and will add
definite action to their prayers, for God only helps those who
at least try to help themselves.
Andrew Jackson Davis claimed to traverse solar systems and
view the many grades of life thereon. He taught that many
"THB MAGIC STAFF" 27
planets contain far higher developments than earth, and that
others present characteristics startlingly different from earth's
childrem.l,All thevarious phases were due to the lines upon which
they developed.
His "Origin of Man" reads like an essay on Darwinism,
and so often does his knowledge of evolution appear that one
needs constantly to remember that the lad had no possible
means ofstudying even contemporary writers. But in all cases
it is easy to see how everything became refined and spiritualised
by his translations. He traces the origins and journeyings of
our ancestors, their wars, developments and effects of their
religious outlook upon the final product.
The following extracts from his "Harmonia! Philosophy"
will indicate the nature of his teaching. He needed no books
in his understanding of evolution because the earth seemed to
open to his view and enabled him to explore the mineral king-
dom.
He was able to note the properties and essences of plants,
the internal physiology of the animal creation and to realise
that inanimate nature was all journeying along a pathway to-
wards individualisation as man. He claimed that the "superior
condition" in which he received his messages was different from
ordinary mediumship because his consciousness was quickened
instead ofdulled while transmitting. He adopted Swedenborg's
idea and claimed that "the outer universe is a visible mani-
festation of the indwelling deity."
, "Nature_js.-tb.e_ body," he wrote, "God the soul. Nature
is the dormitory of all that is unfolded in the great sensorium.
God is cause, nature the effect. God is spiritual, nature is
material. Nature is finite; God is infinite. God acts upon the
universe anatomically. In the structure of planets and in the
forms of solar systems ... spirit is substance superior to matter
. . . the formative principle which lies back of and beneath all
visible manifestations. God acts on the universe mechanically,
for there is a sense in which nature is a vast mechanism, and in
its sublime workings the true mechanic on earth can learn of
God."
Creation, to Davis, meant nothing more than eternal change
of form, always in an ascending scale.
28 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPlRITUALISM
"He who feels within himself the working of an immortal
spirit can in some measure comprehend the kindred intelligence
and love emanating from the material forms which people
the world of effects," he said. "The ideal begets the actual;
theprinciples ofmind incarnate themselves in material structures.
But, before it can display creative and disposing powers in the
higher regions of thought, the mind must have a broad sub-
stratum of scientific knowledge as a basis for more exalted
structures."
His doctrine of personal responsibility may be gauged from
the following: "It is a legitimate conclusion .. . that an in-
dividual is accountable only according to his capacity. Man
is both an actor and a circumstance, a cause and an effect. He
should be treated, not as having will and power to do that which
he desires when and where he pleases, but he should be born,
educated, situated, rewarded, punished as a tree capable of
yielding good fruit only when it is properly organised and
conditioned in good soil.
"The doctrine of free will is contradicted by everything in
nature and man. Every thought, motive and deed arises from
interior laws and combinations ofphysical and mental economy
which are inevitable and unchangeable. The comparative
freedom which man seemingly inherits is that ofmotion within
the circle described by his capacity and degree of development.
Beyond this he has no more liberty than is enjoyed by a gold-
fish in a globe of water. The Great Divine Mind is love in
its essence-light and life of the universe. The universe is the
body oflove and its perfect form. But wisdom is the highest
attribute and the great ultimate of eternal design. As the human
embryo contains an essential principle which produces the
perfect organisation ofman, so there is a corresponding essence
which produces spirit as the result. The end is to establish
individuality, communion and sympathy between the Creator
and the thing created."
Many schools of thought have adopted his ideas without
acknowledgment and are frequently ignorant of their mentor.
His teaching forms the basis of much that is now termed New
Thought, Higher Thought, Mental Science, Mental Healing
and New Psycholology. He was a voluminous writer, and his
"THE MAGIC STAFF" 29
works thus laid the foundations for most of these schools which
teach Spiritualism-without the spirits.
(:
Readers familiar with their books will recognise the following
extract from his "Harmonia! Philosophy," and note with
mterest its modem adaptations: "If your weakness be general,
and blood loaded with cold matter, lay flat on your back, and,
while breathing deep and slow . . . . Will yourself to become
healthy. Start from the extremities, and work upwards and
inwards ...."
CHAPTER III
PRAISE .FOR THB PIONEERS
SPIRITUALISM presents one very curious aspect. This
consists of investigators discovering facts in psychic science
which nobody but the learned newcomer into psychical research
ever discovered before, with the result that dozens of words
are coined which, on inquiry, turn out to mean exactly the
same thing. Worse still, some of them deliberately put on
blinkers and refuse to recognise their own conclusions when
they awake to the startling discovery that they are merely
supporting already well-founded Spiritualistic conclusions.
In the same way, it is the fashion to ignore eminent and
honest predecessors who laid the lines whereon later researchers
travel. A long list ofthese pioneers will be found in Dr. Peebles's
book (published over forty years ago), "What is Spiritualism?"
Dr. Peebles's lectures and writings were decidedly controversial,
an essential and valuable factor while all questions were in the
melting-pot of public opinion and new discoveries were com-
pelling a constant revision ofprevious conclusions.
He was an ardent advocate of temperance and non-smoking,
and just prior to transition, in his ninety-eighth year, proved
his mental capacity at that great age by delivering a fine address
at the South Place Institute, London. He travelled round the
world many times, and held responsible positions, one of
which was United States Consul at Trebizond, Asiatic Turkey.
His age and abilities give the lie to the one-time frequent jest
tl1.at Spiritualists always had a far-away look in their eyes,
wore wild and woolly hair, and were always lean and lank
and died prematurely.
In many ca5es famous people emerge from their obscurity
and astonish the world by informing it that they have had psychic
experiences for years. They forget to add that they waited
cautiously until braver workers made Spiritualism popular.
Others seem to think they are "honouring" Spiritualists by
30
PRAISE FOR THE PIONEERS 3I
belatedly testifying to facts for which their own friends suffered
social ostracism owing to the cowardice of those who cannot
now understand why the whole movement does not rush at
them or appraise them at their own valuation.
We must, however, specially note those who stood for the
truth in its unpopular days. Among the earlier pioneers on our
"roll of honour" is the Hon. W. ]. Edmonds, whose book
"Spiritualism" contains some of the earliest records of definite
seance work. Dr. George T. Dexter, who developed writing
mediumship, collaborated. It was published in 1897. Judge
Edmonds's mediumship took the form of "travelling in the
spirit," during which he gained much insight into spirit homes
and methods of work.
His most evidential experiences were obtained through his
daughter, Laura, who spoke foreign languages which they knew
she could not possibly have learned. These were testified
to by such witnesses as the Hon. P. Talmadge, Governor of
Wisconsin, and William Lloyd Garrison, the anti-slavery
orator and writer, whose names sufficiently discharge the
suggestion of incompetentjudgment.
Laura could communicate telepathically with her friends
and developed clairvoyance of a high order. The j udge was
quick to note, when his daughter was controlled by a newsboy
dictating the story of his life, tl1e naturalness of his whistling
while waiting for statements to be written down. It is by small
details such as these we are able to establish identity. The
judge was certain that his daughter had never learned this
accomplishment.
Though a judge in the Supreme Court of America, his
investigations brought down on his devoted head such a tornado
of abuse that he was compelled to resign his position. Hats
offto the brave and honourable who prefer the world's calumny
to cowardly denial or evasion. He was a careful experimenter,
proving basic facts over and over again, utilising the services
ofan electrician to test the rappings which were a predominant
feature in the early days of Modern Spiritualism.
In 1856-8, Dr. Hare, Professor ofChemistry in the University
of Pennsylvania, conducted experiments "scientifically" in
order to "explode the monstrous delusion." A p<ean of praise
32 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPnuTUALISM
arose similar to that which greeted Professor Crookes in Engl:.nd
at the start of his investigations. Now the world would get
"scientific" explanations! The bubble was burst-or would
be-at last! But, alas! for the desires of prejudiced opponents.
His results were published in a book called "Spiritualism
Scientifically Demonstrated." A howl of execration went up.
His findings were challenged, his scientific attainments im-
pugned and even today one hears insinuating references to his
age, as if experimental research did not speak for itsel£ Such
is the cowardly attitude prejudice invariably adopts.
He was the first to suggest a method of mixing up letters of
the alphabet in such a manner that telepathy and fraud were
eliminated, the spirit people being asked to select, in the dark,
specific letters forming words to order, which they invariably
did successfully.
Another notable pioneer was Robert Dale Owen, author of
"Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World" and "The
Debatable Land." He was a member ofCongress and American
Minister at Naples. His books give a useful summary of the
dawnings ofSpiritualism, together with a resume ofthe Wesley
and other experiences.
Mrs. B. Hayden was the flrst public medium for table-
rapping phenomena to come over to England in 1852. She
was followed by Mrs. Roberts. These were investigated by
Professor de Morgan, an eminent mathematician and author,
who wrote a clever preface to a book written by his wife,
published in r863, entitled "From Matter To Spirit." De
Morgan collaborated with Robert Chambers, the author of
"Vestiges Of Creation." This book created a furore in its day.
Its arguments were unanswerable, but the author steadfastly
refused to reveal his identity to the public.
Their testimony, together with that of the illustrious body
of men they gathered around them, is recorded in "Chambers's
Journal" and current magazines. It is necessary to remember
details of this order to combat the oft-repeated statement that
Spiritualism has never been accepted by critically scientific
minds until the present inrush of new names into our ranks
forced it upon an unwilling world. The phenomena have
been scientifically analysed every step of the way and con-
PRAISE FOR THE PIONEERS 33
sistentlyjeered at or ig1nored until at last it has become perfectly
respectable to admit a belief in psychic experiences.
Daniel Dunglas Home was born near Edinburgh in 1833.
He emigrated to Amer;ica, but in 1855 returned to England with
an established reputati•on as the finest physical medium of his
day. In 1870 he gave a series ofsittings to Sir William Crookes,
which are duly recorded in Crookes's "Researches Into the
Phenomena of SpiritmJism," published in 1874. The scientific
accuracy of these experiments has never been seriously chal-
lenged. This book is the more valuable because it is impossible
to challenge the author on the score ofsenility, as he was then a
comparatively young man. Neither can his scientific acumen
be questioned, because his most valuable contributions to
science came in later years. Yet on nearing the "great divide"
the illustrious chemist said that he had no word to retract from
any ofhis writings on psychic manifestations.
D. D. Home's wid,ow published a book entitled, "D. D.
Home, His Life and Mission," to refute the usual calumnies
which follow all mediums to discredit their work. He was
unique in that he never took a penny for his services, though
he travelled all over the world, the guest ofroyalties and people
in high places. His book "Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism"
deals largely with methods of unscrupulous imitators who
followed in his wake, and outlines valuable historical matter
prior to Spiritualism.
By April, 1854, the spirit people had created such a widespread
list ofphenomenal happ•enings all over the world that a memorial
was presented to the United States Congress, signed by thirteen
thousand people, "praying for the appointment of a Scientific
Commission to examiJ11e the phenomena of Spiritualism," in
which witnesses claimed to have seen "lights of various forms
and colours and of diffi~rent degrees of density, which appeared
in darkened rooms, where no substances exist which are liable
to develop chemical action or phosphorescent illumination, and
in the absence of all means and instruments whereby electricity
is generated or combus:tion produced." This important docu-
ment shows that investigators were neither asleep nor greedily
swallowing fables.
In "Northern Lights," published by Madame D'Esperance in
34 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
1901, and in all records relating to physical mediums, the same
phenomena with continual intriguing variations are narrated.
In "The Spirits' Book," published by AllanKardec in 1875, and
"Spirit Teachings," by Stainton Moses, we have the philosophic
and religious implications from entirely different standpoints.
And in Zollner's "Transcendental Physics," which was trans-
lated into English by C. C. Massey, we find illustrations of
locked and folded slates on which writing was obtained under
crucial test conditions, apports, the passing of matter through
matter, and for tl1e first time a discussion of the "fourth
dimension" as an explanation ofthe mystery.
Scarcely any phenomena now so violently debated are
omitted from the earlier books, which makes the trivial results
obtained by present-day psychical researchers look nonsensical
by comparison. Later pioneers like J. J. Morse and E. W .
Wallis have left a more distinctive mark upon the movement.
Morse's "Occultism" and Wallis's "Guide to Mediumship" are
still the best books for new investigators to read.
My last meeting with E. W. Wallis illustrates the sacrifices
the older workers constantly had to make. A few months before
his transition he had been asked to speak for the Brixton Brother-
hood in the Parish Church room. On the date booked he had
to be in Manchester. He had no time to snatch a meal before
jumping on the trainfor London. After the address and questions,
followed by the usual vacuous remarks from a chairman quite
ignorant of the subject, the meeting closed. My wife and I
were apparently the only supporters he had present. We
waited outside, hoping the speaker was at least enjoying a cup
ofcoffee after his labours.
Presently he joined us, and we learned that not only had he
not eaten all day but that his work there brought no remunera-
tion whatever and that not even a cup of coffee and scarcely a
"thank you" had been given to him for his services. And all the
time he believed he was a doomed man. He told us he was
suffering from the very, very painful malady called "shingles,"
due to overstrain and lack of proper rest, and referred to the
common superstition that when the marks around the waist
met he would have to obey a higher call. Of course, medical
men know that the lines never meet, as the nerve branches off
PRAISE FOR THll PIONEERS 35
into another direction. But, nevertheless, the next I heard of
him was an invitation to his funeral shortly afterwards.
Such are the men we honour as pioneers. They ever sub-
ordinated self at duty's call. There are many like them up and
down the country even now, unknown to fame, but whose
record is writ large in the libraries ofheaven.
Perhaps the most interesting pioneer I have been associated
with was W. ]. Colville. He wrote many books, mostly
illustrating the action of the mind on bodily health.
. His in-
spirational poems, ~erfect in rhyme and rhythm, were delivered
without a moment s preparation at breakneck speed. After his
address he would merely ask for a word or subject, and although
his address invariably lasted an hour and a half, he would reel
off a perfectly finished poem that took five to ten minutes
to deliver.
I asked him on one occasion if he was not afraid to deal
impromptu with the very difficult subjects he had given to him.
His reply may encourage young nervous beginners: "I feel so
deliciously nervous that I know I am in good hands and we shall
have a grand meeting." We had. I do not think I should like
to have lived with him. He was as skittish as a kitten, but so
changeful in his moods that we were kept guessing as to what
would happen next. Like many great artists and geniuses, he
was temperamental.
In those early days our audiences rarely exceeded a hundred.
On the occasion of his first visit, just prior to the meeting, he
visited the hall, which seated three hundred and forty and was
arranged for the usual estimated number. He discovered a lot
ofold dusty forms stowed away in a comer, and loudly declared
he could not possibly start the meeting unless they were all raked
out and placed in front of the hundred chairs so neatly dusted
and arranged. I dared not argue, so then and there, with his
help, in our best "go to meeting" clothes, we proceeded to drag
the damaged and carefully hidden forms from their obscurity.
Colville was a wonderful orator. One overlooked all his idio-
syncrasies, and listened spellbound to the torrent of words, so
replete with logic and common sense.
James Burns was another forceful and lovable character,
albeit a stormy petrel at all times. As Editor of the "Medium
36 THE UNIVllRSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
And Daybreak" he wielded a trenchant pen. A vegetarian,
non-smoker and temperance advocate, he tried to lead by per-
sonal example. His attacks on other folk's weaknesses made
him many friends but more enemies. His bete noire was organisa-
tion. To him it was the beginning of priestcraft. Asked to
address the annual meetings ofthe London Union ofSpiritualists
at High Beech, he would roundly attack everybody who tried
to promote co-operation.
Spiritualism produces many such men who seem to fight a
lone battle on some aspect or several different aspects which
forces the whole movement to go slow. In the early days of a
great development like Spiritualism, tl1ese forceful characters
act as the stimulus to greater endeavour or brake on hurried
conclusions. And as Spiritualism attracts all those who are
dissatisfied wiili prevailing religious systems, and cranks seeking
to attad1 their own special ideas of reform to it, the result is
entirely beneficial and investigators are immediately struck by
the great number of robust tllinkers born of tills continual
inrush ofnew points ofview which have to be met and critically
examined.
Many Spiritualists bemoan the loss of such orators as Mrs.
Emma Hardinge Britten, Cora Tappan, Colville, Morse, Wallis
and ilieir like. The types seem to have almost died out. The
rapid growili of the movement has placed ilie demand for
mediunlistic services far in advance of ilie supply. The result
has been an inrush ofimmature, badly developed mediums who
have been ilirust on the platform merely because they see spirits.
Thereafter, only subconscious material is expressed or actual
spirit teaching delivered in such an unattractive form that
intelligent folk are repelled railier ilian attracted. Study groups,
developing classes and lessons such as we are now giving are the
only radical cure. The net result of all tills pioneering work is
tile dear evidence tlut spirit people are readily accessible and
suited to all types ofmind.
America naturally turned its uses first to adding to tl1e
almighty dollar. One business man, having proved that spirits
could locate mineral wealili, like Oliver Twist returned "for
more." He was met by the spirit control with a simple request.
Tf tl1e spirit located more wealth for him, WO\lld he share the
PRAlSE FOR THE PIONEERS 37
proceeds with the Spiritualist movement? A fifty per cent basis
on profits was promptly arranged. The mine was found, and
from the profits on the next deal the Morris Pratt Institute was
founded. This would seem to be a degradation of psychic
powers, but when it is realised that the Institute has consistently
passed scholars through its curriculum, all teaching of the evils
which flow from the worship of the god of gold and how hells
are filled in the spirit world as the result, it will be seen that the
means to the desired end was justified.
Scientists fmd that the spirit people know more about
chemistry and atomic theories tl1an their confreres in the body
and learn to grow modest. Doctors discover that their methods
of healing need complete revision, and tl1at if they ignore the
factor of mind in relation to physical well-being they will be
supplanted by healers without college degrees but who heal
where orthodoxsciencefails. They are slowlylearning the lesson,
and one now hears everywhere of mental.treatment, colour
treatment, even light and sound are being pressed into service
and vegetable medicines supplanting mineral drugs, all driven
home by the spirit workers' practical illustrations and teaching.
Idealists find their reforms constitute an essential part of the
religion of the future and are but a dim foreshadowing of
actualities in the spiritual realms. The ethics of all religious
systems which promote brotherly love are applauded, but
sectarian follies which breed separation and hatreds are un-
equivocally condemned. This has produced the brotherhood
of man as the central plank in the Spiritualist platform. All
phases of mentality are attracted. The brave remain, but those
who find their vested interests attacked try to rend us in return.
But with God and the angels for us we can afford to ignore
individual opinions ofmen.
Probably the best-known pioneer is Mrs. Emma Hardinge
Britten. Her "Nineteenth Century Miracles" and "Faiths and
Facts and Frauds of Religious History" should be fow1d in
every Spiritualist library. Her voluminous writings and in-
spirational addresses have probably done more towards shaping
English Spiritualism than any other factor outside of medium-
ship itsel£ On July 6, 1890, she convened a conference in
Manchester from which sprang the Spiritualists' National
""
38 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Union Ltd., registered on October 22, 1901. This was the only
way in which Spiritualists could legally hold property as a
religious organisation. Spiritualism has lost much money
through this inequality in point of law. The S.N.U., though
sadly handicapped by lack of funds, is continually striving to
remove these hindrances to progress. In its capacity as joint
trustee with the societies, it is the only continuing authority in
England in which it is safe to vest funds and buildings if it is
desired to retain them for Spiritualism after the demise of the
founders.
I
CHAPTER IV
THB SEVEN PRINCIPLES
THE great outburst of spirit power that followed the ex-
periences of the Fox sisters brought joy and solace to thou-
sands oflonely, bereaved souls, and consternation to all who saw
their vested interests threatened. Christians were the most
bitter and unscrupulous antagonists. No slander was too vile,
and no misrepresentation too bitter to hurl at those who dared
to suggest that God was grander, greater, nobler and more just
in every way than the puny imaginations of men conceived.
Stories ofwholesale lunacy and physical and mental deteriora-
tion were freely bandied about, and to their shame be it said that
these stories-although repudiated by their own authors-are
still printed by reputed "Christian" journals.
Soon those who communicated begged for the prayers ofthe
sitters, and warned themofthe follies ofmisspent lives. Question-
ing revealed the extraordinary fact that the soul carries within
itselfa definite registration of every thought, motive and action
ofthe earthly life. Impurity ofthought, hatred and vice have the
effect of making the psydric organism so dense that ofttimes it
is impossible for such to rise above the earth plane. Thus
haunted houses became understandable.
But it is more difficult to realise that our thoughts have such
an effect upon the auric atmosphere around us that, on quitting
the physical body, the spirit seems to pass into a sort offogland,
which can only be dispelled by the creation of"the light within."
Tlris light is said actually to shine, and is not merely a symbol.
The "valley ofthe shadows" becomes a very literal hell when we
£nd the consequences of our own actions mirrored therein.
While in the body we rarely see ourselves as others see us, but
in the spirit world we are actually forced to wear symbolic
clothing, automatically fashioned by our modes of thought, and
more particularly our secret, and, therefore, most real and in-
tense thinking. This often produces such a shock that its realisa-
39
40 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
tion creates an intense desire to hide ourselves from those whose
approbation we most desire. It makes us modest indeed to dis-
cover stark reality in the words, "The secret thoughts ofthe soul
shall be shouted from the housetops." But the desire for love and
companionship sets other forces in motion, and thus the seance
room becomes the very gate of heaven to which many poor
souls are brought by their spirit helpers in order that they may
learn to work out their own salvation.
Investigators soon lost the fear ofa personal devil. Very little
research among writings prior to Christianity, and even in the
Old Testament itself, proves that gods, angels, spirits and devils
were often interchangeable terms dependent entirely upon the
whim of translators or point of view of the speaker. A few
there are who still fail to see that a literal burning hell, with His
Satanic Majesty as lord and king, allowed out for the sole purpose
ofensnaring God's helpless children, is the grossest possible libel
upon the wisdom and justice of God, and an utter impossibility
ifthe Nazarene's ideas ofa God oflove are correct.
Sitters were often asked to pray for "souls in darkness." But
no matter how pitiful the requests for prayers might be, or how
dark the surroundings of degraded souls, one and all declared
they had never met a personal devil, and, curiously enough,
exalted the love, wisdom, justice and mercy of God.
Closer questioning revealed the fact that they are rarely
allowed to come definitely into contact with mortals until some
form of probationary training inclines them to this specific
attitude of mind. They are not all aware of their own training
ground, or the hospitals through which they have passed. Some,
however, do get faint glimpses en route, and, as soon as they are
ready for the fuller light, their own spirit guides complete the
teaching, and thus turn the devils ofman's creation into "minis-
tering spirits, seeking to teach and to save."
The greatest revelation of all was the discovery that after-
death states are purely mental. The Indian truly found his happy
hunting grounds, but he could no longer kill and eat. Physical
necessities were no longer the absorbing need of life, and with
the loss of the physical body all sensation becomes transformed
into something finer though more intense. The joy of life is
greater because the heavy, cumbersome garment of .flesh no
THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES 41
longer cloys thought and action. 1
The pleasures of the chase are
still his, but the animals become his friends and forest glades take
onnew and unexpected delights. Each type oflife is seen to be an
expression oflove. He can no longer kill or be killed. All fear is
removed, and he is ready for the next step up on the ladder of
progress. '
So with the Christian. His life has been spent in ceremonial
observances. He found his joy in music and association with
kindred minds. If to his faith he added works-and had no
mental background of petty jealousy, vice and vindictiveness or
secret ambitions-he finds his kindred souls, and quite conten-
tedly continues his chapel routine until at last he realises that,
though passed from the body, he has not found the heaven
of harps and eternal singing round the throne of a personal
God.
Then follows inquiry and a "divine discontent," which causes
his speedy removal from mechanical routine into active realisa-
tion of his relationship and duty to all mankind. He then dis-
covers new meanings to old texts, and thus modem preachers are
inspired with ideas that make present-day Christianity a very
different thing from what it was in the "dark ages," when it was
esteemed a perfecdy honourable proceeding to bum or torture
all who differed.
The teaching was so clear and definite that, when the spirit of
the great reformer Robert Owen passed a concise summary of
principles through Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, there was no
difficulty in getting them adopted at the meeting of societary
delegates in 1901. They were altered on the advice of the
solicitors to the Spiritualists' National Union for the purposes of
legal definition and consequent registration and are now known
as the Seven Principles. But as many old books retain the
original form of six statements, I reproduce them here for the
sake of completeness:
I. The fatherhood of God.
2 . The brotherhood of man.
3. The immortality ofthe soul and its personal characteristics.
4· Proven facts of communion between departed human
spirits and mortals.
42 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
5· Personal respol!lsibility. With compensation and retribu-
tion hereafter for all good or evil deeds done here.
6. A path ofetemal progress open to every human soul that
wills to tread it by thoe path ofeternal good.
FATHERHOOD OF GOD
Spiritualism defines God for no man. Definitions imply
limitations and we refuse to limit the illimitable or define the
indefinable; but one fact is clear, the great first cause, called God,
manifests by and tlurough law. Men and angels may utilise
these laws, they cannot change them. Logically, we cannot
conceive ofa first cause, for all causes must themselves be caused.
Eternity means backward as well as forward, but the human
mind is so constituted that the brain would break down ifit did
not set some limitatioOn on imagination.
In all worlds we Jtind implacable law in manifestation and,
since love is the highest manifestation of that law, we bow our
heads before the incetmprehensible. By combining it with the
protective idea which.fatherhood connotes, we make concrete to
our imagination the great lawgiver and designer "who deeth all
things well." We cannot conceive ofjustice setting aside natural
law to work miracles for a favoured few. Nor love creating a
world of unhappiness and consummating His folly by brutally
pwlishing those of His creation who are incapable of accepting
the statements of priests.
• These are the wcks on which creedalism is foundering.
Priests freely adapted from ancient mythologies concepts ofGod
repugnant to elementary principles of righteousness. They
were based on an ig;norant fear which theologians still try to
graft on to the God ofJesus, who taught a God of love in its
place. Belief in a creed is in some vague way believed to be
essential to salvation. from eternal torment, and tllis idea has
gradually supplanted the necessity for character as an essential
part ofreligion.
It is true that many Christians now accept the doctrine of
evolution, and even repudiate the deity ofJesus, but it is hopeless
to think they can get: their newer viewpoint accepted so long as
they use words which infer the retention ofearlier meanings. It
is quite common to .hear the name ofJesus Christ used by men
THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES 43
who repudiate his deity. Jesus the Christ did not meanJesus the
God but Jesus the anointed, anointing being a common
practice when priests were ordained.
Similar subterfuges are introduced by those who desire to
"square Spiritualism" with the very errors that Christianity is
striving so hard to throw off. Thus old ideas are perpetuated,
despite the pretence that words now mean something entirely
different from that which our forefathers taught. I therefore
advise students to avoid the use of the word "Christ," which
forms the theological battleground, and to avoid being drawn
into bitter sectarian disputes. This you can do by using the word
Jesus when the man is meant and God when you are referring to
Him. But by all means cease the hackneyed use ofany words
which mean so much but are used so glibly. "Why do men call
megood? Thereisnonegood butGod. Worship God,"saidJesus.
We accept the ideal presented by Jesus in the phrase, "Be ye
perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect." God, therefore,
symbolises all that is just, holy, good and wise. The ideal is
expected to arouse corresponding ideals, for man is ever prone
to imitate the qualities he admires. Mean men have mean con-
cepts ofGod, and fighting men think He reserves a special corner
in heaven for bloodthirsty warriors. We naturally excuse
personal actions ifwe think they are pleasing to the Deity. That,
in the past, justified the burning and torturing ofheretics. What
God does must surely be right for His children to do. Hence the
necessity for teaching the God of love and justice.
Love and hatred cannot co-exist side by side-the one destroys
the other. Spiritualism repudiates all such imperfections as vice,
hatred, partiality, or injustice as attributes of God. God never
made mistakes. He did not create Adam and Eve or place them
where he knew they must "fall" and curse humanity for ever.
Nor would He need to drown the consequence ofHis errors in a
flood or sacrifice one-third ofHimself to atone for the mistakes
of the othez: two-thirds. These arc the mazes from which
Christianity c~ot disentangle itself so long as it uses words
with obsolete meanings.
Enlightened chr\;tian opinion now inc1nes to theview that all
these statements are pure symbolism, but the masses still cling to
a literal interpretation of the Bible, which presents an anthro-
44 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPDUTUALISM
pomorphic God with very human failings. Evolution proves
that man was not created "perfect," but rose from lower forms
oflife. Even ifAdam and Eve lived in the Garden ofEden six
thousand years ago, they would know no language, no arts, no
science, and they would be but one step removed from the
intelligence ofbrutes in the field. Adam, therefore, did not fall.
Fatherhood connotes the sonship ofall mankind. In this sense,
Spiritualists interpret the teachings of Jesus. If you use the
phrase, "Christ in you," you mean the divinity of God as ex-
pressed through the: soul of man. Y~ do not mean a man
namedJesus reincamated in you. Hence the need for eliniiiiafing
ambiguous-phrases amd for using words which have undisputed
meanings. Only thus can you stand aside from the terrible
sectarian disputes which have deluged the world with blood and
tears in the name ofreligion. Clarify your mind as to what you
exactly mean when you use words referring to deity like God,
Christ andJesus. The main point to remember is that if"Christ"
means "God" there is only a difference in words between the
creedal Christian and tl1e Spiritualist. But it does not.
BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
The brotherhood ofman cuts at the root ofall inequalities of
opportunity. It expresses a family relationship that ought to
prevall all over the world. It makes crin~al the degradation of
"subject" races. 'I!J~y_should be helped, not exploited for
commercial purposes. In family life we do not take advantage of
eadlother's necessi:ties. The family ideal must embrace all
humanity. Political.work must be directed towards general cul-
ture, with perfect freedom for all to work towards the same goal.
Arbitration must supplant warfare. Trades and professions
must be freed from all that is demoralising. It ought not to
"pay" to gamble with people's lives and fortunes on the stock
exchange, nor for the politician and lawyer to lie and cheat, the
tradesman to adulterate, the armament maker to precipitate
wars, nor wealth in any way to corrupt the finer qualities ofthe
soul. Every aspect oflife musthave a way opened up so that men
may be transparently honest without fear of tricky duplicity, or
loss oflivelihood.
People should be taught what to eat and drink, and what to
THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES 45
avoid, so that a sound mind might control the highly developed
physical body. Everything that prevents us living clean, whole-
some lives must be eradicated. Your politics, your work, your
home life and your studies-everything-enters into the religion
of Spiritualism, which will thus sweep all shams and hypocrisies
away. The religion of Spiritualism plants your feet on every
reformer's platform, and makes deeds, not creeds, the pathway
to heaven.
COMMUNION OJF SPIRITS
This is the sheet anChor of modem Spiritualism. Christians
assert that revelation ceased two thousand years ago. We affirm
that God's laws never change, and that revelations from the spirit
world are still coming through. Scientists are now adding their
testimony to ours.
Our experiences hdp us to understand the religious systems of
the world, and, bec:ause of this fact, we hope to become the
unifying force that will eventually bind them into one har-
monious family. The true meaning of the word "religion" is
"to bind back to God." Hence Spiritualism is a religion in the
highest sense ofthe word.
CONTINUOUS EXISTENCE
You cannot "prove" either beginnings or endings; butwe teach
the immortality ofthe soul withits characteristics and memories
because it is consistently taught by all returning spirits. They
prove their individuality by the matter and manner of their
communications. They all teaCh that true growth is ofthe soul,
and is attained by effort and development in love, wisdom and
experience. We do not merely believe we shall live after the
change called death; we affirm that it is a demonstrable fact. By
direct scientifically re:corded evidence we have satisfied ourselves
that the grave merely receives the physical elements ofwhich the
body is composed, and that consciousness persists after the decay
of the body.
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
If you accept this principle, away goes the premiun1 on sin
implied in the "vicarious atonement," which teaChes that man
can shuffie the conse•quences ofhis misdeeds on to the shoulders
THE UNIVERSiTY OF SPIRITUAliSM
of a "saviour." It is quite untrue. The law of cause and effect
follows us into the spirit world and automatically adj usts all
relationships. This refusal to adopt orthodox ideas brings us into
conflict with sectarians. But returning spirit people prove that
cant, selfishness and hypocrisy, equally with all the virtues, set
laws in motion which produce inevitable results.
It is better to ask forgiveness from the person you have
wronged than pray to God to take over your sin while you leave
the victim suffering. Make sure of your victim's pardon. You
will find God's forgiveness follows as a matter ofcourse. Realisa-
tion ofour responsibility and a willingness to live up to it allies us
to positive powers of goodness and changes our spiritual sur-
roundings.
In the spirit world, we find that even sins of omission point
their accusing fingers at us, and that realities are no longer
obscured by the customs or hypocrisies of modem life. De-
graded thinking produces limitation of psychic perception, and
true progress starts as soon as we "render unto Cresar the things
which are Cresar's, and to God the things which are His."
REMORSE AND I....EWARD
Spirit people teach that sin is most detrimental to the sinner.
It stunts his spiritual growth and links him to associations in
sympathy with follies. The infraction ofspiritual laws produces
pain as surely as the breaking of a limb under physical law.
Virtue is its own reward, because it sets forces in motion which
eventually produce happiness, even though man's stupidity may
delay it during his earthly life.
There is no vindictive punishment in the after-life, and the
inevitable reaction ofvice is unhappiness. But suffering, bravely
endured, always proves a stepping stone to progress. The
development of a strong character means the development of
spiritual powers. All spirits teach that they grow "brighter" as
they learn the lesson that prayer to God is best expressed by '
works for humanity. Thus it comes about that God is not
mocked. Character is the surest passport to heaven.
Darkness and wrong thinking are synonymous terrns from the
spirit standpoint. Right thought leads to right action, which
automatically dispels the clouds o( illusion created by selfish
T:Hll SEVEN PRINCIPLES 47
indulgence and the misuse of life's opportunities. Spirits con-
tinually beg us to try and set laws in motion while still in the
body, and thus lay up "treasure in heaven" by developing the 1
gem ofa beautiful life jiDd avoid spheres ofdarkness. By spread-
itfg a knowledge ofth.ese laws, the spirit people hope to sweep
away all unhappy conditions from earth and the lower spiritual
planes which evolve from it.
ETERNAL PROGRESS
It is only man's folly that prevents the reign ofthe kingdom of
heaven upon earth. It ,;vi]j materialise as soon as we recognise the
futility of commercial, sectarian and political selfishness and
intrigue. The need for· dus correct "poise ofthe mind" is thrust
upon the discarnate spirit at every turn. Each gravitates to his
own place, and it spedily becomes apparent that, as thought
carries its owner to scenes and conditions d1at reflect his own
mentality, there is no burking the issue. ·
On earili, d1e big purse buys power and respectability, but in
spirit life earili's petty schemes are found to be a positive hind-
rance to spiritual growth, unless iliey were formulated wiili a
genuine desire to adv;mce human progress. The reborn into
spirit life, ilierefore, s,Eudy to eliminate every thought iliat has a
purely selfish origin, an.d dlls is the magic wand that opens up the
pailiway ofeternal progress.
They discover that tltue happiness is only possible where strict
truili, love and justioe permanently abide. The religion of
Spiritualism teaches us to apply iliese laws wllile on earth, and
compels tolerance to all opposing creeds. But- iliough tolerant
-we must be firm in our adhesion to principles. The canting
hypocrisy which demands iliat we must play up to ortl1odoxy,
money powers, or any other form of "auiliority" is nauseating
to sincere reformers. Let history be your guide.
J Very few reforms m:ake headway so long as they compronlise \
' witl1 error. The true rqan becomes a brave soul. The brave soul
brooks no departure from "right iliought, right speech and
1right action," to quote Confucius. Cunning and diplomacy are )
I frustrated by ilie operation ofthis simple formula, and iliose who
practise it become the leaders ofmen onearili and ilie ministering
spirits of God both he:re and hereafter.
CHAPTER V
FACTS VERSUS THEORIES
BECAUSE Christians attack Spiritualism from so many
different viewpoints, it is essential for investigators to get
clear ideas as to the reasons. The Spiritualist's difficulty is simply
that what one regards as Christianity anotheraffirming adherence
to the same religion will flatly contradict. To the Roman
Catholic, Romanism is the only true Christianity; tl10se who are
outside "The Church" are heretics, and not Christians at all.
Nearly all Protestant sects adopt a somewhat similar viewpoint
in relation to others. But so wide are the divergencies, that some
Christians repudiate the very creed upon which their own sect is
based.
In one and the same church are now found those who believe
in the verbal inspiration of the Bible, a literal word-for-word
dictation by a personal God, side by side with fellow churchmen
who deny this conclusion in toto. Yet both will repeat the original
creeds from their prayer books, without realising any incon-
sistency. They now tacitly refuse to discuss their difficulties
because of the bitter wrangling that inevitably ensues. For
instance, in the "Christian World" for September22, 1932, under
the heading "Who Is A Christian?" Dr. Jowett says, "... it J
means that we should regard all persons as Christians, even ifthey
come before us with otl1er names, if they are doing the work of
IChrist." I got precisely the same explanation ofMohammedan-
. ism from the leader ofthe sect at Southfields, except that he used
the word Mohammed instead of Christ. They mean exactly the
same thing. This means that those who live a good, clean life are
followers both oflslam andJesus. To this section, creeds simply
do not matter. I have no doubt that I could find Buddhists and
Confucians who would accept the same definition of their
religion. •
To those who repudiate all dictionary meanings ofthe creeds
they profess to follow, my arguments cannot apply. But so
48
FA.CTS VERSUS THEORIBS 49
subtle is their reasoning that it is very doubtful whether they
know what they really- do believe. My position is that Spiritual-
ism cuts at the root ofall orthodox Christianity. This is realised
and resented even by the broadest-minded. They do not realise
that their opposition is: the result oflong years ofunquestioning
acceptance ofdogmas 1they were afraid to examine. Slowly they
learned that the Bible is a collection ofwritings thatfloated about
the world for hundreds of years subject all that time to priestly
interference. No actual original writings exist; the best we have
are reputed copies of copies. Purely historical records do not
need the finger of God to write them.
Critics also discovered that the original Hebrew alphabet
contains no vowels, therefore translators had to make guesses as
to what was actually meant. Further, grave doubt was cast upon
sectarian honesty in traU1Slation, by the discovery that such texts
as I John, v. 7: "For th,ere are three that bear record in heaven-
the Father, the Son, andl the Holy Ghost: and these three are one,"
is not to be found in the earliest copies. It was presumably an
interpolation. Revised editions became necessary, but the
necessity for these revisions had to be published and the laity
learned themethods by which priests selected the present writings
from hundreds of spw:i.ous or inferior copies that had to be
rejected.
In the result, Christians are taking their courage in both hands
and freeing themselves from superstition and bigotry. Slowly a
purely Spiritualistic explanation of biblical records is being 1
adopted. It is that men, and not books, are inspired. Prophets,
seers and automatic writers may be inspired by spirits ofvarying '
qualities, but interpreters or recorders may entirely misunder-
stand the trueln.spiration. When it is also realised that even the I
earliest writings were based on oral tradition, it is clear that very l
serious discrepancies wuld easily creep in.
Brave men outside the church compelled examination, but
many inside the chur,ch also spoke in accordance with their
conscience and to it added actual research work that could not
be silenced. Thus the first five books of the Bible, called the
Pentateuch, were repudiated by Bishop Colenso as the work of
Moses, who could not very well have recorded his own death
and burial as stated in Deut. XA'Xiv, verses 5 and 6.
50 THE UNIVERSITY OP SPIIUTUALISM
It was a very simple discovery and debated with gre!'-t heat.
But thus Higher Criticism was born. Soon all the books in the
Bible and their authorship were questioned, and it was realised
that few, if any, of the reputed authors could have written the
books attributed to them. The Higher Critics soon discovered
far more serious discrepancies and difficulties of belief than
Bishop Colenso. How were they to appraise miracles ofwhich
they had neither historical corroboration nor evidences of any
kind remaining? Without its stories ofthe supernatural, the need
for the Bible collapsed.
Rationalists were very willing to accept as true everything
which related to man's earthly experience-his wars, his arts,
his poetry, his science and all that could be proven by contem-
porary records, but he most certainly would not accept as true
anything which savoured of divine interference with nature's
laws. The attributes of God thus became a matter of popular
discussion. Obviously, if God were everywhere He could not
be limited to the specific form ofa man. Pope's poetic definition
that "All nature is the garb ofGod" became generally accepted.
But how could this God of nature walk in the garden of Eden
and talkwith Adam, or perform the many personal acts recorded?
With analysis came enlightenment, but criticism without
psychic experiences merely drove the world more quickly
towards materialism. In the result, many people wilfully shut
their eyes to obvious facts in order to cling to their cherished
faith.
Nor must it be thought that these intellectual battles are being
fought out in Christianiry alone. Similar growing pains are
evident everywhere. Christians baldly explain away all the
sacred writings ofother religions as "mythologies" and term the
followers "infidels." They quite forget that they are equally
"infidel" to their opponents. Each resents as an impertinence the
arrogant assumption that his scriptures are myths or plagiarisms,
but tl1at those ofhis opponent are "divine" revelations. Gerald
Massey's researches carried the fight one stage further by proving
there was a measure o'ftruth in all arguments. Hence Spiritualists
as a body refuse to be tied to any authority whatsoever, and
claim the right to select their ideals from all the sacred writings
in the world.
ftACIS VllRSUS THEORIES SI
Analysis and discussion have proceeded apace until finally the
school ofHigher Criticism cast so much doubt upon all stories of
the "supernatural" tlnat it has almost become a hall-mark of
imbecility to affirm 1that there is a spirit world and that either
gods, angels or devils, can or ever did manifest themselves to
mankind. The reactiion to this is that we are confronted with
large bodies ofmen who regard ignorance as a virtue and loudly
proclaim ilieir refusal to examine historical evidences lest they
jeopardise their eternal salvation.
Every new revision ofthe Bible is therefore attacked, fear and
ignorance being the driving forces. But ilie Spiritualist kno.ws
no fear. His forefathers were tortured and burned, but in the
name ofscience iliey went forward. Thus the world is gradually
being freed from ilie nightmare ofterror which is found to have
no basis in actual fact:.
Ofthe central character in Christian teaching, Jesus; I shall say
little. Spiritualists dlo not desire to destroy idealism if that
idealism makes men better citizens, but creedalism is a travesty of
its founder's teaching and, by removing the need for character as
an essential part, filled the world with hatred in place of love,
and actually prevents true spiritual progression. It is the resultant
ideals that matter to me as a Spiritualist. These are serious, for
when I know that clergy are ordained, and with their lips affirm
belief in the Thirty-Nine Articles of ilieir creed, but, because
iliese are impossible of acceptance, are ordained with permitted
"mental reservations," it follows that iliese "blind leaders of
the blind" are not honest men, and that it is essential for the
laity to form their own conclusions on such evidences as are
available.
The most glaring example of this inconsistency is found in
strict sabbatarianism. At one time, deaili or imprisonment
followed any infraction of the ilieological interpretation. No
educated man now believes the world was made in six days; but
the doctrine ofthe "f:ill of man" and the consequent necessity
for "salv~n by faith" are based upon thi~eJ:¥ fact,/
"God"sanctified the SaB'bath day and hallowed it," and ancient
Jewish law even forbade the cutting of hair and the paring of
nails on me Sabbaili day. Apologists now teach that"day" means
"an age-long period." Curiously enough, they only apply this
52 THB trnTVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
meaning to selected passages which would be foolish if inter-
preted any other way. Ifthey would but apply the idea to texts
like the command to keep the Sabbath day holy no one would
grumble. Certainly no weekly wage-earner would object to
"resting" on a Sabbath day- for a million years or so-but he
most certainly would object to working for an "age-long" day.
It is because Christians are trying to uphold the statements in
the Bible, no matter how absurd, that caused a local school-
master in Dayton, U.S.A., to be prosecuted for teaching the
theory of evolution. All the newspapers waxed eloquent over
the story of"Monkeyville." It is therefore essential that everyone
should be familiar with the fotmdations of the theory, so that
every door may be kept open for further enlightenment. Jtit_a
bitter realisation that most clergymen know~tru.th, hut fear
to teacnit, restit jeopardise=tlietr ITvelihooCI. 4 - -
-side by side with these aspects we find churches which
dogmatically continue their assertions, and ignore the conflict of
science with theology. The result is obvious everywhere. Even
the schoolboy can confound the theologian. He is sent to church
as a matter ofsocial custom, buthis religious observances have no
real and effective influence upon his daily life. He affirms on
Sunday what his reason rejects on Monday. The consequent
~~ qfh.ypocrisy is appalljpg. .-
Religion is supposed to be divorced from "business" and every
practical application of its tenets. Vaguely it objects to war,
slumdom, and any breach of the ten commandments. Ever the
priest upholds authority at the expense ofjustice, and lends an air
of"respectability" to functions that have a disastrous effect upon
the poor, the only class that needs special protection.rne'blesses·
( the army when it fights; his "Christian" enemy does the samy
~d each
_ thanks God ifhis side can claim a victory.
lii order thaf we may continue the good work, we must
examine the foundations on which obstacles to the use of God-
given reason were built, and which still act as subconscious
brakes upon investigations into Spiritualism. In the nature of
_things, untutored minds could make but vague guesses as to the
origin both of man and the earth, but in course of time these
guesses became adopted as part ofa pre-ordained plan of salva-
tion, and all Christian statements offaith are more orless coloured
FACTS VERSUS THEORIES 53
by these speculations which :finally made it necessary for God to
sacrifice a third portion,of Himselfin order to atone for the mis-
takes ofthe other two-thirds. As omnipotence could not possibly .-
stultify Himselfin this way, or He could not be omnipotent, we J
must first state the conclusions at which orthodoxy arrived, and /
then examine the fow1dations on which the superstition was
built.
I shall not weary y1ou with an examination of the various
creeds in detail, but will baldly state the conclusions accepted by
the majority. This starts with the idea that by a miraculous effort
ofwill, God made the earth in six days, with all its animal and
vegetable life. He rested on the seventh day, and around this
presumed ordinance of God the fight for strict sabbatarianism
is still being fought. B1ut He made one mistake.
Having made Adam and Eve and ordered them to remain
ignorant (they were n'ot "to eat of the fruit from the tree of
knowledge"), He made a great mistake in endowing them with
reasoning powers and an insatiable curiosity. They were dis-
obedient, and because they could do no other than use the
faculties He had gi.vem. them, they were turned out of the
beautiful Garden of Eden.
As a piece ofsymboLism, we need not stop to criticise the first ~·
chapters ofGenesis, which contain the main details, but the out-
come of this extraordinary story is that because Adam "fell"
from ignorance to knowledge, the whole of mankind is cursed,
and, unless they can hypnotise themselves into the idea that the
death ofJesus removes the consequences ofAdam's action, they /
are doomed to perdition for ever. This, in the past, meant a very
literal burning bell, w.ith a very definite devil. And, where
people refuse "to eat from the tree of knowledge," it is still •
believed.
Our survey ofbases must therefore begin with an examination
ofthe probable origins ofthe earth and mankind. Only thus can
we settle the question as to whether the world, including man,
was made in six days.
The simplest explanation, from a layman's point of view, \
arises from tl1e study ofcoal and its surroundings. Here we get
a direct object lessonfrom thenature ofthesoils above and below
the coal seam, which unmistakably reveals the story ofits origin.
54 THE UNlVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
We have but to compute the time each seam took to develop
into coal to obtain a clear idea ofthe great age ofthe earth. We
also know what forms oflife and vegetation flourished in these
dim periods ofhistory, because we find the actual forms ofplant_
and animal fossilised in the rocks and coal, or buried in the
adjacent soil.
The following extract from "The Story OfA Piece of Coal"
will illustrate these facts:
"Many ferns found in coal . . . greatly resemble e:xisting
species, yet there are others in these ancient days utterly unlike
anything indigenous to England now. There are undoubted
'tree-ferns' similar to those which tl1rive so luxuriously in the
tropics, and which tl1row out their graceful crown of ferns at
the head of a naked stem, whilst on the bark are the marks at
different levels of the points of attachment to former stems and
leaves.
"One form of tree-fern, known as psaronius, was peculiar in
the possession ofaerial roots grouped round the stem. Some of
the smaller species exhibit forms of leaves whicP. are utterly
unknown in the nomenclature of living ferns. Most have had
names assigned to them in accordance with certain characteristics
which they possess. This was possible because the fossilised
impressions had been retained in so distinct a manner. . . . In
some species offern so exact are the representations which they
have impressed upon the shale which lontains them, iliat not
only are the veins and nerves distinctly aisplayed, but even tile
marks by the so-called seeds are displayed on the backs of the
leaves..•.
"In Souili Wales the coal.,.bearing stratahave been estimated at
between eleven thousand and tllirteen iliousand feet. . . . When
at last it was announced as a patent fact iliat every bed of coal
possessed its underclay, and that trees had actually been found
standing upon their own roots in the clay, there was no longer
room for doubt that the correct theory had been hit upon, viz.,
that coal is now found just where tl1e trees composing it had
grown in tl1e past, or rivers had deposited vegetation. Every
seam of coal takes over a nlillion years to grow. But we have
more than one seam ofcoal to account for. We have to explain
the existence of several layers of coal which have been formed
FACTS VERSUS THEORIES 55
over one another on the same spot at successive periods, divided
by other enormous pe1riods oftime.
"A careful estimate of the Lancashire coalfields submitted by
Professor Hull for the geological survey of the seven thousand
carboniferous strata he:re found spread out over an area of two
hundred and seventeen square miles, there are on an average
eighteen seams of coal What does this mean? It means that
during carboniferous times, on no less than eighteen occasions,
separate and di$tinct £()rests have grown on this self-same spot,
and that between ead1 of these occasions changes have taken
place which have broJUght it beneath the waters of the ocean,
where the sandstones and shales have been formed which divided
the coal seams from each other."
The difference betw•een biblical and scientific assertions is not
of years or days, but millions ofyears. It is, therefore, essential
to compare them, for if the story told in Genesis is merely an
allegory, there was nc• literal Garden of Eden, and the genea-
logical record traced to Adam is utterly unfounded. The
theological plan of sa1vation falls to the ground, if science is
correct in its inferences:.
As a result ofthis comparison, it is easy to see why thoughtful
men are streaming away from Orthodoxy. From these dis- \
-coveries, the beliefhas gradually gained ground that the whole o£ '
the Bible is equally untrustworthy. The bigotry and intolerance
ofprfeSffitrcrc&=Wlio r'i!ti!IS"e to discilSs these matters lay them open
to the charge that they prefer to hold tightly to their vested
interests in preference to revealed truth.
Criticism begat indifference; indifference begat materialism.
Scientific materialism .has rung the death knell of Christianity.
An air ofincredulity has supplanted blind faith. It is as good as
buried already, unless it accepts the vivifying evidences of
Spiritualism. Collegi:ans are refusing to take "holy" orders,
because their training proves tha'tP~~ests, c:;annot speak as their
unfettered conscience dictates. ~atory h~ ...kil)ed
superstitiov/ • ---
·· - spiritualism, with its higher science and definite evidences, can
save the churches, but note the conditions. They must practise
what they preach; they must face truth in all its bearings. Iftheir
theology is wrong, they must alter it. They must not be dis-
56 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
honest and pretend that twenty-four hours means an intermin-
able period oftime in order to reconcile Biblical statements with
proven facts. Christian theology revolves around the original
story ofcreation as found in Genesis.
Many Acts of Parliament compel Christian communities to
keep the Commandments: "Remember the sabbath day to keep
it holy ... for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the
sea and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day."
(Exodus xx, vs. 8-II.) To pretend that "day" means more than
twenty-four hours while the Lord's Day Observance Act re-
mains on the statute books is such transparent mental jugglery
that honest men refuse to sit any longer at the feet of clerical
conjurers. Hence creedalism is fast losing its hold on the world.
IfAdam was not born as stated andJesus was not sacrificed as a
propitiation for our sins, the clergy must clearly say so and adopt
the Spiritualist doctrine ofpersonal responsibility. If they deny
the existence ofthe devil and the literal hell, they must be honest
and say clearly that the Spiritualist conception of after-death
states is far more rational and probable.
If Spiritualism proves that ghosts, both holy and unholy, can
return to earth and therefore that some parts of the Bible are
true, they must accept the facts thankfully and not suggest that
Spiritualists are devil-ridden, especially when their own con-
science repudiates his existence. The day of subterfuge is past.
But, ifthey will scrap their theologies and plans ofsalvation and
realise that all truth is ofGod, we may save them. But will they?
Spiritualism proves its foundations. The story of a piece of
coal was an excellent method ofdiscovering the age ofthe earth,
but it must not be thought that earth's strata lie evenly. Earth-
quakes, floods and subsidences have all played their part. In
general, it may be said that the inner crust is a hard, crystalline,
rock-like substance. On this the limestones and sandstones,
indicating sea life and action, and coal, representing original
forest lands, are clearly traceai?le one above the other. But
science has many other methods of computing the age of the
earth, as is indicated in the following article by Professor J.
Arthur Thomson, M.A., in "John o' London's Weekly" for
November 16, 1929:
"... As regards the age of the earth, no one man can weigh
FACIS VERSUS THEORIES 57
the evidence gained along the diverse lines ofinquiry-astrono-
mical, biological, and physico-chemical. For there are at least
four approaches to this problem. It is possible to pile together in
imagination all the sediments that have been deposited and con-
solidated age after age. All the sandstones, mudstones and lime-
stones that have been formed from the primitive crust of the
earth, and with help from lime-capturing animals like corals,
would make a vertical pile, layer upon layer, between fifty and
sixty miles in thickness.
..Now, ifwe knew the present rates oferosion and deposition,
and if we assume that they have not been much greater in the
ages that are past, we can divide the miles of thickness by the
annual rate, and find the age of the earth. No doubt important
corrections have to be made, e.g., for man's quickening of the
rates of deposition; and there is great difficulty in making sure
where the sedimentary rocks begin, i.e., lie in contact with the
'original crust ofthe earth.' But geologists are not slow to tackle
these difficulties, and Professor Chamberlin is inclined to think
that the age of the earth as estimated from sediments will ap-
proach to that reached by modern estimates (to be noticed
presently), based on a study of radio-activity. These estimates
lead us to such inconceivable figures as a thousand million years.
«As Edmond Halley, first prophet of a comet's return, sug-
gested in 1715, the age of the earth can be computed from the
amount of common salt in the sea. The sodium part of the salt
(sodium chloride) has been filched from the rocks by rain and
rivers at the rate ofsome sixty-three million tons a year. Divide
the total amount ofsalt in the sea by this annual rate, and the
answer will be the age ofthe earth, an average estimate being a
hundred millions of years.
"But Professor Chamberlin indicates that this method must be
taken cumgrano salis! The ocean has had an intricate history, and
a uniform volume throughout the ages cannot be postulated.
Moreover, there are many reasons for not supposing a steady rate
ofsodium supply. And, again, the sodium may in various ways
pass back out ofsolution into solid combinations. As Professor
Chamberlin says, the science of hydrogeology is not ready for
the witriess-box. It cannot stand cross-examination.
"Certainly the neatest way ofgetting at the age ofthe earth is
ss THll UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
from the transformations or transmutations of radioactive sub-
stances, for these changes go on independently of all attempted
interference. They cannot be stopped; they cannot be slowed or
quickened by alterations of temperature or pressure; and they
always take place in one direction only, from an element of
higher atomic weight to an element of lower atomic weight.
They are clocks which are always running down. Thus the metal
uranium transforms itself, through a series ofintermediate stages,
into the metal lead and the gas helium.
"The rate of transformation is such that five per cent of a
quantity of uranium changes into lead and helium in about
three hundred and seventy millions of years. When uranium,
lead, and helium are found together in a mineral, as they often
are, it is natural to suppose that the helium and the lead were
produced by the disintegration of the uranium. Knowing the
rate of this disintegration and the relative amounts of the ele-
ments, the expert can calculate how long they have been in
contact with each other- and cl1e calculations vary from three
hundred and forty millions to one thousand seven hundred
millions ofyears, according to the nature of the ore. No doubt
there are snags here, too; but it is a very neat method, and it has
certainly shown that the early estimates of the earth's longevity
made by Lord Kelvin were far too moderate. It is now well
known that Lord Kelvin's method of arguing backwards from
the sw1's present loss ofenergy to the date when an ocean could
have been formed on the earth was vitiated by his unawareness
of radio-activity. For it is now believed that the sun has some
supply ofenergy besides that which it derives from its own con-
densation. In other words, it depends in part, like the stars, on
atomic energy.
"An argument based on the eccentricity of tl1e orbit of
Mercury has led some astronomers to conclude that the time
since the rupture of the earth from the parent sun is probably
between a thousand million and ten thousand million years.
Most of that vast time is to be allocated to the interval between
the formation ofthe ocean and the present day, for, according to
the argument of Dr. Jeffreys, the earth became solid within
fifteen thousand years from its ejection from the sun.
"No ocean could form on the earth until the sun had passed
FACTS VERSUS THEORIES 59
through its giant s~- stage and Wal! declining into its present
phase as a yellow dwarf star. And it appears from the radio-
activity argument-the uranium to lead ratio-that this cannot
have beenless than one thousand three hundred andforty millions
of years ago.
"In Darwin's day biologists were begging the geologists to
grant the earth a great antiquity, for, they said, a period of, say,
forty million years is ludicrously insufficient for the process of
organic evolution. Nowadays, however, the biologists have got
over a thousand million years to work with. This must content
us, for, except as regards man and his dependents, we know
almost nothing in regard to the rate oforganic evolution."
It is necessary clearly to understand the theory ofevolution, or
you will quite fail to grasp scientific references to the origin of
man in modem literature. Thus far, we have dealt with the
probable age of the earth to show why we follow scientific
evidence in preference to the story of creation given in the
.Bible. The study ofsubsoils, with the strange indications oflife
found embedded therein, illustrates the theory of evolution.
.Before passing to the orthodox findings ofevolutionists, I want
you to note that there exist several "revealed" stories ofcreation.
One specimen must suffice.
In psychic literature dealing with the origin ofman, the claim
is usually made that spirit power assisted in fashioning the earth
and supervised its development. An interesting book ofthis type
is "Oahspe," adopted by Faithists as their bible. They claim that
it was written automatically, the author being ignorant of its
statements until after the writing. Paintings, as illustrations,
were produced in the same way. 'They are distinctly original and
exhibit the usual weird characteristics ofthis type ofwork.
"Oahspe" teaches a special creation of man, with his gradual
unfoldment under angel guidance. The formation oftl1e earth is
explained as follows: ".By the power of rotation, swift driving
forth in the extreme parts, I condense the atmospherean worlds
that float in the firmament, and these become my corporeal
worlds. In the midst ofthe vortices I tum them on their axes and
carry them in the orbits allotted to them. Wider than the moons
ofa planet have I created the vortices, and they carry the moons
also.
60 THB UNIV1!RSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
"Around these corporeal worlds, have I given nebulous belts
and rings that man might comprehend the rotation of my
vortexan worlds. For each and every corporeal world created I
a vortex first, and by its rotation and by places in the firmament
whither it traveleth, caused I the vortex to conceive the corporeal
world. A great vortex created I for the sun, and within this
vortex, and subject to it, made I the vortices ofmany corporeal
worlds. The sun vortex I caused to rotate and gave it power to
carry other vorteces within it. According to their density and
position are they thus carried forth and around about the sun."
Man, according to "Oahspe," was a special creation adapted to
the time and place ofhis brith. He was forced to acquire know-
ledge slowly, but in due time grew out from an ill-formed body
to the types existing today. But students must never mistake
statements for evidence. They are all interesting, and should be
compared with Biblical and scientific teaching; but all "inspired"
revelations must submit their claims to scientific analysis and
later revelations.
In "Man: His Evolution," John Tibbets presents us with a
concept of man's evolution acquired by studies in psychometry
and craniology. He traces the development of individualised
consciousness to the different shapes of the head. In the lowest
types ofanimal ancestry there is little or no indication offrontal
development. Finally, reason and aspiration reduce the purely
animal propensities and evolve the finely balanced brain ofman.
The most generally accepted theory accotmting for the origin
ofthe earth is known as tl1e nebular hypothesis. We now know
that Swedenborg was the first to propound this theory, though
few are aware ofthe claim because it was comparatively recently
found amonghis writings. It is generally credited to a Frenchman
named Laplace, who lived 1749-1827. Kant also taught it.
Briefly explained, it accounts for the beginning of our earth by
stating that the sun threw off a large body of gaseous vapour,
which finally condensed and formed the earth. The develop-
ment of both vegetable and animal life resulted and evolution
is the scientific study of its transitional stages.
Three theories exist to account for the origin of man. The
first and most commonly accepted is that of a miraculous
creation. "And the Lord God formed man out ofthe dust ofthe
PACTS VERSUS TfiBOIUES 61
ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath oflife; and man
became a living soul." (Gen. ii, 7.)
Man is thus complete-body, soul and spirit, for consciousness
is presumably included, as Adam was able immediately to name
the beasts of the field and attend to the Garden of Eden. This
allegory is partly responsible for beliefin the resurrection of the
physical body "on the ilast day, when the graves shall give up
their dead." It is also the foundation ofmany sects which believe
that at the second coming ofJesus the earth will become heaven
and only their own tiny sect will be saved to enjoy the bliss. The
rest will remain dead foJrever.
The alternative to thiB in other sects is that man is a trinity of
body, soul and spirit. The saved go to heaven, but the sinners
go to hell or a purgatory which is generally depicted as being
only a shade more comfortable than hell. The second theory
sometimes partakes of the first in the idea of a miraculous
creation, but since Godl only needed one original body from
which to evolve others, it became necessary to derive an in-
dependent soul or spirit from somewhere.
The difficulty is overcome by believing that at the moment of
conception or quickeniJng, a "spark of cl1e divine" enters the
shell formed by marital relationship. This evolves the contra-
diction in terms that a part ofperfection becomes imperfect by
its descent into matter, and, if sectarianism is true, may never
get back to heaven again.
The third theory is that man is the product of evolution.
From the lowest form oflife discoverable, the protoplasmic cell
combines with others, eventually to become animal or plant in
accordance with the circumstances of its environment. Man is
found to be the highest ]point ofanimal development. Material-
ism stops there in its theory of evolution, but the Spiritualist
maintains that all animal structures develop an etheric or in-
te.rior organism which persists after the death of the physical
body, and that probably there is some regrouping of the lower
forms during etheric life. Prophecies, and the majority ofpsychic
manifestations which p:rove discarnate action, indicate in the
first case that consciousness is not a mere matter of physical
reactions, and, in the second place, that evolution goes on in
what is termed the spiri1t, or unseen, side oflife.
3
62 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Fourthly, there is the idea that no matter whether man
originated as stated by evolutionists, or was a miraculous creation
as affirmed in the Bible, once a human embryo is formed it is
taken possession of by an intelligent spirit entity who may
reincarnate over and over again.
We cannot discuss theory number one. Modem Spiritualism
does n2J; believe in .t.lliia.cles. Everything tlrat occurs does so in
obedience to natural laws. Miracles ais'Uiilethe"Idea of a.God whg
.is' onruae and superior to~
~t, to the majority, is
inconceivabiJ. ·
As we shall arrive at the point ofindividuality, called man, by
the processes of evolution, and cannot present any evidence for
incarnation by a part of the spirit of God as a direct cause of
consciousness, and reincarnation will be fully discussed under its
proper head, we can do no other than follow evolutionary
teaching until we come to individualisation. Disputants as to
origins can thenjoin forces from agreed premises and proceed to
other lines ofinquiry. Although we follow accepted evolution-
ary teaching, I want to impress upon students the main issue
between materialism and Spiritualism. The former believes
individuality and consciousness are the result of a long line of
accidents; environment and heredity being quite sufficient to
account for them. The latter believe that all form is a mani-
festation ofconsCiousness; all nature is alive in a biological sense.
Consciousness is eternally seeking self-expression. It is termed
attraction in the mineral, instinct in the animal and consciousness
in man.
We may not speak much just now ofetheric counterparts, but
wherever an outer form is mentioned, an inner etherealised form
exists, which after death, retains sensation, instinct and con-
sciousness. In man, it is called the spirit body and has definite
form and weight. This was tested in Massachusetts General
Hospital in 1906.
CHAPTER VI
THE ASCENT OF MAN
WE must travel into the bowels of the earth to discover the
long line of animal ancestry that preceded man. Evolu-
tionists claim that his advent can be traced through infinitesimal
forms of life to more complex organisms. They investigate
fossils embedded in the earth or thrown up by earthquakes, and
thus gain some idea ofthe time it took for nature to perfect her
plans.
The nature of the soil and climate in the dim and distant past,
and the changes discoverable in the various strata which per-
mitted life to develop, have enabled science theoretically to fit
in such missing links as are not yet discovered among the fossils.
If a footprint is embedded in the rocks, or the track of a soft-
bodied worm is found, it is not always necessary to see the
actual animal before us to get a vague idea ofhow it lived, and if
here and there shells or bones are found, the scientist's theoretical
reasoning has been found to be marvellously near the mark
when later discoveries lead to more definite statements.
The air we breathe is alive with invisible life. Call them
microbes, bacteria, germs, what you will, they are often the
starting point of fully-formed visible organisms. They may, of
course, be fully developed before becoming visible in the con-
ditioning that reveals their true character to man.
The study of bacteriology produced efforts at breeding
counteracting bacteria, and setting one type to fight another not
only produced sanitary science but measurably assisted evolu-
tionists' conclusions. Increasingly powerful microscopes made
possible conclusions now generally accepted.
In Chambers's "Vestiges Of Creation" we read ofglass globes
and other apparatus, from which all air had been pumped in
order to exclude this teeming invisible life, in preparation for
other experiments. Chemicals and other substances were then
introduced in order to discover whether "spontaneous genera-
63
64 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
tion" was possible. They actually discovered that although
earth was sterilised and great heat introduced, some germs could
live happily through the ordeal and after twenty years began
once more to show signs oflife. Super-heated, air-tight appara-
tus from which all light and air are excluded seems to be the only
successful means ofpreventing life from appearing.
Try as they may, scientists cannot create life. They may
induce conditions which- facilitate or delay developments, but
the life-force from which springs eventual individualised ex-
pressions ever eludes them. I The problem before us is: Do
chemical combinations produce life or does life descend into
suitable receptacles? Docs matter mould life or does life mould
matter?
Materialism recognises this invisible world. All forms of life
probably arise from earthly conditioning, but, as Spiritualism is
opening up more ofthe actual world ofcausation, the possibility
of spiritual forces operating unseen in our midst must not be
overlooked. To the Spiritualist, all form is but an expression of
consciousness, a consciousness planning that "far offdivine event
to whicl1 all creation tends." Evolution does but take us more
into the confidence ofthat power which seems to prove "There
is a divinity that shapes our ends rough hew them how we may."
Protoplasm is said to be the physical basis oflife.. Apparently
of the same composition as the white of an egg, it is colourless,
contracts and expands, and has the ability to pass through closed
membranes. From this point-or before-Spiritualists, too,
must begin to envisage a life-force which enters into all com-
binations of so-called inanimate matter. Logically, we cannot
deny to tl1e lower forms oflife the etheric counterpart iliat we
claim for the higher.
As protozoa, minute particles of pNtoplasm wiili ilie outer
surface merely hardened to form the skin ofcells, it is recognis
~
as the structural unit of all organised bodies. The cell develops
within its tiny organism a nucleus surrounded by a semi-liquid
substance termed cytoplasm. Here we have an organism without
a definite organ-no heart, no lungs, no stomach. It absorbs
nutriment through the skin. It is organic as a whole. It is be-
lieved to be the basis of the ovum ofplants and animals and, in
multiples, variously modified, forms tissue, bone and blood.
THE ASCENT OF MAN 65
Man, by processes of digestion, converts protoplasm into
chemical constituents required for the upbuilding of his body.
From the very beginning a form of consciousness dominates all
activities. The nucleus develops fibrils symptomatic of the
future nervous system both of plants and animals. Presently it
withdraws towards the side ofits tenement. The cell changes its
shape, becomes elongated, and finally there are two rounded
ends connected by a thin thread. The thread snaps and the
marvel of self-propagation is achieved.
Their transformation into plant life is due to the formation of
chlorophyll, a greenish colouring which acts as food. The cells
destined to journey towards the animal kingdom lack chloro-
phyll, and tl1us lacking nutriment are dependent upon other
means ofsubsistence. From this point, each cell,.. by multiplica-
tion, adhesion to otl1er bodies or adaptation to environment,
travels along a specific line of evolution: the one towards the
formation ofthe lordly oak or common daisy, the others in the
direction ofmobile forms oflife.
The cells now begin to co-operate. Each is at first a perfect
isolated unit, but co-operation induces specialisation of the parts
and loss ofability to act as an independent unit except in so far as
such independence is useful to the organism as a whole. Multiples
of two cling together and the mass by imperceptible growth
slowly changes its character. It assumes a horseshoe shape with a
hardening of its outer surface. This b~comes the skin which
separates it from other organisms. For a time, there is doubt as to
whether the developing organism will become plant or animal.
There are flesh-eating plants and animals which vegetate. The
mode ofnutrition finally settles the problem. The future plant
continues to manufacture c~orophyll and draws its nourish-
ment from the earth, air and stm. The animal loses the ability
to manufacture chlorophyll and its need for a continuous supply
offood gradually induces changes in its parts.
Polyps and sponges which remain fixed to a habitat may not
advance beyond this stage, but others float away and have their
shape and nature determined by the forces and elements with
which they come into contact. As the mode ofnutrition changes,
ilie combination of cells undergo alteration and slowly an
elongated form is evolved in which may be seen an opening
66 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPilUTUALJSM
acting as a mouth, a skin which separates it from other organ-
isms, the beginnings ofa nervous system and organs ofsense, and
in the middle may be traced the elementary phases of heart,
skeleton and other important organs.
Tbe horseshoe shape is called the gastrula stage. Later on the
embryo emerges. From this time onwards, the transference of
individual characteristics to its progeny, whether of plant or
animal, is brought about by fertilisation. This necessitates divi-
sion into male and female forms, the seed of the male by im-
pregnating the egg cell of the female starts the long line of dis-
tinctive species.
As our objectis briefly to sketch the theory ofthe origin ofman
by evolution, we now part company with other aspects of life,
and those who wish to follow the evolution of plant life must
turn to such books that specialise in this phase. "Plant Life," by
Professor J. B. Farmer, and ..Evolution Of Plants," by D. H.
Scott, will take them along one line, and Huxley's "Anatomy Of
Invertebrated Forms" will illustrate myriads ofliving forms now
definitely classed as animal which make clear to the student the
line ofevolution from which man is said to have sprung.
Students in London who are taking evolution seriously should
make an effort to visit the Natural History Museum at South
Kensington. Optical education is more convincing than words.
In the fossil rooms they will see fossilised plants and animals
clearly outlined on the rocks which form their permanent home!
There are also forms ofnow extinct life which careful research
has reproduced. A huge dinosaur found in the upper jurassic
strata measures eighty-four feet nine inches from the tip of the
snout to end of the tail. The size and shape is unlike anything
now on earth. Parts ofothers, with models which theoretically
complete the animal, show how very different life forms were at
various periods ofthe earth's history.
There is a complete animal called an armadillo, covered like
an enormous tortoise with a shell inches thick ofcrude rock-like
consistency but covering the body of an animal. Note also the
foliage and nature of the soils and the period of the earth's
development during which these animals lived and you will
begin to visualise the stages and possibly the causes ofthe different
types of life discoverable. Compare these with the crinoids,
THE ASCENT OF MAN 67
mollusca, nautilus and tiny forms oflife exhibited in other cases
and it will appear incredible that they could have evolved from
one common stock called protozoa.
Now go into other rooms and see nature's adaptations to each
animal's needs. Note the wonderful colouring of birds' and
butterflies' wings that cannot be discerned amid the foliage in
which they move, and particularly such details as the changing
colours of.animal coats. See the fox with a white coat in the
winter, enabling it to hide in the snow, .and the same fox in its
summer suit of brown, better to escape from his enemies. But
the most important things to note are the vestigal remains,
indicating atrophy of organs with corresponding changes in the
appearance and characteristics of the animal.
Start with studies relating to the piece of sponge that you
handle every day ofyour life; never dreaming that it is actually
a form oflife in its early stages. Pass on to polyps called Hydra,
hardly distinguishable by the uninitiated from growing plants.
They possess tentacles which develop cells that burst and fling a
poisoned thread around anything that touches the tentacles.
Some of the marine species secrete tubes of flint which become
armour, and others buds which detach themselves and develop
into beautifully tinted medusae or jelly fish. They have an
inverted cup-like head from which depend graceful threads
scarcely distinguishable from plants in appearance. Yet they
possess a nervous system responding to light and sound, and
canals which carry food and oxygen to every part.
Man's body is eighty per cent water, but this fragile jelly fish
has four hundred times as much water as matter. A slightly
more complex structure is the sea anemone with a near relation-
ship to coral builders. The song makes us familiar with it as a
coral insect. It is not. It is classed as an animal because insects
possess bodies of three sections. Wings ofinsects develop from
organs which earlier were used to breathe through during
transitional stages in its change from a life in the water to that of
land. But although in some o)f these we can trace the beginning
of organs common alike to man and the animal kingdom, it is
not until we reach what are called the "vertebrates"-i.e.,
animals with a vertebral column-that we dearly realise the
steps which nature took to fashion man's body.
68 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPDUTUALISM
Hidden in veins in the crust of the earth, the earliest known
forms oflife which left traces are the infinitesimal menera which
feed on the algae. In the strata above, called the primary or
palreozoic epoch, we fi~d slightly more advanced forms, like
sponges, corals and huge crustacea, and the lowest known
vertebrates called ganoids or armoured fiSh. In the Devonian
and carboniferous strata adjoining, we find these classes still
more developed and numerous, and the fish, seal-like, are
adapting themselves to walk on the land as well as switn in water.
In the permian strata adjoining we come across definitely
formed reptiles. This is sometimes called the age of ferns and
fishes, because these were produced most abUlldantly. In the
next strata, called the secondary or Mesozoic, we ftnd fully
developed pine forests and palms, amid which lived immense
reptiles, sea lizards, marsupials and mammals, and an extra-
ordinary bird-reptile which partakes of the nature of both.
A low type of mammal (or milk giver), called a duckbill,
resembles a bird in having a beak but no teeth. It is an animal
with the beak and webbed feet ofa duck but possessing the body
of a beaver or smooth furred animal. In addition, the feet are
furnished with claws. It is one ofthe most extraordinary transi-
tions in nature, for the female lays eggs like a reptile but suckles
its yoll11g like an animal.
In the strata above, called the tertiary or cainozoic epoch, we
come across more fully developed types of those in the lower
stratum or such distinctive variations in form that the transition
stages are easy to guess. The quaternary, or recent, layers of the
earth show us that the leaf-bearing trees have developed from
cruder forms and the reptile ~s rapidly disappearing and ofttimes
apparently changing into other forms through being forced to
follow othermodes ofseeking a livelihood. Alterations in climate
also cause variations in the type of fur or other methods of
overcoming the changed conditions.
Thus the line reaching up to man has been traced through
monotromes, marsupials, placentals, lemurs and ape-like forms,
which are believed to be the nearest approach to the type of
animal we call man. Darwin did not teach that men sprang from
monkeys. There was always the suggestion of a missing link,
and various forms ofape and monkey are believed to branch off
THE ASCENT OF MAN 69
into other directions. But it is clear that low-type men possess an
ape-like skull or one that so nearly resembles them that thinking
on modern lines would be quite an impossibility.
The change in the shape of the brain marks the essential
difference between civilisation and savagery. It must not be
assumed, because we have drawn illustrations showing changes
from one form to another, that one is the immediate conse-
quence or following ofthe other. Between each phase there may
elapse enormous periods of time, with changes from one species
to another.
In different parts ofthe world evidences still exist ofprimitive
types. Thus Africa and South America provide us with a wide
field for investigation which may assist or modify theories con-
cerning different species. The advent of civilisation, with its
deadly lethal weapons, quickly puts an end to the investigation
of all forms of life inimical to the march of progress, and it is
now onlypossible at the various zoologicalgardens and museums,
or by psychometry, to get even a remote idea of the premises
on which scientific evolution is built. But life is always
beginning, always developing, always changing its form, and it
is only because the transitional stages occur over such enormous
periods of time that the immediate variations cannot always
be detected.
The great similarity between the early stages of plant and
animal life causes great speculation. Certain algae regarded as
weeds or plants expel seeds that behave like animals, whicl1 dart
through the water by means ofhair-like £laments called vibratile
cilia, butfinally settle down andin a stationary condition develop
into definite plants. Mr. Bose, the great Indian student ofplant
life, proved that you can make plants drunk. In my booklet on
the aura you will see that they actually respond to affection. The
illustrations show that something akin to life-force is transmitted
through the finger-tips which definitely assists growth. It
becomes in man an aura; in flowers, a perfume. Mr. Bose goes
further and claims that plants consciously seek their food, scream
when hurt, and in other ways exhibit forms of consciousness
hitherto believed to appertain to the animal kingdom alone.
Thus the dividing line between plant and animal in their early
and even later stages is decidedly problematical.
70 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
There are definitely carnivorous plants with digestive apparatus
possessing hair-like glands which answer the purpose of a
stomach. From the primitive cell a tiny finger called apseudopod
may extend and grip its neighbour with a sucker-like action
that makes them partners for life; or it may float away and
incidentally throw out other feelers or grips, but, having
nothing to attach itself to, develops into an entirely different
type of animal from his half-brother who decided to stand still
and vegetate. There are many forms oflife that can be actually
cut up and each section develops anew the parts from which it
is separated.
Thus we see that nature provides not only for independent life
with methods of self-propagation, but, if a part is i.J~ured, it is
endowed from the beginning with a consciousness that repairs
the trouble. In the highly-specialised blood cells of man, this
consciousness causes the red corpuscles to clot and try to fill in
the gaping wound. The white corpuscles do definite work in
resisting invasion by foreign parasites. And the work of cell
specialisation has developed at such a rate that all the organs of
animals are kept going by the specific type ofwork undertaken
by each group. Yet it is quite clear they do not interfere with
each other, but, like well-ordered colonies, co-operate to the end
that men may become as gods with power of independent
thought and action.
Oh! the folly ofit that purblind men ca1mot see that the great
example set by cosmic cousciousness ought to be the plan fol-
lowed by mankind as a whole-each helping the other instead
of fratricidal strife, individual against individual, nation against
nation. Thus from the amoeba, the most elementary form oflife,
we find organisation and consciousness definitely associated.
The tiny pseudopod is indicative of the sensory orgailS that will
later come into action. The units pool their conscious effort in
order that higher forrns may appear. The higher die out in
order that better adapted species may live.
Those who have animal pets know that side by side with the
obvious external organism a psychic side is also being evolved.
Dogs have been seen to attack and snarl at beings invisible to
their owners, and exhibit pleasure at the spirit return of a loved
master. Not being clairvoyant, mankind cannot always know
THE ASCENT OF MAN 71
the cause of these apparently strange actions. But now that we
are beginning to see through the veil, many inexplicable actions
are understood. On the day my little dog disappeared the
medium in the circle did not know ofmy loss, but described him
gambolling about the room and rubbing himselfagainst my legs,
and she asked if I had lost sucl1 a dog. These are common-
places of the seance room. But out of them a newer under-
standing ofevolution is dawning. No form oflife is purposeless.
We may not see tl1e "hand that is guiding us from the darkness
to the light," but our experiences warrant the assumption that
there is a divine plan behind it all and that God is in the infinitely
small equally with the visible world.
Thus from amoeba, through various transitional stages, man
appears. We now know that this in its turn is but another st~p
on the ladder oflife, for we do not now lose sight of him. He
still has work to do as a spirit to bring joy and help to others.
The obstacles and the consequent struggles were necessary in
order thathe mightlearn to stabilise himself, selfpoisedinanother
realm where "the wicked cease from troubling and the weary
are at rest."
In most books on evolution, a sketch plan is usually given
showing the nearest type of life which preceded other forms.
But it must never·be forgotten that in nearly all cases it simply
means that ilie types shown have presumably travelled from one
to the other. In scarcely any species can there be seen so definite
and direct a change that we can assert that one is positively
descended from the other.
Another common fallacy is tl1at the changes are always in one
direction, as, for instance, from protoplasm to worms, thence
to fish, reptiles, marsupials, apes and men. While tllis may be
true in certain cases, it would be quite misleading if the student
thought that iliere were fixed and definite phases of existence
through which the progenitors of any species must necessarily
pass. The counteracting argument could easily be found in ilie
case of whales. Here we have a mammal and not a fish, as is
generally believed. Its ancestry obviously lived on the land
because it contains many vestiges of organs that are useless to it
in ilie water but which would be absolutely essential to an
animal living on the land.
72 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
In the same way a striking similarity is observable in the
"hands" of frogs and those ofmen. It would be absurd to state
that because of this appearance the frog is man's immediate
ancestor, or even of an ancestry that lived in the epoch im-
mediately preceding this. Something of the same difficulty is
perceived among students who think that monkeys sat down so
often that they fmally wore out their tails, took to walking up-
right and became human.
Nature shows no such rough-and-ready fulfilments of her
plan. When I state that one order gives place to another, I
merely mean that it is presumably the line of ascent because of
vestigial organs or theoretical considerations which warrant the
assumption. Thus protozoa gave rise on the one line ofdevelop-
ment to jelly-fish and coral builders and apparently finish there,
so far as we can see.
In another direction, we trace many interesting species and
variations of sponges. Once again we come to an end because
we cannot trace their next definite steps towards human life.
We therefore accept as the next most probable stage the nearest
developments to protozoa called annelida, where tube-like seg- .
ments of the body show a more highly evolved type of life.
There are thousands ofdifferent kinds ofthese, some apparently
merging into other types. Some continue to develop into marine
species, others taking to the land and changing their organisms
accordingly. Of these, the worm is best known.
But it is because they are the nearest approach to still higher
types called vertebrates {i.e. animals with a spinal column) that
they are accepted as the hypothetic base. They branch off into
various forms of marine life to cuttlefish, oysters and their like.
The main line oftransition towards man is represented by lance-
lets, because here the beginnings ofa backbone are more or less
evident. The next phase shows more definite lines of develop-
ment in the formation of fishes. In shallow waters, or where
tides recede and leave pools which are more or less permanently
cut offfrom the sea, fish nose into the sand to get at the moisture
as long as possible.
Ifthis difficulty extended over great periods of time, it would
produce specific changes in each type which would eventually
result in differences in species that tend to become permanent.
THE ASCENT OF MAN 73
In their turn, these cause still further variations, such as the mode
oflife and changes in the food required, and the organs necessary
to obtain and digest it. It will thus be seen that, though the
average evolutionist is decidedly materialistic and says that the
"struggle for existence" is the potent factor in the development
of species, he is also forced to recognise the power of mind
which seems to put claws, organs and fingers where they are
wanted as the result ofcontinual concentration by the animal on
its requirements.
Since we are now learning that auto-suggestion is a curative
force, the analogy is self-evident. But it would be quite wrong to
think that all fishes are on their way to land animal types. Various
species may never leave the water or need to change their habits.
Others actually die out because they cannot adapt themselves to
changed conditions. Where they take partly to land and partly
to water life, nature's amazing adaptability is plainly evidenced.
For a time they retain their gills for use in the water, but as the
need for breathing air makes other organs essential there are
gradual and almost imperceptible developments in the direction
of lung formations. Many are called "dipnoi" because they
possess gills for use in the water and the mechanism of rudi-
mentary lungs. There are fishes which actually leave the water
and climb trees in search offood. It is clear to everyone that such
a definite change in the method of existing brings muscles and
organs into play that sooner or later makes radical changes in the
entire creature.
Ip the same way, fishes which catch most oftheir food on the
shores of a lake would often find themselves more out of the
water than in it during the eagerness ofthe chase. On the other
hand, animals often venturing into the water in search of food
gradually adapt themselves more and more to the necessity of
living in or near the water.
You will see, therefore, many theoretical shapes given to pre-
historic animals that have never actually been found in fossils.
Here and there, parts of skeletons have been found and the
details fitted in and the species named. It is probable that many
of the missing links are due to changes extending over great
periods of time when an animal first took to the water and its
descendants took so kindly to it that they never left. But others
74 THE trnlV.ERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
would only stay long enough partly to create organs suited to the
new environment and their offspring would once again return
•to the land. These are the speculacions that face us at every turn.
The cetacea (tl1e whale family) present us witil many specula-
tions of iliis kind. It is quite clear that many species possess a
pelvis tilat is merely a vestige of life on the land. In some, the
teeth have gone and are replaced by whalebone, more suited to
tile volume ofwater retained in the mouth containing quantities
ofsmall fish on which it lives. Passage-ways develop through tile
whalebones so tilat the water can be ejected while the fish are
retained. But there are toothed whales less modified which live
on larger fish.
In all cases tiley show vestiges of tileir life on land, not only
by a vestigial pelvis that is now quite useless to tilem, but in tile
ossification and various changes tilat are quite clearly shown in
the vertebral column. The fore limbs can be easily traced in ilie
flippers. The bones correspond to similar structures in other
animals and are also found in tile arm ofa man, tile foreleg ofa
horse and the wing ofa bat. Vestigcs ofhind legs can be seen in
some species. The tail, at first used as a sort ofrudder, gets finally
used as boatmen often use an oar over the back of the boat to
propel it. Finally, it becomes a powerful swimming organ
divided into two lobes. The head becomes more definitely fish
shape. The seven bones in the neck, common to most animals,
gradually close up.
In the Natural History Museum sections of these, illustrating
various degrees of change, occupy conspicuous positions. In
many cases the bones seem to be dying away or coalescing, but
in the whales' flippers the phalange bones are definitely extend-
ing, and even additional fingers are occasionally added to the
original animal type.
Nature makes adaptations to all the animal's requirements.
The diminishing ofthe sternum, or breast-bone, in many species
illustrates this fact. More air is required, so space is arranged for
by partial disappearance. The pelvis is now merely vestigial
because it is no longer needed. The seven cervical vertebrae
become fused. Hair has almost disappeared, but in tile young the
few bristles around the moutl1 have no sebaceous glands which
are common to all mammals.
~ THE ASCENT OF MAN 75
The seal follows a somewhat different line of development.
Here the tail remains in a rudimentary state. The hind and front
legs act as flippers in the sea, and a clumsy method oftravelling
on the land. Both retain the mammary glands. It is by evidences
such as these that evolution traces types back to their probable
ancestors. It is believed that the seal tribe took to water, but not
to the same degree as whales. Hence the coat is different and other
developments do not appear in quite the same way.
~hus we trace the transitional stages of fish from water or
animals from land. But there are many snags in our line of
reasoning. Thus the frog has always had the ulna and radius
bones in the arm like a human being. Other developments,
however, have not proceeded in the same ratio towards fuller
unfoldment towards human life, but the indications must be
noted because they show stages of development. It is classed
with the salamanders, newts, and similar forms of life as
amphibia. These are both land and water creatures, as much at
home in water as on land. Transition from these to the reptilian
stage is comparatively simple. Disuse of any organ means its
eventual extinction.
So it comes about that entire avoidance of water means
inability to breathe beneath the surface; the lungs are more
definitely formed and all apparent relationship to the fish dis-
appears as the reptile becomes mc;>re and more accustomed to
life on the land. From this stage we pass to the monotremes,
meaning one-vented. These are neither complete reptile nor
fully developed mammal.
The spiny ant eater resembles a large hedgehog with a snout
and a body covered with quills somewhat like a porcupine.
Both have a common sac into which the intestines and other
organs open. Both lay eggs and the offspring obtain milk from
the mothers in ways not clearly ascertained. They both exist in
Australia and doubtless evolutionists will yet make further
discoveries about them. Reptiles branch offin another direction
into bird life, and a very ftne specimen of archeopteryx, a sort
offlying animal, is to be seen at the Natural History Museum.
HP-re we see part reptile and part bird. Another specimen,
catied pterodactyl, has the spinal column and ribs of an animal,
massive head and terrible teeth. The beak ofa bird is nowhere
76 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
apparent, but long wings encase animal-like bones of the legs,
both back and front, with phalanges of the fingers and toes
clearly shown. This leaves but little doubt as to its complex
ancestry.
But the line that leads to bird life and accustoms itselfentirely
to their mode of life takes us away from the immediate lines
that lead up to man. We find the one-vented monotremes give
place to marsupials and mammals. The former, like kangaroos,
carry their young in pouches, and although they have milk-
secreting glands, they have not reached such a high stage of
development as the true mammals, such as cows, horses, dogs and
monkeys, where the mammaries are fully developed and their
young are as perfectly formed and suckled as human beings.
Sweat glands develop and the more intimate relationship to
men and apes appear.
Passing over the various stages that preceded sub-human man,
it is sufficient for our purpose to say that civilised man presents
far more intricate brain structure than some savages, and that it
is in this department that the greatest development appears.
According to some authorities tl1ere is comparatively little
difference between the brain of ape-like man and the lowest
types of humanity. Compared wiili iliese, tl1e gap between
civilisation and savagery is far more difficult to bridge. In this
can also be perceived the adaptation to the necessities ofdevelop-
ment. Men do not deliberately alter the shapes of their brains
any more than their ancestors consciously developed organs
which better fitted them to survive.
Civilised man has outstripped his savage brother because he
turned his attention to arts and sciences, but none tl1e less it
means tllat the things which occupy his mind most will develop
faculties suited to the attainment ofthe end he seeks. So it will
follow tllat as man seekS to probe into unseen realms, he first
manufactures magnifying glasses, but finally will develop organs
suited to tlle exploration of invisible worlds by the operation of
tl1at same cosmic consciousness which eternally moulds matter
to its will. But it is in embryology that we get the key which
satisfies the evolutionist tllat his theorising is correct.
The composition ofthe fertilised egg of the parent determines
the type ofoffspring. Yet so slight is the difference perceivable
THE ASCENT OF MAN 77
between the embryos offish, dog, man or tortoise that for some
time it is impossible to distinguish one from the other.
That parental form should be transmitted does not seem very
extraordinary, but when we discover, in the embryo, illustrations
of all its long line of ancestry, we are forced to concede the
possible truth ofevolution. The embryos show a great similarity
in outline. Next, there are gill arches, quite useless to animal or
man but which formed part ofhis ancestry in the fish state. The
gill slits appear on each side ofthe neck. These disappear and are
replaced by a membrane similar to that which appears in birds
and reptiles. The heart is at first a simple pulsating chamber,
exactly like that ofworms.
The idea that man sprung from a monkey-like type is possibly
due to the fact that the embryo shows a distinct tail-like ending
to tl1e vertebral column which is at first extended. The great
toe, like the toes of apes, is extended or opposable. Three
months before birth, the body is covered all over with hair
except on the palms of the hands and soles. At birth, the arms
are proportionately longer than they will be in adult life. The
nose is bridgeless. Thus, in the course of a few weeks, man
epitomises before birth the various types oflife which produced
him as a result.
The revelations of the embryo are not the only method of
tracing life's history backwards. There are rudimentary struc-
tures in all animals which are meaningless or useless, if not a
positive hindrance to fuller development. Some snakes are
found to possess remnants ofhind legs. There are wings under
the wing cases ofsome insects that do not fly.
Man's ears are believed to result from pointed animal ears
which twitched or turned in the directions required. Every
bone in his body can be traced to an ape-like ancestor. His toes
were probably longer at one time than they are now and were
more like a hand useful for grasping branches oftrees. Walking
upright compelled accommodating nature to develop other
means of supporting strains than our tree-climbing ancestor
possessed. Wings ofbirds, forelegs ofdogs and the arms ofmen
all contain almost identical bones, slightly altered to suit indi-
vidual needs. The species differ, but the fundamental similarities
persist over long periods of time.
THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Nearly all mammals, from the short-necked elephant to the
long-necked giraffe, have seven neckbones. The variations to
these were mentioned in the whale. The ancestors of the horse
present very definite vestigial organs. The sizes of his pre-
decessors varied considerably, but in the earliest types there
appears a gradual change from the forefeet of a mammal to the
hoof-like appearance ofthe horse! Four toes are traceable in the
eocene period, with a rudimentary fifth in some cases. In the
higher strata we fmd only three, with the side toes shrinking
away from the central one, which is growing larger. Still nearer
the earth's surface the disparity is greater, and finally toe-
endings disappear, but under the skin are found remnants ofbone
still existing. On the earth's surface, the fully-formed hoof
retains the same bones coalesced to form the leg.
Evolution thus reasons from observed data, and concludes that
man is merely a development of lower forms of life. Of the
mental aspects the evolutionist says little or nothing, but schools
of psychology make special studies of the nervous system.
Consciousness, which is termed a state ofawareness, is said to be
the product ofsensation. This, in turn, is traced to the nervous
system and is said to be composed of a special kind of cell. It
has thousands of tiny ends called neurons. All sensations result
in nervous impulses, which becomes translated into awareness.
Instincts are nervous reactions.
Psychology recognises no difference, save of degree, between
the nervous reactions ofthe primitive cell and the fully developed
consciousness of man. Tllis is materialism in its crudest form,
but there are other schools wllich recognise that reason is superior
to sensation, and are willing to grant the possibility of the
Spiritualist concept ofa duality oforganism, or an etheric coun-
terpart, wllich persists after death.
Spiritualism refuses to adopt T. H. Huxley's attitude, which
was that "even if psychic phenomena are true, I am not inter-
ested." Flanunarion, the famous French astronomer, collected ·
hundreds of instances in which apparitions appeared to people
unexpectedly. At the point of death, or after, when all possible
ideas of hallucination or telepathy had to be ruled out, forms
appear and often -deliver a specific message. What are these
forms composed of? Only the Spiritualist hypothesis covers the
THE ASCENT OF MAN 79
known facts. They have been confirmed by those very forms
which show themselves and bring the messages. They assert
that the consciousness, which was invisible throughout their
lives while on earth, is still as great a mystery as ever, but that it
persists after death and, through a more etherealised organism,
thinks and acts pretty much as it did on earth. But its powers are
vastly extended.
Matter, or what in its more sublimated form looks to them
like matter, is more plastic. It actually registers thought. This
change in environmental conditioning produces extraordinary
changes in the mental outlook. Deceit being impossible, or
exposing itself at every turn, forces individuals to review
conduct from an entiz:ely different angle to tl1at ofearth. They
are filled with remorse when they discover the consequences of
selfish and wrong thiinking while on earth, and the desire to
make amends is largely responsible for their work in the seance
room.
They affirm that all forms of life retain sensory perceptions
and extend them. They say that evolution is as much a continu-
ing factor in spirit life as it was on earth, but just as tl1e butterfly
cannot explain its new modes of manifestation to the grub or
caterpillar from which they arise, so are spirits limited when
trying to reach man's understanding.
CHAPTER VII
THB RELIGION OF TOMORROW
"S0 long as the lips oflove shall kiss the lips ofdeath, the hope
of immortality will arise." This rendering of Colonel
Ingersoll's famous dictum illustrates the imperishable nature of
love and the certainty that humanity will ever speculate upon
possibilities of future reunion; but no matter whether we do or
do not believe in post-mortem existence, mankind will ever
seek to harmonise conduct to accord with ideals.
I hold that the word "religion" means "to bind together." If
we accept this definition, we may further assume that religious
systems, i.e., "binding ideals accepted by communities," will
always exist in some form or other, born ofnatural speculation.
It merely remains for us to deduce from history and modern
developments what that form is likely to take. The <;>ne out-
standing fact revealed by history is that the progressive march of
intellect has been hampered by restrictive limitations which
religious systems impose upon their devotees. This holds true
even though the initial stage of each system is frequently re-
formative in character.
I have therefore lifted the word "religion" out ofits orthodox
interpretation in order that we may not be restricted by narrow
sectarian points of view. I divorce it entirely from conven-
tional theologies which first assume the existence of deity or
adopt authoritarian statements and evolve ethical systems there-
from.
It is clear that savage minds conceived savage types of gods
with appropriate ceremonials intended to placate savage deities.
From these arose human sacrifices, burnt offerings and the tor-
turing ofthose whose opinions differed. Simple minds developed
the idea ofa God oflove and peace with praise and thanksgiving
for presumed benefits. Time has modified or amalgamated
original concepts and we now find civilised folk literally eating
their God and drinking His blood at the ceremony of the
So
THE RllUGION OF TOMORROW 81
Eucharist, quite unconscious that this idea arose from a savage
belief that eating one's enemy endowed the victor with the
good qualities of the victim.
Sharply conflicting ideals are now amalgamated and the God
of war has become the paternal protector, a God of love Who
nevertheless created "nature red in tooth and claw" in which the
weak and loving are sacrificed to the strongest brute. Anachron-
sisms, plagiarisms and inconsistencies were alike ignored by our
forefathers, who thus hypnotised themselves into the idea that
their petty individualities or interpretations are of more con-
sequence to the great Creator th.aD. the teeming masses of His
children outside the fold.
Modem tendencies are mostly in the opposite direction.
Sectarianism in its narrow sense is passing away. Purely super-
ficial differences disappear with the breaking down of barriers
erected by isolation, superstition and ignorance. Forms and
ceremonies are now relegated to a secondary place, and the
religious systems of the world are travelling in the direction of
pure ethics, irrespective of denominational interpretations.
Followed to its logical conclusions, tllis will result in "religion"
becoming a "standard ofconduct" in place ofblind obedience to
arbitrary authority
The Reformation dethroned arbitrary authority. Discussion
exposed anachronisms and permitted newer concepts ofGod and
His relationship to the universe to develop. Critical analyses
immediately marcl1ed in the direction ofcomparing the bases of
all religious systems as soon as the mental fetters were removed.
One after another, hoary superstitions were attacked, newer
light removed all fear and permitted scientific advance in many
directions until, at last, religionists have become mere apologists
for faiths which seem to have no actual basis in fact. But time is
wreaking its revenge. Materialists who believed in mind only
as a manifestation of matter and repudiated all unprovable
speculative philosophy are linking hands with those who
believe that afuture life is a provable proposition.
Scientists prepared the way by theoretically reducing the solid
earth into points of force, and schoolboys now talk learnedly
about electrons revolving around protons, but what a proton is
we do not know. It is presumably electricity, but it may be-
82 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
and why not?-the seat of consciousness itself? For if matter
merely changes its mode ofmanifestation, and is eternal, though
invisible, why may not consciousness also persist with but
changed mode ofmanifestation? The objection to this argument
is that mind is dependent upon mechanism, but since microbes
have as perfect an organism as man and differ only in degree, it
may be maintained with some show of reason that man's body_
is but a mountainous mass of microbic consciousnesses, each
section performing its specific tasks without reference to
other sections, save when co-ordination is mutually advan-
tageous.
The independent action of the white corpuscles in the blood
whichrush to repel foreign invaders, its clotting to close a wound,
and the automatic action of the entire nervous system, presents
us with a possibility that man is not really a unified individuality
but rather a composite alliance ofseparable units ofconsciousness.
We have also to face the fact that what we call matter is but a
speculative, invisible something subject to varying rates of
vibration no less than light, heat and electricity. Whether the
cosmic rays, which _
bombard the earth day and night, or radio-
active substance utilise the self-same wave motion or ether is
debatable.
It is essential to note these matters in passing in order that we
may realise that invisible worlds are now being scientifically
postulated, forming part ofthe current teaching which is accepted
almost without question, and which ninety-five per cent of the
world accept without personal proof. Not only has science
sublimated matter into invisibility, but in its efforts to trace
instinct and individualised consciousness it has been forced to
re-examine what was previously dismissed as superstition un-
worthy of a second thought. This, in turn, has produced an
extraordinary revolution in current thought thatjustifies clearer
prediction.
Mesmer may be said to have set the ball rolling about 1750 in
the direction of mental therapeutics. Long before the theory of
interpenetrating ethers became/opular, he claimed that a uni-
versal fluid existed which coul be passed through the fingers,
and as "animal magnetism" exerted an enormous influence upon
the mind. Symptoms of disease were apparently transferred
THE RELIGION OF TOMORROW 83
from one patient to another, who often diagnosed the malady
better than their doctors. Remarkable cures were reported.
Exaltation of abilities far beyond the normal were a common
experience. But Mesmer overstepped the boundaries ofcreduhty
when he claimed to be able to transfer the vital fluid to tubs of
metal from which long iron rods projected. When patients
grasped these it was found that almost identical phenomena
resulted. Finally, it was decided that the wonderful mental
phenomena were not dependent upon animal magnetism, but
that the "poise of the mind" was the predisposing factor, and
that in all probability the invisible fluid, ether, or vital force,
played no part at all.
Braid produced somewhat similar results by causing subjects
to stare at a button or other bright object. It was soon found
that the method adopted was a matter of indifference, the
essential factors being the willingness and ability of the patient
to concentrate upon one idea and exclude conflicting suggestions.
Thus the science ofhypnotism was born. But there were many
and various perplexing problems associated with it that cannot
be dismissed as mere reactions to physical stimuli or sensations.
Specialists discovered that lost memories could be regained,
manias cured and even pain counteracted or induced by a mere
word.
The idea that each neuron was the centre ofspecific memories
had to be abandoned when it was realised that growth in the
course ofyears must inevitably eliminate earlier memories. The
outcome is that mind is recognised as a definitely predisposing
force as well as the result ofmechanism. From these studies, the
earlier idea of man as a spirit as well as a physical body is being
reborn. Since ether is probably a form of matter which inter-
penetrates all forms oflife, why may it not duplicate the organ-
ism with which it becomes associated, and still remain invisible
and unperceivable in the etheric world to which it naturally
belongs?
The battle is not between disputing theologians but between
those who regard mind as an independent controlling force
functioning through a more permanent etheric body in addition
to the physical body and those who refuse to see in mind any-
thing more than the reaction of a visible physical body. In the
84 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
former case there may be continuity ofconsciousness after death,
but in the latter, mind is destroyed with the destruction of its
mechanism. Many schools of thought embrace part of each
section, or of one, and tack it on to existing faiths.
Mental defectives formed the first real approach to the study
of consciousness, and theories quite appropriate to them are·at
present unjustifiably applied to fields of consciousness to which
the words have no valid relationship. The bias is discoverable
in terms like "neurotic," which becomes both offensive and
absurd when applied to strong-minded men and women of
superior endowments. "Veridical hallucinations" is another
contradiction in terms, and utterly absurd, for if a thing is
"veridical," i.e., has an actual basis in fact apart altogether from
the imagination, it cannot very well be an "hallucination," an
airy, unsubstantial illusion due to imagination alone.
Hypnotic treatment is now fairly common. It creates mental
imagery and subconscious activities which counteract undesirable
tendencies. Mental imagery includes the creation of dream
pictures, a secondary sight which dispenses with the retina ofthe
eye in the production of pictures as vivid to the mind as a
cinematographic exhibition. Some sensitives use their eyes in the
normal way and build their dream castles more or less con-
sciously. But dual personalities are now discoverable in hundreds
of cases which are obviously not tl1e products of diseased
imagination portraying fanciful unrealities.
The terms co-conscious, subconscious, super-conscious and
race-consciousness indicate pathways along which scientists
holding divergent views are now travelling. But if memory
can be passed by heredity along a chain of individualities-for
which the term "race-consciousness" was coined-it proves
something more than is explainable by tl1e theories of simple
!!'!action to physical senses or external stimuli. Memories are
sometimes associated with a long-forgotten past, proving a
permanence more definite than any known form of matter.
MacDougal's "Abnormal Psychology," page 5II, clearly
illustrates this aspect. Here we find one part ofthe consciousness
definitely claiming to be a personage who lived five hundred
years ago. The extract continues:
"This Prince Sivrouka reigned over a Kingdom of Kanara,
THE RELIGION OF TOMORROW 85
and constructed, in 1401, the fortress of Tchandraguiri. This
romance was developed with a wealth ofdetail; and the astonish-
ing features ofit were, first, that research in old and little known
books on Indianhistory confirmed some ofthe details such as the
names ofplaces and persons described: secondly, that Simandini
uttered ... many Himdu words and phrases, sometimes appro-
priately used, sometimes mingled with otl1er words which the
experts failed to identify, and also wrote similar phrases in Arabic
script."
Professor Charles Richet, French scientist, reported far more
wonderful experiences: than this. Deceased persons' signatures,
whom the medium could not possibly have known, were
accurately imitated. :Ponderable articles were levitated in full
light, contrary to known laws. These, together with a wide
range of mental phenomena that he termed "cryptesthesia"
challenged scientific classification. Richet, for many years,
dismissed as absurd the explanation advanced by Spiritualists of
psychic phenomena. But he relented a few days before his death
and became convinced. that they did prove Survival.
In many quarters it is the fashion to ignore the findings of
psychic science. But investigators who are anti-Spiritualist in
theories cannot be so ]lightly ignored. Among these are Baron
von Schrenck Notzing, who has written a book on "Phenomena
ofMaterialisation," and Richet on "Thirty Years' Experiences,"
to say nothing ofHere:
ward Carrington and Dr. C. E. M. Joad's
experiences and hundreds of otl1ers who deny Spiritualist con-
clusions but admit the phenomenal evidences inexplicable to
materialism. Nor can ilie evidence of men with world-wide
reputations like Dr. Whymant, Professor Tillyard and Sir Oliver
Lodge be set aside without serious reasons based on similar
scientific investigation. It is upon foundations such as tl1ese that
the religions of tl1e future are being built.
At first ilie phenomenal basis is merely tacked on to current
systems of thought, but discussion and analysis are rapidly
getting rid oferror and will result in purer ethics on a scientific
foundation. Without some such basis, current systems of theo-
logy with mutually destructive tenets, unpractical in daily life or
confusing superstition with actualities, would crumble to pieces
as science advances. But now that a wider field for the operation
86 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAliSM
of consciousness is clearly revealed, supported by ideas of an
interpenetrating ether more permanent than anything the five
senses can cognise, a literal .floor to invisible kingdoms has been
laid which is far more real and attractive to modem thinkers than
the fantastic heavens and hells ofour forefathers.
To people these etheric realms with real or imaginary products
is the next most natural step, and its preliminary phase is clearly
outlined in the thousands of novels and reputed experiences
which pour from the press of the whole world. Not only
has the hypnotic school discovered latent memories and cured
obsessions, it is presenting us with developments of con-
sciousness that are called "supernormal," a word that satisfies
nobody. ·
Of this type was an extraordinary prophecy by the patient of
a Greek doctor named Antonio. While under hypnosis onJune
r6, 1914, the patient, called Sophie, flatly contradicted her
doctor's opinions, which were popular in Greece at the time,
and predicted so exact a result of the war that nothing short of
an extension of consciousness seems to cover the facts. Dr.
Antonio was so struck by the definite statements made tl1at he
sent postcards to friends setting out the details, and after the out-
break ofwar he caused them to be printed in the Grecian news-
papers, thus forestalling the usual claim that all prophecies are
made·after tl1e event.
The war of 1914-1918 started. Greece did not expect to be
drawn in. Sophie had informed her hypnotists that this was
wrong and that Greece would eventually take part in time to
share tl1e fruits of victory; not as her hypnotists thought, the
friend ofGermany, but on the opposing side. Dr. Antonio was
severely castigated for permitting such statements to become
public property, for powerful political influences were just then
straining every nerve to force Greece to act on behalf of Ger-
many. The Greeks were sure the war would be a walkover for
the Germans and be finished in a few months.
This was contradicted, and they were told it would be long,
and that England would be the principal arbitrator at the con-
clusion and would work for equitable settlements. Thrones
would be overset. Austria was condemned to final destruction,
but iliat its parts would recover national autonomy. The Ger-
THE RELIGION OF TOMORROW 87
man Empire would be an Empire no longer, but the German
Republic would soon overthrow the barriers separating it from
its neighbours.
Millions would die and unimaginable destruction take place.
Anci~nt states would be dissolved and new ones created. The
extension ofthe war to the Balkans would not be due to Greece,
but the Turks and Bulgars would endeavour to invade Greece by
way ofMacedonia. The armies would meet in the valley ofthe
Strymon, in which Austria, Rumania, Serbia, Greece, Bulgaria
and Turkey would take part. A greater Greece and a greater
Serbia would be the result. Many more details were given, but
these must suffice. They are sufficient to show that a girl, seven-
teen years of age, by some process hitherto unrecognised by
scientists, could predict the happenings of the ensuing years
more clearly than the most intelligent anticipation of the
cleverest diplomats could envisage.
Race-consciousness was suggested as an explanation of the
veridical memory that lived for five hundred years, the claim of
persistent individuality being set aside as unworthy of serious
consideration. Equally plausible, and equally unsatisfactory
from the popular standpoint, is the way in which Sophie's and
similar predictions are dismissed. Under hypnosis, Sophie is
supposed to contact telepathically a great ocean ofconsciousness
wherein past and future can be perceived as clearly as waking
consciousness perceives the present, a form of fatalism very
prevalent in the East.
A better explanation is that her higher self, the submerged
consciousness that is usually termed the "unconscious" for no
better reason than that it is quiescent while the waking con-
sciousness is active, can, under hypnosis, focus the consciousness
in its entirety upon the question debated, and thus attains the
apparently miraculous. That tmconsciousness should thus be
proved to be a greater power than consciously directed in-
dividuality is the weak link, and the more general theory that
man is a duality ofpsychic organism and physical body is widely
accepted as the most satisfactory explanation. It is on bases such
as these that the future religions of the world will be built.
The historical background ofPlato, Socrates, Homer, Xenophon
and Cicero justify tlus prediction.
88 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Orthodox religions and orthodox science are alike entering
new fields ofresearch. New ideas are springing up all around us.
The result will be a compromise between scientific discoveries
and existent systems of religion. These in turn will be transient
and themselves give place to higher ethical standards as soon as
the ground is cleared of superstitions, ignorance and economic
barriers to idealistic practice. Olderideals will be riddled through
and through by the newer light of evolutionary progress.
Biology, ethnology, psychology and a hundred other apparently
unconnected branches of science will each contribute their
quota to the religions ofthe future.
New ideas are necessarily iconoclastic but later become the
foundation-stones ofstronger superstructures. With the develop-
ment of the sensory perceptions, ecstasies hitl1erto dismissed as
neuroses will be cultivated as the epicure cultivates the palate,
for in this condition tile soul seems to gain a foretaste of its
future state. Concepts of God will change as the growing
ideality of man enlarges the boundaries of his mind. Cosmic
consciousness endowed with the ability to permeate both seen
andunseen realms, willsupplant the personal idea.
The religion of the future will thus be built on all the known
facts and be sufficiently elastic to absorb each grander ideal as it
arises. It will be idealism with a scientific basis. Dogmatic
assertion, low cunning and hypocrisy will be swept away.
Nobility of character will be esteemed as of greater value than
creeds. And in tllis environment the ideal citizen will be born,
for knowledge is power, and they who make reform a religious
duty will bend all the forces at their disposal to create the
Kingdom of Heaven on earth.
Spiritualism in no way conflicts with the facts of evolution
or psychology. It is where they fall short that it steps in with a
rational hypothesis to bridge the gap. That our point ofview is
not yet accepted by official science is due to lack of personal
experience in psychic phenomena. But once one is satisfied that
we are surrounded by "ministering spirits," the idea that con-
sciousness is inherent in the physical body alone is killed by cold
facts.
Although members of my own family did not know the
cause of my wife's passing, seven different mediums have
Tim RELIGION OP TOMORROW 89
definitely indicated it, and not one who claimed to be in com-
munication with her gave a wrong diagnosis. At a direct-voice
seance, where the medium has never taken a penny for his
services, the anniversaries of her birth and marriage were cor-
rectly stated. At another direct-voice seance, a Sunday school
scholar, who had passed out ofmy life thirty-five years ago, gave
her full name through a medium who had never met me before.
My own mental states are evidently interesting to my wife, and
are frequently referred to in various crises of my life. Wifely
interest in my well-being is continually shown.
We are, therefore, compelled to part company with the blank
materialism which dissects neurons in a vain effort to trace
consciousness. We accept the findings of evolutionists and
psychologists in so far as they make statements offact, but with
extended vision we refuse to be limited to matter as an explana-
tion of consciousness.
Theories relating to matter itselfare undergoing revolutionary
changes. It may be likened to a huge sieve with the interstices
filled up with what is vaguely termed ether. Each particle is
also believed to be a miniature universe surrounded by moving
satellites. These, in turn, are yielding place to a concept that the
central point is itself but a rate of vibration akin to electricity.
Each attempt to "split the atom" brings materialism within
measurable distance ofSpiritualism.
Interstellar spaces are not now believed to be void and empty,
but filled with the all-pervading ether. Cosmic rays must have
a medium for their transmission. These bombard the eartl1 day
and night, so tl1at they cannot be thrown off from the sun.
Radium appears to be matter with eternal life. It continually
distributes its energy without apparent diminution.
The difference between Spiritualism and materialism is rapidly
beco.ming one of terms alone. Long before I read of scientific
experiments in these directions, interpenetrating ethers and
sublimation of matter were common talk in the seance room.
We shall yet have scientists demonstrating the passage ofmatter
through matter as something newly discovered. Spiritualists
will merely smile and say, ".Better late than never. We knew
of it all our lives."
Materialism recognises only two factors in nature, force and
90 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
matter. Energy is the formative force, and matter the material
which makes visible the varied forms whose combinations are
due to accidental association. Spiritualism adds the philosophic
concept-based on experience-of cosmic consciousness as the
directive power behind both force and matter.
Cosmic consciousness eternally seeks individualisation, and so
we regard fruits, flowers and all beauty in nature as thoughts of
God materially expressed. We find the highest and best aspects
of His individualisation manifest through man as love, wisdom
and knowledge. The noblest forms and expressions are typical
ofthe direction in which aspirations should tend.
All research results in a fuller understanding oflaws which man
learns to harness and which promote greater happiness. Cause
and effect, though expressed with apparent crudity in the earth-
quake, the hurricane and lower forms of life, are found to be
essential stepping stones to greater power and knowledge and,
therefore, deemed best by that inscrutable "divinity that shapes
our ends, rough hew them as we may." At what point cosmic
consciousness becomes the individualised expression called
"man" is a purely metaphysical speculation.
Spirit communications further teach that the fertilised seed
lives on, even though it may never find expression on earth
through a physical body. Spirit doctors attend to the stunted
embryo in the same way that they cure other incapables who
enter their world unready to appreciate its delights. The still-
born infant is cared for by a foster mother until it is able to act
as a self-reliant individualisation. Lack ofearthly experience is a
loss to the newcomer in spirit lands who, however, finds com-
pensations in purer, unvitiated concepts of spiritual realities.
They have not to unlearn life's errors. and make amends as
others do, but they lack the completeness gained by earth's
experiences.
They can be easier utilised for errands of mercy to the earthly
world, because they are unencumbered with the recurrent
memory so painfully evidenced by many controls who react to
material forces which create an appearance identical with loss of
memory. The absence of earth's memory and desires creates a
type of spiritual humanity of charming simplicity. They are
occasionally brought to their parents' homes for educational
TBE lUlLIGION OF TOMORROW 91
purposes and thus the link of consanguinity is not destroyed.
This is provenvery often by clairvoyants.
In spirit life, the suicide is the most disappointed person
imaginable. He quitted the body in an unnatural manner. The
physical links thus ruddy tom asunder checks the movements of
his psychic organism. He seems to be limited to the spot where
he died for quite a lonK time. This is largely due to the dominant
idea which possessed him before committing the act.
It is claimed that the hells surrounding the earth are filled with
disappointed people, who react continually on mankind. Their
frustrated hopes, desires for revenge, wishes for death, lusts of
the flesh and all unspiri.tual ambitions fetter their movements and
bind them to low sphe:res. But what is worse, they seem to be
cut offfrom the action. of light, and in the seance room contin-
ually appeal for sympa1
thy and prayers, which momentarily lift
them out of their brooding condition and darkness, and point
the way to a fuller life.
In closing this aspect:ofour subject let me assure students that
there is nothing in Spiritualism that is objectionable to en-
lightened Christian philosophy. They who take truth as the
essential characteristic •of their God, or the Nazarene's teaching
of love to all mankind. as the essence of religion will find their
highest ethics emphasiso!d by all spirit teachers. We are forced to
oppose Bible worship f.or exactly the same reason that we oppose
the worship of priests who abuse their power and blind their
followers to essential truth. Protestants say that Roman
Catholicism supplants the worship of God by that ofthe Virgin
Mary and saints. I, as a Theist, go further, and assert that all
trinitarian Christians h~Lve supplanted the worship ofGod by the
worship ofthe manJesns. This they do in defiance ofhis teaching
that we arc to pray to ''Our Father who art in heaven."
But it is because history tells sucl1 a terrible tale that all true
reformers oppose creeclalism. The terrible fact has to be faced
that ifpriesthoods have the power, the will is rarely lacking to
apply it in the most h()rrible fashion. It has hampered the ad-
vance of science everywhere, and builds enormous edifices at
great expense, heedless ofslums created by the waste of money
and effort.
Theologians anathematised, and, if d1at failed, cruel persecu-
92 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
cion always followed. That is the lesson ofhistory. At one time
it meant loss oflife and liberty ifone opposed dogmatic teaching.
All students should read the history of the Inquisition from a
Protestant author's point of view, and follow it up by readiug
similar persecutions by the Protestants from the Roman Catholic
point ofview. Between the two he will come to the inevitable
conclusion that a book whicl1 causes such terrible happenings
must no longer be permitted to go unquestioned.
Protestantism clainls that its burnings were an inevitable
reaction against Popery, but this would not apply to such cases
as Servetus, whom Calvin sacrificed to the flames for no better
reason than that he believed that "faith without works is vain."
Read also the lives ofJohn Knox, Elizabeth and the Anabaptists
for details of this terrible persecution mania, derived obviously
from their authority, the Bible.
In the year I6oo, Giordano Bruno was burned as a heretic after
imprisonment by the Inquisition for seven years. This was the
penalty he paid for suggesting that God was different from their
anthropomorphic concepts. He was a Pantheist, and regarded
God as the living omnipresent soul of the universe, and nature
as the expression ofGod. This beliefis now current everywhere,
but dogmatism never reasons; it raves, anathematises and per-
secutes, or buries its head in the sands of form, superstition and
ceremony, lest perchance its great enemy, Truth, may convict it.
But truth is an attribute of God, and they who fight against her
fight a losing battle. Christianity permitted no teaching whatso-
ever that opposed theprimitive ideas oftheir forefathers. Neither
the way the earth was built nor man formed could be ques-
tioned. The doctrine ofinfallibility has been its greatest curse.
The story ofJoan of Arc stands out prominently for many
reasons. She proved her mediumship by her prophecies. For
this she was condemned and burned. But in recent years the
same church has the impertinence to canonise her as a saint
because public or,inion demanded it.
Exactly why ' holy comforters" could not manifest in Chris-
tian churches may be gauged by the following terrible extract,
which could be multiplied a thousandfold. ''Judge Remy once
boasted that he alone had been the means ofputting to death in
sixteen years eight hundred witches. Luther states that seven
THE RllUGION OF TOMORROW 93
thousand witches were burned at Treves; six hundred by a single
Bishop of Bamberg; eight hundred in a single year in the
Bishopric of Wartzberg; a thousand in the province of Como;
four hundred in the province of Toulouse at a single execution;
five hundred at Geneva in three months, and forty-eight in
Sweden." Small wonder that the terms "ghost" or "spirit" are
regarded with fear or derision today. Psychic faculties were
exercised at the risk of one's life. This led to denial of spirit
existence, fmal.ly hailed as the hall-mark ofintelligence. I do not
suggest that every poor soil burned or tortured was a medium.
Political and religious spite was often lurking in the background,
but in many cases spirit power was abundantly proved.
The spirit world is trying once more to make its voice heard.
It is still possible to stifle it by legal enactments. Priestly interests
are all opposed to a study of the foundations of the Bible. In-
quirers are sidetracked, and their authorities calumniated or
ostracised. Some Christians are now honestly trying to prove
that Jesus is the new leader of Spiritualism. We agree tl1at all
good and noble souls are working towards this end. The state-
ment would, therefore, pass unchallenged so far as the main body
are concerned, but for the fact that we are at the same time asked
to accept and rehabilitate the Bible-the cause ofall tllls terrible ~
bloodshed and intolerance-as the arbiter. Is it a safe guide? \
Pause right here while you think the matter over dispassionately, •
for devils in hell could not have perpetrated greater horrors.
"This illustrious Italian mathematician, physicist and astro-
nomer was born at Pisa in 1564," says Nuttall's Encyclopredia
ofGalileo. "He demonstrated the isochronism ofthe pendulum,
invented ilie thermometer and the hydrostatic balance, pro-
pounded ilie law offalling bodies, constructed the astronomical
telescope, and, by means ofit, satisfied himself ofand proved the
truth of the Copernican ilieory, that ilie sun, and not the earth,
is the centre ofthe planetary system, and iliat the earth revolves
round it like the otl1er planets which reflect its light. His in-
sistence on this truili provoked the hostility ofilie church, which
issued an ecclesiastical decree pronatmcing the Copernican theory
heresy: for the profession ofit, he was brought to the bar of the
Inquisition, and compelled to forswear it by oath, concluding
his recantation, it is said, wiili ilie words, 'Still it moves.' "
~
94 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Galileo appeared before the Inquisition in 1615, and was then
warned that he must not tead1 the doctrine of the earth's motion
around the stm. He apparently promised, but privately con-
tinued to team roe truth he had discovered. OnJtme f-2, 1633,
the aged sage was, therefore, haled before tlle tribunal, dotl1ed
in sackcloth as a penitent. He again recanted, but was con-
denmed to three years' imprisonment, where he was to recite
once a week seven penitential psalms under the supervision ofroe
Inquisition.
After tlle first few days, powerful friends exerted tllernselves
on his behalf, and arranged mat he should be "inlprisoned" in
their homes, or in his own. Subject to certain restrictions, this
was effected, and he was allowed to pass away in his own home
onJanuary 8, 1642, at roe age ofseventy-eight. For nine years he
was thus a prisoner of the Inquisition, which refused to permit
his burial in consecrated ground, disputed his right to make a
will and prevented his friends erecting a monument over his
grave. This "favour" was granted in the year, 1737, and a beauti-
ful memorial now marks the place where his body lays.
( By mese memods, me Christian Church prevented Sci<:!!tifiC
or religious advance for hundreds of years. -1tack and thumb-
! screw, burnipgs, torturings and a life amid savagei.rltolerance
', was tlle price our forefamers paid for tl1e liberty we now e~joy.
us. History emphasises tl1e absolute necessity for keeping every
avenue wide open tluough which knowledge may pass. Ther
has never yet been a new law discovered but which helped us to
better understand me application of oilier laws.
•,., It was fear of me newer light iliat caused ilie collapse of
, Christianity. It is me same error iliat prevents people inquiring
into Spiritualism. Ifspi.J.it people tried to prove their existence,
ilie terrors of ilie Holy Inquisition soon put an end to tlteir
.; efforts. Ignorance and superstition are discredited guides. We,
therefore, follow where God's wisdom points tlte way, and
refuse to worship either priests or their textbooks. Modem
I
Spiritualism repudiates all self-appointed "aumorities" who
dogmatically set boundaries to our research, and by sheer
terrorism endeavour to stay tl1e march ofprogress. All truth is
1
ofGod. He alone is our guide.
\
CHAPTER VIII
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA
I F I were asked, "What at:e the most important factors in psychic
manifestations?" I should reply, "First the minds that produce
them, and, secondly, the mechanism through which they
manifest.'' Without the mechanism, the mind could not mani-
fest itself and, without the mind to move the machinery, the
effects which prove the existence ofboth could not be produced.
Viewed clairvoyantly, man looks like a shrouded light which
radiates tiny particles in every direction. Human bodies throw
them off, as flowers their perfume. The radiation is singularly
sensitive and responsive 1
to thought. Materialism cannot dis-
socia~e the thinker from the brain, and Spiritualism is in the same
dilemma in regard to the aura; it acts like an integral part of
consciousness itsel£ The quality differs with temperaments,
character and health. By its appearance, clairvoyants give their
character readings and healers diagnose disease. It is a marvellous
piece of mechanism that should well repay research. It is
essential to all psychic malllifestations and is tl1e conduit through
which tl1e psycllic healer operates, or is the active healing
principle in itsel£ Later on, it forms the fabric ofspirit clotlling
and becomes a tool in the hands ofspirit people. It is the essential
link in the production of all psychic phenomena.
The discovery that the aura constitutes a "mind field" leads
us into fascinating studies which biologists have not yet classified
because their methods of research fail to locate it. This failure
is the more discreditable because evidence has been consistently
presented for nearly a century, and repeatedly confirmed by
independent research. In its condensed form, it is known to
scientists as ectoplasm. It bas been seen by normal sight, handled,
photographed, weighed in scales, its stresses and lifting power
tested and measured, and finally small portions have been isolated
and analysed. All these evidences are presented by cold-blooded
95
96 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
materialists who cannot be d1arged with undue emotionalism
or with fabricating details for the purpose ofpropaganda. Only
ignorance now denies its reality.
The "Daily Chronicle," in 1929, printed an article with
sensational headlines, "Electric Man As Gold-Finder." The
article goes on to describe a man who cannot understand how
he locates gold, metal or water under the ground. Apparently it
is only when ignorant reporters discover an equally ignorant
person unacquainted with psychic faculties that publicity is given
to facts well known to every Spiritualist. But if it is suggested
that tlle man is a Spiritualist and understands his subject from
the psychic standpoint, tlle newspapers are dUlllb.
Forgotten is the fact tllat in I914-1918 the Army in Gallipoli
was saved from deatl1 by thirst tlrrough the water-diviner's art,
and that the faculty is as common as musical or oilier forms of
genius. That man is an electrical machine is a scientific fact, not
silly superstition. The sensitive "diviner" merely makes auric
links witll tlle electric or etileric conduits of tlle earth, and thus
locates tile minerals or water his mind is seeking.
On my bookshelfis a book published in 1914 byJohn Mullins
and Sons, waterworks engineers, on the "Divining Rod." It
begins witll a long list ofroyalties, lords and business people who
utilised Mullins's services as water diviners after the usual experts
had failed. A big engineering business developed as the result.
Why, tllen, this continual pretence that sometlling new has been
found?
In tile dining room of a Boumemoutll hotel, my wife was
introduced to John Mullins, junior, and learned of his water
divining. She saw that he was also a good healer. He knew
notlling of his psychic powers, but tllought water divining a
natural gift. There was a sickly individual seated at the same
table witll whom Mullins was friendly. So my wife showed him
the passes and induced him to try his power on his friend, which
he promptly did witll good effect.
On the advice of a spirit friend tllat man was an electrical
machine, I set my pupils experimenting. One girl, by following
instructions, succeeded in lighting tlle gas witll her finger-tips.
Correspondents in America assure me that there is a wide belt of
territory around Los Angeles where tllis feat is common. I have
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA 97
also heard from psychics in that locality that, while operating
in the same districts, there is a great increase ofpsychic power in
all their manifestations. The point is of great value to would-
be mediums. It means·that climatic and other conditions affect
mediurnship and must be taken into consideration when de-
veloping.
But ifwe are electrical machines, what is the conduit? Again
we are forced to visualise an ever-active intermediary-the aura
- a perfectly natural attribute which the mind employs. ~hy,
then, b~ to investigate? The prevailing moral cowardice
iS-largely due to priest-made fears. All psychic studies, are taboo
for the same reason, despite the fact that all great religions are
based on spirit manifestations and that physicists now experi-
ment with psychic science under other names. Hence it is
necessary for me to deal witl1 the subject of aura from the
standpoint of material science rather than that of a student who
had his attention drawn to tl1e facts by those very intelligences
whose existence the majority ofscientists deny.
Because of scientific incredulity I am grateful to Doctor
Kilner, whose painstaking researches on a purely material basis
have substantiated all that my invisible instructors taught me
concerning the aura. When scientists assert that the mind races
along nerves, which in turn operate tl1e muscles, they merely
state an obvious fact that in no way explains the manifestation.
But students ofpsychic science soon discover that there must be
.an intermediate link between mind and its objective mani-
festations, because without it the effects could not be produced.
What the mind is-per se-and how it grips the nerves and why
muscles relax in accordance with the·will ofthe operator are still
riddles we cannot solve.
Dr. Kilner said the mind operates an invisible nerve force that
interpenetrates and surrounds the body like an atmosphere and
which in turn acts upon the nerves and muscles of the physical
body. He fotmd that some people could mentally project these
forces in specific directions away from the body and that the
invisible nexus could be discovered by readjusting the focal
range ofthe eye. That the aura is an actuality was proved by the
liberation of chlorine and other gases in the near vicinity of the
subject. Each gas or drug produced distinctive colours in the
98 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPilUTUAUSM
aura. That it could not be a mere optical illusion was proved by
the use he made of his discovery to diagnose disease by noting
variations of the aura in colour, texture, volume and general
appearance. Emotions of all kinds had an extraordinary effect
and in health or disease presented an ever-varying kaleidoscope
that baffied description.
To these facts he applied his medical knowledge, and his
"The Human Atmosphere" places before medical practitioners
an entirely new method ofdiagnosis. To the student ofpsychic
phenomena it is a treasure-house ofuseful information devoid of
all bias. Unfortunately the I9I4-I9I8 war put an end to his
labours, but the mine ofwealth he left to his confreres ought not
to remain unworked. The manufacture of dicyanine was the
principal difficulty, as it was superseded by cheaper substitutes
after the war.
My work brings me into contact with mediums who, un-
fortunately, rarely develop mediumship in a scientific way. Very
few realise that conscious co-operation is more valuable than un-
conscious trance, so that unless I can discover new types of
students I am doubtful of getting mediums of the Dr. Kilner
type to work; for that is what he became, though ignorant of
the fact. First he visualised an actual/hysical emanation which
surrounded the whole body and note "lines offorce" radiating
in every direction, and then came an extension of normal sight
followed by powers of clairvoyant diagnosis.
In "Les Radiations Humaines" Raoul Montandon noted the
results of magnetising fruits, fish, flesh and flowers which re-
tained their natural colours. That there are people who can
petrify these things by magnetic passes will come as a surprise to
many healers who, knowing only of soothing and beneficent
results, will be puzzled to account for the phenomena. Just how
the aura acts in healing is an interesting speculation. The fore-
finger and thumb are said to radiate a different quality of aura
from that of the remaining fingers. It is quite possible that
diseased tissues may be sterilised by the emanation from the
forefinger and thumb and the soothing of general inflammation
proceed from other fingers.
I suggest that the reason some healers are peculiarly successful
in treating specific types ofdisease and completely fail with others
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA 99
is because the quality of their aura differs. Mediums who diag-
nose prove this by selecting healers specially fitted to deal with
specific types ofdisease. The following extract from the "Daily
Express," November 3, 1928, supports my suggestions, and
shows how very different is the psychic radiation from some
people:
"A strange and mysterious power by which a young Lyons
man can dry up an orange, convert a beefsteak into leather, or
stop the germination of vegetables by a few mystic passes, is
puzzling all the savants of France. It dates from one Sunday
evening when Georges Gaillard, aged thirty-three, a shoe
dealer and amateur hypnotist, returned home, went into the
kitchen, and picked up two mutton chops. He held the chops
in his hand for a minute, and then, to his astonishment, saw that
they had.actually shrivelled up. The next day Gaillard went to
relate his strange experience to Dr. Edmw1d Locard, the noted
director of the police technical laboratory, who states: "I have
witnessed Gaillard mummify various kinds of fresh meat, and
these mummifications cannot be contested. Dr. Locard, who is
an expert on trickeries of all sorts, said to me: 'I examined the
meat before and after his mystic movements, and there was not
the slightest trace of any of the chemicals used for preserving
animal flesh. I simply cannot explain this mystery. The man
apparently possesses a power we scientists do not understand."
In the chapter dealing with me mechanism of mind, readers
will note that I have duplicated tllis phenomenon. I have now
kept the specimens ofmeat, fish and fruit for ten years and they
are still as hard as a stone.
The discovery ofthe cause and quality of these variations may
presently enable us to discover the auric differences essential to
all forms of psychic manifestations. The Spiritualist theory is
that spirit people utilise these radiations to produce perplexing
phenomena. As aura is tl1e invisible factor essential to all psychic
phenomena, its importance must be fully grasped. The fact that
some persons are mediums and others are not has compelled
Spiritualists to accept as a working hypothesis the theory that
mediunlS radiate a specific psychic substance which forms a
semi-material link between themselves and their unseen com-
municators.
100 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAliSM
Dr. Kilner, by means of dicyanine, has proved that all
human bodies possess tilis quality which we term "aura."
Researches show that it differs characteristically with every
individual. The quality of aura essential to healing differs from
that used for physical phenomena and is different again in trance
speaking, but it still forms the invisible bond between the
medium and ti1e spiritworld. It is well established tilat, unless ti1e
magnetism of ti1e spirits blends harmoniously with that of .
sensitives, they cannot make tileir presence felt. We are, in
addition, compelled to recognise the fact that elements unknown
to mortal chenlists are blended with the aura as occasion_demands.
Many people ask, "Why is a medium necessarv:>".. You might
as well expect a chemist to produce chc:uucal combinations
minus the elements he knows to be essential, as psychic mani-
festations to occur without ti1e particular kind of aura that
experience has proved to be necessary. Most well-developed
mediums sense the different qualities immediately, and by iliis
means are able to advise as to states of health or the type of
mediumship most easily developed. Complexities often arise
because tile colour differs witil changing emotions. Sitters whose
auras blend and form beautiful colours make ideal seance
companions. This can be seen clairvoyantly, by watching tile
mist-like ilireads which extend from the fingers of all sitters.
If harmony prevails, the colours blend, but if a gap is seen
between two sitters tiley must change places until it is eliminated.
Ifthe colours tilen refuse to blend, it is best for tile unharmonious
sitters to retire from the circle or the results will be poor. The
aura of a new sitter may completely antagonise results easily
produced on other occasions. Nor do two mediums of appar-
ently tl1e same type always intensify tl1e phenomena. On the
contrary, they have been known to destroy each otl1er's in-
Buence. A control of Cora Tappan, claiming to be Benjamin
Franklin, says dlls is sometimes due to tile fact tilat one supplies
electrical and tile other phosphoric energy. Apart, they produce
somewhat similar phenomena; together they neutralise each
other.
The means by which we can purify or intensify dlls invisible
factor is therefore of paramow1t importance. It supplies the
reason why spirit people so frequently object to the use ofdrugs,
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA IOI
alcohol and all habits which debase the mind or deplete the
nerves. It is indissolubly associated with every organ jn the
body from which it extends like perfume from a flower. Kilner
found that a charge of static electricity dispersed the aura mo-
mentarily but intensified its appearance immediately after. This
-hint should not be overlooked by circle conductors. A current
ofelectricity passed round prior to a seance should stimulate the
phenomena. It has been used with good effect in cases of ob-
sessiorr.
Many new experimentalists "discover" the aura and promptly
stick a new label upon it, tmtil at last it has almost as many
names as there are writers on the subject. In !826, Mdme.
Hauffe, better known as the "Seeress of Prevorst," called it
"nerve aura," and from what we now know of its varied uses
this is probably the most explanatory term it is likely to acquire,
because after being associated with a human body it becomes
susceptible to transformation which permits mentality to
operate over its entire field. Kilner proved the aura susceptible
to the influence of thought. His sensitives could change its
colour or project it from any part of the body in straight rays,
having the appearance of steam through which sunlight is
shining, thus confirming spirit teaclling. When condensed as
ectoplasm for use as pseudopods, rods, or materialisation, it still
reacts to thought or shocks exactly as human bodies do. It may
therefore be regarded as an extension of the nervous system in
the same way that steam may be said to be an extension of the
water from which it arises. The chemical constituents are
identical; they merely change their mode ofmanifestation.
The aura is projected long distances by simple effort of will
and thus makes possible the phenomenon of the "double" or
appearance of the spirit·body separated from its physical dupli-
cate. These are sometimes called thought-forms, as they are an
automatic thought-expression of the individual, who may be
completely unconscious that he has thus projected his own
sin1ulacrum on to the brain of someone else, of whom he
happened to be thinking at the moment. If the conditions are
suitable, it becomes objective in so real a fashion that it appears
to be external to the seer.
The aura is asubstance actuallyvisible to spiritpeople andforms
4.
!02 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRlTUAUSM
the basis ofmost clairvoyant visions. The spirit body possesses a
more rarefied aura than the physical body, and spirit people use
it as we use ponderable matter. When we remember that all
mental activity is indissolubly associated with nervous energy,
and that without it our bodies would be consciousless and inert,
our working hypothesis becomes a practical certainty. In
homely table manifestations, the aura is seen clairvoyantly as a
thin vaporous thread ofsteam issuing from the finger-tips ofthe
sitters. Its varying colours denote the quality and degree of
power obtainable from each wlit in the circle.
It should therefore be studied carefully in order to obtain the
most perfect manifestations. As soon as harmonious relationship
is established, tl1e colour combinations blend and phenomenal
evidences synchronise with this appearance. In physical seances,
it is sometimes so objective that everyone in the circle can watch
its transformation from aura into ectoflasm as it poises like a
cloud, varying in brilliance from a dul grey to an illumin;tted
phosphorescence termed "spirit lights," or grey, mist-like
beginnings of full-form materialisations.
What is the aura? It is not a product ofthe human body only.
It is not inert matter. Inanimate objects radiate it to a lesser
degree. Reichenbach's sensitives visualised it as points of light
extending from the fingers. He made exhaustive experiments,
particularly with metals, and called the emanations odylic,
odyle and od force. This was corroborated by mesmeric
subjects everywhere, but as you can "suggest" lights and colours,
hyp~otists discredited his researches. Psychic experiences prove
that'Reichenbach was rightr. Hence, hypnotic schools who deny
the existence ofauric emanations strive to discredit both.
Theosophists call the aura "astral" matter; and are continually
apologising for their use of the word because it has no relation-
ship whatever to stars. To the healer it is "animal magnetism,"
"vital force" and other terms signifying healing power. In order
to get a hearing at the French Academy, Miss Scatcherd called it
"radio activity." But what is it that radiates? What is the nature
of these extraordinary vibrations along which thought travels,
and which finally resemble a human body manifesting indivi-
dualised intelligence? Do they attract forces or do the particles
emanate from the denser matter? Even as "pseudopod"-a term
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA 103
beloved by psychical researchers- it is anything but a "blind"
force.
In conjWlction with Professor Baraduc, Miss Scatcherd
photographed it on to sensitive films which had been laid across
the forehead. By inoerposing silver coins, very beautiful per-
manent effects in coloutrS were obtained. Exhibited at the French
Academy, they were se:verely tested, and itwas found thatpsychic
colours resisted acids, whereas the colour on imitations was
removed easily. Hei' experiments confirm clairvoyant state-
ments that we each radiate distinctive colours.
Spirit teachers always affirmed that not only is psychic quality
registered in the aura, but its colours denote the state of healtli
with mental and emotional factors. Dr. Kilner has strikingly
corroborated these statements by purely mechanical processes.
His drawings show specific markings in health and disease. His
sensitives could project it from any desired part. We dlUs dis-
cover the initial stage in the formation of psychic rods and
pseudopods, as manifesoed in the seance room. They are the
direct result of an effo.rt of will and not the unconscious exter-
iorisation of the medium, as materialists assert.
Professor Baraduc invented instruments to measure emotional
intensity recorded in tilie radiations. He has drawn and photo-
graphed them. He has: gone further and actually photographed
the emotional activities of a bird. His plates exhibit markings
caused by fear and other emotions, but from dead bodies he
could get no markings whatever. Dr. Kilner also failed to see the
emanations from a dead body, but as he mentions his repugnance
to this form of investigation, his own mental state probably
affected the result.
When condensed, the psychic em~ations acquire an even
more varied terminology. Because of these variants, I advise
Spiritualists to use the word "psychoplasm," coined by James
Burns, which has the merit ofindicating a mind or soul behind
the manifestation. (From Psyche! soul, and plasm: material out
of which living tissues develop. Plaso! to form.) Do tllis and
away goes "ectoplasm" (Richet), "teleplasm" (Myers), "psy-
chic force" (Serjeant Cox), "exteriorisation of motricity," and
many others. James Burns defined psychoplasm as follows:
"Nature aroWld us is a condensation into palpable forms of
104 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
previously aerial and inscrutable forces. Man as an organised
being is composed of these things. He holds them in suspension
in his nervous system. We are all materialised spirits. The solid
food we eat is used to maintain the structure ofthe body, supply
it with force and the mind with feeling, thought and expression.
This fluid within man's body is called 'psychoplasm' because it is
so highly vitalised that the soul can mould it into organic form."
The term therefore means invisible elements which can be
condensed and moulded and thus become visible and tangible
by reason of the directive mind behind the manifestation. Aura
is the term applied to this manifestation before it becomes visible,
but, as spirit bodies also radiate it, I apply it to them when speak-
ing of the radiation and psychoplasm to the material of which
spirit bodies or materialisations are composed. It is susceptible
to many subdivisions, but these would confuse rather than help
us to understand.
Materialised forms cannot be distinguished from living flesh
and blood. To touch and sight they appear the same. They may
dematerialise so slowly that the apparently solid body is resolved
into a nebulous mass before our eyes and finally disappears like
cooling steam from a kettle. When forming garments the sub-
stance presents the soft feel of chiffon or tl1e rough texture of
coarser material. In Crawford's experiments it exhibits the
strengtl1 of a bone or steel bar. But no matter whether visible
as psyd10plasm or invisible as aura, one tiling is certain: it is
always a form of matter which manifests the attributes of the
human body, including the conscious direction ofits parts.
Doctor Kilner's screens being the best-known mechanical
means for viewing the aura, a summary of his conclusions will
be useful. Here let me suggest that if the doctor had been
acquainted witl1 psychical research he could have considerably
extended his valuable contribution to the subject. But as he
specifically denies that he knows anytlling of Spiritualism or
allied subjects, his unbiased work has all the greater value to the
medical world for whom his book "The Human Atmosphere"
is specially written.
It forms valuable corroboration on purely physical lines of
research ofall that clairvoyants have asserted for many years. It
remains for the student to decide, by experiment, whether the
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA !05
doctor by.peering through dicyanine developed clairvoyance,
or whether the aura that more peculiarly relates to health con-
ditions is a radiation different in some way from the more
refined auraswhich constitute the forms and appearance visualised
by clairvoyants. His researches appear to prove that the emana-
tions seen by means of dicyanine are purely physical. This will
present no difficulty to students who regard matter as a rate of
vibration and who realise that rates of vibration form colours
and sounds which normal sight and hearing cannot register, but .
which a slight readjustment of the human organs may make
perceptible. This is what Kilner has done.
The more ethereal auras seen by clairvoyants, ifnot identical
with those discovered by Kilner, probably interblend, and one
may easily be mistaken for the other. Early experimenters
should view auras ofpeople in robust health, because it always
loses in distinctness during illness. The aura varies with in-
dividualities, emotions, age and sex. First observe the texture,
whether fine or coarse, then the colour, which is usually a shade
ofblue or grey; note whether it is striated, spotted or clear and
continuous or otherwise.
In certain diseases there will be void spaces which indicate
diseased organs. In nervous disorders the etheric body becomes
more prominent in the back, causing what the doctor terms "a
hysterical bulge." The aura is not usually seen covering the
entire body at the same moment, because of its exceeding
delicacy and transparency. Nor will the colours be seen in
sharply defined patches. Disease shows itselfby irregular patches,
or as spots in special localities. ·
The aura extends about eigliteen inches from the body and
is more condensed the closer it approaches the body. The densest
section lies against the skin and often eludes sight altogether.
Some seers visualize many colours, but the majority develop
this power but slowly. Another fact discovered by Kilner is
that the etheric double is transparent and striated with rose-
coloured lines and that this psychic body is selfluminous. Mter
making allowances for individually characteristic differences, it
will be found that males appear to have an aura that changes but
little tltroughout life. Female auras are quite different.
In childhood it is not unlike tl1at ofthe male, but from twelve
106 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
to eighteen or nineteen years of age, through the period of
adolescence, ti1e changing conditions of life are indicated and
the aura forms a perfect ovoid from the head to the feet more
extended than that c•f the male. Mentality has a marked effect
upon ti1e aura. The more highly educated or thoughtful an
individual, the more refined it appears to be. The more intense
the grey, the less developed the mentality. Pregnancy is clearly
indicated, and epileptics were found to retain its indications in
their aura for many years after the seizures ceased.
All these details are amplified in Kilner's book. He did not
know that the aura eventually forms the clothing ofthe spiritual
body and is used wi1
th great effect in spirit photography to cut
off rays of light which would otherwise spoil the photograph.
During trance states he found the aura almost disappeared. As
death, sleep and trance are curtailments of conscious activity on
the physical plane, it indicates that submergence of the senses
increases psychic perception in like ratio. At death, the aura
almost entirely leaves the body, but during earth life part of it
accompanies the spirit on its travels while separated from the
physical. It is probably the material ofwhich the "silver cord,"
mentioned in Ecclesiiastes, is composed.
Striking phenome1na, pregnant with meaning to the psychic
student, frequently occurred for which the doctor could not
account. One woman could project auric rods from any part of
her body, or change the colour of the aura by simply thinking
intensely ofthe colonr or effect required. In books dealing with
physical phenomena,, tl1e significance of these appearances will
be at once apparent, for it is obvious that the basis is thought.
This causes the projection ofthe intangible aura, which becomes
solidified by processes yet to be discovered, and forms pseudo-
pods and materialisations.
In the following e:l!:tracts from Kilner's book the first illustrates
phases understood by clairvoyants but puzzling to the doctor in
his ignorance ofpsyclhic laws:
"As her aura had been shown to a number of medical men,
there have been opportunities for seeing some curious effects.
Once, when she was standing with her hands down by the side
of he~ body, three bright rays appeared simultaneously, all
proceeding a long distance beyond the visible limits ofthe outer
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA 107
aura. On another occasion, the room becoming a little over-
heated, the woman fellt faint. The first indication of this con-
dition was that both a1uras became dim; as recovery took place,
they gradually returned to their normal state."
Another was "peculiar in that the patient showed several rays
coming offfrom the body at the same time." He says, "There
were four, one from each shoulder proceeding upwards, one
descending from the .right axilla, and another descending from
the crest of the ilium."
I suggest that all these manifestations, though puzzling to the
doctor, are simply explained by psychic science and prove the
relationship between his discovery and psychic phenomena.
But it must always be borne in mind that mediums induce
phenomena and see colours not discernible by the less fortunate.
The conscious alteratic•n ofauric colours and projection of rods
requires special development.
A Harley Street specialist has invented a useful means ofprov-
ing the reality of the aura. He connects a transformer to the
household electricity supply and reduces the current to one that
is barely perceptible. A handle connected to the transformer
completes the circuit to the earth and the subject.
There is no shock, the amperage is small, the voltage high,
and there is no actual evidence at the moment that current is
passing through the body. He tl1en advances towards the human
conductor of electricity with a tube or electric bulb .6.lled with
neon gas. At about two feet distance the tube will emit a faint
glow if the subject is roobustly healthy, but eighteen inchesis ilie
more general distance before the lamp begins to light up. The
nearer it approaches the body, the more intense does the light
become. It is obvious 1that the tube is burning electric current.
What conducts the dectricity to the lamp? There is but one
answer. It is some invisible emanation given offfrom the body
of the subject. That emanation is now well known under the
name ofaura. It is tru.e that leakages from accumulators can be
traced by neon lamps, and the theory needs careful testing, but
the intensity is apparently doubled when the current passes
through the human conductor of electricity.
A friend ofmine has achieved similar results by means ofhigh-
frequency batteries. We postulate as a working theory that
108 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
vibrations must have something in which to vibrate. The
physicist postulates an ether, but coming through a human body
we think the aura is the actual vehicle. The Harley Street
specialist differs from Dr. Kilner in so far as he believes that the
etheric or spiritual body is inside the physical body. Dr. Kilner
visualised it as a sort oftight-fitting garment extending to about
one-eighth of an inch all over outside the body, looking like a
dark band or void space.
I think both are partly right and partly wrong, because my
philosophy teaches me that every particle of the universe has a
corresponding duplicate or etheric double and the human organ-
ism is no exception to the general rule. All these elements
operate at the moment of death and form the spiritual body.
It would, therefore, be both inside and outside because the
psychic organism reproduces every faculty. It permeates the
entire mechanism and all that our experiments with the aura
prove is that it extends beyond the physical organism. After
death, the psychic body exhibits a more etherealised aura, which
previously was hidden by or included in the denser emanation.
Prompted by the active will, the brain becomes the organ
which transforms potential or inert electricity into active
electricity. The final withdrawal of the spirit body nullifies the
law of cohesion which can no longer hold the elements of the
physical body together. Death is the natural consequence.
. Dr. PaulJoire invented an instrument which measured emana-
tions from the human body. Indicator needles were deflected
by pointing £ngers at them. All possible sources of deflection
due to light, heat and other known forces were carefully ex-
cluded. Following his line of research, experimentalists may
suspend a thin, dry cardboard tube or wooden rod by a silk
thread tied to the centre. By pointing the £ngers near the end,
ifthe requisite power is present, it may be moved and used to tap
out "spirit" messages on the table.
Comte de Bourg de Bozas succeeded in photographing
radiations from a hand in the act of discharging an electroscope.
The existence of a discharging agent analogous to a conductor
of electricity is therefore indicated, the auric particles possibly
forming the line ofcommunication. He discovered the fo.rce by
notidng that when certain persons passed his instrwnents these
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA 109
were deflected. This led to considerable experimentation with
the foregoing result. 'iXrith most people, no results were noticed.
Because of its elusive nature, many scientists dispute the
existence ofthe aura. Spirit bodies are denied for the same reason.
It is "unscientific" to affirm these as postulates, so until we can
make them visible, we cannot bring them within the scope of
legitimate science.
It will not be out of place to record an interesting fact here,
which seems to prove that, though the aura is inherent in all
matter, articles are made more luminous when the object is
handled by human b~:ings. This supplies a clue to the reason
why mediums intensify phenomena if they magnetise articles,
and explains how Paul healed people by sending handkerchiefS.
{Acts xix, 12.)
On visiting the London Spiritualist Alliance, my wife noticed
that many ofthe books in the library were surrounded by a mist,
but what puzzled heir most was that some volumes showed
scarcely any luminosity, while others were exceptionally bright.
The librarian invited her to point out those books on which the
emanations appeared most clearly. She did so, and his immediate
conclusion was that the additional amount of aura was due to
handling, because the brightest were constantly used, while those
with the lesser quantity were read but little, and the darkest
scarcely at all.
In face of the varied testimony proving the existence of aura,
it may appear superfluous to mention that certain hypnotic
schools strenuously deny its existence. The desire to oppose
the mesmeric theory may be the root cause oftheir denial. They
invariably discredited their predecessor's experiments, and one
can only conclude-to use their own pet hypothesis-that their
mental attitude "suggests" its non-existence and therefore it has
no business to exist, even ifit docs!
Students must oppose the efforts of hypnotists to get hold of
mediums and hypnotically "train" them. Mediumship came
into existence without their help and despite their active con-
demnation. It requires no great prophetic vision to see that, if
the tendency is not colmteracted, sensitives will presently repeat
the "suggestions" of their mentors, whose sole aim and object
appears to be the elimi1nation of the spirit hypothesis. They find
IIO THE UNIVERSITY OF SPllUTUAUSM
tllis exceedingly difficult because, until the spirit people have
played their part, physical phenomena are rarely obtainable.
But make no mistake about it, we shall need scientifically and
continuously to refute materialistic interpretations.
Similar moral cowardice to that which disgraced the oppo-
nents ofMesmer is striving to throttle psychical research and for
similar reasons. It is evidenced in the creation ofa terminology
which bedouds the issue by eliminating the minds behind the
phenomena. All terms with the slightest "psychic" flavour are
refused admission to their literature, and in quoting their works
many Spiritualists fail to realise the import of me words coined.
The position of self-appointed authorities is rapidly getting un-
tenable, as one scientist after another affirms that aura is
condensed into psychoplasm and that physical phenomena are
the outcome of its skilfully directed movements.
Paracelsus, near the end of the sixteend1 century, followed by
J. B. Van Helmont and others, believed in tl1e power ofthe will
to direct d1e fluid. This was scientifically confirmed by Dr.
Kilner, who observed the shape and colour it took in obedience
to the will ofits owners. Paracelsus claimed that it is most active
at night during sleep, because the body is quiescent and the soul
more dominant and active. He also taught that man is a minia-
ture world and that the elements ofhis body, equally with those
of the earth, possessed magnetic polarities.
Thus, out of the past, we fmd the teaching of spirit people
curiously confumed. Ifman is an electrical machine his ability
to locate minerals or water as a "diviner" is explained. He
merely links his aura to the electric conduits around him and thus
locates the elements he seeks. That man is an electrical generator
or transmitter is now scientifically demonstrable.
Sir William Crookes's analysis of radiant matter will apply
equally well to aura-"Radiant matter is produced by the
variety of its molecules having room to collide," and which,
"having been rendered more free and mobile by the reduction
oftheir numbers, act like bullets so small as to defy the imagina-
tion; and the number ofwhich still left in the 'vacuum' ofwhich
man is so proud, appears to be infinite." That is another way of
saying that the invisible and imponderable are more permanent
and volatile than dense material. He proved his theory by the
MARVELS OP THE HUMAN AURA III
construction of the Crookes's Tube. I suggest that what he
scientifically proved, Spiritualists are demonstrating in seance
rooms under the name ofaura. Presently, when scientists get to
grips with the new revelation, we may expect them to dogmatise
upon the nature and composition of the spirit body as revealed
by "radiant matter" emanating from the physical body. But-
that time is not yet.
Allan Kardcc suggested that the aura could be called "in-
telligent matter." Psychic rods formed from the aura exhibit
independent consciousness, and individualised intelligence
presumes volition. Whence comes this? He says:
"From another point ofview tllis fluid may be classed as form-
ing part ofthe material element; it is, nevertheless, distinguished
from it by certain special properties of its own. Ifit could be
classified simply and absolutely ·as matter, there would be no
reason why spirit should not also be classed as matter. It is the
intermediary between spirit and matter and susceptible of being
made, through its innumerable combinations, under the direction
of spirit, to produce an infinite variety of things of which you
know but a very small portion. This universal, primitive or
elementary fluid is the agent employed by spirits when acting
upon matter. It is the principle without which matter would
remain for ever in a state ofdivision and would never acquire the
properties given to it by the state of ponderability."
From tllis definition it would appear to be the essential
magnetic link forming a basic factor in the manifestation of
cohesion. Its presence inhibits the processes of decay. So long
as it remains in combination, vegetable and animal life continue;
the particles of the houses we live in and the earth itself are all
held in suspension by its operations. Like ether, it interpenetrates
everything and may be another name for a form of the same
thing. Ether itself is but a postulate of particles so infinitely
small that we regard them as points of force rather than
matter.
In the near future, science will assuredly postulate an etheric
floor or foundation for the spirit world based on its analysis of
etheric vibrations or auric emanations. Its only valid objection to
heavens, hells and spirit bodies is that they are immaterial; but as
matter is now recognised as a mode of motion in the ether, the
II2 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
scientific recognition ofa spirit world is not so far away as some
folk imagine. .
We must note the essential difference between clairvoyance
and auricsight. A small amoWlt of light is essential to see by
means ofKilner's screens, because auricsight results from altering
the focal range of the eye by permitting additional ultra-violet
rays to impinge upon the retina while cutting out other rays.
But in clairvoyance it is doubtful whether the retina ofthe eye is
used at all. The average clairvoyant often sees best during
development with P.osed eyes or in total darkness. With
development, the ability to see in full light follows. Kilner
maintains that the action of the chemical causes a specific change
in the optic nerves, which thus register radiations imperceptible
to ordinary sight. Primitive man and animals are believed to
possess this extended vision.
At this point I disagree with Doctor Kilner, because I have
proved that it was not the effect of the chemical upon the optic
nerve but the result of the peculiar colour combination forcing
little used rods and cones in the retina of the eye to become
sensitive and responsive to a field ofvision immediately adjacent
to the octave of colour perceived by normal sight. To follow
up Kilner's lines ofresearch I sought out the chemist who com-
poWlded Kilner's dye and contracted with him to supply me
with the identical colour combination used by Kilner. I i.ro:-:-
proved upon Kilner's flat dicyanine container and used goggles
registered as "Aurospecs." This was provisionally patented in
1928 but never completed because I discovered that identical
results could be obtained by using glass made up to the same
spectroscopic tint. No manufacturerin Englandwould guarantee
to produce it, but finally in Czechoslovakia I succeeded. Tlus
enabled me to give users a permanent colour screen at a fraction
of the cost of the dicyanine which only lasted one or two years
before drying up. Kilnascrene was the result.
F. 0. Roberts is one ofmany demonstrators who are popularis-
ing its use and adding to the stores of information already ac-
cumulated by mediums. He exhibits about five hundred coloured
charts showing appearances in the aura of disease, emotion,
inspiration and mediumistic mechanisms. The magnetism from
magnets, the perfume of flowers, leakages of electricity or gas
MARVJ!ll.S OF THE HUMAN AURA II 3
in the streets have been similarly discovered by its use. But the
most valuable results from the Spiritualistic standpoint is his
classification ofhealers' auras which will eventually enable them
to specialise in the types of disease they are best fitted to handle.
By thus amalgamating auricsight, i.e., aura seen by normal
sight, with clairvoyance which can entirely dispense with eye-
sight, a new form of psychic vision is evolving. This appeals
strongly to scientific minds because it gives them a mate.rial
basis from which to start their investigations.
The development of the screen was due to definite scientific
research. The doctor detected two forces, besides heat, which
acted upon his instruments, and was convinced that they were to
be found in the infra--red portion of the spectrum, but finally
found them at the ult:~:a-violet end.
If clairvoyance is laltent, both aura and spirit forms are soon
visualised. Looking for the purely physical, albeit invisible,
emanations induces clairvoyance in a better way than crystal
gazing or visualising a~ fixed point, as there is no strain on the
eyes, and hypnotic effects are minimised. Relaxation rather than
concentration is the ).<eynote ofsuccess. Many eye troubles are
removed by its use. On a long motor ride, I tried the effect of
Kilnascrene on my felllow passengers, and discovered that my
sight was improved by the process, so that objects stood out a
great deal more distinctly after wearing tl1em. I wore them for
about fifteen minutes.
Kilner also notes the fact that he was able to reduce the power
of his reading glasses after developing ability to see the aura.
Many experimentalists find they can dispense with spectacles
after using the screen.
I have been informed that "large numbers of people will
obligingly see anything tl1ey are asked to see." That iliis cannot
be laid to Kilner's charge will be immediately apparent to all who
take ilie trouble to read his book and are not satisfied with
quotations which ignore the careful research that preceded it.
Many think iliey are suffering from optical illusion while
actually seeing the aura. But it has been photographed. You
cannot very well photograph a mental illusion.
The most interesting experiences are those where the flesh
becomes transparent amd the bones present an X-ray photo-
I I4 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
graphic effect. Holding the fingers against a strong light pro-
duces a somewhat si~~nilar duplication. This I regard as a purely
optical illusion, but as some clairvoyants see the interior
mechanism of the body, exactly as one views the works of a
watch through a gl:u;s case, it cannot always be so.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle reports the instance of a doctor he
met in Australia who could walk behind a man in the street and
diagnose the disease he was suffering from because he possessed
this peculiar power. He could see the relationship ofeach organ
to its fellow, and note whether it was functioning properly or
not. One of my demonstrators was similarly gifted. While
I was instructing a group in Kingston on psychic healing, one of
the pupils declared slhe could see my ribs quite clearly. Where
this faculty is discovered I suggest that it should be carefully
cultivated.
In the reading ofauric colours, seers must remember the many
factors that cause va~riations and allow for disease, hysteria and
other emotions which may be permanent, transient or tem-
peramental. Subject: to this reservation, the following extract
gives a very fair summary ofcolours seen by clairvoyants:
"There are vmous hues of colours and everything depends
on the hue. A person having a pure rich colour in the aura
would be better thatt one with a very high colour of a muddy
tone. The possessor of a very pure colour must have used the
power that colour hrings, or it would not be pure. Muddy
colour denotes the fact that the power is there but the possessor
has not used it; henc:e the dulling of it.
"White indicates purity; transparent white shows purity of
the highest type.
"Gold means peace, and all golden tones carry this meaning
to a certain extent.
"Flame means hon.
our, but here we do not mean fame; we
mean one who is h•onoured by his friends and held in high
esteem.
.
"Green is the colour ofintellect and knowledge.
"Yellow means brain-power, and the person who has yellow
for his colour is one who would give his whole life to the study
ofhigher things.
"MmJVe is the colour of good will, and here you will always
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA II5
find one who is ready to help the 'down and out'; it is the colour
ofsympathy.
"Blue is truth or trueness; the possessor ofit is always in quest
oftruth and will push aside all obstacles, not always kindly; but
the pursuit of truth is so important that the seeker concentrates
his attention upon it.
"Pink means love, and we can have all kinds of love, but the
true one is that love which is absolutely devoid ofjealousy.
"Red is a passionate colour and can be very good if the
passions are set in the right direction, which is not always. By
the right direction we mean the passion for music, art or know-
ledge, but not for anything ofa physical kind.
"Brown is a depressing colour and generally is to be seen with
people who worry and get depressed over small matters.
"Grey means despair, and generally follows those who will
not try to raise themselves; silver grey, however, shows those
who have known despair and suffered but who have fought their
way out against many obstacles.
"Black means in the depths, and generally can be seen with
those who are so far down that they even contemplate suicide.
"As regards the different hues of colour, some are very im-
portant. Take, for instance, peacock blue; tllis colour is a mixture
of green and blue, but when two colours are mixed together as
one it shows that neither hue is being used to its full value. It
would have been better ifthey had been in separate bands, but
when mixed they indicate a certain indifference to the qualities
they represent. The peacock blue would therefore give in-
tellectuality plus truth, but it would also mean that tl1e possessor
of tills hue would not go out of his way to find either, but
would only take notice ifthey were thrust upon him.
"Cream is another colour which can be a mixture of light
brown and white, or yellow and white, and is usually seen with
those who lack enthusiasm for things ofthe mind.
"Wine colour, a mauve and red mixture, shows love ofchange,
or it may be love ofsport.
"Burnt sienna is a colour made up ofred and brown, and this is
most often seen with those who have many moods, sometimes
gay, sometimes sad, and very reserved; the bearers oftills colour
need bringing out of themselves.
II6 TBE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
"Purple is a very rich colour, and is really a deep shade of
mauve; it will most often be seen with older people. It is the
colour of benevolence, aroused by suffering; those who have
suffered much and through that suffering gained a true sympathy
for others, display this colour."
What, then, is the aura? As a working hypothesis, I suggest
that·it is the essence of matter itself-living points of force
reduced to primitive form but undergoing continual transforma-
tion; its component parts being adaptable to what are called
spirit, astral and earth planes. Each particle ofmatter radiates an
animal, vegetable ot mineral counterpart, an aura: i.e., an in-
visible etheric duplicate of visible forms.
Spirit teachers and all experimentalists agree upon its mani-
fold properties. In Crawford's experiments it assumed the form
of sensitive rods, strong as steel, yet so alert that they seemed
endowed with special consciousness. The aura cannot therefore
be called a "blind" force, for consciousness operates through it
exactly as we do through our nerves. It responds to thought
processes so automatically that it appears to adapt itselfto varying
conditions witl10ut volition by the medium being .consciously
exerted. It thus assumes the form described by clairvoyants as an
adult but anon changes into that of a child with corresponding
alteration ofgarments to portray some incident or depict a scene.
We continually prove the marvellous adaptability ofthe aura.
The clothing ofthe form seen by clairvoyants is but a condensa-
tion of previously invisible elements. Condensed a little more,
it becomes visible to normal sight and we call it etherealisation
or transfiguration. With the addition of still denser particles,
gathered from the atmosphere or the audience, it becomes
psychoplasm and takes the form of rods, pseudopods and
materialisations which have been handled and photographed.
By sheer force oflogic we are driven to the conclusion that the
se-lf-luminous spirit body must be composed ofelements drawn
from every part ofthe physical, and that these survive the change
called death. So definite is tllis that tl1e Crandon circle repro-
duced actual counterparts ofthe folds andpores ofthe skin in the
tlmmbprints registered by deceased persons and testified to by
Capt. Fife, the fingerprint expert of New York.
My last conclusion is that psyclllc gravitation which compels
MARVELS OF THE HUMAN AURA II7
every spirit to go each to "his own place" for fuller development,
although set in motion by the quality of the individual mind, is
largely regulated by the type of material extracted from the
physical body. Magnetic attraction and repulsion in the spirit
world thus come under natural law. fJ.!Hghn" law in mani-
festation is the only judge we shall ever meet. No unjust or
_ vindictive God pronounces sentence. '
CHAPTER IX
HEALERS THROUGH THE AGES
STUDENTS cannot fail to notice in ancient histories the im-
portant part ascribed to good and evil spirits in the cause and
cure of disease. Primitive man associated disease and disaster
with wicked gods or demons. This induced beliefin sorcery and
witchcraft, and produced "medicine men," who attempted to
cure the sufferers. Thus arose schools of "white," or good,
magic, as opposed to schools of"black," or evil, magic. Associa-
ted with these were actual spirit manifestations, which intensified
religious convictions.
The spirit people had precisely the same difficulties to contend
with then as now. Always they find that the measure of their
illumination is limited by the recipients' capacity to receive.
Then there arose schools of mystics and therapeutre, who,
hopeless of raising the masses to their own conceptions, taught
that high spirits, or God in person, healed the sick, cast out
devils, and spoke through the lips of chosen instruments. The
Bible is full of illustrations of these phases. History today is
repeating biblical history. Spiritualists are seriously asking:
which ought to be cultivated first, spiritual insight or psychic
powers?
The latter without the former means the prostitution ofnoble
ideals. Muddy channels contaminate the pure water that flows
from spiritual sources. On the other hand, the revolt against
inept man-made theologies has produced such a barrage of
materialism that nothing short . of positive and continuous
demonstration can break through and convince the masses that
spirit aid or spirit life ofany kind is even remotely possible.
Psychic healing provides a solvent for these difficulties. Ifit is
thought that the mind alone produces the cure, we prove that
mind is superior to matter, and thus make a breach in the walls
ofmaterialism. When it is also realised, as soon it must be, that
psychic healing, through its sympathetic treatment of suffering
uS
HEALERS THROUGH TH.B AGES II9
ennobles the healer and expands the soul of the sufferer by
gratitude, it will be cultivated as the finest method of soul
culture allied to psychic power.
That is what Spiritualism has discovered. Sympathy with
suffering allied to psychic methods oftreatment actually indtaws
apostolic power, and makes manifest the meaning of the text,
"Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His glory, and all else
shall be added unto you." Miracle ceases to exist when com-
munion between the two worlds comes under natural law
through normal association. The further result will be govern-
ment by the spirit, for the spirit and through the spirit-oflove.
This will supplant the cunning and heartless diplomacies ofmen.
Modern books on medicine ignore these facts, and glibly pass
over with the phrase "superstition" much that would now be
classified by science as hypnotism or auto-suggestion. Knowing
this, we cannot attribute all reported cases of miraculous cures
in ancient times to the fanciful embroideries of unmitigated
liars, or relegate them to the limbo ofobscurity merely because
early ideas of healing were definitely associated with religion.
Spiritualists, who realise the actual work ofspirit people among
us, will see more reasons for this association than modem
materialism concedes.
The word "magic" is derived from the religion ofZoroaster,
and was applied to the work ofthe magi or priests who officiated
at sacred ceremonies, and to whom wonderful powers were
attributed, owing to their supposedly close association with the
gods. In the history of all religious systems we find somewhat
similar ideas prevailing. The chief theories among primitive
men accounting for disease are:
(r) That it is due to the anger of an offended demon; not
necessarily human. (2) Revenge of disembodied human spirits.
(3) Witchcraft or disease caused by human malevolence.
The role of priest and medicine man were usually combined
in the same person. As disease was caused by evil spirits, so the
cure would be sought hy intercession to good ones. You have a
modern parallel to this in Roman Catholics who petition special
saints for tl1e cure ofeach specific disease.
Osiris is believed by Egyptians to have invented medicine,
but the origin of their records is lost in dim antiquity. Oilier
120 THE UN'IVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
nations worshipped the god Aesculapius as the god of healing.
Various writers quite easily trace the origin ofhealing to other
gods as sources, and each religious system quotes apparently
authentic accounts ofcures. In ancient Egypt the art ofmedicine
consisted of two branches-the higher or theurgic part, and the
lower or more practical application ofmedicaments.
Theurgy devoted ittself to magic and the study of counter-
acting charms and talismans to avert evil and the interpretation
of the dreams of those who came to the temples for their cure.
The method ofpreparing the patient was by prayer and fasting.
After ablution and other ceremonies, they laid at the feet of the
god, and were put to sleep. It is questionable as to whether we
can use the word "pu1t" in its modern sense of hypnotic sleep,
but the fact remains that most extraordinary cures were wrought
by these means. Us01ally the patient dreamed of quite simple
remedies, which prod10ced the cure. In modern hypnotism and
psychic diagnosis we find parallel cases.
In the temples of Aesculapius, about 850 B.c., we fmd cases
recorded on the walls of the temples in precisely the same way
as the modern doctor enters details in a book. Pythagoras, about
582 B.c., gave tl1e following recipe: "Striving for good brings
moral health. Diseases are caused by demons." Few people
will accept the latter s1
tatement.
Modern medicine a.
ctually dates its origin from Hippocrates,
about 400 B.c. He systematised various formulre and opposed
the glaring inconsistencies and superstitions ofhis day. He was
followed by many more or less sympathetic schools of thought,
and between A.D. 130 and A.D. 160 Claudius Galenus, better
known to Spiritualists as Galen, the guide of Andrew Jackson
Davis, still further collSolidated truly scientific research.
But, about the same period, we find the alchemists searching
for the philosopher's stone and the elixir of life. These were
usually physicians, an.d it is to their efforts that we owe the
origin of the drug system, as well as the science of chemistry.
The elixir was believed to be composed of chemical substances,
so, in course oftime, the modern pharmacopa:ia developed with
entire reliance upon dlrugs and complete neglect of the mental
or psychic causes of diisease. Innovators were persecuted by the
superstitious folk of their times and therefore did most of their
HEilLBRS THROUGH THE AGES UI
work in secret. About A.D. 300 Diocletian, the Roman Em-
peror, issued an edict ordering all ancient books to be burned
which treated on the :art oftransmuting base metals into gold and
silver, and this gives us a clue to the special interest which
chemical research had at that time.
Max Muller maintained that Hindus are an older race ofpeople
than Egyptians, who probably adopted their ideas. They taught
that primitive man was without sin or disease, but that he pre-
sently fell away from grace. His loss ofvirtue placed him under
the spell of evil powers, but Brahma took compassion on him
and caused a treatise to be written, called Ayur Vedas, which
followed the older Vedas or sacred writings, and dealt with the
prevention and cure ofdisease. In these early writings, Christians
will discover the probable origin ofthe theological "fall ofman."
Both surgical and ge:neral treatment is described in tl1e Vedas.
Charms, imprecatioDtS and other superstitious usages of ancient
India, may be fomnd in the Arthara-Vedi-Sarnhita, origin
probably about 8oo to rooo B.C.
Illustrative of the superstitions that grew up around medicine
in these ancient times, I find that Finnish theology had a wide
variety of disease de11110ns and two special classes of treatment.
One consisted of "wll
ute" magic, assisted bydrugs, and the other
was by "black" magiic and evil spirits. The latter could be used
both for good or ill, poisons and malice entering largely into
~e~r p~~ctices;, T.his e~~hasises Sir Walter Scott's definition of
Witch as a poiSoner.
One article offaith may be tested with the help ofconjuration.
I am informed in Berdoe's "History OfMedicine" that you can
capture the devil th~Lt causes any disease, and either cook him
over a slow fire, or lbury him in a brazen pot. Unfortunately,
I could not discover whether the devil can be accommodated
with a small pot, or whether he is big and solid enough to need a
large one. It is rath1er a pity these details are wanting, but, as
they believed in legions of devils, perhaps potting just one or
two made no real difference after all.
It is also worthy ofnote that the Finnish magicians banished
their devils to Lapland, which to tl1em was tl1e most undesirable
place they could viSUtalise. Jewish ceremonies banish evil spirits
to the desert for the same reason. Both sorcerers and white
122 THE UNIV1lRSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
magicians tried to get hold of some article of clothing or
personal belongings of the ones they wanted to cure or curse.
In the light of modern psychometric practice, the rationale of
the process is clear. It is interesting to read that ancient super-
stitions believed in blowing the disease away, and bidding it
begone to the mountains, after stroking or rubbing the patient.
We thus find magnetic treatment allied to hypnotic practice,
blending with theories of devils or gods, as the cause or cure of
disease which had definite mental effect upon the patient. From
these ideas arose ceremonies in religious systems which begin by
propitiating their god with sacrifices, and later evolving the idea
of sacrificing the god himself (see]. M. Robertson's "Pagan
Christs").
Captain Cook, the explorer, mentions that he often lost sight
ofhis sailors in some foreign ports among primitive people, and
suspected undesirable practices. He was intrigued by the fact
that they always returned better in health. A watch was kept,
and it was found that they went to native masseurs, who
vigorously pounded, oiled and rubbed their bodies until they
glowed with health. They yerformed religious services mean-
time. There is nothing new under the sun.
From Josephus we learn that the Essenes, about 150 B.C.,
studied ancient writers in regard to things useful to body or
soul, and were very learned in the virtues of plants, stones, and
metals. Such was their fame that they were known as the
"Therapeuts," or healers. Tllis statement is interesting, on
account ofthe general beliefthat they were the teachers ofJesus,
who is generally believed to have gained his knowledge from this
body.
In Exodus xv, 26, we find God sends diseases, and in the story
of Job's temptation we find God apparently entering into a
friendly compact with the devil to affiict the poor man from
the crown ofhis head to tl1e soles of his feet. The Mosaic law
consi~ts largely of sanitary codes. In the Talmud we find
Judaism ascribing disease to constitutional vice, evil powers
acting on the body, and to magic.
From these beginnings we come to the Pneumatic School, '"
founded by Athenius in the first century, in wllich both normal
functions and disease were attributed to the operation of the
H.BALERS THROUGH THB AGES 123
pneuma or universal soul. Combining with all researches there
gradually grew up a knowledge of herbs, which at first were
regarded as a detail, but, like drugs, in course of time, were
found to exercise a particular effect, and thus became systematised
in prescriptions.
Our chiefinterest is that mental treatment was always associa-
ted with healing in olden times. The belief ofprimitive man in
specific methods of cure would undoubtedly facilitate the cure,
and no matter whether it was belief in a god, aniUlet, herb or
drug, the mind of the patient undoubtedly helped him as much
as the lJelief of Roman Catholic or Buddhist in holy bones or
holy places. No matter whether they were Christian or pagan
shrines, the resulting cures cannot be doubted.
At times, extraordinary scenes were wittl.essed, as in 1374,
when what was called the dance of St. John set practically the
whole of Germany and some of the neighbouring countries
dancing, shrieking and foaming at the mouth. The mere sight
ofone dancer spread the contagion to another, and thus the whole
country went dance mad for months. The query for Spiritualists
to solve in all these cases is whether they were caused by some
phase of spirit manifestation, or whether the words "hypnotic
suggestion" cover the whole ofthe facts. Usually a blending of
both is discoverable in all "revival" meetings.
In 1418, the dancing plague affected thousands in France and
the Low Countries. Physicians were helpless, and attributed the
malady to evil spirits. But again, as in all outbursts ofrevivalism,
an excessively religious emotionalism appeared at the same time,
and accompanying it were frequent signs of an extraordinary,
but unreliable mediumship, with clairvoyance and prophecy.
Many ancient philosophers, like Paracelsus (r463-154I), have
recorded their belief in a universal fluid, which, under the
direction of the will or religious ecstasy could be directed to-
wards the seat of disease, and thus produce a cure. Paracelsus
also taught that man is a miniature world, that the atoms
of his body obey definite magnetic laws, that every particle
in the universe is polarised and thus contributes to the same
em.:.
He thus anticipated Mesmer, who, between 1773 and r815,
reaffirmed tiJ..is principle and astonished the world with lus
124 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
cures. It is to Mesmer's theory ofa vital .fluid that I want specially
to direct Spiritualists' attention. Ifitis wrong, and has no founda-
tion in fact, as modern hypnotists assert, then the whole fabric
of Spiritualism falls to the ground like a pack ofcards, for with-
out it the phenomena of the seance room are unthinkable and
the philosophy evolved through the past century by reputed
· spirit people is built upon a fow1dation ofsand.
The term "mesmeric passes" is derived from the name of
Mesmer, who systematised their use. As mesmeric passes are
used-without inducing unconsciousness-by magnetic healers,
it is necessary for students to learn their origin.
Franz Antoine Mesmer was born at Mersberg, Germany, in
1734. At the age of forty-two he took his degree as Doctor of
Medicine in the University ofVienna, the subject ofhis inaugural
thesis being "The Influence Of Planets Identical With Magnet-
ism." He experimented with magnets, and believed healing
power could be directed through them. He then appears to have
witnessed cures by the Swabian priest, Gassner, and concluded
· that the healing force must reside in the human body. In 1778,
he obtained striking successes in Paris. Modern experimentalists
believe that what he attributed to personal magnetism was in
fact due to "suggestive" therapeutics or hypnotism. This, in
turn, is a form offaith healing, the intense faith or belief of the
subject inducing the result. Such experiments as his famous
"baquet" illustrate this phase.
A tub was filled with pieces of iron from which long rods
protruded, or ropes were tied to trees. Long lines of patients
grasped the ropes or iron rods, presumably magnetised. The
results were identical with what happens at revival meetings or
hypnotic clinics. Crises (trance states) and convulsions followed,
which caused the medical men of his day to believe it was all
due to imagination, and that "animal magnetism" had nothing
whatever to do with it. He was denounced as an impostor, but
under the name of hypnotism the far-reaching power of
"imagination" is being more correctly appraised.
Hypnotists deride the idea of a magnetic influence emanating
from operators, but calmly appropriate the "passes," which
they admit are more efficacious in healing than other methods
of stimulating "imagination." Spirit-controlled mediums and
HEALERS THROUGH THE AGES 125
magnetic healers both use these passes, although the unconscious
instruments may never have seen the method in operation.
About 1874, one of Mesmer's followers, the Marquis de
Pusegur, induced clairvoyance in his subjects, and was rapidly
followed by other experimentalists, who found that descriptions
of spirit spheres were given during entrancement. Continental
researchers appear to have been far in advance of their English
confreres in psychical research, and many mesmerists' books
treat of clairvoyance, prophecy and introvision as quite
ordinary occurrences. Secret thoughts were sometimes read
with extraordinary accuracy, and mental questions answered
by the entranced subjects.
It was usual for patients to diagnose their own disease, indicate
its various stages and suggest methods of cure. They would
even prophesy correctly the day of their own deaths, without
the slightest fear or consciousness that they had done so. Pro-
phecy and psychic powers fell into disuse with the rise ofhyp-
notism, but many records remain to prove tl1at mesmeric
subjects could more correctly diagnose their own and other
patients' diseases than the doctors. This, of itself, was sufficient
to array the medical world against them.
Cures among non-medical mesmerists were as common as
with "magnetic healers" of today who now use ilie selfsame
passes without rendering the patient unconscious. It was
unfortunate that fear of the devil and superstitions peculiar to
the period prevented closer analysis, and so the strange blend of
auto-suggestion, magnetic treatment and true psychic perception
called mesmerism gradually died out.
Of English mesmeric practitioners, the best-known writers
are Doctors Elliottson, Ashburner and Esdaille, whose names
will go down to posterity as true scientific explorers, long after
their imitators and detractors are forgotten. Their persecutions
and struggles can be read in their own books and in nine octavo
volumes of "The Zoist." Unfortunately their anxiety to get
mesmerism recognised placed them in opposition to the intro-
duction of chloroform as an anaesthetic. This completed their
ostracism. Doctors gladly turned from the uncertainties of
mesmerism to the 'definite action of a whiff of chloroform.
With the discovery of this anresthetic in 1847 by Sir James
5
126 THE UNIVERSITY OP SPIRITUALISM
Young Simpson, mesmeric practice among doctors practically
ceased.
In r8so, while Dr. Esdaille was Presidency Surgeon, he
established a mesmeric hospital in Calcutta, and performed
painless operations under mesmerism. As a careful medical man,
he sent accounts of the removal of one hundred and sixty-one
scrotal tumours-many of them weighing several pounds in
weight-to the English magazines, and complained bitterly of
the way in whid1 medical editors mutilated his reports. His case
book records cures ofenlarged glands and strangulated ruptures.
All the usual hospital cases were successfully treated by mesmer-
ism. Since hypnotism has supplanted mesmerism these opera-
tions are now performed under chloroform.
For experimental purposes, simple operations like tooth-
drawing are still occasionally carried out under hypnotism. Most
of the "psydllc" experiences have disappeared under hypnotism
because the indwelling ego is not afforded the same scope for its
inherent powers. The creation of hallucinations, whidl is the
main feature of the hypnotic school, distorts or misdirects
psychic powers. Occasionally, fitful glimpses of earlier pheno-
mena are obtained, especially when the despised "passes" are
used. This becomes more obvious when hypnotists utilise the
services ofa natural psychic, and credit their "suggestions" with
the results.
Psychic healers admit the power of "suggestion" or "faith,"
but obtain most of their cures by means of "magnetic passes."
They therefore accept Mesmer's theory that healing power
resides in the healer, or is a force passed through their bodies by
higher powers, but assert that hallucination, hypnotic sleep or
mystery-mongering are neither essential to success, nor desirable
in healing centres. Trance mediums, without any training
whatever, use magnetic passes, even though ignorant ofmesmer-
ism. But those who are not gifted in t¥s way must supplement
their knowledge by reading old books on mesmerism.
A very good illustrated book was written by Dr. Younger
entitled "The Botanic Physician And Magnetic Healing." It
illustrates the passes, and contains valuable herbal formula! in
addition. The majority of tl1e books issued under the title of
hypnotism are useless for our purpose, as their basis is the creation
HEALHRS THROUGH THE AGES 127
ofhallucination, which is ofvalue only in counteracting manias,
or as "suggestive" thenpeutics.
In the cures at Lourdes and elsewhere, it is always important
to note details which give clues to the laws in operation. In one
case, a nurse carrying an emaciated child suffering from rickets
felt a sudden thrill pass through her own body, and soon after,
to her great astonishment, the baby began to bill and coo, and
its little body filled out and assumed the hues ofhealth. We get
here an illustration of what frequently happeru at Spiritualist
healing circles. The vequisite elements are extracted by spirit
power from more or less uncorucious sources and applied to the
relief of the sufferer. The theory of "suggestion" cannot be
applied to an infant in a.rms, but in many cases the theory will be
found to cover the en1tire ground. The application of "faith"
intensifies "suggestive"' therapeutics.
At revival meetings somewhat similar conditions prevail to
those of Mesmer's celebrated "baquet," or Parisian hypnotic
clinics. The mearu to the end are different; but that is all. At
Lourdes, the priest strides up and down the rows of pilgrims,
exhorting to faith, and the revivalist preacher attains identical
results by his pleading. At revival meetings I found hypnotic
practice deliberately utilised. After the usual exhortatioru, the
pastor dipped his thumb in oil, pressed it firmly on the patient's
forehead, and, while repeating the faith healers' formula, rested
the remainder ofhisfingers on the crownofthe head. He usually
carried the other hand to the base of the brain. He probably
borrowed the idea fro:m some mesmeric book of instructions,
for in many works on mesmerism you will find illustratioru of
this method of inducimg hypnosis.
It is typical ofmost of these gatherings that loss of corucious-
ness and crises similar to those induced by Mesmer are the result.
I have no doubt that uitSeen workers often take advantage ofthe
mental states induced, a:nd actual cures occur, whichare promptly
seized upon as marks ofdivine favouritism. But when hypnotic
suggestion or faith are the only forces utilised, the cure is rarely
permanent.
In cases of great and exceptional healers like Francis Schlatter
and Valentine Greatra.kes, something more than suggestive
therapeutics must be co:nceded. It is obvious they were spiritually
128 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
aided, or physical exhaustion would soon have put an end to
their work. Schlatter, the Mexican "Messiah," refused all pay-
ment, and sometimes treated from one to three thousand people
daily. One can only conclude that the spirit people found him a
channel for transmitting their power, but as he also emphasised
the need for faith, auto-suggestion undoubtedly played its usual
part. His method was simply to hold, while praying, the
patient's hand for a few minutes. They usually experienced a
mild electric shock, and recovered in a marvellous manner from
their ailments.
Valentine Greatrakes was an Irish Protestant who literally
stroked disease out of his patients. Persecuted by RoPlan
Catholicism, he came to London, and daily exercised his gifts
on people ofall classes who went to him in Lincoln's Inn Fields.
The Royal Society tried hard to discredit his cures, but was
eventually forced to acknowledge them. Their final oracular
pronouncement is interesting to those who accept the theory of
auric emanations. It stated that "his cures were due to a sanative
contagion from Mr. Greatrake's body." Some ofhis cures were
published, and records can be found in the "Transactions" of
the Royal Society in the British Museum. That his marvellous
gift was of the nature of mediumship is emphasised by the fact
that, after a few years £i.lled with extraordinary happenings, it
left him as suddenly as it developed.
'Many healers find they can relieve pain by simply laying
their hands on the spot. The pain often disappears as ifby magic,
and the proofthat the cure is permanent rests in the indisputable
fact that it rarely returns. At other times steady and persistent
treatment over weeks and months is essential. Often without
any intention to diagnose, the healer's hands will be led to the
seat ofdisease, and a mere effort ofwill, usually expressed in the
form of silent prayer, achieves the desired end. In these cases
the magnetic healer acts the part of Mesmer's subjects, but is
fully conscious during the treatment ofthe patient.
Healers vary considerably in power, diagnosis, methods and
results. Quite a large number are physically unfit for the work
they do, and attribute their cures entirely to spirit agency. They
claim to act simply as dl'Lnnels, through which the healing balm
is poured. Normal he~ers must note the fact, because blending
HEALERS THROUGH THE AGES 129
with every effort the same factor plays a more or less con-
spicuous part. The ideal to aim at is overflowing vitality which
of itself produces curative effects, and repels contagion. Co-
operation with the spirit world thus enables the healer to achieve
the apparently miraculous.
Some healers' hands appear faintly luminous while at work,
indicating the utilisation ofphosphoric or electrical forces. They
look like tiny points oflight projected from the finger-tips. The
phosphoric is softer and more diffused, and sometimes develops
into spirit lights which float about the room. When very faint
they are visible only to clairvoyants, but at times they are suf-
ficiently objective to be seen by normal sight.
CHAPTER X
RATIONALE OF PSYCHIC HEALING
HEALERS who do not make sufficient use of the "clearing"
passes, to be described presently, are peculiarly liable to
suffer from the aches and pains of their own patients. After all
forms of psychic work, and particularly that ofhealing, a walk
in the fresh air with deep breathing exercise is advisable. In
addition, healers, more than all other sensitives, should cultivate
a cheery optimism, and, by simple effort of will, counteract all
unpleasant thoughts and feelings, no matter whether psychic or
physically caused. Redirection of thought automatically dis-
charges earlier sensations, and must be practised until the habit
becomes part ofyour normal everyday sel£
It was a common practice among the older school ofmesmer-
ists to place their patients en rapport with mesmerised subjects,
both for purposes ofdiagnosis and actually to transfer symptoms
of the disease itsel£ Very often the disease mysteriously dis-
appeared during the process. This was accomplished by seating
the subject in front ofthe patient, and joining their hands. The
subject, on awaking, would know nothing of what had trans-
pired, but in the meantime may have actually described tl1e
patient's symptoms, or exhibited them in his own person.
If any operators repeat this experiment, may I suggest, in
fairness to ilie subjects, that they deserve more consideration
than mere dismissal wiili a "suggestion," the form now adopted
by modem hypnotists. It may leave tl1e subject with the mental
seeds of the complaint within his own system. Modem healers
hold the patient's hands, and readily diagnose the disease by the
operation ofthe same law witl1out unconsciousness.
In Spiritualist meetings it is usual to link up hands. Symptoms
of disease are thus transferred to sensitives in ilie near vicinity,
and form part of the system of development. Later on, the
sensitives discover they need not touch the patient. Centring
the mind on ilie patient is all iliat is necessary to make psychic
130
RATIONALE OF PSYCIDC HEALING I3I
contact. The auric link connects up all the participants in the
meeting, and thus renders physical contact unnecessary.
Sympathy between people quite ignorant of psychic healing
sometimes produces analogous states. Healers frequently find
themselves ''picking up'' aches and pains from patients. Lightly
contacted and thrown off, this has definite registration value,
and is a method ofdiagu1osis. It presents all the essential features
of psychometry. At the same moment the healer may find
himself subject to "strong impressions" which differ curiously
from his normal methods of reasoning from cause to effect. It
is akin to telepathy, or incipient spirit control.
By lending himself to this guidance, he develops a form of
conscious contact with the spirit world, and incidentally also
"opens the door" to other phases ofmediumship. His diagnoses
thus take the form of sensations passing through his body,
identical with those from which the patient suffers. Recognition
of their presence and the operation of his own will power
removes them instantaneously. Many healers learn to induce
these sensations immediately on seeing patients.
The relationship of these feelings to the "transference of
sensation" practised by mesmerists is obvious. The only dif-
ference is that the healer consciously induces what the mesmeric
subject unconsciously e:l!:hibits. By thus "taking on" a replica of
his patient's symptoms, the healer more often discovers the real
seat ofdisease than is po1;sible for ordinary medical men. Always
note that the actual seat or cause ofdisease is not only where the
pain is felt. It is causes, rather than symptoms, that the true
psychic healer removes.
Some clairvoyants develop the power of diagnosis to a mar-
vellous degree. The body of the patient becomes practically
transparent, and they witness the operations of its organs as
though looking at the mechanism of a watch through a glass
case. If mediums possessing this rare gift were permitted to
co-operate with medical men, the excuse for vivisection would
vanish, and many abstruse problems would be solved. Usually
only local parts ofthe body or organs which need attention are
seen.
Other clairvoyants see nothing of the internal mechanism,
but are guided by the varying colours of the aura. Where it is
132 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
clear, transparent and bright, health is indicated. Where it is
discoloured, dark, spotted, or with obvious gaps in places, it
indicates disease or that the organ under it is not functioning
properly. In this form of diagnosis care has to be exercised,
because varying mental states also affect the colour ofthe aura.
When psychic healers possess the knowledge of the doctor in
addition to psychic powers, a new era for the science ofmedicine
will dawn. Healers occasionally fail because of their ignorance
ofphysiology, dietary, hygiene and chemistry. The marvellous
fact is all the more glaringly true that, although absolutely
ignorant of all the laws utilised, healers cure hundreds of cases
pronounced hopelessly incurable by modem science. Sensitives
who are able to trust their impressions can diagnose disease
accurately. They have but mentally to ask for the remedy to
find that actual prescriptions pour through their brains. All
amateur healers should practise this form ofdiagnosis and await
the telepathic reply. If uncertain, their prescriptions should be
checked by more experienced workers before adoption. Where
the groundwork is suitable, the faculty of diagnosis and inspira-
tional prescriptions will be slowly cultivated by this process.
Trance often supplants d1e impressional type ofmediumship,
but is not always convenient or desirable. It is better for healers
to be aware of all that happens. They can then systematise
prescriptions and be in a position to answer questions while
normal. Apart from this, the educative side of mediumship is
enhanced. Instead of being merely a channel, the medium
becomes a conscious co-operator with spirit advisers. An effort
ofwill is all that is necessary to keep consciousness awake. The
brain is held quietly receptive, while impressions or actual
clairaudience quite clearly gives instructions.
The experimentalists' difficulty is that "awareness" makes
them fear subconscious action. But if they pass through trance
to conscious co-operation, they learn to overcome this fear,
because the withdrawal of the personality of the spirit is so
gradual that the result is attained with greater certainty. Only
transparent honesty and truthfulness, with a spiritually quickened
perception, can overcome the difficulty.
Passes alone generally effect the cure, but where prescriptions
are inspirationally obtained, they will usually be of a herbal
RATIONALE OF PSYCHIC HEALING 133
character. These enter into the composition of the body and
co-operate with its machinery far better than the mineral poisons
so freely used by doctors. Ifmedical men learn psychometrical
diagnosis, their training may subconsciously prescribe drugs
more often, but it is a curious fact that psychic healers as a body
are strenuous opponents of mineral drugs. Perhaps it is a wise
dispensation ofprovidence that it is so, for ifthey experimented
as doctors do, who regard men's bodies as chemical laboratories
into which they may pour poisonous drugs, on the assumption
that one chemical neutralises another, the result might be
disastrous. Chemists can, ofcourse, produce chemical reactions,
and, tha.n.ks to nature's recuperative powers, the products often
pass harmlessly away.
If the patient dies as the direct result of this treatment, the
doctor still remains an "honourable" man, and pockets his fee
satisfied he has done his best. But if the same unfortunate con-
tingency arises during treatment by an unorthodox healer, the
worthy soul is hauled off to prison on a serious charge and
possibly branded as a criminal for ever; and this notwithstanding
the fact that his help was not sought until known practitioners
failed utterly.
From the clairvoyant or spirit standpoint, the reason for dis-
countenancing the use of drugs is clear. With most invalids
there are gaps in the aura, or a dull greyish tinge is visualised,
which makes it appear with ragged edges. In health it should
be bright, clear, and definitely outlined. Drugs deepen and
intensify this raggedness and discoloration, lowered vitality or
less activity in the organ affected being indicated. It means to
spirit people less response to their special methods of treat-
ment.
Radiance ofspirit form indicates increased rates of vibration,
which act like rays oflight, heat, or electricity upon the diseased
or sluggish organs of the body. These passing through the
healer intensify his power or vary his personal colours. Highly
evolved spirits appear to radiate a specific quality of aura which
lower-grade spirits do not possess; hence the great value of
prayer and religious exercises as methods of preparing the mind
before or during treatment. Anything which soothes and calms
the patient, like meditation, prayer, music, or singing, are useful
s•
134 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
adjuncts to healing clinics. To some extent, drugs soothe the
nerves, but their reaction is often more destructive than the
original trouble. It means that momentary reliefis produced by
partial paralysis of the specific organ affected. This rigidity
of mechanism prevents effective spirit co-operation.
Intense emotionalism transforms the quiet, serene and bright
aura into a condition of whirling activity, which also forms a
barrier to spirit aid. These states are continually referred to in
seance-room work, but few realise how vital they are to all spirit
manifestations.
That the healing balm can be conveyed in materials is well
known. The apostle Paul appears to have been one of the
earliest practitioners of this method. "So that from his body
were brought tmto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the
diseases departed from tl1em." (Acts xix, 12.) Mesmer and his
followers used the idea with considerable variations.
Magnetism is also conveyed by the breath. For deafuess, ear-
ache or facial neuralgia, pain can be relieved immediately and
cure often follows by directing a warm stream of air from the
mouth into the ear. Lay a clean handkerchiefon the side ofthe
patient's head and gently breathe through it. Blowing which
produces a cold air is useless. After the warm breath has soothed
the pain, gently stroke the face with both hands. Start from the
forehead and bring the hands over the temples down each side
of the face and offat the chin, and the cure is usually complete.
For neuralgic pains and headaches, the healer stands behind
the patient and gently draws tl1e fingers from the centre of the
forehead, over the temples and ears, to the base ofthe brain, and
off at the shoulders. This is used in addition to breathing,
although eitller method used separately is sometimes sufficient
to cure. A more frequently used pass is a gentle stroking action
from the centre ofthe forehead over the temples, down me face
and offat tile chin. The healer is in front of the patient for this
pass.
In severe cases, where pain has prevented sleep, it is well,
in addition, to treat for insomnia. This is a general treatment
over the head and chest by short saturation passes, which we
shall presently explain. About ten or fifteen minutes is sufficient,
but as healers vary greatly in results no definite time can be
RATIONALE OF PSYCffiC HEALING 135
stated. Everybody can test these simple treatments, because our
changing climate continually attacks weak places.
Nothing is more soothing than the warm stream ofair playing
upon the seat ofpain. J
[t seems to pass right through clothes and
body, causing the organs to relax naturally. Experiment by
breathing between the shoulder-blades of a person standing in
front ofyou, and ifthey have any form oflung trouble you will
be surprised at the immediate relief from pain, and, ifregularly
treated, be astonished by the cure from so simple a process. If
you are successful in these minor troubles, it will give you
confidence in more complicated diseases. It is clearly established
that everybody can heal who is sympathetic and fairly healthy.
The major~ cannot spare sufficient vitality to heal continuously.
Assiduous
..,eractice enat5:~s-h~oup almost immediately,
espeCiaJIY uthey_tal.Cea wane mfresn air after treating the
. patient.-
. Lumbago, pains in the chest and all forms ofnerve depletion
succumb easily to magnetic treatment. Used in conjunction
with the breath, it never fails to ease the pain. Do not despise
the use of electricity, ultra-violet rays, perspiring cabinets, or
turkish baths, in addition to magnetising, for arthritis, rheu-
matism and all severe·pains, if magnetic treatment alone fails to
bring relie£ Clinics mn on these lines would speedily become
popular.
Always cease treatments directly you feel tired. Care must
be taken never to overtax oneself. Ifyou continue after nature's
plain intimation to reslt, you will have only yourself to blame
if nervous breakdown follows. If you cannot heal without
always feeling tired an.d depleted afterwards, cease acting as a
healer. It is conclusive: evidence you do not possess the super-
abundant vitality peculiar to the true healer. You need all you
possess for yoursel£ The perfect healer, on the contrary, will
feel refreshed as the re!mlt of magnetising so long as he works
well within the limits ofhis power.
Few people realise the process by which vitality is withdrawn
or projected. The law in operation during the well-known
expedient of prolonging aged or weakly people's lives by
getting some young healthy person to sleep with them is but
vaguely guessed at. The young victim is anremic and habitually
136 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
exhausted without apparent cause. The radical cure is never
completed until the bedmate is removed. Like a sponge
absorbing water, the weakly person indraws the healthy vitality.
In magnetic healing you get the key to all these mysteries and
realise that something more than "suggestion" is necessary to
account for the results. You soon decide that the perfume of
flowers is not more real than the invisible aura which does such
marvellous work, and proves to be so essential to healthy life.
The passes used for healing, or inducing passivity in medium-
ship, are identical with those used by mesmerists, with this
essential difference- neither hypnotic sleep nor hallucination
is induced. As healers refrain from making hypnotic sugges-
tions, all states of suggestibility that arise are controlled by the
subjects themselves, or may be traced to external mentalities.
The operator visualises himself as a living dynamo distributing
electrical energy which he consciously directs. If he has no
sympathetic rapport with patients, his results will be poor. If
for any reason there is objection by the patient to your treatment,
do not force your services on unwilling subjects. Headaches,
irritation and positive repulsion will be the sole result ifyou do
not desist. Sensitive people feel keenly the difference in qualities
of various healers, and their intuitive likes and dislikes must be
respected.
A simple illustration of magnetic healing is seen when a
mother, quite naturally but with great sympathy, "rubs the pain
away" from a suffering child. When making "passes," regard
the aura as being an electrical e>.."tension of your own nervous
system, as obedient to yourwill as visible hands and feet. Visualise
it as a discharging agent electrically expelling disease and vitalis-
ing stagnant nerves. If the directivity of your mind is Jacking,
only reactions due to suggestion or faith will result. Seat the
patient comfortably so that you can reach every part ofthe body
without moving about. All sensationalism must be avoided. A
calm, sympathetic, but confident mental attitude is best.
Fingers and toes may be regarded as the natural outlets for
diseased particles. In a lesser degree, elbows, shoulders and
knees act in the same way. Hence all healing passes proceed
from the trunk towards the extremities. Demagnetising passes
are reversed. These must be used ifthe patient gets somnolent
'
RATIONALE OF PSYCffiC HEALING 137
or passes into the hypnotic condition. For this you act as if
lifting water from a basin and throwing it into the patient's face.
Should this fail, use the actual water in addition. A few vigorous
passes of this type quickly remove all sleepiness. Some patients
are able to state definitely when treatment is succeeding by feel-
ing pains shift their position and travel towards the outlets,
where they mysteriously disappear. Whenever the pain moves,
continue the effort from thepoint itstops at. Itis asure indication
ofsuccess.
Some healers believe silk to be an impediment to the aura,
which they think obeys laws applicable to terrestrial magnetism.
Dr. Kilner's experiments do not cohfum this view, but it is
useful as a working hypothesis. The operation of animal
magnetism often defies all known laws. In general it will be
found that clothing in no way prejudices the result, but it is
advisable to remove heavy outer garments during treatment.
Mesmeric subjects and very sensitive patients have been
proved to react definitely to magnetic passes with a brick wall
between subject and operator. They are sometimes able to state
the position ·of the healer's hands although sight and hearing
cannot possibly afford any clue.
When making passes, the tips of the fingers are pointed at the
body of the patient and remain about one or two inches away
all the time. This is usually varied by resting the hand on the
great nerve ganglia at the base of the brain and solar plexus.
Using these as starting points, the mentality is then directed
towards charging these centres with electrical energy and
distributing the forces over the stagnant nerves.
There are two types of "pass" used by healers. The fmt is
called the "clearing" pass. With the fingers pointed as already
described, the hands are moved over the seat ofpain to the outlet
at fmgers or toes. The will, at the same time, is direct~d towards
drawing away stagnant particles. The hands are then shaken to
throw away any auric effiuvia which may have been drawnfrom
the patient. Clairvoyants watching this hand-shaking process
may see the auric effiuvia, withdrawn from the patient, falling
from the finger tips in the form of tiny condensed smoke balls.
Purification of healing rooms should be religiously and
methodically performed. Freshly cut flowers should decorate
I 38 TH.B UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
all healing centres and deodorants used after all meetings. We
can trace physical effects, but there is a psychic side, too, which
must not be overlooked. Some spirit people claim to store
psychic forces in or near healing centres which are regularly
used for psychic healing. Healing centres in course oftime radiate
health in a quite inexplicable way.
Clearing passes are for removing pain and disease, but a
building-up process is also necessary to perfect health, and this is
known as the "saturation" pass. In using the saturation passes,
the magnetiser tries to project his own vitality into the nervous
system ofhis patient. The mental attitude is, therefore, different,
and though to the onlooker the passes appear to be the same, they
have a very different effect. Having removed the stagnation by
clearing passes, the operator then tries to "saturate" the patient
by implanting healthy magnetism. He does not need to shake
his hands at the end ofevery pass, because he is implanting auric
energy instead ofabstracting disease. The clearing passes should
produce a sense of exhilaration and freedom from pain.
The saturation pass is soothing, and iflong continued over the
head and chest only would cause the patient to pass into the
magnetic sleep of mesmerism. This is avoided by occasionally
using the clearing pass if any symptoms of somnolence appear.
Should sleep suddenly fall upon the patient, use the demesmeris-
ing pass by reversing the hands and using an action identical
with throwing water into the patient's face. Bring the hands
palm uppermost, from about the region of the stomach and
draw them rapidly upwards several times towards the patient's
eyes. The mere disturbance of air in front ofa patient's face is
usually sufficient; but at the worst, an hour or two ofrefreshing
sleep is all that can happen, so long as meddlesome interference is
prevented.
For the long pass, point the fingers at the top of the head and
draw them over the whole length oftrunk and legs and offat the
toes. Finish with a graceful sweep away from the patient and
recommence. Standing behind the patient, repeat the same pass
from the head and offat the heels. It is always advisable to begin
treatments with this pass, paying particular attention to the spine,
the solar plexus and base ofbrain. Ifthe trouble is purely psychic'
or mental, this is all that is necessary to effect the cure.
RATIONALE OF PSYCIDC HEALING . 139
For the short pass, point the fingers towards the top of the
head and slowly move the hands to the region of the stomach.
As a clearing pass, use the same movement, but offat the knees.
Similar passes while standing at the back ofthe patient complete
the circuit of the body by thoroughly treating the head and
spine. Short saturation passes from the forehead to the chest
slow the heart's action and implant vitality or induce sleep. It is
excellent for insomnia.
For headaches, use clearing passes by pointing the fingers at
the forehead andsweeping the hands sideways and away from the
patient. Headaches caused by indigestion must, in addition, be
treated medicinally. Saturation passes with subjects ofthis type
merely increase the pain. Hence clearance passes are alone used.
To assist spirit controls to leave, or for headache resulting
from control, point the fingers at the crown of the head and
sharply draw the hands away to the full length of your arms.
Mediums need to use this pass on themselves if they feel dazed
after spirit control, ·or if entrancement leaves a headache. They
can do it quite easily for themselves. and the necessary exertion
assists towards the desired end.
For insomnia, induce the sleepy stage with short saturation
passes and send the patient away with the "suggestion" that he
is to refrain from every form of worrying thought.
To assist mediums developing, induce passivity by short
saturation passes and carefully refrain from implanting any
suggestion whatever.
For biliousness and stomach troubles, first give a thorough
treatment with the long passes and then, standing behind the
patient, lay the hands on the solar plexus and draw them round
the waist and offat the base ofthe spine. ·
For stomach complaints always recommend easily digested
foods with plenty offruit and vegetables, and, even though you
remove temporary discomfort, suggest a mild vegetable pur-
gative once or twice weekly. Patients invariably eat indigestible
foods, which reproduce the sympto~ !=_ tablespoonful ofolive
oil on retiring is invaluable for gastric'~ The juice of a
lemon in a tumbler of water in the morning before breakfast
stimulates sluggish livers into acti~· This combination of
olive oil and lemon juice, systemanCilly taken with plenty of
140 THE UNIVERSITY OP SPIRITUAliSM
pure water, is sufficie:nt to keep most people healthy, but neglect
of prompt removal of the waste products packing the intestines
creates chronic indigestion and a vast number of diseases with
terrifying names. The removal of this obstruction has made
fortunes for patent pitll and aperient manufacturers, who grossly
magnify the symptoms and actually cause imaginative people to
believe they are daily snatched from the brink of the grave by
the specific nostrum they offer.
To remove a headache from myself, I find a useful pass is to
point the fingers of both hands at the eyes, and draw them
lightly over the head! behind the ears and off at the chin. This,
followed by a quick pass from the centre of the forehead with a
stroking motion to the side, and off, is sufficient to arouse me to
wakefulness or remove the pain.
Whatever passes are used, be careful to use the clearing passes
at fairly frequent in.tervals to prevent your patient dropping
into the cataleptic, somnolent or mesmeric state. Ifeither ofthese
things happen, don't lose your head or call people to assist who
are ignorant ofmesmeric effects. This often produces the puzzling
complication termed cross-magnetisation. It may intensify
the undesirable appearances and is due solely to the addition of
conflicting emotions or differing qualities of aura. Use the
demesmerising pass freely, and if this fails, dip your hands in
water and use the same pass with the water splashing the patient's
face, or let them sleep it off, which they will do in a few minutes
if you usc the clearing and demesmcrising passes freely. They
will rarely sleep for more than an hour or two at most and will
awake refreshed. D•!mesmerising passes arc also useful in cases
ofimproperly developed mediums whose controls it is advisable
to eject in the shortest possible time.
Different healers induce entirely different sensations in their
patients. The effect •of passes on patients should be noted. You
can, of course, suggest Gensations to sensitive people, but, ifyou
avoid this, you will soon discover the particular influence you
have upon subjects. Some experience cool breezes passing over
or apparently through the entire body during the passes, and
blindfolded can tell 'exactly where your hand is. Others sense
warmth, chills or ill-defined electric shocks during treatment.
Noting these details, operators will discover the specific sensa-
RATIONALE OP PSYCHIC HEALING 141
tions their personal magnetism arouses, and what types of
malady most readily succumb to their treatment. Classification
of healers would then lead to forms of specialisation impossible
at present.
In Raoul Montandon's "Les Radiation Humaines," we get
illustrations of magnetic force petrifying animal tissues. This
indicates a quality ofaura useful in cancer and tumours. Other
healers soothe inflammation or quicken nervous reaction without
producing any other obvious effects on the seat of disease.
Healers attack every kind of ailment with fair average success,
but if their personal influence were more carefully studied, we
could specialise with absolute certainty as to results.
In many cases no sensation is aroused in the patient, but-
they get better. Many come to be treated for petty local troubles
and discover to their great surprise that chronic ailments pass
away in addition. Always remember that disease is physically
and psychically transferable. To rid yourself of the incubus,
shake the hands at the end of each clearing pass, as if throwing
water from them, and, as a further preventative, wash the hands
after each treatment. Neglect of this simple precaution may
produce the curious effect of transferring the symptoms of one
patient to another or absorbing them yourself..
Your will must be ever poised in the direction of resisting
absorption, and whether shaking your hands after each pass or
washing them, regard the operations as merely emphasising
your will. At first I attributed all these theories to imagination,
but after tracing unexpected pains to patients previously treated,
I concluded that these precautions are based on scientific observa-
tion. Seen clairvoyantly, the aura appears "foggy" when thrown
from fingers treating diseased bodies. In health, the same action
would produce a clear, bright, steam-like appearance tl1tough
which an electric light is shining.
It is illustrative of the extraordinary foolishness of mankind
that though they prove the efficacy of magnetic treatment in
cases regarded as hopeless by doctors, they none the less run to
the ordinary medico or chemist for advice or treatment in minor
ailments. It also reminds us how utterly unfair it is to compare
cases treated by the average medical man with those of our
healers, who are rarely consulted until after medical science has
142 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
signally failed. The slipshod methods of many healers, the fact
that they are not always available, and that healers themselves
think that if they are good at diagnosis they are therefore
good healers, whic:h is not always true, and similar errors
of judgment conduce to this unfortunate result. But if
"with knowledge we get wisdom," these difficulties will soon
disappear.
All nerve troubles are easily relieved by magnetic healing,
and as these are the despair of medical science, it is to be
hoped that the worlld will speedily recognise people endowed
by nature with the healing balm and utilise their services in-
stead of using paralysing drugs with reactionary and debili-
tating effects.
Of magnetic healing, it may be said that ifit does no good,
at least it does no harm, which cannot be said by any thinking
man ofthe drug system. Allied to massage, which accomplishes
its purpose by breaJcing down adhesions and stimulating the
action of the blood, magnetic treatment succeeds where all
medicaments fail. J3:ut in massaging varicose veins, the stroking
action of the hands is reversed in order to assist the return of
venous blood. Serious cases of this type require medical super-
vision. An ignorant masseur can easily rupture a swollen blood
vessel.
It must not be forgotten that healers themselves sometimes
require healing. A foolish prejudice often prevents them putting
their own precepts into practice, yet even doctors recognise the
necessity ofoccasionally getting other medical men to treat them.
A sickly-looking healer prejudices his cause, and in the early
days of one's enthusiasm the danger exists of exhausting too
quickly the supply of vitality essential to the work. Co-
ordination between healers is therefore necessary.
Instructional gronps should be formed everywhere, so that
individual experience may speedily become general knowledge.
The average layman is supremely ignorant of the commonest
necessaries of a sichoom. The right kind offood for sustaining
normally healthy li£e is rarely known. The dietary ofinvalids is
still less known.
. M:my a healer cannot keep healthy the patient
whose aches and pains he so readily removes. If these matters
were thoroughly diiicussed with all details appertaining to sick-
RATIONALE OF PSYCIUC HEALING 143
rooms, we should soon place psychic healing in an impregnable
position, and the healer, instead of being frowned down as a
charlatan, would receive the honour that is his due.
At every well-organised Spiritualist society in Britain and
abroad-and there are hundreds of them-free healing circles
are now common. Incredible things are happening. When
science says that physical life is terminating, unlettered men and
women merely lay their hands upon the sufferers and they
renew their lease of life. When hospitals refuse to waste time
and money on patients, the healers put life and ease into wearied
limbs. .
I took a patient to Battersea for diagnosis. She had recently
undergone a serious operation. Nobody in the room knew her.
She took her seat and awaited her turn with sixty others. Lightly
the healer, F. J. Jones, ran his fingers over her body. He asked
no questions, but presently informed her that she had had more
than one operation, traced the exact course the surgeon's knife
had taken and commented on the effects. He declared that ifhe
could have treated her the operation would not have been
necessary. He correctly named all the symptoms before and after
the operation, forecast probable results and prescribed. He
said the wound had not yet healed and asked if she did not
sometimes get the taste of blood in her mouth.
He impressed upon her the necessity of resting long enough
to give the wound a chance to heal. She was to anoint the
stomach with olive oil and gently manipulate tl1e tender parts
in the same way. After the manipulation, a warmed cabbage
leafwas to be laid on the stomach. In the morning, olive oil and
onion juice was to be the embrocation used. No matter what
opinions one may have as to the value of tl1e prescription, the
diagnosis was perfect. When medical men can tell their patients
as much without asking a single question, a new era for medicine
will dawn.
The spirit control of F. J. Jones claimed to utilise healing
forces which he kept stored in spiritual laboratories. Granted
there are spirit homes and spirit people inhabiting tl1em, what
is more rational as an explanation? Although I am a Spiritualist,
I am sufficiently logical and materialistic to believe tl1at matter
in its invisible form-which we usually call spiritual-is sus-
I44 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
ceptible on spirit planes to all the chemical reactions known to
earthly scientists as well as a few more that they have not yet
discovered. I therefore see nothing incongruous in spiritual
chemistry, spirit hospitals and an ethereal duplication of all
known forms of matter. Although we talk of the spirit world
as if it were immaterial, its elements in the hands of spirit
chemists are just as responsive to the laws of attraction and re-
pulsion as the denser particles ofearth.
One sensitive had tllis illustrated in a vision which took her
into a beautiful vinery interspersed with growing fruits of all
kinds and common herbage set at regular intervals. Every kind
of herb and fruit had a medicinal value. And this lesson the
spirit friend strove to impart in everything he did. The guide
merely passed his hand over grapes and seemed to extract the
essence by doiJ?.g so. He placed his hand upon her mouth and
transmitted the taste ofthe grape. He did the same with oranges.
Then, plucking a leaf, he placed it behind her ear. On its re-
moval, a kind ofelectric shock passed through the head. Medica-
ments in a similar way were placed on her chest and generated
great heat. This general mental effect was one of exhilaration,
with which she awoke.
Unless acting under recognised spirit guidance, it is not
advisable,to let two or more healers manipulate a patient at the
same time. A circle surrounding a healer is an undoubted help.
They are used to form a battery, from which extra power is
drawn, but if more than one person touches a patient the effect
called "cross magnetisation" may follow. The patient becomes
intensely irritated, and in extreme cases where heart trouble,
apoplexy and other severe functional derangements are being
treated, convulsions or great difficulty in breathing may be
experienced.
This may be due to overcharging the patient with power or
insufficient use ofclearing passes. Somewhat similar effects may
be induced if the patient dislikes the healer. The results may,
of course. be due to normal development of the disease, but if
the patient should tum blue in the face, treat as you would for
faintness, and suspect the causes named. In some cases it will
merely indicate that what mesmerists termed a "crisis" has been
induced, which marks the highest point to which the malady
RATIONALE OB PSYCHIC HEALING 145
rises, and also means that the corner has been turned, and the
patient will speedily recover. But as these "crises" are sometimes
terrifying, and may even indicate death, wise healers will keep
outside the pale ofcriminal law and arrange for all contingencies
in advance.
Use Andrew Jackson Davis's "magic staff": "Under all
circumstances keep an even mind." Get firm possession of this
attribute, and never forget that your fright or indecision will
communicate itself to the patient and double your difficulties.
This is anadditionalreasonfor preventing anyone from meddling
with your patient until after you have finished.
Two mediums might, and sometimes do, intensify the power,
but unless acting under djrect spirit guidance ofproven quality,
it is quite possible that they will nullify each other's influence.
_ Sufficient use of the clearing passes prevents the patient from
passing under hypnotic influence, but conscious participation
by faith on the part of the patient measurably helps results.
Some complaints disappear as ifby magic under your hands, but
serious cases need many treatments before success crowns your
efforts. The nature of one's normal employment has a distinct
effect on the power to heal. But in general it may be stated as an
axiom that whatever produces robust general health increases
the power of the healer.
A girl, with a withered leg, came to my wife. She had tried
many doctors and hospitals without any improvement, and was
finally discharged as incurable. She was sent away with one leg
shorter than the other, and compelled to wear a high-heeled
boot. She came for treatment of the leg, but my wife's spirit
advisers discovered that the cause of the shrinkage in the flesh
and muscles ofthe leg was due to malnutrition, constipation and
results incident thereto. The constipation and general irregular-
ities disappeared in two or three weeks, but the leg did not
resume its normal size for about twelve months, when she
joyfUlly dispensed with both walking-stick and high-heeled
boot.
Another patient was attending Brompton Hospital as a con-
sumptive. This girl, who was treated by my wife for about three
months with startling success, produced a most interesting sequel
She had been working in close confinement as apprentice to a
146 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
milliner. Her emplc)yment being the probable cause of break-
down, my wife advi~ed her to try and get a nursemaid's job on
PeckJJam Rye. The open ai.r would prevent return of the
trouble. By a curious coincidence (that is what spirit guidance
is usually called), the patient had a married sister living there,
who, it was found, :needed a nursemaid, and so the matter was
speedily arranged. These cases were treated quite gratuitously.
A few weeks latex:, my wife received a pitiful letter from the
girl begging her not to think her ungrateful for all that was done,
but she must never Hee or speak to her again, or she would lose
her job. She had told her brother-in-law all that had been done
for her, and the dear, good Primitive Methodist decided, that,
since God did not work miracles nowadays, it was self-evidently
the work ofthe Devil.
Interesting patien1
ts given up by doctors encourage one to
attack apparently hopeless cases. After one of my lectures on
"healing," a young woman asked me ifI thought her incurable.
From her statement tofthe case I concluded she was, and told her
so. A piece ofbone had been removed from one leg and, to fill
in ilie gap, ilie surgeons cut a piece ofgood bone from the other
leg and tried to graft it on. It was a failure. They took it out
six or seven times and chipped small pieces offit with a view to
stimulating growth. After seven years' experimenting she was
finally discharged a.s incurable.
The legs had since shrunk very badly, and ilie yow1g woman
walked with ilie aid of a stick in a stooping position, wiili steel
splints braced up to her thighs, and attached to large boots,
requiring constant allteration as the legs wasted. I concluded the
bone had atrophied, and decided we could not induce life to
flow along a dead bc•ne, especially as there was a gap between ilie
living and dead sections. But she pressed her case, and finally
my wife's spirit advisers, though not over-sanguine, agreed to
try.
At the very first experiment the patient decided ilie bone was
not dead, because, .for ilie first time since her operations, she
could feel a tingling; sensation in it. A few weeks later one leg
rapidly filled out, an.d bandages were dispensed wiili. The other
developed more slowly and, at the point where there had been
such an obvious gap, a substance like gristle formed to fill in the
RATIONALE OF PSYCHIC HEALING 147
space. The bone broadened and rapidly approached the
other section. Both legs look normal and the general health
has greatly improved. She walks without a stick in a perfectly
normal way.
Cases of cancer are of absorbing interest because medical
science is unable to find a cure. Many of our healers cure cases
diagnosed as cancer only to discover that doctors repudiate their
own diagnosis when the patient is cured. From the doctors'
standpoint, it simply could not have been cancer, and that settles
the matter-for them. ·
In Portsmouth, during 1926, I investigated two reported cases
ofcure. A woman was given up as hopeless by her doctors, who
believed she could not live more than two weeks at the most.
She was treated by the local healer under spirit guidance with
passes and herbal treatment, and was apparently cured in a very
short time. This case illustrated the difficulty of getting people
to realise the need for a common-sense diet. She lived for
eighteen months and might have been on earth today; but what
can one expect from people in this delicate state ofhealth whose
staple diet is bread, cheese and pickles?
The second case was entirely satisfactory. The patient was a
retired district superintendent on the railway, aged about
seventy-six. The age is noteworthy because endurance does not
usually increase as the years roll over us. He went to Chichester
Hospital to be operated on for cancer, but the case was so bad
that the surgeons stitched up their exploratory cuts without
removing the growth and informed tl1e relatives that the man
had only two hours to live.
On hearing this, his friends held a prayer meeting which
apparently had a definite effect upon the dying man. The
patient declares that he felt asharp but peculiar thrill pass through
him at this time, and explained it to his relatives who were with
him waiting for the tragic end. It never came. All pain seemed
to leave him and he appeared so well that his friends had him
taken home. The doctors advised removal of the carpets in
anticipation of an agonising death. They were wrong again.
The spirit advisers of a healer named Webb prescribed herbal
treatment with regular magnetising. Presently, a great mass of
diseased matter looking like clotted blood passed through the
148 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
back passage. The patient recovered strength rapidly: the cure
was complete and, so far as I know, he was quite well at the time
I wrote these words.
This healer illustrates one of the greatest difficulties in the
movement. When I took down these particulars in 1926,
Webb was himselfin need oftreatment owing to distress caused
by lack ofhis usual employment. Few patients treated by Spirit-
ualists are in a position adequately to remunerate a healer. All
healing while the healer is worried or sick is out ofthe question,
personal vitality and a placid mind being the first essentials to
good healing.
More recently, we have the case of Rees Evans, who cures
cancerous growths with a herbal ointment. Father and son have
mustered two or three hundred certified cures. None the less,
the son was prosecuted as a quack. There was no lack ofwitnesses
willing to testify to their cures. The case was dismissed, despite
the judge's comments and professional witnesses.
Spiritualist healers will have to make common cause with
uncertified practitioners of every school to resist prosecution,
and societies must organise to counteract the misuse ofpower in
high places. It is regrettable that healers ca~mot afford the time
for self-education and the practice of their gift. The majority
are working people who can heal only in theit spare time. This
is often a blessing in disguise because normal work keeps them
healthy, and it is quite possible that the unhealthy life of the
average professional medical man might rob healers of their
power. Most of them are also dependent upon spirit guides for
advice. This ought to be systematically sifted and tabulated
and prescriptions carefully garnered and tested so that it should
not be necessary for controls to repeat them over and over
again.
New theories ofthe causes of disease, and the co-operation of
mental with the material means to the desired end, will yet
revolutionise orthodox medical practice. Clairvoyants often see
spirits helping where their participation is least suspected. The
explanation offered is that the auric emanation ofspirit people is
ofitselfa specific healing force. In psychic healing, this is blended
with the aura of the healer. The combination is most effective.
It thus comes about that a medium who has no great personal
RATIONALE OF PSYCHIC H.EAUNG 149
vitality to spare, none the less produces startling results. The
medium acts as a focal point for the distribution of power
gathered from other sources. This is also the secret of the
success of prayer meetings, where the people may not even
believe that spirit people play any part at all.
BOOKS PUBLISHED BY US
TEACHINGS OF SILVER BffiCH
EDITED by A. W. AUSTEN. The spirit world's philosophy as presented by
the famous spirit guide ofHANNEN SWAFFER'S home circle. 8s. 6d.
MORE TEACHINGS OF SILVER BmCH
EDITED by A. W. AUSTEN. A continuation of "Teachings of Silver
Birch." 7s. 6d.
WISDOM OF SILVER BffiCH
A continuation of "More Teachings of Silver Birch." 7s. 6d.
MORE WISDOM OF SILVER BffiCH
EDITED by SYLVIA :BARBANELL. A continuation of this famous spirit
guide's answers to the problems ofthis world and the next. lOs. 6d.
TO THE GREAT SPmiT
The prayers of Silver /31irch, spirit guide of HANNEN SWAFFER'S home
circle. Is. Od.
WHEN YOUR ANIMAL DIES
By SYLVIA BARBANELL. The whole case for animal survival. 1s. 6d.
WHEN A CHILD DmS
By SYLVIA BARBANELL. Proofofchild survival and growth in the spirit
world. 7s. 6d.
SOME DISCERN SPIRITS
By SYLVIA BARBANELL. The mediumship ofEstelle Roberts. 9s. 6d,
TIJJEY SHALL BE COMFORTED
By MAURICE BARBANELL. This book sets out very simply the case for
Spiritualism. Ss. Od.
PARISH THE HEALER
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Story of the world's greatest healer.
4s. 6d.
ACROSS THE GULF
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Famous people prove their survival. 6s. Od.
Tim CASE OF HELEN DUNCAN
By MAURICE BARBANELL. The Press called it "the trial ofthe century."
Ss. Od.
KEEP THE ROME FIRES BURNING
By MAURICE BARBANELL. A devastating reply to a priest's attack on
Spiritualism. 6s. Od.
BOOKS PUBLISHED BY US (cont.)
TilE: GIFf OF HEALING
By ARTHUR KEITH DESMOND. The remarkable roreer of W. H.
LILLEY, the famous healer. 1s. 6d.
THE PSYCIUC LIFE OF JESUS
By The Rev. G. MAURICE ELLIOTI. Throws a new light on the wonders
described in the New Testament. 7s. 6d.
LISTEN MY SON
By HARRY EMERSON. A fascinating account of remarkable moterialis·
ation seances. 6s. Od.
THE SECRET OF DEATH
By WILLIAM G. GATES. Veteran journalist's remarkable story of his
seances. 7s. 6d.
WHAT MEDIUMSHIP IS
By HORACE LEAF. Wor.ld-famous medium tells how to develop psychic
M~ ~~
THE CHURCH IN DECAY
By PAUL MILLER. Trenchant examination of Orthodoxy. 6s. Od.
THE WAR DEAD RETURN
By PAUL MILLER. Graphic accounts of spirit return. 6s. Od.
FACES OF THE LIVING DEAD
By PAUL MILLER. Survival proved by spirit portraits. lOs. 6d.
CAVAL.CADE OF THE SPIRIT
By PAUL MILLER. Enthralling accounts ofSpiritualism's pioneers. 9s. Od.
THE ENEMY OF MANKIND
By PAUL MILLER. The vestedinterests that oppose human progress. 6s. Od.
SCIENCE IN THE SEANCE ROOM
By PAUL MILLER. Tells hlow famous scientists proved Survival. 7s. 6d.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF HELEN HUGHES
By BERNARD UPTON. Fascinati11g life story of a famous medium.
7s. 6d.
THE DOORWAY
RECORDED by MARGARET VIVIAN. Army officer describes his spirit
~ ~K
The following amounts for postage should be added:-
Up to 3s. 6d. ••• 4d. Up to lOs•••• 7d. Up to 20s.... Is.
Allobtainablefrom-
SPIRITUALIST PRESS LTD., 49 OLD BAILEY, LONDON, E.C.4
THE lJNIVERSITY
OF SPIRITUALISM
BY
HARRY BODDINGTON
VOLUME II
PROPERTY OF
WINNIPEG SPIRITUALIST
CHURCH INC.
WINNIPEG MANITOBA
Special Edition for
THE PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
5, BLOOMSBURY COURT, LONDON, W.C.l
First Published in 1946
BOOK
PRODUCllON
WARECONCMI'
5TA."'W!D
THIS BOOK IS PRODUCED IN COMPLETE
CONFOHMITY WITH 'fHE AUTHORISED
ECONOMY STANDARDS
MADB AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
EBENEZER BAYLIS AND SON, LTD., THB
TRINITY PRESS, WORCESTER, AND LONDON
•.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGB
XI TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 159
XII SPIRIT HEALING: "TAKll VP THY BED • 178
XIII MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 186
XIV WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 199
XV SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 235
XVI MIND OVER MATTER 271
XV1I THB PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION 281
XVIII QUAKERS AND SHAKERS 299
. ( "
J '* ,:
...
I I
CHAPTER XI
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS
HEALERS will often be asked to treat nervous maladies
quite erroneously termed obsession. It sometimes happens
that sensitive people, ignorant of psychic forces, attach undesir-
able spirits to themselves This forms one ofthe mental maladies
all Spiritualists ought to be able to cure. Boisterous or unusual
forms of mediumship, of a really healthy character, are fre-
quently stigmatised with the term obsession by sitters unused to
developing mediums. It is often the only possible method by
which the anrernic conditions ofmodem life can be overcome and
mediums made sufficiently healthy to act safely as psychics. Our
unnatural, sedentary occupations, if added to mediumship,
would generally produce sickly-looking mediums. Sensitives
are, therefore, p:LSsed through magnetic and physical exerd~<:S
which are entirely misunderstood.
People complaining ofobsession are usually ignorant of ele-
mentary phases of mediumship and think they have found a
new toy with which to pass idle hours away. They dabble with
a subject that should be sacredly approached and scientifically
studied. They get absurdly scared and surround themselves with
imaginary terrors. Perhaps it is well it is so. We learn by
experience. Foolish people always refuse advice until tl1ey bum
their fingers.
Spiritualists must prevent this overworked word being so
frequently misapplied or used by occultists of ilie old-fashioned
type for evils due to quite ordinary causes. None the less, it is
advisable for healers to act as if iliere is an actual entity to dis-
place, because psychic and material conditions are so strangely
interwoven iliat we cannot dogmatise as to where one begins
and ilie oilier leaves off. Experienced Spiritualists, who know
how hard it is to induce control when t.Q.e medium objects, will
immediately realise how rare actual obsession must be.
First, iliere are the medium's guides to pass. Next, there must
159
160 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
be a specific auric link with special knowledge on the spirit
side to retain continuous control ofa physical body. Even then,
as in hypnotism, if the medium strenuously resists, control
cannot be effected. Lastly, but by no means tl1e least factor to
be considered, is ilie much-debated action of subconsciousness.
It is rare that all iliese factors are in evidence at ilie same time.
Ifiliey are, ilien what is feared as a curse requires only an under-
standing of mediumship to transform it into a heaven-sent
blessing.
Malicious possession is ilius seen to be almost an impossibility
in civilised communities. If, with all the conditions present
that we know assist control, and with a willing, instead of an
unwilling, instrument, we fail ignominiously time after time to
induce control, it is obvious that malicious possession must be
very, very rare. All the factors mentioned must be present and,
~ spe~~. ~otive like hatred, malice or jealousy
( ~~.a; m order to enable the obsessor automatically to focus
\ ~ghts upon ilie victim.
In the extreme cases recorded in the Bible, allowance must be
n1ade for the narrators' ignorance of natural laws and ilie
savagery of ilieir time. Among more civilised peoples, the
automatic reaction of subconsciousness would, of itself, defeat
efforts at obsession. Unwanted control does occasionally
l1appen wiili de,reloping mediums, but a few minutes' conversa-
tion with ilie intruder, pointing out the unwisdom of such
action, is usually all iliat is necessary to prevent recurrence.
What usually passes for obsession by spirits is actually possession
by a dominant idea.
I make this statement after fifty years' close association with
experimental mediumship in all its forms while making constant
efforts to induce mcdiumship in people who "earnestly desire
spiritual gifts," but who, in nine cases out of ten, fail to induce
the slightest symptoms of control. This phase of mentality,
termed a dominant idea, which hypnotists specially study, is
familiar to most medical men.
. Incipient lunacy and nervous
derangements easily develop into apparent obsession. For-
tunately, all tl1ese maladies are curable by' somewhat similar
treatment, with the result iliat because the malady disappears,
healers often believe they have dislodged a discarnate enemy.
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS r6r
What they have really done is to restore nervous equilibrium
to ill-balanced minds.
Patients suffering from nervous ailments misconstrue every
little twitch of their nerves and attribute them to attacks by
malignant fiends. With this class there is usually a morbid
introspection that prevents them thinking of anyone but them-
selves and their own petty troubles. Attention is intensely
focused on minor details, and trivialities become grotesquely
magnified. Repressions, suspicions, hereditary tendencies and
all the forgotten motives ofa lifetime enter into these presumed
obsessions and have to be combated in detail. In these cases, the
principal enemy to be fought is tl1e dominant idea. New
Thought literature and Christian Science are useful to sufferers
ofthe type indicated. Unfortunately, the grossest exaggerations
are also propagated by these extremists, but even these, if they
constitute the exact opposite ofthe mania, counteract it.
In addition to magnetic treatment, I recommend electrical,
light, and ultra-violet rays to tone up the health of the body
equally with the mind. Every form of mental and physical
activity iliat knowledge ofpsychotherapeutics teaches is helpful.
Overwork and worry are common causes and must be elimi-
nated. Never forget that sleep is nature's sweet restorer, and one
ofthe best curative agents. Cheerful company and games in the
open air must also enter into ilie cure, and tepid baths, regular
but light exercise, and a good rub down with a rough, damp
towel night and morning. Diet must be studied and meals of a
nutritious and easily digested character adopted. The type of
food should combine food and medicine at the same time, so
·that drugging can be dispensed with.
The hallucinations of nervous breakdown and actual insanity
are entirely different from obsession; but because the poorsufferer
"sees things" which have no objective existence, the spirit
world is quite unreasonably impeached as tl1e cause. Nervous
breakdown may be temporary or permanent, but control by
spirit people is instantaneously broken by spirit healers or cured
the moment sensitives assert their power of resistance, the latter
being incomparably the greater force of the two. Ninety per
cent of so-called obsession is not possession by a discarnate
mind, but the result of misunderstanding. For instance, pressure
6*
162 THll UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
upon nerves at the wrist induces jerking ofthe hand. In writing
mediumship, tremors of the hand indicate a desire of the spirit
to write.
~ Knowing this, one can easily misconstrue symptoms caused
by the intermittent play of a nerve as the hand rests upon the
table, for the action of external intelligences. Association of
ideas does the rest. Such people will tell you they cannot put
their hands upon a table without being seized with a desire to
write. Ifthey balanced their legs in a strained position upon the
toes, or suffered from nervous exhaustion, they might be
similarly affected, though the association of ideas would cause
them to place a different label on the effect.
It is impossible to prevent foolish people from playing with
mediumship. Nor can we prevent obvious physical or mental
degenerates from doing so. To blame Spiritualism for the form
their delusions take is foolish. Casual observation will speedily
assure the rationally-minded that the few exceptions existing
among thousands of investigators point clearly to individual
weaknesses rather than malignity ofdiscarnate intelligences.
Without examination, our forefathers stigmatised all psychic
manifestations as diabolism. In certain quarters there is still a
tendency to prejudge all unusual, noisy or foreign speaking
controls as degrading obsessions. Quiet talking and writing
pass without question as proof that highly developed spirits
are manifesting. Both assumptions may be erroneous. Neither
noise, grimaces, gibberish nor their absence are any criteria of
quality or proof of spirit possession.
Obsession is rare because spirit control can only be induced
when the aura and mental qualities of the sensitive blend with
those of the spirit who desires to control. To make obsession
possible, these forces must be present to quite an exceptional
degree. The aural link changes continually with varying
emotions, thought and diet, thus making and breaking contact
continually. We may be closely co-operating with spirit
people, even to the point of actual control, without either
spirit or mortal being aware of the fact.
The wise love of a discarnate intelligence is the best of all
forms ofangelic guidance. But great love between two friends,
one in the body and one out, ignorant of psychic laws, could
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS
quite easily produce temporary obsession because oftheir intense
concentration upon each other to the exclusion of all other
thoughts. Many strange illnesses are explicable by this simple
law, but the moment either spirit or mortal realises what is
happening and consciously resists, the obsession ceases. Know-
ledge of what is causing the obsession indicates the mode of
relic£ When subjects do not know they are abnormal, suggestive
therapeutics, combined with strict attention to dieting and
hygiene, is the best method ofcure. In the majority of cases, a
thorough magnetising, followed by demesmerising, passes gives
immediate relic£
Before the casting-out process is begun, the preliminary
magnetising will probably "cast in" the offending spirit with
more definiteness than usuaL At this point, ifa little judicious
conversation can be obtained with the obsessing spirit, it will
often transform an apparent evil into the undoubted blessing
of angelic ministry. The cure will be complete if the patient
refrains from thinking ofthespiri.t and thus reconnecting the
broken link. _,.
The treatment given in hydropathic establishments is a great
aid where the connection is gross and physical in its nature. A
cold water compress, applied to the base of the brain, is usually
quite sufficient to prevent any anticipated attack. The tonic
action of cold water often convinces the patient that it was
purely imaginary. Theories matter little, the effect is un-
deniable. Wherever specific parts of the body appear to be
influenced, apply the cold water douche or ice, and nature will
do the rest. Ifactual obsession or its simulacra are to be removed,
we must change the mode of thought and diet, find engrossing
and unselfish interests and thus cause the patient to indraw
opposing elements which automatically oust the undesirable.
Mcdiurnship is as natural as the operation of the five senses.
We do not really develop psychic powers. We merely discover
them and learn to utilise the latent faculties. No properly edu-
cated Spiritualist ever suffers from obsession. It is the feather-
headed dabblers, or would-be occultists, trained by books on
witchcraft and ceremonial magic, or complete strangers to
Spiritualism, who become the victims of their own ignorance.
The unfortunate hypocrisy of the age is a great stumbling-
164 THE UNIVERSITY ·oF SPIRITUALISM
block. Like parrots, people continually petition for the descent
of the holy spirit. Never for one moment do they dream that
it is possible for spirits, holy or otherwise, to answer their
prayers. One day they awake to realisation with a shock.
Traditional teaching immediately fills their minds with ghastly
terrors and their friends rush to the conclusion that the mani-
festation is evil, which is after all but a very real, all too real,
answer to prayer. Possibly they have been unconsciously
cultivating for years the condition which apparently bursts
upon them suddenly. They now realise there are both mental
and etheric links between mankind and the spirit world. We
forge them ourselves. A reversal ofthe mode oflife and thought
shatters tl1em. Our will power to control our own bodies is
stronger to resist than that of spirits to attack because we hold
all the lines of communication under our supreme command.
The optimistic philosophy of Spiritualism does much to
prevent morbid introspection, but ifan incipient lunatic attends
Spiritualist meetings he is liable to seize hold of extravagant
hypotl1eses, or invent his own, and talk very definitely about
obsessions that have no actual existence outside his own imagina-
tion. But as equally ignorant outsiders accepthim as an authority,
we must grapple with this problem on a basis ofsound common
sense divorced from all speculations.~ danger is most notice-
v<lhk runon~ tl10se whose vanity causes ,.t:h~ to"toastj'(Oi[eir
·, "high" gui ~I'hese spmfS never presentthe evlclence wlllcli, _
""'forms the distinguishing feature of modern Spiritualism. They
are usually historical characters, rarely beggars or rag-sorters.
They cannot prove individuality by knowledge of contem-
porary thought of their own times. Nothing but subconscious
material is ever expressed.
If you arc certain that a spirit has enmeshed himself in your
patient's aura, only rational education along psychic lines can
cure him. He must be taught that he controls spirits quite as
much as they control him. His mind acts upon them and he
unconsciously indraws iliem. He is like a musical reed that
responds to every breeze. Uncontrolled, there is discord; but
properly directed, ilie harmony will delight his soul. Explain
to him his power of resistance and emphasise that he cannot be
controlled against his will. His reception of telepatllic iliought
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 165
is due to sensitiveness. The man in possession of the material
fort is in a far stronger position than a non-physical antagonist.
Vanity, sel.fishness, nursing wrong ideas and all vices are the
weak places in his a~mour. Excessive virtue breeds religious
mania if counteracting, broadminded tolerance does not form
part ofhis religion. Check all excessive emotionalism and wrong
thinking by inducing consideration of other people's points
of view. Refusing to look charitably on others' failings opens
the door to the enemy. Study your patient's idiosyncrasies and
provide countervailing suggestions. For this purpose a study
ofhypnotism and psychology·is invaluable.
It is far better to make your patient independent of outside
help than create the hallucinations of hypnotism. Hence I
recommend effort in other directions in preference. Emphasise
the teaching that the indwelling ego controls the body auto-
matically at all times. Outsiders can only get in if the patient
unlocks the door. Illustrate all arguments. Teach him that it
needs a positive effort of will to cease from thinking and that
he cannot go to sleep unless he does so.
Even while asleep, he automatically controls his body, and
the slightest interference by spirits, either in or out of the body,
places him in full possession of his senses once more. During
sleep, he automatically ejects himself from the body by forcing
the brain to stop working. Reversal of the process just as auto-
matically gives him full control once more. If anyone chooses
to continue thinking instead of consciously dismissing thought,
the indrawn blood makes the brain active. This is the root cause
of insomnia. Many obsessed patients complain of sleeplessness.
Stimulating drinks at bed-time like alcohol, strong tea or
coffee, must be avoided, but in this, as in all forms of dieting,
the actual effects of experiments must be noted, for what is
true ofone patient may not apply to the next.
What you have taught the patient concerning sleep must
now be applied to all actual or presumed telepathic impacts.
Determined refusal to think along the line of the dominant
idea will destroy the links essential to control. The healer
soon discovers that many different forms of mania or actual
obsession are curable by practically the same process. The
main effort of the psychic healer is to slow down the heart's
166 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
action without drugs, which defeat their own purpose by re-
action. The medical.world treats all cases alike and only succeeds
in curing when the patient takes a long holiday. The reason
for this form ofcur'e is the change in mental outlook.
While planchettes, ouija boards and crystals are used as "toys,"
by people ignorant of the psychic forces they indraw, the
sensations sometimes aroused may be easily mistaken for
obsession. It is di£6.cult for embodied humanity to grasp tl1e
idea that our psyduc bodies extend beyond the physical and
that their aura acts ~LS an attractive power to drifters on the spirit
side of life. These sometimes get enmeshed in its magnetism
and cannot free themselves owing to ignorance on both sides
of the veil. There is thus a constant battle going on between
the owner ofthe body and the unconscious trespasser. Neither
understands what is happening. .
The spirit, quite unaware that its own body is mouldering
in the grave, thinks it is merely dreaming. His unfortunate
host believes the dual mentality is part of himself and, in more
serious cases, becomes melancholy, irritated and terrified
at the lack of mental balance. A thousand suspicions take
possession ofhim and, unless the connection is broken, nervous
breakdown follows and the dreaded lunatic asylum opens before
him. For materialism knows no other cure. Many adopt the
idea of reincarnation to.account for the memories ofalternating
personalities which act on the same brain.
Fortunately, many forces co-operate and help to sever the
connection. Shocks, changes of scenery and interests may do
this and produce the cure. .But wuess the ignorance which per-
mitted the obsessiom. is removed, the relief is only temporary.
Sensitiveness allied to ignorance is an ever-open door, inviting
unbidden guests to enter. Rescue circles, properly conducted
from the spirit side, effect cures by switching the obsessing
spirit on to a mediutm whose guides deal effectively with them.
The members of the circle first talk with the intruding spirit
and make hirn realise his changed state oflife.
The medium immediately reproduces the mannerisms and
language of the ent:ity, much to the relief of tl1e patient, who
recognises the thoughts and characteristics which have been so
puzzling to everybody. Questioning arouses the spirit to a
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 167
realisation of what is happening and the rescue is made per-
manent by teaching him to work unselfishly for other people.
Usually, the guides ofthe medium introduce the spirit to friends
who may not previously have been able to reach his conscious-
ness, though patiently awaiting the time when he would awaken
from his dream-life.
Dr. Wickland's "Thirty Years Among The Dead" details
the routine work of the average rescue circle. In addition to
the treatment described, he passes a charge of static electricity
through tl1e medium to speed "the parting guest." Readers
of Kilner's "Human Atmosphere" will understand exactly
what happened when Dr. Wickland passed the charge of
electricity through the sensitive. Kilner noted that directly he
discharged the electricity, there was a momentary disappearance
of the aura. This is equivalent to cutting the invisible cord
with which tl1e spirit attaches himselfto the patient. To a spirit,
the shock is akin to an attack by fiery needles. In his endeavour
to get away from the burning sensation it causes, he quits his
hold on the sensitive. The drawback of this cure is that unless
handed over to spirit teachers and made conscious ofhis react.ious
to earthly bodies, the obsessor does but drift until anomer poor
victim comes under his sway. The need for conductors ofcircles
to be aware of these facts is self-evident.
When treating cases of possession by evil spirits, healers
should remember that demesmerising passes remove the spirit
just as surely as electricity, without any shock to either sensitive
or spirit. Professor Baraduc attained the same end by the
application of heat. Patients declared tl1ey could both smell
and feel the skin of tl1e spirit entity actually burning as me
doctor brought a red hot iron as near to the skin of me patient
as he dared. Miss Scatcherd, who collaborated with Baraduc,
assured me that when the spirit form was peculiarly gross, her
own sense ofsmell corroborated that ofme patient. Spiritualists
prefer reasoning with the spirit to using any of these peculiarly
forceful methods.
If the patient is a coarse feeder, the Nazarene's statement that
"Tllis kind goem not out except by prayer and fasting" is
literally true. Cure is produced by altering the quality of the
emanations from the patient. But whCil the patient suffers
168 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
from religious mania, praying and fasting might possibly
accentuate the trouble, because they would make him more
sensitive to external influences. When alienists become
Spiritualists, they will begin to understand why religious mania
heads the list of the intractable forms ofinsanity. Prayer circles
effect the same object by concentrating thought on the offender.
It is equivalent to hypnotic suggestion. In response, spirits
review their conduct and thus awaken from their dream state.
The line ofpower laid by sincere souls in prayer is traversed
by spirit people, who second their efforts whenever possible.
Much that passes for mental science and faith healing is but
the removal of undesirable spirit attachments. All sufferers
from obscure, unaccountable aches and pains, as well as definitely
mental patients, should obtain clairvoyant diagnosis. Better
still, get magnetic treatment in addition from some Spiritualist
healer. The cure is then permanent, because the link is not only
broken magnetically but knowledge replaces ignorance on both
sides of the veil. The aches and pains of the patient disappear
because the spirit no longer concentrates on the belief that its
body is suffering, or that it is about to die. The snapping ofthe
link removes all difficulties as if a magic wand had passed over
the patient.
I have already emphasised the necessity for beginning all
treatments with "clearing" passes. These break the hold of the
obsessing entity. Your mental action allied thereto removes
the undesirable spirit; your healing passes soothe the overtired
nerves, and mental reaction by the patient completes the cure.
Spirits on a low plane are more easily reached by mortals than
by spirits of a higher plane. Our auric emanations are more
nearly akin to gross spiritual bodies, and these makelinks through
which missionary spirits operate.
One ofthe difficulties ofmissionary spirits from higher planes
is that their very brightness removes them from the sight of
spirits on lower planes or scares the lower types, who seek safety
in flight. By the operation ofthought-forces they do not under-
stand, the desire to hide builds the appearance of a wall or
darkness around them. It is by subterfuge rather than by
direct attack that they are at last brought up against a clear
recognition of the issues involved.
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 169
It is reasonably probable that their friends may consciously
direct them to a sensitive, well knowing they will get entangled
in their aura and thus be forced, willy-nilly, to review the whole
position. Rescue circles offering these conditions, and volun-
tarily co-operating, are eagerly sought by unselftsh workers
in the darker regions who gladly avail themselves ofthe curative
opportunity offered. :But never forget that a little knowledge
is a dangerous thing. Act only under definite spirit guidance
of a tried and tested quality.
The medical world talks vaguely and sagely about multiple
personalities when dealing with obsession, but quite fails to
realise that it is a literal statement offact and not a mere physical
disability. The patient is at one moment quite clear-headed,
but, directly afterwards, thinks, acts and speaks like a different
individual altogether; different alike in tastes, disposition and
characteristics to the normal sel£ The attacks may last for
days or occur spasmodically. The personality intruding may
be one individual or many. Death scenes may be partially or
completely re-enacted through the victim, and whatever
dominant idea influences the intruder will find expression in the
actions or speech of the sufferer.
A clear understanding of these issues would measurably
alter asylum treatment. Suicides, and all who quit the body
by unnatural removal, head the list of obsessing spirits. This
gives point to spirit teaching that capital punishment is no
cure but rather an aggravation of crime. Hatreds, fears, selfish-
ness and all concentration on earthly things to the exclusion of
nobler promptings help to swell the hordes of the ignorantly
eartl1bound. Even love may cause temporary obsession. The
great desire oftwo individuals to be together produces the result.
Thus the aches and pains and method of transition will be
fitfully reproduced in the person of the devoted lover until the
spirit learns to overcome earthly memories which react un-
pleasantly.
Theology, which supplants reason with blind unquestioning
faith, adds an enormous quota to the haunting spirits who
ignorantly obsess. Finding they are not in the heaven of their
imagination, many poor souls draw the wrong conclusion that
they must be in outer darkness for ever. Or, filled with the
170 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRlTUALISM
evangelical spirit still, they gather round similarly hypnotised
people at revival meetings and the long line of nervous wrecks
that marks the trail ofall great revivalist meetings is the inevitable
outcome.
Morphine and drug addicts are the most difficult to deal with.
Their craving is just as intense as when on earth. At first, the
spirit may be totally unconscious of his effect upon someone
else's body, and on realisation may refuse to leave because he
will lose his vicarious satisfaction. Turned out of one abode,
he may consciously seek othervictims. In the earthlife, he would
stoop to any deception to gain his ends. He is still the same
callous, selfish mentality.
When this hopeless class are finally rounded up, there seems
but litde hope for them until, after long isolation or darkness
with consequent introspection, d1e desire for reform is aroused.
They are placed where they can be watched by unseen but loving
friends, who strive continually to impress them to throw off
the hateful conditions.
Dipsomaniacs follow somewhat similar lines to drug addicts,
but are usually more tractable. As soon as redirection of the
mental oudook is attained, missionary spirits gladly help them
towards the light, but in the spirit world, even more than on
earth, free will, with limitations, is an eternal birthright with
which none may interfere. We are always free to place our
souls under the bondage of drugs or alcohol, and, when they
finally become our masters, we cannot release ourselves from
self-imposed slavery save by deliberate and continuous effort
in the opposite direction. As on earth, so there; restraints are
imposed upon those whose degradation affects me happiness
ofother people. But, muike earth, it is not the imposition ofan
external will that produces imprisonment. We are self-con-
demned and thought erects its own prison walls around us.
Thus arc we separated wimout becoming a burden upon our
fellows.
The folly and danger of mediums resorting to stimulants
needs no other illustration than the piteous appeals that reach
us from time to time from these unfortunate people. Thought
action on the spirit plane also illustrates the necessity for keeping
an open mind on every subject, so that we may not suffer
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS I7I
from any kind of mono-mania. The teaching of "love thy
neighbour as thyself" is the best antidote. The principal difficulty
in dealing with this class of spirit is caused by lapsing memory
which afflicts them on trying to communicate, but with patience
and sympathy the desired result is attained.
When humanity realises how very real the spirit world is,
obsession will cease. On earth we are shrouded by a body
which hides real motives and consequent action. On the next
plane, to think is to act, and s~irit life dresses our bodies and
surroundings with an individual s true nature. We may deceive
ourselves; we cannot deceive the spiritually awakened. Mis-
understandings disappear. Love cannot hide itself nor hatreds
masquerade in friendship's guise. Vanity reveals itselfin tattered
finery; hatred distorts the face and form. Love and wisdom
are expressed in beauty of form and feature. It is, indeed, a
wonderful law that causes thought thus to symbolise itsel(
At first we quite fail to understand its operations, but presently
we build a "mansion in the sky," a consciously constructed
home, "not made with hands, but eternal in the heavens."
The study of obsession helps us to appreciate these laws. They
who need our help are forced to explain the nature oftheir need
and its cause. Thus we are forewarned. Sooner or later, the
spirit lea.rns that desires correspond to change of scene. Their
surroundings change, not because they have travelled weary
miles, but because as aspirations change so the landscape appears
to change also. Time and space mean events and conditions in
the spirit world, and all eartluy standards have to be readjusted
to tl1e new modes ofmotion.
Slowly the obsessor emerges from a state ofdreamy indecision
or is violently ejected and forced towards newer realisations. He
learns to adjust llinlself to different modes of life. The first
discovery is that darkness is an internal condition ofthe soul and
only indirectly has relation to external light. Aspiration and
effort bring new elements into his life, which he learns to mould
as the potter moulds day. Properly poised minds find ilieir
friends immediately on crossing the border, but the rest must
ploughwiililonely furrow until they learn ilioroughly tile mean-
ing of the text, "God is not mocked, and they who worship
Him must worship Him in spirit and in truth."
172 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAliSM
Where there is evidence of distinct mental derangement, the
recommendations for shattered nerves are of supreme im-
portance. If actual softening of the brain has set in, your task
is almost hopeless, but much can be done to alleviate distress.
One bad case assured us on recovery that she was aware of all
that was done for her, and traced the steps which she believed
aided recovery. Another very serious case I attended had been
allowed to tie himself up with pieces of cotton, and lay in bed
from one week's end to another. In about a month he was
out riding a bicycle with me, and quite satisfactorily handled
a pair of horses attached to a mowing machine.
Reform of asylum treatment is one of the ideals healers
must .press upon the public. The present herding together of
great numbers of deranged mentalities is responsible for turning
incipient lunacy into permanent idiocy. The great difficulty
is the expense of supervising small groups. The healer must
learn to distinguish clearly between mental derangement and
possible mediumship. Occasionally there are complications,
because the two conditions may interblend. With the dual
object of cow1teracting false charges of obsession brought
against mediums in general, and also to utilise and emphasise
the counter-suggestion it contains, the healer must refuse to
recognise the patient's idea of obsession, save as a remote possi-
bility, and must stress all other possible natural causes. This
will have the effect of compelling your patient to diagnose
more accurately his own case, and will also release him from
temporary spirit control by giving his mind a new poise in the
direction of physical health. It is essential to remember that
people become hypnotic only through dwelling on a fixed idea;
they then become incapable of correctly appraising associated
circumstances. It is pt:ecisely the same with forms of mental
derangement.
To rebut tl1e common calumny against mediums, healers
should read H. J. Osborn's pamphlet, "Does Spiritualism Cause
Lunacy?" Practically every asylum circularised denied that it
had any cases whatever attributable to Spiritualism. He pro-
duces reliable statistics on the causes of lunacy. Unfortunately,
Dr. Forbes Winslow, many years ago, made a stupid statement
about thousands of people being driven mad by Spiritualism.
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 173
On further examination he not only retracted his statement,
but openly avowed his conversion to Spiritualism, which he
had condemned without evidence. The "Christian Herald"
reprinted the original statement, and bigoted clerics quote it
with fantastic additions from time to time.
A further letter sent to "Light" on May 29, 1926, emphasised
the fact that the clergy head the list of professional men who
become mentally deranged. The next highest on d1e list are
doctors. This is a curious satire on two classes of men, most
ignorant of psychic science, and in consequence, its bitterest
opponents. Magnetic healing to the average doctor is quackery,
and therefore must be suppressed. That it claims to cure cases
that he has abandoned as hopeless is merely confirmation of
all his prejudices. But it is a startling fact that magnetic treat-
ment often heals after all other methods have failed. Drugs
sometimes cause reactions which ruin the nerves. All forms
of worry and mental strain rob patients of vitality, which the
healer replaces. Hence it becomes increasingly evident that,
when Spiritualism is properly understood, it will do much
towards emptying the asylums, and doctors and preachers will
be the first to benefit.
Where the obsession is real, it will be necessary to discover
the motive for the annoyance. Knowledge of mediurnship
is now essential to correct treatment. Ignorance recoils on
itsel£ Discovery of the motive will suggest the best route to
the cure. By giving a preliminary magnetising, as for mesmer-
ism, the offending spirit may be definitely "cast in," and con-
versation with the offender becomes possible. In most cases,
it will be found that the obsessing spirit is so ignorant ofpsychic
laws that, having by some wlknown process got attached to a
sensitive, it is simply unable or afraid to let go, lest it returns
to a darkness of which it has vague, ill-defined fears. More
usually, it will be found to belong to a class of "unconscious"
controls. The spirit is quite ignorant of the fact that it has
passed duough the gates of death, and believes it is using its
own physical body.
That he crui rise above this condition simply never occurs
to him, or, if it does, accusing phantoms as real to him as the
dipsomaniac's vision ofrats and snakes, bar his progress. Added
174 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRf£UALISM
to this are terrible fears of hell, which make him cling the
tighter lest worse befall him. The dramatisation ofhis own ideas
form actual living pictures in the mind of the sensitive, who
reproduces the dual personality; a most incongruous mixture.
Civilisation has but one ending to these hallucinations-the
lunatic asylum.
The foregoing makes clear the necessity for medical men to
understand mediumship in order to save many poor souls from
life-long imprisonment. If obsession by a spirit is proven, the
medium is but a secondary consideration so far as cure is con-
cerned. Removal of the cause will automatically end the in-
disposition. It is not the insanity of the patient you have to deal
with, but the fears, hallucinations and ignorance of the con-
trolling spirit.
When dealing with an intruding spirit, assure him that he will
be able to return with ease if he so desires, and that guides will
not merely assist him, but will definitely lead him "to the
light." The healer's part in the work is to impress upon him
the value of true prayer, and teach him that the simplest act
of unselfish work for others is the quickest means to the desired
end. Parrot-like prayers defeat their own object. You have
to make him realise that words are not an end in themselves,
but merely a psychic exercise that links him to unseen
helpers.
Healers must help controlling spirits to realise that their
every thought obscures or clarifies the light, and presently you
will have the satisfaction, not merely of curing your patient,
but ofreleasing an earthbotmd soul and promoting the develop-
ment of an angel, who will some day greet you as a friend in
the spheres of eternal light and love.
Missionary work is continually operating in developing
circles, though many conductors are ignorant of tlte fact. This
will only end when we cease to send ignorant misfits into the
after-life. Spirit guides take advantage of opportunities at
developing circles to clear the hells which ignorance fills, and
at the same time develop mediurnship. Rescue circles do this
work consciously, but should never be operated without
properly developed mediums, and co-operation from the
spirit siJe. Failure to observe these precautions might result
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 175
m conditions needing serious effort to rescue the would-be
rescuers.
The necessity for treating spirit intercourse on a religious
basis as well as scientifically is thus obvious. Rescue circles
form a sort of preparatory hospital base from which "un-
desirables" are drafted to other wards for further treatment.
Rescue seances must never be conducted by emotional people
whose subconciousness would dramatise simple incidents and
mistake this for mediumship. Sound common sense allied to
psychic knowledge are essential prerequisites.
Controlling spirits sometimes request help to leave their
mediums easily, the intensity of their effort having forged a
magnetic link stronger than is advisable. Stand beh,ind the
sensitive and, pointing your fingers towards the crown of the
head or the centre of the forehead at a distance of an inch or
two, or even in contact, draw the hands suddenly apart several
times. Unwanted controls are displaced in the same way,
and mediums after control are advised to clear all influences
from themselves by similar passes. If there are symptoms of a
return of the obsessing spirit, these passes should be followed
by the demesmerising or clearance passes.
If the control is ofan exceedingly gross type, these passes ma'y
fail, but they will have a preliminary effect of removing psychic
aches and pains. Ifthe simple passes fail, follow up the foregoing
treatment by placing the left hand on the forehead and the
l
right hand on the base ofthe brain. Slide the right hand rapidly
down the spine, and quickly forming the hand into a cup shape,
smartly tap the middle and lower parts of the back several
1 ~.With these patients it will be necessary to have a strong
person holding the hands and feet of the subject, for fear of
personal violence. Finish with clearing and demesmerising
passes, get the patient into fresh air, and have ready something
to engross his attention and remove all idea of spirits from
the mind.
Mediums during development frequently misunderstand their
sensations, and in this, as in cases of reputed obsession, it is a
steadying of the nerves rather than drastic action that is needed.
In all treatments for obsession, great tact and firmness are
required. With every pass you consciously exert your will
176 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
to the desired end. Never forget that your patients' sensitive
condition enables them to perceive your real character, with
corresponding effect on results.
The conduct of "dabblers" who yield to a constant desire
for experimentation cannot be too strongly condemned. At
all hours of the day or night I have known them forgo normal
occupations and plunge into seance work. This is the class
mostly claiming to be obsessed. There is usually no sign what-
ever of spirit control and nervous exhaustion is the actual
malady to be treated, together with the dominant idea. They
frequently disregard all experience and follow advice which
comes from their own "guides" or ignorant instructors, who
sell ouija boards, planchettes and crystals as "toys." This i~ a
common starting point. In every case, patients must be for-
bidden any form ofspirit communication, at least till they have
a thorough mastery over themselves and read up the subject.
A complete change of air, scenes and interests is the best advice
you can give. Make them abstain from attendance at meetings
where unwise friends will induce them to break your rules
out of sheer curiosity. They see no danger, and anyone who
is weak enough to submit to obsession easily succumbs to
flattery or ridicule.
It will be seen at once that the majority of obsessions are in
no way malicious. Ignorance is the chief stumbling block.
The principal enemy to be fought is the recurrent memory,
whicl1 reproduces the same condition over and over again.
In distant healing or "absent" treatment, as it is sometimes called,
the healer strives to affect the patient by prayer alone. It is a
valuable adjunct to all healing treatments. In your ·prayer
strive to imagine yourself a disembodied spirit operating on
the subconsciousness of your patient. Most of the "cures" of
mental scientists and faith healers are of this order, although
they are unaware that sincere prayer produces this effect. Many
patients are tlms cured who do not even know they are being
prayed for.
This form of treatment opens up interesting speculations as
to whether more power is stored up in the psychic than the
physical body, or whether spirit approaching spirit while out of
the body is able more clearly to set causes in motion. Rapport
TRUTH ABOUT OBSESSIONS 177
is frequently quite clearly realised by both patient and healer.
Where this is true, the psychic link being telepathic can be
utilised for experimental psychic work. In distant healing, the
psychic body of the healer is frequently seen by the patient.
These evidences should be strictly tabulated to form scientific
data.
CHAPTER XII
SPIRIT HEALING: "T!uU! UP THY B.BD .••"
THE new psychology unfolds an aspect of healing too often
neglected by Spiritualists. As mental training for the final
inevitable journey into spirit life, its value is incalculable. It
gives a correct poise of mind for the health of the physical body
with true psychic and spiritual unfoldment. With our ad-
vanced knowledge, we ought to be able to transform ordinary
prayer meetings into scientifically conducted healing centres.
The new psychology refuses to recognise sickness as inherent
in the physical body. It is the mind rather than the body that
should be treated. When the idea does not lead to foolish
neglect of simple precautions, its effect upon the whole life
is astounding. The spirit self consciously manipulates its own
mechanism by creating thoughts and emotions which act
directly on the nerves and blood. Mental imagery is built up
which embodies perfect health. Along the pathway thus opened,
spirit people operate and complete the cure.
The effect of the mind on the body is well understood in
blushing, fear or hatred, but that the same force can be con-
sciously applied to compel nerve and blood to attack the seat
of disease is not so well appreciated. The rush of blood to the
head while blushing and the livid face during fear or hateful
feelings are but external signs of the mind's supreme control of
the body. What thus occurs without conscious direction can
be induced by effort ofwill. It is well known that hatred pro-
duces an actual poison in the blood which wreaks its revenge
upon the self-poisoner. On the other hand, happy thoughts
are healing thoughts. They carry both physical and spiritual
healing in their wings. If, therefore, we can consciously store
the wells of memory with thoughts of love, they will rise into
immediate condemnation of their opposite directly necessity
arises. The practical application of our second principle, "the
brotherhood of man," is thus seen to be essential if we are to
178
SPIRIT HBAUNG: "TAK.B UP THY .BED •.." I79
hope for health of the physical body and spiritual progression
hereafter.
( Spirit people cannot evolve to' higher planes until they
1 master this great law. It means that we must so train subcon-
sciousness that it becomes the normal expression of the mind
and hateful thinking impossible. Therein is the kingdom of
heaven. Sensual thoughts, worry, fear and the whole congeries
1 of related thought produce wastage of nerve tissue. A.2E!J
f
your spirit teaching scientifically, simply and naturally,· and
wrong thinking will be ousted, and healthy, happy life follows.
Only those who are honest in thought and deed realise the
ideait Your religion must be one of constant self-reform. It
plan~ your feet on all platforms that seek the truth, and thus
opens up the pathway of eternal progress.
Sufferers must use their suffering as a stimulus to greater
endeavour and get well by the power of thought. We do not
despise palliatives, but recognise them as palliatives only. So
long as causes remain in operation, so long will invalidism
continue. To this end, affirmations are adopted which become
as much a part of subconsciousness as the knowledge that two
and two make four. This we learned in childhood's days:
in adult life it becomes an automatic memory. Uplifting ideals
are epitomised, committed to memory and continually reviewed
until they become operative as our real selves, a spiritual entity
acting independently of the physical. Under this definite form
of instruction, the spirit self moulds both brain and body and
co-operates with unseen helpers. It is a system of thought
inevitable to those who consciously talk with spirit people.
If this form of healing were generally adopted, there would
be less obsession and nerve troubles, and purely mental maladies
would soon cease to exist. It helps healers by providing a co-
operative basis on which to work, and forms a wholesome
reminder that spirit people assist all mental efforts. It is a method
of realising the ideal strictly in accordance with spirit teaching
and scientific application of the forces utilised. Prayer directed
towards invalids makes telepathic contact, and along tl1e path-
way thus opened the angels carry healing balm, reinforced by
physical elements from ilie prayer circle. It is due to these
facts that many schools of thought meet with startling success
180 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
after all known medical help has failed. The concentration of
the psychic healer, the denial of disease by Christian Scientists,
the affirmation of health by mental scientists, and the complete
conviction that "Divine Mind" works through practitioners,
are all forms of mental activity practically applied, which pro.
duce undoubted results because the objective is clearly visualised.
Those who have learned how thought operates in the spirit
world will also realise what a valuable object lesson it is and how
it helps to fit travellers for the next stage on the journey oflife.
Prayer is a psychic exercise which strengthens the one who
prays, and trains the suppliant to methods of work that fit
him to take up a line of progressive unfoldment immediately
on quitting the body. The object of the new psychology
is definitely to train the subconscious part of mentality, or spirit
self, to utilise all nature's forces for our own physical well-
being. In other words, we must consciously endeavour to pro-
duce by auto-suggestion desirable states of consciousness other-
wise produced by hypnotism or faith in external aids. Thus,
if a hypnotist can charm away the pain of an aching tooth-
as he certainly can-we ought to be able to do the same for
ourselves.
The mental processes by whicl1 hypnotic subjects carry out
operators' suggestions are elaborated from within. The hyp-
notist merely directs the mind; he does not do the thinking.
His suggestions close all avenues that militate against the desired
result. The same law is utilised in all forms of faith healing.
It is the "poise of the mind" which produces the apparent
miracle. Systems of religion have comparatively little to do
with results. Hindu.shrines are as powerful as Christian, probably
even more so, because there is greater faith among the credulous
followers. Relics of the Buddha produce precisely the same
effect as reputed bones ofsaints or pieces ofthe cross.
With Dorothy Kerin, the Brixton evangelist, a different
form of suggestion was used. She first felt hands making
"passes" over her body, and soon after heard a voice. Emaciated
and bedridden for years, she was instantanP.ously cured in re-
sponse to the voice telling her to get up. Spiritualists will have
no difficulty in understanding the method adopted. But there
are hundreds of instantaneous cures without any apparent
SPIRIT HEALING: "TAKE UP THY BED ..•" 181
external suggestion or magnetic influence being used. There
would be hundreds more if the public would only wake up to
the immense effect of the mind upon the body.
There is no better healer than cheery optimism, allied to the
consciousness that God, by the operation of natural law, or
through the spirit world, can and does heal. Undoubtedly,
the marvellous cures induced by religious fervour are more
striking than ordinary hypnotic effects. But their basis is the
same. The ideal to be aimed at is a conscious production of
~ states of mentality combining religious fervour with an action
.~ ofthe mind which becomes automatically operative as necessity
1.~ arises. From the wells of memory, when one is happy and the
~ mind placid, there rise into outer consciousness long-forgotten
~ dreams or hymns of childhood's days. What happens by
"' "accident" can be induced by design.
~
Express this automatic memory in terms of volition, con-
sciously applied, and you lay foundations of mental reserve
which correct without effort the wastage or stagnation caused
by wrong thinking. The needs ofeveryday life will be supplied
~ by the subconscious will dipping into the storehouse ofmemory.
This constitutes the essential "act offaith" which, never swerving
......_ .J from its design, counteracts all undesirable thought. We are
all storekeepers of thought forces, but if we fail to stock the
right kind of thought, body and mind are impoverished.
Virtuous thought and concentrated will act as though a ray
oflight discharged gross particles from the spirit body. Released
from their influence, a greater range ofspiritual power follows.
It includes increased vision, greater scope for movement, and
all that makes for spiritual progress. The illumined soul thus
becomes a "ministering spirit" to its own physical body.
Although not generally perceived, both psychic and physical
bodies reflect the operations of the mind. One does not need
to be a psychometrist or physiognomist to see the difference
between a coarse, brutal type of face and that of the cultured
idealist. Pre-natal causes have a decided effect, but they can be
intensified or refined.
The cure of diseased bodies by mental processes is practical
religion. Its obvious effects upon the physical plane carry over
into the next stage of life. Volumes have been written about
182 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
nervous disorders leading to mental breakdown. Yet nobody
would be so foolish as to deny that the attitude of the mind is
usually the predisposing factor. Change of outlook is, there-
fore, the only radical cure. Healing is not produced by avague
wish to be well. It needs the steadfast adoption of the opposite
point of view to that which induced mental breakdown.
The new point ofview cannot be assumed at a moment's notice
or be arbitrarily chosen for us. Its greatest force is obtained
when the scientific application appeals to the individual mind.
It must be applicable in all times and in all places, under all
conceivable circumstances.
Knowledge of psychic laws induces a more permanent and
realistic faith than the ignorance which satisfied our forefathers.
Only those Spiritualists who apply the lessons they have learned
come within this category. The majority are satisfied with the
consolations of communion, and do not realise that they are
the centre of magnetic forces without which the communion
they value so much could not occur. This knowledge is con-
sciously applied in magnetic passes for healing. The action
directs the mind, and laws both known and unknown im-
mediately operate. Co-operating with every thought and
action are spiritual agencies ever seeking avenues through
which they can minister to earth's children.
One soon learns that thought is creative, both on earth and
on other planes. We see this exemplified most strikingly in
materialisation. Spirit homes are built, decorated, or de-
molished by the same process. Spiritualists are taught that the
quality of thought psychically affects all that we touch. The
psychometrist proves it. We can readily believe tl1at spirit
planes reflect actual thinking; that coarse, brutal thought
produces unlovely structures; tl1ac pure, elevated thought
builds lovely surroundings.
A~ t_!!e spi[it grows in_goodn~, tru_
th, love and wisdom,
itrefkcts the "kingdom of heaven'' within, and the sp.i.citual
body__acquir
~ a raruancN.ike unto ~"His face doth
shirie as an angel's." This radiance is the whole armour of
God, the "outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual
grace." Nothing diseased or unlovely lives within that spiritual
aura. Evil and grossness are repelled without conscious effort.
SPIRIT HEALING: "TAKB UP THY BJlD . . ." I 83
Yet, when angels desire to visit "spirits in prison," they can
hide that radiance with a cloak woven by thought processes
that we can but dimly ,glimpse. Following the line of imagery
thus outlined, how bright, how radiant, how adorable ought
the Spiritualist God to be!
Great healers devclo·p by meditating ott the attributes of
Deity and the paths l<!ading thereto. Students are therefore
urged mentally to visualise the Great White Light as God
and to realise that we to:>o can £11 our own being with the light
of truth and health. The practical means to the end are simple.
The first embodies the teaching of Confucius, "Right thought,
right speech, right action." Five hundred years later came a
Nazarene expressing s~milar thought as, "Love thy neighbour
as thyself, and God wi1th all thy heart." When these tea~gs
are more than mere l.!p;Service.L. the soul acquires brilliance,
because the correct "poise~the mind" is attained, and then
-all things are possible!.
The most successful healing clinics combine practical common
sense with therr belie[ Frrst, an occasional 24 hours' fast-
ing with prayer. Secc•ndly, deep breathing exercises followed
by games in the open m. Thirdly, corrected diet. The first
cleanses the system from the effects ofdrugs and wrong thinking.
Copious draughts of cdd water accelerate the process. Prayer
and hymn harmonise the mind. The second gives nature a
chance thoroughly to oxygenate the blood, and brings the
\ fjbody mdore compthletely un~er mdi~mt~ conhi~o
11. ~astlyfj, ~bste
1ntion
rom rugs, wi vegetanan et m w c1 npe .rwt p ays a
conspicuous part, spce:dily sets tl1e mechanism free from ac-
cumulated dietetic errors. The freedom from heaviness and
drowsiness is unbelievatble. Whether it is wise to continue for
all time on the same diet must depend upon individual ru-
cumstances and the correct application ofthe system adopted.
Intense concentration is deprecated, because it often frustrates
its own purpose by still further taxing the already depleted
nerve centres. Relaxation is preferable to concentration. For
the same reason, the "act of faith" must not be construed into
intense emotionalism. Disease is stagnation of the nerve centres,
or poisoning ofthe blo·od. Congested food areas mean accunlu-
lated foul gases and indigestion. Pure air, rational exercise
184 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
and a diet that is medicine as well as nourishment soon cleanse
the system. The mind races along the nerves, the pulseis buoyant
and life worth living. The unnatural conditions of civilised
life are responsible for most bodily ailments. Return to whole-
some and natural habits is the obvious cure.
But if the mind is unwisely directed, the chief instrument
ofhealth is neglected and the evil only temporarily removed.
The "poise" ofthe mind is the all-important secret. Scientifically
directed, man b..:comes as a god. Affirmations are arranged
to meet individual needs. Begin by trying to visualise the
Great White Light. Meditate upon methods by which godlike
graces and powers can be attained. Repeat simple phrases
like, "I am love, I am justice, I am mercy," etc. The coward
and the nervous should affirm courage. Clearly visualise the
opposite of your weakness, and determine that you mean
what you say and will never say what you do not mean. Start
to practise it in the small things oflife, and it is surprising what
you will achieve in the end. Phrases are as useless as a Thibetan
prayer-wheel ifthinkin does n c 10n. It is wonderful
what is attained y lis form of introspection.
Psychic healers soon discover that few people have learned
to breathe properly. To many people the nose is a nuisance
instead of a cooling, refuting and cleansing apparatus. The
mouth is merely a trap for disease germs. All music teachers
have to teach control of the breath before correct singing is
possible. Stuttering would cease in the majority of cases if the
idea were adopted during normal speech. The training in deep
breathing of Yogis and mental scientists acts similarly, though
the motive is different. Anl.id adulterations and quack reme-
dies, it is difficult to know what is either nutritious food or
natural correctives for errors; but the food we eat should render
medicine unnecessary.
Big fees are being demanded and paid to a swarm ofAmerican
visitors who teach healing methods under fanciful titles in the
best halls in England and conduct clinics everywhere. I want
to see Spiritualists emphasising these aspects of healing, plus
the mighty power of psychic evidences. It is marvellous that
Spiritualism has accomplished so much and produced so many
offshoots. But we must not lag behind. If psychic healing is
SPIRIT HEALING: "TAKE UP THY BED •••" 185
to claim its rightful place, we must clearly show what relation-
ship it has to other schools of healing. Our offshoots often
combine queer compounds of ancient superstition or dogmatic
assertions with successful healing practice.
There are theologians, Bible in hand, promising hell and
damnation to those who do not adopt their belief, but who
accept the ideas of spirit healing if it is done in the name of
Jesus. If you get healed outside the walls of the Four-Square
Gospellers (Elimites), it is clear proof you are in league with
the devil. Roman Catholicism adopts a somewhat similar
point of view, and each of these sections is anti-Christ to the
other. Many diametrically opposite teachings are drawn from
the Bible, with faith-healing or magnetic treatment added to
them. Among Theosophists, you gethigher-thought and newer-
thought schools, which teach the purely mental side of healing
and ignore everything that savours of Spiritualism.
When Rawson was leader of The Society of True Prayer,
he made great claims to healing and prophecy as the result
of adopting an extreme form of Christian Science. I made
inquiries and found, once more, that the pillar around which
all these statements revolved was a medium whose brothers
and sisters were practising mediums in America. Once again
the spirit people were robbed oftheir glory by this set claiming
psychic powers as the result of their special form offaith which
teaches that man is practically a god, and produces all psychic
phenomena without the aid of spirits. So arrogant are their
claims that, in addition to miraculous healing, stopping sand-
storms, or compelling trains to wait over scheduled time are
small matters easily accomplished-until you demand some
proof of their assertions.
7
CHAPTER XIII
MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
1N Christian Science, we have a somewhat different opponent
to deal with, because much of its teaching was definitely
borrowed from Spiritualism while its foundress was a practising
medium. Like other faith-healers, Mary Baker Eddy claimed
to have a special interpretation of the Bible. But when
Spiritualists refused to accept her as their leader, she got annoyed
and varied her teaching so considerably that there soon ceased
to be common ground ofagreement. In the case ofMrs. Eddy,
it is necessary to know something ofher motives before we can
correct the misstatements of her followers who, through sheer
ignorance, misrepresent Spiritualism. Her followers are not
allowed to read opponents' literature. In this she follows
Roman Catholicism in order to become an absolute dictator.
The position is complicated because words are divorced from
dictionary memings. This was originally due to !v1rs. Eddy's
illiteracy, but as about thirty revisions ofher text-book, "Science
And Health," have been issued, this defect is almost obliterated.
Like other systems, it has absorbed something from current
ideas, despite the hopelessly dogmatic teaching. Reformers are
springing up in their own ranks, and in many branches a more
idealistic and rational presentation is being developed. I am
convinced that Mrs. Eddy, like many other sensitive people,
was partially obsessed and mistook spiritual verities for physical
realities. If her writings are read with this key, much that
appears nonsensical, to those who know nothing of psychic
experience, would prove very interesting. Thus, though she
knew nothing about modern concepts of matter, she taught
it was an unreality. This statement is foolish only to those
who try to walk through a brick wall. But to a spirit who tries
to do this apparently impossible clung, it would be a fact.
The same applies to her system of healing. To affirm the
unreality of disease is good for everybody. To spirit people
186
MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 187
it is an essential to further development, for until spirits can
a~solutely control their own minds, it is impossible for them con-
soously to control a medium. If a spirit believes he can still
suffer from the disease he passed away with, he passes on his
ideas to the medium, who registers the thought and apparently
suffers in the same way. So long as the spirit fails to shake off
earthly impressions, he forms a barrier to spiritual development,
as well as having reflex action on material bodies.
But to ignore the causes and consequences of disease on
the physical body is sheer lunacy. The creed of Christian
Scientists leads them into absurdities with effects in our law
courts which emphasise tne necessity of adding common sense
to faith. If members are prevented from knowing the truth
about suggestive therapeutics, the resultant fanaticism breeds
unreasoning credulity akin to deliberate hypnotisation. All
rules and regulations are so framed that members cannot possibly
counteract suggestions deftly woven around them by the astute
hypnotist, Mrs. Eddy hersel£ Her subjects speedily become
incapable of reasoning outside the narrow limits of their creed.
It is just this inability to comp:ue one idea with another that
constitutes the essence of hypnotic suggestion. Yet it is clear
from her frequent misapplication of the term "hypnotism"
that Mrs. Eddy had no knowledge of the real meaning of the
word.
In the Christian Science textbook, "Science And Health,"
Spiritualism is continually reviled, and the curious reader will
naturally wonder why followers calmly repeat the statements
while affirming they have no animus whatever. "Science And
Health" is called a key to the Bible. Indeed, without it, the Bible
would be meaningless, it is said. This was the most astute
move of all. For ifyou can assure people that your new idea
in no way upsets their cherished beliefS, you can rope them in
with ease.
Mrs. Eddy found herself opposed, at one time, by one of
her own followers who proved that the vitality emanating
~rom himself produced greater cures than hersel£ This had
• be counteracted, or she would have lost her followers.
)he effected her purpose by ceasing to use her hands for
ling and claimed that "malicious animal magnetism" was
I88 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
used by healers who made the passes. This idea, in time, became
an obsession. She went in fear ofit all her life. It runs through
all her writings, although she also taught, as a fundamental
doctrine, that God or Good is the only power that exists. The
terror was probably only assumed at first to discredit other
healers, but in time those who harboured evil thoughts, or
used their hands for healing, were called "mental assassins,"
or mesmerists. The term was eventually applied to all opponents.
Thus, in the ''Official Life of Mary Baker Eddy," we are told
that when she was trying to convert her Spiritualist friends
and one-time co-workers, a Mrs. Bagley refused to lay aside
mesmerism. The friend thus became1\ "mental assassin" merely
because she could not adopt Mary Baker Eddy's viewpoint.
A friend ofmine took up Christian Science. In a little while,
hygiene ceased to exist. Matter and all earthly manifestations
were "illusions." The children's heads got dirty and scrofulous,
varied with ringworrns. The neighbours expostulated, only to
be told that all disease was an error of the mortal mind. At
last, a strong-minded nurse risked discharge by using soap and
water. She used one "illusion" to dispel another-a truly
hypnotic cure. Under the operation of her "mortal mind"
the children became wholesome once more.
On the other hand, ridicule has produced an opposing set of
extremists who claim that Christian Science encourages excessive
cleanliness. These adopt the text, "Cleanliness is next to godli-
ness" as their slogan. But the "infallible" key to the Scriptures
upsets all normal interpretations. Hands ceased to be hands
merely because the key says so. When Jesus said, "They shall
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover," he did not mean
hands at all. The word is to be translated metaphorically. Hands _
merely cease to be hands because magnetic healing is indicated.
Sooner or later all healers are attacked with these arguments.
The following extracts from "Science And Health" are in-
teresting. "Angels are pure thoughts from God" (page 208);
but on page 317 we read that "the individuality of Man is no
less tangible because it is spiritual."
Mrs. Eddy's definition of God is-"God is infinite: the only
life substance, spirit or soul in the universe, including Man."
Thus man is God in manifestation. Another definition is:
MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 189
"God is all. There is no life, truth, intelligence or substance
in matter." In the glossary we find that "mortal mind," the
only method by which we recognise anything, is "the opposite
of spirit." Spirits are "merely mortal beliefs, evil minds, or
supposed intelligences." Thus it follows that when Jesus cast
out evil spirits who argued the point with him, and received
permission to enter a herd ofswine, he did not cast entities out,
he merely cast out "false beliefs." Surely the most interesting
thought-transference on record!
Throughout all their teaching, matter, which is the clothing
of the soul on earth, is vilified or ignored. Deliberate misin-
terpretation her followers regard as divine illumination. In
her vanity, she permitted the editor of the Christian Science
journal, which she strictly controlled, to rebuke people who
objected to the claim made for her that she was tl1e co-equal
ofJesus.
The foregoing are some of the reasons why Spiritualists
cannot very well adopt Christian Science as a whole. Nor is
the following indictment, an extract from her "Miscellaneous
Writings," very attractive: "Beware of joining any league
which in any way obligates you to assist-because they happen
to be under arrest-vendors of patent pills, mesmerists or
occultists ... and authors ofspurious works on mental healing."
As all opponents' work is "spurious," bitter antagonism to
Spiritualism follows.
On its practical side, Christian Science is distinctly beneficial.
Its practitioners follow closely on methods of healing usual
in hypnotic clinics. There is, first, tl1e continual suggestion that
there is no pain, no suffering. The patient is asked to visualise
a perfectly healtl1y body. Even if one has had an operation,
he is calmly informed he has had no operation. It was all
imaginary. The only reality is mind. The patient naturally
objects. It has all been so very real. He is informed that tl1e
idea is an error of the mortal mind. Divine mind heals. He is
1 child of God. He is divine mind in manifestation. Divine
lind is pure, healthy, holy, just. Nothing material really
~sts.
)ometimes tl1e practitioner reads a book, monotonously
~rating tl1e same statements. This is varied by concentration,
190 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
in which healers also strive to forget the pain-racked body
before them and visualise the perfect being. They object to
audible prayer. It is realisation. Carried to its logical conclusi~n,
with the unresisting patient before them, the analogy w1th
hypnotism is complete. Yet the word hypnotism is anathema
to them. These are the verbal differences that healers must
grasp, while utilising the practical benefits to be derived from a
positive attitude of mind which has the certain effect of at least
minimising sufferi.ng. Its danger lies in the fact that many
diseases are not curable by suggestion alone, and when ignored
they wreak their revenge upon the victim and, if contagious,
upon the community.
The followers of Christian Science repudiate normal pro-
cesses of reasoning, yet assert that their teaching gives mind
sovereign power over all things material, including the human
body. Results tend to show that their methods of spiritual
healing are gradually evolving a type of mediumship already
in general use among Spiritualists. The practitioner deliberately
places himselfin the surest mental attitude to obtain co-operation
with the spirit world. This conclusion would be repudiated
by the practitioners themselves. But clairvoyants who see the
powers at work, know that ministering spirits carry the healing
balm. The better developed healers in consequence develop
a form of diagnosis which clearly recognises the malady ofthe
sufferer and consciously endeavours by mental processes to
project a thought which embodies the exact opposite.
This continuous denial of what they call "mortal error"
causes the more sensitive healers to surround themselves with a
protective aura against what they term "malicious animal
magnetism." It is not merely resistant to disease, but obstructive
to drifting spirit people, who, not having yet awakened to the
fact of their newer environment, continually afflict passive
sensitives. What is called chronic invalidism and vaguely
attributed to nerves is often nothing more than passive acceptance
of control by undeveloped souls, who, living in the memories
ofthe past, continually imagine themselves to be on their death-
beds, and thus transmit their thoughts to sensitives ignorant
of mediumship.
When, therefore, the healer sets himself out to deny what
MliDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCrENCE 191
the patient affirms, he intuitively senses the actual condition,
and counteracts it by purely hypnotic suggestion. Startling
cures are thus effected where no amount of physical treatment
or medicines could have touched the ailments. I contend that
in cases where actual physical disease or injury is counteracted,
it is due to sensitiveness to spirit action common among
mediums.
I have a friend, who, lby a severe fall, it~ured the base of the
spine. Neglect intensified the trouble. Gangrene was setting
in, so the surgeons removed two and three-quarter inches of
bone. She was ordered to lie perfectly still on her back for six
montlts at least. At the end of three months she disobeyed
medical instructions and balanced herself on the edge of a
chair. It was too painful tto sit down normally. The practitioner
visited her and told her the pain was imaginary. She had not
had an operation; it was her mortal mind that was affected.
The patient expostulated, but her remonstrances were ignored.
Silence ensued, and for Jfifteen minutes the healer, patient and
friends awaited-they knew not what.
The patient suddenly saw the room illuminated with a great
light that she now often. sees, as she begins to understand the
nature of mediumship. Her body became charged with power.
She stood up; all pain was gone and she felt equal to manual
labour. The healer attended daily for a week, but further
treatment was unnecessary. In her enthusiasm, the patieat
became an excellent advertisement for the sect and she tried her
own healing powers on other sufferers with such marked success
tl1at she incurred the hostility ofthe official practitioners. They
charged her with poaching on their preserves and informed
her tl1at she would not be allowed to heal unless she first paid
fifty pounds in fees to become properly enrolled on the American
•egister.
She was further told that she was doing wror.g to "heal
ithout money and without price." Patients who could not
·r the fee of seven shillings were not to be treated. This is
11ed a "love offering," and often amounts to pOlmds, before a
liar practitioner will consent to act. This little sidelight
s one reason why there are no poor people among Christian
ists. Snobbery and exclusiveness are tl1e natural result
192 THl! UNIVERSITY OF SPIJUTUALISM
of their policy. But it has had beneficial results, also, in that
those who object form independent gro~ps whose broade~­
ing tendencies wilrr eradicate much that IS at present undeSir-
able.
The great danger inherent in Christian Science is the pro-
duction of callousness based on the refusal to recognise pain.
Nerves are not merely transmitters of sensation; they are the
channels along which resporuive love and sympathy travel.
The process is simple but obvious. A poor little mite, born of
Christian Scientists, says: "I know I have not got toothache,
Mummy, because it is only an error of the mortal mind; but,
oh! it does hurt." Mother, knowing that pain is an illusion,
would sympathise at first, and "mentally work" (they object
to calling it prayer) for the little one's release. But pain persists.
Mother, in coruequence, becomes hard-hearted, because "faith"
must be upheld at all costs. She tells him not to be silly. He is
dreaming. Anything but afford him the relief that nature
craves.
Christian Science has rapidly increased its numbers. Political
and religious power often travel hand in hand. We are now
called upon to accept hypnotic illusion as fact. Just how foolishly
hypnotised people can act every student of the subject knows.
If ever Christian Scientists got the power, what laws would
they not pass thwugh Parliament, since matter is an illusion,
and pain must be ignored? It needs no great prophetic vision
to predict the sto:ny glare of the law-makers if sufferers dared
to say they were in pain. But we live in hope. There are many
counteracting forces which will prevent the robot factory
materialising.
Absolute surrentder of all right of private interpretation is a
sine qua IIOtt of membership. The rule book makes this very
clear: "Members ... shall not be a member of any church
whose readers are not Christian Scientists ofthe Mother Church.
. . . shall not learn hypnotism on penalty of being excom-
municated from this Church. Members shall not hereafter
become members of other societies, except tl10se specified
in the Mother Church manual."
During services, readers are forbidden to explain any passages,
lest the dominant idea be varied. The utterly unprogressive
MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCI1!NCB 193
nature of the cult is dear. Followers are no more allowed to
think for themselves than Roman Catholics to oppose the
Pope. Yet, curiously enough, it is the dominant idea that pro-
duces the cure. The power of the mind over the body is no
illusion to believers. The sect called flagellants whip each other
till the penitent falls exhausted, but to the end they will kiss
the lash and proclaim their love of chastisement. The yogi
and fakir roast themselves before a slow fire merely to develop
will power. The ~esults, which are all hypnotic in effect, only
differ in the form the suggestion is applied. The further develop-
ment into religious mania is practically incurable. Hence
the great need to perceive truth in all mental manifestations
and to refuse to subordinate reason to faith.
In dealing with the controversial aspects of Christian Science,
I tabulate independent testimony because Mrs. Eddy's statements
were so unreliable, and the distortion of original Spiritualistic
teaching so extraordinary, that the following extracts from
independent literature should be preserved. Mrs. Eddy's
introduction to healing was personal experience gained at the
hands of a magnetic healer named Phineas Quimby, whose
thesis her opponents charge her with stealing. tn October,
1862, Mrs. Eddy {then known as Mrs. Patterson) went to
Quimby to be healed of a spinal complaint from which she
had suffered for many years. She was so f::eble that she had to
be helped up the steps to Quimby's consulting room. He treated
her daily for three weeks.
The following extract from their own publication, "The
Official Life Of Mrs. Eddy," details her experiences and
illustrates the Quimby method. He told her that "she was
held in bondage by the opinions of her family and physicians,
and that her animal spirit was reflecting its grief upon her
body and calling it spinal disease. He then wetted his hands
and rubbed her head violently, declaring that in this manner
he imparted healthy electricity. Gradually he wrought the spell
of hypnotism, and under the suggestion she let go the burden
of pain just as she would have done had morphine been ad-
ministered. The reliefwas no doubt tremendous. Her gratitude
was certainly unbounded. She was set free from the excruciating
pain of years. He again administered his mesmeric treatment,
7•
194 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
stroking her head, shoulders, and back Wltil she declared she
felt as ifstanding on an electric battery."
The extract clearly shows that magnetic healing was the pro-
cess used, exercised in more violent fashion than modern healers
employ. Many patients experience mild shocks as ofelectricity
while being treated, even though the healer does not touch
them. Others sense a breeze which has the pec:uliar power of
penetrating right through clothes and body. Others note sen-
sations of coldness or warmth, so clearly defined that they can
tell the position of the healer's hands with their eyes shut.
Note also, that during Mrs. Eddy's treatment, there was no
unconsciousness or illusions created as is usual in mesmerism
and hypnotism, which none the less arc terms used to express
Mrs. Eddy's aversion to systems which she claimed were the
opposite of her own teaching.
Her "gratitude" may be gauged from the testimonial she
gives all magnetic healers-Quimby included-in "Science
And Health." Here it is: "The author's own observations on
the working of animal magnetism convince her that it is not
a remedial agent, and that its effect upon those who practise
it and upon their subjects who do not resist, leads to moral
and physical death." What a testimonial, after being cured
of a lifelong complaint! After her cure, Mrs. Eddy wrote to
the "Portland Courier" on November 7, 1863, "The truth
which he (Quimby) opposes to the error of giving intelligence
to matter, and placing pain where it never placed itself, if re-
ceived w1derstandingly, changes the currents of the system
to their normal action, and the mechanism of the body goes on
undisturbed.''
This reference to Mrs. Eddy's teacher, Phineas Quimby,
leads us to the source of her teaclling. Phineas Quimby was
born on February 16, 1802. In 1838, he attended lectures by
Charles Poyen on mesmerism. This appears to have started
him on a new line of thought. Soon after, he practised as a
healer on his own account, and adopted novel ideas relating
to mind and matter. Accounts of these can be obtained from
"The Philosophy Of P. P. Quimby," published in 1895; "The
Quimby Manuscripts," by Mrs. Dresser; Lyman Powell's
"Christian Science: Its Faith And Its Founder," published in
MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 195
1907; and Podmore's "Mesmerism And Christian Science."
But newspaper extracts give us sufficient data with which to
answer opponents. As they were printed before these con-
troversies arose, they form independent testimony.
In 1857, a correspondent from Bangor, 'Maine, called Jef-
fersonian, wrote: "He (Quimby) says, 'The mind is what it
thinks it is, and that if it contends against the thought of disease
and creates for itselfan ideal form ofhealth, that form impresses
itselfupon the animal spirit.' " In ordinary Spiritualist language,
this means that mentality so operates upon the spirit body
that it affects the entire physical body.
From the "Lebanon Press," December 3, r86o, I extract
the following: "The foundation of his (Quimby's) theory is
that disease is not self-existent, nor created by God, but is
purely the invention of Man.''
Quimby himselfwrote to the "Portland Advertiser," on Feb-
ruary 15, 1862, as follows: "... I deny disease as a truth, but
admit it as a deception . . . handed down from generation to
generation until the people believe in it. The patient's trouble
arises from the poison of the doctor's opinions in admitting a
disease.'' He further asked, "Is Man spirit or matter?" and
replied, "He is neither: he is life.'' He called his doctrine the
"Science of Christ," and occasionally "Christian Science,"
but more generally called it the "Science of Health.''
One of Quimby's patients, a Miss Ware, writing to the
"Portland Advertiser" on March 22, 1862, tlms described his
methods: "He tells the patient he has no real disease. . . . Instead
oftreating the body as an intelligent organism with independent
life, he finds the life and intelligence in the man who occupies
it. To cure disease, destroy the error on which it stands.''
From Mrs. Eddy herself, in April, r864, about two years after
her cure, we get her letter to Quimby, which not only proves
all her opponents claim as the origin of her teaching, but also
discloses her animus against the Spiritualists. She wrote, "I
am about to lecture at the Town Hall, Warren, on P. P.
Quimby's 'Spiritual Science Healing,' as opposed to Deism
or Rochester rapping Spiritualism.''
What the world does not know is tl1at her antagonism
was aroused because Spiritualists refused to accept her at her
I96 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
own valuation. They had already exposed her vanity and
refused to acknowledge tllat Jesus and all the apostles were her
personal spirit guides. This claim is common among Christian
converts, and is recognised as an almost certain sign of sub-
conscious action being mistaken for spirit control. With tllis
knowledge in mind, I asked Dr. Peebles, the old pioneer, after
his last address at the London May Meetings, what he thought
ofMrs. Eddy as a medium. He replied that he preferred not to
passjudgment on her mediumship1 although he sat in her seances,
since later she denied ever acting as a medium! .
Truly, a man's greatest enemies are those of his own house-
hold. Mrs. Eddy's statements made very keen controversies
at the time, for Spiritualists had sheltered and nourished her
when she was practically homeless. But independent extracts
and evidence on oath are reliable, and so I am only amused when
the "Official Life Of .Ml!s. Eddy" says, "The only time Mrs.
Eddy was apparently entranced was when she 'playfuliy'
feigned entrancement and 'planted' letters to deceive her
Spiritualist friend, Mrs. Crosby." Unfortunately for this
version, Mrs. Eddy frequently changed her address, and usually
lived with Spiritualists who dealt kindly witl1 a sister-medium
at this most distressing period of her life.
Christians, incensed at the claim of Christian Scientists that
Mary Baker Eddy was the co-equal ofJesus, and tl1at without
her interpretations the Bible was valueless, traced the whole
ofher history. This was not difficult, as she was a mucl1-married
woman, and tlms at various times was Mary Baker, Glover,
Patterson, Eddy. All evidence was collected under oath; the
indictment against her was damaging. Here is tl1e summing-
up by Samuel Langhorne Clemens (better known as Mark
Twain):
"Grasping, sordid, penurious, famishing for everything
she sees-money, power, glory-vain, untruthful, jealous,
despotic, arrogant, insolent, pitiless where thinkers and hyp-
notists are concerned, illiterate, shallow, incapable of reasotling
outside commercial lines, immeasurably selfish-the great
idea could strike her . . . to heal fleshly ills, pains and griefs,
all-with a word. To her followers she is the exact opposite.
They are prejudiced witnesses. They sincerely believe she did
MEDIUM WHO FOUNDED CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 197
not borrow the great idea from Quimby, but hit upon it hersel£
It may be so, and it could be so. Let it go-there is no way
to settle it. They believe that she carried away no Quimby
manuscripts. Let that go, too-there is no way to settle it. They
believe that she, and not another, built the religion upon the
book and organised it. I believe it, too. Finally, they believe
that she philosophised Christian Science, explained it, and
wrote it all out with her own hand in the book 'Science and
Health.' I am not able to believe that."
This, read in conjunction with the unreasonable attitude
adopted in "Science And Health," dealing with Spiritualism,
explains the stupid attitude of her followers, who malign other
healers in order to credit their leader with all possible glory.
Where Christian Science claims that spiritual law is superior
to material law, we are in hearty agreement; but we cannot
agree that matter is not equally subject to divine law. Still
less can we agree that it has no existence merely beGause we
desire to ignore its inconvenient manifestations. Auto-suggestion
most certainly does produce curative effects. Our contention
is that it matters little whether you heal by Christian Science,
mental science, hypnotism, faith healing of the usual emotional
type, or any other form of purely mental healing. The great
secret is the poise of the mind.
If a person claims, as Mrs. Eddy did, to have power over
death, and then .dies like everybody else, we can leave the
"mortal error" to proclaim its own folly; but we must not allow
her teaching to blind us to the law underlying all psychic
healing. Buddhists and Christians have equally wonderful cures
at their holy shrines. They suffer from the same illusion as the
Christian Scientist in that they believe cures prove their par-
ticular form of faith to be superior to all others. Cures prove
nothing more than the power of the mind over the body.
The theological system on which they are based may be foolish,
but if it gives the mind positive control of the body, the result
will be achieved. Tlus attitude of mbtd may be described as
positively passive rather than actively assertive. When this
state is attained, Spiritualists clearly visualise the unseen operators
who take part in the cure. Presumably, forces can be applied
at that precise moment that are inoperative at other times.
198 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
The aftermath of Mrs. Eddy's gross misrepresentations
of opposing schools of thought prevents harmonious co-opera-
tion between healers. By eliminating her amiable weaknesses,
this may presently become possible. By emphasising the
power of the mind over the body, all schools of mental thera-
peutics are helping Spiritualism to establish the truth that
man is spirit. Allied with psychic phenomena, these will
eventually kill all superstitions and place religion on a scientific
foundation. It is regrettable that hospitals devoted solely to
psychic and other unorthodox methods of healing are difficult
to finance and manage owing to the opposition of established
medical schools.
Innumerable laws have been passed in the interests of
doctors. Under these Acts of Parliament, apparently framed
to protect the public, medical men with the requisite diplomas
may accidentally kill patients wid1 mineral poisons and suffer
no punishment, so long as they follow stereotyped formula:.
But should the patient of an unforttmate layman die while
under treatment, no matter how many cures he may have to
his credit, and even despite the fact that orthodox medical
science failed to reijeve tl1e sufferer, the layman renders himself
liable to heavy penalties for manslaughter. The conservatism
of the average medical man, allied to public fears, has formed
around doctors what is probably tl1e strongest trade union
system in the world.
In our turn, the battle will have to be fought. Over and over
again, cases declared incurable by oriliodox medical men are
cured by psychic healers.
CHAPTER XIV
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS
THE Meurig Morris case proved most conclusively how
hazy most people are as to the meaning of the word
"trance." Yet, if one said of scenery, "It is entrancing; I was
spellbound," or of a thrilling play, "I was hypnotised; I could
not take my eyes off the actor," everyone would immediately
realise that a conditioned limitation of consciousness was
implied. In the Meurig Morris case, it was abundantly clear
the jury accepted that idea oftrance, and repudiated any sugges-
tion of dishonesty on the medium's part.
The only difference of opinion presented was as to what
caused the trance. Those who had not satisfied themselves
that spirit people, capable of inducing trance states, exist, re-
pudiated the theory offhand, and sought every other possible
explanation. Those who argued by inference that Mrs. Morris,
unaided by external intelligences, was incapable ofproducing the
lengthy discourses that poured through her lips in a continuous,
coherent stream, often repudiated all other theories. From
my standpoint, both parties are right in varying degrees, because
all trance states are induced through a limitation or expansion
ofconsciousness in the instrument affected. In addition, Spiritual-
ists recognise that the brain and vocal organs of a sensitive
cannot be employed by any discarnate entity without some
mental interference by the owner of the mechanism. In the
result, no fact is more fully recognised among Spiritualists
than that of the impingement of the medium's own ideas or
words during spirit control. This is akin to telepathy through
a hypnotised subject, whose subconscious interference is often
discernible.
Scientific investigators look with suspicion on all forms of
emotionalism, and discount obviously religious implications
in the messages tl1emselves not merely as non-evidential but
as proving subconscious action. Yet it is incontrovertible
199
200 TBll UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
that, almost without exception, mediums able to give satis-
factory evidence of discarnate action, sooner or ater em hasise
the religious aspects. The next point 1at forces itse upon
the attention is that statements of.themselves, during entrance-
ment, do not prove discarnate action. Lecturers may discourse
for w~~ without in any way revealing}heir 1dentity. • In
the nature of things it must be so.
How, then, are we to decide whether a medium is entranced
by a discarnate entity or merely expressing a phase of con-
sciousness normally quiescent? The answer is simple but clear.
It is when mediums speak foreign languages they could not
have learned, or deal explicitly with subjects of which they
have no normal knowledge, that the spirit hypothesis is claimed
as the only one that satisfactorily covers all the facts. Upon
this grmmdwork Spiritualists take their stand. Very few
deny that the discarnate mentality is unaffected by the
medium's own mind. For a clear understanding of trance,
it is therefore essential that students should grasp some theories
of hypnotism as well as self-induced but little understood
phases of mentality classified under the head of psychology.
We must also note the medium's religious beliefs, together
with all other possible sources of acquired knowledge and
ideas, before we can clearly decide what part of the manifes-
tation is subnormal and what may be more correctly classified
as super-normal.
Trance mediumship is the "open door" to boundless fields
of knowledge and experience. Comparatively few cross its
tltreshold and retain complete remembrance of all tl1ey realise,
because the physical brain dims the spirit memory, and because
we have no analogies by which psychic experience can be
translated into language. Nor can everyone pass through that
door, though the vast majority can glance through the portals
of the mystic realm and forever realise, "I am a spirit.' The
prerequisites for exploration are physical adaptability and
psychic or soul quality. You can discover whether you possess
these by sitting calmly and prayerfully awaiting the "descent
of the holy spirit." Whether the fossessor of these qualifica-
tions will gain response from a "holy 'spirit or one ofhumanity's
misfits is determined by his measure of aspiration, will, per-
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSC!OUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 201
sistence and the nature ofhis mental and physical surroundings,
for all these affect the result.
During the "opening of the door" many curious experiences .
befall the investigator. It is because these are so generally
misunderstood that I shall narrate in simple language con-
clusions resulting from £fty years' experimental research, in
which the development of mediumship played a conspicuous
part. For seventeen years, with my wife as acting medium,
we kept open house free to all comers, and during that time
organised two of the most successful societies in London. It
is gratifying to note that those who are following in our steps
£nd it necessary to adopt our working hypothesis to secure
results. This is at least presumptive evidence that we were on
the right track. But it is to be regretted that the rough and
ready methods ofpioneers are not improved upon and a deeper
insight into the rationale ofmediumship discovered and utilised.
Mediumship is as natural as the use of eyes and ears. It is
merely a different mode of utilising consciousness. During
early development, the sensations induced often lead to widely
divergent conclusions. At this point it is emphatically true
that "a little learning is a dangerous thing." Hundreds of
people rush into print with entirely misleading statements
which more mature experience would correct. Hence it is
that mediwns, unconscious of their powers, become the prey
ofrogues, or suffer under priestly condemnation. They greedily
swallow theories advanced by inexperienced people whose
"authority" is an isolated text from scripture, or quotations
from literature they completely misunderstand. Too often,
books are written for mere sensationalism, or with the de-
liberate purpose of scaring investigators. It is essential clearly
to recognise these aspects in order that we may immediately
jettison fear and superstition, for until these go overboard it
will be unwise for you to develop psychic powers.
The true Spiritualist attitude is scientific. First marshal and
examine your facts. Philosophy and religion will evolve
naturally from that basis. No people have been more mis-
understood than mediums-at one time worshipped as fetishes
or saviours, and anon burned as witches and wizards. In modem
life they £gure as geniuses or cranks, and may be considered
202 THE UNIVl!RSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
fortunate if their eccentricity is insufficiently pronounced to
land them in the lunatic asylum. Sp1all wonder, then, that
thousands hide their experiences from the woria rather than
incur 1ts ignorant condemnation._ Thanksto the advent of
mtffiern SpmtualiSm, tgnorance is gradually being ousted by
knowledge, and neither priest nor materialist can stay its on~
ward march. In England alone we have over one tl10usand
organised societies, and many tl1ousands of independent in-
vestigators advocating its claims. Scientists are continually
adding their testimony, so that even "the man in the street"
now patronisingly admits there may be something in psychic
phenomena worth considering.
The difference between genius and mediwnship is that the
former is born with mediumsbip already operative which
escapes observation because the blending of spirit action with
normal expression is perfect. Identical results may be obtained
by mediums who pass tluough uncorucious control to corucious
co-operation-our ideal. The best mediums discover as develop-
m~nt proceegs that a dawning knowledge of what they have
been saying wh!J.e entranced gradually becom~ part_of normal
consciousness. We therefore evolv
e an approXImation to genius
in the developed medium. Genius was said to be allied to mad-·
ness because the instrument is so exceedingly delicate that the
least overstrain upsets mental poise. Mediwnship may likewise
be defined as "mentality delicately poised," because the slightest
interference often destroys its evidential value. In the latter
case, it does not indicate lunacy, but that the gates of heaven
have suddenly closed, and the medium, like Paul, is left wonder-
ing whether he is "in the spirit or not."
In development, the best results are gained by regular tin1es
of sitting with all minds defmitcly agreeable to the work in
hand. The home circle thus forms tl1e bedrock of Spiritualism,
because it is happily natural and free from the hypercriticism
of pseudo-scientific investigators, who invariably "kill the
goose that lays the golden eggs." Their methods are often
similar to those of the clllld who first pricks his air balloon and
then marvels that he cannot afterwards inflate it. In seance
work, thought is the dominant factor. Injudiciously directed,
it neutralises tl1e very elements we are examining. The mental
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 203
attitude of all present is therefore our primary consideration.
To recognise the facts of hypnotism and telepathy, and ignore
their operations during so-called scientific seances, is childish
folly.
In public or semi-public gatherings, harmony is best created
by hymn and prayer, preceded by a judiciously selected reading
that focuses all minds on the purpose of the meeting. When
sitting alone, meditation induces similar conditions. Care must
be taken to eliminate auto-suggestion, but do not make a
bogy ofit. Some people are so bitten with this theory, that the
most marvellous manifestations are attributed to subconscious
action, notwithstanding the fact that results are definitely
traceable to spirit guidance. D~t sit alone d~g develop-
ment ifyou fear loss of_
consciousness. Tflk~tage is only per-
missible when experienced sitters are present.
The seance-room must not be overheated or the breath
impeded, or natural sleepiness may be mistaken for the som-
nolence of entrancement. A few minutes' dumb-bell exercise
before the sitting induces healthy breathing and should never
be neglected by phlegmatic temperaments. TJ1en sit upright
and meditate upon the motive influencing your desires. !f
I
these arc purely material, or positively degradlllg, postpone
development until you learn more of conditions appertain.ip.g
to spirit life; its grey lands, obsession, psychic maladies and
various results incidental to the abuse of psychic powers. If
you are satisfied that your motive is to bless humanity, rest
i assured that the blessing you desire for others will be yours.
Ignorance of mediumship is probably responsible for more
real lunacy than any other cause. The terrible fear that "visions,"
or "voices," may be premonitory symptoms of nervous break-
down, and lead to incarceration in a lunatic asylum for life,
has often transformed incipient mediumship into a ghastly
horror that actualises its own fears. In conscious development
that dread is unknown, and magnetisation by spirit helpers
continually restores nervous equilibrium. Properly undeL-
sto mediumshi will do much towards emp · the }d.ums
and, instea o emg ar e as a curse be reco ·sed
as e greatest poss1ble m estation o.[jivine love. Love
Oftrutli w1tlim0desty and firmness arc essential to clear and
204 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
concise mediumship. It requires great courage to admit that
what you hitherto attributed to unaided ability was in reality
due to spirit help. It may require still more to admit the con-
trary. But what have you to fear? You have but discovered
other attributes ofyour own soul and can now educate faculties
that will prove permanent "treasures in heaven."
Spiritualists are on solid ground. Their methods of research
have yielded more definite proof ofspirit life and conditioning
than centuries of theological speculation achieved. They are
vivifying decadent systems ofreligion, as well as laying scientific
foundations for the universal religion of the future. Progress
is slow and error dies hard, because those who adopted the '-
profession of preaching as a mode of livelihood in the same
spirit as their brothers took up soldiering or law oppose every
step ofthe way. Even when compelled to acknowledge psyduc
experiences they often confuse the issues by attaching the
phenomena to ancient errors in order to retain their grip on the
unthinking masses. \c,
Realise these aspects, and resolve to be scientfiic. Do not
1
~
allow prejudice, superstition or emotionalism to mislead you. ~
Absorb all of truth you possibly can., and do not distort it, for
•ifyou desir~.the highest mediumship, yo~unust resolve to stan
~
W.
l
fi[!!lly for the truth, th~l~th, and n.Q!hlpg ~c
truth.'r - - - -
-Fe"
w people understand the actual tcadllng of the New
Testament on spirit control. The.y readily perceive that "evil" l
spirits controlled, but quite fail to sec that "h.QJy" spirits con-
troll~ more often and took an active Eart in ~gut"
those w~e privile
es of meciTuEE?iP· I.E_T~X the_
COntrol 0ta 0 y . It t at le psyc lC fa_gllties' 0 up_
on
wh~clesCe'ilOea" were-q-uickened." Spiritualists
aretUITy aware that one
o f the best methods of developin
"spiritual gifts" is via the trance state induced b a " ol " spirit.
I spell the words "holy" and "spirit" wi sm etters
instead ofcapitals. No disrespect is intended by this more correct
method of writing the words. The reason you have not per-
ceived the obvious truth before is because theologians and
translators of the Bible have persistently rnistrauslated passages
in order to support trinitarianism. They believed that a per-
--
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 205
sonal God alone performed the "miracles" recorded in the
New Testament. They positively ignored the human element
indicated. The day has now passed when you can control the
thinking world by suggesting mysterious limits beyond which
the mind must not soar, and we.JJ.OV£ ~ to quegi.o.u_even
the possibilities and nature of the Godhead itself. Miracles
are now supplanted by knowledge of natural laws and, as
priest-created boundaries fall, we realise that even if the re-
puted "miracles" happened, they were caused by the operation
of laws that it is our bounden duty to study.
In both Greek and Hebrew versions, the word "holy" means
"separate." Instead ofthe revisers recognising that tlus coll1lotes
"individualised," they have imported Deity into purely human
happenings by printing tl1e words "holy" and "spirit" with
capital letters. The plain and simple truth was thus obliterated.
Remove the capital letters and the reading of the New Testa-
ment will require neither theological juggling nor superstitious
blindness to understand its simple teaching. Please note that
the word "ghost" is more correctly rendered "spirit" in the
Welsh and other versions of the Bible. As "spirit" is derived
from "spiritus" "breath," the literal meaning of the "descent
,of the holy spirit" is, t.1.~ when the breath of God spjrit
power-floods our being, if at the same moment the aspirant is
"baptiseC1"- i.e., a magnetic personality establishes the essential
link by means of the "imposition of hands"-a "holy spirit"
will thereafter associate himself with tl1e medium.
Read your Bible with this key in your minds and you will
find it unlocks its mysteries. .The ceremony is still used in
some churches where faith-healing is practised, but having
long since degenerated into a superstitious formality divorced
from all understanding of psychic laws, it is rarely effective.
;Now and again a magnetic healer, unconscious of Ius powers,
joins tl1em, and the beneficent results of Ius work are then
attributed to a special endorsement by God of their sectarian
observances. The truth is that they are unconsciously utilising
a law common among all mankind.
Translate the words "holy spirit" and "holy ghost" as "spirit
power" if you wish, but please note that it always manifests
as an individuality. The language spoken is purely human,
2o6 THE UNlVBRSlTY OF SPIRITUAllSM
and it is in every way identical with what Spiritualists recognise
as a "control" or "spirit guide." Owing to their training,
printers are probably the worst offenders by persisting in
printing "ghost" and "spirit" in capital letters and thus im-
porting the wrong idea into the words. Even in books which
repudiate the deity ofJesus, this inconsistency will be found,
making the arguments ofthe writers absurd. The Rev. G. Vale
Owen pointed out to me that the Bible itself does not so often
write pronouns referring to Jesus in capital letters as does the
modern printer. He corrected his printer's copy many times,
but finally gave it up as hopeless.
Entrancement by capable (i.e., "holy" or "separate") spirit
guides is a frequent preliminary to general unfoldment of
psychic powers. Spirit control stimulates hitherto unused
portions of the brain and psychic organism in a perfectly
healthy and natural manner. Exercise produces precisely the
same effect upon the psychic or spirit body as the exercise of
physical muscles on the material body, that is to say, they become
stronger. The word "gift" is to tlus extent a nlisnomer. Just
as a strong man can do things impossible to the weakling,
so is a medium merely one who uses tl1e normal attributes of
the soul in a somewhat different way from Ius fellows. The
natural aptitudes of mediums thus come into play much sooner
than if they slowly plod through life in tl1e ordinary way.
The coalescing of the mentality of the spirit with that of the
medium brings about, by telepathic processes, precisely the same
result as a teacher in constant contact with a pupil. Tllis is clearly
seen when an apparently non-musical medium co-operates
with a spirit guide having a passion for music. Similar tastes
and talents very quickly display themselves in the medium.
His indifference to music gradually changes to appreciative
delight.
After a spirit has mastered the subtleties of control, he auto-
matically accelerates all the latent faculties of the sensitive.
We must note the fact that many people have co-operated
with "holy" spirits all their lives but are quite ignorant as to the
personalities of their guides, until clairvoyants describe them
and reveal the similarity of tastes between medium and spirit.
Most extempore speakers, poets and musical improvisors are
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 207
mediums of tllis order. Their soul's expression, rather than
approbation or physical necessities, is the dominant note in
tl1eir lives.
Love ofan ideal is tile very best form ofdevelopment psychics
can choose. It attracts like-nlinded souls only too anxious
to further their ambitions. Some are born wiili psychic faculties
all ready to blossom forth as soon as "quickening by a holy
spirit" causes them to burst into manifestation. Perfect develop-
ment becomes possible only when holy aspiration blends
wiili tile unfoldment of the soul's powers. If psychic gifts
are developed from purely selfish motives, it is quite possible
that true spiritual development may be delayed. This con-
stitutes abuse instead of right use of psychic powers. Therein
is the difference between control by a "holy" spirit and others.
Many begin investigations, merely to discover iliat iliey have
been busy all ilieir lives suppressing what iliey erroneously
iliought was evidence of a diseased imagination. These people
quickly respond to mediumistic training, and their rapid
development proves to be but the operation of faculties pre-
viously nlistmderstood.
If control by holy spirits had not been instituted, tile New
Testament could not have been written. It is solely because of
the psychic evidence presented that the Bible is regarded as
sacred writings. Our explanation rationally interprets the
frequent mention of the "descent of the holy spirit" witl1 all
its personal attributes. Results were always the same, and
identical with those ofevery seance room. The one "baptised"
became a prophet, healer, or seer, or spoke in foreign languages,
or in oilier ways proved that he was associating with mentalities
of a purely human type whose knowledge was in many ways
superior to his own. Even the name ofilie "holy" spirit is some-
times given, a~ in Luke i, 15, 17: "He shall be filled with the holy
ghost from his moilier's womb ... and he shall go before him
in the spirit and power ofElias." What happened to John ilie
Baptist is a fairly common experience among strikingly evi-
dential mediums. The strengtl1 of tile Nazarene's teaching
Jay in the fact that he proved his case by mediumistic evidences.
These were so powerful that he has since been worshipped as
a God, despite his definite objections.
208 THB UNIVBRSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
For those who cling to the idea that the holy spirit so often
referred to in the Bible was a vague, nebulous nonentity, or
impersonal power, I commend dispassionate consideration of
the following texts: Acts xiii, 2 and 3· "The holy ghost said:
'Separate me Barnabas and Paul for the work whereunto I have
called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid
their hands upon them, they sent them away.' ' The holy
ghost always spoke in the vernacular; clear, purely human lan-
guage. In this case the hands were used to impart power, but
when Jesus materialised breath was used for the same purpose.
Those who have used the breath in magnetic treatments will
understand why. (SeeJohn xx, 22.) ·
Could one have a clearer indication of trance speaking thaJ
e following: "It is not ye that speak, but the holy spirit"
Mark xiii, n). '"For a holy spirit shall teach you in that sam
our what ye oug;ht to say" (Luke xii, 12).
The more correct translation of the articles "a" and "the"
would often makoe a most significant difference to these texts,
"Having received from the Father the promise of the holy
spirit, he hath poured forth that which ye see and hear" (Acts
ii, 33). Nothing vague or nebulous about that. What the
people around saw and heard was simple Galileans Wlder
spirit control speaking in foreign languages it was impossible
for them to have learned. The following is equally definite:
"The holy spirit whom God hath given to them that obey
Him" (Acts v, p,). Perhaps the clearest text illustrating the
Spiritualist standpoint is John xiv, 26: "But the comforter,
even the holy spii:it whom the Father will send in my name, he
shall teach you all. things, and bring to your remembrance all
that I said to you." The "holy" spirit is therefore a person,
one who talks in understandable human language, and not a
mysterious portio:n of God Hiinself.
'Fhe "imposition ofhands," continually referred to throughout
tEe Ne~ es m;-fufiiiOO-an essenilal1llikiiiassisting spirits
totalce firm con,trol. It is now systematised and termed
"magnetisation." This is simply a revival ofordinary mesmeric
passes without proceeding to the induction of sleep or hallu-
cinatory stages. Its purpose is to induce passivity and strengthen
the link between the medium and spirit operators. Healers
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 209
with a superabWldant vitality are Wldoubtedly the best people
for this work. If at the san1e time they arc themselves con-
trolled by a spirit the result is more effective. Both magnetiser
and aspirant must be clean both in body and mind, or spirit
control will be inducedl that is not of the highest type. Mes-
merists have thus, all w1consciously, laid lines for rehabilitating
the "miracles" of the New Testament. In its highest forms,
llllgnetisation reproduces the effects of "baptism by the holy
spirit" of apostolic tim•es.
The principaldanger to guard against is Wlconscious mesmeric
control by the magnet:iser of the developing medium. This
would have the dual effect of preventing control by spirit
people, and rendering d1e sensitive responsive to the operatot's
personal suggestions, thoughts and feelings which a medium
may mistake for his own or attribute to spirit people. Mis-
Wlderstanding thereby arises, which is avoided by those who
are not magnetised. W'hen the subject passes Wlder the obvious
control of a spirit, this contingency is avoided. E.Ei!Y hY,B:-
no~ed::Bople are rarely reliable as mediums because they
readily exp~e:as fi·om the operator or audience, and P.asS
th~moft as spirit mcss:agf} Another diffiCUlty arises from the
sense of comfort ana e:xa tation aroused by magnetic treatment
which sometimes causes sensitives to make unwise requests
to continue magnetising in order to prolong their ecstasy.
This wilfully places them eu rapport with their magnetiser, to
the definite exclusion t:>f higher intelligences.
The first passes used for the purpose of development are
the "clearing" passes described previously under the head of
"magnetic healing." These induce neither sleep nor passivity,
but remove stagnation from the nerve centres. Saturation
passes over the head and chest then follow to induce passivity.
About ftve minutes is sufficient in most cases. This should be
reduced at each sitting, and stopped immediately any symptoms
of control or clairvoyance make their appearance.
The only real difference between control by a "holy" spirit
and obsession by an undeveloped one is in the effect upon the
medium. It is for you to decide which type shall control you.
Aspirations will do much, but the application ofyour aspirations
by actual practice wilU carry you a great deal further. All
210 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
your spiritual associates express qualities of your own mind.
[your motives are wholly se~or impure, theJaw of.Jike
attracting llke mentalitieS"
will liold goocl. Do not play~ith
fire:-n-warms and cheers. It~laddens all }~ear~ _
when-.w.isely
used. J?~t can burn~ G~'s laws never ~~~ge:. ~oly
motivesmract=holF spmts._ Make your choice.
Contrary to popular belief, it is not true that spirit people
have our physical bodies, houses and other objects under their
continual observation. On the contrary, it is rare for spirits
to see that which is objective to our sight. Except on very
rare occasions, it is only by concentrating on spirit planes
that clairvoyants can see into that realm. The law is simply
reversed when one loses the physical body. In the vast majority
of cases it is untrue to say that spirits watch all our actions and
manipulate our brains. This needs a stage of development far
in advance ofmost controlling spirits' power. Trance medium-
ship provides spirit people with a means of once more con-
tacting material planes. They then see through the eyes and
hear through the ears of the sensitive. Under other conditions,
they sense human beings rather as spiritual qualities than physical
bodies. It is via the psychic organism that control ofthe physical
is obtained.
Experience proves that the vast majority of spirits drift
q ·te unconscious! into our mental atmos her e-
pa c ~ become a part of our w · g consciousnes~ut.­
either sprit or mortal being aware of th~ Intensify this
con · · to conscwu marupu t10n y spirit people, and
you Wlderstand what is meant when Spiritualists talk of trance
mediumship. In spirit life, spirits may walk, run or play in fields
and cities as objective to their sight and senses as earth life is
to us, but in a second, without using visible means of transit,
a friend will appear at their side, and disappear with t.he same
lack of objective means to the end, immediately the purpose
is accomplished. This constitutes a tremendous difference be-
tween the material and spirit world. On earth, only the people ·
we call mediums or clairvoyants understand these phases of
existence.
To produce tllis sensitiveness two factors are essential. First,
the physical body must be adaptable to manipulation by dis-
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 2II
carnate entities, and, secondly, the mind and senses of the
recipient must be responsive as well as attractive to those who
desire to .c?mmunicat~. Developm~t m~~.t~e
enabJes spmts to funct~ throi1gll the~um s senses, and
th~elate i:li'emseTves to earth li"Fe"'again. ConsciOiiSC'O
:.QJ?_era-
~~th set times ofmeetin~, are essential to ~cal spirit
comniuiiion & meCliumship. --·----
F;;r--me-plir}<Js~'SO£-dassification, methods of develop-
ment are placed roughly under two heads- "positive" and
"passive." Schools of thought which adopt the "positive"
method often object .to loss of consciousness on the ground
that it is never advisaole, lest it rob us of personal initiative.
The reply is, that long experience proves the assumption to
be utterly unwarrantable, an4 0 .at ordinf~ommo~~~~-~
sufficient.....!afeguard. Others deny4 pmt co.operation and
affirm
- that S"eiB'1tives galvanise elemental forces into momentary
life. Again we retort that the assun1ption has no foundation
in fact, and that experience utterly disproves it. Greate_L!g-
tellectual po~r, and not less, is the almost invariable aCCoilipani-
ment of the trance state. The theory was based on Madam
Blavatsky's vain effort to "smash Spiritualism."
The psychical research theory is that, during entrancement,
nothing more is given offthan resides within the normal capacity
of the medium, that no evidence of discarnate action is pre-
sented, and, alternatively, that even though a medium may
telepathically "tap" other sources of mental supply, nothing
can be given that has any value owing to subconscious action.
This we shall presently discuss in all its bearings. A more
rational theory traces entrancement and all psychic phenomena
to an extensibility of the physical senses, i.e., we can only
manifest psychic powers while possessing a human body.
The Spiritualist admits "extensibility of consciousness" as an
adequate explanation for some forms ofpsychic expression, but
contends tl1at it also proves the existence ofa spiritual or psychic
organism, permeating the physical, which persists after the
death of the body.
No mere adjustment or changes in the brain explain con-
sciousness. Ifextensibility is a fact, then it implies the possession
ofa mechanism adapted to such extension. The actual meaning
212 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
of the word "positive" when used in this connection is that
while remaining fl(lly co~ous a~rt, inl2S-regt ~Y£hiC
powers are unfolde~ The rmconscwusness of trance is thus
excluaed. If 1s best defined as "a conscious sensing of psychic
~ationships." Te_pathj~rng ffatedio~ O!!:e ~as to t;L"avel
a roaa b~ith sna~S, Wi lOUt e ecUve gm<lance ana tmcertain
whether we are deve oping Iiallucmations or clairvoyance.
Thls is the mam obJeCtiOn to I heosophic, Rosicrucian and
occult methods in general. Owing to the training, these lay
definite bases for self-deception. The hypnotist trains his
subjects in precisely the same way. ~~ds are filled
w~ Eastern i~
..,.:r_and stories oi_spook shell~ e~d
vanous-sub-human and non-h~J:?~
,~~e~ v..sry
little encouragement tQ 'di
~er exact y w t -i:1ley are
ta';'iglit to expect:-These "discoveries" presently ~
ape and
for~us have arisen voluminous descriptions of the
spirituallllliverse which obtain little or no corroboration from
spirit people or clairvoyants developed without this misleading
bias. Mentality is said to be "positive" while definitely and
actively enga.ged in any given direction. Thus the execut.ant
of any piece of work must be "positive" or he cannot con-
centrate successfully.
Passivity, on the contrary, means an t111resisting receptivity.
Experience, however, proves tl1at it can be immediately trans-
formed into "positive" resistance on demand. It is thus apparent
that though a medium adopts a "passive" or receptive attitude
in order to permit psychic development, he is b no means
~~g an ob'ectionable ideas or actions e c
ut:!4,esirable. We must not 1ere ore mist111derstand the peculiar
meaniii.g attached to the word "passive." It is your own sub-
conscious interference iliat has to be subordinated or "passified."
Hence, there are stages in passive development which would
be better defined as "well-regulated activity." It is by no
means mental laziness or stupor. You actually become "selec-
tive" and distinguish your own creations from extraneous
thought. Consciousness is active, though apparently quiescent.
We do not realise the earth's velocity while we travel witl1
it, but ifwe could step offand watch its revolutions, we should
immediately be aware ofits motion. It is the same witl1thought.
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 213
Te~patlu~_J!?pacts blczg.d with _.Qur. nor~ expression ~
nottced.lfwe Ieam!low to check tl1e mrush, we can distingwsh
bet\v~n~WiitliliiliDg and ideas unpressed upon us, a mosL.
difficult taSk. Hence, concentration forms part of your "pas-
sivity" though it involves an apparent contradiction in terms.
In "passive" development the sitter prayerfully awaits the
help ofspirit friends and leaves his tmfoldment to their manipula-
tions. The objection to tllls method is that, having no control
over results, we can never tell exa<.:tly what will happen.
Spiritualists say this is preferable, because the medium, having
so little influence upon the manifestations, cannot colour them
to the same extent as the "trained" psychic.
Positive and passive mental states i.nterblend. No sharp divid-
ing line can be drawn, and students whose fears cause them to
refuse spirit aid often awake to the discovery later on that
their every step has been assisted by invisible helpers. Conscious
co-operation is there~ore deemed the wisest method. Both
positive and passive methods, if employed exclusively, have
disadvantages, and therefore a judicious blending of both
mental attitudes is recommended. This meets with approval
from wise minds on both sides of the veil who constantly
emphasise the need for practising self-control .£efore sub-
n1itelllg to spirit~ Y_stu do not become a mer~ to.cl
buGconscious co-operator insteaa. U~tely, Il1.2!1Y
~ i.m~nttllat_§ fail to understand the need for study-
ing their su jectbefore ~shiilg m where angels fear to
_geaa.:.:._
Mediums are born rather than developed, and, finding results
come so easily, many are foolish enough to think there is
nothing to learn. Exhortations and warnings are ignored.
Hence, we find all types of humanity practising as mediums-
saints, sages, rogues and fools, a strange medley, to which
is added much unconscious self-deception that prohibits implicit
reliance upon any. From this summary, it is obvious that
mediums are not a class set apart by reason of their saintliness,
and that psychic powers are the heritage of all mankind. They
manifest in accordance with obscure laws we are gradually
learning to understand. Trance mediumslup actually ranges
from the horrible voodooism of primitive man to the mar-
214 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
vellous manifestations of the saints and founders of the religious
systems of the world. Hence I plead with all to develop
t
•
."qu$" by.fim.yis~ing h.ii.fideals,_
and thereafterJfgarding ,~
the1r i:tifu." ~cred poss~ for which they m trender
aifiiie~tablc accw,mt- - ,..--
Apparent entrancement with partial or complete uncon-
sciousness may be induced by widely differing causes, causes
which completely and obviously set aside the postulate of
spirit control. Sensitives arc therefore warned against believing
that mere tmconsciousness is of itself proof ofspirit controL
To the onlooker, there is but little difference between catalepsy
produced by hypnotism, spirit control, disease or drugs.
Materialism refuses to recognise spirit control and would
classify it under one of the other heads. On the other hand,
Spiritualists ignorant of effects produced by hypnotism, disease
or drugs, could easily mistake one for the other. l take t~
opport~ty to warn sensitives not tQ.... subroit...!o~c 1
treaonent save for curative pureo~. Th~ initi~_training and
genCTal ~ucinjto~Hects ~duced are Ilaple..JQ_ ~e£!!E._
aLany I
tinle an serious y · ·tate a~t tllidevel<;>pruent of..genuine .:_
m~urnsliTp. MagnttieUCatment is different. No hallucinatiolll.t
are creatCO:-- - - - ·
- spiritualists often explain spirit control as hypnotism by
an unseen operator, and hypnotic effects as being produced
by the dominant will of the operator. Sometimes it is a true
statement, but many hypnotic effects are induced where it is
perfectly obvious that it is only the mentality of the subject
acting. This is true even though the manifestations may be
somewhat in advance of the sensitive's normal output. The
assumption arises from anidea that spirits exercise overwhelming
will power, or play upon the brain ofa sensitive as mechanically
as a player moves the keys ofa piano.
In mental phenomena, this is rarely true; traces ofthe medium's
individuality permeate the whole. This is clearly seen in
mediums like George Fox, the founder of Quakerism, and
Swedenborg. Both proved spirit guidance, yet neither rises
far above the subconscious element provided by early training
and beliefS. In the Rev. G. Vale Owen's scripts, it forms an
interesting study to note the polite avoidance of direct reply
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 215
by his spirit friends to specific questioru where they knew
the natural bias in his mind, and in some ofhis writings the bias
is clearly seen. We grow but slowly, and a bald statement of
facts would possibly result in failure to get the essential message
across. At times it is obvious that controls are themselves
controlled and forced to express their message in ·consonance
with the desires of their amanueruis. . Subconsciously, this
resistance is always going on.
· Under hypnotism a residue ofphenomena may be accounted
for by the operation of external mentalities, but hypnotists
quickly discover that in d1e majority of cases they merely set
free latent faculties. The operator does not create; he merely
stimulates. This is duplicated in many forms ofmental medium-
ship. Inspiration is an excellent example in which one's own
ideas are aroused and expanded to an extraordinary degree.
Hypnotists assume that if a medium believes spirit control will
produce certain effects, he uncoruciously induces all that he
attributes to external mentalities. Only clear, unmistakable
evidence of discarnate action can disprove that d1eory. This
evidence is continuously and defmitely given by phenomenal
results and knowledge it is impossible for the medium to
' acquire.
I personally experimented wid1 a view to understanding
hypnotism. I soon discovered that no matter how hard I willed
to the contrary, d1e subject's predilectioru, training and ex-
pectations beat me every time. It was not what I willed that
produced d1e effects, but what the subject thought I wanted
that influenced his speech and actioru. It is extraordinary how
few people realise the immerue effect which the mind exercises,
often quite unconsciously, upon the body. Still fewer appreciate
how bodily conditioru affect the mind, nor how mind reacts
and induces states of consciousness over which we have no
apparent control. Yet in sleep, hypnotism, somnambulism and
cognate states, we are continually confronted with them.
Nor do some people appear to grasp the fact that opponents,
by following different methods of research, may discover
laws which escape the notice of other types of investigators.
All branches of psychology are related, and students of
mediurnship must review all theories-if based on evidence-
216 THE UNIVERSlTY OF SPIRITUALISM
in order to incorporate truer explanations of phenomena that
opponents may find. All perception of truth is relative; it
varies in accordance with our training and consequent pre-
judices. No one school of thought possesses a monopoly, and
all mental manifestations or aberrations must form part of
Spiritualistic studies if we are to understand how consciousness
functions or thought is elaborated, received or projected.
The degree in which our education and experiences differ
will corutitute the measure of our different viewpoints in
accepting or rejecting the Spiritualist hypothesis. This is
peculiarly noticeable among hypnotists ignorant of psychical
research and strongly biased by their materialism. To them,
mind in all its manifestations is dependent upon the physical
brain. The idea that the ego has a wider range of perception
than the five senses is to them absurdly impossible. Hence
their lofty refusal for a long time even to glance at the mountain
of evidence Spiritualism accumulated.
This state of things is rapidly passing away, but it brings
in its train further dangers in the direction of restricting our
researches to medical men and using mediums as "hypnotic"
subjects, "suggesting" entirely false hypotheses, and carefully
hedging us around with legal and medical prohibitions lest
we infringe their vested interests. Some doctors would make
hypnotism and all related phenomena a penal offence-unless
the practitioner is a medical man. To them, all mediums
are but "clinical" material to be "trained" or cut and carved
as interesting subjects for vivisection. They grab or cut ecto-
plasm for analytical dissection. They @or_uhe long years
of the_ medium'~ practical experience, ana particularly the
mentalities behind the scenes who create the very phenomena
they now profess themselves desirous of examining. The spirit
hypothesis to them is "superstition."
Opponents' studies will form a useful compendium to our
own when shorn of their materialism. They may eventually
teach us how physical obstacles hinder the fuller development
of consciousness, and why both physical and mental reactions
prevent clear reception of the spirit message. At present they
classify all the phenomena of the seance-room under the head
of "subconscious" activity. The "subconscious theory is easily
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 217
the most formidable objection we have to meet, because it
partly embraces explanations all Spiritualists accept.
In the first place, all mental phenomena are related to it.
Secondly, subconsciousness is the reservoir from or through
which all forms of active consciousness must pass. In self-
defence we must limit "our friend, the enemy," in the use he
makes of the prefix "sub." If consciousness is clearly trans-
cended, or manifests intelligence higher than the normal, it is
not "sub" but "s.!!.Eer" co~c.i.Qys.ness; i.e., superioJ:_ to the
usual attributes of tM'brain. If, in addition, i{ exhibits a men-
tality{ri:He'nng inliiaiifways from that of the medium, and
claims to be a spirit entity who proves his case by exhibiting
phenomena baffling our scientists or detailing matters known
only to the deceased person, we must refuse to accept either
"sub" or "super" as an adequate explanation. Of this order
are many trance addresses, premonitions, talking in foreign
languages, physical phenomena and materialisation.
We need, therefore, clearly to discriminate between "sub-
consciousness" and its alternatives. The word "sub" is a Latin
prefix signifying "under" or "less than." In this sense "Nuttall's
Dictionary" defines the word as "hardly" conscious. From
this simple definition, it is now being strained to cover the vast
field of trance mediumship and materialisations, together with
the wide range of phenomena associated with manias, hallu-
cinations, hypnotism, dreams and many other forms of mental
manifestation. It is, therefore, essential to discover what is
"sub" or "less than" consciousness, or superior and abnormal,
but which during manifestation simulates waking conscious-
ness. In general practice it will be found useful to translate
subconsciousness as "suppressed" consciousness.
It really consists of memory, plus a great collection of ideas
consciously and w1consciously absorbed. It is actually the
essential part ofus that persists after the change ofdeath. When
waking consciousness calls on subconsciousness to function,
they merely change places. In hypnotism or disease, subcon-
sciousness operates without volition exercising conscious control,
but that is all. We thus discover its limitations. It is also clear
that ollly the ideas we have absorbed can proceedfrom us. If, there-
fore, knowledge emanates from a medium that he could not
8
218 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRJTUALISM
have acquired, only two postulates are permissible. Either the
consciousness can transcend the limitations of the body and
collect additional information impossible for the brain to have
received, or some intelligence exercising a power akin to
hypnotism telepathically produces the result.
That is the Spiritualist affirmation. Even when telepathy
is claimed as an explanation, it must be obvious that thought-
transference requires two operators, one to project and one to
receive the thought. It, therefore, in no way discredits the
spirit hypothesis, which does but plead for the recognition of
telepathy on more planes of consciousness than materialism is
willing to admit. The psycho-analyst endows subconsciousness
with a personality ever seeking to override the conscious self,
which symbolises in dreams ideas otherwise suppressed. It
thus becomes the interpreter of unspoken thought. The hyp-
notist discovers in it an ego in many ways superior to the normal
man. It is thus a higher and better self He inhibits undesirable
thoughts, and, by appealing directly to that inner self, cures
dipsomania and other moral lapses. He implants the curative
suggestion on the subconscious mind which presently manifests
on the outer plane. It is because this is exactly how spirit people
inspire their subjects that I want you seriously to collSider the
true relationship of hypnotism and mesmerism to medium-
ship.
One of the first men to practise hypnotism in this country
wasJames Braid. His metl10d consists ofgazing at a fixed point.
In many subjects a state of "suggestibility" ensues in which they
blindly accept the slightest suggestion made. It was found
by later experiments that even the presence of an operator
is not essential, but that the beliefofthe subject is the predisposing
factor. Merely seeing others hypnotised is sufficient to induce
hypnosis among onlookers. The recollection of an earlier
hypnosis sometimes reproduces the state without any further
suggestion from the operator. By what is called post-hypnotic
suggestion, a quite normal man will suddenly pass into the
hypnotic state during his workaday life. During a preliminary
hypnosis, the subject is told that at a certain time he will perform
a specific action. He often makes very foolish excuses to account
for the act, but performs it against his better judgment. Dr.
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 219
Luys proved that a whole group could be hypnotised by intently
gazing at a revolving mirror. Similar effects were obtained
by listening to the ticking of a clock. Innumerable means have
been invented tl1at produce similar results.
The conclusion arrived at by hypnotists is that the method
by which tl1e condition is induced is a negligible factor, and
that what subjects "expect" decides the results. No matter
how induced, tl1e effects are indisputable. The subject develops
by pantomimic action, or by speech or writing, all the natural
sequences of the suggestions which arise in his mind. Tell him
he is a dog, he will run about on all fours and bark. Suggest
that he is a lord, and he will assume the airs he thinks peculiar
to that station. Ifhe believes he is any well-known personage,
he will sometimes give a really startling impersonation of the
character. Say that his arm or leg is paralysed, and he promptly
assumes all the symptoms ofparalysis. Suggest that he is drown-
ing, and he will tluow himself on the floor, and choke and
splutter, and act generally as if struggling in the water. Any
conceivable death-scene can be reproduced in the same way.
Artists secure more transcendental expressions by hypnotising
their models. Almost every phase of mental mediumship has
been similarly duplicated.
The reading, if not the actual experience of medical men,
has familiarised them with these states of consciousness, so that
when we narrate the sometimes trivial occurrences of the seance
room, they immediately conclude it is all auto-suggestion, or
self-hypnosis. They dismiss our exceptional illustrations as
due to mal-observation or fraud. Their social position carries
weight in the world, and the masses follow the bell-wether
blindly. I must, therefore, impress upon sensitives the difference
between evidence for discarnate operators and the possible
action of one's own mind. Only information which transcends
the limitations of the five senses, foreign languages, or other
knowledge the medium could not normally possess may be
put forward as evidence for discarnate intelligences. It does
not necessarily follow tllat manifestations are not due to the
operation of an external mind, but they cease to be evidence
or proof of that fact. The crux ofthe position lies in the nature
of the manifestation. Does it signify an extension of the five
220 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRlTUAUSM
senses, or is it more feasible that the information could only
be derived from discarnate mentalities?
It is the most difficult problem with which Spiritualists have
to grapple, but it must be bravely faced. Mere assertions are
not proof. Obviously ifthere is no extension ofthe perceptions,
neither medium nor hypnotic subject can express more than
they have absorbed. If extension is proven, then you prove
that mentality functions outside or beyond the material mechan-
ism-a tremendous advance. Ifmore than this is accomplished,
the case for the spirit world is proven. Sensitives alone can dis-
cover and define the lines of demarcation-if any-between
sub- super- and normal consciousness, and those manifestations
which lie beyond the range of all three, and which may, there-
fore, be quite properly attributed to discarnate mentalities.
Don't worry overmuch about these details in the early days
ofyour development. Merely note the detail, or your fear will
intrude itself continuously and spoil otherwise genuine tests.
Always reserve the acid test of critical analysis until after the
seance.
Most modern books on hypnotism are avowedly materialistic.
Hypotheses are therefore strained to breaking point merely to
repudiate mesmeric theories. Mesmerists were dubbed rogues
and charlatans because they recognised attributes of the soul
in addition to normal senses. It is true that superstitions peculiar
to their day and generation were sometimes associated with
mesmerism, but these in no way invalidate their testimony
on actual statements of fact. Under mesmerism, clairvoyance
and psychic phenomena were fairly frequent. Under hypnotism
they practically ceased, except where the despised "passes"
were used or when a born seer submitted to experimentation.
The broad distinction between hypnotism and mesmerism is
that hypnotists consistently aim at creating and directing
hallucinations, whereas tl1e mesmerist frequently enhanced
psychic powers by enabling tl1e ego to manifest with greater
freedom. Both schools induced somewhat analogous phases,
the hypnotists claiming that "suggestion" accounts for all the
phenomena, while mesmerists asserted that a wuversal fluid or
animal magnetism formed the basis or link whereby they
established control over their subjects. Spiritualists are able
WHAT IS TRANCJ!? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 221
to see truth in both schools of thought, because the phenomena
of the seance room indisputably re-establish the reality of the
aura and certain stages of spirit control indicate the part sug-
gestibility must necessar:ily play. What was called a universal
fluid by Mesmer was merely another name for what is now
called aura when it is invisible and psychoplasm when solidified.
Spiritualists reject the hypnotists' theory for most of the phe-
nomena of the seance room, because it would be absurd to
credit uneducated medi01ms with the startling information that
pours through entranced.lips. The intelligences using them claim
to be discarnate beings who once lived upon the earth and prove
it by speaking their native language, narrating contemporary
history with homely detail and dealing with facts that research
verifies. Through entrancedmediums carneinstructions forseance
work. Then followed materialisation and a host of bewildering
phenomena clearly indicating knowledge of powers and forces
of which our greatest scientists were absolutely ignorant.
The inference must be pressed to its logical conclusion.
Physical phenomena are not merely phenomenal incidents.
They are evidence of me:ntality superior to that of the medium.
Remembering that "suh" means "less than," in what depart-
ment of the subconscious are we to discover knowledge one
has no means of collecting? Nothing can come out from the
wells of memory save that which we have garnered. This is
the theory of materialists themselves, and if they admit that the
mind has access to fields ofknowledge in which the brain plays
no part, they destroy materialism. All their efforts to prove
that psychic phenomena are a mere extension of physical
powers, land them on the horns of a dilemma every time.
They must either admit the existence of the aura as a mind-
field, or adopt the spirit hypothesis. By no possible law ofauto-
suggestion could Cora Tappan, a child eleven years old, dig
out from her inner cons.ciousness knowledge that enabled her
to wield a surgeon's knife success6.~lly, speak four definitely
proven foreign languages and deliver htmdreds of scientific
and philosophic addresses without a moment's preparation.
These examples can be multiplied by the thousand. Neither
race nor religion makes any difference. Truly, "God is no
respecter of persons." T'hat is our case.
222 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
The spirit people's explanations of the phenomena are far
more satisfactory than theories framed apparently for no other
purpose than to discredit any testimony tl1at proves discarnate
action. All experienced mediums are quite sure they are con-
tinually subjected to magnetising by means of spirit hands
making passes over them identical with those that were common
among mesmerists. It is equally clear that mediums arc respon-
sive to thought-processes akin to telepathy in which the clear
reception of thought is obtained without any obvious means
to the end. Spiritualists can therefore confirm both mesmeric
and hypnotic meories as to the induction of trance, and mus
will eventually do much to eradicate the bone of contention
between these opposing schools of thought.
How are we to account for me drivel which occasionally
masquerades as spirit control? It is here mat our opponents'
meories help us. It explains the infinitesimal fraction that
occasionally mystifies us. Impersonation by intruding spirits
does not explain it-me talking lacks individuality. Every
investigator quickly decides tl1at a liberal discount must be
allowed for the interblending of the medium's own mind with
the spirit message. The amount of this discount is always a
vexed problem because it varies wim every manifestation.
Many reputed mediums obtain nothing ofa distinctly evidential
nature, but clairvoyants prove they are assisted by spirit people,
because the same guide will be described by different mediums
over and over again. Others are able to prove the identity of
their controls almost at will.
The majority, however, present a compound of mentalities
so inextricably blended mat they defy analysis. Where tl1e ideas
are uplifting, it is immaterial, from the Spiritualist standpoint,
as to whether mey are due to spirit agency or not. But it is an
entirely different matter if we claim to be controlled by specific
spirits. Wc now need decisive evidence of a very convincing
character before acceptinP. assertions. This aspect must be
bravely faced in order to 'wam off" masqueraders who think
tl1ey have but to shut their eyes and pretend to be spirit con-
trolled to be taken at mcir own valuation. Experience proves
that this is the class who sit injudgment upon all other mediums
and, while teaching charity, spread petty jealousies and stupid
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 223
misrepresentation of the actual facts of mediumship. Their
awakening is usually abrupt and painful, because unkind critics
do not mince matters. Analysis is therefore essential; but it
must be tactfully accomplished, or we may destroy the beginning
of the very faculty we are desirous of examining. We find this
our greatest difficulty. The slightest suggestion of conscious
or unconscious fraud is sufficient to set back many sensitive
souls at the beginning of their development and perhaps kill
it for ever.
So I advise all investigators to proceed warily and presently
evidential experiences will form a counteracting barrier to the
positive assertions of well-meaning critics whose statements
sometimes assume the force of hypnotic suggestions. We must
always remember that sensitives are constitutionally liable to
suggestion. It is this very fact that makes them mediumistic.
Nor can we always trace the origin of suggestions. They may
arise from subconsciousness, from their audience, or even be
aroused tl1rough misunderstanding spirit action. Their own
critical examination of the phenomena while in progress effect-
ually checks all spirit control. It is for these reasons that complete
unconsciousness forms the best preliminary to fuller develop-
ment, but not if the medimn has been previously hypnotised.
After this training, we can never be sure that subconsciousness
is not reproducing itself by the association ofideas. Even when
developed by spirit people, some of these factors may arise
incidentally; but in this case the muddled mediumship is more
often due to unintentional telepathic interference or blending
of discarnate operators.
The foregoing statements supply reasons why uncritical folk
develop trance mediumship more easily than the keenly intel-
lectual. When the activity of the brain cannot be stayed,
subconsciousness is continually interfering, and deep trance
becomes impossible. It is here that auto-suggestion becomes
imperative if the medium desires to prevent any admixture
of his own mentality with the message. There are other stages
also where it is desirable the medium should train his sub-
consciousness before slipping into trance states. He does this
exactly as we do every time we go to sleep. We must deliberately
refuse to think or we stay awake. The medium does the same,
224 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAliSM
but with another object in view. He can will the exact moment
he shall return and repossess his waking consciousness, and he
can decide who shall or shall not control him. Auto-sugges-
tion has therefore its valuable side as well as its objectionable
phases.
The main difficulty is to guard against subconscious inter-
ference arising from early training, vanity or prejudice. These
most easily elude the sensitive because they are part of the
normal expression. Lookers-on, who take a more detached
view, quickly note similarities in the ideas and temperaments
of medium and control. But even here the most careful in-
vestigator may be deceived, because the closer the control
approximates to the mental condition of the medium, the more
perfect will some manifestations become with correspondingly
less fatigue to the medium. We must also remember that proof
of identity is not always possible by speech alone. Fortunately,
several other factors play their part and spirit control is proven
by the knowledge they exhibit and the effects produced rather
than by isolated statements. Control cannot become effective
without specific knowledge on the spirit side and mental and
auric affinity with the medium. Then comes the main problem
we are now discussing, the possible action of the medium's
own subconsciousness. The simplest explanation of palpable
self-deception is that of the hypnotist. The difference between
the Spiritualist and his opponent is that Spiritualists recognise
but a very small fraction of spirit control that may be due to
this subconscious element, but the hypnotist, with possibly no
experience at all of mediumship, classifies all spirit control
under this head.
We thus arrive at the conclusion that some cases of reputed
spirit control are explainable on the hypothesis that some sensi-
tives attain a psychic state wherein their normal powers are
expanded and exalted, and that this remains true even though
the medium may be unconscious ofwhat is said or done. States
of consciousness often arise which are identical with phases of
hypnotism or auto-suggestion. But this does not nullify the
overwhelming mass of evidence conclusively proving discarnate
action. Inspiration and trance mediumship are classified as
follows:-
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 225
I. Inspiration. Normal powers exalted and expanded
with or without apparent assistance from discarnate in-
dividualities.
2. Conscious control arises when the medium is con-
scious during the delivery of an address or spirit message
and is more or less aware ofthe individuality ofhis mentor.
3· Unconscious control, stage one. This is fairly
common during cady development. The spirit or medium,
or both, are ignorant of their effects upon each other.
4· Unconscious control, stage two. The medium alone
is unconscious of what transpires. The mentality of the
spirit clearly expresses itself and the individuality of the
medium is completely changed.
5· Partial control is an obvious blending of the ideas
of the medium with the mentality of the controlling
intelligence.
6. Subconscious action. Lastly, we must deal sym-
pathetically with the egoistic or ignorant poseur. He
is not a conscious fraud. Besides, you may be wrong.
Be just, but be merciful. Telepathy affects all. Thought-
transference intensified into trance states presents many
perplexing problems.
The lesson we learn liom hypnotism is that what is termed
subconsciousness, or unconsciousness, really means suppressed
memory or suppressed consciousness. The ego is ever alert,
though its activities are temporarily suspended or diverted. Its
memory during trance states is apparently defective, or increased
by suggestion, but as soon as the embargo is lifted, the spirit
consciously contacts material relationships once more. The
body may be rendered incapable of action, but reawakened
memory proves that the soul never even slept. All the thoughts
and feelings we have e:ver had, both expressed or repressed,
were stored away in the wells of memory, and under proper
stimuli can be drawn upon and expanded. This clearly confirms
spirit teaching on the permanence of memory. The psychic
organism is subject to its own peculiar laws of development
and does not disintegrate like the physical.
The physical body and brain are said to renew every particle
of their substance every few years. If this is true, then memory
s•
226 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
-if it be a purely physical attribute-would be annihilated.
But the theory ofcomplete physical renewal is perfectly tenable
if we recognise the body as a mechanism and spiritual organism
as a reservoir which retains the results of life's experiences.
Hypnotism a!so illustrates a method by which spirit people
reach us through our subconsciousness. They consistently
affirm that it is easier to use a medium's own words and phrases
tl1an to thrust entirely new ideas upon him. Even in tile deepest
trance we occasionally find the medium's words are used,
although the spirit indisputably proves its separate identity.
Nor are materialisation and direct voice phenomena entirely
free from the same defect, but here tl1e law in operation can be
more easily traced. -One has but to reflect that when a body
or thor~ is extemalised, to all intents and purposes tilc:_y are but
extensions of tl1e medium's body.
The elements along which the consciousness of the discarnate
intelligence travels are drawn from or passed through the
medium's body. It is the extension of tile nerves along auric
channels that permits a spirit's consciousness, equally with that
of the medium, to travel along them. Occasionally they blend
and, if not checked by the superior knowledge of discarnate
operators, ilie medium would actually be able to express him-
self more easily through the extended mechani~m tilan they.
Occasional intermixu1g of tile two minds cannot tl1erefore
be avoided. This causes materialism to credit tmconsciousness
(expressed as subconsciousness) with the production of the
phenomena in its entirety, an obvious absurdity. The spirit
el1111eshed ill borrowed material inevitably fmds his words or
ideas occasionally supplanted, because the thoughts of both
operators travel over the same line ofcommunication, like twill
messages over a radio circuit or telegraph line. Much of tlus
claslling of mentalities will be avoided when mechanism is
constructed-as it will be presently-to dispense with auric
particles drawn from the medium, but up to now we find
tile medium a necessary and indispensable link. The wonder
ofit is, not that we find the message occasionally contaminated,
but that we get such clear, unmistakable evidence as we do.
Hypnotism proves tilat transitional stages between con-
sciousness and unconsciousness are so transient that at times it is
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 227
impossible to distinguis:h between them. It is the same with
mediumship. A request from the operator during hypnosis
to forget any specific conversation is sufficient to erase it com-
pletely from the subject's waking consciousness. A command
to remember it gives it an exaggerated place in the normal
consciousness, and thus manias are cured. Analogous states
in mcdiurnship are frequent.
Mediums sometimes consciously co-operate during addresses,
but cannot recall a word of their speech afterwards. Meditation
on the theme a day or two later will enable them to regain its
substance. It thus becomes part of their normal consciousness
and advances them along the line of individual development.
All mediums, no matter whether subject to unconscious trance
or otherwise, ought to devote a regular time to this form of
self-education and not lag behind audiences to their own con-
fusion and the degradation of the cause they serve. Psychics
should aim at reaching the plane oftheir inspirers and not expect
to be nursed like infants all their lives. Only thus can we hope
to produce mediums of the calibre ofJ.J. Morse, E. W. Wallis
and the host oftruly insJ?ired workers who laid the foundations
of Spiritualism.
The American School of Psychology has taken the study
of hypnotism one stag~: further in its efforts to cure mental
aberrations. The patient, under hypnosis, is trained to trace the
whole oflife's history backwards. Latent memories are unfolded
in a wonderful manner. One method directs the gaze of the
subject into a crystal. He reads off the pictures as they arise.
In one after another, h(: unfolds the story of his life and the
motives which inf!uenct:d actions. He is instructed to write
automatically the meaning ofevery picture he sees. They usually
take symbolic form, as in. dreams, and his interpretation ofthem
is invaluable to the physician. It would be foolish to attribute
either the pictures he s.ees or his interpretation of them to
discarnate spirit action, though exceptions often occur. The
evidence all points to their origin in the mind of the subject.
Nor are they due to the overwhelming influence ofthe operators,
who rarely know what will be revealed. To survey this aspect
fully from opponents' standpoints, read Milne Bramwell's
"Hypnotism" and Dr. Barker's and Dr. Moreton Prince's books.
228 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
One illustration must suffice: "A woman suffered all her life
from an exaggerated fear of cats. She was hypnotised and an
effort made to trace the cause of the utterly unreasonable fear.
Step by step she was mentally directed backwards until she
reached early childhood. Questions then revealed the fact
that as an infant she had been bitten by a cat. The childish terror
ofthe moment attained the power ofa 'dominant idea,' or mania,
which continually ·reproduced itself in adult life, though no
memory ofit remained in her normal consciousness. Discovery
of the cause enabled counter-suggestions to be made which
wrought a cure." ·
This type of research is pregnant with illustrations as to
methods used by spirit friends to impress us or develop medium-
ship. Controls also utilise subconsciousness to implant ideas
or eradicate them. Materialism assumes that hypnotism re-
suscitates lapsed functions of the brain, but Spiritualists believe
that the spirit cures its aberrations by more perfect control over
its own machinery. In both hypnotism and mesmerism we find
the ego responsive to suggestions, even though they conflict
with physical desires. In both schools it is now an accepted
axiom that suggestions repugnant to the sensitive's higher self ·
are foredoomed failures.
The clire of dipsomania and other moral lapses prove that
the better side of one's nature is readily approached through
the subconscious mind or spirit-sel£ In mediumship it is the
same.,4.esponsibility cannot be shuffled on to spirit controls.
Subconsciously we resist all suggestions of which we do not
approve. Training and prejudice are the dominant factors.
This is clearly traceable in automatic writing and trance, though
a higher moral tone than the normal is invariably presented.
Sensitives catmot therefore blame spirit guides for their own
morallapses. ~
The principal lesson derived from hypnotism is that, by
inhibiting all sense-perceptions save in the direction specifically
desired, the attributes of one's own soul are freed and intensified
to such an extent that the almost miraculous is occasionally
achieved. This cllaracteristic was more clearly observable under
mesmerism than hypnotism, because ordered suggestibility
was not so frequently induced. We thus arrive at the con-
WHAT IS TRANCE? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 229
elusion that, though states ofconsciousness analogous to hypnot-
ism are sometimes reproduced during mediumship, the hypnotic
subject's experiences are, in the main, confirmatory of spirit
teaching on the nature of the soul and its attributes. So that
where hypnotists' theories are sound, Spiritualists have nothing
to retract. But they are far from satisfactory in many ways.
The supercilious attitude, the hall-mark of obstinate ignorance,
places them in the category of "things hidden from the wise,
but revealed to babes and sucklings."
Hypnotists produce colourable imitations of control by the
simple process of creating hallucinations and assume they are
one and the same thing. By the same illogical rea.~oning, there
carmot be any real banknotes because forgers imitate them.
Hypnotists claim that no external mentalities ever find expression
through mediums and thatwhat appear to be so are due to faulty
observation or downright fraud. Emotionalism is presumed
to render Spiritualists incapable of correctly appraising the
phenomena which have been their life's study. This insult to
scientists and the keen business men who have been drawn into
Spiritualism would call for reprisals but for the greater charity
which remembers it~ own egotism before succumbing to over-
whelming evidence. Besides- when one comes to think of
it-we are really more flattered by attracting these types of
intellect tl1an scientists whose publicity may possibly be traced
to moon-gazing or counting the hairs on a fly's leg. These
occupations are as liable to affect their mentalities as watching
spirit forms slowly build themselves up before astonished eyes.
So we are unmoved when they deny point-blmk that there
are, or ever were; mediums who speak foreign languages they
never learned, or that apports and materialisations occur as
the direct result of teaching received through illiterate lips.
When compelled to admit the facts, the same class vociferously
. denies our conclusions and propounds farcical explanations.
The theory of subconscious activity to explain the phenomena
as a whole is a palpable absurdity. When compelled to admit
materialisation, tl1ey hope to destroy the Spiritualist hypothesis
by calling it an "exteriorisation of tl1e medium's personality,"
which is the unconscious operation of the medium's own
brain. The absurdity becomes a screami11.g farce when we
230 THJE UNIVERSITY OF SPlRITUALISM
carefully analyse the theory. For ninety years mediums have
been maligned as fools or frauds. We now awake to the startling
discovery that the poor fool of a medium illustrates a higher
step on the ladder ofevolution. In other words, be has so much
superfluous grey matter in his brain that he can actually spare
enough to make up an additional brain, body and all its parts
with independent volition of its own, quite equal to that of
our scientific critiics. And he does it all unconsciously, or
subconsciously. After that, the Spiritualist hypothesis is necessary
to enable ordinary folk to retain their sanity.
It is partly because we have rediscovered the auric link
emphasised by Mesmer, and denied by the hypnotists, that
we tum more sympathetically to tlte experiences of the former.
Mesmerists were called rogues and charlatans merely because
they discovered :marvels like introvision and clairvoyance,
and claimed to utilise a universal fluid. They did not know,
then, that thought does not merely build dream-pictures;
it also modifies or disintegrates them entirely. The soul lives
within its own mental imagery. Hypnotism was acclaimed
as a science for no better reason than that it can apparently
trace all its phenomena to physical reactions; that is, illusions
are traceable to the: brain of the subject himself. It was the pro-
test of materialism against the Spiritualism of mesmerism.
Materialism, in fighting Spiritualism, uses its old anti-mesmerist
arguments all ove:r again. Almost without exception spirit
people claim to use an invisible aura. Clairvoyants often see
them making "passes" over their mediums to heal or induce
passivity. It is therefore only a matter of time for us to prove
where the hypnotist is wrong and thus give "honour where
honour is due."
Blank materialism refuses to recognise psychic science and
the opposition is partly due to the error of denying Mesmer's
theory of a vital force emanating from human bodies. They
would have to bum half their books if seance-room effects
are produced as we·affirm. The shock is too great to be accepted
all at once and so the majority are at present posing like wise
crows on a fence. The suggestion behind their attitude is that
they can explain it all, but they won't.
Meantime, in England alone, a thousand churches have been
WHAT IS TRANCB? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 231
built on the experiences of individuals who have nothing to
gain but the world's condemnation by avowing their con-
victions. From the low.er walks oflife the truth has been pressed
home because poor pc:ople had no biased theory to uphold
or ostracism to fear.
We were all sceptical at first, but after exhausting every other
possible and impossibl·~ explanation, we believe the bulk of
the phenomena are explainable by only one theory that covers
all the facts. It is that the spirit world is a real world and that
its inhabitants are making strenuous efforts to reach our under-
standing. Mistakes arc~ sometimes made because we do not
realise our own inherent possibilities and existing powers.
Sometimes the mentali.ties of operator and subje,ct blend and
the medium is charged with fraud or subconsciously producing
the .phenomena, but details of this kind do not remove the
intelligences producing the phenomena. The cynicism and
hypercriticism of those who ignore the training of the medium
while learnedly photographing the results of that training,
prove the truth of the statement, "What fools these mortals
b ..
e.
In considering trance mediurnship we have always to re-
member that the mind-field utilised by controlling spirits
is not confined within the auric sphere ofthe medium, but con-
tacts the mentalities of sitters through the same channel. We
thus get an explanation of differences in the quality of mani-
festations from time to time. Allan Kardec noted the fact that
frivolous mediunlS, meeting with like-minded sitters, rarely
rose above fairly well-defined grades of intelligence, but when
he was present the infformation received far transcended the
capacities of his mediums. But he failed to see dut his own
dominant mentality measurably coloured the results.
For this reason Andr•ew Jackson Davis formed an intellectual
group of sitters before it became possible for him to write his
most wonderful books.
In a lesser degree, I :have noticed d1e ease wid1 which I can
reply to questions on psychic matters where the audience is
intelligently sympathetic, and me difference while addressing
obviously hostile audiences. In me latter case, one has to rely
almost entirely upon memorised matter, but, with me former
232 THE: UNIVERSITY OP SPIRITUALISM
type of audience, unsuspected variations of quite ordinary
arguments take their place in a perfectly natural manner, and
one is only surprised that the particular line of reasoning never
happened to strike one before. Where trance states are used for
test messages this is more clearly evidenced. Clearly evidential
matter is more rat:e than the majority of Spiritualists suspect,
but all inspirational or partially controlled people quickly
discover the inner meaning of the text, "Take no thought for
what ye shall say, for in that same hour it will be given unto
you." In all cases. the best preparation is meditation or actual
sleep before the address. Engrossing conversation or reading
immediately preceding a meeting, unless it has a bearing on the
subject to be dealt with, is best avoided.
That inspirational talking and trance states are measurably
influenced by spirit people is dear to all clairvoyants who watch
speakers giving an1address. Invariably, the lineaments of the
speaker disappear and are supplanted by those of an entirely
different person. Many speakers appear to indraw different
types of inspirers from time to time, but in most cases speakers
learn who their chief control is from the continually repeated
descriptions received from members of the audience quite
ignorant of other people's descriptions./ The Spiritualist is thus
able to translate in a very literal way such texts as, "I cp1 in you
--and you in..me." The process by which consciousness is ex-
pandediStherein clearly visualised.
It is from experiences such as these that entirely new concepts
of spiritual spheres and spirit life and action are developing.
Mediums, like Paul, continually wondered whether they were
"in the spirit or n.ot." They discovered spirit people surged
about them at all times. Human bodies are no impediment.
Spatial relations alll acquire a new interpretation. Ministering
spirits are found to be in contact with their charges at all times.
What their actual powers are can be only vaguely guessed.
They claim to be ·only very little in advance of mankind, but
it is clear from their ability to forecast the future, read the past
and in other ways rise superior to all known methods of reason-
ing that we must credit them with greater power than ourselves.
Of tllis I am sure: 1
tbey can see and do things incomprehensible
to us, but fail completely at times when we set them what
WHAT IS TRANC'I!? CONSCIOUS V. UNCONSCIOUS 233
we personally conceive to be a very simple test or act ofmemory.
I attribute this to the: complexity of the processes involved
in getting their messag,es across to us. But, given time and
persistence on both sid.cs of the veil, they astonish us both
by their more acute memory and knowledge of surrounding
circumstances. Tjms, at a direct-voice seance on the anniversary
of my marriage, I asked my spirit wife if she remembered
what anniversary was very near. For awhile she could not
reply, but engaged in C()nversation with another friend present.
Suddenly, and appropo~; of nothing at all, the trumpet speedily
darted in my direction and she ejaculated, "We became one."
Near her birthday, I put the same question. Again there was a
temporary loss of mem•:>ry, but after a time she put all her will
into the effort and said, "My advent on earth."
But the next test through the same method failed completely,
though inanotherway it provedshe was really there. I habitually
take something personal.to her when attending special meetings,
but nobody except myself is aware of the fact. I asked her if
she knew what I was wearing belonging to her. She ques-
tioningly asked me if I meant her ring. On this occasion I had
left this at home. Next: day, a sensitive who..!!l1~ wife often
..,in£luences in. a sl~E.. st:~ very-nearl}(: akin to t£_ancuold me
that my wife
--had been stro~ly impressing her while I was
at the meeting that I was discussing a cross. In many different
ways by impression, piicturisation and discussion, she gave her
to understand that it was important for me to be told about it.
She therefore took the earliest opportwuty to ask me what
it was all about. The error was thus quickly set right. I had
designed a cross for a birthday present and my wife habitually
wore it. It was this cross that I was wearing at the seance that
I had asked her to look at and tell me what it was.
How spirits influence mediums was illustrated by a mesmerist
friend. Through an open doorway, without the subject's know-
ledge, he first threw h:is hands outwards as if throwing some-
thing from his finger-tiips towards the subject seated on a chair
with his back towards the mesmerist. The subject immediately
complained of a pain shooting through his head. The test
was then made more difficult by the mesmerist mounting the
staircase and, apparently through the brick wall, but in the
234 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPrRITUALTSM
direction of the subject, making the same pass. Once again
the subject complained of a sharp, stabbing pain affecting his
head. In my developing circle clairvoyants watch the pre-
liminary efforts of spirit people to collect power. The usual
process appears to be the amalgamation of the rays proceeding
from each sitter's hands. These presently co~esce, giving rise
to very beautiful colour effects. The amalgamation continues
until an almost physically visible quantity of aura is piled up
on the table. Spirit aura, .flowing from spirit hands, is then
directed upon the mass, causing it to whirl and form a vonex.
It suddenly condenses and either moves as a wave of power
towards one of the sensitives or takes a definite globular shape
and strikes her forehead. In either case, if the sensitive does
not resist, the immediate result is unconsciousness.
In watching this process, I find there is a general tendency
for each spirit guide to seize as much power as he can for the
use of his own medium. If one is more fully developed than
the others, or of a more dominant temperament, they absorb
all available power to the detriment of the remainder. The
truly spiritual medium is usually of a retiring disposition and
is therefore continually thrust into the background by more
forceful characters. I found the best result was attained when
the sitters, after the usual opening exercises, deliberately re-
mained passive so that all the power was concentrated on one
sensitive. The development during this period was remarkable.
Removed to a larger circle where tl1ere was a continual
change of sitters, the mediumship became spasmodic and
always left tl1e medium feeling very dissatisfied. But if asked
to state why, she could not explain. The circle in general was
very harmonious. .some circles adopt the method of con-
centrating on one medium at a time. This has advantages
where there are several budding mediums, but I prefer the
method of passivity with only one medium acting at a time in
the circle, to avoid all conflict oftl1ought-forces. It has hiilieno
yielded ilie best results.
(
\
CHAPTER XV
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHJP
ONE of the first lessons a discarnate soul learns is that "as
a man thi.nketh so he is." He thinks oflow companions and
finds them around him; ofhome, and, lo! he is there; ofscenes
of drunkenness and vice-home fades from his sight, and
dream-like changes occur in his surroundings. Like a feather
wafted in the wind, his thought takes him where it will. He
thinks he is dreaming and his dream follows the line of his
idealism. His aspirations seem to be within his grasp; the path-
way leading thereto is clearly visualised. But the dream may
easily become a veritable nightmare as memory causes him
to contact the living realities of the spirit world. It symbolises
his secret thoughts. His sins of omission, no less than those of
commission, point accusing fmgers at him. He now realises
their effects in other people's lives. Shame and remorse over-
come his flippant excuses. He desires to hide himself, and
kindly darkness enfolds him.
It is but the imagery of his own mind that meets him every-
where. But there arc strange exceptions. Fitful glimpses of
more stable conditions, in which friends seem permanently to
abide, thrust tl1emsclves ever and anon upon his dream-states.
Their appeal finally creates sufficient inquiry to compel him
to w1derstand the law of his environment and become
stabilised.
He has now learned that positive thought is the dynamic
force that moves his spirit body and that his own soul's quality
is in some strange way stamped upon his surrotmdings. His
surroundings obey the impulses of his mind. His limitations
are partly due to ignorance of psychic modes of motion and
expression and partly to hampering elements carried over
from the earili life. Grossness, either of thought or body,
enchains him to undesirable localities so long as his mind is
freighted with its burden. But soon he becomes self-poised
23$
236 TB1l UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
and consciously utilises the fo:ces that previously overwhelmed
him. With stabilisation, his surroundings are revolutionised
and he learns that upward evolutionary progress continues
by the application of "right thought, right speech and right
action." The grosser particles of his spiritual body gradually
become more and more sublimated, until at last it is too brilliant
for earthly clairvoyants to watch its further unfoldment.
For a perfect understanding of the laws governing the transi-
tion of tlll;: ~pirit from the poor old worn-out body at death,
I cannot do better than refer you to Andrew Jackson Davis's
"Philosophy of Death." This beautifully portrays the con-
densation of elements forming the future tenement of the
spirit: A nebulous haze was seen hovering over a dying body,
and this gradually assumed the shape and form of the frame
it was leaving for ever. The psychic organism was joined to the
physical by a silvery cord, which he likens to the umbilical
cord uniting a newly born child to its mother. Consciousness
travelled all along this cord until its severance, and was then
transferred entirely to the more permanent vehicle ofexpression.
Dissolution of the physical body speedily followed. Many
mediums have corroborated this testimony, though very few
appear to realise its far-reaching implications.
As the psychic organism is evolved from the physical, it
( necessarily partakes of its nature. It bears earthly scars which
react to memory, and thus we take with us all our human
I
emotions, thoughts and feelings. It is the natural consequence
of evolution through a human organism. As soon as a spirit
tries to communicate with those left behind, it discovers its
limitations, for although sensory perceptions are expanded, they
cannot now act upon physical substances with the same facility
as before transition. But they soon discover that they have
community of sensation with certain people and none at all
with others. They also find that those who possess this strange
\
affinity with them respond almost automatically to their thought.
They thus learn to understand what we on our side term
mediumship.
My varied experience in spirit control convinces me that
not only does the mentality of the discarnate intelligence affect
the medium, but the quality ofhis psychic body has also apower-
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSIDP 237
ful and very important bearing upon the sensations and im-
pressions registered by mediums. A proper understanding of
these laws on both sides of the veil is essential to perfect co-
operation in mediumship. During trance states, spirit presences
are detected by their physical and mental impressions on the
sensitive. From a stolid indifference, the medium may become
suddenly aspirational; or, from a state ofgravity, be seized with
a desire to laugh. This obviously indicates the mood ofthe spirit
attempting to control, but accompanying these mental states
are the/urely physical sensations of being hanged, crushed,
drowne , or some other cause of transition. At the same
moment, a curious change in personality is wrought, which
enables even sex to be indicated to the medium. Sometimes
the conditions precedent to death may appear in addition to,
or in place of, the actual death-scene. The physical sensations \
have direct relationship to the psychic body of the spirit visitor
and are due to transference of sensation. The reactions are far
too automatic to be consciously induced.
The usual explanation is that they arc more mental than
physical, and that on returning to earthly conditions, association
of ideas causes.,Jhe spirit to ''take on" its earthl_y memories
_
with._a cQ.t:reS~...Q.nding reaction through thebody. ofthe sensitive.
But granting this explanation to be correct, we are compelled
to discover the semi-physical means to the end. The infirmities
ofliving flesh and blood peculiar to earthly bodies are exhibited.
If spirit bodies transmit sensations, the actual basis or seat of
sensations must reside in the psychic organism of the spirit
visitor. The auric forces of the medium merely supply the link
which connects them. When properly cotu1ccted, the mental
and physical attributes of the controlling intelligence thus
find expression through the physical body of the medium,
which becomes the receiving station for extraneous thought
and sensations. For the spirit to think pain means that the
sensitive exhibits pain, even though the resultant memory
is as fleeting as a dream, and, dre~milike, may be forgotten on
awaking. The sensory perceptions of both parties blend until
the body of the medium becomes in effect the sole possession
and expression of the visitor. For a while, the clarity of the
twain is defective; but as soon as full conscious possession is
238 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRJTUAUSM
obtained, all physical disabilities pass away and only the normal
characteristics of the spirit visitor remain in evidence.
It is rare to find full and complete control established at the
first visit to a seance, but on one occasion I saw fully controlled
a youth who had unwillingly attended. The most frequent
preliminary indication of control is the unaccountable desire
to sleep that takes possession of sensitives even while they feel
quite fresh and wide awake. Indeed, a refreshing sleep prior
to a seance improves the result. With entire loss of conscious-
ness, the change of personality is completed. No shock is
experienced, and the dream state may be regarded as symp-
tomatic of impressions left on the medium's mind afterwards.
It is a curious fact that, upon first attempting controlXspirits
are often compelled to express the dominant thought and feeling
uppermost at the moment of their transition. Fortunately,
both spirit and mortal are unaware of their effect upon each
other during these initial experiences, and what appears to be
a very painful scene passes from the minds of both, exactly
as a dream is forgotten on awaking. The paroxysm passes
quickly away and is replaced by the normal thought of the
spirit control. It sometimes forms a valuable link in the chain
of evidence by recalling a long forgotten death-scene, which
thus helps to establish the identity of the communicator. Evi-
dential tests can be obtained at this time, because the sub-
consciousness of tl1e sensitive plays but little part, if any
at all.
Telepathic interference is also less obvious. As soon as the
discarnate friend exerts his will, all painful struggles cease and
more or less conscious control begins. This form of entrance-
ment must not be confused with the entirely different modes
of procedure adopted by guides and other spirits used to con-
trolling. So deftly is the work then accomplished that the
presence of me spirit control is UnnOticed, saveby the medium,
6rtii0seacquainted with his mannerisms. This phase is known
~onscious control," because the spirit is quite ignorant
' ofthe fact that he has been "tuned in." Guardian spirits take
aav~age of tl1ese opportunities tO "switch on" variOUS types
of spirits and watCh the results. This has the dual effect of
stunllliting cl1e medium's psychic activities and at the same
,--
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 239
l
time arouses to consciousness those who, for well-defined
reasons, have failed to pass immediately to brighter spheres.
It gives us glimpses into underlying laws. I used the phrase
"switch on" because it is self-evident that the visitor would
be incapable of controlling a sensitive without assistance. Many
do not know and it is difficult to make them realise that they
have passed through the change of death.
The spirit control is often more surprised than the sitters
to find himself talking through an unaccustomed body, but
1
slowly realises that something extraordinary must have hap-
pened. For a little while he is quite unconscious of the fact that
he is unfolding the secret thoughts ofhis soul to entire strangers.
The first utterance is usually a repetition of phrases used on
his death-bed and, ifhe passed away under any stress of emotion
this automatically reproduces itself and carries on towards its
logical conclusion. But while doing so, a consciousness of the
\
new condition dawns upon him and, at that t:ritical moment,
he may abruptly cease soliloquising and, turning curiously
from one to another, will request some explanation that reveals
his total ignorance of what is actually happening. Then comes
1 a rapid interchange ofideas, which ceases when he fully realises
the part he has been playing. Usually, there is great th:mkful-
ness for the light of understanding that now breaks in upon
the darkened mind and the awakened soul goes away rejoicing.
Through the discovery of this method, by which spirits
are released from their self-imposed bonds, there has arisen
what are termed "rescue circles," which devote much time to
this work. These need special precautions with a distinctly
religious atmosphere and a scientific w1dcrstauding of all
phases of mediumship, or member of tl1e circle rna discover
that e would-be rescuers need rescuing t emse v . E~tional
sensation ts s o d be rigorously exdUded from seances of
this type, anCl mediums trainedto resisf the love oftlieatrical
disptay, f'ol-rf1llls poii1t it 1s easily possible for mediumship
to'lapse an<!, ~e replaced by subconscious action. ~ opera-
tion of die ~ediurn's own desirerclfcctually o~ the spirit.
The change is imperceptible and tan only be guar<1ed agau'lSt
by candid discussion ofwhat ought or ought not to be attributed
to inherent--weaknesses.
240 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
In a sense, all developing circles are also rescue circles, because
they provide an avenue for all types ofmentality. Until guides
have proved their worth by constant association, it is never
wise to believe that any casual spirit control has taken charge
of your development for life. Your secret thoughts and desires
constitute the attractive forces which will eventually decide
the quality of manifesting spirit controls. Those who can best
aid you to reach the goal of your ambition will be selected as
guides at the proper time. Spirit pcopk are human in their
atractions and repulsions, and, though they may ignore your
peculiarities, and strive to "work out their own salvation"
by doing the best they can, they invariably step aside, so that
your free d1oice shall be wlfettered. Your conduct-not your
statements-mdicates your desires.
During the unconscious stage, note should be taken of all
names and places mentioned by the entranced medium, with
a view to establishing identity later. Too much reliance, how-
ever, must not be placed upon the information given, because,
as neither spirit nor medium is conscious during this phase
of control, or, at best, is hazy and confused, the results ap-
proximate ofttimes to purely hypnotic states wherein sub-
conscious material is alone ill evidence. In the earlier efforts
it will be useless interrupting the dream-like narration of the
spirit visitor's soliloquy. Persistence merely forces the medium
back to consciousness. Usually the questioner is ignored and
the spirit talks on. Gradually, the change is wrought, and
the subconscious ramblings of the spirit-for it must not be
thought that only mortals exhibit subconscious effects-give
way to a more or less complete realisation of the situation.
The more you can induce spirits to unburden their souls
by pointing the way towards true personal salvation, by for-
giving their enemies and practising virtues, the better will be
the result. The developing circle thus becomes a rescue circle.
The folly of allowing mediums at this stage of their develop-
ment to pose in public before gaping crowds of sceptics needs
only a moment's thought to condemn it utterly. It is bad
for Spiritualism, which, at this stage, is made to look ridiculous;
bad for the spirit, who now needs sympathetic help, and worst
of all in its effects upon the medium, who may subconsciously
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 241
"play up" to the audience and thus lapse from true mediumship
and simulate control.
Patients undergoing the operation of trepanning sometimes
exhibit analogous states. A blow on the head stops conversation
and consciousness at the same moment, but as soon as the
surgeon lifts a piece of bone from the brain the patient resumes
conversation at the exact point at which it ceased. In the case
of returning spirits, many years may have elapsed between
the shock of death and the restoration of COllSciousness. In
the meantime they are but "drifters" in what has aptly been
termed "fogland," a state of dreamy indecision due to their
failure on earth to think positively and constructively, and
thus qualify for brighter spheres. Sometimes the controlling
spirit quite clearly and distinctly remembers all its past life
immediately. Others seem gradually to pick up the threads
ofpast events connected with their earthly life and, on arriving
at the thought of their death, immediately pass into that state
and entirely lose control of the medium. Only after repeated
efforts can they survey their earthly life witltout emotion or
subconscious reaction, which cancels their ability to continue
the act of controlling the medium's body.
Frequently cite first indication received by sensitives that
they are trance mediums is through the extraordinary change
of personality that occurs. It may or may not be accompanied
by partial or complete loss of collSciousness. The types of
individuals subject to deep trance states are usually most matter-
of-fact persons, without the slightest ambition to distinguish
themselves in this way. Unconscious trance happellS less
frequently to the rapid-thinking section of humanity who
apparently do not possess the special quality of aura through
which deep trance states become possible. The medium is
actually benefited by the stimulation caused by another men-
tality utilising his dormant faculties. The law of use provides
the simple explanation. Exercise produces strength; disuse
induces atrophy and decay. It is true that volatile chatterboxes
are more frequently controlled, but consciousness is not so
completely eliminated and therefore cite subcollSciousness of
the medium interferes more often. With active brains, or
irrepressible self-collSciousness, the mentality is too keenly
242 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
operative to permit deep trance.rEven though intensely desired,
it is sometimes years before any indication oftrance mediumship
appears..lln$!J.Sity of de.,sirc defeats its own object./.
The theory of hypnotists, that mediumship is due to "ex-
pectancy," is clearly wrong. The slightest thought on the part
of a developing medium during control sometimes acts like a
notice to quit served on the temporary tenant. The same law,
properly utilised, enables the medium to become selective
as to hi~ <.:ontrols and by post-hypnotic suggestion to himself
may inhibit statements or compel reference to ideas that are
dominating his mind. All this may happen subconsciously,
without directive thought consciously focused towards accom-
plishing the end desired. When co-operation is properly
understood, what happens by "accident" can be arranged for
by design. Sometimes the spirit people are compelled to ignore
such interruptions and, at other times, the interference blends
with the message, and passes unnoticed. The same law will be
found operative when mediums adopt a hypercritical attitude
towards their own mediumship. In the result, it either changes
its form or disappears entirely. An understanding of these laws
explains why the Nazarene so continually emphasised the
need for faith. It clears the personal factor from the path of the
spirit operators and thus makes "miracles" possible.
So long as calm, steady faith is w1disturbed, there is no
difficulty in obtaining evidence of external mentalities, but
as soon as critical analysis of one's own states of collSciousness
sets in, the subconscious element makes deep trance impossible.
In many cases, the change is beneficial, because the medium
learns to hold himself positive at will, and thus becomes a
conscious co-operator, instead of an unconscious tool. The
power of resistance is sufficiently strengthened to attain the
apostolic ideal mentioned in I Cor., xiv, 32 , "The spirits of the
prophets are subject to tile prophets." These considerations
illustrate tile folly offirst developing mediumship and at a later
date studying the A B C of me subject. This, unfortunately,
is the common practice and emphasises the need for study group
classes. Many have not the slightest notion of the part their
own mentality plays and, on suddenly awaking to the know-
ledge that what has passed for mediumship was, in fact, due
SECRETS OF MEDWMSHIP 243
to subconscious action, become as stupidly shamefaced as if
caught in a criminal act and repudiate mediumship entirely.
This refusal to study the subject in advance sometimes arises
from the foolish notion that developed brains are a hindrance
to spirit control. This type tells you candidly that he "never
reads anything," and it is this wilful ignorance that keeps
Spiritualism on a low plane. All inspiration or rational teaching
direct from the spirit world proves the contrary. The better
the brain, the better the instrument. Many sensitives quite fail
to understand that spirit people more often work through
subconsciousness than otherwise. If the medimn has a well-
filled storehouse to draw upon, the task ofthe control is simpli-
fied and the output improved. In the early days of develop-
ment, all sorts and conditions of spirits endeavour to manifest.
All are quite eager to assist, but all are not equally capable. Even
though quite well aware oftheir good intentions before attempt-
ing control, they fmd their desires frustrated and their own
abilities impaired by the strange brain through which they are
attempting to express themselves. If they cannot overcome
this difficulty it is hopeless trying to establish their identity.
Their confusion will cease to be regarded as extraordinary
if we remember that the mere difference in the shape of our
heads distinguishes mentalities. The marvel is that spirits
do so often overcome these inherent difficulties, give tests of
identity, speak foreign languages and present specifically new
ideas.
The medium's principal enemy is egotism. This is exhibited
in various ways during control. Curiously enough, it some-
times presents counteracting compensation by causing the
medium, because of their apparent absurdity, to give more
explicit messages than a more modest medium would dare to
transmit. Similar difficulty arises from early training, with
its consequent prejudices; equally with egotism it warps the
message or supplants it entirely. For these reasons, experienced
Spiritualists reject great names claimed by spirit controls unless
exceptionally good evidence supports the claim. Knowing
our weakness, wise spirits would not flatter our vanity. This
fact cannot be appreciated by those whose self-esteem over-
whelms their sense of proportion. The greater the claim, the
244 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
less does this class scrutinise the internal evidence which alone
proves the assertions.
So unequivocal is the change ofpersonality that spirit identities
are as easily recognised as if they are using their own bodies.
Many people arc misled by the idea that spirits, thousands of
years old, can get directly into touch with them. This foolish
idea is equivalent to learned academicians leaving more desirable
employment to undertake the nursing of infants, or mathema-
ticians wasting their time teaching schoolboys elementary
arithmetic. There are no such time-wasters in the hiaher
spiritual realms. Nurses are quit:e capable of managing i;Jants
and teachers are .filling the most appropriate role while educating
sd10olboys. It is true that both teachers and nurses require
higher education, but even here it would be useless thrusting
information upon cl1em that they are incapable of assimilating.
Their very limitations arc a valuable asset which places them in
more sympathetic relation to their work than a more exalted
mentality could hope to achieve.
As spirits advance in love and wisdom, their bodies grow
more and more sublimated until they approximate to pure
white light. At this stage they become invisible to spirits on
lower planes. With advancement in spirit life, there develops
a growing distaste for all the petty, selfish ambitions of earthly
minds. The automatic action of this repulsion causes them to
recede from earthly environments. Only their great love for
struggling humanity causes cl1em to return again and again,
or arrange for chatmels of commwlication through which cl1ey
can work. Another factor, too often overlooked, is that spirit
people can instantaneously Bash an inspiration upon a human
brain that may take cl1e individual a whole lifetime to unravel
and comprehend in all its bearings. Equally with earthly
learning, a step-by-step process is operative in spirit realms.
Each transm.itter of a great idea draws some instruction from it
and applies it in accordance with his knowledge or belie£
It matters not whether iliey are mortal or inunortal; the same
law applies.
Almost every medium has Ius band ofunseen helpers, although
he may be unaware ofthe fact. For special work, special means to
the end are arranged. The actual spirit control, whose name
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 245
is known to us, is the nearest link approximating to earthly
ideas. His own more distant inspirers may be beyond the
range of his perception. He is actually a centre of thought-
forces selected by reason ofhis auric and mental affinity with the
sensitive. The controlling spirit is as much a medium as the
sensitive in the body. His attunement to those who inspire
him is in direct proportion to that of his relation to his own
medium. Thespirit thusacts the part ofa mechanic manipulating
a machine which responds to thought-processes. The mechanic
can transmit his own ideas if he wishes, or temper those that
he receives from other minds to the capacity of the medium's
physical organism to express. Frequently, a circle of spirits
utilises such centres for focusing ideas which they could not
transmit individually because of impediments peculiar to man-
kind's perverted viewpoints.
The world fails to realise that special forms of religion are
almost as much an accident of birth as nationality itsel£ In
all countries we naturally adopt the prevailing ideas current
near our birthplace. Internationalism and extreme tolerance in
religious outlook are essential to true spiritual growth. National-
ism and religious systems are in many ways hindrances to true
progress and the brotl1crhood of man. Narrowness of outlook
contracts the channel through which spirit people work and
compels them to express the medium's ideas rather than their
own. Breadth ofmind is essential to the development ofquality
in mediumship. Too positive mental attitudes in any specific
direction so colour the types of control that mediums, whose
subconsciousness is the actual villain, arc often suspected of
"acting a part." Remembering tl1at arrogance and pride
attract folly a.11d duplicity will poise the mind aright, and love
of truth for its own sake will produce corresponding reaction
upon the controls. In the type of spirit habitually manifesting
through you, some weakness or quality of your own mind is
inevitably exposed.
When mediunlShip ceases to be a "marvel," and becomes
recognised as a perfectly natural attribute, many disabilities
will pass away. Pity the poor souls removed from obscurity
and suddenly thrust into the glare ofpublicity. It shakes up their
entire mental world, and if their slumbering vanity is equalled
246 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
by their ignorance and simplicity the downfall is rapid. Change
of temperament from a modest, unassuming person to uncon-
trolled egotism is quickly reflected in the mediumship. Clearly
evidential mediumship is displaced slowly but surely by stilted
utterances and extravagant claims put forward by "spirits"
who never condescend to prove their identity. This phase is
exceedingly difficult to combat, because vanity resents criticism,
no matter how fair and reasonable it may be. It finally results
in obvious simulation, or transforms true mediumship into a
furm of self-hypnosis that has done great harm to the Spiritualist
movement.
From these classes arise the stupid jealousies which divide
societies into small jangling sections. Pride will be satisfied
with nothing less than a church each. The result is a series of
wretched little meeting-places filled with quarrelsome people
eternally dividing into smaller groups. Its fuller development
is seen in the formation of new cults like that of Mary Baker
Eddy's Christian Science and Madame Blavatsky's Theosophy.
Mrs. Eddy claimed to be controlled byJesus and all the apostles
-a fairly common weakness among Christian converts-
witll the result that she was cold-shouldered by the Spiritualists
of her day. Resentment thereafter coloured all her writings,
which give an entirely false impression to her followers.
Madame Blavatsky took a line common to her type. They
repudiate everybody's mediumship unless it manifests through
themselves or their devotees. In Madame Blavatsky's case,
it ceased to be called mediumship and became something far
more marvellous-a claim transparently ridiculous to all
students ofpsychic phenomena. It further resulted in distortion
of me simple facts of spirit life, and malignant enmity towards
other mediums, who were said to be obsessed by "spook shells"
and vampires. Both leaders emphasised aspects oftruth neglected
by Spiritualists, and both distorted the facts of mediumship.
Religionists ofevery denomination must therefore be on their
guard against the dominant ideas that rule their lives. The desire
to prove the correctness of one's own specific form of faith
finds continual subconscious expression. The ecstatic and highly
spiritual feelings aroused by controls are occasionally responsible
for me erroneous conclusions. The neophyte immediately
SECRETS OF MllDIUMSHIP 247
assumes that such feelings confirm the correctness of his belief,
instead ofwhich they are but the natural corollary to aspiration.
Precisely the same sensations would be experienced by seers
who know nothing of the medium's religious ideas. Sub-
conscious action often accompanies true mediumship. An
interesting illustration of this aspect was brought to my notice.
A devoted Roman Catholic, in the district where I live, is
subject to cataleptic seizures, during which the usual stigmatic
markings appear. Blood-marks as of thorns show on the fore-
head and nail-prints in the hands and feet are seen. The fear
and awe with which her friends regard the phenomena in-
tensifies it, but they cannot understand why the "fit" is invariably
preceded by the death-scene of her father. It is exactly as ifshe
imitates the death ofher father over and over again as a prelude
to the stigmatic markings, which all her Roman Catholic friends
regard as a special mark offavouritism by Deity. Acquaintance
with the laws ofmediurnship would speedily arouse the ignorant
spirit father to a consciousness of his effect upon his daughter,
and teaching the girl the effects of subconscious action would
complete the cure. In course of time, a few fairy tales will
probably fill in convenient gaps and the Roman Catholic Church
will add another saint to its calendar. This type of hypnotic
subject is not necessarily a medium, though the majority of
mediums pass through phases which at times bear a striking
resemblance to hypnosis.
In trance mediumship, confidence is sometimes mistaken for
vanity and mannerisms for simulation. Actors often carry a
peculiar stage deportment into everyday life, and teachers,
foremen and others accustomed to giving orders, sometimes
adopt a dictatorial manner when speaking in public, without
the least intention of doing so. Students must check these
mannersisms, because posing turns the sublime into the
ridiculous and influences controls. Unnatural poses are some-
times assumed by mediums as a kind of protection against the
blank incredulity and unkind criticism so often meted out to
them. It is a defensive armour born oftheir conscious integrity,
without which the message they have to deliver would be
strangled at birth. But, having noted how mannerisms give
rise to w~ust suspicions, the wise advocate will try to eliminate
248 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRlTUALISM
them. Always be slow to decide who a new control may be,
especially if there is any claim to authority in the pronounce-
ments. It may not be due to egotism or personation, and it is
wiser to let the spirit visitor volunteer his name than endow
him with the one uppermost in the minds of those present.
Auto-suggestion fills all gaps with the subject's own ideas and
desires. Many purely hypnotic subjects claim to be mediums
without presenting the faintest evidence for spirit control.
The most casual mention ofa name in their presence is sufficient
to induce control by the spirit named at the earliest possible
moment.
I extract the following philosophic and comprehensive
expla.'Ution of spirit control from. "Practical Occultism," by
Tien Sien Tie, the spirit control of]. J. Morse:
"The spirit mesmerists, being in the subjective world, have
to commence their operations from the subjective plane and
work outwards. Hence we {spirit people) have to work upon
the counterparts ofthe physical body as presented in the spiritual
body; and to reach these we commence operations upon the
outer magnetic sphere, but direct its efforts to the spiritual or
inner side of the human being. This is accomplished physio-
logically by directing the mind or thoughts of the controlling
power towards the affections, for it is by working through
the affectional sphere we are able to come into contact with
physical conditions of the affectional propensities." (This very
significant statement should be noted. It supplies one of the
reasons why the oracles of ancient Greece and Rome were
chosen from among virgins before passional stimuli or carnal
desires withdrew the mind from the higher psychic activities
and religious fervours required.)
"Then, if the manipulation is for a mechanical result, instead
of turning the forces into the superior intellectual brain, the
flow of force is continued into the nervous department, and
from the nervous outward into the muscular parts. Thus,
by having the sympathetic nervous system under control, we
are gradually able to withdraw the outer forces and focus them
inwardly, as in the case of the human mesmerist; and little by
little we are able to suspend the active operations of external
sensations and consciousness and induce tl1e condition of sleep
SE•
CRETS OF M.BDIUMSHIP 249
that you know as the spiritual or magnetic trance." (In other
words, spirit people act upon the spiritual body in precisely
the same way as a human mesmerist acts upon the physical
body. Because of this entirely different method of approach,
spirit-developed mediums tend to become aspirational and
form a class distinct from ordinary mesmeric subjects, whose
powers arc unfolded without enricllillg the soul.)
"When you are getting on that road ... where the individual
exercise of your own powers becomes a possibility to you ...
the: true cultivation of mediumship is the stepping-stone to
the exercise of your own spiritual power. . . . As a rule, we
deprecate the develojpment of children as mediums. Our
observation is that mediumship should never be developed until
the physical system has nearly attained its growth. You can then
draw upon the vitality without much danger to the health of
body or mind. Mediums should not be developed before
seventeen or eighteen years of age, or even older. It is most
pernicious, physiologically and spiritually, to try and hasten
the development in any case of growing children."
The following is a somewhat similar extract from Wallis's
"Guide to Mediumship":
"There is an effort gradually to subdue the normal activities
of the body to a state of quiescence. This induces a heavy,
depressing, drowsy kind offeeling; a lethargy stealing over the
bodily functions, until one by one all the activities of the body
come to rest. . . . This quietude develops into a state of sleep
wherein the positive actions of the vital functions are turned
inwardly instead of being allowed to express themselves out-
wardly as in waking activity. This results in drawing forth
a psychological aura, generated within the sphere of the body
itself, and constitutes a bond or link between the medium as
subject and the spirit as operator. . . . When this nervous link
has been established, there is a further effort of will on the
part of the operator to awaken certain ranges of faculties tvithin
the metltal sphere of the subject. For this special purpose
superior intellectual f:1culties are more directly appealed to,
agreeable with sublimity, foresight, reason and colour.
"Then a certain amount of physical energy is liberated, as
a sort of steam to di:rect the machinery when the handle is
9
250 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
turned. Presently the wheels are set in motion and mentally
there is an awakening of the higher faculties. . . . In some cases,
the spirit is withdrawn from the body, though sufficient relation-
ship is maintained so that the individual may remain a living
being. In other cases, where it is not necessary the spirit should
be withdrawn, it is reduced to a state of quiescence. This is
absolutely essential, because in proportion to the activity
of consciousness, so are the difficulties of control . . . just in
proportion as the individual resumes sway over any part or
parts of the body, so in that proportion is control prevented.
Thus bodily and mental links are completed that enable us to
build up, step by step, the complete result that is called 'spirit
control.'"
It is clear from these extracts that it is the mentality of the
medium, the spirit-self, that is operated upon rather than
physical brains. Mediums must not expect to be carried like
infants all their lives; they must make efforts to rise to the level
of their guides. Trance states stimulate dormant faculties
which, sooner or later, ought to become the medium's normal
expression. Tllis desirable end attained, enforced unconscious-
ness no longer serves any useful purpose and conscious co-
operation should supersede it.
Sometimes, deep trance passes into conscious control, in which
the medium exerts no active volition during the addresses
and can at any point dismiss the control and carry on by him-
self if he so desires. The majority of our best mediums pass
through trance states to inspiration ofa high order. J.J. Morse
was an example of this development. From porter to editor, via
the stages oftrance mediumship to exceptionally high inspiration
with marked executive ability in many directions, was no mean
achievement and speaks volumes for the wisdom of his spirit
guides. As trance gradually gives place to inspiration, the
medium experiences continually increasing difficulty in deciding
the precise part played by his own mentality and presently may
decide thatspirits have nothing whatever to do with the brilliance
he now displays. He is wrong. He now approximates to types
of genius who arc quite Ullconscious of the help they receive
from spirit people and who, in consequence, flatter themselves
that their own unaided mentality is operative.
SECRBTS OF MJIDIUMSHIP 25I
There is closer association between all forms of mediumship
than is generally recognised. Try to discover which phase you
are best fitted to expre:;s and specialise in its development.
Those who get fleeting manifestations ofmany forms ofmedium-
ship are rarely dependable and cannot withstand the stringent
tests modem scientists demand. As specialists stand head and
shoulders above their fe:Uows in other departments of work,
so must the medium of the future who desires to prove spirit
communication to an intensely materialistic and sceptical world.
The tendency to regard mediums as "marvels" should be
resisted because of its reaction on the medium and his medium-
ship. Do not put mediums on a pedestal or flatter them. They
are but ordinary men and women subject by reason of their
additional sensitiveness Ito greater extremes of thought and
feeling than the normal individual, but that is all.
To make them feel they are a class set apart from the world
places them in a false position which alienates friendships and
compels them to become self-centred and "eccentric." Properly
developed, they will undoubtedly get more refined than their
associates; but ifcourted, Battered or compelled by the mistaken
kindness of friends to r•
csort to stimulants and enter upon a
round of life for which they are utterly unfitted, do not blame
the controls. Blame the selfish worldlings who first use them
as toys to while the idle hours away and then consign them
to the social scrap-heap aiS soon as a newer interest arises. This
grave danger is inherentt in professional mediumship. Traps
are continually placed ~~round mediums. Sensitives, careless
of the laws of mediumship, and investigators who fail to
recognise any laws at all, s.peedily induce deterioration. Sensitives
feel it incumbent upon them to "play up" to their paymasters
and unconsciously repel the very guides who would "hold
tlu:m up le;;st at any tum: t.hey dash their feet against a stone."
When sitters understand their personal, mental and physical
effects upon the mediums they employ, responsibility will be
more correctly apportioned. A sound moral and intellectual
groundwork will then fo1
rm a prerequisite to the public presenta-
tion of mediumship.
All mediums should try to acquire robust health. Without
it, you cannot be a perfi~ctly balanced instrument. Bad health
252 THl! UNIVERSITY OF SPrn.ITUALlSM
may not prevent mediumship expressing itself, but the power
should never be used while you are unwell. It will, perhaps,
increase your infirmity. Besides, it is a reflection on your
guides. They can advise and heal others, but their advice is
evidently useless to you. Subconsciously, this idea permeates
the audience and their criticism reacts upon the medium.
While in robust health and breathing naturally, with all mental
conflict eased, the human body exhales the requisite magnetic
force as easily as the flowers project their perfume. This is
the ideal state for physical manifestations and, though not so
obvious, isjust as needful in every other phase. Sickness depletes
the nerves and tlms robs the spirit people ofthe elements essential
to manifestations. There are notable exceptions, but tl1ese,
viewed from the standpoint of humanity with daily tasks to
perform, are complete failures.
Start your day with the deep breathing exercises recommended
under the heading of Yoga. Follow this with five minutes'
dumb-bell exercise. Conscientiously performed every morning,
this works wonders. It is not for health's sake alone that I want
to impress upon you the necessity for robust health. Its main
purpose is so to develop your power ofresistance that whenever
you "take on" unpleasant or unhealthy conditions from return-
ing spirits, or from your audience, you will throw them off
automatically and without conscious effort. Some sensitives
plunge immediately into "death" states which may need
counteracting by definite effort of will. The temperament will
decide whether they will be affected lightly, as in psychometry,
or be deeply entranced. From every standpoint, it is desirable
to have good health, and not the least reason is the possibility
ofmistaking your own infirmities for spirit control or influences.
Therefore, make diet your medicine and avoid sickness.
In well-conducted seances, the medium returns to con-
sciousness as refreshed as he should be by a good sleep. If the
contrary occurs, it is evidence that compensating elements
are required in the circle to counteract the drain upon the
sensitive. It is here that the study of auras will prove of in-
estimable value. If objectionable consequences continually
affect the mediun1, it is usually traceable to unhealthy sitters.
A malady of the mind may be as inimical to good results as a
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 253
diseased body. Alternatively, it may indicate that the guides
are incompetent, and these must be requested to give place
to those who can keep the medium in good health. This, of
course, does not apply to mediums who give an excessive
number of seances, or those whose ill-health is chronic. If
excessive exhaustion co01tinues, the medium should withdraw
from seances so obviou:~ly wlSuited to healthy development.
The rule, of course, applies equally to non-mediums.
If sitting by yourself produces the same result, give it up.
/ Your first duty is towar~ls the world in which you live. If you
persist, despite nature's dear intimations, please do not blame
Spiritualism or the spirit world for your own folly. Sitters
who are "too sensitive to sit," because they assume every sickly
condition imagination can discover, must be dissuaded from
attending seances at all. These people require definite training
in auto-suggestion to stre:ngthen their wills. It is useless develop-
ing mediumship ifit is likely to become a burden to you and a
nuisance to everyone else. I have met many of this type, but
never found the very slight symptoms of mediumship they
exhibited worth the martyrdom they claim to experience.
They usually suffer from hysteria, but seek to extract sympathy
by calling it mediumship. But having stated this fact, we are
also compelled to acknowledge that many people are con-
stitutionally unfit to attend developing circles, and therefore
suffer. Withdrawal is the only cme.
Thought, transmitted to a medium, flows as naturally through
the open channel as a I'iver along a watercourse. Frequently,
several streams converge. When they are consciously collected
and utilised we get 01
rderly mediumship. With accidental
inBux, we get confusion. The interruptions may proceed quite
unintentionally from the audience or spirit operators. This is
one of the reasons why spirits so often work in bands. Some-
times, to mortals, they seem most incongruously associated;
but each unit of the g,roup forms a specific mental or auric
link essential to perfect manifestations. The spirit most closely
associated with the medium is a particularly important link
between the medium and all other communicators to regulate,
modify or clarify the flow ofideas directed towards the medium.
The rest ofthe band act as directive or protective forces. When
254 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
one knows the many conBicting streams of thought that sway
audiences, their utility is obvious. The medium spirit is also
necessary to temper the overwhelming power ofgreatly advanced
intelligences, whose direct control might frustrate their own
desires. The medium spirit may therefore be likened to a lens
which collects and intensifies certain streams of thought, but
which eliminates others. It depends largely upon their ability
whether anything of real evidential value is presented.
It is a curious fact that spirit people more often work along
our lines of prejudice than in direct opposition. It is the line
of least resistance and consonant with their general attitude
of leading rather than compelling. Though our free will seems
to be absolutely submerged during entrancement, it is often
subconsciously active. This fact must always be remembered,
because all phases of mediumship are tinged by its operations.
Subconsciousness is a bulwark against a too ready acceptance of
new ideas and even spirit control cannot force us to receive
ideas that we cannot comprehend or are not ready to utilise.
Foreign languages or particular types of messages merely float
on the stream unnoticed by the medium. But the operations
of subconsciousness help us to understand how and why certain
types of mind literally compel their guides to give teachings
in accordance with cherished ideas. This is especially noticeable
in automatic scripts, because independent minds are better able
to trace causes that escape the actual writer. Nor would it be
wise for spirit controls to contend for more literal interpretation.
It would probably result in failure to get any part of their mes-
sage delivered.
Among sectarians, this aspect can be easily traced. Nuns
and Salvation Army lasses naturally assume that every bright
spirit they see or hear must be Jesus or some well-known saint.
Association of ideas does the rest. Nor does the mistake often
get rectified when they learn the nature of spirit controL
Usually their pride cannot admit the possibility of a mistake,
although it is clearly apparent that much lesser mentalities
could quite easily deliver the exceedingly simple messages they
receive. This type of hypnotic subject gets controlled (?) by
mythical gods, queens, emperors and any notorious character
she has read or heard about. These people are primarily respon-
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 255
sible for the ridicule that Spiritualists receive from people who
do not realise that a1Uto-suggestion merely covers a fraction of
the phenomena. Unfortunately they thrust themselves forward
as authorities-and newspaper reporters, eager for sensations,
give them the prominence they crave.
Subconscious activity also presents other difficulties. When-
ever specific tests are: devised, the medium's own mental inter-
ference is immediately in evidence. The desire to succeed, or
the fear of failure, or criticism, so influences their minds that
organised testing rarely does them justice. In some cases, I
found it wisest to make arrangements with the spirit operators
direct and thus avoided mental interference from the subject.
If you cannot get the! controls to co-operate it is usually waste
of time to experiment. In one case, I found the shock of dis-
covering subconscious action set up such a revulsion of feeling
that all mediumship was suspended for months, although the
medium was above suspicion in every way. Similar results
accrue from unjust charges and suspicions unwisely ventilated.
The reflection upon their honesty immediately causes mediums
to close the very avenues that would prove their case. When
mediums realise that conscious integrity is their best asset,
they will not allow ignorance to affect them, nor think that
every honest inquirer who puts searching questions is ofnecessity
an enemy.
The predominance of the hypercritical faculty in a medium
will effectually preve:nt the emergence of mediumship. It con-
stitutes an antagonistic thought-stream which successfully
resists all telepathic impacts. We can thus understand why
simple faith works apparent marvels, and why the cottage
produces far more reliable mediums than the college or the
palace. This aspect will pass away when mediums learn cor-
rectly to appraise the:ir own mental action in all manifestations
and do not resent the imputation of subconscious action as a
personal affront or condemnation. It is but a provision ofnature,
acting as a buffer against the unwise manipulation of forces
we are not quite ready to utilise, compelling us to assimilate
knowledge slowly. These considerations help us to understand
why the older school of mesmerists occasionally met with such
startling success. The! entranced subject was rendered incapable
256 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
of thinking outside a specified orbit, and therefore concentrated
upon the desired objective more effectually. Mediums who
grasp this principle and inhibit all mental processes that militate
against accuracy will excel by reason oftheir perfect self-control.
The ideal circle would not need spirits of varying grades
in order to produce manifestations. It would vibrate in unison
with the sphere contacted. Alas! the world has no time for
spiritual unfoldment, though it gladly develops psychic powers
if by any hot-house process it can force them into activity.
It is interested in the knowledge acquired, but refuses to march
towards the goal it reveals. The follies of early death, suicide,
vice, slumdom, drugging and everything that keeps man on
a low plane is clearly antagonistic to the teaching received from
living examples of earth's errors who return to enforce the
moral. Mere communication with spirit people will not carry
our souls one step farther along the road of spiritual pro-
gression or usher in the millennium. We must adopt new
slogans and realise that all reforms are religious activities.
We race through life intent upon things that from a spiritual
standpoint matter nothing at all. Not only are earthly gains
and honours unimportant, but they actually constitute an
impediment when used for selfish ends. So much so, that often
those whom the world deems great, awake in the spirit world
naked and ashamed, or clad in the rags which symbolise their
spiritual poverty. There is only one royalty in the spirit world
-the royalty of worth. If scientists would form circles for the
discovery of spiritual verities, and healers and every type of
medium combine for higher development, what heights might
we not attain? I must reiterate that psychic development
without soul culture is but knowledge without spiritual ad-
vancement.
While it is true that all-round development is brst for in-
dividuals, it is equally true that only those who specialise make
any pronounced addition to our scientific advancement.
Change in the form of mediumship indraws new operators
who cannot get so expert as those who deal continually with
one phase. There is a natural desire on the part of mediums
to obtain all types of phenomena, but as auric and mental
qualities cannot be adapted for every phase, the result is a
SE:CR.ETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 257
series of fleeting and somewhat unsatisfactory experiences.
By demanding the impossible, you keep your spirit friends
experimenting, with the result that true progress is hindered.
The wisest course is to seek their advice on all matters ofdevelop-
ment and be slow to dictate what you desire if it opposes their
judgment. Once ha.ving decided which form you are best
fitted to express, pursue it consistently, learn all you can about
it, and second your guides' every effort. Thus and thus only
can you hope to excel.
Y Mediums should be preventcl_from..sitting in p.qglic_circles
until their B_l!ides have s~cient ab-to ~-them. .without
unseenjly Jisplays. llle~mature exhibition given is entirely
misleading. It is bad for the medium, bad for Spiritualism, and
unwise in many ways. Sudden loss of consciousness often
means entire collapse ofthe body, as ifthe medium had suddenly
fainted. If this happe:ns in public, the gaping crowd get quite
a wrong idea ofspirit control. It is lack ofcontrol, not conscious
spirit control, that is tlhus exhibited. Frequently the first intima-
tion one receives of sensitiveness is inability to move a limb,
or the entire body may become rigid as in catalepsy. Some-
times, but by no means always, consciousness is suspended at
the same moment. These phases are not desirable as public
exhibitions. Temperament plays a great part, and tl1e self
-
consciousness of most: people would arouse sufficient resistance
to prevent this happening in public and, if taken unawares,
would certainly stop its recurrence. Unforttmately, tl1ere are
others-lovers of seru;ation-who seek tl1e limelight on every
possible occasion, an.d have tl1us brought continual discredit
upon Spiritualists. Pll}ilic developing circles played a necessary
part in the early day~; of the movement to draw the attention
of a sceptical world, but it is high time this cruJ~ method was
supplanted by a scientifi'Capplication ot the teaching Spiritualists
have-n~w received: lfpublic aev:eloping s~ances are held at all,
tEeyShould merely fibrm me basis from which l.ifely material
may be drafted into properly constituted circles. ~
Do not adopt a strained mental attitude or think you can
ut on or take off religion like a cloak. T tis checks develo -
ent. b.Y~~ilioJdinl~ the semi-ph sica! · me mani-:..--
stauons are pro uce.r.-: ange m meut poise co~~!!ltera- ----
~- 9.
258 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAllSM
tion in the mode of spirit approach and results in spasmodic
mediumship and confusion. Happy naturalness is the keynote
to success and, for this reason, like-minded people get the best
results. The value of hymn-singing lies in the fact that, for the
time being, you refrain from distracting thought and unite
in common desire to help. But even singing must not be over-
done, or exhaustion will ensue from a different cause. Genial
conversation on the purpose of the meeting is a distinct help,
but ifthis becomes too engrossing it sets all your psychic energies
travelling in one direction, and spirit people have no option
but to follow the lines you lay down. It means that you are
indrawing spirits whom your gwdes have no right to eject,
even though they have the power. In all cases, remember that
mental attitudes at a seance have an important bearing upon
results, and make your regulations accordingly.
When sitters are properly selected, and mediums work
well within the healthy exercise of their power, the whole
circle feels exalted and exhilarated. The medium becomes an
object of respect, developing a self-reliant temperament, and
satisfactory phenomena are produced. Compare this ideal with
the weak-willed and capricious specimens, and the value ofwise
conductorship is self-evident. From what has been ~aid, it is
easy to see that a conductor who never loses consciousness is
best fitted to preside at public or semi-public seances. He
should have sufficient experience not to lose h.is head at un-
expected happenings, hut must be sufficiently magnetic to assist
and encourage. By merely holding a medium's hands in his
own, he can often resolve a partial control into a complete
success. The rrincipal danger to guard against, whilst doing
this, is that o rru.king any suggestion affecting the mrdium
hypnotically. At this transition stage, the sensitive may pass
momentarily under the conductor's control and thus auto-
matically oust the SJ.>irit instead ofindrawing one. The effect of
holding a medium s hands inside the ordinary circle intensifies
the power locally. Every electrician knows what is meant
by a "short circwt." This is, in some ways, analogous to
what happens at such moments. A better way is to link up a
friendly and willing medium already under control with the
novice.
SECRETS OF M1IDIUMSIDP 259
The conscious co-operation ofthe more experienced medium's
guides expedites matters considerably. This is espe-:ially notice-
able with coloured controls, but is not advisable in public
meetings owing to the pandemonium that sometimes ensues
which would be wholly misconstrued by investigators. Great
tact is necessary, whatever you do. Mediums sometimes develop
unaccountable antipathies or attractions while abnormal. Never
touch them if they have the slightest objection to your doing
so. If you persist, a permanent antagonism may be aroused
and subconsciously carried over into everyday life.
The fact that only one medium at a time can express the
fullest pitch of his individual capacity has so impressed some
conductors that they arrange for oue sensitive at a time to
be experimented upon. This is effected by placing all sitters
under a bond to refrain from speaking and to resist control
duriug the period allotted to another. As the power to resist
is as valuable as the ability to surrender, the exercise has a bene-
ficial effect. In addition, modest and retiring mediums are uot
thrust into the background by more aggressive temperaments.
It may be introduced into all developing seances as an exercise
on self-coutrol. It compels exuberant spirits to appreciate the
value of the text, "In honour preferring one another." Es-
pecially in public meetings should this rule be adopted.
Conductors must not exhibit their authority unduly. Quiet,
sympathetic firmness is best. Mediums are not only sensitive
to spirit people, they respond even more quickly to the thoughts
and feelings of people in the body. Moreover, in their hyper-
sensitive state, they are apt to imagine grievances where no
offence is intended. Like all true leaders, ideal conductors
are born rather than trained. Their main effort must be directed
towards keeping the audience happy, without permitting minds
to fly off at a tangent or conversation taking a frivolous or per-
sonal channel. But, side by side with this instruction, comes
the apparent contradiction that even a buffoon sometimes has a
distinct value in a seance room. You get constant reminders of
this by noting how the spirit people break up tense, strained
mental attitudes by turning on a sort ofcomic reliefto the more
serious business in hand.
Though concentration is valuable, it easily gets transformed
260 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
into a mental state that defeats its own object by restricting
the output of magnetic force. Conductorship, therefore, re-
quires great tact. In physical seances this fact emerges continually,
and even hilarity within bounds is sometimes encouraged.
The simple expedient of singing a properly memorised hymn
effects the same purpose, but in most cases it is best to follow
the lead set by the invisible operators. Wise conductors always
endeavour to provide teaching to prevent young mediums
relying too much on their spirit friends. Where this training is
neglected there is a tendency to grow up like hot-house plants,
very interesting, but quite incapable of fighting the battle of
life alone. The moral is clear. The mcdiwn of the future must
prepare for his labours exactly as all other workers have to do;
that is to say, the groundwork must be cultivated, for, until
strength of character develops side by side with psychic un-
foldment, ideal mediun1ship is impossible.
~ The ideal conductor for developing circles is a fully developed
medium who refuses to go under control or in other ways "use
up the power" by giving phenomena, but who, at or ncar the
close of the meeting, is able to describe the nature and causes
of tl1e various thoughts and sensatiollS experienced by sitters.
Budding psychics then realise they arc not "inlagining" and
creating hallucinations in mistake for clairvoyance, and the
explanation of what the spirit people are trying to accomplish
helps all parties, and the mediums go confidently forward witl1
their development. By thus remaining quiet during the major
portion of the meeting, the conductor adds his own store of
magnetic force to that required by the guides of developing
mediums, but, in an emergency, is always able to advise
as to the best course to pursue, or get the spirit deople
to do it for him. It is not generally appreciate that
developed mediums absorb all available power while giving
phenomena. By remaining normal, they no..L.only refrain from
drawing .£>ll tl1e Others, but ~Ct11ally Jcndtheir 112,qre_powerful
assistance to the less epenced guides. In mediunislup, the
persoilal equation is waysthe deciding factor. Very few
mediums are willing to sink self in order that omers may step
into their shoes. Nor will sitters always permit tl1em to do
so, because the tediwn of waiting can only be relieved by
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSIDP 26I
"something happening." So, against their own interests, sitters
continually encourage the principal medium to act.
Extreme elasticity must be allowed in the application of all
theories relating to psychic phenomena. We are but groping
our way in the dark. Mediums are in the position ofhypnotised
subjects continually casting about for a new suggestion to follow,
and if you suggest that the subconscious element preponderates
and that they are merely imitating each other, you will promptly
discover that all development will cease. In their alarm, their
own critical analysis and fear will stop it. In the illustrations
that follow, you will see that self-delusion is impossible. You
can but let these half-and-half stages outwork themselves, as
they do if honesty and common sense hold the balance true.
Mediumistic sensations are caused, f.trst, by the temperament
and desires of the controlling spirit impinging upon the auric
sphere of the medium; secondly, by a transmitted auric or
magnetic force used by spirit people, which causes spasmodic
movements in the medium and through which control is
maintained; and, lastly, to reactions from the psychic body
of the visitor. The last-nam~d automatically results from some
physical peculiarity carried over by the psychic duplicate, or is
due to subconscious action on tl1e part of the spirit. Tempera-
ment can be quickly dealt with. One has but to compare the
effect induced by the presence ofa genial, generous soul on any
assembly with the reverse atmosphere created by sour, crabbed
or repulsive natures to understand how quickly and uncon-
sciously we all respond to predominating influences. Now,
imagine these feelings thrust upon us with hypnotic force, and
we obtain some idea of the power and method by which the
thought and temperament of a spirit affects a sensitive during
control.
While in the physical body, the grosser human emanation
of the aura mingles with the finer, but in spirit life, the grosser
having departed, the spirit uses its more etherealised aura. in
association with tl1at of the medium to form a lever to move
ponderable objects or impinge upon the human brain. What
we do ignorantly, they perform consciously, and thus transmute
mental processes into physical effects. Its operations cause the
spasmodic twitchings symptomatic of early development,
-
262 THE UNIVERSITY 0P SPIJUTUALISM
but which rapidly pass away as unfoldment proceeds. The
majority of deep trance subjects, and many who are never
entranced at all, exhibit its effects. It is akin to a galvanic shock
without its unpleasantness or tingling sensation. It is wholly
healthy.
Nearly all muscular twitchings of mediums are due to auto-
matic reactions from the mind or body of the controlling
spirit. On controlling for the first few times physical disabilities
peculiar to the spirit, such as lameness or the causes of death,
are exhibited. These are too automatic in their action to be
consciously induced, though at times they are intentionally
shown. Until the spirit learns to subdue these manifestations
by sheer effort ofwill, apparently painful scenes are continuously
presented time after time without any fuller development.
The understanding of this problem provides a rational reason
why guides impose great restrictions on some spirits and refuse
to let others control at all. It is simply in tl1e interests of the
medium, who might suffer from unpleasant sensations or be
injuriously affected in health afterwards.
It also explains the inexplicable loss of memory that occa-
sionally afflicts controls, and why it is necessary for a spirit
occasionally to leave the auric sphere of his medium when
be desires to gain additional information. It is not that he
suffers from failing memory, but that its clarity is affected
by the denser aura which is an actual impediment to his thinking
clearly. Telepathic impacts from the audience or the desires
of the medium have also to be taken into consideration; but
there are occasions when effects cannot be attributed to the
mental participation of either spirit or mortal. These com-
plexities form the main impediments to clear expressions of
identity.
The spirit reproduces in the medium the sensations ofbanging,
drowning, shooting and other death-states. It is clear that
the spirit does not consciously exhibit his own death-scene.
His continual efforts to overcome this disability prove that fact.
Only after many efforts is this achieved. Later on, when he
learns to control without help from the medium's guides,
and not till then, do undesirable death-scenes and purely physical
reactions cease. Do not confound this type of control with
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSmP 263
the conscious control established by spirits accustomed to the
work. Long continued exhibition of the same death-scene
implies lack of development on the part of the operator or
ignorance ofthe laws ofspirit control, with consequent inability
to overcome automatic reactions.
The solution of many problems in mediwnship will be
found in the analysis ofthe aura and psychic body. I have already
mentioned the elements collecting over the dying body, com-
po~?d of all that lives after its decease. These took shape and
formed a perfect replica of the body from which they emerged.
This duplicate is so perfect that it contains within itself a faint
impress of the cause of death, which induces reactions through
the physical body of the mediwn when the memory of the
spirit visitor re-establishes earthly relationships. Just as our
physical bodies react to mind, so do the elements of which the
psychic organism is composed. These react to the mind of the
spirit through the brain of the medium. All types of death
leave their corresponding impress, which produce manifesta-
tions frequently mistaken for conscious control-the alternative
is that the spirit makes these continuous and extraordinary
demonstrations for the express purpose of proving identity. This
is an obvious absurdity, for one demonstration would be
sufficient for this purpose.
These experiences open up wide fields for speculation.
What exactly does the spirit extract from the physical body
and retain, and what are the consequences to the owner or to the
medium? The answers will supply keys to many apparently
contradictory statements by spirit people, and enable us to
understand the law of psychic gravitation which compels each
to go "to his own place" in the spirit world.
Spirits have actually been known to assert tl1at they suffer
from rheumatism= a ridiculous statement from the standpoint
of other spirits who never felt pain since leaving the body.
But earthbound spirits whose memories chain them to the
past, and who fail to realise the facts of their physical decease,
continually reproduce the illusion exactly as hypnotic subjects
do. In addition, they attract the precise elements which give
shape and form to their surroundings and feelings. As soon
as the spirit realises its powers over the "substance" of which
264 THil UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
its spirit body is composed, the disabilities disappear. Presently,
as he rises morally and intellectually, he, too, will have some
difficulty in remembering that such a state as rheumatism or
lameness ever existed.
Ignorant newcomers to spirit spheres arc all controlled by
tl1eir cnvirownent, but advanced spirits control the elements
that surround them, and by thus utilising the law of magnetic
attraction and repulsion rise superior to their influences. The
auric emanation h;as been termed "magnetic." So it is; but in
a f..'lr wider sense than is generally appreciated. It contains
within itself the polarities which decide spirit location in that
greater life. The spiritual body is more obviously and definitely
related to its "mind field" than before transition. It is because
this "location" is a mental state rather than a place that so
much confusion exists in the minds of unprogressed spirits
equally with mortals.
Drifters in the spirit world are but dreamers unaware of their
release from physical restrictions. They live in a world of their
own creation, and association with a mediun1 is one of the best
methods used by their friends to awaken them to the newer
conditioning. Re:scue circles on both sides of the veil do tllls
consciously, but if the spirit drifts until enmeshed in the aura
of a sensitive ignorant of mediumship, the poor medium is
classed as eccentric or mad. Fortunately, mentality acts with
marvellous rapidity on the psychoplasm of which the spirit
body is composed, and its owner soon learns to stabilise himself
in "the house not made with hands." Mediumship thus serves
the dual purpose of releasing ignorant spirits from their self-
created thraldom and at the same time quickens the psychic
perceptions of sensitives. The association compels the spirit
to review the past and recognise its relationship to tl1e newer
environment.
It is indefensible·logic to assume that only purified clements
drawn from the fleshly garment enter into the composition
of the psychic organism. Everything physical has its ethcric
counterpart. There is no teaclling more consistently given than
that some spirits are "dark" but that others approximate to
brilliant forms oflight. It applies to quality rather than quantity,
but the inference iis clear. It means that some spirit bodies are
SECRETS OF MEDIUMSHIP 265
denser than others, and that density or "darkness" indicates a
limitation of development or power. That the elements of the
spirit body and its auric emanations are controlled by the opera-
tions of thought is equally obvious, because density can be
assumed when they wish to show themselves to mortals, or
descend to lower spheres, or change their apparel or appearances
to assist clairvoyant delineations.
The law of cause and effect is thus seen in operation on
spiritual planes. The drunkard takes with him his craving
for alcohol because he developed the germs of desire in his
physical body. When the purely physical craving ofa drunkard
overpowers reason and he becomes a dipsomaniac, it cannot be
said that the man is master ofhis body. But ifa hynotist appeals
to his subconsciousness, the ego may put up a sufficiently
strenuous fight to regain the mastery. This condition has its
parallels in spirit life. Thought accretes material which actualises
itself as in a dream and the dreamers in spirit life are, for the
time being, controlled by an environment oftheir own creation.
As they slowly wake to the fact that they are responsible for
this conditioning. tl1e scen~e changes and their mental effect
upon sensitiveness changes in like ratio. The action of spirit
control, after they have sunk to a degraded condition, is
equivalent to arousing a hypnotic subject to normality. With
repeated control, tl1e individual submerged by earthly con-
ditioning recovers himselflike a hypnotic subject from hypnosis.
The death-scenes gradually cease and definitely conscious
control begins.
Analyse the foregoing sufficiently and you will discover a
greater incentive to self-control than scores of sermons could
supply. But, at tlus point, we must be careful to distinguish
between "desire" bodies and the results of accident or disease.
Germs of disease would excite nothing but loathing. Nor
would broken limbs and other causes of death excite anything
but repulsion. Tlus thought acts as an eliminator to the psychic
body, and though the sears due to earili's vicissitudes may,
under the impulse of memory, be galv:uused into momentary
life while controlling a medium, tl1ese would not in any way
indicate the spirit's real and permanent state. The fleeting
memory does but serve a useful purpose, by causing mediumistic
266 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
reaction proving identity, and then retires into subconsciousness,
forever to remind us of the ladder we have climbed. The
development ofmediumship is thus assisted and at the same time
operators learn consciously to disperse the elements which en-
chain them to undesirable planes. That they leave no bad effect
upon the medium is due to the watchful care of guardian
angels who surround their instruments with counteracting
forces. The most valuable of these I believe to be the coloured
friends who have earned the name of "doorkeepers."
On the other hand, it emphasises the necessity for mediums
to lead clean, wholesome lives, both mentally and physically,
so that they may not attract or retain in their surroundings
undesirables from spirit lands. It is only after long experience
that mediums learn to guard against interruptions. On both
sides of the veil, communicators quite innocently interfere.
Planes of consciousness separate spirit people just as definitely
as brick walls separate physical bodies. The idea that the spirit
world is a sort of operating theatre where everybody is in sight
of everybody else, needs only a moment's thought to dismiss
it completely. Not all being in sight of each other means that
more than one operator may be transmitting thought at the
same time. The same difficulty applies to telepathy from the
audience. The spirit guides of developed mediums partly
overcome this difficulty by interposing a medium spirit who
stands between the medium and this fluctuating thought-
atmosphere to regulate and transmit the messages. So deftly
is this work accomplished that we cannot always detect it.
It also has the additional value of opening a pathway to
higher spheres which the tmaided soul cannot otherwise
visualise.
The auric influence of controls upon sensitives emphasises
the need for spirit guides, whose mere presence imparts vitality
to depleted sensitives. The principal work of these "door-
keepers" concerns the health of the medium and prepares the
way for other controls; though the mentality of our coloured
friends often leaves nothing to be desired in the way of mental
acumen. Their presence keeps off intruders whose attempted
control might reduce the medium to a bundle of nervous
irritability. Quite unintentionally, this effect might be induced
SECRETS OF MBDIUMSHIP 267
by contact with weakly psychic organisms or mentalities which
leave an undesirable mental or physical impress behind. I
have quite failed to discover any other explanation for the health-
ful and buoyant feeLings induced by coloured controls than
that they naturally exhale a vital force which is transferred to
their mediums. The! usual explanation is that having lived
closer to nature and free from the white man's debilitating drugs
and anremia-producintg habits, their auras reflect the results .
of their earthly vitality and, their temperament being entirely
different from ours, causes the medium to feel both mentally
and physically refreshed. This does not apply to the modem
degenerate ruined both physically and mentally by the intro-
duction ofcivilisation in the shape ofrum, gun-powder and evils
consequent upon the industrial processes like miners' phthisis
or restriction to compounds. ·
1
\The will is the vital factor both in opening or closing the
"door" to spirit control, but the last control at a meeting
usually leaves a more permanent after-effect than those who
precede. This proves the wisdom ofthose guides who definitely
select healthy, simple-minded companions habitually to
associate with their mediums so that their happy influence may
restore and maintain. mental equilibrium, no matter how
distressing the previous controls may have been. A moment
under their personal control at the end of a seance effects this
_
purpose, and the "do,or" is firmly closed against all intruders.
The alternative to this specific co-operation is plainly evidenced
among those sensitives who ignore the voice of experience or
submit to irregular controf:ff"alf1i0iirs(:)r1 ..
mder unsuitable
conditioru:--Tileitmeaiumshtp 1Srarely reliable and their lack
of self-control is s4.,own in twitchil}g nerves and muscles.
These'mannerisms sh~ b~..checked They are often due
to subcot!S&Us acfion or the foolish notion that mediums
never utter a word without assistance from their guides. The
mannerisms are occasionally excusable and are due to the
intimate association <ef the "doorkeeper" spirits with the
medium. There is frequently a duality of expression, because
they literally live within the auric sphere of the sensitive and
thus form part of their mental processes. Being continually
in contact, their thoughts commingle. They thus become
268 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
a permanent factor in the life of the medium, who must learn
to "control the controls" by and through the same laws that
they control him.
The auric "mind field" is common ground to both spirit
and mortal. Each uses the same cords of communication.
Mediums will thus understand that their own personal desires
sometimes have the effect of a command upon those children
ofnature who quite naturally do everything they can to forward
the medium's interests. This interplay of thought is clearly
perceived by those who watch mediums. We can tell im-
mediately which spirit is endeavouring to cike control, because
all unconsciously the medium adopts their tricks of manner
long before actual control is established. Later on, the merging
is so definite that the twain practically become one mentality.
From tllis power to influence controls has arisen the Theosophi
.·c
notion that mediums control elementary forces. The medium
who is controlled by tl1e right type of guides will quickly
discover that they have independent volition of their own
and will forcibly remonstrate with their mediums if occasion
demands.
With white-skinned people, decorum is unfortunately
interpreted in terms ofstiff-necked, silent reserve which wholly
nlisconstrues the exhilarating movements and vociferous inter-
jections that sometimes accompany the initial stages ofdevelop-
ment by tills type of control. Igno~ce and fear, comb.incd
with a stu£idly stilted unnatur~ess ~everence, often
resent the" iiiiiiifestation;"'~e valuable co-o~ of these
useful adjuncts to the seance room is rejected in consequence.
, The further result is enfeeblement of the phenomena and
~ lessened vitality in the medium. In some respects, the ethical
...)
, 71' standards ofcoloured folk are superior to our own. Th,e.YJ21ow
~. notlllng_of the C40.1;. and h,YEocrisy_~erm~tes civilisatiQn,
, \/ bufthcy need assistance from our mental and scielitific attain-
ments. They quite fail to sec the need for polite evasions or
deceitful phrases, and are, therefore, out of place in many
·ifl drawing-rooms, but they choose tills field of work in order to
advance their education in return for service loyally rendered.
Oftti'!!_e~ they adg a w_erldly ~n~surprises and shan:!g_s
us, and in considering'Clifterent ethical standards "We must
?~
SECRliTS OF MliDIUMSHlP
remember that values are appraised differently by different
nationalities and tl1at these characteristics carry over into ilie
spirit world where time is a negligible factor and motives are
more consistently expressed.
The day when spirits were regarded as devils to be feared
or gods to be placated has long since passed away, but recognition
of ilieir hwnan qualiti•es emphasises ilieir need as well as ilieir
utility. In ilie past, they were mistakenly endowed with omni-
potence. The real fact is iliat iliey often require our help as
much as we do ilieirs. Tllis is peculiarly applicable to coloured
controls. They require teaching. Ifyou desire their help, surely
it is not too much trouble to teach iliem your language so iliat
co-operation may be perfected. Upon sitters, even more than
tl1e medium, does ilie duty fall ofeducating iliose who are,laced
in our care and ilius pr•event iliem offending the canons o good
taste. I have always fc:>und coloured spirit people amenable to
reason. If their mannerisms are objected to, iliey do ilieir work
silently and unobtrt~sively; but l..!?_~e ilicir more intimate
association is in ilie best interests of all. If the control exhibits
a tendency to n01sy voluoilicy. or physical exercises that are
objected to, ilie conductor should lay one hand on ilie forehead
and ilie other at ilie base of ilie brain and firmly but quietly
state ilie reason for desiring them to desist. They will usually
comply immediately. But it is far wiser, usually, not to inter-
fere at all. Noise andl exercise are not "wicked," but if they
terrify tinlid souls quieter meiliods must be enforced.
The coldness and formality demanded by psychical re-
searchers are responsible for a great number of their abortive
seances. Formality and suspicion on ilie part of either medium
or sitter prevent phenomena, because the mental atmosphere
checks auric vibrations at the start. But a medium's deternlina-
tion to succeed under all circumstances sometimes overcomes
difficulties in the most: w1expected fasllion. We thus discover
tllat ilie ~d of ilie medium is ilie prime factor aft<:::._
all. Con-
ditions af~e E<!liCv'ecltot>ees~rntJal are now found to
be of secondary importance. Intense religious atmospheres
are now abandoned in private meetings. Clairvoyance is given
in electrically lighted worns, and materialisation is photographed
by flashlight. These wings were at one time deemed impossible,
270 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
but are now successfully achieved after persistent effort and
co-operation with the invisible operators.
The whims of mediums must be respected. Try them out
and judge by results. Unless their fears are overcome and
their minds quiescent, satisfactory phenomena are rarely ob-
tained. The personal factor is not peculiar to the medium alone.
All sitters should realise their own telepathic effect. As spirit
control is a purely mental operation, it follows that the thoughts
of interested participants also have an effect. The auric mind-
field is open to impacts from all who are within its sphere.
Thus it is that every thought, speech, action, state of health or
disease in the sitters help to make or mar the manifestations.
CHAPTER XVI
haND OVER MATTER
IN order to trace the history of psychic manifestations, we
must compare such evidence as exists today with the records
of the past. Unfortunately, religious systems have deteriorated
so enormously from the precepts and practices oftheir founders
that the majority of explanations by modern devotees are posi-
tively misleading. But in such survivals as the yogi, fakir
and dervish we get glin1pses ofprimitive psychic manifestations
which can be interpreted by modern experience. Their relation-
ship to prehistoric rites and ceremonies, medicine men with
charms, tom-toms or amulets to frighten or propitiate the gods,
can also be traced. In tlus short summary I shall not differentiate
between tl1e yogi, fakir or dervish, as it is only the phenomenal
experiences common to all that for the moment interest psychical
research. The following extract from tl1e "Encyclopredia
Britannica" is therefore pertinent to our study:
" 'Dervish,' a Persian word meaning 'seeking doors,' literally
'a beggar.' This is equivalent to the Arabic 'faquir' (fakir).
Generally in Islam it indicates more exactly a wandering religious
(person). The origin and history of the mystical life in Islam
which led to tl1e growth of the order of dervishes, is dealt with
under Sufi-ism.... In esctasy they cut themselves with knives,
eat live coals and glass, handle red-hot iron and devour serpents.
They profess miraculous powers ofhealing, and the head of the
Sadites, a sub-order, used to ride over the bodies ofhis dervishes
without hurting them. . . . These different abilities are strictly
regulated ... thus one sub-order may only eat glass and another
only eat serpents." (These are explainable as phases of medium-
ship. What would be easy to one would be quite impossible to
another.)
"The Sennusi (Sennusia) were the last order' to appear.
Candidates for admission have to pass through a novitiate
more or less lengthy. First comes the 'Ahd' or initial covenant,
7.71
272 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
in which the neophyte repents ofhis past sins and takes the sheik
of his order as his guide for the future. He then enters upon a
course of instruction or discipline called 'the path,' on which
he advances throug;h diverse stations or passes of the spiritual
life.... It is plain that the sheik, along with ordinary instruction
of the novices, also hypnotises him, and causes him to see a
series of visions ma:rking his penetration of the divine mystery.
The part played hy hypnosis, consciously or unconsciously,
cannot be overestimated." (Materialism classes nearly all
psychic phenomena. tmder this head, so readers must separate
the purely hypnotic from the psychical.)
"One order commands its novice to labour as a servitor for
one thousand and one days before he can be received. For
one day's failure he must begin at the beginning all over again."
(Contrast this appre:nticeship-designed for the obvious purpose
of selecting reliable mediums from the non-mediumistic, and
defmitely training them-with the haphazard processe5 common
among Spiritualists, and the reason why we cannot more
consistently produce phenomenal evidences will be apparent.)
"The word 'fakir' has come to be applied specifically to tl1e
Hindoo devotees an.d ascetics oflndia. The tortures which some
inflict upon tl1emsellves is almost incredible. They will hold up
their atms over tl1eiir heads tmtil the muscles atrophy: will keep
their fists clenched till the nails grow tluough tl1e palms: will
lie on beds of nails, cut and stab memselves, drag, week after
week, enormous chains loaded with masses of iron, or hang
memselves before a fire near enough to scorch. Most of the
mendicant orders are inexpressibly filmy and verminous. The
natives do not respect mese wandering friars, but dread tlleir
curses. Just as Chr~;tian churches absorbed much of tile mytho-
logies of heatl1en religions ... so Islam (also Buddhism and all
other systems), to an even higher degree, has been overlaid
and almost buried by the superstitions of the people to whom
it has gone. The worship of saints, therefore, has appeared
everywhere in Islam witl1 an absolute belief in their miracles
and in their interces;sion, living or dead."
The foregoing tmfavourable criticism must not prevent
students from recognising me motive behind tile crude training
designed by yogis to gain complete mastery over the physical
MIND OVER MATTER 273
body. All yoga training is arranged with the specific object
of making the spirit absolute master under all circumstances.
Not until they can live "without regret and without desire"
will their goal, nirvana, be attained with freedom from rebirths.
Nirvana literally means absorption into Deity, and is the
equivalent of the 'Christian heaven. If the point is grasped,
"that neophytes have to repent of their past sins," it will do
much to extinguish the bigotry that prevents opposing re-
ligionists fraternising. Just what parts of yogi phenomena may
be attributed to suggestion, or to actual spirit manifestations,
experience alone can decide.
How do fakirs accomplish their "miracles"? In 1927 I wit-
nessed an exhibition by Tahra Bey, an Indian fakir, who visited
London for the express purpose of proving his claim to the
medical world. In 1929, he repeated his experiments in a French
theatre under similar conditions. About a hundred surgeons
and physicians formed an examining committee and sat upon
the stage supervising every action. Tahra Bey submitted to
medical examination before and after stabbing himsel£ He
inflicted wounds that under ordinary circumstances would
have caused serious injury or actual death. He inhibited the
flow of blood or could make it flow to order. He jabbed two
eight-inch bonnet pins through both cheeks, where they re-
mained as a preliminary to thrusting a knife through his neck
behind the windpipe. The ends of the bonnet pins, the handle
and long end ofthe knife blade, could be easily seen all over the
theatre, protruding through the flesh. In this condition, he
paraded among the surgeons for inspection. Not a drop of
blood flowed, nor did any medical man suggest there was any
fraud or illusion about the matter.
These points must be remembered, because sceptics all over
the country aver that it could not have happened, or if it ap-
parently did, then collective hallucination must have robbed
the entire audience (about two thousand) of their ordinary
powers of observation. Tllis theory, like most arguments of
this type, is more wonderful than the actual fact. Talua Bey
claimed that his unaided will-power produced the result. He
was apparently unhurt. He afterwards submitted to being
buried alive. His nostrils and ears were plugged with wool
274 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
to prevent sand entering. He was then placed in a coffin and
completely smothered with sand. The coffin lid was fastened,
and the whole buried under more sand with a sailcloth over it,
on which more sand was placed thoroughly to exclude the
air. He must have ceased breathing for over fifteen minutes,
but beyond loolcing somewhat exhausted after his release, he
seemed none the worse for his experience. The intervals were
varied by reading scaled envelopes or replying to the questions
they contained. Ordinary mediumship was childish in com-
parison with the wonderful directness ofthe readings. Even the
winner of the Derby was predicted, at which he protested that
his questioner had disobeyed his specific request that no questions
concerning money or betting were to be asked.
Newspapers illustrated the scene and wrote graphic accounts.
And what was the result of all this activity? As soon as
the nine days' wonder passed away, it was dropped into the
limbo of obscurity and its valuable implications ignored. Cases
are on record of fakirs being buried alive with military
guards set over the grave for more than a week. Recorders of
these incidents are met with such a gaffaw of incredulity that
they soon decide to remain silent lest their sanity be called into
question. As with psychic phenomena in general, a cowardly
conspiracy of silence or a malevolent attack obscures the actual
truth. The world is frankly puzzled, but prefers ignorance rather
than follow clues which upset cherished ideas. Similar hypnotic
and psychic exhibitions were originally associated with religious
rites and ceremonies. At first they would be exhibited to over-
awe the unbeliever, or confirm the faith of the neophyte. Later,
they formed the basis ofreligious systems which soon dispensed
with inconvenient prophets, and, with their passing, a gradual
disbelief in spiritual agencies follows and the worship of priests
and ceremonies or gross superstition begins.
All real fakirs, yogis and mediums are living illustrations
that psychic powers are inherent in the individual and are not
the property of any particular system or church. It is for this
reason that Orthodoxy "stones the prophets," who rise superior
to the vested interests of their day and are therefore removed.
Then follows the stereotyping of creeds, and blind faith super-
sedes knowledge. "The people perish where there is no open
MIND OVER MAITER 275
vision; for the letter killeth but the spirit giveth life." Roman
Catholicism claims apostolic descent, and therefore ought to
possess the gifts of the spirit outlined in the twelfth, thirteenth
and fourteenth chapters of Corinthians I, but, alas, if the seers
were not Roman Catholics, the Church bumed them; and if
they did happen to be Roman Catholics, then the Church
waited till the body was dead and then worshipped them as
saints.
I drew my illustration of the degraded type of yogi from
the "Encyclopcedia Britannica." From the same authority
I cull the true meaning ofthe word. "Yogi: A Hindoo religious
ascetic. The word 'yogi' means one who practises yoga with
the object of uniting his soul to the divine Spirit. This union,
when accomplished by the individual soul, must enhance its
susceptibilities and powers, and so the yogis claim a far-reaching
knowledge of the secrets of nature and extensive sway over
men and natural phenomena. The most usual manifestation
of this power is a state of ecstasy of the nature ofhypnotism."
Once again the student will note the application of the word
"hypnotism" to all phenomena materialism cannot otherwise
explain. All psychic experiences are calmly swept away by the
use of this word, although, until comparatively recent times,
hypnotism itselfwas denied. In effect, it assumes that all mental
and psychic powers are attributes of the grey matter of the
brain. How absurdly inadequate this is to explain the vast
variety of psychic experience every experimentalist knows.
From a summary of the true yoga philosophy, by the Swami
Vivekananda, I extract the following, with which most
Spiritualists will agree: "Each soul is potentially divine. The
goal is to manifest this divinity within, by controlling our
entire being. This is the whole of religion. Dogmas, doctrines,
rituals, books, temples or forms are but secondary details.
"The science of yoga declares that man is but a conduit for
the infinite ocean of knowledge and power. It teaches that
desires and wants arc within man and that the power to supply
those wants is also within him. That whensoever a want, desire,
or prayer is fulfilled, it is out of this infinite magazine that the
supply comes, and not from any supernatural being. The
practice ofraja yoga leads to the more subtle perceptions which
(
276 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
enable him to draw upon this store. The power ofconcentration,
properly guided, will analyse the mind in order to understand
its own nature and powers. The study is long and needs constant
practice of the physical and mental means to the end. With
the majority, it is the body that controls the mind. To counter-
mand tllis, we take certain steps which help, and when tl1e body
is sufficiently controlled, we attempt the manipulation of the
mind to subordinate both.
"Anything iliat is secret or mysterious in yoga teaching
should be rejected. All mystery-mongering weakens the brain,
and its introduction has well-nigh destroyed the philosophy.
Mind is an instrument in the hands of the soul. It has the re-
flective power oflooking backwards into its own depths. Cer-
tain regulations as to food are necessary. We must use the food
that brings us the purest mind. The food is found in fruits
and cereals. Fasting is enforced by some yogis butnot demanded
by others. The would-be yogi must avoid the two ex'tremes of
asceticism and luxury.
"Raja yoga is divided into eight steps. The first commands
non-killing, truilifulness, non-stealing, continence, and refusal
of all material gifts. The next compels cleanliness, contentment,
mortification, study, and entire surrender of ilie self to God.
Then follows 'posture,' which includes concentration, medita-
tion, and exercises inducing super-consciousness. Without
the moral training as ilie basis, all practices are useless. A yogi
must not tlllnk of injuring anyone by iliought, word, or deed.
This applies to animals also. The step called 'posture' includes
a series of exercises which have to be practised, both physical
and mental, until certain lligher stages are reached. Nerve
currents have to be displaced and given a new channel. The
following are illustrations. The main part of the action will
lie along the spinal column, therefore hold it free, sitting erect,
holding the head, neck, and chest in a straight line. Visualise
a stream of life passing into each nostril alternately with every
breath you draw. It passes down one side of ilie spine and up
tl1e other.
"Hatha yoga specialises in physical development. It establishes
perfect control over ilie organs. The heart can be made to stop
or act at will. Every organ in tl1e body is controlled in the
MIND OVER MATTER 277
same way. Yogis claim to live easily to the age of one hundred
and fifty, while remaining quite young and fresh. One of their
practices is to drink cold water through the nostrils each day.
It is said to cure headaches, keep the brain cool, and permanently
cure colds. It is easy to draw water up the nose by making a
pump action with the throat. . . . After the nerves are purified,
the control ofthe vital forces is assisted by the following practice.
Stop the right nostril with the thumb, draw air up the left to
your fullest capacity, then, without any interval whatever,
expel the air through the right nostril by closing the left. Then
reverse the process by inhaling through the right and ejecting
through the left alternately. Mentalise the passing of air down
the spine on one side and up the other while exercising. Practise
on rising and retiring to rest, and twice at regular intervals
during the day."
After a few months' constant practice, the Swami Vivekananda
assures us, the power to read other peoples' thoughts develops.
Another practice is to concentrate one's mind on the tip of the
nose. This is said to develop tl1e creation of the most delicious
perfumes; but I must warn students that hypnotic practice
proves that if you expect a bad smell instead of a perfume, the
intensity of your concentration would produce thathallucination
instead. The exercise in no way proves control ofsurrounding
elements, but that the mind can conjure up an infinite variety
of sensations. In making this statement we must tread~warily,
because we dare not set limitations upon the creative{powers
of the mind. The fact should be tested by noting whether non-
expectant persons also smell the perfume, or if articles in the
vicinity are impregnated. I have had experience of spirit per-
fumes distinctly recognised by people in different parts of the
house who spontaneously asked each:other if they were aware
of them. But in these cases they arc probably produced by a
knowledge of chemistry or other laws under the control of a
spirit rather than sheer thought-precipitation. '
In India, children are caught they must not eat until after
they have practised, with the result that they do not actually
feel hungry until they have completed their exercises. This
illustrates the power of the mind over d1e body similar to that
cultivated by fasting men who actuallyfast for forty days without
278 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPlRITUAUSM
injury. Continual practice by yogis produces ascendency of
the mind over the body, because with physical exercises the mind
is at the same time directed into specific channels, thus arousing
psychic powers in addition. In occult literature you will often
come across the word "prana," which is usually thought to
mean "breath." This quite fails to convey the yogi meaning.
It covers a wide range ofpsychic knowledge, including physical
development with moral training. In a small way, Spiritualists
have started this training in their Lyceums, where children are
taught that nobility ofcharacter with correct exercises produces
an erect carriage; but that mean, ignoble thoughts carve
corresponding furrows on the face.
Developing mediums should incorporate as many practices
of the true yogi as possible. In a measure, they are already
practised. But the usual slipshod methods of mediumistic
development must give place to systematic routine before
marked improvement in mediumship will be apparent. An
excellent routine would begin with bathing on arising, followed
by dumbbell exercises in the open air and the practice ofcontrol-
ling the breath; always remembering that exercises do not assist
psychic development unless accompanied by suitable aspirations.
Then, light, easily digested foods and the application of your
ideals during the day, with swimming, diving, singing, and
every other exercise that compels control of the breath and
development of the body or mind would soon enable the
ordinary medium to outstrip the yogi, because the knowledge
of the west would be added to the powers ofthe east. Western
modes of thought and activities interfere seriously with the
incessant practice customary in the east; but ifthe above routine
were followed, many medi,urns would soon become first-class
yogis. The degraded fakir and yogi accentuates physical exercises
and subordination of the body to the point of hallucination and
the exclusion of psychic realities. Or, in the search for an easy
livelihood, he descends to the level of the fortune-telling gipsies
or mediums who see nothing sacred in their gifts. But it is
obvious that there is no reason whatever why the modem
medium should not excel even the most wonderful yogi.
The essential point of difference between Spiritualism and
yoga is that yogis claim to create a thought-body and travel
.MIND OVER MATI'RR 279
in it, and in that condition, w1aided, do all that mediwns claim
is done for them by ,discarnate intelligences, whom the yogi
rarely recognises. Yoga has evolved along the same lines as
powers exercised by m•edicine men over their tribes, and empha-
sises the need for idealism as an adjW1ct to psychic development,
with a closer study ofscience in relation to nature's phenomena.
Without these, the sa~vage remains an ignorant savage still,
notwithstanding his psychic powers. Mediumship, properly
understood by our army leaders, would have supplied them
with the solution to a problem that often baffied them in
W1civilised countries. :Frequently their coming was anticipated
in a most extraordinary fashion. They therefore credited the
natives with marvellous means of gathering information,
assisted by fast runners without parallel. But the mystery ever
remained. Ability to travel "in the spirit" or a "thought-body"
is the solution. Travelling in the spirit proves how and why
spirit people are limited in their efforts to make us realise their
presence.
Without the aid of both scientific and religious idealism,
spirit sight and powe1rs are limited to phases of their own
existence. On the lower planes, psychic powers appeal strongly
to superstitious ignorance, with consequent degradation. This
is illustrated by degraded fakirs and brutalised gipsies, and still
worse forms ofvoodooism and witchcraft. Aspiration is essential
to enable one to contact the higher spiritual powers.
This condition is re:ached automatically by those who add
culture to their magic and thus rise in the scale of intellectual
life. We find these in the lineal descendants of Zoroaster,
called Parsees today. They are respected for their piety the world
over and are as cultured as they are pious. They are miscalled
"sW1-worshippers" because they recognise the SW1 as the most
fitting symbol of the "Lord ofLife." .But, as with Christianity,
their magic has become a mere ceremonial, with all esoteric
meanings lost in dim antiquity.
Like primitive Chris1tianity, yogaism is utterly impracticable
without renoW1cing modern commercialism and selfish indi-
vidualism. Psychic perception is essential correctly to appraise
eastern mysticism. F•or centuries past, occultists claimed a
knowledge of yoga, but their teaching was so interwoven
280 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
with folk-lore and superstition that it was a positive hindrance
to the scientific analysis of psychic phenomena. In addition
to the numerous minor devils peculiar to Eastern mythology,
Christianity supplied occultists with a prince of devils, who
could be waved aside by making the sign of the cross. The
sign of the cross thus becomes a form which not only protects
inquisitive people from Satan while peering into forbidden
realms, but gives its users control over all the lesser devils.
This, with various adaptations, will be found in the formula:
of most secret occult societies. Mystics like Rudolph Steiner
add to the confusion by mixing with it a large amount of sub-
conscious material mistaken for true psychic perception. The
distinguishing feature of all these cults is their "superiority."
They must be accepted on the mere ipse dixit ofthe seer or master.
Utterly unsupported assertions with an assumption of super-
iority are the distinguishing features of them all. Ignorant
opposition to mediurnship is the result.
CHAPTERXVU
THE PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION
WITH the advent of modern Spiritualism, occultists of
various types emerged from their hiding-places to attack
the common enemy. They particularly objected to the analysis
of mental states which separates subconscious activity from ex-
ternal mentalities, while recognising the operations of both.
Ther found their preserves invaded, their adepts reduced to the
!eve of ordinary mediums, and cherished "secrets" broadcast
and explained. Led by Madame Blavatsky, they retaliated by
threatening all mediums-not developed by their "adepts"-
with vampirism, and loudly/roclaimed that all Spiritualists
were liable to become obsesse by spook shells and elementals.
Spiritualists laughed at them, and continue laughing, because
many have been raised from beds ofsickness by the very powers
who were supposed to be contemplating their destruction.
But the lie has had a long start, and can only be defeated by
continual repudiation. Madame Blavatsky's writings form
the main source of information accepted by her followers.
The "adepts" affect a lofty intellectualism which resents
critical analysis, and prevents truth emerging. They profess
to despise the "simple" explanations of Spiritualism, and quite
fail to grasp the significant fact that truth is wonderfully simple,
although simply wonderful. Their chief claim to intellectuality
arises from memorising eastern words and phrases, which,
without a knowledge of mediurnship to interpret them, are
simply empty jargon. They massed their forces under the
banner of the Theosophical Society; but time is wreaking its
revenge. Many mediums, in the hope oflearning more perfect
methods of development, joined their lodges and speedily
pricked the bubble ofinflated ignorance. Their association left
a distinctive mark upon the more progressive minds, and
many Theosophists, like Mrs. Besant, have said that good as
well as bad influences "may" at times communicate. Occultists
281 10
282 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
unite to "damn with faint praise" all mediumship that they do
not personally develop. As in the Church of Rome, the ex-
ception arises when a psychic experience falls to the lot of one
of their own followers. Then, as in the case of Madame
Blavatsky, or the saints, it is not mediumship, but something
mysterious and far more wonderful. Their fulminations on the
"dangers" of mediumship, on examination, are folllld to be
childishly imaginative. Once the mind realises its own creative
powers and knows that it can build up phantasms with which
primitive man scared himself, all occult terrors fade away.
The most casual study of hypnotism clarifies the issue because
the inquirer knows that his mental attitude, plus psychic adapta-
bility, accow1ts for all phenomena, both in the seance room
and occultism. Secret societies have a knack of discovering
one another. An interchange of "secrets" naturally follows. In
this way Freemasonry has been laid under tribute, but each
group differs from its kindred in the special emphasis and value
attached to the symbols used. Many seem to make a compOtmd
of all the superstitions they can collect, and weird and fantastic
are the only words that adequately describe many "occult"
ceremonies. He who would invoke the uncanny forces first
draws a circle around llinlself to keep at a (mental) distance
powers he is obviously afraid of. In the circle, and around it,
are his cabalistic signs. The magical formula is then pronounced
-usually a meaningless word like "abracadabra"- intermixed
with jargon modernised to suit the mentality of the audience.
Sometimes a slight measure of psychic power possessed by one
of the members lends colour to the theory adopted, but usually
the most appalling ignoraiJ.ce of elementary mediumship and
auto-suggestion is exhibited. Secrecy and mysticism are
prolific breeding-grounds for fear and terrorism, and it is here
that harpies, blackmailers and dogmatisers find fullest ex-
pression.
The creation of a reincarnated Jesus in the person of Krish-
namurti-after considerable training-and the rise of a new
priesthood with irmer (esoteric) and outer (exoteric) rules and
regulations was but the natural outcome. The same gaudy show
that attracts Roman Catholics was imitated in order that the
same result ofkeeping the masses (exoteric section) in ignorance
THE PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION 283
follows. But when Krishnamurti went on strike, this house of
cards fell. --:.
Against secrecy of all kinds, Spiritualism wages incessmt
warfare. Science is a better leader than slavish fear, even though
for the moment orthodox scientists may be our antagonists.
Mankind has an inherent tendency to accept loudly asserted
authority, but Spiritualists consistently refuse to accept the fables
of occultists in place of ascertained fact. By proving the much-
vaunted dangers to be non-existent, psychical research has
cleared the way for rational communication between the two
worlds. The mental imagery on which fears were based has
been scientifically demolished and spirit communion rescued
from obloquy and oblivion. This in turn has destroyed the idea
that the soul at death splits up into sections with neither the
will nor the ability to communicate with earth peoples.
Spiritualists fmd themselves co-operating witl1 wise and loving
counsellors only, and never see or hear ofthe weird speculations
called spook shells or elementals whom occultists presume
to control. We leam, instead, that in the spirit realms purity
of thought and desire to help are greater powers than academic
teaciling; that the higher mentalities control the lower, and we
have no wish, even ifit were remotely possible, to ally ourselves
to states ofconsciousness so degrading as projecting, building or
controlling vicious elemental forces.
Occultism was presumably driven underground by the fearful
persecutionsofRome inthe DarkAges, when all natural psychics
were burned or tortured by the "Holy" Inquisition as wizards
or witches. They crushed the message-bearers and prevented
the manifestations of ilie holy "comforters" promised by Jesus,
and in addition produced the very wizardry they so much feared.
For when natural faculties may only be exercised in secret, tl1ey
tend to become distorted and perverted. Abuse railier than
right use always results. One has but to listen to ilie assumptions
of Theosophists when talking about mediumship to realise the
utterly ridiculous depths to which dogmatic assertion can fall.
If you do not believe in reincarnation, you are plainly told
you are an w1evolved soul, and therefore cannot develop psychic
power, and for nearly a century there have been stories of
vampires battening upon unsuspecting mcdiwns and wreaking
\
284 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
untold misery. Unfortunately for the theory, mediums prove
to be a healthier class of people than any others, and make
health their special study in order to develop sane mediumship.
So we arc unmoved by the constant repetition of threats. Ex-
perience is the best teacher. But it is necessary to repeat these
statements over and over again, because the lie has had a long
start, and Madame Blavatsky is still the main authority for
statements that are quoted.
A Theosophic leader was asked at our study group who
or what it was that mediums saw when they described spirit
people whose separate individuality they are able to prove in
many ways. The medium who put the question was gravely
told that her spirit guides were probably her own individuality
masquerading under four different personalities. In other
words, her spirit guides were all lying one against the other,
although the medium is normally a most truthful person. This
type ofpresent-day Theosophist has quite innocently swallowed
"Blavatskyism" with the same unthinking credulity that accepts
creedalism at a mother's knee. Many are confused by the
teaching that, after death, man divides up into sections, and that
the mental portion gets far away from all earthly considerations,
while the astral counterpart of the physical slowly disintegrates,
and the section that clairvoyants see is an etheric shell that flits
about graveyards or bobs up at seance rooms until in time it
also disintegrates. Neither the astral nor etheric portions have
any consciousness of their own, and are said to squeeze some
semblance of consciousness out of mediums. Theosophists
thus endow the unconscious with greater power than the
conscious, and grotesquely exaggerate all theories of sub-
conscious activity, rather than accept spirit control. Only a
mahatma-a man still living in a physical body with his seven
vehicles (bodies) intact-could perform the miracles of the
seance room. Many occult theories revolve around this idea.
Their other dilemma hinges on the doctrine of reincarnation.
Many Theosophists readily accept the statements of any spirit
who teaches reincarnation, but repudiate all others. The doctrine
of reincarnation conduces to obsession, because its believers
cling tenaciously to the idea that the earth is their future dwelling-
place. They thus mentally chain themselves to it in their hunt
THE PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION 285
for a human body to possess. They regard the earth as the only
place where full consciousness is expressed, because each section
of the seven bodies at death is helieved to take a portion of the
mentality with it, and never reincarnates with its previous
sections.
Occultists are split up into numerous antagonistic groups,
but unite to attack Spiritualism. What Spence's "Encyclopredia
ofOccultism" thinks about Madame Blavatsky may be gathered
from the following extract: "She was well known in America
as a Spiritualistic medium." {I pause at tllis point to emphasise
a fact persistently denied by her followers.) "Madame Blavatsky
was the daughter of a Russian colonel. She twice entered
Thibet, and, finding it exceedingly difficult and dangerous to
do so, probably decided her to adopt it as the home of the
mahatmas or great masters. These were presumed to be gigantic
intellects who have mastered the yoga philosophy and are able
to leave their bodies at will. The idea was exploded when ex-
plorers discovered the savage nature of the Tllibetans, quite
the opposite ofher assumptions. Since that time new localities
are continually being found for the 'great masters,' mostly in
India, where it is easy to keep up the deception." (The evidence
for the existence of mahatmas rests mainly upon the statements
of three or four people who may, or may not, have been
deceived.)
i Her teaching may be summarised thus: Man at deatl1 splits
up into etheric, astral, mental, intuitional, spiritual, nomadic
and divine sections. Each is supplied with a body separate and
distinct from its fellows, which eventually gets absorbed into
other forms of life. Individuality in the physical sense is im-
possible to tl1e discarnate spirit. As the various sections decay,
that part of the nature dies also. Finally, an emasculated men-
tality seeks reincarnation.
Theosophists are hard pressed to find explanations for the
conclusive evidence for spirit identities of the seance room,
and explain it by peopling the spirit world with thought-images
called elementals. These have no consciousness of their own,
but borrow it from the medium, and thus personify any char-
acter in the medium's thoughts. The impertinence which
assumes that all mediums are deceived and only the assumptions
286 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
of Theosophists are correct, the assumptions of absolute ignor-
ance, needs no refutation; it defeats its own ends. They claim
that Theosophic seers go into d1e spirit world and get their
information at first hand, and that spirit mediums are misled
by elementals. It is unfortunate for Theosophy that the majority
ofits seers see nothing clairvoyantly until the illusion is created
by the "instructions of their masters." In ocl1er words, auto-
suggestion is cl1e basis of most of their visiom. The main
defect of reincarnation l'ies in cl1e fact iliat nature produces one
spirit associated with the form it first manifests through. In
order to accommodate the doctrine of reincarnation, this
primitive and original spirit is pushed on one side in order to
make way for spirit number two, who was originally born
like spirit number one, but now dispenses with cl1e process.
Nature never stultifies herself in iliat way.
On the deatli of Madame Blavatsky in 1891, there was a
bitter struggle for leadership, during which charges of fraud,
hallucination, and even less desirable epithets were freely
bandied about. In the resulting split, W. Q. Judge retained
the leadership of cl1e American section, succeeded by Catherine
Tingley: while Mrs. Annie Besant with Colonel Olcott remained
heads ofthe English and Indian sections. These are still bitterly
hostile to each other, but the British Indian section contains
elements which are slowly emancipating themselves from cl1e
literal acceptance of Madame Blavatsky's assertions and partly
embracing Spiritualistic ideals and theories. Olcott's "Old
Diary Leaves" reveals Madame Blavatsky's mediumship quite
clearly. He shows how she was used for automatic writing,
but, instead of ordinary spirit control, he claimed it was control
by a mahatma or great master who still possessed an earthly
body. Spiritualists have often duplicated this form of spirit
control, and deny that it proves Madame Blavatsky's claims.
Frederic Bligh Bond, in the American "Journal of Psychical
Research" for 1929, gives a very clear instance of receiving
automatic script from a friend still on earth, who gave full
name and details, which Bligh Bond checked on returning
to England, thus proving that it is not necessary to pass tlrrough
the change of death before we can act as spirit controls.
That Madame Blavatsky's controls were great "masters"
~ THB PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION 287
1 we have every reason to doubt, since William Emmett Colman
f
traced many of her teachings to existing literature. Spiritualists
· who watched her career know that a very ordinary woman's
jealousy prompted most of the utterances that her followers
;;, today produce as evidence against mediumship. This was
j-"~ confirmed by her letter to the "Pall Mall Gazette" in 1884,
~ in which she proclaimed her mission to "put down Spiritualism."
Unfortunately, "the written word remaineth," and Spiritualists
arc compelled to refute statements made from their platforms,
because they often invite Theosophist lecturers to speak at
Spiritualist meetings. The amusing fact is continually evidenced
that, whenever Theosophists want proofoftheir own statements,
they are compelled to refer to mediumistic experiences, though
they decry them continually. In the main, the Theosophist
adopts yogaistic theories, which credit embodied man with
far greater psychic powers than the discarnate spirit.
R . S. Old, who had many years' experience as a Theosophic
leader and lecturer, thus sums up their position: "I have learned
all that was to be known about the methods of modern Theo-
sophists. I have weighed them in the balance and found them
-:s-- wanting. They took me from the sunlit hills of spiritual hope
.J and aspiration and led me through shady glens and mysterious
~- paths, through a forest ofspeculation and doubt, and eventually
.- landed me in a morass of disillusionment from which I was
r left to extricate myself by an effort of will." The poignancy
of the summary is fully appreciated by all who gain personal
"7 experience of the "power of the spirit" and go to tllis body
for explanations. They are prolific in theories based upon
Y allegories they misunderstand; but of psychic experience they
.:;:: have none.
~ The essential difference between tl1e teaching ofAllan Kardec
anJ that ofoilier Spiritualists is, first, the practice of"evocation";
and secondly, the belief in reincarnation. Evocation means
~:.S that if you call upon individual spirits with a sincere motive
~ they will respond. The admitted weakness of this idea lies in
' ~ the fact that auto-suggestion is a very real factor in all mental
~ activities. Next, it was found that personating spirits sometimes
:uiSwere~. This the school ofKardec explains by teaching
that "groups of spirits of equal merit adopt certain names anq
288 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
act in the name of the one called upon." The complications
created appear insuperable to Spiritualists, who prefer indi-
vidualised communications which carry with them the stamp
ofidentity, and who also believe that spontaneous communica-
tions are more reliable.
In fairness to all parties, we must remember that subconsciously
we automatically invoke certain spirits every time we pray.
The sensitive's mind usually relates him to his guide, whose
influence he recognises as the channel through which prayer
is made effective. The Roman Catholic believes he relates
himself to particular saints, and religionists of all schools neces-
sarily indraw the individual spirits who serve the particular
religious system they follow. A variation ofthis idea is adopted
by Christians who have given up the belief in a personal Christ
and teach that all the great personages of the past were Christs
who reincarnated or inspired from the "Christ" plane. Buddhists
would call it the Buddhist plane. In both cases it arises from the
wish to extol their god beyond "other gods." Old Testament
history thus refeats itself
Allan Kardec s teaching of reincarnation must not be con-
founded with the speculations of Theosophic or Buddhistic
teaching. In particular, Allan Kardec's next world is a very
busy practical life, similar in its details to the revelations of
Spiritualists the wide world over. It is anything but the ab-
straction portrayed by the others. It is not a "waiting" time,
but a period of preparation in which the soul consciously
prepares for higher developments. Its life ofusefulness-accord-
ing to Kardec-only ceases when the spirit desires to gain
additional experience, or perform some expiatory or other
work essential to fuller development. He has the privilege of
selecting his future father and mother, and it is doubtful consola-
tion to unwise parents to know that they were selected not for
their good qualities, but for possibly quite other reasons which
might prove advantageous to the child.
Allan Kardec says: "The doctrine of our freedom in the
choice of our successive existences and of the trials which we
have to undergo ceases to appear strange when we consider
that spirits, being freed from matter, judge of things differently
from men. They perceive the ends which these trials are
THB PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION 289
intended to work out- -ends far more important to them than
the fugitive enjoyments of earth. Mter each existence'!they
see the steps they have already accomplished, and comprehend
what they still lack for the attainment of that purity which
alone will enable them to reach the goal; and they willingly
submit to the vicissitudes of corporeal life, demanding of their
own accord to be allowed to undergo those which will aid them
to advance most rapidly. There is, therefore, nothing surprising
in a spirit making choi,ce of a hard or painful life. He knows
that in his state of imperfection he cannot enjoy the perfect
happiness to which he aspires; but he obtains a glimpse of that
happiness, and seeks to effect his own improvement, as the
sole means of its attairunent."
Because he lived in a Roman Catholic country, though educa-
ted in a Protestant one, he accepted the biblical statements with
what may be termed a "modem" explanation, i.e., that which
does not appeal to one's common sense, or is historically or
scientifically inaccurate, must be read "symbolically." The
result of this bias is traoeable through all his writings. Apostles
and biblical characters were frequently evoked and the principal
articles are signed with their names. For the rest, I can recom-
mend his "The SP.irits' Book" from which some ofour extracts
are taken, and 'The lv1edium's Book," as two of the most
usefUl summaries printed concerning Spiritualism or medium-
ship.
The following story of his birth and unselfish work from
boyhood onwards is from Anna Blackwell's translation of
1875: "Leon Denizarth Hippolyte Rivail, better known by his
t1o111 de pl11me of Allan Ka.rdec, was born at Lyons, October 4,
1804.••• Endowed by nature witl1 a passion for teaching, he
devoted himself from the age of fourteen to aiding the studies
ofschoolfellows less advanced than himsel£ While yet a mere
boy, he began to meditate on the means of bringing about a
unity of belief among the Christian sects. Having finished his
studies at YverdUll, he I'eturned to Lyons in 1824 with the in-
tention of devoting hirnself to the law; but various acts of
religious intolerance to which he unexpectedly found himself
subjected led him to renow1ce tlte idea. . . . In 1830 he hired,
at his own expense, a large hall in the Rue de Sevres and opened
JO
290 TBB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
therein courses of gratuitous lectures on chemistry, physics,
comparative anatomy and astronomy. He was a member of
several learned societies, a voluminous writer of educational
works, and a student of mesmerism and phrenology.
"When, about 1850, the phenomenon of table turning was
exciting the attention ofEurope ... he entered upon a careful
investigation of the new phenomena. A friend of his had two
daughters who had become what arc now called 'mediums.'
They were gay, lively, amiable girls, fond of society, dancing
and amusement, and habitually received, when 'sitting' by
themselves or with their young companions, communications
in harmony with their somewhat frivolous dispositions. But,
to the surprise of all concerned, it was fotmd that whenever
Allan Kardec was present, the messages transmitted through
these young ladies were of a very grave and serious character;
and on his inquiring of the invisible intelligences as to the cause
of this change, he was told that spirits of a much higher order
than those who habitually communicated through the two
young mediums came expressly for him and would continue
to do so, in order to enable him to fulfil an important religious
mission. Much astonished at so unlooked-for an armouncement,
he at once proceeded to test its truthfulness by drawing up
a series of progressive questions in relation to the various prob-
lems of human li!"e and the universe, receiving their answers
through the instrumentality of the two young mediums by
table-rapping and planchette writing. The replies have become
the basis of the Spiritist theory, which the mediums were as
little capable of appreciating as of inventing. Finally, the
communicators told him to publish a book under the pseudonym
ofAllan Kardec and, as indicating that it was the work ofspirits
rather than his own, he was to call it 'Le Livre des Esprits'
('The Spirits' Book')."
Soon after its publication, he founded the Parisian Society of
Psychologic Studies, of which he was the president cntil his
death on March 31, 1869. The school ofKardec can, therefore,
celebrate his birth into the spirit world at the same time as
modem SpiritualiSts celebrate their anniversary.
The general objection to reincarnation is that it is retrogressive
and quite out of keeping with nature's usual method of pro-
THE PROBLEM OF REINCARNATION 29!
ceeding from a lower to a higher form of manifestation. It
also duplicates the starting point of human embodiments. It
is obvious that ego number two is superimposed on ego number
one unless there is a law whereby one human body possesses
an ego while another does not. Spiritualists believe form and
soul to be co-existent. Even still-hom babies are said to develop
to maturity in the spirit world. Some reincarnationists assert
that the spirit does not enter the material form until the quicken-
ing, or even a later stage. This sets aside the usual belief that
all forms of matter are expressions of the divine or creative
principle, and that consciousness-termed instinct in the plant
and animal-is inherent in the form itself, the only difference
between man and the rest of creation being that his spark of
divine consciousness becomes individualised and can never
afterwards be extinguished. Only the matter of which the
physical body is composed returns to its primitive elements.
The spiritual counterparts ofall forms oflife which result from
birth in the physical world continue the law of evolution on
higher planes of manifestation. Animal consciousness, or in-
stinct, exhibits itself only so long as it is necessary to man's
happiness, or its own development on spirit planes.
Alan Kardec thus replies to this aspect: "All spirits do not
think alike in reference to the relations which exist between
man and the animals. According to some, spirit only arrives at
thehumanperiod after having been elaborated and individualised
in the different degrees oflower beings of the creation. Accord-
ing to others, the spirit of man has always belonged to the
human race, without passing through the ascensional degrees
ofthe animal world. The first ofthese theories has the advantage
of giving an aim to the future of animals, which are thus seen
to form the earliest link in the chain of thinking beings. The
second theory is more consonant with the dignity of man, and
may be summed up as follows: The different species do not pro-
ceed intellectually from one another by the road to progression.
Thus the spirit of an oyster does not become progressively
that of a fish, bird or quadruped, or quadrumane (i.e., four-
handed creature like the ,ape or monkey). Each species is a
fixed type, physically and morally, each individual of which
draws from the universal source of being, the sum of the in-
292 TH1l UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
telligent principle which is necessary to it, according to the
nature of its organs and the work it has to accomplish in the
phenomena of nature, and which it restores to the general
mass of that principle at its death. . . . Man alone possesses the
spirit which gives him the moral sense and extended vision."
The term "Spiritism" is frequently used as asneer by opponents
of Spiritualism who object to classifying it as a religion. The
word was originally used by Allan Kardec in precisely the same
sense as we use Spiritualism. Kardec used the word "Spirit-
ualism" in a general way to cover all believers in a continued
life after death, as Buddhists, Christians, etc. This is actually
its correct meaning; but usage more commonly decides the
application of words than pedantry. The Roman Catholic
hurls "Spiritism" at us as a term of derision, but common use
has decided that it denotes "a believer in spirit manifestations,"
and is applied to those who admit our facts but refuse to recognise
the religion which it inculcates. "Spiritualism" is reserved and
applied to those who say, ''The implications of 'Spiritism' are
religious and the practice of the philosophy derived therefrom
is 'Spiritualism.' "
I suggest the following lines ofthought for your consideration.
The majority of Spiritualists oppose the doctrine of reincarna-
tion because they believe the ne>..'t phase of life contains all the
elements essential to progress. The idea of a "good time" on
earth usually relates to physical adjustments rather than spiritual
development. The doctrine is often attributable to vanity.
Conceit desires glory; so we conjure up dreams ofpast splendours
and quite forget that if we are worse off now than we were,
we must have retrogressed and not gone forward. "Over-
shadowing" by a discarnate spirit, or semi-control, produces
sensations attributed by many to memory of prior existence.
Travelling "in the spirit" induces similar ideas owing to the
inability of the physical brain to express psychic experiences
correctly. Telepathy, prophetic vision and psychometric
contact with the past often produce similar ideas.
If it is true that mind moulds matter, reincarnation cannot
readjust mentality, it merely complicates the difficulties, and
adds to them. The idea is frequently impressed upon sensitives
owing to large numbers ofbelievers in reincarnation continually
THE PRIOBLBM OF REINCARNATION 293
hunting for the next body they believe they must occupy. It
thus forms a cause ofobsession, but as few people are completely
controlled, the dual pe1
rsonality is accepted asfart of their prior
existence. The great objection to the belie is that it creates
an "earthbound" condition by t:entring all attention upon
physical planes in place of spiritually progressive planes of
consciousness.
Spiritualists will find support of our subject in a study of
Emmanuel Swedenborg. The sources of the following state-
ments are the "Encyclopredia Britannica," Spence's "Encyclo-
predia of Occultism'' a~nd Swedenborgian literature. Emmanuel
Swedenborg illustrates the Spiritualist conception of a born
seer. . . . His name was originally Swedborg. At the death of
Cha.Jrles XII, Queen Ulrica elevated his family to the rank of
nobility, and so his name became transformed into Sweden-
borg, the "en" corresponding to the German "von." He was
born in Stockholm, :September 20, r688, and passed on in
London, March 29, rn8. In 1715, he devoted himselfto natural
science and engineering. There is no doubt that he anticipated
many scientific discoveries attributed to others.
It was only towaJCds the end of the nineteenth century that
his voluminous writings began to be properly collected and
examined. The result proved there was hardly one depaJCtment
ofscientific activity in which he was not far ahead of his time.
His work on palreontology shows him to be the predecessor of
all Scandinavian geologists, and his work in this depaJCtment
alone would be sufficient to make him famous. As a physicist
he expounded the nebular hypothesis and the formation of the
sun and planets before Kant and Laplace, to whom the nebulaJC
hypothesis is generally credited. His theory oflight and cosmic
atoms is peculiarly interesting to students of psychic science.
He regaJCded our stm as a shadowy reflection from a spiritual
sun which possesses tlhe peculiar property of illuminating all
sides at once, and therefore casts no shadow. Spiritualists teach
that the light of the spirit world is an entirely different mani-
festation from the light that proceeds from our sun, whose rays
do not become visible until they strike the atmosphere. His
statement has, there£ore, great significance for them, and
it is probable that he also taught that spirit bodies aJCe self-
294 TBB UNIVERSITY OP SPIRITUALISM
luminous, but I have not been able to discover whether he came
quite so near the Spiritualist position as that.
Swedenborgianism illustrates the danger of interpreting
ancient religions by modern revelation. The effort to make
the latter conform to preconceived ideas destroys the value of
both. Subconscious activity is immediately glimpsed when
we read that "the Lord {Jesus) in person commissioned him
to unfold the spiritual sense of the Bible." Spiritualists do not
dispute the possibility of Jesus communicating, but in view
of the type of theology incorporated with his visions, suspect
the human mind through which the message came. Sweden-
borg's diet consisted of bread and milk with copious draughts
of coffee. He paid no attention to the difference between
night and day, and worked long or short hours at will-and
sometimes laid for days in a state of trance. His servants were
often disturbed at night with what he called his conflicts with
evil spirits, but during the day he appeared perfectly normal,
with faculties keenly alert, though still continuing to discourse
with spirit visitors. The idea of darkness facilitating the
approach of evil spirits, which light drives away, is partly due
to prehistoric superstition, and partly to ignorance of the fact
that the psychic faculties are more keenly operative in tl1e dim
light which renders the spirit form more visible, but which
becomes invisible in the presence of a stronger light: just as a
rushlight is swallowed up by electric light or sunlight.
Swedenborg Otltl.i.ned his teachings in tl1e book "Divine
Love and Wisdom." He represents God as the divine man whose
essence is divine love. Wisdom represents the manifestations
of his form or body. From these emanate a divine sphere
which operates in the spirit world as light, and from this spiritual
sun proceeds the sun of the material world. This rayless sun is
fully appreciated by all who travel "in the spirit" and find
themselves in a world of light whose source they cannot see.
Mediums ignorant of Swedenborg's teaching often refer to it,
and possibly primitive seership thus formed the basis of the
Zoroastrian belief which later degenerated into sun worship.
The spiritual sun is the source of love, intelligence and life.
The sun we see is the source or receptacle of life; the spiritual
sun is alive, but that of the material world is dead. The two
THB P"ROBLBM OP REINCARNATION 295
worlds of nature and spirit are perfectly distinct, but are in-
timately related by analogous laws, substances and forces.
Each has its own waters, atmospheres and earths, but in one
they are natural, in the other spiritual. Swedenborg's teaching
is best summed up in the phrase: "All religion has relation to life,
and the life of religion is to do good." If the world would but
adopt this as its slogan and drop phrases that through repetition
become meaningless,. it would provide a common working
hypothesis, and speedily remove the appearance of hypocrisy
that beclouds all sectarianism.
Just how far Swedenborgianism has degenerated from the
teaching of its founder can be judged by visiting their lifeless
churches and noting the stereotyped dogmatism. As withJesus,
so with Swedenborg;. His followers claim that he safely held
intercourse with the spirit world, but with his death that necessity
ceased. If Spiritualists have similar visions, or hold spirit com-
munion, they are me:rcly misled by evil spirits. Swedenborgians,
like Mormons and Eddyites, claim an interpreter of the Bibl~
whose interpretation. is unquestionable. The following is the
Swedenborgian creed, copied from the walls of the (Sweden-
borgian) New Church at Myatts Fields, Camberwell: I. That
there is one God in whom is a Divine Trinity. 2. That He is
the Lord Jesus Christ:. 3· That saving faith is to believe on Him.
That evils are to be shunned because they are of the devil and
from the devil. 4· That good actions are to be done by a man
as from himself, but: that it ought to be believed that they are
done from the Lord, with Him and by Him.
From the foregoing, it is clear that the effort to fit Sweden-
borg's revelations i.ntto the prevailing theology has resulted in
obscuring the value of both. The peculiar phrasing of article
number four results from the desire to square Swedenborg's
law of correspondences with the doctrine of predestination.
The doctrine of "sallvation by faith" thus nullifies the teaching
of Swedenborg, who taught that every action on earth had a
corresponding reaction in die spirit world, and in effect produces
the "retribution and compensation" taught by Spiritualists.
Swedenborg's followers now differ very little from the many
narrow sects which misrepresent the teaching of Jesus every-
where. Swedenborg's symbolism is misunderstood and made to
.296 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPllUTUALISM
conform to orthodox teaching. Had Swedenborg not claimed
to be guided by Jesus, his life might have paid the forfeit de-
manded for heresy. He lived at a time when reformatory
ideas were clamouring for a hearing, and thus escaped.
The time is now more opportune for truth to make head-
way, so that it is possible for us to compare Swedenborg's revela-
tions with modem seership without fear of the rack and thumb-
screw. The mystic links that bind the two worlds together are
found to be perfectly natural, and Swedenborg's revelations
measurably prepared the way for modem Spiritualism. With
our present knowledge of spirit planes and the externalisation
of thought, Swedenborg's teaching and seership make his books
a useful addition to psychic libraries. In visiting spirit planes,
much is seen that can only be interpreted in the language and
ideas peculiar to the seer. Symbols are consequently literalised
out of their true meaning. For this reason the modem seer can
better appreciate Swedenborg than his contemporaries. His
law of correspondences is frequently taught by mediums who
never read a line ofSwedenborg's writings. Thus heaven ceases
to be a "place" and the Nazarene's teaching of the kingdom of
heaven within, which is the state wherein the God of love
dwells, becomes a reality. "God is not mocked" by empty
phrases and the spirit ofman realises that absolute sincerity alone
can embrace either the kingdom of heaven or express the
divinity ofman.
Ifall Swedenborg's visions had been purely symbolic he would
not have found so conspicuous a place in Spiritualist literature.
Fortunately, his seership is as well attested as that of the modern
clairvoyant. The philosopher Kant wrote a letter stating that
Swedenborg, with fifteen others, formed a parcy at the house of
William Castrel. About six o'clock, Swedenborg informed
them that a dangerous fire had just broken out near his home,
and that the bouse of one of his friends, whom he named,
was already in ashes, and the fire was spreading fast. He was
quite pale and alarmed, and went out frequently, telling them
that his own house was in danger. At eight o'clock, he joyfully
exclaimed: "Thank God! The fire is extinguished the third
door from my house!"
The news occasioned great commotion throughout the city,
THB PROBLBM OF IU!INCA.RNATION 297
and particularly among the company of savants listening to
his comments, as he described the progress of the fire. Sweden-
borg at the moment was in Gennany, fifty miles away from the
fire he was describing. It was found that he was accurate to the
minutest detail. Proof of his clairvoyance was overwhelming.
Kant gives the full details of Swedenborg's cross-examination
by the Governor, and all theories of hallucination were next
day swept aside by the arrival of the courier from Stockholm
who confirmed all Swedcnborg had seen. Kant himselfjour-
neyed to Stockholm to verify the details. As all tests were satis-
factorily passed, the instance stands as a classic and undisputed
test of clairvoyance. Needless to say, it was regarded by his
followers as proofofhis assertion that he was in direct commun-
ion with "the Lord in person."
On another occasioin, a shopkeeper demanded payment of
an account for goods supplied to a widow's husband prior
to his decease. The widow was certain the account had been
paid, but had no evidence of the fact. In her perplexity she
consulted Swedcnborg;. He informed her that her husband
had taken the shopkeeper's receipt on a date that he named,
and had placed it between the leaves of a dictionary in order
to mark the place where he left offreading. It was found in the
cabinet he indicated, a:nd on the page of the book mentioned.
There are many other stories ofhis clairvoyance, but these must
suffice. They are now duplicated by thousands of modern
clairvoyants. In Swedlenborg's superstitious age, it set the seal
upon his claim to be the chosen exponent of the Bible. Thus
history continually repeats itself. A vision to a Roman Catholic
proves-to him-divine favouritism. The same vision vouch-
safed to a non-Catholic is equally clear evidence-to the Roman
Catholic-that the devil is that author. More than one ex-
Catholic medium has found chis to her cost. While in the
nunnery, clairvoyants were worshipped because they saw
saints, but if they left Roman Catholicism they were taunted
as associates of the devil. Wonderful cures among faith-healers
have similar effects. Each believes it proves their own creed
to be more correct than any other.
Students of psychic science dearly perceive that "God is no
respecter of persons," :md that His laws are set in motion by
l98 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
aspiration, no matter what the theology of the devotee may be.
We further see that the teachings of religious systems are not
necessarily right because "miracles" occur among them, nor
are they conclusive evidence of "divine" guidance. In Sweden-
borg's case there is no difficulty in tracing the subconscious
element. The spirit world can only impress us along the line
of our individual capacity. Indeed, I affirm that, in taking the
"lines of least resistance," they arc doing the wisest thing,
and perhaps the only thing possible, for when ideas are too far in
advance of the age, both message and messenger are repudiated.
Swed(mborg, near the end of his career, seems to have realised
the colouring of his message by his theology, and from this
have arisenstatements that he finally attributed his visions entirely
to auto-suggestion-which 1 do not believe.
CHAPTER XVIII
QUAKERS AND SHAKERS
THE term "Quaker" was first ·used about 1647, and arose
from the physical trembling or shaking characteristic of the
early Friends. So says the "Encyclopredia Britannica," to which
we are indebted for most of the information which follows. It
was first used as a term of derision, like "Spiritist" or "table-
rapper."
"Quakerism was peculiar in having no fixed creed, no liturgy,
priesthood or outward sacrament. It also admitted women
on an equality with men." This last item was peculiarly offensive
to priesthoods, who regard Paul's statement, "The woman shall
keep silent in the church," as a divine command. It is largely
owing to the brave stand made by the early Quakers that
Christianity has broadened and made it possible for women to
work on an equality with men and pass from the position of
chattels to honourable companionship with the partners of their
choice. "The history of Quakerism in England may be divided
into three periods. From the preaching ofGeorge Fox in 1647,
to the Toleration Act of1689. From thence to the period ofthe
Evangelical Movement, in 1835. From 1835 to the present
day.
"George Fox was the son of a weaver, in Leicestershire. His
preaching first took hold in Westmoreland and Lancashire. The
insistence of the early 'Friends' on the inward and spiritual
experience was the first real contribution to religious thought;
to thousands it came as a revelation. The operation of the spirit
was in no way limited to time, individual or place. The great
stress which they laid upon this aspect ofthe Christian life caused
them to be charged with unbelief in current orthodox views as
to the inspiration of the Scriptures and to the person of Christ,
a charge they always denied. The early 'Friends' definitely
asserted that those who did not know 'quaking' or 'trembling'
were strangers to the experiences of David, Moses and the
:.199
..
300 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Saints...." All experienced Spiritualists are familiar with these
external signs of the ministration ofthe spirit.
"A petition to the first Parliament ofCharles II stated that three
thousand one hundlred and seventy-nine Quakers had been
imprisoned. The number rose to four thousand five hundred in
1662.... Hundreds ofhouseholds were despoiled oftheir goods.
During the Royalis1t Insurrection of 1665, a proclamation was
issued that persons suspected of Roman Catholicism would be
required to take an oath abjuring Papal authority and 'trans-
substantiation,' i.e., beliefin the changing ofbread and wine used
at the Eucharist into the veritable body and blood of Jesus.
Quakers refuse to take an oath under any circumstances. They
therefore suffered terribly under this proclamation, and still
more under the stringent Acts of 1656. A considerable number
were flogged under the Vagrancy Acts. These Acts were strained
to cover itinerant preachers..... The Quaker Acts of 1664 and
1670, designed to enforce attendance at church, inflicted severe
penalties upon those who attended other religious meetings....
This was responsible for the most severe persecution of all.
Informers were paid one-third ofthe fines the law imposed....
Ref~al to P.ay ?thtes and other ecclesiastical demands led to
contmuous distramts.
''Evenin America, 'The Land ofthe Free,' they fared no better.
The first recorded events are found in the arrival oftwo Quaker-
esses, Mary Fisher and Arm Austin. Under the general law
against heresy, their books were first burned by the public
hangman. They were searched for signs of witchcraft, im-
prisoned for five weeks, and then sent away. In 1656-57 and
1658, laws were passed to prevent the introduction of Quakers
into Massachusetts. From the first conviction, it was ordained
that one ear should be cut off. On the second, the remaining ear
was to be sacrificed. On the third conviction, the tongue was to
be bored through w.ith a red-hot iron. So far from preventing
the incursion, a rush was made by large numbers of willing
martyrs. . . . Many were hanged, until even the careless Charles
of England issued an order to prevent them being hanged for
conscience sake."
These extracts might be extended indefinitely, but enough
has been written to prove the world's indebtedness to the brave
QUAK.I!RS AND SHAK.BRS JOI
and consistent Friends who merit an everlasting tribute ofpraise
for opposing the dogmatism, superstition and corruption oftheir
times. Without their sacrifices, science and reform might still
have been impossible. Though some of the archaic Acts under
which they were tried have been modified, they are still in
existence, and under them Spiritualists are rogues and vagabonds
in the eyes of the law. Hence the farce is played continually of
engaging mediums to collect funds for church bazaars, but pro-
secuting them ifthey do so as Spiritualists. It cost £88o to defend
the secretary ofthe London Spiritualist Alliance and the medium
who worked for them in 1929. Fancy r,rosecuting a person with
a backing of £88o as a "vagabond, ' i.e., a person without
visible means of subsistence! It is because the covert hand of
religious intolerance stalks behind these Acts, that police traps
are continually laid to haul honourable citizens to prison. An
alternative Act under which Spiritualists are prosecuted is the
Witchcraft Act of 1735· This repealed the excessive cruelties
based upon biblical teaching, but virtually claimed that there is no
spirit world, and therefore those who say spirits do communicate
are lying, or to use the judicial phrase, ' pretending" to com-
municate with spirits.
We are thus faced with a somewhat similar position to that of
the Quakers who merely insisted that manifestations ofthe spirit
are common personal experiences. The essential dilference in
our points ofview is thus stated by a well-known Quaker, John
Gurney, who, in a book entitled, "Views of the Society of
Friends," declares that "the spirit is in us and Christ is in us, and
appear to be equivalent. ... The voice ... is still heard inwardly,
conununicated to the souls ofmen." It is this insistence that only
the third portion of the Trinity communicates with mankind,
that forms the essential difference between Christianity and
modem Spiritualism today. We are perfectly willing to admit
that tl1e God within is similar in character to the spirit of God
expressed in all nature, but, in addition, we maintain that
individualities whom we believe to be departed human beings
produce the manifestations that Trinitarians :md Quakers attri-
bute to a personal God. The basis ofQuakerism is the Bible, but
this was originally expounded by them with such freedom that
me most diverse interpretations were possible. Time has
302 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAliSM
modified and crystallised these te~chings, but the Bible is always
discussed with such an absence of dogmatism that attendance
at most oftheir meeting-places is a pleasure.
Spiritualists cannot accept the ideas forged by theology which
teaches the necessity for a personal saviour to save mankind from
the consequences of Adam's sin. Genesis is now regarded by
Christians themselves as allegorical. It follows that Adam and
Eve are allegories, too, and therefore never existed in the flesh.
The educated Christian also accepts the teachings of evolution,
which prove that man rose from lower forms of creation and
never "fell" from perfection. Added to these extraordinary
contradictions, many of them repudiate the theory that Jesus
was God, but still refer to the Christ within, which does not
really mean Jesus at all but implies God in manifestation.
Christians have thus borrowed the Quakers' idea of divinity
expressing itself through man after terribly persecuting them for
teaching it.
Pentecostal Dancers, faith healers, a few evangelical sects and
Roman Catholics add a variation to the Quaker idea that
"ministering spirits" do sometimes communicate with the faith-
ful few; the faithful few, of course, being themselves. But as
they regard each other's manifestations as diabolical, it follows
that all psychic experiences outside their narrow sectarian limits
are devilish. This form of conceit will pass away when fear of
God and His judgments gives place to the love of God and a
recognition of personal responsibility. How much more con-
sonant with Biblical teaching is the idea that every "spirit that
leads us into all truth" is indeed the "holy comforter" promised
byJesus to his disciples. But while most Christians are ignorant
of the fact that the word "holy" in both Greek and Hebrew
originally meant "separate," we cannot expect them to dis-
entangle themselves from the maze woven by theologians which
hides the fact that every manifestation is actually brought about
by "separate" spirits who prove their individuality when
questioned.
The Quaker followed his "inward light" and truly lived his
religion, and has thus earned the love and esteem of the world.
Their unwavering adhesion to principle was misunderstood until
comparatively recent times. Few there arc who realise that the
QUAKERS AND SHAKHRS 303
Orthodoxy of today was the heterodoxy of the early Quakers,
who were terribly persecuted by their brother "Christians" for
teaching what is now generally accepted. The early mani-
festations have now practically ceased; but even today Quakers
have not closed the door to inspiration. Any man or woman is
welcome in their churches to "speak as the spirit giveth utter-
ance." It is largely due to the fact that no regularised, paid
ministry is permitted that they have remained free from the
vested interests that prevent Christian organisations from advanc-
ing. They have no clergy who fear to speak the truth lest their
livelihood be jeopardised; and their breadth of outlook and
definite association with all reform movements prove the depth
and sincerity of their faith.
In reading the literature of tl1e Society ofFriends, Spiritualists
at once discover tl1at spirit manifestations and psychic experiences
were fairly common in the early days of Quaker enthusiasm.
Warnings, premonitioru and spiritual guidance were openly
avowed and reported. George F~x. while in prison in the North
of England, prophesied the Great Fire of London which broke
out two days after his release, and that "within two weeks the
Speaker would be plucked from his chair." This was fulfilled
to the letter by Cromwell dissolving the "Rump" Parliament.
Many similar instances are recorded by the Quakers which can
be rationally interpreted only by students ofpsychic science.
In the origin of most religious systems, we find testimony to
spirit manifestations, which becomes submerged later on by
authoritarian pronotmcements or political intrigue. The trans-
parent honesty ofthe narrators is sufficient testimony to the truth
of their statements. Among these records the Shakers deserve a
pre-eminent place. They attained a high degree of spiritual
illumination, and foretold the advent of modern Spiritualism.
They adopted a very strict regime, practised celibacy and
vegetarianism, and established successful communal colonies.
They were an offshoot of the Quakers in the early eighteenth
century, and were first known as the Shaking Quakers. They
became notorious on account oftheir "tremblings" while speak-
ing under the influence ofthe "holy" spirits. They adopted the
teachings of the French prophets, or Camisards of Vivarais and
Dauphine. Led by Quakers named Wardley, of Manchester,
304 THE UNIVERSiTY OF SPIRITUAUSM
they manifested all the usual trance states, with"Visions and pro-
phetic utterances. They jumped about like the modem re-
vivalist, who, in turn, is but an imitation ofthe "Dancers" ofthe
Low Countries in the fourteenth century, or the French Con-
vulsionaires of 1720. All revival meetings exhibit what the
scientific Spiritualist terms "disorderly" manifestations. These
are accentuated by hypnotic practices, more or less consciously
utilised.
Vivid imagination, allied to emotionalism and misunderstood
psychic powers, temporarily attract ignorant discarnate spirits,
who find themselves drawninto a vortex from which they cannot
immediately extricate themselves. As the emotionalism dies
away, matters become normal once more, but the aftermath of
revivalism is nervous wreckage consequent upon extravagant
emotionalism. Piety allied to faith inevitably releases definite
psychic forces, but ignorance ofmediumship cancels the blessings
evoked and transforms them into apparent evils. Fear of the
devil is mainly responsible for this difficulty. If enthusiasts
would but use a little common sense, and "try the spirits," as
recommended by the Bible, they would soon develop a per-
manent "power of the spirit" among them. Unfortunately,
even here, there is a snag, for ifthe spirit will not lie in order to
confirm their sectarian beliefs, they label him "anti-Christ,"
and regard him as an "angel of light sent forth to deceive the
very elect." But it is rare indeed for revivalism to be sufficiently ·~
rational to attempt any questioning at all. Thus does theological·'
training make "holy" spirits useless as "comforters." Eitl1er
they are regarded as devils, or the embryo medium and audience
go to the other extreme, and are stricken with awe at what they
regard as the manifestation ofa personal God.
Comparison of their mental attitude with that of Old Testa-
ment mediums is instructive. Read the story ofGideon's fleece
made wet and dry on request, in order to test spirit power in
Judges vi, 37, orJacob wrestling witl1 an angel in Genesis xxxii,
24. They wrestled so long that Jacob had his thigh put out of
joint. Nevertheless, he would not release tl1e spirit until he told
him his name (Yahweh), and blessed him. In these records,
Yahweh is anything but the "allgood" or "perfect" God oflove
worshipped byJesus (Matthew v, 48). He sent evil spirits as well
QUAKERS AND SHAKERS 305
as good ones (r Samuel xvi, 14-16). Poor Job discovered this
to his dismay, when God apparently entered into a friendly
compact with the devil to ruin him physically, financially and in
every way malice could invent. All this emphasises the necessity
for exercising caution when reading the records of barbarous
ages which reflect the ignorance as well as the experiences ofthe
narrators. The too literal acceptance of biblical texts is respon-
sible for religious manias that fill asylums, and frustrate whatever
good there may be in revival meetings.
Let us now consider the Shakers. The real foundress ofShaker-
ism was Ann Lee, afollower oftheWardleys. She was frequently
imprisoned for breaking the Sabbath day by dancing, shouting
and blasphemy, which mainly consisted of repudiating the
orthodoxy of her times. That this was mediurnship misunder-
stood is evidenced by the records ofher many miraculous escapes
from death. Once, while being examined by four clergymen,
she spoke to them in foreign languages. Foreign languages
spoken by an illiterate, untaught woman can only be rationally
explained by the Spiritualist hypothesis. In 1776, the Shakers
bought land in Niscayuna, Watervliet, in Albany, and settled
there. Revivalists in the neighbouring towns sent penitents to
Watervliet, who accepted Mother Ann's teaching, and led to an
excellent organisation in 1787. At Alfred, Maine, more than
anywhere else, the Shakers practised healing along Spiritualistic
lines. A special outpouring of psychic manifestations occurred
between 1837 and 1847. Children told oftheir visits to Mother
Ann (deceased), who sent personal messages to her followers.
In 1838 the "gift of tongues" was specially noticeable, and
sacred places were set apart for the manifestations, with names
indicative of the manifestation occurring there.
History is thus compelled to bear its testimony to the reality
of spirit manifestations, despite the prejudices of chroniclers.
The point ofinterest to Spiritualists is that in 1847, after repeated
warnings, the manifestations ceased, but not before the Shakers
had been clearly told that a wider type of manifestation would
soon appear in the outer world. In 1848, the Fox sisters made
their startling discovery, which Spiritualists acclaim as the dawn
of a new era. This great movement now embraces multitudes
who would have been repelled by the strict observances de-
3o6 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPlRITUALISM
manded by the Shakers. It would almost seem as if the spirit
world were practising upon a type of people whose mode of
life and thought made them peculiarly susceptible. Students
must not overlook the reason. Extreme piety and absolute
truthfulness were the keynotes of their lives, and it is clear that
the Shakers' extreme piety induced psychic susceptibility.
Among new investigators there is a tendency to divorce pheno-
mena from their religious implications. This is often due to lack
of moral courage, vested interests and sectarian intrigues, which
must be combated with all the strength we can muster, or the
great effort will expire, like many brave efforts of the past,
killed by the materialism and ignorance of the very people it
comes to instruct.
The Shakers did not believe in the divinity ofJesus or the
resurrection of the physical body, and followed their Quaker
forebears in a wise discretion as to the literalinterpretation ofthe
Bible. The following letter published in Henry Spicer's "Sights
and Sounds" was received in reply to a specific request for
information as to how far the Shakers had manifestations like
those appearing among Spiritualists. It is dated from Shirley
Village, October 2I, r853, from a well-known Shaker, Roxalana
L. Grosvenor:
"I cheerfully embrace the earliest opportwlity to comply with
your·request and furnish you with the information required.
To be definite, the manifestations called 'spirit rappings' were
not known to us until we learned of them by the newspapers.
But the impression we have been familiar with them can be
easily accounted for by the fact that we have been interested in
them from the beginning, and, through that means, a know-
ledge has been diffi1sed abroad, that spiritual demonstrations ofa
higher order have long since been enjoyed by us. Our Church
being built on revelation, it is but reasonable to expect that
inspiration variously manifested will always be to us a fruitful
source ofjoy and comfort, a foretaste ofthejoys ofheaven. Yet,
although the founders were greatly gifted in tlus respect, inso-
much that the world of spirits was as clear to their view as tills
mundane sphere, ,yet there have been seasons when Zion seemed
to languish for her wonted sustenance. But in the year r837 a
work of tills kind (spirit manifestations) commenced at W--,
QUAKERS AND SBAKBRS 307
N.Y., and thence spread through every branch ofour commun-
ity, which was marvellous and powerful beyond anything ever
known on earth before; at least, so it was esteemed by those who
were the subjects of the heart-searching power which accom-
panied it. The manner ofits manifestation was so various that a
description would be d1
ifficult, yet all contributed to confirm the
reality ofthe presence ~md influence ofdeparted spirit fi-iends.
"You have heard me, I think, relate some particulars apper-
taining to my cousin, M. L. H--, whose testimony is on the
Sacred Roll. She deceased in the year '44, bearing witness with
her latest breath to the presence of angels and departed spirits.
Her last effort was to communicate their will to us. She used to
say that the spirit world was more real to her than the things of
earth, and this without being carried away in the spirit, as is
more frequently the case with media, or, as we term them, 'tl1e
instrun1ents of the spirit.' Some, wiiliout having ilieir spiritual
sight at all developed, have been inspired to write and speak for
me spirits with a powe:r and eloquence evidently superhuman.
With some, all the spir·itua.l senses were developed, so that de-
lightful scenery, angelic music, delicious fruits and fragrant
flowers of heaven we1re all enjoyed by tltem. Indeed, the
number who have not enjoyed a manifestation ofthis kind is not
large, and I may say there are none who are faithful who have
not felt a sensible inspiration from me spirit land. . . . During
this late manifestation, as it is termed by us, while it should
measurably cease with lllS, it has frequently been predicted that a
similar work would go out into the world. Ofcourse, we were
much interested in the rapping demonstrations, and though it
had not been revealed tc> us in what manner it would commence
and proceed, yet we at once recognised the hand of the Lord in
it, and could readily p•::rceive that to operate upon inanimate
material was better callculated to arrest the attention of me
masses than any other demonstrations the spirits could make;
but we rejoice that ma111ifcstations more interior and elevating
are in progress. I would. add that, concerning the rappings, we
have had enough to test its reality, but we do not feel that this
is for us to any great e>..'tent."
All experienced Spiritualists will appreciate the force of the
concluding paragraphs, because table-rapping and tilting are the
308 THE UNlVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
most infantile modes of communication, and have long since
been superseded by more satisfactory methods. Thus from the
FarEast, in China, India and Egypt, we find spirit manifestations
established, eternally calling men's attention to the need ofpre-
paration for the journey we all must take. In America we find
even the savage Redman was not without an appreciation ofthe
higher call. And on the soil prepared by them, a better material
was found in the Shakers, who thus entered more fully into
communication with the eternal realities which brought joy to
their souls in place ofthe superstition generated in more ignorant
and less developed minds.
BOOKS PUBLISHED BY US
TEACHINGS OF SILVER BIRCH
EDITED by A. W. AUSTEN. The spirit world's philosophy as presented by
the famous spirit guide ofHANNEN SWAFFER'S home circle. 8s. 6d.
MORE TEACHINGS OF Sll.VER BIRCH
EDITED by A. W. AUSTEN. A continuation of "Teachings of Silver
Birch." 7s. 6d.
WISDOM OF SILVER BIRCH
A continuation of "More Teachings ofSilver Birch."
MORE WISDOM OF SILVER BIRCH
7s. 6d.
EDITED by SYLVIA BARBANELL. A continuation ofthis famous spirit
guide's answers to the problems ofthis world and the next. lOs. 6d.
TO THE GREAT SPIRIT
The prayers of Silver Birch, spirit guide of HANNEN SWAFFER'S ho~m
circle. ls. Od.
WHEN YOUR ANIMAL DIES
By SYLVIA BARBANELL. The whole case for animal sunival. 7s. 6d.
WHEN A CHILD DIES
By SYLVIA BARBANELL. Proofofchild survival and growth in the spirit
world. 1s. 6d.
SOME DISCERN SPIRITS
By SYLVIA BARBANELL. The mediumship ofEstelle Roberts. 9s. 6d.
THEY SHALL BE COMFORTED
By MAURICE BARBANELL. This book sets out very simply the case for
Spiritualism. Ss. Od,
PARISH THE HEALER
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Story of the world's greatest healer.
4s. 6d.
ACROSS THE GULF
By MAURICE BARBANELL. Famous people prove their survival. 6s. Od.
THE CASE OF HELEN DUNCAN
By MAURICE BARBANELL. The Press called it "the trial ofthe century."
Ss. Od.
KEEP THE ROME FIRES BURNING
By MAURICE BARBANELL. A devastating reply to a priest's attack on
Spiritualism. 6s. Od.
BOOKS PUBLISHED BY US (cont.)
THE GIFr OF HEALING
By ARTHUR KEITH DESMOND. The remarkable career of W. H.
LILLEY, the famous healer. 7s. 6d.
THE PSYCIUC LIFE OF JESUS
By The Rev. G. MAURICE ELLIOTT. Throws a new light on the wonders
described in the New Testament. 7s. 6d.
LISTEN MY SON
By HARRY EMERSON. A fascinating account of remarkable materialis-
ation seances. 6s. Od.
THE SECRET OF DEATH
By WILLIAM G. GATES. Veteran journalist's remarkable story of his
seances. 1s. 6d.
WHAT MEDIUMSIDP IS
By HORACE LEAF. . World-famous medium tells how to develop psychic
M~ ~~
THE CHURCH IN DECAY
By PAUL MILLER. Trenchant examination of Orthodoxy. 6s. Od.
THE WAR DEAD RETURN
By PAUL MILLER. Graphic accounts of spirit return. 6s. Od.
FACES OF THE LIVING BEAD
By PAUL MILLER. Survil•al proved by spirit portraits. lOs. 6d.
CAYALCADE OF THE SPIRlT
By PAUL MILLER. Enthralling accounts ofSpiritualism's pioneers. 9s. O
d.
THE ENEMY OF MANKIND
By PAUL MILLER. The vestedinterests that oppose human progress. 6s. Od.
SCIENCE IN THE SEANCE ROOM
By PAUL MILLER. Tells how famous scientists prol'ed Surviral. 1s. 6d.
THE MEDIUMSIDP OF HELEN HUGHES
By BERNARD UPTON. Fascinating life story of a famous medium.
7s. 6d.
THE DOORWAY
RECORDED by MARGARET VIVIAN. Army officer describes his spirit
~ k ~
The following amounts for postage should be added:-
Up to 3s. 6d• •.. 4d. Up to lOs. ... 7d. Up to 20s••.. l s.
Allobtainablefrom-
SPIRITUALIST PRESS LTD., 49 OLD BAILEY, LONDON, E.C.4
THE UNIVERSITY
OF SPIRITUALISM
BY
HARRY BODDINGTON
,
VOLUME III
PROPERTV OF
WINNIPEG SPIRITUALIST
CHURCH INC.
WINNIPEG MANITOBA
Special Edition for
THE PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
5, BLOOMSBURY COURT, LONDON, W.C.l
~
BOOK
P~OIJUCTIOI'<
WARECONCMY
ITANOA.RO
"rHlS ROOK IS PRODtJ~Im IN COMPL!lTR
CONFORMITY WITH THI! AUTHORISED
ECONOMY STANDARDS
MADB AND PRINTBD IN CREAT BRITAIN BY
I!DBNIIZBR BAYLIS AND SON, LTD., THB
TRJNITY PRBSS, WORCESTER, AND LONDON
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PACB
XIX HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 317
XX PSYCHOMETRY: THE SOUL OF TI:DNGS 353
XXI PROPHECY: BmLE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS 369
XXII CLAIRAUDIENCE: "1 HEARD A VOICE"
XXIII AUTOMATIC AND DIRECT WRITING 399
XXIV PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE
MOVE? 420
XXV MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 442
XXVI PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY 474
c ..
. • I
.( I
J I
J ~ I 1~ •
I ;,..;: ,. " ~J
.
r
(
,
CHAPTER XIX
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT Slll!S
THE word "clairvoyant" is derived from the French word
clair, meaning "dear," and voil, to sec. The literal meaning
is "clear-seeing." Inpractice, it is applied only to vision extended
beyond the normal, and is actually "soul-sight." The term is
meaningless to those who reject psychic experiences and limit
"sight" to the reaction of the retina of the eye to light rays
reflected or refracted from surrounding objects. These theories
may apply equally to spirit sight in a spirit world, but are
shattered when we find modes of perception acting indepen-
dently ofthe physical organism or far outranging its powers. It
is self-evident that if we can see through brick walls, or leave
our bodies and travel to distant scenes, the ego must possess an
organism capable of expressing these supemormal faculties. As
this organism transcends the physical and spirit people also claim
to possess it, Spiritualists unanimously speak of it as the spirit
body. It is a dual organism, similar in all respects to the physical
body, which decays immediately the psychic or spiritual
energiser ceases to function.
Clairvoyance thus corroborates spirit teaching and proves
that individualised consciousness is not inherent in the dense,
physical elements of which the body is composed. It makes
clear the operations of the soul and proves the divinity of man.
It enormously expands our ideas of consciousness and lays a
scientific foundation for belief in life's continuity. Soul-sight
comes naturally into operation during dream-life, in which we
leam that the soul can construct its external imagery and also
discover that the imagery is often a reaction from sensory
impressions received through the physical brain. But there is a
vast field of premonitory and visual experiences in dream-life
that is in no way explainable as reactions to physical impres-
sions. It is the same with clairvoyance. Subconscious action is
often indicated, but the tracing oflost property, or finding dead
3'7
3I 8 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
bodies, or describing spirit friends, none ofwhich has theslightest
association with the memory of the sensitive, rules all purely
physical explanations out of court. Some are born with the
faculty all ready to manifest. These rapidly develop as soon as
the investigator breaks away from traditions that malign soul-
sight as a disease ofthe nerves and therefore checks all efforts to
cultivate the power. Hallucinations certainly exist. But clair-
voyance is as natural as eyesight. To confuse the two means
that we cannot distinguish between aberration and normality.
From a spirit's point ofview, looking into earthly conditions
is very like looking into fogland. Training the sight to visualise
earth and its people is therefore as necessary for spirits as for mor-
tals. When a clairvoyant spirit controls a medium, the almost
immediate result is that the faculties ofthe medium awaken and
normal clairvoyance rapidly follows. Clairvoyant spirits are not
necessarily of a high mental or spiritual calibre. Possession of
the faculty merely implies an ability to penetrate earthly rates of
vibration or atmospheres more easily than those who are not so
gifted. The medium, while entranced by this type of spirit, is
usually more definite and accurate than the normal clairvoyant.
Mediums who pass through preliminary stages ofspirit control,
and thus get their psychic vision opened, are generally more
reliable than those who develop by what is known as the
"positive" method. This results from the "positive" action of
one's own mind forcing the clairvoyant faculty to operate. It is
thus distinguished from the "passive" state of entrancement in
which all development is left to the operation ofunseen powers.
The trance clairvoyant has the further advantage of constant
telepathy with spirit guides after the trance state ceases and
conscious co-operation takes its place. The "positively" de-
veloped clairvoyant lacks this assistance, although it is rare for
really good clairvoyants to remain unconscious ofhelp received
from spirit people.
Those who cannot proceed by way of spirit control must
start their development by adopting the positive method, termed
"scrying." Scrying means externalising one's own thoughts, or
visualising other people's, by gazing at a fixed point like a glass
ofwater, a glass ball called a crystal, a black tray or any polished
material, and comparingvarious types ofthought-pictureswhich
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 319
appear on the surface with each other. There is no royal road
to any form of mediumship. Bach must discover the path that
is best for himsel£ Some succeed easily with one method but
fail utterly with others. The "positive" method deliberately
creates thought-pictures and projects them towards a focal
point, and follows up this practice by trying to visualise other
people's thoughts. It is one of the most extraordinary facts in
nature that, to a seer, thought automatically portrays itself in
symbols.
As visions and premonitory dreams are common, everyday
experiences, dream-life is our best analogy. What is done un-
consciously in dreaming has now to be projected consciously and
visualised. Many never get beyond this stage. Others easily
capture transmitted thought, but fail to visualise their own.
From the telepathic reception of messages from friends in the
body to that of people who have passed on is but a matter of
time and patience. The range of symbols presented by in-
dividual spirit people will be discovered by striking characteristics
peculiar to each. They differ in accordance with the education
and beliefs ofboth the operator and seer. Some experimentalists
fail with incarnate spirits but succeed easily with the discarnate.
From these variations a multiplicity of theories has arisen as to
the best method ofprocedure. Traced to their source, it will be
found that the temperament, desires and training of the seer
definitely affect results. Saintly people easily contact highly
spiritual influences, but without psychic adaptability nothing
more than subconscious material is expressed. The two states
are inextricably interwoven and one is frequently mistaken for
the other. The sensitive who catches the most explicit messages
from the spirit world is not necessarily in closer spiritual contact,
but possesses a power which spirit people gladly utilise to make
their presence known.
To develop visualisation, realise the naturalness of dream-
pictures and endeavour to create them consciously. Look
steadily at a flower, note all its parts, its colouring, size and
everything associated with it. When you think you have
memorised the details clearly, transfer your gaze to the crystal
and try to mentalise its entirety as a picture in your crystal. If
successful, you will presently be surprised to discover that details
u•
320 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
which escaped your conscious attention will often stand out
clearly. From this stage to that ofnoting what may be attributed
to external mentalities requires steady, patient practice at regular
times. If you find a flower too complex, start with simpler
forms such as a chair, a vase, a letter of the alphabet, or any
familiar object in the room. J3ut until you can visualise living
forms, your development as a scryer will not be of much value
save as an assistant in strengthening the memory, which it
certainly will do.
Practical details contribute to success~ul development as a
seer, and the following points should be noted. While using
an object, such as a crystal, to focus your sight, carefully screen
it from reflections. The reflection of your own face can be
avoided by directing your gaze into the centre ofthe crystal and
not allowing the mind to wander. The correct position requires
special adjustment, but if the glass ball is sunk slightly into a
piece of black velvet to form a background, the difficulty will
soon be overcome. Vary your experiments by "imagining" a
scene and projecting it into the crystal. You will thus discover
your limitations and be better able to discriminate between your
own creations and external impressions received from spirit
friends. Keep a record of your efforts. Your visions may seem
meaningless at first, but later may prove prophetic. The cloudy
crystal effect denotes a defmite departure from the foregoing
mental process. Suspend your efforts at projection after a few
weeks, and, if the mind is correctly attuned, spirit friends will
gladly take advantage of the opportunity offered. You may
have quite failed to extemalise your own thought, but find
that your crystal continually gets cloudy, as ifa mist had collected
over it. The cloud was formed through the intervention of
spirit friends condensing your aura and weaving their thoughts
into its fabric. The cloudy appearance sometimes becomes so
obvious that others in the room can also see it, together with
pictures which register themselves in it.
The alternative theory, which some afftrm, is that concentra-
tion puts the optic nerve out ofaction and creates the appearance
of a cloud screen upon which visions appear as ifphotographed.
Success is indicated when the glass ball ceases to reflect surround-
ing objects and assumes a whitish hue. The complementary
HOW THB CLAIRVOYANT SEES 321
colours, red or blue, may follow and subsequently give place
to a black curtain which rolls away and discloses scenery,
messages or hwn:m outlines. Those who develop to this extent
often discover that latent memories can be unfolded by the same
process. This is termed the "subjective" form of clairvoyance,
but if the pictures have the dense appearance of physical objects
or are discernible by more than one person, it is termed objective,
i.e., registered on external ethers, auras or atmospheres, and not
created by mental imagery alone. You have now learned how
thought gets transformed into symbols. Your next most difficult
task is to distinguish external thoughts from your own creations.
This perplexing problem is inherent in many forms of medium-
ship.
A useful method of practice is to arrange with a friend, at a
carefully-chosen time, to try and project a simple word or
picture into the crystal. Write down the words or pictures tl1at
appear in the crystal or Bash across your mind, and compare
notes afterwards. At first you will probably fail. Try another
and yet another projector, and continue experimentation with
the most successful one. If you can trace definite results, it merely
requires time and practice to become perfect. Often you will
capture a thought your projector had not the remotest intention
of projecting. It reached you because it was the most natural
expression ofhimself at the moment. In all mediwnship, spon-
taneous messages are the clearest because there is no straining
after effect. This constitutes interference. The principal difficulty
in telepathy is caused by our inability to think clearly, concisely
and naturally during experimentation. Obstruction is caused
by the mediwn's effort to catch the message and the projector's
incidental thoughts which obscure the result. Rela..
'X all strained
effort. Accept it as an easily demonstrated fact, and success
follows. Don't chatter with friends or have anyone present
unless all are engaged on the same quest. The simplest question
or distraction may set all your efforts at naught.
A somewhat similar difficulty confronts public clairvoyants
when the investigator asks for specific information or a name.
Subconsciousness immediately sets up a Bow of ideas which
may be quite misleading. Development removes tllis to a great
extent, but it is an ever-present danger. Reverse the position
322 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
of projector and percipient occasionally. It sometimes happens
that those who think they have strong wills and should therefore
be capable thought-projectors, have mistaken obstinacy for will
power. Authoritative people are not usually desirable co-
operators in this work. They know too much already and in
consequence cannot be taught lessons which require patience
and sympathetic understanding.
Before going further into the processes of development, let
me give you a friendly caution. If you have succeeded so far
and are determined to have nothing to do with spirit teachings,
you will now be very near the limit ofyour development. You
will sit anywhere and at any time, and probably develop some
pretty bad headaches, to say nothing of the possibility of ob-
session. But having proved that thought transcends the limita-
tions of the body-the wise man will treat the matter sacredly,
and take the next steps prayerfully, and, ifpossible, under deftnite
spirit guidance through a medium. In requesting spirit co-
operation, the ftrst point thoroughly to assimilate is that your
mind is the clock ~hich regulates their attendance. The utter
lack ofprinciple shown in everyday life by making and breaking
appointments is disastrous when applied to spirit people. Your
clairvoyance, like your conduct, will be slipshod and evasive,
even ifworse docs not befall by equally insincere spirits rushing
in to £11 the gap. Make a set time and place and religiously
keep the appointment.
~ Careful analysis must be employed to discover exactly what
part imagination plays in "clairvoyant" messages received. It
will sometimes be impossible to discriminate, and the effects
or the type of information conveyed must decide the issue.
Points of light, or luminous clouds apparently floating just
above the eyes, are frequent preliminaries to fuller development.
Note all sensations as they arise. They may be induced by spirit
friends to explain that which cannot be symbolically portrayed.
They amplify sight, and later on will enter largely into your
interpretation ofwhat is visualised. A deeper phase ofthis would
merge into spirit control, and should be resisted unless exper-
ienced friends are present. Investigators often fail to realise
that spirit people have to experiment exactly as we do, in order
to discover adaptabilities and possibilities. They are not always
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 323
aware of their success until your response is received, and oral
recognition of their effort has therefore a distinct value.
Out ofthe tiny cloud formed over the crystal, faces and written
messages will appear in due course. The latter phase is the more
rare. Sometimes, during development, a light appears to form
inside the medium's head, which presents the illusion ofgrowing
larger or of being restricted by compression. The sensation of
possessing a beard or moustache, when you know quite well
you have not grown one, is a familiar experience. Sometimes
clairvoyants get their visions as clearly as in the most vivid
dreams without any premonitory symptoms whatever. Nearly
all get indefinable sensations akin to incipient control while
exercising their clairvoyance. The varied sensations indicate
some peculiarity ofthe manifesting spirit. Clear away the effects
ofeach influence, or later readings may be misconstrued. Should
these feelings remain after a meeting, thoroughly demagnerise
the head or part affected, always adding your will to expel
attachments. Washing the hands or face answers the same
purpose. Whether it is the tonic action of cold water, the
deflection of the mind into another channel, or the actual
removal of a spirit is a moot point. Should these expedients
fail and headaches be a common feature, refrain from sitting
w1til you can join a harmonious circle.
Remember you are seeking an extension of sensitivity. This
means, ftrst ofall, that the thoughts and feelings of mortals will
reach your consciousness and you will automatically exaggerate
or minimise them in accordance with your own temperament
or stage of development. In addition, you will sense more
acutely the thoughts and feelings·of spirit people, who will do
their best to impress you. These are not always pleasant, and
may perhaps cling to you in a somewhat embarrassing fashion.
There is ignorance on the invisible borderline between the two
worlds as on this side. Although spirits may quite successfully
impress your mentality, they may be quite ignorant ofthe effect
they have on your physical body.
In respo11Se to your request, spirits throng around you, and
comparatively few realise that, in addition to the message they
have satisfactorily transmitted, they often also register thoughts
and feelings they had no intention of sending to you. Once
324 THE UNIVERSITY OP SPllUTUAUSM
enmeshed in the medium's aura, all thoughts and feelings pass
along the lines of communication and, for the rime being, two
brains operate as one. This applies specially to drifters in
spirit life who are not fully conscious that they no longer occupy
a physical body. Their uppermost thought will probably be
that they are very, very ill, and it is quite possible for sensitives
to catch this thought without in the least guessing its psychic
origin. Hence the need for prompt magnetic treatment ofall
mediums who suffer under any physical disability whatever.
A fum grip on mental science and the constant affirmation of
health not only cure the sensitive, but may also have the effect
of bringing the spirit to fuller consciousness. Developing
mediums should habitually treat their own ailments as they
would treat a patient brought to them for relief. It is difficult
for positive minds to appreciate the fact that there are people
who attract and hold such spirits captive.
In cases ofintense griefone gets constant illustrations ofpeople
who are ignorant of their influence upon equally ignorant
departed friends whom they detain on the material plane.
Cases of nervous prostration may often be traced to this inter-
action of soul with soul, and provide the greatest inducement
to refrain from selfish and intense grie£ Imagination being the
image-building faculty of the mind, it follows that clairvoyance
is the ability to perceive the pictures so created. Further, it is
clear that, if person number two sees in pictorial form what
person number one is thinking, the thinker must operate on
material which makes the pictures objective to soul-sight.
The fact is thus brought home that the eye does not see. In
most cases, it is not even a possible channel of perception. The
seer's eyes are often closed. Consciousness alone visualises and
interprets the vision. Clairvoyance forces materialism to admit
a power ofperception independent ofthe physical senses. When,
in addition to this, we find that the double of the clairvoyant
is often seen at the very place he may be describing through a
physical body miles away from the scene described, the Spiritu-
alist hypothesis of spirit sight associated with a suitable psychic
organism is complete. Touch, taste, sight, smell and hearing
are but avenues to the mind; they are not consciousness. Each
may be destroyed, but consciousness never. In surgery, nearly
HOW TilE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 325
the whole of the brain has been found atrophied or missing,
due to disease, but still consciousness persisted.
Gradually, science is being forced to admit that our "mind
field" is larger than, and possibly quite independent of, the brain.
Psychic relationships are cognised by the spirit direct. In all
psychic work, the physical channels are partially or wholly in-
operative. It is here that materialism stumbles. It eternally
confounds the possessor with the thing possessed. We habitually
think of ourselves as soulless pieces of mechanism, and lose
sight of the driving force behind the machine. The work of
Spiritualism is to prove independence ofspirit from the machine
it controls. It is a hard task, because all messages travel through
the body. We are unable to dogmatise as to where the power
of the spirit ends and j ust how far the organs of the body blend
with the sensations received. If clairvoyants would make
appointments to visit each other "in the spirit," we should soon
get all the evidence w•~ needed to force scientists "off the fence"
and admit the separability of the soul from the body. Many
scientists believe in psychic phenomena, but classify them as
attributes ofthe physical body. Against this, we prove that con-
sciousness travels with the spirit body and therefore inheres to
that organism. Otherwise, it could not collect the information
it does and return with it to the physical brain.
The foregoing argument destroys the unconfirmed assertions
of occultists that clairvoyance is a purely physical extension of
sight located in the pineal gland, pituitary body or solar plexus.
Each may serve as a pCiint oftransmission, but actual sight travels
with the spirit body and is therefore independent of any nerve
centre. The assertions arise from the fact that clairvoyants are
trained to concentrate: on those points, but other clairvoyants
see equally well from the back of the neck, and describe people
standing behind them. Hospital patients have been known
to declare they could sec through their toes and fingers.
These vagaries have been explored by M. Romaines in his
book, "Eyeless Sight."' He claims that the skin itselfhas[owers
ofsight. He had discovered sensitives who actually rea books
by placing them in contact with any/art of the body. That it
was no hallucination was confirme by Anatole France and
several professors who signed affidavits in support of the facts.
326 THE IJNIVERSITY OF SPlRITUAUSM
Romaines calls it "extra-retinal" vision-sight which does not
operate through the retina of the normal eye. Man is believed
to originate from a single cell, which is the lowest form of life
conceivable and is complete in itself. It propagates by division
and fmally forms combinations by the addition of other cells.
Each cell contains the equivalent of a stomach through which
nourishment is absorbed. No stomach is visible, nor eye nor
other specific organ. But what applies to the stomach applies
also to the eye. It must be there in a rudimentary state, though
it cannot be seen. Romaincs therefore endows the skin, com-
posed of myriads of cells, with microscopic eyes, each nerve
ending serving the purpose ofan eye.
Some clairvoyants construct a mental tube which they be-
lieve to be essential to focus their spiritual sight. This produces
a further illusion as to the size of the objects they are looking at.
They often affirm that the characters arc grotesquely big or
exceedingly minute. Others adopt specific mental attitudes in
order to focus the attention, which conduces to the same end.
The illusion of its apparent location is due to the method of
training, and not to the skin, pineal gland, or any other material
organ believed to possess the faculty of clairvoyant sight.
In clairvoyance, as in discarnate spirit life, we note two laws.
Firstly, that under ordinary circumstances the sight of spirits is
limited to the plane of consciousness wherein they dwell.
Secondly, that before they can adjust their sight to penetrate
other spheres, they must "condition" or train themselves to an
unusual range of vision. Earthly clairvoyants are similarly
restricted, and cannot range at will throughout the spheres.
Clairvoyants arc in the same position as spirits whose sight
readily pierces planes immediately above or below normality
and fitfully glimpse other states of consciousness. When their
limit is reached, they are entirely dependent upon messages
transmitted by spirit people from spheres visualised. It is here
that the value of spirit controls, whose range of experience far
transcends our own, makes itself clearly manifest. The evidence
is conclusive tl1at something more than mere reading of a regis-
tration is operative during clairvoyance. It is not the sight of a
picture, or the reception ofa thought, that is the most astounding
problem. It is the fact that information germane to the subject
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 327
accompanies them. All telepathic theories fail utterly as explana-
tions if one dispassionattely considers the facts of objective clair-
voyance.
When Von Bourg, a.psychic, was asked to find a missing man,
he clairvoyantly saw tthe cause of death, and, recognising the
river along which tht~ body had floated, was able to direct
searchers to the exaCit spot where the body was entangled.
More recently, many newspapers reported a similar case.
Because the seer held one of the garments of the dead man in
his hand while he walked along the river bank, seeking con-
firmation of his sensations and clairvoyance, they likened him
to a bloodhound following a scent. Obviously, there was no
trail to follow, other than the mystic link which relates one
invisible soul to another. In both cases there was no living
person to project the thoughts. H~ce, if telepathy is a correct
solu_ili>!1_2f clairvoyance, it could only be telepathy from dead
me'!;.....-1 - - - - ---
'"another theory which finds great favour is that all thoughts
drop into an ocean of consciousness, which the psychic faculty
is able to tap. Tllis is being boosted as quite a new idea, although
spirit people have consistently taught that all thought has
definite registration value and in spirit life is utilised to objectify
and beautify the "house not made witl1 hands, eternal in the
heavens." The spirit world is essentially a thought world.
But the idea of a static ocean of consciousness lacking indivi-
dualised perception is killed by the fact that the seer visualises
places and incidents that nobody ever projected. The idea of
attunement to a vibrattory wavelength is likewise shattered if
more is received than t:he projector sent.
When Frau Lotte Plaat assists the German police to hunt up
criminals, incidental means to the end are frequently introduced
that could not previously have been in anybody's mind. While
training a clairvoyant by the Kilner process to watch the aura
emanating from each of the sitters, I was wondering what
would happen to masses of people carried away by a sudden
catastrophe like the tidal wave such as the newspapers that day
had reported. Quite normally, the clairvoyant saw the aura
weave itself into beautiful colours,·and suddenly rush in her
direction. She immediately became unconscious of material
328 THE UNIVERSITY OP SPIRITUAUSM
surroundings, and described large numbers ofpeople laid out on
a hillside, amid beautiful scenery, and was impressed with the
idea that they had suddenly died, and would be slowly awakened
when the time was ripe to introduce them to their friends.
Realising how great the general state of panic would be iflarge
numbers of people were suddenly hurled out of their bodies
with their minds keenly alert, I was thankful to fmd that the
beautiful anaesthetic of sleep could be so judiciously employed.
In that case clairvoyance came as an answer to a mental question,
not a mere picture of anything I was thinking.
While giving psychic diagnosis, the clairvoyance of some
mediums often takes a most extraordinary form. The interior
ofthe human body is seen, as though they are looking through a
watchglass at the works inside. Cancer looks hke the roots ofa
tree branching off into various directions, and each disease has
its specific indications. In course of conversation with a woman
whom she had never seen before, the medium informed her that
she had a tendency to goitre. She did so because psychically
she could see the goitre, apparently fully-formed, although no
physical signs were visible. The woman was astounded, and
admitted that her doctor had told her the same thing, and she
was now under treatment to prevent it. This is a different form
of clairvoyance altogether. In the aura, the goitre had already
formed. To the seer it was an actual physical fact. In addition
to the picture, there were sensations of growth in her own
throat, and for the moment she felt seriously as if something
was developing there. She put her hands there to assure herself
that something really physical had not happened.
I have questioned her and other clairvoyants as to tee dif-
ference in the apparent texture of diseased growths, spirit
scenery and the various types of spirit bodies. There appears
to be all the intervening gradations .from texture which looks
like dense physical matter to that resembling brilliant illu-
minations. They can describe the latter only as bright and
shimmering, like electric light passing through transparent
jewels. This applies particularly to the homes of highly de-
veloped spirits. Clairvoyants are so obviously assisted at critical
moments that there is a natural tendency to believe that success-
ful clairvoyance is more often due to assistance from the spirit
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 329
side than to actual clairvoyant sight. The best clairvoyants
are those who can make themselves receptive to messages from
a wide range of mentalities. Spiritual quality is thus a decisive
factor. High spiritual ranges are impossible to degraded minds.
Education gives a tremendous advantage over illiteracy, because
suitable language to explain what is seen is operative.
Ability to interpret is sometimes more valuable than a literal
statement of what is seen clairvoyantly, because it is mainly by
symbolism that spirit people reach our understanding. Usually
a strong impression or intuitive apprehension assists the seer
during the giving of descriptions. When this is not apparent,
calmly and steadily hoM the brain passive while mentally asking
the meaning of the vision. Thoughts will then flow through
the brain which generally contain an explanation. Always do
this before giving your delineation, or in any way setting up
thought currents among your audience, who might 6ll in sug-
gestions telepathically. Mediums often request their audience
to refrain from asking for names or other information not
spontaneously given, because they know that unconscious
telepathy or subconscious activity may supply the demand.
On the other hand, some mediums practise replying to mental
questions which in some strange way are isolated and reach
them from amidst the medley ofthoughts projected from people
listening. It is generally unwise to ask questions at all if they
can be avoided, because it arouses a suspicion of "fishing for
information.''
Some day, when all mediums recognise the sacredness oftheir
calling, they will form special study groups to assist each other's
development, and, by reading all that other clairvoyants and
mediums have written, will avoid the public derision their
brave but often infantile efforts bring upon Spiritualism. It is
a painful fact that numbers of clairvoyants no sooner ~ee a spirit
form than they are mshed into public life without adequate
training, and remain siJpremcly ignorant all their lives of the
criticisms they incur, an.d the injury rather than help they render
to Spiritualism. Those who are ignorant oftheir own ignorance
can usually be discover«~d by their stupid jealousy of those who
excel. They quite fail to see that there is anything to learn, and
remain crudely inefficient.
330 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
Miss Rowan Vincent, a well-known clairvoyant, often puzzled
her friends by declaring that, though she described spirits, she
did not see them. This form of cognition is due to partial
spirit control or telepathy producing so strong an impression
on the mind that it answers the purpose ofsight. Usually both
methods blend, but one phase can quite easily be used without
the other. So pertinent and applicable are the ideas received
during clairvoyance that partial spirit control seems to be the
only rational explanation. It is also said to be a form ofpsycho-
metry, because of these extraordinarily acute impressions regis-
tered by the brain. So clearly defined arc the sensations, that
seers often feel for the moment as if they are the persons they arc
describing, notwithstanding the fact that they may not feel the
slightest symptoms of control.
A better term for clairvoyants who do not see is "clairscnticnt.''
This means clear sensing. It is the normal method of com-
munication after death, wherein the "language of the soul" is
not expressed in words, but in thoughts, feelings and desires.
All these blend with the temperament during manifestation, and
thus concise communications are obtained. As the sensations
indicate definite temperaments, desires and thoughts, the seer
knows the spiritual quality of the spirit he is describing, but
when similar contact is psychometrically attained with minerals
or fossils, the perceptive powers of the soul arc utilised, and
partial spirit control does not satisfactorily explain it. We
arc thus forced to grant the soul a £1r wider range of intuitive
perception than we understand at the moment.
In all fo-rrns ofclairvoyance there arc many notable variations.
Some clairvoyants see clearly, as with nonnal sight, but fail to
catch any explanatory in1pression. Others find their visions
so fugitive that they constantly doubt whether they arc clair-
voyant or not. This indicates a poor stage of development, and
requires great perseverance to overcome. Nearly all types
affirm that when they consciously place themselves in a receptive
condition, ideas pass through their minds quite foreign to normal
reasoning. As soon as tl1cy voice their thought, the impression
dies away, only to be succeeded by a perfectly coherent succes-
sion of ideas relating to the condition they are sensing. Many
clairvoyants only register great extremes. Intermediate sensa-
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 331
tions escape their notice. What is thought to be poor clairvoy-
ance is ofttimes mere lack of attention to details. But it will be
found that telepathy, soul-perception, subconsciousness activity,
extended consciousness and spirit control will each in turn be
necessary as explanations of specific phases of clairvoyance.
From these variations, the terms ~'objective" and "sub-
jective" clairvoyance ~tave grown up. The term "objective"
is applied to clairvoyant sight when the object looks as real and
tangible as physical matter docs to normal sight. It is called
"subjective" when the object or condition is sensed rather than
seen, i.e., a mental picture, and not an object. Many clairvoyants
see so clearly that they do not realise they arc not using ordinary
eyesight w1til they close their eyes and find they can see just as
well without them In a few cases where the spirit body is gross,
closing the eyes would shut out the sight of it because it is
more material than spiritual. ,.Pther clairvoyants claim to see, as
in a dream, and, dream-like, their visions rapidly fade from
memory. Where the medium is conscious of lcavirlg the body,
and in that state views the surrow1dings, we use the term
"travelling clairvoyance." Tl:Us signifies that the spirit is utilising
the mechanism of the soul body in which to travel, and, on
return, transmits through the physical brain the information
collected. This used to be a fairly common experience among
mesmeric subjects, but is comparatively rare now that hypnotic
practice supplants true psychic perception by the deliberate
creation of hallucinations. Spiritualism will eventually clarify
these issues by distinguishing between the self-created imagery
of the subject, and thought-impressions from hypnotists or
discarnate mentalities. Both consciously and unconsciously the
n:Und manipulates psyci:Uc ethers, and forms dream-pictures that
appear objective to the seer. When suggestion sets the mind
working, the subject automatically responds. The subconscious
selfdoes not reason; it merely acts. It is the ego that collates and
directs. Induced or abnormal states of consciousness in no way
disprove the normal operations of clairvoyant sight.
The following example is selected from the report of M.
Leopold Dauville in the "Echo du Merveilleux." The mesmer-
ised subject, M. Cosse, was directed to go in spirit from the
West Indies to Bordeaux, and, beyond suggesting the various
/
332 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
points to be visited (places being selected by the audience), the
operator was careful not to put ideas into his mind. At each
point the subject described, in detail, types of buildings and
surroundings, which were readily recognised. After describing
the Grand Theatre at Bordeaux, and what was happening in
its vicinity, the operator noticed the subject staring fi.xedly at a
point apparently in. space. Asked what was attracting his
attention, he said he was reading the yellow placard outside the
theatre: "Grand Theatre, Bordeaux. This evening, Saturday,
October 25, 1884. First performance ofAida. Music by Verdi."
The facts were later verified. In every particular the seer was
correct.
I have mentioned how Swedenborg once described a fire
raging near his house. The brothers Alexis and Adolphe Didier,
about a century ago,, read pages of printed matter hidden from
their sight. Andrew Jackson Davis had similar powers, and
developed from an illiterate lad to a writer of some of the
finest philosophy the world has ever seen. In what he called
"the superior condition" he was able to see the psychic life
pulsating throughout all nature, and utilised his powers to select
correct herbal remedies, and to diagnose disease. Spiritualists
know these details are but a fraction of what is possible for the
enlightened soul. In the "National Spiritualist" for April, 1930,
there was a report thatMrs. Mary C. Vlask, under test conditions,
did not merely travel in the spirit, but fully materialised to her
friends in accordance: with a prearranged plan.
This problem brings us to a study oftl1e location ofconscious-
ness. This was obviously at the spot where M. Cosse's tongue
was voicing his vision, yet must also have been at the poster he
was reading, becaus·~ without consciousness he could not re-
count what was seen. Hence we arrive at the fundarnental fact
that the soul has powers of extended sight and consciousness.
Psychic evidences prove that the seer's psychic organism some-
times travels to the point seen. Clairvoyants frequently describe
sp
.u
irits who have thus 1temporarilyleft their bodies. It also appears
that extensibility of vision, without actual soul-travelling, is
equally well proven. During soul-travelling, the line of com-
munication is via the "silver cord" mentioned in Ecclesiastes xii.
It is often described lby clairvoyants. It is a kind of infinitely
HOW l'HB CLAIRVOYANT SEES 333
elastic fluid or matter, which expands or contracts in accordance
with the will of the owner.
Will is the dynamic force which enables thought to travel
over this electric pathw:ay with the speed of lightning. It is a
propulsive power which does not merely convey the spirit,
but automatically lays liln.cs over which the soul freely travels.
There may be an infinitesimal fraction of time intervening
between sight of the scene described by the clairvoyant and its
recapitulation to an audk:nce, or while the spirit travels from the
point seen to talk to an audience, but, to all intents and purposes,
time and space are annihilated on spirit planes. Seers invariably
speak as though their whole consciousness is in the vicinity of
the scene described, butt it is obvious that it must also be in
contact with the brain which receives, and the tongue which is
reciting its experience many miles away from the actual point
ofcontact. Psychic pow,:rs thus illustrate the divinity ofman and
his spiritual relationship with the infinite God.
A usefUl method of training co11Sciousness to become aware
ofits exte11Sibility, or power to separate itself from the physical
body is, prior to going to sleep each night, to commend yourself
to the care of God and your guardian angels, and then, with
simple faith, calmly and decidedly focus the mind on an objective
and drop off to sleep. It may need several attempts before
success is attained, but many succeed immediately. Ifthe power
is never used for selfish purposes, there is nothing to fear. Actual
healing is often done in this way, and prophetic vision may
supplement other psychic powers. Ifyou receive evidence that
the "dream" is not always an illusion, nor the result of indi-
gestion or subconscious action, it will be as valuable as any other
phase of mediumship, with the additional advantage of non-
interference with normal occupations.
The majority of soul--travellers retain no memory whatever
of their expeditions, owing to some physical disability which
prevents the ego from registering its psychic experiences upon
the physical brain. Nor have we any analogies with which we
can compare them. Ilut with patience and perseverance a
gradual extc11Sion of slec:p-memories is induced. At first, they
will be fleeting, and, unless written down immediately on
awaking, will speedily be forgotten. With the requisite adapta-
334 nm UNIVERSITY OF SPJRITUAUSM
bility, dream-life soon becomes as real as daily routine. The
would-be soul-traveller must aim at impressing consciousness
with the result of each journey, and gradually some glimpses of
scenes visited will be remembered. But, though a soul-traveller
may be completely successful, even to the extent of showing
himself to a clairvoyant or other dreamer, neither party, or only
one, may remember the fact on awaking.
For many years my wife practised "travelling in the spirit,"
and grew so fond ofher experiences that she developed a positive
dislike to returning to her body. At this point, her spirit friends
requested a discontinuance of the practice, lest, all unwittingly,
her desire took effect and she be found dead in bed. They
told her they had other work for her to do before they would
be willing to receive her. Time proved them to be right. In
my own case, the practice induced insomnia. I therefore de-
sisted. Physical as well as psycluc adaptability is essential. My
wife found the best method of practising astral-travelling in
the sleep state was defmitcly to arrange with a friend the time
and place ofthe experiment. Two minds were thus focused on
the result. The test usually consisted of describing the interior
of the sceptic's home. In the majority of cases, she would not
know where they lived, but so exact were her descriptions that
even the way clothes were disposed of before retiring would be
described. So real did my wife's spirit body appear to her that
she rarely remembered her physical body was quietly sleeping
in bed, but a memory ofit was recovered during the following
incident. On this occasion, she attempted-in the spirit-to
wake a friend by touching his face. Filled with the idea that if
she could only wake lum up, and make him see her, ills scepticism
must vanish for ever, she made the attempt. To her surprise
the hand passed right through the face without any sensation of
resistance. She then remembered her body and realised her
linlitations as a spirit at the same moment.
These experiences help us to understand the lessons all spirits
must learn sooner or later. We pass through brick walls as spirits,
and are oblivious of their solidity, but if the obstructions are
peculiar to the plane on wruch the spirit dwells, they arc as
opaque and ponderable as material walls. To an earthbound
spirit, locked doors would present the appearance of an im-
HOW TiFill CLAIRVOYANT SEES 335
penetrable barrier. Visiting another friend, my wife discovered
the reason why spirit people so frequently object to mediums
saturating themselves w1
ith drugs, alcohol, or tobacco. Well
aware that she had arrive,d at her destination, she essayed to enter
the house, but was repelled by a sensation of positive nausea
caused by the fumes of tobacco and alcohol hanging about the
place. It took several determined efforts before she fmally
overcame these obstacles. The conditions were not due to cl1e
friend she was trying to visit, but to other people in the house.
Some day-when mediums respect their calling-it will not be
necessary for controls too smash the medium's tobacco pipes,
as I know they frequently do, nor plead with them to facilitate
work by a little more self-sacrifice. They will give active co-
operation in place of grudging acquiescence.
The perceptions of a clairvoyant are thus seen to be identical
with the normal sight ofdiscarnate spirits, who are more capable
than earthly clairvoyants because the sight is natural to ilieir
state and ilicir knowledge is greater. Sometimes spiritual sight
seems to perceive materital objects exactly like normal eyesight,
but at other times spirit vision is limited to ilie auric mind-field
surrow1ding the medium and links up spirit friends who impart
the information receivcdJ...()ne point stands out clearly, and that
is that Wlless s irit controls have their attention particularly
drawn ific maittef'"und~consiac~on, ilit::y are often
. rant o_jt~ws;....an:. Thus they prove their human
limitations as well as their independence. The illustrations prove
that spirit-friends can t1:ace causes of which we are ignorant,
as well as sec and reason independently. A great deal of what
is thought to be clairvoyance is actually a form ofpartial control
which permits the soul-sight of a discarnate spirit to co-operate
wiili the medium, who may be completely ignorant of ilie
assistance given.
The apparent inability of spirits or clairvoyants to penetrate
conditions which at other times are easily scanned forms as
baffling a problem as clairvoyance itself Drugs, alcohol and
tobacco arc sometimes but not always known to be deterrents.
It is difficult to see claiJ:voyantly into conditions repugnant to
the seer. Only when the mind can act in a detached way amid
conditions agreeable to the meditun do good results accrue.
•
336 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
I have witnessed excellent clairvoyance given by a hardened
smoker in a room filled with tobacco smoke. The same con-
dition would have made clairvoyance impossible to other seers.
It is reasonable to conclude that gross physical conditions would
be positively repulsive to inhabitants from more refined spheres,
and only great love for earth's childre11 induces them to leave
happier realms to associate with us. Our business as mediums is
to make their work less repulsive by keeping the body pure and
wholesome, the mind placid and the seance room attractive.
Concentration upon an objective is as essential for spirit people's
sight as for earthly clairvoyants. Both discover limitations
when exploring each other's sphere. The transmitted power
and knowledge of operating spirits thus play an important
part.
It is always difficult to formulate theories as to how soul-
sight reaches its objective. Still more difficult is it to understand
how it branches off from its objective and cognises related
conditions. I know a clairvoyant who seems to reach her
parents without any apparent means to the end. Her daughter
had a friend who was very ill. Merely telling the mother that
she wished she could diagnose the sufferer was sufficient for the
medium clairvoyantly to see the patient and then accurately
diagnose her condition. Such a minute detail as an abscess under
the tooth, in addition to the more serious diagnosis, was given.
The mind ofthe daughter probably formed the psychic pathway
over which tl1e soul-sight, if not the complete spirit body,
travelled to tl1e patient. Those who are wedded.to telepathy
as a theory have tllen to sb1vetheWrtller mystery 'as to how
clairvoyant sight dives beneath the surface and discovers actuali-
ties that are not present in anybody's mind.\ Coining words like
"cryptesthesia" in no way helps us to Ufiderstand what really
happens.
The following reply was given at a direct-voice seance to a
somewhat similar inquiry: "In all states ofbeing in both worlds
tl1ere is law. At the back of tl1is law is mind or spirit, spirit
manifesting and making itself known in our world or higher
states still. Spirit is eternal, the fotmdation of all. Your world
is a world of movement; all is in motion. Various movements
are conveyed to the brain and thence to the spirit. As vibrations
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 337
travel to you they become sound or touch. When the spirit
perceives them they are pictorial. The world within is as the
world without. Yet, if you were to see the outer world as it
actually is, you would not recognise it. It is not as the spirit
imprisoned within the body discerns it. The real world is just
one moving mass."
Following this line of reasoning, and thinking of the spirit
world as a sublimated counterpart of this, we can quite easily
imagine thought acting like a ray of light and cleaving a path
to its objective. But as we cannot separate sight from con-
sciousness, we think of man as a spirit, rather than a putty-like
piece of material registering rates of vibration which become
pictorial to the seer. We may even visualise the process by which
pictures are built up, and which become objective to the clair-
voyant. Newspapers now print pictures received by wireless
telegraphy. Television illustrates another process. In the case
of the clairvoyant, the pictures register on the brain or psychic
organism. That is one aspect. But clairvoyants also visualise
apparently lifeless forms and scenes which may be picked up
htmdreds of years after their pr~jection. They appear to be
thought-forms thrown off and automatically registered on
psychic ethers. They are like soap bubbles, mere forms without
consciousness. They get enmeshed in the aura of seers who
psychometrically read their message. Like soap bubbles, they
can be dispersed by the breeze of opposing thought. They are
not destroyed, but are transformed like dew in the rising sun's
rays, or merely rendered invisible by changed rates ofvibration.
Individualised consciousness forms a vortex continually
attracting and repelling these blind forces in addition to conscious
spirit people. The disembodied spirit consciously controls these
elements ofwhich embodied man is ignorant and suffers accord-
ingly. Man's whole emotional and mental atmosphere is reflected
in his psychic surroundings. Hence seers and spirits read him like
an open book and are more conscious ofhis failings and strength
than the individual himself. It is rare for spirit people to com-
plain of injustice in their conditioning. They simply cannot
do so because their own motives, thoughts, and actions, or the
results thereof, meet them at every turn. These are the factors a
well-developed clairvoyant learns to understand. It is not like
338 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
reacling a book and repeating some stereotyped phrase. He must
learn to interpret scenes, sensations and emotions, the reference
libraries ofthe spirit: world, into the common language ofearth.
Thus it comes about: that the personal equation ofeach medium,
his subconsciousness, prejudices and training, very largely colour
his clairvoyance, even though he may see exactly the same
picture as another who gives a different rendering.
Planes of consciousness prevent our travelling into spheres to
which we are unable to attune ourselves. It is the same with
clairvoyance. Planes ofsight correspond to planes ofconscious-
ness. The essential difference is one of soul-quality, and not
mere psychic adaptability or education. The purer the mind,
the more ethereal :is the plane contacted. This qualification
limits to earth what is called "test" or "business" clairvoyance
and criminal investigation. Highly spiritualised souls would
be repelled by sordid, petty, or repulsive details. For these
re.asons, clairvoyants:whose interests are mostly on the mundane
plane are better able to prove tl1e reality ofclairvoyance because
earthly descriptions and relationships can be verified. In the
nature of things, wl~ether transmitted or directly observed, we
cartt1ot test statements concerning spiritual verities like tlle
things ofearth. In c•bedience to the same law, spirit people have
to learn how to condition themselves when they desire to be
seen on lower planes or act as missionaries to "the spirits in
prison." Ifour knowledge were equal to that ofthe angels, we
could excuse ourselves from seeking dens of vice to aid the
police in criminal urvestigation. But, alas! few there be who can
touch pitch without defilement. Because of this fact, Spiritual-
ists, as a rule, refuse to act as sleuthhounds to hunt up criminals;
but psyclllcs who accustom themselves to mentally md morally
degrading associations often do so after development by
hypnotism.
J. B. Tetlow, a well-known clairvoyant, describes his sensa-
tions on passing from trance to clairvoyant states as follows:
"My first recollection on returning to wakefulness was that I
had been where it was lighter than me room in which we were
sittmg, although the room itself was flooded with light. By-
and-by, I would become conscious of a cloud of light. Then in
the midst ofit I may sec a dark cloud, and in this there rapidly
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 339
evolves the face of a human being. The impulse to speak and
describe what I saw would follow. Sometimes with the vision
comes the spoken name of the person to whom it belongs, and
thus hundreds of persons have been recognised. Clairvoyance
is not attained by all persons in the same manner. It can be
divided into two forms, objective and subjective. Subjective
clairvoyance is when the seer discerns interiorly, or from the
interior side of consciousness. Objectively is when the person-
ality presents a distinctly physical appearance. When I discern
the past life of a person, it is by tl1e agency of the two kinds of
pictures-those like an ordinary photograph, presenting in
detail a house, church or other scene, or by me appearance of
diverse coloured clouds which induce various sensations in me.
Dark clouds mean either trouble or sickness; black as ebony
or dense are signs ofdeath. It takes time to read them, but unless
both picture and sensations are closely noted, mistakes are often
made."
Clairvoyants soon discover that all moughts present themselves
as symbolic pictures. It is in the ability to read these symbols
rather than the measure of actual sight that differentiates one
clairvoyant from another. One clairvoyant may dismiss as
valueless alarge number ofdetails which anotlter would correctly
interpret and prove very valuable. Surnames present great
difficulty in this respect because all clairvoyants are not clair-
audient. (Clairaudient means one who has "clear hearing.")
A clairvoyant friend was puzzled by seeing two turtle doves
billing and cooing on the shoulders of a very unlikely lover.
But as they expressed the symbol of love to him, without
saying anything more than "Love," he found tl1at it was the
name of cl1e spirit previously described. Anomer time, he saw
a cat mat attached itself to a woman. Merely saying "Cat"
revealed cl1e fact that this was the woman's name, but spelled
"Katt."
Each must learn interpretation for hirnsel( The symbol does
not always mean tlle same thing to different clairvoyants. The
~ight of a coffin would naturally indicate deatll or a funeral,
but would be meaningless to anyone ignorant of our modes of
burial. We interpret symbols in tlle light of our knowledge or
beliefs. It is for this reason that warnings are frequently conveyed
340 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPllUTUAllSM
along lines of idle superstition. The message reaches its hearer
though its basis is silly. No matter whether the picture is pre-
cipitated into a medium's mind by a discarnate spirit or un-
consciously caught up from the mind of a member in the
audience, the same rule would apply. A serpent usually sym-
bolises cunning or an enemy, but to one conversant with
Eastern literature it might mean wisdom, or with its tail in its
mouth, eternity. A form covered with a cloak indicates secrecy
or deception, but it may also mean that it is unwise to peep
beneath the surface. To see a form covered with a shroud
may mean death. Whether it refers to past, present or future
would be determined by other details; but again it might only
refer to a surgical operation. Clairvoyants must never be dog-
matic. Let me interpose here a word of warning to young
seers. Even though you feel certain that someone's death is
indicated, remember it is the crudest form of brutality to shock
individuals or those to whom the prospective corpse is related.
Clairvoyants are but human and sometimes love to add a little
sensationalism. Don't do it. Let common courtesy ever teach
you how to warn without frightening. Besides-there is the
possibility-you may be wrong.
That ability to interpret symbols is as valuable as sight itself
was amusingly illustrated by the experience of W. 0. Drake,
a well-known lecturer. He usually had no difficulty in recognis-
ing the description ofhis deceased parent, but for a long time was
irritated by the apparently foolish guesses made by clairvoyants
as to his father's professi0n or tastes. They would persist in
telling him his father was a farmer or reared ducks, or made
the sillier statement that his father was fond ofducks. At last he
got the explanation. As usual the clairvoyant asked him if his
father sold ducks. "No, he certainly did not," he replied. "Then
why does he persist in holding up a duck before me? It is a male
duck. What do you call a male duck? Your father is laughing
a.
nd says you ought to understand." He did, for no clearer
symbol ofhis own name, Drake, could have been shown. It is,
therefore, necessary for sitters equally with the medium to try
to interpret the symbols shown.
The next difficulty is to distinguish between spirits who still
possess a physical body and those who have passed on. Des-
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 341
criptions are frequently given of people believed to be dead__
who, on inquiry, prove to be very much alive and still wearing
an earthly robe offlesh. They are usually quite ignorant oftheir
power thus to show themselves. The fact is as well proven as
ordinary spirit appearances. Even control by spirits in the body
has been several times reported. At one ofthe Margery Crandon
seances in America, Frederick Bligh Bond obtained evidential
automatic writing from a friend still living in England. Had the
clairvoyant's sight been "open" it would have confirmed the
script. It will usually be found that the spirit possessing a physical
body presents a more dense or more objective appearance than
a discarnate spirit. The need to note carefully all impressions
that come with the spirit form is, therefore, essential.
Closed eyes and general lack ofresponsiveness by spirit people
are distinctive features of dreamers who temporarily leave their
bodies, and also of discarnates ignorant of their transition by
death. Thought-pictures, which often include apparently living
people, present many difficulties, especially if the appearance
of the person is not decisively associated with the rest of the
scene. But the lifeless appearance or flatness ofa picture are useful
clues. Those apparently lifeless forms are responsible for the
Theosophic notion of spook shells, elementals and similar ideas
borrowed from Eastern literature. They are disproved by the
fact that the slumberers gradually awaken to their new condition-
ing and explain themselves. Thought-forms would naturally
tend to disintegrate when concentration ceases.
Clairvoyance is said to be extended sight, but seers are often
puzzled to account for the actual process by which they receive
their information. It is difficult to say whether it is vision,
hearing, actual control, or whether they voice impressions
flowing from discarnate spirits or telepathically receive them
from their audience. Each of these factors occasionally enter
into communications. When the blend is perfect, it sometimes
provokes tl1e idea that the medium is not an individualised
entity, but part of a universal consciousness in manifestation.
It is clear that an all-inclusive perception or understanding
accompanies the best forms of clairvoyance. Intuitive appre-
ciation of motives and incidental associations form part of the
scenes described. It is not sight alone, for intuition delivers the
34.2 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
interpretation. It is not hearing, though messages are distinctly
received. It is frequently a blend of all the sensory powers of
consciousness in which past, present and future merge into an
ever-present panorama in which reality stands starkly before us
and all the petty incidents ofnormal life sink into an insignificant
background. From these discoveries has arisen the idea that
fully developed spiritual beings will not be dependent on five
or even s.ix senses, but will blend all faculties into a grand,
wlified, comprehensive power of understanding in which the
unit recognises its relationship to t!1e Eternal Mind. To t!1e
Buddhist itmeans absorptioninto deity with loss ofindividuality.
To the Christian mystic it signifies attunement or at-one-ment
with God.
It will often be difficult for the seer to decide whether he sees
with normal sight or perceives by purely psychic methods.
Sometimes there is a blend of both. The variations are due to
differing densities ofthe spirit body rather than strength or weak-
ness of vision. To use the expression of the spirit people, they
have to "build up" before the majority ofmediums cansee them.
If their spirit bodies are sufficiently dense, large numbers ofclair-
voyants see them. The same process, continued with denser auric
materials, constitutes etl1erealisation or transfiguration, which
makes them visible to many more. Still more condensed, and
we get materialisarions visible to all. At other times, clairvoyants
operate on the same plane as the spirits seen, and thus view spirit
people and scenes under more natural conditions. Purely psychic
insight, accompanied by intuitive interpretation, is called sub-
jective because the thoughts impressed upon the seer are similar
to his own mental creations. But they are objective on their
own plane of manifestation.
Another difficulty is illustrated by the following experience.
A stranger was directed by table-tilting to go to the Cl:lph:un
Spiritualist Institute. The communicator claimed to be a grand-
father whom the woman had never seen, but said he would
show himself to my wife, who was the clairvoyant, and thus
confirm the table message. The sitter inquired, "How can I
recognise the description ofsomebody I have never seen?" He
replied that he would wear his masonic regalia. He duly appeared
to my wife, but she refused to describe him, because she could
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 343
discern no outline of a face. It was completely blanked out.
But, as the spirit persisted, she at last described the form as a
man, in evening dress, with a masonic chain hanging about his
neck, and gave messages which completed identification. In
this case, you have a non-intelligent table giving information,
afterwards confirmed through a third party. Subconscious
action must therefore be ruled out as an explanation. ,
Spirits often adopt very ingenious but very perplexing
methods for securing recognition. Andrew Lang tells the story
ofa man who tried to hypnotise his little brother, but discovered
a natural clairvoyant instead. The incident is instructive. He
says: "Placing a child in an easy chair, with his head thrown
back in the orthodox fashion, our friend held the glass ball
slightly above and a few inches in front of the child's eyes.
Presently the boy began t:o laugh. 'You mustn'tlaugh,' said his
brother severely, 'you must ke:!p quite quiet and steady.' But
his mirth only increased. 'How can I help laughing,' he said,
'when you show me pictures like that?' 'Pictures? What do
you mean?' 'Why, isn't there an old Chinese grinning and
making faces at me?' "
Hypnotists usually stop at this point, because they regard
clairvoyance as the result of latent ideas and memories. The art
of suggestion then comes into play and completely falsifies
reality by compelling the boy to see an old Chinese standing on
his head or assuming ~my grotesque attitude the hypnotist
suggests. The failure to recognise that we arc spirits now, and
can create and project mental pictures-both by accident or
design-into sensitive minds, is the stumbling-block over which
experimentalists fall. In the same way, sitters quite uninten-
tionally thrust their personal thoughts upon mediums, and,
while correctly crediting; the seer with an exact reading, are
unaware that their own thought has supplanted a message
from another mentality altogether. This interference constitutes
the chief hindrance to clear spirit messages. If the hypnotist
had left the boy to himself, and merely told him to watch
whatever followed, it would have permitted the Chinese to
express himselffully, and possibly deliver a message establishing
identity. It is true the boy could have created the mental picture
of the Chinese, but the fact that he did not is insuperable. It is a
~~
344 THJB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
perfectly gratuitous assumption to assert that because he did not
do it consciously, therefore he must have done it subconsciously.
This truly psychical research method of dismissing unpleasant
facts is irritating to constructive minds who prefer the truth,
the whole truth antd nothing but the truth.
That clairvoyance is not an optical illusion is, I think, clearly
demonstrated by :an experiment fairly common among hyp-
notists. A perfectly clean pack ofcards is produced, with a secret
and practically invisible mark placed on one of the cards. The
hypnotist then sug;gests that on this particular card a picture is
drawn, and requests the hypnotic subject to find it from among
a number of identical cards. To normal sight there is no dif-
ference. But, after shuffiing them, the subject in a most uncanny
way selects the marked card. I suggest that a thought-picture
visible to clairvoyant sight is actually impressed on the card.
This view is suppc•rted by Frederick Bligh Bond in an article on
"athanasia" in the ''Journal of the American Society for Psydu-
cal Research" of May, 1929.
He gives instances of hypnotised boys who distinguished
selected cards by d1e blue light whid1 they said the hypnotist
had left upon them. He certainly had no intention of thus
marking the cards with his aura. They also correctly followed
the invisible outlines of figures and words written by sitters on
the table-top and covered with an opaque cloth. The mere
drawing of a finger over the place, apparently, is sufficient to
leave a psychic mark behind. This leaves us two postulates.
Either the psychic mark is luminous and its light pierced the
cloth cover, or psychic sight penetrated the cloth. As aura,
when photographed, exhibits lines of force similar to those
shown by iron filings after a magnet has passed under them, we
are again forced to recog1usc the "human atmosphere" of
Kilner, the magnetism of the psychic healer, and the reality of
the material through and by which seance room effects become
possible. Out of it is probably woven the fabric on which
clairvoyants see symbolic pictures.
As ignorance classifies all clairvoyance as subconscious decep-
tion, it is necessary to state the difference between aberrations of
sight and true psychic vision. The dominant ideas of lunatics
become objective and take shape and form, owing to continual
HOW THE CLAffiVOYANT SEES 345
concentration. Although reared on an erroneous mental
foundation, they become actual visible forms. But sane people
can also see the same pictures. If a clairvoyant made a study of
the subject's hallucinations, he, too, would see as if using the eye
of the patient. If, therefore, one and the same thing or picture
is seen by both clairvoyant and patient, the only rational con-
clusion is that mind acts upon psychic ethers, which respond to
thought-processes and thus become objective. The line ofhyp-
notic treatment would then take the direction of creating
counteracting illusions, which in time would destroy the domi-
nant idea. Lunacy, like hypnotism, consists merely ofan inability
correctly to appraise associated circumstances. All healthy
people may become hypnotic subjects, but nervous breakdown
is a frequent cause ofinsanity.
Draw the bow ofa violin across the edge ofa glassplate upon
which fine sand has been sprinkled. The sand will form beautiful
pictures corresponding to the note struck. In somewhat similar
fashion thought acts upon invisible ethers, and thus the pictures
seen by clairvoyants are formed. It matters nothing at all whether
we consciously or unconsciously build them. The law is opera-
tive just the same. In spirit life we learn to utilise these laws
and build spirit homes to our liking. On earth, we blindly send
our thoughts into the spirit world, unaware of the patterns we
are weaving. Happy and thrice blessed is the risen soul who has
builded so wisely and well that all the pictures adorning his
spirit home present lines of beauty, love, peace and progressive
thought. We all create thought-pictures and externalise them.
The mental imagery of the lunatic is the same in substance a.~
that ofsanity. Subconscious activity set up by disease produces
distorted or illusory pictures, but aberrations can be clearly
distinguished from clairvoyance, because hallucinations contain
no message or information relating to provable facts or people.
F. W. H. Myers very clearly distinguishes between what he
termed "veridical impressions" and "subjective fancies." In his
book, "Human Personality," he said, "The first and simplest
step to the control of inner vision is the repression by hypnotic
suggestion of degenerative hallucination, and it is noteworthy
that such of these as are curable at all are more often curable by
hypnotic suggestion." In plainer words, when the mind is
346 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
properly directed it can obliterate undesirable pktures by des-
troying them entirely or by creating others and superimposing
them over the error. Students ofspirit teaching will appreciate
this fundamental fact.
That we can sometimes create the mental pictures seen by
clairvoyants, the following incident will prove. I had a seance
with A. Vout Peters, than whom a more generally reliable
clairvoyant would be difficult to fmd. I was mentally immersed
in the details of patenting a tyre, but was not thinking about it
at the moment. He immediately saw me surrounded by motor
tyres, which he could scarcely have guessed a non-motorist to
be interested in. Exactly what I had been thinking was confirmed
and a fair description of the irmovation was received. Tele-
pathically and in great detail he read off the pictures presented
to him. The main idea of all patentees is that tl1ey have found
something valuable. So he assured me it would be a great
success. The tyre was a complete failure. I did not proceed
with the patent because I found a company had anticipated me
in a remarkable way, and were already marketing the child of
my imagination. The company soon collapsed, as experience
revealed inherent weaknesses. In this case, I have no hesitation in
attributing the pictures he saw to my own creative thought.
Unconsciously, we automatically surround ourselves with
thought-pictures. It matters not whether the thinker be scientist
or lunatic, clairvoyant or client. A hypnotist or spirit operator
merely utilises the same law, but, in addition, consciously
projects mental images into sensitive minds. The more power-
fully the hypnotist visualises his suggestions, the more successful
he will be.
Clairvoyance may often be distinguished from aberrations
or subconscious action by definite evidence that other minds
and factors intervene. Contrast the foregoing tyre experience
with the following. My wife informed a sitter, a non-Spirit-
ualist and a total stranger, that he was engaged in a legal trans-
action and that a blue document drawn up in connection
therewith was defective. She advised him to get his solicitor
to go carefully over it again and set the error right. "But,"
she continued, "even then the business it relates to will not be
completed." She clairvoyantly saw the blue document and
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 347
merely voiced the ideas that came while she looked at it. The
stranger laughed at her, and at the same time drew from his
pocket a contract written on blue paper, which he said his
solicitor had drawn up to everybody's satisfaction. He was
taking it to the last signatory. He was sufficiently impressed to
get his solicitor once more to look over it. A technical error was
discovered that would have seriously affected him. Months
later he told us that grave financial difficulties intervened which
entirely upset the whole arrangement.
We are tl1us confronted by the visualisation ofmental pictures
that we obviously do not originate, and also with knowledge
that proves superior to normal reasoning. It is because Spiritual-
ism has records of l1tmdrcds of similar cases that rule out sub-
conscious activity or telcpacl1y that we arc unmoved by the
specious and very learned theories put forward by those whose
experience is limiter\, but whose ability to explain psychic
phenomena is purely hypothetical. We shall continue to main-
tain that such information proves the operation of external
minds, or alternatively that clairvoyance illustrates a normal
and permanent attribute of the soul. The simplest explanations
of these experiences received from spirit people always prove
far more rational than the sophistry at present fashionable.
In seance work, it is almost impossible for clairvoyants to be
acquainted with the secret history ofthe people iliey address and
most certainly can know nothing of their lives, occupations or
descriptions of almost forgotten friends. I witnessed remarkable
demonstrations by John Slater of America. He habitually gave
the full christian and surnames of deceased relatives and friends
with details of their home and life. But stiU more striking were
his pointed references to the thoughts and intentions of the
members of his audience. We are all aware of our own secret
thinking, but very few arc willing to have their secret thoughts
recited in public by a perfect _
stranger who analyses them better
than we do. Many clairvoyants give their best proofs by detail-
ing their sitters' unspoken thoughts. But Slater was simply
marvellous. The suggestion that the whole thing is a trick
engineered among confederates becomes ludicrously absurd
when the daily life ofall parties concerned is known. In varying
degrees, similar evidence is being presented all over ~he world.
348 THE .UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
That is the case fo:r clairvoyance. But we have many difficul-
ties, both theoreti~ and practical. The first most obvious
difficulty confronting investigators is that ofimmature mediums,
incapable ofdescribing what they really do see, and actual frauds
who pretend to describe that which they do not see at all. Emo-
tionalism is often m.i:staken for spirit action. Next in importance
is the fact that though multitudes occasionally see and describe
people, very few cuJtivate the faculty to the John Slater pitch
of perfection. It is a pitiful reflection on English law that Slater
hurriedly left England in order to avoid arrest for foretelling
the future. Slater s:imply refUsed to describe a spirit unless he
first gave his full na1me or that of the person for whom he came.
Yet clairvoyants have assured me that it is fairly easy mentally to
hold the spirit while extracting the information desired. Spirits
present themselves fi::>r that very purpose; but the rush and hurry
of most mediums spoil their best opportunities. Nor will they
take the trouble to tTain themselves to describe accurately what
they really do see.
The narration of-
details that awaken chords in our memories
is an art in itself. Then. in the effort to give a great deal that is
interesting in the little time at their disposal, actual evidential
values are too often entirely overlooked. This is largely due to
audiences remaining satisfied with this type of message. The
result presents to soepticalminds what looks like shrewd guess-
work allied to easy acceptance by credulous people. Hence, the
whole movement n:~mains tmdcr a continual cloud. In addition
to these difficulties, the defective state of most memories some-
times causes even perfect clairvoyance to fail completely. Even
in private sittings, where results are uniformly better, many
clairvoyants lightly allude to facts in ottr lives, but fail to carry
their evidences to a point of absolute certainty because of the
desire to cover too much ground. When quality rather than
quantity is demand1;:d, this lack ofclarity will pass away.
On the theoretical side, our problems arc no less difficult. At
public meetings the clairvoyant often describes scenes and people
that do not apply to the person they think they arc for, but fit
some other membe-r ofthe audience perfectly. On one occasion,
I heard a medium describe a person still living, giving both
christian and surna1
me, the nature of her employment, details
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 349
of health and finishing up with the statement that she was sur-
rounded by small boxes during her work in an underground
room. It was unrecognised by the visitor to whom the descrip-
tion was given. A woman seated in another part of the hall
said she had been speaking concerning her health only that
morning to afriend ofthat name, who worked in a confectioner's
underground store. The details were too exact to be classified
under the convenient term of coincidence and the experience is
fairly common. Clairvoyant:; must therefore allow for the
building-up ofspirit fonns near people who provide the requisite
power but are in no way related to the spirit described, and for
the visualising of details due to subconscious interference by the
clairvoyant or sitter. They must distinguish between per-
manently discarnatt; spirits and those who temporarily leave
their bodies. Clairvoyants must learn to distinguish between
the creator of a picture:, and the thing created, i.e., spirit or
spirit body from a thoug;ht-form, and the creation ofscenes and
details deliberately thrust upon them by discarnate people, and
from telepathic impacts from the audience.
These by no means exhaust our problems. Disease produces
distortions or hallucinations that are as real to the victim as
clairvoyance is to the seer, or dreams to the dreamer. These
pictures may also be visualised by the seer. All these aspects
must be scientifically explored by the clairvoyant who wishes
to excel. If we grip the idea that "imagination is the
image-building faculty of the mind" and that these images
are real structures perceivable by independent minds, we
shall speedily appreciate the law underlying all its modes
of manifestation. Ha!Uucination is due to a morbid or
diseased condition of th.e mind or brain. The physical senses
are delusive owing to defective mechanism. It makes no dif
-
ference if mental pictlllres are consciously or unconsciomly
projected. The results arc identical. To call clairvoyance
hallucination is foolishne:ss. The point to note is that one is an
aberration or distortion of a faculty; the other is correct usage.
Mind is a dynamic force acting upon etheric clements which
present clearly defined pictures.
Spiritualists agree tha.t there are obliquities of vision, but
this docs not justify the conclusion that all clairvoyance is
350 THE UNIVERSlTY OF SPIRITUALISM
illusory, nor docs illusion prove that true sight, either on
physical or psychic planes, does not exist. All investigators are
struck by the ease with which their minds are read, and still
more by the extraordinary symbolism utilised by the soul to
clothe its thought. Since the mind is read and mental pictures
are seen, we must not permit specious evasions to burke the
issue and pretend that all such sight is illusory. In normal sight,
light is reflected or refracted from the object seen, but should
there be any defect in the eye itself, faulty registration occurs.
Distorting mirrors distort reality. Lack of clarity in thought as
well as defective mechanism induce faulty production and
registration. Moving trains sometimes appear to be stationary
to passengers seated in an adjoining train. In like manner, the
clairvoyant cannot always distinguish between his own creations
and extraneous mental pictures. A forceful jolt, in the form of
a sensation relating the seer to the actual communicator, speedily
determines the true relationship.
Materialists thus arrive at a point where they can affirm that
the brain continually emits an emanation upon which the mind
employs its artistry. Spiritualists agree with them and then go
one step further. We claim a spiritual brain as a permanent
attribute of the psychic organism which discarnate intelligences
retain, and that it is from the discamates that the most effective
clairvoyant impressions are obtained. The eye ofa spirit, though
normally limited to its own plane of manifestation, can be
focused on material things by effort of will. This extended
sight becomes clairvoyance from the spirit side. In the same
way, the mind of an earthly clairvoyant has to be directed
towards its objective or clairvoyance would not be induced. In
both cases we are amazed at the X-ray-like apparatus which
then becomes able to perceive that which normality cannot
appreciate. In both cases, there is extended- not defective-
vision. The theory of hallucination falls to the ground, and,
while admitting defects due to aberration or distortion, we must
press ho-
me the fact that the eye of the soul, together with its
intuitive realisations, is as much a fact in nature as the physical
eye itsel£
Clairvoyance proves spirit teaching that all thought has definite
registration value. In spirit life, thought possesses more ob-
HOW THE CLAIRVOYANT SEES 351
jectivity than with mortals because the elements of their rarefied
atmosphere respond more readily, and laws relating to creative
thought are better understood. So true is this that the spirit
homes are built objectively by the power of thought. They are
as real to spirit sight as earthly homes are to mortals.
The first essential to clear clairvoyance is self-control, with
entire absence of fear or emotion. These set up counteracting
vibrations which destroy or distort the picture. The next
essential is a lively interest in whatever is clairvoyantly seen,
allied to perfect detachment from all other interests. Then
must follow calm formulation of questions to your spirit guide
in a clear, terse and crisp form. The great mistake of most
clairvoyants consists of mentally chattering to themselves
instead of clearly concentrating on their question. Rarely do
they allow their spirit friends time enough, or assume placidity
enough, to permit registration of the reply upon their brains.
Involved questions are fatal to success. After putting your
question, wait for the answer. Repeat the same question two
or three times rather than speculate among minor details which
will confuse rather than clarify the message. The most reliable
methods of development are those in which we co-operate
witl1 spirit friends. Through the gateway of trance, by small
groups ofinvestigators regularly meeting, the use ofour psychic
faculties by spirit controls has been found the speediest method
of development. The auric emanations from other sitters arc an
advantage, because they enable varying types of spirit people
to blend with the normal expression of the medium.
The oldest method ofstimulating clairvoyance is the mesmeric.
On Egyptian tablets, the priest is frequently shown making
passes. This dulls physical perceptions, but at the same time
quickens the psychical ones. We must always remember that
the subjective self aroused by this process is so exceedingly
credulous that it accepts without question everything the hypno-
tist suggests. Even without his suggestions, there is the natural
tendency for all hypnotic subjects to dramatise details. This
danger is inherent in all mental mediumship. A normal clair-
voyant when magnetised makes tl1e best "test" seer, because he
concentrates upon details more conclusively by excluding other
thoughts and interests. If the same medium were developed
u •
352 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPlRITUALISM
solely by spirit power, he would be affected through his sub-
consciousness in such a way that spiritual insight would develop
in the same ratio as clairvoyance. The best combination is found
in types like Andrew Jackson Davis, whose natural seership was
quickened by magnetic passes. Clairvoyance and clairaudience
were already in operation but, after magnetisation, he told the
time by watches while blindfolded and read extracts from books
without seeing them. Later development enabled him to see the
life-principle surging through all nature and to note the methods
of its universal application. His diagnosis of disease, I regard
as spirit-aided,~clairvoyance, though he does not seem to have
realised the development and use made of his psychic faculties
by spirit people. His clairvoyance enabled him to appraise the
value of herbs and Jnature's curative forces exactly as George
Fox, the Christian reformer, says he wanted to do as the result of
his clairvoyance, i.e., practise medicine because he psychically
saw clearly where orthodox medical science failed.
Adults rarely think of the appearance they presented at earlier
periods of their lives. In the result, this latest and dominant
thought would impress itself upon the clairvoyant while giving
descriptions. These would approximate to the last ideas we held
concerning our appearance just prior to rransition. My descrip-
tion would therefore be that ofan elderly gentleman with short,
clipped moustache and close-croppedhair and wearing spectacles.
But ifyou only kn.ew me in earlier life before I wore spectacles
and possessed a long moustache, side whiskers and bushy hair
you would fail to recognise the description. So, knowing how
thought acts upon mediums, I should try and present to the clair-
voyant's mind a pi,cture of myself that would awaken some
responsive chord im your memory. Just how this apparent
miracle is performed has already been explained.
But if the clairvoyant saw me in my natur:U state in spirit life
it would be useless to describe me. For who on earth would be
able to recognise Ha:rry Doddington as a shining light or an angel
with diaphanous, flowing robes!
CHAPTER XX
PSYCHOMETRY: THE SOUL Of THINGS
A PSYCHOMETRIST is a person who can read the lite-
record of inanimate objects, or whose brain can register
the emotional accretions they have collected. Psychometry is
sometimes called a form of clairvoyance because psychic vision
and the intuitive ability of the soul to sense invisible relation-
ships are at times indistinguishable from each other. All defini-
tions ofpsychic states are ]purely academic. No definite boundary
line can be drawn. Dr. J. R . Buchanan, in his book, "Psycho-
metry," says he coined the word in 1842 from the Greek
"psyche," meaning "soul," and "metron," a measure. It is
usually termed "soul-sensing." The doctor's meaning would be
more accurately expressed as "measurement or perception by the
intuitive faculties of the soul." It imperceptibly introduces us
to visual clairvoyance, souu-travelling and a wide range ofpsychic
experience that is slowly but surely replacing theological mis-
conceptions. When abiuity to dissociate one's self from the
physical body is common knowledge, and exploration of spirit
realms an inevitable sequence, more perfect descriptions ofafter-
death states will be adopted. •
Psychometry is the salfest and ~implest means of estimating
the range and faculties of1the soul. It is a method ofdevelopment
that permits consciousness.to analyse every step ofthe way. Ithas
a close relationship to many phases of mediumship, and forms a
useful stepping-stone to higher tmfoldment. Healers need it for
diagnosing purposes, clairvoyants use it while delineating, and
everybody uses it consciously or otherwise in everyday life as
intuition or a si.""<th sense. It is a state of consciousness in which
the mind of the psychometrist links up with the person or con-
dition sensed, which he reads with the understanding of a dis-
carnate spirit. Success depends upon ability to free the mind
from telepathic and other interferences. The psychometrist
353
354 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPlJUTUAUSM
deflects the mind from personal interests and thinks only on
aspects pertinent to his objective.
Soul-rapport may be likened to the tuning-in ofa wireless set.
Vibrations are set up, and, if the receiver can attune his recep-
tivity to the objective, success is assured. It has this difference.
Vibrations set up by mechanical action proceed in one direction
only, outwards, and away from the transmitter. Those perceived
by psychometrists return with an explanation from the condition
sensed, and register themselves with photographic precision on
the mind. Sensations and m~ssages are received possessing
sequence and coherence which express phases of emotion
and experience entirely unrelated to the psychometrist. Though
more passive than active, the ego of the seer is alert because
consciousness must interpret and reject unconnected ideas.
It is a "positive" method of development, because the soul can
refuse to continue its explorations at any moment. In scientific
experiments, it is imperative for the psychometrist to know
nothing of the nature or history of the article sensed. With the
best will in the world, it is otherwise impossible to exclude sub-
conscious action. For the same reason, I suggest that all ex-
perimentalists should adopt safeguards and thus free themselves
from the charge that psychometrists are a crowd of shrewd
guessers who have mistaken their vocation.
The most satisfactory public method of psychometrically
reading articles was that of Mrs. Harvey, of Southampton. All
articles to be "read" are first placed on a tray or table by the
actual owners during the medium's absence. Care is taken that
the articles do not touch each other, as this causes transference
of certain characteristics to the adjacent article, and thus details
are given to the wrong person. No clue whatever is permitted,
except that the nature of the article may supply one. Generally,
it is impossible to tell whether the owner is male or female.
No questioru are asked until after the reading. "Fishing for
information" is thus eliminated. I have heard Mrs. Harvey give
readings with great rapidity to exceedingly dissimilar types of
people, with specific details relating to their employment and
home life that could not by any stretch of imagination be
applied to other persoru. Character-reading was her special
forte, but associated with it was clairvoyance with details that
PSYCHOMlllTRY: THE SOUL OF THINGS 355
never failed to keep the audience interested, although the medium
was very illiterate. It is well to remember in passinl?, that
gipsies, r,almists, and others, who think they are merely ' telling
the tale, ' often stumble on the most wonderful predictions and
character sketches by the unconscious utilisation of the same
power.
Dr. J. R. Buchanan had his attention drawn to psychometry
by a sufferer from chr•onic pains, which recurred whenever he
handled brass. The doctor experimented upon himself, and
found that drugs affected him slightly while handling them.
Other people corrobo•rated his sensations. Imagination was
excluded by blindfolding experimentalists. The substance
seemed to influence the hand ftrst, followed by sensations
travelling up the arm but producing no decided result until they
reached the head or ch1~st. The peculiar effect ofeach drug then
became distinctive. Salt would affect the salivary glands and
leave its indisputable ta:ste in tl1e moutll. The same effect applied
to sugar and other substances. Narcotics induced the desire to
sleep. Purgatives and emetics acted as iftaken internally, though
the action was milder.
As a result ofhis owtt psychomctrical experiments, Buchanan,
concluding that absorption through tl1e skin was the explanation,
formulated a theory dispensing with internal drugging. To
eliminate any possible: error, he extended his experiments in
other directions, and was soon compelled to revise his theory.
Having a class with about a hundred medical students attending,
he induced them to hold various drugs in their hands while
listening to the lecture'S. He prevented guesswork by crushing
and sealing the drugs in envelopes. After the lecture, the pupils
recorded their sensations. He fotmd fully eighty per cent affected
who, after practice, could accurately name me drug they were
holding. Women were more sensitive than men. At first, they
tried simple but pungent substances of decided flavours, like
salt or sugar, mustard or peppermint. Then came experiments
with drugs, fossils, g•!ological specimens, and a great variety
of materials which told their story by the same process. This
method of developmetnt is closely followed today.
The majority can o•nly read the extemal auras surrounding
the article. These relate them to the person most recently
356 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
handling it. Many are nnable to identify drugs, and still fewer
sec into the "soul of things," which the reading of natural
objects or fossils indicates. Buchanan soon discovered that it
was not always essential for sensitives to have physical contact
with the substances ~;ensed. He therefore explored the possibilities
of mesmerism to a,cconnt for the effects, but without success.
Soon all theories haL4 to be amended. He had proceeded from
the sensing of drug;s to the sensing of letters written by well-
known people, and fotmd that not only were the characteristics
of the writers delineated, but their motives were laid bare in a
most embarrassing fashion. Sometimes, sensitives would enter
so completely into d1e dispositions of the writers that even their
facial peculiarities and ma.1merisms were mimicked. He tested
the matter further by tearing blank sheets from intimate corres-
pondence and getting them handled by psychometrists. He was
soon forced to the conclusion that whatever had been handled
by human beings carried an invisible but indelible impress forever
after. The blank half-sheets of notepaper produced the same
effects as the letter itself
Professor Dcntont, who collaborated with Buchanm, was a
well-known geologist. He carried his psychic studies into
geology and evolu1
tion in order to see whether psychometry
would confirm current theories. He a.11d Buchana.11 obtained
abundant proof that, although ignorant of scientific research,
psychometrists confirmed both geology and evolution with
occasional intriguing variations which often appeared more
reasonable thaa the:ories generally accepted. In the course of
these experiments, they were nonplussed by discovering that
some of their sensitives could not only outline the shape oflong
extinct animals, but: even seemed to feel as if they were part of
the mimals' consciousness. They thus knew whether a lip was
hanging, or a.11 ear ;raised or a horn protruded above the snout.
They even knew th.e kind of food the wimalliked. Although
well aware ofthe ahsurdity oftheir own statements, the sensitives
would feel as if they were the very a.1umal depicted, md would
even know whether the horn on the snout was used for burrow-
ing or self-defence, or both. Where evolution had already made
these discoveries, the professors had no difficulty in recognising
· the species. But often they were confronted with notable diver-
PSYCHOMETRY: THE SOUL OF TIDNGS 357
gencies which, by inference, they decided were probably
correct.
When reading geological specimellS, the great peculiarity was
that sensitives seemed, for the moment, to live amid the flora
and fauna of the time, and were able to describe types ofvegeta-
tion peculiar to the period. Often, their amazement at finding
themselves in a world so entirely different from the normal,
lent a zest and interest to their discoveries which transformed
indifferent psychometrists into studious evolutionists. Similar
experiences come to every entrant into spirit lands, and those
who arc familiar with spirit teaching realise that all these various
discoveries are but intended to help mankind to understand his
own psychic nature. lnve:;tigators can follow their methods of
development with perfect safety, because they can, at any
moment, bring their will into action and cut off unpleasant
sensations. If you have sufficient ability to eliminate error, you
will not merely discover the "soul of things" and thus realise,
with Andrew Jackson Davis, that the whole material world is
alive, you will also be well on the way to proving individual
survival.
During your development, sit with intelligent, sympathetic
people. Ideas culled from their mental reservoirs by spirit people
measurably aid mediums to develop soul-travelling, sensing or
sight, whichever of these may at the moment be operative.
Start, as Buchanan did, with simple things, and proceed to the
more complex. From salt and sugar proceed to stimulants like
capsicum, clove, opium, cathartics of jalap, podophyllin and
other forms of narcotics and drugs, the properties ofwhich are
well known. Do not experiment with poisonous drugs unless
under direct medical supervision. Sit perfectly still. Relax all
muscles. As soon as you become "positively passive," delicately
finger tl1e substance to be "sensed." Failing immediate per-
ception, quietly and calmly watch the flow ofideas that present
themselves. Do not criticise them while passing, but after each
experiment write down tl1e results and compare them with
previous records.
Be careful not to suggest sensations or ideas. Even if you
iliink they ought to come under the head of auto-suggestion,
record them all the same. Eventually, ifyou are psychometrically
358 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
endowed, you will be able to discriminate between different
groups of impressions. Make frequent experiments by slipping
your hand casually into every strange letter you receive, without
examining the writing. Again, write your impressions down
before reading your letter and note whether you have correctly
interpreted it. If you discover motives that flatly contradict
the written word, proceed warily. You may have received a
truer explanation olf the writer's thoughts. Practise als0 with
photographs, fossils and everything with a verifiable history.
When experimenting for medical purposes, Buchanan re-
commends holding about five times the amount of the usual
dosage to secure the result of an internal dose. If you can do
this you will not ne:ed internal drugging, and your experience
may pave the way to better methods of treatment. As soon as
you learn to distinguish between subconscious activity, external
impressions and the objective you are pursuing, you can with
confidence leave th.e beaten track and explore the spiritual
universe. For the f:ltculties you will now be using are superior
to the normal senses, and relate the spirit of man to cosmic
consciousness. This :is the true meaning of the text, "I and the
Father are one"-in spirit.
In psychometry, we get hints of laws applicable to many
forms ofmediurnshi:p. Every thought is proven to be indelibly
registered. Even unspoken thought is enmeshed in psychic
ethers together with the history in rock, stone, animals and
fossils. Spirit peopae and psychometrists often prove this by
referring at seances t•D long-forgotten ideals or motives that have
never been revealed. The psychometrist, through the operation
of this law, discove:rs the permanence of the soul's dynamic
energy and something analogous to the mind of the Great
Architect at work. All form is found to be an expression of
thought, either ofGod or man. Therefore, those who can read
the "soul of things," not only read its history, but realise a
greater at-one-ment with God.
Some experimentalists fmd they can get no reaction from
drugs, fossils or minerals, but succeed easily with letters or
articles having human associations. They trace business re-
lationships, follow up criminal activities, or read motives, but
the deeper things of1the spirit are hidden from them. To others,
PSYCHOMETRY: THE SOUL OF TIDNGS 359
fossils unfold the history of creation, and a fragment from
an ancient temple initiates the seer into its inner mysteries.
Causation, growth and adaptation, to the "eye of the soul," are
open books. The theories of Denton and Buchanan, who
preceded the Fox sisters, resulted from defmite scientific explora-
tion. Their conclusions were inevitable. Just as everything
material is impregnated with living germs or invisible forces,
so does equally invisible thought indelibly impress everything
humanity contacts. Our thoughts arc thus found to contain
definite registration values of mysterious potency that are
revealed by psychometry after the lapse of centuries. By un-
folding the deeper intuitive pow~rs which explore nature itself,
the spirit of man becomes consciously allied to its Creator.
Both Denton and Buchanan were fortunate in marrying
exceedingly impressionable women whose educated sensitiveness
facilitated research. Both authorities deny the wisdom of
magnetisation or mesmerism as an aid, but Buchanan recom-
mends stroking one's own forehead as an aid to passivity. If
no results were obtained by handling the article, it was laid across
the forehead. Tlus method often succeeded when the fingers
conveyed no message. Buchanan gives the following reasons
for cultivating psychometry:-
It is a practical means of judging character. It would be
invaluable in the study of biography and history. It would
assist the administration of justice in determiiling questions of
guilt, innocence, sanity or insaility. By showing the true mental
condition of the yotmg, it could be applied to their education
and culture. Its value in diagnosis and medicine would produce
a complete reversal of i~udicious drugging. As a means of
investigating spiritual pllilosophy, it would defmitely establish
relationship of the spirit of man with the universe.
We may add that forgery, lying and all forms of deceit will
cease from very uselessness when motives can be read like a
book. Buchanan reminds us that the American banks often
detected forgeries by the sense of touch after other tests had
failed. Some ofthe girl clerks got so clever that whenever bank
notes were suspected they were handed to them for inspection.
Their method was simply to close the eyes and proceed bythe
sense of touch. This often produced results that def1ed analysis.
36o THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
It must always be remembered thatjust as powers ofobservation
vary immensely with different individuals, so they will in psycho-
metry. Girl clerks would normally be sensitive to the rustle of
banknotes. Carpenters would experience different sensations
while handling different woods. Shoemakers in like manner
would sense the quality of their materials. Each line of business
develops different sense-perceptions. In all cases, education and
culture give immensely superior readings to those of illiterate
or ignorant psychometrists.
The discoveries ofDenton and Buchanan were soon confirmed
by mediums all over the world, for on March 31, 1848, more
definite lines of communication were established. As soon as
psychometrists could question spirit people, it was quickly
discovered that they were utilising perfectly natural attributes
ofthe soul. On the death ofthe physical body they form normal
methods of communication. They found that spirit people are
constantly and intimately associated with us. We are unaware
of the fact because the veil of Aesh obstructs our spiritual sight.
In spirit life, consciousness receives its intimations exactly as if
the senses ofsight, touch and intuition had all blended into one
corr.prehensive faculty which ranges at will through interstellar
spaces. The psychometrist utilises the same power. In water-
divining, or gold seeking, his mind penetrates the earth beneath
his fe.et. But if his spirit desires another location, it finds it by
merely fixing the mind upon it, which causes the spirit body
to travel with the speed of its own thinking to the condition or
place concentrated upon.
It was soon found that the best psychometrists could be easily
transformed into other types of medium. In many cases, I have
no doubt, people were spirit led to experiment with psycho-
metry in order to lay a foundation. Thus prepared, further
development was easy and natural. It is to be regretted that more
do not follow similar lines of development. The positive know-
ledge of psychometry counteracts the ignorance incidental to
deep trance. Experience bas proved that mediums often develop
the unconscious trance state and, after years of devoted service,
are almost as ignorant of cl1e soul's powers as they were at the
beginning of their mediumship. How the mind of the psycho-
metrist reads the thoughts of people at a distance or discovers
PSYCHOMETRY: TH!l SOUL OF THINGS 361
missing articles and even dead bodies is problematic. Yogis
believe that concentration constructs a thought-body in which
consciousness travels. This theory is derived from the fact that
the spirit form of the medium is often seen miles away from his
body.
Buchanan records a. case of astral travelling by a Dr. Gray.
While at a party in New York, this doctor desired to visit a
patient about whom he was anxious. Being a successful psychic
he thought he would try the process on his patient. He therefore
stood apart from his friends and fixed his mind intently upon the
patient, miles away in NewJersey. He obtained an impression of
his condition and was satisfied he was improving. But some-
thing remarkable followed. The invalid was what would now
be termed a natural clairvoyant. He called on the doctor and
demanded an explanation of his conduct. He affirmed that the
doctor visited him at the exact moment of the experiment,
had looked silently at him and withdrawnwithoutsaying a word,
which he resented as very singular behaviour for a medical man.
Many mediums now make a practice of visiting each other
"in the spirit" to test o•r improve their mediurnship. It is always
a moot point as to whether the spirit of the seer actually travels
to the object seen, whether clairvoyant sight transcends the
limitations ofthe body, or whether the yogi theory ofa thought-
body is the correct explanation. I object to calling a spirit man a
"thought-form," because sight and consciousness travel with the
counterpartal duplicate. A thought-form suggests a form
created and projected from consciousness rather than a mode
ofits expression. Hous·es, scenery and inanimate objects fall into
a different category. In these, there is no indwelling conscious-
ness, and as soon as individual concentration ceases, disintegration
must follow. That we can create the simulacrum of a human
body is true, but when consciousness travels within the form
created and returns with a message to the brain, it makes an
essential difference. Moreover, the hypothesis is wmecessary.
Experience soon proves that the psychic organism is so exceed-
ingly mobile that it travels with the speed of thought.
In psychometry, the sense of touch is our starting-point. The
mind travels along the nervt'.s, which extend as an aura from the
human body into infinity. As an illustration, place a row of
362 THE UNIVERSITY Of SPIDITUALISM
marbles in a line, ea1
ch touching its neighbour. The marbles
represent unitary fractions in the ether which, when polarised
by thought, form ele:ctric lanes for consciousness to travel over.
The faintest tap on the nearest marble is immediately com-
municated to the whole line by vibration, but none moves.
A little harder tap, and the row is obviously affected because the
marble at the extreme end rolls away. Concentration ofthought
supplies the initial tajp that speeds mentality like electric energy
over the line of ethe:ric particles, which thus forms a pathway
for consciousness. In effect, tl1e pathway becomes a great tele-
scopic tube from the physical body to the object visualised. It is
extended perception via the nerves to the aura and then over the
polarised atoms forming the soul's pathway. While the spirit
travels, or is related to its objective, its powers of intuition
comprehend the whole as if it were all immediately adjacent
to the human organism of the psychometrist which in point of
fact may be miles away from the condition being explored.
No theory of vibratory action is entirely satisfactory. Vibra-
tion is purely mechanical and works only in one direction,
outwards from the projector. In psychometry, consciousness
travels outwards, but also returns with a message. It is an amazing
fact that consciousness, at apparently one and tl1e same moment,
is contacting distant Jfields of inquiry, while the physical body-
miles away from the scene or object sensed-is recounting what
is seen at the other end of the mental telescope. Moreover,
blending with all psychic experience are realms of invisible
associates whose operations can only be dimly glimpsed. But
our "working hypothesis" is the best available for practising
students.
During your concentration, imagine the soul travelling over
properly constructed conduits, using the ordinary ftve senses
plus a comprehensiv•e intuition that dives beneath the surface
and contacts realities.. From the purely theoretical standpoint,
extended consciousn•~ss is alone proven, even though the spirit
form oftl1e psychometrist is seen at the point visualised. But no
matter whether this or the alternative theory of soul-travelling
is proved, we are fi>rced to recognise supernormal powers of
cognition and transfi!rence of messages through physical brains.
When materialism can explain a consciousness that reads the
PSYCHOMliTRY: THE SOUL OF THINGS 363
past, present and future history of fossilised remains, or the
motives of a letter-writer that were not contained in the actual
writing, there will cease to be a boundary line differentiating
materialism from Spiritualism.
I take the following amended extract from a Spiritualist
publication appearing forty years ago: "Psychometry is a form
ofclairvoyance induced by touch. All objects have a mind aura
surrounding them, through which their spiritual condition may
be sensed. Tbis aura t::>r atmosphere differs in colour according
to the quality and kind of thing expressed. As the aura of
individuals is more p•:rwerful than that of objects, they being
higher in the scale oflife, their personaliry impresses itself upon
any object handled and adheres with more or less strength and
persistency as the person may be more or less charged with
electric or magnetic force. Highly impressionable clairvoyants,
or soulful people, leave a deeper impression upon the articles
they handle than those of more material nature. But objects are
not merely the repositories of human emotions and desires.
They have an individuality of their own. It is possible for a
highly developed sensitive to penetrate the accidental veil of
outer magnetism and sense the real life ofthe thing handled.
"By thus getting e,u rapport with its spiritual emanation, he
can perceive the whole course of its existence and through
what stages of evolutionary progress it has passed. Not every
clairvoyant is able to see ~o far into nature as ti:Us. Most psy-
chometrists are unable to do more than read the picture wbich
the person last handling the article has impressed upon its outer
surface. Some will not see anything relating to the person, but
will correctly read the life of some other person who may once
have possessed it, because the mind pictures of that particular
owner were more vivid and therefore made the deepes~ impress.
"In order to cultivate cl:Us gift, there must be refinement of
organism with intuitive perception. There must also be a certain
amount of energy and activity, not only of the mind but of the
body also, to ensure success. All manipulative people, deft with
their fingers, and fond ofhandling and caressing even inanimate
objects, make good psychometrists. Where the material sense
of touch is keen, the:re will also be the subtler faculty needing
only cultivation to bring it into active life. To be constantly
364 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPffiiTUALISM
handling certain articles is to put the mind in relation to their
history and to impregm.te it with the quality ofthose substances.
Thus, certain trades induce certain habits of thought, for the
mind is unconsciously drawn into the life of the thing handled.
Anyone wishing to develop psychometry, whether for personal
or impersonal uses, should do so through the medium of the
material he is constantly using. All that is needed to help us is,
first, the belief that it is possible to sec into the inner life of
things; and, secondly, the daily exercise of the mind in the
direcrion of this belief. A carpenter, for instance, being already
on the physical side 'in touch' with wood, should make a daily
practice of holding a piece of it between his frngers, and whilst
doing so should desire to know its history.
"The desire must not be an active thought but a condition of
passive wonder. The intellect must not be allowed to suggest
possibilities, for a definite thought vibration would disturb and
repel the magnetic influx from the wood. After a little practice,
it will be found that one piece ofwood will induce feelings that
differ from the sensations produced by holding a piece that
varies in kind and quality from tl1e first. After a time. these
sensations will shape themselves into definite form and meaning.
The great thing in all experiments of this nature is to keep the
mind from following any active train of thought. It is appar-
ently a contradiction in terms, but the distinctive difference
between your own and external impressions will be discoverable
by practice. The more sympathetic and good natured the man,
the quicker will be the response to the touch. Not more than
twenty minutes each day should be given to development. A
definite time before noon should be set aside for regular practice
if possible. Psychometry, or informing the mind by the touch,
has a wider bearing upon human education than is recognised,
for the development ofthis sense on the material side gives man a
permanent grasp over the world oflife, and on the spiritual side
reveals to him its purpose. He sees into the soul of things and
becomes stronger."
Always be careful to disperse the resultant sensations after
psychometric readings by effort of will. This is especially
necessary after reading articles from invalids. Some sensitives
find themselves compelled to discontinue certain classes ofexperi-
PSYCHOMETRY: THE SOUL OF THINGS 365
ment because the feelings aroused affect them w1pleasancly for
days afterwards. In all cases of this type, vigorously demag-
netise yourself, or get someone to do it for you. Act as if you
had actually contracted the complaint and the symptoms rapidly
disappear. The ego is the active operator with the mind as
dynamo, the nerves, aura, and the magnetic field linking up
with iimumerable telegraphic lines of commwlication which
can be connected.
In psychometry, one gets a key to what I term psychic
maladies. Many /eople, unconscious of their mediumship,
suffer agonies, an are always under medical treatment for
fleeting aches and pains ofobscure origm. They are classified as
neurotic and generally treated with contempt. They form happy
hwttmg grounds for mental specialists and faith-healers of every
type. As these treatments give an entirely new poise to the mind,
they succeed where the ordinary medico fails utterly. Another
fairly common case is that of the ignorant but enthusiastic
investigator who mistakes physical conditions for attempts by
undesirable spirits to control. At other times, he fails to realise
that spirits are ordinary men and women, who, by the law of
association, bring with them the memory of their earthly aches
and pains which they cannot remove from sensitives until both
spirit and mortal learn co rise superior to the subconscious action
of memory. The thoughts of spirits travel to sensitives, who
misconstrue psychic impressions into personal ailments.
Hettinger's book, "Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty,"
iittroduces us to a useful method ofproving psychometry. His
method was to get a reader, livmg miles away from the pomt
where he utilised the services of a psychometrist, to gaze at a
picture selected casually from any magazine available at the
precise moment selected. With meir watches synchronised, the
psychometrist was then asked to record her impressions received
from an article previously handled by the reader of the picture.
The results were startling, a hundred per cent success being
often attained. Hettinger states: "Of the many thousands of
animate and .irtanimate objects the sensitive might have men-
tioned, she specified the very one at the very moment cite reader
was contemplating the picture, a fact which speaks for itsel£"
But what Hettinger does not see is that if scenes, sounds and
366 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPilUTTJALISM
emotions are transferred, it supports the Spiritualist statements
that we possess a dual mechanism, a psychic organism which
possesses eyesight that perceives pictures not reflected on the
retina of the eye. It proves that sounds arc heard that are never
registered on the auditory nerves or the eardrum. Emotions
are received and reflected through the sensitive which dispense
with the normal physical channels. The whole gamut of con-
sciousness is duplicated and passed backwards through the
sensitive's brain, so that it is problematical as to whether the
brain of itself ever originates a thought. It becomes a mere
receptacle for ideas and was never a creative faculty. The picture
ofman as an embodied spirit is thus complete.
Psychometry is a useful aid to self-analysis, especially for
those people who find themselves w1plcasantly affected when
handling quite ordinary materials. They will cease to be called
"eccentric," and, by unfolding their mediumship, tum an
apparent evil into a great good. One sensitive records a psycho-
metric problem in the fact that he caught cold and suffered
excruciating neuralgic pains. On reading the report ofa lecture
he had given, a friend, living fifty miles away, who knew nothing
ofhis neuralgia, suddenly and quite unaccountably found herself
suffering in precisely tl1e same way. On putting the paper aside,
and dismissing the friend from her mind, the painjust assuddenly
ceased. It returned with full vigour the moment her eyes re-
established psychic contact by once more reading the report.
Knowing something of psychic laws, she narrated her peculiar
experience, and feared he must be ill. He replied to her inquiry
by telling her of his illness.
Though a psychometrist himself, he could not understand
how she could psychometrise his condition without at least
handling something belonging to him. His perplexity arose
from the fact that she did not diagnose his complaint until about
a week after he had fully recovered. There was no obvious link
between them, and apart from the possibility that a spirit friend
may have conveyed the message in this way, the only explanation
seems to be iliac the soul ofthe sufferer automatically transmitted
earlier sensations in response to unspoken thought. This
illustration helps us to understand something of the pains repro-
duced in sensitives ignorant ofthe laws relating to spirit control.
PSYCHOMETRY: THE SOUL OF THINGS 367
Healing mediums in particular should make a study of psycho-
metry. Its help in diagnosis is invaluable. Many doctors are
known to get psychometric readings when in doubt, though
very few have the courage to admit the fact lest the despised
medium be credited with greater knowledge than the doctor.
When mental therapeutics are better understood, psychic
maladies will vanish.
Materialism will "pooh pooh" both our facts and our theories.
But even the most hardened materialist will admit that if an
article passed through a small-pox hospital it might carry away
with it the germs of the disease. It needs no great stretch of
imagination to realise that everything in the universe is im-
pregnated with the life forces it has contacted. But we must not
expect materialism to credit the statement that cosmic conscious-
ness, equally with the thoughts oflesser beings, radiates through
an etheric world and thus reaches the soul of the psychometrist
through the materials his soul is reading. All thoughts have a
definite registration value, which impresses surrotmding objects.
So intense is this action, that years after battles have been fought,
visitors to the scene, quite ignorant of psychic laws, sometimes
visualise a replica of the battle-usually on an armiversary-for
centuries afterwards. Hastings, Edghill, Scotland, Ireland, and
indeed almost every country in the world has records of tl1ese
scenes which are not illusions, tl10ugh we classify the visions
under this convenient term.
In Crete, scenes ofsoldiers on the march have been witnessed
by hundreds. The phantoms are called Dew men, because the
moving figures are only seen while tl1e dew is on the grass.
Sunshine dispels the appearance, which proves that, in this case,
correct lighting and background affect the result, and also that
the appearances are objective and not subjective. The appearances
are not like a mirage or spectre of the Brocken which can be
explained on purely physical grounds as reflections. The
accoutrements of tl1e soldiers accord with the period in which
particular battl<:'s were fought, which again places the visions
outside the theory of hallucination. They are explainable only
under the head of clairvoyance or psychometry. It is incon-
ceivable that the spirits of soldiers should be condemned thus
to re-enact their battles over and over again, so we are forced
368 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
to the conclusion that the clue is found in psychometry. Those
who contact the oonditions awake psychic responses within
themselves, exactly as docs the psychometrist who reads char-
acters by merely h:mdling an article worn. Many aspects of
haunted houses come under the same explanation. Victims are
not condemned to be killed over and over again. Once a
psychic picture has been builded, the sensitive eye can see it, and
the mediumis~ic soul can sense the emotions originally aroused.
This also casts a sidlelight on what sometimes passes for spirit
control, but which, in reality, results from psychometric per-
oeption. In these cases, as thought operates with the speed of
lightning, it is highly probable that discarnate minds sometimes
participate in the result.
CHAPTER XXI
PROPHECY: BIDLE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS
CHRISTIANS naturally tum to the Bible for guidance on
psychic matters, but very little can they glean by way of
instruction as to modes of psychic development, or as explana-
tions of the laws underlying them. But the command (Cor. 1,
xiv), "Desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy,"
is clear. Paul's ideas of development are given in the twenty-
second verse of the same, chapter, which distinguishes between
disorderly mediumship and spiritually elevating unfoldment.
As Paul's letters were written to the church members at Corinth,
it is clear that the world in general was intended to profit by
psychic development. He definitely objected to the mediums
all trying to speak at once as the wave ofspiritual power passed
over them. He instructed them in verse thirty-one, "For ye
may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be
comforted." Perhaps the most significant verse is the thirty-
second. It does not merely teach that mediums must control
their controls, but in the same statement kills tl1e idea that a
personal God is responsible for the psychic manifestations. It
reads, "The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets."
Only an tmderstanding of trance states enables readers to
comprehend this passage. Vcry few mediums rise to tile stage
where it becomes possible for them consciously to "control tl1eir
controls." It also rebukes those mediums who think every com-
monplace utterance tl1ey make is divine inspiration. The
thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth chapters of Corinthians are
exhortations for tlle orderly development of mediumship.
Those who know tile eagerness of developing mediums to give
tile message before it escapes them will understand tile signifi-
cance of subjecting spirits to tile supreme control of their own
mediums. Badly-developed mediums exercise no restraint over
tileir utterances, and, if tiley lack the art of common courtesy,
they will have no subconscious basis which would automatically
369
370 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
check crude statements. Nor can conductors prevent them from
all trying to talk at once as the wave ofpower passes over them.
The more cultured immediately cease speaking. The law oflike
attracting like mentalities is well illustrated at these times.
Other books in the Bible also supply keys. Note the prophecy
thatJohn the Baptist was to "Go before him (Jesus) in the power
and spirit of Elias." Elias had been dead many years. It has
therefore only one meaning. A spirit guide named Elias-a well-
known prophet-would inspire John's prophetic utterances.
The prophecy also indicates that John was to be overshadowed
from birth by the spirit guide, who would thus mould the pliable
mind and body of the medium to fulfil the tasks designed for
him (Luke i, 15). Conformable to this prophecy, we find John
living a life identical with that ofthe deceased prophet. He wore
similar raiment, lived a wandering life, and behaved exactly as
Elias would normally do. That Elias is sometimes referred to as
Elijah is explained by some commentators as being an alternative
name. But the name need not bother us. It is clear that the writer
explained prophecy as the result of spirit control from birth.
The majority ofbiblical mediums appear to have been developed
in the same way. So that "schools of the prophets" indicates
development first as trance mediums, followed by prophecy
which Paul specially mentions as being superior to all other gifts.
A similar prophecy was applied to Jesus, who thus became a
special messenger to his day and generation.
Overshadowing from birth partakes more of the nature of
obsession than what Spiritualists term "spirit control." ln
perfected spirit control, the medium can dismiss the spirit control
at will. In the cases ofJohn and Jesus, it is probable that con-
scious co-operation supplanted unconscious trance. Most of
our best mediums attain the same goal. Obsession, or "possess-
sian from birth," largely negatives true individual growth,
because most of the thinking is done by the spirit control.
Most great musicians, artists and geniuses in general illustrate
this overshadowing from birth.
In Deuteronomy, we get the explicit statement that mediums
are born under the definite guidance of particular spirits,
"Yahwe thy God will raise up to thee a prophet like me from the
midst of thy brethren." The translation is taken from the
PROPHECY: BIBLE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS 371
"Encyclop<edia Biblica." The noteworthy suggestion is that,
as withJohn andJesus, the prophet is selected from birth and his
physical body is moulded so that spirit powers can easily use the
organism. I believe all truly great mediums pass through a
similar training. That Yal1we·was the principal spirit control of
the leading prophets of the tribe is indicated by many verses,
like 2 Kings, iii, rs: "And now bring me a minstrel. In fact so
it was, that as often as the minstrel played, the hand of Yahwe
came upon him." As prophecy usually follows statements
of this kind, it dearly indicates trance mediumship. Note the
effect of music. It is due to the greater harmony of Spiritualist
seances that results are uniformly good. In the colder atmo-
sphere of rigid scientific experiments, the reverse atmosphere is
generated with corresponding failures. All biblical dictionaries
support this point of view.
Hoffman's definition ofa prophet is "one who utters his words
in a loud voice or violent manner with deep inhalations." This
peculiarity is observable with many trance mediums, and, in
addition, the feeble voice of a woman may change into the
strong tones ofa man. Oehler assumes that the primary meaning
of the root word does not mean a predictor, but one "who
speaks forth that which he has received from the Divine Spirit."
Trance mediumship, or inspiration, is again indicated. The
"Encyclop<edia Biblica" traces its origin to the root word
"nabu" in the A~syrian language, meaning to "call or name,"
and concludes that a prophet was either a giver of oracles or a
spokesman. Another translator says, "It means 'to gush forth,'
or to 'gush out with words.'" This phase is common among
mediums whose impired utterances, without premeditation,
reveal a power far superior to normality.
Some biblical prophets deemed it their duty to support the
orthodoxy oftheir times, while others as strenuously opposed it.
In all instances of conscious or subconscious interference with
the message, we can find parallels in the mediumship of today.
The greatest enemy to psychic advance is the orthodoxy of our
own day, and, so long as this is so, there will undoubtedly arise
brave men, as prophets, both within and without the churches,
who will flatly contradict each other. Yet, both may be genuine
mediums. Students ofSwedenborg's or any other "inspirations"
372 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
easily trace this element. Until we can eliminate it, it will never
be safe to trust the prophet implicitly. In many automatic
scripts, it is interesting to note tl1e agility with which some
spirit guides continually avoid stating their case in terms tl1at
would cause them to be rejected by their amanuensis. Here and
there, evidence is continually presented tl1at proves subordination
to meological prejudices.
Prophecy may be likened to extended intuition. I think
Ralph Waldo Trine indicates the most direct pathway to true
prophecy in the following passage: "To recognise our own
divinity and our relation to me Universal is to attach the belt of
our machinery to the power house of me universe." In other
words, he who realises the God wiiliin becomes co-equal wim
God, Who knows past, present and future. I suggest that Paul
recommended the development of prophecy in order that man
might recognise his puny limitations and thus be compelled to
turn his face towards mat great Cosmic Consciousness whom we
call God and indraw more of the divinity that alone compre-
hends this inscrutable power.
The first need is to be able to attune one's self to divine law.
Conformity thereto means co-operating wiili the law, or
utilising it, instead of being controlled by it. All oilier psychic
gifts arc susceptible to plausible explanations mat satisfy for a
rime, but prophecy leaves us guessing as to its modus operaudi.
We finally become conscious of me fact mat it will remain an
insoluble problem until me nature of the soul itself, wim its
attributes, are comprehended. Prophecy is me most marvellous
ofall psychic powers. Possibly its very mystery was intended as
a check upon our conceits. W c caru1ot unriddle the enigma any
more tl1an we can comprehend the Great First Cause. We may
call it an extension ofintuition or cryptestl1esia, but changing its
name in no way explains it.
An interesting light is cllrown on prophecy in I Kings, twenty-
second chapter, "Now, therefore, behold, the Lord ham put a
lying spirit in the mouth ofall these thy prophets, and the Lord
hath spoken evil concerning tl1ee." Micaiah was therefore tl1e
only prophet out of about four hundred who was able to pro-
phesy correctly. His ingenious explanation was that God did
this in order to bring about ilie death ofthe King oflsrael. That
PROPHECY: Bll\LE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS 373
the Creator of the universe really did tell lies in this way is un-
thinkable. But ifI tell my sectarian friends that the explanation
is unsatisfactory and that the "perfect" God of the Nazarene
would not stoop to such paltry intriguing to compass His ends,
I am told I am guilty of blasphemy. They prefer to belittle
Onmipotence rathe.r than believe that their lying was directly
induced by the desire of the prophets to please the King. In
other words, subconscious activity can easily account for it even
ifconscious lying and desire to remain in the King's good graces
were not in themselves sufficient.
More educated types of prophets seem to have been evolved
about the time of Amos. These became the historians of their
tribes and recorded the wars in which the tribal deity (Jehovah)
was the directing power. Prophets seem to have swarmed in
biblical days. In Kings I, chapter xviii, we are told that four
hundred sat at Jezebel's table. An interesting experience is re-
corded in I Samuel, xix, verses 20 and 21, wherein we read
that a "company of prophets" transformed all Saul's mes-
sengers into prophets also. The w1derstanding of this apparent
mystery is only possible to students of mediumship who know
that the power of an entire circle or audience can be focused
on separate individuals. As soon as they came within the
magnetic sphere of Samuel's prophets, the mediumsh1p of
Saul's emissaries was forced to express itself. They then became
prisoners, not of men, but of spirits. Either that, or they were
deliberately hypnotised. Those who attribute this form of
"miracle" to a personal deity know nothing of the magnetic
radius that surrounds all mediums. Witl10ut it, the tribal deity
of the Hebrews would have been impotent. It illustrates a
phase of mediumship that futl1fe psychic students will un-
doubtedly use. It was identical in effect with the "descent ofthe
Holy Spirit" so often mentioned in the New Testament, but the
power was used in a different way.
But what are we to think of that same God who deliberately
sends evil spirits to stir up hatred and misunderstandings (I
Samuel, xviii, verses 9 and IO)? In chapter ix, we are introduced
to Saul as a goodly man upon whom the power ofprophecy was
to fall. The people consequently made him their king. But
presently we find that "the evil spirit from the Lord (Yahwe) was
374 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
upon Saul as he sat with his javelin in his hand...." None the
less, he was a genuine prophet. Psychic law teaches us that, with
hatred in his heart, only spirits of malevolence could manifest
through him. When mediums learn to become a law unto
themselves, they will not blame God or spirits for their own
shortcomings.
In modern time:s, Johanna Southcott's prophecies became
world famed because out of a great number of inaccurate state-
ments some prophecies were said to be fulfilled. But we must
ever recognise that the miscarriage of some prophecies in no
way invalidates genuine psychic power which may be possessed
by true prophets though, as in this case, the prophets may be
misled by their own ignorance or theological notions.
The oracles of ancient Greece are the most renowned of any.
The fame of those at Delphi, Dodona, Epidaumnas and Tre-
phonius drew illustrious people from all over the world who
desired to peer into the future. Egypt appears to have been
the home of many magical cults in whid1 prophecy was con-
spicuous, and one r,eads of men like Pythagoras going there to
acquire psychic edUtcation. Christians will recall the fact that
Moses owed his knowledge of magic and psydlic intercourse to
the Egyptians. The selection of mediums for priestly offices was
not peculiar to Hebrews. The selection is clearly illustrated in
the histories of the world and was common in all ancient
systems of religious thought. The most trustworthy and well-
authenticated proph,ecy ofmodern times was given by a hypnotic
subject undergoing medical treatment. The following extracts
are from an article by Stanley de Brath:-
On November 2, 1913, Dr. Antonio, ofAtl1ens, was medically
treating Sophie, aged eighteen, a young woman ofgood family.
At that time, after the Balkan war, and the conclusion ofa treaty
satisfactory to Greece, a long period of peace was anticipated,
an anticipation shared by the doctor. Sophie, in hypnotic sleep,
broke out: "Doctor, you are quite wrong. Nothing will take
place as you foresee. Write down what I am about to say.
European war is irnminent." This prophecy, so disastrously
fulfilled in 1914, may be discounted as a possibility not unfore-
seen by politicians of tl1e period, but, in view of the following
statements, it forms part of a coherent whole. Again, on June
PROPHECY: BIBLE PROPHETS WERB MEDIUMS 375
16, 1914, the prediction was repeated at greater length, and, in
reply to a question as to when this might be expected, the answer
was given, "In about two months." Dr. Antonio communi-
cated the predictions given to eighteen persons of position and
influence in Athens whose certificates he gives. On August II
to 14, 1914, Greek calendar (corresponding to the 24, 25, 26
and 27 of our reckoning), the Athens newspapers published
them, quoting the following questions and answers:
"What will be the duration of the war?
"The war will be long. There will be many disasters. Millions
will die. Unimaginable destruction will take place."
Note must here be made of the deliberate falsification by the
newspa?ers stating that the war would be "short" instead of
"long.' A protest was immediately lodged, and Dr. Antonio's
manuscript produced as evidence.
"What changes will happen itz Europe?"
"Thrones will be overset. Ancient States will be dissolved
and new ones created. The end of the war will be followed by
a long period of negotiations, and at last Christmas festivities
will be celebrated with joy in the hope of a happy future for
mankind. The desolations will not be the only result ofthe war;
there will be great political complications. They will be ripe for
regenerative ideas." .
"What country will remain master ofthe situation?"
"England. She will in the end be the arbitrator in the questions
raised at the conclusion of peace, and will work for equitable
settlement."
"Which ofthe two groups confronting each other will be victorious?"
"The Triple Entente will be victorious in the end, and Greece
will havejoined in time to share in the fruits ofthe victory."
"What will become ofGermany?"
"Germany will not be split up. She will retain her place as an
important factor in the general economic movement. Germany
will be an empire no longer. The economic consequences ofthe
war will be terrible for her. Under economic distress, her people,
grieving for the thousands of her children perished in the war,
will seek new days. After bloody struggles, a new political
order will arise. The German Republic will soon overthrow
the barriers separating it from its neighbours. It will find
13
376 THE! UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
without loss oftim'e the road to fresh culminations and progress.
Austria is condemn.ed to final destruction. The Austrian Empire
will be decomposed into its constituent elements. The catas-
trophe will be rapid!. Austriawill be dismembered beforeTurkey.
Its different parts will recover national autonomy."
The further details I copy direct from the "Asty" newspaper
of August 13 (English calendar 26), 1914. "The extension of
the war to the Balkans will not be due to Greece. The Turks
and Bulgars will endeavour to invade Greece by way of Mace-
donia; but, howev,er this attack may ultimate, Greece will not
remain unaided. A strong protection will come. The armies will
meet in the Vardar. A great battle will be fought in the valley
of the Strymon (Vardar), in which Austria, Roumania, Serbia,
Greece, Bulgaria and Turkey will take part. It will be fought
with great ferocity and heavy losses. The result of these battles
will be a great victory for Hellenism and its friends."
Commenting upon these articles, Stanley de Erath states that
there were three mistakes in her predictions, which he deals
with in a separate article·; that Albania would disappear, that
after manyvicissitudes Greece would be master ofConstantinople
and that there would be in the Balkans only a greater Greece and
a greater Serbia. But these errors are small in comparison with
the veridical parts. To estimate the predictions fairly, we must
remember that, at the time of their first pronouncement, the
prophecy was opposed to probabilities, and that, when pub-
lished, everything :seemed to point to a German victory. When
the newspaper published tl1ese forecasts, Athens received them
with sneers, and marvelled that Dr. Antonio should be so simple
as to attach any iD!lportance to such absurd fables.
Stanley de Bratl1 continues: "The supposition that events are
fated raises insuperable objections founded on the whole
evolutionary facts. The only alternative seems to be that of an
intelligence which is aware ofthe determinism that brings causes
into realisation. Perhaps the full explanation is involved in the
following quotation from the philosopher Kant: 'It is therefore
as good as demonstrated, or it could be easily proved ifwe were
to enter it at som•e length, or better, it will be proved in the
future-! do not know where or when-that also in this life
the human soul stands in dissoluble communion with the
PROPHECY: BIBLE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS 377
immaterial beings of the spiritual world. It produces effects in
them, and, in exchang;e, receives impressions from them, with-
out, however, becoming humanly conscious of them so long as
all stands well.' "
De Bratili. continues: "Equally misunderstood are the fore-
casts ofthe troubles to come. They are not to be a 'price exacted
from us for our sins'; they will be the direct consequences
brought about by human acts, creating the social and inter-
national ill-will which may all too easily materialise into disaster
at home and abroad. Ifwe would avert them, we must change
our outlook and recog;nise the intellectual basis for the morality
that all true Spiritualism enjoins." ·
The fact that the "spirits of the prophet are subject to the
prophet" indicates that the prophet can rise above the usual
unscientific forms ofspirit control and attain a state wherein he
can actually control spirits instead of being a mere mouthpiece.
Tllis implies conscious co-operation, and I maintain that this
ideal state will eventually arise when mediums are properly
developed. It presumes an ability to check subconsciousness,
telepathy and every form of interference. This stage has never
been absolutely attained, for even the Nazarene "could do no
mighty works, becaus•e of their unbelief," a verse which shows
clearly how mental attitudes affect manifestations. The next
essential is that the miind of the prophet must be as that "of a
little child" to receive,. but critically tenacious ofself-conscious-
ness, purity and truthfUlness in order to repel errors.
The true prophet p•::>ssesses no sectarian bias, but presents lus
soul like a clean, sensitised photographic plate on which only
the highest type ofprophecy can be printed, while automatically
rejecting untruth. To most ofus this is an impossibility, because
weare so vain ofour petty collection ofideas garnered in "three
score years and ten" that we erect an impenetrable barrier to the
approach of the entirely new idea which constitutes prophecy.
The medium's main task is to study the laws by and through
which pure thought can be received-straight from those who
cannot lie or make mistakes-and he who does this may hope to
become a "prophet of the Lord." Prophecy is the greatest creed
destroyer the world has ever known. The true prophet always
upholds his highest conception of right, and, in consequence,
378 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
spends his life protesting against the corruptions of his times.
His individualism brings him into constant conflict with author-
ity, but his transpa1rent honesty commands respect.
Prophecy is in no sense the prerogative ofany religion, nation
or period. Equally valid evidences can be drawn from all. Fre-
quently, the purely human weaknesses ofprophets are revealed
in the way they anathematise the equally reliable prophets of
other nations or religions. This arises sometimes from the
jealousy of spirit g1Uides no less than that of the prophets them-
selves. Most biblical prophecy was apparently given under
spirit control, and jealousy is easily traceable where the spirit
guides of other mediums are constantly referred to as "other
gods." He must indeed be blind who cannot see that the r~­
cordcrs recognised "other gods" as being only slightly inferior
to their own. The inference is clear. For "gods" read "spirits,"
with varying moral codes, and the whole Bible is understandable.
Everything becomes rational. For the Great First Cause we now
look higher than lo;,cal deities and oracles. Without disrespect
to any religionist we can learn something from them all.
The true prophet: learns to discriminate between subconscious
action and spirit messages. By his own spiritual quality he re-
duces to impotence those spirits who would mystify or mislead.
In no other way is it possible for the "spirits of the prophet to
be subject to the prophet." In other words, as the higher
spiritual powers always control the less developed, so the
prophet must be more God-like in order to control his controls.
The personal responsibility of mediums is immeasurably in-
creased in comparison with ordinary mortals. No matter from
what angle you approach the riddle of prophecy it appears
impossible of solutiion. The puny reasonings of men are swept
aside by that inscrutable "providence that shapes our ends
rough hew them lhow we will." Its universality proves the
operations ofa natural law equally with the fact that "God is no
respecter ofpersons." It thus gives the lie to the petty theologian
who flatters himselfthat the gateway to heaven is solely through
the portals ofhis tiny bethel.
If we turn to the oracles ofancient Greece, it is apparent that
artificial stimulants were sometimes used in order to induce the
ecstatic condition at one time thought to be essential to prophetic
PROPHECY: BIBLE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS 379
utterances. For this reason, the temple ofDelphi was built over
a fissure in rocks caused by volcanic action. The escaping gases
were believed to cause the frenzy of the pythoness, or pythia,
as the oracular priestesses at Delphi were called. Spiritualists
have learned that there is no need to drug the body or stimulate
the emotions to induce prophetic utterance. These hothouse
methods are injurious to the sensitive, and interfere with the
clarity of the message. For these reasons, it is regrettable that
incense and other drugs are being introduced into some seances
in imitation of Roman Catholicism. Their soporific tendencies
and dream-inducing influence may conceivably pave the way
for opium and other forms of drugging which have produced
such deplorable results in India and China. Hashish and similar
drugs were introduced into primitive religious ceremonies for
inducing ecstasy. With their baleful effects before our eyes, it
is to be hoped that emphatic protests will be raised against their
introduction to Spiritualist seances.
Prophetic utterances were common in America until material-
istic civilisation conspired with intolerant priesthoods to crush
its oracles. Captain John Carver, an early traveller in North
America, cites an instance where the seers of a tribe predicted
the exact hour and day on which the prevailing famine would
be relieved by assistance from another tribe. Precisely at the
hour indicated, a canoe rounded the headland bringing informa-
tion of the desired relie£ No possible information could have
reached the stricken tribe by any known method. A traveller
among the Plains tribes recounted a story in the "Adantic
Monthly" ofJuly, 1866, of being met by an escort sent out by
the medicine men of the particular tribe they wanted to trade
with, but whom they could not find. They were about to
abandon the search when they were met by an escort of braves.
The escort knew exacdy how many there were in the party,
although some had retired from the search, how they were
dressed and armed, and possessed all the necessary details for
identification. The traders' surprise was not lessened on asking
the medicine man how it was possible to give his warriors such
exact information or evenknow oftheir coming or whereabouts.
He affirmed that he saw them on the road and was thus able to
direct the escort. When found, they were miles away and
380 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
beyond the range of vision, so this sounded utterly absurd.
In this illustration, we see how clairvoyance enables seers to
predict the result because the "open vision" relates them to their
objective. This, in its tum, probably reached the medicine
man telepathically from the seekers, who would thus broadcast
their desires. Thought being pictorially expressed accounts for
the other details.
In her "Nineteenth Century Miracles," Mrs..Emma Hardi.nge
Britten recounts many instances of psychic knowledge among
the Indians. Count Myatovitch ofSerbia clearly had his future
forecast by a simple peasant woman. This was linked up with
the murder of the King of Serbia and Queen Draga and events
in the Great War, 1914-18, which provided a sequence ofevents
prophesied by a psychic. In this case, as in many others, the
simple operation of clairvoyance is insufficient to account for
the prediction. The full details can be read in W. T. Stead's
"Borderland," which also gave great prominence at the same
time to a clairvoyant's vision of the murder of the King and
Queen.
The rrophecy ofJaques Cazotte was worked into one ofLord
Lytton s novels and thus obtained world-wide celebrity. It is
well authenticated. At a party composed of illustrious people,
it was jokingly suggested that Cazotte should tell the fortm1es of
those present. He did so, and predicted terrible deaths for the
entire party one after the other. The gruesome details brought
protests from every side and he was challenged to indicate the
nature of his own death. He did so, and met his death at the
guillotine after many hair-breadth escapes. All met their deaths
exactly as foretold. Jaques Cazotte was a writer of French ro-
mance. A well-known anti-revolutionist, his letters were seized
and supplied incriminating details. He and his daughter Elizabeth
were thrown into prison when the French Revolution broke out.
Elizabeth saved his life by throwing herself between him and
the revolutionists. He escaped from prison, was rearrested and
condemned to death at the guillotine. At the time of the pre-
diction, the idea ofa revolution in France was unthought of, but
its terrible events caused a literal ful6lment of the prophecy.
In unconscious mediumship of this type, one can only con-
clude that what is called genius is, as a matter offact, very close
PROPHECY: BlBLB PROPHETS Wl!RB MEDIUMS 381
co-operation with spirit guides who, in a psychologicalmoment,
use their instrument in this dramatic fashion. By the operation
ofa similar law, fortWle-tellers, who may not believe in psychic
powers, occasionally get striking results. Miss Felicia Scatcherd
once assured me that, for fW1, she had adopted the role of clair-
voyant demonstrator in order to show how silly the average
clairvoyant was. She deliberately concocted the most fantastic
personifications she could think ofand narrated incidents in their
liv~. To her surprise, she foWld thatshe had accuratelydescribed
people who were recognised.
Very few people realise that, if it had not been for Joseph's
four dreams, there would have been no Christianity in the world
today. The Bible teems with instances of prophetic warnings
received during dreams. The "stuff that dreams are made of"
is usually regarded as foolislmess. As a book cannot be witness
for itself without corroboration, those who regard the Bible as
sacred history must at least pause in their condemnation ofpsy-
chics when they realise that Spiritualism is the only scientific
corroborator they have. Dream-life probably presents more
notable instances ofpremonition than any other phase ofpsychic
experience, because it occurs to people who think themselves
immWle from "superstition." It is the more valuable to us as
evidence that the seers repudiate all knowledge of Spiritualism.
Most great disasters prove that someone was warned by a dream
as to what was happening or about to happen. The warning
may be dismissed as a phase of clairvoyance, but its prophetic
insight leaves us guessing as to the faculty and the method ofits
employ. If the warning is heeded, danger is averted.
It may be the fWlction of prophecy to act as a danger signal,
but usually it is ignored until events prove that the power ofthe
soul glimpsed futurity. Often the symbolism that conveys the
waming is cryptic or misread. Mr. Isted, president ofthe Fulham
Spiritualist Society, drew my attention to this difficulty. He
clairvoyantly saw one of his own Lyceumists rW1 over by a
"Shell'" motor waggon. The boy's father was a member of tl1e
church and Isted knew he was employed by tl1e petrol company.
He therefore wamed the father very emphatically not to allow
his boy to play around the motor he habitually drove. The
warning was not ignored. Two weeks later, the child was run
382 THll UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
over by a "Shell" motor waggon, but the father was not the
driver. Truly we "see in part, and prophesy in part." Here,
the literal warning and result are seen in operation. It is difficult
to understand the missing link clairvoyants and prophets must
find in order to be correct in every detail.
The wreck of the Wairarapa was apparendy predicted by
many dreamers quite unassociated with one another. As it is
typical, I select the following extract from the local newspaper:
"The disaster was presaged in a dream which occurred last
Friday night-two nights before its occurrence-to a woman
residing in Pirie Street, Wellington. It happens that a bosom
friend ofthe woman was upon the Wairarapa. In the dream, she
distincdy had the idea d1at d1e steamer had been wrecked some-
where, and that she saw the passengers in the water, some of
them being hand iDl hand. For two days, she said nothing about
the matter, fearing to alarm her husband. But she told him the
vision on Monday, before the anxiety about the vessel being
overdue arose."
That is typical of the way these messages are received. We
usuallydismiss them withoutfurther thought. Itis"coincidence,"
or subconsciousness out-working itself. It is anything and every-
thing but a misunderstood faculty of the soul, or an illustration
ofthe way ourspirit friends communicate. But the fact is steadily
emerging into sc.ie:ntifi.c certainty that d1e spirit of man has
access to fields of knowledge unrecognised by the materialistic
scientists of our tirne. Confronted wid1 the fact of prophecy,
many writers evol.ve extraordinary theories. Because future
events can be predicted, d1ey assume d1ey must be happening
now, or they could not be seen. From this arises the conception
that past, present ~md future are meaningless terms. We live
in a world ofillusion and d1ere is no past or future, but only an
eternal now. If w.e could dispose of cause, sequence and con-
sequence, ilie theory would be attractive. But we cannot. The
endeavour to ignorre spiritual states is responsible for the con-
fusion of thought which arises as a natural consequence. In
spirit life, consciousness can bridge enormous distances. Mortals
do ilie same as embodied spirits. Because I can sit in my chair in
England, and clairvoyandy see what is happening in America,
it in no sense annihilates the distance between ilie two countries,
PROPHECY: BIBLE PROPHBTS WERE MEDIUMS 383
nor disposes of the time it takes me to turn my attention from
my immediate surroundings to those ofAmerica. It is true that
space is immeasurable without physical limitations. But I
imagine that journeys in spirit spheres will have similar boun-
daries.
In Dwme's "Experiment with Time," the author discovers
that he can contact past, present and future in dream life. To
explain these facts, he analyses his brain states, visions, memories
and associated circumstances, and finally decides that man can
function on more planes ofconsciousness than that ofthe present
moment. Because the soul has extended vision during its
prophetic joumeyings, he concludes that our actions are but
reactions from a state which has always existed somewhere else.
He thinks a prophet is merely a man who sees the happening-
not before it happens, because it has apparently been happening
all the time-but one who sees the event en route, i.e., before it
is registered by material brains. He calls the prophet a "serial
observer." If, for his term, we use the words "seer" or "prophet,"
and visualise the fourth dimension as the spirit world, we need
not worry ourselves with the various "fields of presentation"
which is the term he coins. It is this faculty which enables the
consciousness ofspirit people to be operating apparently in two
places at one time. They are truly in contact with their earthly
loves while yet pursuing their allotted task in other fields.
Time, as a unit of measurement, ceases to exist in spirit life.
Measurement becomes a record of growth in knowledge and
experience. Cause, sequence and consequence are the only
factors which remain in our memories. By these, all future
action is determined.
Dillllle's first proposition recognises that the brain contacts
memory-traces of our past. The fact of the psychic organism
and its possible ability to read the past and glimpse the future
are here ignored. His second proposition recognises that time
has length in which events are situated. Events are thus separable
units. The third proposition decides tl1at cerebral conditions
may have psychical correlates. Dillllle thus arrives by scientific
deduction at the conclusion that man is a spiritual being.
The alternative hypothesis adopted by many schools of
philosophy may be briefly stated as: (x) A Great First Cause,
J3•
...
THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
itself uncaused, in which all thought originates. (2) All else in
the universe is but a reflection or an extension of the Divine
Mind. (3) All thoughts and the events which arise therefrom
are, therefore, manifestations of events which have already
been projected by causation. All this is equivalent to saying
that light from a distant star takes hundreds of years to reach
the earth. A prophet is merely one whose vision sees it before it
strikes the earth. From this arises the doctrine ofpredestination
with variations as an explanation of prophecy. It is quite good
as a theory until- as the majority of these theorists claim-
you can set aside your karma and the law of causation by the
conscious exercise ofyour free will, a statement which destroys
entirely the basic statement. To most of these theories, we can
say, with Bergson, "Future events do not exist in any shape or
form whatever."
Dunne's theory ignores the creative imagery of the mind
which can, of itself, make pictures, not only of what it wants
to see, and does actually see in dreams, but also the imagery
created by other people's minds 'as in clairvoyance. On the
higher pl:mes of spirit life, we discover a unity of consciousness
in which all individualised fractions sink their individuality and
merge into a coherent unity. To understand this statement, the
reader must have proven simple telepathy. This means trans-
ference of thought between two individuals. Most of us are
unconscious of either receiving or projecting thought. It is
probably going on all the time. If we can prove thought-
transference between two persons, it must be equally possible
to transfer it between two hundred or more. We know, how-
ever, that projector and recipient can quite easily change their
roles and act alternatively as projector and receiver of thought.
From this, it is easy to visualise a sea ofconsciousness, composed
of all the thoughts in the universe, which the prophet taps at
will. Mortals cannot conceive ofthought action without at the
same time thinking in terms of individuality. We therefore
carry the analogy further still, and co-existent with all thought
we contact myriads of thinkers, replete with garnered know-
ledge, and the theories and emotions that spring therefrom.
The prophet is one who acts like a spirit in a spirit world,
uncloyed ~y the density of a physical body. In his exalted
PROPHECY: BIBLE PROPHETS WERE MEDIUMS 385
moments, he enjoys community of thought, sensation and
emotions with those whose detached survey of earth's problems
enable them to givoe an infinitely superior forecast to future
events than is possihle to earthly minds. The prophet does not
really need an actua1 spirit control to bring the knowledge to
him, although tlus is usually tl1e easiest course. He attains
what Andrew Jackson Davis termed "the superior condition,"
in which tile soul of the universe becomes like an open book,
which he reads and intuitively understands. This makes clear
Paul's exhortation to "desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye
may prophesy." lit advises soul-expansion in preference to
psychic development:, which too often means suppression of ilie
individual growili and compels spirit people to do the work
we ought to do for ourselves. In our most exalted psycluc state,
or prophetic insight, there appears to be a momentary contact
wiili an infinite eoonsciousness which traces causes to their
sequences. In tllls ~;tate, past, present and future appear as a
unified plan. The glimpsing oftlUs plan makes present and future
appear like an ever-present now. It does not prove that we are
puppets dancing down the stream of time wiiliout will or
volition of our own. ·
Prophecy is so frequently associated with clairvoyance that
we are disposed to re:gard it as an extension oftllls faculty. The
"impressions" that :accompany clairvoyance are often extra-
ordinarily vivid. Impressions suggest an impressor. The belief
that prophets are spirit-guided is more commonly accepted
ilian tl1at the soul has infinite powers of perception. This only
removes tile difficul!ty of understanding the modus operandi
one stage higher up, for spirits are but humanity grown older.
It is true that spirits may see further ilian a clairvoyant, who
may be likened to a Jtnan on a mountain top speaking to people
in the valley. If it is not an inherent attribute of tile soul, ilien
spirits are but spectatonrs on a higher mountain top.
We tlms arrive at the conclusion that true prophecy, which
discerns far-off events without foundations on which to base a
prediction, proves the divinity of man and his relationship to
God. For He whose ]prophetic insight saw in the gaseous vapour
thrown off from the sun, ilie formation of a world and ilie
evolution of man must have impregnated the elements with
386 THE UNIVERS!TY OF SPIRITUALISM
part of His own spirit. That prophecy is allied to intuition is
fairly obvious. But what exactly is intuition? Materialism claims
that it is instinct developed into autonomous action. With this,
we can agree. Since spirit helpers possess it in a higher form,
we know it must function through an organism suited to its
expression. This we term the spirit body. No theory of
prophetic intuition can be attributed to the purely physical
reactions of blood and brain. Materialism, therefore, denies
prophecy.
If we repudiate spirit people as the source of prophecy, we
may fall back on the metaphysical speculation that the ego has
always existed as a spark of the divine and tl1erefore contains
within itself the potentialities of everlasting consciousness of
which prophecy is an attribute. It contacts past, present and
future in comprehensive understanding and lives in an eternal
11ow, because it is related to everything that has ever been or
which can in the future be related to consciousness. It means
that cosmic consciousness finds expression through mankind and
comprehends the whole as one. There is no division by time
or sp~ce.
Prophecies are so common m Spiritualist meetings that they
do not get the scientific analysis they deserve. Our asinine laws
are partly responsible for this, because they decree that as
prophecy is inherently impossible all those who foretell the
future are "rogues and vagabonds." I never yet heard of a
genuine investigator instituting a prosecution. So, in order to
create criminals, police agents pose as friends, and by lying
devices occasionally get access to some unsuspecting citizen and
succeed in hailing him before ajudge, who promptly brands him
as a law-breaker. This is probably the most striking satire on the
hypocrisy ofour age that we are likely to see. "Prophets ofthe
Lord" were once welcome in the homes of the mighty. Today
they are "rogues and vagabonds" because Christian countries
deny the possibility of prophecy while admitting that their
Bible is full of prophetic utterances and that God's laws never
change. The same contradictory teaching was responsible for
all the terrible cruelties, persecution and intolerance of the dark
ages. Its lineal descendant is the prosecution of mediums in our
law courts today. It forms a breach between Christians and
PROPHECY: BmLE PROPHETS WBRE MEDIUMS 387
Spiritualists. Wide-awake churchmen are realising that, tmless
they absorb some of the truth Spiritualism is presenting, they
will have to seck other means of earning their livelihood. This
section is striving ha.rd to amalgamate the two. But oil and
water arc difficult to mix. It has been done, and it may be done
again. But they find they cannot easily overthrow the super-
stitious ignorance they have so long compelled their devotees to
swallow. Nor can tlhey annul the musty trust deeds that cling
like barnacles to their feet.
One thing is sure: God's laws are immutable and Tmth mttst
win.
CHAPTER XXII
CLAIRAUDIENCE: "I HEARD A VOICE"
SO far, we have dealt with purely mental phenomena. We
have shown that the soul, or brain, or both, register impres-
sions without any apparent connection with the usual modes of
perception. From this type of manifestation, we shall pass to
phenomena in which ordinary mundane laws become curiously
associated. In many types, it will be difficult to state where laws
appertaining to the earth plane leave off and where those be-
longing to the spirit world begin. Clairaudience, which means a
voice heard by the sensitive, is one of these problems. Most
clairvoyants claim to be occasionally clairaudient. In the majority
ofcases, thi.". faculty will be fotmd to consist ofa peculiarly vivid
mental impression having definite relationship to the person or
picture seen. Others discover that the solar plexus, or ba~e ofthe
brain, is, in some way,. affected with a curious, nervous tension,
during which voices are distinctly heard apparently proceeding
from those regions. They may also appear to proceed from a
distance. In other cases, there is a slight but definite disturbance
ofair near the face, and sounds affect the auditory nerves exactly
as normal speech would do. If any persons were standing close,
the clairaudient would naturally conclude they had spoken.
True clairaudience is usually a short, clear whisper of a
pertinent nature appropriate to the need of the moment. In
their surprise, few claiJraudients are sufficiently alert to note just
exactly what really happens. In simple telepathy, there is usually
no noticeable sensation while picking up a tl10ught. It passes
into consciousness exa•ctly as a self-created thought would do.
There is no sound of aLctual spoken language. In clairaudience,
foreign languages are as easily heard as the medium's own
tongue. This presumes some mechanical cause, or mundane laws
operating, in order thalt sotmds may reach the ears in a normal
way. Materialism has already been forced to coin the word
"ideoplasticity" to account for the transformation of invisible
388
CLAIRAUDl.I!NCE: "1 HEARD A VOICE" 389
aura into definite forms of objective psychoplasm, because this
form of matter operates under volition and thus represents an
"idea." We cannot do better than accept the term and further
suggest that the invisible basis can be moulded and utilised in the
world of the fourth dimension without of necessity emerging
into visibility. Opponents of Spiritualism greedily adopt this
idea and apply it to the subconscious activity of the medium.
In no way does it discredit the Spiritualist hypothesis. It merely
confirms consistent spirit teaching. Invisible matter converted
into psychic reality is merely another term for spirit bodies,
spirit robes and homes. The entire fourth-dimensional world is
as solid and real to its inhabitants as the earth is to us.
Clairaudience is sometimes confused with what is called
"direct voice." The main distinction is that the former is usually
heard by one person only. The latter may be heard by many
people at the same moment. It is quite possible that with some
forms of clairaudience it is but a similar phase in lighter form
than direct voice. Less dense material may produce light whis-
pers, but a fully-developed physical throat would be necessary
for louder soWlds to act upon the atmosphere and thus reach
the ear. In clairaudience, as in direct voice, the tones may be
gruffand loud, or soft and childlike; tender as lover or brutal and
bullying. So definite is this that I had no difficulty is recognising
the personalities ofmy wife and sister although only two words
were spoken by each. In the first case, it was a materialisation
seance. No form was seen, but my name, suddenly called, left
no doubt in my mind as to who was the caller. This was followed
a second later by their own, which substantiated my recognition.
The tones were perfect.
A medium I know frequently hears voices advising her while
reading the aura. Even during domestic duties, she gets informa-
tion of a pertinent character that quite often causes her to vary
her plans because the suggestions are always trustworthy. This is
peculiarly so while diagnosing disease. As she is graduallX
learning to understand her gift, all fear has gone :md the "voices '
are her most welcome visitors. But it was not always so.
Sporadically, all her life she has had abnormal experiences, some-
times of a terrifying character. On one occasion, the roof
seemed to open and the spirit ofa man appeared in the middle of
390 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
a dense dark cloud. He was distraught and begged her to help
him. She had heard of a suicide in the district and at once con-
nected the ideas, but she had never seen the man. She screamed
and called to her husband, who came in from another room.
Her description satisfied him that she had seen the suicide, who
was well known to him. After many years of separation from
her mother, she dreamed she saw her looking very ill. She was
partially awakened to see her standing in the doorway and heard
the natural voice begging her to come to Scotland. She was
scared, but obeyed the call. She fotmd her mother dying, and
bemoaning the fact that she could not see her daughter before she
died. Soon after, she passed in peace with her mind at rest. Her
sisters were amazed that before their urgent telegram could
possibly reach her the daughter arrived. Had she waited, it
would have been too late.
This type ofwarning, where both sight and sound constitute
tl1e message, is probably more common than any other. It
definitely proves that the spirit of man automatically travels to
the person ofwhom he thinks. This, at one and the same time,
explains :t method oftravelling in spirit life and its mode ofcom-
munication. It shows, also, that we are spirits now as much as
we shall ever be, save that we now possess the encumbrance ofa
physical body which chains us to earth.
The great bugbear ofclairaudients arises from "drifters" in the
spirit world. Living in a dreamland of their own creation, they
continually get enmeshed in the aura ofsensitive people. In tllis
condition, their thoughts automatically pass to the victim.
Ignorance of mediumship would cause doctors to certify these
cases as lunacy. There is no apparent control over the voices, no
coherence. There may be sensible talk for a little while which
presently slips into nonsense. Dream-life is your best analogy.
It is all very real while it lasts, but close analysis discloses worry-
ing inaccuracies. Two people on a telephone talking at the same
time would produce similar jargon. All phases of mediumsllip
arc liable to tllis irruption. Herein is seen the wisdom ofgetting
reliable doorkeepers who make it their special duty to stand
between their medium and these semi-conscious dead men.
There is practically no difference between the "voice of the
Lord," so often mentioned in tile Bible, and voices heard by
CLAIRAUDIENCE: "r HEARD A VOICE" 39I
mediums. They may transmit a different type of message, but
that is all. The calling ofSamuel was undoubtedly clairaudience.
{I Sam. ill, ro). Although we are told that the Lord "came and
stood," it is equally clear that nobody was seen. The message
predicted dire disaster to the prophet Eli, who, none the less,
recognised it as a spirit message.
The history ofthe world has been measurably shaped by spirit
voices. Those ofJoan ofArc, which stimulated her to push the
hated invader off the soil of france, are incontestable. In the
majority of such instances, it is clear the psychic faculties were
manipulated, but whether directly as by spirit to spirit, or via
the ear cannot always be decided. Sound cannot be reduced to
mathematical formula. Its rates ofvibration may range between
a thunder-clap and a whisper. Change that rate and sound
becomes colour. Change it again and soothing sounds and
colours become devastating lightning. These in tum become
infinitely varied to the perception of seers and clairaudients.
Thought, itself, is seen to pass as a flash of light between spirit
and spirit, coloured in accordance with the nature and quality
of the message sent. Probably sound is transmitted by the same
process. It is in and around the vibrations peculiar to light,
sound and electricity that I think we shall have to look for better
explanations, not only of clairaudience but of most psychic
phenomena.
Although clairaudience and direct voice may be produced by
somewhat similar processes, they separ:ltely lead us into widely
differing fields of scientific exploration. We are, in both cases,
forced to start with the proposition that thought is the initial
stage of the phenomena. Thought presumes a force created by
volition. But there are many aspects of thought which produce
effects without volition taking any consciously active part.
Morbid thinkers, and all whose nervous system falls bdow par,
arc peculiarly liable to hear "voices" recommending suicide or
murder. The ordinary explanation of this is that the debilitated
braininduces subconscious actionwhich objectifies itselfas voices,
visions or acute desires. Students of the occult know that the
atmosphere is full of floating, undirected, telepathic thoughts.
Psychics can tune into them and trace them to their origin.
In many cases, disordered nervous systems unconsciously
392 TBB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
attain the same end. The morbid mihd assimilates them without
discrimination. Where mediumship is understood or developed
rationally, these thoughts perceived clairaudiently would have
no more effect tl1an hearing a drunken rowdy swearing and
cursing in the streets. They would merely excite pity, or disgust,
and be forgotten. Temperament and training would make an
enormous difference in the result to the hearer. To morbidly
imaginative people, clairaudience is but that same drunken
rowdy's thought, but the speaker is invisible. A clairvoyant
would, in addition, see a duplicate of the speaker, termed a
"thought-form," or possibly the actual spirit itsel£ In rational
clairaudience, and direct voice, we prove that the operators
consciously direct and express their thought. It is as definite and
coherent as normal conversation. It is, therefore, nonsensical to
classify all sounds of voices as delusions. But that is the attitude
adopted by the average medical man.
In "Psyclllc News," July 7, 1934, there was printed a doctor's
testimony as to the reality ofthe larynx used by spirit people. It
was self-luminous and was built up in front oflum so that he was
able to note the actual movement of all its parts while the spirit
was speaking. It was purposely exhibited in that way so that his
critical, scientific scmtiny might be satisfied. That he did not see
the rest ofthe materialised form is as interesting a fact as what he
did see. The implication was clear that, as the spirit was using the
larynx in a perfectlynormal way, the rest ofthe psyclllc body was
there also, but not rendered visible. It is on scientific grounds,
such as these continually repeated phenomena, that Spiritualists
claim that all the reasoning and psychic faculties reside in the
spiritual body wluch interpenetrates and uses the physical body
pretty much as electricity drives a motor.
Adnliral Usbome Moore and H. Dennis Bradley have both
written books on the subject ofdirect voice, but neither presents
any explanation ofthe processes involved. A point ofinterest in
Admiral Moore's book is that he could sometimes see his spirit
guide, lola, when she was invisible to the medium. She could
also make him hear her voice, though nobody else in the room
heard anything. She frequently spoke in direct voice audible to
everybody. So he thought it quite wonderful that he could hear
when others could not. It is obvious to psychic students that the
CLAIRAUDIENCE: "I HEARD A VOICE" 393
admiral developed clairaudience as the result of his continuous
sittings. His book illustrates the necessity for writers to know
something of the processes of development in order that they
may realise the part sitters play in all manifestations.
People who merely pay a fee to witness marvels entirely mis-
lead the public by their writings because they always suggest
that the medium "produces" the results. The sitters are not
recognised as a factor in the production. The spirit operators, in
many cases, are ignored. The work of development is slow and
tedious. Only those who watch its gradual unfoldment under
varying conditions, and the wise direction of the spirit guides,
know how many difficulties have to be overcome before really
reliable phenomena are obtained. In some cases, this develop-
. ment appears to have been dispensed with. It has really taken
place before the subject came into the limelight of scientific
criticism. As with Jesus and John the Baptist, they are "over-
shadowed from birth." In these cases, though simple faith may
be the main pillar in their development, their ignorance as to
causes makes them unsafe leaders. Their strong bias in favour of
\Particular explanations reveals itselfat every turn. Fanatics in all
rystems ofthought thus support their own prejudices.
In direct voice, something of the intonation and personal
idiosyncrasies of the medium is occasionally discoverable in the
speech of the manifesting spirit. Subconscious action is therein
revealed, although the actual part played by the spirit operators
is clearly evidenced by the information they supply. Only those
who know nothing of ventriloquism, and have no actual
experience ofdirect voice, put this theory forward as an explana-
tion. I have frequently heard both medium and spirit talking at
the same time. The best evidence lies in the intonation which is
always peculiar to the individual expressing it. Tllis statement
needs qualification when the trun1pet is used, because the sounds
are then distorted by tl1e instrument.
Direct voice is tl1e term used when no apparatus can be seen
which produces tl1e words heard. Jts value lies, not so much in
the hearing of sounds, which in the darkness might be faked, as
in the full names or tones offamiliar voices, and in information
and foreign languages which sensitives cannot have learned. At
a seance with Mrs. Murphy Lydy, some time ago, one of my
394 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Lyceumists, ofwhom I had not heard for thirty years, announced
herselfto me as "Jewel." Asked to be a little more explicit, she
gave her full name as Julia Morris. As Mrs. Lydy was a visitor
from America, and. did not even know my name, and my friend
had been dead for twenty years, I regard this as good evidence.
At the same seance, my mother complained that, since she had
passed over, not e';ren the scratch of a pen had passed between
her children and their cousins. This was a perfectly true state-
ment. I asked about her brother. Presently my uncle, George,
announced himself by name and dilated upon the joy it was to
his wife now to be: able to see. His actual words were, "Thank
God, that though you arc blind on earth all your life, when you
come over here you can see quite clearly." This was strictly
true. My aunt was blind nearly all her earthly life.
Direct-voice seances are easily influenced by sitters. Their
eagerness to get the manifesting spirits to prove tl1emselves
results in confusion, apparent evasion or suggestions taken up by
tl1e spirits, who are usually cross-examined as if they were
witnesses being puiJed to pieces by tl1e prosecuting counsel. Put
yourselfin ilie plaoe ofmanifesting spirits. Away from the earth,
you sense ilie love ofyour friends attracting you. They are about
to attend a seance. Therefore iliey are ~ that you, their
own dear one, will be sure to manifest. You eagerly respond.
You hear spirits talking clearly to their friends. Presently the
leader invites you to speak, and you think it will be easy. You
step into the circle, where you are immediately enveloped in an
"auric fog" from which clements are drawn to make your voice
audible. But the fog seems to enter your brain. The strangeness
of the condition sends you "wool-gathering," but you try to
speak. You claim tto be ''John." You are at once met with the
insistent demand of"John who?" Though there is much else you
want to say, you cannot remember the second name, added to
which you find tha.t part ofthe medium's language and ideas in
some strange way becomes part ofyour own expression. Think
these things out. Put leading questions, certainly, and avoid
suggesting names or ideas. As in my case, the evidential
matter will presentcly force its way through the complex con-
ditions.
In the direct voice, the materialisation appears to be limited
CLAIRAUDIENCE: "1 HEARD A VOICE" 395
to the production of the larynx or vocal organs. Owing to the
fact that these seances are u$ually held in darkness, it is difficult to
say whether the material is invisible or not. Throughout the
history of modern Spiritualism, the phenomenon has been con-
sistently reported. I shall therefore only relate one other specific
case in illustration. This has the merit of being among the best
attested evidence on record. The full report can be read in the
"British Journal for Psychic:J. Research" of March, 1928, from
which the following extract is summarised. I heard the lecture
delivered by Dr. Neville Whymant, and can affirm that, wonder-
ful as the following record is, it only mildly represents tl1e true
narrative drawn from the speaker during tl1e questions following
ilie address. The medium, George Valiantine, is an American
business man who at first was very reluctant to come into tl1e
glare ofpublic life. Dr. Whymant is an exceptionally qualified
Oriental scholar, engaged in the translation ofobscure languages.
He was quite sceptical before the following experience:
"The sittings ofwhich he was to speak were held in New York
with Valiantine as the medium. They had been going on for
months. The host and hostess were people who were definitely
trying, by their own unaided efforts, to get into touch wiili ilie
spirit world. They believed they were progressing towards an
end where the intervention ofa medium would be wmecessary.
Suddenly there came an irruption into this circle. Voices had
come steadily in English-in dialect English, and in various
brogues of America-when suddenly other voices began to
come, some of them recognisably Italian, French and other
European languages, also a Portuguese voice which was under-
stood by some one who had a knowledge ofSpanish. It gave a
message, the integrity ofwhich was subsequently verified. Then
came other sounds whichnonepresent in the circle couldidentify.
By this time, enough evidential matter had been obtained to
give seekers the conviction they wanted. They were quite sure
they were on the right road, and all they wanted was an inter-
preter. The lecturer was called in for that purpose. Elaborate
precautions were taken to prove there was no trickery. The
seance dragged on. After more English voices, there came a
weird, crackling, broken little sound, which transported Dr.
Whymant's mind instantaneously from that room inNewYork
396 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
to an apartment house in China where he had heard the sound
before. It was the sound ofa rather poor flute, unskilfully played.
"After this there came quite clear and distinct, a little low
perhaps, the word Confucius (in Chinese), but there was some-
thing that struck him at once about the pronunciation. He had
had much experience in teaching Chinese to foreign students.
He knew how difficult it was to teach the correct pronunciation
ofthe last syllable ofthat name. It was a very elusive sound. To
make that little sibilant sound with the tongue against the teeth
was one of the great problems in leanling Chinese. But here, in
this 'voice,' was the name 'Confucius' pronouncedperfectly, and
the tones were right, too. He began to converse. The Chinese
which the lecturer used was the Chinese mandarin, for there are
several Chinese languages. He did tllis, not doubting for a
moment that ifthere was a voice at all itwould turn outto bethat
ofsomebody connected with Chinese studies, especially the study
ofChinese philosophy. The idea that it might be the disembodied
voice of Confucius himself did not occur to him. So he asked,
stupidly enough, perhaps, 'Who arc you?' For the third time
the voice said 'Confucius.' At that he began to be a little sarcas-
tic, and said, 'Oh, well, in that case you will be able to tell me
what was the real name of Confucius.'
"'Confucius was merely the latiniscd form of 'K'ung,' the
family name, and 'Futze,' 'Fu' meaning 'master,' and the 'tze'
'philosopher.' The voice immediately answered, 'My mean
name is "K'ung.' " He asked tl1e voice further by what name he
was popularly known when he was fourteen years of age. The
answer came, correct in intonation and pronunciation. Dis-
cussion with the 'voice' then turned to tl1e question of Cllinese
classics-those of them that Confucius did not write himself-
and he asked the 'voice' to explain an error which had existed in
one passage. Before he could get the words out of his mouth,
the voice recited not only the full enumeration of the passage,
but tl1e passage itselfas it stood in the present standard edition of
the works of Confucius, and afterwards recited it as it should be,
correcting an error which had existed for two tl10usand four
hundred years. Upon tlus subject, scholars had worked labor-
iously, and the piece of textual criticism which finally amended
the error was made only in 1916. The correct reading wluch Dr.
CLAIRAUDIENCE: "I HEARD A VOICE" 397
Whymant wanted was a phrase in the 'Shih King,' or classics of
poetry assembled and edited by Confucius.
"The 'voice' broke in, 'It should be read in this way,' and then
followed a period ofintoning which lasted from two and a half
to three minutes. The 'voice' recited the passage as it was in the
standard edition ofthe 'Analects ofConfucius,' and then stopped,
and said, 'This is how it should be read,' and gave a completely
new reading from the point of view of sense. The 'voice'
dropped, and he missed two or three sentences, but such replies
as the following were afterwards heard clearly, 'It was a mistake
ofthose who tried to see in darkness and wrote that which they
did not understand.' And again, 'Fear not, there are those who
love learning, and they will not let the treasure lie hid.' "
At the same seance, voices made reference to the fact that
exactly as he had done in the Mongolian language, so he would
do inyet another field. Nobody in the room could possibly have
known that Dr. Whymant had published a small grammar in
English of the Mongolian language. He had kept the matter
hidden, as he was not over-proud of his achievement. Dr.
Whymant adds that "the net result of over twenty-five years'
hard work on the part of more than one hundred scholars had
been the determination ofthe sounds oftwelve Chinese words of
the time of Confucius. . . . It is possible that a classical scholar
might get behind the curtain and speak a language of olden
times." But when he began to reel offword after word, all with
the proper accents, and so on, it became quite a different thing,
especially as the test which the lecturer had deliberately set the
voice in the way of criticism had been successfully passed. All
the time, he was on the alert. He tried the voice in every possible
way. The joke against Dr. Whymant lay in the fact that he
innocently wrote an account ofhis experiences to some friends,
and was horrified next day to find his letters published under
glaring headlines in the American Press. After that, it was useless
to follow the usual scientific attitude of"sitting on the fence.''
After the address, we listened to the gramophone records,
which reproduced sounds of direct voices exactly as they were
heard at the seance at which the lecturer was not present. Though
faulty in reproduction, he declared them to be indisputably
Chinese words. The point ofinterest is simply one offact. Did
398 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Confucius prove his identity, or did he not? I affirm that he did
it in the only way an invisible, disembodied spirit could possibly
do it, by exhibiting knowledge that mayjustifiably be attributed
to him. Put yourself in his place and decide how you would
establish your own identity. You will fmd there is scarcely any
other method of proving identity than reproducing knowledge
known only to yourself.
. ~·-~--
Cl-l.t\PTER XXIII
AUTOMATIC AND DIRECT WRITING
THE term "automatic writing" is a term very much misused
by Spiritualists. Writing is in no way automatic ifthe mind
receives the impression, or creates the thought, and transmits it
to the hand. It is somewhat different ifthe mind, as in hypnosis,
is unaware of what the hand is writing. Mere subconscious
action, however, docs not bring it within the Spiritualist meaning
ofthe term. Spiritualists only recognise writing as "automatic"
when it contains indications ofan external mind acting upon the
sensitive. This can only be proved by the handwriting, or ideas
e}.."'}>ressed, differing from the normal output. The writing ofthe
Ten Commandments is probably the earliest recorded automatic
writing recognised in the western world. When the second set
of tablets were written, after the destruction of the first copies
(Exodus xxxiv), we are told that Moses "wrote upon the tables
the words ofthe covenant, the ten commandments." Either this
was automatic writing or Moses wrote from dictation. In the
first verse, we read that the spirit guide, Jehovah himself, would
write (i.e., by using Moses's hand), but verse twenty-seven
suggests that Moses was clai.raudient.
In China and Japan, from time immemorial, automatic
writing has been practised. The usual method is to cover a table
with sand. After prayers and incense-burning, the sensitive
balances a kind ofsword basket-stick on his hand in such a way
that he has no control over it, while the point ofthe stick writes
in the sand. The medium is usually entranced during the writing.
The following extract is from "Demonism of the Ages":
by D. R . Peebles: "English officials, American missionaries,
mandarins and many ofthe Chinese literati, Confucians, Taoists
and Buddhist believers alike, declare that Spiritualism in some
form or name is an almost universal beliefin China. It is gener-
ally denominated 'ancestor worship.' 'There is no drawing out
ofthese Chinese,' says Father Consalo, 'the cursed beliefthat the
399
400 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
spirits oftheir ancestors are ever about them, availing themselves
ofevery opportunity ofgiving advice or cow1sel.' 'The medium
consulted, remarks Dr. Doolittle, 'takes in hand a stick of
lighted incense to dispel all defiling influences. Then prayers of
some kind are repeated. The body becomes spasmodic, clte
medium's eyes are shut, the form sways about and assumes clte
walk and peculiar attitude of cl1e spirit when in clte body. Then
clte communication from the divinity begins, which may be ofa
fault-finding or flattering character. Remarkable disclosures and
revelations are made by clte involuntary movements ofa pencil.
Through similar mecltods, some claim to see in the dark.
Persons considering themselves endowed with superior intelli-
gence are firm believers in these and oilier modes of con-
sulting spirits.' "
The foregoing illustration of trance, clairvoyance and auto-
matic writing is as clear a statement as one could expect from a
critic ignorant ofpsychical research. Thus, from out of me past
and from opponents of Spiritualism, we learn mat we are but
rediscovering practices common to many nations before me
blank materialism of the western world laughed them into
silence-and secrecy.
Students who attempt this form of development should first
become familiar wiili automatic writing induced in hypnotic
subjects. They will then try to distinguish between subconscious
activity and spirit control. One's own mental activities so often
get rniscontrued into discarnate action mat it is essential to under-
stand varying states of consciousness. I am ilierefore giving
extracts from an avowed opponent ofme Spiritualist hypocltesis,
so mat you will see the construction mat materialism puts upon
all automatic writing. All schools of iliought possess a measure
oftruth. Their mistake consists offailing to recognise the trucllS
opponents present. Materialists claim cltat mediums :\re deluded.
Sometimes cltey are right. Much subconscious rubbish is con-
tinually put forward as divine illumination. Fortunately,
Spiritualist mediums prove their case, and, by comparing results,
runinto no danger from self-deception. But, so long as uncritical
people, surrounded by equally ignorant admirers, exist, the
danger is ever present. There is only one way to prove discarnate
action. It must bear a stamp ofindividuality different from cltat
\
AUTOMATIC AND DllU!CT WRITING 401
of the medium, and present evidence that is clearly outside the
range of the medium's abilities or knowledge.
/ Professor Albert Moll says ofautomatic writing, in the "Con-
{ temporary Science" series: "With regard to automatic writing,
it should be mentioned that there are men who habitually move
their fingers on the table while they are talking or thinking.
When such persons take a pencil in their hands, they make all
sorts ofscribbled marks without observing it, and while they are
thinking ofother things. This scribbling may be regarded as the
beginning of automatic writing. It may take a certain rational
form. Schiller says that, when reflecting, he has often covered
whole sheets of paper with little horses. Other people auto-
matically write letters or words, and this process is called 'auto-
matic' writing. It is evidently guided by a species ofintelligence,
as without it no rational words could be written. But this in-
telligence resides in the writer, though it may not be conscious
in the ordinary sense oftl1e word. It is the secondary conscious-
ness which carries on movements and actions as does the primary
consciousness, though the person concerned does not remark
them. In any case, the intelligence is innate in the ~erson, and
not, as Spiritualists assert, an external force or spirit.'
Spiritualists are not so stupid as to ignore the subconscious
element in all manifestations. They merely assert that sometimes
clear evidence of discarnate action is also presented. Dr. Moll
continues: "I ask the reader to follow me through some experi-
ments with automatic writing. I give a person who is not in
hypnosis a pen or pencil, and ask him to answer some questions
in writing-for example, what he had for dinner yesterday. He
is, however, to leave his hand passive, and not to write on pur-
pose. At the same time I put the point ofthe pencil on tlle paper.
The person thinks of'roast veal,' and the hand makes correspond-
lUng movements. But the process becomes ratherdifferentwhen
I talk quietly to tlle writer meanwhile. I speak ofthe theatre, the
weather, etc. In the meantime the hand writes 'roast veal.' In
this case, the hand wrote without concentration of tllought on
the writer's part. A rational and true answer has been given
to a direct question while a conversation was going on. As
the writing was not noticed, it follows that it was auto-
matic.
402 THE UNIVERSiTY OF SPIRITUALISM
"Now, although the writer did not know he was writing, he
knew the fact that he unconsciously wrote down; i.e., he knew
he had roast veal for dinner yesterday. But there are also persons
who will answer questions through automatic wrl.ting about
things they do not know at all. For example, when somebody is
asked what he had for dinner every day last week, he will write
down a whole list of dishes, though he does not know them
himself, i.e., though they arc not in his primary consciousness.
Interested in Max Dessoir's experiments in automatic writing, I
tried to obtain results in the same way. I put a pencil in the hand
ofahypnoticsubject and ordered him to answer certain questions,
but not to write purposely. The subject wrote everything I told
him, and answered every question, betraying many family
secrets without wishing or knowing it. He did not know he was
writing."
From the foregoing e>..'"tract, it is obvious that you must
critically examine all reputed automatic writings. Every incident
of your life is stored up in the wells of memory and, under
certain circumstances, can be recalled. In psychometry, we get
evidence that the universe is a huge storehouse oflatent memories
that, under proper stimuli, can be drawn upon and utilised. The
individual wells ofmemory in like manner can be tapped. Under
hypnosis, tlus is exhibited by speech or writing. Mere uncon-
sciousness is not proof of spirit control. And automatism does
not prove discarnate action. If, in addition to a change in the
style of writing, you receive information you had no means of
acquiring, such as occurrences in other people's lives, then you
are justified in assuming discarnate action proved. Even then,
you must allow for the possibly extended powers of your own
soul.
When you get clear evidence of this type, treasure it-it is far
more rare than many Spiritualists realise. But, mark you, it is
not evidence to the contrary ifthe internal proof is lacking. In
the nature oftllings, spirits cannot infuse proofofidentity in all
they say or do. Everything written serves as an index to author-
slup. This is your only guide. Ifthe writing continuously proves
to be but a reflection ofyour own ideas, or you cannot get proof
ofidentity,leaveitalone untilyou get advice from anexperienced
medium. Do not take up a pencil at any odd moment and be-
AUTOMATIC AND DIRECT WRITING 403
lieve that spirits are always anxious to be writing twaddle
through your hand. And do not decide that every spasmodic
twitch ofyour nerves is due to spirit influence.
Automatic spirit writing varies from the lightest telepathic
impression to physical control of the hand; from purely mental
states to a condition wherein the hand appears to be under the
will ofanother entity entirely. In the latter state, the mentality of
the medium is obviously superseded. Not only are the mental
characteristics ofthe writer revealed, but the actual caligraphy is
reproduced and even foreign languages written, though the
subject is ignorant of them. Margery Crandon, of Boston, has
thus received Chinese script. The more physical types ofmani-
festation are usually accompanied by a lessening consciousness of
writing at all. Deep trance supersedes the lighter phases ofcon-
trol. Sometimes a definitely formed hand seizes that of the
medium and guides it over the paper. When physically formed
hands are continually in evidence, the medium should be
developed for fully-formed materialisations, so that unless the
writing is strikingly evidential it should be abandoned in favour
of the higher phenomena.
In its lightest phases, the only indication ofabnormality is the
extraordinary ease with which ideas are put on paper. Beyond
feeling the urge to write, there is no external evidence of spirit
action. The language, style and phrasing will in no way differ
from the normal. The more physical form of automatism
usually starts with meaningless dots and dashes as if the hand
were being suddenly pushed in different directions. This gives
place to scrolls, artistic designs and messages. All crude
and erratic movements presently cease, and sequence, styie
and mannerisms differ characteristically with each communi-
cation.
( Ifsitting alone for automatic writing, keep a definite time for
the spirit people to experiment for about half an hour twice a
week. If you are not suitable for automatic writing and have
approached the subject in the right spirit, the time will not have
been wasted, for you will have attracted helpers who will not be
slow to use you in the way they find more desirable. Remember
that passivity is essential, so do not criticise during the writing.
Note all sensations that affect you as each control comes along.
404 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Dismiss obvious liars without parley. Dismiss them with
thanks for their help and a prayer for their upliftment, but
resolutely refuse to be fooled. Also refuse to be used by any who
make suggestions offensive to morality or good taste. Psycho-
analysis will teach you that these ideas often arise from our
physical sensations andnot from discarnate minds. Never permit
loss of consciousness unless operating in a trustworthy and
harmonious circle offriends. Begin all sittings in a reverent, but
none the less scientific, frame of mind. All worry, fear and
mental anxieties of every kind must be banished. Then lay the
hand holding the pencil lightly on the table, and await results.
If you find your own mentality interferes, read a not too en-
grossing book while the hand travels over the paper.
Scrolls, flowers and curious designs are frequent forerunners of
messages and portraits. Ifautomatic paintings are to be produced,
you will get your instructions in the same way. Ifyou are not
using your eyes and perfect design results, you are on the right
road. If warnings, prophecies or advice come to you, do not
take them too seriously until you know something ofthe calibre
of the writer. Make sure impersonation is not occurring. We
are apt to trust the names of people we love, and forget the
hundred and one aspects of telepathic interference which are
liable to come between the communicator and tl1e medium.
Always err on the side of a wise discretion. Especially distrust
recommended changes in life, because subconsciousness enters
very largely into everything of a personal nature. Secondly,
remember that your "open door," is an open invitation to every
passing vagrant in the spirit world to test you. It must form part
of your training to make sure the "testing" is not too one-
sided.
In writing, as in speaking, we have always to remember that
thought is the language ofthe spheres. It is therefore possible for
a foreigner, unacquainted witl1 your language, to impress you
with ideas which you subconsciously translate into your own
words. Even while you are unconscious the same law applies.
It is because so much automatic writing travels via the sub-
consciousness that comparatively little real evidence gets through.
But in the following experiences the subordinati,on of the
medium's mind is so decisive cl1at it illustrates "the exception
AUTOMAnC AND DIRECT WRITING 405
that proves the rule." The Rev. Stainton Moses, for test pur-
poses, held a pencil in each hand and fastened one to each foot.
In this state, four different themes were simultaneously discussed
in different languages, so that he was satisfied his own mind was
not the active agent during the writing. Such experiences partake
more ofthe physical than purely mental mediurnship and mean
greater exhaustion for the sensitive. Even in materialisation we
shall prove that subconscious activity cannot be absolutely
excluded.
The most interesting scripts ofrecent times are "The Scripts of
Cleophas," written through the hand of Geraldine Cummins at
the rate of one thousand five hundred words per hour. All the
words were joined together. The pencil did not leave the paper
at the end ofeach line, but traced its way to the beginning of the
next line until each sheet was filled. They purport to be a con-
tinuation ofthe Acts ofthe Apostles. They were submitted to the
scrutiny of Dr. W. 0. E. Osterley, Examining Chaplain to the
Bishop ofLondon. He decided that it contained knowledge ofa
most wmsual character. He pointed out that the name of tl1e
High Priest in all our documents was spelled Annas, which is the
Greek form ofthe Hebrew name Hanan. But the script used the
original and more correct form. Other equally striking details,
which would escape the ordinary reader, were obvious to him
as a student ofthe language.
A curious lawsuit developed from these writings because
Frederick Bligh Bond claimed them as his property. The judge
held otl1erwise. The actual hand tl1at wrote the script was the
owner of the copyright because the law refuses to recognise
spirit people or influences essential to the production of such
writings. A similar case arose in Germany, with a similar decision.
Arising therefrom, it is clear that sitters who pay for sittings must
arrange with the medium beforehand that all commnnications
addressed to them must become their property. Bligh Bond,
by automatic writing, had already discovered the ruins of
Glastonbury Abbey. Despite clerical opposition, he was success-
ful in causing excavations to be made that proved tl1e drawings of
his unseen commnnicators to be correct. It is quite possible that·
his presence was an essential factor in establishing the mental and
auric links required for these particular commnnications. But it
4o6 THE! UNIVERSITY OF SPm.ITUALISM
is purely suppositional. Only when we can prove what actually
constitutes essential factors in specific manifestations can we hope
to lift spirit commmucations from the realm of speculation to
that ofaccredited science.
The usual approaiCI1 ofspirit operators is via subconsciousness.
The psychic body •of the medium is magnetised and the pcwer
for writing directed along the arm to the fingers. It is because
the "wells of memory" are located in the psychic and not the
physical body that our memories can be: stimulated by hypnosis
and spirit control. It is easy to see that, at this point, the men-
talities both of the medium and the spirit operator may flow
' along the same chanmel at the same time and thus cause confusion.
T]lis is very difficult to guard against. In order that the auto-
matist may deflect }lis own mind, it is a general practice to read a
not too absorbing book while the hand is writing. But if the
reading is too engrossing, it defeats its own object by using up
the power required by the spirit for its work.
As automatic wriiting varies from simple impression to strong
contractions ofthe muscles, or actual gripping by a superimposed
hand, no definite rllllcs can be formubted. If sitting alone, the
main thing to be avoided is loss ofconsciousness. But this rarely
happens without f:ur warning. Spirits, like mortals, have to
experiment. Each instrument has to be attuned before results
are obtainable. It is thus easy to see in which direction the
tendency lies. During development, your sensations and
results should indicate a gradual strengthening of the link
between medium a:nd spirit. Never continue writing, or any
other form of mediumship, if uncontrolled fear seizes you.
There may be more than one reason for it. It sometimes indicates
the condition of the controlling spirit. It m:ry be due to sheer
ignorance on your part. It may be definitely aroused by the
direct action ofyot:tr spirit guides to prevent injudicious seance.~
or interference by- undesirables. Fear automatically erects
barriers against comtrol, and awakens all your power of resist-
ance. Until confidence is restored, it is useless wasting time in
seances.
W. T. Stead, himself an automatist, described the automatic
writing mediumship of a Mrs. Underwood in an old issue of
"Borderland." Mrs. Underwood found that she could only get
AUTOMATIC AND Dm.BCr WRITING 407
automatic writing whifst her husband was in the room. This
emphasises the auric links that have to be forged before psychic
phenomena can occur. At first, she received much nonsensical
script, a phase that presently passed away, giving place to evi-
dence of discarnate individualities. Her principal communicator
called himself Pharos. She was terrified lest anyone should dis-
cover she was a medium, and was surprised every now and tl1en
by the writing abruptly ceasing and writing the word "coward"
in bold letters. At last, she said she would reveal the fact when a
suitable opportunity occurred. From that time the writing pro-
ceeded without interruption. Mr. and Mrs. Underwood both
repudiated the tl1eory ofsubconscious activity being sufficient to
account for tl1e phenomena.
"As she says, and l can confum,"averred Stead, "there are
often statements made through the automatic writing, and
opinions given of affairs and persons which arc diametricaUy
opposed to our own convictions. We are personally reproved
or differed from. Mr. Underwood's criticism of vague s~ate­
ments was often resented. To Mrs. Underwood, Pharos is quite
as distinct a personality as Julia (Stead's control) is to me. Dut
her experience differs from mine. The words written are never
impressed upon her mind. In my case, I often get the impression
of the word that is coming just before it is written, although
when the writing begins I do not know what it is going to say.
In her case, ifshe gets an impression it is nearly always wrong.
Further, her hand will often refuse to write unless her husband
puts the questions. The two appear to constitute a battery, the
power coming from him, for he gets tired by merely sitting in
the room and putting the questions, willie she is using the
pen.
"During her writing, she is perfectly conscious. There is no
insensibility in her hand or any part of her body, but she feels a
gentle thrill descending from the top ofher head moving down
through the neck, shoulder and arm. She describes it as pleasing
and agreeable, like a gentle spr.ty from a magnetic battery.
Therein her experience is unlike mine. I never feel anything,
pleasurable or me reverse. Mrs. Underwood, however, endorses
my experience when she asserts that automatic writing has no
influence upon the health. She has neither lost sleep, increased
14
408 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
dreams, nor impaired nervous energy. She adds a note ofvalue
to all psychics. With all my experience in it, I would not today
venture upon any change, business venture, friendship or line
of conduct advised from this source unless my own material
common sense endorsed it. Indeed, I would not take as a fact
even its reasonable advice without question, because it is not
reliable as a guide in earthly affairs."
That Mrs. Underwood received clear evidence of discarnate
mentalities is shown in the following preface to a series of com-
munications: "Mr. J. P. Mendham, publisher of the 'Boston
Investigator,' a Freethought paper, died at Massachusetts early
on Stmday morning, January II, 1891. He communicated with
Mrs. Underwood in Chicago onJanuary 21, giving many bets
concerning himself which were unknown to the Underwoods,
and which were only subsequently verified by referring to files
of the newspaper which at that time had not reached Chicago.
Particulars were written through Mrs. Underwood's hand con-
cerning the cause ofhis death, also to his family and colleagues,
four days before the obituary notices reached her possession."
Stainton Moses explains his sensations as follows in "Spirit
Teachings": "The intensity widt which dte message was written
out was something quite new to me. The hand traversed sheet
after sheet of my book, tracing dte most minute characters,
always emphasising the name of God with capitals, and para-
graphing and keeping a margin, so that the writing struck the
eye as a beautiful piece ofcalligraphy. The hand tingled and the
arm throbbed. I was conscious ofwaves offorce surging through
me. When the message was done, I was prostrate withexhaustion
and suffered from a violent headache at dte base ofthe brain. On
the next day, I asked the cause. The following message was·
given, but much more quietly, 'Your headache wa~ the result of
the intensity of the power and the rapidity with which it W:lS
drawn from you.'"
Further explanations showed that it was largely due to the
eagerness ofthe operating spirits, who are not always fully aware
of the physical results upon the sensitive. Another point to note
is that this experience was exceptional and not an ordinary
headache, but was "situated at the base of the brain." This, in
tum, indicates dte special nerve ganglia utilised during the writ-
AUTOMATIC AND DITU!CT WRITING
ing. It is by noting details.of this order that mediums gradually
arrive at a correct solution oftheir sensations and act accordingly.
With correct development, aided by properly selected sitters,
who form a battery or sto.rehouse of energy, there would be no
drain upon the medium, because the supply is spread over a
wider area and everyone fi:els benefited, rather than exhausted,
by wisely arranged seances..
Direct writing is someti1mes called psychography. Automatic
writing may be transformed into "direct" writing if sufficient
physical power is present. Paper and pencil are simply laid upon
the floor or table and the messages are received without per-
ceptible human aid. H. B.. Saunders narrates many instances of
messages received in this way. AsJus seances were usually held
in darkness, he was challenged. He therefore took the writing,
wllich nobody could translate, to an expert who said he could
certainly write the charact1ers, which proved to be Cllinese. It
would be absurd for lum to try and write them in the dark. The
writing was regular and uniform so that fraud in cases oftllis type
can be ruled out.
The best known work on "direct" writing is "Psychography,"
by "M.A. Oxon" (the Rev. Stainton Moses). In it, he refers to
the experiences ofBaron Guldenstubbe. All the usual conditions
were dispensed with beca.use the baron could get his com-
munications in the daylight and anywhere. Under test con-
ditions, successful seances were carried out in the Louvre, the
museum at Versailles, the cathedral at St. Denis, Westminster
Abbey, on tombstones and most unexpected places. Many well-
known persons assisted at his meetings and testified to their
genuineness. His method was simply to lay down sheets ofpaper
-without pencil-and retire a few paces with llis witnesses who,
never for a moment, lost sight ofthe materials. They invariably
found the paper covered with writing in a very short time. The
baron's book of records contains tllirty illustrated facsimiles
selected from over two tho111sand specimens, obtained in twenty
different languages. These were written between 1856 and 1872.
The first experiment was made by placing paper and pencil in a
box, which never left the baron's possession. After twelve days,
during which no results appeared, certain curious markings
attracted his attention. During the same day, ten separate experi-
410 TF.[E UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
ments yielded satisfactory results. The box was then left open
and watched. The writing was seen to grow upon the paper
without the use ofpencil. From that time, he abandoned the use
of pencil altogether and obtained his vast number of psycho-
graphs by the simple process ofputting blank paper on the table
or elsewhere.
We are thus faced with the problem of precipitated writing.
In some forms of psychic photography, this theory of precipita-
tion is the only tenable hypothesis. In his "Researches into the
Phenomena of Spiritualism," Sir William Crookes records two
notable instances of psychography which permitted critical
analysis. "The first instance, which I shall give," he wrote, "took
place, it is true, in,darkness, but the result was not less satisfactory
on dut account. I was sitting next to the medium, Miss Fox, the
only other persontS present being my wife and a wom211 relative.
I was holding the medium's two hands in one of mine, whilst her
feet were resting on my feet. Paper was on the table before me,
and my disengaged hand was holdina a pencil. A luminous hand
came down from. the upper part ofilie room and, after hovering
near me for a few seconds, took the pencil from my hand, wrote
rapidly on a sheet: ofpaper, threw the pencil down, and then rose
up over our heads, gradually fading into darkness."
In this experie-nce, you will note that the materialised hand
was visible the whole time. The self-luminosity ofthe material-
ised hand dispersed the darkness sufficiently to watch its opera-
tions. In these cases, we assume that the materialisation contains
sufficient phosphorus to produce the luminous effect or, that the
psychic organism being self-luminous, shines through tl1e thin
covering of psychoplasm. Direct writing is usually done in
absolute darkness because white light has a destructive influence
on psychoplastic material. We shall prove presently tl1at this
difficulty is being overcome by gradual and cautious develop-
ment from darkness to twilight w1ti.l, finally, materialisations
withstand blinding flashlight in photography. Sir William
Crookes said:
"My second instance may be considered the record of a
failure. A good failure often teaches us more than the most
successful experiiment. It took place in the light, in my own
room witl1 only a few private friends and D. D. Home present.
AUTOMATIC AND DIRECT \VlUTING 41 I
Several circumstances, to which I need not further allude, had
shown that the power tlhat evening was strong. I therefore
expressed a wish to witn•~ss the actual production of a written
message, such as I had heard described a short time before by a
friend. Immediately an allphabetic communication was made as
follows, 'We will try.' ~~ pencil and some sheets of paper had
been lying on the table. P1
resently, the pencil rose up on its point,
and, after advancing by hesitatingjerks to the paper, fell down. It
then rose, and again fell. A third time it tried but with no better
result. After three unsuccessful attempts, a small wooden lath,
which was lying near upon the table, slid toward the pencil,
and rose a few inches from the table. The pencil rose again, and
propping itself against the lath, the two made a joint effort to
mark the paper. It fell, an.d again ajoint effort was made. After
a third trial, the lath gave: it up and moved back into its place.
The pencil lay as it fell ac1ross the paper. An alphabetic message
told us, 'We have tried to do as you asked, but our power is
exhausted.' "
And in this unbelieving world, there are scientists who affirm
that, even if true, the phenomena do not prove consciously
operative mentalities behind the manifestations! What would
prove intelligent co-operation? Psychography gives many de-
tailed accounts of similar phenomena. Stainton Moses's exper-
iences and those of Slade and Monck are so evidential that only
inveterate hypercritics can refuse the obvious inference. As Slade
was prosecuted, a briefreview ofthe fli1nsy nature of the charge
will illustrate the positive injustice meted out to mediums in
general. His seances were held in broad daylight. Slates were
usually cleaned by investigators who often brought their own.
Some even retained the wrappings around them while the writ-
ing was going on, or brought locked and sealed folding slates
which did not leave their hands until after the seance. Slade's
method was to chip off a scrap of pencil and lay it upon a slate
which was then slid slowly under the table-top. It was retained
in its position by the four Jfingers ofthe medium pressing against
the under side, while the thumb visibly pressed the top of the
table, to hold the slate in position. The other hand was held by
the sitter. It was therefore physically impossible for the medium
to insert a finger between the slate and the table-top. While in
412 TEIE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
this position, writiing was heard, so that the evidence ofsight and
hearing corroborate each other. This was the position when
Ray Lankester snatched the slate away from Slade and charged
him with fraud.
So determined are some people to prove that mediums are
frauds that they 'even fake exposures in order to prove their
assertions. But they do not always succeed. Houdini placed a
piece of indiarubber under the flap of a bell-box to prevent it
acting, and planted a rule in a cabinet of his own devising in
order to discredit the medium. Both efforts were frustrated by
the spirit people :and exposed before the conjurer achieved his
end. Only when trick slates are prepared before a seance is
deception possible:. The conJurers' most prevalent theory is that
invisible ink is used which becomes visible on washing the slates,
or soon after. Another theory used against Slade was that he
inserted scraps of]pencil under his finger-nails, but after examin-
ing them over a:nd over again without discovering any, this
theory was abandoned. Identical phenomena were obtained
when investigators brought their own locked and scaled slates,
sometimes covered with other material which was not removed
until out of the medium's reach. Apart from these details there
is still the fact to be explained away that the scrap of pencil
placed between the slates usually showed signs of wear. Im-
promptu questions were appropriately answered which the
medium could by no means guess. But so hysterical is the
opposition that many people are merely turned into more
bitter opponents as the result of their failure to discover the
"trick."
I must guard investigators against a familiar trick used by
conjurers to imitate thought-reading. It is sometimes applied to
slate writing, where trick slates with removable interiors are
used, or the conjurer has access to the slates before the seance.
The first prelimilllary is to ask for written questions. Meantime
they "palm" a picece ofpaper which they exhibit in place ofthe
actual piece handed to them. Their first guess naturally fails but
the piece is put aside for later effort. The actual question that was
first handed up t,o them is then produced, and as the audience
cannot tell one pic~ce ofpaper from another, all they have to do is
to read it and pretend it is a second question to which they are
AUTO~ITIC AND DIRECT WRITING 413
responding. Afterwards it is quite easy casually to pick up the
first piece and correctly "read" it. Another method is to glance
at the papersufficiently to memorise its contents and, after tearing
it up, throw it away. It appears to tl1e audience that me conjurers
are looking at tile question paper "after" mey have finished with
it, but as a matter of fact they are merely reading sufficient to
reply to me next question. It will be noted that tricks ofthis kind
could not be played during me following experiments.
Epes Sargeant, of Boston, U.S.A., published in "The Spirit-
ualist" of October 12, 1877, his experience wim a wonderful
medium named C. E. 'Watkins. Sargeant first wrote the names
of friends on a slip of paper, which he rolled up into pellets.
Placing these on me table, me medium correctly read offevery
name without unrolling them. After that, Sargeant held his
slates in his own hands while me medium stood about four feet
away. The sound of writing was heard and, on opening the
slates, he found a mes;sage from his deceased sister correctly
signed wim her name. He had purchased and brought wim him
another slate, which ha1
d not been unwrapped. The narrative
continues as follows:
"A still better test was in store for us. The little slate in stiff
pasteboard covers which I had bought an hour before ... rested
untouched near my rigbt elbow on the table. Mr. Watkins now
took it up, lifted the cover, put a crumb ofslate pencil on the sur-
face of the slate, closed the cover, and handed it to me. I know
there was no manipulation, no delay, no possibility of trick on
the medium's part. I know that no 'pre-possession' or expect-
ancy ofmy own was a possible factor in the case, ifI can be per-
mitted to use my reaso:n in saying so. I looked at the slate on
hom sides, satisfied myself-though there was no occasion for
this in the circumstances-that it had not been tampered with,
men held it out, and tll1e name written on it was Anna Cora
Mowatt, afterwards Aitchie, whose funeral I attended at Kensal
Green, in London. I hc:ld my slate out a second time, and then
came tl1e words: 'My dear brother. Yours, Lizzie.' Her name
had not even been written or uttered by me up to this time.
Again I held out my own slate, and there came the words: 'My
Dear Son. God bless you. Your father who loves you dearly
(Signed) Epes Sargeant.'
414 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
"During these intervals the slate was held by me. There was
no possible way by which :my human trick or jugglery could
have been practised. The sunshine still streamed into the room.
The medium sat there before me. No other person was present.
No more stringent conditions could have been demanded....
The medium, however, writhed as ifin torture every rime the
slate writing took place. It was evidently accompanied by some
powerful nervous excitement on his part. He now took my slate,
and, after I had re-examined it, he held it out in his own hand,
and in less than ten seconds one side was fully covered with a
letter from my sister Lizzie. Here it is: 'My Dear Brother. I
come to you this morning with my heart full of love for you,
and I think that perhaps you may believe that it is me, your own
sister. George is here with me. Your loving sister, Lizzie.' I
have the slate still, with the writing uneffaced. There were no
punctuation marks, but the word 'believe' was underlined. The
whole was written in less than twelve seconds."
Note all the details. The slates were untouched by the medium.
Writing was heard while the medium was four feet away from
the slate, which was purchased and taken to the seance by the
visitor. What answer do sceptics give to such testimony as
this? Simply that apparently sane people suffer from strange
delusions.
Conjurers duplicate locked slate-writing by having a loose
slate between the locked slates. Before the trick, two clean sides
arc shown. But a clip-catch afterwards releases the loose slate,
which thus exposes sides on which ,Prepared writing or elaborate
drawings arc arranged. Using one s own slates sets aside all the
conjurer's art. Slade, the medium, obtained the best results
while his slate lay face downwards with a scrap ofpencil under
it. The slate was thus in full view the whole time. The un-
occupied hand would clasp that of the sitter. Under these con-
ditions fraud is almost an impossibility. Sergeant Cox in his
book on "Psychic Force" (a theory adopted to explain the
phenomena), noted th:1t whenever the hands were momentarily
unclasped the writing automatically ceased.
We are indebted to the Hon. J. L. 0. Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal, for a very full
account ofhis experiences with a medium named Mrs. Harman
AUTOMATIC AND DIRECT WRITING 415
who, within three weeks, suddenly and tmaccountably developed
extraordinary writing mediumship. There were the usual
stringent precautions against fraud, and sometimes both of the
medium's hands were held while the writing was in progress.
The statement reads: "We would then hear three loud ticks and
the sound of the pencil dropping upon the slate as a signal that
it was finished. We would withdraw the slate and there would be
the message always distinctly written. . . . It seemed as ifsome
force analogous to electricity flowed down the medium's arm,
so as to charge the slate and pencil with some spiritual power
and establish conditions under which spirit hands were able to
act. That no mortal hands were, or possibly could have been
there, was, I repeat, absolutely certain." The report showed that
a continuous buzzing or rapid tapping accompanied the phe-
nomena. This gave rise to the theory ofelectrical discharges. In
view of the fact that many investigators found their slates
reduced to powder in a most unaccountable fashion, the fore-
going statement is futll of significance for the scientific in-
vestigator.
The Rev. John Pag•
e Hopps testified to the fact that while
carrying his slate home ·on which he had received aspirit message,
it suddenly dissolved in this way. I have known the legs of a
fairly solid table to be illStantaneously reduced to powder during
levitation. The first indication of what had happened was that
of the mahogany table-·top slowly sinking to the floor instead of
resting on its legs in the usual way. Light then revealed the
amazing fact that the legs had been reduced to sawdust. In other
cases, the wood has been torn as if by giant hands-or an
electrical flash. The electrical theory cannot therefore be lightly
dismissed as the active agent. The case of Mrs. Hannan offers
suggestive clues. It indicates that magnetic or electrical forces are
employed to produce the writing. As electricity and magnetism
are products one of the other, and as we get attraction and re-
pulsion while these are present, I see no difficulty, theoretically,
in using the pencil in this way.
The Rev. Stainton Moses adds the following interesting notes
to his introduction to the third edition of "Psychography":
"The force is by no means constant and is liable to ebb and flow.
It will cease for a long; time and then break forth again with
14*
/
416 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
renewed power.... In some it is apparently increased by fasting
and seclusion. In others its flow is greater when the vital strength
has been stimulated by a hearty meal. Some psychics are inde-
pendent ofextemal aid from a circle. Others obtain phenomena
more readily when surrounded by a more or less numerous body
ofsympathetic friends. I believe that no law has yet been made
out. Only one thing is sure- that whatever disturbs the mind of
the psychic is likely to prevent the occurrence, or at least seriously
impair the power of the manifestations. Harmony is essential
to success, and whatever promotes it, whether singing, perfumes
or prayerful meditation, is to be d~covered and employed."
In "Psychography," students will find experiments of spirit
writing on painted surf.'tces, glass and other tests carried out in
the presence ofsceptical people. With Stainton Moses, I believe
no law has yet been discovered that explains all the facts. I go
further and assert that this will remain undiscovered because
groups of operators on both side~ of the veil will continually
alter or improve the materials used. We c:m but outline working
theories. The action ofelectricity or chemistry does not actually
explain the reduction oftable legs to sawdust andslates to powder,
or writing between locked slates, though it may supply a key.
Science now recognises the discontinuous state of apparently
solid bodies. Sir William Crookes's researches did much to
emphasise this. He was undoubtedly helped by his knowledge
of psychic forces. Electrons are actually points of force rather
than matter. The ponderable and visible is thus reduced to terms
of imponderability and invisibility. Our conception of inter-
penetrating worlds has, therefore, scientific approval, though
few scientists are yet willing to admit the possibility ofintelligent
beings operating from those invisible worlds who communicate
with man. Wireless reception helps us to understand the pos-
sibilities of worlds within worlds. Where ether penetrates it is
possible for etheric bodies to pass, and people may be invisible
~o people from yet another etheric world whose vibrations
interpenetrate them likewise. It is, therefore, logical to think of
spirit people mingling witl1 us in our home, and utilising the
forces available in tl1eir spheres. Learning to adjust our sight to
particular rates ofvibration makes the invisible visible, and, like
wireless waves, we can prove interpenetration without inter-
AUTOMATIC AND DffiECT WRITING 417
ference until consciousness utilises its discoveries. Other parallels
can be found in the teeming microbic life we indraw with every
breath. We are utterly unaware ofmicrobes until fever or disease
exposes their ravages or the microscope reveals them. At present
we are only acquainted with malign aspects, but signs are not
wanting that equally invisible living forms, potent in nourishing
and vitalising the human body, willsoon be discovered also.
Mediumship reveals an auric world actually under our own
control, more potent than matter, that is used unconsciously
because we are ignorant of psychic laws. The counterparts o£
electricity, magnetism and every chemical, known and unknown,
are held in suspension arow1d us. Once satisfied there is a world
of intelligent but invisible humanity, continually associating
with us, we cease to be surprised to find that spirit chemists
utilise the chemistry of their world to awaken our interest in
themselves. What to us is imponderable or invisible may to
them be ponderable and visible, and vice versa. Only thus can
we understand seance-room effects. This applies particularly to
writing between locked slates. Matter may be transparent to
spirit sight and form no impediment. Their difficulty would
arise when it becomes necessary to visualise a material object,
like a scrap of pencil, between two slates. In order to visualise
the scrap ofpencil under a slate or table-top, they would have to
concentrate upon the pencil and ignore the intervening slate or
table-top. This they can do with the same ease that they pass
through brick walls in order to manifest at all.
Just how they manage to move the tiny scrap of pencil and
produce actual facsimiles ofhandwriting is to me a more baffling
proposition. That it is gripped and guided is self-evident, as it
shows signs of wear. It is difficult to conceive of minutely
materialised fingers gripping the pencil in the cramped space at
their command, and I therefore conclude that magnetic or
electric forces, unknown to us, are employed, with possibly a
materialisation minute enough to fix a pincer-like grip on the
fragment of pencil. Probably we shall eventually prove that
merely ignoring intervening matter, like a slate or table-top, is
sufficient to enable the spirit operator to write. But these theories
quite break down when we receive hundreds of words-as
frequently happens-at incredible speed. The theory of pre-
418 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
cipitated writing appears most acceptable. Spirit people catmot
explain their processes in terms we can understand because we
have no terminology for experiences outside our knowledge.
Hence these gropings after working hypotheses, which must
serve until clairvoyants become sufficiently scientific to present
more satisfactory explanations.
Among slate-writing mediums, the possession ofother phases
of mediumship is usual. Many are clairvoyant and some are
powerful physical mediums. With nearly all of them hands
occasionally materialise. This tends to prove that Lhe aura
emanating from slate-writing mediums is akin to that of the
materialising medium. In other words, they provide the peculiar
element which enables spirit operators to produce what our
chemists call catalysis, an apparently new compotmd created by
mere contact with other elements or forces. But, unlike catalysis,
the extraordinary combination of elements suddenly demater-
ialises, and their component parts return to their primitive state
with the speed of thought.
In "Psychography" Stainton Moses writes: "Several observers
noticed the fact ·that Slade's hands, when in contact with their
own, were feverishly hot, and emitted a crackling, detonating
sound. He would withdraw them as though the contact burnt
them. I specially noticed this during the writing while I held the
slate. After Slade had made a few downward passes over my
ann, my fingers tingled, and I heard distinct detonating noises in
the table." It will be noticed that electricity was transferable and
apparently obeyed terrestrial laws. "These detonations some-
times are so powerful. as to split the slate to fragments. Mr.
Wedgewood's double-hinged slate was thus broken into minute
pieces. Archdeacon Colley gives a very instructive record of a
similar kind."
For test purposes another man embedded over the slate a piece
of stout glass by means of plaster of Paris, leaving a space of
about an inch between the slate and the glass. In this chamber, a
fragment of pencil was placed. The slate was perfectly clean.
It was physically impossible to write upon its inner surface by
normal means. The word desired by the investigator to be
written in that cavity was "Tangier." It was done. It was then
suggested that each person should dictate a word separately.
AUTOMATIC AND DIRECT WRITING 419
The slate was placed under the sitter's feet. Archdeacon Colley
felt the slate throbbing like a kettle lid over steam. In an instant,
an explosion took place that scattered fragments over the carpet
like spray from a fountain. The slate was examined, and the
words found written in the order they were dictated.
CHAPTER XXIV
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE?
I T is because a table is the commonest piece of furniture in
every household that it becomes the most general means of
communication, but hats, chairs, glasses and other objects have
each had their vogue for spelling out messages. Investigators
soon found that tables and.other objects moved easily when
certain persons were present, but remained immovable in their
absence. Thus what are termed "physical" mediums arose who
specialised in physical phenomena. Mediums soon discovered
that it was not always necessary to touch the objects. Their mere
presence seemed to suffice, although holding their hands near the
object to be moved accelerated the phenomena. The article
appeared to be alternately attracted and repulsed. Hence, the
first and still the most usual theory to account for table-tilting
is "animal magnetism." Table-tilting was invariably the prelude
to other forms ofphenomena. Usually raps followed. As these
have a distinctly percussive sotmd, electricity was quickly
associated with the theory ofanimal magnetism. The combina-
tion was the more rational because a magnetic field invariably
accompanies electricity, and the two are susceptible to trans-
mutations.
The invisible producers ofthe raps confirmed the idea.that tl1e
powey was drawn from the sitters and manipulated, but lack of
words or analogous experiences prevented scientific exposition.
Spirits invariably likened the movement of the table to that of
ourselves moving human bodies. But try as we may, we fail to
understand that human bodies are nothing more to them than
material to be manipulated. To us, human bodies are integral
parts of the operating soul. To them, bodies were but chemical
laboratories or chemical compounds, and used accordingly.
Presently, we dimly realised that mentality acts like a dynamo.
We think ofmoving hands or feet. Simultaneously, an electrical
discharge travels along the nerves and contracts the muscles
4ZO
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 421
which thus obey the will of our spirit selves. This spirit or soul
body retains consciousness and vitality independently of the
physical body. We were slower still to realise thatactive portions
of our physical bodies are invisible but radiating in every direc-
tion. Now, thanks to Dr. Kilner and clairvoyant researches, we
know that the aura is responsive to thought processes.
Soon, the idea was clearly grasped that invisible beings could
both see and utilise the:se radiations, and even extract from the
solid parts of physical bodies the elements they required, and
return them without injury. Zollner's world offour dimensions
soon became the accredited theory. It enabled us to visualise an
etheric sphere actually interpenetrating the material world in
which etheric beings lived their daily round as utterly oblivious
of our presence as we were of theirs. They seemed to regard
human bodies and ponderable matter pretty much as we think of
fogs, gases or atmospheres. Indeed, they called us "the shadow
people," and claimed to live in a brighter world. We also dis-
covered that what was easily penetrable by us like perfumes or
stenches might present an impenetrable barrier to them. Also
that the foods we eat and drinks we imbibe affect the matter of
which our bodies are c:omposed, and thus assist or retard their
manipulation ofits forces. Presently, we found they objected to
intoxicants, tobacco and drugs in every form, because they kept
higher influences away, and formed a pathway over which un-
desirable spirits could travel. They taught us how to heal the
sick. Thus we learned that as we project invisible healing power
so by effort ofwill they could also apply it for leverage purposes
on material objects.
We therefore accept their statements that they can use chemical
and electrical knowledge peculiar to tl1eir world, and produce
percussive sounds or pe:nneate d1e ftbres of a table and cause it
to move. Many inv-estigators have experienced a curious
throbbing sensation apparently pulsing through the table.
Sometimes this is traceable to the trembling of one ofthe sitters
as power is e>..'tracted, lbut many records exist which attest the
fact that an actualheavintg is observable in the table itseif. At one
private home seance at Brighton it is a usual preliminary to see
the fully laden tea-table rise in the air. In tlus case no person is in
contact with the table. The following extract from the "Zoist"
422 TlfE UNIVERSITY OF SPJlUTUALISM
of forty years ago still supplies the most commonly accepted
theory: "Physical mediums are those persons who have an excess
of magnetism of the quality which will unite with the psychic
forces ofspirits and the forces inherent in natural objects forming
an electro-magnetic chain. The psychic force emanating from
the medium charges the object to be moved. The spirits direct
a current of their own Zoethic emanation in the direction they
desire the object to be moved, and it passes along the current
thus produced. When spirit circles arc held, the blending ofthe
auric emanations forms a battery by which communication can
be established. The focalisation of this force rests with the
unseen operators.''
'( For a long time, Spiritualists were satisfied with the magnetic
theory to account for the movements oftables and rappings. But
in 1916, W .J. Crawford, B.Sc., ofBelfast, a well-known writer
of scientific treatises, published "The Reality of Psychic Struc-
tures," and in 1919, his "Experiments in Psychic Phenomena."
He proceeded along independent lines of research, and claimed
that the levitation oftables and rappings were produced by what
he termed "psychic structures." His medium, Miss Kathleen
Goligher, sat only once a week, and always in a good red light.
She was placed upon a weighing machine so that loss ofweight
or the reverse could be immediately detected. The medium was
fully conscious while phenomena were occurring, and suffered
from no strain whatever. Her muscles grew stiff and con-
tracted at first, but later development removed this disability.
Raps were the usual prelimjnary, and varied from the soft
sotmds ofa bouncing rubber ball or a faint tick to the clang ofa
sledge-hammer easily heard outside the house. Noises like
sawing wood, the trotting of a horse and other sounds were
irrUtated. By means of a phonographic record, he reproduced
these sounds, which were easily heard at his lectures by five
hundred people. The raps and levitation were obtained without
anyone being in contact with the table.
After sitting for about a quarter ofan hour, the rapping ceased
and levitation of the table-without contact-usually followed.
It frequently remained suspended in the air for several minutes
without visible support, while investigators felt under and
around it to discover the cause. Strohg men tried to press it
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 423
downwards and failed. At other times, it appeared glued to the
floor and could not be moved until permission was given by the
spirit operators. It would become fixed or free on demand,
clearly indicating intellig;ence controlling it. Most ofCrawford's
experiments were direCited towards discovering the mechanics
of levitation and the stresses and strains-if any-upon the
medium. As an electrical engineer, he was peculiarly equipped
for this task.
Crawford concluded that both levitations and rappings are
caused by what he termts "psychic structures." His illustrations
show them extending from near the ankles. The rods, though
invisible, are exceedingly sensitive, and strong as steel, with
"sucker-like" arrangements at the end, which grip the table at
strategic points. Occasionally, the "sucker" could be heard
testing its gripping-places. He discovered that a cantilever
principle was utilised in table movements. The top of the rod
apparently enlarged itsdf from about four inches to a wide
mushroom pattern, whi.ch gripped the underside of the table.
Sometimes, as many as six rods, varying in dimensions, were
employed at the same moment. In answer to questions, tl1e
unse~n operators said tlhey used similar apparatus to tap out
messages on the floor or table. His researches proved that some-
times during experiments the medium's weight was increased by
that of the levitated table!, as ifshe was actually carrying it. This
effect was varied or nullified by the use ofstruts or rods, so ad-
justed that all strain was removed from the body ofthe medium.
Usually some definite loss of weight occurred, to which all the
sitters contributed a small portion. Nearly all losses were re-
covered when the phenomena ceased.
With the co-operatiolll of the spirit people, he discovered cl1e
limit of the weight they could wim safety extract from the
medium, and also the capsizing counterweights of the table.
The medium, seated on a chair, occupied one side of the scales.
Willie the table was levitated, he placed continually increasing
weights upon the scale: pan until they registered forty-seven
pounds fourteen ounces, at which point the table usually
collapsed. On one occasion, his instruments registered a loss of
fifty-four and a half pounds definitely removed from the
medium's body. Studen.t.~ will note the relationship ofthis phase
THE UNlVl!RSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
to dematerialisation. For exact data it is necessary to read his
books, because without drawings it is difficult clearly to under-
stand what actually o0ccurred. In one flashlight photograph, the
aura is seen flowing from one sitter to another, clearly indicating
the contributions and relationship ofall sitters to the phenomena.
He also discovered that the invisible rods varied as to penetra-
bility. Sometimes a wire screen, a hand, a potato sack or other
obstacle was placed in their path. The result was an immediate
cessation ofthe phen.omena. Even a sheet of paper was found to
be obstructive at times, but on another occasion, while taking
the temperature of the room, his thermometer repeatedly
passed right through the rods without visible effect. All experi-
mentalists arc familiar with these intriguing contradictions.
Handling the rods imduced the sensation ofa cold, clammy sub-
stance of cobwebby consistency. The temperature of the room
was in no way affected. This, together with the fact that the
borrowed material was always returned, I attribute to proper
co-operation with the unseen operators. In psychical research
laboratories, where this factor is ignored, a slight drop in
temperature is usually recorded.
He found that the: amount of psychic energy available was
strictly limited. His ideas concerning psychic structures were
confirmed by impressions obtained on smoked papers, putty and
clay. Crawford's co-operators cheerfully complied with his
request to extract as much material as was safe from the medium
and place it upon a scale pan. This they did until it registered a
corresponding decrease. They obligingly placed their psychic
rods where they would leave marks on his blackened paper,
putty or clay, and assisted him to check the exact point at which
his mechanical knowledge suggested that strains would most
likely be felt. He noted that the psychic structures avoided white
light by utilising the shadows, and was naturally pleased to find
his deductions so often confirmed. But what is even more
valuable, as proving discarnate co-operation, was that when the
spirit people disagreed with him, they did so in. an emphatic but
sensible way, which lhe was manly enough to acknowledge as an
improvement on his unaided-speculations.
How then could he adopt the fashionable theories of the
modem scientist? If he had but confumed scientific materialism
r
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 425
he would today be enthroned among self-satisfied egotists and
have worn a tinsel crown with a smirk of "subconscious" satis-
faction, but he preferred to state the simple truth. It was, of
course, unfortunate, from the pseudo-scientific standpoint, that
he should so honestly confirm simple facts, and thus lose the
plaudits ofmaterialistic minds. Crawford's experiments proved
that a kind of invisible matter proceeds from the bodies of
mediums and in a lesser degree from the sitters, and that tlus
invisible matter has form and weight. It usually took the shape
ofrods made soft and pliable with adhesive terminals or grips at
the ends farthest away from the medium. The rods could also be
hardened sufficiently to strike sledge-hammer blows, resist
strains and carry definite weights. He also proved that mankind
possesses a faculty of externalisation which may develop into a
normal attribute when we understand its application, and that
spirit people use the elements ofwhich our bodies are composed
to produce tlte phenomena ofthe seance room. Lastly, and most
important, he proved that discarnate minds travel along the
mechanism so created and intelligently co-operate in all
experiments.
In affirming tl1e last point, Crawford committed the "un-
pardonable sin"-unpardonable by a dogmatic section of
psychical researchers who clUnk that crediting the spirit people
with intelligent co-operation indicates mental weakness in the
experimentalist. So long as one talks learnedly about "pseudo-
pods" or "prolongations," with a suggestion that these are the
direct result of unconsciousness producing definitely conscious
results, just so long will a materialistic world condescend to
recognise the experimentalist's sa~uty. / But if you assert tltat
psycluc manifestations prove that man is something more tl1an
a soulless piece of mechanism, you are damned with faint praise
or disowned entirely./ Crawford, together with a long list of
scientific predecessors is, tltereforc, discredited by this type of
investigator. No flaw was found in Ius experiments or logic,
but as soon as he proved that we contact an invisible, intelligent
humanity, Ius careful studies were shelved or repudiated as
"unscientific."
A significant statement was made by a spirit doctor through
Crawford's medium. He claimed to extract an infinitesimal
426 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
fraction of matter fmm the interior of her nerves. What for?
So that the minds of spirit operators could travel along nature's
telegraphic lines to the ends of the rods exactly as our minds
travel over nerves to the fmgers or toes. This statement has a
tremendous implicatilon which must be fully grasped in order
to comprehend the rationale of many psychic phenomena and
materialisation in particular. Psychic rods are actual ex~ensions
ofor from the medium's body which spirit people use exactly as
we do our hands and arms. When we remember that human
bodies are ninety-five per cent water, with a small residue
made up of carbon, salts of L.me and phosphates, proteids and
similar elusive compounds, we begin to visualise something of
the mechanism thro·ugh which our own mentalities operate,
together with the elements used by tl1e minds of discarnate
intelligences. When, further, we know that spirit people can
separat~ our psychic: body from its sheath, as we do quite
naturally during sleep or under anresthctics, and that they can
use our or their OWlll spirit bodies as matrices or moulds, the
philosophy of Crawford's rods and their relationship to the
matcrialisation of a throat for direct voice, a hand for moving
articles, or full-form materialisation is transparently clear. But
they dare not snap the "silver cord," referred to in Ecclesiastes
and seen by A.J. Davis and other seers, which forms the channel
along which thought travels back to sleeping bodies. Death
would be the immediate result.
Until the "silver cord," which connects the etheric and the
physical bodies, is snapped, the elements ofthe physical body co-
here, and its consciousness travels with Lghtning speed to the
en~ of the earth. At death, there is dissolution of the physical
elements because the Lfe principle is entirely withdrawn. The
attenuation and extension of the "silver cord" during sleep or
entrancement is merely an extension of tl1e principle of auric
rods, called psychic s1tructures by Crawford. In deep trance, as
in hypnosis, there is: analgesia (insensibility to pain). Even
though Crawford's medium did not enter deep trance, he found
that her body was i.llSensitive to pain, or she could not have
borne the stress and strain ofthe experiments. This conclusion is
more easily tested dur:ing deep trance when analgesia is complete.
Theoretically, consciousness alone feels pain. This is deflected in
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TAllLE MOVE? 427
hypnosis. Mediums are but hypnotic subjects manipulated by
invisible operators. Willie in this condition, the body becomes
as day in the potter's hands. The spirit people manipulate it, or
extract what they require while guarding the medium from
exhaustion. At the end of the seance, they return practica.lly all
the borrowed material to its owners. At inharmonious seances,
thi$ cannot be done, and no phenomena occur, though the entire
circle feels depleted.
The tendency ofthe extruded material to fly back to its source
must not be overlooked. It supplies an explanation of the
phenomenon by which spirit "grabbers" seize hold of the
medium though at first they actually grip the materialised spirit
form. This automatic return of power to its source for a time
appeared to destroy Crawford's theory. During levitation, the
table would immediately sink to the ground if the medium
touched it with her bare hands, but ifshe wore gloves, or touched
it with her shoe, it did not fall so abruptly or remained un-
affected. The fluidic nature of the elements was thus proven and
also that they easily passed through the table, though, but a
second before, the rods were dense enough to support it. He
also found-by arrangement with the spirit operators-that the
scale pan containing matter abstracted from the medium's body
could, witl1 difficulty, maintain a level balance owing to the
continual tendency ofthe material to return. It was thus apparent
that the extruded psychoplasm bd1aved like the antenna: of
insects which retreat immediately danger is sensed. It also acted
like electricity in that the return flow was set up directly a circuit
was established. A point to note in Miss Goligher's mediumship is
tl1at, though she was conscious during manifestations, she was
completely unconscious of swaying movements in her body
whenever blows were struck by the rods. Crawford noted this
reaction. In dark seances, this movement would arouse sus-
picion of fraudulent participation by the medium.
During physical manifestations, ilie point must be stressed iliat
the mentality ofthe medium is absolutely quiescent. The theory
of "subconscious" or "unconscious" action to account for
manifestations is a gratuitous assumption. The phenomena
exhibit such extraordinary ability and selectivity, and so con-
tinually adapt themselves to changing circumstances ofwhich the
..
428 THE UNIVERSITY OJ:1 SPIRITUALISM
medium is absolutely ignorant, that the spirit hypothesis is the
only rational theory satisfactorily covering the ground. As
phenomena only, the rappings are interesting scientific exper-
iences that cannot be explained by any known law. But this is a
mere detail compared with the fact that invisible intelligences
control them and contradict all current theories relating to after-
death states. These, in turn, are now permeating :ill religious
systems because they are rational, natural and feasible. Craw-
ford's rods do not merelysupply the most satisfactoryexplanation
oftable movements and rappings. It is the most rational theory
explaining the levitation of trumpets, slates and other objects
which often appear to be suspended in the air. One ofmy spirit
friends assured me that they do not utilise quite the same forces
for these incidental phenomena. The difference was so subtle he
could not say more than that it was more fluidic. It was rather in
the nature ofa force which held auric and atmospheric elements
in suspension or an attractive power analogous to magnetism but
which was vastly different from anytlling we knew under that
term. The infra-red rays, in conjunction with suitable photo-
graphic plates and screens, are now confirming the levitation of
objects and may presently reveal the actual means to the end.
The following extract, under the term "ideoplasticity," from
G. C. Darnard's "The Supernormal" gives the present scientific
confirmation of the evolution of psychic structures: "A highly
interesting point ... is that the evolution and growth of the
structure could often be seen, so that the phenomenon carried
its own proof of genuineness. The concealment of dummy
hands or pictured heads, either by the medium or by an accom-
plice, would be inadequate to simulate a progressively evolving
form. Not only did the form evolve in complexity ofstructure,
but it also often grew or diminished in size, while remaining of
the same proportions, and this sometimes at the request of the
investigators. The ectoplasm itself is inherently disposed to
take on a definitely human shape...."
J. B. Mcindoe is probably the greatest living authority on the
technique of psychic photography. I am therefore taking full
advantage of his permission to use extracts from his published
writings. In dealing with the photographing of materialised
spirit forms, he says: "These have been so frequently photo-
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TAilLE MOVE? 429
graphed and with so many different mediums, that the photo-
graphic evidence taken in the mass, by reason ofits volume and
variety and especially in view of the conditions under which
much of it has been secured, seems in itself almost sufficient to
put the phenomena beyond dispute. Many ofthese photographs
contain internal evidences oftheir authenticity. In a considerable
number, parts ofthe materialised forms are unfinished, apparently
because the operators responsible were not concerned to carry the
process beyond what was necessary for their particular purpose.
Thus there are photographs offorms in which the legs have no
feet, merely stumps, some ofwhich are ofpartially formed hands
-suitable for grasping simple objects but with only four fingers,
or with no differentiation ·between thumbs and fingers, while
some such structures- adapted for pushing objects about-lack
even these end organs. These are not features one would regard
as evidences of faking.
"Of particular interest, in that they .suggest the presence of
psychic force in the shape of invisible actinic rays, were a large
number ofphotographs obtained between 1877 and 1879 by the
Comte de Bullet andJ. L. O'Sullivan in Paris, with the medium
Alfred H. Firman, who was apparently monopolised by the
Comte for several years. Many complete failures and partial
successes were the lot of the experimenters, who were en-
couraged to persevere with the work by tl1e insistence ofJohn
King, the operating spirit, who promised eventual success. The
photographs were taken in complete darkness, the camera being
carefully posed in advance in accordance with his instructions.
Test conditions were enforced. Garments to be worn by the
materialised forms were usually provided for iliem by the sitters,
but although these appeared on the negatives, objects in the
background were conspicuous by·their absence.
"On one occasion, the Comte gave John King his watch to
hold in his hand. Tllis comes out so clearly that the time can be
read. Flowers provided for them and worn by the forms also
appear, while in one striking case notlllng is to be seen in the
photograph except a hat with two visiting cards stuck in it. The
name on these can be read by tl1e aid ofa magnifying glass. The
hat and cards belonged to a sitter, who had requested that it be
worn by one of the forms, and he had placed the cards on it for
430 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
identification. Presumably we may infer' that some sort of
material structure supported the hat, and that the garments
provided enabled the results to be got with a le5s completed
structure than would otherwise have been necessary, thus
enabling the power to be conserved. In some, the features are
lifeless and lack expression, and there are other evidences either
that the forms had not been fully finished, or else that the de-
materialising process had commenced before the exposure, which
lasted only five minutes, was complete."
From this extract arise many problems associated with the
elements of which the spirit body is composed, no less than that
ofphotography itself. When materialised, spirit forms are solid
enough to be handled, but are composed of such volatile in-
gredients that, in the twinkling of an eye, the visible substance
vanishes into thin air. Our extract shows that the matrix, which
held the visible elements together, can still be solid enough to
support a borrowed hat, but fails to show the supporting
material on the photographic plate. It is invisible, but dense
enough to wear clothes or put a hat apparently on the top of
"nothing." Against this apparent density, which could not be
photographed, we are faced with hundreds of psychic photo-
graphs in which the spirit forms photographed require nothing
more than thought action to produce registration on the sensitive
emulsion. We are thus forced to envisage invisible spirit people,
who consciously manipulate what are to us invisible ingredients
and by processes we can only guess at, make visible to us the fact
of their existence.
Hereward Carrington was for many years a keen opponent
ofthe spirit hypothesis, but atlast, with commendable fairness, he
published his matured conclusions in an ably written book
entitled, "Eusapia and her Phenomena." As his conclusions form
the commonly accepted theories of the average Spiritualist, I
am pL'tcing "Eusapia and her Phenomena" under tribute for
much ofthe following information. Carrington suffers from the
usual psychical researcher's complex. He is absolutely certain of
his own powers ofobservation, but curiously suspicious ofevery-
body else's. This causes psychical researchers to damn with faint
praise all evidence that has not been personally verified. To Car-
rington, the Fox sisters, D. D. Home, and Eusapia Paladino
PHYSICAL PHENOMl!INA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOV.E? 431
were genuine mediums, but the rest, by implication, if not by
downright accusation, are palpable frauds. Eusapia he considers
an indisputably genuine medium, but also a fraud unless properly
restrained.
The evidence which Jlnally convinced Carrington is drawn
from Dr. J. Vensano's rejport in the "Annals ofPsychic Science"
for September, 1907: "W'hile all the sitters and the medium were
in full sight, a figure built up behind him which sobbed and
cried, and kissed him. He got the name ofsomeone known only
to himself by table-tipping. She had passed out after serious
family disagreements. \~bile he was doubting the evidence of
his senses, a voice in the Genoese dialect spoke to him, begged
his forgiveness, and disappeared." The article gives full details,
showing it could not be fraud or guesswork on the part of the
medium. The idea ofhallucination was set aside by the corrobo-
rative testimony of other scientists present.
Eusapia Paladino was getting rappings and other physical
phenomena when her mediumship was suddenly and vastly
improved by the advent of a new control, calling himselfJohn
King. His introduction vvas due to information obtained through
table-rapping by Madame Damiana. She had never heard of
Eusapia, butJolm King rapped out an address and requested her
to call and mtroduce rum to Eusapia, for the purpose of rein-
carnation (or controlling;) in her. On calling at the address and
delivering the message, she found Eusapia. From that time,
John King became her principal control. Psychical researchers
explain most psychic phenomena as "subconscious action." I
wonder whose "subcoOtSciousness" imparted this information
to the table! I suggest tl1at the wooden table contained within
itself a consciousness i·dentical with that of many eminent
researchers.
Flammarion, in "Mysterious Forces," says: "Eusapia was a
woman ofvery ordinary abilities. A brunette, her figure a little
under medium height. Forty-three years of age, not at all
neurotic, rather stout ... her mother died while giving birth to
the child; her father was assassinated by brigands in Southern
Italy when she was eight years old ... Eusapi.a Paladino is her
maiden name; she was married at Naples to a merchant ofmodest
means named Raphael Delgais. She managed the petty business
432 TBI! UNIVERSITY OF SP1JUTUALISM
of the ihop, is illiterate, does not know how to either read or
write, and understands only a little French. Eusapia met with an
accident as a child. which left a cranial opening in her skull.
During her entrancements, a distinct cold breeze was felt to
emanate from this opening." Students will note with interest
that the spirit people used the accidental opening in her skull with
the same facility tl1at they extract psychoplasm from the soft
parts ofthe ears or mouth. The "breeze'' would seem to indicate
that the material used to form psychic rods or materialisations is
extracted in the form of vapour. It was not uncommon to see
cabinet curtains rising as ifa wind was blowing strongly into the
room, witlt no opc)[l doors or windows or anyone in the cabinet
to accow1t for it. This forcibly reminds one of tlte text, "A
mighty rushing wind that ftlled all the house" (Acts ii, 2).
The use ofthis cranial opening further suggests that where the
skin is thin or moisr
tened by secretions, like the inner surfaces of
nose and checks, the operators discover the line oflcast resistance,
and extract more fi:eely from those places. The experiences of
many Continental ]psychic researchers confirm this conclusion.
Eusapia asserted that, for a number of years, seances given to
friends seemed to relieve her ofdepression, but that during later
years they sapped her energy, and made her feel extremely weak
and depressed. The difference between harmonious develop-
ment in congenial conditi.oru :md the exhaustion during periods
when she gave herself up entirely to scientific experiments is
stated clearly there. Dr. Ochorowitz also noted the fact that
"unofficial" or friendly seances restored Eusapia's vitality, but
that "official" seances irritated the medium and exhausted her.
Spiritualists will be glad to note that scientists are at last re-
cognising the huma.Jn factor in psychic manifestatioru, and it is to
be hoped that more humane treatment will result. Mediums
have too long been regarded as "clinical material," to be carved
and cut about. I recently heard the terms upon which one
vivisector desired to experiment. All ordinary precautions were
to be dispensed wit!~, but he was to be allowed to seize, cut or
obtain in any way he tl1ought proper, pieces of the draperies or
psychoplasm. Needless to say, his "scientific" services were
disperued wiili, much to his chagrin. He therefore goes about
declaring that Spiritualists are hopelessly "unscientific" in their
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 433
methods. Thank God it is so, or there would soon be no
mediums left to prove anything. Even to childlike minds, it
should be self-evident that if material is drawn from a living
body, it cannot be cut or grabbed without injuring the source
from which it comes. Healthy mediumship with powerful
evidences of spirit presence can only be obtained where perfect
security for the medium is assured and harmonious conditions
prevail. These will arrive whenscientists cease to regard mediums
as expert conjurers, and recognise that subconscious activity-if
this be the true theory-requires saner and more humane methods
of detection than vivisection.
Hece is what Eusapia Paladino says of her impressions when
she desires to produce movement at a distance. She suddenly
experiences a desire to produce the phenomena (indicating
partial spirit control). This is followed by a sensation of numb-
ness and "gooseflesh'' feeling inher fingers. Thesesensations keep
on increasing. At the same time, she feels in the inferior portion
of the vertebral column the flowing of a current which rapidly
extends into her arm as far as the elbow, where it is gently
arrested. It is at this point tl1at the phenomena take place. "It
would appear to me," writes Carrington in his book, "that the
above statement explains, in part at least, much of Eusapia's
fraud. This desire . .. would attempt to find motor expression,
in the release of one hand and the shooting out of that hand
automatically towards the object .. . but we repeatedly found
that if she were checked frot1J. doing so, and the hands and feet
securely held, genuine phenomena would result, and the object
be moved by an exteriorisation ofmotor force."
There you have clearly stated what Spiritualists have asserted
since the phenomena started. Hundreds of mediums have felt
similar impulses. The unscrupulous medium falls. Honesty
would repel dishonest suggestions. Of course, although her
guide carefully explained that he moved objects at a distance by
means of "straight rays" extending from the medium's body,
pseudo-scientists assume that it is more "scientific" to ignore
both him and his explanation by calling it an "exteriorisation of
motor force" subconsciously actuated. It beautifully explains
the act wlllle carefully ignoring the actor-the spirit operator
behind the scenes. This illustrates the essential difference between
434 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Spiritualists and theorists who ignore the "psyche" but exalt
the "plasm" into omnipotence. Spiritualists refuse to ignore the
fact that the operating intelligences exhibit both directive and
independent jti:dgment and volition as well as providing the best
explanations we have so far received as to the cause of the
phenomena and the laws governing them.
Sometimes Eusapia would ask all sitters to concentrate upon·
the phenomena. Details like this are seized upon and exaggerated
out of all reasonable proportions by those who deny the spirit
hypothesis. The factor of will, either of sitters or medium, is a
secondary detail in the production of physical phenomena. We
admit that though the phenomena are the direct result of ex-
ternal mentalities acting upon matter, the will-force ofthe sitters
has a definite influence also. Carrington states that "the greater
the amnesia ~oss of memory), the better the phenomena." In
Spiritualist terminology, this would be rendered, "the deeper the
control by the spirit operator, the less interference is there from
the minds of sitters and medium."
The mediurnship of Eusapia Paladino corroborates Craw-
ford's statements regarding the mechanics of physical pheno-
mena. Eusapia's guide maintained that "fluid emanations from
the medium form straight rays which can be made rigid." That
is exactly the same as Crawford's "psychic rods." It is note-
worthy that in all Eusapia's test seances a fair amount of light
was permitted, and that in the deeper stages ofher trance it was
turned full on. Eusapia would make signs with her hands and
percussive sounds followed. Nearly all the scientific committees
examining her phenomena report the following facts: move-
ment of objects witl10ut contact, touches by invisible hands,
luminous apparitions, and auditory phenomena (voices), rappings
and other noises.
In 1906 and 1907, Professor Morselli was quite converted. He
recounts no less than thirty-nine different types of phenomena
witnessed through Eusapia's mcdiumship. He claims to have
witnessed apports, operation of mechanical instruments at a
distance from the medium, levitation, sounds of human voices,
direct writing, gripping by invisible hands, partial materialisa-
tions, luminous clouds, mists and points of light, photographic
plates had their fastenings carefully untied, but instead offalling
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 435
to the ground the plates were carried by invisible hands into the
cabinet, and then brought back, together with a rod that tapped
out a merry tune. This list merely recounts the more important
phenomena. This scientist collaborated with others. They all
agree that his reports arc accurate. Note specially that at these
seances Eusapia sat in front of the cabinet in full sight of all the
sitters, and frequent mention is made that "the light was full on,
and both hands and feet ofthe medium securely held." Morselli
states that he felt all over the face ofan invisible operator through
a curtain behind the medium (which formed a cabinet), and is
quite sure that it was a face because when he reached the mouth
it opened, and he experienced the sensation of a clean bite. Of
another seance, the report states, "The medium was more
securely held than ever while the trumpet was raised from the
table, and disappeared into the cabinet, passing between Pro-
fessor Morselli and the medium."
Special note is made that Madame Paladino would have done
with her hands what she actually did mediumistically had she not
been restrained. Tlus confirms Carrington's statement, and
illustrates the irresponsibility of the trance medium. Fraud,
as a hypothesis, is stupidly absurd when the medium's hands are
held, and eyesight confirms the facts.
"After a seance in full light," writes Carrington, "Eusapia
drew Professor Richet's clean fmgernail along some white
paper, and forced it to act as if it were a blue crayon held by
Eusapia. The resultant marks were seen in the course offorma-
tion. Previous to this, in full light, she had asked for a blue
crayon. She covered the tip ofher finger with it, and by merely
making a mark in the air like a cross, precipitated the colour off
her finger on to the side of a table that.was out ofreach. With
Ochorowitz on guard outside the door, the key was withdrawn
from the lock while F. W. H. Myers held the medium's hands,
and first carried to the table and back, and finally placed in
Richet's hands. From Eusapia's shoulders and from tmder her
skirts, Sir Oliver Lodge felt hands grasp him. In the 'Aunals of
Psychic Science,' Dr. Smorda, the editor, noted that when
Eusapia discharged the electroscope, without contact, it seemed
as if the power were extracted from her by successive shocks.
Professor Lombroso records the markings on photograpluc
436 THE Uli'UVBRSITY OF SPllUTUALISM
plates after being held by Eusapia, which apparently substantiates
what Spiritists have claimed for radio-activity." Our chapter on
the aura gave Miss Scatcherd's evidence at the French Academy
of Sciences. She adopted this term in order to get a hearing.
"Even as D. D. Home·communicated incombustibility to sitters
at his seances, so Eusa_pia transmitted her powers occasionally."
It is a fact that psychic powers often appear to be transferred. In
reality, they are merely aroused into activity by association with
a well-developed mediium. Developing circles are based on this
knowledge.
"Flammarion caused D. D. Home's experiment with an
accordion to be repeat,ed by Eusapia," Carrington says. "Hold-
ing it above Eusapia's head, her hands being firmly held, he said
to the invisible (spirit),. 'Since you have got such a good hold of
it, you had better keep it.' Flammarion takes his hands away
and tl1e accordion remains (suspended in the air) apparently
glued to the curtain. There is nobody behind it, but presently
the accordion is heard playing on its own account behind the
curtain and, continuing to play all the time, is brought back and
placed upon the table. In response to his request, a hand grasps
his through the curtain."
Professor Porro reported that while co-operating witl1 Pro-
fessors Morselli, Bozz:mo, Vensano, Lombroso and others "in
full light, securely held by two persons next to her, Eusapia calls
Morselli and brings him with her towards the table, upon
which is placed a mass of moulding plaster. She takes his open
hand and pushes it thre1:: times towards the plaster as ifto sink the
hand into it and leave upon it an impression. Morselli's hand
remains at a distance of more than four inches from the mass.
Nevertheless, at the end ofthe seance, the experimenters ascertain
that the lump ofplaster contains the impression ofthree fingers-
deeper thanitis possible to obtain by means ofvoluntarypressure.
She then lifts her two hands, all the time clasped in mine and
those ofMorselli, with groans, cries and exhortations, rises with
the chair in the air and so far as to place its nvo feet and the ends
of its two front crossbars upon the top of the table. It is a
moment of great anxiety. The levitation was accomplished
rapidly, without any jarring, jolting or jerking. There is more
to follow. Eusapia was lifted up still farther with her chair, from
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 437
the upper part ofthe table in such a way that sitter number two
on the one side and I on the other were able to pass our hands
under her feet and the chair...."
Readers are asked to remember that these are not the state-
ments ofcredulous or superstitious Spiritualists with a theory to
support, but the records of scientists definitely opposed to the
"spirit" hypothesis. Each corroborates the other. Were they
hallucinated? Were they deliberately lying? If not, then the
Spiritualist theory is the only one that providos a rational
explanation of the marvels thus confirmed.
Concerning impressions in cb.y, receivedthroughthe medium-
ship of Eusapia Paladino, Professor Chiaia, of Naples, writes:
"I have imprints in boxes of clay weighing anywhere between
sixty and sixty-five pounds. I mention this weight in order to
let you know the impossibility of lifting and transporting with
one hand so heavy a tray- upon the supposition that Eusapia
might, unknown to us, free one ofher hands. In almost every
case, this tray, placed upon a chair three feet behind the medium,
was brought forward and/laced very gently upon the table
about which we were seate . The transfer was made with such
nicety that the persons who formed the chain and held firmly
the hands of Eusapia Paladino did not hear the least noise or
rustling. Wewere forewarned ofthe arrival ofthe tray upon the
table by several taps which, according to our conventional
arrangement, John (the spirit operator) struck upon the wall to
inform us that we could turn on the light. I did so at once by
turning the cock of the gas fixture which was suspended above
the table. We had never completely extinguished it.
"We then found the tray upon cl1e table, and, upon the clay,
the imprint which was supposed to have been made before its
transfer and while it was behind Eusapia, in the cabinet where
John usually materialises and manifests himsel£ Dr. Le Bon
asked for his cigarette holder to be taken from him-a repetition
of an incident he thought remarkable. He cautiously placed it
where it is impossible for the medium to touch it. In full light,
it is grasped by a strong hand and wrenched from his hand. He
says: 'Is it not possible that the unconscious mind of Eusapia
suggested to the unconscious mind ofthe person near the curtain
to pass a hand behind it and operate there? Everybody would be
438 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
acting in good faith and would have been deceived by the un-
conscious element. This important point ought to be verified.' "
Ofcourse it ought. An tmconscious mind that is more clever
than all the professors put together should be subjected to
nothing less than dissection upon an operating table. First, the
learned professor suggests that his confreres are obvious cpeats-
albeit unconscious frauds-and next, such is the peculiar twist
these theorists develop, he suggests that Eusapia's uncollScious-
ness is infmitely superior to the consciousness of "the person
near the curtain" to the extent of controlling or conspiring
with the professor's grey matter to create unconsciously a strong
hand which snatched the professor's cigarette case away.
The amoLmt ofgrey matter absolutely wasted on the invention
of such a wonderful theory ought of itself to produce the
phenomena-without the medium being present. Not only
was the unconscious (subconscious) part of Eusapia's mentality
superior to that of the learned professors in the production of
materialised hands and rods, but when she was addressed in
Arabic- a language she could not possibly have learned-she
correctly replied. Carrington gives an illustration of this when
Professor Bocain addressed the spirit in Arabic, requesting that
his hair should be pulled. It was done. ·
To tl1e unsophisticated Spiritualist, it is farcical to credit un-
collSciousness with greater knowledge and cleverness than
spirit people who claim to be me operators. Even ifthe theory
of subconscious action is the real explanation of tl1ese extra-
ordinary phenomena, we are merely crediting the unseen self-
that is, the spirit-with greater power than it uses while operating
through the medium's own physical body. A theory we can
more readily respect is that ofProfessor Porro: "While admitting
it as the most probable hypothesis, that intelligent beings to
whom we owe mese psychical phenomena are pre-existing,
independent entities, and that they only derive from us the con-
ditions necessary for meir manifestation on a physical plane
accessible to our SellSeS, ought We to admit also that mey are
really spirits of the dead? To tllis question I will reply that I do
not feel that 1 am as yet capable of giving a decisive answer.
Still, I would be inclined to admit it ifI did not see the possibility
that these phenomena might form part of a scheme of things
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MAKES A TABLE MOVE? 439
still more vast. In fact, nothing hinders us from believing in the
existence offorms oflife wholly different from those we know
and of which the life of human beings before birth and after
death forms only a special case-just as the organic life ofman is
a special case ofanimal life in general."
Theories ofthis type form useful speculative material, but why
suggest that the producers of the phenomena are different from
what they assert they a!Ie-loving friends, striving to reach the
consciousness of folk who interest them? It is at once the most
rational and probable. Unfortunately, theories are too often
advanced merely to discredit the spirit hypothesis. Materialism
cannot grasp ideas of Lie's continuity, and therefore/lays into
the hands of bitter sectarians who greedily absorb an advertise
every theory that seems to desn·oy psychic phenomena- actually
their best friend. Morselli ridicules the spirit hypothesis and calls
the forms teleplastic phantoms. Fancy calling your mother a
teleplastic phantom! It is as unkind as the Theosopbic spook,
which is supposed to lbe devoid of consciousness. These are
poor compliments to p:ay to patient workers striving to redeem
a mad world and restore it to a sane appreciation of after-death
states.
In these extracts from. Carrington's book, we must remember
that they carry double value because Carrington and Baggalay
(a clever amateur illusionist) constituted a select committee
acting on behalf of the Society for Psychical Research. That
these two should confirm the statements of Continental re-
searchers in all essential details is striking testimony to the
reality ofthe phenomena that Spiritualists have striven so hard
to proclaim. The fact that properly developed mediumship is
only possible when the medium recognises and co-operates with
the unseen friends is fully substantiated. Poltergeist phenomena,
where things are aimlessly thrown about, are child's play in com-
parison. These may be the work ofspirit people on a low plane,
but they are just as likely to be the undirected operations of
natural forces, akin to magnetic attraction and repulsion.
An interesting fact continually emerging in psychic research is
that where science really does discover a true explanation, it is
one that spirit people themselves have previously stated. Spirits
assert that we could produce phenomena without their aid and
. IS
440 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
always affum that we contribute to their production but fail cor-
rectly to apportion the parts played by sitters, mediums and un-
seen operators. Scientists state that we actually do produce them
now-subconsciously. We shall evemually meet midway. It is
untrue to state tltat Spiritualists ignore the subconscious tlteory.
We merely relegate it to a subordinate place and refuse to adopt
the psychical research tlteory, which brings nearly all psychic
phenomena under tlus heading. Eusapia was occasionally hypno-
tised and often responded to suggestions while in the waking
state. To this may be attributed the appearance offraud tltat she
sometimes presented when subconscious activity was obvious.
The deception was too infantile to deceive anybody, and under
tl1e circumstances was peculiarly foolish. Hypnotised mediums
would naturally reflect the desires and ideas oftlteir hypnotisers,
although there is always an obvious struggle between operators
in the body and spirit people at critical periods. Spirit-developed
mediums have guides who usually take control when hypnosis
is attempted. The wisdom of this course is obvious to all who
know the complications of mediumship and the suggestibility
of mediums.
It is amusing to note the scientific acclamation of every theory
tltat seems to tell against the spirit hypothesis and equally
significant to note the conspiracy of silence or the utterly un-
scientific incredulity so evident whenever any phenomena
supporting the Spiritualist position are discovered. Materialism
regards all mental phenomena as a by-product of the brain or
nervous system, and calmly ignores all evidence to the contrary.
Lombroso, in his interesting book, "After Death, What?" says
that at one of the seances where Morselli was present, Eusapia
saw Professor Massaro's son clairvoyantly and described ltim.
At the same time, the sitter felt himself tapped on the very spot
where he carried the picture of his son in a breast pocket, and
felt himself repeatedly kissed and caressed. Fingers seized the
letter-case and opened it at the very place where his son's
photograph was. Fin:tlly, there was projected on to the curtain
the apparition ofa head bound with a wlute bandage-which he
recognised as his son. In the October and September "Annals of
Psychic Science," Professor Botazzi states, "I could see and feel at
the same time ... a human head with natural colour ... the hand
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA: WHAT MARES A TABLE MOVE? 441
dissolved and (I saw it with my own eyes) it retreated as if into
Madame Paladino's body, describing a curve."
When it is remembered that these seances were conducted
under the strictest test conditions, in the scientists' own labor-
atories at the University of Naples, where .flashlight photo-
graphy and other methods were adopted graphically to record
results, with electric lights of varying intensity attached to mov-
able supports, and everything that science or suspicion could
suggest was tried out by hypercritical sceptics, Spiritualists
might well assume that their long battle for recognition ofsimple
facts is over. But, alas, it is not so. Nothing less than individual
and continually repeated experiments, with different professors
present, whose sceptical ignorance is their sole qualification, are
continually demanded. I wonder, if the same criticism were
levelled at the "miracles" ofthe Bible, how they would standthe
test.
CHAPTER XXV
MAT.ERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON
SPIRITUALISTS are fully aware of inherent difficulties
attendant upon the scientific analysis of psychic phenomena.
Phenomena are sometimes easily produced, while at other
seances they fail t0 put in. appearance at all. Added to which,
scientists are so crudely materialistic that to suggest possible
interference by their own mental action means laying oneself
open to deliberate insult. Now that subconscious action and
telepathy are commonly accepted theories, the way is at last open
to admit this possibility. Both these play a definite part in all
psychic phenomena. Nor is the way the average psychical
researcher refers to mediums as frauds, fools or unconsciousdupes
calculated to promotr. :t rush to be experimentally examined. It
makes older Spiritualists smile when they find savants like Sch-
renck Notzing apologising for associating themselves with the
forbidden topic. We may well be pardoned for asking from
what other source these "great" folk would have drawn their
material if Spiritualists had not provided it.
Spiritualists, who arc only too pleased to discover any reason-
able hypothesis explaining psychic phenomena, will be amused
at the following statement by Baron Schrenck Notzing in his
book, "Phenomena ofMaterialisation": "Many phenomena are
in direct contradiction to Spiritualistic teaching." In my ex-
perience ofover f1fty years, I have failed to find any phenomena
discovered by psychical researchers that had not previously been
recorded by Spiritualists, and I still find the spirit people's own
explanations the most satisfactory. The majority of psychical
research theories were abandoned as unsatisfactory as soon as
personal experience was obtairLable. Schrenck Notzing's diatribes
against "Spiritists" are regrettable, but as he held up his book for
twelve years lest he himself suffered from the castigation he
inflicts upon others, we ignore his strictures and thank him for so
442
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 443
patiently investigating psychic phenomena and confirming
upon a strictly scientific basis all that Spiritualists claim. Here are
typical extracts which mar his otherwise valuable work and are
symptomatic of scientific prejudices that are gradually giving
place to purely Spiritualist interpretations. "Among the more
importa.llt problems we may place the scientific investigation of
the physical phenomena of mediumship which, up to now, has
been in the hands of superstitious Spiritists."
I call that statement a most unwarrantable aspersion on the
brave array of pioneer investigators who preceded him for
seventy years. The following is also somewhat sweeping. In
conjunction with other savants, he, Schrenck Notzing, "has
had occasion to reduce a whole Spiritistic epidemic to its fraudu-
lent causes (superstition and fanaticism) by means ofcareful and
detailed investigation." We bow our diminished heads before
such stupendous egotism, and turning our glances upon
Spiritualists as we know them-hard-headed business men with
large numbers from all professions and sciences-and smile
broadly. And then we think ofmaterialistic sons oftoil like those
at Dclper with their wooden cage to enclose effectually the
medium, and our Battersea converts with their muslin-bag from
which even a By could not escape without detection, and similar
"superstitious fanaticism" operating all over the country, and
we broaden our already broad smile-and forgive him because
of the really valuable contribution his book makes to psychic
science.
His opening chapters detail the open and covert hostility of
scientists to psychic manifestations, and state that Professor
Lombroso was ridiculed as a charlatan, that Crookes and Zollner
were regarded as mentally deficient, and that Richet was for a
long time compelled to withdraw from their study, because of
both secret and popular antagonism. During his own investi-
gations, both the medium and her guardian were shadowed by
detectives. But whoever paid for their services gained no clue
thereby. Schrenck Notzing's two best mediums were always
referred to by an initial and known as Eva C. and Stanislava P.
The former, who placed herself without fee or reward at the
scientist's service, was a ward of Madame Bisson. Stanislava P.
was a Polish girl aged nineteen. In referring to her, the author's
444 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
bias is clearly indicated: "In her eighteenth year, Stanislava P.
experienced in her room a 'telepathic hallucination' by the op-
tical appearance ofher friend Sophie, ofthe same age, who, as it
was afterwards found, had unexpectedly died at that moment.
This experience directed attention to her mediumistic faculty
and suggested experiments in conformity with Spiritistic
tradition. After tlus, the personification, Sophie, played a leading
part in the manifestations."
Of course, we must not expect scientific men like Schrenck
Notzing to believe that Soplue's love for her friend caused a real
living person to appear before the future medium. The hypo-
thesis is too absurdly simple for "great" minds to grapple with.
And so poor Sor,hie is continually referred to as a "telepathic
phantom" or a 'veridical hallucination." It is positively un-
forgivable that the "phantom" really did pass from a physical
body at the moment she was seen by her friend, and exhibited
quite normal intelligence. In other ways, she also behaved
exactly as any other dear friend would do in similar circum-
stances. But ofcourse, as scientists, we must ignore all awkward
coincidences that militate against our preconceived ideas, and
especially against such details as that of mediumship rapidly
developing under the defmite instruction of the aforesaid
"pers01Ufication." A hallucination is an airy notlling, a mere
figment of the imagination, even less substantial than "the stuff
that dreams are made of." What puzzles mere laymen is just
how it comes about that a nebulous nonentity so appropriately
appeared, and thereafter exhibited sufficient knowledge to
bewilder everybody-scientists included.
Schrenck Notzing, in Ius book, bewails the fact that the
mediums regarded severe cross-examinations as aspersions upon
their characters, and that obvious suspicions were followed by
"emotional excitement, tears, sleepless nights and negative
sittings." Eva C. accepted all the restrictions imposed, and in
particular wore the specially devised costume which limited
movement of hands and prevented the secretion of materials
about her person. He gives a detailed account of the seance
costume. A veil, securely sewn to the neck of her garments,
covered the whole head and was closed with ribbons at the neck.
"Along tl1e slit at the back of the costume and on the veil there
MATERIAUSATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 445
were a large number of black rings through which a string was
drawn. The knots were scaled with a lead seal. If we also take
into account that the hands were confined in white or black sacks
of veiling sewn to the sleeves, one must admit that it is alto-
gether impossible to smuggle objects for fraudulent purposes out
ofthis prison enclosing the whole body."
Nonsense! So long as the nebulous nonentity called sub-
consciousness is around, he can do anything. Smuggling some-
tiling out ofa prison that never was in it is mere child's play. Ifit
can project hands, feet and other parts of the human anatomy to
order, why not credit it with the ability to operate an invisible
factory and make everything it needs? Details can be quite easily
swept aside with a contemptuous "Pshaw! Spirits are an ex-
ploded theory." Theories of this type arc all so much easier to
accept than the statements ofthose who produce phenomena and
claim to manipulate etheric elements combined with auric
material drawn from both the sitters and medium. Are they not?
R eferring to his experiences, Schrenck Notzing says: "The
incompleteness and imperfections of the materialisations were
already evident to the observers ofthe phantom Yolande, which
appeared with Madame D'Esperance on March 13, 1886. The
heads sometimes gave the impression of masks, and this was
found also by Comte Bullet during the photography ofa phan-
tom with another medium. According to his views, a flat surface
is materialised first, and tlus is modelled subsequently. This
view receives some support from the author's observations as
recorded in this work.' The point to note is that sometimes the
psychoplasm is flattened out and laid over an invisible psychic
body or upon the actual physical body of the medium, these
acting as a matrix or mould. But in most people's experience,
where the process is observable, the following description from
"Shadowland," by Madame D'Esperance, is tl1e more usual:
"First, a fumy patch of something wlute is observed on the
floor in front of the cabinet. It ilien gradually expands, visibly
extending itself as if it were an animated patch of muslin, lying
fold upon fold on the floor until extending about two and a half
by iliree feet and having a depth ofa few inches, perhaps six or
more. Presently it begins to rise slowly in or ncar the centre as if
<1. human lu~ad were underneath it, while the cloudy film ou the
446 THll UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
floor begins to look :more and more like muslin falling into folds
about the portion s·o mysteriously rising. By the time it has
atrained two or mo1re feet in height, it looks as if a child were
under it and moving its arms about in all directions, as ifmanipu-
lating something underneath. It continues rising, oftentimes
sinking somewhat to rise again higher than before, until it
attains the height of about five feet, when its form can be seen
as ifarranging the folds of the drapery about the figure. Pre-
sently, the arms rise considerably above the head and open out-
wards through a mass of cloudlike spirit drapery and Yolande
stands before us unvdled, graceful and beautiful, nearly five feet
in height, having a turban-like headdress, from beneath which
her long black hair hangs over her shoulders and down her back.
The dematerialising ofYolande's body occupies from two to five
minutes, while tl1e disa~pearance of tl1e drapery occupies from
a half to two minur
tes.'
Schrcnck Notzing's book on materialisations shows photo-
graphs of the varyimg appearance of the psychoplastic material.
It is shown at first as a thread which gradually expands and
forms the appearance of a cobweb. This then thickens to the
consistency of musllin, spreading itself over the body of the
medium until at last, as in the photograph of Madame Bisson's
husband, we arc shown the complete form separated from the
medium. Experiences differ. Most guides prefer to do all tlus
i1utial work in the darkness of the cabinet, which to them is as
daylight to us. In effect, this presents the appearance of a fully-
formed human bein.g instantaneously created. The comments
of Professor Gcley on the initial stages of materialisation arc
interesting:
"The formations are generally announced by the appearance
ofa fluid, white and. luminous flakes ofa size from that ofa pea
to that of a five franc piece, distributed here and there over the
medium's black dre:ss, principally on the left side.
"This manifestation is a premonitory phenomenon wluch
sometimes precedes. more wonderful appearances by three-
quarters ofan hour or an hour. At other times, all preliminaries
are dispensed with, and it occasionally happens that no other
manifestations follow. The substance itself emanates from the
whole body of the medium, but especially from the natural
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 447
orifices and the extremities, from the top of the head, from the
breasts and the tips ofthe fingers. The most usual origin, which
is easily observed, is from the mouth. We then see a substance
externalising itself from d1e inner surface ofthe cheeks, from the
gums and the roof of the mouth. It may have three different
colours, white, black or grey. The visibility of the substance
varies a great deal. Sometimes the movements are sudden and
quick. It sometimes disappears like lightning and is extra-
ordinarily sensitive. Every touch produces a painful reaction in
the medium. Strong lig;ht, especially when sudden and unex-
pected, produces painful disturbance in the subject. Yet nothing
is more variable than the action of light. In some cases the
phenomenon withstands full daylight. Magnesium flashlight
photographs can be taken. When the materialised organ is
complete, it has the perfect appearance and all the biological
qualities of a living orgm1. Whatever the formation may be,
the phenomenon docs not always remain in contact with the
medium. It is often observed quite separate from her. The
structures, therefore, show a certain independence." This
valuable admission must: be remembered. It emphasises the
essential difference betw·een Spiritualistic and materialistic
explanations, i.e., subconscious vers11s independent spirit
action.
"The materialised orgruns are not without vitality and are alive
in the biological sense. Thus a well-developed hand has the
functional capacities of :a normal hand. Dr. Von Schrenck
Notzing observed, with the help ofstereoscopic cameras and by
means of cameras mount•ed in the cabinet on one side, that the
back of the materialisaticms consisted of a mass of amorphous
substances, that the organic form was lacking and sometimes
showed empty spaces. I was able to confirm this fact. There
often appeared phantoms of fingers having nothing of such an
orgru1 except the general form, no warmth, no flexibility, no
joints; phantoms of faces, which seem to be pictures cut out, or
masks, bundles ofhair attached to indefinite shapes. Such, whose
metapsychic quality is tmdlcniable, have confused and bewildered
many observers." From these extracts it is fairly easy to visualise
the methods adopted. They also explain much that at one time
was thought to be dclibera.te fraud, but which on closer examina-
ts•
TRB UNfVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
tion proves to be but a part, and an essential part, of the process
of materialisacion.
Richet's description of matcrialisation in the "Psychische
Studien" for 1906, is interesting: "I see something like a white,
luminous ball of undetermined outline suspended above the
floor. Then there suddenly appears emerging from this white
orb oflight, as from a trapdoor, the phantom Bien Boa. It is of
moderate height and is draped in a Rowing garment with a belt
around his waist. Bien Boa is halting and lame in his walk. One
canpot say whether he walks or glides. Without opening the
curtain, he suddenly collapses and vanishes on the floor. Three
or four minutes afterwards, the white orb appears in the opening
of the curtain above the floor. Then a body is seen quickly
rising straight up and attaining the height of an adult and it
again collapses to the floor."
Chang, the guide of a medium named William Robertson,
explained his method of materialisation as follows: "I go behind
the curtain and then I draw all the matter that is flowing in the
circle to me by effort ofwill. Thave thus drawnfloating particles
to me which now become solid. From this, I form the hands
which can now be touched and become visible to you. While I
am behind the curtain, I materialise in that power and then
become solid to you." Asked if he made a "voice box," as did
Walter, the control ofMargery Crandon, he said: "No, I usc the
slower motion ofthe matter on your plane to transform invisible
movement into solid matter. There is but one power in the
universe which you call God. We are all parts of that power
though functioning as separate forms of consciousness. Com-
plete isolation from that power would mean extinction. The
material form partially isolates you from what you call your
higher self in order that you may learn lessons necessary to still
higher unfoldment."
Sceptics are asked to note that our extracts are not from
Spiritualists desirous of sustaining a theory. They are the con-
clusions of scientists, some of whom do not yet accept the
Spiritualist explanation. At every step ofthe way, they postulate
an alternative theory, only to abandon it at a later stage of their
investigations. Each experiment demonstrates the close relation-
ship between all phases of the phenomena. The theories of
MATERJAL1SA110N: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 449
scientists invariably collapse before the reasoned arguments of
spirit operators, whose more simple explanations indicate the
power ofthe spirit permeating all phases. Individualities revealed
through trance states in no way contradict their statements.
When they manifest through another organism, possibly in a
foreign country, where no collusion is pos.sible, they may
demonstrate through direct voice or materialisation.
Enough has now been written to show that those who pre-
sented the evidence in d1e past were neither rogues nor fools. It
is becoming clear to scientific minds that the conclusions Spirit-
ualists have arrived at will eventually be incorporated in. the
recognised science of the future. Professor Mangin, in the
"Annals de Science Psychiqucs," for December, 1907, declared
that, "The material of the materialisation contains a minimum
of substance necessary 1
to produce in witnesses the illusion that
they have a living body before them." Note the curious misuse
of the word "illusion."
A materialised form is a temporary living form and is as
sensitive in all its parts as a human body. The spirit manifests
through its elements eKactly as we do through ours. Cut the
materialised form and the medium suffers. Spill coloured pig-
ments upon it, and marks will be found upon the medium's body.
Clearly the elements are extracted from, and are reabsorbed into,
living flesh and blood. A materialisation may have less blood
than a human organism, but it is obvious that it is a nervous
organisation practically identical with a human body. Its
sensitivity is marvellous, appearing and disapf
·caring in the
twinkling ofan eye. This indicates mental contro via the nerves.
In no oilier way can we account for either pseudopods or full-
form materialisation. Wc cannot tl1crefore adopt the word
"illusion" to explain a fact observable by all.
We must also note iliat spirit chemists do not usc a scrap more
material than is necessary. When we realise the tenuity of par-
ticles made visible and ponderable, it is reasonable to infer that
density is obtained by the addition of clements understood by
spirit chemists only. Morsclli, professor ofpsychiatry in Genoa,
regards the materialisedJohn King as "a suggestive creation from
the medium's subconsci,ousness, a fantastic dream image." At
least, that was his tltcory when he published a voluminous work
450 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPrniTUAUSM
ofone thousand pages. I believe he has now adopted Spiritualist
explanations. D~t his earlier work is still quoted as authoritarian
by those.who are unaware ofhis later conclusions.
Levitation in various forms is a frequent precursor or con-
comitant of materialisation. Just how the spirit people nullify
the law of gravitation forms an intriguing speculative problem.
The fourth-dimensional theory best explains apports, and the
storage of invisible chemical clements. But just how three-
dimensional objects become adapted to a fourth is the intriguing
problem. The majority of theories involve a disturbance of
atmosphere akin to the "mighty rushing wind that filled all the
house wherein they were sitting."
I once saw a curtain moved by a force like a gale blowing, or
as ifsome explosive compound had been suddenly liberated in
the enclosed space behind the curtain. All the doors and windows
were shut fast, even the cracks in the door had been covered to
prevent streaks of light from outside being mistaken for spirit
lights. Neither living person nor chemicals were behind the
curtain. No fumes, or smell of any kind, resulted. Yet the cur-
tains stood out horizontally about six feet high from their
fastenings at the top, clearly revealing the solid, bare, brick wall
behind. Beyond the actual displacement of air by the curtain
itself, there was no breeze whatever. Indeed, we were all struck
by the curious stillness of the atmosphere during the whole
movement of the curtain.
A vortex into which the apported article or levitated body is
drawn is the most popular theory among Spiritualists. In this we
have to assume an etheric vortex which docs not affect our atmo-
sphere, exactly as we have to postulate the light of a spiritual
world to accow1t for some effects in psychic photography. That
spirit people can do marvellous things with the human organism
without killing the medium is speedily obvious in good physical
seances.
When a solid sixteen-stone man is levitated, how are the forces
of terrestrial gravitation overcome? Do spirit people make him
lighter by extracting ponderous matter from his body, or do
they fill him with a compound lighter than air whicl1 enables
him silently, and without the least disturbance of the atmo-
sphere, to float over one's head? Or is the vortex theory the most
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 451
satisfactory? This was the problem which faced me when a
sixteen-stone non-profe:ssional medium, named Brown, balanced
himselflike a feather-weight on my head, carefully rubbing the
body on it, so that I was certain he was floating face upwards
over my head. Five of us were holding hands over a small card-
table, with the mediwn wedged in the corner. He could not
stand up without upsetting the table. Nor could a cat squeeze
itself behind our chairs,, which adjoined his, without the circle
becoming aware ofit.
Suddenly, the sitter on his right exclaimed, "He's gone!"
Even while he was speaking, I noted the sudden removal of the
hand I was grasping. Almost at the same moment, I felt the seat
ofhis trousers gently p:ressing upon my head as the whole body
floated towards a couch, on the other side ofthe .::oom, on which
we heard him gently deposited. There was not the slightest
wriggling or attempt to stand upon the chair or table. With our
bodies so closely wedged against his, this would have been
detected immediately. We tested this afterwards and found it a
physical impossibility. A moment before his levitation our feet
had all been in contact on the floor. There was an uncanny
silence and stillness of the atmosphere during the whole pheno-
menon. Presently, we heard him playing the piano in the next
room, moving along the passage way, and rapping various
articles to indicate his whereabouts. How he got out ofthe room
is a mystery to me, although one sitter declares the door opened
slightly, but not wide enough to let the big man pass through.
The rest of us saw nothing of the lighted gas jet outside, which
would have indicated the fact. None the less, one has to be very
slow to draw conclusions, because it is obvious that spirit people
use always the simplest means to the end in view.
On several occasions, at his own request, and in answer to his
own desire to fmd out c~xactly what happened during his levita-
tions, coloured ochre was spread along the picture-rails, on the
cupboard-tops, and everywhere that afforded a grip. It would be
an incredible thing for him to jump up in the darkness and hang
on to the very difficult finger-grip that could be afforded by the
picture-rail, which was about eight feet from the ground. Yet,
there was the apparently damning evider.ce of his finger-prints
all round the rails. At times, he seemed to be touching the roof,
452 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
about twelve feet high. He exhibited a flash-lamp to show where
he was. Examination showed that he must have been standing
in the angle ofthe wall on a picture-rail that would scarcely have
supported a cat. That he was really near the roof was certain,
because he slapped the wall and left the marks ofcoloured ochre
near the ceiling, which would be impossible to reach without a
ladder. From the foregoing, it will be seen that not only were the
sitters alive to all that was happening, but that the medium
collaborated to ascertain the truth.
Incredible happenings demand repetition before acceptance.
All careful investigators confirm the fact that it is not conscious
fraud so much as Ullconscious deception that must be guarded
against. The difficulty is inherent in the nature of the pheno-
mena. If we claim that hands materialise, or pseudopods pro-
trude from entirely unsuspected places inthe medium's anatomy,
we are also forced to say that it is impossible to state exactly
what really does happen at any dark seance, where sight does not
confirm this most marvellous phenomenon. I go further and say
that even the most seasoned Spiritualist, using continuous safe-
guards, sometimes doubts the evidence of his senses until
repetition assures him d1at d1e phenomenon is an actual fact.
Materialisation is such an utterly incredible experience that we
forgive the ignorant spirit-grabber who endangers the medium's
life. In the medium's own interests, we must arrange such safe-
guards as will make both intentional and unconscious fraud
impossible. The use of eyesight is preferable to the most in-
genious forms ofcontrol. A feather moved in the light defmitely
indicating mentality controlling it, is far more valuable as
evidence of spirit operations than powerful manifestations in
total darkness. The following illustration shows why light is
necessary.
A curious experience befell the secretary ofa well-known Lou-
don society. The psychic powers of a local medium were sus-
pected because she seemed occasionally to use bands or feet to
manipulate the lurniuous slates, although observers on either side
always declared that her hands were firmly linked in theirs. She
submitted to the most severe tests oftying and other restrictions,
and sat in open circle outside the cabinet. But her arms were
.often found untied from the chair-rail at the close of the seance.
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 453
The secretary asked the controls not to untie the medium. They
agreed. He sat himself heside her and placed a reliable sitter on
the other. The usual manifestations followed. Partial materialisa-
tions showed themselves on luminous slates which floated freely
about the room. Presently, one slate fell on the medium's foot,
luminous side uppermost, and illuminated her whole body. A
psychoplasmic rod immediately shot out from the medium's
breast, seized a corner ofthe card and tried to lift it. Apparently
there was danger ofit falling, so the feet promptly placed them- .
selves under the card to support it. The card, feet and rod all
co-operated in the effort to raise the slate from the ground which
the hands then manipulated.
A sceptic would regard tllis as palpable fraud with possibly a
black thread or other •Contrivance-anything but a genuine
psychoplasrnic rod to eB:ect the lifting. But a further surprise
followed. Her arms were taped securely to the arm-rests of the
chair at the beginning of the seance. Special attention was being
paid by the sitters on either side to make sure she did not release
them. They were certain they did not give her an opportunity
to release herselffor an inlStant. But at the moment the slate was
lifted, the secretary found the arms were free from the tapes.
Remembering the hands were held and the arms tied down,
this release of the arms was just as wonderful as any other
phenomena, but it left the secretary under suspicion ofcollusion.
He reminded the control of his promise, who promptly detlied
that the arms were free. The questioner immediately lifted the
linked hands over their heads, and said, "Well, how do you
account for this?" The spirit guide could not account for it, and
was obviously annoyed at something happening which made him
look somewhat foolish. I am pleased to state that this medium
underwent six months' training solely for tl1e purpose ofgetting
phenomena in the light. .At first, it seemed as ifher mediumship
had entirely ceased, but .slowly under the altered conditions it
returned until much metre varied and conclusive phenomena
were obtained. At one olfher seances I witnessed, in good light,
the gradual evolution ofa psychoplasnlic formation from a tiny
spot on the breast tmtil it developed into a living band of three
inches wide by about eighteen inches long. At other meetings, I
am told that more fully developed forms were fairly common,
454 THE UNNERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
Another medium I tested was carefully tied up as usual.
Presently, his coat was thrown off and hUIJg on to the tapes
which bound him. But tl1e results were vitiated by the fact that I
was certain one hand had been free, because, after the seance, I
found the tapes were stretched abnormally where I had bound
his wrists. None the less, I am equally certain dlat indisputably
genuine phenomena also occurred. After the meeting he was in
a state of collapse, :;howing w1due strain upon an ill-developed
medium. Appearamces offraud are common, because prolonga-
tions from the body often look exactly like the medium's own
bands moving aboutt in the dim light of the seance-room. I am
pleased to state th:at this medium has aLo given satisfactory
seances in a good light. The point must be driven home that
wilighted seances are valueless to sceptics.
Spiritualists are fa.ced with d1e fact that the entranced medium
may unconsciously "assist" the phenomena with hands or feet
if this proves to be the easiest way to produce the desired effect.
But what is even m•:>re puzzling is that the medium's own guides
are sometimes not aware of incidental phenomena occurring at
their own seance. How, then, can we appraise the value of
phenomena produced in absolute darkness? The statement that
tl1e fraud is subconscious does not remove the difficulty. Nor
would the spirit guide be so stupid as to deny me obvious fact of
the arms being released if he was really aware of it. Not only
are the statements of witnesses in dark seances valueless as
evidence, but, owin:g to the incredible nature of the phenomena,
the witnesses as well as mediums come tmder suspicion as
possible confederates. Harry Price's seances witl1 Rudi Schneider, -
and with all the sittlers under elaborate electrical control, did not
prevent newspapers suggesting that manipulation ofthe electrical
circuits by Harry Price himselfor tl1e note-taker who sat outside
the circle accounted. for all the phenomena reported. Scepticism
dies very slowly. Ifat any later period a medium is charged with
fraud, we are prone to think tl1at perfectly genuine phenomena
obtained under the severest test conditions were also produced
by trickery.
That psychical researchers have not erred on d1e side of pre-
cautions against fraud was clearly evidenced in tl1e case of
Willie and Rudi Sclmeider. The positive injustice meted out to
MATEIUALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 455
Rudi by would-be exposers is clear to the most casual observers.
We must first temember that Rudi had been subjected to
scientific experimentation, not for a few weeks, but for years.
The principal method ofpreventing fraud was for one person to
hold the wrists, while another held the hands. The movements
of the feet were easily .checked by those who held the hands, as
all feet were in conta.ct. In addition, a one-piece garment,
liberally studded with luminous points, encased the medium.
His own clothes were removed. All sitters were electrically
connected so that a tell-tale red lamp at once went out or lit up
if any hand was releas·ed. Articles likely to be moved had an
invisible ray focused on them which immediately released a
floodlight so that a battery of cameras detected the movement
together with its cause, if visible. With one or more of these
detective methods in operation, and sometimes the whole lot
acting at once, phenomena had persistently occurred.
A waste-paper basket had been levitated. Hands had written
upon paper provided by the investigators. Flowers, handbells
and other articles floated around the heads ofthe sitters. The toy
zither was definitely played while floating. A handkerchief
floating in the air was pl~otographed. Curtains were blown about
by winds without ascertainable cause. Last, but not least, let us
quote the printed testimony ofPrice himself: "The question is,
did tl1e half-formed ha111d actually appear? I answer that it did.
Three fingers, distinct and well formed, emerged out of a cloud
ofwhite fog, within twenty inches ofmy eyes, in red light. The
medium and sitters were controlled (i.e., checked by fraud-
proof machinery) at tl~e time. The question is one of fact."
Price also reports the materialisation of a form looking like a
snow-man, and curious effects such as people passing the sitter
when no forms were vbible. The same person now charges Rudi
witl1 fraud. It is seizcdl upon and sent to the newspapers. The
photograph reveals an arm sticking out behind the boy. More
dreadful still, Rudi is siitting sideways on his chair.
Those who know nothing of the subject would at once con-
clude that it was the boy's own arm. Those who had charge
ofthe hands and all the elaborate precautions are explained away.
It is true that hands have materialised. True that pseudopods
have an uncanny kna.ck of protruding themselves from Wl-
456 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
expected places. True that these have been seen actually growing
out of clouds of psychoplasm. All very true, but-this photo-
graph out of many looks suspicious. And, for ever afterwards,
opponents will write and tatmt Spiritualists with the statement
that Rudi was exposed. That the boy was unconscious matters
nothing. That they must have been anything but researchers who
thought they were holding his real hands and checking him up
in other ways we must all agree- if the charge were true. But
it is not.
Spiritualists must not allow the world to forget that it is the
Spiritualists who continually discover and expose fraud, and
rarely the sceptic, who is actually incapable of distinguishing the
false from the reaL Spiritualists must face the obvious facts.
Seances should never be open to the public during a medium's
development, and developing seances ought to be maintained
within the friendly atmosphere of a society or circle until such
time as the work is above suspicion. The physical medium must
be restrained from subconscious imitation of the phenomena in
the interests of the whole movement. The point to note is
firstly that entranced mediums are irresponsible agents. This
clearly removes responsibility from them to the sitters. You
cannot hold the spirit people responsible. They work from
different planes of sight and are not always aware of physical
conditions and happenings in the seance room.
The honest medium will not merely submit to checks against
subconscious action, but will co-operate with the angels in the
search for essential truth. The others are better out of the
recognised Spiritualist movement. Therefore, no matter how
we may dislike the appearance ofdistrusting the medium, in his
own, as well as the general interests, he must be so restrained
that both conscious and unconscious fraud become impossible.
In dark seances, it is desirable that the hands be controlled at the
wrists so that psychoplasm can freely extend from the finger-tips
and palms ofthe hands. The alternative to this is light celastoid,
or other non-inflammable handcuffs, with lengths of light chain
attached controlling all sitters and medium in the same way.
Electrical contacts are not so satisfactory, owing to the ease with
which they can be manipulated by confederates or opponents.
When the medium is sitting outside the circle, if the feet are
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 457
taped to the chair and the hands controlled by short lengths of
celastoid chain, very little can then happen ofwhich the sitter on
either side is not aware. :Even ifa curtain is slung in front ofthe
medium, the foregoing restrictions would make no great dif-
ference to genuine manifestations. The curtain is sometimes
necessary to prevent the action of light destroying the delicate
ectoplasmic formations. Time and experience will alone en-
able the operators to overcome these difficulties. The chair
should be fuced to tl1e flooor by small brackets, or secured by a
screw-eye so tl1at the medium cannot fall on his knees or move
about the circle. This is often done under cover ofdarkness and
both medium and sitters are ignorant of the facts.
Little else can be done to prevent either conscious or sub-
conscious fraud, althougl conJurers with trick chains or hand-
cuffs must be guarded against. Ifpseudopods, or hands, are felt
while the medium is properly controlled, even darkness would
not prevent sitters knowing exactly what is happening. It should
be imperatively impressed on all, during dark seances, that the
slightest movement should be mentioned so that nobody is
deceived. Ifall sitters would agree to be equally controlled, the
opportmlities for a confe.derate would be measurably decreased.
This suggestion may be r•egarded as ridiculous. But let me point
out that it protects the sitters quite as much as the medium. If
each sitter is restrained in precisely the same way, there would
not merely be a check on confederates, but the senseless reaching
out by investigators to snatch at pieces of psychoplasm or
articles floating in the air would also be frustrated.
Despite the denials ofpsychical "researchers," the test methods
of early investigators woere quite as effectual as the elaborate
electrical devices of modern seances. In my own experience
with Mrs. Corner (the Fiorrie Cook of Crookes's "Researches
into the Phenomena of Modern Spiritualism"), the medium
submitted to every reasonable test scepticism could devise for a
period of tluee months. In that time, eighty members of the
ftrst Battersea Spiritualist Society had seances with her. Our
seances were.always held in good, photograpllic red light, so
that every sitter could clearly see everybody else. The cabinet
was simply a dark curtai.Ju slung across an angle of my kitchen,
with solid walls on either side. Our vice-president,John Adams,
458 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
made a large muslin bag, the top ofwhich was turned in to form
a channel for a strong cord to pass through, after the manner of
a girl's schoolbag. It was made large enough to lie with its
mouth wide open on the floor so that the medium could be tied,
while sitting on her chair, inside the bag. In addition, her arms
were tied and her clothing sometimes stitched to the chair or
fixed in any way scepticism could devise. The opening of the
bag would then be drawn up over her head and completely
closed by pulling the cord tightly and winding part ofthe surplus
around the top of the bag. It was knotted and the knots sealed
with sealing-wax. The end loop ofthe cord hung upon a hook
in the ceiling visible to all.
Sometimes, despite our precautions, the bag, neatly folded
with all our seals and knots intact, would be thrown at the last
one to leave the cabinet. It was but the work of a second to
perform this feat in apparent mockery ofour elaborate care. The
medium would be found still taped securely to her chair and no
movement was apparent. More usually, the bag and its fasten-
ings remained tmdisturbed till the close ofthe meeting, altl10ugh
forms appeared outside in the meantime. As the weather got
warm towards the close of the series, we dispensed with the
restrictions, which merely irritated the medium. Thephenomena
did not improve with tl1e removal of the bag and tapes, but on
the contrary steadily decreased in intensity. The principal mani-
festing spirit claimed to be a Breton fishergirlnamed Marie. She
was so utterly m~ike her medium that to mistake one for the
otl1er was impossible. She was as characteristically real to us as
we were to each other. She always appeared wearing short
skirts and a sleeveless bodice, with legs, arms and feet bare. Her
face, form and height were in every way different from her
medium. On one occasion, to settle a dispute as to whether Marie
was not taller than the tallest girl in the room, she invited me to
measure her height. She stood quite clear ofthe cabinet while I
marked her height upon the wall near by. Her eyes were clear
and life-like, her breast heaved naturally, her feet and bands
were considerably larger than those ofher medium, whom we
could hear occasionally emitting loud sighs from within the
curtained recess. When we finally compared heights, we found
tl1at, barefooted, Marie was about an inch taller than the tallest
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 459
girl measured with her shoes on. Tllis girl 'was, in turn, inches
taller than the medium, who happened to be the shortest woman
present on that occasion..
Marie often permitted some of the sitters to touch her, and
directed special attention to the difference in size of bones and
strength of those of the medium. At such times, she would be
quite solid and, so far as we could judge, real flesh and blood.
On closing the seance, it was difficult to realise that so solid a
reality could actually have vanished. On the special occasion
referred to, before pencilling her height upon the wall, I ad-
vanced to shake hands with her, but she begged me not to touch
her. Knowing the evil e:ffects ofgrasping a spirit form not built
to resist this strain, I ofcourse refrained. Thus will Spiritualism
enable Christians to understand why a materialised Jesus could
permit .a doubting Thomas to handle him, but on another
occasion would not allow his dearest friend to touch him (John
xx, 17). On yet other occasions his friends did not even recognise
him.
Equally simple but effective were the precautions adopted by
Belper Spiritualists with Miss Wood as medium. The following
extracts from Smedley's "Reminiscences" speak for themselves:
"The constructionofthe cage was the next thing to be attended
to, and as in this was to constitute the test, great care was taken
so to construct it that a strong man, ifplaced insideandproperly
secured by having the door screwed up, could not extricate
himselfwithout cutting the wire and smashing the frame. Or, if
it was possible for him to liberate himself by forcing the wirt:
netting from its fastenings, he could not retum to his position
without the condition ofthe cage indicating the fact that he had
been out. Four strong wooden frames were prepared, with a
solid wooden bottom and a frame at the top. These frames, six
feet high and four feet wide, were covered with galvan.ised wire,
two inches mesh, whichwas fastened on by staples driven through
from the outside. The frame, top and bottom were put together
by having screws driven in from the outside. The door which
faced the sitters was hung upon hinges so made that when the
medium went inside it would be secured with screws. It will
thus be seen that anyone placed inside was powerless to tamper
with the screws, as they could only be reached from the outside.
400 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
The wire netting could only be removed by having the staples
drawn from the outside, and could not possibly be fastened up
by anyone inside. ·when the cage was placed in the posicion it
was to occupy, it was fow1d that two sides stood close against
the solid wall. One side of the cabinet was formed by another
side of the cage, while in front was the door which was at all
times in full view of the sitters. Curtains were then hung in
front.
"The first seance: was abortive. At the second sitting, ~e
medium was taped to her chair, which in turn was fastened to
the floor. A spirit: form presently emerged and went about
among the sitters. On the third occasion, the test was made
even more stringent:, but it was found difficult for a materialised
form to build up inside the cabinet and pass through the wire
netting. A six-inch opening of the door was then arranged and
strictly guarded. The usual manifcstatioru followed." At a later
seance, they had the satisfaction of obtaining results with the
door screwed up as originally arranged. Apparently the spirit
people found a method of building up outside the wire frame
and thus overcame the difficulty The sitters fmally saw the spirit
forms gradually dissolve outside the cage in full view ofthem all.
"Another remarkable incident occurred," said Smedley. "A
spirit girl named Pc•cha seated herself on the floor and started a
musical box playing. She was asked ifit was possible to play the
air only. She at once stopped all accompaniments and the air
only was played. Asked if she could play the air and bass parts
only, she immediately did so, with any variations her audience
suggested. Doubtless the constructor ofthe instrument would be
willing toengage he:r at a liberalsalary, for I doubt ifsuch changes
could be produced by any known process. Thirty-eight persons
were present. When I interrogateJ several ofthem, a few years
later, tl1ey assured me the facts were in no way exaggerated."
I
Madame D'Esperance was an authoress ofconsiderable repute.
Her "Shadowland" iis one ofthe most instructive books material-
ising mediums can read. Only a few libraries now possess copies.
In it she details the processes of development and the many
dangers and difficulties which beset mediums of this type. She
developed the powe;r of materialisatic~;md placed herself with- .
out fcc or reward at tile disposal ofscientific investigators. :But
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 461
her transparent honesty, and sitting among the sitters without a
cabinet, did not prevent ignorant meddlers endangering her life.
It once resulted in a broken blood vessel and an illness of a
month's duration. At other times, prostration and nervous
weakness followed from which it was harder to recover than
from the lung trouble that assailed her. That sitters share tllis
danger, the following extract from a published article amplT
proves.
n one occasion she felt someone grab at the drapery that was
ming, and continues: "At first I did not understand it, but as
sensations of being drawn downwards continued, it flashed
across me that a spirit had materialised behind me, and at that
moment someone had grasped it and was drawing it from the
cabinet. In horror J cried to my friend (her hostess), who was
sitting beside me, that someone had grasped the form, but she
only moaned and leaned heavily against me. In au instant all
was confusion. I angrily ordered the delinquent to loose his hold
of the wllite drapery, but it was not till the order was repeated
with a threat from the others that he obeyed. Order was re-
stored and the meeting brought to a close. My friend was taken
to her room, wllich she was scarcely ever able to leave again,
until the welcome end came and s!1e was relieved from her
sufferings, not the least of which lay in the knowledge that they
had been caused by the act ofher own son."
Where danger from "spirit grabbing" is feared, I have no
doubt that spirit guides would prefer risking the lives of sitters
rather than that of the medium for whom they would be held
responsible. The following extract from a lecture by Dr. Till-
yard illustrates this possibility. He happened to be visiting New
York during biological researches tmdertaken on b(!half of the
New Zealand Government, and was invited to a seance. He
states that a stranger, Dr. Hardwicke, who has since developed
mediumsllip, visiting Dr. Crandon's seance, fell into a trance.
This account is taken from the "British Journal of Psychical
Research": "It took about thirty minutes to produce a large
mass of teleplasm (psychoplasm) and pile it up on Hardwicke's
head. The lecturer obtained leave to handle it in a red light, and
tllis was granted by W$,r. the spirit control. Just as Dr. Till-
/ Y"d w" •tepping fonva<d to mmine it, he hwd Dt. Ctmdon
462 THE ltJNIVERSITY OF SPffiiTUALISM
say to Mrs. Tillyard that the medium would groan when the
teleplasm was touched, and, sure enough, as soon as it was
touched, Hardwicke emitted a deep groan, although he was
sound asleep. He thought at first that this might have resulted
from the suggestion, but found later on that this is the usual result
ofhandling the material, even though the mediumis unconscious
on awaking ofsuffering pain."
The idea that psychic phenomena can be accounted for by
suggestion holds momentary sway among materialistic converts.
But what seems to have escaped the lecturer is that the groan
itselfwas actually due to subconscious action, although not pro-
duced by the oral suggestion. Spiritualists well understand the
results ofinterference with the phenomena. But it is not so fully
realised that, though no materialisations appear, danger to the
medium still exists. A Yarmouth medium, Guy P.]. L'Estrange,
was seriously injured by a friend interposing a foot in the path
ofa trumpet which was whirling round the room. The psychic
rod, which was pres:umably carrying the trumpet, apparently
snapped. Its elements returned to the medium's body with such
force that a large bruise, seven to eight inches in circumference,
was afterwards found just over the stomach. The immediate
result was that he fell groaning to the floor, suffering terrible pain.
He was quite incapacitated for two weeks, and became too ner-
vous to sit with anyone for a long time afterwards. It is this type
of thoughtless behaviour that prevents physical mediums using
their gifts publicly. I have known others suffer in the same way.
Mediums who run dark seances always run these risks because
darkness automatically creates suspicion.
The seizure ofspirit: drapery leads us to a briefconsideration of
this material. Many people have obtained sections, usually
through the direct aid ofthe spirit operators themselves. Where
scientists have seized :pieces ofpsychoplasm and analysed it, it is
found to consist ofalbuminous matter apparently extracted from
the body. Dress ma•terial apparently has the same basis with
other elements added to it. But to all intents and purposes spirit
drapery is living matt,er. There is often a suggestion that some of
these elements are extracted from the clothes of sitters or
mediums. At a seano:e at the Stead Bureau, colours were pre-
cipitated into the writing between locked slates. Asked how
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 463
they performed this appar
rent miracle, the spirit control claiilled
to have extracted it from the carpet in the rOOJ'!l. On examina-
tion, similar colours were found in the patterning of the carpet.
My friend, FrankJarman, was one ofthe fortunate people who
not merely secured a piece of the chiffon-like spirit robe, but,
knowing that it usually mysteriously disappears in the course of
a day or so, immediately enclosed it within air-tight glass
plates w~ch he retains to this day. .W. T. Stead once obtained a
piece from a medium, and sent his daughter rotmd the principal
drapers' shops in London in a vain effort to match the material.
The nearest possibk explanation of its type is that it resembles
handwoven material. He fortunately had the piece photo-
graphed. The material decomposed in the course of a few days.
This is the material that Harry Price asserts is "regurgitated" by
mediums. He is forced to this conclusion because mediums are
stripped and clothed in specially devised costumes to check fraud.
The absurdity of the theory becomes obvious with a little
thought. Forms of varying size appear at intervals. Some are
swathed in many yards ofthe material. Others need only a tiny
piece to form a child's dress. Material stored in the stomach
would inevitably be darnp or clammy. Imagine this trailing
about the floor, picking np dust and other m1considered trifles.
This is the mass that is supposed to be swallowed over and over
again. In the twinkling of an eye, in a dark cabinet, the trailing
robes are presumably adjusted-a sticky, slimy mass ofcobwebs,
utterly unlike the feel ofthe material when handled. The theory
is more wonderful than materialisation itself. The theory was
definitely disproved in Bournemouth, where Doctor Margaret
Vivian induced the medium to swallow methylene blue pastilles
before the seance. These would colour everything leaving th
body. But tl1e materialised forms were not blue. ----~
----rii'COnSi.dering scientific precautions we immediatelyTalr foul
ofmany snags. Obviously, ifa confederate sits in a seance room,
all methods oftying and sealing the medium are foolish waste of
time. Or, ifthe fraudulent medium is a conjurer, able to release
himselffrom his bonds, once again the futility ofordinary tying
is obvious. It is for these 1reasons, among others, that Geley and
Schrenck Notzing will be quoted as authorities by Spiritualists in
preference to their own rnore wonderful experiences, which do
464 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
not carry the same weight in a sceptical world. They were
recognised opponents, who, none the less, corroborated all
previous research. The professors' methods were simple. They
first caused the mediums to strip to the skin and submit to a
searching medical examination, so that not even a piece ofcotton
wool could be secreted under the tongue or any:vhere else.
Then the mediums were dressed in specially devised costumes.
They were black, so that the exuding psychoplasm, which was
usually white or grey, showed up clearly against the background.
In imitation of Crookes, they utilised the latest types ofstereo-
scopic and duplex cameras focused both inside and outside the
cabinet. Electric lighting was w1der their absolute control. The
resultant flashlight photography was extremely valuable. If the
medium's hands were not in sight, they held them. Feet were
guarded similarly. The medium could not move hand or foot
without detection. Fraud was impossible. The results confirm
Spiritualist affirmations and conclusions in every detail. Few
people would care to emulate their somewhat brutal procedure.
Unfortunately, mediums of doubtful quality are continually
arising and being cxrosed by Spiritualists. Usually the deception
consists of "adding' to the phenomena. Tllis has the effect of
discrediting all parties. Some Spiritualists, knowing certain
mediums can produce genuine phenomena, refuse to believe
they could stoop to deception. On exposing the delinquent,
they are attacked by their own friends, who suggest that their
personal mental atmosphere contributed to the fraud. The diffi-
culty lies in the fact that there is a possibility ofthe charge being
true, because all psychic phenomena arc the result of mental
processes. Vital elements are drawn from the sitters as well as the
mediums. All participants, therefore, influence the results
telepathically. We arc thus approaching a time when the sitter,
equally with the medium, will have to submit to forms of re-
straint designed to prevent either conscious or tmconscious
interference with the phenomena. Sitters as well as mediums
will have to be trained to control their thoughts and emotions as
au essential prerequisite for admission to seances. The disgraceful
exploits of conjurers like Houdini, who placed a piece of india-
rubber between the hinged flaps ofCrandon's bell-box to prevent
a bell ringing, and secreted a rule in the cabinet to discredit th<:
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 465
medium, and spirit grabbers, ignorant of the delicate mechanism
and dangers involved will render precautions essential.
In D. D. Home's book, "Lights and Shadows," a sorry picture
is presented of the frauds who followed in his wake. A swarm
ofimitators duplicated the Davenports' cabinet. The dark seance
rapidly ousted the more satisfactory manifestations, which, until
this period, were invariably produced in good light. A continual
protest has been voiced by the Spiritualist press ever since, but as
white light destroys the delicate psychoplasm, Spiritualists are on
the horns of a dilemma. In vain did Madame D'Esperance,
Slade, Home and others prove that complete darkness was not
essential. We areindebted to Geley, SchrenckNotzing and other
scientists, for proving that ifgradually trained to bear the shock,
materialising mediums can withstand even flashlight photo-
graphy. That the phenomena are easier produced in darkness is
indisputable. But the public exhibition ofphenomena that in the
very nature of things are non-evidential and which give rise to
the gravest suspicion will always be condemned by progressive
Spiritualists. Many people think that all these difficulties will pass
away ifthe medium refuses payment. The long years ofdevelop-
ment, the drain upon the body, the loss oftime and the enormous
value oftheir services are all lost sight ofin this argument. Other
work is paid for, so why should we not pay for this valuable
addition to our knowledge? The whole commercial system is
one vast temptation to cheat or overreach. What applies to
mediumship applies equally to other modes of getting a liveli-
hood. Mediumship is no more sacred than poetry, artistry or
music. It is as natural as the use ofany other faculty. It is true
that mediums' motives and characters have a direct bearing upon
the quality ofresulting manifestations. But it is surely better for
a medium to heal broken hearts and prevent suicides, as they
often do, rather than scrub floors, wash clothes, peddle matches,
or even gamble on the stock exchange. The question of paid
mcdiumship resolves itselfinto, "What is the best work one can
do that will bring the greatest blessings in its train?"
The reply is indisputably in favour of mediumship. There is
then no manner ofreason why payment should be refused. But,
on the other hand, many have but a small measure of psychic
power, and cal1J1.ot compete i1~ the open market. When one's
466 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
livelihood is dependent upon the production of marvels, the
temptation to fraud is wellnigh irresistible. Wise societies will,
therefore, arrange for methods of remuneration independent of
mediumistic resuits, so that the temptation will not arise. Some
societies do this by making them paid officers or ministers for the
church, and thus wisely limit their exploitation. For U1e present,
while all Spiritualists are rogues and vagabonds in the eyes ofthe
law, the wheat and the tares must grow together, lest perchance
we destroy the true with the false. But under no circumstances
will honest men rob mediums oftheir time and labour under the
pretext that it is too "holy" to be paid for.
Many Spiritualists have seen the iron ring that Cecil Husk
wore like a bracelet on his wrist for many years. It was ofsolid
iron about halfan inch thick, and could be moved about two or
three inches up the arm. The reason he wore it was because
nobody could credit his statement that matter frequently passed
through matter at seances. It was a fairly common occurrence
during seances with him to find one's arms linked through the
solid chair backs, although the sitters were absolutely certain
they never for a moment unlinked their hands. A solid ring was
therefore made. This was passed on to Husk's wrist under the
usual test conditions by a Dr. Wyld. After it was removed by the
spirit people, the critics denied that it could ever have happened.
Talk of faked rings and conjurers' tricks was finally set at rest
by Dr. Wyld, making a solid iron ring by the hot welding pro-
cess. This was examined and marked by the critics. It was passed
on to Husk's wrist while Dr. Wyld and a Mr. Jackson each held
a hand firmly in their clasp. Reputable witnesses testified to the
conditions and the result. The experiment was somewhat painful
for Husk. The ring was allowed to remain permanently on
the wrist till his death. It must be remembered that this feat
was performed before the process known as cold welding was
invented. The ring could not be put on or taken off by altering
the size or shape of the hand, and squeezing the ring over it;
and most certainly not while the hands were held in a sceptic's
firm grip. The ring could not have been welded on to his wrist,
because of the terrible burns which would result, and the effects
of hammericg on to the wrist. The hot welded ring remained
to his dying day a puzzle to conjurers and scientists alike.
MATERJAJJSATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 467
In Professor Zollner's "Transcendental Physics," a similar
passage of matter through matter was recorded under test
conditions. Endless knots were tied in cords with sealed ends that
ordinarily could only be tied with free ends. Conjurers' slip-
knots, and duplicated cords, were alike impossible under the
conditions. Coins were placed in sealed boxes and, while under
observation, would be extracted and the coins replaced by other
articles. Sometimes, the professor handled the coins immediately
after extraction from the sealed packet. He noted thar they were
always warm and sometimes actually hot at this juncture. He
accounted for the heat by rates of vibration that first disinte-
grated the atoms, thus causing invisibility. On returning to
visibility, these cooled and thus contracted. This plausible theory
leaves unexplained the method by which shape and form arc
retained while the clements are in a state of flux or so widely
scattered that no visible connection remains. The theory
becomes possible as a solution ifall matter has an etheric counter-
part which forms a matrix or attractive centre to which all the
elements would return with magnetic force.
The theory ofthe fourth dimension is now in common use to
explain operations of this kind. Zollner coined the words to
mean what he at first called "through." Our world knows only
three dimensions oflength, breadth and depth or thickness. But
as coins passed through the boxes, and cords crossed each other,
with the same ease that electricity travels through an electrical
conductor, a new terminology became essential. In these days of
wireless communication and etheric wave motion, the theory is
not difficult to grasp. Your wireless set is installed inside the
house. It has no aerial, and is portable and complete in itsel£ It is
obvious that waves or influenc~s of some kind must penetrate
the walls or the instrument could not respond. It is clear that
myriads of rates of vibration occupy the same space without
interfering with each other. A slight touch and America is tuned
in. Another tiny adjustment and America is cut out and Ger-
many, France or Russia may respond. Rates of vibration arc
more than expressions oflight, heat, sound or invisible forms of
wave motion. Solid matter is itself in a state of flux with its
particles vibrating as etheric wave motions. It was soon realised
that earthly atmosphere is too dense to transmit etheric wave
468 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
motion to wireless sets and so a theoretical etheric world came
into common acceptance as the only rational explanation. This
etheric world is identical with Zollner's fourth dimension in
which visibility becomes invisible because our eyes cease to
register the rates ofvibration which dematerialised matter attains.
Here our analogy ceases to interest the materialist, because we
proceed to aver that there are many grades of etheric worlds
interpenetrating each other, on which living self-conscious
beings, with bodies adapted to each grade, consciously and un-
consciously act upon us. Our three-dimensional outlook renders
us blind to this humanity who manipulate etheric elements as
we do ponderable matter. They may in tum be blind to our
world and only visualise it when desirous of doing so. Ponder-
able matter, to beings ofthat four-dimensional world, could be
treated as we could treat a block of ice and rendered fluid or
made still further tenuous as gaseous vapour. By a reversal ofthe
process, the invisible could be made visible to us. In some such
way, apporting becomes theoretically feasible, but it is a great
mystery as to how living birds or eggs are thus transported. Only
the idea of a psychic matrix or mould saves the theory from
disaster.
/ I cannot get a wholly satisfactory explanation of the spirit
/methods employed in the production o~orts. One spirit
claimed to create a sort of etheric tube, ilirough which almost
any small articles could be passed, the articles being so altered in
their rate of vibration that brick walls formed no more im-
pediment to them than to the spirit body ofthe operator himself.
This, allied to the following explanation by another spirit guide,
may supply keys to understanding the problem: "We endeavour
to harmonise the rates of vibration peculiar to the object to be
apported, and the material substances through which it has to be
passed. After that, there is no more difficulty in passing matter
through matter than you moving your bodies through the
atmosphere. In our world it is a far easier process than in yours.
The operation of thought is a dynamic force which reduces or
accelerates rates of vibration in such a way that other carrying
agents can be dispensed with." When we realise that every-
thing called matter is now recognised by modern scientists as a
mode of motion in the ether, perhaps these explanations may
MATERJALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 469
satisfy some of my scientific friends. But to me, a brick wall
remains an impenetrable body. I cannot conceive of an egg, an
insect, or any opaque object passing through it. That perhaps
touches the difficulty. The article or wall ceases to be opaque,
but in some extraordinary way becomes fluidic or gaseous.
In view of the fact that Slade, Zollner's medium, had been
charged with fraud, the professor tested him in every way that
ingenuity could invent. On one occasion, Zollner purchased
a pair offolding slates, and puc sooted paper inside. During the
seance, he requested the spirit people to make an imprint of
feet upon the paper. On opening the slates, the imprint of a
right and left foot were found. Zollner never for a moment let
the slates pass from his hands, except to place them upon his lap,
where they were in sight the whole time. All hands were then
clasped over the table. In this position, he felt the slates being
pressed down on his knees, but could see nothing to account for
the pressure. The footprints were not the medium's. Whose
were they? They were identicalwith others received later, which
were also compared with Slade's, and proved to be different.
The silly excuse that Zollner was deceived by a conjurer is
only possible to those ignorant of his precautions. When this
failed, the professor was assailed with abuse. To read some
criticisms, one would think the professor was blind or asleep.
Indeed, to such a pass does maddened antagonism descend, that
he was actually charged with lunacy. Crookes was slandered
similarly, but none the less he was sane enough to invent many
wonderful scientific instruments, and attained his knighthood
as the result ofhis marvellous discoveries qfter he had pronounced
that Florrie Cook's mediumship was genuine. Crookes's vacuum
tube, toric lenses and discovery of thallium, apart from his
achievements during the war, stamp him as one of the world's
geniuses. Posterity will appraise his critics in the same way tlut
priestly authority is now condemned for refusing to look through
Galileo's telescope.
In one experiment, Zollner stated that coins were extracted
from a sealed box. They rattled on to the table. After assuring
themselves that the box was really empty, they were about to
cut it open, when a further experiment was proposed. They
expected the coins to be replaced in the box, l:ut Slade got a
470 TH1l UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUAUSM
message stating that they would discover the coins replaced by
a piece of slate pencil. This was the actual fact. Many similar
impromptu experiments were sprung upon the medium, all
proving external mentalities. In many experiments, the pro-
fessor, with his scientific confreres, testified to the movement of
ponderable objects in full light and under conditions which
rendered fraud impossible. The following extract from the pro-
fessor's record shows what is possible when exacting scientific
precautions are rdaxc:d: "One manifestation now followed
another. Chairs moved up to the table (without visible cause),
touches on our knees were constantly felt, a knife and fork were
put across each other on the cloth at the lower end ofthe table as
ifthey were cutting meat. Then, from another side ofthe table,
a fork flew offon to the floor in a slight curve."
Under test conditions, compasses were made to rotate contrary
to all known laws ofmagnetics. To disprove the statement that
Slade had magnets concealed about him, two compasses, placed
close together, were forced to move simultaneously in opposite
directions in response to the investigator's request. Obviously,
ifSlade had magnets concealed, both compasses would act in the
same way. The professor's most famous experiment was that of
passing specially turned, solid wood rings on to the central leg
ofa table. Hoping to get the rings interlocked, he had one made
out of solid oak and another out of solid alderwood. His
photographs first show them strung on to catgut. The next
illustration shows t11at the table in question stood quite out ofthe
reach of tl1e medium, who had another table between himself
and the one that received the rings. They gasped with astonish-
ment when t11ey found that the wooden rings had, by some
miraculous process, passed clean through the solid support ofthe
side table. Its tluee feet branched away under the rings. It was
therefore impossible to slip them on from that end. The table-
top prevented any suggestion of getting them over that way.
They remained as evidence for Spiritualists and a bone of con-
tention for psychical researchers, photographers and conjurers to
dispute over for ever after.
On one occasion, when Slade had merely placed his hand over
the professor's chair, the chair, with the professor seated in it, rose
about a foot in the air. The experiment was afterwards repeated,
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 471
Slade placing his hand on the chair back without exerting any
effort. The enormous force required to lift a heavy weight in
this way can easily be tested if the experimenter will try to lift a
person seated on a chair in the same way. Students are asked to
remember that this scientific testimony was given at the cost of
social ostracism, and cowardly insinuations. Zollner, who had
nothing to gain, received the world's condemnation for being
brave enough to testify to the truth. But he has gone to his
reward. Those who su£fer for truth's sake lay up imperishable
treasures in the world of spirit.
Note the links ofrelationship between all forms ofphenomena.
Each phase merges into another. Mental communication through
one medium is often confirmed by physical phenomena obtained
through a different medium, or vice versa. These supply the best
evidences ofdiscarnate action that we can obtain. Starting from
the tiny rap, the percussive sound was at first accounted for .as an
electrical discharge or rate of vibration producing sound. But
we soon discovered that there is more than one way of pro-
ducing apparently identical phenomena. Crawford's experi-
ments proved that invisible psychoplasmic rods produced the
same effect. (The material, thou~Jnvisible. co~ photo-
gra~d, and felt ikeadamm va orous substance. It could be
soli ed an made capa co · ring eavy wetg ts. In Zollner's
experiments, we find that ponderable matter can be made in-
visible, that it can be dematerialised, and its elements held in sus-
pension during transference to another place. Very often we
find that when objects.are missing they havEmer~1yj2l;en..ren­
der~ This is one otthe reasons w y it IS Clesirable to
keep seance rooms sacred to the work. Invisible elements are
often stored and utilised as and when required.)
In summarising the case for Spiritualism, we must always
remember that our most voluble opponents arc usually quite
ignorant of elementary phases of the subject. We can therefor~
dismiss this section with scant consideration. Our subject is
highly technical, and not a bit like sciences which can pre-
determine results because of their ascertained foundations. The
evidences for discarnate action shade offinto telepathic and sub-
conscious relationships, difficult to define and still more difficult
to prove. But all phases show a relationship utterly inexplicable
16
472 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
without Spiritualist explanations. To set aside these explanations,
and claim that hallucination accounts for all psychic phenomena
is equivalent to saying the whole world is mad. Nearly everyone
is at first an opponent.[!t is_only when personal experiencejusth
fies the claim does one adopt the name oi..Spiritualist. I~~
shamefaced a~~ptance at fu:s.t, b~ pres.ently, ~ral
cowa.ffiice gi~ ph~ tq_b~ acknowlc.d~t:- T~
re~fSoon gathers_1ufficient happines;ti'om
~ex eriences to
m e hiiTaith unshakable.Tositive fraud c~e dismisse e-
cause tt mefely accmtiffiTor an infinitesimal fraction ofthe whole.
To know the simplicity of the average mediums, and compare
them with conjurer:s spending a lifetime perfecting their tricks,
places the theory entirely out of court in hundreds of cases.
Similar logic, which compares them withyogiswho give up their
entire lives to the perfection of their psychic powers, shows this
to be equally ridiculous. The majority ofmediums arejust hard- •
working men and women, with a livelihood to earn, apart
from their mcdiumship, which is usually a spare-time job.
The subconscious theory to "explain" Spiritualist phenomena
is the most difficult: to reject, because spirit people themselves
have to utilise subc.::mscious action in many phases of medium-
ship. The direct answer to tlus objection is that you cannot
extract knowledge and information from mentalities that can
never have had access to them. Experience alone develops
memory. If the experience is non-existent, obviously there is no
latent memory to draw upon. This would have to embrace a
knowledge of chemistry and other forces far in advance of
science. We cannot: so lightly dismiss the theory that the powers
are evil. Long compulsion by theologians to believe in the
e>..istence ofa devil :md his legions, naturally inclines us to suspect
even the angels oflight. Fortunately, the evidence ofhigh moral
tone in all spirit teachings, and the beneficent results of their
work are so obvious that only rabid sectarianism disputes it.
The ethical bases wmmon to all religious systems arc supported.
No sane person can contact the demonstrated logic of Spirit-
ualism without being the better for it. All spirit guides try to
improve the quality of their own mediums. So we will remain
content with our hallucinations, a gratuitous insult only possible
from people supremely ignorant of the scientific bases on which
MATERIALISATION: THE INCREDULOUS BARON 473
psychic phenomena now stand. We will continue to smile
indulgently at the wiseacres who assume that unconsciousness
can produce greater effects than consciousness. We will patiently
await the rime when idealism shall produce ideal investigators
brave enough to follow truth wherever it may lead, and bold
enough to stand alone amid the jeering, blind and foolish throng
who fear to eat of the tree of knowledge, lest it awakens the
divinity witi1Iil, wliiclltheyClimly realise will never rest content
w1til it embraces its own ideals and fulfils the law of its being-
harmonious relationship with God.
CHAPTER XXVI
PSYCIUC PHOTOGRAPHY
PSYCHIC photography presents us with many inexplicable
results. In some the interference ofdiscarnate minds is clearly
evidenced, but their modus operandi leaves us guessing. A friend
of mine, an amateur photographer, showed me several such
results. For one flashlight picture he posed five people. To their
amazement not one ofthem appeared on the plate. Nor did the
wall and windows behind them appear. These had vanished and
in their place a fairly clear picture of the opposite side of the
street was photographed.
His next result was even more baffling. In a garden, four
people were posed, prepared for a snapshot. Three ofthem dis-
appeared and in their place the normal backgronnd appeared.
But as showing definite interference by discarnate minds, the
woman who actually appeared on the plate was clothed in a
different dress. The photograph showed her apparently dressed
in a costume that was at that moment hanging up in her ward-
robe indoors.
In the photographing of materialisations we get similar
baffling results. In one case a materialised form, representing a
dancing girl with flowing white drapery, was capering about the
room. The signal was passed to the flashlight photographer. He
made the exposure. On development, instead of the dancing
girl in flowing white draperies, the form of the medium in her
ordinary black dress was shown. The appearance of fraud was
so obvious that the medium seriously thought of giving up this
form of mediumship. But mature consideration showed that
the apparent annulment of all the known laws of photography
was just as wonderful as materialisation it£elf
It is the most intriguing of all psychic phenomena. {;There
are so many ways offaking results tha.t..all photogra~hs ;u-e sus-
~t, ;:;cless inteniafe;,idence precludes tnepossibility. Added
to th.is, we find that although no medium or other interested
4'i+
PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY 475
party touches the negatives, apparently fraudulent evidences
appear on the product itsel£ The principal of cl1ese consists of
screen marks on me negative, which presumes copying from an
original. The extraordinary fact is all the more remarkable,
because people who are not in the least interested in Spiritualism
get similar effects. Obviously there would be no purpose in a
photographer wasting his own plates by deceiving himself.
I am told by one expert mat under magnification some screen
marks developed are due to me nature of me emulsion itsel£
This may supply a clue in some cases, but it certainly does not
explain cases like that ofilie Cyprian priestess. This story will be
fow1d fully detailed in Professor Coates's book, "Photographing
ilie Invisible." A spirit, known to members of cl1e circle sitting
wicll David Duguid, often appeared on photographs of other
people quite unconnected wim one another. It was impossible
to charge independent photographers wim fraud. But it was
later found to be an exact reproduction of a German picture
called "Night." The fraud cl1eory would have meant charging a
large number of people, who did not even know each other,
wim conspiracy. As a conspiracy to deceive memselves would
be singularly stupid, ilie fraud ilieory had to be dropped. But
such results always raise serious doubts in one's mind.
Anomer difficulty mat has to be guarded against is that of
spirit people posing on me photograph who are quite unknown
to clle sitter, but who impress ilieir features upon the negative.
Estelle Stead assured me cl1at some spirit people made mem-
selves a perfect nuisance by tills trick, and had to be definitely
guarded against while trying to get evidence satisfactory to the
sitters, who naturally expected ilieir own friends to appear.
Slowly the results are proving mat actinic light is very rarely me
operating agent. It is obvious cllat spirit people must pose in
some sort of light. This inclines Spiritualists to adopt Sweden-
borg's idea ofa spiritual sun which casts no shadows. This would
photograph spirit forms, but not ilie sitters. Against this, we are
occasionally faced with pictures which clearly cast a shadow. In
mese cases the spirit body is probably more definitely material-
ised. Other experiments prove that all living substances exude a
radiation which may operate as light and act upon ilie silver salts
in the emulsion. The radiation flows most easily from me fmger-
476 THE UNlV.ERSITY OF SPIIUTUALISM
tips. To clris may be traced many "foggings" that are sometimes
thought to be the aura. Faulty dark rooms which allow pinholes
oflight to fall upon the sensitive emulsion and imperfect develop-
ment have a similar effect.
The knowledge that auric radiations proceed from the finger-
tips induced Commandant D'Argec to experiment by placing
his fingers on photogr:1phic plates while they were being de-
veloped. The results proved that definite "lines of force" pro-
ceed from the finger-tips, but whether they are heat rays or
auric markings is debatable. Further results were still more
interesting. While experimenting, he focused his attention on a
bottle nearby, and was pleased to fmd the image of the bottle
was clearly outlined on the resulting photograph. He con-
centrated on walking-sticks, starfish and other simple articles
with similar success. Many photographers claim to have pro-
duced even more complex forms, such as faces and pictures, by
concentration while pointing the fingers at the plate before
development. Where results are identical with the picture con-
centrated upon, it is but fair to assume they are the direct result
ofthe eJfort, but some experimentalists discovered that it was not
the face or thing thought about that came upon the plate, but
something entirely different. Tllis opened the door to a wide
range ofexperiments in cl1ought transference.,
The best results were obtained by a Japanese scientist named
Fukurai, who exhibited them at the International Spiritualist
Congress in London in 1928. The full report can be read in his
book, "Clairvoyance and Thoughtography." His attention was
first drawn to the matter by discovering that clairvoyants could
see the latent images on undeveloped plates. He also proved that
the plates on wllich mediums had concentrated always presented
the appearance of over-development or over-exposure. Added
to whlch, mediums would expose the plate so long that all
ordinary rules of photography were broken. He tried experi-
ments by placing sensitives on one side of me street, while the un-
opened packet of plates was placed on the other in full view of
all. They were generally protected from the effects of light by
wrappings or left in the metal carriers. The results were extra-
ordinary. After everyclring was in readiness, his sensitives would
be told what picture to project. One of his sensitives could
PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY 477
transmit complex images, such as a horse and rider with full
equipment, all being clearly recognisable in their perfect detail.
Many scientists collabo1rated with him. Every conceivable
precautionwas taken against fraud. In the result, as the developed
negatives were the direct result ofthought without a camera, he
called the process "thoug;htography" instead of "photography."
Psychic scientists are now inclining to the theory that all
supernormal results are the effects of thought, even though a
camera may be used. As the originators of the pictures are in-
visible, they are forced t,o adopt the Spiritualist conclusion that
the majority of psychic extras are the work of disembodied
humanity. But it in no way explains the modus operandi to call it
either a thoughtgraph or a spirit photograph. One thing is clear.
Mental concentration on a picture affects the sensitive emulsions.
But how? In divining, we discover possible clues. The following
newspaper extract is placed on record as an indisputable item of
interest: "The body of A. R. Smith, the Yorkshire water-
colour artist, was found yesterday at a spot indicated the week
before by a water diviner, R. Bretton, of Richmond, Yorks.
In the search for Smith, the diviner held a cap belonging to the
missing man."
There can be only one explanation ofsuch occurrences. The
dead man had, during his lifetime, saturated his garments
with a kind of emulsion upon which his thought had been
registered. Some form of light emanated from the clairvoyant
which rendered the record luminous. In that light, his soul
contacted the mind of the dead man, or, alternatively, his sight
may have travelled along the rays emitted from the garments
held, and thus located the~ place where the body lay. Extended
vision, not normal sight,, is the solution of one aspect, and sen-
sitised clothing acting as photographic plates ofanother. Either
that, or one must say that an invisible intelligence described the
dead man and his surroundings. This is the usual Spiritualist
explanation. Deductions: of this kind are forced upon psychic
science at ~;very turn.
Most Spiritualists believe the majority of effects obtained in
psychic photography arc produced by spirit people. The results
obtained by earthly expe1rimentalists are infantile compared with
those achieved by the invisible operators. Before leaving the
THE UNIVERSitY Of SPIRlTUAUSM
probable basis ofpsychic photography, I must remind you ofour
earlier reference to hypnotised boys who discovered plain cards
which had been secretly marked. They affirmed they were able
to fmd them because the hypnotist's mind had projected a faint
light or aura upon the selected cards. In tlus, you again get
illustrations ofthe formative action of the mind operating upon
invisible matter, which becomes visible to soul-sight. Trance
mediums and hypuotic subjects apparently get the best results
because their mentality is not distracted by extraneous impres-
sions. Telepathists occasionally get similar results. These all help
to prove the causes at work behind the phenomena. But it is
exceedingly difficult to state exactly what elements are used or
how the mind operates upon them.
In tl1e majority ofexperiments, it appears that me only purpose
served by cameras is to focus the material setting. The further
result is that cameras are now frequently dispensed with alto-
gether. Unopened packets, or light-proof plates are merely
held in the hands. To cover this aspect of psychic photography,
Felicia Scatcherd coined the word "Skotograph," the literal
meaning being "pictures obtained in darkness." There has
always been a belief that as the spirit picture was obviously
impressed upon tl1e plate-probably before exposure in the
camera-it merely proved "double exposure." But double
exposure reqtures a preliminary exposure before the actual
seance is held. All careful experimentalists checkmate this by
purchasing their own plates and not allowing them to leave their
sight until safely placed in the plate carrier.
For many years, the Crewe circle refused sittings with people
who did not take this precaution. As they were only working
people and made no cbrge for meir services, this precaution
was doubly necessary as mey could not afford me cost ofplates.
Although I should not pose as an expert, I had four years' ex-
perience in trick photography for advertising purposes, and
possess considerable knowledge of cinematograph films. I con-
sider this sufficient experience to pit my judgment against the
average psychic photographer, who is usually entirely ignorant
of elementary photography. Yet, the following is my ex-
perience ofWilliam Hope, ofCrewe. Having an engagement in
Manchester, I gave him twenty-four hours' notice that I should
PSYCffiC PHOTOGRAPHY 479
be able to break myjourney at Crewe. Would he kindly favour
me with a sitting? He agreed. On my way to Euston Station, I
purchased a packet of Imperial rapid plates. The packet never
left my hands until I loaded the slide. There was a preliminary
meeting. Directions were asked for, and Hope's guide directed
us to develop the fifth and sixth slides from the centre of the
packet. I alone handled the plates,loaded the slides, inserted them
in the slide carrier, focused the chair upon which I was to sit, and
finally developed and attended to the fixing ofthe images which
the development revealed.
One plate was too indefinite to be worth printing from, but
the other contained an extra bearing a striking resemblance to my
sister, who passed on about four years previously. She was
standing between me and the camera. I examined the camera for
transparencies and the background. before the sitting. I dis-
covered nothing suspicious. In broad daylight, with my eyes
wide open, the results were obtained. My experience is corro-
borated by hundreds. That is the case for spirit photography.
There was no incentive to fraud. No money passed. In later
years, Hope wa.~ forced to charge for his time became fully
absorbed by the demands made upon him. It is a pitiful reflection
that, hecause sceptics could prove nothing against his honesty,
certain psychical "researchers" deliberately substituted plates
and inserted them into a packet in order to discredit him. Hewat
McKenzie once proved that a packet of plates had been tam-
pered with before Hope handled them. Sir A. Conan Doyle
tried hard to obtain an apology from the "researchers," but only
got reams ofevasive correspondence as a result.
In the "British Journal ofPhotography" for March 17, 1893,
the editor gave his experiences. He was probably the greatest
living authority at the time. He clearly proved that ordinary
light did not produce the spirit extras, and that the camera was
not used in the ordinary way. His binocular, stereoscopic
camera revealed the extraordinary fact that the duplicate image
ofthe spirit was sometimes in a different position, relative to the
sitter, than the other taken at the same instant.
The best evidence of spirit photography is contained in the
photographs themselves. It is impossible to fake a spirit photo-
graph if there is no original in existence to copy. Nor is any
480 THE UrNIVllRSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
faking possible unless. the photographer has access to the plates.
It issometimes claimed that chemicals are placed upon the hands
ofthe medium which cause fluorescence. This, in turn, is said to
act upon transparen,cics which dissolve during development;
or an outline is traced with fluorescent material upon a finger
which acts upon the emulsion. Analysis ofthese objections soon
disposes of them. There would also be marks of the skin ifit
came into contact with the plate. Nor could one trace such a
dear form as usually appears. It would be smudged or blurred.
Such tricks might conceivably produce what pass for auric
markings, but clear-cut faces would be almost impossible. The
idea of transparencies cannot be altogether dismissed, as they
might be concealed. The same applies to stamps impressed upon
the plate. A moment in darkness would be quite enough for an
expert trickster. There are a hundred-and-one ways of faking,
but a clear hundred can be ruled out by the simple fact that
identical results are produced when the psycluc is prevented from
handling the plates att all.
Ignorance ofelementary photography causes much confusion.
The movement of a sitter may cause a duplicate image. Bad
lighting causes otheJr "psychic" markings. Critics and experi-
mentalists alike need. to safeguard themselves by this elementary
knowledge. Probably the best evidences arc obtained by sceptics
who naturally would not willingly deceive themselves. An
architect friend of mine took a photograph of the house he was
renovating. It was empty. Yet, clearly, in one ofthe windows,
the face of the late tenant could be seen. In the same district,
some friends were mapshotting a sitter on the steps oftheir home.
On the panel of th,e door behind her, a definite face was also
photographed. In most of the illustrations I give, the photo-
graphers are non-Spiritualists. So that the case for spirit photo-
graphy does not rest on the evidence of propagandists.
Take the "Daily Mail" picture of Earl Haig. The photo-
graphers took a photograph ofthe ftmeral in the ordinary way as
the cortege passed. Right over his coffin, suspended in nlid-air,
are the easily recognised features ofEarl Haig. It is incredible
that the "Daily Mail" would fake a spirit photograph on such an
occasion. The same applies to photographers on the staff of a
South London pape·r while taking photographs of the unveiling
PSYCIDC PHOTOGRAPHY 481
of memorial tablets at Wandsworth to men killed in the war.
Dozens offaces appeared ontheir negatives, together withfloating
lights and auric clouds which are familiar on all psychic photo-
graphs. Spiritualists were charged point-blank with fraud by
newspapers, when Mrs. A. E. Deane systematically produced
similar results. What is sauce for the goose is sauce fo;: the
gander. Why not charge the newspapers with deliberately
trifling with sacred affections even as they charge us? The
"Daily Sketch" claimed to trace well-known footballers' photo-
graphs in her Cenotaph picture of 1924. It refused to print a
refutation, even from Sir Arthur Keith, a non-Spiritualist expert,
because his evidence proved how ludicrOI,JS the assumption was.
What I regard as the most wonderful evidence ofspirit power
• -it is more than a mere photograph-is contained in Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle's collection. It is known as the "locket case."
R. W. Goodwin andJohn West, of Hyde, on August 17, 1920,
obtained a psychic extra ofWest's brother-in-law. On Novem-
ber 20, West took with him a locket containing the only known
photograph ofhis dead brother-in-law to show the Crewe circle
how exactly it resembled the extra. West replaced the locket in
his wallet and put this in his pocket. He then posed with Good-
win for another photograph. When the plate was dev:doped, an
enlarged image of the locket was secured. The inside of the
locket is clearly revealed with the inset photograph. In the back-
ground, through the outer case of the locket, the sitters who
posed can be seen. To understand this extraordinary result, we
must visualise a process which disintegrates the coat and pocket
covering the wallet, then an extension of that process through
the wallet and th~ outer covering of the locket case. It stops at
the exact point required, and exhibits the deceased man's photo-
graph in full detail. It 'then renders the back of the locket,
sufficiently transparent in parts to show the sitters behind. At the
same time it clearly retains its outline to prove that it is an actual
enlargement of the locket. The sitters testify that there could
have been no possible means ofpreparing beforehand or oppor-
tunity for trickery ofany kind.
An interesting spirit picture from 'the Conan Doyle collection
is that of Alderman Yeo. While in Plymouth, I interrogated
people present at tl1e funeral who vouch for the circumstances.
482 THE UNIVERSITY 01' SPIRITUALISM
Two cyclists were held up by the crowd waiting for his funeral
procession to pass. They took a photograph and, on developing
it, were surprised to find the form of the alderman with his un-
mistakable features superimposed over the entire front of a
building, his arms extended as if in the act ofblessing his school-
children who formed a large group immediately beneath the
spirit form. The alderman was a leading member ofthe Baptist
chapel where the snapshot was taken. His relatives and friends
were incensed at the publication ofthe photograph, but the men
who took it were not Spiritualists, nor could any ordinary trick
of photography e>..-plain it.
After I had lectured at Lewisham, an amateur, a non-
Spiritualist, showed me two snapshots. One was ofhis brother's
grave, which, like those of other soldiers killed in the war,
was marked by a simple cross. At the foot of the cross was a
clearly defined picture of his brother. On the other, similarly
worked into the background, was an equally well-defined
photograph of his father. Both spirit forms were in exactly
the same place, which necessitated one getting out of the
way to prevent being superimposed on the face of the other.
These cases inevitably drive people into Spiritualism because all
other religionists would charge the photographer with fraud-
an obviously absurd theory when nothing is to be gained but
abuse for producing the result. Mr. Garscadden, whose valuable
collectionwas purchased by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, obtained a
psychic photograph of his brother-in-law who had passed over
about fourteen days previously. There was no attempt or
expectation of anything psychic resulting, but clearly de£ned
among the leaves of the tree under which two young women
were posing for their picture, is the face of the deceased man.
The picture is the more interesting because Garscadden knew
that one ofthe young women was strongly opposed to anything
Spiritualistic, but possessed natural mediumship.
Another interesting result, called a "psychograph" because it
consists ofwriting in place ofthe usual extra, will be found in the
same collection. A man named McAllister had a sitting with
Hope at Crewe. Surrounding the sitter, and covering the entire
plate on the outside edge, were several lines ofwriting. They pur-
ported to be a message from aspirit who had appeared on another
PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY 483
sitter's plate but had not been recognised. Sufficient details were·
given to locate the parties concerned. All the information given
was found to be correct. Even the date ofthe funeral and place
of interment were right. None of the details could have been
known to Hope and the facts were only brought to light after
considerable investigation. Through the spirit people's state-
ments, it appeared that there were two women named Lydia
Haigh. The one who posed for the picture objected to being
mistaken for her namesake. Both women were traced and the
death certificate put in the record as evidence.
Miss Houghton's "Chronicles of the Photos of Spiritual
Beings" is one ofthe earliest and in many ways the most interest-
ing book on psychic photography. Symbolism was illustrated in
one picture by a nearly naked form. The spirit control of the
medium explained that, as the spirit had lived a selftsh life to the
exclusion of all noble promptings, he was quite incapable of
weaving the usual clothing to cover his form. His whole life had
been spent developing his magnificent physique. It was his only
love and filled all his mind. He awoke in spirit life naked and
ashamed, to find that thought acts upon the aura that surrounds
the psychic body and symbolises the true nature. Psychic ethers
are equally impressionable. Thus the mass mind creates localities
in the spirit world as certain in their bow1daries as a sea-girt
isle.
Simple explanations, such as this, are slowly undermining
orthodox conceptions ofheaven and hell. The power ofthought
is found to be onuupotent. We call it the power of God when
manifesting through nature. In a lesser degree, we find man's
mind clothes the spirit. On earth, it affects sensitive photo-
graphic plates, and saturates garments with our record which
psychometrists easily read. Miss Houghton's book thus becomes
a valuable contribution to the philosophy of Spiritualism, but its
value to the sceptical is almost nil, because her transparent
honesty did not permit her to treat all psychics as "frauds and
impostors." But to those who can accept her statement that
many ofher photographs were the result ofappointments made
through mediums who were unacquainted with one another, by
spirits definitely arranging to pose before ordinary photo-
graphers, and thus obtaining recognisable photographs, the
484 TRE UNIVERSITY OF SPIRITUALISM
evidence completely proves definite spirit action. Usually, there
was no other photograph in existence to copy from.
The vagaries of psychic photography are extraordinary. In
Henslow's "Proofs of the Truths ofSpiritualism," you will find
an illustration of a chair-back showing through a sitter's body. •
The photographer was not a Spiritualist and got the surprise of
his life when he developed the negative. This sort of thing
frequently happens in psychic photography and caused the Rev.
Henslow to go further into the matter. It was argued at great
length through the technical trade journals, but no very satis-
factory theory has been found to explain it. Henslow gives
several illustrations of psychographs. The results were obtained
by holding unopened packets of plates in the hands. In one
illustration, the sitter was asked to choose the sensitive plate on
which he desired the spirit people to operate. He chose the fifth
in his own recently purchased, unopened packet of plates. The
spirit controlling offered to add a Greek message in addition to
his mother's photograph. The resulting Greek message proved
to be a copy of similar writing in the British Museum. Spirit
people told him where to look for it. Afterwards, sitting in
broad daylight, with the same precautions, he obtained another
photograph ofhis mother. This time she was shown lying in her
coffin. Her daughter, who was definitely opposed to Spirit-
ualism, admitted it to be an excellent photograph. There was
nothing like it in existence.
Archdeacon Colley obtained many wonderful spirit photo-
graphs as well as psychographs. In addition to the usual precau-
tions, he often took his negatives home and developed them him-
sel£ On one occasion, he obtained eighty-four lines ofwriting
containing one thousand, seven hundred and ten words onahalf-
plate held between six pairs of hands for th.irty seconds. The
writing was so fine and small that it could not be read without a
magnifying glass. Another time, he asked that more than one
language might be written. He obtained a verse split up into
French, English and Latin words. Felicia Scatcherd arranged a
test sitting to be carried out under the auspices of the Royal
Photographic Society. The result was a very beautiful, positive
image of a rose. The usual procedure of first obtaining a nega-
tive to print from was thus rendered unnecessary.
PSYClfiC PHOTOGRAPHY 485
Glendinning's book, "The Veil Lifted," gives the record ofhis
experiences. It is the story ofa life's work devoted to the study
of psychic phenomena and psychic photography in particular.
His record supports all other independent testimony. He deals
particularly with J. Traill Taylor's test experiments. It is the
testimony of an expert to the truth of Spiritualists' affirmations.
They all lead to but one conclusion. The power ofthe spirit is
manifesting once again in an endeavour to draw the soul ofman
away from the things that perish, to the eternal verities which
represent "treasures in heaven."
Quite clearly, we can realise that the pictures which are
actually photographed are not necessarily spirit people or spirit
bodies at all, but productions analogous to paint upon a canvas or
writing upon a slate. Possibly, we shall come to Dr. Geley's
conclusion in his great work, "From the Unconscious to the
Conscious," that there is simply one basic substance from which
all forms of life are derived. This we can apply equally to the
spirit body and the material. Whether what Geley terms the "in-
dwelling superior dynamism" is mind in manifestation which
later utilises the psychic body, or a force which goes out like the
flame of a candle is the debatable ground.
That the "doubles" ofliving people are often photographed is
too much for many people to accept. Whenever it happens, the
photographer is invariably charged with fraud by "double
exposure." It so happens that the "double" is frequently photo-
graphed when the original cannot byany means have beenknown
-even by photograph-to the photographer. "W. M. Mumler,
the first psychic photographer, was the victim of a charge
brought against him which ended in Mumler's acquittal,"
records J. B. Mcindoe. "It did not shake the confidence of his
friends, but later, when one of Mumler's extras was recognised
as the photograph ofa living man, that was more than any ofhis
friends could accept. They deserted him, and he ended his days
in poverty." Since those days, we have not only proved that the
spirit body can leave. the physical, but actually write through a
mediwn's hand as in the case recorded in the article on automatic
writing. Moreover, we have the classic case ofMadame Vlasek
who deliberately arranged to leave her body willie travelling in a
train and appeared to her circle of sitters as a fully materialised
486 THE UNIVERSITY OF SPI1UTUALISM
spirit. The spirit body is therefore the vehicle of consciousnes~.
It is something more than Geley's primal basic substance. It IS
substance fully organised as a living being whose only difference
to embodied humanity is that its elements are more sublimated.
The physicist has taught us that the atom, once conceived as
the ultimate indivisible particle ofmatter, is no longer indivisible,
but constantly breaking up into electrons and protons, and being
reconstructed into tl1e various elements of our material world.
This suggests the possibility that the 'superior dynamism' not
only prepares the basic substance for the physical body, but also
breaks down its atomic structure and liberates whatever energies
are resident in the substances presented to it, and builds the spirit
body co-equally with the physical. This possibility is strength-
ened by a hint gained £i.·om Dr. Crawford's experiments. Craw-
ford propounded a theory that the spirit operators acted on the
brains and nervous systems of the sitters. From thence, small
particles were driven off through the hands, fingers, and else-
where, in a free state. The particles were supposed to possess
considerable latent energy ofa kind which could act on the body
of the medium. They were set in circulation until they were
under high tension, and at the appropriate moment were applied
to the body of the medium temporarily to detach and project
into the seance room some part of the gross matter from her
physical organism in the form of the psychic rods.
In the case of Madame Vlasek, elaborate arrangements were
made before the successful appearance of the "double" on two
occ::sions which were obviously the work ofher conscious effort.
In the majority ofcases, however, we are struck by the fact that
the spirit who temporarily leaves the body is quite unaware of
the fact. Thus Bligh Bond's friend, who gave the automatic
writing through the hand of Margery Crandon, clearly proved
his identity, but was quite unaware ofthe cross~xamination he
was subjected to at the time. Probably, the following case re-
ported by Professor Asano, in "Pearson's Weekly," is ofthe same
order. In this, we have to note the fact that one illustration is ofa
dead person and the other of an embodied spirit. The point of
interest is: If a living person gets upon a photographic plate
without the least intention or consciousness of doing so, why
may not the same rule apply to a large number of psychic
PSYCF.IIC PHOTOGRAPHY 487
extras, no matter whether the spirit is still embodied or disem-
bodied? This is Asano's story:
"Quite on the spur ofthe moment, I decided to visit a psychic
photographer,living in Crewe,who is also aprofessional medium.
I gave him my own sealed packet of plates and with these he
took photographs of me. In one negative appears the extra or
spirit figure of a girl. He1: face is clearly recognisable as that of
my cousin, and that alone eliminates any suspicion of fraud. In
any case what should a provincial photographer in Britain know
ofaJapanese girl who died many years ago and who never once
left her own country? Even more surprising was the result of
another photograph taken of aJapanese friend and his two sons
who accompanied me. Over their heads appears the face of his
own daughter, at present in Tokyo! While that photograph was
being taken, I am preparedl to swear that no psychic phenomena
were visible to the human eye. Yet the camera lens has recorded
the features ofa girl who was at that very instant twelve thousand
miles away!"
In this colUlection, Sir David Brewster's conclusions with
reference to radiations pos:sess peculiar interest. He stated that
all bodies throw off emanations in greater or less size and with
greater or less velocities. These emanations, when feeble,
showed themselves in images; when stronger, in chemical
chznges. When they were stronger still, they affected the olfac-
tory nerves, the nerve of touch, and in phosphorescent and
luminous emanations whilch excited the retina and produced
vision. From this arises the conclusion that you calUlOt enter a
room by day or night without leaving your portrait behind you.
You cannot eYen wink yom eye or lift your hand without the
action being infallibly registered. If that scientist's logic is correct,
then Spiritualists have to add to it the assertion that the emana-
tions possess inherent chemical properties which enable the
images to become attached to sensitive emulsion. Further, that
no matter whether consciously or unconsciously exercised, the
thoughts of both living and dead people can give the directive
impulse which produces th(~ photographic result. Thought thus
becomes one of the most wonderful formative forces in the
universe. It shows man to be the microcosmic expression of the
great cosmic consciousness we call God.
488 THB UNIVERSITY OF SPTRITUALISM
And now my task is done. I have but touched the fringe ofthis
mighty subject, glanced at its philosophy in passing, and dimly
indicated the natural religion which flows from it. Few people
realise when they see psychic phenomena what mighty changes
will follow in their wake. They are the spearhead of a revelation
which will cleave its way throughout the world, separating
honesty of purpose from the intrigues and cunning which
supplant the worship of God by the worship of gold and
creedalism. Heaven is not found in these. It is the bitter realisa-
tion of wasted lives that is bringing the myriad hosts back to
earth in order to stem the tide which is filling the hells ofspirit
lands with remorse.
In their love for humanity, the angels mingle their tears with
ours. Slowly we are learning that all phenomenal results are
themselves the registration of thought action. When, later, we
understand that every thought is indelibly imprinted on the
tablets of time, we shall be so ashamed of their records that we
shall fear to think awrong thought. Clairvoyance, psychometry,
prophecy and all psychic powers are but indications ofthe soul's
inherent attributes. Recognition of these facts will form the
foundation stones for the religion of the future. So far as I am
aware, it is the first rime in the history of Spiritualism that an
examination of all aspects of the subject has been presented to
inquirers from the purely Spiritualist point of view. It should
form invaluable study group material. If you make good use
of it, I shall rest content.
THE BND
