{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__bach___they_have_found_a_faith.pdf","mytitle":"They Have Found A Faith","mylang":"de"}
THEY HAVE FOUND
A FAITH
By MARCUS BACH
THE B OB B S - M E RRI LL COMPANY
PUBLISHERS
INDIANAPOLIS NEW YORK
COPYRIGHT, 1046, BY THE B O B B S - M E R R I L L COMPANY
PUNTED IN THE UHITED STATES OF AMERICA
To
RENEE
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
I HOMETOWN n
II JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 22
III THE FOURSQUARE GOSPEL .......... 57
IV SPIRITUALISM 88
V OXFORD GROUP MRA 123
VI THE KINGDOMS OF FATHER DIVINE 162
VII THE BAHA'I FAITH 189
VIII UNITY .222
IX PSYCHIANA 254
X HOMETOWN 291
THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
CHAPTER I
HOMETOWN
I
ALWAYS knew that someday I would write a book on re-
ligion, not in the theological or doctrinal sense, but about
what religion is and what it does in the lives of people,
I can trace this premonition to the time my dad took me
to a meeting of the Holy Jumpers up in Waukesha, Wisconsin.
When the members of that congregation "got the spirit," they
began hopping up and down. Sometimes they stood in one
spot, jumping higher and higher; sometimes they skipped up
and down the aisles, shouting as they journeyed. I was only a
youngster and to me it seemed wonderful. As I watched I was
sure that I would never find anything more exciting anywhere
in life than what these people found in their religion.
This feeling was intensified by our pilgrimage to a camp
meeting. There folks rolled. Their faces took on an out-of-this-
world expression because they were "lost in Jesus." They
bumped against tables and pews, but without injury. Jesus
wiped away the pain, they said, and I believed them.
Why my dad trotted me around to such off-the-beaten-path
sects instead of setting me down in the staid surroundings of
the Presbyterian church, of which he was a member, I never
ii
12 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
quite figured out. Was he perhaps on a spiritual quest ? And did
he take me along as his decoy? If so, it led us on another occa-
sion to the sawdust sanctuary of a tent evangelist who had adver-
tised that he would demonstrate how Jesus walked on the water.
The stage was set with a large tank in front of a homemade
cross. Calling loudly upon the Lord, the evangelist stepped into
the tank with arms extended. The water was about three feet
deep, but he sank down only a fraction of an inch. After two or
three impressive steps great shouts came from the worshipers:
"Bless yon, Jesus!... Hallelujah!... Praise the Lord!" Dad moved
forward in his dbair. Had he finally found the real thing? Just
then the water-walker became the object of clutching hands.
Down he went. The shouting stopped. An awful calm shot
through the meeting, followed immediately by hisses and cat-
calls from the crowd of unbelievers encircling the tent. The
pseudo-Messiah stood dripping in the spot where he had slipped
oS a concealed plank. I wondered if this was the way Jesus did
His mkades. My dad just shook his head and quietly took me
home.
This religious gypsying was in amazing contrast to the dig-
nity of my mother's Reformed Church which she attended faith-
fully without any display of outward emotion. The melodic old
church bell was our Sunday morning alarm. The Catholics
always rang theirs long and loud for early Mass. We just pulled
the blankets over our ears. But the first tap from the steeple of
'Fnedens Rejormirte Kir\c filled our house with frenzied sanc-
tity and set us on our way to third pew front, center section. My
uncle, a stocky, severe gentleman with a long white beard, was
the pastor. He always wore a little black mitzi or skullcap, I
never remember seeing him smile certainly not in church.
HOMETOWN 13
When he preached, he ascended a scries of twelve steps into the
pulpit and closed a little gate behind him. There he stood, high
above the heads of the congregation. Looking up at him kept
us awake, gave us stiff necks, and reminded us of the direction
in which we had to look to see God. It also proved that the
minister was nearer heaven than the rest of us poor sinners.
In our church the men sat in one section and the women in
another* Boys sat with their fathers, girls with their mothers,
and it was considered sinful to let one's eyes wander over to the
opposite sex. I went to the services with the expectation of
being scolded and I was never disappointed. Even the songs
contributed to the chastening, reminding me of my low estate.
"Alas! and did my Saviour bleed,
And did my Sovereign die?
Would He bow that bruised head
For such a worm as I ?"
Just let me be a good worm or a good spider, I thought as I
sang. That is about all a fellow should expect out of life!
The communion service was more gratifying. At the old
organ Aunt Selma began playing "Break Thou the Bread of
Life." The congregation intoned the first- verse. During die
singing, the men gathered in a semicircle around the table. No
woman was allowed at that first serving. Once a man brought
his wife with him. Uncle told him to take her back to her pew.
The man explained that his wife was ill, and that she could not
stand there alone. "Take her back just the same!" Uncle com-
manded. "She must come up with the women." The man
turned and walked up the aisle. He did not stop at his pew. He
and his wife went on out of the door and never came back.
i4 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Unperturbed^ Uncle handed the chalice to the first communi-
cant who sipped gingerly and handed it back* Before giving it
to the next man, Uncle turned it a little. He turned it after each
sip until the rim of the chalice had been once around. Then he
wiped it off with a white napkin, though he thought this was
unnecessary. "No- germ can live on a communion cup/* he
always affirmed with the severe authority that accompanied
every religious pronouncement. His was the final word of infal-
libility, and I never thought of God without thinking of Uncle
August
My dad envied my mother for what she had so comfortably
and irrevocably found in her faith. He was still a spiritual
stray hunting for the green pastures. Lamblike I followed;
and where he didn't lead, I went alone.
Many of my relatives read the violent yellow sheet called
The Menace. There was enough anti-Catholic bias in my home
to make any boy wonder if the priest kept beautiful young girls
tied up in the confessional booths and if there was really an
arsenal in the church basement. Only once during the liturgical
year was there a semblance of religious unity underlying the sec-
tarianism of my home town. On Christmas Eve all the church
bells rang at the same time. One night after school I was in
the seventh grade I climbed up the steps of the forbidding
Catholic Church and pulled open one of the big black doors.
I stopped short. Standing before me was a mighty angel
holding a holy-water basin. Struggling between curiosity and
fear, I ventured forward and cautiously dipped in my finger.
Nothing happened, so I went on unafraid.
The sanctuary lamp, red and magical; the huge white
HOMETOWN 15
altars; the long, finger-shaped windows of stained glass; the
stations of the cross all was taboo, but it made religion
visual. I spied a confessional booth. Tiptoeing over, I opened
the door. . . . No girls. I went down into the damp, dark
basement. . . * No guns. I went up into the balcony. . .
Nothing to fear* It was all silent and impressive. Why did
we think all Roman Catholics were going to hell? And why
did they think all Reformed members were going there? And
how would everybody feel when they all got together? When
I went back to the holy-water angel, the door was locked.
I finally got out through a basement window and walked
in on my parents, who were in tears. Somebody had suggested
dragging the riven When I told my story, my dad said never
a word. He just sat there listening and thinking, but my
mother told me to go and wash myself "all over."
This passion to keep me unspotted from the great world
outside the Reformation continued through my high-school
years. Upon graduation I was shipped off to the Mission
House College and Seminary near Sheboygan, Wisconsin. In
spite of the great emphasis placed on spiritual growth and
guidance there, seminary religion was never exciting. The
querulous church fathers had built the school out in the
country to keep the boys away from temptation. The relent-
less boredom that pervaded the place made the tavern which
was within easy walking distance seem a little corner of
paradise. There were also poker games and frequent rolling
of the dice, which the professors condemned, condoned, or
participated in depending upon the professor. And, in the
eyes of the lonely candidates for the ministry, the kitchen
16 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
were transformed into bewitching skcns luring the boys
from Xenophon and Zwkigli
In spite of these forms of escape many dropped out long
before graduation to follow other pursuits. The majority,
however, plodded through the seven prescribed years of study,
married^ and launched out to serve churches throughout the
Midwest. Usually they fell Into a complacent, businesslike
ministry according to the gq?pel of the Reformation.
1 felt from the beginning tfiat this would never be my Hfe*
work* As the days dragged by at the Mission House, some-
thing akin to rebellion stirred within me youthful rebellion
against the cold and formalistic theology which never seemed
to touch life. My boyhood impressions of the sincere and sen-
sational disciples within the ranks of America's little-known
religions made historic religions seem like dry leaves. When-
ever I went home for vacations, my dad prodded me with
questions. He wanted to know about the great truth he had
hoped I would find. And once he asked if I had seen any
miracles. The only ones I could think of were the artful
methods students used to get in and out of the dormitories
after hours. At the end of my third year I devised means to
get out for good and moved into the profane environment of
a state university! But my interest in contemporary faiths
persisted. As if pointing the way, a traveling fellowship pro-
vided an opportunity for personal contact with America's
minority religions.
Led by the adventurous spirit of my cultmg hobby further
and further away from the traditional church, I learned to
expect anything. In the fantastic and eccentric goings on I
HOMETOWN 17
felt the fall scale of human emotions. Down in New
I asked a Penitente why he dragged the heavy, our4iundredr
pound cross until It wore a rough spot on his shoulder and
drew blood. He answered, "The Master said, *I any man
would be my disciple, let him take up his cross and follow
me/
"
The snake handlers of Tennessee coiled hissing rattlers
around their bare arms and cried, "These signs shall follow
them that believe/* I made a retrea|
with the Trappist monks
of Kentucky, those strange and devout men who never speak,
I roamed among the Sons of Freedom, the "spirit wrestlers"
of western Canada, who stage nude parades. I lived with the
Hutterites in South Dakota, the purest and most rigorous comr
munists in the world. The impenetrable hook-and-eye Amish
permitted me to record their music. Among the Basque shep-
herds of Idaho I had many friends. The Voodooists of Louisi-
ana had received me, and the trails of America's Utopian
groups had been exciting. Whatever people believed seemed
right because they were convinced that their course was
ordered by divine directives. This assumption is at the heart
of the analysis of every religious sect. Many a farcical revela-
tion has led to a constructive movement and a great faith*
Turn up the sod of every vital religious group and you will
find dreams, visions, and what the followers believe to be
telltale traces of the divine. Whenever these came aloag they
were interpreted as holy whisperings or wild hallucinations,
depending upon the point of view.
Through all my wanderings the idea for a book on religion
lingered, but it crystallized in a wholly unexpected and dra-
matic way. One night I was lecturing on the sensationalism
x8 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
of American communistic^ Utopian, and folk groups. I con-
cluded with a poem by Ella Wheeler Wilcor:
"All roads that lead to God arc good;
What matters it, your faith or mine;
Both center at the goal divine
Of love's eternal brotherhood,
A thousand creeds have come and gone.
But what is that to you or me ?
Creeds are but branches of a tree
'*
I had got that far, "Creeds are but branches of a tree/* when
suddenly a man in the audience shouted, "The hell they are!"
The crowd which had been orderly and interested turned
from me to this heckler. As I sought him out I had to admit
that his appearance belied such an uncouth interruption. He
was well dressed and portrayed a stiff dignity as he came to
his feet
"The trouble with religion/' he was saying, "is that we
have watered it down until the strength has gone out of it.
Nobody knows what to believe. Now you come along and
insinuate that one denomination is as good as another. All
roads that lead to God are good! What do you mean? Creeds
are branches of a tree! Where do you get that idea? Have
you ever investigated the commercialized heretical groups that
are making inroads into our established churches? They're a
threat to true religion! They're taking unfair advantage of the
Bill o Rights!"
I had often heard such accusations while on my trek along
the eternal roads of what people believe. It was the fire
HOMETOWN 19
behind this man's words that compelled me to get down to
facts. Fifty per cent of our population were church members;
less than fifty per cent of these attended services. Bet the cults
were booming. The stream of faith was being divided by a
crosscurrent of scathing condemnations. The struggle was be-
tween those who wanted to maintain the status quo and those
who felt that the religious world was ready for reconstruc-
tion. While the churches claimed that they were the voice of
a glorious and triumphant past, the cults announced the invo-
cation of a new Protestantism.
Suddenly I was no longer concerned with isolated experi-
ments. Before me lay an expanding dominion of littlc-J^noum
religions that were becoming altogether too well known. They
were putting the pressure on my old Presbyterian church my
old Reformed church my old Catholic church jolting them
to action or to death.
Perhaps my accuser was right. Would a new investigation
disclose leaders who had taken undue advantage of the Bill of
Rights? Or were they inspired by a higher courage to break
away from ancient moorings to explore with God ?
I walked home from that lecture amid a torrent o
thoughts with the Holy Jumpers and the camp-meeting en-
thusiasts with the water-walking evangelist and Uncle Au-
gust with the angel in the Catholic church with the quiet,
searching questions of my dad with the earnest seminary
fathers and their age-old spiritual ideals with the spirits of the
lowly elect of American folkways.
Somehow, I felt that I must become a representative of the
average churchgoer everywhere in America whose heart was
a> THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
with me in my seeking. If Jehovah's Witnesses have some
heavenly tip-off that the world is coming to an end in 1973,
we want to tell our friends about it in plenty of time! If
Father Divine is really God?
we want to know about it! If
Unity is building a new city down in Missouri, we Americans
want to get in on the ground floor! If that man in Moscow,
Idaho, talked with God "actually and literally/* we have a
right to know how it's done!
Certainly these modern movements suggested that there was
a vital, if not always coherent, moving force back of them,
giving luster and drive to their beliefs. Perhaps we of the
old historic faiths had become too self-contained and modi
able. Once in our church we prayed on our knees, later we
stood, then we sat, and now we sit on cushions. Yet none
of the tendencies or practices in any religion could vitiate my
feeling that everyone who truly sought God had a solemn
right to his own seeking.
I would not concern myself so much with the rivalry among
groups as with their realization. I would devote myself more
to the way than to the why of their doctrine. What could these
precocious isms teach me about keeping alive the eternal fire
of the quest? Through what landscapes did these new roads
run to reach again the old horizons of an enthusiastic faith?
Let others turn ecclesiastical microscopes on them or weigh
them in the sensitive scale of final truth; I would content
myself with the age-old verdict of Gamaliel, "If this work be
of men, it will come to nought; but if it be of God, ye cannot
overthrow it."
Sot with a spurt of expectation, I decided to set forth on my
HOMETOWN 21
own with no strings attached, no stipend from any uni?ersitys
no commission from any church^ no obligation to any indi-
vidual or group, no bias? no preconceived judgment* BO
illusions.
"All roads that lead to God arc good," As I began my adven-
ture the fervor of this naive and youthful conviction rushed
over me once more.
CHAPTER II
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES
W;
(ATCHTOWER! CONSOLATION! Get your copy!** I
tad heard these words on Main Street across the
nation, and it always seemed to me that the folks
who said them were a rather odd slice o Amer-
icana* Artist Grant Wood would have found them engaging
subjects* Equally insensitive to drizzling rain and driving
wind, they set their faces in the tradition of America's second
freedom: the freedom of worship. The summer sun glued
them to their chosen spot, a street corner where the races of
men pass by. There they stood, self-sufficient in Jehovah God,
canvas bags slung over their shoulders, periodicals in their
upraised hands. Saturday crowds could not dislodge them. For
the law, they had no need. For mankind, generally, they
evinced a sovereign aloofness. They would rather be alone
with what they considered truth than in league with nameless
travelers of the road. It was their business to warn this Arma-
geddon-bound -generation of its impending destiny. "The
Kingdom is at hand!" was their battle cry and Jehovah God
their leader. Jehovah's Witnesses are what they wanted to be,
sentinels on the watchtower of time.
"Watchtowerl Consolation!"
22
JEHOVAH'S %
The words always slowed me down, but one day in the
of America's Bible Belt they stopped me. The voice of a street-
corner Witness was suddenly lost in the angry accusation of
a local cleric.
"Damn you, conscientious objector!" he muttered in right-
eous indignation as he knocked Jehovah*s envoy roughly with
his elbow.
A shadow crossed the vendor's face. Perhaps he was think-
ing of his rights under the Constitution, the God-given rigjht
of every Witness. But he accepted this offense with a patient,
submissive smile a smile that seemed to say, ^Strange how
slowly people come to the truth,, isn't it?
!>
No doubt he was
remembering that he had been assured by Scripture that there
would always be opposition from "the children of the Devil
Satan." The world, and that included organized religion, was
bound to be at enmity with the chosen of the Lord. This was
prophecy.
Something drew me nearer. It was the secure and insular
expression in the man's deep-set eyes. It was the way he stood
there, behind the sturdy wall of his convictions. He was prob-
ably thirty-five, tall and thin. From beneath the brim of his
dark hat prematurely gray hair showed. His gray suit was
worn, but newly pressed. Judging by the appearance of this
man, I felt that I had found a contradiction for those who con-
sidered the Witnesses an impoverished, anti-intellectual group.
And yet, as I took my stand on this street corner to continue
my study of this little-known movement, I recognized that
the man was cast in the seasoned mold of his organization.
"Watchtowerl Consolation!"
In the lavish gallery of American religious history, scenes
24 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
from this group arc hung in sensational frames. At a St. Louis
convention in 1941, one hundred fifteen thousand Witnesses
jammed the city and fanned out to knock at the door of every
home for a radius of forty miles. Never had I seen delegates at
a church convention take time out for anything like this. It was
as startling as though a meeting of the American Medical Asso-
ciation had recessed to run down and gratuitously treat the city's
sick! Yet this was simply a regular part of the agenda of all
Witness work. At a Detroit convention in 1940 the city swim-
ming pool was rented for a baptismal service. Twenty-five hun-
dred converts were dipped under the water in the name of
the Lord. In Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1940, a regular meeting
of local Witnesses was attacked by a mob of workmen armed
with guns, sticks, and lead pipes. Two Witnesses were wounded
by bullets, five others so severely beaten they had to be treated
at a Little Rock hospital In Grinnell, Iowa, on May 17, 1942, a
band of citizens tipped over the trailers of two Witnesses, who
had moved into town to warn the unsuspecting populace that
the end of the age was near. Close by Newark, New Jersey, in
1937, authorities jailed a hundred of them because they were
"considered dangerous." At a convention in Plainfield, New
Jersey, in 1933, police roamed the auditorium with revolvers
and shotguns* They said they were protecting the delegates,
but the Witnesses felt they were being molested.
When I spoke in Civilian Public Service camps during
World War II, I asked, "Where are Jehovah's Witnesses?"
The answer was always the same: "They are in Federal pris-
ons, carrying their C. O. ideas that far."
Yet, according to their belief, they are not conscientious ob-
jectors; they are "neutrals*" Actually they are not nonresistant.
JEHOVAH'S as
They will fight for Jehovah's truth, but will have no
in the squabbles among "the children of men or the govcra-
ments of the earth." Ushers have carried canes at some conven-
tions, and in New Jersey they used them to evict troublemakers.
"Watchtowerl Consolation!**
There was a flood of strength behind the words* This was
America's most misunderstood religious group. To me, the
reason was evident, for I had just returned from Brooklyn
where I had tried to ferret out the truth behind the movement.
I found the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society at 117
Adams Street an impenetrable organizational headquarters.
Perhaps this is as it should be. For the first time in my jaunt up
and down America's trails of faith, I found an office that claims
to have a leased line to God's great throne. Here was the Theo-
cratic capitol of the universe.
The man-made front for Jehovah's Kingdom consists of two
modern brick buildings: the factory and Bethel Home- Mark-
ing the entrance to the factory is a huge electric sign of ruby
lights: RICHES, It does not mean money; it hints of the unspeak-
able treasures of the Theocracy. Although the Society has a
president, its true director is God and its chief officer is Christ
Jesus. He is the rightful Bang of the world, and Jehovah's Wit-
nesses are the true citizens of Zion.
Such an exorbitant claim to infinite riches makes the earthly
history of the movement amazingly incidental. Since its ap-
pearance in 1874 as an obscure, tragicomic, date-setting faitib,
there have been only three leaders: Charles Taze Russell, Joseph
Franklin Rutherford, Nathan H. Knorr. Their true personali-
ties were known only slightly to their followers. Scandal sur-
rounded Pastor Russell; mystery. Judge Rutherford; silence,
26 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Brother Knorr, The first two acted as the amanuenses of Je-
hovah. Their written words were accounted gospel They
dipped thek peas into the "inexhaustible reservoir of divine
truth
11
and an almost endless stream of books iowed to Wit-
nesses throughout the world. It was not unusual for one of these
publications to have a first printing of ten million copies. When
Knorr took over in 1941, publications gradually ceased carry-
ing the author's name. It was as though the new administrator
deliberately desired to obscure worldly personalities. Today
behind the walls at 117 Adams Street, Gargantuan presses
grind out fabulous and unlimited numbers of books with the
simple and impressive inscription, "Dedicated to Jehovah and
His Messiah." To count or classify the publications of the
Watchtower Bible and Tract Society convinces the credulous
that God's hand is in the business. The presses are geared to a
daily capacity of twenty thousand bound books and one hun-
dred fifty thousand booklets. The annual output soars to
the amazing total of twenty million pieces printed, bound,
and mailed from one address. This building also houses the
factory for the manufacture of glue, inks, dies, cuts, bindings,
portable phonographs, transcriptions, and whatever else is
needed to keep seventy thousand distributors active on Main
Street, U. S. A.
These factual details I had already dug out of the Society's
Yearbook. I had gone to Brooklyn to meet the people but was
greeted with "Reporters deliberately garble things." I wanted
to sit down with their leader, but "Mr. Knorr is in Europe now."
At near-by Bethel Home my reception was the same. The
Witnesses were cordial, but noncommittal. They were of the
JEHOVAITS 27
opinion that the uninitiated could never understand the
meaning of the work. They forgot that that
tacitly reflected in the severity of their devotion. They did not
know that the questions which they evaded were written in
their lives. These pilgrims to paradise seemed to know where
they came from, where they were going, and what was hap-
pening to them and their fellows along the way.
Bethel Home is a seven-story apartment building facing East
River at 124 Columbia Heights. Here, long ago, stood the man-
sion of Henry Ward Beecher, a giant in the chronicles of
American faith. He had nothing to do with the history of
Jehovah's Witnesses. In fact, I am sure that Dr. Beecher would
blink his eyes at the displacement of his staid old manse by this
modern "House of God." It is a self-sustaining, miniature village
with living quarters, offices, shops, and a common refectory for
the Witnesses who man the factory next door. Food is supplied
by farms owned by the Society.
A bell arouses the Witnesses at seven in the morning to begin
a day of labor for the Lord. At ten-thirty in the evening the bell
rings again and the lights go out. For such a workaday existence
these confederates with the Unseen receive ten dollars a month
in addition to room and board. It is all they ask, all they want.
Beyond the walls of this monastic vocation they have caught a
vision of Jehovah's Kingdom. They are secure In the belief
that theirs is the only organization on earth that is doing God's
will. One Witness assured me that all I needed to do was read
a little more, think a little less, and get acquainted with God's
true word! She suggested a copy of The Emphatic Diaglott,,
which presents in parallel columns both the Greek and English
28 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
tens of the New Testament, It is nicely bound in leatherette
and embossed in gold.
"You can have it for a contribution of two dollars/* she en-
couraged, "Our books and periodicals are never sold. They
are always exchanged for contributions. In many cases we re-
ceive less than the cost, but if you want the publications, you can
have them."
"What Is there in all this for you?" I asked.
u
Do you think
you will always be content here?"
The answer was quick and confident. "Of course! You see,
the end of the age is near, almost at hand. Just a little while,
thai the final battle, Armageddon. After that, we who have
fulfilled Jehovah God's requirements will carry out the divine
mandate to fill the earth with a righteous race for all eternity,
Worth working for? What do you think?"
Without giving me a chance to reply, she continued prophet-
ically, "You see, this unrighteous earth will be dissolved and the
wicked will be destroyed. Then we will take over. If the Em-
pire State Building still stands after that great and terrible day,
we will walk through the granite corridors and God will tell
us what to do. Kings will have died and earthly rulers will be
no more. Money will have no value. The only riches will be
truth and the only treasures loyalty and service to Jehovah God.
In those great days the Witnesses will come into their own and
the meek will inherit the earth."
Now she was leading me to a table covered by a veritable
cloudburst of "inspired writings" bound in flashy multicolored
covers. There was The Final War with a blood-red gladiator
astride a white horse. Where Arc the Dead? was illustrated with
JEHOVAH'S 29
a lone, haunted figure coming out of a tomb, of human-
ity fled to the mountains for refuge from Armageddon oa
Escape fa the Kingdom. Intolerance depicted the Witnesses
condemned by an unjust judge.
I decided to adjudge them innocent until farther investiga-
tion. Perhaps that is why on this Midwestern street, I dug into
my pocket for a nickel and said, "111 take a Walchtomcr!*
"It's Jehovah's true message."
He spoke mechanically, synchronizing his words with the act
of placing the periodical into my hands. I had bought copies of
the Watchtowcr many times, but again I was struck by the
boldness of the claim made on its cover page. Stamped against
the conventional background of God's throne and the strong-
hold of His Witnesses was the persistent "Announcing Jehovah's
Kingdom."
"Everyone should have a chance to accept or reject it/* he
added.
"Is that your mission, to give everyone a chance?"
"In my territory, yes," he averred.
"A great responsibility," I admitted casually. "What if you
miss somebody?"
"We don't miss," he insisted.
"How can you be so sure ?" I asked.
"We take our message directly to the people in their homes.**
"And if they're out?"
"We call again until we find them."
"How long have you been working this town?"
"Working? You mean witnessing," he reproved mildly.
"Witnessing."
30 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
u
l have gone over the territory twice already. I expect to
cover It four times unless the Society has other plans for me* A
complete canvass takes about a year/
9
Such house-to-house witnessing Is the strength of the organi-
zation. This fact Is common knowledge. From door to door the
work Is unfolded, published, demonstrated.
As I stood aside and leafed through the Watchtotucr, I won-
dered If this Witness might let me tag along as he went on his
daily doorbell-ringing round. Or would he resent such hitch-
hiking on God's highway ? What could I learn about the group
by being at the rapping, rather than at the receiving end of a
visit ? What kind of salesmen for salvation were these "only and
truly chosen of Jehovah God"? I wanted to know how this
Midwestern town of fifteen thousand responded to their mes-
sage.
As I turned to speak to him, a straight and severe woman of
middle age had come up.
"Is this the publication of the Russellites?" she asked tersely.
"They used to call us Russellites/' came the well-measured
answer.
"That Is the same as the International Bible Students."
"We use neither of those terms any more. We are Jehovah's
Witnesses/*
"I'm sure that is what we all want to be." She scraped in her
purse for a nickel.
"Yes," cautioned Jehovah's servant, "but we must have the
truth. In Isaiah 43:12 Jehovah God says, 'Ye are my witnesses/
but He didn't mean everybody. He meant only those who have
the truth/*
JEHOVAH'S 31
**Tnith, truth," said the woman pettishly.
a
How do
know you have the truth?"
"We trace the Scriptures right back to their original mean-
ing/* explained the Witness, "We prove the Scriptures, And*
of course, we have God's headquarters in Brooklyn which aids
us in this matter through proper study."
"Oh, welt, now/* retorted the other, dropping her contribu-
tion into the man's hand, "I think I know as much about
religion as most of you."
With characteristic passion for pressing home the "truth,**
the Witness insisted, "That may be, ma'am, but Fm not talking
about religion, I'm talking about God's word. Now, in 1914
when Jesus came into His kingdom
**
But the good woman was already out of hearing and march-
ing straight on toward Armageddon. Was it the fear of that
"great and terrible day" that impelled her to invest in Conso-
lation? 0r was she pnsparinf a fafter fr her literary club? To
the Witness, it seemed immaterial.
"You bring your message to people the hard way," I observed.
My remark struck the man with great surprise. "Why, it's
the way Jehovah God has instructed us. Paul says that we must
witness in every city. Acts 20:23."
"About your house-to-house witnessing, do you put in regular
hours?"
"I try to. I usually start out about eight or eight-thirty, as soon
as people are stirring."
"You've done this for some time?"
"Fifteen years."
"You must learn a great deal about human nature.'
1
32 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
"I never thought about that/
1
he said in a preoccupied way.
"My only work is to witness.**
"I'd like to go with you on some of these trips," I ventured.
"I'd like to see what happens and hear how you bring your
message to American homes. Would you mind ?"
"Not at all You can come along tomorrow ?"
'Tomorrow? That's Sunday/'
"That's right/'
"You witness on Sunday?'*
"Why not?"
"Isn't everyone in church?"
"Are they ?" he asked wryly.
"Well, not everyone," I confessed.
"Watchtowerl Consolation!"
A man in working clothes asked for a copy of Consolation.
"I've got a Watchtowcr? he explained.
"I know you have," observed the Witness* "I was glad to
see you at the meeting last Sunday night. How are you getting
along with The Truth Shall Ma%e You Free?"
"That's slow reading!" exclaimed the workman.
The Witness' voice was sincere with interest. "I'd be glad
to help you understand it/'
"I imagine you could do that all right/' the other agreed.
"How about this evening?" suggested the Witness.
"Oh, I'd have time this evening. But what is this going to
cost?"
"Nothing."
"You mean you'd sit down with me and go over the book
for nothing?"
"I'll meet with you once a week for nothing" the Witness
JEHOVAH'S 33
promised. "That Is part of my work. I I
clear when you got the book."
"Well, maybe you did say something like that. But you know
how things go nowadays F*
Hie Witness got the man's address and made an appointment
with him. Then he turned to me. "If you are Interested In
sitting in on a home study, here's the address. You arc welcome
to drop around."
"I might do that," I replied, "for I think that is the only kind
of meeting I have not attended."
Looking at me with sudden interest, he said, "I don't remem-
ber seeing you at our Kingdom Hall."
"I haven't attended locally," I explained, "but I have been
an impartial listener-in at a number of meetings."
"Where, may I ask?"
"In this country and in Canada,"
"And you're not a Witness ?"
"Well not yet. In fact, all IVe ever heard about your group
outside of Kingdom Halls and conventions has been bad."
"Yes?" For the first time he smiled. He seemed amused at
the inability of Satan's child to understand him.
"And just about all I've read about your movement has been
bad, too," I affirmed!. "You are always taking a crack at the
Catholic Church or at the Protestant clergy, both of whom I
respect. You are nonconformist and nonco-operative in commu-
nity affairs. You ask for tolerance for yourself, but you are intol-
erant of others. Your first leader called himself 'Pastor* but
there is no evidence that he was ever ordained. And why did he
take a title like that if he hated the churches ? Judge Ruther-
ford made the prediction that 'millions now living will never
34 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
die/ but they arc dying. And* by the way, I hear that he made
a fortune out of the movement. In short, public opinion has
put you down as subversive. But if what you believe brings you
to this street corner every Saturday and makes you tramp across
this town pushing every doorbell at least four times, and if
you're willing to sit down with some earnest seeker and study
with him for no pay well, there must be more to all this than
meets the eye."
"There is," he said.
"Money?"
He shook his head and, in his remote and ominous tone, re-
peated the timeworn answer: "Armageddon."
"Scheduled for when?"
"It should come sometime before 1972." He made it sound
so commonplace we might have been talking about the weather.
And yet, for him, Armageddon would be life's most portentous
event.
Reasonably assured that it would not come before the mor-
row, I said, "111 see you in the morning?"
"At eight-thirty." He nodded without urging me again to
be at the home study that evening* "Shall we meet here on this
corner?"
"Fine," I agreed, "Should I bring anything or is there any-
thing I can do to help ?"
"Yes, there is," he figured. "Ill let you carry the phono-
graph."
"By all means ! Let me do the heavy work, since 111 only be
a witness for a day !"
"Who knows?" he retorted quietly. "The truth may make
you free Watchtowerl Consolation! Get your copy!"
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 35
The sales cry of this spiritual merchant resounded in my cars
later that day when I noticed a bold sign on the obscure door
of a small office building. Kingdom Hall was located at the
top of a flight of narrow, unpainted steps running between
whitewashed walls. I went up and peered through the partially
open door. It was an unadorned, boxlike room with folding
chairs to accommodate about forty. I was somewhat surprised
to see a good-sized American flag in a standard at the front of
the hall. Spread across the front wall in huge black and red let-
ters was the motto of the year: "BE GLAD, YE NATIONS, WITH HIS
PEOPLE/' ROM. 15:10, ROTHERHAM.
In an adjoining room I spied another chore boy for Jehovah.
He was clearing a space on the large, neat shelves for the latest
shipment of books from Brooklyn.
"Mind if I come in ?" I called from the doorway.
"Not at all!" His answer was cordial, but he looked up from
his work for only a moment. "Make yourself at home. The
latest Watchtower is on the desk."
The desk was just inside the entrance door. Magazines and
pamphlets were spread out in an attractive display, and a row
of the Society's books completely lined the back of the table. A
contribution box was nailed on the wall above the desk. At the
front of the hall stood a small lectern and an old organ.
"You use songs in your services ?" I asked.
"Sometimes, but study is more important in these last days,*'
came the confident reply from the bookroom.
I looked around for a hymnal and found a small paper-bound
volume published by the Society, The Kingdom Service Song
BooJ(. Inscribed below this tide were the words, "Sing unto
Jehovah a new song." One glance through the sixty-two pages
36 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
revealed that this injunction was heeded by all who use the
book. I found none o the traditional hymns of Protestantism.
It was really a collection of battle songs for Jehovah's regiment
of witnessing souk Below each title, where one usually finds
the name of the author, there was a Scripture reference.
"Fear not, O flock of God, the foe
Who madly seeks your overthrow;
Dread not his rage and pow'r;
What though your courage sometimes faints*
His seeming triumph o'er God's saints
Lasts but a little hour*
Jehovah God, O grant our pray'r;
For thy name's sake thine arm make bare*
Let not base men prevail
A jest thine enemies are grown ;
Thou art with us, we are thine own ;
Our vict'ry cannot fail/'
These words and the music were somewhat different from
those I had heard at a United Announcers' Theocratic As-
sembly:
"Once with confusion my sad heart was filled,
Drinking the cup that religion distilled,
Oh, with what gladness and joy it was thrilled,
When thy sweet message I heard!"
Behind the lectern on the front wall was a large chart, show-
ing the month-by-month tabulation of the local Witness work.
There were columns for the number of active Witnesses, the
number of calls, back calls, and home studies. The comparison
JEHOVAfTS WITNESSES 37
of the past year and the present was made outstanding by the
use of red and black ink. The chart emphasized the definite
semantic distinctions which the Society has adopted in an effort
to dissociate itself as much as possible from religious terminol-
ogy. Local Witnesses constitute not a congregation, but a
4
*coin-
pany." The place of meeting is not a church; it is a "Kingdom
HalL" Leaders of the work may be called ministers since they
are ordained of God but it is more correct to class them simply
as Witnesses. Every Witness is a publisher, for he can become
a Witness only by making a covenant with God to **publish
n
the truth from house to house. Every publisher is expected to
devote at least sixty hours a month to the work. A full-time
publisher is called a pioneer, for whom the Society has set a
minimum service requirement of one hundred fifty hours a
month. Emulating the communal life of the Bethel Home
Witnesses, the pioneer receives no stated salary. He evaluates
his ministry in terms of sacrifice. All contributions that he re-
ceives are sent to the Brooklyn headquarters to be credited to
his account. In return he has a meager drawing account for
living expenses.
The special pioneer assigned to a company by the Society
takes charge of all public meetings. On Sunday evenings he
conducts a group study, using the current Watchtower as a
text. Wherever I had sat with Witnesses in their Kingdom
Halls, this study had followed the same line of procedure. The
leader asks the questions following each paragraph and requests
the reading of annotated Scripture texts. After a brief discus-
sion, an assistant reads the paragraph in its entirety. The meet-
ing opens and closes with a short prayer.
I found more variety, however, in the Thursday night meet-
38 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
ings, which aim at self-improvement of the publishers. Empha-
sis centers on the development of a deeper understanding of
basic beliefs, but problems faced by the Witnesses during the
past week are also discussed. The pioneer gives individual in-
struction in effective speaking and in meeting the public.
I had once heard a youthful Witness present, as part of an
assignment^ an extemporaneous talk on "Religion Is Doomed."
"The reason we use the name Jehovah God instead of just
God is because there are two Gods. One is Jehovah God and
one is a mimic god whose name is Satan the Devil. Long, long
ago Satan the Devil told Jehovah God that he could win men
over to himself. Jehovah God could have killed the mimic god
right then, but He didn't. He wanted people to have a chance
to make their own choice. So you know what Satan the Devil
did? He went about organizing churches. Satan the Devil
invented religion. He started up Catholic churches and Prot-
estant churches and all the hundreds of other kinds of churches
and religions. All of them have interpreted the Bible to suit
their own taste. They agree on only one great truth and that is
*In the beginning God created heaven and earth.' Yet people
believe that religion is the work of Jehovah God. It never was
the work of Jehovah God. It is just a trick of the mimic god.
It is terrible how many people have been fooled. And because
Jehovah God has served notice on Satan the Devil that his time
is short, that is why the churches and religion are staging all
sorts of campaigns and drives and raising money to get the
people 'saved.' They are really saving them for Satan the Devil
and not for Jehovah God. That is why religion is doomed."
That evening I crossed the tracks to the address given me
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 39
for the home study. An old car was parked in front of a small
traMerlikc shack, I walked up the dirt path. Framed in a single
narrow window was a scene that might have been taken from
circuit-rider days. Jehovah's Witness sat on a box with an open
Bible in his hands. On the floor beside him was his leather
book satchel. Little imagination was needed to convert it into
a saddlebag. Books, pamphlets, and a Bible peeped out of it
and another Bible lay open on top. Leaning forward in a
kitchen chair was the student, still in working clothes. He held
a small blue pamphlet and his lips were moving. Beside him,
on a table where supper dishes still stood, lay his Bible. He
read a moment, then picked up the Bible to verify a Scripture
text No doubt in settings much like this American faith was
born, and the foundations of new beliefs were laid.
I rapped at the door.
"Come in!" called the workman.
He offered me the only other chair in the room. The Witness
handed me a Bible and a copy of The Truth Shall Mafye Y*w
Free,
"Here are the study questions," he said, giving me one of the
small blue pamphlets. "We are starting at the beginning."
"That's right
"
our host nodded "but to me the most in-
teresting part of the book is where it tells about 1914."
The Witness smiled patiently. He was ready to continue the
study "from the beginning," but the student had discovered a
great revelation on page 239! That is where he insisted I turn.
He tried eagerly to explain how, by an ingenious bit of divine
computation^ the author had determined that in 1914 Jesus had
entered into His kingdom and set up His Theocratic government.
"The wonderful thing about this," exclaimed the man, *'is
40 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
that Charles Taze Russell predicted way back in 1880 that
Jesus would enter His kingdom in 1914 and now, you see, He
did on exactly that date!"
Our instructor again suggested that we should begin on page
one.
"But isn't it wonderful ?" the student insisted.
"Sure it is," I agreed. "But how do you know Jesus entered
His kingdom ?"
"It says so right here !"
He interrupted so emphatically that I knew he accepted for
truth whatever the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society pub-
lished.
And he was a new disciple!
"According to the Scriptures," explained the Witness, "the
time of the Gentiles began in 606 B.C. Jesus referred to this in
Luke 21:24. 606 B- c* ls Ae date when Nebuchadnezzar over-
threw God's Theocracy. When would it be restored? After
seven times had passed over. Read Daniel 4:10-17. That is a
symbolic picture of God's rule of the world. What does seven
times mean? In Revelation 12:6-14 i,2&> days are referred to
as a time, and times, and half a time. That means three and a
half. A time is one, times means two, and a half makes three
and a half."
I was lost, but he went on without me.
"So, seven times would be twice one thousand two hundred
sixty or two thousand five hundred twenty days. Now, a month
in Scripture means thirty days. You can check this with Genesis
7:11-24, and chapter 8:3-4. Therefore, two thousand five hun-
dred twenty days would equal eighty-four months or seven
years. But now Ezekiel, speaking for Jehovah God in Chapter
JEHOVAffS 4^
4, verse 6,
C
I have appointed day for a year/
Hence, the time of the Gentiles is really two thousand five
hundred twenty years. All we need to do BOW is to count from
606 B.a forward two thousand five hundred twenty years and
we arrive at AJX 1914. Jehovah God is an accurate timekeeper*
He said that was to be the year in which the new Theocracy
should be set up, and that is the year it was. Jesus came into
His kingdom."
"But," I protested, "it seems to me that 1914 was the year that
the Devil came into his kingdomI"
"Exactly!" declared the workman with great enthusiasm.
"That is just what happened! Jesus came into- His invisible
heavenly kingdom and threw Satan the Devil down to earth.
Up until that time Satan the Devil had free run of the whole
universe. Now he and his demon hordes are restricted to this
earth. That's why all the trouble! That's why he's working
day and night stirring up the people!**
"Let's go back to Chapter One/' directed the Witness. **We
were at question twenty in the study: *The promise of the
Four Freedoms by the nations is proof of what fact?' The
reference is Luke 21 12.6 and 27.*'
The Four Freedoms ? That gave the study a contemporary
ring, but what did Luke have to do with it? I should not have
been surprised. Wherever I had met Witnesses or sat in on their
meetings, the jigsaw of current happenings was always pieced
together according to the Theocratic pattern. Everything that
happens in the world has already been charted in their "Living
Book!" God is running the universe and nothing that man can
do will am or hinder tfie ultimate destiny. That is why the
Witnesses are more interested in God's will for the world than
42 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
in God's will for their lives. They arc not individuals; they are
symbols in the eternal scheme.
The Witness asked me to read the answer to our question
from The Truth Shall Ma^c You Free.
I did.
"The very fact that, in the 1940'$, politicians of 'Christendom*
publish a statement to the world guaranteeing the so-called
Tour Freedoms' is a blank admission that the peoples and na-
tions are not free. Nevertheless, 'Christendom' which, accord-
ing to her profession of the name 'Christian/ ought to be free,
claims to have continued in the word of Jesus and to be His
disciple indeed. The facts belie her claim. Instead of knowing
the truth, 'Christendom' is a confusion of religions, Catholic,
Protestant, and Jewish, and pagan, and a confusion of political
systems, democratic and totalitarian. All are now fearfully
groping in darkness for some interreligious and international
arrangement whereby they can all survive and get along to-
gether."
The ardent disciple was ready with the Scripture references
as soon as I had finished.
"Luke 21 126 and 27 has this to say in this connection," he
began:
"
'Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking
after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers
of heaven shall be shaken. And then shall they see the Son of
man coming in a cloud with power and great glory/ Now,
isn't that wonderful! That sure all fits in!" he ended im-
petuously.
The longer I listened, the more I felt myself caught in the
narrow spiritual defile between the instructor's conviction and
his pupil's credence. Here in a lowly domestic dwelling, I was
JEHOVAH'S 43
asked to believe that a street-corner vendor and a
were custodians of divine prerogatives that had entirely escaped
the educated clerics of traditional Christianity! Their truth was
at the bottom of everything. They were right; others were
wrong. They were the personae of the Ruler and Maker
of the world. Wherever Witnesses sat together that night in
home study. In Kingdom Hall, In Bethel Home all who had
committed themselves to this truth were those for whom God
had made the earth. This, of course, seemed unspeakably im-
pudent until one set It up against the bold facts of religious
history. The thought I had about the early circuit riders was
forced back until it touched the very beginning of the Chris-
tian faith* I had to admit there had always been men like these
"witnesses" whose convictions were biased according to con-
ventional standards, whose words were heretical, but who had
the animation of something strangely akin to a triumphant
spirit.
Rutherford played a master stroke when, in 1931, he gave
his people the name Jehovah's Witnesses. This title linked them
with the Biblical heroes. It gave them blood relationship to
Abraham, who prepared to slay his own son in order to testify
that he was a faithful witness. It likened them to Noah, Moses,
David, Daniel, Isaiah. Wherever the word "witness" appears
in the Bible, there the Witnesses of today see their prototypes.
Nowhere, however, do they find so rich a lineage as with the
men whom Jesus called. The Master's disciples were ridiculed
and ignored because they were "in the world and not of It"
They, too, considered themselves the rightful heirs to a new
world and subjects of an invisible King, Were they in the favor
of earthly rulers ? Were they militaristic ? Did they aspire to
44 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
the tilings of men? Never, say the Witnesses. These men
their forebears, their kindred' went about warning and plead-
ing, seeking the lost, reaching the hearts of those who would
teed prophecy's fulfillment. They, too, went from house to
house carrying neither scrip nor purse. They preached in the
streets. They were thrown to lions, stoned, crucified.
Rutherford further maintained that the succession of saints
bridging the years from the first Christian church to the head*
quarters in Brooklyn were all Jehovah's Witnesses. In league
with these, the instructor who sat on the box before me repre-
sented the continuity of the Christian faith in all its original
and primitive aspects.
The Witness drove me home.
"Where do you live ?" I asked.
He replied in his usual remote manner, "Since my wife and I
came to town two years ago, we have lived in a trailer."
"Do you have any children?**
His answer was sincere but impersonal. "No, we haven't.
We think it is better to wait until after Armageddon."
This was a new one in my experiences among the "littlc-
knowns"! A young married couple, dead sure that Jesus was
coming to set up a perfect kingdom, was postponing the matter
of a family until that great day!
"Is this a belief among the Witnesses," I asked, "or is it just
your idea?"
"The Society feels that since the time of the end is so near,
people can witness more effectively if they do not have too
many responsibilities."
"Do you think some of the workers are even waiting to get
married until after Armageddon?"
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 45
"I Imagine so," he answered seriously. "Wouldn't you wait,
if you knew the world was going to be so much, better
then?"
"And it will be possible to get married after Jesus comes ?**
"Of course. Life will go on in much the same way,, only there
will be no sin."
"What about death after Armageddon ?"
"There will be none. Everyone will grow to a reasonable
age and remain that way."
"But couldn't you be mistaken ? Did you ever think about
that?"
"There is a chance that some of the more minor details may
have certain variations. But basically it wiU all have to come to
pass as we believe*"
"Why?"
"Because it is God's truth. And Jehovah God neither lies nor
makes mistakes."
Against this backdrop of startling infallibility, I set out with
Jehovah's Witness on the following morning. It was a raw,
cold January day. The Witness and his wife were waiting in
the only car parked at yesterday's busy corner. After a casual
introduction, he explained that she was a pioneer and would
work an adjoining territory. While the church bells called to
early worshipers, we drove to a modest residential section. The
Witness took a small plat from his pocket and indicated the
blocks he expected to cover before noon. We left the car, armed
with a good-sized box, a large pouch full of books, and the
portable phonograph.
"Is the machine wound ?" asked my partner.
It wasn't. I awkwardly cranked it as we started up the walk
(o a neat, middle-class home.
46 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
In answer to our rap the door was opened wide by a buxom
lady in house dress and apron*
"Good morning," began my friend. "I am one of Jehovah's
Witnesses
"
"Ach, Himmell" interrupted the woman with a strong Ger-
man accent. "I am too sick today to buy anything or to listen
to anybody!"
She slammed the door before I could open the phonograph.
"Well," smiled the Witness fatefiiUy, "she was quick about
it:
9
"Do most of your days begin like this ?" I asked, unwilling to
take the incident seriously.
"I don't keep track,** he answered, heading stoically toward
the big white house next door. "According to Acts 9 that's the
way it was with Paul, though."
As we stood shivering on the rambling porch, the door
opened stingily.
"Good morning," began my confrere. "I am one of Jehovah's
Witnesses and have a timely and important message for you.
For convenience' sake, this message has been recorded and I
would like you to hear it."
This was my cue. Before the woman had time to object, I
set the needle down on the whirling record.
"His faithful disciples," came Rutherford's voice from the
phonograph, "propounded to Jesus this question: 'What shall be
the proof of the end of the world?
5
The question did not refer
to the end of the earth because, cts these disciples knew, the
earth abides forever and will never end. . . ."
I remembered Rutherford as I had seen him at a convention
during his heyday. His stance at the microphone was as stolid
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 47
as his message* He was a large man, over six feet, aad his
studied judgclike bearing always emphasized aa undeniable
power of leadership. In September 1938 he engaged radio and
telephone facilities for a hookup between Royal Albert Hall in
London and twenty-three cities in the United States, ten in
Canada, ten in Australia, and four in New Zealand. It was the
first time that a transoceanic broadcast had exceeded fifteen
minutes. For an hour a hundred thousand listened to Face the
Facts. I wondered how many times that number had refused
him a hearing since- Our present listener peeped belligerently
through the half-open door. Her Midwestern ears were closed
against the Harvard accent of the Judge. She had no idea what
he meant by Theocracy and Armageddon.
Why did the Brooklyn headquarters ever permit such an ap-
proach to be instigated? Here stood two able-bodied men,
perfectly competent to speak out any prescribed message and
capable of memorizing any sales approach. Instead, I stood in
the cold, a console for Judge Rutherford! And despite his heavy
play upon the fact that the sand in time's hourglass was running
thin, his recording was endlessly long.
It didn't matter to the Witness. He stood there as if hearing
the transcription for the first time. When it finally ended, he
asked with eager restraint, "What did you think of that ?"
"It sounds like religion," came the banal reply,
"It is a message of truth," my friend corrected, while I closed
the phonograph and stood aside to give him the floor. "We
believe that these are the last days and that Jehovah God is
gathering His chosen people out of the nations."
His experienced hands selected a book from the satchel as
he continued. He held it up so that she could read the title
48 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
for herself, but, to make doubly sure, he said, "This book tells
us that The Kingdom Is at Hand. Have you ever seen it
before?"
"Oh/* said the woman as if suddenly catching on, "you're
book salesmen!"
"No, ma'am/* my friend assured her. "I want to leave this
book with you so that you can use it as an aid in studying the
Scriptures, You have a Bible ?"
"Of course I have a Bible."
"This book will help you understand the Bible in the light
of today's happenings. Now here on page 321 * . ." He opened
the book defdy to a picture of the Horsemen of the Apocalypse
breaking through a calendar page marked OCTOBER, 1914. "This
shows that 1914 was the beginning of the end of the age. And
here on page 177 is the story of the rise and fall of Satan's king-
dom. This explains how we who are living today fit into God's
plan and how the Theocracy has again been established."
"Fm not interested in books."
"It is more than a book, ma'am; it's a guide to salvation. I
want you to have it. If you contribute as little as a quarter, I
will leave it with you."
He held out the book to her. "Wouldn't you like It?" he
asked again.
"No. I go to church. I've got a Bible, I read it sometimes.
Thank you just the same."
She withdrew defensively.
"Just a moment," said the Witness, digging into his cold,
leather satchel. "I have a little pamphlet here I want to give
you. It is free. It is called, as you see, A Commander to the
Peoples. You know how the nations are trying to create a
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 49
league for peace. You may have heard of the United Nations
Organization* This little booklet explains how all of that
prophesied in the Bible and it tells whether It Is going to work
or not/*
"Oh, well," the woman sighed, "But Fm not one for taking
things just because they are free."
"That's all right/* replied the Witness, putting the pamphlet
into her hands. "Please read it. Maybe you will want to Icam
more about these things or about Jehovah's Witnesses some
other time. Good day and thank you."
"Your salesmanship!" I deplored as we moved on. **Yoti
could have sold her easily."
"We don't sell," he protested.
"But you do want to place books. And this transcription is
entirely too long for a cold morning. Your own presentation
would be much better."
"You think so? Well, I don't know. The Society suggests
this method and, no doubt, it is the way God would h^ye us
doit."
But the next visit supported my argument. The doorbell
was answered by a bombastic "Come in!" shouted above the
blare of a radio. Eager to soak up some warmth, we hurried in.
Our host made no effort to change his comfortable sprawl amid
the scattered sections of the Sunday edition. Peeping at us from
over the comics, he asked, "What's cookin*, boys ?"
"I am one of Jehovah's Witnesses and have a timely and
important message for you
"
began my friend in his usual
resolute manner.
"Jehovah's Witnesses!" guffawed the man. "Sorry, fellows,
the wife's already gone to church with the whole family.**
50 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
**Wcll> now,** persisted my partner, "If you'll give us a few
minutes of your time, I think I can show you that this concerns
you personally. We have the message here on a recording and
if you will turn down the radio
"
Again he was interrupted; again I was convinced the So-
ciety's prescribed approach should be improved. But I was
learning that it was contrary to Witness policy to show any
interest in personal inclinations or to play up to the idiosyncra-
cies of the prospects. We left our host content in his own in-
terpretation of "the Sabbath was made for man."
The next man thought I was trying to sell him the phono-
graph. The Witness hastened to correct the misconception, but
he was interrupted with "Oh, you just want to sell me the
record! Well, we don't have a phonograph, so we don't have
noway to play it!"
At several places my colleague's opening line brought the
door shut with a bang. He took it all in stride, and I, like a
faithful votary, stooged along.
Once, when no one answered the front door, my friend said
he was sure someone was stirring, and we went around to the
back* He was not in the habit of casing the house, but this
time we did. Our pounding on the storm door sounded ma-
licious. It really wasn't. It was just the rumble of Armageddon.
It interrupted a young woman's shampooing, and she came
to the door, wrapping a towel around her head.
"Fm not in the market for anything," she warned.
"I am one of Jehovah's Witnesses
"
began my companion.
"Is that so! Well, I'm a Catholic!" and the storm door shook
the house.
I detected something akin to pain in the Witness' face as we
JEHOVAH'S 51
walked away. But immediately he bolstered up his
with gleanings from the Theocratic mill.
"Since the time of Abel, religionists have persecuted
who obey God's commandments. This proves that religion is
of the Devil. Religionists killed Jesus. 1 think the worst thing
in the world is a political-religious organization.''
"Isn't it possible to be a member In good standing in a Prot-
estant or a Catholic church and also be a Jehovah's Witness ?
w
I asked.
"No, a person who is a Jehovah's Witness is not one who has
joined an organization, but one who has made a contract with
God to carry out His will. If a person is to be a real Witness,
he must separate himself from the rest of the world and preach
to the people about Jehovah God."
"Must a person be a Jehovah's Witness in order to inherit
the earth and enjoy eternal life after the end of the age?"
"That is the way I would put it," my friend nodded. "The
fruits of the kingdom are reserved for the true Witnesses of
Jehovah."
"Do you mean one must be a Witness according to the
Watchtower Bible and Tract Society?"
"According to the belief and teaching of the Society, yes.
The Society itself is merely the legal instrument of Jehovah's
Witnesses. That will be dissolved., perhaps, after Armageddon.
Or," he added thoughtfully, "Jehovah God may want It to
continue to print His truth. According to Revelation 20, at
the end of the thousand years, Satan will be released for a final
test before he and all those on his side will be annihilated. After
that the earth will be given over to God."
There was no breaking through the stronghold of Scripture
52 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
in which he stood encased. Ttiere was no possibility of dis-
couraging Mm as we continued our cold, unwelcome trek from
door to door.
"All a person can do in this work is to find those whose
hearts Jehovah God has already touched/' he said, as if to
himself.
That was it. That is what impelled him to go to every door.
That is why he could never be discouraged* He saw life as a
cosmic drama which Jehovah God had written and staged. In
these closing scenes, he, the Witness, was the protagonist, and
in this denouement everything was proceeding in keeping with
the script.
Unwilling to believe that no one was concerned enough
about Armageddon to invest a quarter, I asked if I might do
the talking at the next place.
The house was a small, salt-box type with a broken-down
porch. The storm door hung by a loose hinge. When the
young, poorly dressed woman opened it, she steadied it with
one hand while the other kept a dirty youngster of five from
running into the cold.
"Good morning !" I began. "We are ministers and if you will
let us come in for a moment "
She stood aside invitingly. But as we entered, she asked,
"What kind of ministers ?"
"Jehovah's Witnesses," my friend acknowledged.
For a moment the woman stood with her back against the
door. "You don't even believe in saluting the flag, do you ?" she
accused.
"That's right," nodded the Witness. "We don't."
"Why not?" she asked without moving.
JEHOVAH'S 53
An almost imperceptible shift of her eyes drew my attention
to a photograph set on a shelf near the oil-turning stove. It
was the picture of a man in uniform. Behind it were stack the
dried palm branches typical of Catholic homes. A black
hung alongside*
"We consider the flag a symbol/* Jehovah's Witness was ay-
ing. "We consider it an image of what it represents. We are
taught in Exodus 20 not to bow down to images or worship
them. Saluting the flag is a ceremony which to us would be
the same as worship."
"So you don't love the flag?" the woman retorted in an even
tone.
"We respect it/' answered the Witness. "We have it in most
of our Kingdom Halls.
n
"I didn't know that," she said. "I thought you fiated the
government*"
"I wouldn't say that/* he went on in his confident way. **We
simply love Jehovah God's government more. We do not be-
lieve that any government on earth is doing Jehovah's will/*
"But you don't help protect the United States even though it
is always protecting you."
"We ask nothing of the United States. All the rights we
enjoy are those given us under God's Theocracy. Jehovah's
Witnesses do not vote because that would be taking part in
the affairs of a worldly government. We will have no part in
war because wars among worldly governments can settle noth-
ing. We believe there will always be wars until Armageddon.
We will fight in that battle for Jehovah God. But we go to
prison rather than take part where men of this world are fight-
ing for power."
54 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
The young mother sat down In a straight-backed chair and
lifted her son to her lap. "I heard that you don't believe in
helping the government in its drive for the poor people of
Europe/*
That's right/* the Witness admitted without shame. "We
have our own representatives in Europe through whom we
work. We do not trust worldly governments, but we trust those
who belong to the Theocracy."
He was again stating the inviolable beliefs of the Society, It
reminded me of the confident, absolute way of priests in the
Roman Catholic Church. Perhaps the unshakable testimony of
the Witness impressed this woman because of its likeness to
the authority of her parochial background.
"We have a record we would like you to hear," my comrade
went on* forgetting that he had agreed that I should do the
talking.
The woman made room for the phonograph on the table,
and I put the needle down on Judge Rutherford. She listened
calmly, yet with a seemingly intense desire to extract a personal
message from the confusing onrush of ideas.
"I don't understand all of it," she admitted in reply to the
stock inquiry at the end of the record, "but he said one thing
that really struck me,'*
"What was that ?" I asked.
"He said the world would never get any better, and that is
the way it looks unless something unusual happens," she re-
viewed thoughtfully. "I don't know what it will be, but people
can't go on giving everything they have and then seeing
things just as bad as they always were. Everybody says that
religion is the answer, but which religion do they mean ?"
JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES 55
Her words justified the place that Jehovah's Witnesses hold
in the social sweep of American religions. They called up a
multitude of overcast souls that I had encountered along many
religious bypaths. Caught in the futility of social systems that
consistently fall short of idyllic goals, they are still doggedly
looking for "the way." Suddenly the phonographic approach
which I had condemned, the door-to-door canvass that I had
checked off as wasted time* the stereotyped Witness Mmself*
took on significance,
"This will help you to understand contemporary happenings
in the light of prophecy," he was saying as he again presented
The Kingdom Is at Hand. For the first time that morning the
book changed hands.
"You have a Bible ?" he asked.
"Yes."
"Do you read it?"
"I have lately," she said, paging through the book.
"There is only one true way to read it," said the stolid sales-
man of Jehovah's goods, "and that is with the help of Watdh-
tower publications
"
She quietly interrupted by handing him a dollar bill. He gave
her back seventy-five cents.
"Thank you for your contribution," he acknowledged. "If
you find anything that is not perfectly clear, I will be glad to
come back."
"I was just thinking," she reflected quietly, her eyes wander-
ing over to the photograph. "What do you teach about the
dead?"
"The righteous dead will be resurrected to enjoy the perfect
earth. We believe that some of the true Witnesses will return
56 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
to earth before Armageddon. In order to prove to this unbe-
"Meving generation that there are people in the world who look
for the return of these faithful men, the Society maintains a
mansion* Beth-Sarim, to which the heroes of Jehovah God may
come whenever they return to earth. Beth-Sarim is located at
San Diego. The deed is made out to such true Witnesses as
Abel, Noah, and Abraham. The wicked dead will be resur-
rected for righteous judgment after the millennium."
With this irrevocable pronouncement the Witness was ready
for his exit He had enacted his part sincerely and the rest was
in "the hands of Jehovah God."
After a few more stops, we made our way to a small tea-
room. The Sunday crowds were just leaving, but the wife of
the Witness was waiting for us at a table in the corner.
"Did you have a good morning ?" I asked.
"A very good morning," she admitted in a tired manner.
Turning to her husband, she went on, "I placed two books and
made arrangements for a home study."
"Did you run into any bad receptions ?" I asked.
She smiled bravely. "People meet us as they really are. Be-
cause we're Jehovah's Witnesses they seem to have no regard
for our feelings."
I caught a glimpse of something amazingly human behind
the confident stronghold of Witness conviction. Her husband,
also sensing her moment of faltering, was ready with a Scrip-
ture text He touched her hand awkwardly, with a reassuring
caress.
"
Tear not, little flock/
"
he quoted;
"
'for it is your
Father's good pleasure
' "
"
To give you the Kingdom,'
"
she finished.
CHAPTER 111
THE FOURSQUARE GOSPEL
IHAB
seen Angelus Temple filled to capacity many times:
at Wednesday night prayer meetings and tarrying serv-
ices, Thursday night baptizings, Saturday night healing
services, Sunday night shows sensational services that
people said provided the best entertainment in Los Angeles.
Naturally, such a religious powerhouse was more than an or-
dinary flag stop on my itinerary. In fact, my stopovers at the
Temple had been remarkably consistent. But I had never seen
and would never again see a service like today's. Five thousand
five hundred people sat around me, jam-packed into audito-
riums that strained to hold Foursquaredom's record attendance.
Five to ten thousand more ranged the streets, flooded Echo
Park, blocked traffic, covered the roofs of neighborhood houses,
leaned out of office windows, sat in cars that barricaded streets.
From the radio towers above the Temple, KFSG was carrying
the service to other thousands beyond the physical range of
human voice. It was Sister's most colossal audience. Camera-
men and reporters commanded the scenes. For a little while a
world at war was forgotten. America's boom city, America's
Hollywood, together with America's crossroads, paused to lis-
57
58 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
ten. And, oddly, at this greatest of all Angelus Temple services
Sister would not speak.
The great organ was playing. Someone near me whispered,
"It's a song she wrote. Sister. It's *Why Are They Whipping
My Jesus?
9 "
Around me people touched kerchiefs to their
eyes. The hundred choir members gripped their hymnals. In
typical Foursquare fashion they sat in a V-shape, flanking an
Improvised grotto. Above It was a gigantic cross and corpus
with the three Marys, lonely and forsaken, standing near by.
Within the cavernous grotto opening I could see a huge ansate
cross of fresh-cut roses, perhaps thirty feet high. Touching
this was a shield of white roses on which red roses spelled
Our Commander. An open Bible of white carnations floral
gates ajar, large enough for a person to walk through a
vacant chair of white asters a clock of flowers with the
hands pointing to 11:15 a globe of white chrysanthemums
horseshoes, wheels, anchors, hearts, harps, a replica of the
Foursquare Temple, carpets, flags, lighthouses all of flowers
a hundred thousand dollars' worth of flowers. My imagi-
nation staggered under this compound of wonders encircling
the auditorium and covering part of the balconies overhead.
Yet neither the beauty nor the fragrance of this memorial
pageantry nor the policemen standing at subdued attention
nor the orchestra in its pit nor "Why Are They Whipping
My Jesus?" could for long lure my gaze from the impressive
open casket in front of the grotto*
There Sister lay, half concealed from where I sat. Suddenly
a fierce thought swept my mind. What about the well-affirmed
nexus that existed between Sister and everything dramatic?
Was this just another dramatized sermon ? What if Sister Me-
THE FOURSQUARE 59
Pherson plans to ? It was a ghastly yet half-hopeful
and with It came a vivid remembrance of the first sermon I
had heard within these walls.
That night Sister gave us "The Green Light Is On." The
opening remarks were the deafening roar of a motorcycle
speeding down the ramp with the cutout open. The world*s
greatest evangelist sat in the saddle dressed as a speed cop.
She rode expertly. No flowers then to bar her way. No sad-
eyed, sobbing worshipers that night. It was Sister's heyday.
She drove recklessly to the front of the auditorium, slammed
on the brakes, blew a screech on a police whistle, raised a
white-gloved hand to the congregation, and shouted: "Stop!
You're speeding to hell!'*
With the cutout open that is how Sister went through life.
Into these somber settings of her funeral, the spell of her sea-
sational ministry crept in from everywhere. There where the
roses stood there where Sister lay many a theatrical thriller
had brought its message to the ears and hearts of a hurrying
world.
Gradually I became insensitive to the pulsating sorrow that
surrounded me. The floral tributes diffused into a carrousel.
The organ music faded into the lively discordant honking of
a calliophone. I saw this same auditorium draped in canvas like
a circus tent, and I heard the hoarse cries of a barker. It was
Sister Aimee preaching her sermon, **The Merry-Go-Round
Broke Down." The merry-go-round was civilization. Every once
in a while it broke down and all the riders tumbled off. This
happened at the beginning of the Christian era. To get things
started, Jesus came. But civilization stripped its gears again in
the sixteenth century, and Luther appeared as the deus ex
6o THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
machine And when the good old merry-go-round of life
crashed for the last time in the roaring twenties, who should
enter as the mechanic and fixer-upper but Sister herself?
The next Sunday the circus moved out and a gridiron was
set up. Sister* in football togs, carried the ball of the Four-
square Gospel for a touchdown. Jesus ran interference.
Who else around me was thinking back on these theatri-
cals wondering, analyzing, evaluating? I was ready to ad-
mit that great acting had always been a counterpart of great
preaching. Was Sister's method so different from that em-
ployed by other illustrious spiritual giants? Luther, disguised
as a knight, went about the countryside finding out what
people were thinking about him. He threw inkwells at the
Devil and dramatically burned the Pope's edict in the court-
yard square. Wesley's fervid preaching once inspired a
placid Quaker to leap to his feet and cry, "Thou art the Son
of the living God." Whitefield wept when he preached and
his audience wept with him. Under the power of Moody's
message, listeners fell prostrate to the ground. But the clerics
of the traditional churches had never extended their histrionic
enterprising as far as Sister carried hers. She capitalized on
what had already taken hold of the American mind. She kept
her finger on the public pulse. She took the popular trappings
of the secular world and draped them around the cross. To
some this was disgusting. They called it exhibitionism and
burlesque. To others it was redemptive. For them, power
lingered behind the vaudevillian performances the merry-go-
round and the motorcycle were a part of the renown *d and
classical technique of this great religious leader of our time.
A voice broke into my reverie. An elderly man, half hid-
FOURSQUARE GOSPEL 61
den by the wall of flowers, was saying, "We arc here to com-
memorate the stepping up of a country girl into Gocfs
of fame. Along with Huss, Wycliffc, Savonarola, Luther, Wes-
ley, Whitefield, Knox, and Moody, Aimcc Scmple McPhersoii
rightfully takes her place with the greatest of spiritual leaders!**
He paused for a response of amens and trembling cries
of "Oh, Sister!" and "Oh, Jesus!"
"In Ingersoll, Ontario, Canada/* the speaker continued, "a
young, spirited high-school girl
**
We were already filling in the details . . . the Kennedy
farm . . *
Aimee, pretty, vivacious, glowing with a healthy
passion and zest for life, heart set on a stage career. Ma
Kennedy thought it was wonderful how her daughter could
play-act both on and off the stage* She had a rare ability for
personalizing every event, and a lively eloquence gave to
everything she said embroidery and high coloring. These
girlhood propensities were the blueprint for Sister's future
technique, the recognized symptoms of her charm and human
appeal*
Was it her love for the romantic the charm of the dra-
matic that took her to her first evangelistic meeting? She
had always said that she went for a lark. But when the hand-
some, six-foot apostle of the good tidings opened the Bible,
when he preached on the text, "Repent and be baptized," she
listened intently. Robert Semple spoke with deep conviction.
Aimee watched him with a youthful critical sense. Mr. Semple
was also an actor, but his was not a studied role. He was
"coached and directed by the Spirit." The drama in which
he was the protagonist was the greatest to be enacted on any
stage it was man meeting God.
62 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
That night revival fires lighted up the countryside. Believ-
ers "prayed through" to the spiritual baptism that Mr. Semple
preached. Aimee, huddled in the family sleigh on the way
home, was silent and thoughtful. Semple's exhortations ran
counter to the worldly allurement of the theater. For days
she "struggled against conviction." At night she lay looking
op at the dark ceiling of her room, seeing the young evange-
list, hearing him again through the vivid impression of that
first sermon, wondering if she could "believe and be baptized."
A few days later she drove home from school alone. As the
old horse plodded through IngersolPs winter, Aimee was
thinking, arguing, praying in an awkward kind of way.
Finally, far out on the country road, with nothing between
her thoughts and God but snow-blanketed fields and winter
skies, she suddenly dropped the reins, threw up her hands and
cried, "God be merciful to me a sinner!"
That sleigh-ride conversion was followed by a greater ex-
perience, the "baptism of the Holy Spirit." One morning at
the home of a friend she rose early "to tarry for the bless-
ing." An hour later the household was awakened by hyster-
ical laughing and weeping. Aimee was "receiving the Spirit."
They knew because they had seen the same light on the
faces of other converts. Somehow, it burned brighter as this
young girl testified ecstatically of an onrush of heavenly rap-
ture and a feeling of destiny.
A few months later, more startling news about Aimee Ken-
nedy was noised about among the enthusiastic religionists of
Ingersoll. One night she was helping a friend whose children
were seriously ill. Robert Semple came to pray for them.
Under the calm, confident sound of his voice as he prayed,
THE FOURSQUARE GOSPEL 63
the children fell asleep. He led Aimee into an adjoining
room. A geography book lay on a table* Robert opened it*
He put his finger on Hong Kong.
"Here,
55
he said, **i$ where the Lord is calling mc/f
In the lamplight their eyes met.
"Since that day in the sleigh/' she said, "I, too, haTe felt
the call of God. Many times I have found myself singing*
Til go where you want me to go, dear Lord, over mountain
or plain or sea
* "
Robert was laughing. He took her arms*
"Will you go? Will you marry me, Aimee?"
Around me in Angelus Temple, the listeners nodded under-
standingly. The elderly man, reciting Sister's memoirs, was
saying, "She married the one who led her to Christ and
accompanied him as a missionary to China.** For the faith-
ful, the story was as familiar and as much a part of their belief
as Scripture. They had often heard it in Aimee*s characteris-
tically romantic style.
"Life began for me when I headed for China with Robert
Semple. It was tremendously thrilling when we stepped
aboard that ship in Toronto. The first ground swell set us
rocking so furiously that I thought the world would turn
completely over. Up, up, up we went! Then down, down,
down! I would not have been surprised if we had gone
straight down to Davy Jones's locker. But a special Provi-
dence watched and guided and cared. I realized this more
than ever as we passed through the Holy L,uid. Oh, the
footprints of faith on those Judean sands! Footprints of
Jesus! Footprints of His faithful followers! And Robert
said they were just plain folks like us."
64 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
But Sister McPherson spent only one year with Robert Sem-
ple before his death on the mission field. Sentimentalists in
the auditorium must have remembered how Sister had recalled
and described this tragic event. "Coolies came and laid him
on a litter. They put the poles on their shoulders and swung
rhythmically along the long trail that wound up the hill to the
sanitarium. I followed, praying. But God in His infinite
wisdom called him. I will never forget that night. A storm
burst upon us from the yellow waste of the China Sea. The
foamy waters clawed at the high gray crags. The wind wailed,
the rain beat madly against the windows. All the elements
were struggling with me in the anguish of that dark night
when Robert died. I was like an ivy vine which had clung
to a good stout wall. Now the wall was gone and I was just
a crumpled heap on the ground."
When Robert's child was born a month after his death,
Mrs. Semple named her Roberta Star, because "God had given
a star of hope in the night of dark despair.'*
"Her unswerving devotion," the speaker continued, "caused
her to evangelize throughout this entire country, enduring in-
credible hardships and misunderstandings, yet tenaciously per-
severing, until she packed the greatest tents and auditoriums
in the country
"
His words spun scenes from Sister's career as graphically as
though the grotto's flower-filled proscenium were a movie
screen. Mrs. Semple returned from China with nothing in the
world but a babe in arms. She preached on shipboard and a
freewill offering from the passengers enabled her to get back
east. Her parents tried in vain to persuade her that Robert's
passing meant the end of her ministry. Then the scene changed
FOURSQUARE 65
to a battered old car with a megaphone In the back There
were streamers on the side that said, "I'm on my way to the
revival service! R. U.?
M
Sister was at the wheel. She preached
wherever people would listen or wherever a street corner could
be converted into a pulpit. Her following grew. Soon she
had a tent of her own a big tent and good benches.
One night a windstorm beat against the tent, threatening to
break up the meeting. Men looked up helplessly. Women
screamed as a furious blast ripped at the canvas. Sister sprang
to the platform, raised a commanding hand, lifted her voice
above the roar of the storm and shouted to the reeling tent,
"Stay where you are in the name of Jesus !" It stayed caught
on a nail.
Often during these services, Mrs. Semple would rush from
the pulpit to see if little Roberta were all right, then dash back
to "call the lost to penance" and to "pray them through to
victory." She was driving toward the heights as America's
greatest evangelist when suddenly the battered old car came
to an abrupt stop in Florida. Sister was lonely and she married
Harold McPherson, a groceryrnan. An understandable proviso
went with the nuptials: if ever she felt the "call of the Spirit"
she must be permitted to resume her evangelistic work.
Varying scenes now flashed across my imaginary screen.
Mrs. McPherson grew ill, restless under the domesticity of this
second marriage. A son, Rolf, was born. Sister had great affec-
tion for him, but he seemed only to draw her back to all that
Robert Semple had meant to her. Again the "command to
preach" came as a persistent, deafening call. Mr. McPherson
balked. What was this talk about "going where the Spirit
willed, seeking the lost the wide world over, leaving all to
66 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
follow the Lord?*
1
IB the spiritual struggle that followed,
Mrs. McPhersoa's health broke. She was hurried to the hos-
pital where doctors consigned her to what she called the
**death room,"
"It was there that I came straight up against complete
service to God or the grave," she had always avowed. "But
when I cried to the Lord and said, Til go where You want me
to go/ I walked from that death room with victory."
Never again would anyone or anything come between her
and her high destiny!
Twenty-two thousand Americans believe that that destiny
was the triumphal march of the Foursquare Gospel. Sister
landed in Los Angeles in 1920 at the end of a "transcontinental
gospel auto tour." When the largest halls became too small for
the mammoth crowds, she began gazing longingly at a weedy
lot looking out upon Echo Park. She knelt down beside the
FOR SALE sign and talked it over with Jesus. She rose from that
prayer, jerked down the sign and started clearing away the
weeds with her own hands.
Mrs. McPherson called the next three years sublime because
of the constant feeling of achievement they held for her. She
was "like a homing pigeon that brings twigs for the home
nest one by one and weaves them in, then speeds away to get
another." She told Foursquare friends in San Diego and Syd-
ney, in Wichita and Winnipeg, London and Los Angeles about
*the staccato song of the riveting hammers, welding steel to
steel; the clatter of the hungry open-mouthed cement mixers
whirring round to make the walls." She told how the con-
struction elevators were carrying their burdens ever nearer the
THE FOURSQUARE 67
sky. She made them sec the arches which the
whole lost world might enter to find Jesus.
The result: money poured in from every ccmntiy city
that Sister had visited in her evangelistic barnstorming one
and a half million dollars before the job was finished.
On January i, 1923, a thousand-voice choir sang **Gpen the
Gates of the Temple'* and Angelus Temple lung open its
crystal-glass doors. The converted high-school actress had
reached stardom in the service of the King. From now on,
she would sweep gracefully to her pulpit stage in a white cos-
tume covered by a blue and gold cloak. When she greeted the
crowd she flung out her arms, and the sheer white material
that draped her shapely body made the sign of the cross. She
always carried her white Bible and had a habit of hugging it
to her breast. Her words and manners were unpredictable, but
the famous McPherson smile was always there,
Little did the public realize how hard this beautiful woman
worked* She personally organized and managed her congre-
gation as if it were a great business enterprise. Usually she
preached six days a week, often twice a day, catapulting every
phrase with tremendous force. Songs, articles, books, and re-
ligious operas appeared under her name. Whenever the cur-
tain opened upon the grassy banks of the baptismal pool with
its
palms and flowers, Sister stood waist-deep in the rippling
waters. Disregarding convention, she sometimes immersed
her candidates two and three at a time. At healing and tarry-
ing services her invincible energies were again exhibited. Some-
times her prayer would be a loud, fierce cry; sometimes a
whisper low and emotional, as though she were enticing the
68 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Spirit to do her wilL Sometimes she would clasp a weeping
convert in her arms.
And now the eulogist was concluding, "Many will rise up
to call her blessed.** But if I were to be a faithful investigator
of faiths, I knew that I must also consider the thousands who
would say, "She was a clever girl."
While the vast religious empire which she had founded
continues to generate spiritual and emotional current for "full-
gospel" followers, the scandals surrounding her name will be-
come legends to be told and retold.
There was a hasty marriage in 1931 to David L. Hutton, a
baritone in the Angelus choir, that ended in a divorce in less
than four months. There was a report of "quite an exhibition
5 *
at a marathon dance. Sister was accused of tossing money onto
the dance floor and booing the couples when they began sag-
ging on their feet. There was a lawsuit with her associate
pastor, Rheba Crawford Splivalo, who charged that Sister had
called her a "Jezebel." Sister's name was linked with that of
Homer Rodeheaver, former song leader for the late Billy Sun-
day. There was a lawsuit with Ma Kennedy, who claimed
that her daughter struck her.
But, because of the publicity given it, the kidnaping incident
caused more people to doubt Sister's fidelity than any other
event. It occurred May 18, 1926, on the beach at Ocean Park.
Sister disappeared while her secretary was making a phone
call. Soon the frantic world of Angelus Temple gathered at
the scene. While sirens screeched and policemen struggled to
keep the crowds in hand, Foursquare followers staged a prayer
meeting. Divers sounded the deep ocean drop-oflfs. The faith-
THE 69
fu! dug their knees into the sands. Two men lost their
dragging for Sister's body. Supplicants expected to sec her
walking in on the waves.
For four weeks American and European newspapers head-
lined the mysterious disappearance of the world's leading evan-
gelist. Then a story filtered down from Carmel-by-the-Sca. It
was a bizarre account of how a clandestine couple had occu-
pied a love nest there for some days. Someone said the woman
was Mrs. McPherson and the man Kenneth C. Ormiston, radio
operator of KFSG. Those who took the story for true said it
would be the death blow to Sister and her Foursquare faith.
But at Angelus Temple the faithful remained earnest in
prayer. They resolutely closed their ears and their hearts to
any such "newspaper talk," and continued to batter God's gates
for her return. They vowed she would come back and tell them
the truth about all that had happened. She did.
At Agua Prieta, Mexico, Sister announced to the world that
she had been kidnaped while relaxing on Ocean Park beach. A
man and woman had approached her. The woman was in
tears; her child was dying. Wouldn't Sister come and pray?
Wouldn't Sister call down the power of Jesus the Great Phy-
sician ? Sister went with this couple to their car. They opened
the rear door saying that the sick child was there. Suddenly
the evangelist was pushed from behind and landed helpless
and struggling on the floor. The man's hand went to her face
and something wet and sticky was pressed against her. Slowly
she lost consciousness. Then there was a shack in the desert,
torture with a burning cigar, a darkened room, a cheap iron
bed on which she slept bound hand and foot, a tussle with
TO THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
strong men, a matching of wits with an old hag, and finally
her escape by sawing off her shackles on the ragged edge of a
large tin can!
Unbelievers said it was a hoax. How about the Carmel inci-
dent, they wanted to know? They said that Sister's story had
all the features of a Hollywood quickie and the thrills of an
old-time Western. But faithful followers took their stand with
Sister. Events only strengthened their faith. All great religious
leaders, they recalled, had been maligned and persecuted and
misunderstood. Why should Sister expect less from the Devil's
advocates? When a man finds the truth, they contended, he
must expect ridicule and temptation. But what about the
woman at Carmel? That was the DeviFs work. Somebody
masqueraded as Sister.
But scandal persisted. In 1933 Mrs. McPherson left for a
year's cruise to recover from harassing months divided be-
tween court battles and sickbed. Know-alls predicted that she
would "never rule her throne again." However, when here and
there a faint heart lamented that Sister had "lost her power
with God," a cloud of witnesses arose to defend her. She was
sick. The Devil had given her a nasty round. Somehow all
that was questionable was purified, and the tradition was grad*
ually immortalized that she was ordained of God to found the
International Church of the Foursquare Gospel.
Many of the worst critics reluctantly admitted that she em-
bodied more than mere human pyrotechnics. The desperate,
the lost, the sick, the neurotic, the spiritual gypsies found an
answer to their religious groping in the person of this woman
who had marvelously extricated herself from the "Devil's
machinations." Hollywood stars were numbered among her
THE 71
converts* A judge In Rochester said, "I want to the
ministry of this noble woman who Is in the
footsteps of that Holiest One than anyone I know-"
across the country were Impressed. A Presbyterian cleric
fied that Denver had been shaken until thousands appeared to
be in a haze of wonderment. An Episcopal rector In Berkeley
admitted that **my life and ministry were
blessed for the service of the Master by the McPhcrsoe revival
in Oakland." A Baptist minister In Chicago compared the
throngs of hungry church members flocking to hear Sister with
the multitudes who sought truth 'from the Master and His
disciples. Whenever she returned from a missionary tour,
crowds mobbed her at the Los Angeles station* Generous ad-
mirers carpeted her path with flowers. Their veneration for
her was as strong as that of any primitive tribe passionately
devoted to their harvest queen.
Thousands who now sat at Sister's funeral In reverent silence
had found voluble expression for their grief when the news of
her death fell like a thunderclap on Angelus Temple. Through-
out the vast church, sorrow and bewilderment touched every
worshiper and employee. They sang. They shouted. They
prayed. Classes in the LJJF.E Bible School Building were
halted for mourning. In offices, in the Prayer Tower, In the
commissary everywhere people hovered* weeping quietly.
One woman committed her grief in a broken cry but said, "He
raised Lazarus and Hell raise Sister, too!" "Jesus> Jesus, Jesus,"
wailed another, "bring her back!" Outside the Temple mobs of
curious began to gather, and crowds of believers hurried inside
to join the growing multitude that came to mourn and pray or
to sit in confused fashion. Sister was dead* She had flown to
72 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Oakland, California,, on September 26, 1944, for a series of
revival services. Always the showman, she rode from her hotel
to the auditorium in a horse-drawn carriage. Ten thousand
people were waiting to greet her, waiting to hear her relate
'The Story of My Life."
The last chapter in that spectacular story was concluded at
11:15 t^ie following morning. Her son Rolf found her in her
hotel room at 10:30 unconscious and breathing heavily. Scat*
tered about the floor were empty sleeping capsules. Doctors
reported that they believed death was caused by a heart attack,
but added that the evangelist might also have taken too much
of the sleeping compound. Followers explained that Sister
"had not been well for three years; she had worn herself out
for God."
The body had lain in state until today, October 9, 1944,
Sister's fifty-fourth birthday. For nearly a week a thousand
people had passed by her bier every hour.
Now the service was ending and Rolf McPherson arose to
speak. "I feel I have the greatest heritage in all the world," he
said quietly, "in having the mother I did. As you know she has
asked that I carry on her work. I want to pledge my life in a
greater way than ever before to the Lord. I want you to join
today in a consecration service. Mother has expressed she would
like a consecration service at the close of her funeral; that
people would stand for God who had never stood before, and
that those who have stood once will stand again. Will you all
join with me, pledging your lives to God in a greater way?"
Around me the great throng in Angelus Temple came to its
feet to stand in silent prayer. Then, in a ground swell of
feeling that lifted and shook Angelus with the strength of a
THE FOURSQUARE 73
new revival, they sang "When the Roll Is Called Up Yonder.**
Dr. Watson B* Tcaford of the Angclus stall forward,
"In a sermon preached on December i, 1941,** he told us in
his strong way,
* c
Sistcr said, If God should call me home be-
fore Jesus comes, I don't want anyone to be sad or weeping.
I want them to be rejoicing, for it will be my coronation day*
And I want the choir and the band to sing and play "When
the Saints Go Marching In." What a glorious day that will be
when the saints go marching in P
"
The choirs, the thousands within and outside the Temple
sang this song. The band and the great organ played it. They
sang it as Mrs. McPherson had never heard it sung, and there
were those who believed that at this very moment she must be
meeting Jesus.
"When the saints go marching in,
When the saints go marching in,
Oh, Lord, I want to be in that number,
When the saints go marching in."
I stood outside Angelus Temple where the procession was
forming. The cordon of motorcycle police broke through the
tightly packed crowds. The sun shone down on Echo Park.
A line of nearly a thousand cars accompanied the body of
Aimee Semple McPherson to Forest Lawn. Here, where many
a movie great had been laid to rest, where Hollywood inter-
ments were a commonplace, nothing like the burial of Sister
had ever been seen. The papers would report that the bronze
casket weighed twelve hundred pounds. They would say that
it took the twelve pallbearers twenty minutes to move it four
hundred yards. The acres of flowers were photographed from
74 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
every angle and a picture of the six-hundred-foot cross of HOW-
ITS was taken from the air. There were processional
arches of
American flags and columns of flags of the Foursquare faith.
Honor guards were composed of military figures and lowly
uniformed workers of Angelus Temple. Roberta, who had
married an orchestra director,, flew in from New York. Ma
Kennedy was at the grave, Rheba Splivalo had returned to
say that there was never a greater worker for God than Sister.
A thousand ministers of the Foursquare Gospel paid their tear-
ful tribute. The curious stood by impressed. The poor who had
always been fed at Angelus were there, the lost who had been
spirit-filled,
the healed, the faithful here they were eager to
immortalize the Ontario farm girl who loved the Lord. Here
they laid the body of Sister Aimee to rest in the marble sar-
cophagus guarded by two great angels on Sunrise slope.
I turned away with the crowd, feeling the sincere and awful
aloneness of Sister's followers. But I was fully convinced that
those who had set their hearts on the Angelus highway were
surer than ever that theirs was the right road to glory. Sister,
like a faithful pilot, had gone before. She, who had given
them the Foursquare Gospel, would also prepare a place for
them in the Foursquare City.
Across the nation skeptics were predicting that the work
would suffer now that the superdramatist of Angelus was gone.
No one expected the dignified and reserved son, Rolf, to com-
mand the crowds and hold the organization intact. But those
who had been backstage ventured a different opinion.
A Sunday evening performance fails to reveal the full scope
of the International Church of the Foursquare Gospel. With
adept organizational abilities, Aimee Semple McPherson had
THE 75
divided die United States Into six districts a
supervisor over each. Four hundred branch
foreign mission stations serve as "Lighthouses of International
Foursquare Evangelism." This little-known
boasts twenty-two thousand members and twelve hundred active
ordained ministers. The substantial character of the work is
best evidenced in the organizational plan of the mother
church, Angelus Temple. Sister McHierson as pastor of this
congregation supervised sixty-three departments. In this well-
organized religious corporation everything necessary to pro-
duce tangible spiritual results was provided. If anyone was
by-passed by the Foursquare technique It was definitely not
for want of departmentalization. There were jail workers, bed-
side ministers, and city sisters.
Roaming Angelus Temple, I found a commissary with stores
of food and clothing for the needy. In conjunction with It,
the salvage department collected and reprocessed articles ob-
tained by donations and outright purchases. A relief kitchen
combated the hunger of depression-ridden Los Angeles In the
early thirties. An employment service was also set up to meet
the emergency. Policemen throughout the city directed desti-
tutes to the Angelus storehouse of material blessings. Staff
workers tramped from house to house, dispensing food, cloths-
ing, money, and "the Word/' World War II saw the Temple
equipped with a service center that furnished free food, beds,
shaves, shines, and showers to five thousand GPs each month.
As early as 1924 the radio station went up KFSG Kail
Four Square Gospel. A new complaint reached the Los Angeles
Chamber of Commerce, "Aimee is always on the air." The
next year a college was founded to train men and women to fill
76 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Foursquare pulpits. It was christened LXFJE., a name coined
from Lighthouse of International Foursquare Evangelism. Sis-
ter held the first class in the Five Hundred Room, but these
quarters were inadequate. In 1927 a special building was
erected to accommodate the average enrollment of over a
thousand. Youth has its opportunity to serve at Angelus in nu-
merous choirs, orchestras, and bands. The international youth
organization is the Crusaders' Club with a chapter in each local
church. It sponsors about twenty summer camps each year.
Yet more impressive than the organizational pattern was
the people's phenomenal devotion to duty. From the corps of
altar workers to the quilting department, they knew what was
expected of them and accepted the job as a personal responsi-
bility. Sister McPherson's influence was obvious enough, and
yet I was sure there must be a higher motivation. Wherever
I asked the question in the sewing room, the bookshop, the
administrative office, the classroom the answer was always the
same:
"When Sister built Angelus Temple she built a Prayer
Tower. Fourteen thousand prayers go up from it each month.
We pray in two-hour shifts twenty-four hours a day."
In the Prayer Tower I found a book containing fifty thou-
sand recorded answers to prayer evoked by the ever-persistent
"in Jesus' name." I was to learn that this Name unquestion-
ably went far beyond Foursquaredom's devotion to "our dear
Sister." The movement was really not built around Aimee Sem-
ple McPherson but around Jesus Christ Saviour, Baptizer,
Healer, Coming King! These are the cornerstones in the
Gospel Foursquare. Sister quarried them out of "Ezekiel."
It happened one night when she was preaching on the prophet's
THE FOURSQUARE GOSPEL 77
vision.
*c
Ezekiel saw the face of a man, a lion, an ox, and aa
eagle," Sister said, "The man Is Christ, our Saviour; the lion
why, that's the power of His baptism with the Holy Ghost;
the ox? that's Jesus as our Burden Bearer and Healer; the
eagle, that's the glorious symbol of His second coming!** Then
In a moment of high Inspiration, she cried, "Why, folks, it's the
Foursquare Gospel!"
And for many it became the end of the search for meaning
in religion, the compensation for the Indifference of the church
at large, engendered fire for the spiritual obsolescence of old
faiths grown cold.
Jesus Christ the Savior. This first tenet in the Foursquare
faith conjures up sawdust trails and flapping canvas, the old
wooden cross propped against an evangelistic altar, worn-out
hymnals, a folding organ, and the creaking planks of an Im-
provised chancel. But souls were also "saved" in the million-
dollar Angelus Temple and in municipal auditoriums
throughout America. Sister was at her best during altar calls. I
watched her in action "on the road" many times. Believing in
her, one saw a Pentecostal fire; doubting, one saw a designing
actress playing to the gallery. But whether a man doubted or
believed he could never deny that she was pre-eminently
equipped with personality, energy and spirit.
Frequently, after introducing prominent city officials who
were greeted with applause, she would say, "Now, I want you
to meet my good friend Jesus! He's my Saviour, folks! Come
and make Him yours!" Stirred by a huge choir singing, "Jesus
Is Calling" or "Just As I Am" or a livelier gospel hymn, the
crowds were softened for the pleading, dramatically earnest
altar service. Crying to the lost, calling the penitent, begging
y8 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
cajoling, she dared the worst sinner in the house to "come up
and meet Jesus P I saw them jam the aisles, the hesitant shoved
along by the eager, the saved urging the unsaved, the baptized
shouting to the seekers. The crowds surging toward the altar
often became too large to be counted* More benches were
moved in. The lost filled the orchestra pits and overflowed the
platforms. Altar workers> local ministers, Foursquare assistants
swelled the murmuring, chattering, groaning groups which
knelt over the benches, crying, "Save me, Jesus!" "Lord, be
merciful!" "God forgive me!" Mrs. McPherson, a white-robed
sister of mercy, would catch a penitent in her arms, laughing
joyously at his hysterical confession, then kneel down to hug
a weeping convert and exclaim, "Pray, brother, pray!" Back
on her feet, she would call to the crowd that there was still
room. Sometimes she would sing a line with the choir or
answer the shriek of a convulsing soul. It was Sister, the reaper
for Jesus, bringing in the sheaves!
She set a precedent for her people when she said, "When I
go home, I am determined to have such a long comet of souls
saved, coming after me, that it will strike like a meteor across
the sky!"
Jesus Christ, the Baptizer with the Holy Ghost. It is this
second cornerstone that makes the faith of these people
dynamic. Sister maintained that without this a church was
dead; an individual was powerless. She said it was through
the Holy Ghost that the Christian Church started at Jerusalem
on the day of Pentecost, and she referred scoffers to the second
chapter of the Book of Acts. Her quarrel with the traditional
churches of Christendom was that they had become "lifeless,"
79
a
dead HKXHIS shining on/* "spiritual cripples/* gi-
ants*" They had grieved and lost and turned their backs
the only true and living power of faith: Cbrist the
Baptizcr*
Once at a "Holy Ghost meeting" I saw a well-dressed, busi-
nesslike man "receive the Spirit." He was sitting just a
seats from me. Suddenly violent trembling seized him. His
muscles contracted. He lung his hands into the air, crying,
"God! God!" His convulsed shouting reached Sister, who stood
on the platform in her white gown, Bible in hand.
"That's right, brother!" she called. "It is God! You can
depend on that!"
Her voice was warm and generous. An understanding lilt
of laughter seemed to say, "Bless you, brother, I've seen cases
like yours all my life and it's always thrilling and wonderful!"
Then she ordered, "Let yourself go! You're receiving the bap-
tism of the Holy Spirit!"
Others in the auditorium shouted encouragement: "Go
through, brother let God have His way!"
"God will have His way!" Sister corrected. At the sound of
her voice, the man's body shook as though he had touched a
live wire. He rose to his feet. "Glory!" he shouted. "Glory !"
His hands fluttered high in the air. He cried, unabated, but
to the initiated it was the sign of victory. Some of the wor-
shipers laughed aloud as the man started his groping, trance-
like movement toward the aisle.
"The altar is this way, brother!" Sister called and she ex-
tended her hands in a generous invitation. Her voice rose
expansively, volubly, but her mastery of this man and hundreds
8o THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
of other shouting converts marked her as a leader of experience
and strength.
Temple workers tried to assist the man* but he shook them
off. As he moved on, he seemed impelled by an intoxicating
freedom from restraint. In a rhythmic, abandoned sort of
way he turned his head to the right and left and cried, "Glory!
Wonderful! Jesus!"
Then with swift suddenness he began "speaking in tongues/*
an ecstatical, rapturous chatter "not of this earth," To the be-
lieving it is heaven's language, the evidence of the Holy Ghost
baptism. An awed hush gripped the congregation. Then Sister
took on the role of interpreter, translating the musical chant
into English in the cadence and pattern used by "the Spirit."
The manifestation was an antiphonal act and continued for
perhaps three or four minutes. Exclamations of praise and
wonder broke from the listeners when the man finally sank
to the floor at the evangelist's feet and lay still.
But only to the believing is this baptism meaningful. To the
skeptic it is insane emotionalism, and "speaking in tongues"
is stupid gibbering. In spite of these criticisms, I had to admit
that such "power-filled" apostles were the actual strength be-
hind the Foursquare movement. One night in Wichita I was
riding a streetcar. It was late, after midnight. I was the only
passenger. The motorman stood at his controls looking ab-
sently ahead at the dark line of tracks. Suddenly I realized that
he was singing, had been singing for some time:
"What shall save us from our sins?
Nothing but the blood of Jesus!
What shall make us pure within?
Nothing but the blood of Jesus !"
THE FOURSQUARE 81
I walked up front.
"Pardon mc n
I said. **Do you go to the Foursquare
Church?"
"How did you guess it?
9 *
he exclaimed.
"Thought I recognized the Pentecostal spirit/* I told him.
"Praise the Lord!" He laughed, suddenly letting the car ran
itself. "Have you had the baptism ?" Then he shook his head.
"No. You haven't, I can tell by looking at you.** He sighed
as he put his hands back on the wheel
As I left the car he called to me, "There's a revival on now*
Better come over, brother I"
Sister's showmanship was overshadowed by the faithful work
of the men and women who believed that they had received
power for service through Jesus Christ, the Baptizer.
Jesus Christ, the Great Healer. Faith healing had caused
many a sufferer to keep his hopeful tryst with Sister. It had
made Foursquare services occasions of mystery and blessing. It
had filled the corridors of Angelus Temple with the sick and
the maimed. Mrs. McPherson's first miracle took place at an
evangelistic meeting in a suburb of New York. A young
woman, body twisted and limbs crippled with rheumatoid
arthritis, walked to the altar on crutches. Sister called upon
God. "I had the habit even then of thanking God that what I
asked for was already accomplished. I reminded Him of His
promises. The prayer of faith shall save the sick. I prayed for
this girl and left it to the Lord. He didn't fail. He has never
failed. I told her to drop the crutches. She looked at me as if
to say, 'Dare I ?'
'Drop the crutches! God's standing there with
you!* She let them fall. Her hand reached out for the chancel
82 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
*WalkP She took a step* Two steps. Her hands clung
to the railing. Now she let go. Her body straightened* Her
head lifted. She raised her hands and cried, 'Thank God, thank
God!"*
This was the beginning of a trail of healing miracles that
crisscrossed the nation* Sister McPherson said there was no
need preaching Jesus Christ as the Great Healer if it could
not be practiced. Her only admonition to those who looked to
her for help was, "Where faith is, God is." And where faith
was wanting, Sister had it to spare. In Jacksonville, Florida,
a man's broken arm was instantly healed. In Iowa a woman
arose from her wheel chair and walked away. In San Diego a
middle-aged invalid, paralyzed since childhood, stood up and
walked. In Los Angeles, a blind girl received her sight.
Healing miraculous, instantaneous healing became ineffa-
bly linked with the name of Aimee Semple McPherson. In
Angelus offices the cures were recorded, but there were many
people who discounted the most conclusive demonstrations of
divine aid. They said that Sister aroused "hidden energies" in
imaginary invalids, used "good psychology,'* and that her heal-
ings were deliberately staged* A Hollywood maid told me that
Sister paid her twenty-five dollars to "play the cripple," hobble
to the altar on crutches, and then "play cured.'* However, I en-
countered too many who testified that they had "been healed'*
for me to check them all off as frauds, neurotics, or victims of
paranoia. They answered my queries with questions of their
own. "Has not every true religion had its miracles?" "Shouldn't
a person expect and demand miracles of religious leaders ?*
"Isn't healing what everyone is seeking?"
These devotees, indifferent to all the vicious rumors about
THE %
Sister's miracle technique, were confident that it Cheating
as in the days of the disciples." If Sister's manna: of dupEcat-
ing the apostles' power was often spectacular, this could also be
explained. In a modern age it was necessary to be sensational
in order to catch the interest of a speedy world. I was con-
sistently reminded of Mrs. McPhcrson's classic statement, 1 am
not the healer. Jesus is. He does the work. He's the Boss*
I am only the office girl who opens the door and say% *Comc in*
The Great Healer is waiting.*
"
Jesus Christ, the Coming King. Sermons on this final corner-
stone had always filled Angelus Temple with a chorus erf
amens, pulsing like an echo from wall to wall. And many times
the firm, clear voice of a singer would intone Sister McPhov
son's musical interpretation:
"Perhaps in the morning, His face I shall see,
The Redeemer and Saviour of men!
And lo, what a glorious day that will be;
He's coming! He's coming again!
I know when He's coming 'twill be as a King,
Forever and ever to reign;
Though watching and waiting for Him I will be;
He's coining! He's coming again!"
Once I had asked her, "Do you believe in a personal return
of Jesus the sound of the trumpet the breaking of the skies
clouds of glory and all that?"
"If you don't believe that, brother, you don't believe your
Bible!" was the answer. "Someday soon He'll split the eastern
skies and catch away His own in the bursting clouds of glory.**
She looked up at the dome of the Temple where fleecy clouds
84 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
unfolded against a canopy of blue skies, "That is a constant
reminder that He will come again!" she concluded with
finality.
With the passing of Aimee Semple McPherson, Angelus was
removed from sensational headlines and gossip columns, but
through these four cornerstones and the superbly integrated
organization, her abiding influence remained. They proved
impregnable whenever the gospel ranks were jolted. In them
Foursquaredom was perpetually sustained. They defied the
pessimistic voices that had predicted, "When Aimee goes, the
Foursquare movement is done for." On the first anniversary of
her death, the administrative office announced a high-powered
campaign built around the catchy phrase, "A Medal for Sister."
Accompanying the story was the artist's conception of a million-
dollar Aimee Semple McPherson Memorial Building designed
to front on Glendale Boulevard near Angelus Temple. Stretch-
ing backward to Lemoyne Street, it will embrace thirty-two
thousand, four hundred square feet within its seven stories.
The publicity, with its magnificent descriptive flourishes,
mingled practical plans with a Hollywood touch: housing
facilities for four hundred students "relax in California sun-
shine in the eleven-thousand-dollar patio"; gymnasium and
recreational center "play in a Christian environment"; a cafe-
teria, library, conservatory of music, and a new home for KFSG.
Nothing, apparently, is overlooked in these plans to bring the
Foursquare gospel straight into the fold of the major American
faiths and to equip it for a new world service. An odd note in
the modern and model establishment is a pharmacy, an intru-
sion into the realm of healing by faith. The announcement also
FOURSQUARE 85
provides a convenient card>
the to
the 100 Club. The names of the first hundred to con-
tribute one thousand dollars or more will be engraved on a
bronze plaque in the main lobby.
This was in keeping with the McPhersoa method of money
raising which always vexed the leaders of conservative Christen-
dom and charmed the public. The first time I saw the great
evangelist at a Kansas City revival, I was amused by the com-
mand she gave the corps of strapping ushers who marched up
heroically for the collection plates: "Boys, do your stuff!" At
Angelus Temple I saw the ingenious innovation called the
clothesline collections. Spectators with nothing but loose change
felt ill at ease that night because Sister had instructed, "Well
just pin our offerings on for the Lord!" The ushers passed a
rope equipped with clothespins over the heads of the worship-
ers. The frequent announcement, "Put bills into the plates,
folks; the jingle of silver makes me nervous," always brought a
hearty laugh from her coterie. But these were elementary de-
vices compared to big-time drives for special funds. "Wait till
she turns on her personality!" they used to warn. When she
turned it on in Denver, a convert wanted to build her a temple
there. Detroit meetings saw her moving back and forth across
the platform, buoyant as a danseuse, "raising money for God
and making Him glad." Calling upon those to stand who would
pledge a thousand dollars, she ran down the scale to a single
dollar, then passed the plates for the silver so that all could have
"a chance in building up the heavenly treasury." Angelus of-
ferings frequently averaged seven thousand dollars a month,
special funds skyrocketed to almost any figure Sister named. A
Los Angeles story told of a woman who gave thirtv thousand
86 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
dollars because, after her baptism, oil was miraculously discov-
ered on her little plot near Signal HilL Some said that the more
you gave to God via Angelus Temple the more you would re-
ceive, but a minister who left the Foursquare staff raised a mali-
cious voice of accusation and called his boss, "A Gospel Gold
Digger-"
But statistics say Foursquaredorn is carrying on* There is a
marked increase in fieldworkers, finances, and faith. Average
Sunday school attendance in the California district alone is
over fifteen thousand. In the year following their leader's death.
Foursquare fieldworkers established forty-three new churches*
The McPherson extension fund, which was a special account to
meet the cost of Aimee's campaigns, has now become a Memo-
rial Extension Fund to build new churches and to open new
fields as ministers are ordained. Fifteen hundred of them are
actively engaged in the slow, laborious process of changing the
common man according to a modified ministry of evangelism.
They are ready to admit that there is not one among them who
can wield the personal appeal of Sister. There was always a
special providence for her, and, for years to come, she will stand
above them as the morning star of their faith. For them she
was the symbol of a vital religion that brought about the
phenomenon of the Christian church. Enlarged photographs,
"the living proof of Sister's power," adorn their vestibules and
prayer-meeting walls:
SHUETCHER BAY AT REVIVAL, MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM, DENVER.
THOUSANDS BEAT ON DOORS TRYING TO GET INTO ROCHESTER
CONVENTION HALL.
THE FOURSQUARE 87
SISTER WINS THE GYPSIES FOR JESUS,
ST. LOUIS COLOSSEUM OVERFLOWS WITH THE GKEAT
FIREMEN AND POLICE HOLD BACK. CROWDS AT
HALL, DAYTON.
SISTER BATTLES FOR JESUS IN DALLAS.
SISTER WINS HARD BATTLE IN OLYMPIC THEATRE,
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
THOUSANDS TURNED AWAY AT FAIRFIELD, IOWA.
The McPherson ministry will prosper and grow even though
the last truly great evangelist of the old-time religion is gone.
While she lived, her followers were willing to make their lives
the filter for all her moods and genius. As one of the district
superintendents said in memoriam, "We have lighted our
torches from yours and by the grace of God we will carry on
faithfully." When all is said and done, that has been the mission
of believing people since the start of time*
CHAPTER IV
SPIRITUALISM
away from puppet shows and mediums. Both are
of the Devil." This was a major premise in the platform
of maternal advice impressed upon me as a child in my
strict Christian home. But wherever I went I heard the
magic words, "spirits/' "voices," "taps," "table lifting." Spirit-
ualism was such an interesting subject in every nook and cranny
of society that I ventured clandestine jaunts to spiritualistic
circles and made hopeful visits to clairvoyants. All ended in
confusion and disgust.
Yet, as my detour off the traditional religious highway led
me on, I collided with the fact that 131,105 Americans profess
spiritualism as their religion. To me, this was shocking. I had
set out to give every man his right of way on the roads that lead
to God, but did spiritualism actually lead to God? The early
conclusions forced upon me even after I began a serious objec-
tive study were negative. After each experience, I was more in-
clined to accept my mother's sage admonition as common sense
if not divine revelation.
I wondered what she would say if she could see me now*
standing ready to assist a medium in a spiritualist service in
Hollywood ! I had entered the church with a party of four just
%
as the Reverend Madam Medium was explaining how she
been accused of trickery the previous Sunday evening because
her son had assisted her. Tonight she wanted a stranger from
the audience. As I started to sit down, George Storm, the other
fellow in my party, propped me up as if to say* "Here's just the
man for you, lady." The medium accepted my apparent willing-
ness to stooge for her while I stood glaring at George,
"Go on and help the spirits!" he bantered, again betraying
his typically blase attitude about my sincere research. George
was a practical man.
As I walked up the aisle, the situation suddenly took on a
providential twist. Wasn't this an opportunity for me to test
the veridicality of mental phenomena ? Perhaps my Interest had
always been too impersonal.
I stepped to the platform.
"Youll make a good assistant/
1
beamed the medium^ taking
my hand.
She then announced that the meeting would be devoted to
reading sealed messages. What no spirits? Patience, gypsy,
patience!
Cards and envelopes were distributed to the hundred or more
curious souls in the audience. They were instructed to write
questions on the cards and put them into the envelopes, seal*
and initial in one corner. This done, the ushers collected them
and the minister asked me to blindfold her. I did with the
black cloth she provided. I was sure she could not see. She
couldn't; so she asked me to remove the blindfold. She wanted
to put a square of cloth over each eye so "no one will possibly
doubt my fidelity."
Disillusioned once more, I blindfolded her so she could sec
90 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
and stepped back defeatedly. Just another parlor trick* The
squares permitted her to see objects close to her body unless
the blindfold were tied completely under her nose, and there
must be a law against that, even In California!
Cloth squares! According to "spiritualism," to make sure
she couldn't see; according to any book on amateur magic, to
make doubly sure she could!
So she read the messages and called the meeting a church
service, which is one way of getting around the fortunetelling
tax regulation.
Fortunetelling is what It was, and respectable spirits would
have no part in it.
The act wore on. Between yawns, I mechanically counted
the envelopes still to be read. Suddenly I spied a sprawling
"G.S." under the medium's hand. , Here was my chance for
retribution!
"The name Is George Storm," I whispered.
She caught on quickly,
"The name," she said loudly and confidently, "is George
Storm!"
You should have seen George! He came up stiff and straight
in his chair, glued his eyes on the woman, and listened en-
tranced while she gave him his reading. When the meeting
was over, he was among the first to come up and shake her
hand.
As we were leaving, I said, "Well, what do you think?"
"Terrific!" he exclaimed. "Terrific! I made an appointment
with her for a private reading tomorrow. She's wonderful! I
even heard voices!"
9i
When I told him what had actually happened, he me
an angry glance.
"That's what you say!" he flared. "I know she got the
information from the spirits P
Again I was persuaded that an unscrupulous medium and a
credulous gentleman are a fearful and wonderful combination!
Did spiritualism actually lead to God? The question per-
sisted, not because of what I had seen and not seen, but because
of the preponderance of great names connected with psychic
phenomena and research: James Fenimorc Cooper, William
Cullen Bryant, Robert Dale Owen, Daniel Webster, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Horace Grceley,
Elisha Kane.
There were also names of contemporary interest: Sir Oliver
Lodge, English physicist and author; E. Lee Howard, DJX,
former pastor of historic Congregational Church at Paines-
ville, Ohio; Dr. Ozora S, Davis, president of Chicago Theo-
logical Seminary; Sherwood Eddy, world traveler and writer.
The late A. Conan Doyle made the statement that he had
approached the subject as a skeptic and emerged a disciple.
Hamlin Garland contended that no explanation other than
interworld communication would confirm the facts uncovered
by his forty years of psychical investigation*
Sir William Crookes, with degrees from at least five Eng-
lish universities, inventor of the Crookes* tube and discoverer
of thallium, reported that he had seen manifestations of levi-
tation, had heard accordions play without being touched by
human hands, had seen a luminous hand write upon the wall
and a medium handle live coals with bare hands. AH this he
92 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
had subjected to scientific tests that proved there were forces at
work which could not be explained by any known physical law.
And there was Miller Reese Hutchinson, an associate of
Thomas A. Edison, who claimed that when Edison died he
knew about it instantly by mental perception and spirit aid.
Edison's picture flew from its place on the piano and landed
at Hutchinson's feet at the very moment of Edison's death. I
was with Hutchinson one summer in the Berkshires when he
was trying to get Edison's voice by means of electrical devices.
This impressive "Who's Who" was paralleled by official sta-
tistical data. Scattered through urban America were five hun-
dred churches affiliated with eighteen spiritualist bodies. Four
of the leading groups were: National Spiritualist Association,
Progressive Spiritual Church, General Assembly of Spiritual-
ists, and National Spiritual Alliance of the United States of
America. I discovered that the form of worship and the or-
ganizational plans in these churches were set in the conven-
tional pattern.
There were sacraments, ceremonies, and confessions of faith.
Sunday schools operated along accepted Protestant plans. It
was the basic tenet embraced by each denomination that was
startling and radical: "Je$us Christ was a medium!" I also
heard that every true religion is a result of the "flow of the
psychic stream/' that spiritual revelation comes only through
mediums and that the only interaction between earth and
heaven is psychic phenomena. Yet, in none of the churches I
visited had I found the psychic demonstrations to validate
these claims. ,
Out of this conflict of interest and hapless search, I took the
long step to Lily Dale, New York. Here stood a spiritualistic
SPIRITUALISM 93
shrine, the Fox Cottage, which had been moved from Hydes-
vllle. Within these lowly, innocent-appearing rooms, Ameri-
can spiritualism had its birth. Here, where worn old
now feel only the tread of the believing and the curious, there
were heard, a hundred years ago, footfalls of the unseen and
raps and rumblings not made with human hands. So says spirit-
ualist history.
It attests that on March 31, 1848,, Mr. and Mrs. John D. Fox
heard uncanny noises and stirrings in these rooms. Sometimes
the sounds issued from upstairs, sometimes from the cellar,
always they were mysterious. A few nights later, neighbors
were called in to verify these inexplicable goings-on. They, too,
heard the noises. Former tenants admitted that they had been
aware of such sounds but had said nothing because of fear of
ridicule. A former maid confessed that she had heard running
feet in the buttery. The neighbors continued to meet and listen.
Finally the noises were localized in an upstairs room where
slept the two Fox daughters, Margaret, fifteen, and Katie,
twelve.
This upper room had its veil of mystery which nearly a hun-
dred years had not fully rent in twain. Mr. and Mrs. Fox and
Hydesville townsfolk sat in this room and heard the raps obey
the commands of the young Fox sisters. When the girls were
moved into their parents* bedroom, the raps followed them.
Wherever they went the phenomena of noises were their
companions. Neither time nor travel could alter this state of
things.
In Rochester where the girls went to live with their sister
Leah Fox Underbill, the raps were in attendance. At public
meetings in Buffalo, Boston, and New York, and on tour
94 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
through Cleveland, Cincinnati, and St. Louis, Katie and Mar-
garet induced raps, gave messages, stirred up poltergeists; in
short, manifested such strong mediumistic talent that they
started the fad science, philosophy, or religion of spiritualism
depending upon your point of view.
The girls were subjected to many tests. In Buffalo their dem-
onstrations were investigated by a self-appointed committee of
three doctors Flint, Lee, Coventry professors in the Buffalo
Medical School. They claimed that when the ankles of the
Fox sisters were securely clutched in the sure grip of a scientific
fist there were no raps because "the raps were made by the
deliberate snapping of the toe joints."
Spiritualistic science maintained that the delicate ebb and
flow of psychic power could not be properly judged under such
"adverse and trumped-up" conditions. In a test sponsored by
the Boston Courier, a committee of "the foremost scientists of
the time/* headed by Professor Benjamin Pierce, attended
stances for three consecutive days. The promised final report
was never made.
The famous Seybert investigation sponsored by the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania decided against the reliability of psychical
demonstration, "To teach a good Christian lesson/' the staff
of the Harvard Divinity School expelled student Frederick
Willis after submitting him to tests which showed that he had
mediumistic tendencies.
Despite these refutations, interest increased and competent
people were numbered among a rapidly growing coterie. The
first long communication purportedly received from the spirit
plane was widely publicized and accepted as the groundwork
for a new faith: "Dear friends, you must proclaim these truths
95
to the world. This Is the dawning of a cra^
not try to conceal it any longer. When you do your duty* God
will protect you; and good Spirits will watch over you."
Good spirits or the divination of an unlettered "Pougkkeepstc
seer" helped fan the spiritistic spark into a conflagration* In
18569 Andrew Jackson Davis analyzed., compiled,
voluminous findings (thirty-three volumes) that gave
and dignity to the new revelation. He claimed that Penetralia,
a catechetical treatment probing the various departments of
human existence, was written with spirit aid; it was the direct
result of automatic writing and clgiraudicjit perception.
Under this impetus there appeared, within twenty years, six
hundred practicing mediums in Cincinnati and a thousand in
New York. Spiritualists claim that Abraham Lincoln was a
convert, and that a message through a medium moved him to
emancipate the slaves.
On October 21, 1888, Margaret threw spiritualistic realms
into confusion when she suddenly became a convert to Roman
Catholicism and published a personal expose in the New Yor^
World. She asserted that spiritualism was a hoax, that she .had
been deceiving the public and that the raps had indeed been
made by snapping the toe joints. She heightened the story by
saying that Katie and she had also fooled the Hydesville folk
by thumping an apple against the floor under their bed! Al-
though I remembered the credulity of my friend, George Storm,
this explanation made the American public appear more gul-
lible than even I wished to admit.
Could a few hundred thousand Americans be fooled by the
childish halloweening of two farm girls? If this were true it
out-Barnumed Barnum. But that is what Margaret avowed and
96 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
her statement was called the death blow to spiritualism. Before
she died, however, she made another confession on matters
spiritistic. She now insisted that an undefiled communication
with the spirits was and would ever be the only explanation for
what she and Katie and other mediums had demonstrated. The
drama behind this story, if not the claim of something beyond
the depths of physical forces, certainly justified the preservation
of the Fox home at Lily Dale.
When I came from the cottage, Ralph G. Pressing, editor of
the Psychic Observer, was waiting for me in his office. He had
the keen, decisive characteristics of the successful American
businessman, and there was an air of confidence and security
about everything he did and said. He immediately wanted to
know what my general interest in spiritualism was.
"First, its philosophy," I told him, "and second, a hope of
seeing demonstrations of psychic phenomena." Then I asked
him the question that people were always asking me, "Is spirit-
ualism a religion?"
"Spiritualism a religion?" Pressing echoed in amazement.
''Heavens, yes! Why not? If it isn't a religion, what is it?"
I could have said a superstition or something in the realm
of magic or a special field of psychic science, but Pressing gave
me no opportunity. He was an enthusiast of the type one finds
among the disciples of vital faiths everywhere* Didn't I know
that the psychic flow had given rise to every great spiritual
movement? Had no one ever explained how the true relation-
ship and contact of man with God is through the etheric
channels ?
"Spiritualism a religion? Say, rather, that every religion is
based upon spiritualism! In fact, spiritualism is religion, not in
97
the of communication the only, not In
ing in raps and table lifting and levitation, In the reve-
lation of God through the psychic channel!"
Pressing was telling me that the underlying of
man's eternal search were answered in this philosophy. Through
the psychic and medium, we discover the silver cord
us to the creative forces of the universe. Without it we live
estranged from God orphans, wanderers, lost souls. is
etheric as well as physical. He lives in a spectral world
through spiritualism there is an interplay between this shadowy
realm and man, an interplay which is intelligible, forceful, and
comforting, immense in implication. There were words which
sought to describe this interpenctration of etheric man and the
imponderable source of his being, expressions like "tuning in?
**
"contact," "getting the vibrations," "tapping the psychic
stream," "communication/* "intimacy with the cosmos."
Through it all ran the conviction that man's ultimate destiny
is oneness with the Spirit who has created him. In short*
spiritualism is man's relation to God, and this has ever been
the primary function and meaning of religion. A common de-
nominator of all great religions is that God is Spirit and they
who worship Him must worship Him in spirit!
"So much for the philosophy of the movement," I agreed.
"But what about psychic phenomena?"
Pressing looked at me a moment. "There's an assembly
going on at Chesterfield, Indiana," he said knowingly, and
then went on to assure me that there sincere and scientific devel-
opment of all phases of mediumistic phenomena in the realm of
truth was being demonstrated.
"You mean," I queried, "fraud is eliminated?"
98 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Pressing was emphatically brief. "Definitely!'*
"But, Mr. Pressing," I objected, "I have witnessed so much
hocus-pocus and have seen so much cantrip passed off as the
real thing
"
"Naturally/* Pressing interrupted. "There is fraudulent phe-
nomenon in spiritualism. There are also records of misconduct
associated with other religions, and in most professions.
1'
"But you think it is eliminated at Chesterfield? How?"
"In the first place, mediums come to Chesterfield to serve
only after an invitation from the official board," he began. "The
secretary must already have good reports from the cities in
which they have worked. All mediums are on probation; that
is, they cannot work on the grounds for the public until they
have submitted to the tests of the Examining Committee. This
is a committee of five or more competent psychical researchers
familiar with the techniques of all phases of mediumship. Test
conditions are exacting and varied* Mediums never know what
to expect. But they must agree to whatever conditions the
Examining Committee proposes, and they must submit to its
findings. In some instances, the medium's hands and feet are
held. His movements at all times are guarded. The committee
must be convinced that he does nothing by normal or me-
chanical means. The test covers everything. When it comes
to the actual levitation part of the psychical demonstration, it
is even more thorough. In direct-voice mediumship, each spirit
voice is questioned as to its identity, must know its name in full
and must be able to carry on an intelligent and convincing con-
versation. Furthermore, spirit guides are interrogated on many
subjects pertaining to the requirements of mediumship and the
philosophy of spiritualism."
99
"What arc the tests for materialization ?" 1
**The medium enters the room clothed in a robe* He
must submit to an examination of his person. The arc
always locked and all entrances arc kept under the
vciliance. When the spirits appear, they arc
After the Examining Committee has completed its
tion, the medium must go through what is a
period.
11
Even though he docs pass the tests, he at
least one season at the camp so that officials can be assured that
he will serve the public satisfactorily. In the final analysis, the
public tests the medium."
"How about a date, Mr. Pressing at Chesterfield!"
"Can you make it on the twenty-sixth ? Some of the best me-
diums in the United States will be there. If you can stay a week,
I believe all your questions about our philosophy will be an-
swered and your desire for demonstrations will be satisfied."
On August 26 I drove into Chesterfield^ Indiana, and pro-
ceeded immediately to the spiritualist camp Adjoining the town.
It is called a city of peace, a New Jerusalem, a Great Mecca.
Expecting a morbid cloister for communication with the dead,
I found to my surprise a bucolic vacationland. Two large hotels
and twenty cottages look out upon a grass-carpeted amphi-
theater and a grotto in a "garden of prayer."
Symbolizing the unbroken tradition of spiritualism, there is
a "Trail of Religions/' Spiritualists say there is nothing like it
in the world. Life-sized busts of Abraham, Buddha, Zoroaster,
Mohammed, Lao-tse, Confucius, Vardhamana, Zeus, Osiris, and
Jesus suggest that spiritualism is universal in appeal and appli-
cation. Overlooking the scene, an Indian stands with face
uplifted to the invisible heavens of the spirit world.
IDG A FAITH
1 at the and found sur-
rounded by an of about two hundred
students of spiritualistic science. Young and old, all had some
distinctive quality told me were not scaled to the pat-
tern of the mediums I had met before* The Chesterfield enthu-
siasts did not have the gleam of the cults in their eyes, Neither
they the shifty, evasive type which I had found behind
curtained rooms in office buildings and homes in metropolitan
areas. The hefty double-chinned medium with bulging bosom
and a dab of rouge on her sagging cheeks was conspicuously
absent. The students at Camp Chesterfield could have passed as
delegates at any professional convention.
One whom I met informally at the hotel had been a school
superintendent in a suburb of Milwaukee. She was a direct-
voice medium, receiving messages through the perception of
spirit voices, but her chief interest was in the theology of spiritu-
alism. She said she felt that people were losing the deeper
meaning and truths of the science because of the spectacular
aspect of the phenomena.
"It is the relation of spiritualism to Christianity and the
Bible that seems so wonderful to me," she said.
This challenging statement demanded an explanation. The
medium eagerly launched into a seemingly endless disquisition
pegged on specific Biblical texts quoted with dexterity from
Genesis to Revelation.
"How about Matthew 3:16-17?" she insisted with a captious
burst of enthusiasm.
"
'Lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is
my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.' Of course, that
was a spirit voice. We hear the voices all the time. You will
101
hear In the seances, Samuel them. So did Abra-
ham the prophets and Mary and women of the
Proof of clairvoyant perception runs the Scrip
flirts. Daniel was a medium. He interpreted the of
Nebuchadnezzar after the fraudulent failed. That's
Daniel 4:4-28. Of course, Jesus was the greatest medium of all.
He was clairvoyant^ clairaudieni, and materializing. If He
wasn't clairvoyant how could He have predicted what the dis-
ciples would find when they went into Jerusalem daring that
first Holy Week? He said, 'You will find a colt tied there,' He
said, Ton will meet a man with a pitcher; follow Mm. He
will take you to the house.' Along with being clairvoyant, Jesus
was also telepathic. In John 4:17-19, a woman told Him she
had no husband. Jesus said, 'You had five husbands and the
man you are living with now is not your husband at all!'
He was a materializing medium. The synoptic gospels tell
how He materialized Moses and Elias and they stood beside
Him. Read Luke 9:28-30. And3
of course, you know how
often Jesus materialized and appeared to His disciples and to
others aiter His death. You will see materialization here in
Chesterfield* It is all the same. When you understand spiritu-
alism the Bible becomes alive and wonderful until you relate
it to spiritualism it is a mystery and even dull reading!"
Pressing interrupted this defense of faith to announce that it
was time for our first stance.
As we walked across the grounds, he explained that Clifford
Bias, with whom we had our appointment, was a specialist in
direct-voice mediumship,
"If it is a successful seance, you will hear the voices of Mr.
THEY A FAITH
Bias* collaborators,* promised. **These voices
wll become audible to you through the use of aluminum trum-
pets.'*
I in the of raediumistic progression such a
voice demonstration was surpassed only by materialization, I
had come a long way since my experiments with mediums of
planchettes and ouija boards, automatic writing, and psy-
chomctry.
Clifford Bias, a slightly built man in his early thirties, was
sitting on the porch of his cottage smoking a cigarette. He was
a bit on the nervous side, yet thoughtful in expression and quiet
in speech. Introductions were informal, and conventional ques-
tions about my first impressions of Camp Chesterfield fol-
lowed. Then Bias casually suggested that we go in for the
seance. The number of people admitted to a stance is variable,
usually from seven to twelve* Today, Pressing and I were to
have the privilege of a private seance with trumpet-medium
Bias.
There was nothing unusual about the front room of the cot-
tage. It was about ten by sixteen; there was a rug on the floor
and Venetian blinds on the two windows. With Bias' consent,
I examined the surroundings* There were no furnishings ex-
cept a small table and a few folding chairs. Both the door
through which we had entered and the door leading to other
parts of the house were now locked. Pressing and I sat at one
end of the room facing a chair which had been set out for the
medium. Set upright in the space between were two trumpets
painted with luminous bands. They were really aluminum
tubes that flanged out into a bell-shaped end. The larger was
ii>3
feet long ;
the a in
was constructed in one piece.
Closing the Venetian blindly said, "1 will off the
lights, take my place, allow to be If
voices speak, ask any questions of them you wish* I aPPrc-
ciatc it if you will continue in a spirit of devotion coopera-
tion. Is there anything I should explain?
11
I wanted to know why he needed to turn off the lights.
"Spirit chemists collaborate with all physical mediums. These
chemists must build psychic structures from ectoplasm drawn
from the medium and sitters. Light rays disintegrate ectoplasm
in the same way that light rains photographic negatives. Aside
from this fact, it is easier to rid one's mind of the things of
the world and maintain a proper attitude toward the service/*
he explained. "In the light you would be tempted to watch
the medium. This would distract you from the phenomena.
The disciples met at night for seances. You remember haw
they selected a remote place, like the upper room ? They, toc^
wanted to be free from the disturbing influences of the world/'
Here was another suggestion that spiritualism was a com-
ponent part of Christian history. Here, in startling contrast to
Mrs, McPherson's interpretation of Pentecost, was the hint that
the "rushing wind/* the "cloven tongues as of fire/' the "speak-
ing in tongues," were psychical phenomena! A remembered
line from the book of Acts intruded into my thinking, **T1iey
spake as the Spirit gave them utterance."
Clifford Bias snapped off the lights. I nodded wisely in the
dark* There was a trick behind all of this, a trick of hypnotism.
Clever Mr. Bias had played upon my mental susceptibilities, ex-
104 THEY A FAITH
me to be taken In. 1 was confident he would be disap-
pointed,
It was now very dark and very quiet in the room. Before us
the Barrow luminous bands on the trumpets became brighter
and more shimmering. From outside came an occasional sound
of people walking on the graveled paths across Chesterfield's
grounds. I heard Bias breathe heavily; each breath was a slight
groan.
The moments passed* My eyes became accustomed to the
dark and I could make out the vague outline of Pressing next
to me. He leaned over and whispered somberly, "Well, when's
something going to happen?"
Before I could answer
"How do you do, Dr. Bach! How do you do, Mr. Pressing!"
came to us out of the darkness. It was a tantalizing, childish
voice with a slightly roguish touch. It might have been a win-
some little prodigy stepping out in debut. It might have been
a tiny actress in a puppet show.
"Good afternoon," responded Mr. Pressing.
"Who are you?" I asked.
With a friendly lilt the answer came, "I'm Sylvia."
I had to admit that this voice, for some reason, carried with
it more convincing qualities than any "spirit voice" that I had
heard before. Its identity did not seem to be related even re-
motely to Mr. Bias. But mere refinement of voice would not
change my reaction. The medium, I hastily concluded, was a
ventriloquist. If Bergen could do his amazing stunts with
Charlie, why couldn't Clifford Bias do as well with Sylvia? I
yawned.
Sylvia must have had mental perception. "We are glad you
io5
arc here, Dr. Bach," she a in her
"This is
going to be a seance. There arc vibrations.
Look!"
The small trumpet was slowly rising the It
stopped slightly above the larger one and hovered uncertainly*
"What do you think of that?
n
Sylvia.
"It's a good trick," I confessed stubbornly.
'Trick?'* Sylvia laughed, unoffcnded.
"Who is doing that?*
5
Pressing asked.
"I am," said Sylvia. "I am Clifford's guide/*
"What's a guide?" I wanted to know.
"Well, you see/' the girl's voice said in a mature, thoughtful
way, "Clifford is in trance. His spirit is out of the body. I can
see it but you can't. It is very close. I use his vocal cords to
speak with/*
"But who are you ?" I insisted.
"Sylvia!" said the voice emphatically. "Didn't I tell you I am
Sylvia? Clifford's guide Sylvia. I can get other spirits for
you, if you want me to.**
"How?" I demanded. "With millions of spirits in the spirit
world, how do you get them ? Call Bob Whitehand for me/*
"Bob Whitehand?" The voice seemed to drift from us for a
moment. "Bob Whitehand ?" it returned reflectively. "Ill try.
It is done by vibrations. Like sending vibrations through a
funnel, a big funnel leading to the spirit world. Each spirit has
its vibrations. Ill try to get Bob Whitehand afterwhile. But
look at the trumpet now, Dr. Bach!"
It had risen to five or six feet above the floor and was slowly
floating in space.
"That's pretty high for you to reach," I suggested.
106 THEY A FAITH
"Where you like the to go?
n
Sylvia.
"Bring It close to me/* I her.
Outlined by the luminous bands, the trumpet floated toward
me. It stopped close to my right car,
"Put it in my hands, Sylvia/' 1 said.
"Hold them out!"
I extended my hands and the trumpet came to rest in them.
Now, I thought, here's my chance to find those strings. Balanc-
ing the feather-light tube in my left hand., I passed my right
hand completely around it. No strings.
"Put your hands on each end of the trumpet/* Sylvia di-
rected.
I did, holding the trumpet about elbow's length from my
body.
"Now 111 talk to you from inside the trumpet."
A whispered voice Sylvia's came from within the trumpet.
I put it to my right ear the voice was there; to my left ear
Sylvia speaking.
"Well," I admitted, "that's interesting." Then I withdrew
both hands quickly. Unaided, the trumpet remained fixed in
space.
A conversation between Sylvia and Pressing was lost in my
amazement upon seeing the other trumpet begin a slow take-
off. Without stopping, it ascended to a point near the ceiling,
It hung there, then started a slow swinging motion, round and
round, like the retarded movement of a helicopter. Then the
deep-throated voice of a man issued forth.
"How do you do, Dr. Bach! How do you do, Mr. Pressing!
This is Dr. William James! When I was on the earth plane
I, too, was interested in what people believe. Had I but
107
I Do
The voice, speaking so apparently the void,
tativc, convincing* And I is a
spirit? What is the first sensation death? What is Me
like on the spirit plane ? Do material in the
world as Sir Oliver Lodge mentioned in Raymomi?
The replies came deliberately in deep, full tones, "Spirit is
energy, the highest form of energy. . . The after
death is one of waking, as from a confused sleep; there is a
time of adjustment, bewilderment; gradually the mind, intelli-
gence, consciousness, the aurelian personage comes into a fuller
stature. . . Life here is filled with inexpressible possibilities,
related to the highest conscious order of the universe. . . . Sir
Oliver meant that in whatever way you interpret material
things, so we must describe through the inadequacy of language
conditions in the ethereal world."
The message went on ten minutes, fifteen, perhaps twenty,
judging from the over-all duration of the seance. The longer
it continued the more uncanny it became, the more it seemed
that this was a voice from the spirit world. The trumpet con-
tinued its circular motion.
Once, Pressing leaned over and whispered, "Very good, don't
you think?**
Yes, I was compelled to confess, it was good. So good that I
wished then, as now, that I had been able to record every word.
But I kept telling myself that it could, of course, be Clifford
Bias, good ventriloquist that he very likely was. It might all
be memorized copy from James's Varieties of Religious Ex-
perience. Sometimes it sounded like it.
The voice, now near, now far, was constant and clear until
zo8 A
"Dr. James" said,
U
I can stay no longer. Good-by, Dr. Bach*
Good-by, Mr* Pressing. agaio.
M
With this farewell, the trumpet hung poised for a moment,
the aperture pointed in my direction, very much in the
direction of my head, I thought It came toward me, not swiftly,
but with certainty until it was within two feet of me. Then it
swerved upward, took on as much speed as the distance allowed,
and crashed with a bang against the wall behind me. There it
telescoped and clattered to the floor.
"What the devil was that?" Pressing asked.
Sylvia's impish laugh was the answer. "I wanted to show
you how poltergeists work! Well, that's the way!" The room
was quiet for a few moments. Nothing could be seen save
the luminous bands of the small trumpet. Then Sylvia's voice
said, "I think I have Bob Whltehand for you."
"Good!" I said, in a tone of co-operation. "Bob? Bob? Can
you hear me?"
A luminous head appeared levitated about four feet from the
floor. It was not materialized in the way that materialization
is usually described. It simply appeared out of nothingness. It
was like a blurred flashlight reflected on a human face. I made
out the unmistakable features of my friend who had been killed
in France. This apparition hovered in the room for only a few
seconds and then blacked out. How should I explain it ? If it
were actually a human face illuminated by a flashlight, it must
have been shrouded in a curtain in the center of the room. But
I knew there had been no curtain. Besides, why would the
flashlight diffuse over no other single part of the room, curtain,
or apparatus if apparatus were used ? And if it were someone
impersonating Bob Whitehand, how could he make up such
SPIRITUALISM 109
a resemblance of as no
1 would Bob's ? It an
pcning remained the most vivid of the demon-
stration*
Sylvia was now bidding us good-by. The re-
turned to Its original position. Clifford
in his chair. He sighed heavily. In his natural voice, he called,
"Pressing? Bach?"
"Are you okay?" Pressing asked.
Bias switched on the lights. He looked tired. "Let's go on
out/* he said as he unlocked the door and led the way to the
porch. "Tell me everything that happened."
He lighted a cigarette.
I gave him a quick glance. Didn't he really know? My
skepticism had been shaken and my confidence heightened by
the events of the past two hours. I was anxious for further in-
vestigation more systematic investigation than this trumpet
stance had been. Pressing suggested that we attend a message
stance which was scheduled for the public In the auditorium.
Sealed messages In envelopes with the Initials on the front?
Of this I had seen plenty! But Pressing wisely advised that
here would be an opportunity to compare Chesterfield methods
and results with those "of the world."
The man on the large auditorium stage was Homer Watkins
of Detroit. He opened the meeting with Scripture and a prayer.
Then the audience of two hundred sang a few gospel hymns.
It might have been a Christian service anywhere, but the ser-
mon was sharply punctuated with spiritistic phrases. During
another song, slips of paper were passed to the audience. Al-
most everyone wrote a question. I did, too: "To which pub-
ii0 THEY HAVE A
fisher I a on Fm working?**
We the questions and folded them any way we wished.
No envelopes were used. So far^ it even more obvious
than Hollywood.
This thought persisted as the questions were dumped on the
behind which Watkins stood blindfolded. He faced the
audience stolidly and with a sweeping movement of his hands
thoroughly mixed up the questions. Snatching first one aad
then another, he whipped them past his ears with a rhythmic
motion as though listening for vibrations. Now he cast them
back on the table and snapped up two more* In the midst of
all this action, the readings were given in sharp staccato tones.
"This question is from John, John Day. Yes, John, I can hear
your cousin. It is your second cousin. His name is Charles
Wright. Not White. Wright. He married Julia Stafford. You
ask about the farm. You mean your farm on which the Austin
family is living. It is Harlan Austin and he has three children.
You want to ask Charles Wright what you should do about the
farm. Charles says
"
He spoke with the infallibility of a well-trained artist. Maybe
he was. But as I listened I had the feeling that Watkins was
but the mouthpiece. The unerring recital of involved names,
places, and family relationships, the rapid and inexhaustible
flow of instruction and counsel left me agasp. From the audi-
torium the questioners gave satisfied endorsement of the dem-
onstration: "That's right! Exactly right! Thank you!"
The collusiveness of the demonstrator recalled Pressing's
standard for a true medium: "He never needs to ask a question.
He doesn't throw out bait. He doesn't need leads. He knows
and he tells you,"
Ill
"Marcus Marcus Bach!" the of the
my **Y0ii
to a manuscript where to a
script
"
I leaned over to Pressing. "The man can sec!"
"There will be a leaping on the jacket/" the
was saying.
Pressing jumped to his feet. **Jost a moment!" he
"Here's a man who wants to examine the blindfold!"
The medium's hands stopped their fanning motioa, letting
the slips of paper drop to the table- Pressing led me to the
platform.
I examined the blindfold. No cloth squares! I rctied it
myself. I am convinced that the man could not see and yet,
immediately, the threshing movement of his hands was re-
sumed, the messages issued forth again, casting a spell like the
solemn murmur of an incantation.
The same mood, with further intensity, prevailed under the
mediumship of Fanchion Harwood during a materializing
seance early the next evening. There were seven of us in the
circle: a medical doctor from Texas, Ralph G. Pressing, Mrs,
Belle Daiches of Evanston, Illinois, who has written for the
Psychic Observer, two other women and a man from Louisiana
who were studying to become mediums. Mrs. Harwood's assist-
ant received us.
Pressing told her that I wanted to examine the room. I did.
It was located in the basement. We had entered by the outside
cellar stairs. I thumped the walls. They were solid. There was
a door in one corner of the room that led into another part of
02 A
die basement 1 It be locked The assistant obliged.
As I continued the 1 nothing suspicious
save a Yclvct curtain suspended in cyclorama fashion from one
of the walls. It was somewhat higher than a man's head and
projected out Into the room to form an enclosure about three
by four feet,
"What is the purpose of this curtain?" I wanted to know.
"That," said the assistant, "is the cabinet. Look it over."
I pulled aside the "curtain and went in. There was a chair
against the solid basement wall. Nothing more.
"What is this cabinet for?"
The assistant explained that it was behind the enclosure that
the medium sits entranced.
"Why must she be concealed ?"
"The reason for concealing the medium," I was informed,
"is because a red light is used during a materialization seance,
Even a dim light interferes with the generation of the ecto-
plasm necessary in building spirit forms. The cabinet shields
the medium during the time this force is being assembled and
then, when complete, the form can stand the light rays long
enough to be seen outside the cabinet by the sitters from thirty
seconds to three or four minutes. The medium entranced is also
sometimes disturbing to the spectators. It is not a pleasingly
aesthetic sight especially not during a materialization, for
ectoplasm exudes from her mouth and body in the nature of a
gauzy, foggy, smokelike substance from which figures are
formed by the spirit chemists."
Since there was no way for anyone to enter or leave the
cabinet without coming through the room, I accepted it as part
of the required setting.
"But the lights?** 1
"The will be turned off/* we "Ecto-
plasm, with its quality of luminosity, shows up In or
scmidarkncss. The seance will place in a red
will not detract from the materialized forms. It will be
enough for you to discern one another all the while to see
me standing near the cabinet,"
About this time Mrs. Harwood rapped at the inside
and was admitted. The door was reloekccL Mrs. HarwoocI
was diminutive, gentle, and refined. She greeted us in a cordial^,
forthright manner. But as she stepped inside the cabinet, I
reminded myself that "true art Is the ability to conceal art/*
The assistant took her place beside the cabinet.
"Let us enter the seance reverently,'* she Instructed, and there
followed a brief word of prayer. Then she continued: "I have
these requests to make. Be sincere. You can assist very much
in the success of the seance. Please do not speak among your-
selves. If, however, a spirit appears and indicates he wants to
speak to you, if he calls you by name or motions to you to come,
get up and speak to him. I only ask that you will please not
touch the spirits. Are there any questions?"
"Why shouldn't we touch the spirits ?" I asked.
"There is a connection between the spirits and the medium,*
9
the assistant explained. "When you touch the spirit you are
really touching the medium and disturbing the conditions of
the trance. Do you remember the words of Jesus when He said
to Mary In the garden after His resurrection, *Touch me not,
for I am not yet ascended to my Father
5
?"
I had further questions but, convinced that the success of the
seance depended as much on us who sat in the circle as upon
ii4 THEY A
the 1 put in a not a credulous
of mind. I determined* to against hal-
or or whatever Intrude under the
of psychical demonstration.
When the assistant turned out the bright lights, the room
was with a deep red glow which came from a
spotlight directly over my shoulder. I turned to examine it It
was a theatrical spotlight covered by a thickness of gelatin.
In its I could easily see Pressing at my left and the doctor
from Texas at my right. The others in the group, sitting in a
half circle on folding chairs, were also always discernible.
After perhaps five minutes of silent waiting, the assistant
suggested that we sing a song. Someone started, "I Heard the
Voice of Jesus Say." We sang one verse and were about to be-
gin another when a voice spoke.
**How are you, everyone?" It sounded like Sylvia. But I
knew that Clifford Bias was at this same hour giving his dem-
onstration of trumpet mediumship.
"I am Twilight," said the voice.
At this everyone responded, "Hello, Twilight. How are
you?"
'Tin just fine," said Twilight, "and how are you, Dr. Bach?"
*Tm fine, too/' I replied, piqued at having been singled out
just because I hadn't chimed in with the others. It struck me
that a spirit should think of something more profound in the
way of a greeting than the old earth-worn phrases.
Twilight was chatty. "Everybody happy? You happy, Mr.
Pressing? You happy, Mrs. Daiches? I think this will be a
good stance. Oh, a very good stance, I think for sure. It is a
circle. Ob, it's a day for a Nice
Atmospheric conditions have a lot to do
the is hcavy> It is hard for the to
Materialization is hard then. Oh, yes, It is* And we
materializatiam! We just must have!" This last with
an ironic twist.
"Ail religions must have phcnomcn 4ow do you say k
phenomena or phenomenon or phenomenoosl 1
pronounce it** Twilight laughed.
A good seance? I wondered.
A light flickered near the floor, close to where the assistant
stood. It was a luminous glow, like the quick beam of a flash-
light shining up through a cloth. It came suddenly, tarried a
moment, and faded reluctantly. Twilight's disconnected talk
persisted as the mirage of light loomed again. This time it
mounted higher like silver smoke curling around a light bulk
Then the light went out, but the silver smoke continued to
hover, I can describe it best as a bright, shimmering vapor,
struggling for expression. Slowly it began taking form, Some-
thing like shoulders then a face appeared. It developed into
a bodily form and spoke. It called for Mrs. Daiches. She got up,
took a few steps, and said, "Yes, Mother?"
"How are you?" the figure asked in a low, hushed whisper.
*Tm fine, Mother. Why didn't you bring Father with you?"
Immediately a man's voice spoke* **She did." And hovering
beside the figure of the little old woman was a somewhat largo:
figure of a man. They had form and masMike features. For a
moment I thought they might be two actors dressed in lumines-
cent costumes and wearing papier~mach masks. Where had
n6 THEY A
they come from? How had they the room? I felt sure
1 would know before the seance was over. Houdini once said
that he could duplicate any such manifestation*
Then a third figure appeared. Let us say "materialized/* for
it is the best description. It seemed to COEIC out of the floor an
inchoate mass of cctoplasmic stuff growing, taking form,
speaking- I made out the semblance of a young boy.
"Mother," he said, "do you remember the walks we used to
take?"
"I surely do/
9
said the mother.
"Let's take one now!"
He took his mother's arm and they moved back and forth
across the room* coming so close to where I sat that I pulled
back my feet
Throughout these doings the whisperings continued some-
times simultaneously. Twilight was still chatting. And there
was spirit laughter, low and pleased. I was seeing the reason
d'Strc of spiritualism: demonstration and proof of the continuity
of life, coupled with the comforting assurance that that life is
good.
Here was the reunion of a family a son telling his mother
that life "over there" was just a continuation of life on earth,
There were not two worlds at all; there was but one inter-
blended, interrelated world closely interwoven by memory and
the love of life. Consciousness could not die. Personality could
not be destroyed. The spirit of man was, indeed, eternal
I drew my attention from the Daicheses* reunion and touched
Pressing's arm.
"What do you think?" I asked.
H7
"1 have to seances," he replied. "This to
be one of the very best."
I analyzed the possibilities of fraud deception. The
was sufficiently illuminated that 1 would in the
floor or shifting walls. And if It were "done with mirrors**
would one explain three figures speaking at once,
the room* touching "arms/* brushing past my feet?
This was the seance. The implausibility injected Into the
ten minutes carried through the entire demonstration* For an
hour new figures materialized and disappeared. Once Twilight
cautioned, "It is getting very bright. Too bright to sec. Fis:
the red light."
**I will, Twilight/* said the assistant, coming over to put an-
other thin sheet of gelatin over the spotlight.
I was making minute mental notations of all that was hap-
pening the hovering, swaying motion of the "spirits,** the
rhythm of life, like the rise and fall of a tide, as many as
four speaking simultaneously in whispered voices, excited*
hurried, persuasive. Suddenly the galaxy of spirits melted away.
For a long still moment nothing happened. Then the swirling
ectoplasmic effluvia glowed from the floor and quickly took on
the form of a girl. Before the figure was complete, It spoke,
"Marc, dear Marc, dear Marc, dear.'*
Those who know me well call me Marc ; those who know me
better call me Marc, dear, so I knew this must be a "familiar
spirit!" I got up and walked over until there was a space of less
than four feet between us. "Yes?" I said. "Who are you?"
The answer was fraught with disappointment. "Don't you
know me?"
n8 THEY HAVE A FAITH
I did not* 1 had no idea who this might be, I had really
been too absorbed to think ?erjr much personal contact
with tic spirits. If 1 had had anyone in throughout the
stanceif thoughts could have conjured up anyone surely
WMtehand would have appeared. Nor did I propose to
offer any hint of whom I thought she represent* No
leads* I determined.
"I do not know you. Who are you ?"
"Paula," came the answer.
The name and the soft manner In which it was uttered
brought the sudden unfolding of a forgotten drama. Twenty
years ago my sister Paula had died at the age of twenty-three.
Her child Janette had died shortly before. These deaths had
been among the deep sorrows in our family, but time and travel
reduce the past into forgetfulness. No medium or spirit had
plucked this name out of my mind because I wasn't thinking
of Paula. I had not thought of her even once during the seance.
I looked at the presence before me closely.
"How do I look ?" she asked.
"You look fine/' I replied.
"The right height?" she whispered. "Do you think I should
be taller?"
"No. You are about the height I remember/*
"I wanted to do a good job/' she told me earnestly. "Do I
look all right?"
"Yes," I assured her, recalling that one theory of materializa-
tion is that the spirit "takes" the ectoplasm and fashions accord-
ing to its memory the human form which clothed it on earth.
This is etheric sculpturing, and most spirits ask questions like
Paula's. It gratifying to her to
in and
Did this form and 1
admit did. Very much. The outline of the rec-
ognizable and convincing. It was like a "false front/* a
two-dimensional body with the semblance of in a
shadowy gray-white film. The face,
was strikingly reminiscent. There was an illusion of
hair. I cannot say whether the voice was Paula's or not. After
twenty years I would not remember. Just now, however, it was
Paula returned.
But why shouldn't it be? I asked myself as I stood there* The
spiritualists at Chesterfield knew I was coming. If, as some
people say, they have a well-laid system of espionage they could
easily have traced my family and got Paula's description. If this
was someone "dressed up/' play-acting* if this was a marionette
using the voice of a ventriloquist, naturally it would be so con-
structed as to represent Paula. This thought haunted me snore
than the presence. I wished I could convince myself someway.
The impulse to reach out and touch the figure became stronger.
I moved closer. I moved slightly to one side so that the red light
would strike the spirit's face more directly. We were about three
feet apart now. Paula was talking about life in the spirit world.
I was asking hasty questions: Have you seen Jesus? What is
heaven like? What about the element of time? Can you be
everywhere at once ? Are terms like Methodist, Reformed, Pres-
byterian, Catholic ever used where you are?
Her voice seemed to laugh. She answered,
c<
No, no/* to all
questions save.the one about heaven. It was like speaking to a
i HAVE A FAITH
living person secretly, clandestinely, knowing that time was
running out. Her features to become clearer. Perhaps
it my mind tricks*
And then a thought came to me. "Paula," I said^ "do you
remember the catechism we learned at home?
1*
"Of course!"
"Paula, do you remember the first question in that cate-
chism?"
C<
I remember."
**What was It?" I asked almost fearfully.
The answer came at once.
"
'What Is your chief comfort In
life and In death?
9 "
"Go on/' I urged.
a
That 1, with body and soul, both In life and in death am
not my own * "
She interrupted herself. "Here where we
are the words have a greater meaning!"
Then quickly, breathlessly, she told me that serving God
means personal development. Life on the spirit plane Is an
evolvement. Like the breaking of a chrysalis. Like the ascent
In a spiral. Like the growth of moral affection to higher and
higher "heavens." Several times she Interrupted herself with
"Do you understand? Is that clear?" as If she felt her message
was vital, all-absorbing. Death, she insisted, was not a violent
result of sin. It had no sting. It was neither friend nor enemy.
It was part of the divine purpose, a purpose without beginning
or end.
The whispering grew fainter. "I can stay no longer. I must
go now."
"Paula, one more thing. Can you put your arms around me ?"
"I'll give you a kiss," she said. "Come closer."
SPIRITUALISM 01
"You close to me/" I wanted her to the red
light. She did. There was now scarcely a us. Her
face luminous, seemingly transparent,
I forward and lowered my head. The
of encircled my neck,
flaxen brushed my forehead. Then Paula the
floor* It seemed.
I walked back to my chair and sat down.
"Was that all right?" Twilight was asking* "What do you
think?"
I did not reply.
What did I think?
A few minutes later the lights were turned on. The cabinet
assistant called to Mrs. Harwood, "Are you all right?** From
within the curtain the medium announced that she was.
The seance was ended.
I left the room, overpowered by a strange onrush of comfort
about life and death. If this is all true, I thought, It will be
difficult to speak of It without emotion. I had always believed
in life after death. The traditional churches believed It, too.
Spiritualism went a step farther. It asked us to believe that the
spirits were interested and active In human affairs, that they
could be reached, seen, communicated with. The sense of surety
and comfort lingered. The feeling of genuineness persisted. I
walked past the Chesterfield grotto. Someone was praying
within the shrine. For those who believe, spiritualism leads to
God.
Then, two months later, I visited with the good lady who,
long ago> had warned, "Stay away from puppet shows and
mediums. Both are of the Devil/'
122 A FAITH
**By the way,** 1 said in a manner, "I saw Paula the
day/"
at me.
a
Paula who?'* she asked slowly.
"Our Paula,"
**What kind of crazy talk is that ?
w
she asked with a character-
istic wave of her hands.
I told her the story. To my astonishment she asked for details.
"Did Paula mention Janette? Did she look like Paula? Was
she happy?"
My dad sat smoking his cigar, thoughtfully smiling.
"May I ask/' he began, turning to Mother with a winsome
tone, "do you have even the faintest, remotest idea of taking any
stock in this story ?**
She made a gesture of almost hopeless submission. With a
gentle, enigmatical smile of incredulous wonder, she said, "After
radios and the atomic bomb who knows what can happen in
the world?"
CHAPTER V
OXFORD GROUP
MERICA MUST RE-ARM MORALLY! WORLD SECURITY LIES IN
GOP CONTROL! These were the startling along
America's superhighways of faith in the late thirties,
The Moral Re-Armament caravan had taken over.
From seaboard to seaboard outdoor advertising got religion.
ONLY GOI>CONTROLLED MEN WILL MAKE CXXM2ONTROLLED NATIONS1
Shopwindows carried special placards. WHEN MAN LISTENS,
SPEAKS! Advertising space in streetcars and buses was utilized.
WHERE GOD GUIDES, GOD PROVIDES !
Churches, universities, and
civic organizations displayed and distributed bulletins by the
millions. SIN BLINDS AND SIN BINDS. The message entered home
and restaurant via milk-bottle tops. GOD HAS A PLAN FOR EVERY
MAN!
A graphic analysis of these messages struck the newsstands
of ten countries in December 1937 under the compelling title
of Rising Tide. The magazine was a glorified Life or Loo^
with the ambitious idea that nations could be remade through
a rising tide of "changed lives." It carried no advertising and
its publishers were volunteers working without financial back-
ing and without salaries. Through fifty pages a montage of
photographic masterpieces told the story vividly: the world,
123
134 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
precariously balanced by misdirected energy, enthusiasm and
invention for a long time, was now wavering over an abyss of
self-destruction! Human wisdom had failed* but God had a
plan:
"Everybody wants to sec the other fellow changed,
Every nation wants to see the other nation changed;
But everybody is waiting for the other fellow to begin.
If you want an answer for the world today, the best
place to start is with yourself.**
Through a continuity of action shots, high-lighted by arrest-
ing captions. Rising Tide showed how this could be done. De-
picting a sanctuary swept by enemy fire, one page proclaimed,
**The answer to burning churches is the church aflame!" Vio-
lent strips of riots and strikes in industry were accompanied by
"Workers led by God can lead the world." Below an avalanche
of news clippings that told the story of deteriorating home life
were the words, "Out of a million homes in touch with God
will come a nation's peace."
In Europe where the peace of the nations was threatened, the
thunder of the "rising tide of changed lives" was most em-
phatic. In the Netherlands, in Switzerland, and in the British
Isles gigantic mass meetings were held. Government officials
in Norway, Sweden, and Denmark admonished their people to
accept the challenge of a great Christian revolution. They
meant Moral Re-Armament, the dream child prodigy of Frank
N. Buchman, an American Lutheran minister. When Cham-
berlain was flying to Munich for his rendezvous with Hitler,
Buchman was addressing a world Moral Re-Armament As-
sembly of two thousand delegates from forty-five countries at
05
Interlaken, Switzerland. The of his "Guid-
ance or Guns!" of the of
heard him say, "The voice of God you will
the will of the people!"
He called upon a Japanese delegate to the intcrparliamcotarf
congress at the Hague to speak. F. to
"Through Moral Re-Armament you can keep the in
Europe intact. I will carry this message from the a
William Tell to the land of the Rising Sun!" Bernard Bour-
dillon, member of the British delegation to the Paris peace
fcrence; Todd Sloan, British labor leader; Baroness Dina Haho
of Latvia; and Sven Stalpe, Swedish labor leader, picked up
genius Buchman's phrases and went away saying, "Nationalism
can unite a nation, Supernationaiism can unite a world. God-
controlled superaationalism is the only sure foundation for
world peace!"
Hitler struck with his blitzkrieg. The world was being
shoved into war, but under the black shadows of such realities*
Moral Re-Armament refused to go down* Buchman was still
a power, a pilot of souls; God's man for Satan's hour. Con-
terminously with the preparation for war, England girded her-
self with a Moral Re-Armament publication, The Battle for
Peace. It cried for dependence upon God, for direction and
guidance. It argued that "minorities are bridges between na-
tions." Refusing to forget Interlaken, it recalled that "God in
every heart will put the nations ia the heart of God!" The
Battle for Peace was written by an apostle of the "changed life,"
Bunny Austin, a former Davis Cup winner. It was endorsed
by an army of British spiritual bluebloods who valiantly hoped
that Moral Re-Armament would stop the war. Could not their
ia6 THEY HAVE A FAITH
of prayer a spiritual How to halt
the enemy? Out of the of with which their
had fed the "rising tide/* they seized one of his most
famous for their battle cry^ "The Day of Miracles Is Not Over!"
Many remembered how he said,
Ci
l thank heaven for a man
like Adolf Hitler! Think what it would mean to the world if
he surrendered to the control of God. Or Mussolini. Or any
dictator. Through such a man God could control a nation
overnight and solve every last bewildering problem!"
These words re-echoed in America where elusive peace was
still masquerading as security. From his England headquarters
Budbman flashed a warning. On June 4, 1938, while two thou-
sand of his followers gathered at Stockbridge, Massachusetts,
he telephoned from London, "America must re-arm spiritually
or all is lost!"
But a transoceanic broadcast was not enough to arouse a
people who lay wrapped in a soft and comfortable blanket of
indifference about the rest of the world. So the self-appointed
steward of the world's crumbling peace came home to Amer-
ica. After extensive preparation, Moral Re-Armament was
launched with the kind of ballyhoo that Americans best appre-
ciate and most enthusiastically applaud. On the night of May
15, 1939, fifteen thousand gathered at Madison Square Garden
to see pageantry, hear speeches, and listen to transatlantic tele-
phone messages from London believers who said, "Moral Re-
Armament is the only hope," Representatives of many nations
carried their flags in a stirring procession. Bands played. A
Canadian cowboy wearing a ten-gallon hat sang a song about
peace. Bunny Austin spoke about the place of God in sports.
John Ramsey, CIO leader at the Bethlehem Steel Company, re-
127
how lie had "being a to a
In a
classes." George Eastman, a former president of the Los An-
Chamber of Commerce^
had changed his life and the lives of his employees. And
Buchman, In characteristic mastery of lines,,
"There is enough in the world for everyone's need, but not
enough for everyone's greed.**
The Moral Re-Armament caravan was rolling. For
months I followed its sensational meandering tour from Mad-
ison Square Garden to the Hollywood Bowl. Americans who
hopped on this religious band wagon actually believed that the
world was on its way back to the guidance of God. Some said
that MRA was the white horse of the Apocalypse that would
save America from destruction. More mundane souls chanted:
"The spark has caught in the tinder,
The fire is
sweeping the plain,
A call is rousing the nation,
Revere is riding again!"
It was the dream of world conquest by way of the spirit, a
theocracy through religious awakening* A United States Sen-
ator, Harry S. Truman, endorsed the idea; so did Harry H.
Woodring, Henry Ford, Richard E. Byrd, Joe DiMaggio, and
Fiorello La Guardia. The President of the Federal Council of
Churches admitted, 'The ice of formalism, foolish pride, self-
ishness and partisanship is melting in the gulf stream of prayer,
penitence, and purposeful living* A revival powerful enough
to match the hour seems imminent." William Bankhead testi-
fied, "Never in my long experience in Washington have I found
128 A
anything on which all in Senate and House have
so thoroughly agreed as on America's need, and our own need,
for this new spirit P
With these dynamics of political and social backing, the
Buchman fleet, a twenty-two car railroad special, hit the coast.
A thousand people were In the entourage. On the evening of
July 19, four giant pillars of light led thirty thousand volun-
teers for God's great "army without guns" to Hollywood Bowl.
Thousands more stood outside to watch In curiosity and wonder
as the 'Vising tide" came in. Following the dramatic pattern
set in New York, the meeting opened with a spectacular Inter-
national inarch. Citizens of enemy nations walked hand in
hand to the great stage where they stood at attention under
the slogan: NEW MEN, NEW NATIONS, A NEW WORLD! Capital
and labor stopped their quarrels long enough to permit their
representatives to pose for photographs. Political rivals drama-
tized a brotherhood above partisanship by admitting antago-
nisms and yielding to "God's plan." A Negro pledged the
enlistment of her people. A message was read by Joseph Scott,
a Catholic lay leader. "Doctor'* Buchman's patent medicine
for the invalid world was once more being publicly com-
pounded. Was it the prescription needed for the healing of the
nations ?
An analysis of the elements inherent in this movement again
convinced me that Moral Re-Armament had a glorious heritage
in the old Oxford Group. My first knowledge of Frank N.
Buchman did not come through a staged politico-religious spec-
tacle, but through the quiet transformation of a friend, Ned
Barton. He was the only man I ever knew who contemplated
and the In
the had to be
realistic, such a sudden change-over Like
another college graduate's first job, Ned's
years. This was no tragedy, for a
always carried him over. He lived the way he played the races,
doggedly trusting his luck. But as worklcss days out
into years aad the horses stubbornly refused to pay off, I de-
tected a sinister undercurrent cutting through his confidence.
One evening I was waiting for Ned in a coffee shop. He
rushed in, late, noticeably upset.
"When I left you this afternoon/' he began breathlessly, "1
was as low as a man can get. I was wondering if the fellows
who have taken the easy way out weren't smart. I couldn't
get the idea out of my head. Then what do you think hap-
pened ? I was sitting on the bleachers watching a parade down
Euclid* The stranger next to me nudged me with his elbow
and blurted out, 'Listen, pal, if you were going to commit
suicide what method would you use?' Lord! For a minute I
couldn't say a word. Then he asked me again. I said, 1 don't
know. Why?* 1 was just wondering.* He shrugged. Then
he got up and disappeared in the crowd."
Ned paused and, clutching my arm, went on: "Now on my
way up here you won't believe it there was a big crowd on
Prospect, between Eighth and Ninth* I walked over and asked,
'What's up ?* 'A guy just jumped out of a window and killed
himself/ I
pushed through the crowd. There lay the man who
had talked to me on the bleachers! My God! And me thinking
of the same thing!"
130 THEY A FAITH
Before I could comment on this remarkable coincidence, a
man sitting at an adjoining table pushed back his chair and
came over*
"Pardon me, fellows/* he said. "I couldn't help overhearing
yotir story, and maybe it's well that I did,"
"Yeah?
n
Ned's troubled expression deepened as the stran-
ger's eyes sought his discerningly.
"You need help/* he went on candidly. "Why don't you
come along to the Statler with me? There is someone there
tonight who will tell you exactly what you should do/*
These words, though cast in a completely new mold, sug-
gested the soul-saving fervor of a city-mission worker. The
amazing contrast was in the appearance and manner of the
speaker. He was smartly dressed, debonair, and, in spite of a
deeply religious sincerity, might have been on his way to a
night spot. But, as his affable entreaty continued, it was so
appealing that Ned turned to me with a laconic, "What you
say we go along?"
We did.
When we arrived at the Statler, our friend, who had said,
"Just call me Lew," escorted us to a suite of rooms in which I
detected none of the usual atmosphere of a spiritual assembly.
He explained that the group in the outer room, about ten young
men and women, were waiting for private conferences with a
man whom they affectionately called "RB."
"We'll see him," he promised confidently, "but while we're
waiting, let's go in for the party/*
The party was Lew's name for a revolutionized religious
service, and within the next hour I discovered a "little-known**
that seemed to be working entirely through the subconscious.
i3i
Twenty-seven worshipers were the
room. Almost everyone held a pencil over an
Some were writing. Lew whispered to us this
a "quiet time" In which the Unseen
were recorded. They called it waiting on Godl Interspersing
the silence were discussion periods on the
received* with vague allusions to checking the messages against
"four absolutes.** The new spiritual lingo aroused my curiosity
though it was as yet quite meaningless to me.
"You'll catch on." Lew laughed, but 1 was still in a maze
when he led the way to "F.B.Y* room half an hour later.
As we walked across the room to where this "surgeon of
souls" sat at his desk, I was reminded of the times I had
reluctantly made my way to confess college sins to the dean of
men. F.B. was a thin-nosed, bespectacled gentleman of about
fifty years. There was nothing particularly striking about him
except an almost arrogant confidence that seemed to contradict
the hopeful predictions which had drawn us here. Without
the formality of introductions. Lew plunged into Ned's story.
Almost immediately F.B. silenced the eager disciple with 3
somewhat impatient wave of his hand and, turning abruptly
in his chair, said, "Tell your own story, Ned. Tell me every-
thing."
His words carried a mysterious power of persuasion which
drew from Ned a confession so detailed and so serious that it
astonished me. After relating the strange experiences of the
day, he talked on, attempting to justify his desperate intentions
by enumerating a series of bad breaks. I had the feeling that
long before Ned had finished, F.B. had stopped listening. This
man, whom I had considered definitely unprepossessing, began
132
A
to oa the of a By of spiritual
he always far of the story. He sat
through the penitent with an omniscient gaze
seemed to put the words of confession into his mouth.
Suddenly he rose to his feet and, pointing a long forefinger at
Ned, interrupted sharply.
"You've told me your side of the story. I'll tell you God's.
Bad breaks didn't drag you down. You're a dirty gambler.
Every bookie in town knows you for a sap!"
The words rent the veil of Ned's life. Amazed, I looked at
him. His stunned expression told me he would never forget
this moment. F.B. was laying his soul "bare as the judgment
day" and telling him what to do to save it. Ned made futile
attempts to interrupt but was consistently suppressed. Though
unquestionably sincere, the diviner's rapid-fire exorcism seemed
wholly without sympathy and warmth. Poor Ned, I thought.
He came for help and would leave chastened. But the orders
were direct: "Find God in a quiet time. Right your wrongs.
Purge your soul by sharing, by confessing your sins. Then live
under divine guidance."
As we walked home, Ned grudgingly admitted, "The fellow
was right He knows what I need." Then, with a flash of un-
mistakable conviction, he added, "And Fm going to get it!"
This sudden turn in the road confused me even more than
what I had witnessed at the Statler. I knew that Ned had
heard this type of thing, in somewhat other terminology, since
he was a youngster, but conventional religious procedure had
left him untouched. Local ministers had frequently seen him
in their congregations without suspecting that he was in any
great danger. Had this chance meeting with F.B. simply found
133
for the of a ? Or he
really a
had in his life? Who this
into at
By what divine right did he demand "changed lives** of
gars?
There was no mystery about him, Frank Nathan
Buchman was born in Pcnnsburg, Pennsylvania, in 1878, the
son of the local hotelkecper. He grew up in a Lutheran
under the discipline of a deeply religious mother. He went to
Muhlenberg College in Allentown and to Mt. Airy Lutheran
Theological Seminary in Philadelphia. After accepting a pas-
torate in a little parish in Overbrook, he realized he had
come to grips only with historic religion. His experiences had
revolved comfortably in a geographical orbit of less than a hun-
dred miles* At the end of a featureless year, he shook off cler-
ical duties with the heroic pronouncement that he was setting
out to do something constructive. In Philadelphia he dis-
tinguished himself by building the first Lutheran settlement
house. He would very likely have carved out a place for himself
as a social leader had it not been for a till with his board of
trustees. Stung by their rejection of his ideas, he started an
aimless pilgrimage that took him to England.
The Buchanan canonization began in a little wayside church
in Keswick, England, on a Sunday afternoon in 1905. The
preacher, a woman, spoke about the "miracle of the cross*
1
and
its "power to save,'* These were words from his own ministry,
but, in the intimacy of this chapel, he had his first real spiritual
experience. He described it as an explosion in his soul. It was
actually something so imperceptible that none of the other wor-
134 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
shipers were conscious that a man's life had been completely
changed. Frank sat there analyzing himself, taking an inven-
tory of his iniquities, tugging away at his sins until he
u
came
clean." He decided that it was pride, selfishness, and ill will
that stood in the way of self-realization. Dragging these covert
sins into the light of honest examination, he "waited upon God*
9
for guidance.
That night he wrote each of the board members back in
Philadelphia a letter: Tve borne you ill will I've been head-
strong and sinful. I ask your forgiveness and I'm ready to make
restitution."
He received no reply. But that did not matter. Confession of
sin and an attempt to right the wrong carried its own reward a
"changed life/' a sense of complete adjustment to God and man.
No longer the parish pastor who had drifted into obscurity at
Overbrook and into hostility in Philadelphia, Buchman was
"guided" to Penn State College and the job of "Y" secretary.
Here his new principles of faith made their debut on the wild
stage of student affairs. He approached campus capers just as
he had dealt with the renegade trio that had been rooted out of
his own life in Keswick Chapel. One of his first official an-
nouncements was that students were more interested in sex than
in the spiritual life and more concerned about money than an
education* Why not drag such indignities into the "light of
the cross" and take a look at them? As part of his developing
technique, he had introduced a "morning watch/
5
an "hour
with God." It was working wonders. He urged students to
come to him, and he would show them this better way* He
promised emancipation from secret sins. He was not a great
135
or an educator. He on
action, not eloquent theories.
Surprisingly little resulted from the of
Then "Y" Secretary Buchman hit on an idea* With a talent for
organization, he regimented the entire for a
Christian Movement. A "Macedonian call" went out to relig-
ious leaders of other colleges and brought to Pcnn State such
men as John R. Mott, Robert E. Spccr, Henry B. Wright, and
Sherwood Eddy. Though this was an exciting inning for stu-
dent religion* the permeating revival swept most remarkably
over Buchinan himself. Fired by the spirit of this revivalistic
campaign and feeling the narrow limits of Penn State too con-
fining, he joined Sherwood Eddy's world evangelistic tour. It
was during this period that his uncanny talent for ferreting out
the sins of others reached its fruition. At an evening meeting
a heckler confounded the revival leaders with the demand, "Pm
an atheist. Prove to me there is a God*** When the enthusiastic
arguments wore themselves out against the man's rank un-
belief, Buchman took over. Fastening his diagnostic gaze on
the man, he charged, "It's not unbelief that keeps you from God*
You're an adulterer! Let's clean that up first and then well get
around to the God business."
An atheist was miraculously numbered among the converts
at that Sherwood Eddy meeting.
It was not long until Christendom heard of Frank N. Buch-
man on the campus of Oxford University. He was conducting
a one-man revival, introducing workable techniques, "changing
lives" with remarkable success. His converts banded themselves
into an energetic, soul-winning organization and, given advan-
136 HAVE A FAITH
tagc of the classical title and tradition of their institution, were
called the Oxford Group or, simply, the "Fellowship.
9 '
Soon
reports reaching America told of missionary teams spearheading
for Bttchman around the globe. It was no longer a campus cam-
paign; the college-tested ideas were now invading entire cities.
Another spiritual metamorphosis was under way. The "Y**
secretary was becoming a world religious figure. He returned to
the States to fit the Oxford technique into the religious pattern
of the American campus. At Yale,, Harvard, and Princeton
young men and women began talking about "guidance** and
"changed lives*" At the University of Iowa a Catholic professor
joined the movement. In Chicago an instructor said that teach-
ing Oxford Groupers was like holding classes in heaven.
"Statler scenes" such as I had witnessed dated back through
more than a decade. In the early 'thirties Ned was but one in
an estimated fifty thousand who had been brought to this
spiritual architect to receive a divine blueprint for a new life.
I doubted if the transformation in Ned would be as complete as
some I had heard about. His destination had always pointed the
other way, but I was compelled to revise my judgment when I
saw him again.
Even before he spoke, I detected the light in his eyes which,
years later, I was to identify as the gleam of the cults. In the
days of the depression it was an enviable hint of glory, as if a
man had suddenly found something to take the place of money.
"It's a system ! And I don't mean for the horses," he exclaimed
in an onrush of enthusiasm. "They're out! It's living under
guidance. It's tuning in. I've contacted God and everything's
changed! I've been starting each day with a quiet time. You
remember, Frank explained it as a fifteen-minute period early in
137
the in a a to say
hello!"
"Now a minute!" I in. "You've a
so how about bringing me op to by up we
left off weeks ago?"
"Well, it all works just as Frank it would. First,
make up your mind that you want to be God-guided. That
means playing fair all around. But you can't do
the Oxford Group technique. The quiet is the first step,"
"That quiet time it sounds like spiritualism to me/
5
1 pro-
tested.
"No connection! It's really scientific praying. The trouble
with most prayers is that people have their say to high heavea
and don't give God a chance to answer. Our quiet time sets up
a two-way circuit. Every morning before I leave my room, I
just sit quietly in a chair or kneel alongside the bed and wait on
God. You don't talk to Him; He talks to you."
"How?"
"That's what the pencil and paper are for. When you wait
on God, thoughts and inspirations come through, and you write
them down."
"You mean, anybody can get messages by just sitting quietly
and waiting on God?"
"No. You must be in tune. For the first week I didn't get
anything, but now I get messages fine. That's what I came to
tell you about. Yesterday morning the pencil wrote, "See Arnold
Nelson for a job in the storage house** I had met Arnold at a
party the night before. And when I went down to see him, he
said he needed a man part time on a moving van. I got the
job," he ended with a grin.
138 THEY HAVE A FAITH
"Did fon tell Arnold how you got a line OR this job ?*
f
"Sure/* affirmed Ned, anxious to give God-guidance all the
credit.
"Well," I admitted* "it sounds as exciting as playing the
horses. Do you think it will eventually produce tangible results
at the races?**
*Tm not expecting that!** He laughed* then added seriously,
*The messages are a day-by-day guide for good living. We
Groupers call them orders* They give advice, suggestions, and
instructions."
"But how can you be sure the messages always come from
God?"
"Frank's worked that all out as part of our technique. We
call it checking for guidance. Each message must stand the
test of the four absolutes: absolute honesty, absolute purity,
absolute unselfishness, and absolute love. These are our touch-
stones* If a message measures up to them, who can doubt that
it's of God? Of course, there are borderline messages. These
are checked against the judgment of others in the group. I got
a borderline message last week. I was flat broke and my quiet
time said, "Talk to Lew about it,* I was afraid the message
didn't reflect absolute honesty and I told Lew exactly how I felt.
Lew said there was certainly nothing dishonest about it and let
me have five bucks to prove it!"
It was evident that indoctrination had gone deep. Whatever
the magic of the Oxford Group or whatever its power, the spirit-
ual aid which Ned had received was neither diffused nor frag-
mentary. It was giving strength and relevance to his whole
life. He was working this technique just the way he used to
play his systems for the races. But this had to do with his own
139
running,, he off to a
lifted out of Ms the pro-
digious. He no the He
his former confidence and of
bilitics. The storage company trusted an
Other religious leaders seemed mild and die
man who had made him one of the God-guided in the coura-
geous cavalcade of twice-born men.
**That*s the most wonderful thing about it/' he told me en-
thusiastically some months later. "You have no Idea how man}
outstanding men have been changed. An Oxford Group roll
call would sound like a Who's Who. Fm meeting prominent
businessmen^ well-known artists and scholars. In England,
where the movement is strongest, 'they say that most of the
leaders are of the nobility. C. J. Hambra, the president of the
Norwegian Parliament, testified that his life had been changed.
It's sweeping like fire through Norway .and Denmark* And
have you heard about Samuel M. Shoemaker ? He's the rector
of Calvary Church in New York City and Prank has no better
disciple. When a prominent minister like that admits that he
needs the Oxford Group,, it just proves that we have something
the churches can't give!"
"Isn't that the claim of every new religious movement?**
"I suppose it is. But most of them have failed exactly where
the churches themselves have failed. The individual is always
lost in the organization. I never hear any talk about organiza-
tion in the Oxford Group. We don't even have a membership
roll. Frank is out to save the individual, not to start a church.
He"wedf$-according to the Jesus-way save the man and you
save the masses. Why, I knew a publisher right here in town
140 A
who went over his and started paying higher wages after
Frank got hold of him."
Ned was a well-seasoned Grouper when he asked me to be
his at a "house party." When I questioned him about an
invitation from the hostess, he assured me that this was not
necessary*
*lt isn't that kind of house party/* he explained. "It's really a
part of the Buchman technique. Every Grouper brings a guest.
Woo* win, warn, is the motto. I agree with Frank a person
isn't completely changed until he changes someone else. You'll
probably call the party a socialized prayer meeting!"
And that is what it was.
We drove into the palatial Rocky River estate through a
winding road cut through a lovely arboretum. When we came
in sight of the old brownstone mansion, I was confronted by a
scene that I had never before associated with religion. The
hilarious sounds that reached us suggested all the fun of a coun-
try club. Swimmers dolphined in the blue waters of a large
pool. On the near-by tennis court,, balls volleyed back and forth
with rhythmic rapidity. There were also a croquet game and
archery and tables for bridge.
"You'll find our worshipers jolly," Ned chuckled, completely
at home. "And we have a right to be."
Small groups dotted the lawn; some were relaxing on blan-
kets. One fellow shaded his eyes with a book as he lay reading
it in the sun. More cars drove in. The atmosphere was gay and
refreshing. A comradely feeling hung like an aura over Group-
cars and guests. First names were always used, and a sense of
emotional exhilaration pervaded the conversation. Occasional
I4i
the
From the at a
spiritual thermometer running
From a couple returning from a walk in the 1
"That's the first time they've ever I
write them down."
"Frank Buchtnan brought religion to me
more than my mossy old parson ever did/* came a
pant teen-ager.
"That's a big order/ was the skeptical response of a
after listening to a sixty-second discourse on the four absolutes.
"It works.
9*
The Grouper grinned.
It was religious gravity decked out in modern robes of gaiety,
fervent faith conveniently adjusted to the unrestrained tempera-
ment of a pleasure-craving generation*
Ned was consistently greeted with "Get anything good laDe-
ly?" (They meant messages.)
"Never get anything bad/' he would always answer. "But I
can use some help." (He must have had a "checking" problem.)
I had been presented to almost every member of the ^congre-
gation" when the hostess, a plump, impetuous woman, made
her dramatic appearance. In the ordinary social situation she
would very likely have had little time for such a multiikriotis
group. Today she played her role of "just one of the Groupers"
with noble restraint. She moved through the crowd and, to the
accompaniment of a fluttering small kerchief, announced invit-
ingly : "There are easy chairs in the drawing room."
This was the official "call to worship." Leisurely, the Group-
142 A
am the and their to Ac
put off.
1 10 the the
*Tm a out,** she re-
we In the
of the As in 1
"If you be be if you
you to
"Did you her ? It was wonderful!" (He
her wonderful.)
**So up the tracks*" (He meant that
made.)
**The the laundry, the cleaner the linen.** (He meant
the the party, the more effective the regeneration.)
The was suddenly changed when? unannounced and
informally, someone started singing:
4
When I survey the wondrous cross
On which the Prince of glory died,
My richest gain I count but loss.
And pour contempt on all my pride.**
Silence^ rehearsed silence, unmistakably a part of their wor-
ship, followed. Instinctively, I felt that this was a motivated
device which moved at the very heart of the Buchman tech-
nique. Through the extended silence came the challenge, not of
reason, but of the basic principles of human relations honesty,
> purity, unselfishness, love. In this setting one was ready to
adooit that these four absolutes were the basis for a sound relig-
ious philosophy. In this moment of divine quiet, rationaliza*
143
In the of an
this an
guest? Ned already made It clear to me
not a In
he had put It way: "It Is a of to a
who Is not downright honest. It Is to
God to a man whose heart Is Impure. No can
knock selfishness out of a man If he Is not willing. Without 10?c
a man Is nothing In the most absolute of the word,**
So the "hopeless sinner** was caught in the mechan-
ics of the movement at a house party !
A low murmur Intruded Inoffensively into the silence, An
older man, very ministerial In appearance, was talking to a
young girl near the fireplace. As his voice rose* the periphery
of attention widened* and he became more and more the cyao-
sure of an attentive, listening audience. He was telling the girl
how his life had been marvelonsly changed at a party such, as
this on the Oxford campus.
"I was a godless,, atheistic, morally perverted college student;
selfish as the devil. You don't have a sinful thought that I didn't
have. But
"
he began fitting an emphatic gesture to every
word "at that party, a great hope sprang up within me. After
my public confession, I began following truth as fast as I could
find It. Don't worry about your guidance. Take the first step.
A man's true creed Is what he believes in enough to do.**
Ned whispered to me that this man had been on Oxford
Group teams with Buchman. Perhaps that accounted for the
professional manner in which he proceeded to "change** a life.
With consummate skill he followed scientific steps which the
Groupers designate as the five "CV*: Confidence, Confession,
THEY A
and By his sins
with tic girl, lie tier by
sins had out In the
a was up the girl
the
"Guess Fvc got so SIBS I to begin."
She was off 10 her a *1 quar-
rel wcVc I to be loved
all the but he to do 1 at him a0d
he To out of it I drink, this only
I too Look at my fingers.
I*m a as you say, and I'm my chains around with
me! All I've ever is I spend all my
on I try to the girls at the office in
to die boss/*
"Go to him aad just that/" said her prompter. "See
a difference that will make. If you really want to make
an impression^ come clean !
w
"Make restitution!" cried another^ enthusiastically.
Such suggestions from everywhere in the room constituted a
*1xaring"-d0wn" action which spun the confession from the girl
in rather complete detail Fervent appeals wore made for the
acceptance of the "better life." In the parlance of the Groupers
this would produce "Conviction/* It did.
*Tm completely washed out I** This rapturous cry from the
penitent was the cue that another changed life was being
processed. "What's next?"
**Well have a little prayer/* said her adviser and without a
change in his tone put the case straight up to God. Soon she
was praying, too* and her voice told us that ^Conversion" had
145
the a erf
fell the It dls-
to me I had of the
an "change*"
elated. "Shell work out the C, 'Continuance,* the
way 1 did/* he maintained confidently.
For two the Rocky River the of a
ual clinic. Other were "chaaged"* the pe-
riods of "sin-sharing." And yet, in none of them did 1
of the obscene accounts about sin sex of which the Bucfa-
manites had often been accused. It was, rather, intimate report-
ing on the value of living under the four absolutes. People came
and went with refreshing informality. There were quiet times
for those who wanted them, walks along the trails for those
who needed special checking, seminars devoted to the Bible
and the Buchman technique. A message of good wiU from
Frank was relayed by our hostess at the Sunday tea. This
reading inspired a hesitant "convert
19
to make his final dedsioou
Standing with teacup still in hand, he burst out:
"Folks, I'm entering the ministry! And 111 preach the four
absolutes! I'll
play the whole field for Frank! Men are sinners;
men can be changed. The changed soul has direct access to
God. The age of miracles is not over. Those who are changed^
change others. But no matter how many dirty sinners I
change,
there never was a dirtier one than the one you folks changed
when you changed me! And if it
happened to me, it can hap-
pen to every last sinner in the world !"
The teatime group received this announcement with the
same enthusiasm they demonstrated for the winner on the ten-
nis court. Restitution testimonies brought a similar response.
146
A
Ned lokl how lie had pakl up by his
for the and he had fel-
lows had no of he for a
in the of Oxford The
in, seemed to be the give us a ami
we the world.
I hat! no of as a but
Ned anil a me into
with on a 1 took the
that had in my since 1 first heard of
Frank N.
In to their praise of the man, I con-
that his lay in the appropriation of other men's
"Your four 1 recounted, "came from Henry
B- Wright, who got them from E. Spter, who got them
from Henry Drammond, who very likely got them from some-
one else."
Aylmer responded to my mention of these men with
a
Ncver
heard of them!"
I was in the awkward position of an outside informant en-
lightening the neophytes. They did not know that the work-
able technique which Buchman had popularized had been
tested in the laboratory of a Yale professor's Me. At the time
of his death in 1923, Henry B. Wright was collaborating with
Buchman on a treatise devoted to personal religion. Wright's
earlier publication, The Will of God and a Man's IJfc WorJ(,
was Budhman's text Before Buchman became famous, he con-
fessed that much of the best in his message had come from
Henry B. Wright. It was Wright who made Buchman
c<
system-
147
if Wright who flic of
his
Neither of my on this im-
pressed or by my of Aylnicr,
a of unconcern, said* "All be
we to the a
? And you'll have to P* B* has
the Oxford Group idea to the world.'"
"But I must protest against the use of name," I
**Thcrc was an Oxford Group long ecr set
foot in your country, Aylmer, It was initiated in 1835
intended to clarify the position of the Anglican Church in the
light of its higher function. Fvc often heard the charge that
Buchman was never averse to capitalizing on the prestige this
name afforded. It slyly put him into the company of men like
John Henry Newman and John Keble and tied him to a great
tradition in a way that was downright misleading.**
"Oh," said Aylmer dcprecatingly, "let's not quibble about
that."
But my supply of critical bombs was not exhausted. What
about Frank's personal life? Would it endanger the admirable
faith of these believers if I retold the rumors that persistently
drifted in from Princeton and Oxford campuses? When I
brought up the matter, Aylmer dismissed it with a wave of his
hand, but Ned demanded an explanation.
"It's an established fact/' I supplied, "that Buchman was or-
dered out of Princeton by President John Grier Hibben in 1924
for saying that sex ruled the campus roosts."
"Well, maybe he was right!" Aylmer retorted.
148 A
iul that the
to out to be
say the is as to the as
the sin to the
TJcs like arc of
**lfs the said
Why do try to the move-
our is a to
of There's not a in the
F. B. You can add to the
that: Ifs all There die editor of
Mr, the the Groupers were
Yew sec any cases nmning
here at this party, did you?"
**And you don't anywhere/' Ned added in disgust.
He that my warped evaluation of the work would
never permit me to the Buchxnan ledger. Was I over-
the thousands indifferent to their own fate until they
met Buchman? Was I forgetting that squads of full-time
workers, serving without salary^ had revitalized religion in many
American cities? How could I doubt that the Oxford Group
was executing a divine commission in a distracted world?
I stopped with Ned at many another spiritual caravansary
along the Buchman road* In the summer of 1936, it was the
first national assembly of the movement at Stockbridge, Mas-
sachusetts* Here I was confronted by a strange dualism. In
some quarters Groupers were observing a quiet time. Elsewhere
others loudly applauded a patchwork parade of American
Legionnaires, Oxford Groupers, flag-bearers, and Uhm-Pa-
149
an
the
Tliis the In a
Groupers Frank say:
"Civilization is on the of the
the
city* all current evils."
The prediction out of a
"world conversion" as real as the his
in the Keswlck church. His were:
"When man listens, God speaks,
When man obeys, God acts.
When men change, nations change."
For ten days at this exaggerated house party the
of celebrities aad the great multitude of the
by for the miracle. A tabulation revealed eighteen hijacked
members of evangelistic teams and regular disciples of the cause*
Hotel registers bristled with such names as Mrs. Henry Ford,
Mrs. Harry Guggenheim* Emily Newell Blair, Cleveland
DodgCj Baroness de Wattevilk Berckheim, Carl Vrooman, Sir
Philip Dundas, Mrs. Henry Noble McCracken^ and Lord
Addington.
The transition in emphasis became more obvious each day.
Groupers discussed it on their walks. Some were bewildered.
Sin and confession were being played down; good works and
Americanism were being played up. At one of the meetings
Buchman went so far as to say that whatever an individual
found compatible with the divine program could be justified.
To many of the Groupers this sounded like philosophical chat-
i9> THEY A
let* the the
of be the for
?
They fell a had
due of sin, he "lean not on his
iag.
M
Yet F* IVs "So
as the for can be
had." The If the
a for with
a of a God-
Prank "Your
Is as as mine,** they continued to "wait upon
GodT In the familiar of the
M
morning watch."
Other Groupers were strengthened by the
meeting. They the shift In favor of
the commonweal the logical development of the "workable
technique." It was expansion for greater output. Having tested
his on a small scale, Buchman had now courageously gone
out for the redemption of the masses. To those overawed by
the sudden influx of the elite, the liberals retorted pleasantly
that all names look alike on heaven's social register. Moreover,
the "big
1'
sinners and keymen were joint tenants whose prestige
and money were indispensable. These arguments upheld
Frank's "higher guidance.** For most of his followers he would
always be the center of unity.
Ned took his stand with the sequacious. Sincerely heaven-
bent before he went to Stockbridge, Ned returned with his head
brushing the stars. But5
like a cool scientist, he worked his
"silent time," "checked for guidance/' and believed in Frank
as the world's greatest religious leader. He sent contributions
151
to the in to
in the of
day he his "quiet a
thai the to a It
"Bit a on Carmcl to in race,**
At Ned felt It not to aa
the It an
of the subconscious. But the the
heavenly rip-off persisted, underlining it Prankfs Stork-
bridge edict* The refrain was tantalizing: arc no
for the godly. At noon, Ned dialed a half-remembered num-
ber not listed in the directory. In midaftcrnoon the number
called back. "Welcome home, Ned* You caught Carmel Queen
straight on the nose!"
I saw in this humorous and perverted appropriation of the
morning watch an ominous sign of what was happening
throughout the Buchman empire. From Stockbridge* Oxford
teams had moved across the country to raise their battleory:
"Every last man in America, in every last place in America* in
every last situation in America, guided by God.** And Buchman
had returned to Europe to fire the opening salvo in a campaign
for the conversion of nations. The world felt the faint reverbera-
tions of a twentieth-century Pentecost Wherever practical re-
ligion was talked about, the name Frank N. Buchman was
heard. Some hailed him as a contemporary prophet and a
genius in modern methods of evangelization and social reform;
others dismissed him as a "canting cheat"
*
pulling together a
colossal front to "hide his scandals/* But I recognized in his
newest venture a superstructure that obscured the tragic turn
152 A
at aa be inter-
preted as ttie of the to the will of God ; the
will of the had The r//*r/
0f a was out by the
of Its Out of the Group,
In the OE July 19,
the of the to
"Tonight you arc the
of a order.'
1 *
For a this like On July 23, a
"world at Del California. It was
U. S. A. Every day a new reached
the
: "THE OF THE IS THE PLUS THAT
WILL CHANGE WORLD/'
July 24: "THE QUALITY OF INDIVIDUAL is THE QUALITY OF
THE NATION."
July 25: "YOUTH TODAY is FACED WITH THE ALTERNATIVE OF
BEING FOE WAR OE THE FABRIC OF A NEW
WORLD ORDER*"
July 26: "MRA MEANS REVOLUTION IN ALL POLITICS.""
July 27: "WE MUST GIVE OURSELVES FOB. PEACE OR WE WILL
AUTOMATICALLY GIVE OURSELVES FOE WAR."
July 28: "MRA, SCIENTIFIC MEDICINE FOR THE MORAL ILLS OF
THE WORLD/'
July 29: "GOD HAS BOUND us TOGETHER TO RECONCILE THIS
FIGHTING WORLD."
July JO: **AN ENGLISHMAN CALMLY STATED: *I LOVE IRELAND.
THAT IS WHAT MRA HAS DONE FOR ME*'
"
The final act of the Del Monte World Assembly was set on
Treasure Island at the Golden Gate International Exposition.
153
IB the King
VI of
MRA of
again:
"The of the in the
of her citizens* A of
for the world cannot fall, to the of
armed conflict* Such Moral Re-Armament to be
must receive support on a world-wide basis."
Before the final curtain fell, a radio hookup carried MRA's
warning message to the far corners of the world: "The choice
is between a vortex of fear and a pageant of triumph. MRA is
the essential foundation for world settlement. The next step is
for men and women in every nation to enlist in the world war
for peace!" Buchman*s challenging quota was: "One hundred
million mobilized in all countries by December first to listen
to God I"
It was a race with time to remake the world, and Buchman
lost. Wherever MRA was strong, war's threat was stronger.
Before December first, peace was broken in England where
MRA had been a morale-builder, a fostering mother in the years
of crisis. MRA's idealistic dream of "bridges between nations**
was being swept away. The strategist for souls saw Europe
breaking in his hands, while vicious rumors arose to taunt Mm.
Chamberlain, who had believed in MRA9 was disgraced. He
had trusted Hitler too much. Out of the failure of the tragi-
comic Munich appeasement, Buchman's words bounced back.
What did he mean when he said, "I thank God for a man Hke
Hitler
1
*? Secessions from the group reached landslide proper*
154 THEY A
lie a He had
The
will not if the arc lost in
and fin* The will if it."
thai had in the erf were
to A of the Goeb-
bds was said to be oac of the of MRA,
but as a in the propaganda
of the What had to Ac
that the Jap had
*4
from the land of William Tell
to the of the Sun," now that Japan was marching
into China? For correspondents. No
MRA headquarters.
To find out what was really happening, 1 called at the MRA
Los Angeles office* In painful contrast to my expectations, I
an iinimposing three-room suite on Hill Street Through
an open door I caught sight of the man who had dreamed the
dream of salvation for the world. He slumped over an empty
desk half-listening while a young man gave what sounded like
an inconsequential office report.
In the quick impact of this moment, I felt the untold tragedy
of a shrinking spiritual giant. I saw him again at the impres-
sive confessioii in the Statler room. I
pictured him at Interlaken,
Stockbridge, Madison Square Garden, Washington* the Del
Monte World Assembly . * * now Hill Street, Los Angeles.
Was it possible that this solver of other people's problems could
not solve his own ? I had come to stir up the mud in his life as
he had stirred it up in others. But when I saw him sitting there
in the afterglow of glory, I seemed to see about him the pro-
cession of souls, men and women of many nations, to whom
155
lie life
the of the in
he sat his
I a of 1 the
quickly the the door. Dr.
fie me, no oac
he do? Was it literature I wanted?
In the
machines. The papers, fed through by hands
to work, were headed, "You-Can-Dcfcnd-Amcrlca
for Total Defense." An addrcssograph stood ready the
tables held pamphlets prepared for mailing. All this was fur-
ther indication of the compression of a great leader's spiritual
system. It was a radical change in the old Buchmanite plan of
superinternatlonalism, but I saw in it an anodyne for the
world's rejection of MRA.
It was more than that. It was Buchman doggedly fighting
back, substituting patriotism for brotherhood, and preaching
preparedness under the symbol of the four absolutes. These
touchstones were never to be scrapped. In 1941, the You-Can-
Defend-America Campaign diffused into the School for Home
Defense in Maine. In 1942 it became the Midwestern Industrial
Morale-Building Campaign. These activities drew little atten-
tion from the press. The ranks of MRA had thinned; promi-
nent names had disappeared; the beloved disciple, Samuel M*
Shoemaker, had forsaken his master. The New York rector
had been attracted to the movement because of its emphasis on
vitalized personal religion. But after charging that the Bucli-
manites were listening to the voice of Frank rather than to the
voice of God, he requested that they vacate the parish house
i^S
A
that had as
quarters.
of the Re-
up by OH
in the of For
this the fact
that It was a like a turtle's
in the
arc the of
and lias a of the simplicity
of Ajraerica's The over with their
old spirit. They
"Out our
Arc going^
Spanning need.
Hate and greed.
Far-flung highways growing.
The call rings clear and plain:
Work as one with but one aim
And build together
What none shall sever
Bridges from man to man.
The whole round earth to span*
19
The Island House, the Murray Hotel, villas and private
homes yielded to the dynamic invasion. The religionists were
so consciously diffused with the regular tourists that it looked
like a big comeback, conveying to the public that a great
many famous personalities were involved. The project
was the Summer Training Center for Sound Homes,
Industrial Teamwork and National Unity. The aim was to
die for
the of The
be the
"sharing" The !
the not too
in the of
This revue on for a of
"world premieres."* Original a
One of for dis-
tribution, carried the of a
the Steer."
"There once was a handsome young steer.
He's the hero of this little song;
With his Mom and his Dada
He lived in Nevada.,
And he played in the hills all day long.
Woohoo! Woohee!
What*s the future to be ?
There's a two-fisted meat packer waiting for meP"
Through ten limerick verses Junior shied away from his fate,
then finally came to the conclusion that, since everyone needed
to sacrifice to win the war, he would do his bit by going off
willingly to the slaughterhouse. His "girl friend*
9
went to the
depot to see him off.
*Therc's a moral attached to my song
That to every true patriot applies:
If you're feeling that you
Have done all you can do9
Think of Junior and his sacrifice!**
158 A
of a
but a
and the an
In Tjli? an for
on the the of
in In the co~
Harry S. W. Wadsworth.
In the the MRA
Worl|l Assembly* the with Intcrlakcn
the 1
an honest effort toward helping people discover a
of At one felt one was
moving the old Oxford Group. Each day was
with a "morning watch.*
11
There were walks, house
discussions and lectures for the "two thousand delegates
from twenty nations."
World figures at this assembly were eclipsed by the rising tide
of a new Buchmanism personnel The spiritual rays now cen-
tered on youth. There were high-school and college students
who had "revolted against the drift and disunity in their gangs
and in their countries.
5 *
There were vets of World War II and
young men still in uniform. This youthful crop, moving in the
glamorous light of first love, found in F. B. and his method an
absorbing power. Typical was a brilliant young lieutenant of a
college professor's family. He had given up his study of law for
Oxford Group-MRA.
These young people were being sent out, not to start a new
movement, but "to spearhead a revolution which will make
America think straight and live great." With the old motto-
making technique the newcomers set out. The touring playlet,
159
the still the ve-
hicle for hit the
a the of the
American home.
performance, in It fear
literature and for the
World Ncms. This its
Washington office each glittering big
extravagant claims:
"MRA The One Hope of the World," says Head of
UNO Security Council
"The Force and Framework for a New World/
5
Stoyan
Gavrilovic, undersecretary of state for foreign affairs of
Yugoslavia.
"My Philosophy of World Revolution," Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek.
"An Answer from Okinawa
19
; Infantryman, killed in
battle for Japanese island^ writes blueprint for America's
future greatness.
"More Potent than the Atom Bomb/' says Herbert
Turnbull, British scientist.
Were these men MRA-ers ? No one knew. No one was clear
about the strength of the movement. In the summer of 1946 I
spoke to earnest followers at the Island House on Mackinac.
"The Movement is stronger now than at any time in its history,**
I was told. The teeming grounds, the crowded dining room,
young, clear-eyed Oxford Groupers working co-operatively,
writing and rehearsing new plays, seemed to bear out the
statement. "Dr. Buchman is in Europe with a team of a hun-
dred followers the time is ripe for the world's acceptance of
160 A
the MRA the of the In
life/* In
by the of
the city In of Parlia-
by
a oa the "fcsus Way." It all
the Oxford
Groupers, who withdrawn Into the "morning watch"*
the of his world revival
at ?
As I watched the of JvfRA spread to lift the
universe into heavenly places, 1 had often wondered
Ned other old-timers. Had they been the happy
of a human failed, leaving noth-
ing but disillusionment behind ? Somehow they reminded me
of lowly converts in the liturgical churches, watching from
craning their necks to catch the glimpse of a red biretta or
the shimmer of a cardinal's ring. In the dark vault of some
mysterious cathedral poor worshipers crawl on their knees
down cold stone aisles to kiss the fringe of an altar cloth or to
light a candle humbly* But who can tell how tremendous these
acts are for the faithful ? Could it be the same in Oxford Group-
MRA? Were those who had learned to live by guidance still
receiving divine directives?
I looked up Ned and put these questions to Mm. He prefaced
Hs opinions with a confession*
**Carmel Queen/' he laughed, *Vas my old self bobbing up.
I came out of that quick. Even though she paid off, I never
tried it again. I knew it wouldn't check against the four abso-
i6i
The the
lives; but flic of the of
to the of self, 'Move on out!* It
I'm not sure, but it to go any
can the of the 1
to Mackinac to sec tm* I to
see Frank- A with him a lot 1
see him? Once. He was in a at a tea. He
was supporting himself on an ivory-handled cane, You
he's a sick man. Maybe that's why hate gone as
have. Or couldn't he stand success ? I'm ready to admit a
religion, no matter how great, no matter how popular^ is no
stronger than the life of its leader. Did things really go to Ms
head? I can't believe it* He's Frank Buchman! Some left Mm
when he said that about Hitler, I didn't. I knew what he
meant. Everyone knows now. It's common knowledge
the Oxford Group was persecuted in Germany. Many others
left him when the war broke. They said his ideas had failed.
It was the world that failed when people refused to answer Ms
call for one hundred million listening to God. But despite all
of this, he lighted a fire in many of us that will never die down.**
From what I had considered the crambting walls of the
Oxford Group-MRA, Ned's faith was still shining. He was
one of Buchman's "interesting sinners" transformed into a
"compelling saint." For him it was advantageous that America
has a way of faith for every seeker.
VI
OF
DIVINE
"God" in He We
sat of a
ate He wise and gen-
he a of humor. He was an Amcri-
of God* He did in a big way. He drove a big
car* He big And the who followed him
lowly people of great
The fact lie was incidental. I forgot about
color while I was with Father Divine. Sitting at a meeting in
one of his kingdoms., ! was surrounded by people, black and
white, who had found in him a remarkably potent and human
messiah and were receiving from him dramatic guidance for
their lives. Their enthusiasm was powerful. They shouted,
"Peace, it's wonderful!" and "Praise Father!" They testified
about "changed lives'* and the wonders of being "reborn.** They
sang original songs and let themselves go. It was like a political
convention. The spell increased until it become volcanic. Then
a gentle old Presbyterian minister from Florida was asked to
speak. He was sitting with me, just an outside observer. But
162
OF 1%
of gat of
lie let
it They the he
not in the He be-
"as the Spirit him"* and he
his **I to Di-
vine! 1 a to
us the of
Is us! He//* wi/ HELP US! We
you have here tonight!"
Was this minister merely caught in the Divine tail or
had his tour of the kingdom disclosed a higher motivation
apparent to the casual visitor? Intermittent at the
Mission Movement had sell
Father Divine short. 1 had heard him say many he
had come to give himself unselfishly to all races and all
for the sole mission of leading lost humanity up the
landscape of the glory road. I had asked his followers
confessions of faith, articles of belief, catechisms and sacra-
ments. They always answered, "There's God!"
"Where is He?"
4<
He's here He's Father! He's working, giving* changing
lives! Showing us the way !
Going on ahead!"
A youngj intelligent Negro boy told me, "It's wonderful to
sec God in the flesh! That's what I had been looking for all nay
life I Now I've seen Him. It's wonderful to be able to go to a
telephone day or night and get God on the line!"
**I believe that Father Divine is God absolutely and impar-
tially? another of the newly reborn testified. "There was some
chairs to move one time in the Mission and I says to myself,
164 THEY A
*Let his If to be
easy to Listen, day 1 had
a my like die of It wouldn't let up
till I and the the I
right at the Here's I
got it figured* out: if lie can
you to he can you to in the way.
That's the and the of God M. J. Divine!**
to any
in this
Others, winking at the maelstrom of
it They were ready to applaud
the rare of made-over lives. Oblivious of the pros and
cons of pedantic lookers-on* all of "God*$ children" kept saying,
"He's here here to stay!"
Moving in the midst of this apotheosis, I slowly unraveled
the Divine epic* There is reasonable evidence that the Reverend
M. J- Divine was born, but there is no record of his birth, and
his age is a heavenly secret. All this is like God* say the fol-
lowers* In the early days of his spectacular ministry* when his
smart repartee frequently put him into the headlines* he ex-
plained it with
*6
I wasn't bom, I combusted on the corner of
Forty-second Street and Lennoxt" The best evidence available
is that he was born George Baker on a rice plantation on Hutch-
inson Island in the Savannah River about 1880.
Today he is a commanding little man, strongly built and
dignified* His bald head accentuates the rounded features of a
pleasant chocolate-brown face and dwughtful, prophetic, al-
mond-shaped eyes. He dresses well, but not extravagantly. He
conducts himself with refinement When he talks he does so
THE OF 165
any and in a
of the of has
the
His is He his by
of the He out
the God-presence. To use his **I f*
"Visibilation" Is the keynote of his and is
in his principle of operation: "The of the
of the Presence of Gocl Is the of all
and It will satisfy every Good Desire-" Add to the
of this tenet a shrewd business sense, a conscious to
the underdog, a few lucky breaks, and you have the formula
that has made him the Dean of the Universe for at least a
million followers,, some say twenty million.
And how did this son of ex-slaves get to be **the True and
Living God"?
It all started back in Nassau County, New York, down
Hempstead way in 1932. The man who calls himself Father
Divine had been preaching for about twenty years, all the way
from Georgia to New York. In Nassau County he was arrested
for disturbing the peace. This was to be expected,, because fre-
quently celestial fires ignited the services and the worshipers
shouted lustily when somebody crashed through the golden
gates to victory. Then some sleepy neighbor, roused abruptly
from his slumber, notified the police. So the judge sentenced
Father to jail.
Judge Smith was a hale and hearty man, and he was not
superstitious. But five days after he sent this man Divine to
prison, His Honor died of a heart attack. "That/' said Divine's
A
**is a for GodP
in his fail his and
"I to do it/*
a His
Ills it no a
Then to
one Father his
of to sec Huey Long, and
a Mr. an
No of Father's, it
had a on "Stop it!"
Will In his act on. There
a plane God was isibilating* One of Father's angels,
Faithful Mary, said that Divine was immoral. She threatened
to him- OB the way to a radio broadcast, Faithful Mary
accidentally struck by a car. Lying on her hospital bed,
she to Father God, she returned to the
kingdom penitent. The "Lord"* was personal.
In a sermon on September n, 1938, Father said: "You might
not be amused, but you may be surprised to know* just one year
ago when we opened the Divine Grcenkill Park in Ulster Cottn-
ty, near Kingston^ a boy was drowned in the pool* The coroner
came and was very antagonistic and very malicious to me, even
tried to personally stop my car and tried to take the key out erf
the car-j and spoke of what he would do. I gave Mm to know
he did not know who he was fooling with. Thursday I saw an
article in the paper where he had been killed instantly. They
said he was driving his car^ he and his brother. Without a col-
lision, colliding with any other cary the car just merely left the
road and smashed into a tree and was cut in two. Both he and
OF 167
his menwere
the
the
the Christ. be ex-
**! God in my is His . .
is With or a 1
to do It. ... I carry the of the for I
their mentality and I have
by it 1 have brought out many inventions. . * * 1 am
reigning and having my way. God in the of
. . Mankind must recognize God as He is, as I am.**
Divine is convincing. For twenty years his followers
told him in songs and testimonies what a great God he is. They
affectionately call him Condescending Saviour, King of Kiags,
King of the Universe, Father God Almighty.
My introduction to the bearer of these lavish titles took place
in his office on the corner of Bread and Catherine Streets IE
Philadelphia. I was ushered into the Divine presence by a
white girl, orf as they say in the Peace Mission Movement, a
girl "of the lighter complexion/* Father rose from Ms swivel
chair, unhurried and divinely at ease. A corps of twelve stenog-
raphers began taking down our conversation from the moment
I said, "How do you do?" and Father said, "Peace." They
caught every precious word that fell from his lips and the las
precious ones that dropped from mine, I asked Mm how he
rated so many secretaries. With characteristic calm he smiled.
**I
apologize. Half my staff is on vacation."
After a general discussion of the philosophy and history of
i68 A
the 1 the of
membership.
4
"I no idea/' lit **I do not a rcc-
all of We
are the in Asia, and
all over."
"How did you at calling?" 1 ventured.
He the tips of his
"Well, it is history. Of course, the Bible
the of God, of creation. Life* as I
see it, is not confined to a person, to personality. I sec
life without the beginning of days and without the end of life
eternal therefore, I cannot justifiably give a legible answer to
that question because I do not see myself as one that has begun
at some certain time. I sec the impersonal yet pcrsonifiable,
and I belicve>
as life on, it will evolve and take on and
shape and form itself in- many different expressions of its crea-
tion. It is wonderful !**
*Tdl me,, Father, are you grooming anyone to take your
place?"
"Well," he smiled mysteriously,
a
not through mortality. 1
do not observe to be perpetuated by knowledge, neither by the
mortal version* but yet it is impersonal and it is pcrsonifiable;
it is reincarnatable and reproducible. Mentally and spiritually,
in our daily conversations, we rcimpregnate our thoughts in the
hearts and minds of others and they* too, will eventually, as
they give vent to the Spirit of Truth within, develop them and
bring them to fruition even as we believe we have!"
It was in this idiomatic style, replete with coined words and
impassioned phrases, that I followed the Reverend Mr. Divine
OF 1%
of by tfic of the
spirit/* it all, he a
It to a rift in his of
lion.
1 if he the of his
he "I am. Of 1 It
to it as I to do, but of I
we arc coming closer to a we a
few According to my by the
unity of the spirit, of mind, of aim, of we unify.*
ft
*How about the reaction of the churches ?" 1 wanted to know,
"Have you found them to be quite sympathetic with your
or have you met with opposition?"
"Years ago I used to find them quite opposed to it," he ad-
mitted. He turned in his chair and became introspective for a
moment. "Now the churches are overwhelmed/* he went on,
*They have to listen and be silent now at what is actually
done. You see, the Peace Mission Movement is not an organi-
zation; it is a Movement, the same as the Christian Movement
or the Jewish faith. But the Peace Mission Movement embodies
both the Jewish faith and the Christian Movement. It does not
take away from either, but it embodies the two and makes it
what it is."
"You mean that you accept both Christian and Jew in your
Movement? Also Moslem?"
"Certainly!** came the emphatic reply.
C
*I have often said
that if each person would be true to the religion under which,
he was christened and live it and express it in all conscientious-
ness and sincerity, the very spirit of the Christ within would
lead that person to a higher light."
170 A
for Father?"
but "I at
all of our llicrc arc arc
and an
of arc arc of
cnt in the
of the work.'
of the
me a of
his of all
"Yet/" he added wisely* "we have never up a collection
never soliciting/
1
**TMs has considerable among journalists^
Do you to all the arc written
you?"
"I bear BO' record of the things arc written about me!" he
with emphatic sweetness. "You sec, a good many of these
try to write about me but have never contacted me.
They go by hearsay."
Suddenly he asked if I would like a cup of tea. Almost before
S could answer, the door opened mysteriously and four girls
came in carrying large silver trays weighted down with heavenly
food: fried chicken, riced potatoes, fresh vegetables and fruits,
tea, hot rolls, and a choke of pie. An immaculately dressed
elderly woman spread a linen cloth on the table*
"Why, Father/* I exclaimed as calmly as possible, "I thought
you said *teaM"
**The Lord is never stingy!" came the pleasantly suave reply*
He ate sparingly* As far as I was able to learn, he does not
drink and, unlike "de Lawd" in Green Pastures, does not smoke.
OF 171
"What I ask of my he **I of
What lie ask? Miracles* The of
The arc of
die less
the Divine the ail
arc to is
Is in He to to a
But do on They
retrace their up
is the door the No
group this word so literally. Conscience
America have swelled.
wrongs have been righted. Criminals have voluntarily given
themselves up to the law.
One woman told me: "Twenty years ago I stole a tun*
dred dollars from the lady I was working for. When 1
Father God I knew I had to make that good though
nobody knew I had stole it. I earned a hundred Then
1 went to look for the lady I worked for. She had died. I told
Father. He said I had to give the hundred dollars somewhere
jest the same because it didn't belong to me. I said I'd give the
hundred dollars to Mm. He refused it. I looked around whore
to send it and thought that there wasn't anybody who had done
more for me than my country. So I sent the hundred dollars to
the Treasurer of the United States."
The Treasury Department has acknowledged that this has
happened many times. Thousands of dollars have been received,
not only as conscience payments but as gifts of gratitude to
"God's country." Father says, "Christianity and democracy are
one."
172 A
art not in the of the "true
Divine" This is the
by he has of the
His is the for sin. His sit
the for a For
of "GodY* a Or it
"I I of all my sins/"
a
*4
bnt one day I gro-
I 1 a grocery out
of a bill. Was 1 1 of that! It gave me a chaace to
out old sin, just God would want me to do/*
The are fat with evidence that here is one small
in the Christian world where the doctrine of restitution is a
mania and a passion* The convert sends his restitution pay-
ment to the individual or the concern to which he is indebted,
asking that Father be notified that payment has been made*
This double-check system brings the acknowledgments to king-
dom headquarters. Here are a few letters selected at random
from thousands. A New York firm at 364 West xaist Street,
New York5 advises Father:
This is to acknowledge with grateful appreciation the sum of
IJJG paid to us by Ruth Smile on the iyh day of August. This
was a debt all but forgotten. . * .
Here is one from the Unity School of Christianity in Kansas
City:
Dear Walker Divine:
At the request of Miss Glory Sun, 1 am writing to acfynowl-
edge receipt of a money order from her for $2$ in complete
OF 173
of a she fell she we
her * , .
and York
$0 0/
Aiw /? ## oW o/ rir^i. . . .
"If Father hadn't done anything else/" one of the
"all payments alone prove he's God. Where
else dots anything like that happen ?"
Divine chuckles wisely. "The outer of Is
but the condition of the mind within."
That Is the secret: change -the mind within. As to the
manifestation., there Is no prescribed form. People "get changed"
under the Divine influence In various ways* Some sing
shout and dance. Some weep. Some become hysterical. Others
go quietly about the business of effecting a practical adjustment-
Spiritual names arc selected, designating the spiritual change.
They run a merry gamut :
Pearly Gates, David Peace, Live Dove,
Noah Frankness, Virgin Rose, David Consolation, Violet Ray.
One of the men told me his reborn name was Joyfnl Job and
added, "In Bible days great changed lives always brought along
new names; like Saul who became Paul, like Peter who became
The Rock and like Jacob whom God named Israel after his
wrestling match with the angel."
Joyful Job had his struggle with God in a Harlem tenement
house, but It was as real for him as though he, too, had been
traveling on toward Canaan with Jacob the wretched. His wife,
who Is not a Divinlte, said, "If he wants to be called Joyful Job,
174 A
let be I It Is a
no till fie Mr. Divine.**
arc in the
Tlhef arc in Ac bay Mrs.
Job is no she no
her
If a tie to It
it work* It
a in the It
a moral code: no no drinking, no
intercourse, 1 did not Just far this mat-
ter of is carried, but I in the rooming
provided for the angels, women arc strictly segregated.
Aa committee "thousands of broken
homes
9*
as a result of giving up husband or wife. Angel-
hood also means giving up the right to one's own will, time,
desire, and name. It is modern tnonasticism beyond the pale of
the church* The religious of this order once wandered in the
neglected ranks of unchurched America. They had been left for
the law, but a black shepherd came along rounded up the
lost strays. He built an unorthodox fold to keep them in, but I
am glad he came because they had been nibbling along the
edges of our unbalanced social system long enough.
I saw these lost sheep safe in the fold. I saw the green pastures
and followed them beside the still waters. I saw Father restore
their souls. I sat at the table he had prepared for them. He
called the affair **Holy Communion.'* But if this is communion,
a Thanksgiving dinner is just a snack. It was a banquet of sixty
courses, free to all who would receive it.
Father and I came out of a kingdom office at ten-thirty
OF 175
on the and In the
the of the
a London for us to
A the
we the !
of the but I not for
The
the
sil-
ver, dinnerware, an of All
magnificently impressive. A corps of
stood at attention. What kind of church dinner is this? I
thought Had cafeteria style gone by the board? Would no-
body need to walk around with silverware
lapel pocket, balancing coffee, water, and a
on a slippery tray?
We walked to the head of the table.. At Father's place were
twelve silver serving sets for coffee and tea. Beyond
serving forks and spoons were laid out in a shining V.
my eyes fell on the host's chair. On it three gold letters had been
inscribed: GOD. Father smiled wistfully as he sat down. **Just
the work of some enthusiastic angel/* he seemed to say. For a
moment he modestly betrayed that occasionally he was bored
with, being Gqd. I was convinced that he would rather sec his
people live the idea than talk about it, and this has been the way
with gods all through the ages.
From my place at Father's table I watched the lost sheep come
in Negro and white, young and old, rich and poor,, good and
bad, the high and mighty, and the humble and lowly. Dignified
men of middle age touched shoulders with black boys who faacl
176 A
a 10 the
olt! in
the the
in. Now all con-
the had out
The and the as
as I by the princely pro
of the event. The their
on of Fattier. sat the "Rose-
buds,** the up the Divine choirs. When everyone
the who could not be
quietly in the for the second serv-
ing. It would be a wait.
When the fabulous provider of his people's needs gave the
to the waitress, the supernal fare was brought in on
silver trays. Each tray was first presented to Father who blessed
it hand, a serving fork or spoon as needed,
and the trip around and across the tables began. Chicken
fried, fricassee, a la king; meat steak, chops, roast, cold cuts;
fisk there was perch fried in corn meal; potatoes boiled,
mashed^ creamed, scalloped, and yams; fresh vegetables to meet
every taste, and crisp cool salads of many varieties. It was like
a cutting from a Hollywood movie* It was fantastic, colossal.
"Don't take too much/* warned my companion. 'This goes
on for a long time."
She was right* For three hours the food kept coming with
the precision of a smoothly running machine,
"WiU you take your favorite bread, sir?" asked a waitress*
"What would you like to drink?" asked another. "You may
also have your choice of dessert."
OF 177
we had 10 the
of the living Fundamental. **God"
for his children,
together, running over! One of the
from me chuckled. "God has the
of his of plenty!" Order, en-
chantment presided at this of the "Lord*" The
Father, God* tic
of the Dean of the Universe, it
to be at heaven's table! The
It Christmas in the kingdom! It in the
promised land! Actually it was just an ordinary weekday eve-
ning.
"You can come back tomorrow night," a Rosebud, sens-
ing my enthusiasms "and the day after tomorrow. Almost
every night of every week Father has a banquet in Philadelphia
or in New York r
Everything is **on the Lord" in the Divine Peace Mission
Movement. Why should
c
*God" ask for anything since lie owns
the universe? Why insult "God" by passing a plate around
for nickels and dimes? It is Father's pleasure to give, to give
generously, extravagantly, omnipotently and with a loving
hand. And when he has given once he gives again and again.
Free schools! Free movies! Free church services! Free recre-
ational centers! Free banquets! Free! Free! Free! That's
God working!
"Send ME no money. It will simply necessitate MY sending it
back/' This is a stock line in Divine publications.
Yet Father confessed to me that he owned nothing in a "per-
sonal way." No one has been able to find a bank account in
iy8 A
his There ss no he has 10 pay
lax*
"My is to not gctf
"
he me one day. "1
an but Is it is
1 1 a
car is at the 1 it, oae is
for me to Let's go sec"
We out 10 the At the curb
a Cadillac! Tills Is the way he
it: **I real every I I materialize
every for God is the of all of His Earth's
Creation!"'
When Father bought the fashionable million-dollar Brigan-
tinc Hotel near Atlantic City in 1942, he redecorated and rccon-
it dedicated it as of the better heavens in his
Then he "visibilating." Some of the suites
previously rcetcd for ten twelve dollars a day, but
Father scaled the whole lot down to a straight two dollars a
week. Then he sent out invitations arid reopened
the Brigantine with a banquet of a hundred and five courses
all free.
Such Holy Communions have dedicated Divine establish-
ments throughout New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
Father is not statistically inclined, but the most casual investi-
gator discovers that the extensive reaches of the kingdom are
far from mythical. The Promised Land of the Peace Mission
Movement is a chain of farms in Ulster County, New York.
This agricultural department provides poultry, cattle and farm
produce for the restaurants, hotels, and banquets in the Divine
dominion. At the dedication of the Kmm Elbow estate on
OF 179
the the of his
he to the
"Enter in, men! in, old Enter In, all
the of the
and independent!
me God. It is God in a!! has
discerned and else but Got! is in me,
In all 1 am doing and in all I have done, there arc
who have known me for fifty years and more will
tell you the same. Here is Mother Divine, She tell
you, as she has told millions, she has any-
but God in me.
"Permit me to be transraittable, permit me to be reincar-
natablc, permit me to be reproducible. When this is
done you will see God in all mankind!"
In New York City thirty missions have opened, in
Philadelphia twenty-five, in California seven,, and others in
Connecticut., Maryland, the District of Columbia, Florida, Ala-
bama, South Carolina, Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, and Wash-
ington. There are foreign missions in Canada, British West
Indies, England., Australia, and Switzerland* At the smallest
and most isolated post of the kingdom, the feeling prevails that
the great resources of their Father are always within easy reach*
The larger missions operate community Peace Centers with
recreational facilities, homes for the aged, orphanages^ employ-
ment agencies, schools offering *aU academic subjects, practical
courses in Americanism, Christianity^ and Brotherhood, and
commercial training.'
1
Everything is free.
ite A
has rise to
the of in Divine's dc-
of his
in wills. A rich has
the He his
at When
"God** fie it. He
the of his He draws his checks
an
credulity is but as I it
I "Gocf
*
was but the incarnation of the cooperative
of a believing people- Father is the expression of their
aspirations* He Is the exalted director of America's
spiritual co-operative. The Peace Mission Movement Is
the practical unfolding of die dream he dreamed when, as an
unknown and barefoot messlah, he surrounded himself with
twelve disciples- They pooled their resources and trusted Fa-
ther. He provided them with something better than money:
"the Abundance of the Fullness of the Consciousness of Good,
no Space Is Vacant of the Fullness thereof," The master and
his twelve have expanded into a congregation of the "seen and
unseen actually living in the garden where tie tree of life is
blooming," Wherever die Movement takes root. It prospers
through Peace Groceries and Markets, Peace Jewelers, Opti-
cians, and Doctors, Peace Specialty Shops, Lumber Dealers, and
Funeral Directors, Peace Corsetihes, Laundries, and Radio
Dealers. In New York and Philadelphia all the basic enter-
prises that provide the service needed by a city population are
Included.
THE OF 181
is a of the
of the This is city
rise
to In
one In Is Is
of are
run by arc
10 and so a
for tea
cents. A grocery ran an
in a Philadelphia a half be-
cause "Father advised me to lower my prices and I've never
done so much business in all my life.'*
In these co-operatives many people willingly work for noth-
ing because they want to "serve humanity," "Why not
work for God ?
n
they ask. **What decs life mean if it not
mean serving others? Money can't bring you happiness. Hap-
piness comes from doing good/' Unable to gain recognition
in the great world, they become notable in the Divine king-
dom. Finding inequality in society^ they become a part of the
microcosm of the Peace Mission Movement where there are
no rich and no poor? where there is no racial or creodal dis-
crimination^ but where all are children of the one HTrac and
Living God Father Divine/* That is why Fattier says: **I
have striven to UNIVERSALIZE ourselves by SQCMIJZING ourselves
with others in the Abundance of the Fullness of the Comfort
and Convenience and of the Food and Shelter we have about
us!"
This may not mean much to the untutored! But to the true
i8a A
ii is a i lie
a cast in the of the
"What has for you ?" I one of the
"What has lie done!" the
tt
Lct me tell you
in his *Tbat is ai
one but as the as as the Creator,
is at It was
That's
Aren't you glad?"
Others not his words, bet they never forget
the or the In Father's eyes, or the thun-
derous of his voice he it to thunder, or the
primitive with which he cricsj "You
arc the pcrsonifiotion of Life, Liberty, and the reality of
Happiness!**
This thought is incorporated in the International Righteous
Government Department, one of the basic units in the Peace
Mission program. Father declares that through its operation a
noble nation is arising^ electrifying the atmosphere. The pro-
gram, pointing to a new Americanism, has caught the 'enthusi-
astic response of the young people in the kingdom. They? more
than anyone, have a fierce conviction that Father is what their
world, this world, needs. He plays skilfully on their emotions.
To them he is a youthful, forward-reaching prophet. He pushes
back the horizons of their restraints and tells them about the
glory of living under God*s shadow.
He is their crusader: "It is immaterial to me what man or
men may think or say. I am going on!**
OF 183
He is "I for
the BombP
He Is
* s
! 10 be
pray them!"
He is "I the earth T
he lias is
is His crown S
The of has
to all lie to They
in the kingdoms. They the They
Their arc in the
they sing. The old arc be-
cause new have out of the
Songs remind one of the "Ballad for Americans" or
from "We the People." oat of
a musty past
"Well the Flag of Freedom and Liberty waving
By living our Constitution and our Bill of Rights!
By fearlessly standing for the rights of every man ;
By establishing Justice and Troth as Real Americans1
Through expressing a citizenry of a Tree Democracy,
We have the Force of Power that's international Victory!
Eventually the symbol of the Flag of the Free,
Will be seen in every land: Americanism, Christianity,
and DemocracyI"
But the Rosebuds are not content with simply singing their
own compositions. They often stage hallelujah marches through
the auditorium^ clapping or waving their hands* singing spas-
modically as the orchestra plays a lively number. They also
i% A
a me to her
"We, the of the
the of the
The of Independence*
The its
Government Platform,
the of the KU!"
Then a **Down with Bilbo-ism P
Down with racial discrimination, race prejudice, hatred and
Up the bill, the brotherhood of
man, the of America, democracy! Clean out the Senate!
All of this is into the religious hopper and becomes part
of the Divine obsession* The people know what they believe.
No hazy groping or outmoded cliches here. No uncertainty in
the path of sinking traditions.
6
Wc believe in racial and social
equality. We believe in the confiscation of all armaments and
their destruction. We believe In the unification of North, South?
and Central America into the United Countries of America
with one flag and one language! We believe in Christian com-
munism. We believe in buying for cash. We believe in substi-
tuting 'Peace* for 'Hello P We believe that the Constitution is
our protection,, and that we are the protectors of the Consti-
tution!"
To broadcast these basic tenets, Father publishes in Newark,
New Jersey, a sensational fat tabloid called The New Day. The
date line carries A.D.FD. (Anno Domini Father Divine.) It
THE OF iiS
Is a sells at the fee of cents a copy or
a
to al! to are
set in Divine's of
In talks, interviews arc
the of the of
are UK
journal as their principal advertising medium.
One during a Righteous Government a
the crowd,
stood. Father had entered the auditorium
the platform unobtrusively.
"Peace!" he said, raising his hand.
*<
Peace> Father dear!" responded the audience*
"PeacCj children!" said Father and sat down.
They wondered if "God" would speak. The stenographers
waited, watching him, pencils poised. Out of the moments of
Father's genius they had caught flashes of greai wisdom. Ac-
compaaying him through crowded days, waiting upon him in
his office, sitting near him at services such as this and at Holy
Communion, following him on the roads to new kingdoms,,
they had been given the opportunity to record memorable
axioms:
'"Blessings are like things bought on the installment
plan; when you stop paying for them they are taken
away/*
"How can unjust officials give you justice? They do not
have it to give."
i86 A
**$ee in for see in
you Him in But you
In you stx* in all mankind/'
**Men for at the
of it at home/*
to the to up
They They
**We you,
For your love care.
We you, Father,
We arc !
We love you, we praise you^
We thank you, our God.
We live In secureness
By trusting your love!"
As Father listened his eyes drifted dreamily,, tranceiike, sadly
over his people.
Presently I noticed that his chin had fallen forward on his
chest. To all appearances he was napping! The audience noticed
him, too; at first with wide-eyed wonder? then they nodded
slowly, tmderstandingly. Even "God" needs rest, they seemed
to say, as tender smiles formed on their lips. The Rosebuds sang
quietly^ awed and reverent,
A brother got up to speak. I looked over at Father again.
His eyes were open now. He motioned to me as if saying,
"Come here a second.'* We were both sitting on the platform
confronted by about three hundred people^ but when "God"
winks who am I to disobey?
I went over to Father's side and leaned toward him*
THE OF 1%
you like to howl?*' he
"1 parJon ?
M
"Bowl/*
"Yes, i like to but"
He got up a
We left the the the
the the the of the
a
Negro pin setter.
"Throw a few,** Father, fiis
he of alleys.
1 a bad "How It?" !
gestecL
"I don't bowl/' Father said.
"Oh, take one/* I urged.
He consented.
From the way he a a
from his stance and delivery, I was sure he was no bowler. Yet,
when that uncertain ball got within nodding distance of the
pins, it headed straight between one and three for the prettiest
strike I ever saw. Father's nonchalance was characteristic. He
nibbed the soft palms of his hands together as if to say?
**WelI
what do you expect when the Lord rolls one!*'
So I bowled with "God
55
and we went back upstairs where
the service was being concluded. Crowds were gathering for
another banquet. Once more a long row of uplifted hands
made an imposing bower along the narrow corridor and up the
winding stairs. Under this sheltering canopy, the "King of
Kings" wended his humble way while his people whispered^
**Peacc, Father, Peace.** Again his poise and bearing seemed
fSS A
the of his That he
the and to fill this
If he his of
by his
To
**GadT by. And as he led on, quietly, gently,
I felt he his :
"1 to all all they may be
even as this me, Well, Healthy^ Joyful, Peaceful,
Lively, Loving, Successful, Prosperous and Happy in
Spirit, Body and Mind In every organ, muscle,
sinew* joint, limb, vein and and even in every
fibre and cell of My Bodily Form."
CHAPTER 11
They the
the second and last syllables* In of the
they it the
Jesus for devoted Christians, God for
tfie Witnesses on Main Street, like Father Divine for the reborn
and angtis In the Peace Mission Kingdom. BahaVllah Is the
**Splendor of God," the Persian mcsslah. He Is more than that.
He Is the Great Prophet In whom all all
should be united. To three thousand Americans he Is the "hope
of the world/* They are members of a **worfd religion** and
caE themselves Baha'is,
"Baha'uTlahr
The name was dramatically brought to America with the
World Congress of Religions in 1893, an occasion so In keeping
with the message of BahaVllah that Baha*ls feel it all belongs
in a prophetic plan. Here, at the Columbian Exposition In
Chicago, It seemed that all nations, tribes, and religions were
brought together for the deliberate purpose of creating inter-
faith understanding. Oriental priests mingled with, dbc clerics
o the West, For two months Jew, Christian, Moslem, Hmct%
Buddhist, Zoroastrian, Shinto, Taoist, and Confucian, together
190 A
a
tor of all Irrcligioa*
On the one of the to say:
<4
In the of just the of Akka^ on
the a ago, a famous
BahaVliah the 'Splendor of God' who regards
all as all as brothers. He uttered senti-
ments so so Christlike, that we repeat them as our
words; *AI1 should become one in faith and all
brothers; the of affection and unity between the
of be diversity of religions
and differences of race be annulled. Let not a man
in this,, that he loves his country; let him rather glory in
this, that he loves his kind/
"
These words* although reflecting so perfectly the spirit of the
Congress^ were lost in the sensationalism of the gay nineties'
**World*s Fair**
9
Hie representatives of the faiths of the uni-
verse went back home; the Torahy the Bible, and the Koran
were taken, each by his particular adherent. Missionaries re-
turned to proselytize, each for his own belief. But a few
spiritual gypsies, remembering, looked eastward wistfully. They
believed that Baha'ullah had not only an idea, but a divine
revelation. By a special providence and their own pursuing,
they got hold of his writings, "tablets," filled with wisdom,
symbolism, and authority. They translated from the Persian
such works as Seven Valleys and Four Valleys, a treatise on
the journey of the soul to its final unfoldment; Hidden Words,
a summary of the truths inherent in revelations; and the Boo%
of Certitude, in which was interpreted the oneness of all faiths.
For many Americans, these sacred writings had the spirit
of prophecy, were to
Baha'u'llah as the mouthpiece of God. These were not
whom the churches had by; of
up the churches, feeling that creeds
confining. To them Baha'u'llah's words came as a
challenge,
&&
O ye people of the world! The of God
is for the sake of love and union; make it not the cause of
enmity and conflict! By My Word shall the diverse sects of
the world attain unto the light of real union!" Lured by this
Utopian promise, well-to-do pilgrims set out for the Syrian
coast. There they found that the poor and the lowly were fol-
lowing the same star to the prison shrine of the Persian Sage.
"BahaVllahr
I saw his words carved in the alabastrine arches above each
of the nine doors of America's most magnificent religious struc-
ture, the Baha'i House of Worship, in Wilmette, Illinois. I saw
people of many races and creeds enter these doors to worship
together, people who believed that the Prophet's dream to
unite all religions had been fulfilled. What was the line inter-
rupted by my heckler friend in Hometown long ago? "Creeds
are but branches of a tree
"
At last I had found a group
which claimed to be the primal point of unity for the diver-
gent branches of the world's tree of faith. They call their
temple the Mashfiqu
J
l~Adh}(ar, a Persian word meaning the
"source of the mention of God." They call it the Tabernacle
of the Great Peace" that proclaims the oneness of mankind.
They call it the "Portal to Freedom/* and for one familiar
with Baha'i history there is no more descriptive torn*
It sounds back through more than a hundred years to Mirza
Muhammad AIL At sunset on May 23, 1844, this young re-
192 HAVE \
by and
ists, at A was at the
of the city* To him lie that he was the "Bab."
He the "gate"*
a new
to all all In the
of the of and Jew, he dared
all common origin. He con-
in the Divine Universal Will, God had
Himself Jesus, Mohammed. These
equal They were mirrors reflecting God's glory^
bearing the Imprint of the same Creator, torches
at one immortal fire. In the Great New Prophet, God's
spirit would again be manifest But Persia was not America
and Mirza Muhammad Ali was hated by all faiths. Like John
the Baptist^ the voice in the wilderness, who prepared the way
for the Founder of Christianity, the Bab was destined for
martyrdom. He was jailed with his disciples in prison bar-
racks in the city of Tabriz. The day of execution was set for
July 8, 1850.
When the guards came for the Bab he was seated at his
prison table talking to a disciple* He begged them to allow
him to finish his conversation. They refused, But as he was
dragged from the room, he cried, "No earthly power can silence
me until I have said all I must say to this disciple!"
Thousands of spectators crowded the roofs of buildings and
jammed the streets through which they hauled him. In a
gateway between two barracks, a crosspiece was fastened.
Seven hundred and fifty men with rifles were ranged in three
files for the killing. The Bab was lifted up. The heavy ropes
that bound his wrists were fastened to a spike in the crosspiece,
193
he the Orders for the
in rapid times, two
dred fifty fired at tiic dangling figure. When the
smoke cleared, the stood on the ground unhurt. The gun-
men's bullets had severed the ropes and set him free. There
was a moment of fierce silence. Then the spell was by
convulsive excitement. Spectators struggled in frenzied escape
from this incredible portent. The would-be executioners cried,
"Miracle! Miracle!"
Their frantic, disordered search led finally to the Bab*s cell.
There he sat with his disciple, speaking as calmly as though
there had been no interruption. They stopped in the doorway,
reluctant to seize him again. In a few moments he rose from
his chair. Walking toward them,, he said, "I have finished my
conversation. Now you may fulfill your intention,"
Once more he was suspended in the gateway before a new
firing squad. The spectators climbed back to the roofs. For a
moment the crowded street was hushed. Then the rifles spoke
again, and the body of Mirza Muhammad Ali became a mass of
bleeding flesh and shattered bone.
But his message lived. "I am but a letter out of that most
mighty book and a dewdrop from that limitless ocean, but a
Great New Prophet shall appear! Wait for him!"
Nothing could quench the messianic hope that had been
awakened in the hearts of the Bab's disciples. Nothing could
destroy the dream in which they saw mosque, cathedral, and
synagogue blended into one house of worship to the living
God. Known throughout Persia as Babis, they were subjected
to imprisonment and death. Persian religionists felt them-
selves in danger of being absorbed and destroyed by this new
X94 A
the
of to the
Ten were Nccr
the of the of a
so If Ac "Promised One" did
not be left to acclaim him, for
the last of up at
in to be to a at Constantinople.
While in aa gar-
called Redvan, a of fifty-one years.., greatly respected
the his comrades
him, said:
"This is the Day in beholds the Face* and
the Voice of the Promised 'One! The call of God has
raised, and the light of His countenance has been lifted
men. . . . Great indeed is this day! The allusions made
to it in all the sacred Scriptures call it the Day of God! Bestir
yourselves, for the promised hoer is at hand!"
Baha'ullah stood before the Babis in the person of Mirza
Husayn AH. He had been a disciple with them for nineteen
years- He had suffered with them in their persecution gone
with them through their blood baptism., spent years with them
in the wilderness retreats. The son of a wealthy Persian, he
had abandoned the world to follow the teachings of the "One-
ness of All Mankind." It was he who had exclaimed after the
killing in Tabriz, "My head longeth for the spears! Hie blood
died in the path of the Bab is more precious to me than all else!'*
Now he was transfigured. He no longer spoke as a Babi. He
no longer was a Babi; he was the "Splendor of God!" As Jesus
in His day, as Mohammed in his, so now Baha'u'llah!
195
who IB to
They to be it or
persecution. They were now Baha'Is, the of
BahaVllah. For days in the of this
garden, the of the "Splendor of God"
lives. For nine days, eighty disciples drawn
sat with their Master and heard his words of "hidden wis-
dom":
"Ye are the fruits of one tree, and the leaves of one branch.
Deal ye one with another In the utmost love and harmony. So
powerful Is the light of unity that It can Illuminate the whole
earth!"
The glorious tryst at Redvan was ended abruptly by the in-
trusion of the persecutors. BahaVllah and his Baha'is were
carted off to Constantinople, then to Adrianople, and finally to
Akka, a prison city to which only the worst criminals were
sent. The disciples never doubted that their leader could have
delivered them all, but great prophets never employ miracles
to save themselves from suffering. Baha'u'llah was to spend
his entire life as a prisoner. He was thrown Into a filthy dun-
geon, shackled with a heavy chain that locked him to his prison
wall. His followers were forced to watch as he was whipped
and dragged through the narrow barrack passages of Akka.
Prison walls could not conceal the "Splendor of God," In the
wide stretches of the desert and in the busy market places,
people heard that the Promised One had been revealed. Those
who had looked for his coming made pilgrimages to the
prison-temple. Not permitted to enter, they waited until he
showed-himself at the window and raised his hand In blessing.
When they wept for him, he called assuringly, "Fear not* These
106 A
be My be on Car-
flic joy be realized."
The to their comforted, while the
reached beyond the circle of believers. From
the of BahaVllah a
;
O to the of Him
ike truth. . . .
O King of Tell the to ring the bells no
longer! The A/oil MigAty Bell
O Czar of Russia! Incline car unto ike mice of
God. . . . All the cry aloud: Lo! The Lord is
come!
O King of Berlin! Give car the Voice calling
from $Ais manifest Temple!
O Pope! Rend the veils asunder! The Word which
the Son concealed is made manifest!
Risers of America and Presidents of the Republics
therein! Hearken to the strains of the Dove on the
Branch of Eternity singing the melody! There is no
God but Me, the Everlasting, the forgiver, the Gen-
erous!
Some laughed derisively as they read these messianic edicts;
others put them quietly aside. Queen Victoria of England pon-
dered over the lines, "The Lord hath ordained as the sovereign
remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing of the world,
the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common
Faith."
197
"If this be of God," she observed, "It will if not,
is no done,"
No change effected, The of still ran
their ways. But the Great Prophet the
world, and Baha'Is felt a ground-swell stirring the re-
ligious consciousness of men everywhere.
In 1870, BahaVIlah, through the intercession of
Persians, rode from his barracks in the carriage of a Moham-
medan sheik to the palace of Bahji within the prison city. He
was still a capdve> but here in comfortable quarters he was
united with his family. Sometimes he was permitted to journey
to Mount Carmel where, in lonely meditation, he knelt where
the future shrine of the martyred Bab should be. Was it here
that the organizational plans for the world-wide Baha'i faith,
were born ? Was it here that he received divine inspiration for
his prolific literary works? There was little rest for him at
Bahji, for the faithful and the curious milled about the palace
grounds. Even the rulers who kept him imprisoned stood in
awe at his popularity, wisdom, and works.
A noted Orientalist of Cambridge, who visited him, said,
"The face of him on whom I gazed I can never forget, though
I cannot describe it. Those piercing eyes seemed to read one's
very soul; power and authority sat on that ample brow; while
the deep lines on the forehead and face implied an age which
the jet-black hair and beard seemed to belie. No need to ask
in whose presence I stood, as I bowed myself before One who
is the object of a devotion and love which kings might envy and
emperors sigh for in vain!"
Despite this growing process of deification, BahaVllah, like
a good steward, prepared wisely for death. Having lived to
198 A
has he of its
die "station of Ills Deity*" he drew up his will
left no the "plan of GocT concern-
ing his His son no longer he called
EffendL lie Abdul-Batta, the Servant of Baha,
him the Covenant of the Cause fall.
Thus with Baha'u'llah's on May i8? 1892, the inviolable
of the begun. En-
thusiastic followers immediately to speak of Abdul-Balia
as another prophet, a of God. They remem-
bered excitedly that this son of Baha-'u'llah had been born in
the very hour the Bab first declared his mission. Aged
disciples related how, as a boy of eight, Abbas Effendi was
brought to his father's dungeon. In the deep shadows, his ter-
rified eyes beheld the "Splendor of God" chained to the wall, his
swollen and bleeding neck encased in a steel collar. From
that moment the bond between them was more than that of
father and son or master and disciple. At Rcdvan, as a young
man of nineteen, he was the first to call his father the "Blessed
Perfection.
9 '
Along the flagging march to Akka, he followed
the little exiled band and guarded Baha'u'llah's tent.
It was Abbas Effendi, as a mature disciple of the Cause of
God, who persuaded the Persian sheik to effect the removal
to Bahjl He had gazed so long upon the glory of his father
that Baha'is now saw that glory reflected in him. He quickly
suppressed all attempts at deification. As the Bab was the
gate through whom Baha'u'llah appeared, so, Abdul-Baha con-
tended, he was merely the interpreter. But his supreme au-
thority was not to be questioned. Baha'u'llah had referred
to him as "the Center of My Covenant." He had made the
19?.
"When the of
My the of
who hath branched from this Ancient Root!"
With this divine legacy, Abdul-Baha his
political enemies. The
changed the Baha'Is were plotting to overthrow
set up a theocracy. For
the world from behind prison walls. He saw ancient
built for man's salvation so littered with strife, were
leading to destruction- Pilgrims who came to him at Akka
heard him say that it was not his intention to found
religion. There were too many already; there should be but
one. All faiths should dissolve into the "Splendor of God/'
And there should be a temple, a home for the One Universal
Faith. Such a sanctuary would be a mighty influence for the
union of all men.
On his release from Akka bondage,, August 31, 1908, when
die Turkish revolution overthrew the Ottoman Empire and
set all political and religious prisoners free, the man who
had entertained pilgrims himself began a pilgrimage. He
traversed his homeland, the Orient, and Europe in search of a
suitable location for the first Baha'i temple. During the days of
BahaVllah, Russian Baha'is had undertaken the building of a
house of worship in Ishquabad. But was Russia the proper set-
ting? True, the light of divine revelation had always risen
in the East and shed its radiance upon the West, but Abdul-
Baha found the East a melange of national suspicion and inter-
national discord. There was enmity among men who preached
good will and impending threat of world war. Wondering
2m A
whether In his the West be the source of
glory, he his America.
In the spring of 1912, the Servant of Raha'u'Hah his
friends words, "I am going to the United
to the fundamental principles of our Cause and
to proclaim the oneness of the world of humanity and the
of all men."
For the next nine months a Persian seer was In the American
news. He was now sixty-four, a man prophetic in body and
spirit. His eyes had a sorrowful, quietly longing expression, as
one who brought with him a gaze that had rested much on God
and longed that every man might sec Him, too. His beard was
snow-white and his long hair was covered with a small felt
turban. His face was slightly wrinkled but his skin was radi-
ant* He was of medium size, very strong in form, muscularly
built, yet sensitized by some mystical power. He traveled with
a retinue of servants, secretaries, and devotees. He spoke no
English, but in purest classical Persian greeted those who
thronged about him in New York. A traveling companion in-
terpreted his words,
U
I
pray that you may be manifestations of
the love of BahaVllah; that each one of you may become like
a clear lamp of crystal from which the rays of the bounties
of the Blessed Perfection may shine forth to all nations and
peoples!"
He crossed the continent and visited America's great cities.
Church, temple, and synagogue welcomed him. He met all
creeds, classes, and races on their own level. Photographers
persuaded him to pose for the press and the movies. He ap-
peared in the Chicago Masonic Temple and in the Washington,
D. C.j Public Library Hall. He brought material and spiritual
201
to the of New York* He in
universities, Columbia impressed; the of
Ltland **AMul-Baha the
the West, for he treads the mystical way practical
feet."
His knowledge of world affairs marked as a prophet.
In Los Angeles In October 1912 he said,
a
We arc on the eve
of the battle of Armageddon. The time Is two years hence,
when only a spark will set aflame the whole of Europe. The
social unrest in all countries, the growing religious skepticism
antecedent to the millenium, and already here, will set aflame
the whole of Europe. By 1917 kingdoms will fall and cata-
clysms will rock the earth."
He held out no hope that the Baha'i faith could stem the on-
rush of Armageddon. Instead he said that war was inevitable.
The old world had failed to develop the spiritual powers of
the human heart in proportion to the outreaches of science.
Editorial comments were generous:
"No religious movement of recent times is nearly so signifi-
cant as that of Baha'ism." Portland Oregonian.
"The religion of the Baha'ists has nothing of the eccentricity
or faddism of so many modern religions and none of their
shallow philosophy. It is simply a synthesis of the noblest
ethics of the world around one common center love and
good will to all men," Boston Congregationalism
"Baha'ism should be welcomed as one more indication of the
drawing together of races and the coming co-operation of man
in the establishment of what in both Eastern and Western lan-
guage is called the kingdom of God/* The Christian Register.
Criticism generally was not directed at Abdul-Baha but,
rather, against the fanatical devotion with which he was hailed
202 A
by he in the
a had an
to kiss his One
she GodP A the of
Abdu!-Baha*s hand, that his melted to tears, that his
In his he not
a had his life on it. America was
to a hypnotic
The o the in Wilmette, Illi-
nois, where an influential group of believers had selected a site
for a temple. As early as 1903, a supplication had been sent to
the Servant of to which he had given his fervent assenL
Abdtil-Baha's endorsement of the "sacred spot'* was graphically
related to me as I rode up Sheridan Road one day with Albert
Windust, one of the earliest American Baha'is.
"It was May first of 190," he began, "that the Baha'is followed
the carriage of Abdul-Baha this very way. We had set tip
a tent on the temple site. Five hundred seats were arranged
in three circles with nine aisles leading to the center area. That
is the way he wanted it. We expected him to drive his carriage
right up to the tent, so the people formed an avenue from the
road to the entrance. But the Servant of Baha'u'llah surprised
us all by getting out and walking briskly to the temple grounds.
There, at high noon, he said, The power which has gathered
you here today notwithstanding the cold and windy weather is
indeed mighty and wonderful. It is the power of God, the
divine favor of Baha'u'llah! Thousands of Mashnqu'l-Adh\ars
will be built in the Orient and Occident, but this, being the
first one erected in the Occident, will be of greatest importance.'
With these words, he took a golden trowel and broke the
20J
Then he for a
up of the earth, he everyone to and
do the As did,
Thus, symbolically, all of us prepared for the of
the for died."
The record that all of the countries of
the Near the Orient, the of the world, the
North American Indians were represented day.
In devout reminiscence, Windust went on: "When the last
spadeful of earth had been turned, Abdul-Baha set down a com-
mon field stone and said, *Now the Temple is already built!"
w
To hear again of such indomitable faith made understandable
the imprint which the son of BahaVlIah left on American
religious life. The temple was to cost over a million dollars, and
in 1912 there was less than forty thousand in the Baha'i treasury.
Yet he said, **The Temple is already built!** Did he mean the
"Temple of the Word" in people's hearts, or did he foresee the
response of a believing and generous segment of the American
public? All of the money came through voluntary subscrip-
tion. Contributions, generally, were not large, but they ran
the range from a peddler's donation on Chicago's south side to
a gift from the late movie actress, Carole Lombard. Soon, be-
lievers all over the world were sending their offerings. An
anonymous giver sent a thousand dollars, simply addressed to
"The Baha'i House of Peace."
Abdul-Baha predicted that America, with this temple at
Wilmette as headquarters, would lead all nations spiritually.
He maintained that the American people were worthy of being
the first to build the "Tabernacle of the Great Peace," and to
proclaim the oneness of mankind. Baha'is felt that no greater
A
ever .sounded on American soil From
at Wilmcttc a truth to
all the work!.
The of the structure now in the dis-
tance. As we approached, I had to admit that it was indeed a
of cathedral, and synagogue. The East was
blended with the West In a magnificent allegory of architec-
tural trends Greek, Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, and
Byzantine. It was the kind of temple one would expect to
glimpse just inside the pearly gates. It was patterned motion,
the Taj Mahal of the Americas. In spite of the *najestic aus-
terity of the great,, towering three-storied nonagon, two galleries,
luxurious in their simplicity of line, encircled all with warmth
and quiet welcome.
I stood for a moment in front of this alabaster house of wor~
ship* somewhat overwhelmed. Nine great pillars of white
quartz rise in the form of a circle from deep within a caisson.
These pillars frame nine sections of intricate masonry with re-
cessed windows and nine cathedral doors, one in each section.
This comprises the outermost unit or the first story. Within
this, offset from it, the design is
repeated in a loftier nonagon
which rises triumphantly to supersede the first and form the sec-
ond story. Between these pillars are sections of concave arcs and
crystal latticework. From the interior of this second unit, nine
majestic pylons thrust upward for a hundred and sixty feet,
resolving into a clerestory of brilliant white filigree. It is gran-
ite spun into a texture of fine lace, so that one feels not massive
weight, but is reminded, rather, of painstaking needlework
faithfully embroidered into some ancient ecclesiastical robe.
"The nine pylons," Windust explained, "symbolize the nine
205
of the world. These, a
base, the heart of reach upward toward God. The
rise* the nearer to one until,
they attain their highest goal, they one. Ail
religions are unified in the Baha'i faith/*
It would be difficult to find a nobler ideal this at the
heart of any American religion. And yet a spirit of loneliness
pervaded the temple grounds, and a of hung
the glory of the Ma$hriqu
9
l-AdhJ(ar. Even though an occasional
car stopped in the drive? the great doors seemed to call in vain
to the races of men hurrying by* The feeling was so impelling
that I turned to Windust and asked how he accounted for the
fact that the Baha'i faith with its all-inclusive aspect was still a
"little-known" religion.
"We have ninety assemblies with a total of three thousand
members in the United States," he replied defensively. **But one
cannot measure the scope of the movement by these figures,
We have always realized that Baha'u'llah's ideals must conic
through a slow, evolutionary process. But we have proudly
watched their development in the affairs of men. We are con-
vinced that the United Nations Organization is a gesture
toward the realization of Baha'u'llah's message, Woodrow Wil-
son knew of the sacred writings before he went to the Hague
with his plan for a League of Nations. I think it is
highly sig-
nificant that many world leaders are using Baha'u'llah's ideas
effectively even though they do not acknowledge their divine
origin."
It was a good argument, yet I detected a note of pain in
Windust's voice that suggested how keenly he felt the inepti-
tude of men to get hold of Baha'i teachings. It hinted of the
ao6 A
in all
But I the as-
the as conclusive
of the of the Baha'i com-
munity* This is further by a comparison with
to the of the World's Congress
erf Christian Science, birthday closely approxl-
the of the Baha'i into America, lays rightful
to active I was ready to attribute
paradoxically, to the ambitious
of BahaVilah's followers. The legacy of faith which he
left to the world is definitely not egocentric Personal emphasis
in this religion is to the interglobal idea; salvation
for the individual is by the vision of a common world
citizenship. This would seem to be almost synonymous with
the democratically interfaith platform of Father Divine; how-
ever, Divine's rugged, almost uncouth, appeal breaks with this
world religion when he holds out unlimited glories for the indi-
vidual. To the blackest sheep in his fold, he promises green pas-
tures of peace^ freedom from want and fear, and a ringside
seat in the kingdom.
When I voiced these thoughts Windust contended that no one
better supplemented faith with works than Abdul-Baha. Dur-
ing World War I, he so impressed British government repre-
sentatives with his philanthropic work and sacrifices among
the people of the Near East that a knighthood was conferred on
him.
"His zeal for social betterment was perpetuated when he or-
dered that a community of peace should surround this temple,"
Windust persisted. "Baha'is will not rest until the vision of
THE 207
is completely realized* There/" lie out, "a
be a a There
be for research, for the
homes for the the needy. Doesn't this
a appeal?**
"But actually, Mr. Windust, Christianity is
it is a personal religions experience. Christians build their
around such realities as repentance,
baptism. But these words have little place in your sacred writ-
ings. The way I interpret it, you believe that the transforma-
tion of life and character is the result and not the beginning of
salvation.*
9
"On that point," admitted Windust, "there is a difference in
emphasis. The message of Jesus was designed for the individ-
ual; that is what was needed in His day. But when BahaVllah
was revealed the world was ready for international social em-
phasis as well as the need for personal regeneration. Work, in
the spirit of service, is accepted as worship/*
So I was again reminded that one becomes a Baha'i not for
personal gain, but to serve mankind and to assist in the amalga-
mation of the many scuffling religious tribes of earth. The ideal
is certainly not unworthy; yet, to the average American, it is
likely to remain grandiose.
But I had come to Wilmette to meet the people who denied
such contentions. I would soon know what these believers were
like, for Windust had assured me that a cross section of Ameri-
can Baha'is could always be found here long before the hour of
worship. A number had already gathered. They were walking
through the grounds and lingering in the shadows of the
temple.
208 A
**Lct us go up" \Yiadu5t "Here,, you sec, are
die In Iiis day,
the Bab disciples* Nine, and
of for us."
The for me as we was lost in the temple's
As I the and archways,
interlaced and more incredible. The
ribs of construction carrying the tremendous weight had
the appearance of tapestry. Light seemed to be trans-
mitted from behind the whltc^ sensitized surfaces.
Suddenly my silent admiration was interrupted by the capti-
vating patter of a bcjcweled devotee of the faith. "Oh, Mr.
Windost!" she rhapsodized,, "I have just returned from a visit
with the Blessed Guardian I"
She rapturously clasped her hands in an attitude of devotion,
but^ to mty it was unconscious vanity^ for the gesture showed off
to tremendous advantage the dazzling brilliance of two huge
diamonds. I
questioned whether she would be the most typical
Baha'i, but she would surely be among the most interesting.
"You know how you felt when you were with Abdul-Baha,
Mr. Windust," the enchanted pilgrim continued. "It was the
same with the Blessed Guardian."
Immediately I sensed that Baha'is believe that the power
of attraction which was AbduI-Baha's was passed on to his suc-
cessor, Shoghi Effendi, the grandson whom he designated as
the "Guardian of the Cause" in his last will and testament They
accept the tradition of incarnated mystical power from the Bab
to Baha'u'llah to Abdul-Baha to Shoghi EffendL
"I paid my respects at the tomb of the Bab and at the hallowed
shrine of Baha'allah," she was saying. "I visited all of oui
209
on Mount Carmci I was at Akka and In the at
! in the at Oh, but my
with the Guardian of the Cause ! Tlicrc is a
that over one when him. His eyes! I never
into eyes like his in all my life.
"And, do you know, one morning I had the that he
was to call me to speak to me privately ? Why he,
I wondered, because there were surely more important in
the party of pilgrims than I ? But, sure enough, a
came and said, 'The Guardian asks for you.' I walked on air!
Almost his first words were, 1 have had you much on my mind.
You are to carry a message back to America for me. Remind ail
of those who stand identified with the Faith of the Master's
words* "The prime requisites for them that take counsel to-
gether are purity of motive, radiance of spirit, detachment from
all save God, attraction to His Divine Fragrances, humility and
lowliness amongst His loved ones, patience and long-suffering
in difficulties and servitude to His exalted Threshold/*
*
"He wrote the words for me, but, do you know, when he
read them to me they seemed already to be written in my heart?
I never forgot them. One day I walked with the Guardian in
the beautiful garden. 'Have you learned the words I gave you?"
he asked. I repeated them for him. He turned to me with the
most beatific expression I have ever seen. 'Good,' he said. *Good.
You have learned them with love and purity of motive, and they
shall be to you and all who hear them as the rays of an effulgent
Light.'"
"Everyone who has met the Guardian comes away im-
pressed," Windust responded with his usual quiet enthusiasm.
"Of course, you remember how we are admonished in the will
210 A
of to the of
so *no of
Ms lie *a
oft Ac of
"
out of in America, but here, at the of the
It a of liturgy.
"Obi" the "the Center of the Cove-
to the Guardian is to obey God
to him is to turn away from Goci But one
fully understand until one has him/* she concluded
as she turned to go into the temple.
Engraved in the monumental archway above the door were
the words:
o ONES ON EARTH! THE POOR. IN YOUR MIDST ARE
MYTRUST; GUARD YE MY TRUST
Just now they seemed so significant that I read them aloud.
a
Onc of our fundamental principles is based on that text,"
Windust explained. "We believe that extremes of wealth and
poverty should disappear, and that everyone should live in
comfort There are inspired utterances of the Great Prophet
above cadi of the nine doors/*
As we started around the temple I watched the people arrive
for the service, I thought I must be seeing a small-scale repro-
duction of the World's Congress of Religions. Most of them
entered through the "main door/' which faces southeastward
to Haifa. Above this door the "inspired writing" proclaims,
211
THE is BUT COUNTRY; MANKIND ITS
The were of
OF ALL IN MY IS JUSTICE;
NOT AWAY IF THOU ME
MY LOVE IS MY STRONGHOLD; HE THAT
IS SAFE AND
THY HEART IS MY HOME; SANCTIFY IT FOR MY DESCENT
I HAVE MADE DEATH A MESSENGER OF JOY TO THEE;
DOST THOU GWEVE ?
MAKE MENTION OF ME ON MY EARTH THAT IN MY
HEAVEN I MAY REMEMBER THEE
THE SOURCE OF ALL LEARNING IS THE KNOWLEDGE OP
GOD, EXALTED BE HIS GLORY
While we stood before the ninth door reading, BREATHE NOT
THE SINS OF OTHERS SO LON AS THOU ART THYSELF A SINNER, 1
young Negro greeted Windust. I again felt the enthusiasm of
belief reflected with genuine passion.
"Great words there!'* said the Negro, putting his hands on
his hips and gazing up with a conquering air.
"Great words of a great man/* I admitted.
"BahaVllah!" A light, satisfied chuckle accompanied die
word. "You know, my friends used to say to me, 'How you
goin* to learn all them foreign names connected with that new
religion?* 'What foreign names?* I says. 'Ain't I learned Bible
names all the time ? Is BahaVllah and Abdul-Baha worse than
20 A
or r Is
When ! of Sunday-school words like the
the you Fro goirf to have
Bahals?" These arc beautiful" He
went on "Take the garden, R-e-d-v-a-n.
That's Rizwan. Take Mirza Muhammad All. Mirza's
for mister. He the Bab? you know* means
gate, He opened up for BahaVHah. Baha means splendor.
Ullah means Allah, or of God. There you got Splendor of
God. Take Abdul-Baha. Abdul means servant, servant of
Baha, servant of God. He was the exemplar. And the present
leader, SEoghi Effcndl. Shoghl means teacher. Efifendi means
master* There you got master teacher. Nothing to it! And
they say, *How you gain* to learn all them foreign names?*
"
**Foreign names!"" Windust repeated, shaking his head de-
spairingly, "When anyone says that, it merely indicates how far
we still need to go before we realize the Great Prophet's dream.
That is one of the reasons why we advocate an auxiliary univer-
sal language* That is why we are interested in universal edu-
cation. The world can be harmonized only through our
universal religion,"
**But isn't there a danger that Baha'ism will always remain
an abstract, visionary symbol rather than a practical basis for
world unity?" I
protested.
"No, it's all worked out!" exclaimed the Negro and, with a
faraway look in his black eyes, he recited what might have been
an assignment from the Baha'i catechism. "Unfettered search
after truth and the abandonment of all superstition and preju-
dice. Religion must be a cause of love and harmony, else it is
no religion* Religion must be in agreement with science, bring-
BAHA'I FAITH 213
ing full accord. Thee the be
united."
He and the a
which convinced me his new religion to
than merely a new vocabulary. He conveniently
it with his American heritage*
**Wc have no illusions about the difficulties and work ahead/*
Windust hastened, eager to temper the idealism of the Negro.
"But we do have an organizational plan that will do the job.
Each year every Baha'i community elects a Local Spiritual As-
sembly. This is a board of nine that handles the affairs of the
community. Any Baha'i over twenty-one may be a member of
this Assembly. We have no nominations, and so there Is no
electioneering. We vote by secret ballot, and the nine persons
receiving the most votes are elected. Above the Local Spiritual
Assembly is the National Spiritual Assembly found in every
country where our faith is established. Its members arc elected
by delegates from local communities. Our National Assembly
now has its office in the building over there on the lake shore."
He indicated a modest white stone building. "The National
Spiritual Assemblies will soon act as an electorate for the Inter-
national House of Justice which will sit in Haifa as the legisla-
tive body for Baha'is everywhere."
Finally he concluded with an auspicious note in his voice:
c
Think what will happen when, instead of a League of Nations
or a United Nations Organization, there will be an Interna-
tional House of Justice stressing the principles of the Oneness
of Mankind!"
"Do you really believe that the House of Justice has a better
chance than other organizations to unite the world?"
214 THEY A
**I d0 in hss and
menf that tine Guardian and the members of the of
will be die of and, in-
The was as the sole
of the of for the of preserving
unity. TMs is the only that can be prevented.
Of through a for and
set up of own, bat they will fail.**
I that this was a reference to the New History Society,
a that to Abdml-Baha's last will and testa-
ment.
"Isn't it possible that this will happen again when Shoghi
dies?" 1
u
l so. Baha'is who were faithful to the will and
of Abdul-Baha are determined to maintain unity.
The fir$t4x>rn of the Guardian's descendants will be his succes-
sor unless he docs not possess the necessary spiritual and intel-
lectual qualifications."
14
And who decides that?"
"The nine Hands of the Cause. You see, the Guardian will
choose teachers and helpers from Baha'i communities through-
out the world to assist in propagating the faith- All of these will
be called the Hands of the Cause of GoA This group will elect
nine of its constituents to sit with the Guardian at Haifa. Out
of their duties will be to verify the choice of a successor/
5
As Windust completed his minute description of the Baha'i
organization, a young Chinese greeted him.
Turning to me, Windust said, "You will be interested in meet-
ing this young man; he is an exchange student at the state uni-
versity,"
215
"And Is in the i
queried.
"It Is all good," the "It is the
of the tic
My Interest was first aroused when I learned that
'Whatever the of
not to accept.' The religion of my
up almost completely of practices and I
could not reconcile with science. That is why 1
feel our forms of worship gave us what we But 1
hac found this great world faith in complete accord with
science. That is as it should be, because religion and
caimot be separated, They arc the two wings by which hu-
manity rises.**
In a lighter mood, he continued, "Of course, I like to play
around with the numcrological aspects of the faith, too!
5*
He smiled broadly as Windust raised a mildly restraining
hand and* with a sweeping gesture that took in the temple,
went on, "Nine concrete piers sunk ninety feet below water
level. Nine pylons* Nine columns with nine arches. All set in
a nine-acre park with nine sides, nine avenues, nine gateways*
and, some day, nine fountains !
According to the Mohammedan
calendar the Bab appeared in the year 1260* One two six
zero that adds up to nine! According to the Christian calen-
dar BahaVUah appeared in 1863; t^3* ^ a multiple of nine.
The Spiritual Assemblies have nine members. Nine Hands of
the Cause will sit in Haifa. Nine is the number of perfection
and, according to a Mohammedan tradition, nineteen represents
the unity of all knowledge! The Bab had eighteen disciples.
Counting him, that makes nineteen. Baha'ullah made his pro-
216 A
in the
The of
And, Mr. Windust, did you ever to
Louis who the on August 19,
Windust friendly in this speculation. "There
is no the science of mathematics was given to the
world divine Inspiration,
1*
he warmly^ as we
the door.
Here he introduced me to Edris Rice-Wray, a young medical
doctor of Evanston. She was one of a volunteer staff of trained
who conduct visitors through the temple and arc
equipped to interpret any aspect of the Baha'i belief* I learned
that visitors numbered 27,559 during the previous year. Among
them were representatives of every state, practically every Latin
American country, five Canadian provinces, and eighteen other
countries. Two hundred ten thousand nine hundred and thirty
have been registered since the guiding service was introduced
in 1932.
I detected the same devotion in my guide that I had found
in Windust. Her enthusiasm was even greater. She escorted
me into the huge "lobby" which is formed by the convergence
of the avenues leading from the nine doors. I was immediately
struck by the unfinished aspect of the interior. Naked steel
supports were in austere contrast to the intricate beauty of the
galleries outside. Yet the upward sweep of the delicately per-
forated dome was breathtaking.
"Think how beautiful it will be when the glass dome is in
place, catching the light diffused through the perforations," my
217
envisioned. "The walls when the
effect."
She explained as an
toriuin for worship only, but always to the
for meditation and prayer.
"Services here will with a cappella singing* Then
will be readings from the Words of God the Torah, the
tlit Koran, and, of course, the sacred writings of BahaVllah
through whom man's redemption will come in our day*"
And so we came to the stumbling block in the Baha'i road.
In singular contradiction to unifying all religions, the Baha*I
faith Is asking the world to accept another prophet. Would the
Jews acknowledge the "Splendor of God" as one equal to Moses ?
Would Christendom ever accept the claim that Baha'u'llah Is
the fulfillment of the prophecies concerning Christ's second
coming ? Could the Buddhists recognize him as another Gauta-
ma, or the Moslems another Mohammed? Would not all or-
ganized religions see In him a threat to their own prophetic
messiahs? The fear that faith will be eclipsed rather than
strengthened Is the logical reaction of faithful adherents to
other religions.
As If reading my thoughts, Dr. Rice-Wray was saying, **Of
course, this may sound impractical to you, but wait" She
touched the arm of a stooped old man. "Meet my Jewish
friend," she said to me* "You were a shirt salesman In the
South, weren't you, Sam?"
The man chuckled and said, "Many a Christian accused me
of driving a hard bargain."
"And how did you feel about the Christians, Sam?" I asked.
218 A
**! them/* the "Just as 1
Jesus* Often I the FJ spit."
now?"
u
l do Him/* he in sincerity*
The next I was a Baha'i-Christian. She to
us the she at the recent of
the Baha'i New Year in late February,
die of Kedvan, an anniversary on March twenty-
first* My guide explained that both are solemnized by the giving
of gifts ministering to the poor and the sick. The new-
comer so enthusiastically about the joy of these days and
the nineteen fast days preceding them that I thought she must
surely be a member of the Spiritual Assembly.
*Tm really a Baha'i-Methodist," she acknowledged, transfer-
ring a copy of BahaVIIah's Hidden Words to her left haad and
extending her right in greeting. "You know, none of the Baha'is
have ever asked me to give up my church affiliation* To me this
demonstrates what we really mean by the unity of all faiths.
Fm a good Methodist and a good Baha'i You know, the Baha'i
faith Is a spirit I think it is the only spirit that has the answer
for all problems. I talk about it wherever I can even to my
missionary society. It is surprisingly easy to merge Methodism
into the larger unity of Baha'i beliefs."
"I don't suppose you have ever been accused of being a better
Baha'i than a Methodist/' I chided.
"I wouldn't say that." She laughed, "There was more than a
bit of criticism when my son was married in a Bahal ceremony.
But, you know, I've never been sorry. It was such a beautiful,
simple service."
THE 219
no the
1
"There the ut-
terances. Then my SOB his bride's
*Wc are content with the Will of God* She the cere-
mony by saying, "We are satisfied with the Desire of God.*
"
"Is a ceremony by the ?" I
"In certain the secretary and the chairman of an incor-
may perform a marriage/* Dr. Rice-Wray
replied.
"I am sure all of the states will recognize it day," the
Bahai-Mcthodist avowed. "The combination of religious and
civic orders must come before the world can have peace. As
Abdul-Baha once said, "We must come to the truth of God
wherever we behold it.'
"
When she left us, my guide candidly observed,,
a
Many Protes-
tants are like that when they first become interested in the
Baha'i faith. But eventually they find that church membership
is binding. One cannot remain within the limits of dcnomina-
tionalism after becoming a part of this great World Religion,"
"Was that your experience?"
"Not exactly. I was born in a Baha'i home. My stepfather
was a Unitarian minister until he met Abdul-Baha, But after
that both he and my mother were approved by the Spiritual
Assembly to give Baha'i lectures wherever they were sent. You
would call this missionary work, but it is a common service of
the loyal Baha'i, and we do it without thought of remunera-
tion."
We had now reached the reception room downstairs where
2X> A
a of publications. The
for but my to me pur-
She of
had been Into over forty languages.
Foundation Hall
the of the service. While 1 consulted my program,
Dr Rice-Wray eagerly supplied Interesting personal clescrip-
for the names I read* A "charming fashion artist from
Marshall FicldV" was In charge* We were to hear three speak-
ers: a
* s
brilliant Latin-American fellow
n
OR The Unity of Re-
ligions; a "clean-cut American law student" on Peace Plans; a
"dainty, flowerlikc Persian girl" on The Spiritual Challenge of
the Faith.
"It's really a typical program/* she ended. "Young America
young people of the world standing together in the fulfillment
of the Lord's Prayer, for the Baha'i faith is His kingdom come,
His will being done on earth as it is in heaven.'*
Surrounded by the hundred or more worshipers, I felt that
this was a microcosm of the great world of believers which
BahaVllah had envisioned in his day. Baha'ism had not made
the strides forward which other modern faiths had made, but
the representation was, nevertheless, significant. Orientals,
Negroes, and white representatives of who could tell how many
nations and faiths; the Baha'i-Methodist, clasping her copy of
the Hidden Words; the bejeweled pilgrim with the words of
the Blessed Guardian in her heart, quietly zealous Albert Win-
dust young and old waited with eagerness and confidence
beneath the eternal vigil of the "Splendor of God."
When the music stopped, his words were read in quiet, chant-
ing tones:
THE 221
is lie the of
for he be the child of light* is he
is for lie will at
no one. is he who will evil of eo for he
to the pleasure of the Lord. Is he
who teaches union and concord, for he will a In
heaven, is he who comforts the downtrodden, for he
will be the friend of God."
Blessed are the beatitudes of Baha'ullah.
CHAPTER VIII
UNITY
KANSAS CITY, PLEASE! VICTOR 8720! A midnight call
from a dormitory at a state university. "I need help!
I am going blind! The doctors say they can do
nothing ! Can you help me ?"
Victor 8720!
A young wife explains that her husband is a pilot. "He's
overdue at the airport. He's flying bad weather. He needs your
guidance."
Victor 8720!
**I am playing my first concert tonight. I want to know that
you are with me. It must be a success. Please help me at eight
o'clock."
Victor 8720!
A businessman is negotiating an important transaction. "I
must have prosperity thoughts. Please send them through at
two o'clock eastern standard time!"
Day and night it goes on !
Day and night there is someone on duty at 917 Tracy Street,
Kansas City, Missouri, to answer:
"Silent Unity. . . ."
222
UNITY 223
More than half a million requests annually telephone
letters, telegrams.
Day and night prayers are continuous. A hundred
workers, mental messengers for God, watching over the
horizons of America! The hundred and four are multiplied
many times by others throughout the world who **hold
in silence," collectively affirming health* prosperity,
illumination, social adjustment and religious truth* Ten thou-
sand letters a week are answered, covering every subject that
plagues or prospers mortal man.
Long ago, on a spring day in 1891, Charles and Myrtle Fill-
more sat in their home on Wabash Avenue with a small group
of "divine science" scholars. From this Society of Silent Help
mental and spiritual rays were being sent to those in trouble,
sickness and poverty. Suddenly Charles FiHmore broke the
sanctity of the moments with a whispered exclamation* "Unity!"
The silent experimenters opened their eyes to him qtiestion-
ingly. "Unity!" he repeated. 'That's the name for our work!
The name I've been looking for!"
Elaborating on the revelation, he asserted, "It embodies the
central principle of what we believe: unity of the soul with God,
unity of all life, unity of all religions, unity of the spirit, soul
and body ; unity of all men in the heart of truth P
Myrtle FHlmore, better than anyone, knew that this was an-
other milestone on the long, hard road leading to the beginning
of a new American faith. Eleven years before, she, a victim of
tuberculosis, had married crippled Charles FiUmore. He was a
freight clerk in Denison, Texas; she, a school teacher. As a giri
Myrtle Page of Pagetown, Ohio, had united with the Methodist
224 THEY A
Church Obcrlin College. In contrast, her husband,
on the St. Cloud* Minnesota, In 1854, was not
on the God-question by an education," While
a lie the possible existence of a
law which a man could apply In moments of extremity.
He in spiritualism and had been fascinated by
on systems of religion.
The Fillmores made their first bid for fame in religious his-
tory in Kansas City during the depression years of the late
eighties. The family, consisting of two boys, Lowell and Waldo
Rickert, was in tragic circumstances. The father, having failed
in real estate, was broke, sick and faced by debts and disaster;
the mother, expecting a third child* was given little hope of
recovery from the advanced stages of tuberculosis. The des-
perate couple began an impassioned study of the mental healing
cults of the day. They attended classes conducted by Christian
Scientists. They were seen at lectures on New Thought and at
institutes of metaphysics. Unmindful of the mockery of neigh-
bors, they continued their search for the keys which these cults
promised would unlock the treasures of the inner life and re-
store them to health. Slowly a "supreme power operating by a
fixed law" unfolded. It was a tremendous discovery. They
found in themselves a limitless cosmic force. A power to heal!
A power to overcome life's ills and trials! A power to meet
every situation! A power to know God! Applied "in faith and
faithfully," it set aside all destructive agencies.
The "truth" came first to Myrtle Fillmore. It was crude, un-
scientific, simple. It was the establishment of a healing con-
sciousness through the constant repetition of an affirmation, "I
am a child of God and, therefore, I do not inherit sickness."
UNITY 225
Gradually, powerfully, the strength of this positive mental pat-
tern evoked a regenerating and unshakeablc faith. She applied
the teaching in her own life. Inquisitive neighbors pried into
the causes behind the noticeable improvement that followed.
To them it was a miracle when the third son. Royal, was born
a normal, healthy child. Soon they made of Mrs* Fillmorc a
willing practitioner of the self-demonstrable power. She called
her treatment prayer and, while healing others, she herself was
healed. In less than two years all consumptive symptoms dis-
appeared.
Compelled to admit the efficacy of these healing demonstra-
tions, Charles Fillmore began treating himself. Doctors said he
was suffering from tuberculosis of the bone and that tube ab-
scesses had developed in his leg. Insisting that either the prin-
ciples would work for him or else they were fraudulent, he
directed the power upon his withering hip. His technique was
largely his own. He sought a quiet place where he could enter
into the silence. Waiting upon God, he discovered that he could
send spiritual impulses to any part of his body. He described
these sensations as "crawly feelings." Each day he applied the
life-giving power to his afflictions, "affirming health" in his ab-
scessed leg. The silence became his rendezvous with the "Uni-
versal Mind." He began getting messages. He was "growing
new tissue." His leg was lengthening. He discarded his cane.
He no longer used the steel extension that he had worn since
boyhood. He was beginning a complete body regeneration for
which there was evidence in Scripture, "Be ye transformed by
tli
renewing of your mind." In Fillmore iiomeiiclaftlfe the
process was described as the release through divine affirmations
of electronic forces sealed up in the nerves.
236 A
felt hie at the
of a fast in Ms
his life he battling
the of all he needed was to retreat into
the of his The never been external,
but Life suddenly became adventurous. The deter-
he captured a force that could
and conquer anything that stood in his way. It would
him into a full complete realization of the Kingdom
of God. It was the Jesus-power and, upon the Jesus dextrine,
the FUlmores to build.
Skeptics now pointed to the house on Wabash Avenue with
sinister gestures and patient smiles. Charles and Myrtle Fill-
moire advertised themselves as "Healers and Teachers." Every
night at nine o'clock the Society of Silent Help met at their
home and "worked miracles just by thinking." The report cir-
culated that nothing spectacular happened. Everyone simply
sat in silence for fifteen minutes concentrating on a positive
thought an affirmation frequently spoken audibly in prayer-
like repetition. The Fillmores said, "To pray is to affirm,"
And what was the result of this new spiritual science ?
A Negro laundress was cured of asthma! An Irishman, crip-
pled, walking on crutches, was healed, A boy threatened with
blindness received new sight! Testimonies spread. The doubt-
ing came to sit in the circle of the Society of Silent Help, sol-
emn-faced and hopeful. Accusing cries arose superstition!
magic! animal magnetism! All were repudiated with, "Where
two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in
the midst of them."
In the fall of 1889 arrangements were made for a room to
UNITY 227
accommodate the two hundred who the
of Silent Help and who,, regardless of or creed, de-
voutly seeking after "truth." The silence as as
of early Pietism, the testimonies as emphatic as a
revival, the terminology sounded like Christian Science,
hints of the supernatural bordered on spiritistic
The same year saw a small,, unknposing monthly
among the farrago of journals of metaphysics and science of
mind. It purported to be the voice of all souls seeking for spir-
itual light. It was, in fact, the voice of Charles Fillmore crying
in the wilderness of the isms. The first issue of Modern Thoughl
looked like a nerve center of the cults. There were articles on
Spiritualism, Unitarianism, Rosicracianism, Transcendentalism,
Christian Science, and New Thought. Students of the occult
referred to it as a new theosophy. Mystic and psychic wanderers
saw in it a beacon glowing with the light of their own truth.
Every issue brought the ministry of the Society of Silent Help
to its readers. There were no financial involvements. Since God
was doing the work, the service was free, but love offerings
would be accepted.
Traditional churches watched the experiment with suspicion.
Critically turning the pages of Modern Thought, they read, "He
who writes a creed or puts a limit to revelation, is the enemy of
humanity. . . . Creeds have ever been the vampires that sucked
the blood of spiritual progress in the past, and life can only be
kept in the present movement by latitude of thought tempered
always by the power that moves the world, love. . .
"
But the
churches saw nothing to fear in a movement that had no name.
Modern Thought was never popular. Appealing to all mental-
power groups, it satisfied none completely. Articles were ac-
228 A
ccptcd a ax to grind or a new
of faith to on the metaphysical fires. The subscrip-
list never exceeded a Fillmorc knew nothing
about publishing. He the for the magazine an
issue at a time as finances permitted. No one ever knew what
size or what color the next copy would be. Looking closer at
'Tfllmcve-ism,** critics predicted that Thought would
not outlast "the turn of the century. It would be wrecked in the
miscellany of strange religions that had arisen out of the un-
bridled heterodoxy of the gay nineties.
No modern religion had a more laborious beginning. Every
mile of the way was built upon a "miracle" or a "revelation."
Every follower demanded a "healed life*" Every publication of
Modern Thought was a venture into the confused and obdurate
stream of prejudice. The faithful, however, returned to their
circle night after night patiently answering requests for per-
sonal aid. When Charles Fillmore shattered the silence on that
evening in 1891, the lowly Society of Silent Help became Silent
Unity, the stalwart champion of a new Christian cause. Modern
Thought became Unity, now published by the Unity Book
Company* But time was needed for the new name to be popu-
larized* Unity lacked the dramatic effect of Christian Science
and the romantic tone of Rosicrucianisin. Some confused it
with Unitarianism. Others remembered a Chicago magazine
called Unity. Charles Fillmore parried by saying the name was
a revelation. "It came to me as clearly as though someone had
spoken it.'*
In 1903 the Kansas City group of Truth Students was incor-
porated under the name, Unity School of Practical Christianity,
organized for the purpose of demonstrating "Universal Law."
UNITY 229
Fillmore-ism was becoming exclusive* Charles Flllmorc was no
longer a spiritual free lance. He and his wife set
about to apply modern organizational to a "practical,
workable Christianity" securely Integrated In a specific doctrine,
audaciously affirming that "whatever man wants he can have
by voicing his desire in the right way into the Universal mind.^
Making It clear that they had no quarrel with the mental cure
groups, their friends of former years, they Insisted that Unity
was based upon a higher power than the intellect. Neither could
they find latitude for their adventure within the confines of
established Christendom. Fillmore explained, "The churches
talk a great deal about God and about the past experiences of
the prophets and the saints, but the power of God has seemed
to have disappeared. We feel that we are to bring In a new
dispensation with, the power of the Spirit."
Still contending that their spiritual discovery was not another
"religion/* but only a practical philosophy to supplement the
"faith you already have/* Unity built a church. Dedicated in
19063 It was a great church combining a publishing house, a
school and a health dispensary. Three years later an adjoining
lot was purchased and an extensive building program was be-
gun which continued throughout the next decade. At the heart
of the growing organization was Silent Unity, a radiating cen-
ter for the spiritual energy generated by modern mystics of a
new school of thought!
Silent Unity! 917 Tracy Street! The address became the
nucleus for an ever-expanding empire. In 1914 the name* Unity
School of Christianity, was officially adopted to designate the
world-wide spiritual, educational, and publishing aspects of
this movement. Meandering through American religions, I
230 A FAITH
met at of the road. In Los Angeles,
York, and Detroit beautiful churches and large congrc-
In every state Unity Centers: twenty-one in Califor-
nia, twelve in Missouri, ten in Florida, nine in New York, nine
in Ohio. Many loyal Protestants had given Unity literature a
place their familiar denominational publications. In
some the old church paper had been displaced. Did min-
object? Some did, complaining that the infiltration of
Unity's printed word was subtle propaganda. Others conceded
that they "used the stuff* in their sermons and it worked. The
pastor of a large Methodist congregation had even introduced
the use of affirmation cards. "Strictly Unity," he told me, "but
my people like it.
1'*
Some liked it so much they left Methodism as well as other
old-line denominations to become a legal part of the Fillmore
faith. Reasons were kaleidoscopic:
"I was impressed by the sincerity during devotions. The
people really seemed to be communing with God.'*
"Unity is
practical. It can be applied to everyday life/*
"I couldn't take the hell-and-damnation doctrine of my
preacher any longer,"
"My husband died eight years ago. I was lost until I found
Unity."
"I got tired singing about the heaven to come. Unity showed
me that heaven is here and now."
**My father was a minister, but he told me to do my own
investigating. I did."
"Try holding a Prosperity Thought, then you'll know why
I'm for Unity."
Because this one sounded much more like a business propo-
UNITY 231
sition than a religious experience, 1 an
"I never a move in
Unity," the man back, "Poverty is a
be treated as such,** he sermonized. "Each noon Unity holds a
prosperity prayer service. At this meeting prosperity
are set in motion and we tune in mentally. We all on the
prosperity thought suggested monthly by Charles Fillmore."
In a self-hypnotic manner, he closed his eyes turned his
mental prayer wheel on the current phrase^
c<
*With my mind's
eye I see substance in Spirit, and prosperity is bountifully in-
creased in my affairs.* Visualize prosperity," he went on. "Get
the idea of thousands of other believers thinking the same thing.
Keep in mind the Powerhouse on Tracy Street and get the feel-
ing that this thought is coming out day and night over the
spiritual airways."
The reliability of Unity's prosperity treatment was upheld by
this man's success story. Yet it looked as if applied psychology,
deftly spirited into sacred halls, was once more being canonized.
My landlady in Los Angeles was emphatic in her denial of
such a hasty deduction. "It's the Jesus-doctrine/* she said.
^There's no psychology about it."
She was an "authority." For two years walking had been
torture. She seldom ventured a step without her cane. But
once when I returned after a summer's absence from Los
Angeles, she greeted me with, "The most wonderful thing has
happened!" She pirouetted carefully in the hallway. "Do you
know what was wrong with me? I didn't like people! Now
that I've begun liking people, see how I can walk!"
It was healing the Unity way. There was no mystery or magic
about it.
232 A
**Whca I told the Unity worker my condition/' she
"all she said *Glve and thanks for perfec-
tiongive and thanks for perfection and healing and
recovery will follow." She this over and over, then in-
structed me to make it
part of my consciousness. Oh, it's really
not a treatment; it's a prayer. I went into the silence fifteen min-
utes a day, always repeating, "Give praise and thanks for per-
fectiongive praise and thanks for perfection and healing and
recovery will follow/ Make it a part of my consciousness? I
couldn't. Always there was something in the way. My dislike
for people. That was holding me back. But all day long I
found myself saying, 'Give praise and thanks for perfection/ I
wrote to Silent Unity and they helped me, oh, so much! One
day in the silence I had the courage to deny that I really disliked
anyone. That afternoon a feeling came over me that just can't
be explained. It was a feeling of lightness, confidence. I took
a few steps without my cane, and it went so much better that I
kept on walking, always saying, 'Give praise and thanks for
perfection and healing and recovery will follow!* It's really
true!"
This incident persuaded me to track down other "miracles"
among those who denied sickness and affirmed health. In a
Midwestern town, I met a woman whose hearing had been
impaired. Silent Unity suggested, "Praise and magnify the
healing power of Spirit within, and good health is manifest
without-" She claimed perfect recovery. Another woman told
me she had been cured of cancer. The doctors had said there
was no hope. In the quiet of her hospital room, a Unity min-
ister brought an affirmation, "Where the pain is, there is God."
Her husband angrily insisted that she go to another hospital.
UNITY 233
She refused. Two years later she was doing her housework.
"What do the doctors say?" 1 asked.
"They wanted to examine me I was cured,*' she
"but I wouldn't let them. What happened is between God
me."
Such conviction can hardly be accounted scientific. To the
realist it is as fallacious as the **Red Leaf
51
artifice. This was a
sheet of bright red paper which carried the much-publicized
"Healing" and "Prosperity" thoughts, together with, "This leaf
has been spiritually treated by the Unity Society members in
Kansas City. It is charged with healing thought power and will
connect all who use it with the Jesus Christ-consciousness. Hold
it in your hands while repeating over and over the words of
truth and you will feel the power of the Holy Spirit and the
promise of Jesus Christ will be fulfilled in you according to your
faith."
The "pagan innovation" stirred up a protracted round of
acrid criticism. It was tagged a money-making scheme. Fill-
more retaliated blow for blow; the "Red Leaf" had been charged
with a spiritual, mental, and physical intensity that put those
who used it into rapport with higher realms of consciousness.
He compared it to the spittle with which Jesus anointed the
blind and to the handkerchiefs blessed by Saint Paul. "Place
it on the nerve center nearest the affected part and mentally
affirm: 'Spirit-Mind Illumines and Heals/ Wherever the pain,
there place the Red Leaf."
Behind it all I found a mental materia medica. Divine Reme-
dies, a Unity publication, suggested a thought-cause for every
ill. A condition of cross-eye is caused by an inner crossing of
the thoughts. Selfishness clogs the ears and results in deafness.
234 THEY A
A of is the
of hardening of the arteries. Grief bitterness arc the
of Hie of goiter Is
Worry Is the of Brzght's Cataracts are
brought about by looking at the material world too closely.
However sound, "miracles"
my skepticism by the force of the believer's
unconquerable enthusiasm and faith, I reasoned that a fair
judgment be on the extent of personal adjustment
effected in each case.
My attendance record at services covered the range from the
thriving churches of Unity*s leading exponents to the improvised
centers manned by unordaincd ministers. The outstanding
feature in every worship hour was the oft-repeated affirma-
tion* Reverently heads were bowed and eyes were closed in
silent meditation. Whether surrounded by thirty or a thousand
worshipers, I always felt during these moments of silence that
Unity Truth was striving for its greatest meaning. While all
sought inner stillness and receptivity, indoctrination was going
deep: God is Spirit not a being or person, but the creative
energy which is the cause of all things. God is that invisible,
intangible, but very real thing that we call life! And I am life!
I am a Christ, a manifestation of God!
The affirmation, spoken in unison, rhythmically, emphatic-
ally, intercepted the silence. It was repeated again and again
with the same stress on the key words, like the well-rehearsed
pattern of a verse-speaking choir. The purpose was to convince
man's mortal consciousness of "truth*" All services are unified
to emphasize one constructive, positive idea. And the moments
UNITY 235
of unspoken meditation consciously relate the to
the watchtower of Silent Unity.
When I called at 917 Tracy Street I found a on
the third floor fittingly to this In
a near-by office an elderly gentleman sat at a telephone. la ad-
joining rooms Silent Unity workers were
with pamphlets and mimeographed form letters done in
ink. Unity's symbol of power.
Dear Friend:
'You cannot l^nom with what faith and love joy
me send this assurance: 'You are not alone. God is
you! This is true there is no aloneness; God is in alL
. . Use the enclosed words of prayer: "The healing
power of God, through Christ';
is now doing its perfect
wor]^ in me, and I am made whole!
9
Feel God's heal-
ing power at u/or%. See His perfection made manifest
in mind and body.
In heeding fai$h>
SILENT UNITY
In an easily accessible office just off the main lobby, I met
Lowell Fillmore, manager of the Unity School of Christianity
and first son of its founders. At sixty-four, handsome, white-
haired, he combines the realistic genius of a business executive
with the wholly unrealistic naivet of an ancient saint. He con-
trols the plexus of the entire Unity system and its fifty depart-
ments. Energetically, two steps at a time, he led me up the
stairs in the many Tracy Street buildings for an inspection of
the smoothly working mechanism of his organization. The
general activity of a going concern filled the corridors. Out-
side, the alleys were congested with delivery trucks and mail
236 A
I to Unity
half a block. Yet the structures were so over-
crowded Flllmore saying, "We've outgrown the
again, but wait till you see Unity City/*
That the publishing department needed more space was ap-
parent as we toured the basement. Wending our way through
giant presses and linotypes, cutting machines and offset presses,
we came to a spacious mailing room cluttered with every pos-
sible Unity publication. Books with sleek, shining jackets
called proud attention to titles and authors familiar to the
Unity family: TcacA Us to Prayy Charles and Cora Flllmore;
The Twelve Powers of Man, Charles Flllmore; Talf^ on Truth,
Charles Fillmore; Christian Healing, Charles Flllmore; Christ
Enthroned in Manf Cora Fillmore ; Worthing with God, Gard-
ner Hunting ]The Sunlit Way, Ernest C. Wilson, Truth Ideas
of an M.D. by C. O. Southard; and the basic Unity text, Lessons
in Truth, H. Emilie Cady*
Thousands of tracts, printed in practically every known lan-
guage, were pigeonholed in long, high shelves. These com-
pact, well-edited single sheets, together with small pocket
pamphlets, are Unity's life line. Had any means of extricat-
ing lost humanity from its complexities been overlooked?
Demonstrating Prosperity, Curing Colds Through Forgive-
ness, As to Meat Eating, Casting Out Demons, Dreams and
Their Interpretation, The Consecration of The Room, Human
Relations, Health Through Body Renewal, Are You Getting
All You Want From Life? Attaining Immortality, A Career
of Friendliness is Open to Everyone.
Lowell Fillmore's name recurred frequently among these
tracts. Busiest man on the Unity staff, he finds time to compose
UNITY 237
articles that arc the in the
repertory of the movement. In one of Ms he
wrote^ Try If On A Fly, an account of how he Unity's
teachings to control both himself and a buzzing fly during a
church service. He is also the originator of "metaphysical
gadgets/
1
such as tithing boxes, thank-yon boxes, letters to
God, treasure maps, prosperity banks. These aid the move-
ment and help the individual. But the nuggets from the rich
mine of Lowell Fillmore's creative powers which have btcn
most precious in tempering life's little annoyances arc his thir-
teen "statement gadgets.'* He gave me a copy with the sug-
gestlon5 "Try them sincerely and sec what happens." The Idea
Is to meet everyday situations with a well-tempered affirma-
tion. When you have mislaid something and feel yourself
becoming irked or distraught, say, "There is nothing lost In
Spirit," In winning friends, hold to the thought, "I am a
radiant center of divine love/* Should a gossip or a bore mooch
on your time, assure yourself that, "No man cometh unto me
save the Father sent him*" When answering the doorbell or
on the way to an appointment, repeat silently, "I go to meet
my good." Confront the pessimist and crapehanger who re-
marks that you are not looking well with the positive convic-
tion, "I am Spirit, and Spirit cannot be sick." If you are caught
in a storm or distressed by noise, affirm, "Peace." For heart
trouble, repeat believlngly, "My heart is right with God."
"Am I correct In saying that Unity aims at a personalization
of religious truths and at a modernization of mystical religion?"
I asked after reading my copy of statement gadgets.
He nodded thoughtfully. "Unity aims at a realization of the
Christ within."
A
The of the presses raised violent argu-
over the the powerful effects of Unity
are in silence. Out of the foment of mass publication
nearly a million monthly periodicals spreading the gos-
pel of the "everyday use of the Christ-principle." These arc
Unity, a of Christian metaphysics; Weekly Unity,
for the interested but uninitiated; Wee Wisdom, for
boys and under thirteen; Good Business, success stories
in applying the Christ-principle; Progress, more success stories;
and Daily Word? a manual of daily devotional studies.
The incessant noises filling the printing establishment seemed
to cry, **The printed word is the secret behind Unity's success!
Day and night oar wheels are spinning, our gears are grinding,
our steel fingers are stacking page upon page! This is the clat-
ter of Truth!"
Suddenly a gong sounded above the chanting steel. A work-
man pulled a switch. The presses stopped. Busy hands auto-
matically paused in their work. Throughout the building
Silence- Silence broken by a prayer, consecrating and blessing
the work, audibly transmitted over a loud-speaker. Then all
the workers joined in the familiar, "Our Father, which art in
heaven . . .**
Silent-To, the missionary sector of the movement, is built upon
the inspiration of Luke 10:1, "The Lord appointed other
seventy also, and sent them . . . into every city and place."
This department is organized to distribute free literature to
army camps, hospitals, prisons, libraries, orphanages, and other
social institutions. Begun in 1910 with seventy workers, It now
has more than seven thousand who take the responsibility for
placing the material, five hundred thousand mailings a year.
Braille editions are to the
publk libraries* and homes. The work of is
entirely by freewill offerings.
From the beginning it was a Fillmorc innovation not to
charge for spiritual services. They said, "The work is the
Lord's and He will provide the means for its propagation." In
tacit endorsement I had found a love-offering box at the
of Unity Centers everywhere. I had stood with believers
repeated with them the offering blessing, "I and give
thanks to God for the privilege of giving my gift,
makes possible my greater receiving/' Collection plates were
never passed, but the persuasive blessing lingered, and offerings
were placed in the conveniently located love coffer as the people
went home. Each Center is an autonomous unit in the eco-
nomic structure of Unity School, receiving no support from the
Kansas City headquarters. All the local leaders whom I had
met devoted full time to their ministry, "trusting to Divine law
for finances."
The physical plant at Kansas City trenchantly confirmed the
productivity of this principle of operation. Vituperators on
the outside, however, have accused the Fillmores of supple-
menting the working of Divine law with promotional inge-
nuity typically Americanesque. Though Unity consistently
stressed the no-cost-to-you idea, the need for adequate facilities
to meet the demands of the growing clientele begat many novel
stratagems. The first appeal for funds prior to 1906 was predi-
cated upon requirements for the first building on Tracy Street
Subscribers to Unity publications were requested to send con-
tributions. Each donation was to be accompanied by a bless-
ing which would be placed in the cornerstone. It was about
240 HAVE A
this that the prosperity
was introduced with
the from Charles Fillmorc, "It is our
to bt prosperous." This treatment, like all other Unity
services, was free, but its triumph over poverty in the lives of
individual believers was a profitable source of love offerings.
But even this additional income was not sufficient to meet the
cost of the construction program. An unwieldy debt hung over
the building when it was completed in 1906.
The years that followed tested the Fillmorc affirmations in
their own lives. In the struggle to liquidate the debt, the pen-
dulum of promotion swung to and fro from the mystical to
the mundane, from affirming prosperity to the sale of souvenir
china plates, from the radiation of prosperity thoughts to sou-
venir post cards, from the circle of silent help to a women's
auxiliary. A young people's guild was organized to raise
money. A pin with Unity's Winged-Globe emblem went on
sale at a dollar. Gradually the Fillmores became aware of a
new field of consciousness which the prosperity treatments had
opened.
In 1908 Unity carried the announcement that a crisp new
dollar bill would be sent to anyone who would agree to use It
as a magnet for gathering prosperity thoughts and demonstrat-
ing prosperity faith. Experimenters were instructed to join
with Silent Unity for a month in a daily prosperity affirmation.
The dollar was then to be returned, together with the increase.
About two thousand bills were requested; five thousand re-
turned! The field was becoming productive. In a single
month six thousand Prosperity Banks left headquarters. Re-
cipients accepted these as another salient extension of the pros-
perity treatment. They willingly deposited a dime each week
241
for ten \vecks* Thee back to Unity the a
for die Weekly Unity What
demncd, a generous diagnostician would have Unity's
growing pains. Or was It all the realization o the
ment with which Charles Fillmore had stormed the citadels
of American faith: "Whatever a man wants he
by voicing his desire in the right way into the Universal
Mind!"
These words persisted tantalizingly as 1 stood on the mosque-
like tower of a campanile in the heart of America. Around me
lay Unity City, the culmination of the relentless pursuit of the
Fillmores. In 1919 they had purchased a small acreage seven-
teen miles northeast of Kansas City. In subsequent years this
modest "week-end retreat" expanded to thirteen hundred acres.
At the official dedication in 1927, Charles Fiilmore prophetically
voiced the paramount ideal of his lifework: "We are setting
up on earth the kingdom of the heavens.
7*
From my vantage point on the campanile, it looked like a
magnificent country-club estate. An exhilarating sense of free-
dom swept over me from across the rolling hills. The busy
city's clangor intruded on Tracy Street, but here the blue of
August skies quietly canopied Silent Unity. Out of the dis-
tance two highways emerged to cut across the palatial grounds,
Intersecting, they seemed to symbolize the mystical and the
practical of Unity's transversion.
Spying out the land from my post of observation ten stories
high, I thought it must be the most ambitious project I had
seen in all my ramblings on the roads to glory. There were
vineyards, orchards, variegated patches of summer flowers,
dairy cattle browsing on green slopes and fields of grain cover-
242 A
ing It was a of anil hooey, lovely
for In the a rustic thrust giant concrete
a river, back a thick foliage
and In a natural contour surrounded by pop-
lars kf a large, amphitheater. Groups of buildings
die landscape, taking complete advantage of the free-
of space. Farm utility structures commanded
the outlying areas. Nearer the campanile, a cluster of native
residences and cottages centered around a terraced tea-
room, English style. Luxuriant vines clung to the low stone
walls. The most imposing unit consisted of the training school
and ether professional buildings. But this was merely the be-
ginning. The city was still in the making.
I looked out upon activity that was like a scene from the
building of Solomon's temple. A new, revolutionary method,
they said, years ahead of its time. Small crews of men hauled
massive slabs of concrete with the aid of machines, slabs that
looked like flat rocks hewn out of a great quarry. Days before,
I had seen them cast in hulking molds. Embedded in them
were steel claws which could be locked together, welded to-
gether to form a walL The rigid, tense hands of the machine
lifted them up, set slab upon slab. A workman in an iron
helmet climbed alongside. Blue flames shot from his blow-
torch. Another section grew suddenly, imposingly. The ma-
chine shambled back to its roof-protected supply base, impatient
for another load. A new printing plant was ready, A fashion-
able sanctuary for Silent Unity had been completed. The ad-
ministration building was under way. Additional school
buildings came next in the plans. 917 Tracy was moving into a
greater glory. Unity City was going up in twentieth-century
UNITY 243
Biblical style, "built of made ready It
"
An elevator door banged behind me. A solid, genial,
cred man came to my side at the balustrade, Rlckcrt
manager of Unity City and second son of its founder,,
out various locations with his battered hat. He was the
and the engineer behind the building of this city of
God* But he wanted no credit
"Everything here, everything you see," he with a
"is but the physical counterpart of the spiritual process of the
teaching. Father says it's the fulfillment of prophecy."
"I wouldn't have believed that on my first trip out hare
twenty years ago/* 1 replied. "A Kansas City minister brought
me and some other fellows to see what was going on. We got
stock in the mud. All that I remember seeing was a small,
hand-painted sign that said UNITY FARM. The minister pointed
it out and predicted that nothing would ever come of things
out here. He was stuck in the mud and convinced. When he
said that Unity was just another mental cult, we believed him.
And when he said that Unity didn't have the money to pay
for the place, much less develop it, we believed that, too."
Rickert Fillmore laughed as I told the story, but when I
finished he shrugged thoughtfully. "We have developed the
land the Unity way. That is why people do not understand."
"Do what you see to do with what you have, and what you
need God will supply?" I quoted questioningly. "Can it really
be applied to a real-estate venture?"
"If it works at all, it works everywhere," he vouched. "When
man works in harmony with God, the right things come at the
right time."
244 THEY A FAITH
O me of little faith, I Is it possible that the Lord
is a spendthrift? Is He actually moving through the earth
men who will exercise arrogant confidence in heaven's
prodigality?
"Sometimes," my companion was saying, "I think Unity is
like campanile. Every once in a while some practical
asks, *Whafs this tower good for?' I always tell
them it is a symbol of universal supply. Then I explain
that it is not only a campanile, but also a water tower. We
needed water to ran the farms so we made the artificial lake
over there. It covers twenty-two acres. When we had the
water,, we needed elevation and the pressure to distribute it.
So we built this tower and camouiaged it. It makes available
a continuous supply of a hundred thousand gallons/'
**But if you needed water, why didn't you simply drill
wells?"
c
*We tried that/
9
he admitted blandly, "but we struck oil"
He went on to say that natural gas was available in all of the
houses. Unity City was to be a self-sufficient municipality.
Already it operated its own light plant, fire department, and
street department. Even the chimes in the tower were built
by Unity men.
We entered the elevator and started down.
"I want to show you some of our homemade furniture/' he
grinned. "The drought was killing off our walnut trees. They
were beauties. But we cut them down and sawed them into
boards- Now we have fifty thousand feet of black walnut
lumber and it's seasoning wonderfully."
As we went from building to building it was evident that
Rickert Fillmore's Unity was Unity City. He showed a boyish
UNITY 245
In the of the
of his an
When I his he a per-
functory air that he had work at the Art
Institute. He glowed with pride when we went the
great tunnels which, though designed to put the gas
and electrical conduits within easy reach* provide
pedestrian traffic lanes between the many buildings. When-
ever we came upon groups of workmen who were his
dreams into realities he paused, watching affectionately. *'I
put the men on their own and they get all sorts of wild and
wonderful ideas,** he said with characteristic self-effacement
"We work them out together." Rick, as the workmen called
him, was living every moment in love with every inch of
Unity City. In the large, efficient greenhouse, in the cider mill*
in the ice-cream factory, and while we strolled the grounds^
he told stories which were reminiscent of Unity's humble begin-
ning.
He ushered me into a beautiful office with an adjoining
kitchenette. This suite was for his father, he explained, but it
was never used. Unity's founder preferred an old desk and a
comfortable chair in his own home. Across the hall was an-
other unused office, Myrtle Fillmore's sanctum until her death
in 1931. In the quietly enshadowed prayer room, she had
forged the principles of a living faith and fashioned the tools
by which this faith could be applied.
When I asked about the philosophy and teaching of the
movement, Rickert Fillmore usually smiled and with a wave
of his hand said, "Talk to Lowell about that or wait until you
see Father,"
THEY HAVE A FAITH
It to
s
*RickY*
the of Unity City, to
my the Intricacies of Unity's
My It is an eclectic religion.
The field of metaphysics and mysticism yielded harvests
from which the Fillmores rare truths of the trans-
cendent nature of reality. The emphasis upon an inner light
a spiritual interpretation of the sacraments reminds one
of Quakerism. Like Christian Science^ Unity puts major accent
healing; like Theosophy it admits the necessity of rein-
carnation. Rosicnicianism anticipated the idea of cosmic unity
spirit's enveloping principle. The astral or psychical self
harks back to Spiritualism. Vcdanta's contributions furbish
Unity's idealism. "Home Blessings" and "Blessing of all mail
that leaves the Unity headquarters** fall into the long tradition
of Jewish history and Roman Catholicism. Instead of the
medal of Saint Christopher, the patron saint of travelers, Unity
issues a card blessing.. Highways are sanctified with an affirma-
toon, "AH who travel this road are protected by the loving
power of God."
But despite all comparisons, Unity reiterates it is an inde-
pendent institution, teaching anew the use of the Jesus Christ-
doctrine in everyday life. For the novice it has simple prayers*
"God is good God is all." T had watched Sunday-school tots
at local Centers gather round the prayer box to affirm in childish
veneration: "The healing, cleansing power of Almighty God
is now flowing through you and in the name of Jesus Christ
you know you are whole and free now." Involved physiolog-
ical-religious designations are provided for the savant in such
works as Charles Fillmore's The Twelve Powers of Man. He
UNITY 247
the of the arc
to the of the of the
numerous other symbols. Attempting to his
theory understandable^ he has prepared a cor-
relates twelve iierYc centers in man's
Impulses: center of brain corresponds to Faith is
ficd by Peter; the loins, Strength, Andrew; the pit erf the
stomachy Wisdom or Judgment, James, son of
of heart* Love, John; root of tongue, Power, Philip;
the eyes, Imagination,, Bartholomew; front brain. Understand-
ing, Thomas; center-front brain, Will, Matthew; navcl^ Order,
James, son of Alphxus; the medulla, Zeal, Simon the Canaan-
ite; the lower part of back, Elimination, Thaddeus; the gen-
erative function. Life, Judas. Crowning this diagram is the
aura of the "top brain/* the "great I am/
1
represented by Christ.
Classes of instruction to interpret these mysteries and doc-
trines have always been a part of Unity's system and arc the
vehicle on which the faith has gone forward. Neighbors meet-
ing in the unpretentious Fillmore home during the nineties
constituted the first student body. The curriculiim was based
upon courses in truth principles. Requests for instruction from
subscribers to Unity publications gave rise in the spring of
1909 to the Unity Correspondence School. "Built upon faith,
manifested by faith, and quickened by faith
5*
its growth was
phenomenal. From an immediate enrollment of two hundred
sixty-eight, it
sprang to two thousand within two years.
Charles Fillmore, who was in charge, declared it was a whole-
some and harmonious way of disseminating the Christ-gospel of
life. Eventually this extension service became a basic function.
It stimulated religious thinking among students of many faiths.
248 A
It a of Unity teachers and
Earollces were invited to "chautauquas" and "healing
meetings"
1
in the early twenties. In such an atmosphere Unity's
school was born in 1931, committed to die edu-
cation of ministers for Centers "everywhere in the world." The
school, conducted at Unity City from May to October^ is or-
on a four-term basis with six weeks to a term.
During my stay
a
on campus" I saw representatives of Unity's
past, present, and future. The faculty consisted of men and
women steeped in the traditions of the movement* Ernest C.
Wilson* minister of Christ Churchy Unity, Los Angeles, con-
ducted a course, "Preparation and Presentation of Unity Lec-
tures/* An east-coast colleague, Georgiana Tree West of New
York* lectured in the same course during a later term. The
leader of South Side Center in Kansas City, Ida Palmer, taught
"Spiritual Healing." Francis J. Gable, editor of Good Business,
had charge of a class called "Spiritual Clinic" and lectured on
"Human Relations."
The student body, preponderantly women, consisted for the
most part of those preparing themselves for the Unity ministry.
Requirements for ordination are the completion of the corre-
spondence course, a methods-and-ideals course, two terms at
the Training School and one year of probationary work at a
Center. In addition to the ministerial candidates, I found a
liberal sprinkling of men and women who were here solely
for self-improvement. Mingling with them, I saw in this
school the suggestion of a spiritualized course in how to win
friends and influence people! To my surprise there were also
a number of ministers who had come to consider the possibility
249
of weaving of the straeds of this little-known
the fabric of Protestantism.
The accolades of who came and to
terms centered around one man, Charles Fillmore. As the
days passed, I found myself drawn into the
that this bronzed and highly sensitized little old man,
walked with a slight limp, an unusual
prowess. Natural abilities had been indeterminately enlarged
by an exalted faith which reached out to impress
his students. They sat in his metaphysical classes: "Funda-
mental Unity Principles/* "Prosperity," "How to Apply God
to Everyday Living." They worked hard toward ordination,
the day when he would usher them into the Unity hierarchy.
He was watched and revered everywhere on the campus. Dev-
otees persistently sought him out: "How are you getting
along on your latest book, Mr. Fillmore ?"
C
Papa Charley, they
tell me you are going on another tourP "You are looking
younger every day!" "How is the Training School in Los
Angeles, Mr. Fillmore?** "Your assembly message was such
an inspiration!" "Mr. Fillmore, when will you come to our
Center? Everyone is expecting you!"
Sometimes alert to every question, he listened patiently,
quietly studying the faces about him. More often, lost in a
spiritual hiatus, he seemed content to sit in the hopeful shadows
of his ninety-two years, Startlingly free from the marks of
age, here was a man who had deliberately worked at the busi-
ness of staying young. He had achieved as much success in this
as in his many other endeavors. Even his thinning white hair
did not add age. His language was couched in the phrases that
2$l A
his for Unity. "The supcrcon-
of Christ la has over all
of mind . * . Jesus was the result of a
of incarnations. . . IE the of Jesus of Nazareth
is manifested the highest of consciousness. . . . His super-
consciousness was His real self and through it He was able to
redeem His body. . . . In like manner, when we learn the
we can transform and redeem our bodies into the
Christ-consciousness. This age is ready for it and there are
and women who can achieve these things.
5'
Frequently he emerged with a gentle shock of humor, but
inevitably he came back to Ms basic precept,
<c
We are on earth
for divine self-realization through experience." His was still
an extremely active mind with the drawing power that goes
with the play of positive thought-forces. Among the leaders
of America's little-known groups, I had found no one who
seemed to apply himself more consciously to mental discipline.
Charles Fillmore's constant and faithful companion is Cora
Dedrick, whom he married in 1933, when he was seventy-nine
and she was fifty-seven. Having served as the Fillmores* secre-
tary for many years, she had contributed much to the progress
of the movement In recent years she has extended, explained,
and enriched many of the earlier writings of her husband, and
they have collaborated on important publications. Their names
appear together on the staff of the Training School. Cora Fill-
more consistently reflects Unity refinement. Her philosophy,
spirit, and talent qualify her to assume the responsibilities of
leadership demanded of the wife of Charles Fillmore.
My retreat at Unity City was climaxed by a final luncheon
UNITY 251
with several Unity leaders. As our on the
terrace, a workman by, a
"Praise God, from whom all
Praise Wealth, which helps us here below;
Praise Truth, the highest virtue known;
Praise Health, which everyone may ownf*
When Charles Flllmore mounted the stone steps leading to
the tearoom, his hand resting lightly on his wife's arm* I was
again reminded of a Hindu swamL He had the same expres-
sion of quiet seeking, seemingly indifferent to surroundings,
naturally assuming the role of divine selection without posing
as one of heaven's final saints.
It was at this luncheon that I fully realized the significance
of the Fillmore triumvirate Charles and his two sons co-
operatively administering spiritual and material counterbalances
to a modern ecclesiastical corporation. Another persistent family
had established a big business according to the American tra-
dition. They had developed a good religious product and had
Insisted on distributing It In the American way. Steadily Unity
has grown. Steadily it has met and overcome the vicissitudes
that beset any growing, competitive Industry. Neither the rail-
lery of the indevout nor the adulation of mercurial zealots has
destroyed the value of the teaching. Patiently and tirelessly the
Fillmores have nursed their philosophy. Today It is a thorough-
bred in the green pastures of American religion.
Is Unity becoming a denomination? I asked Charles Fill-
more. After yielding to a moment of reflection, he said, "Unity
Is a School of Christianity. As such it is an independent
252 THEY A FAITH
institution. All of our Centers are places of re-
research for all* We have no creed, but we are eager to
serve the people of every creed,'*
I was ready to Insist that the students at Unity City aad the
scattered groups throughout America were united in a spirit-
ual movement that would overrule Fillmore's contention.
Creedal aspects In Unity have been apparent since the "vam-
pire editorial/
9
and its denominational tics are as strong as
those of the seasoned old churches. The constitution and by-
laws of the Unity Annual Conference, organized in 19335 Pr(>"
vide ample proof that the once independent local Centers are
now controlled by a centralized and theocratic executive board.
The Field Department, begun in 1915 to "supervise field lec-
tures and to assist Centers which ask for counsel," now func-
tions as a checking agency authorized to approve or disapprove
all local activities.
Unity, I was sure, had already turned the corner of denomi-
nationalism. But Charles Fillmore insisted, "Unity is just a
school/' and the world that is Unity will shape itself to his
inner thought as long as he lives. I was never with him without
wondering how long that would be. Like many little-known
epistles, Fillmore documents are redundant with hints that the
true adept may live forever. The death of Royal, the third son,
in 1923 was accepted as inevitable. When Myrtle Fillmore
died, a noted Unity minister said that she had left the world
only because she willed to go. Of himself Charles Fillmore
says, "My body is being transformed cell by cell. The ultimate
development will be a completely new organism having ethe-
real life with all the perfections of youth."
When I saw him the last time, his hand resting upon the
UNITY 253
arm of Cora Fillmore, I wondered If he he was
forward to a subsequent reincarnation* Or It be a
progressive and incessant mortality divided as it is be-
tween Missouri and California! As he to say
to a group of students who hat! just completed a term at the
Training School, I was tempted to conclude that it was
them that he expected to gain an earthly immortality. They
were returning to local Centers to perpetuate concretely the
truths exemplified in the life of Charles Fillmore truths that
contain shallows in which a child can wade and depths in
which a giant must swim.
CHAPTER IX
PSYCHIANA
I
TALKED WITH GOD YES, I DID ACTUALLY AND LITERALLY!
This sensational banner line, glaring from a page in the
Pathfindery set up another experiment in my observa-
tory of
a
little~knowns.
n
As I read the advertisement,
linked with the mysteriously coined word, Psychiana, I knew
that I was on the trail of a new star on the horizon of American
religion. It was the "power of God" by mail with a money-
back guarantee. It was the gift of Frank B. Robinson to the
world. It was the most arresting advertisement I had ever
seen, but my first reaction was completely unsympathetic. I
questioned the propriety of anything religious appearing in
such an irreverent setting, and, with growing concern, noted
similar ads in at least a hundred newspapers and in scores of
magazines. They had been appearing since 1928. Even though
I knew that the "cults" were prospering, and many so-called
"sects" proudly reported substantial increases in membership,
I could not believe that fellow Americans would go in for
religion by mail. Further investigation, however, revealed
that an announcement of the gospel-according-to-Robinson
had steered straight into twelve million homes each year for
the past decade.
254
PSYCHIANA 255
While 1
building a case Psychiana's
of religious advertising, an AP news story me.
The Church of England was earmarking four to
match ecclesiastical advertising with the commercial
ing of the nations. The mystery man of Moscow, Idaho, antici-
pated the trend by twenty years, and this raised an
question. What would have happened if Frank B.
had stayed in the established churches of Protestantism? In
twenty years he has gained for Psychiana more converts
the Canadian Baptist denomination, which he disowned, has
accumulated in nearly two hundred years of American history.
My Reformed Church boasted a gain of fifty-eight thousand in
the last census. Robinson would call that jetty spiritual cash.
And we have tradition! We go back to Zwingli and Luther
and even farther than that. We have our roots in good old
"Mother Church.*' We came over from Europe with the back-
ing of the Reformation fathers and the endorsements of synods,
diets and councils. We even brought the Heidelberg catechism,
unabridged. But out in the solitary reaches of fiorthwestern
America, there is a lone figure who tarried only briefly in a
religious school, who studied neither Luther's ninety-five Theses
nor Calvin's Institutes, who never argued about the interpre-
tation of the Lord's Supper, but who is dispensing spiritual vita-
mins to over a million souls.
I had heard him described as saint and sinner with equal
vehemence. Some ministers told me emphatically that they
were glad he had not stayed with the church. He was too much
of an iconoclast. One bishop said, "That man in Moscow is
antichrist!" The pastor of a large congregation confessed that
he used Robinson's teachings in his pulpit but that he didn't
256 A FAITH
it to get were rolling out of
off an line. Was it possible that
still untouched and unserved by the
churches? If so, It was a bitter commentary OB the state of
Protestantism. I was more anxious to believe that Robinson had
a rich vein in the gullible strata of the American public.
Whatever the answer, this man had far outstripped all other
religionists in sensationalism. It was evident that whatever had
happened when he talked with God had made an impression
that stuck. His name was in the American religious news for
keeps, and someone was always coming up with the question,
"What about Psychiana?"
Was he trying to start a new denomination ? There was no
talk about churches or societies* In 1938 the Moscow office sug-
gested the organization of local study groups, but this plan was
never vigorously pursued. Only twice did I hear of a conven-
tion one in Portland and another in Los Angeles. There were
no ministers, no missionaries, no fieldworkers. All that ever
came through with any degree of clarity was the mystifying but
positive statement: i TALKED WITH GOD YES, i DID ACTUALLY
AND LITERALLY!
One night after an open forum on current religions, a gentle-
man called at my hotel to confess that he was a Psychiana stu-
dent. "It saved my life," he affirmed convincingly.
"What do you mean 'saved'?" I asked.
"From being a misfit," he responded. "From failing in just
about everything I ever tried, from discouragement and from
losing faith in myself. I went along forty years without ever
knowing what the real secret of life is. Now that I know, I'm
successful But it's more than that."
257
"How much more?"
He me a of "Twenty-
eight more," he said a "That's
It cost me to learn the great secret 111 it to you for las
that,"
"Religion at cut-rate?"
"Free!" He was serious. *T1I tell you the of
Dr. Robinson's teaching can be summed up in one line: the
continual consciousness of the God-Power operating in
life."
He turned to go as if he felt that this was so profound that
I would want to think it over.
Crudely maintaining a link between the commercial and the
divine^ I detained him to inquire about the twenty-eight dollars.
"Psychiana comes in a set of twenty lessons that cost twenty-
eight dollars," he informed. "But if it had been twenty-eight
hundred it would have been cheap!"
He said good night and I was left alone with this new puzzle
of what people believe, A mail-order religion! A correspond-
ence course in finding God !
What about Psychiana?
I put the question to the pastor of a large city church.
"Many in my congregation have been circularized/* he ad-
mitted with a shrug.
"Did any of your parishioners ever enroll?"
"Only two."
"Are they still in your congregation ?"
"Heavens* no! You can't reconcile Robinson's stuff with
Christianity."
"Isn't it Christianity?"
258 A
not!"
I the of the One was a clerk in
a To her was a prophet and his
correspondence scripture that she could fully compre-
hend* There was no mystery about it, she said. One simply fol-
the lessons, believed In them, life was changed; the
of God was revealed and problems melted away. The
influence of Robinson* whom she had never seen, was tremen-
dous. For ten years, ever since she was thirty-five, she had been
bothered with arthritis. Then she saw i TALKED WITH GOD
Y% I DID ACTUALLY AND LITERALLY! Hoping that she, tOO, COllld
get in on this heavenly conversation, she wrote to Moscow for
information* Among the circulars she received was this testi-
monial : "Since writing of my daughter's illness, I have found
the God-Power is actually working for me. She is much better,
and her physician tells us now an immediate operation will not
be necessary. That means only one thing: The God-pourer is
morning. Since studying Psychiana I have an abundance of
everything!'
This persuaded the saleslady to become a student. After six'
weeks of Psychiana, her arthritis was gone. With a note of im-
patience she averred that anyone who could not find himself in
this gospel was self-condemned.
"Haven't you ever seen the lessons ?" she asked.
I had not, so she brought them out* There were twenty
pocket-digest pamphlets with a personalized salutation: "Dear
Friend and Fellow Student." Each contained about seven thou-
sand words sparkling with spontaneity. Across each cover page
ran the dauntless promise: THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT OF GOD
259
WILL REVEAL TO EVERYONE
CAREFULLY.
I thumbed the
"You can't find out anything them that way/* the
woman remonstrated. "You must read and
every word of Psychianay believing* You die ex-
ercises."
"Exercises?"
Picking up the first lessons, she turned to a page which
showed signs of much use and read aloud :
"Breathe slowly and deeply and then lay your lesson down.
Close your eyes and repeat as many times as you care to, slowly
and very quietly, the following sentence: / believe in the Power
of the Living God. Then get on your feet and,, standing erect,
say the same sentence three or four times out loud If there Is no
one around to annoy you. On your way to work in the morn-
ings or whenever you have unoccupied moments, repeat this
sentence mentally as many times as you can.'*
"Isn't this just another Coue cure?" I proposed. "It seems
to be putting religion in the field of the subconscious.**
"That's the trouble with reading only the exercises.," she
sparred. "Psychiana teaches there is no subconscious. There is
only God. You tap the God-Power and before you know it^
things begin to happen."
This was also the opinion of the pharmacist whose name the
minister had given me. Feeling that he was not getting enough
out of "church religion," he decided to investigate Psychiana.
He had seen at least twenty advertisements before he asked for
a trial lesson. This answered his questions. He enrolled. He
A
a "religion by any creed,"
he to me the term,
a
a practical viewpoint,"
"If 1 ran my business the way the churches run theirs/" he
certitude, "Fd be bankrupt. Robinson comes right
exit and tells you what he has to give you and what it's
going to
you to get it. If it doesn't work, you can get your money
back."
He showed me a membership application on which was
printed, "If, after you have carefully studied these lessons you
do not find the Power of God., you may return them, and, ac-
cording to the terms of your membership application, you may
have returned to you every dollar you have paid to us.
35
"Robinson knows he's got something/* he reiterated, "and
he's net ashamed to tell the world about it. He comes right out
and says that if religion doesn't produce, there's something
wrong with religion. I can understand that kind of talk. What
I think the churches ought to do is call him in for consultation
rather than oppose him the way they do. He's a great man."
"Have you ever met him?"
"No, and I don't suppose I ever will. He's practical in that,
too. In his autobiography he says that he doesn't want to meet
his students. He says we might look for some frock-coated,
priestly looking fellow and be disappointed!"
This deliberate circumvention of the age-old precedent of
amassing followers left me as baffled as that first Psychiana ad-
vertisement. All of the religious entrepreneurs whom I had
met were usually on the road, on the air, or in the pulpit. Here
was a man who deliberately absented himself from his disciples.
He had repudiated all the methods popularized by the founders
of other faiths. It was not through personal contact or human
a6x
he up his
he the
of the printed word to his con-
vert the world. Did he have a
ing the people and handshaking them his faor? Or
the mail-order approach the subtle of a cap-
italist?
An extended study of the Psychiana clientele led me to the
office of a prominent chiropractor in Madison^ Wisconsin. Rob-
inson's autobiography had a special table in his reception
because it was a "positive approach to God/' A storekeeper in
St. Louis displayed twelve of Robinson's books on a shelf over
his cash register so that his customers could see that he "wasn't
ashamed" that he belonged to the movement. In a farm home
near Falrview, Kansas, I saw, thumbtacked on the dining-room
wall, a "Procedure for Psychiana Students/*
1. Before beginning the day's work, close your eyes and
say, "Spirit of the Living God, I begin this day recog-
nizing your presence in me. I'm going to let you guide
my every movement through this day. Thank you
for being so close to me."
2. At breakfast, smile.
3. At noon, repeat the statement made earlier and ex-
press gratitude to God for being so close to you.
4. In the evening read your Psychiana lesson and recog-
nize that the Spirit of God is in you.
5. Before you retire, don't get down on your knees and
ask God to forgive you all the sins you have committed
that day. Thank Him that you have committed no
sins for which you need to ask pardon. You can sin
if you want to, but if you do, don't come sneaking
around to God at night and ask forgiveness. If you
afia A
arc sorry for youVc done, yo won't do
h any Then, you retire, think of a few
of you have to about Psychiana
or those you know would be interested in having our
started to them.
In Cleveland, Ohio^ I met a student (formerly a Protestant)
who studied his lessons in a Catholic church near his tire shop!
Here he sat, reading material which was definitely tabooed by
that church's hierarchy, "finding God" by the paradoxical com-
bination of the votive light and the inspiration of Robinson^
who once wrote, "When I put aside the idea that Jesus Christ
was God, I immediately felt a sense of great relief."
It was this heretical thesis that evoked the fury of orthodox
churchmen. But the
4<
tire man/* impervious to the blast of
criticism, read into the statement his own unimpeachable in-
terpretation. It v^as he who first explained to me the significance
of the word "Psychiana*
1
and how it came into existence. With
pretentious faith, he said:
"You see, when Robinson was looking around for a name for
his teaching of the Power of God, he put that Power into prac-
tice* One night before going to bed, he placed a pencil and a
tablet on his night stand. He dreamed that he was in a room
with a dead man. Standing over the dead man was a stranger,
who was making signs over the corpse with his hands. Dr.
Robinson asked him what he was doing. The stranger said,
*Why, Dr. Robinson, you ought to know. Fm using Psychiana
to bring life back to a spiritually dead world.* Robinson came
out of that dream and wrote the name Psychiana on the tablet."
'"Well, that's a great story!" I acknowledged politely.
"Great story?" exclaimed the tire man. 'That's only half of
263
it! About a month later, Dr. Robinson happened to
the his the mail* A fell out
of an envelope. It the stranger who was in the He
lived "way over in Alexandria, Egypt. His Geoffrey
Peel do happened? Dr.
decided to test the dream by asking him for
dollars to help Psychiana get started. Mr. Birley it !"
"How do you know ail this?" 1 asked, deciding this
one story with which I would someday confront Psychiana's
founder.
"Why, we students know all about Dr. Robinson. He
us what he Is and what he was and that's the way religion
to be."
From this credulous believer to a churchman who held his
nose in a gesture of disgust, I met no one who had seen the
Moscow messiah. Even the journalists who attacked him in
popular and professional magazines rarely thought it necessary
to look him up. His friends were content to believe that he was
as great as any saint of the past and a good deal more practical;
his enemies put him down as a religious racketeer. Entertain-
ing these two opinions, I started for Idaho to talk with the man
who had "talked with God."
Prejudice went with me, for I had secured a copy of The
Strange Autobiography of Fran^ B. Robinson, a potpourri of
intimate confessions, prophetic encyclicals, and philosophical
flights. Unfortunately, an exalted self-esteem intruded per-
sistently throughout the three hundred pages. The man was
struggling valiantly to make his religious experience articulate.
He was constantly hammering away at the idea that what he
had found would inevitably shatter the "impotent religions of
A
Ac world."" He willing to America's two
groups on this He believed
to be advocate of a new order. This unshak-
conviction made his writings conspicuously egocentric.
Yet a primitive, brutal passion surged through the story. Noth-
ing that tic was or commonplace. I saw In him a
Paul Bunyan of the creeds,, stalking through the religious tim-
ber, hacking out a marker, tossing aside a lean-to, blazing a trail
with an utterly ruthless disregard for the forest's beauty.
He was, indeed, "down on the churches." He accused his
father, a Congregational minister in Northumberland, England,
of being a profligate. He told of beatings he received and let
his readers in on carousals in the manse. Harsh denunciations
attacked both the morals and the entrenched opinions of old-
school religionists. Caustic charges bristled from the pages of
the Strange Autobiography,
C
*I have seen lots of 'religion' in my day, I have seen religion
in action. I saw it nearly beat its own sons to death. I saw it
guzzling beer, I saw it having illicit intercourse with members
of its own church. I saw it lie, under oath. I saw it steal. I do
not want that sort of religion, for religion, or what masquerades
as religion, has not changed for the better since my boyhood
days. It has gone so far that the whole world knows it for what
it is a ghastly sham perpetrated on the world by the church
in the name of God. I do not care what religion did to me,
and it marred me. I do not care how I have suffered through
religion. I am only glad to realize and know at last the actual
truths of the Great Spirit. God is beginning to dawn on this
earth. What a day! What a responsibility} Trying times lie
ahead. Many hard battles remain to be fought. These battles,
be for 1 the Be
1 am God. The call Is clear. The c
is God. The God. I fail?*"
The winnowed did
not to warrant the "strange" As in the of
leaders. Is mystery
son's birth. Was he born in New York City, or
ford on Avon? Circumstantial evidence could either,
of these locations, but Robinson Is not which is correct*
There is no record of his birth* To the inhabitants of the Psy-
chiana paradise the question is irrelevant; they neither romanti-
cize nor concern themselves with solving the riddle.
More important, since it points up the unquestionable destiny
of their leader, are his experiences. His boyhood was spent in
Halifax where, after his mother's death, life became unbearable
with a chameleon stepmother and his hypocrite father. In 1900
he was shipped off to Canada with, a brother Sydney. They
had passage on the steamer Parisian, about five dollars spending
money, and a letter of introduction to a Baptist minister at
Belleville, Ontario. Their reception by the Reverend Henry
Wallace showed that there were other ministers as
4
irascible as
the Reverend John H. Robinson." Wallace turned the boys out
of his house with the suggestion that they throw themselves for
relief upon the Salvation Army. When Sydney contracted
pneumonia and hospital care was needed, Wallace refused to
help. Frank wired his father for money. The reply was laconic:
"Secure best medical advice. Sorry cannot help financially*"
Today in Belleville, old-timers recall how, after Sydney re-
covered and left town to be heard of no more, Frank stayed
on* He owed a debt and he worked it out. They remember
A
as the boy in his who drove the rubber-tired hack,
out as a hand, for a as a drug clerk,,
and beat the head off the drum at Salvation Army meetings. It
no when the news reached Belleville that Frank B.
Robinson had started a new religion. He had always been look-
ing for God. It was the story between Belleville days and the
appearance in Moscow, Idaho, that was inexplicable.
That story began in a Bible Training School in Toronto
where Frank had been sent by a Baptist philanthropist who saw
in him evangelistic potentialities. What he had not seen was
the deep spiritual unrest that made Frank Robinson a new phe-
nomenon among those who stirred up the sawdust trails.
Here was a seeker who claimed that he made an honest at-
tempt to find God according to the Protestant formula. He had
"an insatiable desire to actually know who and what God was
like/' an impatient longing for a tangible spiritual something
that he believed the ministers themselves did not possess. Even
his own premature ordination failed to produce the evidence of
God that he was looking for. Whatever he did was funda-
mentally vigorous but few believed that his "quest" was respect-
able* Here was a man who threw himself upon the church and
the clergy as if to test their armor and to challenge their influ-
ence,
In a rebellious moment at the Bible School, Robinson con-
cluded that organized religion could never point the way to
God. He left the school and, in quick succession, there followed
periods with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the United
States Navy and Army, a job as a drug clerk in Portland, and as
a whistle punk with a lumber company near Klamath Falls,
267
Oregon. Throughout this interregnum, still
ing God* Sporadically, he tried the of
Christendom. But he charged whenever he
ministers disappointed him and Christian
him stones for bread* He tabulated his indictments. Tea of
them. They were "magnificent and bitter disillusionments"
included: the preacher father who him until the
lowed; a Salvation Army lass who tried to seduce him; a
church elder who, when asked for advice about entering the
ministry^ said^ "Frank9 you never appeared to be much of a
damned fool, but you're certainly making one out of yourself
now*"
Frustrated by hapless attempts to find God, he became a social
and religious misfit. For twenty-five years he was more often
Mr. Hyde than Dr. JekylL One night he poured out his heart
at a rescue mission ;
the next day saw him on a drinking spree.
One week he pounded out gospel hymns on the YMCA piano;
the next week he was thrown into jail as a vagrant in Van-
couver, When he at last "found God** he lambasted the
churches with a broad generalization drawn from his own
experience: "You cannot find the Power of the presence of God
through anything any church teaches, for the simple reason
that what they teach is not of God."
Was I about to look in on some divine immensity or was I
approaching the gateway to America's most successful grudge
story? Whatever the answer awaiting me, one thing was cer-
tain: Robinson was no longer a religious vagabond. He had
boldly written his name into the chronicles of American relig-
ion, and I had heard that he was the richest man in Idaho.
268 A
Is a of six As I onto the
of the station, I a workman an
inquiry the founder of Psychiana.
"You Doe ?
M
came the rejoinder. "Yes, he's In town as
far as I know.'"'
"Doc" was the sobriquet based on a doctorate in psychology
from the College of Divine Metaphysics in Indianapolis. The
University of Idaho, located in Moscow, has never seen fit to
honor him with a doctorate. Among the faculty, opinion about
the Psychiana initiator is divided. They admit that he has a
constellation of ideas on the workability of the God-Power, but
his ways are "unacademic,
5*
and his method will not be cir-
cumscribed by convention or ordinary logic. Remembering the
character of the Strange Autobiography, \ imagined that Rob-
inson would scoff at degrees.
When I called him from my hotel and asked about an ap-
pointment, he replied, "I happen to be coming over that way.
PU meet you in the lobby."
Expecting an anemic sentimentalist, 1 was surprised when a
broad-shouldered, six-foot Westerner in a big Stetson walked
in. He had the square jaw of a fighter and a grip that said, "Put
'or there!" When we reached the street, he waved impatiently
at his shining Cadillac, saying, "Let's walk. It'll do us good."
I fell in with his long strides.
**A few weeks ago they brought me from Seattle in an ambu-
lance." He spoke with intensity. "Three doctors stood over me
one day. One, a close friend of mine, said, "Frank, I think to-
night will be your last night on earth.*
"
His words were accentu-
ated by emphatic nods.
"
*I shall live until I have accomplished
what I have set out to do,' I told him. Now, don't get me
269
I'm no 1 do in the of
the Living God, Like Paul? 1 am fully i
to be
care of. I stand on the Power. It Is wonderful. It is
It brings results. How 1 the
church would understand it ! The Spirit of God, the be-
hind all creation, lives on this earth. It says, 'Come,
"
Passers-by greeted him with a or a friendly "Hello^ Doc"
He lifted his hand in businesslike responses in
his peripatetic address, "God lives now. I rejoice in
Power and Presence. The world is
ripe for this revelation. It
will not come through crucified gods. It will not come through
resurrections. It will come when men and women recognize
the fact that the Power that created us still lives in us, and is,
here and now, fully and totally available to us all.'
5
We were passing a drugstore. He suggested that we haYC a
soda5 adding the usual, "It's a warm day." A more typical
American setting could not have been found for the unfold-
ment of a drama of American faith: a soda fountain in a comer
drugstore where Robinson came to work as a clerk in 1928.
He did not want to reminisce, but since I was eager to supple-
ment the story of his life and learn just how he "talked with
God," I
began, "Was it here you had your religious experience ?
sy
He shook his head as if the term smacked too much of
churchianity and was inadequate to describe what had hap-
pened to him. He conceded, "No, that happened before we
came to Moscow."
"We?"
"There were three of us Mrs. Robinson* son Alfred, and I."
"Why did you come to Moscow?"
THEY A FAITH
"This drugstore closed at six o'clock, aod 1 wanted time to
on the religious teaching in the world, Psydhiana.
n
"You had with God?"
He nodded,
"Didn't you ever think about following the conventional
and preaching about it?"
**I knew that wouldn't work* la the first place, you don*t
preach about God. You live God's power. Besides, the soapbox
method would hate been too slow, too small. I chose the mails
as the only feasible way. I decided to charge a small fee and if
the teaching didn't work, Fd refund the money. If it works, I
said, some wealthy man will endow the movement and 111 give
it free to the world."
"One of the things I wanted to ask you about was Birley and
the forty thousand dollars/' I spoke up.
Robinson told the story in detail, even more dramatically
than I had heard it from the student. "It will take a good deal
more to endow Psychiana, but that will come, too,'* he ended
confidently.
"About talking with God "
He eyed me suspiciously for a quick moment In the pene-
trating flash, my sincerity was weighed in whatever omniscience
he possessed,
He pushed back his chair.
"I'm interested in the truth of Psychiana, Dr. Robinson," I
hastened to add, "and 111 leave it to you how to proceed."
"If you've finished," he said, "well walk over to the office."
The Moscow street with its cars and young people, shopkeep-
ers standing in open doorways, farmers, women window-shop-
271
and was a In
America.
In he a
townspeople and a
tion. "Funny for a drag clerk," they said.
**
Always
What's he figuring out?" He his
ments at the store. Neighbors a
after midnight in the Robinson home; it all
night.
**He pounds the typewriter hunt-and-pcck till his
bleed. Then he tapes them up and types some more,"
"He borrowed the typewriter from Carey Smith, the clothes
presscr."
"Mrs. Robinson is as bad as he is. They're both hepped on
whatever it is."
"He's crazy-"
Nineteen twenty-eight Amos 'n Andy, flagpole sitters, Babe
Ruth, Red Grange, Lindbergh, talking movies. A drag clerk
rented the dining room of the Moscow hotel for a scries of lec-
tures on "The God-Power."
"Ladies and gentlemen of Moscow! I talked with God yes,
I did actually and literally!**
A prophet had spoken in his own country. The University
of Idaho suggested that its professors stay away. Townsfolk
tapped their foreheads significantly as they left, but a few be-
lieved and said they would come again.
All that night and throughout the following Sunday, the
drug clerk beat out a steady tattoo on his typewriter. He brought
the pages to his wife.
272 A
HTIbese are lessons/" she said. "They the
world if only we can start their distribution,"
"Well it," Yowcd the clerk. "Twenty-five him-
dollars will do it."
He twenty-five dollars; he had in Moscow less than
days. But by nightfall a farmer, a road commissioner, a
grocery clerk, a bookkeeper, and a bank cashier had pooled the
amount. Robinson was putting the "God-Power** into
practice. He was applying one of the major premises of his
new faith: Trust the Spirit of God by taking aggressive action.
It was now necessary to compose the advertisement. While
working on it, a thought came through: "Don't write an ad;
simply tell the people what happened to you." A Spokane ad-
vertising agency refused the copy with "We can't handle that
kind of stuff. No one will answer an ad like that." The drug
clerk sent it direct to Psychology Magazine. The investment,
$400; the proceeds, 5,300 replies. Physical Culture brought 13,-
ooo replies; The Pathfinder, 23,000. Wherever it appeared it had
the same startling compeller line: i TALKED WITH GOD YES, i
DID ACTUALLY AND LITERALLY! Applications for the God-Power
lessons began coming in. Moscow's citizens saw mail sacks
hauled to a small office over the drugstore. There at night, a
grocery clerk, a bank cashier, a road commissioner, a book-
keeper, a drug clerk and his wife stuffed envelopes with lessons
on the art of tapping the "Power of the Great Spirit.'* Rob-
inson gave up his job in the drugstore, bought a second-hand
multigraph machine. The world was ready for a new revela-
tion of God. Psychiana was born.
I saw the name on a substantial two-story brick structure *a,
,273
\ve the If an
it
**This Is one," "We
built it after all over
town. We bought another building recently. Our is
well over a hundred"
In a room fronting the street, a group of
women were busily bulletins for The
clangor of printing from an
Robinson picked up a four-page folder from a tali on the
working table and passed it to me, "More than a million of
these will go oat/' he said casually, but not without a pretentious
note.
Expecting a lesson on the "God-Power/' I was struck by a
screaming multicolored broadside aimed at the Better Business
Bureau! A tornado of charges roared out of the pages.
"Others are coming/
1
Robinson assured me as we proceeded
to his office. He whipped more copy out of a desk drawer.
Red and black captions left no doubt about die matter:
WHEN JESUS CAME TO EARTH
When Jesus walked the earth some two thousand
years ago. He brought to humanity a message of stag-
gering import. He brought the very same message
that Dr. Robinson is bringing today* But "reformers**
1
crucified him. They never let up until he was safely in
the tomb. They thought they were doing good, be-
cause Jesus Christ was certainly unorthodox, just as
Dr. Robinson is unorthodox.
I don't believe there was a "Better (?) Business Bu-
reau" operating in that age; had there been, you may
374 THEY A FAITH
be it in the of
misguided people who, because Jesus refused to operate
according to their traditions, killed him. Had there
a private, membership-selling scheme called the
"better" (?) bureau then, it probably would have
Jesus to file a financial statement with it. And
Jesus would have refused, just as The Psychiana Re-
ligion refused. For, like Dr. Robinson* Jesus was
afraid of no one. He never gave or took a bluff. He
cared little what the surface indication of an organ-
ization was he looked into it and saw the truth.
"The Bureau has insinuated that Psychiana is a racket/
9
said
Robinson. **But here are the facts." He brought out the rough
draft for another attack. There were statements about the BBB
from Congressman A. J. Sabath; President of the Consumers'
League of America, E. C. Reigel ; Honorable Charles U* Becker;
F* Odell Adams, secretary of the Manhattan Board of Com-
merce, and others. Bracketed in a conspicuous paragraph was
this statement: "In Washington not long ago, the Postmaster
General said this to Dr. Robinson: *We have never, in seventeen
years, received one complaint from a member of your organ-
ization.*
"
"America is going to hear about this," Robinson vowed, and
it was no overstatement. I learned later that these printed bomb-
shells had exploded in a million homes and business places
throughout the nation.
The telephone rang. A boy came in with a telegram.
Robinson showed it to me. A student in New Jersey was in-
quiring about lesson seven. It was overdue.
"He sounds as anxious about it as if it were money from
home/' I commented.
275
"It is," a
with the for a on
While I sat on our
he received for advice or
interviews.
Two contrasting items stood out prominently In Robinson's
modern well-appointed office. One, an to the
door* THE GREATEST TRUTHS ALWAYS THE SO
AXE THE GREATEST MEN. TTic other, a large portrait of my
all decked out in the clericals and ring of a high church official*
His fine, clean-cut face, with not a wrinkle* his consistently
wholesome expression, and his eyes hinting of something mys-
terious going on in his mind, suggested that he deserved the
embroidered accouterments; but* remembering what he had
written and said about church organizations, I blinked incred-
ulously. I never expected to see the jeweled cross upon the
breast of Frank B. Robinson!
"Byzantine American Catholic Church Eastern Rite/* he
said, as he cut open a telegram.
c
*The apostolic succession goes
back to the first church in Antioch, founded by St. Peter in
AJX 38."
"But doesn't the ring signify that the wearer is wedded to
Christ?'* I asked, attempting to eke out a confession.
Robinson circumvented with "Catholic means universal, un-
impeachable/
9
"But I'm really interested in knowing why you wanted such
a consecration."
His reply was straightforward. "It was by invitation, and it
links me directly with a hundred million Eastern Catholics/*
He laid his work aside and sat for a moment in thought.
276 A
Then he "No churches arc for a concept of God.
No is necessary; no rite, no creed, no article of faith.
God notMng What God knows all
about is life human life. For where there is human life, there
is God right in the middle of that life* Jesus was no more than
that a human life acting out the God-Power.**
As I listened I caught my first glimpse of the gap that sepa-
rated the man Robinson from the ruthless reEgious anarchist
of the Strange Autobiography.
"I have been called antichrist," he went 0% "but that is part
of the persecution I expect. I have put my finger on the sick-
ness of the churches and they hate me for it. Billy Sunday once
wrote me and said, *For God's sake, stop driving men and
women out of the Kingdom of God. Just as fast as I save them,
you drive them away/ I told him I disputed his claims to
leading people into the Kingdom of God and offered to meet
him in public debate anywhere he suggested. He never ac-
cepted. As for my ideas about Jesus, I think He was the
greatest of all spiritual pioneers. I cannot and do not accept
the immaculate conception, the virgin birth, or the vicarious
atonement I doubt whether Jesus would have accepted them
himself. The poor, lowly, lovely Nazarene never wanted any
man to build a monument to him. What do you think Jesus
would say if He returned to earth and saw cathedrals built in
His name while people lie sick and diseased in sin? What
would He do if He saw men and women prostrated before
His statues without recognizing the Power of God which He
tried so desperately to bring to them? For this Great Master
did know spiritual truth. His message was so potent that had
not the churches cast it aside and worshiped the Messenger
377
the God. arc of
traditions They arc of Thcf
want God* They want a use now.**
Throughout this of the of the
he a pile of "For
years I was on the air over stations/" EC *TMs
will give you an idea of what the were like.*
He put a transcription on the record player and
the console to listen to his own voice. Egocentrisin? Yes, But
I felt that it could be explained by the fact his
of Godj "a divine personal revelation/* had become the pervad-
ing force in his life,
a
God is the life principle behind every created thing/* said
the record.
a
When we recognize the stupendous fact that life
which is God is the invisible motivating impulse dwelling in
this body of flesh, then the entire human personality is Mummed
by the ever-present existence of the invisible Spirit All that a
man needs of God is hidden in his own soul/*
At this point Robinson ait in with "That's it! Listen! That's
what I mean!"
"At no time has God, nor will God, manifest Himself on
this earth or anywhere as a person/* continued the transcrip-
tion. "The twenty crucified gods that line the pages of religious
history were all human beings,. I am aware that this is against
the teaching of many churches. The world must decide who
is right, but unless it accepts Psychiana's teaching of God as a
life principle, as a vital, usable force it will collapse/'
9
Western Union intruded with another wire. Robinson read
the message as if Psychiana stock had again gone up. He gave
the telegram, which carried a Denver, Colorado* top line:
278 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
WISH TO REPORT ON BEQOVERY OF MY CHILD. CHILD IS ENTIRELY
WELL- CANNOT EXPRESS MY THANKS.
"This seems to refute your denial of being a miracle man," I
smiled. "I don't suppose this is the first
"
**Nor the greatest/* he finished. "In Manila the death certifi-
cate of a student had already been signed. Another student
asked to be left alone with the 'dead' man. The man recovered
and, according to last reports, is still alive. In the last eighteen
years we could have recorded five hundred thousand miracles
effected through the God-Power."
"You don't keep the records?'*
a
We don't keep a miracle file; that would be impossible. But
if youYe interested in testimonials, come along."
We walked together to Psychiana building number two, and
Robinson explained that it housed the correspondence study
and accounting departments. When I asked if all of his em-
ployees were required to take the course, he replied in the
negative and added sagaciously, "Only about twenty-five per
cent do. Sometimes the nearer men are to truth., the less they
appreciate it."
I was beginning to see that Psychiana operated as an indus-
try. The manager-employee relationship was founded on friend-
liness and good business principles. The workers told me that
"Doc" had always been reasonable in his demands and consis-
tently fair in his practices.
At building number two, I met Elmer F. Anderson, account-
ant and Robinson's close personal friend. He was the bank
cashier in the quintet that raised the initial capital for Psychi-
ana, Incorporated. In the early days of the experiment, he ran
'the multigraph after banking hours, helped out with the book-
PSYCHIANA 279
keeping, and pinned his well-balanced faith on the reality
behind the phrase^ i TALKED WITH GOD YES, i DID.
Anderson was opening a huge pile of incoming mail when
we arrived. He sorted the testimonials from the letters with
checks appended. While "Doc" stood over his afternoon mail,
I felt that he had a genuine pastoral affection for his unseen
congregation. He picked up a card.
Dear Sir:
I want to fell you how wonderful your lessons arc. . . .
He let it fall, picked up another, then a third and fourth*
glanced at them, and let them drop back into the disordered
heap.
Dear Doctor:
Words can never tell you how much you have done
for me. .
Dear Doctor:
I am so happy I can hardly mite. You have saved
my family. . . .
Wonderful Teacher:
As I told you in my last letter, 1 have bought a little
home, thanks to the great God4aw. I was a drunkard,
but no more. Thanhs to you. . . .
He laid the card back on the pile and walked slowly out of
the room. Anderson said nothing.
"Do you mind if I look at some of these?" I asked.
"Not at all"
The sprawling words on a card peeped out of the pile.
aSo THEY HAVE A FAITH
M
Dmnn y&My When I before the j
throne, I you'll be mhcn I am. 1
ads* I you, Docl"
Handing it to Anderson, I asked, "Is this unusual?"
"We get all klnds^
9
he replied good-humoredly. "But you
won't find cards like that from students."
I riffled through hundreds of letters and cards. The post-
marks were a cross section of America* Anderson said the
morning mail would be heavier. When I admitted that these
far exceeded my expectations, he led the way into an anteroom.
Here was a bale of letters.
"I was planning on burning these," he said. "Bushels of let-
ters must be burned frequently because space does not permit
keeping them. Dr. Robinson used to read all the mail; now he
can no longer pledge himself to that. We receive at least a hun-
dred thousand testimonials a year."
Left alone with the sacred trust, I found incredible
addresses: "The Man Who Talked with God, Idaho." "Doctor
Robinson, Idaho." "Psychiana, U. S. A." Salutations were senti-
mental: "My dearest Teacher," "Dearest Doc," "My kindest
Helper," "Man of God." There were crudely scrawkd letters,
professionally typed ones, and telegrams. The more I read, the
less I questioned the authenticity of the documents. One, from
a man whom I later interviewed in Kansas City, testified, "My
life has been changed completely, and I have gained untold
personal wealth of great good." He said that since taking the
Psychiana course, he had started "getting the breaks." His sur-
roundings proved it.
An R. F. D. letter from Iowa said, "I am enclosing a check
PSYCHIANA 281
as an appreciation for all your wonderful teaching has meant
to me." The amount, one thousand dollars, was penciled in at
the top of the letter. Many students expressed eagerness to
spread the God-Power through personal missionary effort
From Seattle came a letter saying, "Sir,, I am considering at
this very moment seriously and with earnestness of lecturing on
the Philosophy and Psychology of the Power of God in Man,
and I desire your written approval to use and express the great
good of Psychiana for man's needs. Sir, I shall not go forth
upon this new and wonderful work without your express per-
mission granted me in writing.'*
An ardent, down-to-earth epistle from Montgomery, West
Virginia, began, "All Hail to the Spirit of Life! Your wonder-
ful teaching has blessed me with a typewriter maching i dont
know much about typeing so please excuse all unspelt words.
Writing to try to express my thanks for the man of God who
delivereth us from poverty and want through teaching of that
great providing spirit of life in us. it has been manifested and
proven to me and they all around me can see how prosperious
i am since ive been taking these lessons, they make remarks
about it i
got a referagtour two weeks ago and they all ask me
how is it that you can get a new fridadair and no one elce here
can. i ancered well i trust the GOD who never did die and he has
all things in his hands, say some of them call me crazy and
others believe, there is something to the naajourty that believes,
no doubt that i shud have written befoure. i have many nabours
and friends i wood like to just go and tell them about this
wounderful teaching, i plan now to buy me a lot on the suburb
of this town and build me a cheep house to start with and have
me a school of reality have all the scollars to inroll with you and
22 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
complect their course direct from you and meet with me to dis-
cus and testify. Tell me do yom fhin^ of my progcct in
i to the to you liT^e John pointed
to Christ i can say i am not he i am only the voice crying
in this prcpair ye for the rcligeon u/hich has a reality
of both in mitcral things dcvinc spiritual inspiration
of nolcdge, this is your humble servant and scollar* p.s. if this
shall be satisfactory with yoo all my husband and i will go to
work at once and we will reserve room at the best hotel in our
town and prepair the way if you will come for us to receive you
and ex.L while on others thou art smiling do not pass me by."
My curiosity about Psychiana coverage and reception was sat-
isfied. Evidently the "Great Law of Abundance" was no re-
specter of persons. It worked wherever applied in the Psychiana
way and kept a flood of mail flowing both in and out of Mos-
cow. When the movement began in 1928, the local post office
was second class; today, first class. Robinson attributes this
directly to his activities* He reports that last year $100,000 of
the $160,000 postal receipts were from Psychiana.
The accounting department adjoining Anderson's office
makes such a figure understandable. Rows of card cabinets
tabbed with the names of states and metropolitan centers lined
an entire wall. As we walked along these files, Robinson pulled
out drawers at random and flipped through the cards, saying,
"You can see that we are spread out pretty evenly in all sections
of the country. Our students are scattered over more than
twelve thousand cities. Our lessons are also mailed to seventy
foreign countries. The headquarters for foreign distribution is
The Hague."
Test-checking revealed 612 students in Des Moines, 9,632 in
PSYCHIANA 283
Seattle, 13,641 In Los Angeles; Dallas had 15827, Birmingham
12,902, Detroit 185124, Boston 95945, and New York 23,814.
Seeking other data, I discovered that women students num-
ber equally with men, that there are more urban than rural
enrollees, and that, in a Psychiana survey taken ten years ago,
eighty-nine per cent of ten thousand students had an income of
over three thousand dollars a year.
"We have ministers, congressmen, college professors, house-
wives, students from every walk of life; rich and poor, good
and bad, wise and otherwise," Robinson reported.
"Satisfied and dissatisfied ?"
"I wouldn't say that"
"Have you ever had any student who enrolled for the course
and then took advantage of the 'satisfaction or money back*
guarantee?"
"Never/'
"How about a person who can't afford the lessons; can lie get
them free?"
"Let him say so and he'll get them. A few years ago the
postage on the free lessons was greater than that on the paid.
Lessons go free into every penitentiary in the country. I never
refuse anyone, but nowadays get few requests from people who
are broke."
The clatter of bookkeeping machines and typewriters kept
telling me, "This is big business." At a mechanically rotating
"Lazy Susan" a group of women were assembling lessohs. They
snapped up the material from the printed stacks revolving with
the table.
Every student in Psychiana automatically becomes an asso-
ciate member of the Psychiana religion. This is provided for in
284 THEY A FAITH
the of the corporation. Robinson made clear
Ac movement is not organized for profit. Neither can the
from lessons meet the operating costs and the enormous
advertising expense* At present fifteen hundred newspapers*
including the American Weekly, and two hundred fifty mag-
aziness practically all pulps, carry the ad, i TALKED WITH GOD
YES, i DID. Robinson, well-to-do friends and associate members
are continually subsidizing the work.
My days at Moscow revealed the qualities of Robinson as a
civic leader as well as a religious pilot. Moscow's well-equipped
Youth Center was "Doc's" idea. He and his students paid the
bill and wrote above the door, "You can't go wrong doing
right:
5
"If we published our benevolences in the yearbook of Ameri-
can churches, we'd be known as Idaho's biggest charitable
organization/' Robinson told me with pride. "But we don't
and people rarely hear about our charities. Perhaps that is why
Psychiana has been called a religion without social significance.
They say that students who have no local organization fail to
fulfil their obligations to their communities. Kfothing is farther
from the truth- We set the example here in Moscow by fre-
quently giving a ten-dollar basket of groceries to every indigent
family in Latah County. Our associate students are in on this,
and you can be sure they carry on in the same way at home."
The most lasting expression of "Doc's" community spirit is
beautiful "Robinson Park" with its lake and one hundred sixty-
four acres of timber. Private interests were bidding for the
tract, but Robinson outmaneuvered them, purchased it, and
presented the deed to the county commissioners.
It was in this park that I learned from Robinson some of the
PSYCHIANA 285
deeper philosophy which he has tested and found practical.
"The energy which Is God Is best found In quiet/* he mused.
"Like the tornado with the space of calm In Its heart, so the
restless, ever-throbbing and heaving rhythm of God Is eternal
peace when understood. You will never know the fullness of
the Power of God until you get to a place where you need that
Power to protect, guide or help you. It works best In an emer-
gency. When my enemies hauled me into court accusing me of
falsifying on a visa, when they sent out postal inspectors to In-
vestigate Psychiana, I suppose I was the least excited of anyone.
My friends often said to me, 'Frank, how can you sleep, how
can you think, with all this going on?* They did not know how
often I came out here and just waited quietly on God. There
are no greater words in the Bible than these: 'Be still and know
that I am God.' I knew that all of these affairs were just an at-
tempt to stop Psychiana. There will be other attempts, but I
know that the Power I use will wipe out of the way any and
all efforts to stop this teaching."
When I asked him how the movement would be perpetuated
after his death, he said, "The Spirit of God will take care of that
I don't lead. I follow. The Spirit of God will work through
this Movement until the whole world knows what I'm talking
about."
In later conversations with Robinson and people about town,
I heard so much about his son Alfred, a lieutenant in the Air
Corps, that I wondered if he might be the logical successor. My
surmise was strengthened one day by Robinson's remark, "Aifie
knows as much about the God-Power as I do."
The longer I extended my visit with the master mind of
Moscow, the more I wondered about the difference between
2SS THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
the character I saw In him and the one so blatantly depicted in
the I finally concluded that the tor-
rent of execrations sweeping through his published works was
the result of an undisciplined enthusiasm that followed hard
upon the spontaneous success of his God-Power project A pas-
sionate conviction of his prophetic mission had impelled him to
ride roughshod over the prejudices and cherished traditions of
the institutionalized churches. I felt that he regretted more than
he would say that he had permitted some of his early sensations
of glory to break over into unbridled invectives. His relation-
ship to organized religion came up in practically every inter-
view. A born fighter, he knew how to deal with the charges of
the Better Business Bureau and postal investigators, but to be
maligned by the churches was an unresolvable conflict.
He wishes now that Protestantism would investigate his teach-
ings. The misunderstanding which exists brings something
akin to suffering to this man whom enemies describe as cold-
blooded and indurate to public opinion. They say he is a strange
mixture of naivete and cunning. Even many who come to Mos-
cow have been thrown off the track by his bluff, aggressive,
self-centered manner. Churchmen always single him out aiid
suspect him of deliberately trying to destroy their faith.
Yet I saw behind all the vitriolic offensives an impassioned,
though ill-directed, desire to empower denominations for their
work. His lust for God had brought a cry of racketeering and
heresy upon him from those who never looked farther than
the puissance whipped up by the whirlwind of his advertise-
ments. Yet these flames were but the reflection of the fire of his
convictions.
However he may have romanticized an experience which
PSYCHIANA 287
other men have encountered since the beginning of time, the
calendar of his life began when he talked with God, actually
and literally. I waited until my last day in Moscow to get this
story from him and, while it may have been colored by the sur-
roundings of the Robinson home, I consider that in the telling
he dug deeply and sincerely into his soul.
The living room of the modest brick home at 122 South Har-
vard Street is equipped with a two-manual pipe organ. The
traditional repertory of gospel songs provides pastime and inspi-
ration for Psychiana's leader whose strong frame is refreshingly
contrasted with his tender melodies. On this evening he played
his favorites, "Lead, Kindly Light" and "O Love That Wilt Not
Let Me Go," as well as "In the Cross of Christ I Glory
"
and
"Jesus Calls Us o'er the Tumult." Their rendition would have
persuaded his worst critics that he has not disowned the church
or Christ as completely as his sensational literature seems to in-
dicate* While the soft music entreated understanding, I felt
that he was basically in accord with Christian ideals of beauty
and truth.
Florence, the fifteen-year-old Robinson daughter, was enter-
taining friends on the lawn. With us was Mrs. Robinson, a
charming woman, devoted to "Robbie" by a bond that has been
forged in many Psychiana trials. Perhaps she had evenings
such as this in mind when she prefaced the Strange Autobiog-
raphy with "We live happily. I know of no family more com-
pletely in love with each other than this family is." The scene
was as typically American as Psychiana itself.
Robinson now led me into the arcana of his experience. "It
happened in a little room at 500 Laurel Avenue in Hollywood.
I had been to church that morning, the beautiful Methodist
288 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Church on Wilshirc. There in magnificent surroundings
I counted twenty-six people. That's all who had come out for
the service, Now? remember* I'd been leaking for God a long
time, I*d been looking for God all my life. I thought God ought
to be something that would do great things in people's lives.
None of this make-believe stuff for me. I wanted a workable,
usable God. Here were twenty-six people* I listened to the
sermon. Fd heard hundreds of sermons. None of them had
ever brought the real power of God into my life. Please believe
me, I had tried to find God in the church many times. It had
not worked for me. It may for someone else, but it didn't for
me. The plight of churchdom cried out to me that morning.
*God, God/ it cried, Vhere are You? You exist, You are a
Power, why can't man find You?*
**That Sunday afternoon in our little home, I went into a
room and closed the door. I wanted to think this thing through.
I was forty-two years old and the thing I wanted most in life
had always escaped me. God was the unknown quantity. I
believed He existed. Let's say I %new. But the fact had never
been demonstrated convincingly. I didn't want to go through
life and miss the greatest Power that a man can possibly have
the Power of God.
"It was with this kind of seeking that I stood in that room. I
lifted my eyes and said aloud, *Oh, God, if I have to go to hell,
I'll go with the consciousness that I went there earnestly trying
to find you!* I spoke to God aloud. Remember this! You must
speak to God aloud. Whenever Jesus needed the God-Power,
He made His request audible, That is a gjreat secret"
He paused in a mood of deep seriousness.
PSYCHIANA 289
c<
You spoke to God aloud," I
prompted quietly,, "and then
God spoke to you ?"
**A remarkable thing happened/* he went on tranquilly. "In-
stead of feeling condemned for denying that the church had
helped me find God, there came to me a feeling of wonderful
rest and peace. Something said
"
"A voice?"
He shook his head. "Something," he repeated* "You can
describe it only as a sense of power and right. It was like a Sash.
I
spoke to God aloud and the answer came in a vivid conviction
that something possessed me in its grasp. It led me back back
through the churches and all my experiences to the God of
my childhood* I had a feeling of perfect, unquestioning confi-
dence and conviction that God is not known through creeds or
churches but through a childlike faith. I won't even call it
religious emotion. The Spirit of God is a Law. It has BO emo-
tion. It is the Power of God and it exists in us to the degree
that we will call upon it and use it It only operates when called
upon. The Spirit of God has never operated on its own. It
always takes the spoken word* I have learned to speak that
Word of Power into existence. Think of Jesus in terms of the
'Word' and you will better understand the Power of Jesus. It
is the same Power that I have found and that all men can find
if they will earnestly seek it."
"You always find it by speaking aloud and then a 'feeling*
returns to speak to you ?"
"I cannot tell you in one evening all that I have learned in
twenty years. We find God and become expert in God only
after years of actual participation in the practices that reveal
THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
God, But from the moment of the experience, life changes.
From that Sunday afternoon on Laurel Avenue I began an
upward climb. It has led me from failure to success, from de-
feat to triumph. But God Is not found without seeking nor
realized without the use of a workable technique. That is the
heart of Psychiana's method.
"Alfred can play oa the organ a Bach fugue from memory.
But I remember years ago how he used to sit at that organ by
the hour, doing scales. What was he doing? He was impress-
ing upon the Spirit of God that he wanted to play Bach, and,
more than that, he was using the invisible Power of God to
impress upon Him that he could play Bach.
"The ascent into the Spiritual realm is not haphazard. It can
be instantaneous, but, outside of an emergency, it never is. For,
in traveling the Spiritual Highway, it is good to know every
step and take those steps consciously. Then, if one's foot slips,
one knows the way back, and has not lost what one has learned
about God. Remember, once a spiritual experience is attained,
it can never be lost. It is there. It is
part of life. No one can ever
take it away.**
When I recalled these words on the next day while I waited
for my train, I was reassured that they were true. Piled high on
a platform wagon were huge mail sacks, the stamp of Robin-
son's achievements. More Psychiana fires would be lighted
throughout the world.
And as I boarded the train I had the feeling that Frank B.
Robinson had talked with God yes, I did actually and lit-
erally!
CHAPTER X
HOMETOWN
I
RETURNED from my trip among the "Htde-knowns" like
one who has taken a refreshing walk on the open road. I
had heard the resounding tread of a nation finding God.
I had seen the close-up of a people's faith. I had felt the
heartbeat of the second freedom' American religion. A mov-
ing, living force that strikes us all and lures us on! A highway,
a search, a consuming passion, a longing for a workable mean-
ing of God ! An everlasting attempt to get the most out of this
world and the eternal hope for a world to come !
The people that I had walked with for a little while had
made religion their adventure. They had dared discover in
their own way what God is like and where He dwells. Loosed
from traditions that did not seem right, bound by nothing that
did not seem good, they had turned aside from the old ways
and charted their own short cuts to glory.
Climbing with the faithful up new summits that lift men
heavenward, I gave little thought to my own religious identity.
Neither was I asked about it. It was blended with the sacred
beliefs of my fellows. But the deep roots of my evangelical
background were clawing at new earth. And all the time the
291
293 THEY HAVE A FAITH
spirit of the faiths ail two hundred eighty of them beat in
my heart like the sheltering wings of God's everywhereness.
1 found a parable one day in a lake among the mountains of
eastern Oregon. Mirrored in its depths I saw the blue sky and
the timbered slopes. The motionless waters reflected perfectly
a shccphcrder passing that way with his flock. So, mirrored in
the depth of personal experience, I saw the passing parade of
America's
a
little-knowns,
n
Strange, expletory religions! Pro-
found in their claims, extravagant in their testimonies, mystical
in their faith, modern in their methods yet in all I saw truth
and beauty. They were the children of the Bill of Rights, flying
messengers bearing the eager voice of a new Reformation.
An indefinable and confident air of authority and inner dis~
covery was the common characteristic. What do they have that
the churches do not have? Nothing and everything. From
what they believe we can learn very little; from how they believe
we can learn much. All their merits are inherent in the estab-
lished churches; the difference lies in the degree of vitality with
which they are employed. We take our religion for granted;
their religion is the most thrilling experience of life. Our faith
tends to be natural, commonplace; theirs is supernatural, special.
Critics of historic denominations allege that there is little
evidence of a transfer of Christian principles from pulpit and
pew to life. While walking the modern roads of faith, I heard
the incessant refrain, "Religion must be lived or it will be taken
away."
The old churches are committed to a symbolism of language
that has very little meaning for contemporary ears. Is this the
reason that their members have only a nebulous notion of
denominational precepts ? It is difficult to perpetuate undefined
HOMETOWN 293
religious philosophies. Among the new groups each member
Is positive that he holds the keys of the kingdom. His is a
loquacious gospel ! To believe it is to talk about it CYcry con-
versation is an opportunity to witness. I have often wondered
if the difference between the two lies in the regular serving
of quotable lines which the new prophets pass out with such
consummate skill not a liberal helping, a precious morsel as
if each word were calibrated to the needs and tensions of the
moment. The average worshiper, no longer quoting from the
Bible, has nothing left with which to hold his offensive except
his own ideas. But the "little-knowns" have a corner on sly spirit-
'
ual slogans which, when heard and used, will change one's life
because they change one's mind.
The democracy of Protestantism, which allowed every man
to become his own priest, made no provision for the people who
want to be told precisely what to believe and exactly how to
believe it. They go, therefore, where they can find prescribed
techniques. In almost every modern movement the ideal of a
social religion is subordinated to an emphasis on the individual.
Every seeker is convinced that there is something within him
to which a direct revelation of God can appeal. Then follows a
continual sense of wonder at his own spiritual development
The commonest blessings suddenly become "gifts from God."
In return for these he is attached by a new allegiance of service
to the organization. The smaller the group, the greater his
loyalty.
And behind it all I saw the active minds and the indefatiga-
ble hands of aggressive leaders. These men and women are
obsessed with an uncompromising fidelity that hints of the stub-
born dogmatism of the early martyrs.
294 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
Again I wanted to say, "All roads that lead to God arc
But even while I sat beside the placid waters of my mountain
lake, It was suddenly lashed into rampant waves of restless
foam. The beautiful rclcctions were lost in the surging body of
temperamental waters. How like the public mind when judg-
ing the "little-knowns"! Prejudice and intolerance distort the
calm reflections. Blind waves of criticism beat against each
other and sweep impartially over the innocent shores.
They're all rackets!
I/s heresy!
Divine revelation ended with Jesus.
They're made up of disgruntled Christians.
They offer an easy panacea for all the problems of life.
They're religions for the frustrated, appealing only to the
emotions.
Fol%s follow for the loaves and fishes; they're o&t for material
blessings.
The people who leave the churches to go cutting are looking
for a place in the sun.
To me, these were wild shouts from a pharisaical segment
of the public. Having walked with the people, I understood
how such snap judgments could arise. But any man who ap-
proaches these groups objectively will qualify each accusation
with a sympathetic admission of their social and spiritual work.
In nay observations the commendable had outweighed the
questionable. But misunderstanding and bigotry were also ap-
parent among the "little-knowns," On every road I heard the
ultimatum, "This is the way; walk ye in it!"
This flaunted affirmation, too, was in the American tradi-
HOMETOWN 295
tion. Religions tolerance was the unknown quantity in the
early colonies. The promise of freedom of worship which
lured the persecuted across the sea proved for many years
to be a fable. New York barred Catholics from citizenship;
Penn's holy experiment excluded "papists" from political
offices; North Carolina demanded that all public officers profess
a Protestant faith. The Anglicans were as unwelcome in the
North as the Puritans were in the South. Massachusetts in-
flicted criminal punishment upon those who broke Puritan de-
crees; Maryland set the death penalty for those who denied the
Trinity. Arrest, torture and execution were ordered for men
and women who had professed special revelations or who had
"familiar spirits." But Americanism broke through the welter
of intolerance to forge a mighty document, the Bill of Rights.
This made possible a people's unhindered and sensational
search for God, a phenomenon unique among the nations.
Judging from the chronicles, the unpredictable "little-knowns"
of today will take their places with the well-knowns of tomor-
row. Though some religious movements have burned them-
selves out as the years went by, the enthusiastic sensationalism
of most groups has leveled out into complacent denominational-
ism. Observers in their day thought them transient and insecure.
They failed to see in the suffering and hope the birth pangs of
another great American faith.
1668 A nonconformist in Salem, the Puritan theocracy
defied, excommunication, banishment, a log hut in the wilder-
ness, a Great Awakening, a sect of sinners: the Baptist denomi-
nation today leads the field of Protestantism.
1750 Broken windows in New York, hysterical camp meet-
ings in Kentucky, an unhappy love affair in Savannah, mobs
296 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
under the frenzied spell of the spirit at WMtcciay Creek, cries
of hypocrite and charlatan in Philadelphia: Methodism, pres-
ent membership seven million.
1828 A Vermont farm boy, visions and angels, a book of
gold, riots in Missouri, a killing at Carthage, flight from Nau~
voo, a handcart brigade across fifteen hundred miles, the mir-
acle of sea gulls, lawless polygamy: the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter Day Saints with one million adherents.
1832 Vermont Telegraph publishes: Mathematical Proof . . .
Jesus is Coming March 21, 1844. Ascension robes prepared
in New England, New York and Ohio. Correction: Jesus is
Coming . , . October 20, 1844. Disillusioned Millerites. Today
the Adventists have two hundred thousand members.
1879 Faith cures, cries of mesmerism, hypnotism and ani-
mal magnetism; a revelation, Science and Health with Keys to
the Scriptures; cries of antichrist, insanity, the heresy will not
outlive the heretic: Church of Christ, Scientist, present member-
ship three hundred thousand.
More than ever I wanted to say, "All roads that lead to God
are good
"
In spite of the wide gulf between the various "little-knowns"
and the even wider gulf between them and the traditional
churches, I saw in all a common cause. They were simply
varying aspects of one great truth, a truth so rich and uncon-
futed that it could be broken and scattered along many beautiful
trails. Selecting the way best suited to his needs, man sets forth
with the profound assurance that the new faith will accomplish
for him what all others have failed to accomplish* Bt whea
hc^^ads^J^^i^djscov^^jt is God hidden in 1m, scwiljBnom
the beginning of time. Each denomination, sect and cult has
HOMETOWN 297
the same real value to different believers^ and, perhaps, to be
truly effective, religion must be as multifarious as the people.
it. scrves^It is too much of a living, growing thing to be clos-
eted in a single interpretation. It is but a means by which men
and women at different stages in life's development have sought
to find God in their own way. Quarrels and misunderstandings
revolve around the means; the goal is seldom argued about.
The essence of the spiritual outreach is liberty; therefore, we
can expect the continually evolving process of spiritual democ-
racy to go on. "Lesser-knowns" are always breaking off from the
"little-knowns." Every new cult immediately sprouts its own
seedlings which, regardless of the weeding out of time, reach
maturity in the fertile soil of Americanism.
In none of the groups did I meet leaders who had deliberately
set out to "start a new religion." In every instance, they began
by saying, "We have found something that will enrich and sup-
plement the faith you already have." They claimed only a mod-
ern method of reaching out and using the same old saving
power. They all followed the pattern of a new denomination
emerging out of a voluntary association of like-minded be-
lievers. Soon a headquarters is established. Followers are
drawn from two sources: a million every ten years from the
churches and a million from the disorganized ranks of those
whom the churches pass by. Eventually the United States Bu-
reau of Census finds another name to include in its tabulation
of Religious Bodies; technically, the movement is no longer a
sect or a cult. It has shifted into the denominational bracket.
After years of prospecting along the new-made trails, I re-
turned to the old home church. Each stroke of the bell on this
298 THEY HAVE FO0ND A FAITH
Sunday morning was freighted with remembrances. Back
through the years Sabbaths and holy days, Easter baptisms,
confirmationsit was ringing for them all. Long ago I stood
at the parsonage window while the bell tolled out Uncle Au-
gust's eighty-two years. A great man had died. The black-
plumed horses* the mourning congregation^ school dismissed
for the day. . .
By the time I grow up, I thought, everyone
will have religion and there'll be no need for preachers and
churches any more. But the bells were still ringing across
America. And there were also the "little-knowns," who had dis-
carded such tradition with other "superfluous ritual." Oddly,
while I was among them I had not missed this nostalgic call
to worship. Now, in my father's house, I wondered how I had
escaped a mild sense of loneliness. The bell was reassuring. The
old faith still lived amid the flaming prophets of new religious
orders.
Mother led the way to third pew front, center section. The
congregation was not the same; there were new names on the
church roll, new worshipers around me. I had always con-
tended that a great deal is lost by staying too much under one's
own roof, but life was pulsing here. Hometown was still listen-
ing to the voice of a personal God. Had I missed something
by walking too much on the open road? These people were
so engulfed by their ideals that the stampede of "little-knowns"
passed over them unnoticed. Nothing had disturbed the prac-
tical value of their faith. The order of service and the sermon
were carbon copies of Uncle August. Nothing about the wor-
ship hour had changed except the perceptibly shorter prayer. It
was traditional religion from the Doxology to the final Amen.
HOMETOWN 299
If what happened later that day was a rehearsal for the big
show on its way to the arena of American faith, we are headed
for an exciting season. That afternoon with an astonishing ab-
sence of bitterness and suspicion, the Roman Catholic priest and
our young minister stopped to chat on our front porch. Expect-
ing and respecting differences, we sipped homemade wine and
ate homemade cookies. How impossible a scene when I was a
boy! The benign Catholic father, the oracular minister with my
mother reflecting the summation of his beliefs, and my dad,
still a question mark among believers all listening to me, a
religious cosmopolite. Vividly I talked about Psychiana and the
God-Power, Buchman and the four absolutes, Spiritualism and
materializations. Unity and its science of life, the Foursquare
Baptism of the Holy Ghost, Jehovah's Witnesses and their The-
ocracy, Father Divine and his kingdoms, the Baha'is and their
world faith!
How did my audience react?
The priest: "I always maintained that when Luther and his
crowd began their nefarious business, they started so many sects
that soon nobody will be able to count them!"
My dad, sitting quietly with a blanket over his lap: "All
those religions! It would be exciting to find out about them all
But by the time a man learns how to live, it's time to die."
The minister: "Churches fail when they lose their authority
over the people. Ill never believe that the cults have anything
that we don't have. I'm going to keep on preaching the same
old gospel."
And Mother? She said, "Let me fill your glasses again!
There are also plenty of cookies!"
300 THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH
What a blessed sacrament! As we touched our glasses I felt
courageous enough to say:
"All roads that lead to God are good;
What matters it, your faith or mine;
Both center at the goal divine
Of love's eternal brotherhood*
"A thousand creeds have come and gone;
But what is that to you or me ?
Creeds are but branches of a tree,
The root of love lives on and on.
"Though branch by branch proves withered wood?
The root is warm with precious wine;
Then keep your faith, and leave me mine;
AH roads that lead to God are good.'
5
THE END
THE "PSYCHIANA" RELIGION
FRANK B. ROBINSON, D.D., Ph.D. MOSCOW, IDAHO
FOUNDER AND DIRECTOR
INVITATION NUMBER TWO
My dear friend:
The Bobbs-Merrill Company, one of the largest and
most reliable of all publishing houses in the United States, recent-
ly published a book entitled "THEY HAVE FOUND A FAITH" . The book
was written by Dr. Marcus Bach, of the Department of Religion at the
Iowa State University. One of the Chapters of that book deals en-
t ~rely with The Psychiana Religion.
In the closing paragraph of that book, Dr. Bach, who was in Moscow
making a personal visit to Dr. Robinson to get the inner .facts about
this Movement, made this statement :- "And as I was boarding the train ,
I had the feeling that Frank B. Robinson had talked with God--yes I
did--actually and literally".
Dr. Robinson DID t alk .with God, and as a result of that, and many other
talks with God, he isbringing to this world a revolutionary Teaching
through which the actual Power of God is coming into human lives all
over the world. TIME, NEWSWEEK, PIC, THE PATHFINDER, READERS DIGEST, THE
SUNDAY SCHOOL TIMES, THE PRESBYTERIAN BANNER, THE LUTHERAN COMPANION,
and other nationally circulating periodicals have written about this
Movement, which is now nearly twenty years old.
What the Power of God is doing almost staggers the imagination. Just
as they brought the sick, of divers diseases to Jesus at even, when
the sun was setting, from all over the world have come, by the hundreds
of thousands, letters telling us what the Power of God has done in
the healing of divers diseases today. The Power is the same . It
has lain dormant for about 2000 years. Now-the very same PO\'ler Jesus
used is being used to drive out all diseases.
Not only that, men and women who are perfectly whole, are finding the
Power of The Spirit of God actually operating in their lives. Can
you imagine what YOUR life would be like with the actual Power of
God manifesting in it?
You probably have not had time yet to get your application for
membership in the mail. May we suggest that you mail it in to us
now? Remember-we are not writing to you fo.r our sakes. There is
nothing you can do for us. We are writing to you for YOUR OWN SAKE,
f or we want you to KNOW the actual and literal Power of The Spirit
of God.
We are enclosing another application blank. Won ' t you fill it out
and mail it now?
Cordially yours,
