{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1946__anderson___prophetic_years_1947-1953.pdf","mytitle":"Prophetic Years 1947-1953","mylang":"de"}
PR~P~fl [ YfAR~
1947-1953
By
Wing Anderson
c'CHIEF
11.MERICAN ESSEN ES OF KOSMON
Author of
THE NEXT NINE YEARS (1938)
SEVEN YEARS THAT CHANGE THE WORLD (1940)
WAR'S END (1944)
KOSMON PRESS
LOS ANGELES 6, CALIFORNIA
2210 West 11th St.
f._ ·,! .. .
COPYRIGHT, 1946, BY
WING ANDERSON
PRlNTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERlCA
PREFACE
In 1938, more to crystalize his ideas than for any
other purpose, the writer typed out a prophecy and an
analysis of the years ahead and titled it The Next Nine
Years. No one was quite as surprised as was the author
to see his little book receive fourteen printings.
In 1940 the author wrote Seven Years That Change
the World. By 1945 over 100,000 copies had been
sold. In 1944 War's End came off the press and soon
75,000 copies were in the hands of the reading public.
In his The Next Nine Years and again in Seven
Years That Change the World, the author advised his
readers to:
1.
Beware of investments with fixed returns for as the purchasing
power of money decreased the REAL income would also decrease.
2.
Spend what one can afford on pleasures that will give pleasant
memories; travel, vacations, etc.
3.
Keep a good supply of silver money on hand for it will have
value when paper currency is valueless.
4.
Purchase canned goods and other foods that will keep. Also
commodities that will advance in price and become scarce in war
times.
5.
Purchase a few fertile acres, well watered, located on some side
road a few miles from a major highway. Bury a few drums of oil,
v
cache a liberal supply of canned and dried food and other essentials
which will be hard to obtain in the event that agriculture, manu-
facturing and distribution break down.
6.
Use your money for the welfare of yourself and others rather
, than hoard it, for money may soon lose its purchasing power through
inflation.
7.
Join some cooperative group or society with eyes to the future.
We are seeing the competitive age shoot itself out of existence and
are witnessing the growth of cooperation and socialism all over the
world. These are times when the individual alone is helpless. Only
through a cooperative effort will people survive.
During the years when World War II was raging it
was difficult, if not impossible, to follow some of the
advice given above. Now, as this book is being written,
we are in a period of armistice when an effort is being
made to convert our economy from war to peace. The
rationing of most commodities has ceased and it is now
possible to purchase many items that have been off the
market for months.
Soon trouble will break out again, greater trouble
than any this nation has yet seen.
Now is the time to prepare.
After you have read this book, and know of prophe-
cies fulfilled during World War II and learn of things
yet to come, ACT upon the advice given above.
If prophecies contained herein are not fulfilled dur-
ing the coming seven years you will have lost nothing
by your preparedness. If prophecies are fulfilled you
will be one of the very few who can look ahead with
courage and confidence.
vi
It is with the idea that information given in the sev-
eral prophecies contained herein may save a few lives
and cause its readers to prepare for events at hand that
this new book is o:ffered to the reading public.
THE AUTHOR
vii
CONTENTS
CHAPTER
PREFACE
FOREWORD
I FULFILLED PROPHECIES
End of Germany Prophesied by Hitler
Mussolini's death
Twenty year cycle of death of U. S. Presidents
Glimpses of the Future---War and inventions, etc.
War with Japan, Germany, etc.-Karl Mahr
Air War-from Luna Habitabilis (Thomas Gray)
A foreign Ruler (Walter Savage Landor)
Vermilion Pencil Chinese Prophecy
War at the banks of the Rhine
Saxony Prophecy
Prophecy of Lehnin
Oswald Spengler's Prophecies of dictatorship•, wan,
Communist Manifesto-Karl Marx
End of the Age---Private Letter
Indonesia
Atom bombing-Leonardo Da Vinci
II PoETIC PREDICTIONS
Joseph Luff's Prediction of War, Plague
Famine, etc., throughout the world
James Goodhue Turner-A Future Rhyme
Vide Apocalypse---Prophecy of the Future
Sibylline Prophecy
III AMERICA'S FUTURE
Warnings of labor trouble, dictatorship, etc.
from George Washington, through Lucy Brown, medium
Comments on Federal Reserve banking system
Edward Pierrepont Observations
William Penn warnings to the U. S.
Thomas Jefferson Quotation
James Madison warns against concentration of wealth
Abraham Lincoln's Prophecy on concentration of wealth
Woodrow Wilson-on restriction of credit, freedom of
industry, etc.
IX
PAGE
v
xv
..
15
19
CHAPTER PAGE
Lyman E. Stowe-"What is Coming?"
Lord Macauley's Prophecy-Fascism
C. Osborn Ward-A Fascist Dictatorship followed by
a Socialist World
History repeating itself-the ruin of Rome
A standing army vs. labor?
IV PROPHECIES OF THE MoRMONS .
Joseph Smith-White Horse Prophecy, bank failure, U. S.
revolt, fascist dictatorship, Russ-Turkey disturbance,
migration of Jews to Palestine, Negro Rebellion
Parley P. Pratt Vision-Breakdown of U. S. civil govern-
ment, Invasion of Asiatic and European powers
Cosmic Cycles and their manifestations
Political Upheaval-Newman Bulkley
Civil Strife in U. S.--C. D. Evans
Civil Strife and foreign invasion-G. Washington
Quaker Lady's letter to a Mormon-Vision of world war,
revolutions, hunger and starvation, a church welfare
plan, etc.
Brigham Young Prophecies on war, earthquakes, tidal
waves, famine, destruction
Wilford Woodruff-prediction •of epidemics and strange
diseases-U. S. A.
Parley P. Pratt-Subjugation of Japan, Russia-English war.
Fate of Europe and America-Orson Pratt
Rocky Mountains-Place of Safety-Brigham Young
Anarchy in America-Jedediah M. Grant
v PROPHETIC VISIONS .
Lucy Brown-War of Rebellion, later civil war for U. S.
On Papacy and the British Throne
Of Russia and other European Nations
On Property and Protestantism
The Most Great Peace; Baha'i movement; Millennium
Katie Whittemore-On Germany and Japan (bombing)
England's change of government
New French Leader
On India
Death of Hitler
On Russia
Crime Wave in U.S. A.-Death of F. D. R.
1946 Predictions
Lincoln's Warning on Catholicism
Washington warning of invasion of U. S. from Asia and
Europe
Civil breakdown in U. S. A.
x
33
63
CHAPTER
OAHSPE-a new universal religion
An Ancient Prophecy on dictators and ultimate peace
Who-shon-no's Vision-(Indian) World War III
The Oregon Farmer's Vision of internal trouble in U. S. A.
Victor Hugo prophecy of United States of the World
Robert G. Ingersoll-The New Era .
Joseph Hoag-The Quaker Farmer-On Catholic Control
of U. S. A.
Michigan farm family-messages and symbols, resemblance
to Panic language--illustrated
Predictions from Missouri on collapse of U. S. Govt.
Predictions from Florida on Labor uprising
Negro uprising
Ku Klux Klan
Australian independence
Chinese aggression
Locust menace in U. S. A.
Japanese volcanic eruption
Prediction from Wisconsin on a world Religion
The World Ablaze--Robert E. Goldsbrough
Flames of Hate-Upheavals to destroy all but five countries
Predictions of Cheiro on World War III
Jewish migration to Palestine
England and India
Italy and Germany at war with France
England vs. Palestine and Egypt
Russia allied with China
.Mohammedans at war
London and east coast towns destroyed by Russian air-
craft
Aircraft changes
New Irish rebellion
War of Armageddon
Catastrophe in Russia
PAGE
VI THE NEW JERSEY PROPHET 104
Drought of 1934 foretold
On political action detrimental to U. S. during F. D. R.
administration
Prediction in 1935 of World War II
Prophecy of Communism
Destruction of Germany prophesied in 1939
Famine Warning in Jan. 1946-Scarcity of grain prophe-
sied
VII ENGLAND'S FUTURE
Joanna Southcott-Ark of the New Covenant;
Fulfilled Prophecies
XI
108
CHAPTER.
Warning to England on unity
Destruction of Turkey
Famine and earthquakes
Establishment of Jews in Palestine
Version of six days of creation
Peace and plenty after Jina! war, words of comfort
Prediction of the Millennium
Bible Chronology
Mother Shipton-Prediction of motion pictures, submarines,
aircraft and war
On womanly modesty and marriage fidelity
Socialism in England-meeting of the classes
Fall of British Empire predicted by John Dee in sixteenth
century-Is England living on borrowed time 1
The Fox Prophecy-Anonymous-Fall of Empire and
Invasion by Germany
Internal struggle in England-James Stanley Little
Orson Pratt's warning to Great Britain in 1857 on trade,
India, classes, etc.
Stephen A. Douglas' message; prophecy of war between
England and United States
VIII PROPHECIES OF IRELAND
Freedom from England }
England-Russia war St. Columbkille
Conquest of England-St. Senanus
Fall of England-MacAuliffe
American War of Independence-Donall Cam
IX THE ScANDINAVIAN SEER
World War I warning
Political upheavals, epidemics, depression
Progress of Socialism
Internal disturbance in Russia, Germany and England
Civil Wars in U. S.-Canadian complications
Return of Finland to Russia
Socialism in Scandinavian countries
Earthquakes and volcanic eruptions-Europe and America
Trouble for England, colonies and home, loss of India
Icelandic earthquake and hurricane
Loss of Titanic prophesied 1907
Elimination of Turkey
Return of Jews to Palestine
French-Spanish war
Loss of Eastern Siberia by Russia
Russian war with Norway and Sweden
Holland and her East Asian colonies
Xll
PAGE
136
145
CHAPTER
X Russ1A's DESTINY
On Roman-Greek Catholic Church
Bible prophecy of War-Willis F. Jordon
Russian relationship to church
Prophecy for great Russian civilization
Napoleon's vision of murder of Czar Nicholas II
Peter the Great-Prophecy of World War I and Russ re-
volt
Dethronement of kings and powers-death of Garibaldi,
Empress Eugenie and Queen of England
Breakdown of Monarchies
Lyman E. Stowe's Prophecy for Russia-annihilation of
Turkey, elimination of interest and usury, socialist
form of government foreseen
XI FATE OF TURKEY
Oil
Threat of Holy war against Christians
Russian pressure
XII POLAND'S REBIRTH
World conflagration
Return of Poland
Downfall of Germany
Union of France and England
A new and powerful Japan
War involving Mohammedans
XIII NosTRADAMus, PROPHET oF FRANCE
Is Hitler still alive 1
Famine foreseen
Italian war
Downfall of Roman Catholic Church
Third World War-followed by plague
War of Armageddon
England removed to Canada
Mohammedan invasion of Europe
Mines and booby traps
Henry C. Roberts interpreter-to-be
League of Nations and its failure
Atomic energy predicted
u. s.-Japan
Description of Hitler and DeGaulle
German Paganism
XIV ITALY AND THE VATICAN
Prophecy of St. Malachy describing future Popes
Religious war and end of Church
Ernest Haeckel-End of Roman Church
Xlll
PAGE
157
165
168
172
182
CHAPTER
XV jAPAN
Severe earthquake prophesied-now overdue
Effect of atom bomb experiment on islands of Japan
Account of submergence of continent in Pacific
XVI PALESTINE, LAND OF DESTINY
Mormon Proclamation on Destiny of Jews
Armageddon
Orson Hyde's prophecy on Jewish retribution
Brief history of occupation of Jerusalem
PAGE
185
189
XVII ]Ews, THE PROPHETIC R AcE 195
Who are the "chosen people" 1
Message to 'the Jews
Homes for Jews in Palestine, Argentine and U. S. S. R.
Birth of a new civilization
XVIII PROPHECIES OF OAHSPE 199
The Aerial Age
Climate control, etc.
New educational system
World Purge
Prediction of destruction throughout the world to the ulti-
mate building of a greater civilization
Free enterprise system doomed
The Four Freedoms
Tariffs, barriers, immigration laws, unions, monopolies,
cartels, etc. to be banished in the future
Fate of Today's governments
XIX THE WOMAN, THE BEAST AND THE NEW WORLD 208
BIBLIOGRAPHY 233
xiv
FOREWORD
Now that the secret of atomic energy has been dis-
covered we are on the doorstep of another scientific
revelation of equal importance-that past, present and
future are one in reality, but three in aspect. Time is
but a fourth dimension and the one gifted with fourth
dimensional sight is a true prophet.
Prophets and prophecy have existed longer than re-
corded history. The ancient prophets of biblical times
were Faithists in the Creator and prophesied from
Etherea or that region of primary causation beyond the
limits of our earth's vortex. Such prophecies were al-
ways accurate and destined for fulfillment. Such
prophets could foresee the future centuries ahead.
All through the ages there have appeared here and
there individuals gifted with prophetic vision. Pro-
phetic ability, like any other human attribute or talent
can be cultivated and developed. It seems not to be
determined by education or religious affiliation for some
prophets have been illiterate while other prophets re-
ceived the finest of educations.
Every major .religion has had its prophets and the
main subject of most of them has been the days and
times in which we now live.
The years from 1914 to 1948 were termed in the
old Bible, a "Time of Trouble." This thirty-three
year cycle was to see the downfall of institutions that
had held the stage during the old 3,000 year cycle and
xv
give birth to new institutions that would hold the spot-
light for the coming three thousand years. The advent
of Kosmon comes but once to any planet. Kosmon is
that period in the evolution of the human race when
knowledge of all the past is regained, both temporal
and spiritual. Kosmon is a time of balance when man-
kind crosses the meridian from materialism to spiritual-
ity, ceases to be an aggressive, competitive creature and
becomes an affiliative, cooperative race of men.
A biblical generation covers a period of 120 years.
During a Biblical generation there are three gene~ations
of man living at once. A new generation is born every
thirty-three years. A few members of the generation,
born at the beginning of Kosmon in 1848, will see the
end of the old order and the building of the new. The
grandchildren of that generation will live a major part
of their lives in the Millennium which will occur in
1980.
The years covered by this book, 1947-1953, are the
final years .of the cycle of destruction. By 1954 old
things will have passed and the world cleansed for the
upbuilding of a kingdom of earth as it is in heaven.
THE GIFT OF PROPHECY
"And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour
out of my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and daughters shall
prophesy, and your young men see visions, and your old men dream
dreams. ·
"And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out
in these days my spirit, and they shall prophesy" Acts 1.1 :17-18.
XVI
"For to one is given by the spirit the word of wisdom; to an-
other the word of knowledge by the same spirit.
"To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to
another the discerning of spirits; to another diverse kinds of tongues;
to another interpretation of tongues.
"To another faith by the same spirit; to another the gifts of
healing by the laying on of hands." Corinthians 12 :8-10
xvii
CHAPTER I
FULFILLED PROPHECIES
There is one sure test to discover if a prophet is true
or false-have his prophecies come true according to
schedule.
The above test, when applied to the prophecies given
in the first section of this book, prove the seers that gave
them were true prophets.
There is evidence galore that true prophecy is a fact
and that certain individuals are gifted with the ability to
see or feel what is coming before its manifestation be-
comes apparent to the average individual.
The following fulfilled prophecies are but a few of
the countless number that could be accumulated by a
thorough search through the libraries of the worId.
They are offered as evidence that prophecy is a fact and
it is suggested that the reader place his own evaluation
on the prophecies, given by many of the same augurers,
to be found in the second part of this book.
Within late years several of the universities and seats
of higher education have begun to delve into the subject
of prophecy and allied psychic abilities. Duke Univer-
sity has a laboratory, where, under the direction of
Professor Rhine, psychic research has been under way
for some years. In fact a new terminology has grown
up around experiments in "extra sensory perception"
which is but a newer term for the clairvoyance, clair-
audience and clairsentience of the spiritualists.
1
ADOLPH HITLER'S PROPHECY OF THE END OF GERMANY
Hitler was given the power to foresee the result of
his rulership of Germany but, strange to say, did not
profit by it. It was his Non-aggression treaty with Rus-
sia, rather than the invasion of Poland that caused Eng-
land directly and America indirectly, to declare war.
In his book "Mein Kampf" Hitler wrote:
"Present day- Russia is no ally of Germany in her struggle for
liberty. From a military point of view a Russian war with Ger-
many-Russia against the West of Europe, but more likely against the
whole world, would be an overwhelming catastrophe. The war
would be fought, not on Russian but on German soil, without Ger-
many receiving any real support from Russia. The oery fact of a
treaty with Ruuia would be the signal for a new war. Its end would
be the end of Germany. '
The Fuehrer was a better prophet than he thought
himself to be: In another place in his "Mein Kampf"
he said:
"Never can Germany win a war if England is fighting actively on
the opposing side."
Muss0Lrn1's DEATH FoRESEEN
"Giovanbattiste Magnoli di Cesare was supposed to be clairvoyant.
He dreamed things that came true. Even when he was a tiny boy,
running about the back streets of Milan, his old grandmother called
him "The Astrologer." But one dream finally came true. It was
just a corner of Italian landscape, a bend in a country road, an iron
gate leading into an orchard, and a low wall with a Lombardy
poplar behind it. . . . There was an iron gate, a low orchard wall,
and a tall poplar tree, at the spot where this same Giovanbattiste
Magnoli di Cesare killed Mussolini! ... from the introduction
to Piero Saporiti's story in the New York Journal-American, a United
Feature Syndicate series.
THE PROPHECY OF THE PRESIDENTS
In 1840, Wm. Henry Harrison was elected President
of the U.S. A. He died in office.
2
In 1860, Abraham Lincoln was elected. He died in
office.
In 188O, Garfield was elected. He died in office.
In 1900, Wm. McKinley was elected. He died in
office.
In 1920 Warren G. Harding was elected. He died
in office in 1923.
In 1940, Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected. Many
thought, when Roosevelt outlived his 1940-44 term,
he had beaten the twenty year cycle of death of Presi-
dents of the United States. Re-elected to a fourth
term, Roosevelt DIED IN OFFICE. Franklin Del-
ano Roosevelt broke many customs and precedents but
he wasn't able to break the law of cycles.
THE PROPHECIES oF DAVID GoonMAN CRoLY
In 1888 David Goodman Croly was managing editor
of a New York daily paper. In his spare time he wrote
a book titled "Glimpses of the Future," a copy of which
can be found in the public library of New York City.
In 1888 Croly wrote:
"I particularly fear Gennany in the coming international war.
When the inevitable conflict begins it is likely to create a con-
flagration that will involve all leading nations of the earth. When
we awake to a consciousness of our own strength we will insist on the
possession of all the fortifications near our coasts. This will involve
the annexation of many West India Islands."
Croly, in his strange little book also predicted:
Concentration of wealth in the hands of a few.
Abuse of power by giant corporations.
Promiscuous sex relations and easy divorce.
New York City subways.
P.W.A. to solve unemployment.
3
Reforestation and public rehabilitation projects such as T.V.A.
and the Missouri Valley Project.
Premarital health examinations.
Adoption of many socialistic policies by the Democratic Party.
Anti-labor bias of the Press.
A global war started by Germany.
Humiliation of the United States by a weaker power.
An electrical age.
Aerial navigation by ships made from aluminum.
Annexation of islands by the U. S. A. for defense.
Illustrated color magazines.
Colored inks used on colored papers.
Reproduction of great art works on paper.
Sound motion pictures.
Motion pictures used in education.
All of the above predictions have been fulfilled a half
century ahead of time. Who will be so brave as to deny
that the following predictions of Croly will come to pass
ere the year ,2000 rolls around?
"Capture of our coast cities by foreign powers.
Acceptance of polygamy by many nations.
Possessors of great wealth forced to use their wealth to keep people
employed."
The first of the above predictions is concurred in by
the Vision of George Washington and General McClel-
lan and also foreseen in several prophecies by early
Mormon leaders.
THE PROPHECIES OF KARL MAHR
of Bluffton, Indiana
In July 1941 there died in Bluffton, Indiana, an old
tailor who was a native of Germany. His death re-
leased a secret that had been kept to protect him from
the vengeance of gangsters, for without leaving Bluff-
ton and with no acquaintance with the underworld,
4
Mahr had told the F.B.I. where to locate the men re-
sponsible for the "Kansas City Massacre" in which po-
lice, taking some convicts to prison, were killed by the
convicts' gangster friends.
Mahr claimed to have the ability to see things that
had occurred or would occur thousands of miles from
Indiana. A few of his predictions, given prior to his
death in 1941, were sent the writer by the May.or of
Bluffton, Indiana, Mr. Franklin Buchner.
"War with Japan with loss of the Philippines. German occupa-
tion of Belgium, Holland, Norway, France and other countries and
the German invasion of Russia."
Mahr predicted that after the war Germany would
cease to exist as a nation but would be broken up into
small states. England would lose her empire because it
was too scattered to defend. Mahr predicted that but
two great powers would be in the world after the war,
the United States of America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics.
An account of Karl Mahr and his prophecies ap-
peared in the Bluffton News Banner July 26th, 1941.
The reader will recall the time when Germany was
supreme in the air and Goering bragged that German
cities would never be bombed.
Over two hundred years ago, Thomas Gray, author
of the famous masterpiece, "Elegy Written in a Coun-
try Churchyard" foresaw the defeat in the air of Ger-
many.
In 1737, Thomas Gray, wrote "Luna Habitabilis"
containing the following lines:
"The time will come when thou shalt lift thine eyes
To watch a long-drawn battle in the skies:
5
While aged peasants, too amazed for words,
Stare at the flying fleet of wondrous birds.
England, so long the mistress of the sea,
Where winds and waves confess her sovereignty,
Her ancient triumphs yet shall bow on high
And reign the sovereign of the conquered sky."
With the help of the United States, England did, at
the end of World War II, "Reign the sovereign of the
conquered sky." , ~
About a century ago Walter Savage Landor wrote a
poem titled "A Foreign Ruler." What a concise proph-
ecy it turned out to be. The only thing lacking was the
name-Adolph Hitler.
He says, My reign is Peace, so slays
A thousand in the dead of night.
Are you all happy, now? he says,
And those he leaves behind cry Quite.
He swears he will have no contention,
And sets all nations by the ears;
He shouts aloud, No inter'lJention!
Invades and drowns them all in tears.
Homer Lea, the American who became military ad-
visor to Sun Yat Sen the Father of the Chinese Repub-
lic, wrote three books, each of which was an analytical
and prophetic book of the future course of empire. The
first of these books was the VERMILION PENCIL
published in 1908. In Homer Lea's "Vermilion Pen-
cil" a Chinese prophecy is quoted:
"The ho~r .of rebellion is not yet; but will come with a mani-
festation from heaven. This may be a Red Star in the East, or when
the five flags rise of their own accord from the earth, but more
probably when the phoenix sings from the Wutan, for at that hour
the MAN will have been born, and on that day from the fields of
the Empire shall rise up those sown of the dragon's teeth; Then
will the silence of the ages be broken, labyrinths uncoil, and a mur-
6
mur come from depths so deep and unknown that even the world
itself shall shrink with dread."
Part of the above prophecy seems to have been ful-
filled when the RED STAR of the U. S. S. R. rose in
the east following the revolution of 191 7. It was in
1906-1907, when the above prediction was written, that
the First Revolution occurred in Russia, a year after
Stalin met Lenin in Finland.
In 1895 Sun Yat Sen fled China after an unsuccessful
attempt to depose the Manchu dynasty. In 1911, Sun
Yat Sen, while in Denver, Colorado, read of a revolu-
tionary outbreak in Wuchang. In London, some weeks
later, Dr. Sun received an invitation to head the new
government.
Many events have occurred in Russia and China since
the days of Sun Yat Sen. Many Chinese soldiers have
been killed to become seeds of the dragon's tooth. The
seeds planted a generation ago have born a rich harvest
of soldiers that are rebelling against the fascist govern-
ment of .Chiang Kai-shek in an endeavor to follow the
lead of Russia and set up a socialist republic. Whether
the MAN referred to in the prophecy is Stalin of Rus-
sia, Chiang Kai-shek of the Chinese fascists or the
leader of the Chinese Socialists, or perhaps some other
man yet to come to the front in China, only time can
tell.
THE DEMON OF WAR W1LL Go To THE RmNE
The following prophecy was printed May 3rd, 1862
in the "Millennial Star." At that time the Civil War
was raging in the United States.
Orson Hyde was one of the leaders of the Mormon
7
Church, living in England at the time the prophecy was
given. He was speaking to the English people.
"You have scarcely read the preface of your national troubles.
Many nations will be drawn into the American maelstrom that now
whirls through the land. After many days, when the demon of
war shall have exhausted his strength and madness upon American
soil, by the destruction of all that can court or provoke opposition,
excite cupidity, inspire revenge, or feed ambition, he will remove
his headquarters to the -
banks of the Rhine."
THE S AXONY P ROPHECY
Found in
NOTED PROPHECIES, by Countess Zalinski
"There will be a king in Germany under whom the nation will
be greater and more powerful than ever before. H e will be fol-
lowed by an uncrowned king, who will pass as a shadow before the
throne. A one-armed king will succeed him, and in the end of, this
reign, or early in the.next, the German armies will go forth to con-
quer the world, but those who return will shelter under the pear
trees of the nation."
The book in which this prophecy was printed in Amer-
ica was published in ·191 7 at the time of World War I.
The prophecy has been known in Germany for several
centuries and is reputed to have originated with a Saxon
monk in the Middle Ages. In 191 7 interpreters of
prophecy thought that World War I was the war men-
tioned when in fact it was but a minor phase of a global
conflict that began in 1914 and will last until 1954, a
period of forty years.
In the light of what has occurred since this prophecy
was published in 191 7 let us examine it. At the start
of World War I Germany, under Kaiser Wilhelm had
reached the zenith of her power. World War I lost
Germany her colonies and empire. Following Kaiser
Wilhelm appeared the "uncrowned king," Adolf Hit-
8
ler, who, in turn has passed from the stage. A new
"one-armed" king is predicted for Germany, under
whom she will again go forth to conquer the world.
Analysts of prophecy are agreed that there will be a
third and final version of this modern Twentieth Cen-
tury Forty Years War. The third and final phase seems
destined to be an English-Spanish-Vatican alliance
against the non-Catholic world.
Another prophecy that ties in with the foregoing also
originated in Germany about 1240 A.D. It was titled
"The Prophecy of Lehnin" and is attributed to Friar
Hermann who was head of the Lehnin Monastery.
The prophecy was printed in Germany as early as 1723
and was in the form of Latin verse.
The prophecy foretold the complete Hohenzollern
dynasty and is amazing in its accuracy. The part of the
prophecy of interest today is not the part that has been
fulfilled but the concluding section which states, "He
who wields the scepter will be the last of his race.
Israel dares an unspeakable crime, to be expiated by
death. The shepherd recovers his flo~k and Germany
her king."
Kaiser Wilhelm was the last of his race to rule Ger-
many.
Interpreting this prophecy we should remember that
it was given by a Catholic monk and was biased by his
religious beliefs. Does his prediction of Israel daring
an unspeakable crime foretell the setting up of a Jewish
state in Palestine which would remove that ancient city
from Christian shrines? It seems probable that the
Vatican is yet to regain power over Europe when "the
shepherd (Pope) would recover his flock."
9
It has been the policy of the Vatican for many cen-
turies to rule the people of Catholic countries with a
monarchy. Prophecy foretells a king for Germany be-
fore this time of trouble ends.
THE PROPHECIES OF OswALD SPENGLER
During the first world war Oswald Spengler, a Ger-
man, was plotting the rise and fall of civilizations on a
graph that looked something like a stretched-out letter
S. On the completion of his research he wrote UN-
TERGANG, which was translated into English by
Charles Francis Atkinson and titled DECLINE OF
THE WEST.
Spengler made the following prophecies, based en-
tirely upon scientific research into the histories of nations
that have come and gone:
That Dictatorship would soon come to his own nation, Germany.
That parliaments would soon lose power everywhere.
That governments would grab power and peoples would lose their
voice in government.
That political parties would become meaningless.
That dictators would take power.
That democratic governments would prove slow in action compared
to dictatorships.
That governmental budgets would rise from millions to billions.
That gold would lose its place in world monetary systems.
That peace would not follow World War I.
That peace terms would be merciless.
That more terrible wars would follow that of 1914-1918.
Spengler's curve of the rise and fall of nations corre-
sponds in many respects to the following statement in
OAHSPE, the New Bible. OAHSPE denotes a differ-
ence in the curves illustrating the rise and fall of spir-
10
ituality, distinctive of the rise and fall of intellectuality,
that Spengler seems to have missed in his studies.
The prophets of old divided time into cycles of three thousand
years, with slight variations. And they found that at certain times
some impulse came upon the people, causing them to try to be better
and wiser.
The scale then riseth for four hundred years, more or less; and
after that wars and epidemics come upon the people. They begin
then to decline, especially in virtue and peace, but the general in-
telligence suffereth little for about six or seven hundred years. After
which they destroy their libraries and records, and reduce them-
selves to ignorance and vice. Then followeth a darkness of one thou-
sand or more ,years, with slight intermissions. In another six hundred
years the corporeal senses (intellect-Ed.) begin to ascend. Self
conceit cometh upon them; they think they are the beginning of
wisdom on earth. Then cometh another cycle of light. Angels
descend from the unseen worlds ( 1848 A.n.-Ed.) New revelations
crop out in every quarter. Inspiration cometh upon mortals, and they
go to the opposite extreme; superstition and obedience to unseen in-
fluences.
Such then, is the general character and behavior of man during a
cycle. And ·he riseth and falleth in all these particulars as regularly
as the tides of the sea.
OAHSPE, Book of Cosmogony and Prophecy
Page S84:7 and 8.
Spengler, in his DECLINE OF THE WEST, made
one statement worthy of the attention of all America.
He said that no nation unable to save itself could be
saved by another. The United States disregarded this
advice and saved England during World War I. We
again came to Britain's rescue in World War IL
Prophecy states that the British Empire is through.
Reason confirms prophecy. It is to be hoped that when
World War III develops we will not again spend
American lives and resources in a vain attempt to save
11
an empire that both science and prophecy states is in its
death throes.
K ARL M ARX AND THE COM MUNIST MAN IFESTO
In the year 1848, almost a century ago, the com-
munist manifesto was published. How great a proph-
ecy it is we leave to the reader to judge. Herein we list
the ten objectives of the Communists, as enumerated by
Karl Marx in 1848:
1. Abolition of property in land and application of all rents of
land to public purchases.
2. A heavy progressive or graduated,income tax.
3. Abolition of all rights of inheritance.
4. Confiscation of the property of emigrants and rebels.
5. Centralization of credit in the hands of the state, by means of
a national bank with State capital an exclusive monopoly.
6. Centralization of the means of communication and transport
in the hands of the state.
7. Extension of factories and instruments of production owned by
the state; bringing into cultivation waste lands, and the im-
provement of the soil generally in accordance with a common
plan.
8. Equal liability of all to labor. Establishment of industrial
armies, especially for agriculture.
9. Combination of agriculture with manufacturing industries;
gradual abolition of the distinction of town and country, by a
more equitable distribution of population over the country.
I 0. Free education for all children in public schools. Abolition of
children's factory labor in its present form. Combination of
education with industrial production.
Is it any wonder that our finance-capitalists and inter-
national bankers scream "communism" whenever a pro-
gressive measure is introduced or contemplated. The
objectives of Marx and his associates of a hundred years
ago have been achieved in their entirety in the
12
U. S. S. R., covering one sixth of the world, and are
about to be achieved throughout the world within the
next decade.
It seems that communism as well as time, marches on.
The following prophecy was written in Germany in June 1885,
by an exile from home, church and country. Exiled not because he
had ever said or done anything that would justify his exile, but
because the ruling power of his country feared he would.
Under an assumed name, he traveled extensively, interesting him-
self in purely scientific subjects. Possessed of a remarkable psychic
development, which he r.arely used except in research work, he was
held in awe by simple folk.
As he avoided strangers and those of his own rank, he led a lonely
isolated life, which terminated in the spring of 1912.
This prophecy is taken from a private letter copied by myself
during the summer of 1914.-I.L.B.
"The time of the end is at hand-not the end of the world, but
the End of the Age. Man has hated his brother man and selfishly
schemed and plotted against him; ,he has been greedy, seeking for
worldly power and wealth, until the cries of the downtrodden and
oppressed, have reached the ears of the Lord of Heaven.
"Man has wantonly slaughtered the helpless creatures of earth, sea
and air; and the earth, sea and air shall rise against him in the Day
of Wrath. Soon many great religious leaders shall rise and fall, and
many ancient religious rites and religions shall be revived and shall
draw vast numbers.
"There will be wars and threatened wars and Europe will be
drenched with blood. England, France, Germany and Russia will
engage in deadly conflict and the rivers will run with blood; But
the end is not yet.
"Men will become fearful and distrust each other, and crime and
violence will walk abroad at noonday, and Terror shall enslave the
hearts of men. There shall be a time of trouble such as never was
before, when the humble shall be exalted and the exalted shall be
laid low. Women shall be crowned with honor. THRU A
WOMAN SALVATION COMES.
"Many false Christs and wonder workers will appear and but for
the VISION the people would perish. All nature will be disturbed
and the sun will show signs and wonders.
13
"The earth will be devastated by earthquakes, floods, storms and
pestilences; yet, "I have appointed a Place of Refuge," said the
Lord, and altho the laborer shall leap upon the threshhold of the
rich man and his hoards shall be scattered abroad; yet the two shall
join hands and Brotherhood shall arise.
"As for the remnant of My people, who have not been greedy,
those who have harmed and molested not, they shall go forth and
rebuild and the glory of the knowledge of the Lord shall fill the
earth as the waters fill the sea."
INDONE SIA
"It was written" eight centuries ago, in the Book of
Djayabhaya, Hindu king who ruled a vast Javanese em-
pire that:-
I. A white man will come to rule the islands many years. (The
Dutch arrived in Indonesia in 1595.)
2. Then for three years a yellow man will rule. (Japan ruled for
three years.)
3. THEN the people will govern themselves! Indonesians will
rule Indonesians-72,000,000 of them, living on some 3,000
lush islands astride the Equator.
LEONARDO DA VINCI
14-52-1519
Leonardo Da Vinci, the great _painter, naturalist,
scientist, foresaw the atomic bomb and its effects:
"There shall come forth from beneath the earth that which by
its terrific report shall stun all who are near it and cause men to drop
dead at its breath. It shall devastate cities and buildings. Men shall
see new destruction in the sky and flames descending therefrom.
Da Vinci's prophecy was literally fulfilled at Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki in 1945, four centuries after it was
given.
14
CHAPTER II
PoETIC PREDICTIONS
A POETIC PREDICTION
By Joseph Luff
(Written in 1907)
The flood-gates are lifting, beware of the tide
'Twill sweep o'er the nations, subduing their pride;
No barrier can stay it-no hand can prevail
For God moves in judgment-his word cannot fail.
The fires are kindling, beware of the flame,
For havoc and ruin 'twill surely proclaim;
'Twill feed on the structures and laugh at the wall,
Defiantly builded, and science appall.
Fierce tempests are brewing, beware of their blast,
Their fury will gather in strength to the last;
The roar of their rushing the world will astound,
And woe in the wake of their whirlings abound.
A plague is in nesting, beware of its breath;
Its touch is as mildew, its watchword is death;
No rank will escape it, no station be free,
Nor safety be found on the land or the sea.
A panic is pending, commotion and dearth
Lie close to its path, and the treasures of earth
From hands that have held them like dust shall be swept
And poverty enter where wealth has long slept.
A famine is coming, the long fertile field
Will mock at man's labor., refusing to yield;
The earthquakes increasing, shall sport as they reel,
With towers of granite and strongholds of steel.
15
Disorders upon and disasters beneath
Earth's surface shall terror and sorrow bequeath;
The nations shall war and people contend,
And man must himself 'gainst his neighbor defend.
The vials of fury poured forth everywhere,
Shall fill the ungodly with woe and despair;
No bond shall withhold them, no covenant restrain
From slaughter for vengeance nor pillage for grain.
Though Millions are heedless and scoffers deride,
'Twill come, and come shortly, and who shall abide?
Make answer, 0 Zion, for surely within
Your borders shall cleansing and judgment begin.
A FUTURE RHYME
James Goodhue Turner
In nineteen forty five
We were glad to be alive.
With nineteen forty six
The nations pull their tricks.
Then nineteen forty seven
They think there is no heaven,
And nineteen forty eight
Some see the Golden Gate.
Now nineteen forty nine
Commence to change the time.
Nineteen and fifty, see
A golden jubilee.
Nineteen and fifty one
A new race has begun.
Nineteen and fifty two
Unmix the worldly stew.
Nineteen and fifty three
Why that's the year to see.
16
Austin State Hospital
Box 96, Austin, Texas.
A PROPHECY OF THE FUTURE
Horoscopically divined through Silent Oracle of the Sphinx.
Vice Apocalypse chap. 14, vs. 17-20
Certain, sure as Death 'tis coming,
As the Devil's upon his Fiddle thrumming,
And most frightful will the coming carnage be.
Lo! fierce, fell, furious and most bloody,
And which in one great red stream shall flow
Into the deep Pit of Cocytus below,
That empties into that Dead Sea
Of all seething horrors and dire iniquity.
Yea, like a thunderbolt from out the sky shall it come.
And before which the whole world
Shall stand in astonished wonder dumb;
And earth itself shall shrink as upon the brink
Of all fell horror, cataclysmic, of dismal woe,
Even so, and as cleaven to the heart
By Death's Arrow shall asunder fall apart,
And sink down in deadly swoon.
Aye, and in the near future soon
Unto its final Judgment Down.
And under the shadowy shrouds of the pale moon
And baleful Stars of Darkness and Night.
Nocturnal of Hades' dreadful gloom,
Death shall reign in grim silence, horrible, unbenedight.
Nor shall ought be seen or here or there
Above, .below, but ruin and destruction everywhere.
And such is this world's baleful Horoscope so cast
Unto this final Age and Last,-
Most fateful of all ages past,-
ln this planet's destined course and run
'Neath the ruddy brilliance of a hot-orbed Sun,
When the great Judgment shall descend
And the world like unto an earthquake rend
And its foundations shake from end to end,
And hail shall sweep the war-torn earth,
And its desolate millions curse the time of birth-
So great shall the final Tribulation be.
So utterly fraught with direst misery,
17
And devastation wrought by the War-god brought to naught
In its fell dis-unity, Aye, of a certainty,
As forecast in the Ancient Prophecy of Holy Writ, to wit,
Unto the time when the Great Deliverer shall come
And take his Chosen People home.
Note: This is what is presaged to occur in the next
Great World War which will shake the world to its very
foundations.
A SIBYLLINE PROPHECY
No more will treacherous gold and silver be,
Nor earthly wealth, nor toilsome servitude,
But one fast friendship and one mode of life
Will be with the glad people, and all things
Will common be, and equal light of life.
And wickedness from earth in the vast sea
Shall sink away. And then the harvest-time
Of mortals is near. Strong necessity
Is laid upon these things to be fulfilled.
Nor then will any other traveler say,
Recalling, that men's perishable race
Shall ever cease. And then o'er all the earth
A holy nation will the scepter hold
Unto all ages with their mighty sires.
-From THE SIBYLLINE ORACLES translated from
the Greek by Milton S. Terry. New York, 1890.
18
CHAPTER III
AMERICA'S FUTURE
The following message, given through the medium-
ship of Lucy Brown in the year 1881, and purporting to
come from George Washington, is interesting in the
light of recent labor-capital difficulties. Evidently
Washington, some sixty-five years ago looked ahead
and foresaw fascist dictatorship looming up on the hori-
zon of American destiny. If the author of this message
was George Washington, we may rest assured that he is
as interested in the welfare of this nation today as he
was two centuries ago and is as active in its affairs.
GEORGE WASHINGTON
"Clouds in the horizon are looming up to overcast the future of
America: becoming very dense, dark and foreboding ill, will burst in
an unexpected moment upon the heads of her people.
"The mutterings of discontent, engendered by a sort of incipient,
despotic rule, mild, perhaps at present in its hold over the masses, and
swelling into vaster proportions and power, will, is, breeding discon-
tent and inharmonies in the ranks of all classes of minds who labor
diligently for a subsistence and gain a small and inadequate pittance
of their hourly needs and daily bread.
"The widespread and desolating schemes of the robbers of the
people of their rightful inheritance to life, land, home and pursuit of
happiness, cannot, does not, go unnoticed by the hosts of spirits who
occupy positions above the mortal sphere, where with cultivated and
penetrative vision, we discern the secret workings of men's minds
and motives, which are out-wrought in every variety of consequences.
"The happiness of the individual depends upon the uses he makes
of the opportunities given him to choose and improve.
"So may it be said of a nation or government.
19
"If, for instance, a national government may choose to treat arbi-
trarily any portion of its people, considering not their merits and
needs, and ignores their inherent rights, it infringes its own right to
tranquility, peace and prosperity, to that extent, that dissatisfaction
and disintegration within its own dominion are engendered and the
consequent issue is disruption and open rebellion.
"Then follow the crises of war, and all its attendant evils. It is
thought by some to be the great revolutionary means of developing
better conditions.
"John Adams, an associate spirit, has said, 'War is the hub of
civilization, the periphery of which is spiritualization of the moral
and emotional nature of the masses.' So it will be upon the earth a
while longer. But we see beyond the clouded atmosphere that is
brooding over the American continent at present, a brighter sphere,
which, when the portending clouds and elements have expended
their forces, will come forth purified from the dross of selfishness and
corruption that now pollutes society and nations."
Since the above was written, the following article,
which we clip from the NATIONAL STANDARD,
was received; and we copy it, as it is quite in harmony
with the foregoing communication:
A STRONG GOVERNMENT wANTED
"In a nation of well-disposed people, a people who believe in
justice and equity, the government sits very lightly upon the shoul-
ders of its supporters. It is the instrument of the people created to
protect the weak against the unjust attacks of the strong, the virtuous
against the assaults of the vicious.
"Just governments and just laws are never opposed by the
populace.
"But when the government is seized by the few, and used as an
engine to promote their personal ambition and selfish interests, it
becomes oppressive fo the mass of the people, who will, as soon as
an opportunity presents itself, shake off their oppressors, even though
the process be through revolution and bloodshed.
"The condition of American labor, contrasted with that of the
non-producing capitalists, is awakening a spirit of inquiry, study and
discontent on the part of the former, and of fear and alarm on the
20
part of the latter. The capitalist knows that his superior condition
is the result, not of his superior skill, genius and legitimate enter-
prise, but of the very legislation which has depressed labor to its
present degraded condition. He knows too, that when labor has
solved the problem, it will right the wrong, deprive the law-favored
of their special privileges to oppress and rob the wealth producers,
and re-establish the government on the basis of the greatest good to
the greatest number."
CHICAGO EXPRESS
Edward Pierrepont raised a note of alarm in a recent
speech in Cooper Institute, New York, of which the
TRIBUNE says:
"He besought the millionaires, rich men, and respectable con-
servatives of New York, to remember that it only needed 'a resolute
leader of the populace with courage in his heart and brains under his
hat to make them very uncomfortable.' He added: 'We are pros-
perous just now, and all is quiet. It will not be so always; and then
you will want a government such as you will not find, if you shirk
political duties.'
"The wicked fear and tremble when no man accuseth, and 'flee
when no man pursueth.' There is at present no threatening danger
which calls for such utterances.
"But the programme marked out by the law-created money lords,
when enacted, may fan the smouldering fires of discontent into a
blaze of revolution.
"Knowing well the aims and objects of the money oligarchy, and
the temper and intelligence of the populace clothed with the at-
tributes of sovereignty, Mr. Pierrepont warns the 'millionaires, rich
and respectable conservatives' to be on their guard, and secure a gov-
ernment in advance that possesses the nerve, and that dare put its
iron heel on any attempt of the people to relieve themselves from the
grip of the oppressor.
"The New York Times, in commenting upon this part of Mr.
Pierrepont's speech, says that such a government as is demanded by
the 'millionaires, rich men and respectable conservatives, certainly
cannot be supplied by any party which will make concessions to the
ignorant, and any party which does triumph by the aid of the lower
classes is more likely to truckle to the preachers of socialistic propa-
21
ganda than to protect the interests which their dupes may one day be
goaded to assail.'
"Superficially, the political struggle has the appearance of being
between the Democratic and Republican parties. The prominent
issues seem to be the personal character and fitness of the respective
candidates, the past record of the contestants, and the political status
cf the States of the Union, and their constitutional relations to the
National Government.
"But these are shams, mere blinds to hold the two sectional parties
together under trusty leaders, that the rank and file may not unite
in opposition to the plundering schemes of the 'respectable conserva-
tive millionaires.'
"When these respectable plunderers secure a government that suits
them--<Jne that is bold, daring and ambitious enough to carry out
their measures, even if it be necessary to wrest sovereignty from the
'ignorant, socialistic lower classes,' they will throw off their mask,
declare openly their policy, and under pretext of necessity and public
security, deprive the 'ignorant populace' of the power to assail their
interests with either ballots or bullets. A weak government will serve
well an honest people, but robbers are safe only behind strong walls
and barricaded doors."
George Washington
Judging from the observations of George Washington
those who have passed beyond this mundane sphere still
have the power to know what appears in the press as
well as being aware of the events in the process of de-
velopment. These powers have been confirmed by re-
cent investigations of the psychic research groups of
England where tests were made to prove or disprove the
truth of the continuity of life. Over a considerable
period of time investigators were told, through the me-
diums under test, of news items that would appear the
following day in the London newspapers. Items would
be given, with key words and phrases, the locations
where the various items would appear in the following
22
day's paper, before the items were written and prior to
the knowledge of any person on the newspaper staff as
to their probable location in the paper. The foregoing
is but one of many proofs of the continuity of life, de-
veloped in recent years through psychic research that
seems uncontestible proof of immortality.
The following message from William Penn is inter-
esting in the light of financial skullduggery foreseen by
Penn and which has since occurred.
Students of finance and of our monetary system are
well aware that the act which was passed in 1914 cre-
ating the Federal Reserve System was the most detri-
mental act ever passed. It enslaved the people of the
United States to the International Bankers.
The Federal Reserve System of banks is not owned
by the Government of the United States which, in fact,
does not ow·n one share of stock. Federal Reserve
Banks are owned, lock, stock and barrel by the privately
owned banks of the United States.
The Federal Reserve System has the power to create
money at an approximate cost of thirty cents (30¢) per
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the power to create infla-
tion or depression and is given the services COM-
PLETELY FREE OF CHARGE of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (the F.B.I.). One of the
duties of the F.B.I. is the protection of Federal Reserve
Banks, an expense borne by the taxpayer and not by the
banks which receive this service.
However, Penn not only foresaw the enslavement of
the American people, but he looked ahead to the time
when the United States would become a socialist nation
23
and banks be the property of the people, operated for
the benefit of all the people as is the Post Office Depart-
ment at present.
The Federal Reserve System was patterned after
European banks; the Bank of England, the Bank of
France, etc. The Bank of England has been taken over
by the people of England. God speed the day when the
people of the United States will become smart enough
to demand that the banking system be made a property
of the people.
WILLIAM PENN
Changes Occurring and Reforms Needed
"I, William Penn, have come this morning in accordance with a
previous arrangement with my co-laborers, to make known some
things of interest to the people, and finding the opportunity favorable
for our reception, we will now say: many changes are occurring and
will take place which no human effort or power from the spiritual
world can avert.
"\Ve therefore desire that our mediums should place themselves
in receptive conditions to the intelligence of the superior Spirit realm,
so that they may the better endure the trial of modern times.
"In regard to affairs of national import, there will be much dis-
satisfaction, which will result in the disintegration and disruption of
imperial governments in the Old World.
"There will be much blood shed, which cannot compensate in any
degree for wrongs, however light or great.
"In looking over our own beloved country, we see elements at
work that will culminate in subjecting of the masses to the few
'bondholders and Shylocks' that compose the monied oligarchy of
America, and will render obsolete the stars and freedom in our land.
"The people have no idea how deeply laid are the plans to control
and subject the masses to despotism of the money power.
"Like a vast network are the corporations of the East and West,
laying their schemes to entrap and confine to certain limitations the
people that form the integral parts of the Republic.
"Charles Sumner is now striving to influence some members at
the Capital to thwart the designs and counteract the plottings of the
24
telegraph companies, who would control all the wires, even the sub-
marine. And there will be a long and strong fight ere the United
States Government will manage them as it does the postal depart-
ment, which would be more in harmony with the people's interests.
"Another reform is very much needed, that is now being over-
looked by the general populace, because they do not apprehend the
dangers before them.
"The tendency of the present administration * is pointing directly
to the usurpation of the people's rights, religiously, politically, so-
cially and financially.
"We would have them arouse to the imminent perils before them.
"As an evidence of the truth we utter, take notice that within
two years a monetary panic,** such as has not occurred, will follow
as the direct result of the peculiarly intriguing manipulations of
United States bonds, monies and properties.
"An unwise policy was instituted by a few monied men, who have
held in their hands the reins of government ever since Abraham
Lincoln came to live with us."
"The barriers to the future liberties of the people are gaining
strength and thickness every day. We would speak in tones that
should reach every heart of the sons and daughters of toil, and
quicken them to deliberate and intense thought, to vigorous and
systematic action.
"A yoke more weighty than the Egyptian gods placed upon the
neck of serfdom is theirs to wear, if they heed not the voices of the
air, the earth and sky, and seek to resist the encroachments of the
enemies of liberty.
"One thing more. There is now a bill before the Spiritual Con-
gress, and it will soon be presented to the people of the United States,
so formed in justice and equity, that there can be no way of escaping
its binding power to protect all men, women and children in their
inherent right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and to
insure this possibility each individual shall have the lawful right to
just so much land as he, she or they, as a family need for their own
comfort, happiness, pleasure and home. No more; no less.
"The land, like the air and water, belongs to God and the uni-
verse. No man, nor combination of men, collectively or severally,
have any right to more than they need and can judiciously make use
of, than they have to the patent and sole right to bottle the water, or
*Rutherford Birchard Hayes was then President of the U. S.
**A panic occurred in 1884, three years later.
25
confine the air in a casket, and thus deprive the citizen and laborer
of the elements which build up and sustain not only the individual
life, but is the very foundation upon which national prosperity exists.
"So we make no treaties with sordid selfishness. Nor can we
tolerate longer the iron arm or golden rod that goads people on to
servile bondage and squalid want. And you need not be surprised
to hear of immense failures in commercial ranks. Merchants, stock-
brokers, railroad magnates, and other consolidated companies, as well
as individual enterprises, will by some fearful means, become pros-
trated and utterly fail financially.
"A crash is coming. It is inevitable; and the millionaire of today
will be the pitiable mendicant of tomorrow. They have built an
immense structure upon a false basis, and like the sands of the rest-
less sea, it will be washed from beneath them. Goodbye.-WIL-
LIAM PENN." "Ten o'clock A.M. March 13, 1881."
In the seven decades that have passed, since William
Penn gave a prediction of a financial crash, the monied
powers have had their way. The American public la-
bors under a national debt of 275 billion dollars. What
will happen when another war or depression occurs with
more billions added to the national debt? Think you
it will not crash of its own weight and take every bank,
bank account and insurance policy with it?
The leading men of the nation, from Washington to
Franklin Delano Roosevelt have foreseen with pro-
phetic vision the concentration of wealth and power in
the hands of the few, together with the revolution it
would create.
Thomas Jefferson, author of the Declaration of In-
pendence, said:
"If the American people ever allow private banks to control the
issue of currency, first by inflation, and then by deflation, the banks
and corporations that will grow up around them will deprive the
people of all their property until their children will wake up home-
less on the continent their fathers conquered."
26
James Madison, fourth president, said:
''We are free today, substantially, but the day will come when our
republic will come to impossibility because its wealth will be concen-
trated in the hands of a few. When that day comes, then we must
rely upon the wisdom of the best elements in the country to readjust
the laws of the nation to the changed conditions."
Abraham Lincoln, sixteenth president, at the conclu-
sion of the Civil War, said:
"I see in the future a crisis approaching that unnerves me and
causes me to tremble for the safety of my country. As a result of
war, corporations have been enthroned and an era of corruption in
high places will follow. The money power will endeavor to prolong
its reign by working on the prejudices of the people until all the
wealth is aggregated into a few hands and the republic is destroyed."
The astonishing foresight of early presidents was
recognized by Woodrow Wilson when he was in office,
for he said:
"The masters of the government of the United States are the
combined capitalists and manufacturers of the United States.
"The government of the United States at present is a foster child
of the special interests. It is not allowed to have a will of its own.
"The government, which was designed for the people, has gotten
into the hands of bosses and their employers, the special interests.
An invisible empire has been set up above the forms of democracy.
"America is not a place of which it can be said, as it used to be,
that a man may choose his own calling and pursue it as far as his
abilities enable him to pursue it.
"American industry is not free as once it was free; American enter-
prise is not free. ·
"We have restricted credit, we have restricted opportunity, we
have controlled development, and we have come to be one of the
worst ruled, one of the most completely controlled and dominated
governments in the civilized world-no longer a government by free
opinion, no longer a government by conviction and the vote of the
majority, but a government ~y the opinion and duress of small groups
of dominant men."
27
The condition described by Wilson during his time
became much worse in the years following the first
World War. World War II gave Big Business the
opportunity it had long sought, the enslavement of the
American People to the world banking fraternity
through the sale of billions in war bonds. The next step
will be fascist dictatorship. Continued strife between
labor and capital will bring it about.
THE PROPHECY OF LYMAN E. STOWE
In the year 1896 Lyman E. Stowe published a book
titled "WHAT IS COMING." In the light of the
effects of World War II upon English strength, it is a
remarkable prediction.
The money power will find England not strong enough to enforce
its claims everywhere ~nd the discontent of the robbed people of the
nations will worry them so that an alliance of the nations; England,
Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain, Belgium and some other small na-
tions will be formed in this alliance.
The people of the United States will understand that this cry of
'be honest and pay your obligations and save your credit' is like the
cry of the thief of 'stop thief, stop thief.' It is only a deception and
a means to rob the masses through fraudulent claims, and they will
repudiate the whole debt; war will be made upon us, first by England
then backed by the allied forces. The great navies and armies of the
allied forces will be no match for the inventive genius of Americans,
through the help of God, and they will be driven out and through
these wonderful inventions of destruction we will destroy our ene-
mies. We will rule the turbulent American nations with a rod of
iron, as we smote the image on the feet and it shall crumble, and our
example of a republic, with religious liberties will be adopted by all
nations..••
The last act will be the great battle of Armageddon, near Jerusa-
lem, between the Allied forces of the beast (International bankers)
assisted by the troops of China and Japan on one side, and Russia,
Turkey and France on the other will take place.
28
LoRD MAcAULEY's PROPHECY
In a letter addressed to H. S. Randall, Esq., dated
London, May 23, 1857, Lord Macauley made the fol-
lowing prediction regarding America's future troubles.
The quotation from Lord Macauley's letter appears in
"LIFE AND LETTERS of LORD MACAULEY"
by Trevelyn, in Appendix, Page 409.
"Your republic will be pillaged and ravaged in the twentieth cen-
tury just as the Roman Empire was by barbarians of the fifth century,
with this difference, that the devastation of the Roman Empire came
from abroad, while your barbarians will be the people of your own
country and the product of your own institutions."
As we see fascism gaining ground, day by day, in the
United States the prophecy of Lord Macauley nears
fulfillment. The people of this nation will not long
tolerate enslavement by the House of Have and when
they throw off the bondage of fascist dictatorship the
prophecy of Macauley will be proven true.
We find substantiation of Macauley's prophecy in
OAHSPE wherein it says:
Governments are measured and graded by thy God. And when-
ever a government setteth up itself to enforce and strengthen itself
by violence against justice unto the multitude, behold, I turn away
from that government; and I call away my Lords and holy angels.
And thereupon, drujas * come upon that people, and the people
fall upon their government and destroy it.
I said unto thee: Let thy government be as a father over the
people, and not as a separate matter against them.
But thou hast disobeyed my commandments: thy government is
as one thing, and thy people as another thing. That which should
be one entity, thou hast made into two.•
Thy government hast become as a separate self from thy people;
and the people are as servants supporting the law-makers, who trade
in projects and .schemes for their own profit and glory.
* Drujas arc vicious earthbound spirits.
29
When a government no longer filleth the grade, according to the
advancement of the.people, behold, thy God withdraweth his heav-
enly protection from that government. And straightway the people
run into anarchy and destroy it.
Let this be a guide unto thee, 0 man, in prophesying the change
and overthrow of governments: According to the square of the dis-
tance a government is from Jehovih (which is Righteousness) so is
the quickness of its coming change or destruction.
OAHSPE, Book of Judgement, Chapter XXXIV.
FASCIST D1cTATORSHIP TO BE FOLLOWED BY A Soc1ALIST WoRLD
In the year 1888 there was a book published titled
"The Ancient Lowely," a History of the Ancient
Working People. In this book, the author, C. Osborn
Ward, at that time translator and librarian of the U. S.
Dept. of Labor traced the history of the working class
and their labor unions back to times preceding the
Roman Empire.
No platitude is more true than that "history repeats
itself!" Applying the principle of recurring events in
di:fferent historical epochs, Ward looked ahead to the
future of the labor movement in the United States and
predicted the wave of strikes of 1946 to be followed by
fascism in America.
"We have an example of the consummate cunning of ancient
military rule when directed by the rich; and the historical fact
which we, for the first time venture to lay bare, is a subject for the
horror and reflection of the living age; since we need but a pene-
trating vision to perceive that now, as the same power of the brother-
hoods is agtzin rising and a reign of Saturn is almost in sight, there
appears another hideous spectre of the military and money power to
us its towering genius and its magnetic forces of bribery, darkling
incantations and infatuating suasion wherewith to soothe and befog
its victims until it can constrict and again swallow up the hum:in
race as was done through the Roman conquests."
30
Ward gave a warning to the people of the United
States that should receive far more attention today than
it did when given a half century ago:
"Let every movement of the organized modern workers beware;
since the fires of that ancient hatred (of capital against labor) have
never been quenched or even christianized. To rob and glut and
become millionaires at the expense of the working people is still the
uppermost sentiment; and let us beware lest they, in their cunning,
spring upon us another standing army with a military force, such as
killed off the workers of the past. Rome, by her conquests, raised
the battle axe against the useful element of the race. That same
truculent money power is still here and it behooves the non-proper-
tied majorities to take this as their warning."
In the days when Ward wrote the foregoing, Czarist
Russia was one of the worst despotisms in the world.
Ward did not see in detail the forty years' war between
reaction and progress with its three phases. We doubt
if Ward foresaw the birth of a socialist sixth of the
world in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics follow-
ing World War I or their growth into a socialist Eurasia
following World War II. That Ward did foresee a
socialist world after a great conflict is evidenced by the
following:
"History is now repeating itself. Spasms of the same compet1t1ve
system crop out even at this day. The rage of the war spirit has been
felt in America; and editors have turned their columns into auxiliary
batteries to aid with brag and gush the belching of murderous ex-
plosives, which modern mechanics turn against the life and limb of
humanity. This was not in the scheme of the Plan of salvation of
the flesh and spirit of old. It is in aid of conquest; and in these
pages we have sufficiently shown that the great conquests of Rome
did no good. Men· are still vaunting of their puissant wit in con-
quering and destroying others. They did it in Rome all through the
conquests. And how did it turn out? Millions exterminated; mil-
lions again impoverished and discouraged; good government over-
31
-
whelmed; their wealth dragged into one putrescent center; Rome
glutted by millionaires, perished of her own infections and her con-
quered colonies in every case went down to the bad, while the animus
or organized industry, once aglow with an ascendant genius verging
toward a period of rich inventions, lost hope, lost the secrets of
manly arts, and sank to rise no more. So much for a once brilliant,
living ingrowth with the Romans destroyed, based upon, and rooted
into, a vast industrial organization well under way, and gradually
lifting humanity out into a high and peaceful enlightenment."
32
CHAPTER IV
PROPHECIES OF THE MORMONS
THE WHITE HoRsE PROPHECY OF JosEPH SMITH
One of the most amazing prophecies in the collection
of the author is the one given in May, 1843, by Joseph
Smith, founder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
Day Saints, commonly spoken of as the Mormon
Church.
A prophetic generation is 120 years, therefore this
prophecy will be completely fulfilled by 1963.
This prophecy is reprinted from a book long out of
print, published in Salt Lake City in the year 1890, over
a half century ago. In this prophecy·the White Horse
represents the members of the Mormon Church, the
Pale Horse, residents of the United States who are non-
Mormons, the Red Horse symbolizes American In-
dians, the Black Horse the colored people of the United
States.
A wAR PROPHECY
or
THE WHITE HoRSE
The following is a copy from the Journal of
Elder John ]. Roberts, Paradise, Utah.
THE PROPHECY
On about the 6th of May, 1843, a Grand Review of the Nauvoo
Legion was held in Nauvoo. The Prophet Joseph Smith compli-
mented them for their good discipline and evolutions performed.
The weather being hot, he called for a glass of water. With the
33
glass of water in his hand, he said: "I will drink to your toast to the
overthrow of the Mobocrats," which he did in the following
language:
"Here's wishing they were in the middle of the sea in a stone
canoe with iron paddles and that a shark swallowed the canoe and
the Devil swallowed the shark and himself locked up in the north-
west corner of Hell, the key lost and a blind man hunting it."
The next morning a man who heard the Prophet give the toast
returned to visit the mansion of the Prophet and so abused him with
bad language that he was ordered out by the Prophet. It was while
the two were out that my attention was attracted to them, and hear-
ing the man speaking in a loud tone of voice, I went towards them,
the man finally leaving. There were then present the Prophet, Theo-
dore Turley and myself. The Prophet began talking to us of the
mobbings and drivings and persecutions we as a people have endured,
"but, we will have worse things to see. Our persecutors will have all
the mobbings they want. Don't wish them any harm, for when you
see their sufferings you will shed bitter tears for them." While this
conversation was going on we stood by his south wicket gate in a
triangle. Turning to me he said, "I want to tell you something of
the future. I will speak in a parable like unto John the Revelator.
You will go to the Rocky Mountains and you will be a great and
mighty people established there, which I will call the White Horse
of peace and safety." When the Prophet said "You will see it," I
said "Where will you be at that time?" He said, "I shall never go
there. Your enemies will continue to follow you with persecutions
and they will make obnoxious laws against you in Congress to destroy
the White Horse, but you will have a friend or two to defend you
and throw out the worst parts of the law so they will not hurt you
so much. You must continue to petition Congress all the time, but
they will treat you like strangers and aliens and they will not give
you your rights, but will govern you with strangers and commis-
s10ners. · You will see the Constitution of the United States almost
destroyed. It will hang like a thread as fine as the finest silk fibre."
At that time the Prophet's countenance became sad, because as he
said, "I love the Constitution; it was made by the inspiration of
God; and it will be preserved and saved by the efforts of the White
Horse, and the Red.Horse who will combine in its defense. The
White Horse will find the mountains full of minerals and they will
become rich (at this time, It must be remembered, the precious metals
were not known to exist in either the Rocky Mountains or Cali-
34
fornia). You will see silver piled up in the streets. You will see the
gold shoveled up like sand. Gold will be of little value then, even
in a mercantile capacity; for the people of the world will have some-
thing else to do in seeking for salvation. The time will come when
the banks of every nation will fail and only two places will be safe
where people can deposit their gold and treasure. This place will
be the White Horse and England's vaults. A terrible revolution will
take place in the land of America, such as has never been before; for
the land will be left without a Supreme Government, and every
species of wickedness will be rampant. Father will be against son
and son against father; mother against daughter and daughter against
mother. The most terrible scenes of bloodshed, murder and rapine
that has ever been looked upon will take place. Peace will be taken
from the earth and there will be peace only in the Rocky Mountains.
This will cause many hundreds of thousand of the honest in heart of
the world to gather there, not because they would be Saints, but for
safety and because they will be so numerous that you will be in
danger of famine, but not for want of seed, time and harvest, but
because of so many to be fed. Many will come with bundles under
their arms to escape the calamities, for there will be no escape only
by fleeing to Zion. Those that come to you will try to keep the
laws and be one with you for they will see your unity and the great-
ness of your organization. The Turkish empire of the Crescent will
be the first power to be disrupted, for freedom must be given for
the Gospel to be preached in the Holy Land. The Lord took of
the best blood of the nations and planted them on the small islands
now called England and Great Britain and gave them power in the
nations for a thousand years and their power will continue with them
that they may keep the balance of power; that they may keep Russia
from sweeping her power over the world. England and France are
now bitter enemies but they will be allied together and be united to
keep Russia from conquering the world. The two popes, Greek and
Catholic, will come together and be united. The Protestant Reli-
gions do not know how much they are indebted to Henry VIII for
throwing off the Pope's bull and establishing the Protestant faith. He
was the only monarch who could do so at that time and he did it
because this nation was at his back to sustain him. One of the
peculiar features in England is the established Red-coat; a uniform
making so remarkable a mark to shoot at, and yet they have conquered
wherever they have gone. The reason for this will be known to
them some day. The lion and the unicorn of England comes from
35
there being so much of the same blood of Israel in the nation. While
the terrible things of which I have mentioned are going on, England
will be neutral until it becomes so inhuman that she will interfere to
stop the shedding of blood. England and France will unite together
to make peace, not to subdue the nations. She will find this nation
so broken up and so many claiming government, till there will be
no reasonable government. Then it will appear to the other nations,
or powers, as though England had taken possession of the country.
The Black Horse will flee to the invaders and will join them for they
have fear of becoming slaves again; knowing that England did not
believe in slavery, they will flee to them that they believe will make
them safe. Armed with British bayonets, the doings of the Black
Horse will be terrible." Here the Prophet said he could not bear to
look longer upon the scenes as shown him in vision and he asks the
Lord to close the scene.
Continuing, he said: "During this time the great White Horse
will have gathered strength, sending our elders to gather the honest
in heart from among the Pale Horse, or people of the United States,
to stand by the Constitution of the United States as it was given by
the inspiration of God. In these days God will set up a Kingdom
never to be thrown down, but for other Kingdoms to come into, and
those Kingdoms that will not let the Gospel be preached will be
humbled until they will."
"England and Germany, Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Switzer-
land, Holland and Belgium have a considerable amount of blood of
Israel among the people which must be gathered out. Those nations
will submit to the nations of God. England will be the last of the
Kingdoms to surrender, but when she does she will do it as a whole
in comparison as she threw off the Catholic power. The nobility
knows that the Gospel is true, but it has not pomp enough, and
grandeur and influence for them to embrace it. They are proud and
will not acknowledge the Kingdom of God or come into it until they
see the power it will have. Peace and safety in the Rocky Mountains
will be protected by the Guardians, the White and Red Horses. The
coming of the Messiah among his people will be so natural that only
those who see him will know that he has come, but he will come
and give his laws unto Zion and minister unto his people. This will
not be his coming in the clouds of Heaven to take vengeance on the
wicked of the world."
"The temple in Jackson county, Missouri, will be built in this
generation (by 1963). The saints will think that there will not be
36
time to build it, but with all the great help you can receive, you can
put up a great temple quickly. You will have all the gold, silver and
precious stones you need, for these things will only be for the beauti-
fying of the temple. Also, all the skilled mechanics you want and
the Ten Tribes of Israel will help build it. When you see this land
bound with iron, you may look forward to Jackson county."
At this point, he made a pause, and looking up as though the
vision were still in view, he said: "There is a land beyond the
Rocky Mountains that will be invaded by the Heathen Chinese un-
less great care and protection be given." Speaking of the heathen
nations, he said: "Where there is no law there is no condemnation;
this will apply to them. Power will be given to the White Horse
to rebuke the nations afar off, and you obey it, for the laws go forth
from Zion. The last great struggle Zion wi11 ever have to contend
with will be when the whole of America will be made the Zion of
God. Those opposing will be called Gog and Magog. The nations
of the earth wi11 be led by the Russian Czar (dictator) and his
power wi11 be great, but all opposition will be overcome and this
land will be the Zion of our God. Amen."
We will examine the foregoing prophecy in detail,
keeping in mind that it was given in 1843, shortly be-
fore the murder of Joseph Smith by "mobocrats" and
four years before the trek of the Mormons, under the
leadership of Brigham Young, to the Great Salt Lake
valley of Utah.
Smith foresaw his own death, the migration of the
Mormons to Utah and the oppression they suffered at
the hands of Congress that was responsible for placing
an anti-Mormon governor over them.
Smith's vision seems to have skipped some half cen-
tury of time from the early days in Utah until the time
of the first world war. It was during 1914-1 91 8 that
bankers and industrialists were busy sabotaging the Con-
stitution.
Smith foresaw the failure of International banking
37
and our present debt system, followed by a terrible
revolution in the United States. Thousands of people
will gather in Utah and it will strain the resources of
the Valley to feed them.
Evidently a fascist dictatorship will then rule the
United States for Smith said, "When you see this land
bound with iron" or devoid of freedom you can expect
the things he predicted. Evidently there will be a short
period when various factions are claiming authority and
neither the people of the United States nor of other
nations will be able to tell just who is in valid authority.
Then England and France will send troops to establish
order and will make the terrible mistake of arming the
·colored people of the U. S.
Joseph Smith's statement that "England will be the
last Kingdom to surrender" is in harmony with prophe-
cies of Joanna Southcott, an English seeress born in
1792.
Smith also mentions that Turkey will be disrupted
which is confirmed by many other prophecies. As we
write this the army of Turkey is mobilized on one side
of the border and Russian troops on the other. It looks
like Turkey might be destroyed by the time this book
reaches the reader. Smith seems to have also visioned
the return of the Jews to Palestine.
With regimentation and loss of freedom by the peo-
ple of the United States will come the fulfillment of
every phase of the White Horse prophecy.
In the autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, one of the
early leaders of the Mormon Church, appears an ac- 1
count of a vision that was given to him foretelling the
coming of the Universal Kingdom of God upon earth.
38
The location given in this vision for the founding of
this kingdom agrees with that given in OAHSPE, the
New Bible, wherein it states: that Jehovih's (God's)
Kingdom on Earth will ,be founded on the North
American Continent.
• • • "I beheld an immense city, • apparently of all nations.
In the midst of this city stood a magnificent temple, which, in mag-
nitude and splendor, exceeding everything of the kind before known
upon the earth ••• a bright cloud overshadows it from which ex-
tended rays of glory arld brightness in all the magnificent colors of
the rainbow. The whole building thereof, seemed to cover some 8
or 10 acres of ground. 'This,' said the Angel of the Prairies, 'is the
Sanctuary of Freedom, the Palace of the Great King, and the center
of the Universal government. Follow me and you shall behold the
magnificence, order and glory of his Kingdom' . . . he came to the
eastern door of the temple, over which was inscribed in letters of
gold, the following:
'Here wisdom, knowledge and truth are blended!
H ere mercy reigns and war is ended!
Here on these grounds all nations enter;
But here a tyrant dare not venture!'
"On this throne was seated an aged, venerable looking man. His
hair was white with age, and his countenance beamed with intelli-
gence and affection indescribable as if he were the father of the
kingdoms and the people over which he reigned. He was clad in
robes of dazzling whiteness, while a glorious crown rested upon his
brow, and a pillar of light above his head, .•. 'You now behold,'
said the Angel of the Prairies, 'the Grand Presiding Council or-
ganized in wisdom, and holding the Keys of power to bear rule over
all the earth in righteousness. And of the increase and glory of their
kingdoms there shall be no end.' I now beheld one vast extent of
populous country. Cities, towns and villages. • . .''
" 'Behold,' continued he, 'what truth and knowledge and persever-
ance can accomplish in a single century.' To this I replied: 'I am
lost in wonder and amazement, and can hardly understand what I
see. Who are these populous nations and tribes, who in the happy
myriads occupy the country immediately to the West, which was
39
--......
formerly occupied by savage hordes, but now presents one vast scene
of neatness, beauty, civilization and happiness? Have the Indian
tribes, then, been entirely exterminated and their country overrun
by civilized nations? 'NAY,' said he. 'These are STILL the In-
dians, a mysterious providence preserved their remnants, and gath-
ered and concentrated them into ONE PEACEFUL nation. When
they were first brought together from all parts of the continent, they
numbered a population of about 7,000,000 ignorant, degraded peo-
ple. But the light of truth dawned upon them, and with it came all
the blessings of peace, plenty, civilization, cleanliness and beauty,
which you behold, and they now constitute some 35,000,000 and
occupy ·all the country West of the Mississippi and bordering on the
Rocky Mountains.'
"Turning to the guide, I inquired by what strange connection of
events, or by what mighty revolutions the American System had been
dissolved, and its elements blended with this great Central and Uni-
versal Government, which, notwithstanding my former preposses-
sions, 'was constrained to acknowledge as far superior in excellence,
glory and perfection to the former.' To this the Angel of the
I Prairies replied as follows:
" 'The American system was indeed glorious in its beginning,
and was founded by wise and good men, in opposition to long estab-
lished abuses and oppressive systems of the old world. But it had
its weaknesses and imperfections. These were taken advantage of
by wicked and conspiring men, who were unwisely placed at the head
of the government, and who, by a loose and corrupt administration,
gradually undermined that beautiful structure. In their polluted
hands justice faltered, truth fell to the ground, equity could not enter
and virtue fled into the wilderness. A blind, sectarianized and cor-
rupt populace formed themselves into numerous mobs, overturned
the laws and put at defiance the administration thereof. These were
joined by the officers of government or secretly winked at and en-
couraged by them, until the injured and persecuted friends of law
and order, finding NO protection or redress, were forced to abandon
their country and its institutions, now no longer in force, and to
retreat into the wilderness, with the loss of a vast amount. of property
and many valuable lives."
"These carried with them the spirit of liberty which seemed as a
cement to form them into union, and thus was formed a nucleus
around which rallied, by degrees, all the virtue and patriotism of the
nation. Thus rallied reorganized, the bold and daring sons of lib-
40
erty were able to stand in their own defense, and to hurl defiance
upon their former enemies. Thus the spirit of freedom had with-
drawn from the mass and they were abandoned, like King Saul of
old, to destruction. Divisions and contentions arose, and multiplied
to that degree that they soon destroyed each other, deluged the
country in blood, and thus ended the confederation under the title
of 'E Pluribus Unum.'"
" 'The remnant who fled into the wilderness and rallied to the
standard of Liberty on the plains of the West, combining their wis-
dom of former experience with the light of truth which shone into
their hearts from above, laid the foundation of their perfect form of
government-the mighty empire of liberty which you now see, and
the institutions of which you shall be more fully informed in due
time. The wisdom, intelligence and peace which flowed FROM
THIS CENTER soon served as an ensign to the nations abroad.
This filled some with envy, others with admiration and delight. The
good, the great, the noble, the generous and patriotic lovers of truth
rallied from all nations, and joining the standard of freedom, were
a constantly increasing strength to their new and perfect organiza-
tion. While by the same means the old and corrupt institutions were
proportionately weakened and abandoned. This soon stirred the
envy and jealousy of old and corrupt powers to that degree that they
united in a general declaration of war against their young and more
prosperous neighbors. • . • They aimed at nothing less than the
subjugation and plunder of the whole country.'" (See George
Washington's Vision.) "'These powers were a portion of them
landed, with implements and effects, and the remainder reserved on
board their ships. They were met by the sons of liberty, both by
sea and land, who were at length victorious, and this whole army was
overcome, and their riches and armor, which was immense, were
taken for spoil. This brilliant victory greatly enriched and strength-
ened the new Empire of Freedom, and at the same time nearly
ruined the nations who commenced the war. They sued for peace,
and finally obtained it on condition of perfect submission to the will
of the conquerors. This gave them new and liberal laws and institu-
tions, broke off the fetters of their old masters, and utterly forbade
the use of arms or the art of war. These brilliant and highly com-
mendable measures soon opened the eyes of millions more, and won
them to the cause of liberty and truth. Other and distant nations,
who had watched all these movements at length, saw the beauties of
liberties and felt the force of truth, until finally, with one consent,
41
they joined the same standard. Thus, in one short century the
world is revolutionized; tyranny is dethroned; war has ceased for-
ever; peace is triumphant, and truth and knowledge cover the
earth.' "
"Thus spake the Angel of the Prairies, and when he had ceased to
speak, I still continued to listen; for such a place of glory and intelli-
gence burst at once upon my view, and even though so passing
strange, so complicated, so unlooked for, it had taken place in a
single century, and had been related to me in so masterly a manner,
that I stood overwhelmed with astonishment and wonder, and I
could hardly believe my senses. Is it possible, thought I, that a
Republic founded upon the most liberal principles, and established
by the sweat and blood and tears of our renowned ancestors, and so
cherished and respected by their children, has faded like the dazzling
splendor of the morning's dawn? Has withered like an untimely
flower? And that, too, by the corruption of its own degenerate
sons, the very persons who should have cherished it forever? Where
was the spirit of patriotism, of freedom, of love of country, which had
once characterized the sons of Liberty and warmed the bosoms of
Americans?"
"With reflections like these I had commenced a lamentation over
my fallen, lost and ruined country. But suddenly recollecting myself,
and calling to mind the other events which had been related, my
sorrow was turned to joy. I saw, although there had been great
corruption and a general overthrow of our government, and its insti-
tutions, yet many of the sons of noble sires had stood firm and un-
shaken in the cause of freedom; even amid the wreck of states, and
the crash of thrones, they had maintained their integrity, and when
they had no longer a country or government to fight for, they re-
tired to the plains of the West, and came with them the pure spirit
of freedom. There, in the midst of a more extensive, a rich and
better country, they had established a government more permanent,
strong and lasting; and vastly more extensive and glorious, combining
strength, solidity, with a most perfect liberty and freedom.''
"Nor had their labors been confined to the narrow limits of their
own immediate country and nation, but had burst the chains of
tyranny and broken the yoke of bondage from the growing millions
of all nations and colors; and where darkness, ignorance, superstition,
cruelty and blood-shed had held dominion for ages, light had sprung
up, truth had triumphed and peace had commenced its universal
reign. And where, a century ago, an extensive and fertile country _
42
lay desolate and lone, or partially occupied by ignorant and cruel
savages, hundreds of millions of intelligent and happy beings were
now enjoying all the sweets of domestic felicity. Why then, thought
I, shall I mourn? The labors of our fathers were not in vain, on the
contrary, the results have been a thousand times more glorious than
their most sanguine expectations. The spirit of their institutions has
been cherished and maintained, their temples of liberty enlarged and
perfected; while the dross has been separated and destroyed, and the
chaff blown to the four winds."
"The only perfect system of government, then, is a Theocracy;
that is, a government under the immediate, constant and direct
superintendency of the Almighty. This order of government com-
menced in Eden, when God chose Adam for a ruler and gave him
laws. • • • By this power, Daniel, the prophet, removed and in-
structed Nebuchadnezzar, displacing Belteshazzar, and directed Cy-
rus; continually impressing upon the kings and nations this one and
important principle, viz: 'That God is a revealer of secrets, and
claims the right of government over kings and potentates of the
earth.' "
"'To convince Nebuchadnezzar of this one fact, he was driven out
from his throne and from the society of me~, to dwell among the
beasts of the field and to eat grass as well as the ox, and afterwards
restored to his kingdom again. And to convince all nations of this
fact, King Nebuchadnezzar wrote his epistle to all nations and lan-
guages, in which he bore testimony to the same. • • . By this au-
thority the God of heaven promised, by all the holy prophets, that
He would set up a kingdom that should destroy and break in pieces
all of these kingdoms, and become universal and stand forever.'"
" 'By this authority the God of heaven has fulfilled that which
He spoke by the mouths of His ancient prophets, by revealing from
heaven and appointing and establishing a glorious kingdom which
shall stand forever. • • • The venerable council which you beheld
enthroned in majesty ••• is the order of the Ancient of Days, be-
fore whose august presence thrones have been cast down, and tyrants
have ceased to rule. You have understood the secret purposes of
Providence in relation to the prairies and the West, and of the earth
and its destiny. Go forth on your journey and wander no more, but
tell the world of things to come.' "
It seems evident, in Parley Pratt's experience a sub-
jective picture was projected into his mind of God and
43
His Holy Council overshadowing the world and espe-
cially the United States. The government foretold in
Pratt's vision is the future government of the United
States.
If the "Angel of the Prairies" was a true vision of the
future we can expect a breakdown of civil government
to be followed by recovery, after which, we will be in-
vaded by both Asiatic and European powers.
We find confirmation in Pratt's vision witnessed about
1860 in the visions of Anton Johanson a half century
later.
The century mentioned in Pratt's vision would be
from 1880 to 1980. According to the cosmic cycles, as
given in OAHSPE, there is a 132 year cycle made up of
four cycles of 33 years, each of which marks the birth
of a new generation. In other words, it will require
four generations of man to take the world through the
transition period from the old major cycle of 3,000
years which ended in 1848 into the new Kosmon or
Acquarian cycle of 3,000 years. These cycles and their
manifestations are briefed below.
184-8-1881-3 3 year cycle of revolution and invention.
1881-1914--33 year cycle of inspiration.
1914-194-8-33 year cycle of wars and destruction.
194-8-1980-33 year cycle of reconstruction.
132 years.
It will be noted that 66 years after we entered the
Kosmon Cycle the WORLD WAR, divided into three
phases of world wars I, II, and III, broke out.
The 99th year is the Creator's year and we may ex-
pect some great manifestation from the Spirit World in
1948.
The major troubles of the world will be over in 1948
but minor wars will be fought all over the world for
some six years thereafter. The year 1981 will bring us
into the Millennium or the thousand year peace period.
The following vision was taken from the book com-
piled by Mr. C. C. Anderson of Salt Lake City, Utah,
in the year 1890.
NEWMAN BuLKLEY's V1S10N
Related by himself as seen by him in Springville, Utah
on the night of January 8th, 1886.
"I retired to rest about 9 o'clock in the evening. In a short time
I dozed off to sleep, and it seemed as if the spirit of my dead wife
was hovering near me, and the vision of my mind was opened, and
I beheld the members of the Senate of the United States. While
in session they were hurled from the hall by some unseen power.
They rallied again, and the second time were thrown from the hall.
They rallied the third time and were thrown from the hall with
such violence that a number of them were killed. Next, I saw a
whirlwind commence in the center of the House of Representatives,
which increased until it frightened all the members out of the house,
and they scattered to various parts of the United States; and the in-
habitants of the City of Washington became so frightened and scat-
tered, until the city became almost desolate. Then I saw a great
tumult commence all over the United States, which ended in a great
deal of blood being shed; and a great many of the people . • .
gathered up what little effects they could take with them, and came
to this people in the mountains. Then I saw many thousands of
women and children take refuge in the timber and hazel or any place
where they could conceal themselves from turmoil that was going
on in the States. Then the people of the United States patched up
their difficulties and elected a new Congress, which assembled again
to do business."
Norman Bulkley's vision continued in which he fore-
saw a new aggression against the Mormon people that
was unsuccessful in destroying the Mormon faith.
45
Another v1s10n, recorded in the book published m
1890 by C. C. Anderson, follows:
PATRIARCH c. D. EVANS' VISION
Related by himself, as seen by him in Salem, Utah,
on the night of December 25th, 1882.
"While meditating upon the present position of the Saints and
of the false accusation made against them of "disloyalty" and of being
the "enemies of mankind," etc., my mind was suddenly carried away
to the past. Methought a panoramic view of the events of the
Reformation passed before me in rapid succession. Not only were
the general facts of its history impressed upon me, in a manner im-
possible to describe, but even its minor details, details unknown to
me from research were made known also. The very actors were
shown with such marvelous exactness and so minutely true to life
that, were I an artist, I would draw an exact portrait of every actor
in that historical epoch. Never, while life shall last, can the memory
of that picture be effaced."
"In connection with this marvelous history, it was clearly shown
that each actor, in the work of religious liberty, was assigned his
part and so completely was this understood that none were allowed
to interfere, in the least, with the labors of their contemporaries in
the same work. Not only was the history of that event clearly mani-
fest, but the labors of Wesley, Watt, and others and their effects for
general :eligious freedom. While I continued to gaze and marvel at
the wondrous work before me, all of a sudden the scene vanished,
and a _new era, resultant, however, from the forces of the religious
agencies before mentioned, burst upon my view. The history of
American Independence, wifh the actors therein, passed before me.
The Constitution of the United States was emblazoned upon an
immense distance. Civil and religious toleration was general
throughout the land. Man rejoiced in the privilege of worshipping
God according to the dictates of conscience. Prosperity reigned.
Angels smiled. Heaven approved. The fetters of political and re-
ligious intoleration, forged by the monarchs of the eastern world,
were sundered, shall it be forever? Such was my thought. I was
full of joy at the sight; big tears of joy rolled down my cheeks, when,
of a sudden, my attention was directed to a personage standing by
46
my bedside, and who was attired in a white and flowing robe. Ad-
dressing himself to me he said, "Son of mortality, look."
"I looked and beheld a scene most revolting to my senses, from the
fact that it was the reverse of the prosperity and religious freedom I
had before witnessed. I saw the representatives of one branch of ths
Republic holding in their hands fetters they themselves had forged.
The personage, again addressing me, said, "Knowest thou the mean-
ing of these?" I answered "No." He replied, "These are the
chains with which certain sons of the Republic who have tasted of
the tree of liberty, desire to bind their fellows. These are they who
seek to subvert the cause of human freedom. These seek to enslave
one portion of the children of freedom who differ with them in
religious belief and practice. Know thou, my son, that their object
is filthy lucre. They plot to take away human rights, and to destroy
the freedom of the soul, to possess the homes of the industrious with-
out fee or reward. vVoe unto such, for the vengeance of heaven
awaits them! Their souls shall be had in derision, and the heavens
shall laugh at their folly. Their calamity slumbereth not. But cast
the eyes eastward and look."
"I looked and beheld that the bands which had held society to-
gether during the reign of the Republic, were snapped asunder.
Society had broken loose from all the restraints of principle and good
conscience. Brotherhood had dissolved. Respect for common rights
and even the rights of life and property had fled from the land. I
saw faction after faction arise and contend with each other. Political
strife was everywhere. Father and son alike contended in these
dreadful feuds. The spirit of deadly hate, like a rapidly rolling
flame, passed through the Republic. Blood was written on every
banner. The spirit of bloodshed appeared to possess every heart."
"Turning to the personage in white, I exclaimed: 'Surely this
means the total destruction of the nation.' Touching my eyes with
his finger, he replied: 'Look again.' I looked and beheld that many
were angry with the rulers of the Republic, for their subversion of
the Constitution, and their wholesale plunder of the public moneys,
arose and proclaimed themselves the friends of liberty and equal right,
the friends of the Constitution in its original form. These looked
around for some to sustain the country's flag inviolate, pledging their
lives and fortunes and sacred honors to that end.''
"A voice was now suddenly heard declaring these words: 'In the
distant mountain tops are to be found the true lovers of freedom and
equal rights, a people who have never made war upon each other.
47
Go there, for there only can lives and property be secure from the
spoiler. There alone can the flag you love wave proudly for the
protection of all people, irrespective of creed or color.' "
"While thus engaged I cast my eyes to the Far West when sud-
denly appeared on Ensign Peak, near Salt Lake City, a beautiful flag
whereon was written these words: " Friends of Human Liberty
throughout the World, all Hail! We greet you under the Flag of
Freedom, our Country's Flag." One loud shout of "Welcome!"
from the Mountain Sons of Freedom rent the air. I beheld tha~ the
multitude wept for joy. The laws were again administered in pur-
ity. The people prospered. T yrants were hurled down. All re- ·
ligious bodies were equally protected before the law. No North, no
South, no East, no West, but one unbroken nation whose banner
waved for all the world. On this I awoke in tears of joy."
Visions similar to that given C. D. Evans in 1882
have been given several others both before and since.
The first such vision seems to have been given George
Washington at the time when he was serving as Com-
mander in Chief of the American Revolutionary Army.
In Washington's vision three and possibly four wars
were shown; the Revolutionary War of 1775- 1781, the
War of the Rebellion of 1861-1865 and a period cover-
ing civil strife and foreign invasion as the "third great
peril" scheduled for our nation.
A V1s10N oF WoRLD CoN DITIONS
It is a custom, before the dedication of a new Mor-
mon Temple, to permit visitors·to go through the new
building for three days before it is closed to non-mem-
bers of the Church.
In 1922 a new temple was dedicated at Cardston,
Alberta, Canada. During the time when visitors were
permitted a member of the Quaker faith was conducted
48
through the temple. A few weeks after her visit she
wrote a letter telling of her impressions while in the
temple. Much of her letter has been deleted in this
reprint of it; only the parts of prophetic nature are used.
"I am afraid that I was a very indifferent and inattentive member
of the party, for which I tender my sincere apologies. I had no
intention of being rude or discourteous but from the moment of
entering the Temple or leaving, I was placed in a position of having,
as it were, to listen and grasp a dual narrative all the time, with the
result that so engrossed was I at all times that I am afraid I was so
absent-minded as to appear inattentive, if not positively stupid. I
have stated that my exterior impressions of the building was that of
a place waiting for a higher civilization than our present one. This
would suggest a condition of emptiness but that is not what I mean.
An ordinary newly erected building has no atmosphere at all until it
has been inhabited for some time, after which, it has a living atmos-
phere. What kind of atmosphere this is, is largely determined by
the spiritual development and thoughts of the persons using and in-
habiting the building. This applies especially to places of worship
and consecration and it is very noticeable to a sensitive person. Some-
times such an atmosphere is agreeable, · exalting, etc.; sometimes
very much the reverse, depending upon the spiritual harmony or
otherwise, of the person entering such building. The Temple being
newly built and not as yet officially dedicated to its use, would seem
to come under this atmospheric rule, b~t it was not so, at least as far
as I was concerned."
"Whilst outside the Temple, I could not understand the over-
whelming sense of ancient atmosphere, which the building actually
possessed in its very granite blocks, in spite of the fact that I know
these stones had been laid but a few months previous, yet the im-
pression of age predominated. I dismissed the feeling as well as I
could by thinking that the plan of the structure was responsible for
the suggestion of age."
"But when I entered the temple how quickly I found an inten-
sified repetition of the same thing in another way. Inside the
Temple there was nothing to suggest to me that present day atmos-
phere of which I have spoken, but was it empty? Emphatically no."
"Time and again as I listened to the speaker explaining some
49
phase of the building or its meaning, I would be seeing beyond him
some illustration of a kaleidoscopic nature, depicting what he was de-
scribing, only more completely and more vividly. The characters
were so plain to me that I required all my self control to keep silent
from room to room. This continued and only ceased when we
emerged into the frost and snow once more."
"There was no set plan for presenting these pictures or expres-
sions to me. It seemed as if when I thought of something mental
a picture instantly presented itself in explanation of some word of •
the conductor, which would have the same effect. I was not afraid,
only awed by the wonder of it all and the fearful impressive feeling
I received, which seemed to imbed every little detailed scene into my
· brain, from which I feel it will never be erased. Every now and
again I would seem to receive a command, "observe, remember and
record," and vivid as it all was, these incidents herein related are
the ones upon which I received the instructions."
"The scenes which I observed of an historical character seemed
chiefly to verify and amplify the speaker's outline of past history and
so do I feel impressed to record such, except to- state that the same
patriarchal characters whom I observed directing and influencing the
early movements of the Church, were the same down through every
age and epoch and as the scene advanced to more modern times, I saw
among these spiritual counselors persons whose features I had previ-
ously observed as being in the material body on other historical oc-
casions. It seemed as though the Temple was filled with actual
spiritual bodies of these previous leaders of the Church, each seeming
to have a definite work to do, automatically taking up in the spirit
world the work that person was engaged in whilst in the flesh. In
that Temple I saw persons who were leaders of your Church during
its march across the American Desert, now engaged in helping those
higher patriarchs under whose orders they seemed to be working. It
was these latter spiritual leaders if I may use that term, who seemed
instructed to show me the scenes here recorded."
"I can give no time as to the happenings except that the impres-
sions I received were of actual present or the immediate future."
WAR AND REVOLUTION
"I saw first a brief but comprehensive sketch of the present state
of the world, or, as you would term it, the Gentile Kingdoms.
Each country in turn was shown, its anarchy, hunger, ambitions,
50
distrusts and warlike activities, etc., and in my mind was formed from
some source the words, 'as it is today with the Gentiles.' "
"I saw next, international war again break out with its center upon
the Pacific ocean, but sweeping and encircling the whole globe. I
saw that the opposing forces were roughly divided by so called
Christianity on the one side, and by the so called followers of
Mohammed and Buddha on the other. I saw that the great driving
power within these so called Christian Nations was the Great
Apostacy of Rome: In all its political, social and religious aspects.
I saw the world-wide dislocation and devastation of production and
slaughter of people occur more swiftly and upon a larger scale than
ever before, I saw an antagonism begin to express itself from so
called Christian nations against your people, I saw those of a similar
faith to yours in the far east begin to look toward Palestine for
safety. I saw the international world war automatically break down,
and national revolutions occur in every country and complete the
work of chaos and desolation. I saw geological disturbances occur
which helped in this work as if it were intended to do so. I saw
the Cardston Temple preserved from all this geological upheaval. I
saw the international boundary line disappear as these two govern-
ments broke up and dissolved into chaos. I saw race rioting upon
this American continent on a vast scale."
"I saw hunger and starvation in this world, a granary of the
American continent swept off in vast numbers of these conflicting
elements. I saw disease produced by hunger, strife and chaos, com-
plete the end of this present order or epoch. How long these
events were in reaching this consummation I do not know, but my
impression was from the outbreak of the international war, things
developed in a continuous procession, and almost ran concurrently,
as it is with sickness, the various symptoms are all in evidence at one
and the same time, but in different stages of development."
"My intensified thought was: 'What of the Church, if such is
to become of the kingdoms of the earth?' Was immediately an-
swered by a subconscious statement: 'As it is in the Church today,'
and I saw these higher spiritual beings throughout the length and
breadth of the air, marshalling their spiritual forces and concentrating
them upon those officers, impressing and moving them, influencing
and warning them. I saw these spiritual forces begin to unfold these
things into the mind of your elders and other high officials, especially
during their spiritual devotions and official duties, and those activities
which exalt the mind of individual groups. I saw the impressions
51
take hold and inspire the more receptive and spiritual men, until it
was all clearly revealed to them in the way the spiritual patriarch
desired."
CHURCH WELFARE PLAN PREDICTED
"Again I seemed to hear the words, "As it will be." I saw the
high officials in council, and under inspired guidance issue instruc-
tions to your people, to reconsecrate their lives and energies to their
faith, to voluntarily discipline themselves by abstaining from all those
forms of indulgence which weaken the body, sap the mentality, and
deaden their spirit or waste their incomes. ·
I saw further on, instructions given whereby the places of refuge
were prepared quietly by efficiently inspired elders. I saw Cardston
and the surrounding foothills, especially west and north, for miles,
being prepared for a refuge for your people, quietly but quickly.
I saw artesian wells dug all over that territory, so that when the
open waters were polluted and poisoned that the people of the
Church and their cattle would be provided for; I saw the fuel re-
sources of the district developed in many places and vast piles of
coal and timbers stored for future use and building.
I saw the elders still under Divine Guidance counseling and en-
couraging the planting of every available acre of soil in this district,
so that large supplies could be near the refuge. I saw the Church
property under cultivation of an intensified character, not for sale
or profit, but for the use of the people. I saw the inspired officers
giving instructions what would be the best crops to plant and culti-
vate, not for profit but for use in storage at the time of chaos. I saw
the territory carefully surveyed and mapped out for the camping of a
great body of people of the Church. I saw provisions also made for
a big influx of people who at present do not belong to the Church,
but who will gather in their tribulations. I saw vast quantities of
surgical appliances, medicines, disinfectants, etc., stored in the
Temple basement. I saw inspiration given the elders whereby the
quality, quantity, and kind of things to be stored were judged, which
might not be obtainable in this territory during the time of chaos.
I saw defensive preparations made and stored as suggested by the
power of inspiration. I saw the elders working out the organizations
of the camps upon maps. I saw the mining corridors used as places
of storage underground. I saw the hills surveyed and corrals built in
sequestered places for cattle, sheep, etc., quietly but quickly.
I saw the plans for the organization of the single men, and their
52
duties, the scouts, the guards, the nurses; the cooks, the messengers,
the children, the herders; the Temple guards, etc. I saw all these
preparations going on practically unknown to the Gentile world, ex-
cept to the Great Apostacy, whose knowledge and hatred is far-
reaching in this day of its temporary power. This was going on
piece by piece as the elders were instructed to do, for the refuge.
I saw other officials obeying the inspired instructions, carrying
their message and exhorting your people to follow out from time to
time, the revelation given them, whilst all around throughout the
Gentile world the chaos developed its varying stages, faction against
faction, nation against nation, but all, in open or secret hostility to
your people and their faith. I saw your people draw closer and
closer together as this became more intense and as the spiritual forces
warned them through the mouths of your elders and other officers.
I saw the spiritual forces influencing these members who had drifted
away to reenter the fold. I saw a greater tithing than ever before. I
saw vast quantities of necessities supplied by members whose spiritual
eyes had been opened. I saw a liquidation of properties and effects
disposed of quietly and quickly by the members of the Church, as the
spiritual influences directed them.
I saw the inspired call sent forth to all the Church to gather to the
refuges of Zion. I saw the stream of your people quietly moving in
the direction of their refuge. I saw your people moving more
quickly and in large numbers until all the stragglers were housed.
I saw the wireless message flashed from Zion's refuge to Zion's refuge
in their several places, that all was well in the world, and then the
darkness of chaos closed around the boundaries of your people and
the last days of tribulation had begun."
A quarter century has passed since the foregoing
vision was given at Cardston, Alberta, Canada. Since
that time World War II has been fought and World
War III is brewing. Communism is sweeping Europe
and gaining strength in China. Instead of peace and
abundance in America following VE and VJ days, we
have had an epidemic of strikes and trouble has fol-
lowed trouble. Every year since 1922, when the
Cardston vision was given, has seen fulfillment of this
53
forevision. Is it not probable that the complete picture
will be fulfilled ere 1954?
PROPHECIES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG
The following prophecy was given by Brigham
Young in 1860. It may be found in the Journal of
Discources on page 123 of Vol. 8.
"All you now know can scarcely be called a preface to the sermon
that will be preached with fire and sword, tempests, earthquakes, hail,
rain, and fearful destruction. You will hear of magnificent cities,
idolized by the people, sinking in the earth, entombing the inhabit-
ants. The sea will heave beyond its bounds engulfing mighty cities.
Famine will spread over the nations and nation will rise against na-
tion, kingdom against kingdom and states against states, in our own
country and in foreign lands; and they will destroy each other, caring
not for the blood and lives of their neighbors, of their families nor
of their own lives."
As this manuscript is being written a national railroad
strike has just been settled. While of short duration it
was sufficient to demonstrate the effects of an extended
tieup of national transportation. That such an event
will develop seems certain if the vision given Wilford
Woodruff in 1877 is fulfilled. Epidemics of new and
strange diseases that will decimate the human race have
been prophesied by prophets too numerous to list.
Wilford Woodruff was one of the early Presidents
of the Mormon Church and was gifted with remarkable
prophetic powers. From the following vision it seems
that he was also gifted with the ability to leave his
physical body in spirit.
"I was in a dream in the City of Salt Lake wandering around the
streets. In all parts of the city on the doors of the houses I found
54-
badges of mourning and I could not find a house that was not in
mourning."
... "It seemed strange to me that I saw no person in the street,
during all my wanderings around the city. I seemed to be in there
with the sick, but saw no funeral procession, nor anything of that
kind, but people were praying and it seemed as though they had con-
trolled the disease. I then looked over the country, East and West,
North and South, and the same mourning was in every place."
"The next I knew I was just this side of Omaha. It seemed as
though I was above the earth, and looking down upon it. As I
passed along upon my way east, I saw the road full of people, mostly
women, with just what they could carry in bundles on their backs
traveling to the mountains on foot."
"I wondered how they could get through with such a small pack
on their back. It was remarkable to me that there was so few men
among them. It did not seem to me as though the cars were run-
ning. The rails looked rusty and abandoned and I have no con-
ception of how I traveled as I looked down upon the people. I con-
tinued east by the way of Omaha and Council Bluffs which were
full of disease. The states of Illinois and Missouri were in tumult.
Men were killing one another and women joining in the fighting.
Family were against family in the most horrid manner. I imagined
next, that I was in Washington, and I found desolation there. The
whole House of Representatives was empty and the Halls of Congress
the same and everything in ruins. The people seemed to have
fled the city and left it to take care of itself. I was next in Baltimore
in the square where the monument of 1812 stands in front of the
Charles Hotel. I saw dead piled up so as to fill the square. I saw
mothers cutting the throats of their own children for their blood.
I saw them suck it from their throats to quench their thirst, and then
lie down and die. The waters of the Chesapeake Bay were so
stagnant and the stench arising from it on account of their throwing
dead bodies in it so terrible that the very smell carried death with it.
I saw no men except they were dead or dying on the streets and very
few women. And those I saw were crazy and in an ugly condition."
"Everywhere I went I beheld the same sight all over the city, it
was terrible beyond description to look upon. I thought this must be
the end, but no, I was seemingly in an instant in the city of
Philadelphia. There everything was still. No living soul was there
to greet me. It seemed the whole city was without any inhabitants.
55
In the south of Chestnut Street and in fact everywhere I went, the
putrification of the dead caused such a stench that it was impossible
for any living thing to breathe, nor did I see any living thing in the
city."
"Next I found myself in Broadway in New York, and there it
seemed the people had done the best they could to overcome the
disease, but in wandering down Broadway, I saw bodies of beautiful
women lying, some dead and others in a dying condition, on the
sidewalk. I saw men come out of cellars and ravish the persons of
some that were yet alive, and then kill them and rob their bodies
of all the valuable they had upon them and then they would roll
over a time or two and die in agony. In some of the back streets
I saw them kill some of their own offspring and eat their raw flesh,
and in a few minutes die themselves."
"Everywhere I went I saw the same scenes of horror and de-
struction and death. No vehicles or cars were running, but death
and destruction was everywhere. Then I saw a fire start, and just
at that moment a mighty East wind sprang up and carried the
flames over the city and it burned until there was not a single build-
ing left standing there, even down to the water's edge. Wharves
and shipping all seemed to burn and follow in common destruction
where the great city was a short time ago. The stench from the
bodies that were burning was so great that it was carried a long
distance across the Hudson Bay and carried death and destruction
wherever it penetrated. I cannot paint in words the horrors that
seemed to compass me about. It was beyond description.
"I supposed this was the end, but no, I was given to understand
that the same horrors were being enacted all over the country-
East, West, North and South. Few were left alive, still there were
some. Immediately after, I seemed to be standing on the left bank
of the Missouri and Illinois and all of Iowa were a complete desert
with no living being there. A short distance from the river, how-
ever, I saw _
twelve men, dressed in temple robes, standing in a
square or nearly so, and I understood it represented the twelve gates
of the New Jerusalem. Their hands were uplifted consecrating the
ground and laying the Corner Stone of the Temple."
There are several prophecies in Mormon literature
that predict the return of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter Day Saints to Jackson County, Missouri, where
56
they are to build the temple they were not permitted to
build in the days of Joseph Smith.
A FULFILLED PROPHECY
In the year 1855, Parley P. Pratt, one of the original
Mormon Church Apostles wrote a book titled "Key to
the Science of Theology." In it he foretold the sub-
jugation of Japan, "Politically speaking, some barriers
yet remain to be removed, and some conquests to be
achieve1
d, such as the subjugation of Japan and the tri-
umph of constitutional liberty among certain nations
where mind and thought and religion are still prescribed
by law."
THE WINDING-UP ScENE WHEN THE BEAR
PuTS ITS PAw ON THE LION
By Joseph the Prophet
Elder Jesse W. Fox, Sen., received the narration from Father
Taylor, the father of the late Preside.nt John Taylor. The old
gentleman said that one time the Prophet Joseph was in his house
conversing about the battle of Waterloo, in which Father Taylor
had taken part. Suddenly the Prophet Joseph turned and said,
"Father Taylor, you will live to see, though I will not, greater
battles than that of Waterloo. The United States will go to war with
Mexico, and thus gain an increase of territory. The slave question
will cause a division between the North and the South, and in these
wars greater battles than Waterloo will occur. But," he continued
with emphasis, "when the great bear (Russia) lays her paw on the
lion (England) the winding up scene is not far distant."
These words were uttered before there was any prospect of war
with Mexico, and such a thing as division in the United States was
never contemplated. Yes, these fierce struggles came, and though
Joseph himself was slain before they occurred, Father Taylor lived
to witness some of the world's most remarkable battles.
The struggle between the Bear and the Lion has not yet happened,
but as surely as Joseph the Prophet ever predicted such an event,
so surely will it not fail of its fulfillment.
-Juvenile Instructor, March 15, 1890, p. 162
57
Many Bible students interpret the "last days" as be-
ing a period of seven years divided into two halves of
three and a half years each.
The German war with the United States, the land
where the "Kingdom of earth as it is in heaven," will be
founded, began on April 6th, 1940. Seven years would
bring us to the Spring of 1947.
Another confirmation of this period of seven years
being the "last days" can be found in the fact that many
of the Mormon prophecies state that "within this gener-
ation" the prophecies will be fulfilled. It is generally
accepted that a prophetic generation consists of 120
years. If we add 120 years to the time when the activ-
ities of the Mormons began in New York State it will
bring us to a time around 1947-1 95_3.
FATE OF EUROPE AND AMERICA
In the year 1879 Orson Pratt, one of the Mormon
Church prophets of early days, gave the following pre-
diction while visiting London, England.
"Now let me point out some other things which will occur.
When that day comes there shall be wars, not such wars as have
come in centuries that are past and gone, but a desolating war.
When I mean desolating, I mean that it will lay these European
nations in waste. Cities will be vacated, without inhabitants. The
people will be destroyed by the sword of their own hands. Not
only this, but many other cities will be burned; for when contending
armies are wrought up with terrible anger and are left to them-
selves there will be no quarter given, no prisoners taken, but a war of
destruction, of desolation, of the burning of cities and villages, until
the land is laid desolate."
The foregoing part of Orson Pratt's prophecy was
fulfilled in World War IL Just how close is the ful-
58
fillment of the balance of his prophecy the Signs of the
Times reveal to him who can read them.
'
"What about my own nation-the American nation? What can
I say more than I have said in times that are past. They have had
a great desolating war; a war between the North and the South in
which many hundreds of thousands wer~ destroyed. This was fore-
told twenty-eight years before it took place; the very place where it
should commence was marked out by the Prophet Joseph Smith. By
him it was designated that the revolution should commence in South
Carolina, and it did so. By him it was pointed out that this war
would be terrible and it came to pass although twenty-eight years
intervened before it commenced. But what about the American
nation? That war that destroyed the lives of some fifteen or sixteen
hundred thousand people was nothing, compared to that which will
eventually devastate that country. The time is not far distant in the
future when God will lay His hand heavily on that nation. "How
do you know this?" inquires one. I know from revelations which
God has given upon the subject. I read these revelations when they
were first given. I waited twenty-eight years and saw their fulfill-
ment to the very letter. Should I not, then, expect that the balance
of them will be fulfilled? . . . What then will be the condition of
the people when this great and terrible war will come?"
"It will be very different from the war between the North and
the South. Do you wish me to describe it? I will do so. It will be
a war of neighborhood against neighborhood, town against town,
city against city, county against county and state against state. They
will go forth destroying and being destroyed. Manufacturing will,
to a great measure cease for a time. Why? Because in these terrible
wars they will not be privileged to manufacture, there will be too
much bloodshed, too much mobocracy, too much destroying and
pillaging the land to suffer people to pursue any local vocation with
any degree of safety. What will become of farmers upon the land?
They will leave their farms which will remain uncultivated, and
they will flee before the ravaging armies from place to place; and
thus will they go forth burning and pillaging the whole country, and
that great and powerful nation will be wasted away."
The foregoing prophecy may be found in Journal of
Discourses, Vol. 20.
59
The foresight and wisdom of Brigham Young, who
became the leader of the Mormon people after the
murder of Joseph Smith, is acknowledged by everyone
who has ever visited Salt Lake City, Utah. Here one
finds streets 120 feet wide, so designed by Brigham
Young two generations before the automobile was
dreamed of and traffic problems of most modern cities
created. The good judgment of Brigham Young, who
led the Mormon people from Nauvoo, Illinois, across
fifteen hundred miles of trackless country will be
proven should the events materialize foretold by so
many prophets. Utah valleys are protected from the
industrial centers of the West Coast, where strife will
begin, by both mountains and desert. Both distance
and mountain ranges protect Utah from any strife
centers of the East. The following account of a speech
by Brigham Young was printed in the Church news-
paper, the Deseret News on May 1st, 1861.
THE RocKY MouNTAINS THE PLACE oF SAFETY
I heard Joseph Smith say, nearly thirty years ago, «They shall
have mobbing to their hearts content, if they do not redress the
wrongs of the Latter-day Saints. Mobs will not decrease, but will
increase until the whole government becomes a mob, and eventually
it will be State against State, city against city, neighborhood against
neighborhood, it will be Christian against Christian, man against man,
and those who will not take up the sword against their neighbors must
flee to Zion.
We are blessed in these mountains; this is the best place on the
earth for the Latter-day Saints. Search the history of all the nations
and every geographical position on the face of the earth, and you
cannot find another situation so well adapted for the Saints as are
these mountains. H ere is the place in which the Lord designed
to hide His people. Be thankful for it; be true to your covenants,
and be faithful, each and every one.
60
It has been designed, for many generations, to hide up the Saints in
the last days until the indignation of the Almighty be over. His
wrath will be poured out upon the nations of the earth. We see the
nations steadily driving along to the precipice. The Lord has
spoken from the heavens, and He is about to fulfill the prophecies
of His ancient and modern Prophets. He will bring the nations into
judgment, and deal with them and make a full end of them. Do
you wish to see it done today? Are you prepared for the crisis that
will eventually come? No.
Another amazing example of the foresight of early
Mormon leaders is the following statement by Jedediah
M. Grant which appears in Vol. 2 of the Journal of
Discources, a record·of speeches, prophecies and pro-
nouncements of Church leaders.
ANARCHY WILL RuLE IN AMERICA
One of the marked signs of the last days is the blindness of the
people; we are told they would have eyes and see not, and ears but
hear not, and hearts but understand not.
Though the fulfillment of the words of the prophets is clear and
visible to us as the noonday sun in its splendor, yet the people of
the world are blinded thereto; they do not comprehend nor discern
the hand of the Lord.
We see it in the revolutions of our own continent; we see it in
the scattering and scourging of the house of Israel; in the fading away
of nations, on the right and on the left. • . • We see it in the prep-
arations of war, and the framing of treaties of peace among strong
nations. The world is in commotion and the hearts of men fail them
for fear of the impending storm that threatens to enshroud all nations
in its black mantle. Treaties of peace may be made, and war will
stop for a season, but there are certain decrees of God, and certain
bounds fixed, and laws and edicts passed the high courts of heaven
beyond which the nations cannot pass; and when the Almighty
decrees the wicked shall slay the wicked, strong nations may inter-
fere, peace conventions may become rife in the world and exert their
influence to sheath the sword of war, and make treaties of peace to /
calm the troubled surface of all Europe, to no effect; the war cloud is
61
still booming o'er the heavens, darkening the earth, and threatening
the world with desolation.
This is a fact the Saints have known for many years-that the
Gods in yonder heavens have something to do with these revolutions;
the angels, those holy beings who are sent from the heavens to the
earth to minister in the destiny of nations, have something to do in
these mighty revolutions and convulsions that shake creation almost to
its center.
Consequently, when we see nation stirred up against nation, and
on the other hand see other nations exerting a powerful influence to
bring about negotiations of peace, shall we say they can bring it
about? Do we expect they can stay the onward course of War? The
prophet of God has spoken it all, and we expect to see the work go
on-and see all things fulfilled as the prophets have declared by the
spirit of prophecy in them.
The Prophet stood in his own house when he told several of us
of the night the visions of heaven were opened to him, in which he
saw the American continent drenched in blood, and he saw nation
rising against nation. H e also saw the father shed the blood of the
son, and the son shed the blood of the father; the mother put to
death the daughter, and the daughter the mother; and natural
affection forsook the hearts of the wicked; for he saw that the Spirit
of God should be withdrawn from the inhabitants of the earth, in
consequence of which there should be blood upon the face of the
whole earth, except among the people of the Most High. T he
Prophet gazed upon the scene his vision represented, until his heart
sickened and he besought the Lord to close it up again.
62
CHAPTER V
PROPHETIC VISIONS
PROPHETIC VISIONS
of Natural Events and
Spirit Communications by
Lucy Lavinia Browne, Medium
is the title of a little book published in Oakland, Cali-
fornia, in'the year 1882. Lucy Browne was a remark-
able woman gifted with great spiritual power. While
living in Portland, Oregon, she published a little paper
called "TRUTH, the Rising Sun." Later several of
the visions and spirit communications given her were
collected and published in a book of the above title. It
may prove of interest to the reader to include here the:
AUTHOR'S PREFACE
"To the generous and thoughtful public this little book of revela-
tions and Spirit communications is respectfully dedicated. How
much of truth and how much of error is herein contained, I leave for
time to unravel, events to prove and the people to decide.
"The visions were presented to me unsought, unexpectedly, and
being impelled to write by spirit personages, who were sometimes
visible, and sometimes invisible, with the counsel to publish both
visions and communications, I, Lucy L. Browne, medium, have
therefore followed the injunction of my Spirit teachers to--
"Write what we have written in the minds of the people and let
it be heralded far and near.
''.As we have written, so shall it come to pass. Do not fear or
be daunted in the least.
Your Guide and Teacher.
63
The following vision was given to Lucy Browne on
the evening of March 5th, 1861 of the War of the
Rebellion and of another civil war to come later.
The first part of her vision was fulfilled to the letter.
Political and economic developments in the United
States during the eighty-five years since the vision was
witnessed indicate the probability that the latter part of
the vision will be fulfilled as fully as was that predicting
the War of the Rebellion.
"Impressions and instructions, accompanying each scene as shown
me on the evening of the 5th of March, 1861, are truthfully related,
but with feeble pen, to make the scenes as real as to me they seemed;
a part of which are fulfilled, a part now transpiring, and a part in the
future awaiting development. On this evening, the second after
Abraham Lincoln was inaugurated President of the United States, it
happened that my brother and three or four sisters, myself included,
were visiting at Sister Mary's, who has since for several years been a
resident of the spirit world.
"Brother walking rapidly over the floor for several minutes, with
an unusual restlessness manifest in every movement, paused suddenly,
and turning to me, said, "Come, Lucy, let us sit at the stand and see
what we'll get tonight!" at the same moment placing a stand in the
center of the room. I instantly complied with his wish, for unlike
my sisters, who were engaged in conversation with a brother-in-law,
I was unemployed and seemingly devoid of thought, except to
notice his unusually rapid movements.
"I am thus particular in prefacing with home incidents for the
reason that they furnish a material background where visionary
scenes were indelibly imprinted on the tablets of memory.
"Seating ourselves on opposite sides of the stand and placing our
hands upon it-not for the purpose of getting raps or tappings, for in
our weekly family circles we were visited by those spirits who pre-
ferred to educate us by controlling some medium to talk, giving us
beautiful truths-tending to teach us how to live and make our
lives pure, useful and good; also how to diagnose diseases-to com-
fort the afflicted-to cure the sick-to preserve health-and to live
in harmony with angel teachings and the divinity of truth. On
this interesting occasions our souls drank in those heavenly ministra-
64
tions of divine love and wisdom emanating as they did, or seemed to,
from the source of infinite intelligence.
"But I will proceed to the vision:-
"After placing our hands upon the stand, and closing iny eyes
for the purpose of shutting out the world and all thoughts of it, I
instantly perceived, clairvoyantly, a high cliff, a few feet before me;
and upon its summit rested a deep-throated, open-mouthed cannon;
to the spirit hearing, a heavy thundering sound followed as it ap-
peared to be fired above my head in a northwesterly direction.
"The report startled me, and the scene vanished. (Impression
accompanying the vision-it denotes war; being so near by--civil
war soon to be inaugurated.)
"Then my attention was attracted to a point a few rods at the
right, my face being towards the south, where were standing a
regiment of soldiers dressed in uniform, seemingly well-disciplined,
ready at a moment's warning for action. (Impression of civil war
confirmed.) As they vanished from sight, my attention was directed
to the far south, where were a platoon of negroes marching very
rapidly in a northwesterly direction. A man and a little girl lay at
their feet whom they had' killed. (Impression-insubordination and
insurrection.) The scene dissolved in a mist and was gone.
"Instantly my sight rested on another scene away in the south-
east; there were a vast number of men--some on horseback and
others on foot; they were rushing in much disorder, wildly, madly,
northward, well armed, having equipments of war. I saw them rush
through woods, over fallen trees and logs, underbrush, ravines, hills
and valleys, without hindrance; nothing seemed to intercept their
way or daunt them. On they came until a thicket of underbrush
and forest of trees hid them from my view. . • . Losing sight of
them, instantly my attention was attracted to Washington City; it
was enshrouded in a dark, smoky atmosphere, so dense that it
obscured the buildings. A standing army were arrayed in beautiful
uniform; they had their position north of the White House. There
were six or eight columns running from east to west, facing the
south. I could distinguish the officers by their dress, as they were
standing about equal distances; one from another, throughout the
several columns. They were perfect in their orderly and soldierly
appearance and equipments; their guns were standing on the ground
and resting against the right shoulder; in the point of each gun was a
glistening bayonet. The men seemed ready for action, but awaiting
orders; it seemed remarkable that they had no covering on their
65
heads; their hands were hanging listless by their sides. I thought,
from their position and silence, they were Mr. Lincoln's bodyguard,
or were stationed there to protect the administration; as I perceived
them, reports as from a thousand guns fell upon my ear, and two-
thirds or three-fourths of the men-those forming the western
portion-fell to the ground; shot down by those southern men
whom I had seen rushing northward. Directly above the fallen
soldiers, I observed an eagle, fifteen or twenty feet in the air, stand-
ing on nothing; its wings folded closely to its sides. From the point
of its beak to the tip of its talons, it was of a dark copper color. I was
deeply grieved to see the noble eagle---emblem of American freedom
-in that strange and pitiable condition. I had no sooner discovered
it, than it reached its head downward to the prostrate soldiers, and
began picking up coin from them. It had a mysterious way of
elongating its neck as it picked up the coin, and very deliberately
tucked it under its left wing. Perplexed and still more grieved, I
questioned, 'What can it mean?' The answer came in a rich deep-
toned voice above my head, emphatically saying, 'Treason! Treason!
Treason!' I now realized the presence of a spirit teacher ready to
instruct me. The scene still remaining in full view, another, more
appalling than this, if possible, opened up near by it. In the front
ground, on a pile of rubbish, apparently, partly on his left side, with
his face turned towards me, (as I then, in the vision, stood very
near him) lay President Lincoln, assassinated .by the hand of a
traitor. At the instant I saw him the words 'about four years'
(the last word I did not hear distinctly as I was intensely startled),
followed by 'He'll not serve his time out,' was spoken by the spirit
voice above me, and were too deeply intoned on the inner ear to be
ever obliterated.
"The event seemed so very near of transaction that I thought it
meant in about four months, the terrible assassination would occur.
Altogether the scenes were intensely shocking. Had they in reality
occurred before me, I could not have been more positive of a civil
war, or of the assassination of President Lincoln. Intensely saddened
and overburdened with these tragic scenes, I then wended my way
northward from Washington, and passed into a beautiful field where
verdure, trees and shrubs of varied hues and kind were in their
brightest colors; the air seemed filled with peace and purity, and
passing along until I had reached the center of the field, it seemed
to me, although I could not see its boundaries, so limitless it ap-
?eared, a deep, tranquillizing peacefulness, and gratitude filled my
66
soul, and I silently mused-how beautiful, how serene, how grand.
"My soul responded with a silent joy and I passed on. Soon I
found myself outside the ever-green field, how I left it I did not
know, but again I was standing with my face to the south, on an
arid plain, not a bush, tree or shrub wai visible; no human being-
not a living thing; indeed, I had little time to make observations of
my surroundings had there been any, for my attention was attracted
to a point in the air, at my left, and abOut eighty or ninety feet
above the ground, where, soaring from the east toward the west was
a face so ancient of mold that it looked almost fossilized; language and
pen are quite inadequate to portray the emotions as expressed in the
face.
"The forehead was very low and narrow, the eyes sunken and
dim, high cheekbones, sunken cheeks, mouth wide-being stretched
almost from ear to ear, disclosing a row of teeth gnashed tightly to-
gether-the chin prominent-the jaws projected-the deeply cor-
rugated visage exhibiting extreme age, ignorance, bigotry, supersti-
tion, hatred, and revenge mingling with a conscious victory.
"The face was surrounded by a white frill about four inches wide,
extending under the chin. As it moved along slowly in the air, I
questioned, "What does it mean?" The response from my spirit
teacher came quickly as if a flash of lightning had photographed the
whole explanation upon my mind, in the following words:
"The face you see in the air typifies the Romish power-the
Roman Church. It being the oldest church known, is indicated by
its extreme age; its masses of people are ignorant devotees of a blind
faith and superstitious dogmas, as indicated in the pinched forehead
and general expression of all the features; dimness of the eyes, in-
capacity to quickly perceive truth; the high cheekbones denote
physical power, the thin, sharp nasal organ, and the sunken cheeks
denote impoverishment in the charitable functions of the soul; the
projecting jaws with their teeth denote a power and disposition to
destroy that which is opposed to it; the grinning mouth indicated a
vindictive rejoicing over victories gained; the white frill in which
the face is set is that form of purity the Mother Church has clothed
herself with, to hide or detract from her hideous deformities.
"Behold the face before you, soaring in the air as a prophecy
fulfilled; of the victory Catholicism has gained over all other orthodox
denominations in America; she will subject all others to herself.
"She will be the ruling religious (falsely so-called in the true sense
of the word) power for a day only; for behold! you discover only
67
a face-it is the most exterior and visible form of life. Observe
closely, there is no head behind the frill, no brain, no vitative power
existing there; no ears, it has no faculty of hearing, no neck; no
shoulders; no chest; no heart; no lungs; no vital organs; no body;
no limbs; absolutely nothing to perpetuate its existence, and hence
it cannot remain long, or survive the last great struggle for supremacy
and power.
"The Protestant will succumb to the Catholic, and the latter ex-
. pending all her strength and vital forces in the contest will be en-
tirely exhausted and yield to the overmastering elements of Time
and Truth.
"Behold, the old time religions will perish very nearly together,
and find one common grave in Hades, unmourned, unpitied, and
soon to be remembered as a thing of the past; for it is meet that
creeds and dogmas should die and mingle with the ashes of forgotten
centuries.
"Wars," continued the informing spirit, "the one nearest at hand
(referring to the then approaching Rebellion) and others soon to
commence in comparison with the politico-religio war that will fal-
low, and to which we call your attention, and have given a faint idea,
is as a mosquito bite upon one's hand; while in magnitude and in-
tensity of suffering, the latter is or will be, as the largest carbuncle
that ever affeicted human flesh. ·
"Wars must come in order to consume the debris-evils which
have accumulated, and bear heavily upon the mind, soul and body
of humanity. They must be swept away, so that mankind can rise
higher, and approximate more nearly to the millennium of Truth un-
sullied, righteousness unadulterated, when wisdom and love, justice
and mercy, unity and harmony, shall crown the ear of man."
"With his impressive words ended the remarkable vision and pro-
found revelation in regard to the then approaching Rebellion-
President Lincoln's assassination-a time of peace- and another
war, which, I was then as now impressed, will be the last in America.
"I rose from the stand about thirty minutes after seating myself
ta 'see' as brother suggested 'what we'll get tonight.'
"I had seen quite enough; was shocked and too intensely agitated
to see more. Weighty events had pressed heavily upon my mind;
and casting upon me not merely shadows but actual realities, as they
seemed to me to be, rendered a verbal explanation and description
almost impossible at the time and I sought relief by transferring them
to paper.
68
"I have not been able since to set any one of those scenes aside,
and call them meaningless, or utterly false; neither can I obliterate
them from memory; and I am persuaded that all and more that my
teacher portrayed to my mind in that startling symbolical vision will
ultimately be fulfilled.
"That a part of the prophecy has already been outwrought into
actual history, cannot be denied; the Rebellion baptized our Nation
in blood; President Lincoln was assassinated by the hand of a traitor
in "about four"--{)r a little over four years; he will (did) not serve
his time out, for which he was re-elected. The copper-colored eagle
typified the "copperhead"ish spirit of TREASON, SELF-AG-
GRANDIZEMENT AND MONOPOLY, that was developed in
the firing of Fort Sumter, since grown into huge proportions, has
been plundering and continues to rob the soldiers and the toiling
millions who were and are loyal to the Government, and who have
given and are giving their labor and their lives to build and protect
our nation's wealth, honor and grandeur.
"But I feel myself nearing the farther side of this enchanting
field, and may, in the non-distant future, stand upon the arid plain,
and again be made to feel the desolating scourge of war. In my
deepest heart I say, let it come, if in this terrible crucible mankind
will be purified, and evils too dark to be borne or revealed, are con-
sumed in the transition."
Lucy Browne's v1s10n is concurred m by Abraham
Lincoln who predicted:
LINCOLN'S WARNING
"I do not pretend to be a prophet. But though not a prophet, I
see a dark cloud on our horizon. That dark cloud is coming from
Rome. It is filled with tears of blood. It will rise and increase till
its flanks will be torn by a flash of lightning, followed by a fearful
peal of thunder. Then a cyclone such as the world has never seen
will pass over the country, spreading ruin and desolation from north
to south. After it is over there will be long days of peace and
prosperity; for popery, with its Jesuits and merciless inquisition will
have been forever swept away from our country. Neither I nor
you, but our children will see these things." (From Fifty Years in the
Church of Rome, by Rev. Charles Chiniquay.)
69
Another vision of Lucy Browne is in a similar vein:
OF PAPACY AND THE BRITISH THRONE
Parliament Scattered and the British Throne Despoiled of Its Power
"In the early part of the winter of I 862, sister Mary lying ill, it
was my privilege to do what I could to alleviate her sufferings.
"After tea one evening, about the third of December, I passed
from the dining room into the dark hall, and ascended the stairs
leading to her room. As soon as I entered, a soft golden light
partially encircled my head, extending horizontally outward about
twenty inches from the perceptive organs and temples, forming
more than a half-circle, appearing like a sheet of liquid light. It lit
my way as I passed up the steps and through the upper hall to her
room.
"I went directly to her bedside and inquired if I could do any-
thing for her. She replied, "I do not need anything just now."
"I sat down a little distance from her, wondering in silence what
the strange light could mean. I feared it might be an omen of
sister's death. The thought saddened me.
_"With bowed head, hand covering my eyes, and grieved too
deeply for tears, I questioned, "ls it a warning of Mary's death?"
Instantly, I became cognizant of a thrilling magnetic influence from
the realm of Superior Spirit teachers. I seemed to be transported
immediately across the Atlantic Ocean. I found myself standing in
the presence of strangers, in a magnificent hall dimly lighted.
Beautiful designs, carved in wood, graced the casings of doors,
windows and small parts of the walls. I only glanced at the in-
geniously wrought work, for with every inspiration I inhaled the
air of Catholicism, and keenly felt the presence of Pope and prelate.
"I now observed many men standing in groups ranging from three
to six or seven in a group, distributed throughout the council room.
Each group of persons were engaged in low-toned conversation. I
drew near to a group of three persons, who were standing nearer, and
four or five yards from the door where I had entered.
"Their white locks and wrinkled visages indicated advanced age.
"I listened reverently and involuntarily, not thinking to ques-
tion, even myself, whether or not I was intruding.
"They were talking in undertone which savored of great secrecy.
They took no notice of me, although I stood very near to those
venerable, and to some degree sage-like looking personages. They
70
were all very deliberate in their talk, each observing strictest cau-
tion. No gesticulation, no impulsiveness manifested itself, but a deep,
shrewd, calculating, methodical, planning for future action. They
were dressed in clerical robes, indicating their high calling. Ages
ranging from twenty-five, apparently, to nearly one hundred years.
"Their session seemed closed, and the princely dignitaries about
to disperse. The scope of their plans being laid deep as the ocean,
spanning the globe and reaching far into the future, intending to
be the ruling religious power in the twentieth century.
"One plan was to control an oceanic telegraph, that all Catholics,
through their high priests, may be notified "in the twinkling of an
eye," as it were, of the Pope's movements and infallible decrees, so
that any moment they may be ready to do his bidding.
"There was a general movement toward the door.
"I was now outside the council room, standing on the ground.
Darkness was all around, although sufficiently light to see the Council-
men dispersing in different' directions.
"As quick as though I was transported northward a long distance
and again was standing on the ground. It seemed that considerable
time had elapsed, whether months or years I could not tell.
"Then a partial fulfillment of their plans, as though they had
already transpired, passed in review before me.
"To further extend their Papal dominion and power they had
called upon Queen Victoria for approval and aid in a project in
connection with some points in the Atlantic Ocean, as islands, and
the same device extending to America.
"They had unfolded only a part of their well-defined scheme to
her attentive ear, and she unsuspectingly and very graciously granted
what they had required.
"Discovering afterward, much to her chagrin, that papacy had
become very aggressive in its movements, and going far beyond the
supposed project, she deeply regretted the act, and strongly im-
portuned them to desist from further invasion and perversion of her
intended kindness. They then turned upon the British government.
"I stood west of, and but a very short distance, as I witnessed
the scene. Members of Parliament were scattered and the throne
of England despoiled of its power.
"The mysterious light no longer lingered about my brow, it
having penetrated the far future that is laden with events yet un-
developed, and photographed them indelibly upon my inquiring
mind. I had received no answer to my quei;;tion, "is the light an
71
omen of sister's death?" and thought from what I had seen, heard
and learned, that I had neglected her, as I was confident that much
time had passed-perhaps an hour. But to my surprise, about five
minutes by the clock had elapsed.
"Several years later, when the Ecumenical Council was held at
Rome, the vision was readily recalled, and applied itself with natural
adaptability and persistent precision to that clerical body."
In reading the following vision of past and future
history of Europe it should be noted that the following
vision was given in 1872, the year following the Franco-
German war of 1870-71.
Evidently the spiritual beings who projected the vi-
sion of the future into Lucy Brown's mind were giving
her a symbolical picture of the start of World War I
and the participation by the United States in the latter
years of World War II.
OF Russ1A AND OTHER EUROPEAN NATIONS
"Russia and the other European Nations being Wrapped in the
Flames of War-Extending to America, Etc.
"To be forewarned is to be forearmed."
"He who hath a truth and keeps it,
Keeps that not to him belongs;
Keeps a pearl from him who needs it,
And a fellow mortal wrongs."
"On the morning of June 28, 1872, while sitting at my table
writing, ~ll at once the air about me seemed thrilling with the
presence of invisible intelligences (invisible to mortal sight), and
realizing that very near approach of angelic beings, I sat quietly a few
moments and gave audience clairvoyantly and clairaudiently to any
information that might be given.
"Presently my attention was attracted to a company of spirits,
or angels-they seemed to have progressed into that realm of wisdom
which crowns the angelic sphere. They had the appearance and
courteous bearing of statesmen of a very superior order, who had
a world's destinies under serious consideration.
72
"They were in the air a short dist~nce and west from me, standing
on a cloud-like ground, while beyond them and in the distance were
mountains and valleys of the same cloud-like hue of light and fleecy
quality.
"One of them stood a little in front of the others, extending his
right arm with a wand in his hand pointing eastward. Turning his
face and speaking to those who were standing with him, he said
"France and Germany will collide again."
"A light fell upon the faces of the two who stood nearest him,
the others, six or eight in number, standing in the shadows.
"As he uttered those words, I looked in the direction in which
he was pointing, far, far away, and behind the Russian empire. It
looked zlmost like a solid wall, so deep and dark and dense it seemed.
There were smouldering fires within it, like a smothered coal heap.
Soon the cities of England seemed to crowd against its base. Then
volumes of black smoke with red flames burst forth like a volcano,
and overspread that part of England which I saw. The angel, turning
to his associates, with his hands still uplifted, said in calm, earnest
tones: "Behold a change!" The flames and smoke increased, rose to
a fearful height, and swept over France and Prussia at the same time.
Then in maddened fury rushed onward, consuming everything before
them, leaving only a small area of ground untouched.
"The angel said: "Behold another change."
"Instantly the vast fire-fiend plunged into and lapped the ocean
waves; the water hissing and boiling as it rushed through the mighty
deep toward the American continent.
"Before it reached our shore, and while yet many leagues away,
fire and smoke of immense volume rolled out and met it.
"Imagine huge waves of fire miles in length, one hundred feet
high, rushing toward each other, plowing the watery deep, and you
have a slight idea of the coming collision.
"I seemed to occupy a position above the ocean, and near the
southern extremity of the flaming tidal wave of the east, and saw
the fire wave coming out from our shore to meet the flames and
smoke that had nearly crossed the Atlantic, leaving its burning track
all the way to Europe.
"When the two fires met they leaped high in the air, hissing and
screeching as if burned with the frenzied cries of a myriad human
voices, the eastern flames for a moment leaping over and subduing
those going out from our shore.
73
"The dark, deep waters were roaring with rage and fury, the
elements combining to make the scene hugely terrific.
"Immediately a sullen mountainous wave of fire more mighty
than the first moved steadily out from our shore, like an irresistible
tide, before which it seemed impossible for anything to exist. The
two fires being about equal in volume, resistance and destructive
power, and approaching near together, the scene became too in-
tensely appalling to witness and live (seemingly) as I stood very
near and keenly felt every shock of those contending forces. With
a horrible dread, such as is engendered by immense armies drawn
together, about to engage in deadly combat, quickening every nerve,
I begged my superior teacher to shut the view from my sight, and not
permit me to witness the collision. He kindly, but regretfully
granted my request."
"In an instant the scene dissolved into infinitesimal particles,
which for a moment only were visible in the chaotic confusion.
"The angels remaining in their respective positions, the in-
forming spirit said, "Behold another change!"
It is unfortunate that Lucy Browne requested her
teachers to withhold the visions given her. Apparently
they skipped the years between 1918 and 1946 during
which occurred the Russian Revolution and \Vorld War
II. They seemed to have jumped to years still in the
future when Russia will be purified by the War of
Armageddon or World War III.
"He pointed again to Russia, and turning my eyes thither, I
beheld white flames arising upward, burning with a steady, intense
heat. He said: "Behold, the fires of her own indignation have
consumed her; and as with a consuming fire shall she be purified!
Blessed are they that shall have their lamps trimmed and burning for
the night cometh, when their light shall be as the lamps of a city
in the darkest night. But woe unto him who sitteth in darkness, for
swift destruction shall be visited upon him."
"Behold another change!" Slowly advancing from the far west,
were a large concourse of spirits. They moved forward just as a
locomQtive moves, with a forcible undaunted power that is not to
be hindered. They stopped right over the white purifyin~ flames
74
ansmg from Russia. They placed to their lips trumpets of trans-
parent whiteness, and in concert, slowly, in rich, deep, penetrative
voice that reached every part of the world, to the uttermost regions
of the earth, said: "The-fiat-has-gone-forth-and-can-not-be-re-
called!"
"They looked like sages, philosophers of ancient origin, who had
gained their knowledge from the ever increasing and enduring pages
of Nature's Divine Revelations, and grown wise from the accumula-
tive experiences of the ages in the ethics of human, individual,
national, universal and immortal life, its origin and destinies.
"They had come forth in harmony with Deific principles of the
universe, proclaiming to every part and portion of our world retrib-
utive justice to every species of usurpation and tyranny.
"Coming events had cast shadows upon me, and, being very much
exhausted, I could no longer endure the awful grandeur of those
terrific scenes.
"The informing spirits, sages and scenes passed from my view.
"Then a representative seraph, named "Goddess of Liberty,"
came down from ethereal space and stood before me, holding in her
hand a bouquet of small, white flowers nestling amid tiny green
leaves. As her keen, lustrous eyes met mine a radiant smile lighting
up her face, she seemed to look beyond, peering into the near and
far distant future, comprehending alike the past, present, and time
to be, said, in a cheering voice that thrilled and calmed my troubled
mind, "Behold, I bring you glad tidings of great joy, which shall
be to all people!"
"As she turned to go, with a smile and graceful wave of the hand
toward me, in emphatic tones inspiring confidence, said "Trust us!"
"The vision departing left indelibly its traces upon the leaves of
memory, and which in a feebler manner, not commensurate with
the vividness of the scenes, I then transferred to paper."
POPERY AND PROTESTANTISM
"One evening in the spring of 1874- I attended a meeting of
Liberalists, who had convened for the purpose of organizing a Liberal
League in the village of Augusta, Wisconsin, situated on the West
Wisconsin Railway.
"Before evening a lady friend said to me: "If you will go home
and stay with me all· night, I will accompany you." I promised
to do so. The evening passed very pleasantly. An air of patriotism,
75
loyalty, love of country, and love of liberty, seemed to thrill almost
every mind in the hall. The League was duly organized, and many
names were enrolled as members; each and every one being gratified
with the promising beginning. ,
"At the close of the session, I returned with my friend to her
beautiful home, situated upon an eminence of ground commanding a
good view of the town. Retiring for the night in a well-ventilated
and capacious bedroom, on the second floor, and extinguishing the
light, I expected as usual to fall asleep immediately. But to my
surprise and annoyance, I found myself intensely wide awake, and
wholly incapable of keeping my eyes closed.
"The room was partially lighted through the curtains by the
twinkling stars. The air, which was very clear and pure, seemingly
became very heavy and thickened by infinitesimal black particles.
As they were in constant motion and chaotic confusion, they defied
analysis. They accumulated rapidly, and so heavily oppressive with
mysterious embryotic events, that respiration became very difficult,
causing me to arise from the bed; but found no relief, until after
several minutes, I discovered particle attracts particle, atom repels
atom, when each found and adjusted itself to its proper place and
altogether were moulded into forms. Turning my face eastward,
I followed the forms as they passed beyond the walls of the house,
and resolved themselves into the scenes I am about to describe on
paper. I was then relieved, as the air had resumed its former in-
vigorating qualities. The walls of the room were no longer visible,
and the forms as they appeared were removed farther from me. At
the right, and a considerable distance from me, sat a personage,
who in stature was as a giant, his face being deeply corrugated, in-
dicated old age, though full and flushed. His frowzy hair was of
a dingy white, and bristled all over his head. The twinkle of his
eye exhibiting eager expectancy, the grinning of the mouth showing
a double row of teeth shut tightly, his forehead tipped slightly for-
ward listening, eyes peering from under the eyebrows, as if ex-
ceedingly pleased over the culmination of some cunningly devised
scheme. His dress hung loosely about him, and though of the same
color, was of a darker hue than his hair.
"Lea~ing slightly forward, he held in his hands, outstretched as far
as he could reach horizontally in opposite directions, a large white
canvas upon which were the words inscribed in very large, black
letters: "GOD IN THE CONSTITUTION." The canvas being
so high and long, by tipping his head forward, screened him entirely
76
from a front view. It reached just down to the toes of his rusty
colored shoes that protruded over the edge of a deep, black pit
several feet wide, and as long as the canvas stretched each .way
before him.
"Another and smaller canvas was hanging at his left side, at-
taching itself at one end to the first, upon which were the words
in large letters: "JESUS, THE RULER OF NATIONS." It
also served the purpose of screen, and bore the semblance of authority.
"I desired to know why, and from what the giant personage was
screening himself in that mystical and self-satisfied manner?
"Turning my eyes to the left, directly before and several rods
from him, were a dozen or more men, differing slightly in stature.
They were all peculiarly dressed, each one encased in cap, jacket
and pants, the material and quality of which were like calcareous
earth solidified, forming an incrustation adhering closely to the
body, and cap covering the head, ears and eyes down to the bridge of
the nose.
"Each one held in his right hand a paint brush that had been
dipped in the blackest ink. Each right arm being extended to its
utmost length, and every brush pointing directly toward those black
letters on the canvas. Their earnest efforts were the same, each
striving and energetically determined to accomplish their purpose.
Each head protruding forward as far as their elongated necks would
allow, while about the region of the heart were enumerable black
threads extending backward horizontally, firmly attached to some-
thing lost in the black darkness just behind them. Each right limb
was rigidly straightened, keeping pace with the. head; and the foot
reaching forward as far as possible sought to plant itself firmly upon
the ground. Nearly half-bent forward, they were in a most pitiable
and ludicrous plight, and yet I was exceedingly amused at their
zeal and indefatigable efforts to go forward, which was a feat of
difficult accomplishment, as black threads, almost destitute of elasticity,
held them to the darkened past.
"Each seemed intensely eager to be the first to reach the canvas
with his brush to stamp indelibly beyond the .power of erasement,
"God in the Constitution."
"Being totally blinded, by reason of the texture and quality of the
close-fitting caps, they were wholly unconscious of the black, yawning
pit they were approaching with unerring and fatal certainty, into
which they would plunge just at the momen•. they were about to
retouch the letters.
77
"They were not aware that a monstrous giant had originated the
plan, and screened himself behind those words, dearer to them just
now than all others. Blindly they pressed on, "best foot forward,"
evidencing equal wisdom with the hand and head.
"As I reviewed the scene scrutinizingly, as on former occasions, I
queried: "What can it all mean?"
"My spirit teacher quickly responded, giving the following ex-
planations:
"The giant personage at your right typifies Papery. The canvas
before him, a fabrication simply to screen himself from observa-
tion as the originator of the significant sentence you see stamped
upon it. The canvas of lesser size you see at its left side, is for the
same purpose, upholding words and embodying sentiments that
contain a very important meaning to all persons who are interested
in these gods.
"The black, deep gulf before him is the great hungry maw of
Catholicism, greedy for power.
"Those several lesser personages you see before him, who are trying
assiduously to hasten their movements, lured on by the idea of
enstamping their God in the Constitution of the United States,
represent the several denominations of the Protestant faith, in a body,
as you observe, in unity, a combined and organized force, known by
the familiar name of "Young Men's Christian Association," from
whose depths sprang the "Evangelical Alliance" to do valiant deeds
of honor for the "God of Israel, the Lord o'f Hosts."
"Events as typified in the scenes before you will be more and more
verified as time proceeds."
"As my teacher ceased speaking, and intensely comprehending
the deep meaning of his words, oh, how I longed to remove those
cramping creed-caps from their heads, or make an incision just
before their eyes, so that they might discover the exact position the
several and collective denominations sustain toward Catholicism.
"And I could but exclaim:
"Oh, wad the power the giftie gie 'em
To see theirsel's as ithers see 'em,
'Twad frae monie a dogma frae 'em,
And creedish notion, and destruction.
"And I looked beyond them. The green sward stretching far
away in the distance was dotted with churches including all sizes,
78
even from the vast cathedral down to the "little church 'round the
corner."
"The doors were all closed. In the archway over every door, on
black background, were the large letters of a dull yellow hue com-
posing the word DOOMED!
"I queried what it signified. My teacher, who had not left me,
replied slowly and emphatically: "Churchianity, with all its forms
and erroneous system of theology, is doomed to pass away forever.
Even now the seal of dissolution and decay is set upon its brow."
"My guide ceased speaking. The scenes slowly passed into their
former particled condition, mingled with the ever-moving elements,
and lost themselves with the passing moments in infinite space.
"A lesson of deep import and intensely thrilling significance had
been given me, and I, in turn, present it to my readers for their
candid consideration; trusting that, although the pen is a feeble
instrument in the hand of the writer to faithfully portray scenes
so vividly enstamped upon the memory, it may serve the purpose
originally designed by those exalted spirit teachers.
"The night was far advanced when the angel of sleep came to
my relief, and Nature's kind and best restorer slowly rolled down the
curtain upon coming events, and dissipated for a time the burden of
facts (sketched in the present and future) which had so well nigh
overwhelmed me.
"Let him that hath.ears to hear and eyes to discern the signs of
the times, take heed what the spirit saith of Evangelical Theology,
namely Papery and Protestantism.
In connection with the foregoing vision of Lucy
Browne, received in 1874, the following quotations
from OAHSPE, the New Bible, received in 1881, may
prove enlightening:
"4-. In all former cycles, My Gods had to deal with separate divi-
sions of the earth; My revelations were unto each, for a special time,
which is now at hand. I have prepared this land untrammeled with
Gods and Savior and Lords, enforced by the sword, so that My
revelations of this day shall be published and not suppressed. And
thou shalt reveal to mortals, the plan of My worlds; and as to who
thou art, and the method of this inspiration and dominion on the
earth and her heavenly kingdoms. I am not come to establish, but
to abolish all Gods and Lords and Saviors amongst mortals.
79
"8. For what is past, 'is past.
"9. But whosoever, henceforth, heareth my word and the decree
of my commandment, and continueth to make an idol of any name,
save the Great Spirit, blasphemeth against his Creator.
"l O. But whoso crieth out in fullness of heart, saying: God,
God, meaning thereby the Ever Present, the Creator, is not a
blasphemer before me.
"11. And whoso saith: ORMAZD, ORMAZD! meaning the
Ever Present, the Creator, is not a blasphemer before me.
"12. And whoso calleth any name in any language that signifieth
the Ever Present, the Creator, is not a blasphemer before me.
"13. But whoso saith: BRAHMA, BRAHMA! signifying a
God in figure and shape of a man, sitting on a throne in heaven, is
a blasphemer against Jehovih, the Ever Present, the Creator.
"14. And whoso saith: BUDHA, BUDHA! signifying a God
in figure and shape of a man, sitting on a throne in heaven, is a
blasphemer against Jehovih, the Ever Present, the Creator. "
"15. And whoso saith: KRISTE, KRISTE! signifying a God
in the figure and shape of a man, sitting on a throne in heaven, is a
blasphemer against Jehovih, the Creator, the All Person.
"16. And whoso calleth on the name of any other man or angel,
worshipping such as a God, is an idolater in my sight.
"17. Nor do I judge them less idolatrous than though they
worshipped stone idols or graven images.
"18. And whosoever saith: DIETY, DIETY! and DIVINITY,
DIVINITY! and DIVINE LAW and NATURAL LAW, are ad-
judged in darkness.
"19. For I proclaim my heavens open, and the way of under-
standing clear.
"20. Jehovih is Ever Present, and doeth by virtue of his Presence,
and not by any law.
"21. And whoso saith that which will lead men to believe He
is not Present, or that He hath gone away, leaving certain laws after
Hirn in His stead, the same is adjudged a blasphemer against Jehovih.
"22. And whoso saith: CALL THOU ON THIS SAVIOR, OR
CALL THOU ON THAT SAVIOR, AND THY SINS SHALL
BE FORGIVEN THEE: AND, IN THE HOUR OF THY
DEATH, BECAUSE THOU HAST SO CALLED ON HIM,
THOU SHALT ASCEND INTO A HEAVENLY PARADISE,
the same is a falsifier of my kingdoms and a blasphemer against
Jehovih.
80
"23. And whoso saith: COME THOU BEFORE THE
CHURCH, AND BEFORE THE PRIEST, AND MAKE
PRAYERS AND CONFESSIONS, AND THOU SHALT BE
ABSOLVED AND FORGIVEN THY SINS, the same are falsi-
fiers of my kingdoms and blasphemers against Jehovih, the Cr~ator.
"24-. Nor have I provided resurrection in this world, nor in
my heavens above, save by good works done unto -others; and this
is serving Jehovih, the All Person; and not because of any worship or
confessions done before any of the idols on earth or in heaven.
"25. Nor is there any redemption in heaven to the Brahmans, nor
to the Budhists, nor to the Kriste'yans, because of their prayers and
confessions.
"26. But wherein good works have resulted in affiliation; and
in lifting the people up out of misery and crime, the same is ad-
judged as worship of the Great Spirit, Jehovih.
"27. Wherein the Brahmans have suffered a people to fall from
knowledge into ignorance, or from virtue into vice, my judgment is
against them.
"28. Wherein the Budhists have suffered a people to fall from
knowledge into ignorance, or from virtue into vice, my judgment
is against them.
"29. Wherein the Ka'yuans (Confucians-Ed.) have suffered a
people to fall from knowledge into ignorance, or from virtue into
vice, my judgment is against them.
"30. Wherein the Kriste'yans have suffered a people to fall from
knowledge into ignorance, or from virtue into vice, my judgment
is against them.
"31. Wherein the Mohammedans have suffered a people to fall
from knowledge into ignorance, or from virtue into vice, my judg-
ment is against them.
"32. Where beggary and vagrancy and all manner of darkness have
increased in any of the cities or countries of any of these idolaters, my
judgment is against them.
"3 3. They shall not excuse themselves, nor escape my judgment,
by saying: 0 the true Brahman, or the true Budhist, or the true
Mohammedan hath not fallen. These, that fell, were such as em-
braced not our doctrine in fullness of heart.
"34-. Because my judgment is also against impotency. They have
tried their respective religions hundreds of years. And they have not
raised up one city of righteous people."
81
GEORGE WASHINGTON'S VISION
The following vision of George Washington has ap-
peared in many publications and was included in
SEVEN YEARS THAT CHANGE THE WORLD
published by the Kosmon Press in 1940. There seems
to be no doubt of its authenticity as it has been in cir-
culation many years. The earliest record of its publica-
tion that we have is 1859. It was also published in the
National Tribune in December 1880.
GENERAL WASHINGTON'S V1s10N
By Wesley Bradshaw
"The last time I ever saw Anthony Sherman was on the Fourth
of July, 1859 in Independence Square. He was then ninety-nine
years old and becoming feeble. But though so old, his dimming eyes
rekindled as he gazed upon Independence Hall, which he came to
visit once more.
"Let us go into the hall," he said. "I want to tell you an inci-
dent of Washington's life--one which no one alive knows of except
myself; and if you live, you will, before long, see it verified."
"From the opening of the Revolution we experienced all phases
of fortune, now good and now ill, one time victorious and another
conquered. The darkest period we had, I think was when Washing-
ton, after several reverses, retreated to Valley Forge, where he re-
solved to pass the winter of 1777. Ah, I have often seen the tears
coursing down our dear commander's careworn cheeks, as he would
be conversing with confidental officers about the condition of his
poor soldiers. You have doubtless heard the story of Washington's
going to the thicket to pray. Well, it was not only true, but he
used often to pray in secret for aid and comfort from God, the
interposition of whose Divine Providence brought us safely through
the darkest days of tribulation.
"One day-I remember it well, the chilly wind whistling through
the leafless trees, though the sky was cloudless and the sun shone
brightly-he remained in his quarters nearly all afternoon alone.
"When he came out I noticed that his face was a shade paler than
usual, and there seemed to be something on his mind of more than
ordinary importance. Returning just after dusk, he dispatched an
82
•
orderly to the quarters of an officer, who was presently in attendance.
After a preliminary conversation of about half an hour Washington,
gazing upon his companion with that strange look of dignity which he
alone could command, said:
"I do not know whether it is owing to the anxiety of my mind or
what, but this afternoon, as I was sitting at this table engaged in
preparing a dispatch, something seemed to disturb me. Looking
up, I beheld standing opposite a singularly beautiful female. So
astonished was I, for I had given strict orders not to be disturbed, that
it was some moments before I found language to inquire the purpose
of her presence. A second, a third, and even a fourth time did I
repeat my question, but received no answer from my mysterious
visitor, except a slight raising of her eyes. By this time I felt strange
sensations spreading through me. I would have risen, but the riveted
gaze of the being before me rendered volition impossible. I assayed
once more to address her, but my tongue had become useless. Even
thought itself had become paralyzed. A new influence, mysterious,
potent, irresistible, took possession of me. All I could do was to gaze
steadily, vacantly at my unknown visitant. Gradually the surrounding
atmosphere seemed filled with sensations, and grew luminous. Every-
thing about me seemed to rarify; the mysterious visitor becoming
more airy and yet more distinct to my sight than before. I now
began to feel as one dying, or rather to experience the sensation which
I have sometimes imagined accompanies dissolution. I did not
think, I did not reason. I did not move. All, alike, were impossible.
I was only conscious of gazing fixedly, vacantly, at my companion.
"Presently I heard a voice saying, 'Son of the Republic, look ·and
learn.' When at the same time my visitor extended her arm
eastwardly. I now beheld a heavy white vapor at some distance
rising fold upon fold. This gradually dissipated, and I looked upon
a strange scene. Before me lay spread out in one vast plain all the
countries of the world, Europe, Asia, Africa and America. I• saw
rolling and tossing between Europe and America the billows of the
Atlantic, and between Asia and America lay the Pacific. 'Son of the
Republic,' said the same mysterious voice as before 'look and learn.'
At that moment 1 beheld a dark shadowy being like an angel standing,
or rather floating in mid-air between Europe and America. Dip-
ping water out of the ocean in the hollow of each hand, he sprinkled
some upon America with his right hand, while with his left hand he
cast some on Europe. Immediately a dark cloud raised from these
countries, and joined in mid-ocean. For a while it remained station-
83
ary and then moved slowly westward, until it enveloped America
in its murky folds. Sharp flashes of lightning gleamed through it
at intervals, and I heard the smothered groans and cries of the
American people. A second time the angel dipped water from the
ocean, and sprinkled it as before. The dark cloud was then drawn
back to the ocean, in whose heaving billows it sank from view. A
third time I heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Republic,
look and learn.' I cast my eyes upon America and beheld villages
and towns and cities springing up one after another until the whole
land, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, was dotted with them. Again
I heard the mysterious voice say, 'Son of the Republic, the end of
the century cometh, ( 1800) Look and learn.'
"And with this, the dark, shadowy figure turned its face south-
ward, and from Africa I saw an ill-omened spectre approach our
land. It flitted slowly over every town and city of the latter. The
inhabitants presently set themselves in battle array against each
other. As I continued looking I saw a bright angel on whose brow
rested a crown of light on which was traced the word 'Union,' place
an American :Bag between the divided nation, and say, 'Remember,
ye are brethren.' Instantly, the inhabitants, casting from them their
weapons, became friends once more, and united around the national
standard.
"Again I heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Republic,
look and learn.' At this the dark, shadowy angel placed a trumpet to
his mouth and blew three distinct blasts; and taking water from the
ocean, he sprinkled it upon Europe, Asia and Africa. Then my eyes
beheld a fearful scene: from each of these countries arose thick black
clouds that were soon joined into one. And throughout this mass
there gleamed a dark-red light, by which I saw hordes of armed men,
who, moving with the cloud, marched by land and sailed by sea to
America; which country was enveloped in the volume of the cloud.
And I dimly saw these vast armies devastate the whole country and
burn the villages, towns and cities that I beheld springing up.
"As my ears listened to the·thundering of the cannon, the clashing
of swords, and the shouts and cries of millions in mortal combat, I
again heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Republic, look
and learn.' As the voice ceased, the shadowy angel, for the last
time, dipped water from the ocean and sprinkled it upon America.
Instantly the dark cloud rolled back, together with the armies it had
brought, leaving the inhabitants of the land victorious.
84
"Then once more I beheld the villages, towns·and cities springing
up where I had seen them before; while the bright angel, planting
the azure standard he had brought into the midst of them, cried in
a loud voice: 'While the stars remain and the heavens send down
dew upon the earth, so long shall the Union last.' And taking the
crown on which was blazoned the word 'Union,' he placed it upon the
standard, while people kneeling down said 'Amen.'
"The scene began to fade and dissolve and I at last saw nothing
but the rising, curling vapor I at first beheld. This also disappearing,
I found myself once more gazing upon the mysterious visitor who,
in the same voice I had heard before said, 'Son of the Republic,
what you have seen is thus interpreted. Three great perils will come
upon the Republic. The most fearful for her is the third; but the
whole world united shall not prevail against her. Let every child of
the Republic learn to live for his God, his .land, and his Union.'
With those words the vision vanished, and I started from my seat
and felt that I had seen a vision; wherein had been shown me the
birth, progress and destiny of the United States.''
"Such, my friend,'' continued the venerable ·narrator, "were the
words I heard from Washington's own lips; and America will do well
to profit by them.''
The reader will note the similarity between the
Washington Vision and visions given the early Mormon
leaders. Evidently the United States will be invaded
by armed forces .from both Europe and Asia, but will
come out victorious. Is it improbable to think that such
an invasion would follow civil trouble and the break
down of governmental authority in this country? Too
many people have been given similar prophecies of
America's future dangers to disregard the warnings.
The following account of a vision was sent in to the
author in June 1945.
A strange similarity exists between the vision of Who-
shon-no and the vision of George Washington of almost
two centuries ago.
85
VISION OR DREAM
"Strange experience of Who-shon-no an Indian woman living in
Los Angeles, who said, 'I was tired from some extra work I had to
do and went out to the patio to rest a bit. I had just laid down in
the swing, when I noticed on the north side of the patio, what looked
to be a fog-like glow. It was purple and as it moved nearer to me,
each moment it became more luminous, I was curious as I watched
it approach. Finally, the cloud closed around me. I felt no fear,
nor did I question when the apparition of an Indian man appeared
inside the cloud beside me, nor when he said "I am Ta-ta-ton-yu,
medicine man or Shaman. Come with me, Who-shon-no!"'
"The next instant we were on our way through a most beautiful
country, with park-like forests, running brooks of crystal clear water,
with beautiful ferns, and flowers everywhere. A few people were
walking along the paths, or resting, all seemed so contented. I
wanted to stop and look around but my companion said 'we cannot
stop here, we must go further on;' finally we came to a high plateau.
From its edge we could look down and far away to a great distance,
after resting a moment Ta-ta-ton-yu said: 'Who-shon-no, look.'
He pointed in the direction toward the south. I stepped toward the
edge of the precipice and looked. What I saw was the most hideous,
terrifying, revolting scene imaginable. Huge, scaly bodies of black
clouds, lined with red moved with slow undulating movements.
Each cloud had an ugly broad and vicious-looking head, with great
bulging yellow eyes that constantly emitted flashes of lightning, with
loud roaring thunder, great red mouths opening wide, spitting fire
and destruction, accompanied with the sound of winds blowing and
pouring rain, mixed with the sound of cannons firing, bombs bursting
and the sound of groans, cries and screams of people. A terrible
stem:h arose from this scene. It was unbearable.
"I drew back from the edge of that precipice and was terribly
afraid. I asked Ta-ta-ton-yu, 'why do you show me these terrible
things?' 'These, Who-shon-no, are destructive entities caused by
the accumulated evil thoughts of mankind, those are the serpents of
hell hovering over the earth today, ready to destroy her and every-
thing on•her.' After a few moments HE said: 'Now look again and
listen.'
" 'Those clouds are now over Europe, Asia and Africa and soon
86
will be moving over America. America has already passed through
two wars *on her own soil, soon the third and worst one will come.
'Then again will a dark, shadowy being like some dark angel
float in the air accompanied by dark murky clouds with terrific
lightnings, thunderings, great winds, drenching rains causing de-
structive floods. There will be severe earthquakes and fires, through-
out will be heard again the roar of cannons, bombs bursting, screams,
groans and the cries of people right here in America. It will be
awful to hear. Everywhere will be desolation. No village, town or
city will escape from fire, death and pillage. Truly the forces of
disintegration are now gathering for a tremendous fight. This battle
to come is one of the crisis of eternity, and all because GREED,
HATE and WARS rule the earth now.
" 'Who-shon-no, you have just seen what must and will happen to
earth, for the world must be completely purged and cleansed of evil,
to prepare for a new dispensation yet to come, especially here in
America. Great good will come later, for this land of America is
to become the greatest land, the leader of all other nations. It will
be blest beyond all nations of earth. Those people fortunate enough
to survive this awful ordeal will become prosperous, happy and con-
tented, living on productive farms, and in beautiful villages, towns
and cities that will have been rebuilt after the catastrophe.' **
"I asked Ta-ta-ton-yu when will this good time come? He said:
'No one can tell the hour, but the time of great preparation is here.
It will depend on the people of earth, and their ability-to think
right. Only right-thinking will open the way for the coming of this
new order.'
'Who-shon-no, you can now see that OUR MOTHER the earth
is sick unto death, caused by HATE, GREED and WARS with all
the destructive forces let loose on us. No living human being is free
from the evil effects, as there is only one humanity. None can be
indifferent, none can escape the evil consequences. Since 'Nature
follows man's thoughts' the children of earth must join in a super
program of tolerance, kindness and understanding which will bring
recovery. Each individual must do his or her part to help, for as
long as one single human b~ing harbors evil thoughts, the earth is
*The Revolutionary War and the War of the Rebellion.
**For a description of the coming America of Peace and Plenty read
"LOOKING BACKWARD," a book written by Ed..-.,ard Bellamy and pub-
lished in the year 1887. It io a preview of America in 1980.
87
sick just so much. Now, Who-shon-no, I will go.' He went as he
came, quietly in a purple glow.
VISION OF AN OREGON FARMER
The following account of a vision, witnessed in 1945,
was sent the author by a woman who lives on a farm in
Oregon. The vision is quite similar to others given
various people at various times, pertaining to the com-
mg years.
"This is what I saw! Early one morning I awoke and as it was
too early to get up I laid back and relaxed. In a twinkling I seemed
to be somewhere else, and this is what I saw in a scene being enacted
before me.
"The first thing I noticed was that everything was desolate and
dry. It seemed that there had b~en many fires as there were ashes
everywhere. Transportation seemed to be almost at a standstill and
shops on every side were closed, many with broken windows. The
people looked very poor and seemed to be walking around aimlessly
like they didn't have any place to go. Around the railroad there was
a small group of decrepit looking men who seemed to be family men,
and I said, 'If the families could only be together at times like this.'
A voice behind me said 'Yes, but it isn't to be.' Soon a small freight
train came in and there were a few men on top of box cars and some
on flat cars. It seemed they were exchanging views and then a well-
dressed man came walking towards the crowd. He was very arrogant
and sure of himself but when he reached the crowd there was a blood-
curdling yell and I didn't see him any more though I looked and
looked. There didn't seem to be any excitement, he was just gone.
"Then the freight train started pulling out and I couldn't imagine
how it could when the rails seemed so bad and the cars and every-
thing so patched up. I said, 'It is going' and a voice said 'It isn't
going very far.' Then I do not know what happened but the last
thing I saw was the railroad, a twisted mass of rails.
"The trouble seemed to be internal, not a war with any foreign
power."
VICTOR Huco's VISION
On the wall of the room in the Place des Vosges in Paris, where
Victor Hugo died, he wrote: "I represent a party which does not
88
yet exist. This party will make the twentieth century. There will
issue from it first the United States of Europe, then the United
States of the World."
The following prophecy by Robert G. Ingersoll, the
great agn~stic, is fast being fulfilled. Our children and
our grandchildren will enjoy it in all its beauty by 1980.
INGERSOLL'S PROPHECY
"A vision of the future arises. I see a world where thrones have
crumbled and where kings are dust. The aristocracy of idleness has
perished from the earth. I see a world without a slave, men at
last free. Nature's forces have by science been enslave,d. Lightning
and light, wind and waves, frost and flames and all the subtle powers
of the earth and air are tireless toilers of the human race.
"I see a world at peace, adorned with every form of art, with
music's myriad voices thrilled, while lips are rich with words of love
and truth; a world on which the gibbet's shadow does not fall, a
world where labor reaps its full reward, whe"re work and worth go
hand in hand.
"I see a world without the beggar's outstretched palm, the miser's
heartless stony stare, the piteou; wail of want, the livid lips of lies,
the cruel eyes of scorn. I see a race without disease of flesh or brain
--shapely and fair, married harmony of form and function-and, as
I look, life lengthens, joy deepens, love canopies the earth, and over
all in the great dome, shines the eternal star of faith."
THE VISION OF JosEPH HoAG
The Quaker Farmer
The booklet from which the following account of the
vision of Joseph Hoag was taken was published in 1889
at Carthage, Indiana. The complete vision is given in
SEVEN YEARS THAT CHANGED THE
WORLD. The part pertaining to the future follows:
"In the course of the conflict (War of the Rebellion of 1861-
1865) the southern states lost their power and slavery was annihilated
from their borders.
"Then a Monarchial government arose, and established a national
89
religion, and made all societies tributary to support its expenses. I
was amazed at beholding this and I heard a voice proclaim: 'This
power shall not stand, but with it I will chasten my church (the
Quaker church is evidently meant as Hoag was a Quaker) until they
return to the faithfulness of their forefathers.
"Thou seest what is coming on thy native land for their iniquities,
and blood of Africa, the remembrance of which has come up be-
fore me.
"This vision is yet for many days."
Joseph Hoag beheld the vision while working in his
fields in September 1803.
The Quakers, at the time of William Penn, were pure
Faithists worshipping only the Creator or Great Spirit.
In the years since the Quakers have lost most of their
former faith and have become almost a Christian sect.
PROPHECIES OF REv. KATIE WHITTEMORE
In Los Angeles, California is located the Church of
Psychic Light, conducted by Rev. Katie Whittemore.
In the February 25th, 1942 edition of the Psychic
Observer appeared her predictions covering the world.
We leave it to the reader to judge the accuracy with
which she foretold the years from 1942 to 1945.
GERMANY
Everyone wants to know "What will Germany achieve?" She
will suffer more bloodshed than ever, before this war is over. The
army and the people will rise against Hitler. He will later try to
sue for peace, but will be denied by other nations.
Epidemics of pneumonia, typhoid and some cholera will cause the
people to cry out in despair for peace.
There will be military inventions to startle the world. Hitler
will soon become increasedly active with new developments concern-
ing airplanes. Before the year is over, there will be something made
known that will make other nations realize that they have been
asleep. This will soon be made evident in the newspapers.
90
Germany will not conquer additional territory, but will lose some
which are now subordinate to his power.
JAPAN
As we told you last year, war for the U. S. A. would begin in the
Pacific, not the Atlantic Ocean. Japan will not win. Manila will
fall into Japan's hands but will be retaken by the United States.
Many islands will be blown into bits, many lives lost in the United
States as well as on the island.
The Emperor will make a futile attempt to resign; but this is
unnecessary as there will be a new form of government regardless.
Japan will not always be known as Japan. Do not laugh or be sur-
prised to see Japan under the rule of the United States. This will
be revealed in your newspapers. The United States flag marches on.
To discover if Mrs. Whittemore's predictions were
always as accurate, the author obtained her predictions
given on January 7th, 1945 covering that year. How
accurate she was in calling her shots for that year we
leave the reader to judge. Mrs. Whittemore predicted:
ENGLAND
Change of government with loss of power by Churchill. England
would only be able to carry on by means of supplies sent her by the
U.S. A.
(The socialists won the election in 1945)
FRANCE
New Leader and peace for France.
(DeGaulle came into power and the war ended)
INDIA
Land conquered by Japanese regained. India's hatred of England
will increase.
GERMANY
Death of Hitler and defeat of Germany.
Russ1A
Will conquer Germany and many other countries. Increased
power of Russia in international affairs.
91
UNITED STATES
Death of Franklin D. Roosevelt and four other men in govern-
ment circles. Return to U. S. A. of many soldiers. Crime will
sweep the nation.
JAPAN
Thousands of civilians killed by bombs. Loss of war by Japan.
Territory conquered by Japs retaken by U. S. A.
PREDICTIONS FOR 1946
Given December 30, 1945.
RUSSIA
Will develop important new inventions. Power will mcrease m
Orient.
ENGLAND
Epidemic will sweep England. Great growth of spiritualism m
England.
GERMANY
Starvation and revolution. Will seek help of U. S. A. Records of
German inventions will be of great help to scientists of U. S. to
complete inventions.
FRANCE
A new government.
CHINA
Great strife in China.
TURKEY
Will be taken over by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
JAPAN
- .
Discovery of hidden files revealing Japan's secrets. Starvation
aRd plague. Earthquakes for J apan.
SWEDEN
Great advancement spiritually. New dairy product.
92
PALESTINE
Many Jews will be killed. Palestine will be given to the Jews
and within ten years they will have their own government.
INDIA
England will have much trouble with India.
UNITED STATES
Many strikes and much labor trouble. Shortage of canned goods
and sugar. Lumber and steel mills tied up. Strike in moving pic-
ture studios will be repeated. Many changes in Washington, D. C.
Great new inventions.
Let us hope that every good thing foreseen by Mrs.
Whittemore proves to be true and that she may miss on
the unpleasant events forecast.
The following interesting letter is quoted verbatim.
Name and address has been deleted:
December 15, 1945.
Dear Mr. Anderson,
In the Psychic Observer, I read of your request for revelations and
visions of world 'events to occur between 1945 and 1954. I feel
that we have had some rather unusual experiences in our own family
in the past eight years along that line, so may I pass them on to you
for whatever they may be worth.
To begin with, I am not a licensed medium nor even a member
of ~ Spiritualist church, only a farmer's wife, who is extremely in-
terested in the occult. Up to date, however, my reading matter
along this line has been very limited, due to our financial circum-
stances.
We have four daughters who have been seeing visions and speaking
with people in spirit for years, until those people are as much a part
of their lives as we of the material. It was back in June 1937 that
Black Eagle, an Indian teacher, came to our daughters and asked us
to sit in classes three days a week so they, from spirit, could teach
them some symbols of mediumship and prophecy. At that time our
daughters were ten, twins seven and youngest only five years old.
93
We arose early on three mornings each week, to sit around a table
to receive these symbols, which were shown in color in front of each
child. I could not see them but received impressions of the different
steps of the intricate designs. We memorized over a hundred of
these symbols which I have kept in a record book. To each symbol
was given a meaning which was written by the teachers in front of
the children. This was long before Pearl Harbor, but they told in
these symbols of the war that was to come, of how we would be forced
into it, of our success in the end.
As time went on, they entranced the girls during these class
periods showing them many visions of times to come in the world.
Many visions seemed to be symbolic forms which we didn't under-
stand. There were many teachers, whole bands of them, as time
went on, who talked with us answering our many questions. In
January, 1942, when everything looked pretty dark for the Allies,
they told us our real menace was not Germany or Japan for they
would be downed, but Russia who would be the cause of much
trouble for us during the years following the present war. They told
us that when the war ended there would be great internal trouble
in our country caused by alien influence high up in our government.
They said we would fight Russia and that we would have terrible
trouble and pestilences right up until the ushering in of the new era
or Golden age, as they called it, which was coming by the time our
girls were grown. They said if our daughters would follow their
many teachings they could be helpful in teaching others in prepara-
tion for that great change which was coming. They told us God
was to establish His Kingdom upon this Earth and that by 1953 the
merging of that spiritual Kingdom down upon this one, will be just
about completed. They told us there would be no money system in
that new era, but that all people will live in peace and plenty, wor-
shiping God in spirit and truth. There are symbols in our record
book for each of these statements I have given you.
For three consecutive nights March 12, 13, and 14, 1943, our
oldest daughter, now 18 years old, saw the vision of her youngest
sister in a room lying on a bed in the last throes of childbirth. The
room was very shabby and there was no doctor present. As she tried
to relieve her sister's suffering her eyes fell upon a calendar hanging
upon the wall of the room. It was turned to August and it was the
year 1953. We have always thought these visions were symbolic of
the condition of our country by the year shown upon the calendar
which so fascinated our daughter in the vision.
94
If any of our experiences may be of help to you, I will be very
glad. I thank you for your kind attention.
Yours very truly.
The writer requested permission to include in this
book a few of the symbols and their interpretation given
by their .spirit teachers to this Michigan family.
Students of OAHSPE, the New Bible, will find
many things in common between the symbols herewith
given and the Panic language whose symbols and inter-
pretations are given in OAHSPE. The Panic language
was the first written language ever used by man and was
in vogue on the Continent of Pan, submerged in the
Pacific Ocean some 24,000 years ago. Ja-pan is the
only remnant left above the ocean and it is from this
fact that the Japanese derive their claims to being the
oldest race of people on earth.
~ e--.......9 ~--3
+
A coming mar- Quarrel Divorce A new life
riage
"\? ~ 0 W/!-1
T he end of a per- Death of a relative Death ofa friend. You will return
feet day good for evil.
~ + ~·t..,..
c:c ~
.
You can go on Great danger. A turning point Be a shining lifiht
with your under- in your life. before your el·
takinfi, it will be low-man.
a right.
95
~ei<'.:
A
0 0
FwAR31
~'{ov4
7
o o"'
~"
You will be
Fo~~ddon~; o~~~
here.
All people of earth will
d evelop their psychic
gifts and practice them
for the i:ood of mankind
m time to come.
There will be a
change in the
universe which
will bring many
·Changes upon the
Earth in days to
come soon.
Strange things
will happen to
you in the next
five years.
You will be War
forced into war
in the days
come.
(fi;:\
~
to
With faith in
Jehovih's Angel
guidance, you
will come
through the trials
safe and tri-
umphant carry-
ing God's great
banner of Truth
· on to coming
generations.
~ilf°b~f~Na•;h~
Your home is no
longer a safe
refuge for your
people.
~it~ie ors~~~~
vation and pesti-
lence in the days
to come.
96
family.
~
The world will be
a tangled mass of
wreckage in the
days to come.
~
You will be wan-
dering the streets
without homes.
Jesus will teach
the people of
Earth from His
templeof wisdom
and Truth in
time to come,
after the war.
Your country
will be invaded.
Circle of fire.
War drums will
beat in every na-
tion of the world.
God will secure peace
!?_r establishing His
Kingdom on Earth,
after the war.
~
~
The Russians will in-
vade the United States.
There will be a glorious future
for the people of to-morrow
living in the sunshine of God's
great love.
God will shine
from the faces of
all mankind in
time to come.
The countries of the
world will be banded
together in perfect
unity in the years to
come, after the war.
Your prayer will be
answered.
The people of Earth
will cry out to God for
deliverance and God
will answer by sending
His Angels to finish the
troubles of War.
There will be no help for a
disease that will over-
come many people of the
world in days to come.
PREDICTIONS FROM MISSOURI
The following prediction was sent the writer by a
resident of Kansas City, Mo. A part of her accompany-
ing letter follows:
"The two messages that I enclose were given me through inspira-
tion and at night, while I slept. .I knew not what to do with them,
so the years rolled on."
"RECEIVED AUGUST 15, 1923. The commonwealth of your
country is on the verge of a collapse. Its stability is only a question
97
of time when the doors of destruction will be opened and the hordes
of freedom's enemies will flock to the holocaust. Be ye prepared?
The average person is convinced only when the flood is at the gate.
"RECEIVED APRIL 6, 1925. You are now standing on the
brink of a cataclysm such as the world before has never seen."
It may be noted that both of the above messages were
given over twenty years ago. Every student of the
Unseen is aware that in the fourth dimensional realm
of spirit, past, present and future present themselves
to citizens of the world as a continuous picture. For
spiritual beings to place any event in its exact place in
time, as time appears to us, seems to be a difficult ac-
complishment.
PREDICTIONS FROM FLORIDA
The following predictions were received in December
1945 from a resident of Miami, Florida. Time will
tell how true the predictions are.
Uprising of labor in America to be followed by an uprising of the
colored population.
The Ku Klux Klan will gain much power and receive consider-
able attention.
Australia desires independence and will fight for it if necessary.
An uprising in India is inevitable.
T ake heed of the Russian influence in America. Watch the main
streets of all the big cities in America for stores that use no capital
letters in names and advertisements. It is a sign.
Beware of teaching Chinese soldiers as in time they will turn
against this nation.
Locusts will menace this country.
Signs and wonders in the sky will forecast big events.
Japan will have an eruption of a mountain with heavy losses.
PREDICTIONS FROM WISCONSIN
The following prediction was received in I 945 from
a minister in Wisconsin:
98
"For years I have seen it coming-a new world system. I have
watched as one by one my vi_
sions became visible in the affairs of the
world. A complete turn about-a whole new set-up. There will
be a new world religion modeled upon a basic formula, and people
will respond willingly for it will be a soul religion as well as an in-
tellectual one.
"The dry and parched souls of the people will be drawn into the
peace and freedom and blossom as the rose. There shall none hurt
any more his neighbor but man will feel deeply that he is his brother's
keeper. The new religion will fill the need of every living soul, and
as a result of the freedom from fear of the unknown, health will come
to all as a divine heritage and man will adore his Creator.
"But before the new earth is established and in working order all
hell will break loose. Thousands of people will drop in their tracks.
America will not escape as she must pay for her sins too. There
shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Most of this will be caused
by the die-hards, those who cling to the old order of things. The
young will take it in their stride as will those who have the vision of
the new heaven and earth in their hearts.
"The 'me and mine' complex will be destroyed. Those who
cling to the old methods and beliefs will go down with the old order.
"Now is the uncovering period. All the deceit and trickery and
selfishness of human kind will be aired, as it has been enacted through
the ages. Be surprised at nothing-for evil, which is live spelled
backward, must be uncovered to be destroyed. Within the next
decade (by 1955) the whole world will learn that a false economic
system, invented and fostered by a few greed crazed lusters after gold
has caused every war on the face of the globe. Now they will learn
that breaking the laws of Mother Nature and Father Creator has
made disease ridden bodies.
"Nothing has broken out in all its fury yet. This will come within
the next decade. After that mankind will be on the upward grade
and the whole world will reflect it.
"The world will turn naturally to vegetarianism."
THE wORLD ABLAZE
In the year 1938 there appeared to Robert E. Golds-
brough, an English gentleman who has been clairvoyant
almost fifty years, in bright sunlight a noble, a bearded
99
figure, quite seven feet tall, dressed in a brown gown
decorated with gold brocade, and wearing on his head
a mitre-like helmet with three crowns. This amazing
gentleman, appearing in our modern world from out of
the long-ago claimed to be an ancient Egyptian Pharaoh.
He gave the following prophecy that has since come
true:
"The center of London will be a shambles, with death and de-
struction from the air-yet England will win after suffering great
losses."
History, he said, would repeat itself with another ter-
rible war from which few would escape. Floods,
famine, hunger, disease, nature rebelling against man,
volcanoes roaring, earthquakes shattering, lands sinking
and new lands rising while seas unite, are predictions yet
to be fulfilled, made by this man of ancient Egypt.
The following prophecy has been circulating in the
Orient for many years. The time of its appearance
and its author is unknown to the writer.
FLAMES OF HATE
I see a great and devastating Flame sweeping the world from East
to West; a Flame of fire, a Flame of sword and famine and murder
and death. I see the peoples of the Earth, each one with its hand
lifted against its brother, each country seeking for its own; men
dying, dying and cursing God with every dying breath, and sowing
the seed of new and more frightful flames.
I see descending from on High the Mighty Angel with the Flaming
Sword; for only fire can purify hate. I see this Flame of Purification
sweeping the Earth from East to West, from the rising of the Sun
to the going down of the Sun.
Five countries are left. The rest sink beneath the seas. Five coun-
tries! Five lands like the fingers of a man's hand. Four shall be
100
great and one small, but out of the smallest there grows the greatest
Light. Then comes redemption. Then comes that which alone can
make this world to be reborn, once more human, like a babe laid in
a manger, cradled in its mother's arms.
I see a great mountain lifted up in the midst of the countries which
are left, and from its top there radiates the Light of the Spiritual
Sun. And I see the remnants of mankind bathed in its Radiance.
Think not that any country in this broad world can escape. The
Flame sweeps onward and over. Only those who have the FLAME
OF THE LIVING GOD in their hearts shall survive. -
PREDICTIONS OF CHEIRO
In the year 1927 Count Lewis Hamon published his
CHEIRO'S WORLD PREDICTIONS. A few of
the prognostications contained in this astonishing book
are given:
Armageddon (or World War III) will be brought about when the
Jews are given liberty to return to Palestine.
The prosperity and progress of the Jews in Palestine will arouse
opposition of Mohammedans, Turkey and Russia will attempt to an-
nex Palestine.
England will be attacked in India and wherever there are Mo-
hammedan subjects. India will be freed and religious warfare will
rage between Mohammedans and Buddhists.
Italy and Germany will war with France. Spain will be under a
dictator and will have a war in north Africa. England will send a
large army into Palestine and Egypt.
Russia will be allied with China. All Mohammedans will be en-
gaged in war.
London and East Coast towns of England will be destroyed by
Russian airplanes.
North and South of Ireland will have civil war. A new Irish
Republic will arise and will right England.
War of Armageddon will be fought on plains of Palestine between
Russia and the new Jewish nation. Russia will be defeated by some
great natural catastrophe such as an earthquake, followed by fire, tidal
waves and a plague.
101
Count Hamon predicted two air developments that
came into use since the publication of his "World Pre-
dictions."
A new non-inflammable gas will shortly make its appearance; and
a different type of engine will revolutionize airships of all kinds.
Helium gas, on which the U. S. A. has a monoply,
has been developed since his book appeared and the
jet propulsion engine will no doubt revolutionize air
travel as Cheiro promised.
AN ANCIENT PROPHECY
The following ancient prophecy may be found in
the SECRET DOCTRINE, Vol. I, Book I, Chapter
VI. It is from the ancient PURANAS.
There will be contemporary monarchs, reigning over the earth, of
churlish spirit, violent temper and ever addicted to falsehood and
wickedness. They will inflict death upon women and children; they
will seize property; they will be of unlimited power, their lives will
be short, their desires insatiable.
Wealth and piety will decrease until the world will be wholly
depraved; passion will be the sole bond between the sexes; falsehood
will be the only means of success in litigation ••• until the human
race approaches its annihilation.
When the close of the Kali age shall be nigh, a portion of that
divine being which exists, of its own spiritual nature ... shall de-
scend on earth (Kalki Avatar the last Messiah) endowed with eight
superhuman faculties. He will re-establish righteousness on earth,
and the minds of those who live at the end of the Kali Yuga shall be
awakened, shall give birth to a race who shall follow the laws of
purity and usher in the dawn of a great era of enlightenment.
Could the prophet who gave the foregoing have fore-
seen by any chance, the advent of Mussolini, Hitler and
Franco? The second paragraph is in process of ful-
fillment now. May the Powers Above speed the ful-
fillment of the last paragraph of the above.
102
THE MosT GREAT PEACE
There are nine great religious movements in the
world serving to pave the way for the postwar era of
peace, plenty and security. One of these nine is the
Baha'i movement with centers in every part of the
world. The Baha'is movement is based upon the reve-
lations and writings of an Iranian called Baha'u'llah
who founded the Baha'i faith in 181 7. The funda-
mental teachings of all nine movements are the same
though phrased in different terms. In the main the
teachings of Baha'u'llah and OAHSPE, the New Bible,
are the same. It is accepted as fundamental that the
Creator is unknowable except through His manifesta-
tions, that spiritual revelation is continuous and progres-
sive, that man's spiritual, social and economic evolution
progresses in cycles of approximately three thousand
years, and that in the new age which began about 1848
we will see the end of war and the beginning of world
wide peace with world unity of worship, government,
and economics. Baha'u'llah early in the Nineteenth
Century made the following prediction:
"Yet so shall it be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars 'shall
pass away, and the Most Great Peace shall come."
According to the various cycles (given in OAHSPE)
upon which the prophetic science of the old bible proph-
ets was based, mankind will be through with war some-
time between the years 1948 and 1980 and by the year
1980 the Millennium will be in tull flower.
103
CHAPTER VI
HERMAN HALPERN THE NEW JERSEY PROPHET
The Voice of Prophecy does not recognize time or
distance. The phenomena that occurred to the N orwe-
gian Anton Johanson in the Finnmark in 1884 was re-
peated in Newark, New Jersey in the year 1933.
Herman Halpern was at that time president of the
Standard Drug Co. of Newark. "A hand touched me as
I lay asleep in the dark, and as I awakened a voice said,
'Look in the book.' " Thus began a series of strange
visitations that caused Herman Halpern to predict many
unusual occurrences which have come true during the
past several years.
Personal difficulties, national policies, death, illness-
all these and many other happenings have been revealed
or foretold by the spiritual forces which have guided
Mr. Halpern through "the Book."
Half asleep, as many are upon sudden awakening, he
did not heed the call of the ethereal words, Mr. Hal-
pern recounts, but when the summons was repeated
night after night, he arose and looked through some of
the books in his home.
The first night he could find nothing to give credence
to the Voice. On the third night oi his nocturnal re-
searches, however, he chanced to open a dictionary.
"The first word I saw," he said, "was Spiritualism."
From that time on whenever the forces wished to
communicate to him he was directed to the dictionary,
104
and invariably the key word was the first word he saw.
In this manner, he says, he was enabled to foretell,
months before it actually happened, the terrible ravages
of the drought which killed millions of head of
cattle and laid waste to the fertile acres of our western
plains, in the summer of 1934.
Weeks before national policies were determined upon
by Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his advisers, Hal-
pern was told what they were planning and the results
of their mistaken policies.
During several years of the Roosevelt Administration
Halpern bombarded Roosevelt, his secretary, Louis
Mc. Howe with registered letters and telegrams, telling
them what was being planned by administration officials,
bankers and industrialists that would prove detrimental
and disastrous to the people of the United States.
Weeks or months later Halpern's predictions would
prove true and events would develop as he had pre-
dicted they would if the policies adopted were carried
out.
Halpern told Washington officials five years before
World War II that it was coming and of steps that
should be taken to keep the United States out of it.
Between 1935 and 1939 they laughed at him and
argued that the Germans were paupers and could not
finance a war, and that Japan was a weak nation and
could be conquered within a few weeks. Their minds
were influenced at that time by story tellers, profiteers,
racketeers and parasites whose lust, arrogance and big-
otry were making a farce of the Ten Commandments
and placing democracy in jeopardy.
In March of 1944 Halpern predicted:
105
"At the conclusion of the present war, which I predicted and be-
gan trying to prevent five years ago, we will begin to worry about
the next War of Horrors. Most of the white race will be bankrupt
and become Communistic and it may come to pass that money
changers and horders of wealth will find themselves purged by hun-
gry, rebellious, unemployed labor."
Twenty months later we had but to look around the
world to see how true was the above prediction of 1944.
Halpern's spirit informants told him that this Time
of Trouble is governed by six year cycles. The cycle
that began in 1940 with war in Europe ended in 1945
with VE and VJ days. 1946 will witness another six
year cycle which will bring us to the year 1952.
In July 1939, before England declared war on Ger-
many, Halpern predicted:
"There is no nation so near destruction as Germany is today.
Immorality, homosexuality, nudity, brutality and insanity are on a
rampage in Germany. A country of over fifty million intellectual
people, many of whom are among the world's leading scientists,
chemists, artists and industrialists is fast becoming a nation of de-
generates."
How little did we dream in 1939, when Halpern
made the above statement, how true it would prove
to be.
In January 1946 Mr. Halpern, in a note to the
writer, said:
"Famine on a scale unprecedented is not many months away. So
say the Forces. You can't eat lies and promises. We have promised
the world food that we do not have. The crops of Canada, Australia,
Argentina are but one half normal.
"The rich of many lands who do not work buy food in black
markets while the poor receive insufficient amounts to give them
enough strength to work.
"Rebellious wars will result from famine in the near future.
Corn, wheat, rye, flour, will be very scarce in the Spring."
106
If the reader will recall it was considerably later
than January of 1946 before much publicity was given
to famine conditions in Europe. At that time it was
not even suggested that we might lack wheat in the
United States. As this is being written one can not buy
a loaf of bread in Los Angeles unless one gets to the
market before noon.
Herman Halpern makes the following prediction for
the six year cycle .that began with 1946 and will end
in 1952:
"Now, after six years, the first chapter of a repetition of the Dark:
Ages is over. Soon the cry of famine will be heard from most parts
of the world. This will issue in the second chapter of six years,
during which more people will be destroyed than during the first
chapter. It will be accomplished by widespread disease, revolutions
and communism in many countries.
"The United States is one of the few lands that had a fairly good
crop in 1945 and I know it sounds fantastic, but the group of forces
I communicate with claim to have helped produce this. Man's only
remedy for saving civilization is to turn from hate and national en-
mity to love and a realization of the Fatherhood of God, the Mother-
hood of Nature and the Brotherhood of Man."
Halpern's Voice has told him the same story told to
the Finnmark prophet Johanson a generation ago.
Countless prophecies, given through seers of every
nation confirm the prediction of famine, revolution,
epidemics to come before 1954. Evidence accumulates,
both of a prophetic nature and indicated by the Signs of
the Times, that the world will not enter a cycle of re-
construction until sometime after 1948 and possibly
1954.
107
CHAPTER VII
ENGLAND'S FUTURE
ENGLAND'S wOMEN PROPHETS
England was given two women prophets, Mother
Shipton and Joanna Southcott.
On~ of the most remarkable characters of the eight-
eenth century was Joanna Southcott. Born in the year
1750 at Taleford Farm, Ottery St. Mary in Devon-
shire, the daughter of William and Hannah Southcott,
Joanna was a woman of little education but great spirit-
ual power. In the year 1792 she began to hear a voice
speak to her which she thought was the voice of God.
Joanna said: "l was strangely visited, by day and
night, what was coming on the whole earth, and was
then ordered to set it down in writing." This she did
for many years and it was not until after the Voice had
been speaking to her for nine years that she first pub-
lished any of the things she had received.
At the end of each year some of her writings were
witnessed, sealed and placed in a large box which is
called :the "Ark :
of the New Covenant" by believers.
In 1801 this "Ark" or box was given into the care of
a William Sharp who took it to London. In 1803 ad-
ditional writings were placed in the box and more
material added in 18 04.
It was predicted that "in the shadow of a great trial
for England" the box would be opened in the presence
0f 24 Bishops of the Church of England and 24 of
108
Joanna's followers. God was to.manifest Himself at
this time, when nothing but the writings of Joanna 1
would save England from utter destruction.
After the death of Joanna Southcott the box passed
into the hands of Miss Jane Townley who kept it until
1825, the year of her death. Since then it has passed
through several hands and its present location is known
only to a few of her faithful followers. This is to pro-
tect the box as several attempts have been made to get
possession of it.
In late years several spurious boxes have been opened,
each claimed to be the true "Ark." One spurious box
was opened with great ceremony in 1927 but claimed by
believers to be a fake.
It was prophesied that the Bishops would ask for the
box in a time of great national danger and a request was
made for it in 1918, during World War I, but as the
Bishops would not comply with conditions laid down by
Joanna, they were denied possession of it.
From predictions made by Anton Johanson, Mother
Shipton and other prophets, it can be assumed that
Joanna's Ark of the New Covenant will be opened some
time before 1954 during the days of England's greatest
danger.
Joanna began her writings in 1792 and continued
until her death in 1814. To prevent deception her
writings, with the sheets signed by witnesses, were sealed
each year and placed in the great wooden box in the
custody of her friends.
FULFILLED PROPHECIES OF joANNA SOUTHCOTT
"Now c;:all to thy remembrance the promise I made the same year
( 1794) that this land England, should be defended from the foreign
109
enemy and not invaded. But the Turks should be utterly destroyed
for the sake of the Jews. (Hitler did not invade England after his
conquest of France as he was expected to do.)
"Another place thou was carried through was Spain, and they will
revolt against their King." (This occurred in 1820, six years after
Joanna's death.)
"Egypt you (England) must first possess." (England occupied
Egypt in 1879 and has dominated the country ever since.) ·
"The French, who were at that time England's opponents in the
Napoleonic Wars, to become England's friends."
"Two monarchs to plan a great war" (one said to be Prussia) .
"The Eagle was said to be the foe England had to fear." (Fulfilled
in 1914.)
"The Lord would end the war in Turkey, and utterly destroy
their power as a nation in Europe." (Fulfilled in General Allenby's
series of brilliant victories, and the rigid Peace terms, signed in
Turkey [ 1924].)
"England to possess Egypt, when she declared war against Tur-
key." (Fulfilled in December 1914 when Egypt was placed under
the protection of His Majesty, King George V.)
"England to POSSESS Jerusalem when she joined in the war
against Turkey." (Fulfilled in December, 191 7 when the Holy
City surrendered to General Allenby.)
"I will throw down your towns and build them anew"-Book 12,
page 112. (England is now rebuilding her towns following their
destruction by bombings.)
"In Spain they will revolt against their king."-"Warning to the
world" page 29. (Clearly fulfilled in 1931.)
"All lands in madness everyone shall see;
And every nation will in madness mourn."-Book 44, page 19.
The above is a fair description of world conditions
today.
Joanna Southcott gave 300 prophecies referring to
England, of which the following are examples:
"0 England! 0 England! I'd have you take care,
A House now divided, I'd have you beware;
A City divided, oh, how will you stand?
With wisdom decide it, and so keep your land."
(Pascoe, Book V., p. 200)
110
"Just so much madness thou wilt see in men,
One or the other they will surely drive,
To gain their ends all madly will contrive,
Till on the rocks some ships they'll surely spill;
And others madly break both axle and wheel.
(Book H, p. 19)
"Men will become headstrong, and seek to overthrow their riders
-namely their masters."
"If this land does not repent as Nineveh did, they shall sow but
they shall not reap, neither shall they gather into their barns. There
shall come THREE YEARS, wherein there shall be neither earing
nor harvest."
(Book I, p. 31)
"If the people turn to God, the FAMINE will pass from this
land."
"This is a type of what will shortly be,
All lands in madness everyone shall see."
Some great danger is threatened for England in
March and April. Unfortunately, Joanna did not state
the year:
"As a clock I've placed thee in the land (England)
To let them know how every hour doth stand.
Then now the hours fast are hastening hear
That thou must let them know what will appear,
For I shall warn before the clock doth strike,
And all thy prophecies they shall find them great:
And GREAT I say, I'll make them in the end,
When they have deeply weighed all thou hast penned.
For now you say your war is ended
Now I say it's not begun,
England's ruin is intended
By the people in your land.
Ye know not your own land. I said ye need fear
No foreign enemy, but ye should take care of your
Own land, for they are like thy father who judged
The land most out of danger when nearest to us."
111
"The Lord is awake, as one out of sleep. The voice of the Lord
shall shake terribly the earth. Pestilence and famine shall go through
the lands. Men's hearts shall fail them for very trouble, because
they have not known the visitation of the Lord."
"London will not shun the severe stroke of death and the judg-
ments that are over their heads."
"The sea shall be laden with ships and many shall break in
pieces."
"And soon you'll see the sugar from mankind
Will be removed, and every grief appear."
"Man would say: 'Our sons we've lost,
Our gold is gone.' " .
"As I destroyed the Philistines and Egypt, so will I now destroy
the Turks, and their land will give into the hands of Israel."
"Thou knowest I told thee in the beginning of the destruction of
the Turks, and until their destruction cometh no heathen nations
will be convinced."
Two Floods predicted to go over the Land-First:-"The Flood
of Persecution and Anger against the Visitation of Joanna Southcott."
Second:-"The Floods of Water that will rise like a Tide, and show
God's Anger at the rejection of His word."
"Here I tell thee (Joanna) are the TWO GREAT FLOODS that
are coming on-the floods of opposition and persecution that are in
mankind, will bring on the other flood that I have long threatened."
-The Spirit of Truth. (Pascoe MSS.
Vol. 5, page 324, also "S. Express," No. 9)
Earthquakes of an unusual character, with increasing power and
frequency, will take place as the "End" * approaches.
"And so the fabric of the Earth I'll shake," etc.
-"The Still, Small Voice," and many other books.
This century is foretold to be the last under the dominion of evil.
(True Explanations of the Bible, Part VI, p. 604, also Book 50 p. 34
and Holy Trinity, p. 34.)
*This means the end of the power of Satan among men in this world,
which must precede the "New Earth" under the reign of the Shiloh or Son
of Peace. (Books of Wonders)
112
"High rustling winds of unusual power and velocity will come;
also mountainous seas will endanger shipping."
-Book 21, p. 22; Book 36, p. 4-5, etc.
(a) "The mixed weather and seasons causing shortage.
(b) "Unless the Priests they do awake, your nation I shall chill with
sore distress to wound your breast when harvest doth appear,
By Sun or Rain to hurt your grain, and bring a Famine near."
-Book 14-, p. 34-
The French would never suffer a monarch to reign over them.
(Foretold at the height of Napoleon's power.)
"Of France and Spain and every distant coast, I'd save a remnant,
but one nation lost, and that should be for the sake of the Jews, that
I should destroy the nation that had their possession."
"I will now establish the throne of David forever in Jerusalem as
I have promised."
"Then know the last day must come, that a remnant of those that
were cast off (the Jews), must be gathered in and made a strong
nation."
"When earthquakes and famine in an unusual manner begin to
take place, then they will know that the woes that are past have come
upon men."
"It was by war I told you here, My Kingdom would come in."
"So much madness thou wilt see in man;
One on the other they will surely drive,
To gain their end all madly will contrive."
"All nations that forget God will be turned into Hell."
"Every land I'll visit first that England may awake."
"I have always told you, sorrows and confusion will be the end."
"Perfect like My Gospel, I'll appear,
And My appearance will be in this land."
"A heaven I'll surely make below."
"And to My Bible I do bid all come;
Or else, I tell you I'll destroy this land.
The plague and famine and the sword appear;
I say My anger, it shall kindle here.
113
/
If in this manner England does go on.
I see My Bible everyone does burn;
And In My anger I shall burn the whole;
Like Sodom and Gomorrah is your fall.
For where's the man who can believe in Me.
If that a world of Popes are made by ye?
That is a world which hath power to assume
That they are Gods above, and now come down.
But this the Apostles warn'd you of before;
Such hellish doctrine would from man appear;
And so My Gospel it would be denied,
And now I'll speak concerning of the Bride.
You know the spirit with the Bride must come,
To warn all nations what is hastening on;
And if the Church can now the Bride appear,
Then everyone must prove My spirit there,
To warn them all that I am at the door;
For He that's born of God must now appear
For to affirm he knows the things of God;
And by My Spirit must these things be known.
So now in print let all these words appear;
This is the reason I have linger'd here,
The madness of men's folly for to stop;
If they repent, I tell thee all may hope;
Because in love to man I do come down;
For Satan's art in every age was found
To work with power on the sons of men;
And new inventions always did begin
To wrest my Bible, as I said before;
And by his arts he made the Jews to err;
And now the Gentiles he would make the same,
Had not My spirit strong unto thee came,
To prove My Bible and My Gospel true;
There is but ONE GOD, that every son shall know,
That is in power.
In the Trinity-The Father, Son and Holy Ghost,
These three, there is a devil, I did say before;
And like a lion he does daily roar,
For to destroy where he can power gain-
But now the Other Power let man explain.
Given in 1803
114-
Joanna had an interesting explanation for the six days
of creation mentioned in the Bible. She said that the
six days in which God created the world are a type of six
thousand years-4000 B.c. through A.D. 2,000, which
would pass before the seventh day, the day of rest, the
seventh thousand years of the millennium when heaven
would reign on earth. Joanna said that the six thou-
sandth is to be cut short, but by what length of time she
did not know. From the cosmogony given in
OAHSPE, the New Bible, we know that the years from
1948 to 1980 is a cycle of reconstruction following the
1914-1948 "Time of Trouble." The Millennium will
begin in 1980 instead of the year 2000, thereby shorten-
ing the time by twenty years.
BIBLE CHRONOLOGY
1. From the creation of Adam to the end
of the fl.ood
2. Thence to the Covenant with Abraham
3. Thence to Exodus and giving of the
law
4. Thence to the Division of Canaan
5. Period of Judges
6. Period of Kings
7. Period of Desolation
8. Thence to ·A.O. 1-From Adam to
birth of Christ
9. From birth of Christ to end of 6000
years
4046 B.C.
2390 B.C.
1936 B.C.
1533 B.C.
1487 B.C.
1037 B.C,
524
454
YEARS
1656
427
430
46
450
513
70
454
4046 yrs.
1954
6000 yrs.
Joanna had the weakness that afflicts most prophets-
. -
1
the inability to determine the fulfillment of her proph-
115
ecies in relation to time. Like many prophets she did
not realize that the events which appeared to her as
imminent actually would be over a century in develop-
ing. Like many others she saw the 1914-1954 cycle of
Wars I, II and III as one war. Several of the events
she thought were about to occur were in fact more than
a century away and would not occur until the middle of
the 20th century.
All of Joanna Southcott's prophecies were not of
death and destruction. Joanna pictured a world of
peace and plenty after the world war ended:
"The years draw nigh
That I shall BLESS this happy land-
! know I've thousands that will stand
As valient soldiers in the fight,
And now shall make them men of might,
And every land before them fall.
My KINGDOM'S hastening fast for all;
And ENGLAND WILL POSSESS IT FIRST,
And wonders fast for all will burst."
(The Spirit of Truth-"The Second Book
of Sealed Prophecies," p. 75)
The following prophecy was written in 1794:
"And then My Kingdom I'll unite in peace,
And wars and tumults shall forever cease.
In David's day, the wars did still go on,
But peace and plenty came by Solomon,
And then the Queen of Sheba shall be here,
And every nation shall know and fear,
For to the South they surely shall give up,
And to the North I will not keep them back.
And I will save a remnant left in the war.
The heavenly pillars I will surely shake,
And earth's foundation tremble, and shall quake.
The raging seas shall swell with mountains high,
The foaming billows reaching to the sky.
116
The hearts of men shall tremble all within;
While loud Hosannahs shall my saints proclaim."
From-"The Small, Still Voice," Part I, No. 48
THE NEW EARTH
"As the good Fruit was on the tree,
The ending men must all know Me;
Or else My word can never stand,
As I did plant the tree for man;
And the good fruit was on the tree;
Then all mankind must sure know Me,
And judge Me by My powerful reign,
When you My kingdom do obtain,
And I begin to reign alone,
And banish Satan from his throne.
For a NEW EARTH shall then appear,
Like Eden's garden watered here;
And peace and plenty shall be found,
And every heart in Me be crowned;
And every nation then shall come
In heart united as One man.
And if that gold can do you good,
I've mines are hid that shall be showed;
And in the seas I've hidden store,
And then I'll bring it all on shore;
And then I'll make all barren lands
To bring in glorious crops for man;
And every heart I'll fill with love;
And the good fruit they all shall prove,
A perfect knowledge then of Me-
Angels and men shall then agree.
I'll cultivate and barren lands,
And the wild beasts shall silent stand,
And all the earth I'll fill with store;
The storms and tempests shall be o'er;
No burning heat shall then appear,
But pleasant weather bright and fair;
No searching frost to chill your blood,
Nor piercing cold as it hath stood,
But summers pleasant, winters mild.
117
And men in heart I'll so beguile,
That every man shall have a wife,
And love her equal as his life;
And happy offspring shall appear
For to complete your pleasures here.
This I designed for man at first,
And I'll fulfil it at the last."
- Book 44-, p. 35.
WORDS OF COMFORT
From the Spirit to Joanna
"A Paradise I made at first,
Wherein MY likeness it was placed,
As I have told you here below,
'Til Satan sought their overthrow.
But then for those who trust in ME
A paradise for them you'll see
And there forever to remain;
I ask what man can ever gain
These blessings for his friends below.
It is from ME all joys must flow,
And so in ME you all must trust,
'Tis I shall raise you from the dust
In realms of glory there to shine,
I tell you, all MY work's divine,
I am the MAKER of you all;
And 'Tis from ME your joys must fall,
If happiness you will possess,
'Tis I alone can give you rest."
(Book 3- "Strange Effects of Faith") (Dedicated to the memory
of George Hollingworth, London, England 1861-1918)
THE PETITION FOR SATAN'S OVERTHROW
We call for Satan's overthrow
0 God receive our prayers;
Do Thou confine our cursed foe
At least one thousand years.
His reign on earth, Lord, hath been long,
Man's ruin, his delight;
118
0 bind him now in fetters strong,
Thou God of power and might.
The following question of Joanna Southcott may well
be asked today:
"How will the land be enlightened but by the Spirit of Revela-
tion and the Spirit of Prophecy ... and what are men now but
like wild bulls, rushing upon one another? Hath this made your
land, or any other land, one whit better or wiser? . . . When th~
truths of Thy prophecies are made known then will men see the
MYSTERIES OF THE BIBLE, and all men will become of one
mind and one heart."
-"Strange Effects of Faith" p. 115
Joanna predicted that the bishops of the Church of
England would send for the box of sealed writing to
prevent famine in England. When famine threatened
England in February 1918 the bishops did send for
the box, but were not permitted to have it because they
objected to the presence of the twenty-four believers in
her predictions which Joanna specified must be present
at its opening. When England's last and greatest trial
occurs it is quite probable that the Church of England
will comply with Joanna's orders and permit the box
to be opened. Several fake boxes of small size have
been opened at various times but it is claimed that the
real box, which is said to weigh 156 pounds, still re-
mains in the hands of Southcott's faithful followers.
PROPHECIES OF MOTHER SHIPTON
Mother Shipton's prophecies have been famous
throughout the English speaking world for generations.
Just how many of the prophecies that are attributed to
her were actually given by her no one seems to know.
119
But certain it is that they are worthy of attention, who-
ever wrote them, for many have come true within the
past decade. A few of Mother Shipton's outstanding
prophecies that have been fulfilled in recent years are
given herein for no book on prophecy would be com-
plete without a section devoted to Mother Shipton.
The first record of Mother Shipton's prophecies ap-
pearing in print was in 1641. She was born about the
year 1486 in Yorkshire, England, and lived to a re-
markably old age. Erected to her memory near Clif-
ton, about a mile from the City of York, is a stone
bearing the following inscription:
"Here lyes she who never ly'd,
Whose skill often has been try'd;
Her prophecies shall still survive,
And ever keep her name alive."
One of the most remarkable of her prophecies is that
predicting world wars:
"When pictures look alive, with movements free,
When ships, like fishes, swim beneath the sea,
When men, outstripping birds, can soar the sky,
Then half the world, deep-drenched in blood, shall die."
And her prophecy wherein she foretold the decline in
womanly modesty, marriage fidelity and national
stamina:
"Women will dress like men and trousers wear,
And cut off all their locks of hair.
They will ride astride with brazen brow,
And love shall die, and marriage cease,
And nations wane and babes decrease,
And wives shall fondle cats and dogs,
And men shall live much as hogs,
Just for food and lust."
120
The following prophecies concerning England appear
in a little .booklet, the cover of which is reproduced
herein. Note that this booklet was printed in old
English in the year 1644.
A TRUE COPPY OF
MOTHER SHIPTON'S
LAST
PROPHESIES:
As they were taken from one
JOANE WALLER,
In the Year of our Lord, 1625.
Who Died in March last, 164-1, being
ninety foure yeares of age.
121
Of whom Mother Shipton had Prophesied, that she
should live to heare of Wars within this Kingdome
but not to see them.
Also predicting other wonderfull events that should
befall in this Clymate and in these times.
With two other strange Prophesies there-
unto Annexed.
All of which were never Published before.
London, Printed for T.V. 1644.
Mother Shipton foresaw the present socialist govern-
ment of England and predicted the loss of both power
and property by the titled and propertied class in the
following poem:
And when Coulton-Hag hath born seven years corn,
You shall not know of warfare at night, and have it at morn.
Then in the 7th year after it will begin,
And be noisome to the King.
When warfare begins at a Spring
Much care to England it will bring:
Then will the North rue it wondrous sore,
But the South for evermore.
Hares shall kindle upon the cold stone,
And lads shall wed ladies and bring them home
Then shall the ladies cry wel away
That we were born to see this day.
The wel wil be they that have the least
And woe to them that have the most.
Betwixt Calder and Ayre
It will be long faire:
When all the world is alost,
It shall be called Christ-crost.
The first main battel of this shal begin
When crook-back Richard his battle did win.
And those that goes unto the Plain,
Shall few of them return again.
122
At that day shall England quake,
For the voice of a dead Man shall be heard speake,
And the Dragon shall give the Bull a sneape.
After this the enemy shall advance to London, then weladay for
London, for destruction will come upon it for evermore. After that,
there will be a great battel, and they will be pacified for awhile, but
afterwards will return to Stockton-Moore neer York, where will be
a great battell: then will the Raven sit upon the cross, and suck the
Nobilities blood as the Comminalties; and then there will cqme
thither a Woman with one eye, and tread over many a Man in blood
to the knee, until she come to a Man leaning upon a reft, and shall
say unto him, who art thou, and he shall say, I am King of the
Scots. She shall with him go to her House, and he will go: and
there will be three Knights in her house, and all of them will stay
three days and three nights and one shall not know of another.
Soon after shall England be won and lost twice of a day; they will
cry in the forenoon, England is lost and in the afternoon, It is
won..••
Then will the enemy swear, if so they do not let them in they
will blow up the wals ••• and they will be let in; and there will
go to Cruse-Church the Knights and Earls, and there will be but
one come out again; and he will make Proclamation through the
City, That whosoever will take any Houses, Manners, Towers or
Bowers to come and possesse them for one and twenty years; then
evermore in England there shall be no more warfare; then shall
York be as London.
Then shall it be, that one Woman shall say to another, Come
Mother, I saw a man today, which will be a joy to a Woman to see,
for one Man there will be a thousand Women, then will there be a
White Harvest and Corne gotten in with Women. Then shall an
old man sit on Saint James Kirk hill weeping his fill.
And King or queen shall there be none. But Lords to Rule this
Realm alone. When these things are come to passe a ship shall come
floting on Thames until it come against London, then shall the
Master thereof begin to weep and his men shall say, Master, why
weep you when we have had >SO good a voyage? for that will he
say, I have seen here the goodliest city in the world, now I fear there
is none to give us drink for our money.
After Nevill with the Childs voice be fled out of England, he
shall .•. the Great Turk when this Child is in Yorke you shall
123
have a Lord Mayor dwelling at the grate head neer the pavement,
he shall be forst to fly, out at his back dore to save his life; and the
two Sheriffs at York that shall be then shall be both one Sir-Name.
Finis.
A PROPHECY FouNo IN THE ALLEY OF SAINT
BENEDICTS ABBEY IN NORFOLK
If eighty-eight be past, then thrive
Thous must till forty-four or five.
After the Maid is dead, a Scot
Shall govern there, and if a.Plot
Prevent him not, fore then his sway
Continue shall for many a day.
The Ninth shall dye, but then the First
Perhaps shall reigne; but (oh) accurst
Shall be the time, when as you see
To sixteen joined to thirty three;
For then the Eagle shall have helpe
By craft to catch the Lyons whelps,
And hurt him fore; except the family
Be cured by a Maidens name.
In July moneth of the same year
Saturne shall joine with Jupiter,
Perhaps False Prophets may arise,
and Mahomet shall play his prize.
But sure much alteration
Shall happen in Religion,
Believe you this when as you see
A spaniard a Protestant to be.
ANOTHER PROPHESIE
Out of the North shal come an hoast
Which shall invade the British Coast:
And it shall overspread the Land,
And drive the King unto a Stand,
And from the King shall take his life,
Yet shall it not offend his wife.
For after he shall live again,
And then the tyrant shall be slain,
Out of the East shall come a Knight
124
Which shall Donzeldelphus height
and be with good Rogero shield
Shall bear the Tyrant out of the Field
And chase him out of Brittany
And drown the Tyrant in the Sea.
THE ScoTS PRoPHESIE
A Nglia te prodit tua Gens te qualibet odit,
Te circumfodeat Gens Scotia gal lia ridit,
Wallia minatur, hiberniaque inlidiatur,
Pax innulata fluit, graviorque paena paratur.
FALL OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Between the years 1517-1608 there lived an English
astrologer named John Dee. He enjoyed the favor of
Queen Elizabeth and was asked to name a propitious
day for the coronation. As he stood before the throne
on the day of her coronation John Dee gave a prophecy
concerning the reign of the queen and the future of
England.
"Madam, because of the wisdom with which you have selected the
hour of the coronation, the stars bestow upon you a long and pros-
perous reign, and during the whole years of your reign, your enemies
shall never stand against you, your throne is secure, your power is
secure. Upon this fortunate occasion I also bestow upon you and
those who come after you, the accession of England and the House
of England, three hundred years of power in the name of the stars.
For three hundred years these Islands shall flourish, their power shall
increase and their strength and domain shall spread."
Dee died in the year 1608 at the age of 81. His
Speculum or mirror, a solid pink-tinted glass about the
size of an orange, is preserved in the British Museum.
It was probably used as a gazing crystal.
Elizabeth was crowned in 1558. The three hundred
·years of expansion of British power, according to the
125
l
Dee prediction, would have ended about the time of
the Civil War in the United States. Evidently the
British Empire is now living on borrowed time. World
events of today promise an early end to the British
Empire.
THE Fox's PROPHECY
Anonymous
(1871)
Tom Hill was in the saddle
One bright November morn,
The echoing glades of Guiting Wood
Were ringing with his horn.
Soft, fleecy clouds were sailing
Across the vault of blue;
A fairer hunting morning
No huntsman ever knew.
All nature seemed rejoicing
That glorious morn to see;
All seemed to breathe a fresher life-
Beast, insect, bird and tree.
But sound and sight of beauty
Fell dull on eye and ear;
The huntsman's heart was heavy,
His brow oppressed with care.
No voice of hound, no sound of horn;
The woods. around were mute,
As though the earth had swallowed up
His comrades-man and brute.
He thought, "I must essay to find
My hounds at any cost;
A huntsman who has lost his hounds
ls but a huntsman lost."
126
Then round he turned his horse's head
And shook his bridle free,
When he was struck by an aged fox
That sat beneath a tree.
He raised his eyes in glad surprise,
That huntsman keen and bold;
But there was in that fox's look
That made his blood run cold.
He raised his hand to touch his horn,
And shout a "Tally-ho!"
But, mastered by that fox's eye,
His lips refused to blow.
For he was grim and gaunt of limb,
With age all silvered o'er;
He might have been an arctic fox
Escaped from Greenland's shore.
And thus the huntsman he addressed,
In tones distinct and clear,
Who heard as they who in a dream
The fairies' music hear.
"Huntsman," he said-a sudden thrill
Through all the listener ran,
To hear a' creature of the wood
Speak like a Christian man-
"Last of my race, to me 'tis given
The future to unfold,
To speak the words which never yet
Spake fox or mortal mould.
"Then print my words upon your heart,
And stamp them on your brain,
That you to others may impart
My prophecy again.
"Strong life is yours in manhood's prime,
Your cheek with heat is red;
127
Time has not laid his finger yet
In earnest on your head.
"But ere your limbs are bent with age,
And ere your locks are grey,
The sport that you have loved so well
Shall long have passed away.
"In vain shall generous Colmore
Your hunt consent to keep;
In vain the Rendcombe baronet
With gold your stores shall heap.
"In vain Sir Alexander,
And Watson Keen in vain,
O'er the pleasant Cotswold hills
The joyous sport maintain.
"Vain all their efforts; spite of all,
Draws nigh the fatal morn,
When the last Cotswold fox shall hear
The latest huntsman's horn.
"And not upon these hills alone
The doom of sport shall fall;
O'er the broad face of England creeps
The shadow on the wall.
"The years roll on: old manors change,
Old customs lose their sway;
New fashions rule; the grandire's garb
Mores ridicule today.
"The woodlands where my race has bred
Unto the axe shall yield;
Hedgerow and copse shall cease to shade
The ever-widening field.
"The manly sports of England
Shall vanish one by one;
The manly blood of England
In weaker veins shall run.
128
"The furzy down, the moorland heath
The steam plough shall invade;
Nor park nor manor shall escape-
Common, nor forest glade.
"Degenerate sons of manlier sires
To lower joys shall fall;
The faithless lore of Germany,
The gilded vice of Gaul.
"The sports of their forefathers
To baser taste shall yield;
The vices of the town displace
The pleasure of the field.
"For swiftly o'er the leval shore
The waves of progress ride;
The ancient landmarks one by one
Shall sink beneath the tide.
"Time-honoured creeds and ancient faith,
The Alter and the Crown,
Lordship's hereditary right,
Before that tide go down.
"Base churls shall mock the mighty names
Write on the roll of time;
Religion shall be held a jest,
And loyalty a crime.
"No word of prayer, no hymn of praise
Sound in the village school;
The people's education
Utilitarians rule.
"In England's ancient pulpits
Lay orators shall preach
New Creeds, and free religions
Self-made apostles teach.
"The peasants to their daily tasks
In surly silence fall;
129
No kindly hospitalities
In farmhouse or in hall.
"Nor harvest feast nor Christmastide
Shall farm or manor hold:
Science alone can plenty give,
The only god is Gold.
"The homes where love and peace should dwell
Fierce politics shall vex,
And unsexed woman strive to prove
Herself the coarser sex.
"Mechanics in their workshops
Affairs of State decide;
Honour and truth--old-fashioned words-
The noisy mobs deride.
"The statesmen that should rule the realm
Coarse demagogues displace;
The glory of a thousand years
Shall end in foul disgrace.
"The honour of old England,
Cotton shall buy and sell,
And hardware manufacturers
Cry "Peace!- lo! all is well."
"Trade shall be held the only good,
And gain the sole device;
The stateman's maxim shall be peace
And peace at any price.
"Her army and her navy
Britain shall cast aside;
Soldiers and ships are costly things,
Defence an empty price.
"The German and the Muscovite
Shall rule the narrow seas ;
Old England's flag shall cease to float
In triumph on the breeze.
130
"The footstep of the invader
Then England's shore shall know,
While home-bred traitors give the hand
To England's every foe.
"Disarmed, before the foreigner,
The knee shall humbly bend,
And yield the treasures that she lacked
The wisdom to defend.
"But not for aye-yet once again,
When purged by fire and sword,
The land her freedom shall regain,
To manlier thoughts restored.
"Taught wisdom by disaster,
England shall learn to know
That trade is not the only gain
Heaven gives to man below.
"The greed for gold departed,
The golden calf cast down,
Old England's sons again shall raise
The Alter and the Crown.
"Rejoicing seas shall welcome
Their mistress once again;
Again the banner of St. George
Shall rule upon the main.
"The blood of the invader
Her pastures shall manure;
His bones unburied on her fields
For monuments endure.
"Again in hall and homestead
Shall joy and peace be seen,
And smiling children raise again
The maypole on the green.
"Again the hospitable board
Shall groad with Christmas Cheer,
And mutual service bind again
The peasant and the peer.
131
"Again the smiling hedgerow
Shall field from field divide;
Again among the woodlands
The scarlet troop shall ride."
Again it seemed that aged fox
More prophecies would say,
When sudden came upon the wind,
"Hark forrard ! gone away!" ·
The listener started from his trance-
He sat there all alone;
That well-known cry had burst the spell,
The aged fox was gone.
The huntsman turned, he spurred his steed,
And to the cry he sped;
And, when he thought upon that fox,
Said naught, but shook his head.
-Cheltenham, 1871.
THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES
Prophesy Made in 1888
By James Stanley Little of England
"Home Rule for Ireland-Independence for India-Reform in Eng-
land, with power from king and Lords usurped by the House of
Commons.
"England will suffer a savage internal struggle, with the Socialists
gaining the upper hand. The Aristocracy will be driven from the
country and take refuge in South Africa. Socialism will completely
triumph in England, with property being abolished, children being
reared by the state and people living in communal simplicity.
"Canada will leave the British Empire and join the U. S., and so
will Mexico and all the South American and Central American
republics.
"Germany and Russia will engage in a bloody war. Finally, Euro-
pean Russia, with Sweden and Norway will become part of Germany.
"Australasia will grow in power and with the United Nations will
dominate the Western Hemisphere.
"France will disappear from the roll of nations."
132
Orson Pratt was one of the early Mormon leaders
who spent considerable time in England on a mission for
the Mormon Church. While there he made the fol-
lowing prediction:
A PROPHETIC WARNING TO THE INHABITANTS OF GREAT BRITAIN
By Orson Pratt-1857
Expecting soon to leave Great Britain, and return to our moun-
tain home in the Territory of Utah, we feel it a duty to leave with
the inhabitants of these countries a solemn warning, concerning those
things which will soon befall them; and to point out their only way
of escape.
Being called and sent of God, we humbly and in a most respectful
manner, say to Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen, and to all
the Lords, Nobles, Rulers, Authorities, and Inhabitants in the United
Kingdom of Great Britain, that God Almighty, in this nineteenth
century, has set up His Latter-day Kingdom upon the earth, as pre-
dicted by His ancient Prophets and Apostles. Angels have been
sent forth from heaven, by whom power and authority have been
conferred upon many, not only to set up and organize the Kingdom,
but to minister in all things pertaining to the same. These inspired
messengers have been sent, by the commandment of God, to nearly
every nation under heaven, and have testified in humility and meek-
ness, but yet with great boldness, that the great and terrible day of
the Lord is at hand and that the preparatory kingdom is established
in the heights of the mountains on the great western hemisphere.
The kingdoms of the world have waxed old; and, because of
wickedness, they are destined to be speedily broken to pieces; but
the kingdom of God will endure forever. It is destined to increase
in strength, power, and dominion, and to bear ule over all the earth.
Those nations and kingdoms which will not unite themselves with
the kingdom of God, and become one with it, honoring its laws and
institutions, will utterly perish, and no place will be found for them.
In view of these things, we humbly, as a servant of the Most High
God, entreat all the people of these countries to repent; and in the
name of the Lord we exhort you to put away the evils and abomina-
tions in your midst, and seek the Lord and His Kingdom, and you
shall be forgiven, and your great transgressions shall be blotted out,
133
and you shall become a great and mighty branch of that universal
Theocracy which is to fill the whole earth, and thenceforth be gov-
erned by its laws.
But if you will not, as a nation, repent, and unite yourselves with
God's kingdom, then the days are near at hand, when the righteous
shall be gathered out of your midst; and woe unto you when that
day shall come! For it shall be a day of vengeance upon the British
nation; and your armies shall perish; your maritime forces shall
cease; your cities shall be ravaged, burned, and made desolate, and
your strongholds shall be thrown down; the poor shall rise against
the rich, and their storehouses and their fine mansions shall be pil-
laged, their merchandise, and their gold, and their silver, and their
rich treasures, shall be plundered, then shall the Lords, the Nobles,
and the merchants of the land, and all in high places, be brought
down, and shall sit in the dust, and howl for the miseries that shall
be upon them; and they that trade by sea shall lament and mourn;
for their traffic shall cease. And thus shall the Lord Almighty visit
you because of your great wickedness in rejecting His servants and
His Kingdom; and if you continue to harden your hearts, your
remnants which shall be left, shall be consumed as the dry stubble
before the devouring flame, and all the land shall be cleansed by the
fire of the Lord, that the filthiness thereof may no more come up be-
fore Him.
Your armies in India have already been smitten with a sore judg-
ment, because they cast out the Lord's servants who were sent to
warn them and to prophesy to them; they were rejected by your
missionaries and your officers; and being without purse or scrip, they
"had not where to lay their heads." But they were faithful in
delivering their warning message, until the Lord called them out of
their midst, that He might execute speedy j udgment, and show to all
nations that His servants cannot be rejected with impunity. Let
Great Britain take warning and now follow the wicked examples of
the Europeans in India. Your fastings and your prayers will be a
solemn mockery before God, if you receive not the message He has
sent. Though you appoint days of fasting and humiliation before the
Lord, yet He will not hear you nor answer your petitions, so long as
you receive not His Kingdom, and treat His servants with scorn. He
will mock at your calamities and multiply them upon you, until you
are wasted away, as chaff by the whirlwind of the mountains.
Saturday, October 24-, 1857
Millennial Star, Vol. 19 pp 680-81
134-
A MESSAGE FROM STEPHEN A. DouGLAS
In the year 1921 a little book titled PSYCHO-
PHONE MESSAGES was published by the Austin
Publishing Company of Los Angeles, California. Sev-
eral of these messages were included in SEVEN
YEARS THAT CHANGE THE WORLD, a collec-
tion of prophecies published by .the Kosmon Press in
1940. As this message by Stephen A. Douglas ties in
with several other prophecies of the future war between
England and the United States *it is worthy of atten-
tion.
STEPHEN A. DouGLAS
A war between America and England would fill your homes with
desolation and bring ruin to the whole country. Do your sins of
omission merit such a punishment? I am here to tell you what to
expect if such a hurricane of disaster ever sweeps the two countries.
Millions of people are under the impression that the United States
can act independently of the conditions prevailing in the other great
nations. This suggestion has met with eager response from revolu-
tionary emissaries now in your midst, supported by political fili-
busters who are masking the truth.
If England ever starts such a war she will lose India. Her direc-
tion of the reins of civilization in many quarters of the world would
cease on the day hostilities began. But I am speaking for America.
A war with England would Russianize the United States within
three months. Even if the navy could keep the enemy at a safe
distance the destructive forces at home would loot the principal cities
and spread terror from ocean to ocean.
The first to lose in such an upheaval would be the wealthy prop-
agandists of disorder and violence, who, living in security now, would
be hurled with destructive force against the weapons of their own
creation.
*Prophecy of Joseph Smith, George Washington's Vision, Vision of General
McClelland and others.
135
CHAPTER VIII
PROPHECIES OF IRELAND
In the year 1858 a collection of prophecies given by
Irish Saints was published by Nicholas O'Kearney. For
some eight years previous to publication O'Kearney had
searched the libraries of Ireland for ancient prophecies,
foremost of which are those of St. Columbkille, who
was born about the year 921. In most cases the transla-
tions were from the old vellum manuscripts. The fol-
lowing excerpts were taken from Nicholas O'Kearney's
book titled:
THE PRoPHEcrns oF ST. CoLUMBKILLE, MAETAMLACHT,
ULTAN, SEAHDNA, C01REALL, BEARCAN AND MALACHY.
The prophecies of St. Columbkille cover the history
of Ireland from the Sixth Century until Ireland is
freed from England and is again a sovereign nation.
As we are concerned with the future, most of the sec-
tions of the prophecies that have been fulfilled are
omitted.
ADDRESSED TO ST. BRENDAN
The time shall come, 0 Brendan,
When you would feel it painful to reside in Erin;
The sons of kings shall be few in number,
And the literati shall be deprived of dignity.
There shall come times of dark affiiction,
Of scarcity, of sorrow, and of wailing,
In the latter ages of the world's existence;
And monarchs will be addicted to falsehood.
136
Neither justice nor covenant will be observed,
By any one people of the race of Adam;
They will become hardhearted and penurious,
And will be devoid of piety.
Men will become murmurers,-
The trees shall not bear the usual quantity of fruit;
Fisheries shall become unproductive,
And the earth shall not yield its usual abundance.
Inclement weather, and famine shall come.
Hatred, malignity, and despair;
The natural span of human life shall be abridged,
And fishes will forsake the rivers.
The people oppressed by want of food, shall pine to death.
Meanwhile they shall be bound in slavery;
And in consequence of their enmity to one another,
Dreadful storms and hurricanes shall afflict them.
Another prophecy worthy of attention foretells the
final years of this "Time of Trouble" with a war be-
tween England and Russia.
The dignities assumed by nobles and great men shall be
subverted,
The nobility shall sink into humble life before the great
war;
That war that will be proclaimed against them from
beyond the seas,
By means of which the franticly-proud race shall be sub-
dued.
Legislators will enact fatal and unjust statutes,
To deprive the rightful clergy of church dignities;
(for) they will look upon their fame as an impediment i.n
their way,
Misfortunes and mortifications shall afterwards become
their portion.
137
The laws will be enacted in a spirit of gross injustice;
The clergy of the holy church will be persecuted
By the false-hearted Galls (English) both here and abroad,
Which event will cause great excitement in every place.
So that they do engage in a battle on the circumscribed sea,
In consequence of which they (Galls) shall be scattered.
(defeated)
This fleet * that will arrive here from the east,
Cannot be impeded on the mighty ocean;
Through the impetuosity of its noisy breathing,
Its strange appearance shall be marked by flaming
mouths.**
After the Galls shall be defeated in this battle,
They shall be harassed from every quarter;
Like a fawn surrounded by a pack of voracious hounds,
Shall be the position of the Saxons amidst their enemies.
The Saxons afterwards shall dwindle down into a disrep-
utable people,
And every obstacle shall be opposed to their future
prosperity.
Because they did not observe justice and rectitude,
They shall be forever after deprived of power!
Three warnings will be given them before their final fall,
The burning of the Tower of the great kings,
The conflagration of the Dock-yard of the Galls,
And the burning of the Treasury where gold is deposited.
This new Eire shall be Eire the prosperous,
Great shall be her renown and her power;
There shall not be on the surface of the wide earth,
A country found to equal this fine country!
Prophets of every nation and time seem to concur
in their foreknowledge of the defeat and disruption of
* Fleet of airplanes probably
** Blazing guns.
138
the British Empire with Russia the conqueror. Current
events bear them out. That these are the last days of
British imperialism seems quite evident. Loans by the
United States to Great Britain are as useless and sense-
less as were those following World War I.
PROPHECY OF ST. SENANUS
Senanus Cecinit
Impart to me, 0 Senanus (Sedna),
Information concerning the latter ages of the world;
What shall be the condition of the race of people
Who will not observe rectitude in their judgments.
What shall be the condition of the people
Who will entertain false and treacherous intentions;
Shall any individ~al of them be admitted
Into the regal mansions of heaven?
I take leave to assure you, 0 Cleric,
That every king who will invade this country
Every race that will rule over Eire,
I view with perspicuity.
Women will abandon feelings of delicacy,
And cohabit with men out of wedlock;
They will follow those practices without secrecy,
And such habits will become almost unsuppressible.
The earth will not produce its fruits
For the race of people to whom I allude;
Full mansions will be deserted,
And unpleasant will be the tidings concerning them.
Dreadful plagues will come
Upon all the race of Adam;
All will rush into iniquity
Against the will of the Son of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
139
A strange people will arrive and take their place,
According to the knowledge I possess;
They will take possession of the maritime parts,
This very formidable host of aliens.
They will rule ****** years **
As sovereigns of the land of Fodhla (Ireland);
Until they will commit murders
Without warning their enemies (victims).
They themselves will betray each other,
In consequence of which their sovereignty will be broken,
They will stain their swords and battle-axes with blood;
They will be a selfish race, devoid of benignity.
The son of the King of Saxon will come
To join them across the sea;
He will part with the sovereignty
Of the Galls in the country whence he will come.
The Galls * and the Gaels ** of Ireland
Will unite on one confederation;
Against the forces of the Saxons,
Their confederacy cannot be dissolved.
One monarch will rule in Ireland,
Over the Galls and the pure Gaels;
From the reign of that man
The people shall suffer no destitution.
St. Senanus seems to agree with St. Columbkille in
foretelling the conquest of England by a foreign
power. As England has not so far been either invaded
or defeated, we can conclude that the foregoing proph-
ecy pertains to the future and probably the immediate
future.
Down the centuries have come verbal prophecies
throughout Ireland. Many have been credited to Mac-
*English
**Irish
140
Auli:ffe, a 17th century blacksmith. There is reason to
believe that many Irish prophecies originated long be-
fore MacAuli:ffe's time.
MAcAuLIFFE's PROPHECY
When the lion shall lose his strength,
And the speckled thistle its power;
The harp will sound sweetly,
Between the eighth and ninth hour.
The lion is emblematical of England, the thistle of
Scotland and the harp of Ireland.
There shall come a grey summer, a sunny harvest,
A misty winter, a favorable spring,
A fine Christmas, and fat graveyards;
Half the winter shall become like summer,
And half the summer like the winter.
Then shall come gory war, by means of which the
haughty race shall be subdued,
With three great assessments, and no boasting victory
for the Saxon;
A snare (spy) will be set on the road, and the stones
will speak,
And every man will have a sword in his hand.
Bogs shall be locked, and the mountains fenced,
The grey horse will leap over the lion;
Then shall there be danger of war;
For, though at night with peace the nation rings,
Man shall rise to war in the morning,*
There shall be a winter council, a careful Christmas,
And a bloody lent. , • .
THE PROPHECY OF DONALL CAM
About the year 1750 Donall Cam, called the myste-
rious wanderer, was known throughout Ireland as a
*This prediction agrees with that of Joanna Southcott.
141
"great prophecy man." On the eve of the American
War of Independence, Donall Cam traveled around
Ireland giving the following prophecy to those who
would listen. Donall was supposed to be inspired and
his predictions believed to be of his own making, but
this must have been a mistake for the following was
translated from a manuscript much older than Donall
Cam.
There is another copy of this prophecy in the Royal
Irish Academy and may be seen in the Hudson Collec-
tion of Irish Manuscripts.
In the year whose date shall be three sevens,1
A disturbance shall arise at a distance of three calls from Europe ; 2
This trouble will never have an end,
Until Christendom 8
will embrace a similar course of rectitude.
From the time of two Galls 4
-(strangers) will fight,
For the supremacy of a country in the new division of the earth;
A man whose sway was potent shall become powerless,
And misfortunes in succession shall follow him.
Through blind madness they will enact laws,5
With the intention of forcing subjects into further submission;
This proceeding will cause a flame to be kindled,
Which will be fanned by the enemy in the vicinity.
This blaze will not pass across the ocean,
Until a potent King affiicted with madness 6
shall be subdued;
The fraud of barter will characterize the struggle in those
countries,
And penury created by monopoly shall be the substance of that
law.
The Biscayans 7
will descend the Alps,
In a body that will subdue all the northern tribes;
They will liberate countries from slavery and suffering,
And will be observant of peace' till their forces be augmented.
142
A small shoot 8
will spring up from the true germ
Of a wood that has been withering down to a worthless shrub-
bery,
It will depose Kings from their usurped dignities,
And countries shall enjoy freedom under its sway.
When nations shall be reduced to the level of republics,
And monarchs deposed from their usurped dignities;
Destruction shall come upon the sages of the countries so
affiicted,
And they who offer sacrifice to God shall be exiled for a time.
The Lion will extend his limbs far beyond his crown,
And will bestow gold in abundance to purchase victory in battle;
In great Germany, France will spill out her power,
And affiiction shall be the portion of every race.that perpetrates
injustice.
The people of Fodhla (Ireland) shall suffer grievously in con-
sequence of their connections,
Throughout Europe they shall be oppressed by foreigners;
But when Rome and the countries adjacent shall be subdued,
Ireland the Young, after that, shall remain in sorrow only one
year.
I. Ag data, etc. The year 1777. Though the American war of
independence commenced before this date, the groundwork of
freedom was not firmly laid until this year.
2. Fad thri sgairt. This was a favorite form of expression to de-
note a far distance; the old bards frequently used it. Ex. "At
the distance of a call from this place dwells the love of my heart,
And it is certain I never shall see her again." Old song.
3. Go m-beidh, etc. It is not meant that American war should not
have an end before Christendom would gain freedom, but only
that the principles which gave rise to that war should still live.
4. The two Galls or strangers here meant, are evidently the English
and American colonists. The war of the two Galls is a topic of
much interest with prophecy-mongers.
5. These were the oppressive laws enacted by the English to crush
143
the rise of the American colonists, and against which the Bos-
tonians made a noble resistance.
6. This king was George III. Whether his political madness in
oppressing the Americans, or his subsequent insanity is meant,
we decline to decide.
7. This stanza alludes to the broils which succeeded the American
war, on the continent of Europe.
8. The personage here indicated as a small bramble appears to have
been N apoleon I, but some interpreters assert he has not made
his appearance as yet.
lH
CHAPTER IX
THE SCANDINAVIAN SEER
ANTON JOHANSON, THE SEER FROM THE fINNMARK
In the year 1858 there was born in Tama Parish, near
the Swedish Lappmark, a man who was later to be given
a vision of world events covering two seven year peri-
ods, the first from 1914 to 1921, the second from 1947
to 1954. The complete accuracy of the vision covering
the seven year period that is past is.a good criterion with
which we may judge the probable accuracy of his pre-
dictions for the years 1947 through 1954.
Anton Johanson lived in the part of Norway within
the Arctic Circle known to Norwegians as the Finnmark.
He was a deeply religious man although he did not hold
allegiance to any Christian sect. During his life he
served in the capacities of school teacher, surveyor,
shepherd, fisherman, none of which would have brought
him to the attention of the world. His first recognition
came through the wonderful vision that was given him
in 1907 wherein he saw the major events that were to
begin seven years later in 1914 and continue until 1954.
The first vision he experienced was in 1884 when he
was twenty-six years old. During the early morning
while he was half awake he beheld two of his brothers
drown and settle to the bottom of a rocky islet about
twenty-five miles from his home. At the same time he
had this vision, he heard a voice say "There are your two
brothers." Upon investigation he found his brothers
145
had perished at the time and place indicated by his
VlS!On.
Thereafter he had the experience many times, upon
meeting people, to see their faces as though they were
veiled and learned that this was a sign that the person
so veiled would soon die. He was always instructed by
the "Voice" to pray for them.
Sometimes revelations concerning the future were
given him in vision, sometimes he could hear a voice tell
him of events to come and at other times the voice
accompanied his vision and gave detailed information
relative to the things he was seeing. At rare times he
would see, hear and feel concurrently, what was to
occur. On the night of November 13, 1907, Anton
Johanson was given his "great vision." In his own
words:
"After I had seen the events and partial misfortunes that were
to befall different parts of the world, and especially my homeland,
Norway, I was shown the greatest of all the calamities that were to
visit the world-the World War. In my spirit I was given to see the
different officials under whom I was to work the next seven years in
the surveying work in the Finnmark. Their names were also told
to me, and for each name a year was given. This was revealed to
me as a sign that this war would come after seven years. The name
of the last official was Knutson. When this officer had been shown
to me, and I also had been given to see the place in the Finnmark
where I was to work that summer, (the 7th !n order, counting from
the fall of 1906) I was taken in the spirit through the illumined
space down to Europe. I saw and heard how the war flared up in
Austria-Hungary and Serbia, and along the east German frontier,
where I was taken, and where I saw enormou~ battle-lines, and
trenches full of people and armaments. The front was on a stretch
way down from the Black Sea and to the Baltic, and over the whole
front there was a terrible turmoil and a mighty din of weapons.
I saw how masses of Russians milled over great stretches of German
territory, and how great clouds of smoke arose along the fronts.
146
Great bursts of fire could also be seen in many places. When I in
the spirit had seen this fearful war and had been taken to the fronts
in the east, west and south, the Lord said: 'Because of the wicked-
ness of man this World War shall come, but you are going to do all
you can to inform and warn Kaiser Wilhelm, that he might not be
inveigled into this war.'
"The World War was to be followed up by great political up-
heavals, fearful epidemics, periods of distress and poverty. Socialism
and its derivatives would make great progress over the whole world;
repeatedly I heard the Lord speak of the progress of socialism and
its connection with the revolutionary turmoils in different lands.
"The Lord said that War, revolutions and afflictions would take
such an enormous toll in human lives in RUSSIA that no one would
ever know how many people perished there.
"It was said that GERMANY would be harassed by revolutions
for some time to come, and that they would be worst in the south-
west states. As late as 1953 there would yet be interior disruptions.
The old mayor, whom I saw in the visions about the war in Sweden
in 1953, lamented over 'German's great calamity during the World
War and onward.' He said among other things: 'It is sad that
things should go so badly for Germany.'
"In ENGLAND the disturbances should be worst in the southern
parts, in Wales and thereabouts. In this connection the voice said
that 'England is standing before an abyss and would be falling
into it.'
"I ·heard the Lord say that five wars awaiting AMERICA in the
future, of which there were two very violent civil wars that end with
the breaking up of America into four or five smaller federations.
One of the greater of these was caused by complications with Canada.
"I heard other things about America, but as these things would not
concern us here in Europe, I did not pay so much attention to them.
I cannot therefore recollect any exact data or circumstances in this
connection now.
"However, I have later met a person in Norway who also had some
revelations of these future troubles in America, who in the spirit saw
bloody battlefields over there, partly in the interior, partly along the
Atlantic Coast and partly up towards Canada. 1
"I do not remember that I heard anything about Japan in this
connection but about CHINA I heard that •there had been great
disruptions and more would come. This was to be between the
World War and 1953.
14-7
"I also heard about revolutions in FINLAND and its liberation
from Russia, but the voice said that its freedom would be short, and
that its people should come under the Russian yoke again and be
oppressed worse than in the days of the Czarist regime. Much
blood would flow in this country. By 1953 its national status would
be completely paralyzed.
"The SCANDINAVIAN Countries did not escape political tur-
moil either. Socialism also came through here with complete victory.
In Sweden it happened later than in the other countries, but by the
time 1953 came the socialists seemed to have control, to do as they
pleased. In the smaller countries the changes came first, and for
two of them I heard the word 'revolution' mentioned, but did not
see any bloodshed in connection with it.
"GREAT EARTHQUAKES AND VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS
visited different areas, and also in places that heretofore had been
spared. In Italy these became more violent and destructive than
ever before. If I remember correctly I heard about the great new
eruption of Vesuvius in this connection. Great mine disasters and
gigantic floods also happened during this time. Floods visited
western Germany where large areas were inundated. Damages of
enormous proportions were caused by these floods. Several mines
were filled with water and collapsed, caused by subterranean catas-
trophes. Storms of greater or lesser violence and extent raged in
several parts of the world. Europe and America suffered from them,
and especially England. Not less than five great storms during the
time from the World War and on were mentioned to me. Much
damage was also done by excessive thunder and lightning during
these years; northern Germany, Denmark and southern Sweden were
visited in this way.
"During these years EPIDEMICS OF GREAT PROPOR-
TIONS also ravaged the inhabitants of the earth. They came in
three periods, and the first took place during the last phase of the
World War, and continued a few years after.
"The next epidemic period came after the English-Indian war,
when unknown maladies of great severity appeared. They were
more dangerous than any that had been known to visit the earth
before, and spread out to different parts of the world, most terrible
of the affiictions affected the eyes and mind of the one affiicted, ex-
acting an enormous toll in human lives. And especially in Russia
did they rage violently, and the voice said that these and other
maladies should be visited upon Russia because of her great un-
14-8
godliness. If I remember right, it was said that a fourth of its
population would perish in these epidemics. One of the diseases
affected victims so that they became blind, and lost their reason.
For those who were attacked by this malady it was especially
dangerous to consume alcoholic liquors.
"The third great period of plagues came after the Spanish-French
war, which took place a few years after the Inda-English war. It
was partly a serious lung-malady that raged this time, but new and
unknown affiictions also appeared in connection with it. One of
these caused the people who were attacked by it to become utterly
wasted and emaciated. Another was a loathsome pus-forming disease,
akin to leprosy, that caused partial decomposition of the body. The
two warring nations suffered most from it, but in· its course it also
spread out over all Europe and into other parts of the world. In
France it raged most violently, where great numbers of its best youth
succumbed to it. It was said that all of these plagues together would
cause such a staggering toll in human lives, that the equal of one
fourth of the earth's population would go under from them.
"The future of ENGLAND seemed dark, and repeatedly I heard
its name mentioned in disastrous connections. 'Interior disturbances
and rebellions, war in the colonies, war in Ireland (before 1953),
and visitations by the elements of nature,' were among the calamities
I heard that were awaiting that country.
"One major war that England had to wage after the World War,
was in India. It began with great revolts in North India, where I
heard the city of Delhi mentioned as one of the places badly ravaged.
After the war had started in the north, rebellion also broke out in
the middle and southern parts of India. I heard the name of
Calcutta mentioned as one of the most important places. It was
here the war was settled, and the Englishmen were driven into the
sea. Great battle lines were stretched out between Delhi and Cal-
cutta, with great, bloody battlegrounds. Around these two cities
there were also great encounters. The lines were drawn northwest
to southeast, and the battle raged in great violence along the whole
front. People fell in great masses, and there was not given enough
respite to bury the dead. Great stretches were covered with the
fallen, who in many places lay in great heaps. The war ended with
full independence for India from England, but was followed by
terrible epidemics, famine and suffering. This war took millions of
India's population. If I am not mistaken, it was said about 25 million
in this connection.
149
"If India was the only country that England lost, I could not dis-
cern exactly, but I heard that she also had trouble and rebellion in
other colonies. I heard special mention of Egypt and colonies in
Africa in this connection.
"TWO CATASTROPHES IN NATURE fraught with fatal
and disastrous consequences, were to take place some years after the
World War. The one was a gigantic hurricane that hurled itself
over two continents, and the other a violent earthquake in connection
with a volcanic eruption in the North Sea.
"After I had been permitted to see the terrible World War and
the misfortunes and sufferings that would follow in its train, I was
borne in the spirit to the countries and coasts of the North Sea, where
the first of these disasters was revealed to me. One of the first names
I heard in connection with the earthquake was Iceland. But if the
source of the eruption was at this place or from the bottom of the
North Sea, I could not discern so clearly. It surprised me when the
Lord mentioned these places, because I did not know that earth-
quakes or eruptions took place in this part of the world. But the
Lord mentioned these places several times distinctly, and later I
understood that I had not been mistaken when I saw the disaster and
the places where it happened. While it affected all the countries
around the North Sea, none seemed to be as hard hit as England,
especially on its east coast. The voice said that this came as 'a punish-
ment for England's pride.' Twilight s~emed to extend over this
whole area, and no stars were visible in the skies. A strong wind
came in from the sea, and snow had not yet fallen.
"I was taken farther in the spirit, to the vicinity of Trondheim.
I stood on the shore and looked out over the sea when suddenly
THE EARTH BEGAN TO SHAKE under me. The houses in
the city trembled like leaves, and tall wooden buildings near the
shore collapsed. A terrible roar was heard out from the sea, and a
great tidal wave came rolling in with fearful velocity and dashed
against the steep mountainside. In the lower places it continued far
inland, inundating large sections of the city, and causing great
damage. Great warehouses with their stores of goods were hurled
over and carried away by the waves. The floods extended thus all
along the coast, from southern Norway and up to Bodo in the north.
"After I had seen the extensive damages wrought by this disaster
in my own country, I was taken in the spirit to the large cities along
the eastern coast of England. Here it was most violent, and great
stretches toward the interior were flooded. I heard the name Hull
150
mentioned as one of the places badly damaged, with its immediate
v1cm1ty. Scotland was hard-pressed, and it appeared to me as if
some of it was submerged. Further south I saw the greatest de-
struction in England. Harbors and docks were completely wrecked.
A great number of buildings collapsed, with wreckage and debris
floating in the harbor, and others were thrown up on land among
the buildings. It was the greatest calamity ever seen in England.
Out at sea there were many shipwrecks and many sailors perished.
Great masses of fish were also killed and floated around in the waves.
"The tidal wave continued along the English Channel destroying
harbors and creating great havoc in the cities on both sides. I heard
the French city of Rouen mentioned especially, and a couple of other
places on the north coast of France, the names of which I cannot now
recall. Great parts of Holland, Belgium and the German North
coast were also mentioned as among those that would suffer much
from this disaster. I heard Antwerp and Hamburg mentioned as
among the cities that were hardest hit. I also saw Hamburg, and the
destruction there was next to London in extent. I heard mention
made of great stores of goods and merchandise that were lost there.
"Denmark's north and west shores, with their harbors and cities,
and the Swedish west coast, suffered greatly from this disaster. On
the Swedish side I heard Gothenburg, Malmo and Helsingborg
especially mentioned.
"The tidal wave proceeded on into the Baltic and down towards
the Mediterranean, but the damages must not have been so great
there, as I could not see· it so distinctly, and there were no names
mentioned.
"About the same time as this beforementioned earthquake and
tidal wave I observed A TERRIBLE HURRICANE that seemed to
reach over two seas. It was shown to me at almost the same time,
and because of this I am not sure which one of these powerful
disturbances came first. It was not so easily discerned, but I believe
the earthquake was first. If the earthquake and the storm had any
connections with each other I cannot say. In the spirit I was then
taken from there to the Pacific Ocean, in the vicinity of the Panama
Canal. Here the hurricane started. The names of these places were
mentioned to me very distinctly, and from my place of elevation I
could clearly distinguish the form and character of the landscape. It
was a mountainous country, and I saw islands.
"The hurricane continued from these parts north and northeast
up over the North American continent. It raged over the coast cities
151
with their millions, and harbors, over industrial plants, over planta-
tions, and with such violence that great stretches were devastated.
Buildings were thrown down, and the debris flew around in the air.
Large plantations in several states were badly damaged, with other
stretches inundated, as the waves rolled in over the land. Many
vessels were shipwrecked at sea, and others were carried inland over
the shores. Harbors and docks were wrecked so badly, that it was
doubtful if some of them would be rebuilt, and commerce was ruined
for a long time. Of the plantation states, Virginia was especially
mentioned. The states bordering on the Mexican gulf were also
ravaged by the storm, and I heard Florida mentioned. The storm
raged over a wide belt from the Atlantic coast and up over the
Mississippi valley, continuing up towards the Great Lakes, where
it seemed to gather new strength.
"Over the Mississippi valley the storm raged just as violently as
along the Atlantic coastline, but a belt between these two areas were
spared; an area that was more rugged and where the soil was not so
rich.
"I heard Chicago, Minneapolis, Washington and New York
especially mentioned as visited by this great storm. Among the
North American cities New York suffered most. Here many ruins
of wrecked buildings were seen. The storm roared on in a terrify-
ing manner through the streets, and the high skyscrapers were seen
waving as reeds in the wind, in a most threatening way. Great
clouds of dust and smoke arose, and a great number of objects, big
and small, were thrown up by the storm and whirled around in the
air. Down by the harbor great waves rolled in overland. Huge
warehouses with stores of goods collapsed and were washed out to
sea. Ships were thrown ashore, or wrecked in the harbor. Fires also
broke out in more remote parts of the city, and farther inland fires
were seen to be raging, lighting up the skies in a terrifying manner.
Way up toward the forest in Canada, fires were discernible. Dis-
astrous fires were mentioned for Canada at" different times. The
hurricane also reached up into that country. I saw how the timber
was broken down in places, especially near the great lakes in the
north. The City of Quebec was mentioned a couple of times in
connection with this storm, as badly harassed. From North America
and Canada the storm continued eastward towards Europe, where the
western and southwest areas were subject to its ravages.
"The storm then proceeded and pressed on over France, Spain
152
and Morocco, out into the Mediterranean Sea and ravaged the
countries along its coasts. Here it was also quite violent and reached
way over to the Black Sea, continuing over southern Russia. There
I lost track of it. In the sound by Constantinople (Istambule) I saw
a very rough sea and Roods on both sides of it. I heard the Crimean
Peninsula mentioned and the island of Sicily. Some other disaster
also complicated matters in Italy, besides the storm, but I did not
understand what it was. The vicinity of Vienna was also visited by
the storm. In France the most damage was done along its west coast,
and the southern parts, and along the Channel. Of the cities I heard
the name of Rauen and Marseilles also mentioned, this time,' In
Spain the effects of the storm were also felt to a great degree.
"The hurricane raged over England with just as great a violence
as over the North American States. A number of ships were wrecked
in the harbors and along the coasts. I heard Southampton especially
mentioned, and cities on both sides of the Channel. Telegraph
lines were torn down, and trees uprooted in the forest in the interior.
The voice told me that telegrams could not be dispatched from
England for several days. Floods rolled in over the low-lying
stretches along the coast. Now as before, during the effects of the
volcanic eruption, England was one of the countries hardest hit by
the storm. No country was mentioned so many times in connection
with disasters as England.
"Not less than three great storms were mentioned to me that
night that were to visit different parts of the earth before 1953.
But no detailed particulars were given to me about the others; nor
did I get the year in which they were to be. But it seemed as if
two were to take place not so long after the World War, and before
the French-Spanish war.
"These two storms seemed to rage in Belgium, Holland and the
German North Sea coast, but in England the greatest damages were
wrought this time also. Much land was inundated there. Western
Germany was also mentioned in this connection as badly ravaged
by the storm. It then continued from west and southwest towards the
Scandinavian countries, and raged with great violence over the North
Sea; many vessels and sailors went under. I heard the voice say that
it was 'a pity about the poor seamen.' There was a terrific roar from
the great angry waves. I had never seen the sea in such a turmoil
before as it now appeared to be, between England and the Norwegian
coast.
153
"This hurricane also caused great damage in Denmark and southern
Sweden, and brought floods along its west coast. I heard Gothen-
burg, Malmo and Helsingborg mentioned this time also. It con-
tinued north until it struck the Norwegian coast, tearing up several
of its harbors, and wrecking ships. But the Norwegian mountains
seemed to check it considerably, so that the other side of Norway and
middle Sweden were spared to a great extent. Yet from the south it
rushed in over Finland where it was most violent between Vasa and
Helsinfors. It passed on, up over Russia towards Murmansk and
Siberia. The severest damages were around the great lakes of Onega
and Ladoga.
"For more than two years I have prayed, with hundreds of thou-
sands of other Christians, that the Lord might spare us from this
misfortune, which was said to be coming because of the wickedness
of men.
"And even if these calamities should be delayed, let us not forget
to pray that the Lord might protect us, because it seemed sure that
they would come.
"At first I doubted what the Lord said about the volcanic erup-
tions, and thought to myself that this is not a place where earth-
quakes usually take place. But the Lord said positively that it would
come.
On this same November night in 1907 Anton Johan-
son was given the name of a ship which was not at that
time even on the drafting boards of marine architects-
the Titanic-and given a vision of its destruction on its
maiden voyage five years later in the North Atlantic by
ramming an iceberg with the loss of 1513 of the 2224
on board. Johanson was given more detail in names,
dates and places than any seer of whom we have record.
Many are given to see visions, but it is a rare instance
indeed to have names and dates accompany a vision.
A few more of the things foreseen by Johanson:
A war in the Balkans against Turkey and the elimination of
Turkey amongst nations.
154
Return of the Jews to Palestine before the year 195 3.
Loss of power by France following a French-Spanish war.
Loss by the U . S. S. R. of Eastern Siberia.
Norway and Sweden allied in a war with Russia and France in
1953. Scandanavian countries defeated.
Secret Swedish weapon of an electrical nature wi'th which they
could destroy great numbers of troops. (Possibly atomic power or
the so-called cosmic ray.)
Invasion of Norway by the Russians in 1953, and loss of territory
by Norway to Russia.
Holland at war with East Asia colonies in 1953.
As early as 1913 there were references in the Swedish
papers to Johanson's predictions, especially about World
War I and the predicted loss by Germany of her col-
onies. Later, as Johanson's predictions were fulfilled it
was pointed out .how true Johanson's prophecies had
been.
In 191 7 Johanson was instructed by his spirit voice
to contact Kaiser Wilhelm that he might tell the Kaiser
of mistakes to be avoided. Evidently the spiritual forces
working through Johanson were aware of the threat of
Hitler and were doing all they could to prevent his rise
to a place of power in Germany.
Although Johanson never reached the German Kaiser
he did visit the Countess Von Moltke and other mem-
bers of German royalty through whom he tried to gain
access to the Kaiser. In the several trips he made to
Germany, Johanson spent his life savings.
Anton Johanson died at Oslo, Norway, on January
3, 1929, at the age of 71 years. His life story, contain-
ing many of his auguries, was written by A. Gustafson,
and published in Sweden in 1918. In 1940 Johanson's
biography by A. Gustafson was translated into English
by Nathaniel Carlson of 351 7 Nicollet Avenue, Minne-
155
apolis 8, Minn., and published in a book titled "Visions
of Anton Johanson, the Seer from the Norwegian Finn-
mark." We are indebted to Nathaniel Carlson for per-
mission to quote from his translation.*
*The price of the book, which m ay be ordered direct from Mr. Carlson
is 50¢ post paid.
156
CHAPTER X
RussrA's DESTINY
It is the belief of the writer that the image of the
great man, given in the Book of Revelation, with the
head of gold, chest of silver, trunk of brass, legs of
iron and toes of iron and clay, represents various em-
pires. The head of gold the Babylonian, chest of silver
the Medo-Persian, trunk of brass Grecia, while the
legs of iron represent the two divisions of the Catholic
Church.
It appears that the Roman Church is symbolized by
one leg and the Greek Catholic Church by the other.
The ten toes are various races or nations within the
jurisdictions of the two churches. The legs also are
symbolical of a combination of church and state.
In this connection it may prove interesting to review
the histories of the two churches.
The Western Roman Empire had its capital in Rome.
This empire fell in 476 A.D., the Eastern Roman Empire
with its capital in Istambule (Constantinople) fell in
1453 A.D. to the Saracens.
It was predicted that "In the days of these kings (ten
nations or toes) the God of Heaven will set up a king-
dom which will last forever."
In February 1918, a few months before the signing
of the Armistice (Nov. 11th, 1918) a remarkable book-
let was published titled "THE PRESENT GREAT
VlORLD CRISIS." It was written by Mr. Willis F.
157
Jordon, a man of astonishing forevision. On Page 11
he said:
"In my judgment the Bible can throw light on present world
problems. It clearly foretells the great European war, how disastrous
it will be, and just what it will accomplish; that it will result in the
organization of a great confederacy of nations (League of Nations)
and that then the whole world, with a deluded church, will settle
down in the false belief that at last we have obtained universal and
perpetual peace. The Bible further declares that the supposed peace
will be of short duration, that it will suddenly be taken from the
earth; for the confederated nations will blaze up against each other
and fight the great conflict all over again; and that three of them will
be annihilated in the second conflict, and the rest will be prepared
for, and come up to, Armageddon, the last great war this earth will
ever see••••"
How true his prophecy has proven to be. Mr. Jor-
don foresaw the League of Nations, its miserable failure
to produce real peace, the resulting World War II and
the final World War III that is now brewing.
It is a well known fact that Rome has tried again and
again to bring England, the United States, and all other
nations in which the Roman Catholic Church has a large
following, into an Anti-Cominturn Pact with the object
in view of destroying the U. S. S. R., its socialist govern-
ment, that the Holy Roman Empire may .be reestab-
lished on a world wide scale.
It has been the policy of Stalin and his advisers to
block any influence Rome may have in Russia by giving
his people and other peoples within the jurisdiction of
the Greek Catholic Church, a church whose policies
are determined by the government rather than permit
political decisions to be determined by the Church.
Russia, in the days of the Czars, was largely ruled by
the Holy Orthodox Eastern Catholic and Apostalic
158
Church called the Russian Orthodox Church. The
power of this Church was destroyed when the Bolshe-
viks took over. The U.S. S. R. is made up of:
94,400,000 Greek Catholic or Orthodox
1,660,000 Roman Catholic
1,000,000 Baptists
1,000,000 Lutherans
8,170,000 Moslems
2,700,000 Jews
Within recent years the following moves have been
made to re-establish the Church, under the control of
the Government:
1943 Church was recognized.
l 944 Theological schools were re-opened.
1944 Patriarch Sergius died in May.
1945 The 13th patriarch was elevated from Metropolitan of
Leningrad. Alexei became Patriarch which is similar to
the Pope of the Roman Catholics.
On the surface Rome and Moscow appear to be
friends, but this pretense fools no one familiar with
church and political history.
In May 1944, Father Orlemanski, an American Ro-
man Catholic priest of Polish origin visited Moscow
and had a two hour audience with Stalin. Thereafter
he returned to his parish at Springfield, Mass., but in
June was called to Rome.
In July 1944, the Kremlin and the Vatican ostensibly
buried the hatchet.
Regardless of the prayers of Monsignor Fulton J.
Sheen who said that he prayed each morning for Joseph
Stalin, it is the opinion of the writer that love's labor
is lost in any attempt to maintain harmony between
Rome and Moscow.
159
1946 is a critical year for the U.S. S. R. for it marks
the end of a 132 year cycle (four generations of 33
years each) from the time in 1814 when Alexander,
after the destruction of Napoleon's army in Russia, fol-
lowed the retreat to the walls of Paris. In the follow-
ing year at the Congress of Vienna, Alexander was con-
sidered the "savior of Europe." He tried to establish
a Holy Alliance or League of Nations based upon the
precepts of the Bible.
The year 1814 marked the birth of liberal aspirations
by the people of Russia. Time will tell if the prophecy
of Madam Helena Petrovna Blavatsky ( 1831-1891)
is true:
"Out of Russia will come the greatest civilization the world has
ever known."
N APOLEON'S PROPHECY
Napoleon was never considered a prophet, but on one
occasion he seemed to have been gifted with a flash of
prophetic vision.
While discussing with his uncle some of the affairs of
state, Napoleon turned to him and said:
"Monsignor, I have had a vision. Last night I saw an Emperor
-0f Russia stricken down in the midst of his family and cruelly mur-
dered. Woe unto Russia when the Czar shall wear a beard."
Alexander did not wear a beard and Nicholas II was
the first Czar after Napoleon's time who did wear a
beard. Nicholas II was warned by Rasputin that he
would live but a few months after Rasputin's death.
The prediction of Napoleon was printed in 1830 and
the prediction of Rasputin is of record before the death
of the Romanoff family.
160
Exceptional indeed is the person who does not have a
foresight, sometime during his life, of some future
event or at least is forewarned of future dangers. Pro-
phetic visions are far more common than the average
person realizes or will acknowledge.
RUSSIAN REVOLUTION PREDICT ED IN l 88l
The following message purports to have been given
by Peter the Great of Russia (1672-1725). It came
through the mediumship of Lucy Browne, mentioned
elsewhere in this book. The first publication of the
message was in Portland, Oregon, in 1882.
It would be interesting to know if the tunnels into the
Kremlin, mentioned in the message, exist today.
Evidently Peter the Great foresaw World War of
1914 and the revolution of 1917.
"Soon after the assassination of the Czar of Russia,* and the
succession of the Czarowich to the throne, I saw at one of our public
circles held at the office -0f THE RISING SUN, a spirit teacher
approaching from the upper air, who said as he came near: 'Peter
the Great desires to communicate, but cannot now as conditions are
unfavorable. He wishes to know if you will give him a hearing on
Sunday morning next, at eleven o'clock?' "
"At the same moment a spirit farther away from earth looked
down questioningly upon me.
"Mentally I replied, 'We will gladly listen to Peter the Great on
next Sunday morning.' "
"At the appointed time three or four persons were present. I soon
discerned the approach of spirits, and, instead of talking to me as I
supposed they would, they directed my vision away to the distant
East.
"I saw what appeared to be the residence and. grounds of the
present Czar of Russia. Then, looking out from this centr,e, I dis-
covered three underground tunnels, one running from the west, one
* The Czar Alexander II was assassinated March 13, 1881.
161
from a northerly and one from a southerly direction, all terminating
beneath the grounds occupied by the Czar. One extending outward
to the water's edge, where was moored a small steamer, from which
were taken small kegs and conveyed to the entrance of the tunnel.
The word dynamite flashed through my mind as if it had been
stamped upon the kegs.
"Near the mouth of the second tunnel I saw several of the common
people designated as Nihilists conversing with an officer, who seemed
to hold a triune office, as if he was special guardsman, policeman and
militiaman. He was false in .his relations with the Czar as guards-
man-in deep sympathy with the common people, and was not
only cognizant of a plot to assassinate the Czar, and put an end to
his authority and rule, but gave them such information as was best
calculated to further their deadly schemes in their desperate efforts
for freedom.
"In a moment there was a terrible explosion, and a man was thrown
high in the air.
"The vision disappeared, and suddenly my hand became con-
trolled and wrote the following sentence: "Peter the Great is here,
and will write for himself."
"Then my hand and arm being powerfully wrought upon, the
name and title as .he announced himself, were written in letters from
three to six inches in length, followed by a communication, in rapid
and smaller hand, to which we now invite your attention.
"PETER THE GREAT, CZAR OF RUSSIA."
"Garibaldi also will join the spirit throng, and will then exer-
cise a greater power for good than he can now in the material form.
"The Queen of England will soon be here to witness the terrible
dethronement of kings and powers.
"Empress Eugenie will die very suddenly from nervous ex.haus-
tion and fear.
"The crowned heads will creep from beneath their crowns, and
seek places of safety as common citizens, and servants even.
"There is to be a convention of spirits called very soon; a con-
vention of minds such as have been known by mortals as leaders and
reformers of all ages; for their native earth is now passing through
a change that will require alt the best powers of both spheres, of the
spiritual and mortal worlds.
"So we would have the lamps of mediumship brightly burning.
For this and other reasons we are now searching for mediums-the
material that we can use to enlighten the masses:..._that greater dis-
162
asters may not follow, and with marked success will we accomplish
our designs.
"We would have our mediums guarded as much as possible from
the contamination of crude mental elements, so that they may the
sooner ~e made bright and useful in the cause of justice to humanity.
Goodbye."
"The pencil suddenly dropped from my fingers, and I ques-
tioned, "Why are such startling revelations made to me: I do not
seek them? "
"My hand, again controlled, picked up the pencil, and slowly, in
a much smaller and very different hand, wrote the following answer:
"Write what we have written in the minds of the people, and
let it be heralded far and near."
"As we have written, so shall it come to pass."
"There is much to be said, but we must await with yourself
developments."
"We now make a request that you form a circle expressly for the
purpose of permitting spirits of a very high order in the scale of moral,
social and political economy to come and impart such instruction
as niankind needs just now at this stage of the world's growth."
"Again the pencil dropped upon the paper; and I deprecatingly
remarked to those present: "To receive such thrilling revelations
of future events as this and others heretofore given me, with a com-
mand to write and herald them worldwide, not knowing how much
of truth or error they contain, only as they are persistently en-
stamped upon my mind as true, is to me a fearful thing, and places
me in a very peculiarly trying position, ·and I can but hesitate to do
as I am bidden."
"Whereupon my hand was again controlled, and wrote in different
chirography the following communication:
"Washington says: Do not fear. You need not hesitate to write
what is given, for words contain the germs of truth, and in the main
you will not have much to cast aside. Go on, then, fearlessly, for
we will sustain you in the right." Your Teacher and Guide."
The foregoing message, received over a half century
ago, is remarkable regardless of what a person may
think regarding the power and ability of discarnate
beings to communicate with the living. Deny if you
will the possibility of Peter the Great being the com-
163
municator; the fact remains that the people of Russia
did eliminate Czarist rule and more crowns have fallen
and thrones been vacated in the past twenty years than
in the twenty centuries preceding World War I.
The prediction was received prior to 1881 ; Queen
Victoria was ruling England at the time and died in
1901, twenty years after the message was received.
Garibaldi died in 1882, a year after the prediction was
given. The Empress Eugenie died suddenly while
visiting the Queen of Spain, and from her history, it
seems that fear may have been largely responsible.
The nobility of Russia and other countries have
sought safety as common citizens and servants many
times since the wave of revolutions started in 191 7.
The same fate has been predicted for the millionaires
and owning families of the United States.
LYMAN E. STowE's PROPHECY FOR Russ1A
In "WHAT IS COMING," a book published in
1896 by Lyman E. Stowe, who lived at that time in De-
troit, Michigan, we find the following prophecy:
What part will China and Japan take. • . • Turkey, being the
little horn of the goat or Greecia, must be annihilated. Russia, the
king of the north must be terribly rent asunder, but exists as a
republic to the end to rule over her turbulent people. • • • France
will only suffer the ordinary evils of a terrible war.
All governments will partake largely of socialistic forms though
not to extremes. Individual rights will be protected as far as neces-
sary. Usury, interest, the great curse, will be abolished fot·ever.
Twenty-one years after this prophecy was published
the October Revolution took place in Russia and shortly
thereafter Czarist Russia became the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics. About the same time France suf-
fered the "evils of a terrible war."
164
CHAPTER XI
FATE OF TuRKEY
Turkey stands geographically as a sentry at the gate-
way to the East. Turkey occupies a spot on the earth's
surface where Africa, Asia and Europe meet. Turkey
is important due to the fact that her position makes her
a sentinel at the gate between the Middle East and
Europe. North of Turkey is Russia and the Black Sea.
West lies the Middle East; Iraq (Arabia), Iran (Per-
sia), Afghanistan and India. To the South is the Suez
Canal, the life line of African commerce.
Empire builders have for centuries trod smooth the
trade ,routes through the Suez Canal, the Red Sea and
the Mediterranean. Whoever holds control over this
route between the Occident and the Orient holds the
key to vast resources of the earth's treasure.
England has long desired the African continent and
the Arabian Peninsula for her exclusive sphere. Eng-
land has large holdings in Africa and she desires to keep
all other nations away from the untapped resources of
Africa.
English and American Imperialists have been work-
ing overtime in the East promising feudal princes and
Arab chiefs the support of their countries in return for
oil and other concessions. The nations of the East
are probably well aware of the loss of their independ-
ence but there is little they can do about it. Greed will
165
not be denied and in this decade of the Twentieth Cen-
tury might makes right.
Turkey is wise enough to try to play the old imperial-
ists-England, France, Germany, against the newcomer
from the West who also has aspirations for empire
building. American oil companies have secured a quar-
ter interest in Iraq oil, a half interest in Kuwait and all
of the oil of Bahrein and of Saud Arabia where the
Texas and Standard Companies jointly hold a concession
covering 244,000 square miles.
The United States, although possessed with but 10%
of the world's oil resources, during the war supplied
70% of the oil production of the world. American oil
companies, backed up by the army and navy, are deter-
mined to obtain and hold a large share of the world's
oil regardless of where it lies, and today there is as
much American controlled oil in the East as remain un-
derground in continental United States.
Standard oil interests in the East are as great a war
liability as was her interests in China. American troops
were fighting in China long after V-J day and long
before the bombing of the U. S. gunboat Panay by
Japanese, war vessels of the U. S. were in Chinese
waters protecting Standard-Oil tankers. It should also
be remembered that American oil was supplied Japan
long after the war with the Nips was inevitable.
The Army of Occupation in Iran was ordered to re-
condition railroads, harbors and oil fields and retain con-
trol over them, required as always, of course, by "na-
tional safety." It seems evident that the U. S. is exer-
cising as vicious an imperialistic policy in the East as that
of England and other European powers old at the game.
166
Turkey has maintained a firm policy toward Great
Britain due to the fact that she holds an ace up her
sleeve-a holy war against Christian nations by all of
Islam.
· As Russia grows in power in Europe and Asia and
brings more of the small nations into her sphere of in-
fluence, Turkey stands in a critical position-between
the immovable wall of Russia and the irresistible power
of imperialistic capitalist nations.
When the third and last phase of the Forty Years'
War ,(World Wars I, II and III) takes place, Turkey
will be crushed together with the power of Islam.
The prophets are right. Turkey will .be destroyed.
Every sign of the times verifies the predictions of
Southcott, Shipton, OAHSPE, and several other proph-
ets. When? Within the next decade surely.
•
167
CHAPTER XII
POLAND'S REBIRTH
THE TEGOBORZA PROPHECY
The following prophecy was given in the year 1893
through a Polish medium named Tegobroza. A copy
was deposited in the Ossolinski Library at Lwow from
whence the copy was taken that was translated into Eng-
lish and released by the Polish Press Bureau in London
in 1940.
1. Twice ten years shall pass before the time arrives when fire
will rain from heaven and when the prophecy of the seer Vernyhora
shall come true and the whole world shall be soaked with blood.
2. Out of the conflagration of the world Poland shall rise again.
after the two eagles have fallen into dust. However her fate shall
remain, for a long time, ill-omened and her dreams shall not be
realized.
3. When the sufferings of the people shall have lasted thirty
years there will arise in the end a great heart who shall perform the
miracle.
4. When the black eagle shall besmirch the sign of the Cross and
spread its ill-boding wings, two nations shall fall without anyone
being able to save them as Might is stronger than Right.
5. When the Black Eagle reaches the cross-roads and turns its
eyes towards the East to spread its Teutonic habits, it shall return
with a broken wing.
6. The besmirched cross shall fall together with the Hammer
and the predatory powers shall be left with naught, while the
Masurian Land shall return to Poland and Danzig will be her port.
7. In hard struggles with the haughty Teuton the world shall
again reek with blood, with the North threatened by the East, shall
transform itself into a fourfold unity.
8. The Lion of the West, basely betrayed by its freeman, shall
unite with the Cock and lead a young man to the throne.
168
9. The might of the disturbers of the world shall this time be
broken forever, the brother will clasp the brother's hand and the
foe shall recede into a far distant country.
I0. At the rising sun the Hammer shall be broken, the blaze shall
engulf the prairie, and when the Eagle and the Hammer invade alien
fields they shall be destroyed on a river.
11. Gallant White-Ruthenia and fertile Trans-Dneiper shall re-
turn under the banner of Poland and our Eagle shall reach as far
as the Black Sea, returning to its ancient haunts.
12. Witebsk, Odessa, Kieff and Czerkassy shall be the bastions
of Europe and the barbarian shall forever escape in fear into Asia.
13. Warsaw shall become the center of the world, but three
capitals shall be Poland's. The Asiatic shall abandon the distant
bogs and the Dragon shall renew its face.
14. The Bear shall fall after the second expedition, the Danube
shall again shine in pomp and splendor and, when peace shall be
made in Warsaw, three kings shall water their horses therein.
I 5. Three rivers of the world shall yield three crowns to the
Anointed from Cracow, and four allies from four confines shall take
an allegiance to him.
16. When the Hungarian and the Pole clasp hands, three nation1
together with Rurnania shall join under the majesty of the throne
of Poland in an eternal union.
17. And when the Crimean Tartar reaches the river, though he
will not renounce his faith, he will ask for the protection of Poland
and his land shall remain faithful.
18. Poland will arise extending from one sea to another, but you
must wait for half a century. The Grace of our Lord will protect
us, therefore suffer and pray.
The mistake made by many analysts during the years
of the first World War was to assume that such prophe-
cies pertained to World War I. A similar mistake was
made prior to and during World War IL It seems that
most prophecies cover the three phases of global war-
fare that began in 1914 and will continue until 1954.
If we look at this Polish prophecy from the basis that
it covers a period of at least thirty years, it becomes re-
markable indeed. Given in 1893 it states "twice twenty
169
years shall pass before the time arrives when fire will
rain from heaven." The rain of fire began with World
War I in 1914. In the last paragraph of the prophecy
it says, "you must wait for half a century." The proph-
ecy itself states that it covers a period of thirty years.
Therefore three years remain before the prophecy will
be fulfilled and great events are predicted for the final
years.
2. Paragraph 2was fulfilled when Poland was es-
tablished as a republic in November I 91 8 after the
eagles of Germany and Austria fell into the dust of de-
feat.
3. The Great Heart is probably Col. Beck who did
his best to forestall the invasion of Poland.
4. The Black Eagle besmirching the cross is a per-
£ect description of Germany replacing the Christian
Cross with the Nazi Hooked Cross of Death. Czecho-
Slovakia and Poland fell and no one was able to save
them.
5. Hitler surely did return with a "broken wing"
when he carried the Black Eagle of Germany into
Russia.
6. The balance of the prophecy seems to rest in the
future. Masurian Land is East Prussia. This para-
graph predicts that East Prussia will be given to Poland
and that Danzig will also come within her jurisdiction.
7. Seems to be a prediction of World War III with
the world again fighting Germany, and Russia, threat-
ened by India or China shall be in an alliance of four
nations.
8. England, betrayed by Canada, Australia or the
United States (Either might be the 'freeman') will
170
unite with France and lead a young man to the throne.
Several other prophecies foretell a time when England
and France will become one.
9. Fascism, the disturber of the world, will be de-
feated and when socialism is adopted brother will clasp
the brother's hand.
10. The Rising Sun is the symbol of Japan. The
Hammer and Sickle that of the Soviet Union. The use
of these two symbols in the year 1893 is, in itself, re-
markable. This paragraph seems to foretell a new and
powerful Japan that will defeat the Soviet Union in al-
liance with Germany.
11. A prediction that the Ukraine will return to
Poland together with the old White Russia, and Poland
will be expanded to the Black Sea.
12. The four cities mentioned in the twelfth para-
graph were the border cities of old Poland at the time
of its former glory. Poland will be a great nation.
13. Warsaw is conceded to be the geographical cen-
ter of Europe. The three capitals are probably capitals
of the three sections making up the new Poland; War-
saw for Poland, Vilna for Lithuania and Kieff for the
Ukraine. The Asiatic who will abandon the distant
bogs may mean either the Manchurians or the New
China, the Dragon with a new face.
14. The Bear is an old symbol of Russia. This para-
graph seems to foretell defeat of the Soviet Union in a
commgwar.
15, 16, 17, 18. World War III will bring a new
alignment of nations and new boundaries. Poland is
predicted to become a great nation after this war m
which Mohammedans will be involved.
171
CHAPTER XIII
NOSTRADAMUS, PROPHET OF FRANCE
MASTER PROPHET OF THE CENTURIES
Nostradamus was born December 14, 1503, in St.
Remy, Provence, France. He was a physician known
throughout all France as the only man who had success-
fully fought the plague and won-for everyone except
his own family. Nostradamus was a scholar and a gen-
tleman and claimed to be descended from one of the
"Lost Tribes" mentioned in the Bible.
After graduating from the University of Montpel-
Iier, Nostradamus became a skilled physician and was
the only man of his profession able to cure people of
the Plague. · In this he was unsuccessful with his own
family and lost both his wife and two children from it.
After traveling over most of Europe, following the
death of his family, he settled in Salon, France, and be-
gan his writing. His first publications were almanacs,
later to be followed by "Les Vrayes Centuries" or "The
True Centuries." This title did not pertain to a hun-
dred years but to a hundred stanzas. In all there were
three hundred and fifty-four "quatrains" for four-line
verses of prophecy.
The accuracy with which Nostradamus saw through
time and foretold the future remains unmatched by any
other prophet for no other seer included the wealth of
detail in his auguries as did Nostradamus.
By the time this book goes to press we may know if
172
Nostradamus missed fire on his prediction of the end of
Hitler. For a few weeks, after the capitulation of Ger-
many and the reported death of Hitler and his woman,
the world accepted the report as true. Recently, how-
ever, grave doubts of Hitler's death have grown and, as
this book is being written, it is reported that both British,
Russian and U. S. intelligence forces are searching for
Hitler throughout the world. Nostradamus may yet
prove to be correct in predicting that Hitler will be con-
fined iri an iron cage.
"Animals mad with hunger will swim the rivers,
The greater part of the army will desert Rister;
The great man will be carried in an iron cage
When the German child watches the Rhine."
How true the first two lines of this prophecy are. All
of Europe is famished and both animals and men would
swim a swollen river for a crust of bread. Before Ger-
many surrendered most of the German army had lost
faith in their fuehrer.
The meaning of the last line may be made clear when
the truth or falsity of the third line is known.
Nostradamus predicted a revolution for Italy in the
following quatrain:
"PAR GRAND DISCORD LA TROMBE TREMBLERA,
Accord rompu, dressant la teste du ciel,
Bouche sanglante clans le sang nagera,
Au fol sa face oingte de laict etmiel."
which may be translated: "In the Adriatic, great dis-
cord will develop, and those who provoke war will per-
ish in blood; while revolutionaries will suffer least."
It was Italy, under Mussolini, that provoked war in
Europe by his invasion of Ethiopia. Mussolini died in
173
the streets of Rome and many of his fascist followers
were killed when Italy capitulated. However, trouble
is not over for Italy and it seems probable that the semi-
fascist government, set up by the Allied Military Gov-
ernment (the A.M.G.) .will follow the way of Musso-
lini and his gang. When the Roman Catholic Church
goes down, in the welter of blood fated for it, the fol-
lowing stanza of Nostradamus will have been fulfilled.
"Des gens d'Eglise sang sera espanche.
Comme de Peau en si grand abondance,
Et d'un longtemps ne sera restanche.
Vae, vae, au clerc, rugne et doleance."
(Trans.) The blood of the people of the church will be spilt
like water in great abundance, and for a long time it will not be
staunched. Woe, woe, to the clerics, ruin and grief.
The second phase of the three world wars to occur in
the "Time of Trouble" between 1914 and 1954 is over.
The nations are talking peace but peace is not in sight.
A realignment of nations may take place at any time
with Russia and Germany allied against England and
other capitalist nations. However, before the third
phase of global war develops we will probably see the
fulfillment of the following quatrain.
"L'horrible guerre, qu'en Occident s'appreste
L'an ensuivant viendra la pestilence,
Si fort terrible que j uene vieil, et beste
Sang, feu, Mercure, Mars, Jupiter en France."
(Trans.) A horrible war, for which Europe will prepare. The
year following, there will be a plague so strong and terrible that
young, old and animals will suffer. Blood, fire, Mercury, Mars,
Jupiter in France.
Germany surrendered in 1945. Look for an epi-
demic to sweep the world far worse than that of the
174
Spanish Influenza that decimated millions in 1918.
France may see a civil war as vicious as the Spanish Civil
War that placed Franco, the Butcher, in power.
The War of Armageddon has been anticipated by
Bible students for more than a century. When the war
of 1914-1918 started many thought World War I was
Armageddon.
When World .War II began in Europe, and Germany
and Russia were at war again, most Bible students were
sure that Armageddon had come at last. However,
they overlooked one fact-Armageddon will be a RE-
LIGIOUS war between Christians, Mohammedans,
Brahmins and Buddhists.
Nostradamus has much to say regarding this coming
war-the third and final phase of world wars.
"Libyan Prince powerful in the West
Will come from Araby.
The Oriental will leave his home,
He will pass the Appentine mountains to view France:
He will come through the air, the waters and snow,
And he will strike everyone with his weapon."
England will no doubt have moved her capitol to
Canada while Armageddon is raging for Nostradamus
said:
"In the interior of the English Occident
Where the head of the British Isle will be."
Evidently the head of the Mohammedan horde that
is to invade Europe will come by way of the Mediter-
ranean and destroy most .of the cities of Europe left
standing from World War II:
175
"The African will come from the East,
To trouble Adria and the heirs of Romulus (Rome)
Will bring a Libyan fleet to empty the islands
And shake Malta.
"Naples, Palermo, Sicily and Syracuse
Will be visited by tyrants, lightnings, fires
From the skys.
Naples, Palermo and all of Sicily will
be occupied by Mohammedans.
The Roman Church will be persecuted and
Holy temples destroyed. Protestantism will
dispossess Rome of her treasurers while
All Arabia rallies to their leaders.
Evidently England will call again for help from the
United States and Canada for Nostradamus states:
"The people of Rhodes will call for help
When fighting alone. Islam will change its
Course when Hesperia (America) comes to her aid.
Nostradamus foresaw the use of land mines and
booby traps for he mentions, when foretelling the de-
struction of Paris:
"Dynamic fire will be left containing hidden death,
Within the globes death horrible and frightful.
By night the city will be destroyed, by bombs, and fire.
Henry C. Roberts, of New York City, claims to be
the "Henry C." named by Nostradamus himself in his
writings as his interpreter-to-be. Mr. Roberts has in-
terpreted the Nostradamus "Centuries" in the light of
today and expects to have a new Nostradamus book in
publication by the Fall of 1946.
One of Mr. Roberts' interpretations, which appeared
in the New York Spiritual Leader, is given below:
176
"Leave, leave, go forth from Geneva all,
Saturn of gold shall be changed into iron.
The contra of the positive ray shall exterminate all.
Before it happeneth, the heavens shall show signs."
Nostradamus apparently not only foresaw the League
of Nations, which he mentions in other quatrains, but its
failure and dissolution as well. ·
"Contra of the positive ray" was something else that
stumped interpreters until atomic energy came along
with its neutrons, and smashing of atoms. Let us hope
that Nostradamus' prediction that it shall "exterminate
all" refers to all of the old economic systems and not all
of the world's people.
In the early part of 1946 the people of England saw
visions in the sky of ships entering ports off North Eng-
land. From other predictions of like order many
strange and wonderful signs may be expected in the
skies within the next decade.
As a student of prophecy the writer awaits with con-
siderable anticipation the publication of Roberts' inter-
pretations of the "Centuries."
Nostradamus was not only a prophet, he is a chal-
lenge to scientific thinking. Nostradamus demands the
recognition and acceptance of a new .dimension of
thought. . If the prophecies of Nostradamus increase in
popularity, and the demand for a reasonable explanation
of how a man could see centuries ahead in time also in-
creases, perhaps the universities of the world will insti-
tute colleges of prophecy such as the ancients possessed.
Books without number have been written about Nos-
tradamus and his prophecies have been interpreted and
misinterpreted by authors of every nation. Hollywood
177
has made two motion pictures about his life and work
and the prophecies of Nostradamus are a favorite sub-
ject in the capitols of the world.
In four hundred years no one has been able to dis-
credit Nostradamus. With each passing decade proof
of his amazing foresight accumulates. Nostradamus
accomplished that which science states is impossible and
makes any scientist look foolish in his attempt to dis-
prove him. Nostradamus was born in 1503 and lived
sixty-three years. Sometime between 1503 and 1566
Nostradamus predicted the French King, Louis XVI,
who had not then been born, would try to escape but
would finally 'be taken "between the Tallow and the
Salce'." In 1791, two hundred years later, the Tuileries
palace of Louis XVI was attacked by 500 men. The
king escaped .from the palace, took refuge in a little
shop, discovered it was the shop of a candlemaker (the
tallow). The candlemaker's name was Salce so "be-
tween the tallow and Salce" the king was betrayed.
Can any of today's scientists explain how Nostra-
damus could call the name of a man when five or six
generations must be born before he would come into the
world?
America was discovered in 1492, eleven years before
Nostradamus was born. It is doubtful if citizens of
France, in those days of slow motion, ever heard of its
discovery. However, Nostradamus refers to America
in several quatrains. Generally he spoke of it as the
Hesperides, the Blessed Isle of the West.
Long ago Nostradamus spoke of a "League of
twenty-one powers that shall unite to protect the world."
178
Just how did he know that such a league would be
formed at a conference in South America four hundred
years later. Twenty-one flags hung on the front of the
Pan-American Building.
How could Nostradamus know that "while the little
men talked the fort will be attacked"? Could he see
the little men in Washington talking peace while Japa-
nese airplanes were fueling for an attack on Pearl Har-
bor? Such a prediction, coming over such a stretch of
time is astonishing, to say the least.
Another of his predictions of equal brilliance is that
in which he describes the "Eagle that shall fly against
the Rising Sun." Nippon means the place of the sun's
birth and the rising sun on the Japanese flag is familiar
to all the world but had never waved in Nostradamus'
day. And the eagle did not become a symbol of the
United States until 1780-over two hundred years after
the death of Nostradamus.
Nor did Nostradamus overlook Hitler, for in one of
his quatrains he says, "For nine years the lean one will
keep the peace." It was just nine years from the time
that Hitler came into power until the outbreak of the
war. Could Nostradamus have described Hitler in
more perfect terms? The word lean, as used in the old
Provencal French, is the name of a soup without meat,
eaten during Lent. Hitler was a vegetarian, both lean
in fact, and a Catholic vegetarian who would not eat
meat at any time.
Evidently Nostradamus not only knew what Hitler
would look like, but was also familiar with his habits
and character.
179
Nor did Nostradamus overlook de Gaulle for he
speaks of a stick or cane in speaking of him. De Gaulle
means rod, staff or stick in French.
The only words that are definitely German used in
the quatrains of Nostradamus are "der Tag." During
the time when Nostradamus lived, der Tag meant noth-
ing. \.Vith the coming of the Twentieth Century all
Germans began looking forward to "der Tag" or the
day when Germany would conquer the world.
Speaking of Germany, Nostradamus foretold "In
Germany will spring up different sects, approaching
nearly a careless paganism." Everyone familiar with
German history under Hitler is'well aware of the Nazi
attempt to bring back the ancient Gods of Germany and
install them in German Churches. Nor did he overlook
the effects of German propaganda when he said, "The
printed word will work terrible havoc."
The foregoing are a few of the predictions of Nostra-
damus dealing with recent years. The four hundred
years since his "Centuries" were written witnessed ful-
fillment of many of the prophecies contained therein.
There is little doubt remaining of the prophetic abili-
ties of Nostradamus. However, there is great doubt
regarding the ability of anyone to interpret his proph-
ecies with much accuracy. When we consider that they
were written in archaic French, the meanings of the
quatrains concealed in anagrams, parables, play on
words, figures of speech, etc. it will be realized how
difficult it is to interpret his work in terms of the future.
Who would have known the meaning of Rister, prior
to the advent of Hitler. How many other men has
180
Nostradamus named as closely, whom we will not rec-
ognize until after their appearance upon the world's
stage. It is easy to interpret Nostradamus in terms of
the past. To interpret Nostradamus in terms of the
future is quite another matter.
181
CHAPTER XIV
ITALY AND THE V ATICAN
THE PROPHECY OF SAINT M AL ACH Y
(Archbishop of Armagh, A.D. 1148)
Maol-Maodhog O'Morgair was born at Armagh in
Ireland in 1094. In his twenty-fifth year he was raised
to the priesthood of the Roman Catholic Church and
later became known as Saint Malachy. In 1133 A.D.
he became Metropolitan of Ireland. In 1148 he died
on the festival of All Souls.
St. Malachy is credited with a prophecy covering the
Popes of the Roman Catholic Church from Celestine II
( 1143-44) to the end of the Church.
The prophecy consists of 111 Latin mottoes, each of
which describes a future pope. Throughout the eight
hundred years since the prophecy was given, its accuracy
has been phenomenal.
An interpretation of the' prophecy was made by the
Rev. Pere Michel Gorgeu, O.C.C., of the Monastery of
our Lady of Mount Carmel and published at Dieppe in
1659. This interpretation ends with Alexander VII-
1655. The popes that have ruled since 1655 have been
as accurately described by St. Malachy as were those
who ruled before.
We will not go into the past for St. Malachy's de-
tailed description of the popes, but will give his descrip-
tion of the five that are to come. According to St.
Malachy, the Church was to have but 111 popes. Pius
182
XII is the 106th pope and was described as "Pastor
Angelicus" or angelic pastor.
CVII
CVIII
CVIX
ex
CXI
(107)
(I 08)
(109)
(110)
( 111)
FuTURE PoPES
Pastor et nauta
Flos florum
De medetate Lunae
De labore solis
Gloria olivae
Pastor and sailor.
Flower and flowers.
Concerning the half moon.
The labor of the sun.
Glory of the olive.
Ten popes are listed before the year 154 A.D. whose
reigns are in doubt. The popes of the Church, since its
inception, have served an average of seven years. If
we apply this average to future popes it would bring the
Church to an end in 1977, according to the schedule of
Malachy. However, it could come to an end much
sooner than that as the chaotic condition of the world
might create a condition where popes would serve much
shorter periods. During the third century seven popes
served between the years 230 and 258, an average of but
four years each. Between 308 A.D. and 314 A.D. there
were three popes, with an average reign of two years
each. Between 682 A.D. and 708 A.D. there were eight
popes, an average time in office of a little over three
years each. Therefore, based upon past experience it
would .be quite possible for the Church to have its last
five popes within fifteen years. If such should prove to
be the case, the Church might meet its end by 1960.
A religious war has been prophesied by many. In
Europe it will be between the Mohammedans and
Christians. Evidently this will take place during the
pontificate of the 109th pope, who will have much to do
with the half moon or crescent.
The prophecy is concluded with the following note:
183
In persecutione Extrema Sanctae Romanae Ecclesiae sedebit Petrus
Romanus qui pascet oves in multis tribulationibus, quibus transactis,
certus septi collis dirurtur et pie ex termendis predicabit populum
suum.
TRANSLATION
In the last persecution of the Roman Church Peter the Roman
will rule. He will have much trouble which will end with the
destruction of the city on seven hills. The Creator will then judge
the people.
Another prophecy foretelling the end of the Roman
Church is that of Ernest Haeckel the great biologist,
evolutionist, rationalist and teacher. In the middle
of the 19th Century he wrote:
The Nemesis of history, will sooner or later exact a terrible
account of the Roman Papacy, and the millions who have' been
robbed of their happiness by this degenerate religion will help
to give it its death blow in the coming 20th Century-at least in
every truly civilized state.
184
CHAPTER XV
JAPAN
Dr. Helmut Landsberg, seismologist at the Univer-
sity of Chicago, predicted in 1942 adisastrous earth-
quake for Japan. He stated that as many as 400 trem-
blers were recorded each year in Japan but that every
twenty or thirty years a very destructive earthquake oc-
curs in Japan similar to that which hit in 1923. The
1923 earthquake killed 100,000 Japanese and did un-
accountable property damage.
Just what effect the under water atomic bombing ex-
periments, scheduled to take place at Bikini, will have
upon Japan's destiny is uncertain.
,Anatol J. Shneider, seismologist, stated on June 10th,
1946, in San Francisco, Calif., that there was great dan-
ger of cracking the earth's surface with atomic bombing
with great danger of climate changes occurring through-
out the worId.
It was the under water bombing that was to be the
most feared.
In the light of the above opinions of scientists it is
interesting to note a belief that has prevailed in Japan
for several generations. The Nips thought that their
decent from the Gods had given them a superior way of
life and that once the sacrosancity of their islands had
been contaminated by Occidental thought their Gods
would show their displeasure by visiting upon Japan
some terrible misfortune.
185
Japan was opened to the Occidental nations in 1852
by Perry. · From that date on, Japan copied Occidental
and Christian methods. We see today how factual the
Japanese semi-prophecy was. We can readily assume
that by 1952, when a century will have passed since the
opening of Japan, that grea~er disasters than those yet
suffered, will be visited upon her.
Regardless of what trials and tribulations Japan has
to suffer, this strange people will survive and receive a
special blessing.
In OAHSPE, the new Bible, is to be found an ac-
count of the submergence of a continent in the Pacific
twenty-four thousand years ago. Japan is the remnant
of this sunken continent that remained above the water.
As the story of the sinking of Pan in OAHSPE differs
considerably from the story of the flood found in the
old bible, we quote the parts that deal with Japan.
JAPAN, ISLANDS OF DESTINY
Say ye unto my chosen: This is the word of the Lord, your God:
Ye have found favor in my sight, for ye alone of all that is on earth
have kept my commandments; and ye have seen righteousness in the
seed of your generations.
Go to, therefore, and build ships sufficient unto my chosen, and
get ye within, where none can pursue or destroy.
For behold I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth, even
above the highest mountains for I will destroy the corruption thereof,
and purge it of all uncleanness.
Take ye, therefore, of all food that is good to eat, and gather it
into the ships; for the flood shall remain a hundred and fifty days;
and ye shall not come forth and find wherewith to eat.
And the angels of the Lord went to the Faithists in God and
inspired them to build ships, both in the valleys and on the mountains;
for two whole years builded they them, and then they were com-
pleted.
And the angels of God numbered the ships, and there were of
186
them one hundred and thirty-eight. And the ships stood on the
mountains and in valleys nowhere near the waters stood one of all the
ships that had been built.
And the earth stood in the arc of Noe in the firmament of heaven,
in the place and grade of six hundred in the a'j i'an roads, twenty-
four thousand years before kosmon.
And the Lord commanded the chosen to go into the ships; and they
went in, and in the same day the gates of heaven and earth opened.
And the earth rocked to and fro, as a ship at sea; and the rains
fell in torrents; and loud thunderings came up from beneath the
floor of the world. And the sea came .up on the land; first upon the
valleys and then upon the mountains; so that the ships floated on the
waters.
But the land was swallowed up, valleys and mountains, and all
the living perished, save the l'hins,* who floated off in the ships.
And the Lord said: I numbered them that were saved, and there
were twelve thcrnsand, four hundred and twenty; and these were
descendents of the first race of man that walked on two feet.
Behold I will carry them to all the divisions of the earth, and
people it anew with the seed of my chosen.
And Jehovih blew His breath upon the ships of His sons and
daughters; blew them about upon the ocean; blew them to the east,
and west and north and south.
By the will of God were the ships congregated into four fleets;
thirty-four ships into each fleet, save two ships which were carried
in a fleet to themselves.
The Lord said: I will name the fleets of my chosen, and their
names shall be everlasting on the earth. And the Lord named them
Guatama (America), Shem (India), Jaffeth (China), Harn (Africa),
and Yista (Japan).
The Lord said: From these, my seed, will I people the earth over
in all the divisions thereof. And that after generations, for thousands
of years, may know the work of my hand, behold, I give them a
sign, which is my covenant to them and their heirs forever:
Which is my crescent, in the form of a rainbow; and whatsoever
people bear this, my sign, shall be a remembrance to me of my
covenant. Nor shall they be destroyed from the inheritance which
I have given them.
And the chosen looked out of their ships, and the sky was clearing,
* I'hins were the little blond holy people. The Moundbuilders of Ameriea
were I'hins.
187
and the rainbow shown in the firmament; and by the light thereof
the land was found, whither the Lord brought his people.
And in one hundred and fifty days from the beginning of the
flood, the ships were brought into their respective places; as the Lord
designed them, so landed they in the different countries of the world.
The fleet named Guatama was carried eastward, and the country
whither it landed was also called Guatama (America). The Lord
said: From this place shall my chosen spread north and south. But
they shalt not inhabit the lands to the east or west as far as the sea;
for they shall be testimony in time to come of this landing place from
the continent of Pan.
God said: Suffer my people to bestow names to the places whither
I lead them; for these names shall show in the Kosmon era the
work of my hand done in this day.
The fleet of two Jhip1 carried to the north wa1 named Yi1ta,
which in the W haga tongue WaJ Zha'Pan, which is the same country
that is to this day called Japan, Jignifying, relic of the continent of
Pan, for it lay to the north, where the land was cleaved in twain.
And the Lord said to them: Behold eight Hi'dan (24,000 years)
shall come and ye Jhall be as a key Jo unlock the labor1 of heaven; for
of all people ye Jhall be reckoned the olde1t in the world. And
Until I come and unlock the Jea ye shall remain an exclusive people
from all tribes and natiom.
Preserve ye, therefore, the names of my rites and ceremonies,
and especially the name of land and water, and the firmament above,
and ships that plow the water, for all sounds whatever that man
maketh in the throat and without the tongue and lips; for in the
time of glory on the earth ye also shall be glorified. Preserve ye also
peace and righteousness and Industry, for ye shall be a testimony in the
latter time of the presence of my hand and of the Great Spirit also;
T hus was settled Japan and it continueth to this day.
188
CHAPTER XVI
PALESTINE, LAND OF DESTINY
Palestine has long been recognized by students of
prophecy as the land where great events would occur in
the last days of the old order. We find much to con-
firm this idea in the Bible and there is a great deal of
evidence to be~ found in modern prophecies to indicate
that great events are scheduled to occur in the Holy
Land.
One of the most interesting of modern prophecies is
to be found in the Mormon PROCLAMATION of
1845. This proclamation was issued by authority of
the "Twelve Apostles" immediately after the mob
murder of Joseph Smith.
Copies of the original PROCLAMATION of the
TWELVE APOSTLES are quite rare and the writer
is indebted to Francis M. Darter of Salt Lake City for
the copy from which the following was taken. The
part of the Proclamation worthy of our interest at this
time is that which deals with Palestine, the destiny of
the Jews and the place of the American Indian in the
coming new order.
PROCLAMATION of the TWELVE APOSTLES
OF THE
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
to all the
Kings of the World, President of the United States,
and to the
Rulers and Peoples of All Nations.
189
;
Greetings:
Know ye that the Kingdom of God has come, as has been pre-
dicted by ancient prophets, and prayed for in all ages; even that
Kingdom which shall fill the whole earth, and shall stand forever.
The great Jehovah,* has been pleased once more to speak from
the heavens, and also to commune with man upon the earth by means
of open visions, and by the ministration of HOLY MESSENGERS.
This Spirit shall bear witness to you of the truth of our testimony,
and shall enlighten your minds, and be in you as the spirit of
prophecy and revelation; it shall bring things past to your under-
standing and remembrance, and shall show you things to come.
We also bear testimony that the "Indians" (so called) of North
and South America are a remnant of the tribes of Israel, as is now
made manif~st by the discovery and revelation of their ancient oracles
and records.
And that they are about to be gathered, civilized, and made one
nation in this glorious land. They will also come to the knowledge
of-their forefathers and becomes a righteous branch of the house of
Israel.
And we further testify that the Jews among all nations are
hereby commanded to prepare to return to Jerusalem in Palestine,
and to rebuild that city and Temple until the Lord.
For be it known unto them that the keys of the priesthood and
kingdom are soon to be restored unto them. (Note: The Indians
and the Jews-Darter.)
A great, a glorious, and a mighty work is yet to be achieved, in
spreading the truth and kingdom among the Gentiles-in restoring,
organizing, instructing and establishing the Jews-in gathering, in-
structing, relieving, civilizing, educating, and administering salva-
tion to the remnant of Israel on this continent-in building Jerusalem
in Palestine, and the cities, stakes, temples and sanctuaries in America.
There is also another consideration of vast importance to all the
*Jehovah was the name given by man to the Creator in the earth, land or
material age when the old Bible was the best we had. As mankind progresses he
changes the name of the Creator as language evolves. This is the age of air
and ether, therefore, the name of the Creator changes from JehovAH to
JehovIH.
We see a remnant of the Panic language used in the name of the state
-Utah or Ute land. In the Panic language it means air.
Another example of the Panic language is the title of the new Bible,
OAHSPE which means sky (0), earth (AH) and spirit (SPE), the three
elements of the universe.
190
rulers and people of the world in regard to this matter. It is this:-
as this work progresses on its onward course, and becomes more and
more an object of political and religious interest and excitement, no
king, ruler, or subject-no community or individual will stand
neutral: all will at length be influenced by one spirit or the other,
and will take sides either for or against the kingdom of God, and the
fulfilment of the Prophets in the great restoration and return of his
long-dispersed covenant people.
You cannot, therefore, stand as idle and dtsinterested spectators
of the scenes and events which are calculated, in their very nature,
to reduce all u'ations and creeds to one political and religious standard,
and thus put an end to Babel forms and names, and to strife and war.
You will, therefore, either be led by the good Spirit to cast in your lot,
and to take a lively interest with the Saints of the Most High, and the
covenant people of the Lord; or, on the other hand, you will be-
come their inveterate enemy, and oppose them by every means in
your power.
ARMAGEDDON (Darter)
To such an extreme will this great division finally extend, that the
nations of the old world will combine to oppose these things by
military force.. They will send a great army to Palestine against the
Jews, and they will besiege their city, and will reduce the in-
habitants of Jerusalem to the greatest extreme of distress and misery.
Then will commence a struggle in which the fate of Nations
and empires will be suspended on a single battle.
In this battle the governors and people of Judah distinguish
themselves for their bravery and warlike achievements. The weak
among them will be like David, and the strong among them will be
like God, or like the angel of the Lord.
In that day the Lord will pour upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem
the spirit of grace and supplication.
For Io! he will descend from heaven as the defender of the Jews,
and to complete their victory. His feet will stand in that day upon
the Mount of Olives, which shall cleave in sunder at His presence,
and remove one half to the north, and the other to the south, thus
forming a great valley where the mountain now stands.
The earth will quake around him, while storm and tempest, hail
and plague, are mingled with the clash of arms, the roar of artillery,
the shouts of victory, and the groans of the wounded and dying.
In that day, all who are in the siege, both against Judea and
191
against Jerusalem, shall be cut to pieces, though all the people of the
earth should be gathered together against it.
This signal victory on the part of the Jews, so unlooked for by
the nations, and attended with the personal advent of Messiah and
the accompanying events, will change the whole order of things in
Europe and Asia, in regard to political and religious organization
and government.
The Jews as a nation become holy from that day forward.
and their city and sanctuary become holy. There also the Messiah
establishes His throne and seat of government.
Jerusalem then becomes the seat of empire, and the great centre
and capital of the old world.
All the families of the land shall then go up to Jerusalem once a
year, to worship the Lord of Hosts, and to keep the feast of taber-
nacles.
Those who refuse to go up, shall have no rain, but shall be smitten
with dearth and famine; and if the family of Egypt go not up (as
it never rains there) they shall be smitten with the plague. And
thus all things shall be fulfilled according to the words of the holy
prophets of old, and the word of the Lord which is now revealed
to confirm and fulfil them.
In short the kings, rulers, priests, and people of Europe, and of the
old world, shall know this once that there is a God in Israel, who, as
in days of old, can utter His voice and it shall be obeyed.
Another Mormon prophecy pertaining to the Jews is
the vision given to Orson Hyde. The "overthrow of
kingdoms and governments of the Gentiles" that has
Laken place in recent years should certainly serve to open
the eyes of the "uncircumcised."
"In the early part of March last ( 1840) I retired to my bed one
evening as usual, and while contemplating and enquiring out, in my
own mind, the field of my ministerial labors for the then coming
season, the vision of the Lord, like clouds of light burst upon my
view. The cities of London, Amsterdam, Constantinople, and Jeru-
salem all appeared in succession before me; and the Spirit said unto
me, 'Here are many of the children of Abraham whom I will gather
to the land that I gave to their fathers, and here also is the field of
your labors.'
192
"A strict observance of the movements of the Jews, and a careful
examination of their faith relative to their expected Messiah-the
setting up of His kingdom among them, and the overthrow of the
present kingdoms and governments of the Gentiles, will serve to open
the eyes of many of the uncircumcised, when faithfully laid before
them, that the great day of the Lord comes not upon them unawares
as a thief.
"Take, therefore, proper credentials from My people, your breth-
ren, and also from the Governor of your State, with the seal of au-
thority thereon, and go ye forth to the cities which' have been shown
unto you and declare these words unto Judah, and say:
"Blow ye the trumpet in the land; cry, gather together; and say,
assemble yourselves, and let us go into the defenced cities. Let the
standard be reared toward Zion. Retire! stay not; for I will bring
evil from the north and a great destruction. The lion is come Uf
from his thicket, and the destroyer of the Gentiles is on his way, he
is gone forth from his place to make thy land desolate, and thy citie~
shall be laid waste without inhabitant. Speak ye comfortably to
Jerusalem, and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished-that
her iniquity is pardoned, for she has received at the Lord's hand
double for all her sins. Let your warning voice be heard among the
Gentiles as you pass, and call ye upon them in my name for aid
and for assistance. With you it mattereth not whether it be little
or much; but to me it belongeth to show favor unto them who
show favor unto you. Murmur not, therefore, neither be ye sorrow-
ful that the people are slow to hear your petition; but do as has been,
told you. All things shall work together for your good if you are
humble and keep My commandments; for it must needs be that all
men be left without excuse, that a righteous retribution may be
awarded to all.
"The vision continued to open about six hours, that I did not
close my eyes in sleep. In this time many things were shown unto me
which I have never written; neither shall I write them until they
are fulfilled in Jerusalem."
HISTORY OF JERUSALEM
The following brief of the history of Jerusalem may
prove of interest in the light that Palestine is predicted
to play in the final scene of this Time of Trouble.
193
Jerusalem was first called Salem. It was captured
and plundered several times and was finally destroyed
at the time of the Babylonian captivity. After seventy
years it was rebuilt in 536 B.C.
322 B.c. Captured by Alexander.
170 B.c. Captured by Antiochus.
63 B.c. Romans took it.
54 B.c. Crasus plundered it.
70 A.D. Titus destroyed it and drove the Jews out. Its name
363 A.D.
614 A.D.
627 A,D,
637 A.D.
868 A,D,
1099 A.D.
1187 A. D.
1242 A.D.
1291 A.D.
1517 A.D.
1917 A.D.
19?? A.D.
1980 A.D.
was changed to Elia Capitolina. Constantine changed
its name back to Jerusalem.
Julian tried to rebuild the Temple but an earthquake
drove the builders away.
King of Persia (Iran) captured the City and slew
90,000 men.
Captured by the Greeks.
Omar the Mohammedan besieged the City four months
and took it.
Ahmed, a Turk, conquered it.
Captured by the Crusaders.
Sultan of the East captured it.
Passed into the hands of the Latins.
Egypt possessed it and retained the City until 1382 A.D.
Turk; took possession.
England was given mandate over Palestine.
Armageddon.
Or Kosmon 132. Jews will become a great nation.
By that time the Jews will have given up all false
Gods and returned to the worship of Jehovih, the
Creator.
19.f.
CHAPTER XVII
JEws, THE PROPHETIC RAcE
The history of the human race is the history of two
peoples. The first consists of the "chosen people" who
are those who choose the Creator as their God. They
are the Israel people. The other class consists of all
peoples who worship idols of any nature or description
whether it be a God in the form of a man born of
woman, sitting upon a throne in heaven and expected to
return to rule the worId, or material idols; money,
power or material possessions.
In OAHSPE the New Bible, given to the English
speaking peoples through an American in the year 1881,
the "meek who shall inherit the earth" are called
· FAITHISTS or those who have faith in and worship
only the Creator.
The "chosen people" of the world are not the Jews
nor are they the so-called Israel nations. The chosen
people are they who obey the ten commandments, espe-
cially that which says "Thou shalt not kill."
The place of the Jews in the present cycle is made
clear in the following chapter taken from the Book of
Judgment in OAHSPE. This message to the Jews,
given in the year 1881 speaks for itself:
I. "Hear the words of thy God, 0 Israel. Shut not thyself
up against the wisdom of thy elder brother, God of heaven and
earth.
2. "Nor magnify thou the ancient days above the present; nor
feign and say, thy God is gone away to come no more forever.
195
3. "Behold, thou hast gone forth as a little man to battle against
a giant. With thy sling thou hast smitten him with thy one God,
Jehovih!
4. "Thou wast encompassed on all sides by a multiplicity of
Gods; one by one thou hast overcome them, and cast them out.
5. "The giant of the great beast, the false Gods, lieth dead and
cold at thy feet.
6. "The nations of the earth cry out; there is but one great
spirit, Jehovih!
7. "And I declare unto thee, 0 Israel, the Voice of the I Am is
not gone from the earth.
8. "Through the seeds of the Faithists have I held up the
Father's kingdom; by the voice of My beloved founded Him in all
the nations of the earth.
9. "Thy enemy exulted, saying: 'Behold, they are a scattered
people!'
10. "But thy God profited in thy footsteps, and in the words of
thy mouth: "There is but one Great Spirit, Jehovih!"
11. "And I have provided unto thee, after the manner of thy
forefathers, a place to inhabit, where thou shalt no longer pay tribute
to the Gods of the idolaters.
12. "Come thou out of the darkness of despotism, and inherit
the wilderness of this land. And they shall bloom as a new paradise
before thy hand.
13. "But, because thou has accomplished the ONE EVER PRES-
ENT, behold, thou shalt no longer be an exclusive people; but shalt
suffer thy sons and daughters to commingle with the Faithists of
all the races and tribes of men.
14. "And thou shalt forsake the ways of the world, and go, and
live after the manner of thy forefathers, in colonies, without kings
or rulers; serving none but Jehovih.
15. "And thy people shall hold all things in common, being
neither rich nor poor; master nor servant. And thou shalt call
out to the idolator, saying : Corne into my house, and be one with
me. Behold, there is but one Creator; thou art my brother.
16. "And it shall come to pass unto thee, 0 Israel, the way of
thy people shall be open, and they shall be delivered out of the bound
kingdoms of the east.
17. "Because, for two thousand years, thou hast not gone forth
with the sword to possess any new country, and establish thyself,
thou are glorified before thy God.
196
18. "Because of thy long suffering, thou shalt find peace through
the light of My kingdoms. Behold, a new cycle is upon the earth;
thy people shall find proofs of these, My words.
19. "My angels will come into the house of thy people, and they
shall talk with them face to face.
20. "Think not that this book is Mine only revelation in this
day within thine house, 0 Israel, shalt thou prepare unto the voice
of thy God.
21. "For I will raise up many seers and prophets amongst thy
people. And they shall testify to My words on all sides.
22. "Judge thou not, 0 Israel, who are apostates before thy God.
I say unto thee: He that forsaketh Jehovih and worshippeth Mam-
mon and the ways of the world, is an apostate in My sight. For,
even though they maintain the rites and ceremonies, they have for-
saken the spirit and truth of My commandments.
23. "Whereas, many who have forsaken the rites and ceremonies ill
search of higher light, are more to the way of Jehovih.
24. "Do they not, indeed, keep the rites and ceremonies, but
drink to drunkenness, and eat to gluttony, feasting on flesh, where-
from they have taken life?
25. "And they engage in selling wine, and in dealing in stocks,
after the manner of the idolator. Whilst thy forefathers were
scrupulous to labour, and bring forth out of the earth, wherewith
to feed and clothe man.
26. "And they say: God prospered me!
27. "Wherein they falsify Me, and blaspheme Jehovih and His
Kingdoms. I say unto thee, they shall prosper by Satan; and their
prosperity is the wages of bondage in heaven.
28. "And because of their wickedness, they have led My people to
disbelieve in My justice and the plans of My kingdoms.
29. "For which reason, more are they apostatized in My sight than
such as are good, who say: There is no God.
30. "Throw open thy doors, 0 Israel, My angels stand at the
threshold. These, My words, which I have told to thee beforehand,
shall be corroborated by hundreds of thousand of witnesses from My
heavens.
31. "Seek for the resurrection of thy soul. 0 Israel, that Jehovih
may be glorified in thee, forever and ever!"
What can the writer add to the foregoing, other than
to call to the attention of the reader that much of this
197
prophecy is being fulfilled today? Palestine will soon
become the home of the Jews, an immense tract of land
has been given them for settlement in the Argentine,
another in the U. S.S. R.
Another prophecy concerning the Jews was given in ·
1881 in the Book of Jehovih, Chapter VII, ill
OAHSPE, the New Bible.
"In the beginning of the light of dan'ha ( 1848), the spirits of
the newly dead shall have the power to take upon themselves the
semblance of corporeal bodies, and appear and talk face to face with
mortals. Every three thousand years gave Jehovih this sign on earth,
that those who learned the powers and capacities of such familiar
spirits, might bear testimony in regard to the origin of man upon
earth.
"And when it shall come to pass in any of the times of dan'ha *
that these signs are manifest, man shall know that the hosts t of the
Most :High come soon after. Let him who will become wise, enu-
merate the great lights of My serpent,:j: for in such times I set aside
things that are old, and establish My chosen anew."
8:11 "In the times of great darkness that shall come upon the earth
and these heavens, lo, I will bring the earth into dan'ha; and My
ethereans shall come in my name and deliver them."
* Dan'ha is a region of light, located at intervals of three thousand years
along the orbit of the Solar System. Our planet crosses one of these light
bands every three thousand years, which marks the end of a civilization and
the birth of a new.
t This prophecy concurs, in a way, with the Christian anticipation of a
second coming of Christ.
:j: Great Serpent is our sun and its planets or solar phalanx.
198
CHAPTER XVIII
PROPHECIES OF OAHSPE
In evaluating the prophecies contained in OAHSPE,
the new Bible, it should be remembered that this miracle
of the centuries was given the English spe4king peoples
in the year 18 81. While the telegraph had been pat-
ented in 1848 _it was not a nationwide utility as it is
today. The telephone had just been invented (1876)
but had not come into general use and most of the peo-
ple thought it was a crack pot idea. Radio, television
and atomic power were undreamed of and anyone who
made the prediction that radio and television receivers
would be in many homes would have been considered a
little off mentally.
The intelligence that gave us OAHSPE foretold the
aerial age in the following words:
As of old, I commanded thee to have dominion over every living
thing I created; so, now, I command thee to take the earth and the
waters of the earth and the air above the earth into thy dominion
also.
The day is not far off when man will control the cli-
mate, precipitation and many other natural phenomena
for OAHSPE states:
And thou shalt rule over them to drive away the heat, and bring
the cold; to drive away the cold and bring heat, as thou wilt, for the
benefit of all the living.
A new system cf education and new powers to assimi-
late education is forecast in the following words:
199
As there was a time when I (the Creator) created every animal
perfect in its own order; so shall such a time come unto man.
And now is the dawn thereof. Hence I named it Kosmon.
As a spider learneth to build her web without a book, and the
bees to dwell in a queendom in peace and industry without books and
written laws and instructions as to how to do this and that, even so,
now is a new birth to the generations of MY people.
By MY direct inspiration upon them shall they learn to do all
things perfect, in the order of man for which I created him.
Man shall know how to do things easily, and without the long
labor of books, and without showing, or explanations.
OAHSPE, Book of Inspiration, Chapter XII: 31-38
OAHSPE is the only source of information, as far
as the writer knows, which contains a full and complete
explanation of the cause of war, revolution, epidemics,
earthquakes and the general destruction of mankind
and of the things man has built. OAHSPE not only
states what will occur, it states why it will occur, and to
the one who will give the time and study essential to
the assimilation of the science of prophecy, as given in
OAHSPE, the years when great changes may be ex-
pected.
The earth is going through the greatest purge in its
history. The year 1848 A.D. marked the meridian, the
half way point in the evolution of man from beast to
God. The first half of mankind's inhabitation of the
earth, when he was more material than spiritual, ended
in 1848 A.n., the first year of Kosman. That year
marked the beginning of the latter half of the time
when the earth served as a foaling place for man. Dur-
ing this latter half, man must give thought to the spir-
itual side of his nature and develop his spiritual self
while his material self accepts a secondary position.
It seems probable that every individual. that falls
200
below the required spiritual grade will be swept off the
earth in the years immediately ahead. That does not
mean that they are lost, for man is immortal and growth
eternal. The lessons which were not learned on earth
will be learned in heaven, in an environment more con-
ducive to spiritual unfoldment.
Students of spiritual subjects know the law: As
above, so below; as below, so above. An example of
this was evident during the war. Officer material was
taken out of universities teaching peace time subjects
and enrolled in schools devoted to teaching th_e arts of
war. In officer training schools the culture of peace
was omitted from the curriculum while the science of
killing was the major study.
The millions of people who have died during the
"Time of Trouble" that began in 1914 are receiving
their education in the heavens of the earth where every
subject concerning SELF is taboo and the curriculum is
aimed at the spiritual development of the new citizen
of heaven.
There is no cause for mourning for those who have
passed on. There is no loss in the Creators' universe.
Progress, eternal progress is the order of all eternity.
While OAHSPE is quite definite in predicting the
destruction of cities and present day governments, the
New Bible makes clear that it is all to good purpose and
a greater civilization will replace that of today.
DESTRUCTION OF CITIES
Know thou, 0 man, that all cities built by man, soon or late, fall
into destruction. . . . And, in time, all holiness passeth away there-
from ; and, when thy God abandoneth that city for a day, taking
hence His holy angels, the people fall into anarchy,. or run with
201
hrands of fire, and burn down the city. . . . Find thou the grac!e
and the rate of declension of the mortals of a city, and when the
whole number, with the spirits therein, hath fallen to one percent,
thou shalt prophesy the time of the fall of that city.
PERILOUS TIMES
Now, behold, I come in this era, not only to declare to you, that
the time of preaching is at an end, save wherein it is practiced in
deed as it is spoken in word, but also to prophesy to you (preachers)
that many of you will give up your calling, and preach no more.
And your temples and churches and meeting-houses shall be turned
into consultation chambers, to find remedies against poverty and de-
bauchery.
And the congregations shall be enrolled, and, at the meetings, they
shall be enquired after, to see if they are in need. And they shall
have volunteers, who shall go about seeking out the helpless and dis-
tressed, and providing for them.
So, that, instead of the congregations sitting to hear your sermons,
they shall come as co-workers for Jehovih's children.
This is the new religion, which I give unto you; and moreove~, let
it be a prophecy to you of the words of your God. For there is no
such congregation this day in all the world; and yet, ere this genera-
tion pass away, this shall be proven to you.
OAHSPE, Book of Judgement, Chapter XIX.
OAHSPE was given in 1881. A prophetic genera-
tion if 120 years. Therefore we know that the above
will come to pass by the year 2000, when the religions
of words will have given place to a religion of works.
FREE ENTERPRISE SYSTEM DooMED
Christian nations prayed for it. Soon their prayers
will be answered.
THE FATHER'S KINGDOM ON EARTH
1. God said: I have heard thy prayer, 0 man: Thy kingdom
come on earth, as it is in heaven.
2. Hast thou considered thy words? And art thou prepared for
it? Hast thou fulfilled the commandments? And lovest th:ou thy
202
neighbor as thyself? And hast thou done unto the least, as thou de-
sirest thy Creator to do unto thee?
3. Now, behold, Jehovih hath sent me, thy God, to answer thy
prayer.
4. I demand of thee, that thou hast no favorite doctrine above
thy neighbor;
5. And that thou art servant to no God, nor Lord, nor Savior,
nor church, unacceptable to any man in all the world.
6. But that thou servest Jehovih with all thy wisdom and
strength, by doing good unto thy fellow-men with all thy might.
7. That, because thou art strong, or wise, or rich, thou under-
standest, that thou shalt use these excellences for raising up such as
have them not, believing that Jehovih so provided thee to that end.
8. Consider, 0 man! Thou hast a kingdom (government-Ed)
already. Wouldst thou have two kingdoms?
9. Behold, the kingdom of man hath its power in armies and
ships of war.
1O. The kingdoms of thy Father have not these, but love, wisdom,
righteousness and peace.
11. I demand of thee that thou shalt give up thy army and navy.
Art thou prepared to say: "To whom smiteth me on one cheek, I
turn the other to be. smitten also"?
12. Is thy faith still more in weapons of death, than in the Voice
of Everlasting Life? Esteemest thou thy army and navy more to be
depended on, than Jehovih?
13. Art thou willing to sacrifice thy time and money and self-
interest for sake of Jehovih's kingdom?
14. Use thy judgment, 0 man. Since the time of the ancients
till now, the only progress towards the Father's kingdom hath been
through sacrifice.
15. What less canst thou expect?
16. If thou sellest what thou hast, and givest to the poor, behold
thy neighbors will imprison thee for a madman.
17. If thou abnegate thyself and labor for others, they will perse-
cute thee and revile thee.
18. If thou shouldst profess to love thy neighbor as thyself, they
would mock at thee.
19. Therefore, I declare unto thee, 0 man, in the land of UZ 1
the Father's kingdom cannot be.
1 Uz--competitivc world.
Uzian-a worldly person.
203
20. But thou shalt go hence; and behold, I will go with thee,
and with thy neighbor, and show thee how to build, even as a king-
dom in heaven.
FREEDOM
In order to gain the support of the people for World
War II the Atlantic Charter was used as propaganda.
Later it was revealed that no such document existed.
The FOUR FREEDOMS were also given to the peo-
ple in the early days of the war as the objectives of the
war, but as the war progressed less and less was heard
about the Four Freedoms.
However, man proposes while God disposes. The
United States and Great Britain promised the world
four freedoms; freedom from want, freedom from
fear, freedom of religion and freedom of speech. The
promise proved to be empty for as this is written most of
Europe is starving, full of fear with religions forced
upon them that they may not wish, while to speak
against church or government is but little less dangerous
than during the days of Nazi and Fascist rule.
A day is not far distant when not only the four free-
doms will be the privilege of all mankind, but many
other freedoms as well, for the Age of Kosmon is pre-
dominantly an age of freedom.
FREEDOM UNLIMITED
Judgment is rendered against all nations and peoples in the world
who engage in war . . . carry on war, or who are accessory to war
whereby any man, created alive by Jehovih, is slain, in defense of
any king or ruler, or in defense of any country or government in all
the world.
Judgment is rendered against all nations and peoples who use
prisons as places for whipping and torturing prisoners; and against all
204
nations and peoples who put to death, by hanging, shooting, or in
any way whatsoever, any prisoner, or any person whom Jehovih cre-
ated alive. . . .
Neither shall any king, nor queen, nor any other ruler in all the
. world, impress as a soldier any man who is unwilling to engage in
war.•••
Neither will I more consider the prayers of any king, or queen or
any other ruler, or any nation or people in all the world, who engage
in war, offensive or defensive, or who aid or abet war in any way
whatsoever.
But I will abandon all such people; and my Lords shall abandon
them; and my holy angels shall abandon them.
OAHSPE states that it was given to mankind at the
command of God, Who is chief executive officer of this
planet and the heavens thereof. If such is the case no
doubt remains but that war will bring such terrible suf-
fering upon the peoples and nations that engage in it
that they will give it up.
And they shall be affiicted with assassinations and intriguers and
despoilers, and with anarchy and riots and destruction.
For they shall be made to understand that whomsoever Jehovih
created alive is sacred upon the earth; and that whosoever heedeth
not these, My judgments, sinneth against the Almighty.
OAHSPE, Book of Judgement, Chapter XXXII.
OAHSPE further states that all tariffs and all bar-
riers to immigration and free passage of any person
from nation to nation shall be put away along with all
unions, association, monopolies, cartels and every other
instrument for maintaining an exclusive privilege or
used as an instrument for taking freedom from other
men.
Now, I declare unto thee, I will not more have exclusiveness in any
of the nations and peoples in all the world.
Neither shall there be taxes and duties of one nation or people
against another.
205
Behold, thou hast asked for the Father's kingdom to come on earth
as it is in heaven, and I will give unto thee. As thou hast prayed, so
will I answer thee, in the name of J ehovih.
Thou shalt not serve both, Jehovih and mammon. Neither shall
the light of my heavens be with thee, save thou heedest my judge-
ments.
I will have all the ports open and free, nor shall there be any
partisan taxation, in favor of one nation against another, nor of one
people against another people.
FATE OF TODAY'S GOVERNMENTS
The fate of today's governments is made plain in
Chapters XXXIV and XXXV in the Book of Judge-
ment in OAHSPE. However, that is as it should be
for the republics and democracies of today will be as far
surpassed by those of the future as does a republic sur-
pass an absolute feudal monarchy. The years from
1914 to 1954 are years when evil (so-called) is given a
free hand to destroy itself.
God saith: Behold the work of my hand, 0 man: As thou findest
an old house, no longer habitable, thou sendest workmen to pull it
down, and then thou.sendest laborers to clear away the rubbish.
And afterward thou bringest builders, and they lay a new founda-
tion, larger and broader than the old one, and thereon they build a
new edifice adapted with new improvements unto the increase and
requirements of thy family.
Even so hath thy God labored for hundreds of years to prepare
unto the generations of this day. . ..
I come not in this day to call sinners to repentance, nor to gather
up the lost sheep of Israel.
I. come to the wise and pure . . . to give i:hem a new lesson,
which is, to show them how to build the Father's kingdom on earth.
I come to raise up a new people in the world, greater than have
ever been.
Those that I have sent have cleared away the old edifice. I come
not as a destroyer; I .come as a builder.
Into thy hands, 0 man, I give the key to the heavenly kingdoms.
206
Remember, the password which admitteth thee to all the highest
kingdoms is, JEHOVIH, THE I AM.
OAHSPE, Book of Judgement, Chap. XXXIX.
So grieve not, dear reader if the world comes crashing
down around your ears. You may think it the end of
the world. It is the end of a world of evil. Your chil-
dren and your children's children will enjoy GOD'S
KINGDOM ON EARTH for a new and better world
is in the making.
The meek shall inherit the earth-for-
The Faithists, having faith in the All Person, shall ultimately pos-
sess the whole earth and make it a paradise of peace and love.
May Jehovih speed the day.
207
CHAPTER XIX
THE WoMAN AND THE BEAST
Prophecies from all over the world, prophecies of
every nation and race given to the followers of every
religion worshipped by man all tell the same story, a
story of war, revolution and a world purge such as this
planet has never experienced.
The 132 year cycle from 1848 to 1980 will carry the
world from the first half on man's inhabitation of the
world when he was predominately physical, living in a
world of competition and strife, originating in man's
concern with self, into the second phase of his existence
on earth when he will be predominately spiritual; a co-
operative, harmonious individual mor:e concerned with
community .and race welfare than in his own selfish in-
terests.
To gain a complete understanding of the causes be-
hind the Forty Years W ar (1914-1 954) we would have
to go back to the time when the second man was born
upon earth and with him the competitive system. We
do not have time nor space to go back to the time when
Cain slew Abel but we must go back to the time of the
Babylonian Empire to gain an understanding of what
has and will occur and the entities through which the
manifestation of reaction and progress operate.
If we study Biblical prophecy we find that John was
given a revelation of things to come and a study of the
symbology of his vision reveals that the woman who sat
208
upon the scarlet colored beast represents the ~hristian
Church while the beast symbolizes governments and
powers.
The writer has two shelves in his library filled with
books dealing with the interpretation of Biblical proph-
ecy. Pastor Russell, Uriah Smith, William A. Redding
and Lyman E. Stowe were all inspired interpreters of
the symbology contained in the prophetic books of the
Bible.
Revelation, Daniel and Isaiah all tie in together to
foretell the rise and fall of religions and governments.
The following quotations from Revelation 17 are par-
ticularly interesting in the light of the histories of the
Christian Church and International banking.
"1. •.. I will show thee the judgement of the woman that
sitteth upon many waters:
2. With whom the kings of the earth have committed sin and the
inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her
sms.
3. So the angel carried me away into the wilderness: and I saw
a woman sit upon a scarlet colored beast, full of the names of blas-
phemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
4. And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet and decked
with gold and precious stones and pearls having a golden cup in her
hand full of abominations and filthyness.
5. And upon her forehead was the name written MYSTERY,
BABYLON THE GREAT, MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND
ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH••••
7. And the angel said unto me. • • • I will tell thee the
mystery of the woman and of the beast that carrieth her, which has
the seven heads and ten horns. . • •
9. And here is the mind that hath wisdom. The seven heads are
seven mountains, of which the woman sitteth.
I 0. And there are seven kings; five are fallen, and one is, and
the other is not yet come; and when he cometh he must continue a
short space.
209
11. And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and
is of the seven and goeth into perdition.
12. And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings which have
received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour
with the beast.
13. These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength
unto the beast.
14-. These shall make war with the Lamb and the Lamb shall over-
come them for He is Lord of Lords and King of Kings and they that
are with him are called and chosen and faithful.
15. And he saith unto me, the waters which thou sawest, where
the woman sitteth are peoples, and multitudes and nations and
tongues.
16. And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast these
shall hate the woman and shall make her desolute and naked and
shall eat her flesh and burn her with fire.
For God hath put in their hearts to fulfill his will, and to agree
and give their kingdom unto the beast until the words of God shall
be fulfilled.
17. And the woman which thou sawest is that great city which
ruleth over the kings of the earth."
Kindly note the 16th verse: "FOR GOD HATH
PUT IT IN THEIR HEARTS TO FULFILL HIS
WILL, AND TO AGREE AND GIVE THEIR
KINGDOM UNTO THE BEAST UNTIL THE
WORDS OF GOD SHALL BE FULFILLED.
There is no gainsaying that all of the things that are
taking place now and will take place in the fulfillment
of prophecy is GOD'S .WILL. We should not over-
look the fact that evil and sin have no existence in fact
but are appearances caused biour lack of true perspec-
tive in time. Could we observe life over a period of a
thousand years we would know that every painful expe-
rience, every war, every catastrophe of nature, works
for the evolution and progress of mankind. There is
no evil and no loss in the Creator's economy.
210
Please fix these facts in your mind. The woman
mentioned above sitteth upon many waters or peoples
( 1) ; her name is written in capital letters (5), one of
the very few places in the Bible where such emphasis is
given; the woman sitteth upon seven mountains or the
seven hills upon which the city of Rome is built; the
beast existed sometime prior to the time of the prophecy,
but did not exist in John's day, but would appear later
at which time it would be the eighth but of the seven.
Ten kings, or dictators who receive the power of kings,
give their strength to the beast, and make war upon the
Lamb. ·
Nebuchadnezzar had a vision in which he saw a great
·man with head of gold, chest of silver, belly of brass
and legs of iron. These metallic members of the great
man are symbolic of the Babylonian, Medo-Persian,
Grecian and Roman Empires according to all inter-
preters of biblical prophecy. One leg of the symbolic
man represents the Roman Catholic branch and the
other leg the Greek Orthodox branches of the Christian
Church. Feet and toes symbolize ten nations of iron
and clay with governments by church and finance.
We will see if the Signs of the Times substantiate
this interpretation by Bible scholars.
THE WOMAN CLOTHED IN PURPLE AND
SCARLET, SITTING UPON A SCARLET COL-
ORED BEAST. Revelations I 7 describes this woman.
She is 'symbolical of the Christian Church. By Chris-
tian Church we mean the Church of Rome with the
Greek Orthodox Church and all of their protestant
daughters. Let us trace the history of this church.
In the later days of the Roman Empire the pantheon
211
of Rome had become so filled with gods and goddesses
that the priests could not remember their names and
there were not enough days in the year to honor them
all. This is easily understood if we will consider Ro-
man political policies. Rome had conquered the ancient
world. As a matter of political strategy, to tie con-
quered people to Rome, the gods of conquered peoples
were included in the Roman Pantheon and the religions
of various peoples recognized by Rome. It was also a
custom to deify every emperor when he died. With
Rome's own gods, the gods of all the peoples Rome had
conquered and their emperor deities, the number was
so great that no one could remember them all.
The consequence was that both nobles and plebians
lost all faith in the gods and the prevailing religion.
In modern slang, this caused the "take" of the priests
to become slimmer and slimmer. The people were wise
to their racket. Political Rome was losing control over
the people for with the decrease of faith in their gods
went a decrease in faith in their government.
About 325 A.D. Constantine came into power. To
r:estore the church where it could be used as an instru-
ment for political purposes Constantine sent orders in-
structing the high priests of every religion worshipped
within the empire, to come to Rome and bring with
them their scrolls, and sacred writings. When this con-
clave of high priests was assembled, the situation was
explained to the assembly and instructions given the
priests to forget about all their old gods and agree on
ONE new god that would be acceptable to all the reli- ·
gions and peoples in the empire. After several months
work the assembled priests agreed upon a new god who
212
was to be called IESU or Jesus. To make this new god
and new religion acceptable to all the people of the em-
pire a little was taken from each old religion and incor-
porated into the new religion. The great number of
manuscripts, scrolls aIJ.d papri that had been brought
into Rome were condensed into a new book that became
the New Testament. Then the Alexandrian Library
was burned to destroy ·all ancient records and evidence
of the sources of the new religion.
The Son with his twelve disciples was taken from the old Sabean
System and symbolized the sun with its twelve planets. The thirteen
also symbolized the earth and the twelve points of the zodiac.
The trinity of God, the Father; Jesus, the son and the Virgin
Mother were taken from Osisis, Isis and the infant Horus of the
Egyptian trinity.
The crucifixion was taken from the history of Zarathustra (Zo-
roaster) who was crucified between two thieves.
The Pope was taken from the Temple of Baal, which was gov-
erned by a college of Pontiffs with one supreme pontiff (pope) who
was considered infallible and wore a mitre. The confessional was
also taken from the religion of Baal.
A few of the rites, ceremonies, claims, customs and
tenets in the history of the Christian Church were
adopted on or about the following dates:
Monastic orders adopted from the Buddhists in 325.
Latin mass began in 349.
Pope claimed keys to Christ in 400.
Extreme unction given in 558.
Purgatory discovered in 593.
Invocation to the Virgin in 594.
Kissing the Pope's toe became a custom in 709.
Story of the crucifixion started in 71 5. Prior to that time a lamb
appeared on the cross. After 71 5 the lamb gave place to a man.
Transubstantiation-I 000.
Division of the Church took place in 1054 when the Papal legate
213
laid the Roman anathema on the altar of St. Sophia in Constantinople.
(lstambule).
Celibacy of clergy adopted in 1074.
Sale of indulgences started in 1109.
Inquisition established by Innocent III in 1215.
Auricular confession taught as a religious duty in 121 5.
The Reformation occurred from 1545 to 1563 and a counter
reformation was instigated by the new Order of the Jesuits in
Bavaria in i 563 and spread throughout Europe.
THIRTY YEARS WAR began in 1618 and continued until 1648
with the Catholic princes of Austria, Germany and Spain allied
against the Protestant nations.
Peace established at end of Thirty Years War at Westphalia when
papists and protestants agreed to recognize each other's . right to
existence.
The THIRTY YEARS WAR was an attempt by an
Austrian-Spanish Alliance to reestablish Roman author-
ity over all of Europe.
THE ARMY OF THE CHURCH
In the year 1491 a man was born who was to have a
greater influence on the history of the world than per-
haps any other individual of the past five centuries.
Ignatious Loyola began his career as a soldier but later
turned ·to the church and in 1541 founded the Society
of Jesus and became his first general. During the cen-
turies since, the Jesuits have been the secret service, the
general staff and the behind-the-scenes dictator of Vati-
can policies.
The Jesuits have always been active in world politics
and have been a source of grief as well as strength to the
Church. It is not the purpose of this chapter to give a
history of the Church or to record any criticism of its
activities. The only reason for mentioning the Church
is that a background may be laid for an understanding
214
of world events of today and tomorrow and fulfillment
of the countless prophecies directed to our times.
During the 400 year life of the Jesuit order it has
been expelled from practically every country on earth
and has been disbanded by the Church itself. The fol-
lowing list of expulsions from 1555 to 1931 speaks for
itself. Popes Paul IV, Innocent X, Innocent XI and
Clement XIV did their best, without success, to shake
the Jesuits from the body of the Church.
The Jesuits were expelled from:
Sargossa in 1555 Amura, Japan in 1613
LaPalinterre m 1558 Bohemia m 1618
Navarre m 1561 Moravia- m 1619
Vienna m 1566 Kingdom of Naples m 1622
Avignon m 1570 Netherlands m 1622
Antwerp in 1578 China and India m 1623
Portugal m 1578 Turkey m 1628
England m 1579 Abyssinia m 1632
England m 1581 Malta in 1634
England m 1584 Russia m 1723
England m 1586 Savoy m 1724
Japan m 1587 Paraguay m 1733
Hungary & Portugal m 1759
Transylvania m 1588 France in 1761
Bordeaux m 1589 France m 1764
The whole of France m 1594 Peru m 1767
Holland m 1596 Spain, Sicily, Naples m 1767
Turin and Berne Ill 1597 Parma in 1768
England Ill 1602 All Christendom, by
England m 1604 bull of Pope
Denmark Ill 1606 Clement XIV in July 21, 1773
Venice m 1606 Russia in 1776
Venice m 1612
The 19th century was admittedly the most disastrous
of all for the Jesuits. They were restored by Pope Pius
VII in 1814 but were expelled from:
215
France m 1816 Switzerland, Bavaria,
Netherlands m 1816 Sardinia, Sicily and
Moscow and St. Paraguay . in 1848
Petersburg Ill 1816 Colombia, S. A. In 1850
Belgium m 1818 Spain m 1851
Brest (by the people) m 1819 Turin and Venice m 1859
Russia m 1820 Ecuador Ill 1861
Spain m 1820 Spain m 1868
Belgian schools m 1826 Rome m 1870
France, 8 colleges in 1828 Guatemala m 1871
Great Britian & Switzerland m 1871
Ireland Ill 1829 Germany m 1872
France m 1831 Brazil m 1873
Portugal m 1834 France, all colleges Ill 1880
Spain in q35 Portugal m 1910
Rheims (by the people) in 1838 France m 1912
Argentine Ill 1841 Forbidden by Catholic
Lucerne m 1845 bishops in Capetown,
France m 1845 South Africa till 1926
Switzerland m 1847 From the Spanish
Papal States, Genoa, Republic Ill 1931
Austria, Galieian,
When the Roman Church, at the instigation of the
Jesuits, imposed the dogma, at the Vatican Council in
1870, of the infallibility of the Popes, the foundation
was laid for the rise of fascism-nazism and world dicta-
torship of the Christian nations.
The assumption of absolute power by the pope was a
forerunner of a like claim by political dictators.
Fundamental tenets of the Jesuits is implicit obedi-
ence and that the end justifies the means. The Jesuit
early learns that he must cancel his own will, forget any
natural feelings and obliterate every trace of individ-
uality unless it serves the purposes of the Order.
When Pope Pius XI came to power the Jesuits had a
willing instrument in the Pope. In his Encyclical
216
QUADRAGESIMO ANNO the crusade for world
dictatorship by the Roman Catholic Church was en-
trusted to the Jesuits. This crusade aimed at the ex-
termination of the liberal spirit of the 19th Century, the
formation of a world crusade against socialism, com-
munism and the creation of a counter-reformation.
The means to obtain these ends were to be the an-
nihilation of the old Catholic political parties which had
become impregnated with democratic ideology, the
purging of the secular clergy, religious orders and the
laity in so far as they persist in holding to non-Jesuit
opinions in regard to policy.
The most suitable political regime to assure success
of this crusade for Catholic world dictatorship was to be
the hierarchical authoritarian form of the fascist state.
The desire to purge the Church of all liberal ele-
ments explains the anti-Catholic activities of Mussolini
and Hitler. Neither of the dictators was against the
Church. They were working to eliminate any liberal
Catholic wherever found. It seems the Jesuits will
liquidate a liberal Catholic as quickly, or a little quicker
than they will a non-Catholic. They do not care for
dissention within the ranks of the Church.
Mussolini sold out to the industrialists of Italy
shortly before Achille Ratti, who had been trained in
Jesuit schools, was elected Pope and became Pius XI.
While archbishop of Milan, which was the center of the
Fascist movement, Archbishop Ratti had made the ac-
quaintance of M ussolini and discovered that they could
work together for the control of Italy and the further-
ance of the plans of the Church.
In 1922 Pius XI was crowned pope by Jesuit Car-
217
dinal Billot. A few months later Mussolini made his
celebrated march on Rome (in a Pullman coach) and
seven years later signed the Lateran Treaty and Con-
cordat which granted the Roman Pontiff extra-territo-
riality, personal inviolability, royal privileges, a diplo-
matic court, a personal army, a Vatican government and
3,225,000 lire a year. From then on the Church was
on its way to conquer the world. It had regained tem-
poral power.
The fact that the Vatican and Fascism are blood
brothers is evidenced by the following list of prominent
fascists and nazis:
Religious Affiliation of the Nazi and Fascist Dictators, Their Pup-
pets, Quislings and Collaborators. ~
The following facts have been checked with official pub-
lications and bureaus of information:
Adolph Hitler-Nazi Fuehrer Roman Catholic
Benito Mussolini-Italian Duce Roman Catholic
Francisco Franco--Spanish Caudillo Roman Catholic
Antonio Salazar-Portuguese Dictator Roman Catholic
Henri P. Petain-Vichy Chief of State Roman Catholic
Pierre Laval-Vichy Chief of Government Roman Catholic
Joseph Titer-Slovakian Chief of State Roman Catholic Priest
Vidkun Quisling-Prem. of Occupied Norway Protestant
Anton A. Mussert-"Quisling" of Occupied
Holland Protestant
Emil Hacha_:__Nazi Pres. of Bohemia-
Moravia Roman Catholic
Konrad Henlein "Quisling" of Sudetenland Roman Catholic
Leon M. Degrelle-Belgia Rexist Leader Roman Catholic
Ante Pavelich-Croatian Poglavar (Leader)' Roman Catholic
Darquier de Pellepoix-Vichy Jew-hating
Commissioner of Jewish Affairs Roman Catholic
The power of the Vatican in the affairs of the United
States has grown year by year since the Declaration of
218
Independence. Perhaps no president in the history of
our nation played into the hands of the Jesuits as did
Franklin Delano Roosevelt who sent Myron C. Taylor
as his personal representative to the Vatican and prom-
ised the Pope that as soon as public opinion in the
United States could be conditioned to permit it, diplo-
matic status would be conferred upon the Vatican State.
President Truman followed in the footsteps of
F. D. R. when in May of 1946 he asked Taylor to re-
turn to Rome as his personal representative with Rank
of ambassador.
Francis J. Spellman, then archbishop of New York,
was sent all over Europe at the expense of the U. S.
Taxpayer at the behest of F. D. Roosevelt to report to
the President on conditions in Europe. After the sur-
render of Japan, Archbishop Spellman lost no time in
flying to Tokyo after a far flung tour of Pacific bases.
Soon there were pleas for a "soft peace" for Japanese
fascism.
In 1945 Pope Pius created a new college of cardinals.
Of the new Cardinals 14 were from the Western Hemi-
sphere and five were from the United States. Francis J.
Spellman was made a cardinal and there is talk of
making him Papal Secretary of State with every possi-
bility that Spellman will be the next Pope.
When Spellman becomes pope it is safe to predict
that the several prophecies foretelling a time when
Rome will rule the United States will be fulfilled.
The growth in power of the Church in the United
States is accompanied with an increase of its power
throughout the Western Hemisphere.
The years from 1914 to 1954 are the years of a Forty
219
Years war-a repetition in the Twentieth Century of
the Thirty Years War of the Seventeenth Century. As
the Thirty Years War was a war to make all of Europe
a Roman Catholic Empire, the Forty Years War of
1914-1954 is a series of global wars to bring the world
under Roman Catholic dictatorship.
THE SCARLET COLORED BEAST
"The love of money is the root of all evil."
Banking, based upon credit, goes back to the time
when Venice and Genoa were two independent cities.
The Bank of Venice was established in 11 71 and fell
with the City in 1812, thus standing for almost six and
a half centuries.
The Bank of Venice was a government bank. When
Venice had war the government needed funds and was
compelled to resort to forced loans from its wealthy
citizens for which it gave (bonds) credits at the bank.
The Bank of Genoa was a sister bank and was the first
bank to originate the bank note. The Bank of Genoa
fell with the overthrow of the government at the same
time the Venetian Bank passed out. For many years
Venice, Genoa and Florence were the money centers of
the world. Peoples' money did not profit the usurious
class so the money loaning clique followed the "Star of
Empire" westward and located in Amsterdam where
usurious privileges were granted.
The Bank of Amsterdam was founded in 1609 for
Amsterdam was then the commercial center of the
world. The Bank loaned millions of florins, that it did
not possess, to the East India Trading Co. so when con-
fidence in the bank died, the bank was unable to pay off
220
its depositors and the first bank based upon promissory
note banking closed its doors. .
For a number of years prior to the failure of the
Bank of Amsterdam, the commercial center was drifting
from Amsterdam to London, England. England had
for many years been a lucrative field for the usurer
• . . both Jew and Gentile.
The Bank of England was founded by a Scotsman,
William Patterson, in the year 1694. Its charter did
not confer upon it power to create money out of nothing
by issuing bank notes, but this power was assumed to
belong to the general powers with which the bank was
invested.
During the Napoleonic wars millions of pounds were
loaned to the government, which the bank did not pos-
sess, and for which it received interest. This increased
amount of money in circulation brought prosperity to
every Englishman, but when this flat money was called
in values fell and the average English citizen was put
through the wringer to the advantage of the banking
fraternity.
The Bank of England was not long in learning that
they had the greatest racket ever invented by the mind
of man. When the nation was at war and needed
money it issued notes without any gold or other precious
metal back of them. After the war was over the Bank
insisted that it must go back to a specie basis with the
result that the volume of money was contracted, the
relative value of money over property increased, a de-
pression was on, foreclosures became an epidemic, bank-
ers got rich and the English commoner was broke.
The Bank of England, until October 10th, 1946
221
when the Bank was nationalized as soon as the Labour
government took office, had always been privately
owned, its stockholders names were a matter of the
greatest secrecy.
At the close of the Revolutionary war Alexander
Hamilton became Secretary of the Treasury and foisted
upon the United States the British banking system
whereby national banking is privately owned with the
right to create money out of nothing given it by the
State.
The history of banking under the system created in
England is a history of special privilege to a few, ex-
ploitation of the many, disregard of national interest
and treason comparable to no other evil on earth. It
is the explanation of our disregard of the advice to take
no part in Europe's quarrels, given our nation by Wash-
ington, Jefferson, Franklin and other founders of our
nation.
International Banking, owned and controlled by a
few individuals, is the explanation for our complete dis-
regard of our own Monroe Doctrine when we entered
World War I on the side of England and France.
International Banking was created by Mayer An-
selem whose pawn shop bore a red shield or Rothschild,
in the German language. His motto was absolute se-
crecy in all things: "A man will not tell what he has
not heard" and "Gold never repeats what it sees."
There is a strange relation between the sign of the red
shield and the red dragon of prophecy.
Mayer Anselem had four sons, each of whom
founded a bank in a different country. Anselem be-
came court banker to Prussia and was located at Frank-
222
fort. Of the sons, Solomon went to Vienna, Jacob to
Paris, Karl to Naples, while Nathan went first to Man-
chester and later established himself in London.
Sons and grandsons of Anselem were eleven in num-
ber. Nathan, Alfred and Leopold controlled the Bank
of England; Alfred, Gustave, Edward, Adolph and
James largely controlled the Bank of France, Nathanial
was located in Vienna and William stayed at Frankfort.
Control of the English and French banks by the Roths-
child family was largely instrumental in determining
the historical alliances between England and France.
The Belmonts were their relatives and agents in this
country and their financial history in the United States
proves how complete was the control of the Rothschilds
over the banking and financial structure of the Christian
world.
In 1862 there was published in England and circu-
lated among the bankers of the United States the "Haz-
ard Circular" which revealed plans of the English bank-
ers to control the financial system of the United States.
T..HE HAZARD CIRCULAR LETTER OF 1862 TO THE BANKERS
"Slavery is liable to be abolished by the war power and chattel
slavery destroyed.
"This I and my European friends are in favor of, for slavery is
but the owning of labor and carries with it the care of the laborer,
while the European plan, led by England, is capital control of labor
by controlling wages.
"This can be done by controlling the money. The great debt
that capitalists will see to is made out of the war, must be used as a
measure to control the volume of money.
"To accomplish this bonds must be used as a banking basis.
"We are now waiting to get Secretary of the Treasury to make this
recommendation to Congress.
223
"It will not do to allow the greenback, as it is called, to circulate
as money any length of time for we can not control that."
About the time of the Civil War in the United States
the House of Morgan came into prominence. Founded
by Junius Spencer Morgan, a partner of George Pea-
body, J. S. Morgan was agent in the United States for
George Peabody & Co., a firm of London bankers. As
time went on the House of Morgan became one of the
world's largest firms of international bankers. During
World War I the House of Morgan acted as agents of
both the English and French governments in the
United States.
World War I served to fasten one of the most vicious
pieces of legislation upon the American people that was
ever passed-the Federal Reserve System or chain of
twelve banks, privately owned and functioning under
the English system with the power to create money
(Federal Reserve Notes) at will. This money costs the
bankers approximately 30 cents per thousand dollars-
the cost of paper, ink and printing.
War loans of World War I and World War II were
credits created on the part of English, French and
American bankers-the International Bankers. The ac-
tual cost to the bankers amounted to virtually nothing;
"British Finance" 1914-1921 stated, "Taking the banks
collectively, as one unit, loans simply involve pen and
ink entries. Advances by the Bank of England to the
government simply involve entries in its own books."
The same can be said of the Federal Reserve Banks of
the United States and their financing of the U. S.
through World Wars I and II. Dear reader, don't you
wish you could create billions of money out of nothing
224
and then lend it out at interest • . . to governments
that gave you the power to create it in the first place?
It was Montague Norman's great dream to establish
branches of the Bank of England in every nation in
Europe while he was governor of the Bank of England.
However, these banks would not be known as branches
of the Bank of England, but were to be named after the
countries in which they were established.
In May of 1930 another step was taken in the en-
slavement of mankind to the International Bankers
when the world bank or Bank for International Settle-
ments was established in Switzerland. World War II
set the stage to create a perfect banker's heaven. Article
X, Sections 3 to 9 of the Brenton Woods Agreements
gave the International Bankers powers undreamed of
by the average citizen. The archives, records and
transactions of the World Bank are made inviolable,
all officers and employees are given immunity from
legal process, investigation, restrictions and alien regis-
tration requirements. They are immune from all tax-
ation and customs' duties, including incomes, securities,
interest and qivi'dends. They are made immune from
judicial process, their property and assets are immune
from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation or
seizure by laws or executive process. Our moronic
Congress also voted to give these banker gods I 7 bil-
lions of taxpayers money as a free gift. The Inter-
national Bankers are now above the laws of every gov-
ernment of man and perh:ws think that they are even
above the laws of God.
June 25th, 1946 marks a date that mankind should
225
never forget. It was the date set for the opening of an
International Bank that will rule the world.
It would take a book far larger than the one you are
now reading to trace the growth and usurpation of
powers of the International Bankers. Little by little,
over a period of two hundred and fifty years, world
bankers have expanded the system of usury to enslave
mankind throughout the world. Now, with the estab-
lishment of the new world bank, their objective is
achieved. Every baby born in the United States comes
into existence with a national debt of Two Thousand
Dollars ($2,000.00) saddled upon it. Paul F. Doug-
las of the staff of the American University at Washing-
ton, D. C. estimated that the expenditures for war since
1934 amount to more than $50.00 for every man,
woman and child in the world, a total of over a trillion
dollars. Allied expenditures were estimated at $558
billion and Axis expenditures at $443 billion. Try to
imagine one million million of dollars. It can not be
done. There never was nor is there now that much
money in the world. It represents money created out
of nothing, figures on paper, figures of the imagination
upon which the people of the world think interest must
be paid to bankers. And interest will be paid upon this
enormous imaginary sum with poverty, blood, sweat,
enslavement and starvation until the people of the
world get wise to the usurious system and abolish it, take
over international banking and operate it for the benefit
of mankind and not for the further enrichment of a
small group of billionaire bankers.
We now have two sides of the triangle. The woman
arrayed in purple and scarlet represents one side. The
226
scarlet covered beast upon which she sits represents an-
other side. What is the third side of our triangle?
From the time of Constantine to the present, two
powers have worked hand in hand to control the gov-
ernments of the world. These two powers are ecclesi-
asticism and international banking. Each has several
sons and daughters. The daughters of the Church of
Rome are the various protestant sects that have come out
of her. The sons of the International banking system
are finance capitalists, banker controlled industrialists,
the cartel system controlling world prices and markets,
the economy of scarcity and many other offspring of the
usury system.
Every government in the European and American
hemispheres is more or less controlled by the Church
and International bankers with the exception of those
nations under the shadow of the U. S. S. R.
The final battle of the world will be to the death be-
tween these two alliances; an alliance of five nations
under the control of the Church and International bank-
ers fighting an alliance of five nations under the leader-
ship of the U. S. S. R. these ten nations are the ten toes
of iron and clay of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. Den.
2:31-35.
"3 1. Thou, 0 king; sawest, and beheld a great image. This
great image whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee ; and
the form thereof was terrible. '
32. The image's head was of fine gold, his breast and arms of
silver, .his belly and his thighs of brass.
33. His legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay.
34-. Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which
smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake
them to pieces.
227
35. Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, the gold,
broken to pieces together, and became like chaff of the summer
threshing floors; and the wind carried them away, that no place was
found for them: and the stone that smote the image became a great
mountain and filled the whole earth."
THE STONE THAT vVAs CuT WITHOUT HANDS
The year 1848 A.D. marked the beginning of the "last
days." Not the last days of the world, but the last days
of competition, strife and war. On March 31st, 1848,
the veil was drawn aside between the spirit and the
corporeal world at the Fox cottage when the first spir-
itual phenomena of a material nature occurred in the
knocks and raps produced through the mediumship of
the Fox sisters. The barriers withdrawn in 1848 be-
tween the spirit and material world· resulted in a ver-
itable deluge of books produced by _
citizens of the land
of spirit working through mediums living in the land of
corpor. The best of these spiritually inspired works in
the English language is OAHSPE, the New Bible, and
it is in this miraculous book that we find the explanation
of what is occurring throughout the world in the 132
year cycle from 1848 to 1980 when the institutions of
the old ~,000 year cycle, which ended in 1848, are de-
stroyed to make way for those of the Kosman or Aquar-
ian Age.
In the year 1848 the people of the world began to
awake from their coma of the dark ages. The era of
inventions began with the development of steam, elec-
tricity, transportation and communication taking the
world from an era of isolation into the world of today
with its radio, television, atomic power and removal of
every barrier to world unity.
228
From OAHSPE we learn that the God of our planet
began to prepare for the new age some three hundred
years ago by inspiring research in archaeology and reli-
gion with a questioning of divinity of the Bible. The
discovery of America had opened up the way for the
settlement of the Western Hemisphere and the inaugu-
ration of a new form of government-the republic. It
was on the North American Continent that the ground
work was laid for the later establishment of God's
Kingdom of Earth to follow shortly after the destruc-
tion of the competitive system with its church and mam-
mon controlled governments.-
In Europe the year 1848 marked the publication of
that great inspired prophetic document, the Communist
Manifesto, by Karl Marx and Frederick Engels m
which the demand was made for the following:
1. Abolition of property in land and application of all rents of
land for public purposes.
2. A heavy progressive or graduated income tax.
3. Abolition of all right of inheritance.
4. Confiscation of the property of all emigrants and rebels.
5. Centralization of credit in the hands of the state, by means of
the national bank with State capital and an exclusive monopoly.
6. Centralization of the means of communication and transport
in the hands of the State.
7. Extension of factories and instruments of production owned
by the State; the bringing into cultivation of waste lands, and the
improvement of the soil generally in accordance with a common plan.
8. Equal liability of all to labor. Establishment of industrial
armies; especially for agriculture.
9. Combination of agriculture and manufacturing industries;
gradual abolition of the distinction between town and country, by a
more equable distribution of population over the country.
10. Free education for all children in public schools. Abolition
of children's factory labor in its present form. Combination of edu-
cation with industrial production.
229
Since 1848, when the Communist Manifesto was
looked upon as one of the most radical documents ever
written, many of the demands made therein have been
accepted. We have a graduated income tax, the right
of inheritance is being curtailed by inheritance taxes, the
property of aliens has been confiscated during the war,
in England the banking system has been taken over by
the State and we will shortly follow England's lead in
this as we followed her system of privately owned bank-
ing. In England radio broadcasting and other means
of communication are state controlled and we may fol-
low England's lead in this also.
World War II has brought partial fulfillment of the
demand that factories be owned by the government for
the U. S. built hundreds of rubber, steel, oil, airplane
and munition plants with taxpayers funds.
The Tennessee Valley Authority and the soil con-
servation program of the Department of Agriculture
are fulfilling No. 7 of the demands made in the Mani-
festo and the C.C.C. of depression days was a step to-
wards industrial armies for agriculture.
Henry Ford has been experimenting for several years
with "combination of agriculture and manufacturing in-
dustries" while the demand made for free education for
all children in public schools was long ago complied
with.
In 1848 and 1849 saw revolution sweep Germany,
Austria and Italy which undoubtedly planted the seeds
for World War I sixty-six years later in 1914. World
War I gave birth to the people's government in Europe
and the formation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
230
publics. World War II was an outgrowth of the arm-
ing of Italy, Spain and Germany with the objective in
view of destroying the U. S. S. R. and the return of ·
autocracy to all of Europe.
Instead of destroying the U.S. S. R. World War II
taught the capitalist nations the power of a people's go"-
ernment. Does it not seem probable that there will be
a third and final effort on the part of capitalist nations,
dominated by the Church and Bankers, to destroy the
U. S. S. R. before Russia has recovered her strength
from the losses suffered by her people during World
War II and her industrial production comes into full
flower through the new Five Year plans set in motion?
Why this talk of World War III, why this effort by the
reactionary press to make the people of our nation think
Russia is our enemy? Russia has always been the friend
of the American people. That Russia is no friend of
the International Bankers or of the Roman Church, we
will readily admit.
Will the Church and International Bankers force
the capitalist nations of the world to a final attempt to
destroy the first socialist government of the new era?
Will the feet of iron and clay be broken in the attempt?
Prophecy says they will.
A new world is in the making. The institutions that
grew up in the three thousand year cycle that ended in
1848 have played their parts in the evolution of man-
kind. It is now time for their exit. Instead they stand
at the threshold of the new era saying to mankind,
"Thou shalt not pass!" The Kosmon Era is an age of
FREEDOM. Capitalism and reaction are given free-
231
dom to destroy themselves and this they will do in
World War III. Out of the Forty Years War of
1914-1 954 will come a new world-
THE wORLD OF THE FUTURE
A WORLD of united nations, united politically, culturally, and
religiously.
A WORLD with a union of states in which war is banished for-
ever and the energies of the people and their tools of production are
used for constructive purposes.
A WORLD wherein all men are united as brothers and differences
in race, color and nationality are no longer sources of prejudice.
A WORLD with an auxiliary common language such as basic
English.
A ·woRLD free from custom duties and immigration barriers,
with free exchange of products throughout the world.
A WORLD in which capital and labor are equal, working to-
gether for the good of all.
A WORLD functioning under a planned economy.
· A WORLD of plenty with poverty and fear abolished.
A WORLD in which science and religion are dedicated to human
progress and enlightenment.
A WORLD in which government administrators and officials are
selected for their character, experience, and efficiency.
A WORLD sans Saviors, dogma, creeds and sects; wherein all men
worship their Creator, knowing that He is Ever Present and doeth
by virtue of His Ever Presence.
A WORLD that is God's Kingdom on Earth.
FINIS
232
BIBLIOGRAPHY
PROPHECY
ANTON JoHANSON, The Christian Seer from the Finnmark (50¢) by
Nathaniel Carlson, 3517 Nicollet Ave., Minneapolis 8, Minn.
A TRUE CoPY OF MOTHER SHIPToN's PROPHECIES. London 1644.
Out of print.
A WAR PROPHECY or A Story of the White Horse and the Marvelous
Visions of George Washington and Others. C. C. Anderson, Salt
Lake City, 1890. Out of print.
CoNFLICT OF THE AGES by Arno C. Gaebelein. ( 193 3).
FoRTY WoNDERs OF SCRIPTURE PROPHECY by Rev. M. Baxter.
1880. Out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE FuTURE by David Goodman Croly, G. P. Put-
nam's Sons. 1888. Out of print.
I PREDICT by Herman Halpern, 1935. Buckingham Press, New-
ark, N. J.
JoANNA SouTHCOTT BooKs published at 8 St. Stephen's Square, Bays-
water, W 2, London, England.
OAHSPE, a New Bible by John Ballou Newbrough. (1882.) Pub-
lished by Kosman Press, Los Angeles 6, Calif.
OuR NEAR FUTURE by William Redding. 1896. Out of print.
PROPHECIES OF lRELEND: Culumbkille, Ultan, Malachy, Bearcan
and Others, by Nicholas O'Kearney. 1858. Out of print.
PROPHECIES in Wing Anderson Collection.
PROPHETIC V1sIONS and SPIRIT Co¥MUNICATONS by Lucy Lo'vina
Browne. Published by the author at Oakland, Calif. 1882. Out
of print.
SEVEN YEARS THAT CHANGE THE WoRLD by Wing Anderson
(1940). Kosmon Press, Los Angeles 6, Calif. ($2.50.)
THE NEXT NINE YEARS by Wing Anderson (1938). Kosmon Press,
Los Angeles 6, Calif. Out of print.
VISIONS OF JosEPH HoAG. Published by David Marshall at Carthage,
Indiana. 1889. Out of print.
WHAT Is CoMING by Lyman E. Stowe. 1896. Published by Mil-
dred K. Stowe, 1325 Madison Ave., Detroit 7, Mich. ($1.25.)
233
RELIGIOUS HISTORY
THE CoNVERTED CATHOLIC MAGAZINE edited by former Catholic
Priests. 229 West 48th Street, New York City.
THEOLOGY and MYTHOLOGY by A. H . O'Donoghue. New York
City, 1882. Out of print.
OAHSPE, the New Bible by John Ballou Newbrough. 1882. Kos-
mon Press, Los Angeles 6, Calif. ($5.00.)
ORIGINS OF CHRISTIANITY by M. Faraday. Springfield, Mass.
1883. Outofprint.
FAITHS, FACTS & FRAUDS of RELIGIOUSHISTORY by Emma H ardinge
Britten. Melbourne, Australia. 1879. Out of print.
CHRISTIAN MYTHOLOGY by Brigham Leatherbee. Truth Seeker
Company, New York City. Out of print.
ANTIQUITY UNVEILED by]. M. Roberts 1892. Oriental Publishing
Co. Philadelphia, Pa. Out of print.
SIXTEEN CRUCIFIED SAVIOURS by Kersey Graves. 1875. Banner
of Light, Boston, Mass. Out of print.
234
OAHSPE
A NEW BIBLE
is the
WONDER BOOK OF THE AGES
Given to the world in the year 1881 this wonder book is a miracle
of the Nineteenth Century. OAHSPE is a revelation of the new era.
It contains the answer to every eco-
nomic, social, spiritual and philo-
sophical question in the minds of
men. It is a history of our planet
since its nebulous days, a record of
the human race since its birth upon
earth, a history of every major re-
ligion; and a roadmap to health,
happiness and security for /he in-
dividual.
If you would know of the origin
and destiny of man, the cosmic
causes and purpose of this "Time
of Trouble" and of the "Heaven on
Earth" that will follow, you should
read OAHSPE for it is the key to the past, enlightenment for today
and a prophecy for tomorrow.
A new unabridged deluxe edition of OAHSPE, a volume contain-
ing thirty-six books and a thousand pages, printed from the original
Newbrough plates, is now available.
The first edition of OAHSPE sold for $7.50. Long out of print,
used copies have commanded from twenty to one hundred dollars.
You may have a copy of the New Deluxe large print OAHSPE for
$5.00 postpaid.
Order direct from
KOSMON INDUSTRIES
221 0 West Eleventh Street
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
Descriptive Literature on Request.
