{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__colquhoun___report_of_the_experiments_on_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Report Of The Experiments On Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
REPORT
OF THE EXPERIMENTS
ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
MADE BY
A COMMITTEE OF THE MEDICAL SECTION OF THE
FRENCH ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES:
READ AT THE MEETINGS OF THE 21st AND 28th OF JUNE, 1831,
TRANSLATED, AND NOW FOR THE FIRST TIME PUBLISHED;
WITH AN
HISTORICAL AND EXPLANATORY INTRODUCTION,
AND AN APPENDIX.
BY J. C. COLQUHOUN, EsQ.
Ingenii commenta delet dies; naturae judicia confirmat.-CICERO.
Non fingendum, non excogitandum, sed inveniendum et observandum quid
natura faciat aut ferat.-BAcoN.
EDINBURGH:
PRINTED FOR ROBERT CADELL, EDINBURGH;
AND WHITTAKER & CO. LONDON.
1833.
c }b / 33
Wi
Sape dolor tenuis morbos produxit acerbos,
Tollere quos nullis sit medicaminibus:
Supe diu savo jactatum corporis estu
Contactu sanum reddidit una manus.
GnoTIUs.
PRINTED BY JOHN STARK, EDINBURGH.
PREFACE.
IT is not without considerable hesitation and
great diffidence that I venture to submit the
following pages to public notice.
The subject is, in a great measure, foreign
to my usual avocations, and was originally
taken up merely as a matter of curiosity, al-
though it afterwards swelled, in my estima-
tion, into no smalls importance. Conscious,
-.however, as I necessarily must be, of my own
; great deficiency in the requisite knowledge of
those sciences which are most calculated to
Z elucidate the particular object of my present
o researches, I have long felt an anxious desire
that some individual, better qualified by his
t a
PREFACE.
professional pursuits, and in every other re-
spect more competent, had been induced to
undertake the task which has now devolved
on me. But seeing no immediate prospect of
the fulfilment of this hope, and having been
frequently applied to, both by professional
gentlemen and others, for information, I have,
at length, felt myself almost compelled to ex-
hibit a concise view of the progress which has
hitherto been made towards the elucidation
of this obscure but most interesting subject;
for the reader will soon perceive, that this
could not have been satisfactorily accomplished
in mere casual and interrupted conversation.
Indeed, it is almost impossible for any one to
comprehend a great many particulars, which
it is yet necessary not to overlook, without
having either himself carefully made experi-
ments, or witnessed,--atb least attentively stu-
died,-those made by others.
Fortunately,the kindnessof a most respected
friend, whose active and enlightened mind is
constantly alive to the interests of literatureand
science, has recently supplied me with an ad-
mirable opportunity of introducing the subject
1
vi
PREFACE.
to the notice of the British public, by commu-
nicating to me the late Report of the Mag-
netic Experiments made by a Committee of
the Medical Section of the Royal Academy of
France. I felt that I had now nothing more
to do, than to lay this important document
before my countrymen, accompanied by such
an historical and explanatory introduction, as
might enable those, who had not hitherto paid
any attention to the subject, to comprehend
its details.#
This subject ought to be peculiarly inte-
resting to the medical profession, as well as to
the philosopher in general. If the vast variety
of facts, which have been gradually accumulat-
ing during the last half century, can be con-
sidered as satisfactorily substantiated, the
force of the evidence in favour ofAnimal Mag-
netism,---or by whatever other name we may
choose to distinguish that peculiar species of
sympathetic influence which has long been so
* This Report, so far as I am aware, has not been published
in France. A determinate number of copies, however, were li-
thographed for the use of the members of te Academy; and from
one of these the translation has been made.
vii
PRIEFACE.
called,--becomes absolutely irresistible. And
if these facts be true, and not entirely suppositi-
tious and delusive, it cannot be' denied that
they are calculated to open up many new and
most important views in medical and physio-
logical science.-indeed, in the whole philo-
sophy of the human mind.
Ever since the time of that singular com-
pound of genius and folly, Paracelsus, physi-
cians in general, seem to have been in the
habit of relying too exclusively upon the effi-
cacy of the chemical remedies, to the almost
entire neglect of many simple, and natural,
though equally efficacious sanative processes,
especially those powerful psychical influ-
ences, which appear to have been known and
employed in ancient times, and which are de-
veloped, with such prodigious effect, in the
magnetic treatment. Thus, for example, in
cases of epilepsy and other spasmodic diseases,
the regular practitioner would perhaps pre-
scribe the internal administration of lunar
caustic, ammoniate of copper, or some other
dangerous drug; whereas, the magnetic doc-
viii
PREFACE,
tor would cure the patient as speedily, as
effectually, and probably more safely, by means
of a few simple, and apparently insignificant
manipulations. This is a circumstance which
surely deserves the serious attention of the
profession; the more especially, as, should it
still continue to be neglected by the regular
physician, the treatment runs the risk of being
unskilfully practised, and probably abused, by
the empiric. *
This country has produced many eminent
physicians, distinguished for their learning,
their talents, and their liberality. Of late,
however, our medical men seem liable to
the reproach of having almost entirely ne-
glected the most important labours of their
professional brethren upon the continent. The
interesting and instructive works of Sprengel,
Reil, Treviranus, Gmelin, Wienholt, Auten-
rieth, and many others, are known only to a
* This truth was fully exemplified during the earlier practice
of animal magnetism in France.
" Eadem namque subjecti subtilitas et varietas, que magnam
medendi facultatem prebet, sic etiam magnam aberrandi facilita
tem."-BACON.
ix
few; and when any mention happens to be
made of the subject of animal magnetism, it is
at best received with an ignorant ridicule, or
with a supercilious reference to the super-
seded report of the French commissioners
in 1784; as if nothing had been done, since
that period, towards a more profound experi-
mental investigation and improvement of the
magnetic treatment.
But it is evident that our physicians cannot
long remain ignorant of these matters, without
falling greatly behind the age in respect to
professional acquirements. To them, there-
fore, I would respectfully, but earnestly recom-
mend a scientific and impartial inquiry into
this important subject. They are unquestion-
ably the most competent to the investigation,
the most interested in its result, and the best
qualified to render the discovery-provided
they shall be ultimately satisfied that it really
is a discovery--most conducive to the inte-
rests of science, and to the public welfare. At
all events, they ought no longer to betray utter
ignorance upon a subject which has long been
PREFACE.
X
PREFACE.
handled in almost every physiological text-
book upon the continent. *
Within the limits which I had prescribed to
myself in this publication, it was found quite
impossible fully to elucidate all the details of
* The great imperfection of our physiological systems has been
adverted to, and loudly complained of, by every sensible and can-
did writer on the subject. A great proportion of the excellent
work on Life and Organization, by that very eminent anatomist
and physiologist, the late Dr John Barclay of Edinburgh, is oc-
cupied with an exposition and refutation of the fallacious theories
of his predecessors. Mr How, the author of a translation of
Rudolphi's Elements of Physiology, very justly observes in his
preface, that " the almost insuperable difficulties, which have
ever attended the compilation of an elementary work on phy-
siology, are increasing almost daily. There are few authors
who are not engaged in some favourite hypothesis, and thus the
facts which come under their observation are seen through a false
and deceitful medium." The testimony of Mr Lawrence, in his
Lectures on Physiology, (Lect. III.) is to the same effect. " In
this," says he, " as in most other subjects, the quantity of solid
instruction is an inconsiderable fraction of the accumulated mass;
a few grains of wheat are buried amid heaps of chaff. For a few
well-observed facts, rational deductions, and cautious generaliza-
tions, we have whole clouds of systems and doctrines, specula-
tions, and fancies, built merely upon the workings of imagination,
and the labours of the closet."
A great part of the evil probably arises from that which Bacon
so decidedly reprobates--the premature formation of theories and
systems, which are found inadequate to explain all the pheno-
mena that occur; so that when new facts are observed, they are
immediately rejected without due inquiry, not because they can
be demonstrated to be false, but because they are inconsistent
with our preconceived notions.
xi
this interesting subject. This would have re-
quired, at the least, a large volume. All that
I proposed to myself, therefore, at this time,
was merely to give such an introductory no-
tice of this discovery, as might prepare the
reader, in some degree, for a more serious
study of its nature and principles, and of the
evidence by which its reality is supported.
Should the present trivial publication attract
any remarkable share of attention, additional
information can easily be communicated here-
after.
EDINBURGH,
15th April, 1833.
xii PREFACE.
REPORT
OF
MAGNETIC EXPERIMENTS, &c.
INTRODUCTION.
Nihil compositum miraculi causa, verum audita scriptaque seniori-
bus tradam.-TAITUS, An. xi. 27.
WVHEN a series of experiments has been instituted
and successfully conducted, with the view of investi-
gating facts which are of rare occurrence, and not
obvious to common observation, it is often exceed-
ingly difficult to impress ordinary minds with a
suitable conviction of the truth of the result, how-
ever accurately it may have been deduced. This dif-
ficulty, too, is greatly increased, when the phenomena
evolved are of a nature to excite our wonder, rather
than to satisfy our reason, and seem to baffle every
effort to bring them under any ascertained general
laws, or to subject them to the rules of any previous
INTRODUCTION.
philosophical theory. There is always, indeed, a
sufficient fund of credulity in the world, accompanied
with a disposition to believe every thing that is new,
and marvellous, and incomprehensible. But it is not
among the ignorant and the credulous that the true
philosopher looks for the rational approbation of his
labours, or the accurate appreciation of the truth and
value of his discoveries. Even men of scientific and
otherwise unprejudiced minds,-whose opinions alone
can confer credit upon the efforts of the philosopher,
-are naturally slow in yielding their assent to the
truth of any series of singular phenomena, which do
not fall within the sphere of their own investigations,
and of the conditions of which they are yet necessarily
ignorant. Nor is this caution prejudicial in the end
to the interests of science, unless when it is allowed
to degenerate into downright obstinacy, or becomes
contaminated by the sectarian spirit of party.
In all cases where a class of extraordinary facts
is presented to us upon the evidence of others, which
we ourselves have hitherto had no opportunity of
examining, the rational means of arriving at a just
conclusion respecting them appear to be,
1. To consider the nature of the subject, the num-
ber of the observations and experiments which have
been made, and the analogy of the phenomena which
have been observed in similar circumstances;
2. To satisfy ourselves with respect to the general
character, intellectual fitness, and consequent credi-
bility of the observers;
3. To scrutinize the circumstances under which
2
INTRODUCTION.
the various experiments were made, with a view to
detect any possible sources of error ;
4. To be assured of the precision and unambiguity
of the facts themselves, and of the rational impossi-
bility of referring them to more than a single cause;
and,
5. If possible, to repeat, for our own satisfaction,
or cause to be repeated in our presence by others,
the experiments by which the phenomena have been
elicited, and that in the same circumstances, and un-
der the same conditions.
By judiciously following these rules, every intelligent
inquirer may succeed in obtaining complete conviction.
In proceeding to execute the task I have under-
taken in the present publication, I am quite aware
that I may expose myself to the charge of drawing
largely upon the credulity of my countrymen. In
my own defence and justification, however, I may be
permitted to declare, that I shall bring forward no
facts, as such, unless they be sufficiently attested by
men of unimpeachable veracity; men abundantly
qualified by their scientific attainments, perspicacity,
and cautious spirit of research, for investigating the
reality of the facts which they profess to have wit-
nessed, and who, besides, could have no conceivable
interest in the propagation of falsehood. I may add,
that I have myself produced, and consequently wit-
nessed, several of the phenomena described in the
following pages, and that under circumstances in
which no deception was possible. My object, how-
ever, is not so much to force conviction upon the
INTRODUCTION.
minds of the careless or the blindly incredulous, as
to solicit the attention of the inquisitive to a subject
of rational and most interesting inquiry; and, if pos-
sible, to excite a corresponding spirit of investigation
among the friends of truth and science.
The reader is requested to observe, that no subject
of questionable theory is now to be propounded to
him. Our business, at present, is with mere mat-
ters of fact; and these matters of fact he will ad-
mit or reject either on the incontrovertible evidence
of other observers here to be adduced, or on the tes-
timony of his own experience. All that is required
of him is, that he shall bring to the investigation of
the subjects brought under his notice, that candour
of mind, and that perfect freedom from prejudice,
which we ought to preserve in all our researches
after truth. Indeed, I would strongly recommend
to all who approach the consideration of this sub-
ject, to abstain from any attempt to explain the facts
presented to their notice upon the principles of any
preconceived theory, or of any theory whatever.
It is the facts, and the facts alone, which ought
to engage our attention in the first instance; and
these, as has been already observed, we are bound to
admit or reject, upon such evidence as we conceive to
be satisfactory in the circumstances of the case.
Moreover, it may be proper to warn the reader
against the absolute and hasty rejection of any fact,
without due investigation, merely because it may ap-
pear to him to be extraordinary, unaccountable, or
improbable; or because the means employed seem in-
3
INTRODUCTION.
adequate to produce the alleged effects. There are
many facts in science which we are compelled by evi-
dence to admit, although we are incapable of discover-
ing the principle which is active in their production.
What do we know, for example, of the real cause of
the phenomena of mineral magnetism, of electricity
and galvanism ; of the susceptibility of disease in the
animal organization; of infection; of the salutary
operation of many medicinal drugs, &c.? If no facts,
indeed, were to be admitted in science, but such as
could be immediately traced to a certain and satisfac-
tory principle, our knowledge would be confined with-
in exceedingly narrow bounds.
. The following remarks of the most illustrious dis-
ciple of Newton, are peculiarly applicable upon the
present occasion. The celebrated M. De la Place,
in his Essai sur les Probabilites,observes, that " of
all the instruments which we can employ, in or-
der to enable us to discover the imperceptible agents
of nature, the nerves are the most sensible, especially
when their sensibility is exalted by particular causes.
It is by means of them that we have discovered the
slight electricity, which is developed by the contact
of two heterogeneous metals. The singular pheno-
mena which result from the extreme sensibility of the
nerves in some individuals, have given birth to vari-
ous opinions relative to the existence of a new agent,
which has been denominated Animal Magnetism, to
the action of the common magnetism, to the influence
of the sun and moon in some nervous affections, and,
lastly, to the impressions which may be experienced
INTRODUCTION.
from the proximity of the metals, or of a running wa-
ter. It is natural to suppose that the action of these
causes is very feeble, and that it may be easily dis-
turbed by accidental circumstances; but because, in
some cases, it has not been manifested ,at all, we are
not entitled to conclude that it has no existence. We
are so far from being acquainted with all the agents
of nature, and their different modes of action, that it
would be quite unphilosophical to deny the existence
of the phenomena, merely because they are inexpli-
cable in the present state of our knowledge, It be-
comes us, however, to examine them with an attention
the more scrupulous, in proportion as we find it more
difficult to admit them ; and it is here that the calcu-
lation of probabilities becomes indispensable, in order
to determine to what degree we ought to multiply our
observations and experiments, with a view to obtain,
in favour of the agents which they seem to indicate,
a probability superior to the reasons we may have for
rejecting their existence."
"The essential point," says Nicole,* after Aristotle,
"when any question arises respecting facts that are ex-
traordinary and difficult to conceive, is not to demon-
strate how they exist, but to prove that they do ex-
ist."--" We must not decide," says Father Lebrun,
"that a thing is impossible, because of the common
belief that it cannot exist; for the opinion of man
cannot set limits to the operations of nature, or to
the power of the Almighty."t
* Nicole, Oeuvres, Vol. vii. let. 45, p. 238.
t Hist. Critiq. des Superst. B. i. ch. 7.
INTRODUCTION.
There is no doubt that, when phenomena of an
extraordinary character are presented to us, to which
we can perceive nothing analogous in our previous
knowledge, and which we cannot explain upon any
known principle, it is natural that we should require
much stronger evidence to convince us of their reality,
than in the case of facts of more ordinary occurrence
and of easier explanation. Here, indeed, it is the duty
of the philosopher to act with great caution, and to
suspend his belief, until he has obtained evidence of a
character and weight sufficient to satisfy his judg-
ment, and to remove every reasonable doubt. But
when such evidence has once been obtained, we can
no longer withhold our assent, without totally aban.
doning the use of our reason, and surrendering our-
selves to an irrational scepticism.
The effects which are alleged to have been pro-
duced by the influence of what is called ANIMAL
MAGNETISM, appear to have excited little sensation
in this country, excepting as an occasional subject of
ridicule. In persons who have made no serious in-
quiry into the subject, the very extraordinary, and
apparently mysterious and unaccountable character
of the facts, might almost justify the derision with
which they appear disposed to treat them. But he
who enters into an investigation of these facts will
soon perceive that they merit more serious attention.
During the last half century, numberless experiments
have been made upon the continent, especially in
INTRODUCTION.
France and Germany, and a vast variety of cases of
the most singular character witnessed and recorded,
which, if we consider them, as they seem entitled to
be considered, as well authenticated, will be at once
admitted to be of an highly important nature, whether
we regard them merely in a medical point of view,
or look upon them as a most interesting and valu-
able accession to our physiological and psycholo-
gical knowledge. These experiments, too, were con-
ducted, not by ignorant empirics, but chiefly, as
will be seen in the sequel, although not limited to
them, by professional gentlemen of learning, talents,
and eminence, whose character holds out sufficient
security against deception, even supposing that, in the
particular circumstances, deception had been practi-
cable, or had been attempted.
For the benefit of those who are either entirely ig-
norant of the subject, or have not hitherto bestowed
sufficient attention upon it, it may be proper to pre-
mise a few historical details, in order to enable them
to follow the experiments and comprehend the obser-
vations contained in the Report of the Committee of
the Medical Section of the French Academy, which is
to be submitted to them in the sequel.
There are various simple operations in almost con-
stant practice among mankind, and performed, as it
were, instinctively, which, from their very frequency,
and apparent insignificance, engage scarcely any part
of our attention, and, consequently give rise to no re-,
flection. We find, indeed, a number of floating opi-
nions relative to the nature and the efficacy of some
8
INTRODUCTION;
of these seemingly trifling operations, which have
been transmitted from age to age, until they have
been permitted to settle down and mingle with the
elements of popular belief ; but men of education and
science have generally agreed to regard all such prac-
tices with indifference, and to reject all such opinions
with contempt, as the offspring of mere ignorance and
prejudice. It is quite possible, howevei, that these
opinions and practices may be the rude reliques of
some branches of knowledge, cultivated in remote pe-
riods, which have been almost entirelyswept away and
tearly obliterated from the records of human acquire-
ment, leaving but a few faint traces of their previous
existence behind, in popular superstition and the deep-
ly-rooted prejudices of the vulgar.
In all ages, a certain medicinal virtue has been as-
cribed to the touch of the human hand, to the placing
of it upon a sick person, or using it as a topical reme-
dy, by rubbing with it any part of the body which
may happen to have been injured. This fact is fa-
miliar to all of us from our infancy, although little
attention appears to have been hitherto paid to the
operation, and scarcely any attempt made to assign a
cause for the soothing influence.
Natural instinct prompts a patient to apply his
hand to any part of his body in which he feels pain.
If he should happen to have received a blow, or any
local bodily injury, the hand instinctively moves to-
wards the suffering part, and probably rubs it gently.
In the same manner, in the case of a headach, a
cholic, &c. we naturally seek relief from the applica-
9
INTRODUCTION.
tion of the hand to the region where the pain is felt.
In similar complaints, too, we frequently experience
relief from the same operation performed by another
with the view of alleviating the painful sensation.
This process is well known and appreciated in the
nursery, where it is often resorted to by attendants
upon children. When a child has been injured, or is
otherwise suffering bodily pain, it usually runs to its
mother or its nurse, who places it on her knee, presses
it to her breast, applies her hand to the part affected,
rubs it gently, and, in many cases, soothes the painful
symptoms, and sets the child asleep.
This process, indeed, appears to be sometimes adopt-
ed, not merely with the view ofalleviating any particu-
lar painful sensation, but as a general corroborant
and preservative of the health. In some parts of
Bavaria, we are informed that the peasants regularly
rub their children from head to foot, before putting
them to bed; and they are of opinion that this prac-
tice is attended with salutary consequences. The
mode of taking the bath among the oriental nations,
accompanied with friction, and pressing the different
parts of the body, produces a refreshing, invigorating,
and highly agreeable feeling, occasions a slight per-
spiration and gentle slumber, and cures, or at least
alleviates, many diseases. In investigating the cus-
toms of different countries, we sometimes stumble upon
practices still more analogous to the magnetic proces-
ses. The author of the Philosophie Corpusculaire
informs us, that a family exists in the mountains of
Dauphin6, who have been in the habit of magnetizing,
4
10
INTRODUCTION.
from father to son, for centuries. Their treatment,
he adds, consists in conducting the great toe along the
principal ramifications of the nerves. Kieser * men-
tions that a similar mode of treatment (called Treten)
has long prevailed in many parts of Germany, for the
cure of rheumatic and other complaints. We have
probably all heard of the virtue ascribed to the great
toe of King Pyrrhus.
Long before the discovery of what is now called
Animal Magnetism, indeed, many eminent physicians
appear to have been perfectly well acquainted with
the efficacy of touching and rubbing, as a means of
curing diseases. Nay, if we may credit the authority
of the anonymous author of the DenariumMedicum,
there were many ancient physicians who cured dis-
eases without making use of any material remedies,
and, as it would appear, in a manner purely magnetic.
" Fuerunt," says he, " ante Hippocratem multi viri
docti, qui nulla prorsus medicina corporea usi sunt,
sed sola spiritus et animae facultate."
Michael Medina, in his treatise De recta in Deum
fide, cap. 7. (Venice, 1564,) tells us that he knew a
boy at Salamanca who was believed to possess the
gift of communicating health, and who cured many
persons of the most serious diseases merely by touch-
ing them with his hand. Thiers, in his Traitd des
Superstitions, (B. vi. ch. 4,) mentions several monks
who were in the practice of curing diseases by the
touch. Pujol, in his work on Trismus, relates a cu.
rious circumstance which occurred during the treat-
* System des Tellurismus, &c. Vol. i. p. 381. § 127.
11
INTRODUCTION.
inent of a patient who was afflicted with the disease
called Tic douloureux. " Every paroxysm," says he,
" terminated by the flowing of some tears from theeyes,
and of some saliva from the mouth; but the patient
was obliged to beware of drying her eyes and chin,
because the slightest touch increased the acuteness and
duration of the pain. In one of these attempts, she
made the discovery, that when she slowly and cau-
tiously approached the points of her fingers to the
suffering part, the fit was much shortened. She was
obliged, however, merely to reach the skin with the
edge of her nails, to touch it as lightly and as rapidly
as possible, and then to withdraw them as fast as she
could." In consequence of this superficial contact, she
experienced a painful but merely momentary itching;
upon which there immediately followed a sensation
which she compared to the noise made by the wheels
of a clock in striking the hour, and then the fit termi-
nated. *
Individuals have at various times appeared in this
country, who have acquired considerable reputation
for their skill in reducing obstinate swellings, and
curing other diseases, principally of the joints, by
means of friction and pressure; and these methods
have also been frequently adopted in the cure of rheu-
matic complaints. But in such cases, the beneficial
* Pujol regarded Animal Magnetism as a chimera, and considered
the effects of this manipulation as merely electrical. Wienholt how-
ever, himself a physician, and one of the most sensible writers upon
this subject, is disposed to look upon the matter in a different light, and
recommends that themagnetictreatment shouldbe triedin similarcases.
12
INTRODUCTIOl.
effects, it is believed, have generally been ascribed to
the mere friction, and to the increased local excite-
ment and activity thereby produced in the affected
parts.
A peculiar and supernatural efficacy has been some-
times ascribed to the touch of particular individuals.
Thus in England and France, it was an old belief,
that the monarchs of these kingdoms possessed the
power of curing the scrofula by means of the touch.
This power is said to have been first ascribed to Ed-
ward the Confessor, in England, and to Philip I. in
France. The following was the formula adopted by
the Kings of France, in manipulating upon such occa-
sions: Le Roi te touche, Dieu teguerisse. The same
power is said to have been previously exercised by the
Scandinavian Princes, and particularly by St Olaf,
who is supposed to have reigned from 1020 to 1035;
so that this traditional efficacy of the royal touch ap-
pears to have originated in the north of Europe.*
These circumstances, relative to the popular belief
of the sanative efficacy of the human touch, are cer-
tainly curious. Some of the writers upon animal
magnetism, indeed, do not admit that there is much,
if any analogy between this mode of cure and the mag-
netic processes, It would not be proper, however, to
have omitted all notice of the practices and the belief
alluded to, the more especially as, notwithstanding all
the facts which have been brought forward, and the
theories which have been propounded upon the sub.
ject, we are still, confessedly, very ignorant of the true
* See Snorro Sturluson's History of the Scandinavian Kings.
13
INTRODUCTION.
causes which operate in producing the phenomena of
animalmagnetism ; and it has never yet been ascer-
tained in how far these phenomena may depend upon
the physical means employed, or upon the psychical
influences which are exerted or developed in the mag-
netic treatment. The general prevalence of the po-
pular belief respecting the existence of the influence
in question, appeared to be a matter of too much con-
sequence to be passed over entirely without notice.
The writers upon the subject of animalmagnetism
have been induced to ascribe a great deal of influence
to the human eye; and in this opinion they appear
to be supported by a very ancient and generally pre-
valent popular belief, which, in many instances, no
doubt, may have degenerated into superstition. This
belief, however, appears to have existed from the ear-
liest times. Pliny informs us, in his Natural His-
tory, that a particular colour of the eye, and a double
pupil (probably meaning a variously coloured or spot-
ted iris,) were believed to indicate that the persons
having this colour or conformation of the eye were
peculiarly endowed with this species of the magnetic
virtue. *
Of all the corporeal organs, indeed, there is none
* "Esse, adjicit Isigonus, in Triballis et llyriis, qui visu quoque ef-
fascinent, interimantque quos diutius intueantur, iratis praecipue oculis :
quod eorum malum praecipue sentire puberes. Notabilius esse, quod
pupillas binas in singulis oculis habeant. Hujus generis et feminas in
Scythia, qums vocantur Bithye, prodit Appollonides: Philarchus, et
in Ponto Thibiorum genus, multosque alios ejusdem nature; quorum
notas tradit in altero oculo geminam pupillam, in altero equi effigiem."
And more to the same purport.--Plinii, Nat. Hist. 1.vii. c. 2.
14
INTRODUCTION.
which can be considered so much in the light of an
immediate and faithful interpreter of the internal
thoughts, feelings, and emotions, as the eye. It is, as
it were, at once the telescope and the mirror of the
soul. Love, hate, fear, jealousy, courage, innocence,
and guilt, are revealed by that powerful and delicate
organ; every species of passion, in short, is imme-
diately pourtrayed in it; and there is probably no
feature in the human countenance from which we are
so much disposed to draw our inferences, and to form
our opinions, respecting individual characters. " Nec
enim," says Wierius, "ullum reperias in humani cor-
poris fabrica organum, quod tanta spirituum copia
scateat, et ex quo eorum fulgor usque adeo emicet, ut
de oculi pupilla certum est." *
The force and fascination of the eye, indeed, have
long been proverbial, and the common belief of the
people has ascribed to them many of those pheno-
mena which are included under the description of
magic and witchcraft.. The baneful effects of the
evil eye are recorded in the vulgar traditions of all
ages and nations. Hence, probably, the derivation
of the Latin word invidia; and Virgil clearly alludes
to the common superstition in his 30th Eclogue, v. 118:
Nescio quis teneros oculus mihi fascinat agnos.
According to the accounts of recent travellers, the
Indians are to this day convinced, that many diseases
are generated merely by an evil look. In Captain
Lyon's Travels in Northern Africa, it is observed,
* De pnestigiis dtemonum, lib. ii. c. 49.
15
INTRODUCTION.
that among the Arabs, the evil eye is, of all mischiefs,
the most dreaded; and for a stranger to express par-
ticular admiration of a child, a horse, or any other
valuable, is to bring an it, or its possessor, misfortune,
unless averted by passing over the object a finger
wetted with saliva.
It has been asserted that the human eye has a
powerful influence in subduing the natural courage
and ferocity of wild animals, in so much that bulls,
tigers, &c. it is said, have been known to retire in
dismay before the firm and fixed look of man. Some
singular and almost incredible instances of this in-
fluence will be found in Van Helmont's Treatise on
the Plague, and in other works. *
* See, in particular,
"
Secrets et Remedes eprouvs, dont les prepa-
rations ont etd faites au Louvre, de r'ordre du Roi, par M. L'Abb
Rousseau," &c. 2d edit. Paris, 1708.
I remember having read in a newspaper, some years ago, an account
of the escape of a tiger from confinement, which caused great terror
and confusion in the streets of London. A gentleman happening to
come suddenly out of a house, without any knowledge or suspicion of
his danger, found the animal couched within a few yards of him. For-
tunately, this gentleman had spent some part of his life in the East In-
dies, and was acquainted with the nature of these ferocious animals.
Instead of attempting to make his escape, he stood perfectly still, and
fixed his eyes steadily upon the tiger, who, in the course of a few se-
conds, made a bound to the opposite side of the street, and soon left
the gentleman in perfect security.
I need make no apology for extracting the following very curious
observations from a popular publication entitled Time's Telescope,
for 1832.
RECIPROCAL EFFECTS OF BETRAYING FEAR.
" It is well known that with regard to most animals, the betrayal of
fear in one often excites another to mischievous attacks, or, if these
have been commenced, to increased boldness. That this does not
hold, as is usually supposed, in the case of bees, appears from a cir-
16
INTRODUCTION.
The breath and the saliva are both alleged to pos-
sess considerable efficacy in the cure or alleviation of
diseases. The remedial efficacy of the breath, indeed,
appears to have been maintained in ancient times;
for we find that Pliny recommends breathing upon
the forehead as a means of cure.* Peculiar virtue
has, in all times, been ascribed to the breath of young
and healthy persons. On the other hand, the breath
ofsome serpents issaid to communicate a deadly poison.
When achild complains, the mother or thenurse fre-
quently says that she will blow away the pain; and
cumstance which occurred to M. De Hofer of Baden. Being a great
admirer of bees, they appeared to have acquired a sense of friendship
for him, by virtue of which he could at any time approach them with
impunity, and even search for a queen, and taking hold of her gently,
place her upon his hand. This was, as usual, ascribed to his want of
fear; but having had the misfortune to be attacked by a violent fever,
he soon found, after his recovery, that the bees considered him as a
different person, and instead of being received by them as an old
friend, he was treated as a trespasser; nor was he ever able, after this
period, to perform any operation upon them, or approach within their
precincts, without exciting their anger. It would thence appear that
it was not so much his want of fear and confidence in their want of
enmity, as some peculiar effluvia of his body (changed by the fever)
which gave rise to the circumstance.
" That the non-betrayal of fear, however, has a powerful influence
upon quadrupeds, as well as upon man himself, there can be no doubt.
We are acquainted with a gentleman, who affirms, that he is not afraid
to face any animal, not excepting a lion, a tiger, or even a mad dog,
and when in India, he gave actual proof of his courage, by killing,
with his own hand, more tigers than one. His secret is to fix his eye
firmly and undauntedly on the animal, a method which he maintains
will cause the fiercest to quail. By the same means he succeeded in
subduing, without other assistance, a furious maniac, who had broke
loose from confinement in a mad-house.
* Hist. Nat. 1.xxviii. c. 6.
B
17
INTRODUCTION.
it is quite usual among the common people, in some
countries, to treat the disease called St Anthony's fire
magnetically, by breathing upon the body. Borelli
mentions that there exists a sect of physicians in In-
dia, who cure all sorts of diseases merely by the breath.
The quality of the saliva, in men and other animals,
appears to depend much, not only upon the bodily
health, but also upon the state and disposition of the
mind. The natural office of this secretion is to pre-
pare the food for digestion. Most of us have expe-
rienced the alteration produced upon this secreted
fluid by corporeal disease; the passions seem to exer-
cise a strong influence over it ; and it is sufficiently
well known that madness, in men and other animals,
instantly converts it into poison.
The saliva is said to have a peculiar efficacy in the
case of swellings. It was employed as a remedy by
the Ensalmadoresin Spain; who, according to Del-
rio, cured diseases by means of the saliva and the
breath.*
It is scarcely necessary to repeat, that the alleged
efficacy of these simple natural remedies, has been
brought under notice, merely in deference to the very
general popular belief. Some of the professors of
animal magnetism seem inclined to admit this efficacy,
in certain cases, and in a certain degree: others deny
it altogether, and ascribe the phenomena produced
solely to those psychical influences, which are now to
be considered.
Cures are said to have been sometimes effectuated
* Delrio, Disquisit. Magic. Mogunt, 1606. Tom. i. p. 66.
6
18
INTRODUCTION.
psychically, and, as it were, magically, without em-
ploying any visible medium, or tangible remedy, by
the mere influence of the will and determination of
the individual over the corporeal organs. The cele-
brated German metaphysician, Kant, wrote a treatise,
addressed to Dr Hufeland, upon the power of mental
resolution in overcoming pain arising from some de-
rangement of the animal economy; and he observed
that this power was most efficaciously exerted in the
case of cramps and spasmodic affe&tions. This obser-
vation has been confirmed by the experience of the
animal magnetisers, who have occasionally witnessed
cases of a similar description, and have themselves
performed cures by a strong effort of the will and re-
solution, without the employment of any manipula-
tions, or, indeed, of any physical media whatever.
Passavant mentions that he knew a lady who cured
herselfofspasms inthis manner. Herhusband, to whom
she was tenderly attached, always treated her with cold-
ness and indifference whenever she was seized with
any affection of this kind; and this circumstance in-
duced her to exert a powerful effort of resolution, of
which she was otherwise incapable, and in consequence
of which she succeeded in effecting a complete cure.*
Brandis, Principal Physician to the King of Den-
mark, relates several cases of a similar nature; in
particular, one of a lady whom he cured of violent
spasms, and another of a young man whom he cured
of St Vitus's dance, by resolutely forbidding him to
* Untersuchungen iiber den Lebensmagnetismus und das Hellsehen,
von Dr J. C. Passavant. Frankf. a M. 1821.
19
INTRODUCTION.
yield to the attacks.* The treatment resorted to by
Boerhaave, in the case of the convulsive children in
the Orphan-House at Haarlem, appears to have been
of the same kind.
Indeed, there is a variety of instances upon record
of the most marvellous and incredible influence of vo-
lition over the bodily organization, even in the case
of such operations as cannot be conceived to depend,
in any degree, upon the will of the individual. Thus,
in Franklin's Journey to the PolarSea, (p. 157), a
strange story is told of a man, who, after earnest
prayer, became provided with milk, and actually
suckled a child.
Bernier, in his Ceremonieset coutumes Religieuses,
(Tom. vi. p. 188), mentions that voluntary somnam-
bulism is frequent among the Indian Bramins and
Fakirs, and that even the means of producing it are
taught. In Avicenna's treatise De Animalibus, a case
is reported of a man who possessed the power of pa-
ralysing his limbs at pleasure, by an effort of volition.
Cardanus relates of himself, that he could voluntarily
place himself in a state of insensibility.t St Austin,
in his work De CivitateDei,has recorded two cases of
a similar description; the one of a man who could
* Brandis, Ueber psychische Heilmittel und Magnetismus. Co-
penhagen, 1818.
t "Quatuor mihi indita sunt a natura, que nunquam aperire volui,
et omnia (meo judicio) admiratione digna. Quorum primum hoc est,
quod quoties volo, extra sensum quasi in ectasim transeo," &c.-Dere-
rum varietate, lib. viii. c. 43.--Something similar is related of that
singular character Emanuel Swedenborg; and also, it is believed, of
Jacob Behmen.
20
INTRODUCTION.
perspire when he wished it; and the other of a
priest, Restitutus by name, who, whenever he pleased,
could throw himself into a state of complete insen-
sibility, and lie like a dead man.*
One of the most extraordinary, the most circum-
stantial, and the most authentic instances which has
been recorded of the astonishing power of volition
over the bodily organization, is that related by the
celebrated Dr Cheyne, in one of his medical treatises,t
and which appears to be established by the most irre-
fragable evidence. Itis the case of aColonel Townsend,
who, as in the instance mentioned by St Austin, could
die, to all appearance, at any time that he chose, and
having lain for a considerable period in that state,
could resuscitate himself by a voluntary struggle.
" He could die," says Dr Cheyne, "or expire when
he pleased, and yet by an effort, or somehow, he
could come to life again. He insisted so much upon
our seeing the trial made, that we were at last forced
to comply. We all three felt his pulse first; it was
distinct, though small and thready, and his heart had
* " mud multo est incredibilius, quod plerique fratres memoria recen-
tissima experti sunt. Presbyter fuit quidam, nomine Restitutus, in pa-
rcecia Calamensis ecclesime, quando ei placebat, rogabatus aut ut hoc fa-
ceret ab eis qui rem mirabilem coram scire cupiebant, ad imitatas quasi
lamentantis cujuslibet voces, ita se auferebat a sensibus, et jacebat si-
milimus mortuo; ut non solum vellicantes atque pungentes minime
sentiret, sed aliquando etiam igne urereter admoto, sine ullo doloris
sensu, nisi post modum a vulnere; non autem obnitendo, sed non sen-
tiendo non movere corpus, eo probatur, quod tanquam in defuncto
nullus inveniebatur anhelitus; hominum tamen voces, si clarius loque-
rentur, tanquam de longinquo se audisse postea referebat."
t Cheyne, English Malady, &c.
21
INTRODUCTION.
its usual beating. He composed himself on his back,
and lay in a still posture for sometime; while I held
his right hand, Dr Baynard laid his hand on his
heart, and Mr Skrine held a clean looking-glass to
his mouth. I found his pulse sink gradually, till at
last I could not feel any by the most exact and nice
touch. Dr Baynard could not feel the least motion
in his heart, nor Mr Skrine perceive the least soil of
breath on the bright mirror he held to his mouth.
Then each of us, by turns, examined his arm, heart
and breath; but could not by the nicest scrutiny
discover the least symptom of life in him. We rea-
soned a long time about this odd appearance as well
as we could, and finding he still continued in that
condition, we began to conclude that he had indeed
carried the experiment too far; and at last we were
satisfied that he was actually dead, and were just
ready to leave him. This continued about half an
hour. By nine o'clock in the morning, in autumn, as
we were going away, we observed some motion about
the bodf, and upon examination found his pulse and
the motion of his heart gradually returning; he be-
gan to breathe gently, and speak softly. We were
all astonished to the last degree at this unexpected
change, and after some further conversation with
him, and among ourselves, went away fully satisfied
as to all the particulars of this fact, but confounded
and puzzled, and not able to form any rational scheme
that might account for it."
In the preceding instances, we see the astonishing
power which some individuals appear to possess over
their own bodily organization. But there is a still
22
INTRODUCTION.
more incredible power noticed by many authors,
which enables an individual, by an energetic effort
of volition, to produce very extraordinary effects upon
the corporeal organism of others. The existence
of such a power was maintained by a pretty nume-
rous sect of physicians and philosophers, during the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Of these, I may
mention as the most eminent, Pomponatius,* Rodol-
phus Goclenius,t Athanasius Kircher,f Van Hel-
mont,§ Sir Kenelm Digby,jj William Maxwell, J. G.
Burgraave,** Sebastian Wirdig,tf- Joannes Bohnius,j4
&c. All of these writers, and many others, assumed
* Petrus Pomponatius, De Incantationibus. Basil, 1567.
t Rod. Goclenii, Tract. de Magnet. vuln. curat. Marburgi, 1608, et
Francof. 1613.
T Athan. Kircher, Magnes, sive de Arte Magnetica. Colonia, 1643,
et Rom1,
1654. Magneticum Naturm Regnum, &c. Amst. 1667.
§ Van Helmont, De Magnet. Vuln. -- curatione. Paris, 1621.
See also the other works of this author.
11K. Digby, Of the Cure of Wounds by the power of Sympathy.
Lond.1660.
Gul. Maxwell, Medicinae Magneticea libri tres, &c. Frankf. 1679.
** J. G. Burgraave, Biolychnium, seu lucerna vit, cui accessit cura
morborum magnetica, 1629. This work I have not seen; but I find
it referred to by Kluge, under a title somewhat different.
tt Sebastian Wirdig, Nova Medicina Spirituum. Hamb. 1673.
This also is a work which I have not been able to procure; but I find
the following remarkable quotation from it on the title-pageof a trea-
tise, entitled, Mesmer Justifie. "Totus mundus constat et positus
est in magnetismo; omnes sublunarium vicissitudines fiunt per mag-
netismum; vita conservatur magnetismo; interitus omnium rerum
fiunt per magnetismum." P. 178.
$t Bohnius, De Spirituum Animalium Medela. Hamb. 1688.
To the list of authors given in the text, may be added :-Jul. Cas.
Vaninius, De Admir. Naturte arcan.; C. Agrippa ab Nettesheym, De
Occulta Philosophia; Christopher Irving; N. Papin; Fludd, &c. &c.
23
INTRODUCTION.
the existence of an universal magnetic power, by which
they attempted to explain the dependence and recipro-
cal action of bodies, in general, upon each other, and,
in particular, the phenomena of the vital organization.
They also broadly and distinctly maintained the pro-
position, that the will or imagination of man, when
energetically called into action, is capable of producing
a perceptible effect upon the organism of other liv-
ing beings, even at a considerable distance.
This proposition has been, perhaps, most clearly
enunciated by Pomponatius and Van Helmont ; and
considering them as the representatives of the whole
of this class of writers, I deem it sufficient to give an
abstract of the opinions which they entertained upon
the subject we are now investigating.
Pomponatius * assumes it as a fact generally ac-
knowledged, that there are men endowed with the
faculty of curing certain diseases, by means of an ef-
fluence, or emanation, which the force of their imagi-
nation directs towards the patient. "When those,"
says he, "who are endowed with this faculty, operate
by employing the force of the imagination and the
will; this force affects their blood and their spirits,
which produce the intended effects, by means of an
evaporation thrown outwards."t
* Petrus Pomponatius was born at Mantua in 1462, and died in
1525. He was professor of philosophy at Padua.
t "Possible est apud me, quod homo habeat talem dispositionem
qualem discimus. Sic contingit, tales homines qui habeant hujusmo.
di vires in potentih, et per vim imaginativam et desiderativam cum ac-
tu operantur, talis virtus exit ad actum, et afficit sanguinem et spiritum,
qui per evaporationem petunt ad extra, et producunt tales effectus."
Cap. iv. p. 44.
24
INTRODUCTION. 25
He afterwards observes, that it is by no means in-
conceivable that health may be communicated to a
sick person by this force of the imagination and the
will, so directed; and he compares this susceptibility
of health to the opposite susceptibility of the infec-
tion of disease. *
In another passage, our author enumerates the con-
ditions of the exercise of this faculty, in nearly the
same terms as are employed by the modern magne-
* " Incredibile non est, etiam sanitatem posse produci ad extra ab
anima taliter imaginante et desiderante de aegritudine."-P. 51.
" Quemadmodum aliquis potest infici et aegritudinem suscipere ab
aliquo alio ex evaporatione, sic et aliquis secundum istum modum
potest suscipere sanitatem."-P. 88.
Vaninius, in his work above referred to, has a passage to the same
effect: " Vehementem imaginationem, cui spiritus et sanguis obe-
diunt, rem mente conceptam realiter efficere, non solum intra, sed et
extra. Ergo prepotentem anime de valetudine cogitationem posse
agroto sanitatis aliquid impertiri."-L. iv. Dial. 5.
There is also a curious passage in Maxwell upon this subject, which
I take the liberty of subjoining: " Imaginationem extra corpus ope-
rari clarum esse puto.-Et quid qumsso aliud est imaginatio quam, ut
ita dicam, anime manus, per quas illa sine corporis auxilio operatur."
-Med. Magnet. 1.
i. cap. 2.
Here, too, I cannot avoid quoting a remarkable passage from
Cornelius Agrippa ab Nettesheym, in which he asserts that it is pos-
sible for a man to communicate his thoughts to another, even at a
great distance, and appeals to his own experience, as well as to that
of others, for the truth of the fact.
" Possibile est naturaliter, et procul omni superstitione, nullo alio
spiritu mediante, hominem homini ad quamcunque, longissimam etiam
vel incognitam, distantiam et mansionem, brevissimo tempore posse
nuntiare mentis sum conceptum: etsi tempus in quo istud fit non
possit precise mensurari, tamen intra viginti quatuor horas id fieri
omnino necesse est: et ego id facere novi, et saepius feci. Novit
idem etiamfecitquequondam Abbas Trithemius."--De Occulta Philoso-
phia, lib. iii.
INTRODUCTION.
tisers, and he adds, that the confidence of the patient
contributes to the efficacy of the remedy.
It is necessary, says he, that he who exercises
this sort of enchantment should have great faith, a
strong imagination, and a firm desire to cure the
sickness. But these dispositions are not to be found
equally in all men. *
It must not be concealed, however, that Pompona-
tius ascribes a much more extensive power to the
magnetic virtue than any <Jther author whom I have
yet met with, and he even goes so far as to say, that
in certain circumstances it may render the very ele-
ments, and matter itself, subject to the commands of
inan.t
There is no author of that age who appears to
have so fully anticipated the discovery of animal
magnetism as Van Helmont ; indeed, in perusing
* " Oportet precantatorem esse credulum, et magnam fidem adhi-
bere, et habere vehementem imaginationem et fixum desiderium, et
circa unamquamque tegritudinem. Modo patet non omnes homines
esse tequaliter dispositos."-P. 73.
t " Cum hominis anime voluntas et maxime imaginativa fuerint ve-
hementes, elementa, venti et reliqua materialia sunt nata obedire eis."
P. 237.
$ John Baptist van Helmont was born at Brussels in the year 1577,
and died in 1644. He was educated for the profession of a physician,
but spent the greater part of his life in chemical researches. He dis-
covered the laudanum of Paracelsus, the spirit of hartshorn, and the
volatile salts; and to him we owe the first knowledge of the elastic
aiiriform fluids, to which he gave the name of Gas, which they still
retain. The science of medicine is also under considerable obligations
to Van Helmont. But some of his most singular and original opinions
are those which relate to our subject. Hiis works were collected some
time after his death, and beautifully printed by Elzevir.
G26
INTROD UCTI ON.
some parts of his works, we might almost conceive
that we were reading the work of some disciple of
Mesmer. His treatise On the Magnetic Cure of
Wounds, is, in this respect, particularly remarkable.
It was intended as an answer to two authors who had
written upon the same subject-Goclenius, a physical
philosopher then in great repute, and Father Robert, a
Jesuit. The first had maintained the reality of the
cures effected by the magnetic means, and ascribed
them to natural causes. The latter did not deny these
cures, but condemned them as proceeding from the
devil.
Van Helmont shows that Goclenius had feebly de-
fended the cause of truth; and he proves, in opposi-
tion to Father Robert, that there is nothing criminal
or diabolical in the magnetic treatment, but that all
the phenomena depend upon natural causes. " Mag-
netism," says he, " is an universal agent; there is no-
thing new in it but the name; and it is a paradox
only to those who are disposed to ridicule every thing,
and who ascribe to the influence of Satan all those
phenomena which they cannot explain." * He defines
magnetism to be " that occult influence which bodies
exert over each other at a distance, whether by at-
traction or by impulsion."ft The medium or vehicle
of this influence he designates by the name of the Mag-
* " Magnetismus, quia passim viget, prater nomen, nil novi continet;
nec paradoxus nisi iis qui cuncta derident, et in Satanie dominum
ablegant quaecunque non intelligant."
t " Sic vocitamnus earn occultam coaptationem qua absens in absens
per influxuin agit, sive trahendo vel impellendo fiat."-- 69.
07
INTRODUCTION.
naleMagnum, which he seems to consider as an uni-
versal fluid pervading all nature. It is not, he continues,
acorporeal substance, capable ofbeing condensed, mea-
sured, or weighed; but an ethereal, pure, vital spirit,
or essence, which penetrates all bodies, and acts upon
the mass of the universe. With regard to the human
frame, he conceives that the seat of this magnetic in-
fluence is in the blood, and that it is called forth and
directed by volition. Van Helmont occasionally gives
to this influence the epithets of ecstatic and magical,
using the latter word in its more favourable signi-
fication.*
In the same treatise, Van Helmont proceeds to say,
that he had hitherto delayed the communication of a
great mystery, viz. that there resides in man a pecu-
liar energy, which enables him, by the mere force of
his will and imagination, to act at a distance, and to
impress a virtue, to exercise an influence, upon a very
* " Igitur in sanguine est quaedam potestas exstatica, que si ali-
quando ardenti desiderio excitata fuerit, etiam ad absens aliquod ob-
jectum, exterioris hominis spiritum deducendo sit: ea autem potestas
in exteriori homine latet, velut in potentia; nec ducitur ad actum,
nisi excitetur accensa imaginatione, ferventi desiderio, aut arte aliqua
pari."--§ 76.
" Eadem vero anima, magic& virtute non nihil expergefacta, extra
suum ergastulum, in aliud distans objectum solo nutu agere posse,
per media deportato: in eo nempe sitam esse totam basim magia na-
turalis, nullatenus autem in ceremoniis variisque superstitionibus."-
s 122.
" Postremo est virtus magica a corpore quasi abstracta, quae fit ex-
citamento interioris potestatis anime, unde fiunt potentissima pro-
creationes et validissimi effectus, et per phantasiam suam agit, et quo
spiritualior eo potentior."-§. 157.
28
INTRODUCTION.
distant object. * This power, he admits, is incom-
prehensible; but there are other powers and agents
in nature which we are equally incapable of compre-
hending, such as the power of human volition over
the corporeal organs. The union of the soul and the
body, too, and their reciprocal influence upon each
other, depend upon causes which we are unable to
discover.
Our author also asserts, that we can impress upon
another body the virtue with which we ourselves are
endowed; that we can thus communicate to it certain
properties, and make use of it as an intermediate agent
for producing salutary effects. He maintains, for ex-
ample, that several vegetable remedies derive a pecu-
liar efficacy from the imagination of the individual
who gathers or prepares them; and this is quite con-
sistent with the alleged experience of many of the
modern professors of animal magnetism. But one
of the most remarkable passages in this treatise, is
that in which the author explains the conditions ne-
cessary to the success of the magnetic treatment.
" We have already observed," says he, " that all ma-
gical power lies dormant in man, and that it requires
to be excited. This is invariably the case, if the sub-
ject upon whom we wish to operate is not in the most
favourable disposition; if his internal imagination
* " Ingens mysterium propalare hactenus distuli; ostendere videlicet
in homine sitam esse energiam qua solu nutu et phantasia sua queat
agere in distans, et imprimere virtutem, aliquam influentiam, deinceps
per se perseverantem et agentem in objectum longissime absens."
§.
158.
29
INTRODUCTION.
does not abandon itself entirely to the impression
which we wish to produce upon him ; or if he, towards
whom the action is directed, possesses more energy
than he who operates. But when the patient is well
disposed, or weak, he readily yields to the magnetic
influence of him who operates upon him through the
medium of his imagination. In order to operate
powerfully, it is necessary to employ some medium;
but this medium is nothing unless accompanied by the
internal action."* All this, as we shall afterwards
see, is quite coincident with the modern doctrine of
animalmagnetism introduced by Mesmer.
There is nothing more striking, and probably to
most persons more incomprehensible, in the works of
Van Helmont, and, indeed, of most of the early wri-
ters on the subject of magnetism, than the vast and
mysterious influence which they ascribe to the power
of energetic and concentrated volition-an opinion
which could hardly be founded but upon experience of
the fact. In this respect, too, there appears to be a re-
markable coincidence between their opinions and the
doctrines and practice of the modern magnetic school
of Barbarin, which the reader will find explained in
the sequel.
The will, according to Van Helmont, is the first of
powers. It was by the will of the Almighty that the
* " Diximus omnem fortassis magicam vim dormire et excitatione
opus habere; quod perpetuo verum est, si objectum in quod agendum
est non sit proxime dispositum, si ejus interna fantasia non prorsus an-
nuat agentis impressioni, vel etiam si robore patiens sit par vel superior
agenti; at contra," &c. §. 172.
30
INTRODUCTION.
universe was created; it was by volition that motion
was originally impressed upon all objects; it is the
will existing in man, which is the principle of all his
actions. Volition belongs to all spiritual beings; it is
the more active and powerful in them, in proportion
as they are disengaged from matter; and the energy
with which it operates without the assistance of or-
gans, is the essential characteristic of pure spirits.
These positions are laid down by our author in his
treatise, entitled Actio Regiminis; where he repeats
in somewhat different words, the opinions which he
had so oftenexpressed in the work to which we have
already so fully referred.*
It seems unnecessary to take any notice of the
theory upon which, in another treatise, Van Helmont
endeavours to account for the phenomena to which he
refers. It may be observed, however, that he there
lays down more clearly a principle which is implied
in some of his preceding propositions, viz. that those
who exert this magnetic influence, operate more or
less powerfully according to the energy of the will;
and their operation may be impeded by the resistance
of that which is operated upon. A magician t will
operate much more certainly upon weak than upon
robust beings; because the power of operating by
* " Est ergo tertia a'ctio spiritibus incorporeis propria, qui non re-
quirunt ad agendum radicum directum nec aspectum objecti, nec ejus
propinquitatem, dispositionem aut colligationem, sed agunt solu nutu
potestativo, longe vi influentiali efficaciore." Act. Regimin. § 39.
t This word might here be very properly translated Magnetiser.
31
INTRODUCTION.
volition has its limits, and he who possesses energy
of mind, can easily resist it.*
It would be premature, perhaps, at present, to give
any account of the observations and experiments of
Van Helmont, on the subject of the ecstatic, or mag-
netic crisis. In the meantime, I may observe, that
it appears quite evident from the whole works of this
author, that he was not only perfectly well acquainted
with the magnetic influence, but that he made use of
it professionally, and placed great confidence in its
effects. He himself, indeed, informs us, that when
the plague was raging in the town of Brussels, he
thought it his duty to seize the opportunity of in-
structing himself, and of being useful to others. He
accordingly offered his services to attend the sick;
neither the fatigue nor the fear of infection could abate
his zeal, or extinguish his charity. " Perceiving," says
he, " that most of the physicians deserted the sick, I
devoted myself to their service, and God preserved me
from the contagion. All, when they saw me, seemed
to be refreshed with hope and joy ; whilst I, support-
ed by faith and confidence, persuaded myself that God
would be pleased to confer upon me the science of an
adept.t"
These observations and opinions of Van Helmont,
and other writers of his age, are exceedingly curious,
and certainly deserved a careful experimental investi-
gation. But the style in which most of these treatises
were written, was so shrouded in mystery; the vague
* See Van Helmont's Treatise, De Injectis Materialibas.
- Promissa auctoris, col. 3, § 7.
32
INTRODUCTION.
and unsatisfactory theories, in which their authors
delighted to indulge, tended so much to obscure
the few facts which they really developed; and
the opinions which they announced were so much
at variance with the common philosophical systems, as
well as with the ordinary experience of life, that no
attempts appear to have been subsequently made to
ascertain the truth or falsehood of their principles by
a fair appeal to the decisive test of scientific experi-
ment. On the contrary, the magnetic authors gra-
dually came to be generally regarded as idle visionaries
or contemptible empirics; they were placed in the
same class with the astrologers and alchemists;
their works were consigned to neglect and oblivion,
or, at most, only occasionally consulted by the curi-
ous, and referred to as striking instances of the
hallucinations of the human intellect. Thus were
the mystical volumes of these magnetic philosophers
allowed to repose, for a long period, amidst the learn-
ed dust of our libraries, until, in recent times, when
the subjects of which they treated again began to at-
tract a considerable share of the public attention, they
were sought after with avidity, drawn forth from their
obscurity, carefully studied, and appealed to by the
professors of animal magnetism in support of their
principles and practice.
Did we feel ourselves justified in adopting some
such theory as that involved in the opinions of those
authors whose writings we have just been con-
sidering, there is no doubt that we should be ena-
bled to give an apparently satisfactory explanation
c
33
INTRODUCTION.
of many alleged facts which appear otherwise inex-
plicable; and of which, therefore, it has been usual
hitherto, to deny the reality altogether, and to ascribe
thementirely to imagination or delusion. In all agesand
countries, indeed, phenomena similar to those which
are alleged to be produced by animalmagnetism have
been occasionally observed. The ancient writers are
full of allusions which, when carefully examined, leave
no room to doubt that some knowledge of these powers
and processes obtained in very early times. How are
we otherwise to explain, in anything like a satisfac-
tory manner, the ancient oracles, the prophetic dreams,
and the cures produced by the touch of the priests in
the Temples of Health, which popular belief ascribed
to the immediate influence of some beneficent deity ?
At a subsequent period, indeed, these singular effects
were attributed to the impositions of the priesthood,
aided by the ignorance and credulity of the people.
But since the discoveries which have been made
during the practice of animal magnetism, it has ap-
peared exceedingly probable to many learned inquir-
ers, that these phenomena were not the offspring
of fraud and deception, but depended upon a know-
ledge of certain principles, which was afterwards ob-
scured or lost amidst the decline of those institutions
by which it had been cherished.*
Yet this knowledge does not appear to have been
totally lost. There occur in the works of the Greek
and Roman authors occasional expressions, which
cannot well be explained unless upon the supposition,
* See Sprengel's Gesch d. Medecin.
34
INTRODUCTION.
that some memory, at least, of these very ancient
practices had been preserved by tradition.
In the following verses of Solon, we have the earliest
and perhaps the directest testimonies to the practice
of manipulation as a sanative process to be found
in antiquity. It is surprising that they should have
hitherto escaped the notice of all the writers upon
animal magnetism, many of whom have exercised
great diligence in collecting the allusions to this pro-
cess which occur among the ancients.
foXXz 6, 'iy 2;;
r V22
g&aE,7a yiyg~r~a c-X2
o0;,
Koix &'vrk XY
C Cd;,Teca ?~aatzp 3a6k.
&Y
69'xaxacc vot'aour ixuXcpEww
OY &7Yz&hiEC:S
-r
A'4pev o; VI', asg,a /k5,O&
46i.
SOLON, apud Stobeum.*
The following remarkable expressions occur in the
Amphitruo of Plautus: " Quid, si ego illum tractim
tangam, ut dormiat." These expressions are evident-
ly used euphemistically in a humorous sense, for
" What if I knock him down;" but we can hardly
fail to perceive that there is here an obvious allusion
to some method of setting persons asleep by a parti-
cular process of manipulation ; and, accordingly, they
are so explained in a note upon this passage in Taub-
mann's edition of Plautus.t
* Stanley, in his History of Philosophy, (1666) has given us a very
competent translation of these verses:
" The smallest hurts sometimes.increase and rage
" More than all art of physic can assuage;
" Sometimes the fury of the worst disease
" The hand, by gentle stroking, will appease."
t The words of Taubmann are these: " Tractim tangam, ut dormiat.
Perbelle videtur ludere, tralatione a nutriculis ductA, ique pusiones
35
INTRODUCTION.
In the following verses of Martial, the process in
question is not merely alluded to, but pretty fully
described. They occur in B. iii. Ep. 82, and appear
to refer to some refinement of luxury.
Percurrit agili corpus arte tractatrix,
Manumque doctam spargit omnibus membris.*
Sprengel, in his learned History of Medicine, in-
forms us that, in chronic affections, Asclepiades of
Bithynia, who acquired so much reputation as a phy-
sician at Rome, recommended frictions, to be conti-
nued until the patient fell asleep, which sleep he con-
sidered as very salutary. Tacitus and Suetonius have
preserved an account of two remarkable magnetic
cures, which were performed by the emperor Vespa.
sian, at Alexandria.t
Among the ancient oriental nations, the cure of
diseases by the application of the hands appears to
have been well known. The Chaldean priests are
said to have practised this mode of treatment; as also
the Indian Bramins, and the Parsi. According to
the accounts of the Jesuit Missi6naries for the year
1763, the practice of curing diseases by the imposition
of the hands, has prevailed in China for many ages.
palma leniuscule demulcent ut dormiant."-Taubmann's Commentary
on Plautus was published in 1612.
* There is also a passage in Seneca's Epistles, in which this process
seemsto be alluded to, although the meaning, perhaps, may be thought
ambiguous. "Quidni ego feliciorem putem Mucium, qui sic tractavit
ignem, quasi illam manum tractatori priestitisset." Ep. 66.-The La-
tin words- Tractatorand Tractatrix-seemto imply the knowledge
and practice of some art of this kind among the Romans.
t Tacit. Hist. iv. 81. Suet. in Vespas. vii. §§. 5, 6.7%
K
36
INTRODUCTION.
If we admit, to any extent, the efficacy of these
manipulations, and give any degree of credit to what
has been alleged in regard to the influence of human
volition, we shall have the ready means at hand of
explaining, in a pretty satisfactory manner, many
of those extraordinary cases which have served as a
foundation for the popular belief in witchcraft, sor-
cery, possession, &c.-abelief which has led to many
absurdities in speculation, and occasioned many enor-
mities in practice. Some learned persons, indeed,
have expressed an utter scepticism with respect to the
foundation of the belief in question, considering it as
entirely delusive; whilst others have attempted to
account for such of the phenomena as they conceived
to be undeniable, upon principles which are altogether
inadequate and unsatisfactory. If, however, upon a
more minute investigation into the powers and pro-
cesses of nature, and a more thorough examination
of the physiological and psychological principles upon
which they depend, it should appear that the pheno-
mena which have occasioned so much doubt and dis-
cussion may be justly ascribed, partly, to sympathetic
susceptibility, to certain reciprocal influences of or-
ganic and inorganic bodies upon each other; partly,
to a certain disposition of the nervous system, and
probably, in some instances, to a diseased state of the
animal organism,-would not this tend to dissipate,
in a great measure, the clouds which have hitherto
enveloped this mysterious subject, and assist us in
evolving principles, which, by controlling alike the
rash incredulity of scepticism and the irrational errors
37
INTRODUCTION.
of superstition, could not fail to prove highly interest-
ing and advantageous to the philosophy of man.
Some curious facts respecting the great confidence
which the North American Indians place in the pro-
fessors of the magical arts will be found in Hearne's
Journey. Such is the influence of these professors,
that they appear to be capable of curing the most se-
rious complaints without resorting to any physical
means, and that the fear of having incurred their ma-
lignity plunges individuals into diseases which often
terminate fatally. One of these Indians, Matonabbi
by name, conceiving that Hearne was in possession of
supernatural powers, requested him to kill, by magic,
a man, against whom he entertained a deadly hatred.
To oblige him, Hearne, without dreading any bad
consequences, drew some figures upon a piece of paper,
and gave it to Matonabbi, advising him to make it as
public as possible. Matonabbi's enemy, who enjoyed
perfectly good health, scarcely heard of the paper,
when he became melancholy, refused food, and died
in the course of a few days.
Here we have a very simple case, in which we can
have no difficulty in ascribing the whole effect pro-
duced, primarily, if not solely, to the influence of the
imagination. To this power, indeed, as we shall see
in the sequel, many learned persons were, at one time,
disposed to attribute all the 'phenomena of animal
magnetism. But there is a vast number of cases which
do not admit of being satisfactorily explained upon
this hypothesis.
The following case, in some of its features, bears a
38
INTRODUCTION.
striking analogy to the magnetic. It is quoted from
the newspaper report of a trial which took place at
the Taunton assizes, on the 4th of April 1823, before
Mr Justice Burrough.
Elizabeth Bryant, aged 50, with her two daughters,
Elizabeth, aged 22, and Jane, aged 15, were charged
with maliciously assaulting an old woman, Ann Bur-
gess, a reputed witch, under the following circum-
stances.-It appears that Elizabeth Bryant, the young-
er, had been afflicted with fits, which were supposed
to have been occasioned by the influence of some ma-
lignant spirit ; and a noted sorcerer in the neighbour-
hood was resorted to by the mother for advice. The
conjuror, in order to break the charm, gave an amu-
let to secure the wearer against witchcraft, and pre-
scribed some medicines to be taken internally, and also
a paper of herbs to be burned with certain ceremonies
and incantations. But this was not all; for the
prisoners were actually possessed with the horrible
notion, that, in order to dissipate the charm effectu.
ally, it was necessary to draw blood from the witch.
Accordingly, having fixed upon the prosecutrix as
the individual by whom the young woman was be-
witched, they took an opportunity of making an as-
sault upon her, and of drawing blood from her arm
by lacerating it dreadfully with a large nail. The
parties were convicted, and had sentence of imprison-
ment.
This trial is curious, as affording an instance of the
rude belief in witchcraft, still prevalent in some re-
mote parts of the country. But there are some farther
39
INTRODUCTION.
circumstances mentioned in the newspaper report of
the case, which are more to our purpose.
The fits, with which the young woman was afflict-
ed, are not very circumstantially described. It is said,
that, " when worked upon, she would dance and sing,
just as if she was dancing and singing to a fiddle, in
a way that there was no stopping her before she drop-
ped down, when the fiend left her. Whilst the fit was
upon her, she would look wished (wild or frightened,)
and point at something, crying: There she stands!
there she stands!" One of the witnesses said that
she felt for the girl very much, and that her state was
" very pitiable." It likewise appeared that she had
been subject to these fits for twelve months.
But the conclusion of the report is most remarkable.
It is said, that, " as the preparations were taken by the
ignorant creatures, it could not be ascertained what
they were," whether medicinal, or mere rubbish, asis
mostprobable. But we are positively assured, that after
the rites were allperformed, such was the effect upon
the imagination of the girl, who fancied herself posses-
sed, that she has not had afit since.
Had it not been for the brutal assault upon the old
woman, this case would have been a very innocent
one, and would merely have added another instance
to the many already on record, of the efficacy of the
psychical, or, as some would call them, the magnetic
remedies.
Upon the subject of these magnetic remedies, I must
beg permission to make a quotation from a work by
an eminent foreign physician, whose talents and ex-
40
TNTRODUCTION.
perience entitle his observations to be treated with
great attention and respect.
" It is a proof," says Dr Ziermann,* " of partial
and narrow views, which forms a great and a just re-
proach to medical science, in our days, that its pro-
fessors should conceive that all diseases must be cured
merely by medicines. This certainly betrays as great
a deficiency of science and experience, as is objected
to those who rely solely upon the efficacy of the mag-
netic manipulations. That there are great masters
in medicine,-in the art of curing diseases by the ad-
,ministration of drugs,-is no proof to the contrary;
for they would have been much greater masters of their
art, and much more successful physicians, had they
not themselves limited their means. They would have
restored to health many of those patients whom they
now dismiss as incurable ; and they would cure many
patients more rapidly, and more effectually, than they
now do. Every means that can be used as a remedy,
without greater disadvantages than the disease itself,
is a sanative and an auxiliary, and, as such, ought to
be employed by the physician. He ought not to be
* Stieglitz's Ideen iiber den thierischen Magnetismus. Beleuchtet
von Dr J.C. L. Ziermann. IHannover, 1820,
Dr Ziermann, I believe, was for many years in the military service
of Great Britain. The above work was written in answer to a publi-
cation, upon the same subject, by Dr John Stieglitz, physician to the
king at Hanover, which appeared there in 1814. In his work, Dr
Stieglitz had admitted the greater part of the phenomena of animal
magnetism, and did not even pretend to deny the efficacy of the treat-
ment as a remedy in diseases; but his book, upon the whole, was writ-
ten in a hostile spirit, and it was evident that he viewed the magnetic
treatment with considerable jealousy.
41
INTRODUCTION.
ignorant of the psychical remedies, which are inti-
mately interwoven with the doctrine of magnetism.
By psychical remedies, I understand not merely the
art of curing mental diseases by means of tangible
and ponderable drugs, but the art of
operating upon the spiritual powers and capacities of
man, upon the heart and understanding, the temper,
character, modes of thinking and prejudices,--which
may be done in a variety of ways, by words, gestures,
signs, and actions, according to the mental disposition
and constitution of the individual; so as to affect the
invisible vital functions, or the basis of the pheno-
menal life, and thus produce salutary changes in the
diseased organization. How this is effectuated, in-
deed, we know not ; but that it is effectuated is cer-
tain, for we have experienced it.
"The physician, therefore, must not be a mere
dealer in medicines; he must understand how to
operate in a salutary manner upon his patients with.
out drugs, or by employing them only in part; and if
he does not know, or neglects to do this, he does not
possess, or does not exercise his art in its whole extent;
and were he even the greatest master ofmedicine in the
world, still he is not the more perfect physician which
he might be. - All really great physicians have
acknowledged this truth, and applied it in practice.
Along with the use of drugs, they have employed the
psychical remedies, in the sense in which I have used
the expressions. Hence, too, we can explain, how
physicians possessed of moderate medical attainments,
but endowed with much intuitive or acquired know-
42
INTRODUCTION.
ledge of human nature, and, on the other hand, men
of great medical skill, have, with very insignificant
medicines, been fortunate in operating cures through-
out their whole lives. In vain, perhaps, would Boer-
haave have exhausted the whole magazine of anti-
spasmodic drugs, even to alleviate the convulsions
with which the children in the Haarlem Orphan-house
were seized. A few words from his lips were suffi-
cient to produce a perfect cure upon the spot."
About the middle of the seventeenth century, there
appeared in London, a certain gardener of the name of
Levret, an Irish gentleman, Valentine Greatrakes, and
the notorious Dr Streper, who cured, or pretended
to cure, various diseases by stroking with the hand.
Their proceedings excited considerable sensation at
the time; but no attempt seems to have been made
to investigate the subject physiologically; on the
contrary, their treatment soon came to be regarded
as a piece of quackery, or as the consequence of
a peculiar virtue specially conferred by nature upon
these individuals.*
* The learned Pechlinus, in his work entitled, Observationum Phy-
sico-Medicarum libri tres, Hamb.1691, has preserved a pretty full ac-
count of Greatrakes; and there is also extant a treatise, said to have
been written and published by that singular individual himself, en-
titled, Brief Account of Mr Valentine Greatrakes, Lond. 1666. The
efficacy of the treatment adopted by Greatrakes is attested by the
most respectable witnesses; amongst others, by the celebrated expe-
rimental philosopher, and truly pious Christian, Mr Boyle; who also
bear ample testimony to the simplicity and excellence of his moral
character, and his reverence for the principles of religion. The philo-
sophic Cudworth was among his patients.
43
INTRODUCTION.
The method of Greatrakes consisted in applying
his hand to the diseased parts, and in rubbing gently
downwards. This is very like the most common and
most simple process adopted by the present magne-
tisers; and it is remarkable that the effects produced by
his treatment appear to have been precisely similar to
some of the ordinary phenomena of animalmagnetism;
viz. increased excitement, different kinds of excretions,
such as perspiration, alvine evacuations, vomiting,
&c. No mention, however, is made of sleep or som-
nambulism in the accounts given of the cures per-
formed by Greatrakes ; whether it be that he did not
produce these phenomena, or that he did not particu-
larly observe them. It is remarked, indeed, by De-
leuze, and by other writers upon animal magnetism,
that somnambulisln rarely appears when it is not
sought to be excited, and that it may take place with-
out being observed, as actually occurred to some of
the first disciples of Mesmer.*
* A number of other instances might be produced of persons who,
without any knowledge of magnetism, have cured diseases by the
touch, believing themselves to be specially endowed with this virtue.
Deleuze, on the authority of credible persons, mentions a shoemaker
ofAuxerre, of thename of Dal, who operated efficaciously in this man-
ner, upon persons affected with the toothach, sprains, &c. He would
accept of no remuneration; and he even alleged, that, if he once took
payment, he should no longer operate with success.
In the German Archives of Animal Magnetism, (Vol. i. No. 3.) there
is an extract of a letter from Silesia, dated 22d July 1817, giving an
account of a magical or magnetic doctor, of the name of Richter, who
had cured many sick and infirm persons merely by manipulation. He
was visited, it is said, by multitudes, from ministers of state and counts
down to the lowest beggars; and he cured them all indiscriminately
,and gratuitously. He refused every kind of recompense; and when
6
44
INTRODUCTION.
A still more extraordinary character appeared,
long afterwards, in the person of the German exorcist,
John Joseph Gassner. Gassner was born, in 1727,
at Bratz, near Pludenz, in Suabia, and became Catho-
lic minister at Cl1sterle, in the bishopric of Chur.
He took up a notion that most diseases arose from
demoniacal possession, and could be cured by exor-
cism. He commenced by curing some of his pa-
rishioners in this way, and excited considerable sen-
sation. He went first to reside with the Bishop of
Constance, and afterwards, in 1774, with the Arch-
bishop of Ratisbon at Elwangen, where he performed
a number of astonishing cures, especially among pa-
tients affected with spasmodic and epileptic com-
plaints. A public officer took regular and copious
minutes of his procedure, which were attested by
a number of persons of the first respectability. The
phenomena which occurred were of the most extraor-
dinary nature; the facts never were denied, nor at-
tempted to be refuted; although, at a subsequent
period, persons who had not witnessed the treatment,
and could not explain the phenomena, found it most
convenient, as usual, to throw discredit upon the
whole procedure, and ascribe it wholly to quackery
and imposture.
any thing was given, it was immediately handed over to the poor.
The government had investigated his conduct and procedure, and
granted him protection. He is afterwards described as a man ofgood
substance, an innkeeper at Royn, near Leignitz, of a vigorous and
healthy constitution, and the best reputation. Some account of this
man will be found in the second volume of Kausch, "Memorabilien der
Heilkunde."
45
INTRODUCTION.
It was not until towards the end of the eighteenth
century, that this most interesting subject was re-
vived, and that, after an ample series of experimental
investigations, the remarkable efficacy of this mode
of treatment was fully developed, and firmly esta-
blished by induction. For this discovery,-if such we
may be permitted to call it,--the world is indebted
to a man, whose character and motives have been
painted in such opposite colours, and whose merits
have been so variously appreciated, that, were we to
draw our inferences merely from a perusal of the
writings of his partizans and his opponents, without
any serious examination of those labours upon which
his reputation must ultimately rest, we should find it
difficult to determine, even at the present day, whether
we ought to consider him as one of the greatest bene-
factors to science, and to the human race in general,
or as one of the most impudent and most successful
scientific impostors who have ever attempted to prac-
tise upon the credulity of mankind.
Frederick Anthony Mesmer, a native of Switzer.
land, was born upon the 23d of May 1734. In his
youth, he came to Vienna, in very needy circum-
stances, for the purpose of studying physic; and after
having attended the lectures of Van Swieten and De
Haen for several years, and taken his degree of Doc-
tor of Medicine, he settled in that capital as a prac-
tising physician, and placed himself in a situation of
independence by an advantageous marriage. From
1
46
INTRODUCTION.
his youth upwards, he evinced a strong bias towards
the uncommon and the marvellous; and his favou-
rite employment was to search after the almost for-
gotten works of the old mystical writers, particu-
larly those who treated of astrology, which he studied
with great attention and earnestness. The conse-
quence of this was, that, upon the occasion of his pro-
motion, in the year 1766, he wrote and publicly de-
fended a dissertation On the Influence of te Planets
upon the Human Body. This treatise drew down
upon him the universal ridicule of his professional
brethren, who regarded him, from that period, as a
strange visionary; and it is probable that this first
display of his early bias injured his character as a
physician during the whole of his subsequent career.
But the only effect of this treatment upon Mesmer
himself, was to render him still more ardent and en-
thusiastic in the prosecution of his favourite studies.
His theory of the influence of the stars upon the
human body is founded upon the assumed existence
of a certain subtile element, or essence, pervading all
nature, (the ether of Newton ;) and this element he,
at first, thought to have discovered in electricity, un-
til, by repeated experiments, he became convinced of
the insufficiency of that principle to explain the phe-
noinena.
After a variety of fruitless efforts, he, at length, in
the month of November 1773, resorted to the mag-
net, to which his attention had been particularly cal-
led by the Jesuit, Maximilian Hell,* professor of as-
* Hell was born at Chemnitz in Hungary, in the year 1720, and
47
INTRODUCTION.
tronomy at Vienna; for which reason, the latter sub-
sequently claimed for himself the merit of the dis-
covery of the magnetic remedy. Mesmer was the
more readily induced to believe that he should be
enabled to attain his end by means of the magnet,
as many previous writers had not only proved its ef-
ficacy upon the human body, but had ascribed to it
an extensive influence over universal nature.
He now proceeded to apply artificial magnets
entered, at an early age, into the order of Jesuits. From his youth
he devoted himself to the study of astronomy and experimental phi.
losophy; in 1745-46, he assisted Father J. Francois, who had the
charge of the Jesuit's Observatory at Vienna, in his observations, and
took an active part in promoting the establishment of a cabinet for
experimental physics in that city. Having taught the mathematics,
for some years, at Clausenburg in Transilvania, he was recalled to
Vienna to fill the situations of astronomer and keeper of the observa-
tory. From 1757 to 1786, he published yearly Ephemerides, which
form a very interesting collection for the astronomer. Count Bachoff,
the Danish ambassador at Vienna, urged him to undertake the task of
observing the transit of Venus in Lapland; and, for this purpose, Hell
set out in the month of April 1768. After having accomplished his
purpose, he returned to Vienna in August 1770. Of his subsequent
connection with Mesmer some notice has been taken in the text.
Hell died at Vienna on the 14th of April 1792, after having contribut-
ed greatly to the advancement of astronomical science. His works,
besides the Ephemerides above-mentioned, are numerous. Among
these are, Tabulhe solares N. L. de la Caille, cum suppl. reliquar. ta-
bular. 1763. Tabuhe lunares Tob. Mayer, cum suppl. D. Cassini, de
Lalande, et suis, 1703. De transitu Veneris ante discum solis die 3tio
Jun. 1769, Wardachusii in Finnmarchia observato, 1770. De paral-
laxi solis ex observatione transitus Veneris anni 1769, 1773, &c.
It does not appear that Hell can claim much of the merit due to the
discovery of animal magnetism. He may have originally suggested
the use of the mineral magnet, to which he always ascribed the re-
medial efficacy; whereas, the experiments of Mesmer, as will be seen,
ultimately led to a very different result.
48
INTRODUCTION.
which his friend Hell prepared for him in various
forms) to diseased parts of the human body ; he after-
wards brought the affected parts into permanent con-
nection, or affinity, with his mAgnets, and had, at
length, the pleasure of witnessing the most satisfac-
tory effects. These results of his experience he pub-
lished to the world in a Letter to a ForeignPhysi-
cian on the Magnetic Remedy. Upon this occasion,
however, he got involved in a controversy with his
friend Hell; but after some explanations, the parties
became again reconciled to each other.
As several respectable individuals had been relieved
from the most obstinate complaints by this treatment,
some of whom had been induced to communicate their
cures to the public through the medium of the press,
and as other physicians besides Mesmer, now resorted
to the same practice, and experienced the same satis-
factory results; the new remedy could not fail to at-
tract considerable attention, although there were some
who could perceive no particular advantage in it,
while others totally denied its efficacy.
The magnetic remedy, indeed, was not sanctioned
or patronised by the physicians of Vienna; and Mes-
mer experienced so much calumny and persecution,
on account of the novelty and singularity of his prac-
tice, that he resolved to withdraw himself from that
capital. Accordingly, in the years 1775 and 1776,
he made travels of discovery into Bavaria and Swit-
zerland, and performed several remarkable cures, as
well in private circles, as in the public hospitals at
D
49
INTRODUCTION.
Bern and Zurich. Upon this occasion too, he paid
a visit to the famous exorcist, Gassner, at Ratisbon.
Upon his return to Vienna, in order to be enabled
to continue his practice with more secrecy, and less
interruption, he established an hospital in his own
house, where he received destitute sick persons, whom
he subjected to the magnetic treatment.
Hitherto, Mesmer had always made use of the
magnetic rods in operating upon his patients, and he
believed that the remedial efficacy of his treatment
was the consequence of a certain virtue inherent in
the mineral magnet. In the course of his experiments,
however, he was now led to form a very different
conclusion.
He observed that, in the case of nervous patients,
in particular, he was enabled to produce a variety of
phenomena of a very peculiar nature, which were not
reconcileable with the usual effects of the magnet.
This induced him to suppose that his magnetic rods,
perhaps, did not operate merely by attraction, but
that they, at the same time, served as the conductors
of a fluid issuing from his own body. This conjecture
seemed to him to be converted into a certainty, when
he became satisfied, by repeated experiments, that he
could produce the very same effects, without using
the magnet, by merely passing his hands from the
head of the patient towards the lower extremities, or
even by making these motions at some distance from
the patient; and that he could also communicate to
inanimate objects, by merely rubbing them with his
hand, the power of producing similar effects upon
50
INTRODUCTION.
such nervous patients as came into contact with
them. *
Partly swayed by the fact ascertained by previous expe-
riments, that, in like'manner, by repeated friction in cer-
tain directions, a magnetic attraction could be excited
in iron, without the application of any magnet; and
partly seduced, also, by the supposed fact, that in the
process above mentioned, the animal body exhibited
a certain polarity and inclination; Mesmer now jump-
ed, at once, to the conclusion, that there exists in
the animal frame an original and peculiar species of
magnetism, which is capable of being set in activity
without the aid of the artificial magnet. He now ex-
tended this magnetic power over all nature; formed
theories upon this assumed fact; and, in so far as this
alleged influence was exhibited in the animal body,
he gave it the name of animal,to distinguish it from
the mineral magnetism. t
* The disciples of Mesmer, therefore, could be at no loss, upon their
own principles, to account for the efficacy of Perkins'sMetallic Trac-
tors, which, at one time, made so much noise in this country. They
were, in fact, nothing else than a modification of animal magnetism ;
and being themselves merely conductors, it was of no essential con-
sequence whether they were made of metal, or (as Dr Haygarth's) of
any other substance. Yet, if we may give credit to some of the more
recent writers upon animal magnetism, there is a peculiar virtue in
certain metals, capable of affecting the human frame in different ways.
But into this subject we have no occasion to enter at present.
t It has been thought proper to point out, thus particularly, the
original mistake of Mesmer, because it is quite certain that a great
deal of the argument, and almost the whole of the wit and ridicule,
bywhich the magnetic treatment has been assailed, have been suggested
by the name; and many persons, otherwise ignorant of the subject,
still expect, like the first French Commissioncrs, to see the magnetic
M1
INTRODUCTION.
It is highly probable, if not absolutely certain, that
the discovery ofthat organic susceptibility which gave
rise to the magnetic treatment, did not originate en-
tirely with Mesmer himself, but was suggested to him
by the perusal of the works of certain mystical
writers of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, to
which reference has already been made. But, Mes-
mer has the unquestionable merit of having been the
first, in recent times, who availed himself of the hints
of these earlier writers, and who, by patient and in-
defatigable investigation and experiment, established,
as demonstrated fact, that which, so far as we know,
had previously been mere theory and conjecture.
From the period of this curious discovery, however,
its author daily assumed a more mysterious demean-
our, veiled his experiments' and observations in a sort
of sacred obscurity, and talked no more of mineral,
but of animal magnetism. He no longer made use
of the magnetic rods, but considered his own body as
the depository of this magnetic virtue, which he was
not merely capable of commimunicating, at pleasure, by
immediate manipulation, but could convey to a dis-
tance by means of his volition, and thus eradicate the
most complicated diseases, without explaining, in an
intelligible and satisfactory manner, the method in
which he performed his cures.
No person was able to penetrate this mysterious
obscurity; but it was still commonly believed that
fluid sensibly exhibited. The name of animal magnetism is now ad-
mitted to be improper, but it would not be easy to substitute one more
appropriate.
52
INTRODUCTION.
Mesmer continued to operate by means of magnetic
rods concealed about his person. Meanwhile, some
learned individuals endeavoured to throw discredit on
his treatment; and others, who had once been at-
tached to him, afterwards publicly and explicitly pro-
claimed their scepticism. Mesmer, in short, was
pretty, generally held to be an impostor, at least, a
self-deceiving enthusiast. In order to obviate these
suspicions, he sent circular letters to the most cele-
brated learned societies in Europe, in which he at-
tempted to explain his principles, and gave an account
of his magnetic cures. Of these learned bodies, the
Royal Academy of Berlin alone condescended to
return an answer, in which some doubts were ex-
pressed, and some queries put to the author, to which,
however, he did not think proper to make any reply;
and by this conduct, he strengthened the unfavour-
able opinion which had been entertained against him.
The ill repute in which he now stood in the eyes
of his professional brethren and the scientific public
in general, combined with the diminution of his for-
tune, induced Mesmner to leave Vienna, in the year
1777, and to look about for some new theatre for the
exercise of his magnetic art. Some time elapsed be-
fore the public received any certain intelligence re-
specting him ; but at length, in the month of Febru-
ary, 1778, he made his appearance at Paris; where,
however, he, at first, found the learned but little
disposed to patronise his discovery. He was, how-
ever, fortunate enough to make a convert of Dr
D'Eslon, who became a zealous partizan of the mnag-
INTRODUCTION.
netic doctrine, and encouraged Mesmer to publish, in
the following year, a short treatise,* which, besides
an apology for his conduct in Vienna, contained a con-
centrated view of his system in twenty-seven proposi-
tions. The following is the substance of this system.
There exists a reciprocal influence between the hea-
venly bodies, the earth, and animated beings., The
medium of this influence is a very subtile fluid, per-
vading the whole universe, which, from its nature, is
capable of receiving, propagating, and communicating
every impulse of motion. This reciprocal action is
subject to certain mechanical laws, which have not
yet been discovered. From this action there result
alternative effects, which may be considered as aflux
and re-flux. This flux and re-flux may be more or
less general, more or less particular, more or less com-
pounded, according to the nature of the causes which
determine them. It is by this operation (the most
universal of those which nature exhibits to us) that
the relations of activity are maintained between the
heavenly bodies, the earth, and its constituent parts.
The properties of matter, and of organized bodies, de-
pend upon this operation. The animal body experi-
ences the alternative effects of this agent; which, by
insinuating itself into the substance of the nerves, af-
fects them immediately. The human body exhibits
properties analogous to those of the magnet, such as
polarityand inclination. The property of the animal
body, which renders it susceptible of this influence,
# Memoire sur la decouverte du Magnetisme animal. Paris, 1779.
54
INTRODUCTION.
occasioned its denomination of animal magnetism.
The action and the virtue of animalmagnetism are
capable of being communicated to other animated and
inanimate bodies. The one and the other, however,
are susceptible of them in different degrees. This
action and this virtue can be increased and propagat-
ed by these bodies. We observe from experience the
flowing of a certain subtile matter, which penetrates
all bodies, without perceptibly losing any of its acti-
vity; and it operates at a considerable distance, with-
out the aid of any intermediate object. Like light, it
is reflected by mirrors ; and it is invigorated, diffused,
and communicated by sound. This virtue is capable
of being accumulated, concentrated, and transported.
There are animated bodies, although very rare, which
possess a property so opposite to magnetism that their
mere presence prevents all its effects in other bodies.
This opposite power also penetrates all bodies, and is
likewise capable of being concentrated and diffused:
It is, therefore, not merely a negative, but a really
positive power. The mineral magnet, whether natu-
ral or artificial, is likewise equally susceptible with
other bodies of animalmagnetism, and even of the
opposite virtue, without suffering, in either case, any
alteration of its agency in respect to iron; which
proves that the principle of animalmagnetism is es-
sentially different from that of the mineral. This
system will furnish new illustrations of the nature of
fire and of light; as also of the theory of attraction,
of flux and re-flux, of the magnet and of electricity.
It will inform us, that the magnet and artificial elec.
30 A
INTRODUCTION.
tricity only have, with respect to diseases, properties
in common with several other agents which nature
presents to us; and that, if the former have produced
some salutary effects, these effects are to be ascribed
to animalmagnetism. By means of animal magne-
tisa, nervous diseases may be cured immediately, and
other complaints mediately : It explains to us the ope-
ration of the remedies, and promotes the salutary crises.
With the knowledge of its principles, the physician
can discover with certainty, the origin, the nature,
and the progress of diseases, even the most compli-
cated; he can arrest their progress, and ultimately
cure them, without ever exposing the patient to dan-
gerous or troublesome consequences. Lastly, this
doctrine will enable the physician to judge accurately
with respect to the degree of health possessed by all
individuals, and to preserve them from those diseases
to which they may be exposed. Thus, the science of
medicine may attain its highest degree of perfection.*
This novel and obscure theory found no favourable
reception among the men of science in France; on the
contrary, it was not undeservedly treated, as the dream
of a visionary, with coldness or contempt.
The Medical Faculty of Paris, however, could not
be expected to continue altogether indifferent to the
* Since the great light which has been thrown upon this subject by
the extended practice ofanimalmagnetism,these early mystical theories
of Mesmer and his partisans have become rather curious than really
interesting or instructive. In a work like the present, however, some
notice of them could not, with propriety, have been omitted. But let
no one imagine that he has demolished animal magnetism, as a fact,
when he has merely demonstrated the improbability of these hypo-
theses to explain its cause.
56
INTRODUCTION.
subject, especially-as one of its members, Dr D'Eslon,
was not only a zealous partisan of Mesmer, but
had actually published a work upon Animal Mag-
netism. The measures at length resorted to, for
the purpose of vindicating the honour of the body,
were not, assuredly, very creditable to the state of
science towards the conclusion of " the philosophical
century." Instead of investigating the matter, with a
view to ascertain the truth or falsehood of the ob-
noxious doctrine, they proceeded at once to deprive
the magnetic Doctor of his voice in the Faculty for a
whole year, and threatened farther, that, if he did not
recant his principles at the expiration of that period,
his name should be erased from the list of members;
in short, that he should be excommunicated. A
schism in the church, some centuries ago, could not
have been contemplated at Rome with greater horror
and alarm thanwereexhibited by these disciples of.Escu-
lapius on the disclosure of the magnetic heresy.*
* Learned bodies seldom obtain much credit from posterity for their
attempts to interfere with the progress of scientific discovery. In the
year 169, the celebrated Galen came to Rome, where he became emi.
nent for his successful practice; but the ignorance of the times
drove him thence by an accusation of practising the magical arts. In
the 17th century, Galileo was persecuted by the Roman Consistory,
for maintaining the true theory of the planetary motions. In the
year 1566, the Faculty of Medicine at Paris issued a decree pro-
hibiting the use of antimony, and this decree 'was confirmed by the
Parliament. Paumier of Caen, a great chemist and celebrated physi-
cian at Paris, having disregarded the decree of the Faculty, thus sanc-
tioned by the Parliament, was degraded in 1609. The Quinquina, or
Peruvian bark, was imported into Europe by the Spaniards in 1640.
Nine or ten years afterwards, the Jesuits distributed a great quantity
of it at Rome, curing intermittent fevers with it as if by enchantment.
57
INTRODUCTION.
But, although deprived of scientific and professional
patronage, the practice of animalmagnetism began to
make considerable progress among the public; and
this progress was greatly accelerated in consequence
of the successful magnetic treatment of some patients
from among the more respectable classes of society,
who published accounts of their cures, and being as-
tonished at the result of the means employed, took oc-
casion to bestow the most extravagant panegyrics upon
Mesmer and his remedial art. Among these was the
celebrated Court de Gebelin, the learned author of
the Monde Primitif,who, from a very dangerous
state, had been restored to health by magnetism;
and who, in a letter to his subscribers, not only re-
lated the particulars of his own case, as a proof of the
superior efficacy of Mesmer's treatment, but extolled
the magnetic panaceaas the most wonderful discovery
that had been made by human wisdom and ingenuity
since the creation of the world.
The very mystery in which Mesmer enveloped his
treatment, tended to excite curiosity, while it with-
drew attention from the active principle, and thus
caused him to be regarded as an extraordinary man,
full of the ancient Egyptian wisdom, and conversant
with all the secret influences of nature. This, while
it extended his reputation, seemed to flatter the mys-
The physicians, however, declared war against this efficacious remedy,
and the ecclesiastics prohibited sick persons from using it, alleging
that it possessed no virtue but what it derived from a compact made
by the Indians with the devil. In 1784, the Medical Faculty at Paris
prohibited the practice of animal magnetism by any of its members
under the penalty of being deprived of their privilege.
58
INTRODUCTION.
tical disposition of the man. His house became
crowded with patients of all ranks, and from every
quarter; and such was the extent and success of his
practice, that, in the course of a short time, he is said
to have amassed a large fortune.
Although Mesmer had the undoubted merit of being
the first who experimentally discovered the effects of
the magnetic process upon the animal constitution,
and who employed that process systematically for the
cure of diseases, it cannot be denied that he affect-
ed a great deal of idle and almost ludicrous for-
mality in his mode of conducting the treatment. We
have now no means of ascertaining whether all
this was done merely for the purpose of mystifica-
tion, or whether he himself actually believed it to
be essential to the success of his practice. There can
be no doubt, however, that this affectation of mys-
tery was highly unfavourable to the scientific investi-
gation of the subject, besides injuring his own charac-
ter in the eyes of many learned and sensible persons,
who, looking only at the accessories, were disposed to
regard him merely as a quack; whereas, we have
every reason to believe that he was himself sincerely
impressed with a conviction of the reality, and the
great scientific importance of the discovery which he
had made.
He operated not only by the actual touch of his
hands, or by means of an iron rod extended to some
distance from his body; but, by means of cords, he
placed his patients in connection with magnetised
trees, or conducted the invisible magnetic fluid out of
59
INTRODUCTION.
covered vessels (baquets) to the patients, who sat
round in a circle; and, by this treatment, he was en-
abled to throw them into very peculiar states, which
could not be properly called either sleeping or wak-
ing, but presented some of the phenomena of both.
It sometimes happened, however, that none of all
these arrangements was found necessary ; for a single
look from Mesmer was frequently sufficient to pro-
duce the same effects. This circumstance will be
better understood when we come to consider the im.
provements which were made upon the processes of
animal magnetism subsequently to the retirement of
its discoverer.
In order, it is supposed, to increase the efficacy of
his treatment, the chamber in which he performed
his operations and cures was darkened to a sort of
twilight; a number of mirrors were placed around it;
and a profound and mysterious silence prevailed, in-
terrupted only occasionally by the tones of the har-
monica, an instrument upon which Mesmer himself
performed with great skill, or by those of a harpsi-
chord.
All this whimsical apparatus and mystery, how.
ever essential it may have appeared to Mesmer him-
self, had too much the semblance of quackery, and
was certainly calculated to operate unfavourably to
the reputation of his treatment in the minds of sober
and scientific men; who, upon a superficial view, and
judging merely from what was submitted to their
senses, must have been inclined to attribute any ef-
fects which they witnessed to the influence of the
4
60
INTRODUCTION.
surrounding scene upon the imagination and the ner-
vous system, rather than to that secret magnetic vir-
tue to which the operator ascribed them, but which
could not be palpably exhibited. It is said that
Mesmer in his latter days approved and adopted the
more simple and less ostentatious, yet equally effica-
cious processes, which were subsequently introduced
by his successors in the magnetic art. The Mesme-
rian system, however, with the use of the baquet,was
for a long time retained, and, if not now, was, at least
till lately, practised by some of his disciples.
Mesmer was not only deprived of the countenance
and protection of the medical profession; he was ri-
diculed by the wits of Paris, and attacked and calum-
niated by the public journals, into which, we are told,
the censors allowed no article to be admitted which
emanated from any of his partizans. At length he
found it necessary to vindicate himself, and to expose
to the world the unfair proceedings of his enemies.*
It cannot be denied, however, that Mesmer drew
down upon himself a great deal of this obloquy and
persecution by the obscurity of some of his proposi-
tions, the mystery attending his practice, and by the
coldness and contempt with which he affected to treat
the professors, as well as the profession of the medi-
cal art. He boldly set out with the extraordinary
and novel principle: There is but one health,one dis-
* "Precis historique des faits relatifs au magnetisme animal," &c.-
1781; awork which deservesto be carefully perused by all those who are
desirous of obtaining a knowledge of the early history of the magne-
tic doctrines and practice.
61
INTRODUCTION.
ease, andone remedy, and arrogated to himself the
discovery of the grand panacea.
To add to the disagreeableness of his situation, a
misunderstanding arose between him and his intimate
friend and zealous partizan, D'Eslon, who had set up
a separate and independent magnetic establishment,
a step which occasioned a serious breach between the
disciple and his master. The consequence oftall these
unpleasant circumstances was, that Mesmer quitted
Paris, and went to reside, for a time, at Spaa; at
length he was induced, bythe solicitations of hisfriends,
to return to the French metropolis, for the purpose of
delivering a course of lectures on his magnetic re-
medy.
Mesmer now had recourse to a proceeding which
has exposed him to a good deal of animadversion.
He had previously refused an offer made to him by
the French government of 20,000 livres, for the com-
munication of his secret, upon the pretext that it
might give occasion to dangerous abuses; whereas,
upon his return to Paris, he agreed to sell this secret,
which he would not entrust to the prudence of the
magistracy, to every private individual who was wil-
ling to pay him one hundred Louis-d'or in return.
With this view he established a secret society under
the name of " The Harmony," where he initiated
those, who paid him the above price, into his mystery,
under the most sacred promises of secrecy; and by
this means he is said to have realised a fortune of
150,000 crowns.* This society consisted principal-
* M. Deleuze vindicates Mesmer, upon not unreasonable grounds,
1
62
INTRODUCTION. 63
ly of wealthy persons who had not been educated for
the medical profession; it reckoned only four physi-
cians among its numbers.
In consequence of this step, animal magnetism lost
a great deal of that impenetrable mystery in which it
had been hitherto enveloped, and which had, at least,
secured it from abuse. The secret was not kept:
The artwas empirically practised by persons who had
obtained merely a superficial knowledge of its princi-
ples; and it was frequently exposed to the most ridi-
culous misapplications; circumstances which could
not fail to bring the whole treatment into discredit.
In the meantime, however, some of Mesmer's pu-
from the censures to which he exposed himself by this proceeding.
It must be recollected, that he had purchased the right of exercising
the medical profession, and he was, therefore, entitled to make others
pay for the instruction he communicated to them. But farther, he had
spent a great deal of time and labour on a discovery, which he himself
believed to be of vast importance to science and to humanity; and he
was rewarded for his exertions by the persecution of the whole faculty.
He had, therefore, a right to sell the secret of his method to those who
were willing to purchase it. But it is known to be a fact, that he in-
structed several individuals gratuitously; and there is an anecdote re-
specting him, related by Deleuze, which proves his liberality, and does
great credit to the delicacy and disinterestedness of his character. M.
Nicolas, aphysician of Grenoble, was one ofthose who came to be en-
rolled among his pupils. Having paid down the sum required, he
confessed that the sacrifice embarrassed him a good deal. " I thank
you, sir," said Mesmer, " for your zeal and your confidence; but my
dear brother, don't let this make you uneasy. Here are an hundred
Louis; carry them to the box, that it may be believed you have paid
as well as the rest; and let this remain a secret between ourselves."
This anecdote was communicated to Deleuze by M. Nicolas himself.
Moreover, it is very doubtful whether Mesmer ever realised such large
sums, as he is alleged by some to have acquired.
INTRODUCTION.
pils made a more prudent and cautious use of animal
magnetism. They established harmonic societies in
the different provinces and towns of France, and
united themselves under the general superintendence
of Mesmer. In these institutions, the destitute sick
were magnetised gratisin the presence of physicians;
the discoveries made in the progress of their practice
were communicated to each other; and the most in-
teresting cases were made public through the medium
of the press.
It is rather singular, that the Medical Society of
Paris paid so little attention to this pretended dis.
covery; and that they permitted animalmagnetism
to be practised for so long a period, without any in-
vestigation, interruption, or hinderance upon their
part.
In the year 1778, indeed, at the solicitation of a
friend of Mesmer's, they appointed a committee to en-
quire into this subject, consisting of the physicians,
Daubenton, Desperrieres, Mauduyt, Andry, Tessier,
and Vicq-d'Azyr; but Mesmer, although he had no
objection to receive them, or any other individuals, as
witnesses of his treatment, would not agree to the
proposed investigation, on the ground that it might
give him the appearance of a common mystical em-
piric. On the other hand, he proposed to the Medi-
cal Faculty, as a test of the superior efficacy of his
practice, that twenty-four patients should be selected
from the hospitals, one-half of whom were to be
treated according to the usual principles of medicine,
64
INTRODUCTION.
and the other half should be magnetised by himself. *
This proposal, however, was not accepted by the
Faculty, who contented themselves with commission-
ing two of their members, MM. Andry and Thouret,
to investigate the medicinal effects of the mineral
magnet, a task which these gentlemen performed in a
very satisfactory manner. t
* The same proposal, it is said, has been repeatedly made by the
Marquis de Puysegur, but it has never been accepted. The circum-
stance is remarkable, as it demonstrates, at least, the great confidence
which the magnetisers repose in the efficacy of their peculiar mode of
treatment.'
t See" Observations et Recherches sur l'usage de l'aimant en Mede-
cine, on M6moirs sur le Magnetisme Medicinal ;" in the "Histoire de la
Societd Royale de Medicine," for the year 1779. Paris, 1782.
The medicinal efficacy of the mineral magnet seems to have been
observed in ancient times, and its application, in certain diseases, was
recommended by Galen and Dioscorides. Borelli takes notice of its
application in the tootbach and ear-ach: "
Quidam sunt, qui dentis-
calpia, auriscalpiaque habent, quae tactu solo dolores dentium, aurium
et oculorum tollant." Klarich of Gittingen occupied himself, about
the year 1765, with experiments on the medicinal efficacy of mag-
netism. (See the Hannoverian Magazine for 1765, and the Gittingen
Literary Advertiser for 1765, 1766.) The reader will also find this
subject amply discussed in the following works:
"Ludwig, Dissert. de Magnetismo in corpore humano." Leips. 1772.
"J. C. Unzer, Beschreibung der mit dem Kiinstlichen Magnet an-
gestellten Versuche." Altona, 1775.
"J. F. Bolten, Nachricht von einem mit dem Kiinstlichen Magnet
gemachten Versuch in einer Nervenkrankheit." Hamb. 1775.
"J. A. Heinsius, Beytriige zu meinen Versuchen welche mit kiinstli.
chen Magneten in verschiedenen Krankheiten angestellt worden."
Leips. 1776.
"Sammlung der neuesten gedruckten und geschriebenen Nachrich-
ten von Magnetcuren." Leips. 1778.
"Historia trismitonici quadraginta fere septimanarum a Philiatro de
Wocher curati. Freiburg, 1778."
E
65
INTRODUCTION.
At length, when animal magnetism prevailed to
such an extent in France, as to give occasion to many
abuses of that practice in the hands of the ignorant
and unskilful, a royal mandate was issued, upon the
12th of March 1784, to the medical faculty, requir-
ing them to appoint commissioners to investigate the
matter. Two commissions were, in consequence ap-
pointed; the one consisting of members of the Aca-
demy of Sciences,-Franklin, Le Roi, Bailly, De Bori,
and Lavoisier, and of the medical faculty,--Bovie,
and after his death, Majault, Sallin, D'Arcet and Guil-
lotin ; the other composed of members of the society of
physicians,-Poissonnier, Desperrieres, Caille, Mau-
duyt, Andry and Jussieu.
The result of the investigation bythese commission-
ers is well known. They published reports altogether
unfavourable to the pretensions of animalmagnetim;
and these reports seem to have satisfied most of the
scientific men at that period, and have been appealed
to ever since, more especially in this country, as hav-
ing set the question, respecting the merits of the mag-
netic treatment, completely at rest.*
"E. G. Baldinger, Programma, Succincta narratio historica, de Mag-
netis viribus ad morbos sanandos, 1778." (In Opusc. Medic. Got-
tinges.)
"De Harsu, Recueil des effects salutaires de 'aimant dans les mala-
dies." Geneve, 1782.
* See "Rapport des Commissaires de la Societ6 Royale de Medecine,
nommis parle Roi,pour faire l'examen du magnetisme animal; Paris,
1784.--Rapport des Commissaires charges par le Roi de 1'examen du
magnetisme animal (by M. Blailly); Paris, 1784.-Expos6 des ex-
periences qui ont et6 faites sur le magnetisme animal. Lu a l'Aca-
demie des Sciences par M. Bailly. Paris, 1784.-Report of Benjamin
Franklin and other Commissioners, charged by the King of France
with the examination of the animal magnetism, as now practised at
66
INTRODUCTION. 67
The whole of this investigation, however, is al-
leged by the professors of animalmagnetism to have
Paris; translated from the French, with an historical introduction.
Lond. 1785."
The following extract from the Report of the Commissioners will
sufficiently show the object they appear to have had in view, and the
method in which the investigation was conducted.
" 1.Le fluide, que les Commissaires nomment fluide magnetique
animal, n'existe pas, car il
echappe a tous les sens.
"2.Ce fluide echappant Atous les sens, son existence ne peut etre
demontr6 que par les effets curatifs dans le traitement des maladies,
on par les effets momentanes sur l'economie animale.-I faut exclure
de ces deux preuves le traitement des maladies, parcequ'il ne peut
fournir que des resultats toujours incertains et souvent trompeurs.
"3. Les veritables preuves, lespreuves purement physiques de l'exist-
ence de ce fluide, sont les effets momentands sur le corps animal.
"Pour s'assurer de ces effets, les commissaires ont fait des epreuves,
1.
Sur eux-memes; 2. sur sept malades; 3. sur quatre personnes;
4. sur une societ6 assembl6e chez M. Franklin; 5. sur des malades
assembl6s chez M.Jumelin; 6. avee un arbre magnetisd; 7. enfin sur
differens sujets."
"4. De ces experiences, les Commissaires ont conclu, que l'imagina-
tion fait
tout, que le Magnetisme est nul. Imagination, imitation, at.
touchement, telles sont les vrais causes des effets attribu6 au Magnet-
ismne Animal."
"5. Les proced6s du Magnetisme etant dangereux, il suit que
tout traitement public oit
les moyens du Magnetisme seront employ6s,
ne pent avoir a la longue que des effets funestes."
Such is the substance of this celebrated Report. It seems quite
clear that these Commissioners were exceedingly ignorant of the sub-
ject which they were charged to investigate; and their Report was
addressed to a public even more ignorant than themselves. It would
appear, however, that their principal object was to satisfy themselves
of the existence or non-existence of the alleged magneticfluid, which
fluid was never any thing more than a mere hypothesis in the mag-
netic theories,--a gratuitous assumption of Mesmer's, in order to en-
able him to account for the phenomena; and these phenomena could
be, in no degree, affected by the rejection of the supposed agent. The
facts connected with the magnetic treatment would still have stood
upon the same footing as they did previous to the investigation.
The Commissioners, indeed, do not pretend to deny that some ef-
68 INTRODUCTION.
been conducted in a very superficial and unsatisfac-
tory manner. Franklin is said to have been indis-
posed at the time, and to have paid little attention to
the proceedings. Of the whole commissioners, the
learned and intelligent Jussieu, it is stated, took the
greatest interest in the investigation, and bestowed
the greatest attention upon the phenomena exhibited;
and it is a circumstance rather remarkable, that this
eminent physician not only refused to subscribe the
general report drawn up by the other commissioners,
but published a special report of his own, in which
he presented an entirely different view of the matter,
and pronounced an opinion highly favourable to the
pretensions of Mesmer and his disciples. *
It is well known, that the commissioners, in gene-
fects were produced in the course of their experiments, which, indeed,
is wonderful enough, considering the circumstances in which they
were made. But these effects they ascribed to imagination, imitation,
and attouchement,-thatis to say, they attempted to refute one theory
by setting up another of their own; and whether they were right or
wrong is a matter, comparatively, of little consequence. It is the
facts, and not the opinions of theorists, which are of chief importance
here, as in all other scientific questions. The reader, however, will
find some observations in the sequel, which will probably convince
him, that, in our present more advanced state of knowledge upon this
subject, the theory of imagination, imitation, and attouchement is utter-
ly untenable, if not wholly absurd.
The dangers attending the empirical and unskilful application of
animal magnetism are allowed upon all hands,-by the partisans as
well as by the opponents of the system; but this observation cannot
apply to the treatment when carefully conducted under scientific and
medical superintendence and control; and, at any rate, it has no-
thing to do with the truth of the facts.
* " Rapport de l'un des Commissail.es (A. L. Jussieu,) charg6s par
le Roi de 1'examen du Magnetisme Animal. Paris, 1784."
INTRODUCTION.
ral, although men of undoubted learning and talents,
proceeded to the investigation of animalmagnetism
with minds strongly prepossessed against the subject
of enquiry. It is certain, too, that they did not pos-
sess a sufficiently intimate knowledge of that subject,
to enable them to conduct their researches with the
requiste skill and judgment. They did not, however,
pretend to deny altogether the effects produced by the
magnetic treatment, imperfectly as it would appear to
have been applied; and this is a circumstance of con-
siderable importance. But, as the fluid which Mes-
mer and his friends alleged to be active in the process
could not be physically exhibited, they conceived them-
selves justified in denying its existence,-probably
upon the principle, that de non apparentibus,et non
existentibus, eadem est ratio,-and in ascribing the
phenomena, which they did observe, to sensitive excite-
ment, imaginationand imitation. The commissioners
then, admitted that certain effects were produced by the
magnetic processes which they attempted; and they
even put forth a theory to account for the phenomena.
But this theory must just take its place at the side of
all the others which have been formed upon the same
subject; and it must be ultimately received or re-
jected, according as it shall be found to be confirmed
or refuted by experience.
At the period, indeed, when these commissioners
instituted their investigation, the principles of animal
magnetism were but imperfectly known. They seem
to have been ignorant of the conditions of the treat-
INTRODUCTION.
ment. They were not informed of the great influence
of volition in determining and regulating the magnetic
process; and that the external means employed, al-
though frequently useful, are not absolutely essential,
but merely instrumental and accessory, and may some-
times be altogether dispensed with. They do not
appear to have been aware, that we cannot always be
assured of the magnetic influence by effects instan-
taneously produced. In short, they ought previously
to have studied the subject more profoundly; to have
multiplied their experiments, and taken full time to
consider the phenomena; instead of pronouncing an
inconsiderate and hasty decision, upon a very super-
ficial and imperfect examination.
The experiments, too, were conducted, not under
the superintendence of Mesmer himself, but of his
pupil D'Eslon; who afterwards protested against the
reports of the commissioners,* as did several other
professors of animal magnetism; among whom M.
Bonnefoy distinguished himself by an ingenious an-
alysis of these reports, t in which he showed that the
commissioners had been guilty of a number of errors
and contradictions.
A variety of other publications appeared about this
period for and against the practice of animalmagne-
tism; and, at length, Macquart and Brieudeendeavour-
* "Observations sur les deux Rapports de MM. les Commissaires
nomm6s par sa Majest6 pour 1'examen du Magnetisme Animal, par
M. D'Eslon. 1784."
t "Analyse raisonn6e des Rapports des Commissaires charges par le
Roi de l'examen du Magnetisme Animal, par J. B. Bonnefoy. 1784."
70
INTRODUCTION.
ed to give a final blow to magnetic science in the
article Imagination,in the Encyclopedie Methodique
de Medecine.
The facts, however, which the new system of treat-
ment almost daily disclosed, were much too strong
and too firmly established to be overthrown by the
united force of learning, ingenuity, ridicule, and in-
vective. Accordingly, the subject of animal magne.
tism continued to occasion much controversy in France,
until, upon the breaking out of the revolution, other
interests than those of science almost entirely absorb-
ed the public attention. It was still practised, how-
ever, as a remedial art, in some of the provinces of
that kingdom; where schools were formed and socie-
ties established for its cultivation and improvement.
In the year 1787, Lavater,* the celebrated physiog-
nomist, imparted the system of animal magnetism as
improved by Puysegur,t to the physicians, Bicker,
* It would appear that Lavater had been originally a disbeliever
in regard to the magnetic doctrines, until he had an opportunity
of satisfying himself by experiments. .The mystical views, then
combined with the practice of the system, were well calculated to
make a profound impression upon a mind so enthusiastic as his.
Some curious letters, upon this subject, addressed by him to his friend
Spalding, have been preserved in the 8th volume of Eschenmayer's
" Archiv fiir
den thierischen Magnetismus."
± Next to Mesmer, the original discoverer, animal magnetism, per-
haps, lies under the greatest obligations to the Marquis de Puysegur,
especially for the very interesting observations which he made and
published upon the phenomena of the natural and of the magnetic
somnambulism. His principal works upon this subject are: " Me-
moires pour servir I'histoire et ' l'etablissement du magnetisme ani-
mal." 3d edit. Paris, 1820. " Du magnetisme animal, considere dans
ses rapports avec diverses branches de la Physique generale," 2d edit.
71
INTRODUCTION.
Olbers, and Wienholt * in Bremen; and, about the
same time, Boeckmann and Gmelin received it direct-
ly from Strasburg. It was owing chiefly to the zeal,
ability, and industry of these learned and most re-
spectable physicians, that the magnetic treatment was
revived in Germany, where it has continued to flour-
ish ever since, under the direct countenance and pro-
tection of some of the local governments. Besides a
great variety of learned works t upon this subject,
which have appeared without intermission, there are
several journals, bothin France and in Germany, which
are devoted entirely to the theory and the phenome-
na of animal magnetism; and in which the cases fal-
ling under that system of treatment are regularly re-
Paris, 1809. "Recherches, experiences, et observations physiologiques
sur Phomme dans 1'etat de Somnambulisme naturel, et dans le Som-
nambulisme provoqu6 par 'acte magnetique." Paris, 1811.
* Wienholt, for a considerable period, would not listen to any ar-
gument in favour of the magnetic treatment. At length, however, he
was induced to make some experiments upon his patients, the success
of which made him a complete and a sincere convert. He is the au-
thor of several valuable works upon the subject. The most useful, per-
haps, is that entitled: " Heilkraft des thierischen Magnetismus nach
eigenen Beobachtungen."-Lemgo, 1802-5; 4 vols. 8vo.
Wienholt is, undoubtedly, one of the most sober and sensible writers
on animalmagnetism. His experiments were made with great caution,
and all his observations breathe the spirit of perfect honesty, candour,
and conscientiousness. His preface to the work above mentioned is
of considerable importance to the early history of the progress of the
magnetic treatment.
t The latest, and most comprehensive, systematic work in Germany
on the subject ofanimalmagnetism, so far as I am aware, is Professor
Kieser's " System des Tellurismus, oder thierischen Magnetismus."-
Leips. 1822. 2 vols. large Svo.
INTRODUCTION.
corded, in the same manner as other important facts
which are observed in medical practice.*
Meanwhile Mesmer seems to have withdrawn in
disgust from that theatre upon which he had hither-
to acted so conspicuous a part. He retired to his
native country, Switzerland, where he continued the
practice of the magnetic treatment privately, for the
benefit of the poor, until the period of his death, which
took place upon the 5th of March, 1815, at Meers-
burg, on the Lake of Constance, at the advanced age
ofeighty-one years. As a proof of his sincere belief
in the efficacy of the remedy which he himself had
discovered, it may be remarked, that he not only con-
tinued the practice of animal magnetism among the
poor in his neighbourhood, during his retirement, but
that he submitted to the magnetic treatment in his
last illness, and experienced from it great relief.
During the active period of his career, Mesmer was
exposed to a great deal of odium, and his character
was frequently assailed by the most opprobrious as-
persions. He was constitutionally disposed to mys.-
ticism ; he paraded his discovery in all the trappings
of quackery; and his natural vanity led him con-
stantly not only to magnify his own merit, but to
* Among the most distinguished of these journals may be reckon-
ed the " Bibliotheque du Magnetisme Animal," published at Paris since
the year 1817, instead ofthe "Annales du Magnetisme Animal," which
it replaced; the "Archiv fiir
den thierischen Magnetismus," edited by
the Professors Eschenmayer of Tiibingen, Kieser of Jena, Nasse of
Halle, and Nees von Esenbeck of Bonn, and published at Leipsic;
and the "Jahrbiicher furden Lebens Magnetismus," edited by Professor
Wolfart of Berlin, and published also at Leipsic. All of these are, we
believe, still in progress. They afford a vast repertory of facts.
73
INTRODUCTION.
treat his opponents---nay, even his professional breth-
ren in general-with a presumptuous contempt, which
they could not fail to resent. Yet he appears to have
been perfectly sincere in the doctrines which he pro-
fessed, and honest in the detail of that experience
upon which his theory was founded. In testimony
of his liberality, it is worthy of notice, that, although
during the course of his busy life, he had ample op-
portunities of acquiring great wealth, and was re-
ported by his adversaries to be of an avaricious dis-
position, his whole fortune, at the time of his death,
was found not to exceed 10,000 francs. His loss
was much lamented, especially by the poor in his
neighbourhood, who had regarded him, for a long pe-
riod, as their father and their physician.*
After the retirement of Mesmer, the professors of
animalmagnetism in France became divided into three
different schools, varying considerablyfrom each other
in their several modes of treatment.
The original school of Mesmer, whose chief seat
* In an historical sketch of animal magnetism by M. de Lausanne,
published in the Annales du Magnetisme Animal, it is said that Mes-
mer refused the offer of a yearly pension of30,000 livres, made to him
by the king of France through the minister Maurepas, because his
own pecuniary interest was a secondary object with him,and he wished
first to have his discovery formally recognized and sanctioned by au-
thority. His answer was: " Les offres qui me sont faites me sem-
blent pecher, en ce qu'elles presentent mon interet pecuniaire, et non
I'importance de ma decouverte, comme objet principal. La question
doit etre absolument envisag6e en sens contraire; car sans ma decou-
verte, ma personne n'est rien." It is also said to have been in conse-
quence of D'Eslon's breach of confidence that Mesmer was induced to
sell his secret.
74
INTRODUCTION.
was at Paris, operated, principally, by physical means;
by touching, rubbing and pressure with the hand, or
by the employment of metal conductors. Its disciples
made use of magnetical vessels (baquets)* and trees,
and magnetised baths; they recommended the drink-
ing of magnetised water, and the carrying of mag-
netised plates of glass upon the stomach; and, in
general, their treatment was calculated to produce
strong crises and reactions in their patients. They
regarded the convulsions which ensued as a remedial
process of nature; and, accordingly, they endeavoured
to bring them on by artificial means, and called them
crises. As the first and great object, therefore, in
every magnetic treatment, was to produce such crises,
certain rooms, called chambres de crise, were fitted
up; apartments of which the walls and floors were
covered with matrasses and cushions, to prevent the
convulsive patients from injuring themselves in the
access of their crises. Mesmer's idea, that light and
sound are peculiarly favourable to the magnetic pro-
cess, has been already noticed.
A second school was established at Lyons and Os-
tend, under the direction of the Chevalier Barbarin,
who adopted a method of treatment totally different
from the preceding.
The school of Barbarin operated purely psychically,
admitting no other agents in the magnetic process,
* The baquet was a kind of covered tub, filled with water, iron,
glass, &c. which was supposed to contain the magnetic influence; and
cords were attached to this vessel, for the purpose of conducting the
magnetic virtue to the patients under treatment.
75
INTRODUCTION.
than faith and volition. For this reason, its disci-
ples were distinguished by the name of Spiritualists.
They practised no particular manipulations; any
physical operations which they admitted being con-
sidered as merely accessory, and by no means essen-
tial. They endeavoured, therefore, to produce all the
effects of animalmagnetism in their patients, by firm
determination, and the energy of the operator's voli-
tion, even at considerable distances. Their motto
was: Veuillez le bien--allez et guerissez!
The third school was established, under the direc-
tion of the Marquis de Puysegur, at Strasburg, with
the name of the Societ' karmonique des amis reunis.
It was distinguished not only by the excellent adap-
tation of its constitution, but, principally, by combin-
ing, in a happy manner, the physical and psychical
treatment, and thus steering a middle course between
the schools of Mesmer and Barbarin. The chambres
de crise-or, chambres enfer, as Puysegur called
them,--were entirely banished from this institution;
and the magnetic treatment was conducted in a man-
ner the best calculated to insure the repose and com-
fort of the patients.* The manipulations, when em-
* Kluge gives great credit to Puysegur for abolishing the chambres
de crise. Other professors of animalmagnetism, however, and among
these Van Ghert and Ziermann, look upon the matter in a quite differ-
ent light, and, with Mesmer, consider the crises, when properly regu
lated, as highly salutary. Upon this subject, Ziermann makes the fol-
lowing observations: "Nature cures many diseases only by means
crises, that is, in the meaning in which the word is here used, by
violent efforts. In general, it is only the physician who is capable of
distinguishing this crisis from the disease itself. His important busi-
76
INTRODUCTION.
ployed, were extreniely gentle; and the hands, instead
of being brought into contact with the patient, were
frequently kept at some distance from him. In con-
sequence of this mode of treatment, there ensued crises
of quite a different kind from those which were known
to Mesiner; the most agreeable feelings were expe-
rienced; the intellectual faculties appeared to be in-
creased and exalted, and in the higher stages, the pa-
tient exhibited a very delicate knowledge of his own
bodily state, as well as of the internal condition of such
other patients as were placed in magnetic connection
(en rapport) with him.
This improved treatment, introduced by Puysegur,
ness is to manage, to moderate, to increase it, according to the nature
and necessity of the case. Puysegur, Deleuze, and the other respect-
able French magnetisers are not physicians-they dread that tumult
which they are incapable of governing-that activity which they can-
not direct and regulate. They are right, and act prudently, in not at-
tempting to develope powers which they cannot control. The phy-
sician, however, is in a quite different situation. He knows what dis-
eases are cured by nature through similar efforts; he moderates or
avoids them altogether, when it is desirable to do so; but in cases
where a contrary procedure is necessary, he excites them with courage
and caution. But it is a peculiarity of the magnetic treatment that it
promotes the crises, developes them earlier and in a more lively man-
ner, and thus brings the disease sooner to a termination. These are
advantages which it possesses in a degree beyond all other means.
He who represents these artificial crises, in general, as injurious, and
on this account reprobates and rejects them, is ignorant of the very
essence and advantages of magnetism; and instead of rendering it
more practically useful, he, by the dissemination of such representa-
tions, diminishes the benefits which its application is peculiarly calcu-
lated to afford." Hippocrates has a somewhat similar idea. " Ars me-
dica ab eo quod molestum est liberat, et id, ex quo quis aEgrotat, aufe-
rendo, sanitatem reddit. Idem et natura per se facere novit."
77
INTRODUCTION.
was subsequently adopted, in a great measure, by all
the best magnetisers, and even, it has been said, by
Mesmer himself. It is to the same intelligent mag-
etiser, too, that we are indebted for the discovery of
the magnetic Somnambulism and of its singular phe.
nomena.
I am not aware that any particular school of ani-
mal magnetism predominates in Germany. In that
country, however, the treatment is almost universally
employed and recommended by the most intelligent
physicians; much attention is bestowed upon the
magnetic phenomena, and great ingenuity is displayed
in the formation of theories to account for the results.
For the benefit of those who may not hitherto have
had an opportunity of studying this subject, or of ob-
taining any correct information respecting it, it may be
proper to make a few observations upon the magnetic
susceptibility,--the peculiar mode of treatment,--and
the effects produced upon the organization of the pa-
tient.
Every individual does not possess the capability of
operating magnetically upon others; and even he
who does possess the power, in some degree, will not
always operate beneficially. Certain properties, partly
physical, and partly psychical, are requisite in the prac-
ticalmagnetiser; and the fortunate combination of these
properties may, in most cases, be considered as a gift
of nature. There is a similar inequality in the sus-
ceptibility of patients,--some being not at all, others
very slightly, and others, again, very easily and
powerfully affected by the magnetic treatment. In
6
78S
INTRODUCTION.
general, strong and healthy persons exhibit little sus-
ceptibility; while weak and diseased persons are
strongly affected in various ways. *
With regard to physical constitution, experience
seems to have demonstrated that the magnetiser
ought to possess a preponderance of energy over his
patient. A few instances, indeed, have been observ-
ed, in which weak persons have magnetised with
effect. But such exceptions are said to be extremely
rare; and Wienholt attempts to account for them
upon the principle, that, in such subjects, the vital
energy has a greater tendency to the surface, and,
therefore, a more diffusive efficacy.
The magnetiser ought to possess, not merely a
strong constitution, but also a sound state of bodily
health. A magnetiser affected with sickness will not
only operate imperfectly, but, besides, runs the risk of
communicating his diseased feelings to the patient,
and of thus increasing those sufferings which it is his
purpose to alleviate. The age of the magnetiser, too,
is a matter of considerable importance. The proper
age is that in which the corporeal and mental consti-
tution have attained their utmost developement; and
the doctrinal writers have, therefore, fixed it within
the period between the twenty-fifth and fiftieth years.
* To these circumstances, perhaps, we may ascribe the confirmed
scepticism of certain persons, who have made trivial attempts to
bring the magnetic doctrines to the test of experiment. They do not
reflect that the magnetic action depends upon certain conditions, and
that, if these conditions are not fulfilled, it is in vain to expect any
satisfactory resMlt.
79
INTRODUCTION.
To these physical qualifications must be added the
psychical, consisting of a sound and energetic mind,
a lively faith, and a determined, despotic volition.
It has been observed, that different persons are
variously susceptible of the magnetic influence. This
will be best explained when we come to speak of the
effects produced by the treatment.
The magnetic treatment is either simple or com-
pound. In the former case, the magnetiser operates
solely by himself ; in the latter, he makes use of cer-
tain external media. The simple magnetic treat-
ment is usually administered with the hand, and is
thence called manipulation. But the magnetiser can
also operate without employing the hand-by breath-
ing, or by fixing the eyes or the thoughts steadily and
intensely upon the patient. When the magnetic con-
nection has been previously established, a single fixed
look of the magnetiser, accompanied with energetic
volition, has frequently been found sufficient to throw
the patient into the state of magnetic sleep, or som-
nambulism.
The magnetic treatment by manipulation compre-
hends several modes of touching and stroking with
the hand, which could not be described here particu-
larly without leading us into prolixity. The usual me-
thod is to stroke repeatedly, with the palms of the
hands and the fingers, in one direction downwards,
from the head to the feet; and, in returning, to throw
the hands round in a semicircle, turning the palms
outwards, in order not to disturb the effects of the
direct stroke. To magnetise in the contrary direc.
80
INTRODUCTION.
tion-that is, from the feet upwards towards the
head-not only counteracts the effects of the former
method, but frequently operates of itself, prejudicially,
especially in the case of irritable subjects. If we at-
tempt to operate with the back of the hand, no effect
whatever will probably be produced upon the pa-
tient.
If, in the course of this process, the hands or fingers
of the operator are made actually to touch the body
of the patient, it is called manipulation with contact;
if, on the contrary, the operation is conducted at some
distance, it is called manipulation in distans. The
manipulation with contact is of two kinds: It is ac-
companied either with considerable pressure, or with
light touching-manipulation with strong or with
light contact. The manipulation with strong con-
tact is certainly the most ancient and the most uni-
versally prevalent mode of operating; and traces of it
are to be found in almost all ages and countries. In
manipulating with light contact, the hand, indeed, is
conducted very lightly along the body of the patient;
but the magnetiser must perform this operation with
the utmost energy, and always have the desire of ap-
plying strong pressure to the body of the patient.
The manipulation in distans is applied at a dis-
tance of generally from two to six inches from the pa-
tient's body; in the case of very susceptible persons,
it is performed at a still greater distance. The effects
of this mode of manipulating are less intense than
those produced by actual contact, and, besides, it re-
quires a greater energy of volition on the part of the
F
81
INTRODUCTION.
nagnetiser. It is, however, frequently employed in
magnetising very irritable patients, who cannot en-
dure any stronger method. *
It would be tedious to enumerate and describe all
the various kinds of manipulation, of which the
reader will receive ample information by consulting
the elementary works upon this subject. All these,
however, may be combined in the magnetic treat-
ment, according to circumstances. Much, of course,
must depend upon the skill and judgment of the mag-
netiser, who will vary his modes of operating accord-
ing to the effects produced, and the degree of sensi-
bility exhibited by the patient.
I must not, however, pass unnoticed the method of
administering animalmagnetism adopted and recom-
mended by Professor Kluge, in whose work the whole
process is described with great minuteness. t
Before commencing the magnetic manipulations, it
is necessary that both the magnetiser and the patient
should be conveniently placed; in order that theformer
may be enabled freely to perform his operations, and
the latter prepared for the expected crisis of sleep. A
semi-recumbent posture ofthe patientis, uponthewhole,
the most convenient, the body being, at the same time,
* Wienholt, however, observed several cases, in which the patients
could not endure the manipulation in distans. (See Heilkraft, &c.
Vol. i. p. 292, et seq. Vol. ii. p. 349, and Vol. iii. pp. 118, 199.) Kluge
observed the same thing in one ofhis patients, but could not discover
the reason of it. (Kluge, p. 337, note c.)
t See C. A. F. Kluge, Versuch einer Darstellung des Animalischen
Magnetismus, &c. Berlin, 1815.
82
INTRODUCTION.
so far bent, that the operator can reach, without dif-
ficulty, from the crown of the head to the toes.
Should the patient be unable to leave his bed, we must
endeavour to place him in a proper bended position
by means of pillows. It is not necessary that the pa-
tient should be completely undressed, only no silk co-
vering should be allowed to intervene.
The best situation, perhaps, in which a magne-
tic patient can be placed, is in an easy arm-chair,
with his hands resting on the arms, his feet upon a
foot-stool, and his knees bent somewhat forward.
The magnetiser then places himself, upon a common
chair, opposite to the patient, and so near as to be
able to enclose his knees within his own, but without
designedly touching them.
When the magnetiser has thus placed the patient
and himself in the most convenient attitude, he pro-
ceeds to the manipulations, which are distinguished
into the preparatoryand the effective. The prepara-
tory manipulations were formerly called placing in
connection or affinity (mettre en rapport,en harmo-
nie); meaning that they were employed for the pur-
pose of establishing such a sympathy between the
magnetiser and the patient, as should render the sub-
sequent operations more certain and'effectual.
Some magnetisers, and among others Wienholt,
proceeded at once to the effective treatment, without
any preparation. Kluge, however, strongly recom-
mends a contrary method, and, apparently, with good
reason; because, otherwise, especially in the case of
very irritable patients, the preparatory manipulations
83
INTRODUCTION.
enable them to endure the more effective operations,
which, without such preparations, might be very
painful.
The preparatory manipulations are performed in
the following manner. The operator lays hold of the
shoulders of the patient with both his hands, in such
a manner that the balls of his thumbs are placed in
the arm-pits, and the other fingers rest upon the
shoulders. In this position he continues for a few
seconds, excites in himself the intention of pressing
the shoulders together, and then laying hold of the
upper part of the arms, glides down to the elbows,
tarries there a little, and then proceeds down to the
hands, where he applies the points of his thumbs to
those of the patient, and allows the remaining fingers
to rest upon the back of the patient's hands. He then
returns, by means of the dorsal manipulation (i. e.the
hands being thrown round in a semicircle, in the man-
ner already described) to the shoulders, and repeats
the same operation two or three times; after which he
commences the effective manipulations, of which a ge-
neral description has already been given.
No person ought to attempt the magnetic treatment
without having previously prepared himself by a care-
ful study of the test works which have been written
on the subject by practical authors, such as those of
Tardy de Montravel, Gmelin, Heinecken, Wienholt,
Deleuze, Kluge, &c. in order that he may thoroughly
understand the proper methods, and profit by their
experience, when analogous cases occur in his own
practice.
84
INTRODUCTION.
The effects produced by animalmagnetism upon the
organism of the patient are truly wonderful, and can
scarcely be expected to obtain belief, excepting from
those who have actuallyexperienced or witnessed them.
These effects are very various, and may be divided
into two classes. The first consists of those general
effects which are produced upon the entire bodily
frame, and which are not merely periodical, but con-
tinue throughout the whole treatment. The second
comprehends those which affect only some particular
functions of the organization, and which are not con-
stantly manifested, but only at certain times, and es-
pecially during the magnetic manipulations. These
last may be reckoned among the particular effects of
animal magnetism.
The general effects of animal magnetism, which
may be regarded as permanent states of the organiza-
tion, and which almost always manifest themselves,
in a greater or less degree, in all subjects whose dis-
eases are of such a nature as to admit of the applica-
tion of this mode of treatment, and which, therefore,
seem to originate from the sympathy of the whole
body, are, chiefly, the following:
1. A general excitement and strengthening of the
vital functions, without any considefable stimulus, in
the nervous, muscular, vascular and digestive organs.
Persons who could not be strengthened by corrobo-
rant medicines of any kind, have been restored to
health, from a state of the greatest debility, in a short
time, by means of the magnetic treatment. The ap-
plication of this remedy quickens the pulse, produces
85
INTRODUCTION.
an increased degree of warmth, greater sensitive
power, and mental cheerfulness. The appetite and
the digestion are increased; the bowels, which had
previously been kept open by artificial means, now
become regular; and the patient acquires a liking for
such kinds of food as are good for him, and an aver-
sion from such as are injurious. Animal magnetism
also promotes all the other secretions. In those com-
plaints which are peculiar to females, it is said to be
the most powerful and effectual remedy hitherto dis-
covered. It seems to operate principally upon the
great concatenation of sympathetic nerves (the plexus
solaris) situated in the abdomen, and, by means of
their various combinations, to communicate its in-
fluence to the rest of the system.
2. It affords a gentle stimulus, pervading, gene-
rally, the whole surface of the body, by which all dis-
turbed harmony and diseased local action are removed,
and the equilibrium again restored. In this way,
animalmagnetism soothes the most violent action of
the nervous system, the tumult of the muscles, and
the over-exertion of the vital functions in the whole
economy.
3. It draws off the increased vital action from the
diseased parts, and conducts it to others. By this
means, a twofold advantage is attained. In the first
place, the excited action is carried away from the in-
ternal and more noble organs, to such whose vio-
lent action is attended with less injury to the sys-
tem ; and, in the second place, the salutary vital ac-
tion is strengthened and increased in particular debi-
4
86
INTRODUCTION.
litated organs. The consequences of the magnetic
treatment, therefore, are--soothingand strengthening.
In most instances, the agitation produced by the dis-
eased organization is gradually allayed, until, at length,
a perfect recovery is effected; because,
4. Animal Magnetism occasions a diminution and
total removal of the existing cause of the diseased ac-
tion of the nervous system.
The particular effects of animal magnetism, which
are not the necessary consequences of its application,
but which only occasionally manifest themselves, pe-
riodically, in a greater or less degree, in individual
cases, are exceedingly various, and seem to depend, in
a great measure, upon the peculiar physical and mo-
ral constitution, not only of the patient, but of the
operating magnetiser.
It sometimes happens that no perceptible effect is
produced upon the patient, during the magnetic treat-
ment, of which the efficacy only appears in the gra-
dual restoration to health. Dr Passavant mentions a
case of this description which occurred under his own
eye, where a girl was cured of St Vitus's dance, with-
out exhibiting any of the ordinary phenomena of the
magnetic treatment.* In most instances, however,
the magnetic patient experiences a variety of symp-
toms of a nature more or less remarkable. So various,
indeed, and so peculiar are these effects of the mag-
netic process, that it appears quite impossible to ar-
*" Untersuchungen iiber den Lebensmagnetismus und das Hell-
sehen; von Dr J.C. Passavant."--Frankf. on the Main, 1821, p. 73.
87
INTRODUCTION.
range or classify them under any general heads.
Such a classification, it is true, has been attempted at
different times, by Gmelin, .Heinecken, Wienholt,
Hufeland, and others; and Kluge, availing himself
of the labours of his predecessors, has distinguished
the phenomena produced by the magnetic treatment
into six classes; but he admits, at the same time,
that this classification is still a mere essay, and ne-
cessarily imperfect.
This classification, of which I shall immediately
give an abstract, follows the order of the different de-
grees through which the patient has been observed to
pass during the magnetic treatment.
Thefirst degree presents no remarkable phenome-
na. The intellect and the senses still retain their
usual powers and susceptibilities. For this reason,
this first degree has been denominated the degree of
waking.
In the seconddegree, most of the senses still remain
in a state of activity. That of vision only is impair-
ed; the eye withdrawing itself gradually' from the
power of the will. This second degree, in which the
sensibility is partially disturbed, is by some magne-
tisers called the half-sleep, or the imperfect criis.
In the third degree, the whole of the organs,
through the medium of which our correspondence
with the external world is carried on (the senses) re-
fuse to perform their respective functions, and the
patient is placed in that unconscious state ofexistence,
which is called the magnetic dsleep.
In thefourth degree, the patient awakes, as it were,
3
88
INTRODUCTION.
within himself, and his consciousness returns. He is
in a state which can neither be properly called sleep-
ing nor waking, but which appears to be something
between the two. When in this state, he is again
placed in a very peculiar connection with the exter-
nal world. This fourth degree has been distinguished
in the writings of the animal magnetisers, by the name
of the perfect crisis, or simple somnambulism.
In thefifth degree, the patient is placed in what is
called the state of self-intuition. When in this situa-
tion he is said to obtain a clear knowledge of his own
internal mental and bodily state, is enabled to calcu-
late, with accuracy, the phenomena of disease which
will naturally and inevitably occur, and to determine
what are their most appropriate and effectual re-
medies. He is also said to possess the same power
of internal inspection with regard to other per-
sons who have been placed in magnetic connection
with him. From this fifth degree all the subsequent
magnetic states are comprehended under the denomi-
nation of lucidity, or lucidvision, (Fr. Clairvoyance;
Germ. Hellseken.)
In the sixth degree, the lucid vision, which the pa-
tient possessed in the former degree, extends to all
objects, near and at a distance, in space and time;
hence it has been called the degree of universal lu-
cidity.
No patient, it is said, can reach the higher degrees
of magnetism, without having previously passed
through the lower. Individuals, it is true, are some-
times placed in the higher degrees at the very first
89
INTRODUCTION.
magnetic treatment; but they are supposed to have
previously passed through the intermediate states in
so rapid a manner, as renderedsit difficult, or im-
possible, to distinguish the transitions. External, as
well as internal influences, not yet sufficiently ascer-
tained, dispose a patient, more or less, at particular
times, to attain a certain degree ; and hence, the mag-
netic sleep is never permanently the same, but al-
ways variable.
I have thus attempted to point out, as concisely as
possible, the most remarkable characteristic symptoms
exhibited in the six progressive states produced by
the magnetic treatment. It is thought unnecessary,
at present, to enlarge upon the very curious facts
alluded to in describing the fourth, fifth, and sixth
degrees; the more especially as the reader will find
some of the most important of them exemplified in the
following Report of the French physicians.
It may be proper, however, to make a few obser-
vations upon the theory put forth by the first French
commissioners, in order to account for the pheno-
mena of animal magnetism, and which appears to
have been framed with such plausibility, as to have
satisfied those scientific men who were ignorant of
the process, and in a great degree checked for a season
all serious experimental investigation of the subject.
This theory ascribed the whole of the magnetic
phenomena to imagination, imitation, and attoucke-
ment.
The last element of this theory is at once over-
thrown by the single decisive fact, that all the mag-
90
INTRODUCTION.
netic phenomena are frequently produced without
touching the patient at all.
The influence of the imagination and of the imi-
tative principle seem, at first sight, much more cap-
able of affording an adequate explanation of the facts;
but the activity of these principles in the magnetic
process is rejected as absurd by every practical mag-
netiser, as well as by every intelligent opponent of
the system; and, besides, many of the phenomena
are of such a nature, that they cannot be rationally
accounted for upon any such theory. Even Dr
Stieglitz, an opponent, whose work appeared in 1814,
ridicules the idea of tracing the magnetic phenomena
to any such sources. "A great multitude of facts,"
says the Doctor, which, allowing for some little vari-
ation in the more minute shades, still coincide in the
most essential points, force complete conviction upon
us. The number of credible observers who attest
them, and whose representations bear the stamp
of truth, has increased so much, within the last
twenty or thirty years, in many parts of France,
Germany, and Switzerland, as to overthrow all scep-
ticism on the subject."-P. 17. "Have those seized
the right point of view, who ascribe all these pheno-
mena to the influence of a diseased imagination, or to
the excitement of sexual passion ? The partizans of
animal magnetism have a right to complain, when
their antagonists attempt to annihilate many volumes
of observations with these turns and tirades, eternally
repeated, although long since refuted. Indeed, this
is merely to seek an outlet for escape; to withdraw,
91
INTRODUCTION.
in the most convenient manner, from the investiga-
tion of truth; to prevent our listless repose from be-
ing disturbed, by adopting shallow hypotheses, which
are here totally inapplicable; and to parry off at-
tacks upon preconceived opinions, which we are nei-
ther willing to abandon, nor seriously to defend." *
"Imagination and sensual excitement," says the
celebrated Dr Hufeland, " are not the causes of these
phenomena; for we have decisive facts to prove, that
the effects have appeared without the slightest co-
operation of the imagination, and that persons of the
same sex have produced them upon each other." To
the same effect, the learned Sprengel remarks, that
" the imagination of the patient is never observed
to be increased previous to the manifestation of the
phenomena, and that the effects are not different in
* "In the times of ignorance, superstition laid hold of all pheno-
mena, and without searching for their real causes, everything was as-
cribed to the immediate agency of Divine power, or to the interven-
tion of the devil. At present, the imagination plays nearly the same
part; and in physiology it is considered as the cause of all that ap-
pears to be otherwise inexplicable. The best established facts are, at
first, declared to be gross errors, and when, at length, they have be-
come incontestable, they are attributed to the imagination; but no
one is capable of explaining in what mannner this spiritual faculty
produces the physical results."
" Science, however, teaches us nothing when it endows the imagi-
nation with supernatural power, and the truth is that, in doing so, it
merely changes the name of something that is unknown. Ignorance
concealed under another word is still ignorance, and the accumula-
tion of phenomena adds little to our knowledge, so long as none of
them is explained."
"Imaginary hypotheses can never hold the place of truth, nor dis-
pense with the necessity of investigation."-Chardel, Essai de Psy-
chol. Physiol. Paris, 1831.
92
INTRODUCTION.
those persons who have entertained the greatest
doubts regarding the efficacy of the treatment, and in
those who never heard a word about it. Hence I
hold it to be clear that the imagination has nothing to
do in the production of these phenomena; and this is
confirmed by Gmelin, who relates that magnetic pa-
tients have frequently witnessed convulsions in others
without being themselves affected in a similar man-
ner." *
Sprengel also mentions another decisive fact in re-
gard to the alleged influence of the imagination in
the magnetic process,-a fact well known to all prac-
tical inagnetisers. It is simply this, that if we at-
tempt to manipulate in contrary directions, the usual
effects will not be produced, whereas, others of a to-
tally different nature will be manifested. t
* "Ea autem methodus quosnam effectus producat, dictu est mira-
bile. Plerique jucundas habent sensationes blandi caloris aut etiam
aur quasi descendentis per nervos. Neque unquam imaginatio ante
accessum eum augetur : neque aliter se habent ii effectus in homini.
bus, qui vel maxime de efficacia earum tractationum dubitaverant,
neque alios videbis in iis, qui nunquam de ea re quidquam audiverunt.
Unde imaginationem profecto nihil posse, ut ea phenomena nascan-
tur, exploratum habeo: quod confirmatum ad Eberhardo Gmelino
lego, qui magnetismo eo imbutos refert saepe convulsivos aliorum ad-
fectus conspexisse sine ulla noxa."-Sprengel, Instit. Medicinte, Tom.
ii. p. 300, §. 396.
± "Maxime autem veritatem ejus methodi et observatorum can-
dorem probat constantissimus contrariorum tractuum effectus. Quodsi
enim vel frictionem vel etiam imaginationem accusaveris, neutra
agere in contrariis contrariorum tractuum effectibus potest. Pallor
enim subitaneus, et frigus, et nervorum distentio, nunquam a frictione
simili, contrariis duntaxat tractibus suscepta, oriri possunt."-Ibid. p.
305, . 398.
Amongst the numerous doctrinal writers and practical magnetisers,
the only one whom I have found, in recent times, adhering to the
93
94 INTRODUCTION.
A great deal has been occasionally said with re-
gard to the dangers that may arise from the practice
of animal magnetism; but these dangers are only to
be apprehended from the ignorant and unskilful ap-
plication of the treatment. In the hands of the
intelligent physician, who knows how to employ it, it
is a safe and most effectual remedy in many diseases.
Upon this subject, Dr Ziermann observes, that, "if in
the earlier magnetic associations, the storm, once ex-
cited, was allowed to rage, in the nervous system, in
uncontrolled convulsions,--if the salutary activity of
nature was cherished into a destructive organic tu-
mult; it was, indeed, very meritorious to put a stop to
these extravagances and abuses, and to warn the public
against them. Here, however, the blame is not imput-
able to magnetism, but to the ignorance or imprudence
theory of imagination, and of imagination alone, is M. Bertrand, who
published a work upon animal magnetism in 1826. But so far as 1
can perceive, M. B. seems to know nothing of the magnetic treat-
ment as a sanative process; he appears to conceive that it consists al-
together in producing somnambulism. " Quant a moi," says he, "je
crois aux phenomenes dusomnambulisme, et j'ecris ce livre pour prou-
ver que le magnetisme est une pure chimere." It is rather difficult to
comprehend what M. B. really means, but, so far as his opinions can
be guessed at, they are directly at variance with those of every other
individual who is acquainted with the subject.
I may be permitted to observe, that the opinions of Dr Sprengel,
upon this question, are the more valuable, not only on account of his
great learning and high reputation, but in consequence ofthe circum.
stance, that he was originally an opponent of animal magnetism,
against which he wrote a small work, but subsequently became a con-
vert to the doctrine; which, indeed, with few exceptions, is now uni-
versally admitted by all the most eminent physicians and physiolo-
gists of the continent. In Germany we know only ofa single disbe-
liever of the facts of magnetism among several opposers of the prc-
tice. That disbeliever is Rudolphi. And what are his arguments ?
INTRODUCTION.
of those,who, without medical knowledge, orwithout a
sufficient acquaintance with the new method, at-
tempted the cure of diseases by its means; and a
great part of the abuses and mischiefs of all kinds,
which must necessarily have arisen from this cause,
as well as from the illusions under which enthusiasts,
and others entertaining false and exaggerated views,
plied this occupation,--is to be ascribed to those, who,
although best qualified by their attainments to direct
this important business, stood altogether aloof. As
soon as the intelligent physician avails himself of this
method of cure, as soon as it is wrested from the
hands of the unprofessional, then there is as little
danger to be apprehended from it, as from the poisons
and surgical instruments which we are in the daily
practice of employing."
An opinion in some respects similar to that of Dr
Ziermann, upon the subject of animal magnetism,
was expressed by the late Mr Dugald Stewart, in
one of the last of those valuable works with which he
enriched the philosophical literature of his country.
The ingenious professor appears to have been well
aware of the irresistible weight of the evidence, which
had been adduced in favour of the facts; but had he
been better acquainted with the magnetic treatment
and the nature of the phenomena, his candid mind
would certainly have led him to reject that exploded
theory, upon which, along with the first French com-
missioners, he attempted to account for the facts.
"Among all the phenomena, however," says Mr
Stewart, "to which the subject of imitation has led our
95
INTRODUCTION.
attention, none are, perhaps, so wonderful as those
which have been recently brought to light, in conse-
quence ofthe philosophical inquiries occasioned by the
medical pretensions ofMesmer and his associates. That
these pretensions involved much of ignorance, or of im-
posture, or of both, in their authors, has, I think,
been fully demonstrated in the very able report of the
French academicians; but does it follow from this,
that the facts witnessed and authenticated by these
academicians should share in the disgrace incurred
by the empirics who disguised or misrepresented
them ? For my own part, it appears to me, that the
general conclusions established by Mesmer's practice,
with respect to the physical effects of the principle
of imitation and of the faculty of imagination, (more
particularly in cases where they co-operate together,)
are incomparably more curious, than if he had actually
demonstrated the existence of his boasted fluid: Nor
can I see any good reason why a physician, who ad-
mits the efficacy of the moral agents employed by
Mesmer, should, in the exercise of his profession,
scruple to copy whatever processes are necessary for
subjecting them to his command, any more than he
would hesitate about employing a new physicalagent,
such as electricity or galvanism. The arguments to
the contrary, alleged by the commissioners, only show
that the influence of imagination and of imitation is
susceptible of a great abuse in ignorant or in wicked
hands ;-and may not the same thing be said of all
the most valuable remedies we possess ? Nay, are not
the mischievous consequences which have actually
96
INTRODUCTION.
been occasioned by the pretenders to animal magne-
tism, the strongest of all encouragements to attempt
such an examination of the principles upon which the
effects really depend, as may give to scientific practi-
tioners the management of agents so peculiarly effica-
cious and overbearing ? Is not this mode of reasoning
perfectly analogous to that upon which medical in-
quirers are accustomed to proceed, when they dis-
cover any new substance possessed of poisonous qua-
lities? Is not this considered as a strong presump-
tion, at least, that it is capable of being converted
into a vigorous remedy, if its appropriate and specific
disorder could only be traced; and has it not often
happened, that the prosecution of this idea has mul-
tiplied the resources of the healing art ?" *
Naturalsomnambulism is a very curious phenomenon,
and of rare occurrence ; but a good many instances of
it have been observed and described, while its more re-
markable manifestations have been attempted to be
explained upon various ingenious but unsatisfactory
hypotheses. Somnambulists, or sleep-walkers, are
persons, who apparently, in a state of profound sleep,
rise from their beds at night, traverse the most inac-
cessible places without awaking, and successfully per-
form the most minute and delicate operations, whe-
ther intellectual or mechanical; and all this in the
dark, with their eyes closed, as in the ordinary state
of sleep. It has been observed, also, that individuals,
while in this state, occasionally manifest a superior
knowledge of subjects and of languages, which they
* Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind, vol. iii.
4to, Lond.
1827, pp. 221-222.
G
97
INTRODUCTION.
had not previously studied so as to remember, or with
which they had been but imperfectly acquainted. It is
likewise a striking peculiarity of this state of exist-
ence, that, after awaking, the individual, who had
thus insensibly performed all these operations, retains
no recollection of any thing that passed while he was
under the influence of somnambulism.
It is worthy of notice, too, that the acts of the
somnambulist are almost always performed with a de-
gree of freedom, boldness, and precision, superior to
what he manifests when awake;' and that he gene-
rally succeeds in every thing he attempts. There
is no instance, so far as I am aware, of a somnam-
bulist awaking spontaneously in the midst of any
operation which he has once undertaken; nor of his
perishing amidst the dangers which he frequently
encounters. There are, it is true, many instances
of somnambulists who have perished in consequence
of having been suddenly awakened by the impru-
dent alarm of the witnesses of those perils to which
they were apparently exposed; but the general
experience of all times seems to lead to the con-
clusion, that the somnambulist is guided by other
senses or instincts; in short, that he is protected from
injury by other means and guarantees of security,
than those by which his conduct is regulated in his
ordinary waking state. So long as he is left undis-
turbed in his proceedings, he acts fearlessly, and is
safe; a sudden awakening alone, by restoring him to
his natural state, causes him to perish.
Now, it is one of the many benefits conferred upoin
physiological science by the magnetic treatment, that
98
INTRODUCTION.
it has not only demonstrated the possibility of pro-
ducing this singular state of the human organization
artificially, but likewise afforded the means of more
minutely investigating its various and most interest-
ing phenomena. Many of the professors of animal
magnetism, indeed, seem to be of opinion, that the
magnetic treatment is not the primary and efficient,
but only the secondary and occasional cause of som-
nambulism; that is to say, that it merely tends to
develope that crisis in such constitutions as are pre-
disposed to it. It is certain, however, that it has
been so produced in a great variety of instances; and
thus given rise to many speculations, both with regard
to the agency of the magnetic principle in general,
and to the nature and phenomena of that extraordi-
nary state of existence which has just been described.
Ignorant, as I must acknowledge myself to be, of
the medical sciences, it would be highly presumptu-
ous in me to attempt to propound any theory upon a
subject so very obscure as this. The few observa-
tions which follow, therefore, I should wish to be
considered merely in the light of hints to those who
may hereafter be led to the investigation of the sub-
ject, with more knowledge, experience, and ability.
Although it has long been customary to ascribe the
operations of sense, as well as of intellect, to the cere-
bral organs, yet I believe it has never been altogether
denied that these operations may be influenced, in a
considerable degree, by the peculiar state of other
parts of the organism, and, especially, of the nervous
system in general.
99
INTRODUCTION.
The late profound and interesting researches of
those eminent physiologists, Reil, Autenrieth, and
Humboldt, have gone far not only to demonstrate
the existence of a nervous circulation, but even to
render probable the external expansion of this cir-
culating fluid,--an expansion which takes place with
such energy as to form an atmosphere, or sphere
of activity, similar to that of electrical bodies. Ad-
mitting, then, the existence of this nervous fluid, and
of its sensible atmosphere, it does not seem to be a
very violent or unphilosophical hypothesis to pre-
sume, that it is capable of being directed outwards,
by the volition of one individual, with such energy
as to produce a certain effect upon the organization
of another. This hypothesis, too, appears to be sup-
ported by the fact, that the persons possessing the
greatest nervous energy operate, in general, most
effectually in the magnetic treatment, and that weak
and diseased persons,--especially those labouring un-
der disorders of the nervous system,-are most sus-
ceptible of the magnetic influence.
Almost all the practitioners of animal magnetism,
indeed, seem to agree in this, that the magnetic
treatment operates principally, if not altogether, upon
the nervous system, and, particularly, upon those
nerves which are situated in the abdominal region.
In this region, we find the great ganglion, or conca-
tenation of sympathetic nerves, called theplexus so-
laris,which appears to be the centre of the ganglionic
system,--a system of nervous influence opposed, as is
well known, to that of the brain. So important in
100
INTRODUCTION.
the human economy has the region of this great gan-
glion been considered, that some of the older philoso-
phers conceived it tobe the seat ofthe sentient soul. In
a diseased state of the organism, this ganglion appears
to stand in very peculiar relations towards the cere-
bral system; and it has sometimes been, not un-
reasonably, denominated the cerebrum abdominale.
Now, it is a singular fact, that, in many cases of
catalepsy and somnambulism, the usual organs of the
senses have been found to be entirely dormant, and the
seat of sensibility apparently transferred to the re-
gion of this ganglion, or cerebrum abdominale.*
Does not this fact suggest some distinction, not hither-
to sufficiently investigated, between the intellect and
the sensibility,-between the cerebral and the gang-
lionic systems ?
There seems little reason to doubt, that this im-
portant ganglion was designated by Paracelsus and
Van Helmont in what they have said respecting the
existence and functions of the archeus, which they
considered as a sort of demon, presiding over the
stomach, acting constantly by means of the vital
spirits, performing the most important offices in the
animal economy, producing all the organic changes
which take place in the corporeal frame, curing
diseases, &c. Van Helmont even held that, by virtue
of the archeus,man was approximated to the realm of
spirits; meaning, I presume, that in cases of ecstasy,
* This fact was long ago demonstrated by the experiments of Dr
Petetin at Lyons, and has since been abundantly confirmed.--See Ap-
pendiz.
101
INTRODUCTION.
catalepsy and solnnambulism, the excited sensibility
of the archeus,(or plexus solaris?)predominates over
the cerebral energy, supplies its functions with in-
creased activity, and seems to transport us into
another world. Taking into view the whole of the
facts connected with this subject, the ideas of Paracel-
sus and Van Helmont, when divested of their mysti-
cism, may be found not quite so extravagant and
chimerical as has been hitherto supposed.
In consequence of his ingenious and minute inves-
tigations into the nervous system, Reil conceived him-
self entitled to assume two poles of nervous sensibility
in the human organism, the one, the pneumatic pole,
being situated in the brain, the other, the somatic
pole, in the ganglionic system. The late ingenious
Dr Spurzheim, without any reference to the subject
we are now investigating, has made the following ju-
dicious remark: " Sometimes it would appear as if
the vital power were concentrated in one system, to
the detriment of all the others. The muscular or
athletic constitution is often possessed of very little
nervous sensibility; and, on the other hand, great ac-
tivity of the brain seems frequently to check muscu-
lar developement." * This observation is quite con-
sistent with the opinions of Reil. If we admit the
relationship, or perhaps rather the antagonism, al-
ready pointed out, between the intellect and the sensi-
bility, between the cerebral and the nervous or gang-
* Phrenology,in connexion with the study of Physiognomy, p. 15.
4
102
INTRODUCTION.
lionic systems, and could we conceive it possible,
either by means of the manipulations, &c. employed
in the magnetic treatment, or otherwise, to withdraw
a considerable portion of the nervous or vital energy
from the cerebral region, and concentrate it at the
epigastrium in the plexus solaris,should we not thus
be enabled to account, in some degree, for the ex-
traordinary phenomena of animal magnetism, occa-
sioned by the exalted sensibility of the ganglionic
system ? And might not the same phenomena be
manifested in certain diseased or disturbed states of
the organism, such as catalepsy and somnambulism,
in consequence, perhaps, of some unequal and irregu-
lar distribution of the nervous energy ?
I repeat that I have not presumed to offer the fore-
going observations with the hope of their affording a
satisfactory theory to account for the phenomena in
question, but merely as queries thrown out to those
persons, who, with superior qualifications for the task,
may feel inclined to prosecute the inquiry. Much,
indeed, still remains to be done in the investigation
of this dark and difficult subject; but a patient and
judicious perseverance in the paths of experimental
research may, ultimately, lead to a successful solution
of some, at least, of the many difficulties with which
it is now beset. The evolution of some single, and
perhaps simple principle may, at length, disperse the
darkness which now envelopes this most interesting
physiological question; and posteritymayeven wonder
that we should have been impeded, by apparently in-
103
INTRODUCTION.
surmountable obstacles, in an investigation, in which
every thing is to them smooth and easy.*
To conclude:--In the higher degrees ofanimalmag-
netism, we may find a complete practical refutation of
all the material theories of the human mind, an im-
pressive proof of the independence of the soul, and
the strongest grounds for presuming its immortality;
since it has been demonstrated beyond the possibility
of rational doubt, that, in its manifestations, it is not
confined to any one particular portion of the corpo-
real organism, and that it is capable of exercising its
functions without the use of any of those material
organs, by means of which it usually maintains a cor-
respondence with the external world.t
The reader will be pleased to remember, that the
following Report contains only a small fragment of
the evidence in favour of animal magnetism; but,
* " Veniet tempus, quo ipsa qum nunc latent, dies extrahet, et lon-
gioris evi diligentia. Ad inquisitionem tantorum stas non una suf-
ficit. Veniet tempus, quo posteri nostri tam aperta nos nescivisse
mirabuntur."- Seneca.
t " In eo tamen Wienholt adsentior, et his phenominis ali immortali-
tatis spem ac augeri; cum nullum supersit dubium, posse nos sentire
ac percipere sine ullo organorumexternorum commercio."-Sprengel,
Inst. Med. p. 311, §. 401.
Dr Georget, a young and most promising physician, published a
work of great merit, in 1821, under the title of" Physiologie du Sys-
teme Nerveux," in which he broadly professed the principles of mate-
rialism ; but afterwards, on becoming acquainted with the phenomena
ofthe magnetic somnambulism, he found reason to change hisopinions;
and in his last will and testament, dated 1st March 1826, he earnestly
requested that the utmost publicity should be given tohis recantation.
Dr Georget is said to have been engaged in a work upon this sub-
ject at the time of his death, in 1828.
104
INTRODUCTION. 105
emanating, as it does, from a public scientific body of
the highest respectability, and among whom no pre-
judice in favour of the subject could be presumed to
exist, it was conceived that it must carry with it a
far greater weight of authority than the result of
any private investigation. It may be considered,
too, as an ingenuous recantation of its former errors,
and as an appropriate palinode for the hasty opinions
expressed in the report of its previous premature and
most imperfect inquiry. It is calculated, therefore,
to elevate the character and reputation of the present
members of the academy, and to repair the injury and
injustice which were committed by their predecessors.
REPORT
ON THE
MAGNETIC EXPERIMENTS,
MADE BY A COMMITTEE OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY
OF MEDICINE.
REPORT
ON
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
GENTLEMEN,
MORE than five years have elapsed since
a young physician, M. Foissac, whose zeal and talent
for observation we have had frequent opportunities
of remarking, thought it his duty to draw the atten-
tion of the medical section to the phenomena of ani-
mal magnetism. With regard to the Report made by
the Royal Society of Medicine in 1784, he recalled to
our recollection, that, amongst the commissioners
charged with conducting the experiments, there was
one conscientious and enlightened man, who had pub-
lished a Report in contradiction to that of his col-
leagues; that since the period in question, magnetism
had been the object of new experiments and of new in-
vestigations; and, with the consent of the section, he
proposed to submit to their examination a somnambu-
listwho appeared to him to be capable ofthrowing light
upon a question, which several of the most intelligent
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
men in France and Germany considered as far from
being resolved, although, in 1784, the Academy of
Sciences and the Royal Society of Medicine had pro-
nounced an unfavourable judgment.
A committee, composed of MM. Adelon, Burdin
the elder, Marc, Pariset, and myself, (M. Husson,)were
appointed by you to report upon the proposition ofM.
Foissac.
The Report, which was presented to the Section of
Medicine at its meeting of the 13th December 1825,
concluded that magnetism ought to be subjected to a
new investigation. This conclusion gave rise to an
animated discussion, which was prolonged during three
meetings-the 10th and 24th of January, and the 14th
of February, 1826. At this last meeting, the com-
mittee replied to all the objections which had been
made to their Report; and at the same meeting, after
mature deliberation, after adopting the mode hitherto
unusual in matters of science, ofan individual scrutiny,
the Section decided that a special committee should be
appointed, in order to investigate anew the pheno-
Inena of animal magnetism.
This new committee, consisting of MM. Bourdois,
Double, Itard, Gueneau de Hussy, Guersent, Fouquier,
Laennec, Leroux, Magendie, Marc, and Thillaye, was
appointed at the meeting of the 28th of February
1826. Some time afterwards, M. Laennec, having
been obliged to leave Paris on account of his health,
I was named to replace him; and the committee, thus
constituted, proceeded to discharge the duty with
which it had been entrusted.
110
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Their first care, previous to the retirement of M.
Laennec, was to examine the somnambulist who had
been offered to them by M. Foissac.
Various experiments were made upon her within
the premises of the Academy; but we must confess
that our inexperience, our impatience, our distrust,
perhaps too strongly manifested, permitted us only to
observe certain physiological phenomena sufficiently
curious, which we shall communicate to you in the
sequel of our Report, but in which we did not recog-
nize any peculiar phenomena of somnambulism. This
somnambulist, fatigued, no doubt, with our importu-
nities, ceased, at this time, to be placed at our dis-
posal; and we were obliged to search the hospitals
for the means of prosecuting our experiments.
M. Pariset, physician to the Salpetriere,was more
capable, than any other, of assisting us in our search.
He set about the task with an ardour, which, unfor-
tunately, led to no result. The committee, who
founded a great part of their hopes upon the resour-
ces which this hospital might be capable of furnish-
ing, whether in regard to the individuals who might
be subjected to experiment, or to the presence of M.
Magendie, who had requested to accompany them as
one of the committee; the committee, we say, see-
ing itself deprived of those means of instruction which
it had expected to find, had recourse to the zeal of
each of its individual members.
M. Guersent promised us his assistance in the hos.
pital des Enfans, M. Fouquier in the hospital de la
Charitd,MM. Gueneau and the Reporter in the Hotel-
111
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Dieu, M. Itard in the Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb; and thenceforward, each prepared to make
experiments, which were subsequently to be witnessed
by the other members of the committee. Other and
more powerful obstacles soon arrested our labours;
the causes from which these obstacles proceeded are
unknown to us; but, in virtue of a decree of the ge-
neral council of the hospitals, of date the 19th of
October 1825, which prohibited the use of every new
remedy which had not previously been approved of
by a committee appointed by the council, the mag-
netic experiments could not be continued at the hos-
pital de la Charit:
Reduced to their own resources, to those which the
particular relations of each of its individual members
might present, the committee made an appeal to all
the physicians who were known to make animal mag-
netism the object of their researches. We requested
them to allow us to witness their experiments, to ac-
company them during their progress, and to confirm
the results. We are bound to declare that we have
been most effectually assisted in our investigations by
several of our brethren, and especially by the gentle-
man who first suggested, the enquiry, M. Foissac.
We do not hesitate to declare that it is to his constant
and persevering intervention, and to the active zeal
of M. Dupotet, that we are indebted for the greater
part of the materials embodied in the Report which
we now present to you. Nevertheless, gentlemen, do
not believe that your committee, in any circumstance,
intrusted to others than its own members the task of
11
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
directing the experiments which we witnessed, that
any others than the Reporter held the pen, at any in-
stant, for the purpose of compiling the minutes of
procedure, and of commemorating the succession of
the phenomena which presented themselves, and ex-
actly as they presented themselves. The committee
proceeded to fulfil their duties with the most scrupu-
lous exactness; and if we render justice to those who
assisted us with their kind co-operation, we must, at
the same time, destroy even the slightest suspicion
which might arise in your minds with regard to the
share, greater or less, which others than ourselves
may be supposed to have had in the investigation of
this question. Your committee always suggested the
different modes of experimenting, traced the plan of
inquiry, directed the course to be perused, followed
and described its progress. Finally, in availing our-
selves of the services of auxiliaries more or less zealous
and enlightened, we have always been present, and
always impressed our own direction upon every thing
that has been done.
Thus you will see that we admit no experiment
made without the presence of the committee, even by
members of the academy. Whatever confidence the
spirit of confraternity, and the reciprocal esteem with
which we are all animated, ought to establish amongst
us, we felt that in the investigation of a question of
which the solution is so delicate, we should trust none
but ourselves, and that you could trust only to our
guarantee. From this rigorous exclusion, however,
we have thought proper to except a very curious phe-
H
113
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
nomenon observed by M. Cloquet, which we have ad-
mitted, because it was already, in a manner, the pro-
perty of the academy, the section of surgery having
been occupied in its investigation at two of its meet-
ings.
This reserve, gentlemen, which the committee im-
posed upon itself, in regard to the use of various facts
relative to the question which we studied with so much
care and impartiality, would give us the right to de-
mand a return of confidence, if any persons who had
not witnessed our experiments should be inclined to
raise discussions in regard to their authenticity. For
the same reason that we only demand your confidence
in respect of what we ourselves have seen and
done, we cannot admit that those who, at the same
time as ourselves and along with us, had neither seen
nor done, can attack or call in question that which
we allege to have observed. And, moreover, as we
always entertained the greatest distrust of the an-
nouncements which were made to us of wonders to
come, and as this feeling constantly predominated
during all our researches, we think we have some
right to require that, although you may suspend your
belief, you will, at least, raise no doubt in regard to
the moral and physical dispositions with which we
always proceeded to the observation of the various
phenomena of which we were witnesses.
Thus, gentlemen, this Report, which we are far
from presenting to you with the view of fixing your
opinion upon the question of magnetism, cannot and
ought not to be considered in any other light, than as
114
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the combination and classification of the facts which
we have hitherto observed: We offer it to you as a
proof that we have endeavoured to justify your con-
fidence; and while we regret that it is not founded
upon a greater number of experiments, we trust that
you will receive it with indulgence, and that you will
hear it read with some interest. At the same time,
we think ourselves bound to make you aware, that
what we have seen in the course of our experiments
bears no sort of resemblance to what the report of
1784 relates with regard to the magnetisers of that
period. We neither admit nor reject the existence of
a fluid, because we have not verified the fact; we do
not speak ofthe baquet,--ofthebaguette,-ofthe chain
established by the medium of a communication of the
hands of all the magnetised patients,-of the appli-
cation of means prolonged, sometimes during several
hours, to the hypochondriac region and the stomach,--
of the vocal and instrumental music which accompa-
nied the magnetic operations,--nor of the assemblage
of a great number of people together, who were mag-
netised in the presence of a crowd of witnesses; be-
cause all our experiments were made in the most
complete stillness, in the most absolute silence, with-
out any accessory means, never by immediate con-
tact, and always upon a single person at a time.
We do not speak of that which, in the time of
Mesmer, was so improperly called the crisis, and
which consisted of convulsions, of laughter, some-
times irrepressible, of immoderate weeping, or of pier-
115
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
cing cries, because we have never met with these dif-
ferent phenomena.
In all these respects, we do not hesitate to declare,
that there exists a very great difference between the
facts observed and decided upon in 1784, and those
which we have collected in the work which we have
the honour to present to you; that this difference es-
tablishes a most glaring line of demarcation between
the one and the other; and that, if reason has done
justice in regard to a great proportion of the former,
the spirit of observation and research should endea-
vour to multiply and appreciate the latter.
It is with magnetism, gentlemen, as with many
of the other operations of nature, that is to say, a cer-
tain combination of conditions is required in order to
the production of such and such effects. This is an
incontrovertible principle, which, if it required any
proof, might be confirmed by that which takes place
in divers physical phenomena. Thus, without a cer-
tain dryness of the atmosphere, electricity would be
but feebly developed--without heat, we should never
obtain that combination of lead with tin, which con-
stitutes the common solder of the plumbers-without
the light of the sun, we should not witness the spon-
taneous combustion of a mixture of equal parts of
chlorine and hydrogen, &c. &c. Whether these con-
ditions be external or physical, as in those cases to
which we have just referred ; whether they be inter-
nal or moral, such as the magnetisers allege to be in-
116
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
dispensable to the developement of the magnetic phe-
nomena-it is enough that they exist, and that they
should be exacted by them, to make it incumbent
upon your Committee to endeavour to unite them,
and to make it their duty to submit to them. It was,
however, neither our duty nor our inclination to divest
ourselves of that indefatigable curiosity, which induced
us, at the same time, to vary our experiments, and, if
we could, to set at fault the practices and the promises
of the magnetisers. For this double reason, we con-
ceived ourselves bound to disburthen ourselves of the
obligation they would impose of having a strong faith,
of being animated solely by benevolent motives. We
sought only to be inquisitive, mistrustful and exact
observers.
Neither did we think it our duty to endeavour to
explain these conditions. This would have been a
question of pure controversy, for the solution of which
we had no better means than in attempting to explain
the conditions of other physiological phenomena, such
as those that regulate the action of different medicines.
These are questions of the same kind, upon which
science has yet pronounced no judgment.
In all the experiments which we made, we invari-
ably observed the most rigorous silence, because we
conceived that, in the developement of phenomena so
delicate, the attention of the magnetiser and of the
magnetised ought not to be distracted by any thing
foreign. Besides, we did not wish to incur the re-
proach of having injured the success of the experi-
ment by conversation or by other distracting causes;
117
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
and we always took care that the expression of our
countenances should neither operate as a constraint
upon the magnetiser, nor inspire doubt into the mind
of the person magnetised. Our position-we are an-
xious to repeat it-was constantly that of inquisitive
and impartial observers. These different conditions,
several of which had been recommended in the works
of the respectable M. Deleuze, having been well esta-
blished, we proceed to state what we observed.
The person to be magnetised was placed in a sit-
ting posture, either in a convenient elbow-chair, or on
a couch--sometimes even in a common chair.
The magnetiser, seated on a chair a little more ele-
vated, opposite, and at the distance of about a foot
from the patient, seemed to collect himself for some
moments, during which he took the thumbs of the pa-
tient between his two fingers, so that the interior parts
of the thumbs were in contact with each other. He
fixed his eyes upon the patient, and remained in this
position until he felt that an equal degree of heat was
established between the thumbs of the magnetiser and
the magnetised. He then withdrew his hands, turn-
ing them outward, placed them on the shoulders,
where he allowed them to remain about a minute, and
conducted them slowly, by a sort of very slight fric-
tion, along the arms to the extremity of the fingers.
This operation he performed five or six times, which
the magnetisers call a pass; he then placed his hands
above the head, held them there a moment, drew
-them downwards in front of the face at the distance
of one or two inches to the epigastrium (pit of the
118
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
stomach), resting his fingers upon this part of the
body; and he descended slowly along the body to the
feet. These pases were repeated during the greater
part of the sitting; and when he wished to terminate
it, he prolonged them beyond the extremity of the
hands and feet, shaking his fingers each time. Finally,
he made transverse passes before the face and the
breast at the distance of from three to four inches,
presenting his two hands approximated to each other,
and separating them abruptly.
At other times, he approximated the fingers of each
hand, and presented them at the distance of three or
four inches from the head or the stomach, leaving
them in this position during one or two minutes;
then, withdrawing and approximating them alternate-
ly with more or less rapidity, he imitated the very na-
tural movement which is performed when we wish to
shake off a liquid which has moistened the extremity
of our fingers. These different modes of operation
have been adopted in all our experiments, without
any preference of the one to the other. Frequently
we employed only one, sometimes two, and in the
choice we made, we were never guided by the idea
that one method would produce an effect more readily
and more conspicuously than the other.
In enumerating the facts observed, your committee
shall not follow precisely the order of time in which
they were collected; it has appeared to them to be
much more convenient, and, above all, much more ra-
tional, to present them to you classified according to
the more or less conspicuous degree of the magnetic
action recognized in each.
119
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
We have, therefore, established the following four
divisions :
I. Magnetism has no effect upon persons in a state
of sound health, nor upon some diseased persons.
II. In others, its effects are slight.
III. These effects are sometimes produced by en-
nui, by monotony, by the imagination.
IV. We have seen them developed independently
of these last causes, most probably as the effect of
magnetism alone.
I. Magnetism without efect. The -reporter of the
committee has several times submitted to the opera-
tion of magnetism. Once, amongst others, while in
the enjoyment of perfect health, he had the patience
to remain seated in the same position for a period of
three quarters of an hour, with his eyes closed, in
complete immobility; and he declares, that, during
the operation, he experienced no kind of effect, al-
though the ennui of his position, and the absolute si-
lence which he had recommended to be observed,
might have been very capable of producing sleep.
M. Demussy submitted to the same experiment with
the same result. At another time, when the re-
porter was tormented with very violent and very ob-
stinate rheumatic pains, he allowed himself to be re-
peatedly magnetised, and he never obtained by this
means the slightest mitigation, although the acute-
ness of his sufferings made him vehemently desire to
have them removed, or at least alleviated.
On the 11th of November 1826, our respectable
120
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
coleague, M. Bourdois, had experienced, during two
months, an indisposition which required particular at-
tention, upon his part, to his habitual mode of living.
This indisposition, he told us, was not his ordinary
or normal state, he knew the cause of it, and could
indicate the point from which it proceeded. In
these circumstances, which, as M. Dupotet affirm-
ed, were favourable to the developement of the
magnetic phenomena, M. Bourdois was magne-
tised by M. Dupotet, in presence of MM. Itard,
Marc, Double, Gueneau, and the reporter. The ex-
periment commenced at thirty-three minutes past three
o'clock; the pulse was then at 84, which M. Double
and M. Bourdois declared to be the normal state. At
forty-one minutes past three the experiment terminat-
ed, and M. Bourdois experienced absolutely no effect.
We only observed that the pulse had fallen to 72,
that is to say 12 less than before the operation.
At the same meeting, our colleague, M. Itard, who
had been afflicted for eight years with chronic rheu-
matism, the seat of which was then in the stomach,
and who was suffering at the time from a recurrent
crisis of the disease (crisekabituelleattache'ed sa ma-
ladie-these are his own expressions), caused himself
to be magnetised by M. Dupotet. At fifty minutes
past three o'clock, his pulse was at 60; at fifty-seven
minutes past three he closed his eyes; at three mi.
nutes past four, the operation terminated. He told
us that, during the time he had his eyes open, he
thought that he felt the impression made upon his
organs by the passage of the fingers, as if they had
121
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
been struck by a blast of warm air; but that, after
having closed them, and the experiment continuing,
he had no longer the same sensation. He added
that, at the end of five minutes, he felt a headach,
which affected all the forehead and the base of the
orbits, with a sensation of dryness in the tongue, al-
though, when observed by us, the tongue was very
moist. Finally, he said that the pain which he felt pre-
vious to the operation, and which he had described as
depending upon the affection of which he complained,
had disappeared, but that it was, in general, very
variable. We remarked that the pulse had risen to 74,
that is to say, 14 more than before the operation.
We might certainly have reported other observa-
tions in which magnetism manifested no sort of acti-
vity; but besides the inconvenience of referring to
facts unattended with any result, we conceived it suf-
ficient for you to be made acquainted with the experi-
ments which three of your committee made upon
themselves, in order to have a more complete assur-
ance of the truth of our investigations.
II. Slight efects of magnetism. It cannot have
escaped you, gentlemen, that the last case in the pre-
ceding series presented a commencement of the mag-
netic action. We have, accordingly, placed it at the
end of the section, in order to serve as a link to con-
nect those which are to follow.
M. Magnien, doctor of medicine, aged 54 years,
residing in the street St Denis, No. -, walked with
great difficulty, in consequence of a fall he had some
3
122
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
years before upon the left knee, and very probably,
also, in consequence of the growth of an aneurism
of the heart, which carried him off in the month
of September last. He was magnetised by the re-
porter upon the 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22d, and
23d of August 1826. The number of pulsations was
less at the end of five sittings, than at the commence-
ment, the pulse falling from 96 to 90, from 96 to 86,
from 76 to 71, from 82 to 79, from 80 to 78, and at
the sixth sitting, the number was the same at the
commencement and at the termination, viz. 83. The
inspirations were equal, excepting upon one occasion,
when they were 20 at the beginning, and 26 at the
end. M. Magnien constantly experienced a sensation
of coolness in all those parts of his body to which
the fingers of the magnetiser were directed, and kept
for a long time in the same direction. This pheno-
menon never once failed to present itself.
Our colleague, M. Roux, who complained of a
chronic affection of the stomach, was magnetised six
times by M. Foissac, on the 27th and 29th of Sep-
tember, and on the 1st, 3d, 5th, and 7th of October,
1827. He experienced, at first, a sensible diminu-
tion in the number of inspirations and pulsations,
afterwards, a slight degree of heat in the somach, a
great degree of coolness in the face; the sensation of
a vaporisation of ether, even when no manipulations
were practised before him, and, finally, a decided dis-
position to sleep.
Anne Bourdin, aged 25 years, residing in the
street du Paon, No. 15, was magnetised on the 17th,
123
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
20th, and 21st of July, 1826, at the Hotel-Dies, by
M. Foissac, in presence of the reporter. This woman
said she complained of headach, (cephalalgia,)and ofa
nervous pain, (neuralgia,) which had its seat in the
left eye. During the three magnetic sittings, we per-
ceived the inspirations increase from 16 to 39, from
14 to 20, and the pulsations from 69 to 79, from 60
to 68, from 76 to 95. The head grew heavy during
these three experiments,--the woman fell asleep for
some minutes,-no change was effected in the nervous
pain of the eye, buf the headach was alleviated.
Theresa Tierlin was magnetised on the 22d, 23d,
S4th, 29th, and 30th of July, 1826. She had been
admitted into the Hotel-Dieeu, complaining of pains
in the belly and in the lumbar region. During the
magnetic operations, we observed the inspirations
increase from 15 to 17, from 18 to 19, from 20
to 25, and decrease from 27 to 24; and the pulsa-
tions increased from 118 to 125, from 100 to 120,
from 100 to 118, from 95 to 98, and from 117 to
120. We remarked that this woman seemed to be
afraid of the motions of the fingers and hands of the
magnetiser, that she attempted to avoid them by
drawing back her head,--that she followed them with
her eyes in order that she might not lose sight of
thaw, as if she dreaded that they would do her some
injury. She was evidently teazed and annoyed dur-
ing the five sittings.
We observed in her frequent and long-drawn sighs,
sometimes interrupted, winking and depression of the
eyelids, rubbing the eyes, repeated deglutition of the
124
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
saliva, a motion which, in the case of other magne-
tised persons, has constantly preceded sleep, and,
finally, the disappearance of the pain in the lumbar
region.
Your committee, in arranging these different facts,
has only wished to fix your attention upon the series
of physiological phenomena which are developed in
the two last cases. We can attach no importance
whatever to the partial amelioration in the morbid
symptoms of the very insignificant disorders of these
two women. If these disorders existed, time and re-
pose may have triumphed over them. If they did
not exist, as is too frequently the case, the feigned
malady might have disappeared as well without
magnetism, as with it. Thus, gentlemen, we have
only presented them to you as the first elements, as
it were, of the magnetic action, which you will see
more decidedly manifested in the sequel ofthis report.
III. The eJects observed arefrequently produced
by ennui, by monotony, and by the imagination.
Your committee has remarked upon several occasions,
that the monotony of the gestures employed, the re-
ligious silence observed during the operations, the
ennui occasioned by remaining long in the same posi-
tion, have produced sleep in several individuals who
were not subjected to the magnetic influence, but who
were in the same physical and moral circumstances in
which they had been previously set asleep. In these
cases, it was impossible for us not to recognize the in-
fluence of the imagination; an influence by the force
125
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of which these individuals, believing that they were
magnetised, experienced the same effects as if they
really had been so. We shall adduce, in particular,
the following observations.
Mademoiselle Lemaitre, 25 years of age, had been
for three years afflicted with an affection of the
sight, (amaurosis,) when she was admitted into the
Hotel-Dies. She was magnetised upon the 7th,
13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th,
21st, and 22d of July, 1826. We shall not here
repeat the different phenomena which marked the
commencement of the magnetic action, and which
we have already detailed in the preceding section,--
such as the winking, the depression of the eyelids, the
rubbing of the eyes as if to get rid of a disagreeable
sensation, the sudden inclination of the head and the
swallowing of the saliva. These, as we have already
said, are signs which we have constantly observed,
and to which, therefore, we shall not revert. We
shall only observe, that we remarked a com-
mencement of drowsiness at the end of the third
sitting; that this drowsiness increased until the
eleventh; that, dating from the fourth, Qere were
manifested convulsive motions of the muscles of the
neck, of the face, the hands and the shoulder; and
that, at the end of each sitting, we found a greater
acceleration of the. pulse than at the commencement.
But whdit ought most to fix your attention is this,
that after having been magnetised ten times, and
having appeared during the eight last successively
more and more susceptible of the magnetic action, at
the eleventh sitting, the 20th of July, M. Dupotet,
126
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
her magnetiser, upon the suggestion of the reporter,
seated himself behind her, without making any ges-
ture, without having any intention of magnetising
her, and that she experienced a more decided tendency
to sleep, than upon any of the preceding days, accom-
panied, however, with less of agitation and convulsive
motions. There was no perceptible improvement of
her sight since the commencement of the operations,
and she left the Hotel-Dieu in the same state as
when she had been admitted.
Louisa Ganot, a servant, residing in the street du
Baltoir,No. 19, was admitted into the Hotel-Dieu
upon the 18th of July, 1826, in order to be treated
for a leucorruwa,and was magnetised by M. Dupotet
on the 21st, 22d, 23d, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th
of July, 1826. She told us that she was subject to
nervous attacks, and, in reality, convulsive motions
of an hysterical character were constantly manifest-
ed during all the magnetic sittings. Thus, the
plaintive cries, the stiffness and contorsion of the su.
perior members, the direction of the hand towards the
pit of the stomach, the bending ofthe whole body back-
wards, so as to form an arch of which the concavity
was in th1 back, some minutes of sleep which ter-
minated this scene,--all denoted in this woman hys-
terical attacks, occasioned, it might have been be.
lieved, by the magnetic influence. We wished to as.
certain how far the imagination might act upon her,
and at the 6th sitting, upon the 26th of July, M. Du-
potet, who had hitherto magnetised her, placed him-
self in front, at the distance of two feet, without
127
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
touching her, without practising any manipulation
or external act, but having an energetic intention of
producing in her some of the magnetic phenomena.
The agitation, the convulsive motions, the long and
interrupted sighs, the stiffness of the arms, did not
fail to manifest themselves as at the preceding sittings.
On the day after, the 27th, we placed M. Dupotet
behind her, and she was seated in the great elbow-
chair which she had used in the preceding operations.
The magnetiser merely directed his fingers opposite
the middle part of her back; consequently, the back
of the chair was interposed between the magnetiser
and the magnetised.
In a short time, the convulsive motions of the pre-
ceding days were displayed with greater violence, and
she frequently turned round her head. She told us
when she awoke, that she had executed this motion
because it appeared to her that she was annoyed
by something which acted upon her from behind.
Finally, after having observed, upon the 26th and
27th of July, the developement of the magnetic phe-
nomena, although in the one case there were no mani-
pulations at all, but only the intention, while, in the
other, these very simple external acts (the direction of
the fingers) were executed behind her back, and with-
out her knowledge; we were desirous of ascertaining
whether the same phenomena could be reproduced in
the absence of the magnetiser. The experiment was
made upon the 28th of July. She was placed in pre-
cisely the same circumstances as in the former ex-
periments,--the same hour of the day (half-past five
128
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
in the morning),-the same locality, the same silence,
the same elbow-chair, the same persons present, the
same preparations, all, in short, exactly the same as on
the preceding days, with the exception of the magnetiser
who remained at home. The same convulsive mo-
tions were evinced, perhaps with a little less promp-
titude and violence, but always with the same cha-
racter.
A man, aged 27, subject, since his 15th year, to at-
tacks of epilepsy, was magnetised fifteen times at the
Hotel-Dieu; from the 27th of June to the 17th of
July, 1826, by the reporter. Sleep began to appear
at the 4th sitting, (1st of July,) and became stronger
at the 5th, (2d of the same month.) In the follow-
ing, it was rather slight and easily interrupted, either
by noise, or by questions put to him. In the 13th,
and 14th, the reporter took the precaution to place
himself behind the elbow-chair in which he was
seated, and there to perform his manipulations. At
the 15th sitting, upon the 17th of July, he con-
tinued to place the patient, as in the case of the wo-
man Ganot, in the same situation in which he had
been placed since the commencement of the treat-
ment; he also placed himself behind the elbow-chair,
and the same phenomena of drowsiness were mani-
fested, although he did not magnetise him. From
this series of experiments we found ourselves neces-
sarily bound to conclude, that these two women and
this epileptic patient experienced the same effects
when they were actually magnetised, and when they
only believed themselves to be so, and that, conse-
129
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
quently, the imagination was sufficient to produce in
them phenomena which with little attention, or with
a prejudiced mind, might have been attributed to
-magnetism.
But we are anxious to declare that there are seve-
ral other cases, not less rigorously observed, in which
it would have been difficult for us not to admit mag-
netism as the cause of the phenomena. These we
place in our 4th class.
IV. Thus, a child of 28 months, subject, like its
father, of whom we shall have occasion to speak in
the sequel, to attacks of epilepsy, was magnetised
in the house of M. Bourdois, by M. Foissac, upon the
6th of October, 1827. Almost immediately after the
commencement of the treatment, the child rubbed its
eyes, bent its head to one side, supported it upon one
of the cushions of the sofa where we had placed it,
yawned, appeared agitated, scratched its head and its
ears, seemed to contend against the approach of sleep,
and soon rose, if we may be allowed the expression,
grumbling; it was seized with the desire of making
water, and after being satisfied in this respect, it ap-
peared very sprightly. We magnetised it again;
but as there appeared, this time, no symptom of drow-
siness, we terminated the experiment.
There occurred to us a similar case of a deaf and
dumb lad, eighteen years of age, who had long been
subject to very frequent attacks of epilepsy, and upon
whom M. Itard wished to try the effects of mag-
netism. This young man was magnetised fifteen times
130
BEPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
by M. Foissac.. We need scarcely say here that the
epileptic attacks were entirely suspended during the
sittings, and that they did not return until eight
months afterwards; a circumstance unprecedented in
the history of his disease; but we shall observe that
the appreciable phenomena exhibited by this young
man during the treatment were a heaviness of the
eyelids, a general numbness, a desire to sleep, and
sometimes vertigo.
A still more decided effect was observed in a mem-
ber of the committee, M. Itard, who, as we have
already observed, had submitted to the magnetic
treatment, on the I Ith of November, 1826, without
having experienced any effect. When magnetised by
M. Dupotet, on the 27th of October, 1827, he ex-
perienced a heaviness without sleep, a decided sensa--
tion of a. peculiar nature,--a setting on edge (agace-
ment) in the nerves of the face, convulsive motions in
the nostrils, in the muscles of the face and jaws, and
a flow of saliva of a metallic taste-a sensation ana-
logous to that which he had experienced from gal-
vanism. The two first sittings produced headach,
which lasted several hours, and, at the same time, his
habitual pains were considerably diminished. A year
afterwards, M. Itard, who had pains in the head, was
magnetised eighteen times by M. Foissac. The treat-
mnent almost constantly produced a flow of saliva,.
twice with a metallic flavour. We observed little,
motion and muscular contraction, excepting some,
twitchings (soubresanuts,8ubsultus) of the tendons of
the muscles of the fore-arms and the legs. M. Itard
131
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
told us that his headach ceased each time, after a
treatment of from 12 to 15 minutes, that it entirely
disappeared by the 9th sitting, when it was recalled
by an interruption of the magnetic operations for
three days, and again dissipated by the same means.
He experienced during the treatment a sensation of
general health, an agreeable disposition to sleep, som-
nolency accompanied with vague and pleasant re-
veries. His complaint underwent, as before, a sensi-
ble amelioration, which, however, was not of long du-
ration after he ceased to be magnetised.
These three cases appeared to your committee to
be altogether worthy of remark. The two individuals
who formed the subject of the two first,-the one a
child of 28 months, the other a deaf and dumb lad,
-- were ignorant of what was done to them. The
one, indeed, was not in a state capable of knowing it;
and the other never had the slightest idea of magne-
tism. Both, however, were sensible of its influence;
and most certainly it is impossible, in either case, to
attribute this sensibility to the imagination. Still
less is it attributable to this principle in the case of
M. Itard.
It is not over men of our years, and, like us, always
on their guard against mental error and sensible de-
lusion, that the imagination, such as we view it, has
any sway. At this period of life, it is enlightened by
reason, and disengaged from those illusions by which
young persons are so easily seduced. At this age we
stand upon our guard, and distrust, rather than con-
fidence, presides over the different operations of our
132
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
minds. These circumstances were happily united in
our colleague; and the academy knows him too well
not to admit that he really experienced what he de-
clares that he felt. His veracity was the same upon
the 11th of October, 1826, when he declared that he
felt nothing, and upon the 27th of October, 1827,
when he affirmed to us that he was sensible of the
magnetic action.
The somnolency observed in the three cases which
we have just reported appeared to us to be the tran-
sition from the waking state to that which is called
the magnetic sleep, or somnambulism-words which
your committee have deemed improper, as they may
give rise to false ideas; but which we have been
forced to adopt, in consequence of the impossibility of
changing them with advantage.
When the individual subjected to the operation of
magnetism is in the state of somnambulism, the mag.
netisers assure us that, in general, he only hears those
persons who have been placed in magnetic connection
(en rapport) with him, either the person who ope-
rates upon him, or those whom the operator has placed
in communication with him, by means of joining
hands or some species of immediate contact. Accord-
ing to them, the external organs of the senses become
wholly, or almost wholly, dormant, (assoupis,) and,
notwithstanding, he experiences sensations. They
add, that there appears to be awakened in him an in-
ternal sense, a species of instinct which explains to
him, sometimes the state of his own health, sometimes
that of other persons with whom he is placed in mag-
133
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
netic connection (en rapport.J During the whole
duration of this singular state, he is, say they, sub-
jected to the influence of his magnetiser, and appears
to obey him with' an unreserved docility, without
manifesting any strong exertion of internal volition,
either by gestures or words.
This singular phenomenon, gentlemen, appeared to
your committee to be an object the more worthy of
their attention and investigation, because, although
M. Bailly seems to have had a glimpse of it, it was
still unknown at the period when the subject of ani-
mal magnetism was submitted 'to the examination of
the commissioners, who presented their Report upon
it in 1784,; and, besides, it"
was for the purpose of
studying it that M. Foissac had, if we may use the
expression, disinterredthe question of magnetism. It
was only in 1784, after the publication of the Report
of the commissioners, that this phenomenon was ob-
served for the first time' at Butancy, near Soissons,
by one of the most zealous disciples and promoters of
animal magnetism, M. de Puysegur.
Upon a subject which might be so easily got up by
quackery, and which appeared to us so remote from
all that was previously known, your committee felt
that they were bound to be very rigid respecting the
*" Magnetised persons," says the illustrious and unfortunate Bailly,
at the 7th page of his celebrated report presented to the Royal Aca-
demy of Sciences in 1784, " may appear to be plunged into a state of
total insensibility; but the voice of the magnetiser, his look, a sign
revives them; and we cannot hesitate to recognise in these invariable
effects a great influence which acts upon the patients, governs them,
and of which the magnetiser appears to be the depositary."
134
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISIM.
kind of evidence admitted to prove the phenomenon,
and, at the same time, that they ought to keep them-
selves continually upon their guard against that illu-
sion and imposture of which they might dread being
made the dupes.
The committee request your attention to the fol-
lowing cases; in the arrangement of which it has
been their object, that the developement of this sin-
gular state, and the manifestation of the phenomena
which characterize it, might be presented to you in a
regularly increasing progression, so as to become more
and more evident.
Mademoiselle Louisa Delaplane, aged 16 years, re-
siding in the street Tirechape, No. 9, had a catamenial
suppression, accompanied with pains, and with ten-
sion and swelling in the lower part of the abdomen,
when she was admitted into the Ilotel-Dieu, on the
13th of June, 1826. Leeches applied to the labia
vulve, baths, and, in general, an appropriate treat-
ment producing no relief, she was magnetised by M.
Foissac, on the 22d, 23d, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th, and
28th of June, 1826. She fell asleep at the first sit-
ting, at the end of eight minutes. She was spoken
to, but made no answer; a white iron screen was
thrown down near her--she continued in a state of
complete insensibility; a glass bottle was forcibly
broken--she awoke with a start. At the second sit.
ting she answered, by affirmative and negative mo-
tions of the head, to the questions which were ad-
dressed to her. At the third, she gave us to under-
stand, that, in two days, she would speak and point
135
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
out the nature and seat of her complaint. She was
pinched very strongly, so as to produce a livid mark,
-she gave no sign of sensibility. A bottle-full of
ammoniac was opened under her nose. She was in-
sensible to the first inspiration,--at the second, she
carried her hand to her nose. When she awoke, she
complained of pain in the part which had been pinched,
as also of the fumes of the ammoniac, and she drew
back her head hurriedly. The parents of this girl
tesolved to remove her from the Hotel-Dieu on the
30th of the same month, because they heard that she
was subjected to the magnetic treatment. She was
still, however, magnetised there four times. In the
course of these experiments she never once spoke, and
answered only by signs to the different questions ad-
dressed to her. We shall add that, insensible to the
tickling ofafeather introduced into her nostrils, moved
along her lips and the sides of her nose, and to the
noise of a board thrown suddenly upon a table, she
was awakened by the noise of a copper bason thrown
against the floor, and at the noise of a bag of crowns
which was emptied from above into the same bason.
At another time, upon the 9th of December 1826,
M. Dupotet, in presence of the committee, magnetised
Baptiste Chamet, carman at Charonne, whom he had
magnetised two or three years before. At the end of
eight minutes, repeatedly interrupted in order to as-
certain from him whether he was asleep, he suddenly
made an affirmative motion of the head. Several
questions were put to him without obtaining an an-
swer. As he seemed to suffer pain, he was asked
136
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
what ailed him, when he pointed with his hand to
his breast. He was again asked what part that was.
He answered that it was the liver, still pointing to
his breast. M. Guersent pinched him severely on the
left wrist, and he manifested no sense of pain. We
opened his eyelid, which, with difficulty, yielded to
our attempts, and we found the ball of the eye turned,
as if convulsively, towards the top of the orbit, and
the pupil perceptibly contracted.
In these two last cases, your committee witnessed
the first appearance of somnambulism-of that faculty
by means of which the magnetisers say, that in the
dormant state of the external organs of sense, there
'is developed in the persons magnetised an internal
sense and a species of instinct capable of manifesting
themselves by rational external actions. In each of
the cases above reported, your committee perceived,-
whether in the answer given to questions put either
by signs or by words, or in the prognostications, al-
ways deceitful, indeed, of events which never took
place-the first traces of the expression of a com-
mencement of intelligence.
The three following cases will prove to you with
what distrust we ought to regard the promises of
certain pretended somnambulists.
Mademoiselle Josephine Martineau, aged 19 years,
residing in the street St Nicolas, No. 37, had been af-
fected for three months with a chronic inflammation
of the bowels, (gastritis,) when she was admitted
into the Hotel-Dieu, upon the 5th of August 1826,
She was magnetised by M. Dupotet, in presence of
137
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the reporter, fifteen days consecutively, from the 7th
to the 21st of the same month, twice between four
and five in the afternoon, and thirteen times from six
to seven in the morning. She began to sleep at the
second sitting, and at the fourth, to answer the
questions which were addressed to her. We need
not repeat to you, that at the end of each sitting, the
pulse was more frequent than at the commencement,
and that she preserved no recollection of any thing
that took place during her sleep. These are ordinary
phenomena, which have been previously well esta-
blished by other magnetisers. Our business here is
with somnambulism, and it is this phenomenon which
we endeavoured to observe in Mademoiselle Martin-
eau. In her sleep, she said that she did not see the
persons present, but that she heard them; and no
person was speaking. When cross-interrogated about
this matter, she answered that she heard them when
a noise was made. She said that she would not re-
cover until she was purged; and for this she pre-
scribed three ounces of manna, and English pills to
be taken two hours after the manna. The next and
following days, the reporter gave her no manna, but
administered four pills of the crumb of bread in two
days. During these two days she had four stools.
She said that she would soon awake after five or ten
minutes' sleep, and she did not awake until after seven-
teen and sixteen. She announced that, upon a certain
day, she would give us a detailed account of the na-
ture of her complaint; and when the day arrived,
6
138
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
she told us nothing. In short, she was at fault every
time.
M. de Geslin, residing in the street de Grenelle St
Honore, No. 37, wrote to inform the committee, on
the 8th of July 1826, that he had at his disposal a
somnambulist, Mademoiselle Couturier, lace-maker,
aged 30 years, residing in the same house with him-
self, who, amongst other faculties, possessed that of
being able to read the thoughts of her magnetiser,
and to execute the orders which he communicated to
her mentally. The proposal of M. de Geslin was too
important not to be accepted with eagerness. M.
Gueneau and the reporter waited upon M. de Geslin,
who repeated the assurances which he had given us
in his letter relative to the surprising faculties of his
somnambulist; and after having set her asleep by the
process we have already described, he requested them
to inform him what they wished him to require, men-
tally, of his somnambulist.
One of us--the reporter-placed himself at a desk,
for the purpose of writing down with the utmost ex-
actness every thing that might occur; and the other,
M. Gueneau, undertook to write upon slips of paper,
which he communicated to his colleague, the orders
which we both wished to be communicated to the pa-
tient.
Upon the first slip of paper, M. Gueneau wrote the
following words: Go and sit down upon the stool in
front of the piano. M. de Geslin, having conceived
this mentally, told the somnambulist to do that which
he required of her. She rose from her place, and
139
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
going up to the clock, she said it was twenty minutes
past nine. M. de Geslin told her that was not what
he required her to do; she then went into the next
room. She was informed that she was still mistaken,
when she resumed her place. She was mentally bid
to scratch her forehead. She stretched out her hand,
but did not execute the motion required. The mag-
netiser complained that she did not do what he de-
sired her: She rose and changed her seat. We re-
quested that, when M. de Geslin held up his hand,
she should hold up hers, and keep it suspended until
that of the magnetiser fell. She raised her hand,
which remained immoveable, and did not fall until
five minutes after that of M. de Geslin. The back of
a watch was presented to her,-she said it was thirty-
five minutes past nine, and the hand pointed at seven
o'clock. She said there were three hands, and there
were only two. A watch with three hands was sub-
stituted, and she said there were two-that it was
forty minutes past nine; while the watch indicated
twenty-five minutes past nine. She was placed en
rapportwith M. Gueneau, and told him a number of
things with regard to the state of his health, which
were altogether erroneous, and in direct contradiction
to what our colleague had written upon this subject
before the experiment. To sum up all, this lady did
not fulfil any of the promises which had been made
to us; and we thought ourselves authorized to be-
lieve, that M. de Geslin had not taken all the proper
precautions to prevent being led into error, and that
this was the cause of his belief in the extraordinary
140
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
faculties he attributed to his patient,--faculties which
we could in no degree recognize.
M. Chapelain, doctor of medicine, residing in the
Cour Batave, No. 3, informed the committee, upon
the 14th of March, 1828, that a woman of 24 years
of age, residing in his house, and who had been re-
commended to him by our colleague M. Caille, had
announced, when set asleep by the magnetic process,
that next day, at fifteen minutes from eleven in the
evening, se teniam productiorem brachioejecturam
esse. Your committee had too great a desire to wit-
ness the result of this annunciation, to neglect the op-
portunity thus presented. Accordingly, MM. Itard,
Thillaye, and the reporter, accompanied by two mem-
bers of the academy, MM. Caille and Virey, as also
Doctor Dance, at present physician to the hospital
Cochin, repaired next day at fifty-five minutes past
ten in the evening to the house of this woman. She
was immediately magnetised by M. Chapelain, and
set asleep at eleven o'clock. (Here areomitted some
indelicate details,of little or no importance in them.
selves, and only showing the futility of the patient',
prognosis.) Here, then, are three cases, well esta-
blished, and we might quote others, in which there
evidently was error, or an attempt to deceive, on the
part of the somnambulists, either in what they pro-
mised to do, or in their annunciations of what was
to happen.
In these circumstances, we ardently desired to elu-
cidate the question, and we thought that it was essen-
tial, as well to the interest of the investigations in
141
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
which we were engaged, as to withdraw ourselves
from the deceptions of quackery, to ascertain whether
there was any sign by which we could be assured of
the real existence of somnambulism; that is to say,
whether the magnetised person, when asleep, was-
permit us the expression-more than asleep, whether
he had arrived at the'state of somnambulism.
M. Dupotet, whom we have already mentioned se-
veral times, proposed, on the 14th of November, 1826,
to make your.committee witnesses of certain experi.
ments, in which he should reduce the question with
regard to the magnetic somnambulism to an absolute
certainty. He undertook, and we have his promise
to this effect under his own hand, to produce at plea-
sure, and out of sight of those individuals whom he
had placed in a state of somnambulism, convulsive
motions in any part of their bodies, by merely direct.
ing his finger towards that part. These convulsions
he regarded as an unequivocal sign of the existence
of somnambulism. Your committee took advantage
of the presence of Baptiste Chamet, already mention.
ed (page 186), to make experiments upon him, for the
purpose of elucidating this question. Accordingly,
M. Dupotet having placed this'person in a state of
somnambulism, directed the point of one of his fingers
towards those of Chamet, or approximated them with
a metallic rod: No convulsive effect was produced.
A finger of the magnetiser was again directed towards
those of the patient, and theretwas perceived, in the
fore and middle fingers of both hands, a slight motion
similar to that produced by the galvanic pile. Six
142$
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
minutes afterwards, the finger of the magnetiser, di-
rected towards the left wrist of the patient, impressed
upon it a complete convulsive motion; and the mag-
netiser then informed us, that in five minutes he
shoulddoall thathepleasedwith this man. M. Marc,
then, placing himself behind the patient, indicated
that the magnetiser should endeavour to act upon the
fore-finger of the right hand: He directed his own
fore-finger towards this part, and the convulsions took
place in the left, and in the thigh of the same side. At
a later period, the fingers were directed towards the
toes, but no effect was produced. Some anterior ma-
nipulations were performed. MM. Bourdois, Guer-
sent and Gueneau de Massy successively directed their
fingers towards those of the patient, which became
contracted at their approach. At a later period, mo.
tions were perceived in the left hand, towards which,
however, no finger was directed. Finally, we sus-
pended all our experiments, in order to ascertain whe-
ther the convulsive motions did not take place when
the patient was not magnetised; and these motions
were renewed, but more feebly. Hence your commit-
tee concluded, that the approximation of the fingers
of the magnetiser was not necessary for the produce
tion of the convulsions, although M. Dupotet added,
that, when they have once commenced, they may be
reproduced of themselves.
Mademoiselle Lemaitre, of whom we have already
spoken (page 126), when treating of the influence of
the imagination in producing the magneticphenomena,
also presented an instance of this convulsive mobility,
143
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
but sometimes these motions, pretty similar in quick-
ness to those experienced from the approach of an
electric spark, took place in a particular part, in con-
sequence of the approximation of the fingers, some-
times, also, independently of this condition. Some-
times, too, we perceived them take place at a greater or
less distance of time after the attempt made to excite
them. Sometimes this phenomenon took place several
times at one sitting; sometimes it did not once make
its appearance; and sometimes the approximation of
the fingers towards one part was followed by convul-
sions in another.
M. Chales, French consul at Odessa, furnished us
with another example of this phenomenon. M. Du-
potet magnetised him in our presence, on the 17th of
November, 1826. He directed his finger towards the
left ear, and immediately we perceived a motion in the
hair behind the ear, which was ascribed to a contrac-
tion of the muscles of that region. The manipula-
tions were renewed with a single hand, without di-
recting the finger towards the ear, and we perceived
in the ear a general and lively ascending motion.
The finger was then directed towards the same ear,
and no effect was produced.
It was principally in the case of M. Petit, tutor
(instituteur)at Athis, aged 32 years, that the convul-
sive motions were developed with the greatest pre-
cision by approaching the fingers of the magnetiser.
M. Dupotet presented hi'm to the committee upon the
10th of August, 1826, informing them that this M.
Petit was very susceptible of somnambulism, and that,
144
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
when in this state, he, M. Dupotet, could at pleasure,
and without speaking, by the mere approximation
of his fingers, produce visible convulsive motions in
those parts which the committee should point out by
writing. The patient was very speedily set asleep,
and then the committee, in order to prevent all suspi-
cion of collusion, handed over to M. Dupotet a note
written at the moment in silence, in which they
pointed out the particular parts which they wished to
be convulsed. Provided with these instructions, he
first directed his hand towards the left wrist, which
became convulsed; he then placed himself behind the
patient, and directed his finger first towards the left
thigh, then towards the left elbow, and, at last, to-
wards the head. These three parts almost immedi-
ately became convulsed. M. Dupotet directed his left
leg towards that of the patient, which became so
much agitated that he was upon the point of falling.
M. Dupotet then directed his foot towards M. Petit's
right elbow, which became agitated; he afterwards
carried his foot towards the elbow and the left hand,
and very strong convulsive motions were developed in
the whole upper part of the body. One of the com-
mittee, M. Marc, in order still farther to prevent
every kind of deception, put a bandage upon the eyes
of the patient, and the same experiments were re-
peated with a slight difference in the result. After
an instantaneous mimic signal from one or two of us,
M. Dupotet directed his foot towards the left hand:
at its approach both hands became agitated. We de-
sired that the action should be carried at once to the
K
145
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
two inferior members. At first, the fingers were ap.
proximated without any result. Soon afterwards,
the somambulist first moved his hands, then drew
back, then moved his feet. A few moments later,
,the finger approximated to the hand, made it draw
back, and produced a general agitation. MM. Thil-
laye and Marc directed their fingers towards several
parts of the body, and excited some convulsive mo-
tions. Thus, M. Petit was always affected with these
convulsive motions, upon the approximation of the
fingers, whether he had or had not a bandage upon
his eyes; and these motions were more decided when
there was directed towards the parts subjected to
experiment a piece of metal, such as a key or the
branch of a pair of spectacles. To sum up the whole,
your committee, although they have witnessed several
cases in which this contractile faculty has been put in
play by the approximation of the fingers or pieces
of metal, have need of new facts in order to enable
them to appreciate this phenomenon, upon the con-
stancy and importance of which they do not conceive
themselves sufficiently informed to.title them to
pronounce a decided opinion. :;
Reduced, in consequence, to the nessity of relying
upon our own unceasing watchfulness, we pursued
our researches, and multiplied our observations, with
redoubled care, attention, and distrust.
Perhaps, gentlemen, you may remember the ex-
periments which were made in 1820, at the Hotel-
Dieu, in presence of a great number of physicians,
some, of whom are members of this academy, and un-
146
REPORT ON ANIMML MAGNETISM.
der the eyes of the reporter, who alone conceived the
plan of them, directed the details, and consigned
them, minute after minute, to a proces-verbal,which
was subscribed by each of the assistants. Perhaps
we should have abstained from alluding to them upon
the present occasion, had it not been for a particular
circumstance, which renders it imperative upon us to
break silence. You may recollect that, in the midst
of the discussions which were excited in the bosom
of the academy, in consequence of the proposal to
submit animal magnetism to a new investigation,
a member, who, however, did not deny the reality of
the magnetic phenomena, affirmed that, while the
magnetisers proclaimed the cure of Mademoiselle
Sanson, she requested of him to be again admitted
into the IHotel-Dieu, where, he added, she died in
consequence of an organic lesion which the physicians
deemed incurable.
Nevertheless, this same Mademoiselle Sanson re-ap-
peared, six years after her pretended death, and your
committee, assembled on the 29th of December, 1826,
for the purpose of making experiments upon her,
were desirous of ascertaining, first of all, whether the
individual presented to them by M. Dupotet, whose
goodfaith was,moreover, perfectly well known to them,
was the identical person, who, nine years before, had
been magnetised at the Hotel.Dieu. MM. Briche-
teau and Patissier, who had been present at these
first experiments, had the goodness to comply with
the request of the committee, and, conjointly with
the reporter, they certified by a writing which they
147
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
signed, that it was the same person who had been
the subject of the experiments made in the Hotel-
Dieu in 1820, and that they perceived no other change
in her than that which indicated a sensible ameliora-
tion of her health.
The identity having been thus verified, Made-
moiselle Sanson was magnetised by M. Dupotet in
presence of the committee. The manipulations
had scarcely commenced when Mademoiselle Sanson
became restless, rubbed her eyes, expressed impa-
tience, complained, coughed with a hoarse voice,
which recalled to the recollection of MM. Bricheteau,
Patissier and the reporter, the same sound of voice
which had struck them in 1820, and which then,
as upon the present occasion, pointed out to them the
commencement of the magnetic action. Soon after,
she stamped with her foot, supported her head upon
her right hand, which rested upon the elbow-chair,
and appeared to fall asleep. We raised her eye-
lid, and perceived, as in 1820, the ball of the eye
turned convulsively upwards. Several questions
were addressed to her and remained unanswered;
then, when new ones were put, she exhibited signs of
impatience, and said with ill humour that we ought
not to annoy her. At length, without having inti-
mated his intention to any one, the reporter threwdown
upon the floor a table and a billet of wood which
he had placed upon it. Some of those present uttered
a cry of terror,-Mademoiselle Sanson alone heard
nothing, made no sort of motion, and continued to
sleep after .as before the sudden and violent noise.
148
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
She wasawakened four minutes afterwards, by rubbing
her eyes in a circular manner with the thumbs. The
same billet was then suddenly thrown upon the floor;
the noise made her start now that she was awake, and
she complained bitterly of the fright that had been
given her, although six minutes before she had been
insensible to a much greater noise.
You have all likewise heard of a case, which, at
the time, attracted the attention of the surgical sec-
tion, and which was communicated to it at the meet-
ing of the 16th of April, 1829, by M. Jules Clocquet.
Your committee have thought it their duty to notice
it here,. as affording one ofthe most unequivocal proofs
of the power of the magnetic sleep. The case is that
of a lady, P-, aged 64 years, residing in the street
of St Denis, No. 151, who consulted M. Clocquet,
upon the 8th of April, 1829, on account of an ulce-
rated cancer on the right breast, of several years'
standing, which was combined with a considerable
swelling (engorgement) of the corresponding axillary
ganglions. M. Chapelain, the ordinary physician
attending this lady, who had magnetised her for some
months, with the intention, as he said, of dissolving
the swelling (engorgement) of the breast, had ob-
tained no other result than that of producing a most
profound sleep, during which all sensibility appeared
to be annihilated, while the ideas retained all their
clearness. He proposed to M. Clocquet to operate
upon her while she was plunged in this magnetic
sleep. The latter having deemed the operation indis-
pensable, consented. The two previous evenings, this
149
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
lady was magnetised several times by M. Chapelain,
who, in her somnambulism, disposed her to submit
to the operation,--who had even led her to converse
about it with calmness, although, when awake, she
rejected the idea with horror.
Upon the day fixed on for the operation, M. Cloc-
quet arriving at half-past ten in the morning, found
the patient drest and seated on an elbow-chair, in the
attitude of a person enjoying a quiet natural sleep.
She had returned about an hour before from mass,
which she attended regularly at the same hour.
Since her return, M. Chapelain had placed her in a
state of magnetic sleep, and she talked with great
calmness of the operation to which she was about to
submit. Every thing having been arranged for the
operation, she undrest herself, and sat down upon a
chair.
M. Chapelain supported the right arm, the left
was permitted to hang down at the side of the body.
M. Pailloux, house pupil of the hospital of St Louis,
was employed to present the instruments, and to make
the ligatures. A first incision commencing at the arm-
pit was continued beyond the tumour as far as the in-
ternal surface of the breast. The second, commenced
at the same point, separated the tumour from beneath,
and was continued until it met the first: The swelled
ganglions (ganglionsengorgis) were dissected with
precaution on account of their vicinity to the axillary
artery, and the tumour was extirpated. The opera-
tion lasted from ten to twelve minutes.
During all this time, the patient continued to con-
6
150
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
verse quietly with the operator, and did not exhibit
the slightest sign of sensibility. There was no mo-
tion of the limbs or of the features, no change in the
respiration nor in the voice, no emotion even in the
pulse. The patient continued in the same state of
automatic indifference and impassibility, in which she
was some minutes before the operation. There was
no occasion to hold, but only to support her. A liga-
ture was applied to the lateral thoracic artery, which
was open during the extraction of the ganglions : The
wound was united by means of adhesive plaster, and
dressed. The patient was put to bed while still in a
state of somnambulism, in which she wasleft for forty-
eight hours. An hour after the operation, there ap-
peared a slight hemorrhage, which was attended with
no consequence. The first dressing was taken off on
the following Tuesday, the 14th,--the wound was
cleaned and dressed anew-the patient exhibited no
sensibilitynor pain--the pulse preserved its usual rate.
After this dressing, M. Chapelain awakened the
patient, whose somnambulic sleep had continued from
an hour previous to the operation, that is to say, for
two days. This lady did not appear to have any idea,
any feeling of what had passed in the interval; but
upon being informed of the operation, and seeing her
children around her, she experienced a very lively
emotion, which the magnetiser checked by imme-
diately setting her asleep.
In these two cases, your committee perceived the
most evident proof of the annihilation of sensibility
during somnambulism; and we declare, that, although
151
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
We did not witness the last, we yet find it impressed
with such a character,of truth, it has been attested
and repeated to us by so good an observer, who had
communicated it to the surgical section, that we have
no fear in presenting it to you as the most incontesti-
ble evidence of that state of torpor and insensibility
which is produced by magnetism. *
In the midst of the experiments in which your
committee sought to appreciate the faculty of setting
in motion, without contact, the contractility of the
muscles of M. Petit of Athis (page 146), other attempts
were made upon him with the view of observing the
lucidity (clairvoyance), that is, the power of seeing
through the closed eyelids, which he was said to pos-
sess during somnambulism.
The magnetiser informed us that his somnambulist
would recognize, among twelve pieces of coin, that
which he, M. Dupotet had held in his hand. The
reporter placed there a crown of five francs, of the
* In M. Chardel's Essai de Psychologie Physiologique,to which the
reader is referred, there will be found a number of additional curious
particulars respecting this very extraordinary case. In a note, (p. 261,)
M. Chardel also gives a short account of another case, in which a sur.
gical operation was performed upon a somnambulist, in a similar state
of insensibility.
John - , farmer, had an abscess in the internal and upper part
of the thigh; the operation required prudence, as the crural artery
crossed the tumour. Count B-- placed the patient in a state of mag-
netic somnambulism, and produced complete insensibility. The ope-
ration was performed in the house of the Juge de Paix of the Canton
of Condom, department of Gers, in the presence of :several distin-
guished persons, by Dr Lar..., and is reported in the Journal of Tou-
louse.-Note by the Translator.
152
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
coinage of 1813, and afterwards mixed it with twelve
others, which he arranged in a circle upon a table.
M. Petit pointed out one of these pieces, but it was
of the coinage of 1812. Afterwards, we presented to
him a watch, the hands of which we had deranged,
in order that they might not point out the actual
hour of the day; and twice, consecutively, M. Petit
was mistaken in attempting to point out their direc-
tion. An attempt was made to explain these mistakes,
by telling us that M. Petit had lost some of his luci-
dity since he had been less frequently magnetised;
however, at the same sitting, the reporter engaged
with him in a game of piquet, and frequently attempt-
ed to deceive him by announcing one card or one co-
lour instead of another; but the bad faith of the re-
porter did not prevent M. Petit from playing correct-
ly, or from ascertaining the colour of his adversary's
point. We should add, that each time that we inter-
posed a body-a sheet of paper or pasteboard between
the eyes and the object to be perceived, M. Petit
could distinguish nothing.
If these experiments had been the only ones in
which we had sought to recognize the faculty of luci-
dity (clairvoyance,) we should have been led to con-
clude that this somnambulist did not possess it. But
this faculty appeared in all its clearness in the follow-
ing experiment; and upon this occasion, the success
entirely justified the expectations held out to us by
M. Dupotet.
M. Petit was magnetised on the 15th of March,
1826, at half-past eight in the evening, and set asleep
13
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
in about one minute. The president of the committee,
M. Bourdois, ascertained that the number of pulsa-
tions, since he was set asleep, diminished at the rate
of 22 in a minute, and that there was even some ir-
regularity in the pulse. M. Dupotet, after having
put a bandage upon the eyes of the somnambulist, re-
peatedly directed towards him the points of his fin-
gers, at the distance of about two feet. Immediately
a violent contraction was perceived in the hands and
arms towards which the action was directed. M. Du-
potet having, in a similar manner approximated his
feet to those of M. Petit, always without contact, the
latter quickly withdrew his. He complained of great
pain and a burning heat in the limbs, towards which
the action had been directed. M. Bourdois endea-
voured to produce the same effects ; and he succeeded,
but less promptly, and in a more feeble degree.
This point being established, we proceeded to ascer-
tain the lucidity (clairvoyance,) of the somnambulist.
He having declared that he could not see with the
bandage, it was taken off; but then we determined
to assure ourselves that the eyelids were exactly clos-
ed. For this purpose, a candle was almost constant-
ly held, during the experiments, before the eyes of M.
Petit, at a distance of one or two inches; and several
persons had their eyes continually fixed upon his.
None of us could perceive the slightest separation of
the eyelids. Mr Ribes, indeed, remarked that their
edges were superimposed so that the eye-lashes cros-
sed each other.
We also examined the state of the eyes, which were
154
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
forcibly opened without awakening the somnamnbu-
list; and we remarked that the pupil was turned
downwards, and directed towards the great angle of
the eye.
After these preliminary observations, we proceeded
to verify the phenomena of vision with the eyes closed.
Mr Ribes, member of the academy, presented a ca-
talogue which he took from his pocket. The som-
nambulist, after some efforts which seemed to fatigue
him, read very distinctly the words: Lavater. II
est bien dificile de connaitre les hommes. The last
words were printed in very small characters. A pass-
port was placed under his eyes; he recognized it, and
called it a passe-homme. Some moments afterwards,
a port d'armes was substituted, which we all know
to be in almost all respects similar to a passport, and
the blank side of it was presented to him. M. Petit,
at first, could only recognize that it was of a particu-
lar figure, and very like the former. A few moments
afterwards, he told us what it was, and read distinct-
ly the words: De par le roi, and on the left, port.
d'armes. Again, he was shown an open letter; he
declared that he could not read it, as he did not under-
stand English. In fact it was an English letter.
M. Bourdois took from his pocket a snuff-box, up-
on which there was a cameo set in gold. At first the
somnambulist could not see it distinctly; he said that
the gold setting dazzled him. When the setting was
covered with the fingers, he said that he saw the em-
blem of fidelity. When pressed to tell what this
emblem was, he added : " I see a dog, he is as if on his
155
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
hind legs before an altar." This, in fact, was what
was represented.
A closed letter was presented to him: He could
not discover any of its contents. He only followed
the directions of the lines with his finger: But he
easily read the address, although it contained a pretty
difficult name: To M. de Rockenstroh.
All these experiments were extremely fatiguing to
M. Petit. He was allowed to repose for an instant:
Then, as he was very fond of play, a game at cards
was proposed for his relaxation. As much as the
experiments of pure curiosity seemed to annoy him,
with so much the more ease and dexterity did he per-
form whatever gave him pleasure, and this he entered
into of his own accord.
One of the gentlemen present, M. Raynal, former.
ly inspector of the university, played a game at piquet
with M. Petit and lost it. The latter handled his
cards with the greatest dexterity, and without making
any mistake. We attempted several times in vain
to set him at fault, by taking away or changing some
of his cards. He counted withsurprising facility the
points marked upon his adversary's marking card.
During all this time, we never ceased to examine
the eyes, and to hold a candle near them; and we
always found them exactly closed. We remarked,
however, that the ball of the eye seemed to move un-
der the eyelids, and to follow the different motions of
the hands. Finally, M. Bourdois declared that, accord-
ix to all human probability, and as far as it was pose
156
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
sible to judge by the senses, the eyelids were exactly
closed.
While M. Petit was engaged in a second game
at piquet, M. Dupotet, upon the suggestion of M.
Ribes, directed his hand, from behind, towards the
patient's elbow, and the contraction previously ob-
served again took place. Afterwards, upon the sug.
gestion of M. Bourdois, he magnetised him from be-
hind, and always at the distance of more than a foot,
with the intention of awakening him. The keenness
with which the somnambulist engaged in play resisted
this action, which, without awakening, seemed to an-
noy and disconcert him. He carried his hand several
times to the back of his head, as if he suffered pain
in that part. At length, he fell into a state of som-
nolency, which seemed like a slight natural sleep;
and some one having spoken to him when in this
'state, he awoke as if with a start. A few moments
afterwards, M. Dupotet, always placed near him but
at a certain distance, set him again sleep, and werecom-
menced our experiments. M. Dupotet being desirous
that not the slightest shadow of doubt should remain
with regard to the nature of the physical influence ex-
erted at will upon the somnambulist, proposed to place
upon M. Petit as many bandages as we might think
proper, and to operate upon him while in this state.
In fact, we covered his face down to the nostrils with
several neckloths; we stopped up with gloves the cavity
formed by the prominence of the nose, and we covered
the whole with a black handkerchief, which descended,
in the form of a veil, as far as the neck. The at-
157
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
tempts to excite the magnetic susceptibility, by ope-
rating at a distance in every way, were then renewed;
and, invariably, the same motions were perceived in
the parts towards which the hand or the foot were
directed.
After these new experiments, M. Dupotet having
taken the bandages off M. Petit, played a game at
e'cartiwith him, in order to divert him. He played
with the same facility as before, and continued suc-
cessful. He became so eager at his game, that he re-
mained insensible to the influence of M. Bourdois,
who, while he was engaged in play, vainly attempted
to operate upon him from behind, and to make him
perform a command intimated merely by the will.
After his game, the somnambulist rose, walked
across the room, putting aside the chairs which he
found in his way, and went to sit down apart, in
order to take some repose at a distance from the in-
quisitive experimentalists, who had fatigued him.
There M. Dupotet awakened him at the distance of
several feet; but it seemed that he was not com-
pletely awake, for some moments afterwards he again
fell asleep, and it was necessary to make fresh efforts,
in order to rouse him effectually.
When awake, he said he had no recollection of any
thing that took place during his sleep.
It is most certain that, if, as M. Bourdois has re-
corded apart in the prods-verbalof this sitting, "the
constant immobility of the eyelids and their edges
superimposed so as that the eye-lashes appeared to
cross each other, are sufficient guarantees of the luci.
158
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
dity(clairvoyance)of this somnambulist, it was impos-
sible to withhold, if not our belief, at least our as-
tonishment at all that took place at this sitting, and
not to be desirous of witnessing new experiments, in
order to enable us to fix our opinion in regard to the
existence and the value of animal magnetism."
The wish expressed upon this subject by our presi-
dent was not long of being gratified by three som-
nambulists, who, besides this clairvoyance observed
in the preceding case, presented proofs of an intui,
tion, and of a prevision very remarkable, whether for
themselves or for others.
Here the sphere seems to enlarge; we no longer want
tosatisfy asimple curiosity,-no longer endeavour toas-
certain whether or not there exists any criterion which
may enable us to decide whether somnambulism has or
has not taken place,-whether a somnambulist can read
with his eyes closed,-whether, during his sleep,he can
form combinations at play more or less complicated,-
curious and interesting questions, the solution ofwhich,
especially ofthe last, is, considered as a mere spectacle,
a most extraordinary phenomenon; but which, in
point of real interest, and in the hope of benefiting
the science of medicine, are infinitely beneath those
with which your committee are now about to make
you acquainted.
There is not one amongst you, gentlemen, who,
amidst all that he has been told about magnetism, has
not heard of that faculty which certain somnambulists
have, not only of discovering the species of disease
with which they themselves are affected-the endu-
159
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
rance and the issue of these diseases; but even the
species, the endurance and the issue of the diseases of
others with whom they are placed en rapport. The
three following cases have appeared to us so im-
portant, that we have thought it our duty to make
you acquainted with them at large, as affording most
remarkable examples of this intuition and of this pre-
vision; at the same time, you will find in them a
combination of various phenomena which were not
observed in the other magnetised persons.
Paul Villagrand, student of law, born at Magnac
Laval, (Upper Vienne,) on the 18th of May, 1803,
suffered a stroke of apoplexy on the 25th of Decem-
ber, 1825, which was followed by paralysis of the
whole left side of the body. After seventeen months
of different modes of treatment, by acupuncture, a
seton in the nape of the neck, twelve applications of
moxa along the vertebral column-modes of treat-
ment which he followed at home, at the Maison de
Santi, and at the Hospice de Perfectionnement,and
in the course of which he had two fresh attacks,--he
was admitted into the hospital de la Charit on the
8th of April 1827. Although he had experienced
perceptible relief from the means employed before he
entered this hospital, he still walked with crutches,
being unable to support himself upon the left foot.
The arm of the same side, indeed, could perform se-
veral motions; but Paul could not lift it to his head.
He scarcely saw with his right eye, and was very hard
of hearing with both ears. In this state he was en-
trusted to the care of our colleague, M. Fouquier,
3
160
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
who, besides the very evident paralysis, discovered in
him the symptoms of hypertrophy of the heart.
During five months, he administered to him the al-
coholic extract of nu vomica, bled him from time to
time, purged him, and applied blisters. The left arm
recovered a little strength; the headachs, to which
he was subject, disappeared ; and his health continued
stationary until the 29th of August, 1827, when he
was magnetised for the first time by M. Foissac, by
order and under the direction of M. Fouquier. At
this first sitting, he experienced a sensation of general
heat, then twitchings (soubresauts,) of the tendons.
He was astonished to find himself overcome by the
desire of sleeping; he rubbed his eyes in order to get
rid of it, made visible and ineffectual efforts to keep
his eyelids open, and, at length, his head fell down
upon.his breast, and he fell asleep. From this period,
his deafness and headachs disappeared. It was not
until the 9th sitting that his sleep became profound;
and at the 10th he answered, by inarticulate sounds,
the questions which were addressed to him. At a
later period, he announced that he could not be cured
but by means of magnetism, and he prescribed for
himself a continuation of the pills composed of the
extract of nux vomica, sinapisms, and baths of Bareges.
Upon the 25th of September, your committee repaired
to the hospital de la Charit, made the patient be un-
dressed, and ascertained that the inferior left limb
was manifestly thinner than the right,-that the
right hand closed much more strongly than the left,
-- that the tongue, when drawn out of the mouth,
L
161
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
I
was carried towards the right commissure,--and that
the right cheek was more convex than the left.
Paul was then magnetised, and soon placed in a
state of somnambulism. He recapitulated what re-
lated to his treatment, and prescribed that, on that
same day, a sinapism should be applied to each of his
legs for an hour and-a-half; that next day he should
take a bath of Bareges ; and that, upon coming out
of the bath, sinapisms should be again applied during
twelve hours without interruption, sometimes to one
place, and sometimes to another; that, upon the fol-
lowing day, after having taken a second bath of Ba-
reges, blood should be drawn from his right arm to
the extent of a palette and a-half. Finally, he added,
that by following this treatment, he would be ena-
bled, upon the 28th, i. e. three days afterwards, to
walk without crutches on leaving the sitting, at
which, he said, it would still be necessary to magne-
tise him. The treatment which he had prescribed
was followed; and upon the day named, the 28th of
September the committee repaired to the hospital de
la Charite. Paul came, supported on his crutches,
into the consulting-room, where he was magnetised
as usual, and placed in a state of somnambulism. In
this state, he assured us that he should return to bed
without the use of his crutches, without support.
Upon awaking, he asked for his crutches,--we told
him that he had no longer any need of them. In fact,
he rose, supported himself on the paralyzed leg, passed
through the crowd who followed him, descended the
step of the chambre d'experiences, crossed the second
162
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
court de la Charit6, ascended two steps; and when
he arrived at the bottom of the stair, he sat down.
After resting two minutes, he ascended, with the as-
sistance of an arm and the balustrade, the twenty-
four steps of the stair which led to the room where
he slept, went to bed without support, sat down again
for a moment, and then took a'nother walk in the
room, to the great astonishment of all the other pa-
tients, who, until then, had seen him constantly con-
fined to bed. From this day, Paul never resumed
his crutches.
Your committee assembled again, on the 11th of
October following, at the hospital de la Charit.
Paul was magnetised, and he announced to us that
he should be completely cured at the end of the year,
if a seton were placed two inches below the region of
the heart. At this sitting, he was repeatedly pinched,
pricked with a pin, to the depth of a line, in the eye-
brow and in the wrist, without producing any symp-
tom of sensibility.
Upon the 16th of October, M. Fouquier received a
letter from the conseil general des hospices, request-
ing him to suspend the experiments which he had
commenced at the hospital de la Charit6. We were
obliged, therefore, to interrupt this magnetic treat-
ment, the efficacy of which our paralytic patient said
he could not sufficiently praise. M. Foissac procured
his dismissal from the hospital, and placed him in the
street des petils Augustins, No. 18, in a private
apartment, where he continued the treatment.
Upon the 29th of the same month, your committee
163
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
met at the apartment of the patient, in order to ex-
amine into the progress of his cure; but before he
was magnetised, they ascertained that he walked with-
out crutches, and more firmly to all appearance, than
at the preceding sitting. We then made him try his
strength upon the dynamometer. When pressed by
the right hand, the hand of the instrument indicated
thirty kilogrammes, and by the left, twelve. The
two hands united caused it to mount to thirty-one.
He was magnetised. In four minutes somnambulism
was manifested, and Paul assured us that he should
be completely cured upon the Ist of January. We
tried his strength: the right hand carried the hand
of the dynamometer to twenty-nine kilogrammes, (one
less than before his sleep,) the left hand (the paralyzed
one,) to twenty-six, (fourteen more than before his
sleep,) and the two hands united to forty-five, (four-
teen more than before.)
While still in the state of somnambulism, he rose
to walk, and got over the ground cleverly. He hop-
ped upon the left foot. He knelt down on the right
knee; then rose up, supporting himself with the left
hand upon one of the assistants, and resting the whole
weight of his body upon the left knee. He took and
lifted up M. Thillaye, turned him round, and sat
down with him on his knees. He drew the dyna-
mometer with all his strength, and made the scale of
traction (echelle de traction,) mount to sixteen myria-
grammes. At our request that he would go down
stairs, he rose quickly from his elbow-chair, took the
arm of M. Foissac, which he quitted at the door, de-
164
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM
seended and ascended the stairs, two or three at a
time, with a convulsive rapidity, which, however, he
moderated when he was bid to take them one by one.
As soon as he awoke, he lost this astonishing aug-
mentation of strength; in fact, the dynamometer then
indicated no more than S3 myriagrammes, i. e. 121
less than when asleep. His walk was slow, but sure;
he could not sustain the weight of his body on the
left leg, (the paralyzed one,) and he made an ineffec-
tual attempt to lift up M. Foissac.
We ought to remark, gentlemen, that a few days
before this last experiment, the patient had lost two
pounds and a-half of blood, that he had still two blis-
ters on his legs, a seton in the nape of the neck, and
another on the breast; consequently, you will per-
ceive along with us what a prodigious increase of
strength magnetism had produced in the diseased or-
gans, that of the sound organs remaining the same,
seeing that, during the whole time the somnambu-
lism continued, the total strength of the body was
more than quadrupled.
After this, Paul renounced all medical treatment,
wishing to be magnetised only; and, towards the end
of the year, as he expressed a wish to be placed and
kept in a state of somnambulism, in order to com-
plete his cure by the first of January, he was magne-
tised upon the 25th of December, and continued in a
state of somnambulism until the 1st of January.
During this period, he was awakened about twelve
hours, at unequal intervals; and in these short mo-
ments he was made to believe that he had been only
J65
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
a few hours asleep. During the whole of his sleep,
his digestive functions were performed with an in-
creased activity.
He had been asleep three days, when, in company
with M. Foissac, he set out on foot, on the 28th of
December, from the street Mondovi, and went in
search of M. Fouquier at the hospital de la Charite,
where he arrived at nine o'clock. He recognized there
the patients near whom he had slept before his dis-
charge, the pupils who were upon duty in the room,
and he read with his eyes closed, a finger having been
applied to each eyelid, some words which were pre-
sented to him by M. Fouquier. All that we had wit-
nessed appeared to us so astonishing, that your com-
mittee, being desirous of following out the history of
this somnambulist to the end, again met, upon the
Ist of January, in the house of M. Foissac, where
we found Paul asleep since the 25th of December.
Fifteen days before, he had taken out the setons
in the neck and the breast, and had established,
on the left arm, a cautery, which he was to continue
a his life. Moreover, he declared that he was now
cured, that, unless guilty of some imprudence, he
should live to an advanced age, and that he should
die, at last, of an attack of apoplexy. While still
asleep, he went out of the house of M. Foissac, and
walked and ran along the street with a firm and
assured step. Upon his return, he carried, with the
greatest facility, one of the persons present, whom
he could scarcely have lifted before he was set asleep.
Upon the 12th of January, your committee met
1
166
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGETISM.
again at the house of M. Foissac, where there were
present M. E. Lazcase, deputy, M. De - , aide-de-
camp to the king, and M. Segalas, member of the
academy. M. Foissac told us that he was going
to set Paul asleep, that in this state of somnambulism
a finger should be applied to each of his closed eyes,
and that, in spite of this complete occlusion of the
eyelids, he should distinguish the colour of cards,
that he should read the title of a work, and even some
words or lines pointed out at random in the body
of the work. At the end of two minutes of magnetic
manipulations, Paul fell asleep. The eyelids being
kept closed, constantly and alternately by MM. Fou-
quier, Itard, Marc, and the reporter, there was pre-
sented to him a pack of new cards, from which the
paper covering bearing the government stamp was
torn off. The cards were shuffled, and Paul easily
and successively recognized the King of Spades, the
Ace of Clubs, the Queen of Spades, the Nine of
Clubs, the Seven of Diamonds, and Queen of Dia-
monds, and the Eight of Diamonds.
While his eyelids were kept closed by M. Segalas,
there was presented to him a volume which the re-
porter had brought along with him. He read upon
the title page: Histoirede France.* He could not
read the two intermediate lines, and upon the fifth
he read only the name, Anquetil, which is preceded
* Histoire de France depuis les Gaulois jusques & la mort de
Louis XVI. par Anquetil. 13 Vol. 8vo. Paris, 1817.
The passage read by Paul is to be found upon the 89th page of the
7th volume.
167
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
by the preposition par. The book was opened at the
89th page, and he read in the first line--le nombre
de sea--he passed over the word troupes, and con-
tinued: Au moment ou on le croyait occupe' des
plaisirsdu carnaval. He also read the running title
Louis, but could not read the Roman cypher which
follows it. A piece of paper was presented to him,
upon which were written the words, Agglutination
and MagnetismeAnimal. He spelt the first, and pro-
nounced the two others. Finally, the proeds-verbal
of this sitting was presented to him, and he read very
distinctly the date and some words which were more
legibly written than the others. In all these experi-
ments the fingers were applied to the whole of the
commissure of both eyes, by pressing down the upper
upon the under eyelid, and we remarked that the ball
of the eyewas in a constant rotatory motion, and seem-
ed directed towards the object presented to his vision.
Upon the 2d of February, Paul was placed in a
state of somnambulism in the house of Messrs Scribe
and Bremard, Merchants, Street St Honor& The
reporter of the committee was the only member pre-
sent at this experiment. The eyelids were closed as
before, and Paul read, in the work entitled The thou-
.sand
and one nights, the title-page, the word preface
and the first line of the preface, with the exception ofthe
word peu. There was also presented to him a volume
entitled, Lettres de deux amies, par Madame Cam-
pan. He distinguished on a print the figure of
Napoleon; he pointed out the boots, and said that he
also saw two female figures. He then read currently
168
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the four first lines of the third page with the excep-
tion of the word raviver. Finally, he recognized,
without touching them, four cards, which were suc-
cessively presented to him two and two,-these were
the King of Spades and the Eight of Hearts, the
King and Queen of Clubs.
At another sitting, which took place upon the 13th
of March following, Paul attempted in vain to dis-
tinguish different cards which were applied to the pit
of the stomach; but he read, with his eyes still closed
in a book opened at random, and, at this time, it was
M. Jules Cloquet who kept his eyes shut. The
reporter also wrote upon a slip of paper the words,
Maximilien Robespierre, which he read equally well.
The conclusions to be drawn from this long and
curious case are easy. They flow naturally from the
simple exposition of the facts which we have reported
to you, and we establish them in the following man-
ner :
1. A patient, whom a rational medical treatment
by one of the most distinguished practitioners of the
capital could not cure of a paralysis, found his cure
from the administration of magnetism, and in conse-
quence of following exactly the treatment which he
prescribed for himself when in a state of somnambu-
lism. 2. In this state, his strength was remarkably
increased. 3. He gave us the most undoubted proofs
that he read with his eyes closed. 4. He predicted
the period of his cure, and this cure took place.
In the following case, we shall see this foresight
.still more fully developed in a man belonging to the
169
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
lower class, quite ignorant, and who, assuredly, had
never heard of animal magnetism.
Pierre Cazot, aged 20 years, by trade a hatter,
born of an epileptic mother, had been subject for ten
years to attacks of epilepsy, which occurred five or
six times a-week, when he was admitted into the
hospital de la Charit6 about the beginning of the
month of August, 1827. He was immediately sub-
jected to the magnetic treatment, was set asleep at
the 3d sitting, and became somnambulist at the 10th,
which took place upon the 19th of August. It was
then, at 9 o'clock in the morning, that he announced
to us thatat fouro'clock of the afternoon of that day, he
should have an attack of epilepsy, but that it might
be prevented by magnetising him a little previously.
We preferred verifying the exactness of his prediction,
and no precaution was taken to prevent its fulfilment.
We contented ourselves with observing him without
exciting in him any suspicion. At one one o'clock, he
was seized with a violent headach. At three, he was
obliged to go to bed, and precisely at four the fit
came on. It lasted five minutes. On the second day
following, Cazot, being in a state of somnambulism,
M. Fouquier suddenly thrust a pin of an inch in
length between the forefinger and thumb of his right
hand; with the same pin he pierced the lobe of his
ear; his eyelids were separated, and the conjunctiva
struck several times with the head of a pin, but the
patient did not manifest the slightest sign of sensi-
bility.
Your committee repaired to the hospital de la
170
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Charite upon the 24th of August at nine o'clock in the
morning, in order to witness the experiments which
M. Fouquier, one ofits members, proposed to continue
to make upon this patient.
M. Foissac, who had already magnetised him, pla-
ced himself opposite, and at the distance of six feet
from Cazot; he looked steadily at him, made use of
no manipulations, preserved absolute silence, and
Cazot fell asleep in eight minutes. Three times there
was placed under his nose a bottle filled with ammo-
niac: his face coloured, his respiration increased, but
he did not awake. M. Fouquier thrust into his fore-
arm a pin of an inch in length. Another was intro-
duced to the depth of two lines obliquely under the
breast-bone (sternum); a third also obliquely, at the
pit of the stomach ; a fourth perpendicularly into
the sole of the foot. M. Guersent pinched him
in the forearm, so as to produce a livid spot in
the skin: M. Itard leant upon his thigh with the
whole weight of his body. We endeavoured to pro-
duce tickling by bringing a small piece of paper under
the nose and conducting it along the lips, the eyelids,
the eye-lashes, the neck and the sole of the foot. No-
thing could awaken him. We pressed him with ques-
tions. How long will your fits continue ? For a year.
.- Do you know whether they will follow close upon
each other ? No.--Will you have any this month ? I
shall have one on Monday the 27th at twenty minutes
from three o'clock.-Will they be severe? Not half
so severe as the one I had last.--Upon what other
day will you have another attack ? After exhibiting
171
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
some symptoms of impatience, he answered: Fifteen
days hence, i. e. on the 7th of September.--At what
hour ? At ten minutes before six in the morning.-
The indisposition of one of Cazot's children obliged
him to leave the hospital this very day, the 24th of
August. Maison agreed to make him return on the
morhing of Monday the 27th, in order that we might
have an opportunity of observing the fit, which he
told us was to take place that day at twenty minutes
to three. The keeper having refused to admit him
when he presented himself, Cazot went to the house of
M. Foissac to complain of this refusal. The latter
told us that he preferred putting a stop to this
fit by magnetism, than to be the sole witness of
it: Consequently, we could not ascertain the exactness
of this prevision. But we had still to observe the fit
which he had announced for the 7th of September,
and M. Fouquier, who procured for Cazot admission
into the hospital upon the 6th, under the pretext of
subjecting him to some treatment which could not take
place out of the establishment, made him be magne-
tised, in the course of the day, by M. Foissac, who
set him asleep by the mere influence of his volition,
and his fixed look. In this sleep, Cazot repeated that
he should have an attack next day at ten minutes to
six, and that it might be prevented by magnetising
him a little before.
Upon a signal agreed upon and given by M. Fou-
quier, M. Foissac, of whose presence Cazot was ig-
norant, awakened him, as he had set him asleep, by
the mere influence of his volition, in spite of the ques-
172
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNERTSM.
tions we addressed to the somnambulist, the only ob-
ject of which was to conceal from him the moment
when he was to be awakened. In order to wit-
ness the second fit, your committee met, at a quarter
before six of the morning of the 7th of September, in
the Salle St Michel of the hospital de la Charit.
There we learnt that, upon the previous evening at
eight o'clock, Cazot had been seized with a pain in his
head which had tormented him all night; that this
pain had caused the sensation of the ringing of bells,
and that he had experienced shooting pains in the
ears. At ten minutes to six, we witnessed the epileptic
fit, characterized byrigidity andcontraction of the limbs,
the repeated projection and jerking back of the head,
the arched curvature of the body backwards, the con-
vulsive closing of the eyelids, the retraction of the
ball of the eye towards the upper part of the orbit,
sighs, screams, insensibility to pinching, squeezing of
the tongue between the teeth. All these symptoms
continued five minutes, during which there were two
short intervals of remission, each of some seconds;
and afterwards there ensued a relaxation (brisement)
of the limbs, and general lassitude.
Upon the 10th of September at seven o'clock in the
evening, your committee met at the house of M. Itard,
in order to continue their experiments upon Cazot.
The latter was in the parlour, where we entered into
conversation with him, and kept it up until half-past
seven,-the period at which M. Foissac, who had ar-
rived after us and remained in the ante-chamber, which
waq separated from the parlour by two closed doors,
173
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
and at a distance of twelve feet, began to magnetise
him. Three minutes after, Cazot said: " I believe M.
Foissac is there, for I feel myself stupified (abasour-
di. ") At the end of eight minutes he was set com-
pletely asleep. We questioned him, and he again as-
sured us, that in three weeks from that day, i. e. upon
the 1st of October, he should have an epileptic fit at
two minutes before noon.
We made it our business to observe, with as much
care as we had done upon the 7th of September, the
epileptic fit which he had predicted for the 1st of Oc-
tober. For this purpose, the committee repaired at
half-past eleven upon that day to the house of M.
Georges,hat-manufacturer, Rue de Menetriers,No. 17,
where Cazot resided, and followed his employment.
We learnt from this M. Georges, that Cazot was
a very steady workman; that his conduct was excel-
lent, and that, whether from sitnplicity of character,
or from moral principle, he was incapable of lending
himself to any kind of fraud; that Cazot, feeling him-
self indisposed, had remained in his room, and was
not at work; that he had experienced no attack of
epilepsy since that which the committee had witness.
ed at the hospital de la Charite; that there was now
in company with Cazot an intelligent man, whose ve-
racity and discretion might be depended upon, and
that this man had not announced to Cazot that he
had predicted an attack upon this day; that it ap-
peared certain that, since the 10th of September, M.
Foissac had communication with Cazot, but from this
no inference could be drawn that he had reminded
174
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
him of his prediction, on the contrary, M. Foissac ap-
peared to attach very great importance to its being con-
cealed from Cazot. M. Georges, at five minutes be-
fore noon, went up to a room situated under that in-
habited by Cazot; and a minute afterwards, he came
to inform us that the fit had commenced. We all
went up in haste, MM. Guersent, Thillaye, Afarc,
Guineau, de Mussy, Itard, and the reporter, to the
sixth story, where, upon our arrival, the watch of one
of the committee indicated a minute before noon, true
time. Assembled round the bed of Cazot, we found
the epileptic fit characterized by the following symp-
toms. Tetanic rigidity of the trunk and limbs, the
head and sometimes the trunk bent backwards, a con-
vulsive drawing upwards of the balls of the eyes, of
which nothing was to be seen but the white, a very
decided suffusion of the face and neck, contraction of
the jaws, partial fibrillary convulsions in the muscles
of the fore-arm and of the right arm: Soon afterwards,
opisthotonos so decided that the trunk was bent back
into the arc of a circle, the body resting only on the
head and feet, which motions were terminated by an
abrupt relaxation. A few moments after this attack,
i. e. after a minute's respite, another fit came on simi-
lar to the preceding. There were inarticulate sounds,
the respiration Was stifled and tremulous, the larynx
being rapidly depressed and elevated, and the pulse
beating from 132 to 160. There was no foam at the
mouth, nor contraction of the thumb towards the palm.
At the end of six minutes, the fit terminated with
sighs, sinking down of the limbs, opening of the eye-
175
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
lids, which allowed him to look upon the bystanders
with an air of astonishment, and he told us that he
was lamed (courbature) especially in the right arm:
Although the committee could entertain no doubt
as to the very decided effects which magnetism pro-
duced upon Cazot, even without his knowledge, and
at a certain distance, we wished to have still another
proof of its influence. And as it had been proved at
the last sitting that M. Foissac had had communica-
tion with him, and might have reminded him of his
having predicted the attack which was to take place
on the Ist of October, the committee, in making new
experiments upon Cazot, wished to lead M. Foissac
into an error with regard to the day which the pati-
ent should predict as that of his next attack. In this
way we should prevent every species of collusion,
even if it could be supposed that a man whom we
had always found tobe upright And conscientious would
enter into a compact with another, destitute of educa-
tion and knowledge, in order to deceive us. We con-
fess that we could never entertain an idea so injurious
to the one and the other; and we must render the
same justice to MM. Dupotet and Chapelain, ofwhom
we have repeatedly had occasion to speak in this re-
port.
Your committee, then, met in the cabinet of M.
Bourdois, upon the 6th of October at noon, at which
hour Cazot arrived there with his child. Here M.
Foissac had been invited to meet us at half-past
twelve; he arrived unknown to Cazot, and remained
in the drawing-room, without having any communi-
176
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
cation with us. A person, however, was sent by a
concealed door to tell him that Cazot was seated on a
sofa about ten feet distant from a closed door, and
that the committee requested that he might be set
asleep and awakened at this distance, he remaining
in the cabinet, and M. Foissac in the drawing-room.
At thirty-seven minutes past twelve, while Cazot
was engaged in conversation with us, and in examining
the pictures which hung round the cabinet, M. Fois-
sac commenced his magnetic operations in the next
room, and we remarked that, at the end of four mi-
nutes, Cazot winked slightly, appeared restless, and
at length in nine minutes, fell asleep. M. Guersent,
who had attended him at the hospital des Enfans for
his epileptic attacks, asked him if he recognized him.
He answered in the affirmative. M. Itard asked him
when he should have another fit. He answered that
he should have one in four weeks from that day (the
3d of November), at five minutes past four in the after.
noon. He was then asked when he should have
another. He answered, after collecting himself and
hesitating, that it would be five weeks after the pre-
ceding, upon the 9th of December, at half-past nine in
in the morning.
The proc-verbalof this meeting having been read
over in presence of M. Foissac, in order that he might
signit along with us, we wished, as we have said above,
to lead him into an error; and in reading it over to
him before getting it signed by the members of the
committee, the reporter read, that Cazot's first fit should
take place upon Sunday the 4th of November, instead
M
177
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of Saturday the Sd, as predicted by the patient. He
was equally deceived in regard to the second fit, and
M. Foissac took a note of these false indications as if
they had been correct; but some days afterwards,
having placed Cazot in a state ofsomnambulism, as he
was accustomed to do, in order to free him from his
headachs, he learnt from him that the fit should
take place upon the 3d, and not the 4th, and of this
he informed M. Itard, believing that an error had
crept into our proce's-verbal.
In order to observe the fit of the 3d ofNovember, the
committee took the same precautions as in examining
that ofthe 1st of October. At four o'clock in the after-
noon, we repaired to the house ofM. Georges, where we
learnt from him, from his wife, and from one of the
workmen, that Cazot had wrought, as usual, all the
morning until two o'clock, and that, at dinner, he had
felt a headach; that, nevertheless, he had come down
for the purpose of resuming his work; but that the
headach had increased, and having experienced a stu-
por, he had returned to his room, lain down in his
bed and fallen asleep. MM. Bourdois, Fouquier,
and the reporter then went up, preceded byM. Georges,
to Cazot's room. M. Georges entered alone, and found
him in a profound sleep, which he made us observe
by the door upon the stair being left a-jar. M. Georges
spoke loud to him, moved him, shook him by the
arms, without being able to awaken him, and at six
minutes past four, in the midst of these attempts to
awaken him, Cazot was seized with the principal
symptoms which characterize a fit of epilepsy, and in
178
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
all respects similar to those which we had previously
observed.
The second fit announced at the sitting of the 6th
of October, to take place upon the 9th of December,
i. e.two months before, occurred at a quarter from ten,
instead of half-past nine, a quarter of an hour later
than had been predicted, and was characterized by the
same precursory phenomena, and by the same symp-
toms as those of the 7th of September, Ist of October,
and 3d of November.
Finally, upon the 11th of February, Cazot foretold
the period of another fit, which was to take place upon
Sunday the 22d of April, five minutes after noon, and
this annunciation was verified, like the preceding,
within about five minutes, that is to say, the fit took
place ten minutes after noon. This fit, remarkable
for its violence, for the fury with which Cazot bit his
hand and his fore-arm, by the abrupt and repeated
starts with which he lifted himself up, lasted thirty-five
minutes, when M. Foissac, who was present, magne-
tised him. The convulsive state soon ceased, and
gave way to the magnetic somnambulism, during
which Cazot rose, sat down upon a chair, and said
that he was much fatigued, that he should still have
two fits-one in nine weeks from to-morrow (25th of
June) at three minutes past six o'clock. He did not
wish to speak of the second fit, because it would be
necessary for him to think of what was to happen pre-
viously-(at this moment he sent away his wife, who
was present)-and he added that, about three weeks
after the fit of the 25th of June, he should become in-
179
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
sane, that his insanity should last three days, during
which he should be so wicked as to fight with every
body, that he should even maltreat his wife and his
child, that he ought not to be left alone with them,
and that he did not know but he might kill some
person whom he did not name. He ought then to be
bled successively in the two feet. Finally, he added:
" I shall be cured in the month of August ; and when
once cured, the disease will never attack me again
under any circumstances."
It was upon the 22d of April thatallthese predictions
were made; and two days afterwards, the 24th, Ca-
zot, attempting to stop a spirited horse who had taken
the bit in his teeth, was thrown against the wheel of
a cabriolet, which shattered the arch of the left orbit,
and bruised him shockingly. He was taken to the
hospital Beaujon, and died there upon the 15th of
May. Upon opening his scull, there were found a
recent inflammation of the cerebral membranes, (me..
ningitis,) a collection of purulent matter under the in-
teguments of the cranium, and at the extremity ofthe
ple us choroides a substance yellow within and white
on the outside, containing small hydatides.
In this case, we see a young man, subject during
ten years to attacks of epilepsy, for which he was
under medical treatment at the hospital des Enfans
and that of St Louis successively, and also exempted
from military service. Magnetism acts upon him,
although he is completely ignorant of what is done.
There is an amelioration in the symptoms of his dis-
ease; the fits diminish in frequency; his oppression
180
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
and headachs disappear under the influence of magne-
tism; he prescribes a mode of treatment adapted to
the nature of his complaint, and from which he pre-
dicts a cure. When magnetised without his know-
ledge and at a distance, he falls into somnambulism,
and is withdrawn from it as promptly as when he was
magnetised near. Finally, he pointed out, with singu-
lar precision, one or two months before, the very day
and hour when he was to have an access of epilepsy.
However, although gifted with the faculty offoreseeing
the fits which were so distant, nay, those which were
never to take place, he could not foresee that, in two
days, he should meet with a fatal accident.
Without attempting to reconcile all that may, at
first sight, appear contradictory in such a case, the
committee would request you to observe, that the
prevision of Cazot related only to his fits; that it was
restricted to the consciousness of the organic modifi-
cations which were preparing, and which took place
in him, as the necessary result of the internal func-
tions; that this prevision, although more extensive,
is quite similar to that of some epileptic patients, who
recognize the approach of a fit by certain precursory
symptoms, such as headach, giddiness, moroseness,
the auraepileptica. Is it surprising, then, that the
somnainbulists, whose sensibility, as you have seen, is
extremely lively, should be capable of foreseeing their
fits a long time before, in consequence of some symp-
toms or internal impressions, which escape the waking
man ? It is in this manner, gentlemen, that we might
explain the prevision attested by Aretaeus in two
181
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
passages of his immortal works; by Sauvage, who re-
lates an instance of it, and by Cabanis. We may add,
that the prevision of Cazot was not rigorous and ab-
solute, but conditional, in as much as, when predict-
ing a fit, he announced that it would not take place
provided he were magnetised, and, in reality, it did
not take place; it was altogether organic and internal.
Thus we can conceive how he did not foresee an event
altogether external, viz. that he should accidentally
meet a restive horse, that he should have the impru-
dence to attempt to stop it, and that he should receive
a mortal wound. He might, then, have foreseen a fit
which was never to take place. It is the hand of a
watch, which, in a given time, ought to traverse a
certain portion of the circle of the dial-plate, and
which does not describe it, because the watch happens
to be broken.
In the two preceding cases, we have presented you
with two very remarkable instances of intuition, of
that faculty which is developed during somnambulism,
and by virtue of which two magnetised individuals
perceived the diseases with which they were affected,
pointed out the treatment requisite for their cure,
announcing the term, and foreseeing the crises. The
case of which we are now about to present you with
an analysis, awakened in us a new species of iAterest.
Here, the magnetised person, plunged into somnam-
bulism, determines the diseases of others, with whom
she is placed in magnetic connection, describes their
nature, and points out the proper remedies.
Mademoiselle Celine Sauvage was placed in a state
182'
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of somnambulism, in presence of the committee, on the
18th and 21st of April, the 17th of June, the 9th of
August, the 23d of December 1826, and 13th and
'17th of January, and 21st of February 1827.
In passing into the state of somnambulism, she ex-
perienced a coolness of several degrees, appreciable by
the thermometer, her tongue, from being moist and
flexible, became dry and wrinkled, her breath, until
then sweet, became fetid and repulsive.
The sensibility was almost entirely annihilated dur-
ing the continuance of her sleep, for she made six in-
spirations, having a bottle filled with hydrochloric
acid under her nostrils, without manifesting any emo-
tion. M. Marc pinched her wrist ; a needle used in
acupuncture was thrust to the depth of three lines in-
to her left thigh ; another, to the depth of two lines
into her left wrist. These two needles were united
by means of a galvanic conductor; very perceptible
convulsive motions were produced in the hand; and
Mademoiselle Celine seemed quite unconscious of all
that was done to her. She heard the voices of per-
sons who spoke close to her and touched her; but she
did not remark the noise of two plates which were
broken beside her.
It was while she was sunk in this state of somnam-
bulism, that the committee recognized in her three
times the faculty of discoursing upon the diseases
of other persons whom she touched, and of pointing
out the appropriate remedies.
The committee found, amongst its own members,
one who was willing to submit to the investigations
183
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of this somnambulist. This was M. Marc. Made-
moiselle Celine was requested to examine attentively
our colleague's state of health. She applied her hand
to his forehead, and to the region of the heart, and in
the course of three minutes she said, that the blood
had a tendency to the head; that, at that moment,
M. Marc had pain on the left side of this cavity ; that
he often felt an oppression, especially after having
eaten; that he must often have a slight cough; that
the lower part of the breast was gorged with blood;
that something impeded the alimentary passage ; that
this part (pointing to the region of the xiphoid carti-
lage) was contracted; that to cure M. Marc, it was
necessary that he should be copiously bled ; that cata-
plasms ofhemlock should be applied, and that the lower
part of the breast should be rubbed with laudanum;
that he should drink gummed lemonade; that he
should eat little and frequently, and that he should not
take exercise immediately after having made a meal.
We were anxious to learn from M. Marc whether
he experienced all that this somnambulist had announ-
ced. He told us that, in reality, he felt an oppression
when he walked upon leaving the table; that, as she
announced, he frequently had a cough; and that, be-
fore this experiment, he had felt pain in the left side
of the head, but that he was not sensible of any impe-
diment in the alimentary passage.
We were struck with this analogy between the feel-
ings of M. Marc and the announcement of the soim-
nambulist; we noted it with care, and awaited ano-
ther opportunity of procuring a new confirmation of
184
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the existence of this singular faculty. This oppor-
tunity was presented to the reporter, without his hav-
ing sought it, by the mother of a young lady, whom
he had attended for a very short time.
The patient was from twenty-three to twenty-five
years of age, and had been afflicted, for about two
years, with dropsy of the abdomen, (ascites,) accom-
panied with a number of obstructions, some of the
size of an egg, some of the size of the fist, others as
large as a child's head, which were situated principally
on the left side of the belly. The belly externally was
unequal and corrugated; and these inequalities corre-
sponded to the obstructions which had their seat within
the abdomen. M. Dupuytren had already punctured
this patient ten or twelve times, and had always with-
drawn a large quantity of clear, limpid albumen,
without smell, and without any mixture. An allevia-
tion of the symptoms always followed this operation.
The reporter was once present at this operation,
and it was easy for M. Dupuytren and him to ascer-
tain the size and the hardness of these tumours, and,
consequently, to become sensible of their inability to
cure this patient. Nevertheless, they prescribed dif-
ferent remedies, and they attached some importance
to the putting Mademoiselle - upon a regimen
of goat's milk, the goat having been previously sub-
jected to mercurial frictions.
Upon the 21st of February 1827, the reporter went
in search of M. Foissac and Mademoiselle Celine, and
conducted them to a house in the street of the Far.
bosrgdu Boule, without mentioning the name, orthe
185
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
residence, or the nature of the disease of the person
whom he wished to submit to the examination of the
somnambulist.
The patient did not appear in the room where the
experiment was made until M. Foissac had set Made-
moiselle Celine asleep, and then, after having placed
a hand of the one in that of the other, she examined
her during eight minutes, not as a physician would
do, by pressing the abdomen, by percussion, by scru-
tinizing it in every way; but merely by applying her
hand repeatedly to the stomach, the heart, the back,
and the head.
Being interrogated as to what she observed in Ma-
demoiselle , she answered that the whole belly
was diseased, that there was in it a scirrhus and a
large quantity of water on the side of the spleen;
that the intestines were very much puffed up; that
there were pouches containing worms; that there were
swellings of the size of an egg, containing a puriform
matter, and that these swellings must be painful;
that at the bottom of the stomach, there was an ob-
structed gland, (glandeengorgee,) of the thickness of
three of her fingers; that this gland was in the in-
terior of the stomach, and must injure the digestion;
that the disease was of old standing ; and, finally, that
Mademoiselle must have headachs. She prescribed
the use of a diet-drink of borage and nitrated Peruvian
bark (?) (ckienaennitree,)five ounces of the juice ofpa-
rietary taken every morning, and a very little mercury
taken in milk. She added, that the milk of a goat,
which had been rubbed with mercurial ointment half
an hour before drawing it off, would be the most pro-
186
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM'f
per.* Besides, she prescribed cataplasms of flowers
ofelder constantly applied to the belly, frictions of this
cavity with oil of laurel, or, instead of it, with the
juice of this shrub combined with the oil of sweet al-
monds, a clyster composed of a decoction of Peruvian
bark, (kina,) mixed with an emollient decoction. The
diet should consist of white meats, milk and flour,
and no lemon. She allowed very little wine, a little
orange-flower rum, or the liqueur of spiced mint.
This treatment was not followed; and if it had, it
could not have saved the patient. She died a year
afterwards. As the body was not opened, we could
not verify what had been said by the somnambulist.
Upon an occasion of great delicacy, when very able
physicians, several of whom are members of the aca-
demy, had prescribed a mercurial treatment for an
obstruction (engorgement) of the glands of the neck,
which they attributed to a syphilitic taint, the family
of the patient under this treatment, alarmed at the
appearance of some serious consequences, wished to
have the advice of a somnambulist. The reporter
was called in to assist at a consultation; and he did
not neglect to take advantage of this new opportunity
of adding to what the committee had already seen.
He found a young married woman, Madame La C--
* Without attaching much importance to this singular agreement
between the prescription made by the somnambulist of the milk of a
goat rubbed with mercurial ointment, and the same prescription re-
commended to the patient by M. Dupuytren and the reporter, the com-
mittee were bound to notice this coincidence in their Report. It is
presented as a fact, of which the reporter guarantees the authenticity,
but of which no explanation can be given.
187
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
having the whole right side of the neck deeply ob-
structed by a great congeries of glands close upon
each other. One of them was opened, and emitted
a yellowish purulent matter.
Mademoiselle Celine, whom M. Foissac magnetised
in presence of the reporter, placed herself in connec-
tion with this patient, and affirmed that the stomach
had been attacked by a substance like poison; that
there was a slight inflammation of the intestines;
that, in the upper part of the neck, on the right side,
there was a scrofulous complaint, which ought to
have been more considerable than it was at present;
that, by following a soothing treatment, which she
prescribed, the diseasewould be mitigated in the course
of fifteen days or three weeks. This treatment con-
sisted of some grains of magnesia, eight leeches ap-
plied to the pit of the stomach, water gruel, a saline
cathartic every week, two clysters each day---one of
a decoction of Peruvian bark (kina), and, immediate.
ly after, another of the roots of the marsh-mallow,-.
friction of the limbs with ether, a bath every week;
food made of milk (laitage), light meats, and absti-
nence from wine. This treatment was followed for
some time, and there was a perceptible amelioration
of the symptoms. But the impatience of the patient,
who did not think her recovery proceeding with suf-
ficient rapidity, determined the family to call another
consultation of physicians, who decided that she
should again be placed under mercurial treatment.
From this period, the reporter ceased to attend the
patient; and he learnt that the administration of the
1
188
REPORT ON AN1MAL MAGNETISM.
mercury had produced very serious affections of the
stomach, which terminated her existence, after two
months of acute suffering. A proeds-verbal upon
opening the body, signed by MM. Fouquier, Marjo-
lin, Cruveillier and Foissac, verified the existence of
a scrofulous or tubercular obstruction of the glands
of the neck, two small cavities full ofpus, proceeding
from the tubercles at the top of each of the lungs;
the mucous membrane of the great cul-de-sac of the
stomach was almost entirely destroyed. These gen-
tlemen ascertained, besides, that there was no indica-
tion of the presence of any syphilitic disease, whether
old or recent.
From the preceding observations it follows, 1. That
in the state of somnambulism, lfademoiselle Celine
pointed out the diseases of three individuals, with
whom she was placed in magnetic connection; 2.
That the declaration of the first, the examination
which was made of the other after three punctures,
and the post mortem examination of the body of the
third, were found to correspond with the annuncia-
tions of the somnambulist; 3. That the different
modes of treatment which she prescribed do not ex-
ceed the limits of that circle of remedies with which
she might have been acquainted, nor the order of
the things which she might reasonably recommend;
and, 4. That she applied them with a species of
discernment.
To all these facts which we have so laboriously
189
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
collected, which we have observed with so much dis-
trust and attention, which we have endeavoured to
classify in such a manner as might best enable you to
follow the developement of the phenomena which we
witnessed, which we have, above all, exerted ourselves
to present to you disengaged from all those accessory
circumstances which might have embarrassed or per-
plexed the narrative; we might add those which
ancient, and even modern history have recorded on
the.subject of previsions which have frequently been
redlized, on the cures effectuated by the imposition of
the hands, on ecstasies, on the convulsionaries, on
oracles, on hallucinations; in short, on all that, remote
from those physical phenomena which may be explain-
ed upon the principle of the action of one body upon
another, enters into the domain of physiology, and
may be considered as an effect depending upon a
moral influence not appreciable by the senses. But
the committee was appointed for the purpose of inves-
tigating somnambulism, for the purpose of making
experiments relative to this phenomenon, which had
not been studied by the commissioners of 1784, and
of reporting to you. We should, then, have exceeded
the limits prescribed to our inquiries, if, in attempt-
ing to support that which we ourselves had seen by
the authority of others who had observed analogous
phenomena, we had swelled out our report with facts
which were foreign to it. We have related with
impartiality what we have seen with distrust; we
have exposed in order what we have observed in
different circumstances,--what we have prosecuted
I.0O
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
with the most anxious, minute and unremitted atten-
tion. We are conscious that the report which we
present to you is the faithful exposition of all we
have observed. The obstacles which we have encoun-
tered in our progress are known to you. They are,
in some measure, the cause of the delay which has
taken place in presenting our report, although the
materials have been for a long time in our hands.
Nevertheless, we are far from wishing to excuse our-
selves or to complain of this delay, since it confert
upon our observations a character of maturity and of
reserve, which ought to secure your confidence in the
facts which we relate, divested of that prejudice and
enthusiasm with which you might have reproached
us, had we collected them in haste. We may add,
that we are far from thinking that we have seen all;
we do not, therefore, pretend to desire you to admit,
as an axiom, that there is nothing positive in magne-
tism beyond what we have noticed in our report. Far
from setting limits to this part of physiological sci-
ence, we hope on the contrary, that a new field has
been opened up to it; and warranting the authenti-
city of our own observations, presenting them with
confidence to those who, after us, may wish to engage
in the investigation of magnetism, we shall only de-
duce from them the following
191i
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
CONCLUSIONS.
The conclusions of the report are the result of the
observations of which it is composed.
1. The contact of the thumbs or of the hands;
frictions, or certain gestures which are made at a
small distance from the body, and called Pases,are
the means employed to place ourselves in magnetic
connection, or, in other words, to transmit the mag-
netic influence to the patient. (Pp. 118, 119.)
2. The means which are external and visible are
not always necessary, since, on many occasions, the
will, the fixed look, have been found sufficient to pro-
duce the magnetic phenomena, even without the know-
ledge of the patient. (Pp. 171, 172, 174, 177.)
8. Magnetism has taken effect upon persons of dif-
ferent sexes and ages.
4. The time required for transmitting the magne-
tic influence with effect, has varied from half an hour
to a minute.
5. In general, magnetism does not act upon per-
sons in a sound state of health. (P. 120.)
6. Neither does itact upon all sick persons. (P.121.)
7. Sometimes, during the process of magnetising,
there are manifested insignificant and evanescent
192
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
effects, which cannot be attributed to magnetism
alone; such as a slight degree of oppression, of heat
or of cold (p. 123,) and some other nervous pheno-
mena, which can be explained without the interven-
tion of a particular agent (p. 124,)-upon the princi-
ple of hope or of fear, prejudice and the novelty of the
treatment, the ennuiproduced by the monotony of the
gestures, (p. 126,) the silence and repose in which
the experiments are made ; finally, by the imagina-
tion, which has so much influence on some minds and
on certain organizations. (Pp. 126-129.)
8. A certain number of the effects observed appear-
ed to us to depend upon magnetism alone, and were
never produced without its application. These are
well established physiological and therapeutic pheno-
mena. (Pp. 130-132, 161, &c.)
9. The real effects produced by magnetism are very
various. It agitates some, and soothes others. Most
commonly, it occasions a momentary acceleration of
the respiration and of the circulation (p. 124,) fugi-
tive fibrillary convulsive motions resembling electric
shocks (pp. 181-144,) a numbness in a greater or less
degree (p. 131,) heaviness, somnolency (ibid.) and in
a small number of cases, that which the magnetisers
call somnambulism.
10. The existence of an uniform character, to en-
able us to recognize, in every case, the reality of the
N
19s
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
state of somnambulism has not been esta6lished.
(Pp. 141, 144-146.)
11. However, we may conclude with certainty that
this state exists, when it gives rise to the derelope.
ment of new faculties, which have been designated by
the names of clairvoyance (pp. 154-158, 166-169);
intuition (p. 162); internal prevision (pp. 163, 170,
171); or when it produces great changes in the phy-
sical economy, such as insensibility (pp. 135, 136,
148-151, 163); a sudden and considerable increase of
strength (pp. 164, 165, 171); and when these effects
cannot be referred to any other cause. (Pp. 148,
149, 151, 152.)
12. As among the effects attributed to somnambu-
lism there are some which may be feigned, somnam-
bulism itself may be feigned, and furnish to quackery
the means of deception. (Pp. 138, 140.)
Thus, in the observation of those phenomena which
do not present themselves again but as insulated facts,
it is only by means of the most attentive scrutiny, the
most rigid precautions, and numerous and varied ex-
periments, that we can escape illusion.
13. Sleep produced with more or less promptitude,
is a real but not a constant effect of magnetism. (P.
161.)
14. We hold it as demonstrated that it has been
produced in circumstances, in which the persons mag-
194
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
aete4 could not see or were ignorant of, the means
employed to occasion it. (Pp. 130, 174.)
15. When a person has once been made to fall in-
to the magnetic sleep, it is not always necessary to
have recourse to contact, in order to magnetise him
anew. The look of the magnetiser, his volition alone,
possess the same influence. (P. 171.) We can not
only act upon the magnetised person, but even place
him in a complete state of somnambulism, and bring
him out of it without his knowledge, out of his sight,
at a certain distance, and with doors intervening. (Pp.
172-174.)
16. In general, changes, more or less remarkable,
are produced upon the perception and other mental
faculties of those individuals who fall into somnambu-
lism, in consequence of magnetism.
a. Some persons amidst the noise of a confused con-
versation hear only the voice of their magnetiser;
several answer precisely the questions he puts to
them, or which are addressed to them by those indi-
viduals with whom they have been placed in magne-
tic connection; others carry on conversation with all
the persons around them.
Nevertheless, it is seldom that they hear what is
passing around them. During the greater part of the
time, they are completely strangers to the external
and unexpected noise which is made close to their
ears, such as the sound of copper vessels struck brisk-
195
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ly near them, the fall of a piece of furniture, &c.
(P. 148.) ., 4
b. The eyes are closed, the eyelids yield with diffi-
culty to the efforts which are made to open them ; this
operation, which is not without pain, shows the ball
of the eye convulsed, and carried upwards, and some-
times towards the lower part of the orbit. (Pp. 154,
155.)
c. Sometimes the power of smelling appears to be
annihilated. They may be made to inhale muriatic
acid, or ammonia without feeling any inconvenience,
nay, without perceiving it. (P. 186.) The contrary
takes place in certain cases, and they retain the sense
of smelling.
d. The greater number ofthe somnambulists whom
we have seen were completely insensible. We might
tickle their feet, their nostrils and the angle of the
eyes with a feather, we might pinch their skin so as
to leave a mark, prick them with pins under the nails,
&c. without producing any pain, without even their
perceiving it. (P. 171.) Finally, we saw one who was
insensible to one of the most painful operations in
surgery, and who did not manifest the slightest emo-
tion in her countenance, her pulse, or her respiration.
(Pp. 150-151.)
17. Magnetism is as intense, and as speedily felt,
at a distance of six feet, as of six inches; and the
phenomena developed are the same in both cases.
(P. 174.)
18. The action at a distance does not appear ca-
196
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
pable of being exerted with success, excepting upon
individuals who have been already magnetised.
19. We only saw one person who fell into som-
nambulism upon being magnetised for the first time.
Sometimes, somnambulism was not manifested until
the 8th or 10th sitting. (Pp. 126, 161.)
20. We have invariably seen the ordinary sleep,
which is the repose of the organs of sense, of the in-
tellectual faculties, and the voluntary motions, pre-
cede and terminate the state of somnambulism.
21, While in the state of somnambulism, the pa-
tients, whom we have observed, retained the use of
the faculties which they possessed when awake. Even
their memory appeared to be more faithful and more
extensive, because they remembered every thing that
passed at the time, and every time they were placed
in the state of somnambulism.
22. Upon awaking, they said they had totally for-
gotten the circumstances which took place during the
somnambulism, and never recollected them. For
this fact we can have no other authority than their
own declarations.
23. The muscular powers of somnambulists are
sometimes benumbed and paralysed. At other times,
their motions are constrained, and the somnambulists
walk or totter about like drunken men, sometimes
197
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
avoiding, and sometimes not avoiding the 'obstacles
which may happen to be in their way. (P. 158.)
There are some somnambulists who preserve entire
the power of motion; there are even some who dis-
play more strength and agility than in their waking
state. (Pp. 164, 165, 166, 171.)
24. We have seen two somnambulists who dis-
tinguished, with their eyes closed, the objects which
were placed before them (p. 155); they mentioned
'the colour and the value of cards, without touching
them (p. 167) ; they read words traced with the hand
(pp. 168-169), as also some lines of books opened at
random. This phenomenon took place even when
the eyelids were kept exactly closed with the fingers.
(Ibid).
25. In two somnambulists we found the faculty
of foreseeing the acts of the organism more or less
remote, more or less complicated. One of them an-
nounced repeatedly, several months previously, the
day, the hour, and the minute of the access and of
the return ofepileptic fits. (Pp. 171-172, 177). The
other announced the period of his cure. (P. 165).
Their previsions were realised with remarkable ex-
actness. They appeared to us to apply only to acts
or injuries of their organism.
26. We found only a single somnambulist who
pointed out the symptoms of the diseases of three
persons with whom she was placed in magnetic con-
198
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
nection. We had, however, made experiments upon
a considerable number. (P. 183).
27. In order to establish with any degree of ex-
actness the connection between magnetism and the-
rapeutics, it would be necessary to have observed its
effects upon a great number of individuals, and to
have made experiments every day, for a long time,
upon the same patients. As this did not take place
with us, your committee could only mention what
they perceived in too small a number of cases to en'
able them to pronounce any judgment.
28. Some of the magnetised patients felt no benefit
from the treatment. Others experienced a more or
less decided relief: viz. one, the suspension of habitual
pains (p. 131); another, the return of his strength;
a third, the retardation for several months of his
epileptic fits (ibid.); and a fourth the complete cure
of a serious paralysis of long standing. (P. 160, &c.)
29. Considered as a cause of certain physiological
phenomena, or as a therapeutic remedy, magnetism
ought to be allowed a place within the circle of the
medical sciences; and, consequently, physicians only
should practise it, or superintend its use, as is the case
in the northern countries.
30. Your committee have not been able to verify,
because they had no opportunity of doing so, other
faculties which the magnetisers had announced as ex-
199
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
istingin somnambulists. But they have communicated
in their report facts of sufficient importance to entitle
them to think, that the Academy ought to encourage
the investigations into the subject of ani magne-
tism, as a very curious branch of psychology and natu-
ral history.
Arrived at the termination of our labours, before
closing this report, your committee have asked them-
selves, whether, in the precautions which we have
multiplied around us, in order to avoid all surprise;
whether in the feeling of continual distrust, in which
all our proceedings were conducted; whether in the
examination of the phenomena observed, we have
scrupulously fulfilled our commission. What other
course could we have followed ? What means more
certain could we have adopted ? With what'distrust
more decided and more discreet could we have been
actuated? Our conscience, gentlemen, proudly an-
swers, that you could expect nothing from us but
what we have done. In short, have we been honest,
exact and faithful observers ? It is for you who
have long been acquainted with us, for you who see
us continually near you, whether ij the intercourse of
the world, or at our frequent meetings,---it is for you
to answer this question. Your answer, gentlemen,
we expect from the long friendship of some of you,
and from the esteem of all.
Indeed, we dare not flatter ourselves with the hope
of making you participate entirely in our conviction
1
.200
REPORT ON ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of the reality of the phenomena which we have ob-
served, and which you have neither seen, nor follow-
ed, nor studied along with us. We do not, there-
fore, demand of you a blind belief of all that we have
reported. We conceive that a great proportion of
these facts are of a nature so extraordinary, that you
cannot accord them such a credence. Perhaps we
ourselves might have dared to manifest a similar in-
credulity, if, in changing characters, you came to an-
nounce them here to us, who, like you, at present,
had neither seen, nor observed, nor studied, nor fpl-
lowed any thing of the kind.
We only request that you would judge us, as we
should judge you,-that is to say, that you be com-
pletely convinced, that neither the love of the mar-
vellous, nor the desire of celebrity, nor any views
of interest whatever, influenced us during our labours.
We were animated by higher motives and more
worthy of you-by the love of science, and by an
anxiety to justify the expectations you had formed
of our zeal, and of our devotion.
Signed by BOURDOIS DE LA MOTTE, Presidet;
FOUQUIER, GUENEAU DE MUSSY, GUERSENT, Hus-
SON, ITARD, J. J.LEROUX, MARC, THILLAYE.
Note.-MM. Double and Magendie did not con-
sider themselves entitled to sign the Report, as they
had not assisted, in making the experiments.
201
APPENDIX.
APPENDIX.
ON THE SINGULAR PHENOMENON OF THE TRANS.
FERENCE OF THE FACULTIES PROM THEIR USU-
AL AND APPROPRIATE ORGANS TO THE EPIGAS-
TRIUM AND OTHER PARTS OF THE NERVOUS
SYSTEM, WHICH HAS BEEN OCCASIONALLY OB-
SERVED TO OCCUR IN CASES OF CATALEPSY AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
a Omnis verior interpretatio Naturs- conficitur per instantias, et expe.
rimenta idones et apposita; ubi sensus de experimento tantum, experimen-
tur de Naturae et re ipsa judicat."-BAcoN, N. Organum.
IN reviewing the history of knowledge, it is impossi-
ble to withhold our assent from the observation made
by Bacon, and repeated by many of his most eminent
disciples, that there is nothing more detrimental to
the progress of philosophical discovery, than the for-
mation of exclusive systems of science. It is, no
doubt, natural to reflecting minds, to endeavour to
bring the different branches qf their acquirements
into systematic arrangement; and this method,
under proper regulations and with due precautions,
can be productive of no harm, but, on the contrary,
may even facilitate their own studies and those of
APPENDIX.
others. The great danger lies--and this could be
proved from the whole history of philosophy-in set-
ting arbitrary limits to science; so that, when we
happen to stumble upon any new or unusual pheno-
mena, which appear to be irreconcileable with our
preconceived opinions, instead of being induced to
suspect any imperfection in our system, we feel in-
clined to overlook the incompatible facts, to resort
to immediate and unqualified rejection, and to make
every possible effort to exclude the obnoxious and un-
welcome intruders. Systematic pride engenders scien-
tific blindness.
To none of the sciences are these observations more
applicable than to physiology. AlmQst every writer
on the subject agrees in pointing out and lamenting
its barrenness in respect to carefully observed facts,
and the general propensity to speculate, within its
territory, upon ambiguous, erroneous, or insufficient
data. The sciences of physiology and psychology,
indeed, have many acquisitions yet to make; we are
still, confessedly, ignorant of many of the functions
and capabilities of certain portions of the corporeal
organism, as well as of the various modes in which
they are liable to be affected by the powers and pro-
cesses of nature. Of the basis of the mental manifes-
tations we know little, and even that little is almost
entirely hypothetical. We have yet to learn to dis-
tinguish between the intellect and the sensibility in
the human constitution, to observe their different
phenomena, and, if possible, to ascertain and discri-
minate their respective sources. And yet, in this
6
206
PPENDIX.
avowedly imperfect science, as in others, the system
of exclusion has been unhappily permitted to prevail,
and philosophers have exhibited adetermined reluctance
to admit any new facts, however well authenticated,
when they appeared to militate against principles pre-
viouslyestablished upon afalse orinadequate induction.
In these circumstances, at the risk of incurring
the imputation of an irrational credulity, I am about
to direct the attention of scientific men to certain
very singular phenomena, occasionally occurring in
cases of catalepsy and somnambulism, which, as it
appears to me, have not, in this country at least,
been hitherto sufficiently known or investigated,
although they are unquestionably calculated to open
up many new and most important views in phy-
siological and psychological science, if not to operate
an entire change upon the principles established in
these departments of knowledge. I am aware, indeed,
that the facts to be brought under notice must ap-
pear, at first sight, so very extraordinary, and so ut-
terly unaccountable upon any known philosophical
principle, that they will probably be rejected by many
at once, and, without farther inquiry, as absurd and
altogether incredible. Some, perhaps, may feel dis-
posed to class them among those deceptions which,
for some selfish purpose, have been frequently prac-
tised upon the credulity of the multitude by empirics
and impostors. But before adopting such a hasty
conclusion, it would undoubtedly be more philosophi-
cal to consider the character and probable motives of
the observers-to weigh, carefully and impartially,
the evidence by which the facts in question are sup-
207
ported--to reflect attentively upon their connection
and analogy with each other,-to ascertain the con-
clusions to which they naturally lead, and, if possible,
the causes to which they may be rationally ascribed.
Let us satisfy ourselves, in short, of the credibility of
the authorities, the accuracy of the experiments, and
the reality and unambiguous nature of the facts.
Let us remember, too, at the same time, that it is no
good ground for rejecting a fact alleged to have been
observed by competent witnesses, that, in the present
state of our knowledge, we cannot immediately ex-
plain its cause.
There are more things in Heaven and Earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in our philosophy I
To be assured, upon satisfactory evidence, that a
fact, however extraordinary it may appear, is true,
ought to be a sufficient incentive to farther inquiry;
and it is only by means of accurate experiments, and
a cautious inductive investigation, that we can hope,
at length, to become acquainted with the causes of
the more mysterious phenomena of nature.*
Van Helmont informs us that, at one time, he en-
tertained an opinion, that many strong poisons might
be employed with advantage as remedies, if we only
knew how to regulate the doses, and to administer
them at the proper time. In order to enable him to
ascertain this fact, he resolved to make some experi.
S" Quicquid oritur,qualecunque est, causam habeat a natura necesse
est; ut etiam si prater consuetudinem exstiterit, praeter naturam
tamen non possit existere. Causam igitur investigato in re nova atque
admirabili, si potes; si nullum reperies, iMud tamen exploratum habeto,
nihil flerl potuiss sine causa, eumque terrorem, quem tibi rei novitas
attulerit, ratione nature depellito."-CIcno, De 3Divisatione.
SO8 APPENDIRSS.
APPENDIX.
mentsuponhimself withthenapellus;and, accordingly,
having rudely prepared a root, he tasted it with the
point of his tongue. He swallowed none of it, and
spat out a good deal of saliva. At first, he felt as if
his head was bound tightly with a bandage; and soon
afterwards, the following symptoms occurred: He
perceived, with astonishment, that he no longer heard,
thought, knew, or imagined anything by means of the
cerebral organs, but that all their ordinary and pecu-
liar functions appeared to be transferred to the epi-
gastrium,or pit of the stomach. This, he says, he
perceived clearly and distinctly, and he paid the
greatest attention to it. His head still retained mo.
tion and feeling; but the reasoning faculty had passed
to the epigastrium,as if his intellect had taken up its
residence in that part of the corporeal organism.
Struck with surprise and wonder at this unusual phe-
nomenon, he studied himself carefully, observed all
that he experienced, examined all his ideas, and felt
that, during the whole continuance of this extraordi-
nary state, his intellect, thus apparently transferred,
possessed more than its usual energy and acuteness.
This state lasted two hours; after which he expe-
rienced two attacks of vertigo. During the first, he
felt that a new change was going on within him; and
after the second, he found himself in his ordinary
state. Van Helmont adds, that he afterwards re-
peatedly tried the same experiment with the napellus,
but that he never succeeded in obtaining the same
result. *
* Van Helmont, Demens idea, S. I , et e.q.
0
209
210 APPENDIX.
This case ofVan Helmont may be considered bysome
as little more than a common instance of delirium ; and
had it stood alone, it would scarcely have deserved
any particular notice. It appears to me, however, to
present some features analogous to those which have
been observed to occur in other cases to be afterwards
noticed, in which the phenomena were, with some va-
riations, more decidedly developed ; and I have, there-
fore, thought proper to refer to it at the outset, as pro-
bably belonging to the same class, although exhibiting
only the incipient stage of that very singular organic
state, of which I have undertaken to demonstrate the
occasional existence.*
These curious observations of Van Helmont do
not appear to have attracted any attention, or given
* I am doubtful whether I ought to include under this description,
that species of ecstatic delirium produced by the respiration of the
nitrous oxide gas. Sir Humphry Davy has given the following ac-
count of his sensations, while under the influence of this intoxicating
fluid:
" By degrees, as the pleasurable sensations increased, I lost all con-
nection with external things; trains of vivid visible images rapidly pas-
ed through my mind, and were connected with words in such a man-
ner, as to produce perceptions perfectly novel. I existed in a world
ofnewly modified ideas. I theorised; I imagined that I made disco-
veries. When I was awakened from this semi-delirious trance, my
emotions were enthusiastic and sublime; and for a minute I walked
round the room perfectly regardless of what was said to me. As I
recovered my former state of mind, I felt an inclination to communi-
cate the discoveries I made during the experiment. I endeavoured to
recal the ideas; they were feeble and indistinct; one collection of
terms, however, presented itself; andwith the most intense belief and
prophetic manner, I exclaimed: Nothing exists but thoughts I the uni-
verse is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and pains!"-Re-
searches, 6-c. . Lond. 1800.
APPENDIX.
rise to any experimental investigation, at the time.
They either passed entirely unnoticed, or seem to
have been considered by the learned as a merely fan-
ciful conceit ofthis extraordinary and eccentric genius.
About a century and a half after the time of Van
Helmont, however, the singular phenomena he ob-
served seemed to derive a decisive confirmation, while
others of a still more surprising character were elicit-
ed, by the following experiments which were made in
France.
M. Petetin, an eminent physician, and honorary
and Perpetual President of the Medical Society of
Lyons, made a variety of experiments, with a view
to verify this fact of the transference of the faculties
to the epigastric region. These experiments arose
from an accident. He had a cataleptic patient, who
hppeared to be, for a long time, in a state of 'absolute
insensibility. No stimulant had any effect upon her;
her eyes and ears had entirely lost the power of re-
ceiving sensations. M. Petetin, however, was greatly
astonished by the accidental discovery, that she heard
him perfectly when he spoke upon her stomach.
Having satisfied himself of this fact by repeated
trials, he afterwards perceived that the case was the
same in regard to the senses of sight and smell.
The cataleptic patient read vith the stomach, even
through an intervening opaque body. At last, he
found that it was not necessary for him to speak im-
mediately upon the stomach; but that it was quite
sufficient to speak at the extremity of a conductor, of
211
APPENDIX.
which the other extremity rested upon the stomach
of the patient. *
At the period when these experiments and dis-
coveries were made, the doctrines of animal magne-
tism had begun to excite considerable sensation, in
consequence of the exertions of Mesmer and his fol-
lowers. M. Petetin, however, was by no meaps an
advocate for the Mesmerian system, of which, at that
time, he does not appear to have had any experimental
knowledge. On the contrary, his opinion with re-
gard to that doctrine seems to have coincided pretty
nearly with that contained in the report of the first
French commissioners. The magnetic crises he con-
sidered as very dangerous, and ascribed them, prin-
cipally, to the influence of the imagination. He en-
deavoured to account for the singular phenomena
evolved byhis ownexperiments, upon apeculiar theory
of animal electricity, which, at a subsequent period,
was sufficiently refuted by M. Lullier Winslow and
others, t and of which, therefore, it appears unneces-
sary to take any more particular notice.
Some years after the publication of the memoir,
of which some account has just been given, M. Pete-
tin found other cataleptic and somnambulic patients,
who exhibited precisely the same phenomena as the
former, with this difference, that, in some of the cases,
the faculties were found to be transferred, not only to
* Vid. M6moire sur la decouverte des phenomenes que presentent
la catalepsie et le somnambulisme, &c.par M. Petetin, &c. 1787.
t Vid. M. Corvisart's Journal de Medecine, Vol. 18th for Oct. 1809.
S12
APPENDIX.
the epigastrium, but also to the extremities of the
fingers and toes.
The facts, indeed, which were brought to light
in the course of these experiments, are of a nature so
very extraordinary and surprising, that we should
hesitate to admit them as well observed phenomena,
without the most clear, unsuspicious and incontrover-
tible evidence of credible individuals, well qualified,
in every respect, for conducting the investigation.
Fortunately, in the present case, we have not only
the advantage of capable and attentive observers,
but also the concurrent testimony borne by a great
variety of other instances in which the same appear-
ances were manifested.
The experiments were tried by M. Petetin upon
eight different patients, all of whom exhibited the
same phenomenon of the transference of the faculties
to the epigastrium, and to the extremities of the fin-
gers and toes; with the addition, as in the case of
Van Helmont, of a prodigious developement of the
intellectual powers, and a presentiment or foresight
of their future diseased symptoms.
The experiments were conducted in the following
manner :
M. Petetin secretly placed pieces of cake, biscuit,
tarts, &c. upon the stomach of one of these patients,
which was immediately followed by the taste of the
particular article in the mouth. When the substance
Was enveloped in silk stuff, no sensation was felt by
the patient; but the taste was immediately perceived
on removing the covering. An egg was covered over
213
APPENDIX.
with varnish, and the patient felt no taste until the
varnish was removed. One of the patients distin-
guished a letter addressed to her, which was folded
four times, inclosed in a semi-transparent box, and
held in M. Petetin's hand upon her stomach. *
A letter was placed upon the fingers of one of the
patients, who immediately said: "If I were not dis-
creet, I could tell you the contents; but to prove that
I have read it, there are just two lines and a half."
The same patient enumerated exactly the most re-
markable articles which were in the pockets of a
whole company.
These phenomena are sufficiently wonderful; but
the following experiments afforded still more surpris-
ing results. Another patient, Madame de St Paul,
was in a state of as perfect somnambulism as the
preceding, only that, during the crisis, she was in-
capable of speaking. She carried on a conversation,
however, by means of signs, with the Chevalier Do-
lomieu, brother to the celebrated naturalist, who in-
terrogated her mentally. "After placing the chain,"
says M. Petetin, "upon the epigastrium of the pa-
tient, I gave the ring to M. Dolomieu. No sooner
had this gentleman touched his lips, than the fea-
tures of Madame de St Paul-expressed attention.
Every question addressed to her mentally gave a
* Plutarch relates that a certain governor of Cilicia wished to try
whether the oracle of Mopsus could read, without opening it, a sealed
note, containing the following words: " Shall I sacrifice to thee a
white or a black ox?" The oracle returned the note unopened, with
the answer, "black."-PLVTARCH, On the cessation of Oracles.
214
APPENDIX.
new expression to her countenance, and produced
a great change upon that of the interrogator. She
ended by smiling, and making two approving signs
with her head. M. Dolomieu declared that this lady
had answered categorically to his thoughts."
M. Dolomieu then requested the patient to answer,
by affirmative or negative signs, to the questions
which he was about to put to her aloud. He suc-
ceeded in making her express that what he had in his
pocket was a silver seal with three sides, and the
name of the animal engraved on his arms.
Finally, it was found, in the course of these ex-
periments, that if several persons form a chain, the
last having his hand upon the stomach of the patient,
and the first, who is at the greatest distance, speaks
in the hollow of his hand, the patient will hear per-
fectly well; but will cease to hear even the loudest
voice, if the communication between the chain be in-
terrupted by a stick of sealing-wax. *
The work of M. Petetin, t in which these remark-
able observations are recorded, was published after
* I am aware that the greater part of these phenomena are suffi-
cient to stagger all belief; and there may be individuals who would
have been inclined to pass over the most wonderful of them unnoticed,
in order the more readily to obtain credence for the others. I was
unwilling, however, to exhibit the evidence in an imperfect or garbled
state. All the facts rest upon the same respectable testimony,-they
are all connected with each other, and have all been witnessed, and
consequently confirmed by other observers; as I trust I shall be able
to prove in the sequel, to the satisfaction even of the most sceptical.
t Electricit& animale prouver par la decouverte des phenomenes
physiques etmoraux de la catalepsie hysterique, et de ses variet6s, &c.
par M. Petetin, &c. 1808.
215
APPENDIK.
his death, and contains a variety of other singular
facts, which he stili continued to explain upon his
favourite hypotheses of animal electricity, although
he found reason to change his opinion with respect to
animalmagnetism, after becoming better acquainted
with the subject. The accuracy of the experiments
made by this author, and the truth of the results,
have, so far as I am aware, never been called in ques-
tion. They were witnessed and attested by all the
physicians and learned men in Lyons and the neigh-
bourhood,-by MM. Coladon, Ginet, Dominjon, Do-
lomieu, Ballanches, Jacquier, Martin de Saint-Genis,
Eynard, &c. all of whom declared that they had re-
peated the experiments upon Madame de St Paul,
and were perfectly convinced of the reality of the
phenomena.
I shall only add, upon the subject of these experi-
ments, that, in refuting the theory of Petetin, M.
Lullier Winslow, in the, paper already referred to,
admitted the accuracy of the facts,.and the identity
of the phenomena with those which occur in the mag-
netic practice; and he invited his brethren to make
farther experiments.and observations with a view to
confirm them.
I am not aware that the recommendation of M.
Lullier Winslow was immediately attended to in
France. Catalepsy, I believe, is by no means a com-
mon disease, and it is possible, therefore, that oppor-
tunities of making farther experiments, similar to
those of M. Petetin, may not have occurred to pro-
fessional men. Some time after, however, an account
6
216
APPENDIX.
of a very curious case was published in Germany by
the Baron de Strombeck,--a case of spontaneous som-
nambulism, in which phenomena equally remarkable
with those recorded by Petetin were observed, mi-
nuted, and attested, by three eminent physicians be-
sides the Baron himself.* Upon first discovering the
strange fact of the transference of the faculties in this
case, M. de Strombeck emphatically observes, that
" he was as much horrified as if he had seen a spec-
tre."
Dr Bertrand, the very respectable author of a work
upon animal magnetism and other writings, has shown
that the same phenomenon repeatedly appeared among
the Quakers, (Trembleurs,) of the Cevennes, the
Nuns of Loudun, and the Convulsionaries of St Me-
dard. f
* Histoire de la guerison d'une jeune personne par le magnetisme
animal produit par la nature elle-meme. Par un temoin oculaire.
-tDu magnetisme animal in France, par A. Bertrand. Paris, 1826.
" L'exorciste Surin, parlant des religieuses de LouduD, dit qu'il
peut jurer devant Dieu et sur son eglise, qui plus de deux cents fois
elles lui out decouvert des choses tres secretes cach6es en sa-pense
ou en sa personne. Ainsi dans l'affaire de Marie Bucaille, cette meme
facult6 est egalement mise en avant; je copie textuellement les deux
passages du factum redig6 en sa faveur.
" Le sieur cur6 de Golleville rapporte qui ladite Bucaille etant dans
une de ses extases, ii lui mit une lettre dans la main au sujet de la
femme d'un de ses amis qui etait malade; et qu'aussitot, sans avoir
ouvert la lettre ni entendu ce qu'en lui voulait, elle se mit a offrir A
Dieu des prieres pour cette personne, qu'elle nomma.
" Le meme cur6 rapporte que pendant une autre extase, ayant mis
un autre billet entre ses mains, pli et cachet6, ou un homme deman-
dait eclaircissement sur plusieurs choses, elle repondit pertinemment
aux demandes qui lui etaient faites, sans ouvrir le billet."
With regard to the Convulsionaries of St Medard, M. Bertrand
217
APPENDIX.
The celebrated German physician and professor, Dr
Joseph Frank, in his very learned work, entitled
Prax.eos Medice Universcr Prcepta,(Lipsie, 1817,)
has given a long account of a curious and highly inte-
resting case of this description, which occurred in his
own practice, and in which several of the most extra-
ordinary facts mentioned by Petetin were again wit-
nessed and confirmed by competent observers. From
this account I shall extract such of-the particulars as
illustrate the subject we are now investigating.
Louisa Baerkmann, a married woman, twenty-two
years of age, was delivered of a child which died soon
after birth. Sometime after, the mother was seized
with a violent fever, accompanied with peculiar symp-
toms. She could not endure to be touched or moved,
lay continually upon her back, suffered excruciating
pain day and night, and scarcely slept. At first, she
submitted to medical treatment; but afterwards lost
all confidence in it, and followed the advice of certain
empirics and old women. In consequence of an acci-
dental fright, in her state of extreme weakness, she
became delirious, and afterwards exhibited some cata-
leptic symptoms. The patient, worn to a skeleton,
quotes the following passage from the work entitled, Coup d'ailsur
let Convulsions:
"Un fait indubitable, certifid par une foule de personnes de merite
et tres dignes de foi, qui Pont vu et examin6 avec tout le soin et Pat-
tention possibles, est celui d'un convulsionnaire qui reconnait et dis-
tingue par l'odorat, au point de lire ce qu'on lui presente, quoiqu'on
lui couvre exactement les yeux avec un bandeau tres epais, qui lui
derobe entierement la lumiere. La supercherie ne peut avoir ici de
lieu; nulle maladie ne saurait produire cet effet," &c.-See Bertrand.
pp. 451, &c.
218
APPENDIX
rejected all human advice, put her whole trust in God,
and prayed fervently day and night. After an inter-
val ofa week, her delirium returned, accompanied with
singing and a renewal of the cataleptic symptoms.
At length, she had two paroxysms every week regu-
larly, between four and five o'clock in the afternoon,
in the course of which she became first cataleptic,
then ecstatic, and at last ended by singing, deploring
her dreadful state, and praying aid from Heaven.
Dr Frank was, at length, called in, and found her in
a most deplorable condition, almost as if life were ex-
tinct. In vain he called her by her name, and shook
her by the arm. She appeared to be quite insensible.
This state lasted a short time, and then she recover-
ed, and had some conversation with the Doctor, who
consoled her as well as he could, and took his depar-
ture. He returned in the evening, and found her
again immoveable, and apparently insensible, with the
exception of a certain slight motion of the lips, as if
she were praying and speaking to herself. In a short
time, she began to sing, at first in a low, and after-
wards in a loud and sonorous voice. The Doctor
moved her arms without difficulty, and they always
preserved the position in which he placed them, how-
ever incommodious. When the Doctor had witnes-
sed this strange phenomenon for half an hour, he en-
deavoured in vain to rouse her, by repeatedly calling
to her in a louder and louder tone. Her eyes were
open, but fixed; the pupil iminoveable; the eyelids
did not wink even at the approach of the finger, and
there were no symptoms of vision. When pierced
019
APPENDIX.
with a needle, no sign of pain was observed. The
observations of Petetin then occurred to the Doctor;
and having approximated his mouth to the epigastric
region, he began to speak in a very low tone of voice,
so as not to be heard by any of the bystanders. Im-
mediately, the patient, a&if returning to her senses,
answered the questions put to her, nearly in the fol-
lowing manner:
Quest. Are you asleep ? Ans. I was, but not now.
-Quest. Do you feel any pain ? Ans. As usual, in
the legs and loins.-The patient being now allowed to
repose, she again became cataleptic, and after a few
minutes, began to sing, as before. The Doctor then
attempted to rouse her in the usual manner, but
could not accomplish his purpose. But when he spoke
upon the stomach, he received an immediate answer.
Thus, the experiment succeeded twice, the intervals
being filled up with catalepsy and singing. The Doctor
declared this disease to be ecstasy combined with ca-
talepsy; and he wished to have an associate and wit-
ness in a man rather incredulous, and not readily dis-
posed to admit the reality of strange phenomena, viz.
Andrew Sniadecki, professor of chemistry, and, at
the same time, a skilful physician. Next day, about
five o'clock in the afternoon, the whole scene of the
previous day was repeated in his presence.
On the following day, she again answered when
spoken to, in a very low tone, upon the stomach; and
she also answered when spoken to by M. Sniadecki,
in a low tone, near the right ear; but she did not
seem to hear when any one spoke upon the pillow on
2~0O
APPENDIX.
which her head rested. She answered when an iron
rod, a yard and a half in length, was applied to her
right ear, M. Sniadecki speaking, in a low tone, at
the other extremity of it. M. Niszkowski repeated
the same experiment with the same success, applying
the rod to the osfrontis.
Upon another occasion, when several physicians
were present, Dr Barankiewicz interrogated the pa-
tient, but received no answer. Dr Frank then re-
quested this gentleman to give him his hand, he
(Frank) keeping his other hand constantly upon the
epigastric region. Dr Barankiewicz now asked her:
" Who am I ?" She immediately answered: " Dr Ba-
rankiewicz," although she had not previously per-
ceived him enter the room. A cloth moistened with
a solution of sugar in water was applied to the pit of
the stomach, and she was asked what it was. She
answered that it was sugared water; and being again
asked how she came to know this, she said that she
felt a sensation of moist heat ascending from that re-
gion to the tongue, which immediately became affect.
ed with a feeling of sweetness. The cloth was re-
moved, and she awoke. She was then asked what
it was that had been placed upon the epigastric re-
gion; and she answered that it was something moist;
but she could not tell what.
At another time, the persons present formed a chain,
each holding a hand of the other, Dr Frank placing
one of his upon the epigastrium of the patient, and
giving the other to Sniadecki. She answered the
questions put to her by all, and named them in their
221
APPENDIX.
order. When the Doctor's hand was removed from
the epigastrium, she' could hear nothing; but when
it was replaced, she again heard and answered ques-
tions.
I must refer the reader to the work of Dr Frank
for many other particulars of this curious case, which
is altogether exceedingly interesting, recorded with
great minuteness of observation, and affords a strong
confirmation of the results of Petetin's experiments.
We find in it the transference of the faculties of hear-
ing and sight to the epigastric region, and other parts
of the body ; of that of taste to the episgastrium; and
the experiment of the chain succeeded in this instance,
as in those mentioned by Petetin. The respectability
of the learned Doctor, and of the other medical gentle-
men who witnessed the phenomena, precludes all
suspicion of imposition or deception. I may add,
that, in former times, this case would probably have
been considered as one of demoniacal possession. The
patient was cured. *
i
Some years ago,a very curious memoir upon this sub-
.jectwasread in the Philomathic Society, at Paris, by M.
Francoeur, the distinguished mathematician, who had
recently returned from the waters of Aix, where he
had been in the habit of associating with several re-
spectable physicians, and particularlywith M.Despine,
principal physician to theestablishment. These gentle-
men mentioned to him that they had witnessed, dur-
ing several months, the extraordinary phenomenon of
the transference of the senses, and M. Francoeur
* Jos. Frank, Prax. Med. Univ. Precepta, Part ii. Vol. i. pp. 495, &c.
222
APPENDIX.
thought himself bound to communicate their observa-
tions to the society.
The following is the substance of the observations
of M. Despine:-
In the first case, the patient, who was the subject
of it, had the faculties of sight, hearing, and smelling
transferred to the fingers and toes.
The second case is a great deal more curious. It
is that of the daughter of M. R., a man of education,
and much respected by all the inhabitants of the town
of Grenoble, where he lived retired. He was much
affected by his daughter's indisposition, which he
made every effort to conceal, and declined the visits
of the inquisitive.
Among the different phenomena successively mani-
fested by Mademoiselle A., and which Dr Despine
has described at considerable length, he dwells parti-
cularly upon that of somnambulism. M. Bertrand,
inhis work already referred to, has transcribed the
following passage, relative to the transference of the
seat of the senses of sight, of hearing, and of smelling.
" Not only did our patient hear with the palm of
the hand, but we saw her read without the assistance
of the eyes, by means of the extremities of the fingers
alone, which she moved with rapidity above the page
she wished to read, and without touching it, as if to
multiply the sentient surfaces ;-she read, I say,
a whole page of Madame Montolieu's romance, en-
titled Lea Chateauxen Suisse. In the page there
were three proper names, of which she probably had
never heard, and. which she pronounced as correctly
223
APPENDIX.
as a reader in the Academy. At other times, we saw
her select, from amongst a packet of upwards of thirty
letters, one which had been previously pointed out to
her ;--read upon the dial-plate and through theglass
the hour indicated by a watch ;-open the watch,
wind it up, and set it;--write several letters (three
of them are in my possession) ;-correct, upon a reper-
usal, the errors which had escaped her, always with
the points of her fingers ;-re-copy one of her letters,
word for word, reading with her left elbow, while she
wrote with her right hand. We heard her describe
the smell (of which the nostrils simulated the im-
pression,) and the species of such and such a flower,
the leaves of which were placed in the palm of her
hand. During all the experiments, a screen of thick
pasteboard intercepted, in the strictest manner, every
visual ray which might otherwise have reached her
eyes.
"The same phenomena were manifested at the soles
of the feet, the epigastrium, and, indeed, all the diffe-
rent parts of the surface of the body." *
Doctor Delpit, in a curious memoir on two nervous
affections, inserted in the Bibliotheque Medicale, has
recorded a case very similar to that observed by Dr
Despine.
"One of the patients," says this author, " read very
distinctly when her eyes were entirely closed to the
light, by conducting her fingers over the letters. I
made her read in this way, whether by day-light or
* Bertrand, p.458, et seq.
224
APPENDIX. 225
in the most profound darkness, printed characters, by
opening the first book which came to my hand; and
sometimes written characters, by presenting to her
notes which I had prepared on purpose before I went
to her. Was it the sense of touch which supplied
that of sight ? I know not; but I affirm that she read
quite fluently by conducting her fingers along the let-
ters. One day she even pretended that, with a little
more exertion, (I quote her own expressions,) she
should be able to read with her toes." *
* Bertrand, pp. 462, 463.-Upon the same authority Imay mention
that, in the short reflections made by Dr Delpit upon these experi-
ments, a reference is made to several known authors, and particularly
to Dumas. "Five years ago," says this celebrated author, "a young
lady of the department of Ardeche, who had come to Montpellier in
order to consult the physicians about an hysterical affection accompa-
nied with catalepsy, presented an instance of a strange phenomenon.
She experienced, during the whole continuance of her attacks, such a
concentration of the sensibility in the precordial region, that the or-
gans of the senses appeared to be entirely fixed there; she referred to
the stomach all her sensations of sight, hearing, and smelling, which
were not, at these times, produced in the usual organs. This rare phe-
nomenon, observed in a person so interesting, becomes an object of at.
tention to medical men, and of curiosity to the public."
(Van Ghert, in his account of the magnetic treatment of the De-
moiselle B., mentions a similar circumstance. In that case he ob-
served the transference of the faculties to the pit ofthe stomach; and
the patient gave the following description of her feelings:-" When
you fix your thoughts intensely upon me, I can see every thing; at
these times, the eyes and the brain leave my head, and take up their
residence beside the stomach. Wonderful as this may appear, I assure
you that it is true. When I am startled, or you are disturbed, then
the eyes and the brain return to my head."-ArcAiv.fiir den thierisch,
ragnet. Vol. ii. No. 1,p. 70.)
"I do not dissemble," continues M. Delpit, " that facts of this de.
scription, opposed to all the known laws of nature, should not easily
and without restriction obtain the assent of men of sober and experi-
P
APPENDIX.
The case of Miss M'Avoy of Liverpool, which*oc-
curred a good many years ago, and occasioned a great
deal of acrimonious discussion, presented phenomena
perfectly analogous to the two preceding.
This young lady was about fifteen years of age,
and became blind in the month of June 1816. In
the middle of the month of October of that year, she
accidentally discovered, for the first time, that she
was able to read when she felt the letters of a book
with her fingers. The following experiments were
made upon her:-
Her eyes were bandaged in such a manner as to
exclude every ray of light. Six wafers of different
colours, placed between two plates of glass, were pre-
sented to her, and she named exactly the colour of
"each. When she touched the surface of the glass
above the red wafer, she was asked whether thatwhich
was beneath might not be a piece of red cloth or paper?
She answered, " No, I think it is a wafer." She de-
scribed the colour and figure of a triangular or semi-
circular piece of wafer, placed, in a similar manner,
between two plates of glass. She named the seven
prismatic colours, which were painted upon a piece of
paper, and said that the perception of these prismatic
colours afforded her the greatest pleasure she had ex-
perienced since her blindness. The violet ray was
the least agreeable to her.
enced minds. But if we multiply our observations of this kind,-if we
scrupulously verifythe most minutecircumstances ofeach case, we shall
.be forced to recognize the possibility of a phenomenon, which, perhaps,
only appears so marvellous in consequence of our want of a sufficient
number of analogous facts to enable us to institute a comparison."-
See BERTRAND,Pp. 463, &c.
226
APPENDIX.
She read several ,lines of small print by touching
the letters; and she afterwards read, by means of a
convex glass, at a distance of nine inches from the
book. When she read, she touched the surface of the
glass gently with the points of her fingers. A pen-
knife was laid upon the line she was reading, and she
immediately perceived and named it. She could dis-
tinguish cut-glass from rock-crystal, and pronounced
several pieces of ornament, which had previously been
considered as crystal, to be glass, which was after-
wards confirmed. Several other experiments were
made, in this case, which it appears unnecessary to
particularise. At certain times, she possessed this
power of distinguishing colours and objects more per-
fectly than at others. Sometimes it disappeared en-
tirely, and, indeed, suddenly; and, upon these occa-
sions, everything appeared to her to be black. This
sudden change she compared to that which she recol-
lected to have experienced when a candle was extin-
guished, and she was left in darkness.
It does not appear that Miss M'Avoy could have
had any conceivable motive for deception, even ad-
mitting that, with all the precautions.,that were taken
during the experiments, any such deception had been
possible. Her health was very infirm, and her dis.
position sensitive. The slightest noise was exceed-
ingly disagreeable to her; and some of those persons
whom curiosity brought to see her, did not always
treat her with that delicacy which was due to her sex
and circumstances.
The case of Miss M'Avoy excited a good deal of
sensation among the physiologists; and a keen con.
APPZNDIX.
troversy arose between the believers and the sceptics.
The phenomenon was declared by the latter to be cone
trary to all the known laws of nature and philosophy,
-fact, therefore, must bend to theory and precon-
ceived opinion,-the thing was impossible, and could
not be true,--the whole business, in short, was pro-
nounced to be mere deception, and the young lady
herself an arrant impostor. This reasoning, however,
did not shake the conviction of many of those indivi-
duals who had witnessed the experiments,-investi-
gated the whole circumstances,-nd satisfied them-
selves of the reality of the facts. *
Another case of catalepsy occurred very recently,
and appears to have presented phenomena in all re-
spects similar to those already described. I regret
exceedingly to find myself under the necessity of giv-
ing the particulars of this very curious case at third
hand, in consequence of having no access to the ori-
ginal sources. The following account, therefore, is
extracted from the London Medical and Surgical
Journalfor December 1832, which professes to have
borrowed it from the French Gazette Medicale of the
previous month.
" In a late number of the Bulletin of Medical
Sciences of Bologna, there are details of the case of a
young man treated in the hospital dglla Vita, in the
month of September last, to which, indeed, no credence
could be given, were they not furnished by persons of
character, and likely to have taken due precautions
s See the pamphlets published upon this occasion by Dr Renwick,
Mr Egerton Smith, and others. Also, Thomson's Annals ofPilosophy,
and the PAilosophical Magazine for February, 1818.
$28
APPENDIX.
against probable imposition. This man, who wasof
short stature, but well organized, and born of healthy
parents, laboured under mental anxiety for some time
previous to the 25th of July last, when, in affording
aid to a person attacked with convulsions, his arm was
grasped by the individual, and firmly held for a long
time. From the impression produced by this last
event, his health began to be affected, and he suffered
particularly in the lower extremities.
" On the 15th of August, the following symptoms
took place, which recurred, for the most part, in a ter-
tian type, and regularly at a particular hour. After
a most violent agitation of all the muscles, those of
the face excepted, intense coldness of the extremities,
hurried respiration, and other avant-couriers,the man
became insensible to surrounding objects; ceased to
reply to questions, though put to him in a loud voice;
suspension of vision, taste, and sense of smell; the
skin insensible to pain when pinched, except at the
epigastrium and palms of the hands, where feeling
seemed to remain in all its energy. These symptoms
usually lasted for about an hour and twenty minutes,
and the patient had no recollection afterwards of any
thing that occurred during the fit.
"The most surprising part of the history, however,
is, that he answered questions, when put to him in a
low voice, provided the mouth of the speaker was
placed near the epigastrium; and during this trial,
great care seems to have been taken, by plugging, ban-
daging, &c.*to block up the passages ofthe ears. He
seems to have been capable of indicating, during the
access, the nature of certain bodies when applied to
29
APPENDIXt
the epigastrium, or palms of the hands. It is stated
that, when desired, (the voice of the speaker being di-
rected to the part indicated,) he would open his hands,
which were firmly clenched during the fit. By the
latest accounts, the disease seemed to have been mol9,
lified," &c. by medical treatment.
Even in the meagre details which are given of this
case in the account referred to, we cannot fail to re-
cognize a striking resemblance between'the.facts ob
served, and those which occurred in the. experiments
of Petetin, as well as in all the other cases-which have
been particularly noticed. In all of them., the func
tions of the usual organs ofsense appear to have been
suspended, and transferred to the epigastrium and the
extremities. There are, no doubt, pretty strong shades
of difference between some of these cases; but in all,
I think, the facts present analogous features, sufficient
to entitle the phenomena to be arranged in the same
class.
Here then, perhaps, I may be permitted to pause
and enquire, whether in the curious observation of Van
lelmont,-in the phenomena exhibited by some of
the Quakers of the Cevennes, the nuns of Loudun, and
the convulsionaries, of Saint Medard,-in the nume,
rous, minute, and careful experiments made by Dr-
Petetin,-in the other eight -casesto which I have re-
ferred more or less at large ;-whether, I say, in the
instaflces and observations I have already brought
forward, the fact in question has not been fully and
satisfactorily, established. The phenoihena them-
selves were unambiguous and obtrusive. The cases
in which they were manifested, it may be remarked,
230
APPENDIX. 2
occurred at different periods, and in different coun-
tries,--in France, Germany, England, and Italy ; and
they were all witnessed and recorded by the most
competent observers,--medical men of eminence in
their profession,-without any possible concert amongst
each other; many of them, indeed, apparently igno-
rant of the observations of their predecessors, and
stumbling upon the astonishing discovery, as it were,
by mere accident.
But I have hitherto adduced scarcely one-half of
the evidence upon record, with which I am ac-
quainted, in support of the existence of this extra-
ordinary phenomenon; and in the farther prosecu-
tion of this interesting investigation, I shall not he-
sitate to avail myself of the light thrown upon it by
the professors of animal magnetism; because, what-
ever differences of opinion may prevail in the views
entertained upon this subject, considered as mata
ter of theory, or whatever doubts may be expressed
with regard to the propriety or the efficacy of the
magnetic treatment, as a sanative process, every intel-
ligent and competent judge now admits that the most
important facts, which are alleged to occur in the
course of that practice, have been abundantly confirm-
ed by evidence of the most irresistible cogency.
M. Tardy de Montravel * found that, during the
magnetic somnambulism, in some cases, the region of
the stomach was the seat of the sensitive faculties,
and particularly of the sight. A somnambulist re-
cognized the hour upon a watch, which was pressed
close to the pit of his stomach. This species of per-
* Traitement Magnet. de la Dem. N. Vol. i
231
APPENDIX.
ception was, at first, imperfect, but gradually became
more and more distinct.
Dr Gmelin * made some interesting experiments, in
order to verify this fact. He drew a card out of a
mixed pack, and pressed the coloured side of it close
upon the pit of the stomach of a somnambulist, so
that no person could distinguish it. He then asked
the somnambulist what card it was, and she answered
that it was a pictured one. Some time after, she could
distinguish whether it was a king, a queen, or a knave;
she afterwards named the colour, and, at length, men-
tioned whether it was diamonds, clubs, &c. Upon
looking at the card, she was always found to be in the
right; and the result was always the same, when, to
satisfy the sceptical, the eyes of the somnambulist
were bandaged. M. Tardy also mentions the case
of a somnambulist, who, with her eyes completely
bandaged, so as to exclude the light, could read writ-
ings which were strange and unknown to her, provid-
ed they were placed close to the pit of her stomach, t
When the somnambulists have cultivated this faculty
by frequent exercise, it is no longer necessary to bring
the object to be recognized into immediate contact with
the patient; it is then quite sufficient if it is held, at
some distance, opposite to the pit of the stomach. $
When this faculty becomes still more developed, som-
nambulists, it is said, can even distinguish objects
through other intervening bodies, provided these be
not electrical, such as sealing-wax, silk, &c.
The following case is very remarkable in many re-
* Material. fiir die Anthropol. Vol. ii.
t Tardy, utwapra. $ Omelin, wt mupra.
APPENDIX.
spects ; and the rank and character ofthe party, upon
whose authority it rests, render it impossible for us
to entertain the slightest doubt with regard to the
truth of the facts related; while the situation and
known probity of the patient preclude all suspicion of
deception. It occurs in a letter addressed by his Ex-
cellency the Russian Count Panin, formerly Imperial
Ambassador at the Court of Prussia, to a society in
Paris. I propose to extract from this letter such
passages only as bear upon the point of the transfer-
ence of the faculties.
James Macgill, a Scotsman, 46 years of age, and of
a phlegmatic temperament, had been more than twelve
years in the Count's service, in the capacity of garde-
ner, and was much esteemed by his master. He was
always remarkable for his love of truth, and his ab-
horrence of falsehood.
While in the service of the Count, Macgill had al-
ways enjoyed good health ; but in the month of May,
1817, having gone upon a journey on some business
of his master's, the horses ran down a declivity, and
overturned the chariot, one of the wheels of which
passed over his body. The fright and the shock oc-
casioned by the fall, together with some considerable
contusions, rendered bleeding advisable; but, unfor.
tunately, nobody thought of it, and Macgill had re-
course only to palliatives. No advice was to be had,
and two months elapsed before the patient had an op.
portunity of consulting an English physician, who re-
sided in the neighbouring town. Before the arrival
of the Count, Macgill had taken a great deal of medi-
* See the Biblioth. du Magnet. Animal. Vol. iii p. 126.
233
APPENDIX.
cine without effect; and upon being questioned, the
physician candidly confessed that he could not tell the
nature of the gardener's complaint. The latter deriv-
ed no benefit from the frictions, pills, and other reme-
dies which were administered to him. He was ex-
tremely emaciated, and could not eat or drink without
experiencing violent pains in the intestines. In these
circumstances, the Count resolved to attempt a cure
by means of animal magnetism. From this resolu
tion he was not deterred by the presence of one of the
Emperor's physicians, a man of high reputation, the
English Dr Crichton, who was then upon a visit to a
relation of the Count's in the neighbourhood.
After a consultation with the two able physicians re-
ferred to, upon the nature of this disease, which appear'
ed to be both very serious and difficult to define, they
declared that the man's recovery was very doubtful.
The Count afterwards ascertained that these two me-
dical gentlemen did not conceal that they considered
the case to be a desperate one.
Upon the Count's recommendation, the patient now
renounced all medical prescriptions; and the follow.
ing are some of the results of the treatment to which
he was subjected, and which terminated successfully
in a complete cure:
At the third sitting (28th September, 1817,) be.
tween one and two o'clock in the afternoon, Macgill
entered into the state of somnambulism, after having
been manipulated about lifteen minutes; and soon
after, he was able to answer questions. His first
answers, however, were rather incoherent. A gold
ring having been placed upon the pit of his stomach,
234
APPENDIX.
he was -asked what it was. - He answered that it was
a ring; but he could not discover the colour of it, and
took it for lead. During all this time, the patient's
eyes were completely closed.
At the fourth sitting, an eightof Hearts was ap-
plied to the pit of the patient's stomach. He did not
recognize it, but took it for a bound book. He saw
a watch when placed in the same situation: lHe per-
ceived the silver dial-plate and the hands, but could
not tell the hour. Some moments afterwards, having
been more effectually magnetised, he recognized a
card applied to his stomach, called it first the Queen
of Diamonds, but almost immediately correcting him.
self, he said that it was the King, which was the fact.
At the fifth sitting, several cards were successively
applied to the pit of his stomach, and he recognized
them all with more facility, and less hesitation, than
the day before. At first, he mentioned the colour of
the cards and of the marks impressed upon them, then
their number, &c,
At the sixth sitting,- a packet of calomel powder
was applied to the pit of his stomach, and he was ask-
ed what he saw. He answered, without hesitation,
that it was calomel, such as is prepared by the apothe-
caries; that it was divided into five small packets,
and he described precisely the colour of the powder.
At the seventh sitting, a mixed powder, which he
was to take as a medicine, was placed upon the pit of
his stomach, and he exactly described the colour of
the powder, although inclosed in paper.
Such are a few of the phenomena described by
235
APPENDIX.
Count Panin in his very interesting letter. The
characters of the Count and of his patient, together
with their relative situation, preclude all suspicion of
deception in this case; the whole narrative contains
only a plain statement of facts, without any attempt
at embellishment; and these facts are analogous to a
number of others, reported by different observers, all
belonging to the same class.
In proceeding to the next case, I would beg leave
to recal to the recollection of the reader, the particu-
lars,related, not only by Petetin, but by the Doctors
Despine and Delpit, and others, who describe the fa-
culties as having been apparently transferred, not
werely to the epigastrium,but also to the extremities,
as well as to other prominent parts of the body.
The celebrated Professor Kieser of Jena, an emi.
nent anatomist and physiologist, and, otherwise, a
man of extensivy and varied acquirements, has given
very ample and nute details of a most remarkable
case of magnetic somnambulism, which occurred in
the course of his own practice. The account is much
too long to be given entire, besides that a great part
of it is irrelevapt to our present purpose. I shall
therefore, extract from it only such of the particulars
#s have a direct reference to the subject I am now in-
vestigating. *
Anthony Ant, the son of a shoemaker in Jena,
aged elevep years and a half, was constitutionally sub-
ject to frequent and severe attacks of epilepsy. The
* Arehiv. fir den thierischen M etismu. VoL iii. No. 2.
286
APPENDIX.
professor,finding that the disease would not yield to the
ordinary remedies, determined to subject the patient
to the magnetic treatment. He was accordingly
magnetised, and, after a considerable period, placed
in astate ofsomnambulism. This appeared, at first, in
the form of a simple sleep, accompanied with various
other phenomena,--such as convulsions, catalepsy, te-
tanus,risu8 sardonicus,St Vitus's dance,-until, at
length, the somnambulism became perfect. While in
this state, the visual power of the eye appeared to be
completely annihilated, and the faculty of vision trans-
ferred to the whole surface of the patient's body, but
especially to the more prominent parts. He saw dis-
tinctly with the points of his fingers, with the toes,
the elbows, the shoulders, the abdominal region, the
point of his nose, the chin, and the surface of the
face. It was remarked, however, that this somnam-
bulist required light in order to enable him to exercise
this transferred faculty of vision, and that he could
not see in the dark. But it was perfectly well ascer-
tained that he did not see in the usual manner, as
his eyes were closely bandaged.
These facts must, unquestionably, excite great sur-
prise in the minds of all those who come, for the first
time, to the investigation of this curious subject. The
scientific reputation, however, and the honourable cha.
racter of the learned professor, afford a sufficient gua-
rantee forhis veracity ; and we have not the slightest
reason to suspect imposition or deception in the phe-
nomena which he so carefully observed. In a de-
monstration of this nature, too, ce ne que lepremier
237
APPENDIX.
pas quiconte ;--if we have once satisfied ourselves of
the possibility of the transference of a particular fa-
culty from its usual and appropriate organ to one
part of the organism, we can have less difficulty in
conceiving that, in peculiar circumstances, it may be
also transferred to others. Besides, a vast variety of
other instances of the same phenomena, which are
more or less curious and interesting, will be found in
the works of Petetin, Puysegur, Caullet de Veau-
morel, Mouillesaux, Gmelin, Heinecken, Wienholt,
and a number of other authors.
I should be afraid of exceeding all reasonable
bounds, were I to proceed to enumerate all those par-
ticular instances in which this phenomenon of the
transference of the faculties has been observed.
Hitherto, I have been careful to bring forward only
such cases as have been recorded by individuals of
competent attainments, and whose characters are,
Otherwise, above all suspicion. I am perfectly aware
that, in demonstrating the existence of a fact so ex-
traordinary and incredible as this, the maxim of the
lawyers peculiarly applies: Testimonia ponderanda,
son numeranda;--the character of the witnesses is
a matter of much more importance, than their num-
ber; and, therefore, I have been particularly careful
in the selection of my authorities. In the only two
other cases which I propose to adduce, I shall rigidly
adhere to the same rule. These two instances are
not only exceedingly remarkable in themselves, but
they. are supported by such evidence as even the most
sceptical, I should think, would hesitate to reject.
$sS
APPENDIX.
They are extracted from- the late very able and im-
partial Report,--already submitted to the reader,-
of nine French physicians of eminence, members of
the Royal Academy of Sciences, who were appointed a
committee to investigate anew the reality of the phe-
nomena of animal magnetistm. The extreme caution
with which these intelligent gentlemen conducted
their experiments, and observed the results, would, of
itself, afford an ample security against any species of
deception or imposture. I must quote the passages
having reference to the subject in question at full
length'; lest, amidst the various interesting matter
contained in the Report, they should not have been
persued with that attention which their importance
deserves.
M. Petit was magnetised, in presence of the com-
nittee, upon the 15th of March, 1826, at half-past
eight o'clock in the evening, and was set asleep in
the space of about one minute. The committee were
determined to assure themselves that the eyelids were
exactly closed. "For this purpose," in the words
of the Report, " a candle was almost constantly held,
during the experiments, before the eyes of M. Petit,
at a distance of one or two inches; and several per-
sons had their eyes continually fixed upon his. None
of us could perceive the slightest separation of the
eyelids. Mr Ribes, indeed, remarked that their edges
were superimposed so that the eye-lashes crossed each
other.
'f We also examined the state of the eyes, which
were forcibly opened without awakening the somnam.
s239
APPENDIX.
bulist; and we remarked that the pupil was turned
downwards, and directed towards the great angle of
the eye.
"After these preliminary observations, we proceed-
ed to verify the phenomena of vision with the eyes
closed.
" Mr Ribes, member of the academy, presented a
catalogue which he took from his pocket. The som-
nambulist, after some efforts which seemed to fatigue
him, read very distinctly the words: Lavater. 11
est bien difficie de connaitre lea kommes. The last
words were printed in very small characters. A pass-
port was placed under his eyes ; he recognized it, and
called it apasse-komme. Some moments afterwards,
aport darme8 was substituted, which we all know
to be in almost all respects similar to a passport, and
the blank side of it was presented to him. M. Petit,
at first, could only recognize that it was of a particu-
lar figure, and very like the former. A few moments
afterwards, he told us what it was, and read distinct-
ly the words: De parle roi, and on the left, port-
d'armes. Again, he was shown an open letter; he
declared that he could not read it, as he did not under-
stand English. In fact it was an English letter.
" M. Bourdois took from his pocket a snuff-box, up-
on which there was a cameo set in gold. At first the
somnambulist could not see itdistinctly; he said that
the gold setting dazzled him. When the setting was
covered with the fingers, he said that he saw the em-
blem of fidelity. When pressed to tell what this
emblem was, he added: ' I see a dog, he is as if on his
240
APPENDIX.
hind legs before an altar.' This, in fact, was what
was represented.
"A dosed letter was presented to him: He could
not discover any of its contents. He only followed
the direction of the lines with his finger.: But he
easily read the address, although it contained a pretty
difficult name: To M. de Rockenstroh.
"All these experiments were extremely fatiguing to
M. Petit. He was allowed to repose for an instant:
Then, as he was very fond of play, a game at cards
was proposed for his relaxation. As much as the
experiments of pure curiosity seemed to annoy him,
with so much the more ease and dexterity did he per-
form whatever gave him pleasure, and this he entered
into of his own accord.
" One of the gentlemen present, M. Raynal, former-
ly inspector of the university, played a game at piquet
with M. Petit and lost it. The latter handled his
cards with the greatest dexterity, and without making
any mistake. We attempted several times in vain
to set him at fault, by taking away or changing some
of his cards. He counted with surprising facility the
points marked upon his adversary's marking card.
" During all this time, we never ceased to examine
the eyes, and to hold a candle near them; and we
always found them exactly closed. We remarked,
however, that the ball of the eye seemed to move un-
der the eyelids, and to follow the different motions of
the hands. Finally, M. Bourdois declared that, accord-
ing to all human probability, and as far as it was pos-
sible to judge by the senses, the eyelids were exactly
closed."
Q
241I
APPENDIX.
After some other experiments, M. Dupotet played
a game at ecarte with M. Petit, while still in a state
of somnambulism, in order to divert him. The latter
played with the same facility and dexterity as before,
and with similar success.
The other case reported by the committee of the
Royal Academy of§iences, is that of Paul Villagrand,
student of law, who had an attack &f
apoplexy, which
was followed by paralysis of the whole left side. In
this case, the magnetic treatment was pursued with
remarkable success.. The following phenomena were
observed with regard to his exercise of the faculty of
vision.
"iUpon the 12th of January, your committee met
again at the house of M. Foissac, where there were
present M. E. Lazcase, deputy, M. De -- , aide-de-
camp to the king, and M. Segalas, member of the
academy. M. Foissac told us that he was going
to set Paul asleep, that in this state of somnambulism
a finger should be applied to each of his closed eyes,
and that, in spite of this complete occlusion of the
eyelids, he should distinguish the colour of cards,
that he should read the title of a work, and even some
words or lines pointed out at -randoin in the body
of the work. At the end of two minutes of magnetic
manipulations, Paul fell asleep. The eyelids being
kept closed, constantly and alternately by MM. Fou-
quier, Itard, Marc, and the reporter, there was pre-
sented to him a pack of new cards, from which the
paper covering bearing the government stamp was
torn off. The cards were shuffled, and Paul easily
242
APPENDIX.
and successively recognized the King of Spades, the
Ace of Clubs, the Queen of Spades, the Nine of
Clubs, the Seven of Diamonds, and Queen of Dia-
monds, and the Eight of Diamonds.
"While his eyelids were kept closed by M. Segalas,
there was presented to him a volume which the re-
porter had brought along with % . He read upon
the title-page: Histoirede France. He could not
read the two intermediate lines, and upon the fifth
he read only the name, Anquetil, which is preceded
by the preposition par. The book was opened at the
89th page, and he read in the first line--le nombre
de ses---he passed over the word troupes, and con-
tinued: Au moment ou on le croyait occupe des
plaisirs du carnaval. He also read the running title
Louis, but could not read the Roman cypher which
follows it. A piece of paper was presented to him,
upon which were written the words, Agglutination
and MagnetismeAnimal. He spelt the first, and pro-
nounced the two others. Finally, the proceds-verbal
of this sitting was presented to him, and he read very
distinctly the date and some words which were more
legibly written than the others. In all these experi-
rcents the fingers were applied to the whole of the
commissure of both eyes, by pressing down the upper
upon the under eyelid, and we remarked that the ball
of the eyewas in a constant rotatory motion, and seem-
ed directed towards the object presented to his vision.
"Upon the 2d of February, Paul was placed in a
state of somnambulism in the house of Messrs Scribe
and Bremard, Merchants, Street St Honord. The
243
APPENDIx.
reporter of the committee was the only member pre-
sent at this experiment, The eyelids were closed as
before, and Paul read, in the work entitled The thou-
sandand one nights, the title-page, the word preface
and thefirst line ofthe preface, with theexception ofthe
word peu. There was also presented to him a volume
entitled, Lettres deea ames, par Madame Cam.
pan. He distinguished on a print the figure of
Napoleon; he pointed out the boots, and said that he
also saw two female figures. He then read currently
the four first lines of the third page with the excep-
tion of the word raviver. Finally, he recognized,
without touching them, four cards, which were suc-
cessively presented to him two and two,-these were
the King of Spades and the Eight of Hearts, the
King and Queen of Clubs.
"At another sitting, which took place upon the 18th
of March following, Paul attempted in vain to dis-
tinguish different cards which were applied to the pit
of the stomach; but he read, with his eyes still closed,
in a book opened at random, and, at this time, it was
M. Jules Cloquet who kept his eyes shut. The
reporter also wrote upon a slip of paper the words,
Mazimilies Robespierre, which he read equally well."
The two cases last referred to are, assuredly, very
remarkable, and they appear to have been observed
with uncommon care and attention, and every pos-
sible precaution. Nothing, indeed, is there said ofthat
transference of the faculties which, as we have seen,
is reported to have been manifested in various other
instances: and with the exception of one unsuccess-
244
APPENDiX.
ful attempt in the last case, no experiments seem to
have been made with the view of ascertaining the
existence of that phenomenon. But the circumstance
of its not having occurred or been observed in either
of these two cases, affords no good ground for sus-
pecting its reality in others. The phenomena occa-
sionally developed in catalepsy and somnambulism,
although, upon the whole, of a pretty uniform cha-
racter, and capable of being arranged under one class,
are exceedingly variable in different individuals; de-
pending, probably, in a great degree, upon the per-
fection or imperfection of the crisis, as well as upon
the particular idiosyncrasy of the patient. M. Ros-
tan, in his article MagnetismeAnimal, inserted in the
new Dictionnairede Medecine, mentions that he ob-
served a somnambulist, who told him, exactly and
repeatedly, the hour indicated by a watch placed be-
hind his head. The celebrated physiologist, Dr Geor-
get, also affirmed, that he had observed a somnambu-
list who presented the most astonishing phenomena
of prevision and clairvoyance; in so much, he added,
that in no work upon magnetism, not even that of
Petetin, had he ever met with anything more extra-
ordinary, nor even in all the other instances which he
himself had witnessed. It is quite clear, indeed, from
the description given of the state of the eyes of the
patients, in the two cases reported by the French
Academicians, that they could not possibly have ex-
ercised the faculty of vision in the usual manner;
and this fact being once admitted, we can feel less
245
.APPENDIX.
4
difficulty in assenting to the reality of the phenomena
which have been observed to occur in other instances.*
From the many well-authenticated cases I have been
enabled toadduce upon this interestingpoint, (and many
more might have been brought forward, had it been
thought necessary),-if there be any such thing as a ra-
tional belief in human testimony of the most cogent na-
tureand most unimpeachable character-any faith tobe
reposed in the most complete demonstrative evidence,
-- I conceive myself fully entitled to conclude from
this induction of facts, that individuals have been
* The following curious particulars appeared in the Morning Chro-
nicle of the 28th March last, and in other newspapers.
" Bow STREET, Second sight.-Thomas M'Kean, the father of the
boy who has made so much impression by his gift of the second sight,
was yesterday charged at this office," &c.
#1
Mr Burnaby, the clerk, having mentioned that the youth gifted
with second sight was in the office, Mr Halls (the magistrate) expres-
sed a wish to witness a little of his mysterious powers. His father
then blindfolded him; and Mr Burnaby, taking out his watch, the fa-
ther asked him ofwhat metal it was composed. He promptly answer-
ed, ' gold,' which was the fact. Mr B. then took out his purse, when
the father asked the boy (who was still blindfolded) of what material
it was made? He answered, correctly, ' of silk;' and in answer to fur-
ther questions, said there was gold at one end, and silver at the other;
and even told the dates of the years when the shillings and sixpences
had been coined."
" The father stated that he had five children all gifted in the same
extraordinary way."
I know nothing more of the history of this boy or of his family; nor
am I aware whether any investigation into his case has been made by
professional men,-as I would strnglyrecommend. That the pheno-
mena exhibited are of possible occurrence, I think I have sufficiently
proved. At the same time, it is evident that, in cases of this descrip-
tion, there is much room for deception.
246
APPENDIX.
known to exercise the faculty of vision without the
ordinary use of the natural and appropriate organ of
sight, and that, in many cases of catalepsy and som-
nambulism, this faculty, along with others, has been
observed to be transferred to the epigastrium, and to
other parts of the organism.
This phenomenon, indeed, is probably by no means
altogether of modern discovery. It seems to have
occurred in ancient times, and in all ages; of which
fact, did it not lead to a tedious, and not very useful
inquiry, pretty strong evidence might easily be ad-
duced. Previously, however, to the more general
diffusion of knowledge, and to the recognition of that
truly philosophical principle suggested by Lord Bacon,
of carefully interrogating nature, and diligently trea.
suring up her answers, the subject appears to have
been considered much too mysterious to be approached
by the profane, and, therefore, was not likely to be
subjected to a satisfactory scientific investigation.
Nay, even within these last fifty years, when the ex-
ttraordinary fact was again accidentally brought to
Ilight, carefully examined, honestly submitted to the
consideration of the learned, and confirmed by nume-
rous experiments in a variety of instances, a great
deal of clamour was excited by the systematic physi.
ologists, who set about demonstrating by long theo-
retical reasonings, that the thing was absolutely im-
possible-contrary to all the known laws of nature,
and inconsistent with all the acknowledged principles
of science. Their adversaries answered by merely
opposing the facts to the reasonings, and by maintain-
247
ing that the laws of nature can only be legitimately
deduced from an attentive observation of the pheno.
na of nature. They might have added, in the words
of Fernelius : desipientisarrogantiaeat, argumenta-
tiois necessiWtate sensuum atoritati anteponere ;
and here was a simple question of fact, which, laying
all the other evidence aside, may be considered as
having been completely set at rest by the decisive ex-
periments made upon the cataleptic patients of Dr
Petetin at Lyons.
In ascertaining the actual existence of a natural phe-
nomenon, it is by no means necessary.that we should
be able to point out its cause. There are many facts
in nature, of which, in the present state of our know-
ledge, we are unable to assign the causes. [p the
words of Vigneul de Marville, " we are not acquainted
with the whole of man's constitution. His body is a
delicate pneumatic, hydraulic and static machine,
which possesses a million of secret springs, producing
a million of effects which we do not know, and upon
which we iever reflect. When any strange pheno-
menon does force itself upon our notice, inconsequence
of some organic change; not knowing to what cause
we should ascribe it, we immediately exclaim : A mi-
rac !-whereae, were we carefully to investigate the
matter, we might probably find something of every
day' occurrence, when the secret has once been dis-
covered, and that our surprise has been excited by
nothing in the least degree wonderful."
If these observations are just in reference to the
changes that occur in the corporeal organism, much
4
lS48 APPENDIX.
APPENDIX.
more are they applicable to all our attempts to inves-
tigate and explain the operations of the vital princi-
ple within us. " I admit," says a most respectable
writer in the Bibliotheque du Magnetisme Animal,
"I admit that the phenomena produced by the vital
fluid are very strange; some of them, indeed, are so
extraordinary that we can scarcely believe our own
eyes: I admit that they cannot be reconciled with the
physical results hitherto collected, and that they are
often apparently in manifest contradiction to the ge-
neral laws of nature; so that. the more learned we
are, the less are we disposed to believe them. In
short, it is more difficult to observe and become ac-
quainted with the phenomena of the living world,
although they take place within us, than with the
phenomena of those physical worlds, of which the
Keplers and the Newtons have discovered the laws:
they have no resemblance to any thing we see else-
where; and this made Buffon say that they were in-
comprehensible, because they were incomparable."*
I do not, therefore, conceive myself bound, as I un-
questionably do not feel myself competently qualified,
to offer any thing in the shape of a regular theory,
as an attempt to account for the very extraordinary
phenomena which I have thought proper to bring
under notice. Indeed, in an investigation like the
present, the unprofessional inquirer, at least, might
be permitted to take shelter under the principle: Ubi
experientiaconstat,ratiopeti non debet. At the same
* Biblioth. du Magnet. Animal. Vol.i.--Mmoire sur le fluide vital,
par M. le Docteur Ch (ardel ?), Professeur, &c.
249
APPENDIX.
time, I trust I shall be excused for taking the liberty
of referring the intelligent reader to the few hints I
have ventured to throw out at the conclusion of the
introduction to this volume. If not considered- as en-
tirely unphilosophical and inadmissible, they may
perhaps be found to lead'to a scientific explanation of
other singular facts, besides those which almost daily
present themselves in the practice of animal magne-
tism.
I shall conclude this paper with the following ob-
servations: For some time past, our physiological
theories have manifested a decided tendency towards
materialism. Of late, indeed, we seem to have got
so much into the habit of speaking of the mental func-
tions as being performed by certain organs, that we
would 'appear to have entirely forgotten that every
organism requires to be vivified by an active princi-
ple,-that the employment of an instrument presup-
poses the existence of an intelligent agent. In our
speculations upon these matters, we become so much
interested in the play of the puppets, that we totally
overlook the moving power; while contemplating
the conditions of intelligence, we become blind to the
principle.
But sensation and thought, as has been frequently
remarked, are neither the properties, nor any of the
necessary effects of matter; material structure alone
cannot be the cause of the vital phenomena; it may
supply the organs or tools through the medium of
which these are ostensibly manifested, but these
manifestations cannot take place without the operation
6
250
of an intelligent cause. " That there is some invisible
agent in every living organized system, seems to be
an inference to which we are led almost 'irresistibly.
When .we see an animal starting from its sleep, con-
trary to the known laws of gravitation, without an
external or elastic impulse; without the appearance
of electricity, galvanism, magnetism, or chemical at.
traction; when we see it afterwards moving its limbs
in various directions, with different degrees of force
and velocity, sometimes suspending and sometimes re-
newing the same motions, at the sound of a word or
the sight of a shadow, can we refrain a moment from
thinking that the cause of these phenomena is internal,
that it is something different from the body, and that
the several bodily organs are nothing more than the
mere instruments which it employs in its operations?"*
In the human economy, this invisible agent--this
intelligent principle, which operates through the me-
dium of certain corporeal organs-is called the soul.
In the normal state of the organism, we know that
our faculties of sensation and perception, at least,
are exercised through the instrumentality of certain
material organs, and hence physiologists have been
led to consider these instruments as the necessary con-
ditions of the exercise of these faculties. But are we
prepared to maintain that, in any circumstances, the
soul is incapable of exerting its energies in a different
manner ? Do we hold that it is the eye alone that
sees, the ear alone that hears, &c. or shall we admit
that there is an internal sense to which the impres-
* Barclay On Life-and Organization. p, 370.
23
APPENDIX,
APPENDIX.
sions ofsight, hearing, &c. are conveyed, and to which
the material organs are merely subservient? And if
we are disposed to make this admission, can we deny
the possibility of impressions being communicated to
thisinternal sense,in some extraordinary manner, with-
out the necessary intervention of the usual organs ?
This is a question which is capable of being solved by
experience; and if the cases I have adduced in this
paper have been accurately observed and faithfully
reported, of which there seems no reason to doubt, the
question may be considered as having been already
satisfactorily decided in the affirmative. If the phe-
nomena observed are calculated to excite our wonder,
and to call forth our scepticism, if they appear to be
inexplicable and irreconcileable with any of our pre-
vious notions let us remember that the cause of this
may be found in the narrowness and imperfection of
our preconceived systems; and this consideration
should lead us to a careful review of the principles of
our knowledge, rather than to an obstinate and irra
tional denial ofthe facts presented to us by experience
Nil adeo magnum, nec tam mirabile quidquanm,
Quod non paullatim minuant mirarier omne .
Desine quapropter, novitate exterritus ipesa,
Expuere ex animo rationem; sed magis acri
Judiolo perpende: et, si tibi vera videntur,
Dede manus; iat, si falum eat, adoingere contra.
LUCRETIUS.
THE END.
EDINBURGH,
PRINTED SY JOHN STARK,
OLD ASSEMILY CLOSE.
252
