{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__martineau___providence_as_manifested_through_israel.pdf","mytitle":"Providence As Manifested Through Israel","mylang":"de"}
PROVIDENCE
AS MANIFESTED THROUGH ISRAEL.
BY
HARRIET MARTINEAU.
"And other sheep I bsn which are not of this fold. Them also I must bring 1
and they will hear my Yoice. And there shall be-one ftoc't and one shepherd."
JOHN x. ICI.
ISSUED BY
THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN UNITARIAN ASSOCIATION;
AND
ADDRESSED TO THE JEWS.
SECOND EDITION.
. "':......:
...
LON:D:ON:
PRINTED FOR THE UNITARIAN ASSOCIATION,
3, WALBROOJt BUILJ)ING81 WALBROOK:
SOLD ALSO BY ROWLAND HUNTER, ST. PAUL'S CHURCHYARD.
1833.
Digitized byGoogle
:r
P&JftiiD 111' Jr.JCB.AilD 'P.ATLOa,
Jr.aD LIOif COUJP.T, PLIIE'P ST&&ft,
•• # ..
• • >
..
Digitized byGoogle
9J..-, . ~ ~.
JAN 171945
SECTION
CONTENTS.
I. Spirit of Judaism .••.••••.•.....••......•.••••...
II. Spirit of Christianity .......•...•.•.••.•.......• ••
Page.
1
3ft
III. Four Questions of Orobio •• •••• •• •• • ••••••• •• •• •• 65
IV. Prophecy. The Prophecies of the New Dispensation ••
V. Historical Evidence respecting the Delivery of the later
76
Prophecies ••• ••••• ••• ••. •• . •. . ••••• •••••• •• 95
VI. Conclusion •• . . . . . . . . . . . . . • ••. . . . . . . •. . . . . . . •. . . 111
Digitized byGoogle
Digitized byGoogle
- PROVIDENCE
AS MANIFESTED THROUGH ISRAEL.
AN ADDRESS TO THE DESCENDANTS OF ABRAHAM.
SECTION I.-Spirit qf Judaism.
THE peculiarity by which your nation has ever been honour-
ably distinguished from all others is an aversion to form S!J-
stems of religion. While, among heathen nations, princes and
priests formed laws and created mythologies which the igno.
rant multitude adopted as soon as offered, your lawgivers
dispensed only what they had received from above, and your
fathers required evidence that the dispensation was from
above, before they would adopt it. While the mysteries of
paganism were concealed in the recesses of Egyptian temples,
your fathers were assembled at the foot of Sinai, listening to
the thunders and watching for the disclosures of the cloud in
which the g}ory of God was shrouded. Your prophets and
priests bowed themselves before God as children who would
know the will of their father; while the wisest of less favoured
nations withdrew into grottoes and groves, or approached
oracles of their own institution, pretending to commune with
nymphs or demigods, but in reality seeking to invest the
imaginations of their own hearts with the sanctity of a sup-
posed revelation from on high. The issues we1·e evident to
the whole world; the state of the Hebrew nation as to reli-
B
Digitized byGoogle
2
gion, morals, and legislation, being as superior to that of all
theit· contemporaries as the moving pillar of fire was more
awful than the descent of Belus, the Mosaic law more exalted
than the twelve tables, and the Hebrew judges wiser than
heathen legislators. As long as none presumed to add to or
to diminish from the word which the Eternal imparted, his
people were glorious, enlightened, and blessed; while the
sages of the heathens could not attain to the wisdom of the
least among the sons of Israel.
This unreserved submission to the voice from heaven is
not, however, inconsistent with the desire and the endeavour
to understand, as far as possible, the designs of that Provi-.
dence whose guidance is acknowledged. Though there is
sin and folly in seeking to forestall or change the Divine
counsels, there is piety and wisdom in striving to comprehend
them when they are disclosed; because that obedience must
ever be the most perfect which is the most enlightened. Moses
was reproved for his backwardness in fulfilling his mission to
his brethren in bondage, and vengeance from the Lord fol-
lowed Jonah when he would have evaded his duty of pro-
phesying destruction to Nineveh, because in both cases these
prophets ventured to prejudge the event which was in the
hand of God: but the people were also rebuked when tht--¥
yielded a blind external obedience only, instead of the ready
cooperation of the heart with the will of God ; and were per-
petually exhorted to examine into and understand his ways,
that their obedience might be not only strict but enlightened.
The duty of ascertaining the Divine purposes from his dis·
pensations becomes more important as the facilities for the
investigation are multiplied. The more ancient the dispensa-
tion, the more easy it becomes to understand its object. Ezra
the scribe, and the people who listened to him as he read the
law, were better able to comprehend the designs of the Allwise
, · in separating his people from the rest of the world, than the
judges who were under Moses; and those judges knew more
concerning this dispensation, than any one of all the multi-
Digitized byGoogle
tudes on the day that they crossed the Red Sea. These de-
signs ofProvidence have also been growing clearer and clearer
to this day; and it therefore becomes more and more the duty
of all who acknowledge that Providence, to search into his
ways, and see how the spirit of man may best cooperate with
God for the sanctification of man.
In such an investigation there is no danger, as long as the
inquirer is careful to admit no evidence but that which God
himself has given. It is indeed the highest and holiest em-
ployment in which the human faculties can be occupied, and
as acceptable to him who loves the obedience of an under-
standing heart, as it is salutary to the heart itself. As long
as men interpret, instead of imagining the ways of God; as
long as they seek to know, instead ofpresuming to dictate his
will, they may hope for some portion of that favout· which
blessed the child Samuel in the tabernacle, which distinguished
David as "the man after God's own heart," and magnified
the wisdom of the mighty Solomon. .
Hesit1lte not, therefore, to enter on a full investigation of the
designs of the Allwise in separating your nation from other
nations, and in calling you peculiarly his own. Dismiss from
your minds, as far as you can, all remembrance of the reli-
gious systems framed by man ~ith which people of other
modes of faith have disgusted you. Repel, with the repro-
bation they deserve, all attempts to _mix superstition with the
worship which the Eternal established among you. Cast out as
impious all suggestions which would change your views of the
nature and attributes of the One God, and the offices of his
chosen prophets; and taking for your guides only the Scrip-
tures of your people, and the history ofyour nation and of the
world, endeavour to trace those ways and thoughts, which,
however higher than ours, are placed in some degree within
the reach ofour comprehension; which, however shrouded in
the future, are disclosed in the past.
The best method by which an individual can pursue such
an inquiry as is now proposed, is to collect all the evidence
B2
Digitized byGoogle
he can obtain, and deduce from it the truth he seeks. This
is the mode in which a solitary student should proceed. But
when several inquirers are invited to advance together, and
are conducted by one who has gone over the ground before
them, the method may advantageously be reversed, for the
sake of proceeding in a clear and orderly manner : as in the
schools, where a definite object is first placed before the view
of the students, and then the sources of evidence are laid open
to them by which they may establish the truth for themselves.
Such a method will now, for the sake of dearness, be pur-
sued. The apparent design of the Eternal in his providence
towards the Hebrew nation will be first disclosed, and evi-
dences of this design will be afterwards offered to your consi-
deration.
The plan of Providence is a strictly correct expression ;
because, though time and eternity are alike to the One God,
though to him "one day is as a thousand years, and a thou-
sand years are as one day," yet, as his children are weak in sight
and narrow in comprehension, they cannot see the end from
the beginning, but only understand it by slow degrees. By
the gradual deY.elopment of a plan only can they so far com-
prehend anything that exists, as to be able to use their bodily
powers in action, and the faculties of their minds in under-
standing. If the fruits of the earth were not brought forth
according to a regular plan, if the soil and the dews, and the
sunshine and the seed, were not perceived to be adapted to
produce the corn, there would be no seed-time and no harvest
among men ; for no one would comprehend how it could be
in the power of man to raise food out of the ground, and the
whole race must be nourished, like your fathers in the wilder-
ness, by miracle, or not at all. The whole of the creation
was conducted by a plan ; the preservation of created things
is ordered by a plan; the destinies of the human race, spiritual
as well as material, are also evolved according to a plan ;-
mysterious, like other plans, in its commencement, but grow-
ing more and more intelligible as it is gradually disclosed, and
Digitized by GoogIe
5
more and more evidently harmonious with other plans, and
with all that is known of Him who ordained the whole.
Before a plan can be comprehended, its object must be
discerned. In contemplating the plan of Providence, this
consideration causes no difficulty or delay; for all who ac.
knowledge the Eternal, acknowledge his inseparable attributes,
his wisdom, his justice, his boundless Jove; and by the exist-
ence of these attributes are men assured that in his dealings
with the human race his object is to promote their perfection
and happiness. While no individual is forgotten before him,
the progress of the race is advanced by all his dispensations.
While some are favoured with peculiar privileges, it is for the
sake of mankind that those privileges are conferred; and whtle
your nation has been distinguished by a closer communion with
him than has been enjoyed by any other, the promise has not
been forgotten, that in the seed of Abt·aham should all the
families of the earth be blessed.
The history of the world shows how difficult, if not im-
possible, it is for the unassisted reason of man to attain to the
notion of One God, who should be at the same time the creator
of all things, the preserver of the whole universe, the moral
· governor of all rational beings. Every nation on the face of
the earth has had an idea of Deity, but always' under the form
of a plurality ofgods. Some few men, philosophers here and
there among the heathens, have attained the notion that the
same Being might create imd preserve, that there might be
One Governor among many people, that One Almighty WiJJ
might dispense happiness and misery; but these instances 'are
so few and scattered, that they produced no visible effect on the
spiritual advancement of the race. If it had not been for the
revelation vouchsafed to your fathers, the whole world might
now have been sunk in the ignorance of polytheism; since the
light of nature appears too feeble to lead men to a knowledge
, of the Eternal, till after the lapse of more ages than the world
has yet existed. It appears, then, to have been in the ever-
lasting counsels of the Allwise to communicate the grand truth
Digitized byGoogle
6
of his existence and government by a revelation ; and in the
mode of making and conducting this revelation may be found
as powerful an evidence of the wisdom and love of the Father
of men as the human mind is capable of receiving.
The object·of revelation was to give to all men the know-
ledge ofthe true Goc.l. Ifthe revelation had been made to every
individual, a great degree of perplexity might have prevaile«\
among so many particular experiences, and the attention of
the careless would not have been so intently fixed as by a na-
tional dispensation. If a separate revelation had been made
to every people, the Eternal would have been regarded by
each as a national God, as it is well known he was long con-
sidered by your fathers, who, while they worshiped the God
of the Hebrews, supposed that other nations might each have
a goc.l, though inferior to their own. The methoc.l adopted was
therefore neither to give a separate revelation to individuals
nor to all nations, but to take one people under the special
tutelage of Providence, in the sight of the_ whole world, that
through this favoured nation the true God might be made
known to the human race at large. From the days of
Abraham until now, your nation has, for this purpose, been
the most conspicuous object in the annals of humanity.
While your fathers dwelt in the land which the Eternal had
given them, they were objects of attention to nations capable
of observing their proceedings, of perceiving much that was
remarkable in the establishment of your people, and much
that was peculiar in the temporal and spiritual government of
the Hebrews. They saw that the great temporal changes of
your people were never unforeseen; that all came to pass ac-
cording to previous-promises or warnings, and in proportion
to the obedience or disobedience of the nation to the law of
him who was thus clearly shown to be a spiritual governor
and judge, as well as the director of temporal affairs.
The designs of'God are further shown by the m~nner in
which he chose and led forth his people from among others.
Even those who knew nothing of a Providence could not fail
Digitized byGoogle
7
to be struck by the peculiarity of the history of Abraham.
The eyes of many followed him with wonder when he aban-
doned the popular religion and his country, without (as· it
seemed to them~) a motive for such a change. The things
which befell him in his journeyings in Egypt, and the events
which followed his final settlement, were observed and re-
membered with curiosity and interest, if we may judge by the
extent and durability of his fame in Eastern countries even to
this day. Though the observers had, as yet, no idea of the
peculiar Providence which attended upon Abraham nod his
posterity, they watched what should become of the descend-
ants of so extraordinary a man; and everything that occurred
tended to excite more wonder and curiosity. The settlement
in Egypt, the grievous bondage that succeeded, and the mar-
vellous deliverance of those who had been subjected to so
degrading a captivity, the irresistible power of the mighty
tribes as they issued from the wilderness, and the extraordi-
nary manner in which they founded a religious and political
constitution, unlike any that had ever been seen or heard of,
were circumstances which riveted the attention and roused
the passions of all who witnessed, to such a degree, that it was
clear the world had already begun to learn of the chosen
people.
Before the chosen people could teach, however, even by
their example, it was necessary that they themselves should
go through every stage of discipline, and begin their spiritual
education from the very infancy of mind and heart : and thus
was it ordained. Abraham indeed was of an enlightened and
exalted mind, capable of understanding the promises of God,
and faithful enough to trust in them through all trials; but
his posterity were neither so wise nor so virtuous. Many
heathen nations were more enlightened than the Hebrews
during their bondage in Egypt, and for some time after-
wards; and the speed and certainty with which your nation
subsequently outstripped all others in civilization and im-
provement of every kind, was made the more remarkable by
Digitized byGoogle
8
this circumstance. The exact nature of the religion of your
forefathers in Egypt is not known; but it is certain that they
inclined to the superstitions of their task-masters, and that
they possessed little of that firm trust in God which distin-
guished their great progenitor. They appear to have had no
idea of the deliverance which awaited them, and to have used
the necessary means to obtain it only while signs and wonders
from nbove were actually wrought. before their eyes. In the
intervals ofthese miracles, their faith declined and theircourage
failed; and even Moses, who was far more enlightened than
the generality of his people, seems to have been at that time
only learning to believe in God; since he hesitated in under-
taking the office with which he was charged, and asked by
what Name he should make known the deliverer. The spiritual
education of the Hebrews, which was soon to be carried on so
far beyond that ofother nations, was manifestly now only be-
ginning.
This beginning was made by revealing to the emancipated
people that the God who led them out of Egypt was the God
of Abraham, the God who had made a covenant with their
ancestor. They listened to messages from him more readily
than they would have hearkened to a strange God; but it is
plain that they did not yet know him to be the only God. He
was their only God, the God of the Hebrews, the M;ightiest
of all Gods, who, because he had proved himself greater than
the deities of Egypt, was entitled to their faith; but they were
not yet willing to relinquish the notion that they might choose
their God, and were only brought to a right_ understanding
by the sense oftheir own helplessness under the power of the
Almighty. As their conquests were extended, they learned to
look with more and more contempt on the gods of the neigh-
bouring nations; and for a long time afterwards the bulk of
the Hebrew nation seems to have rejoiced, not in the know-
ledge of the One God, but in worshiping a more illustrious
Deity than was revealed to any other nation.
This is no doubt the reason why the Hebrew nation was
Digitized byGoogle
9
so prone to idolatry, in the midst of the visible workings of the
Supreme among them. If they had ever really believed that he
was the only Deity, they could not so frequently and so readily
hove deserted his service for that of false gods; but if they be-
lieved that, though the Eternal was the Mightiest, and the only
God of theit· nation, othe~ inferior gods presided over other
nations, it is ·much more easy to account for their occasional
apostacy. When anxious to escape his anger, when desiring
to enjoy pleasures which he had forbidden, the temptation was
gt·eat to enter the service of inferior deities who might be less
strict to punish, and more indulgent to their lusts; while such
evasion and gratification could not have been hoped for, if the
Supreme had been truly believed to be the only Potentate who
governed the world. These observations are applied only to
the bulk ofthe nation. Their prophets ~nd wise men long pre-
ceded the people under them in the acknowledgement of the
strict unity of God,-in the declaration that he was the Cre-
ator of the universe, the Father of all the families of the earth.
By the gradual unfolding of the workings of Providence, by
the consistency of his moral government, the whole nation was
at length firmly convinced of this grand essential truth, re-
claimed fi·om idolatry, and for ever placed beyond the reach
of error respecting the object of worship.
This great doctrine,-of the strict unity of God, was, in
the case of the Hebrews and of all who learned through them,
subservient to a truth ofno inferior importance, viz. that God
is the Moral Governor of mankind. The experience of all
other nations has ·shown that there can be no such steady and
exalted virtue among those who believe in a plurality of gods
as among those who submit to the consistent rule of one.·
Pietv is weakened when worship is divided, and obedience
bec~mes unstead·y under a diversity of control. Thus the
worshipers of pagnn deities believed themselves to offend one
god while they propitiated another, and were utterly destitute
of that firmness of expectation, that consistency of hope and
fear towards God, which in th.e same age distinguished your
Digitized byGoogle
10
forefathers and exalted their spiritual character so immea-
surably above that of all other nations. When once convinced
that they could not flee from the wrath of one deity to take
refuge under the protection of another, that the law which
had been dispensed by God would be sanctioned by God,
that none could interfere with his warnings and promises, or
change or annul his decrees,-the dependence of his people
became confident, and their piety unexampled, in that age of
the world, for purity and steadiness.
The lapse of time perpetually affords new proofs that the
evidences given to the Hebrews, that God was their spi-
ritual as well as their temporal Ruler, were of the exact
kind most fitted to their spiritual state, and that this spiritual
government was precisely adapted to further that sure but
gradual advance which it was the object of the whole dispen-
sation to promote, in themselves and in the world through
them. The Law, that divine instrument by which the will of
God was made known in the earth, by which tbe spiritual
faculties of man l1ave been primarily developed, by which the
best blessings of human existence were first transmitted; this
law, framed by the wisdom of God and sanctioned by his
power, affords now as strong an evidence of the divinity of
that wisdom and power, as could be afforded on the day when
it was delivered amid~;t the thunde1·s and clouds of Sinai, the
awful glories of the lawgiver, and the trembling expectation
of the assembled'tribes. Then its authority was acknowledged
and its sanctity revered: this acknowledgement and reverence
still remain, while-the conviction which experience has wrought,
that this dispensation has amply fulfilled the purposes for
which it was given, and has been a perpetual testimony of the
providence of God and the high destination of man, adds an
ever-increasing interest to the Mosaic institutions, and hallows
them as the cQJDp)etest evidences of religious truth. If there
be any worshipers of the Eternal who disregard the Mosaic
dispensation, they are ignorant of the full grandeur which has
been displayed from above. If there be any who despise tbis
Digitized byGoogle
11
institution, they are yet untaught in the principles of true
religion; and those who disbelieve in its divine origin, reject
the clearest and finest indications of the design and methods
with which God governs the family of man.
This law, which you are accustomed to consider perfect,
had indeed that specific perfection which denotes its divine
origin; while its want of absolute, independent perfection, as
proved by the subsequent history of your people and allowed
by Maimonides and others of your doctors, affords additional
evidence of the design of God in appointing the Mosaic insti-
tution. The law was perfect in as far as it had a full capacity
of attaining its ends, which were to separate the Hebrews
from the idolatrous nations around them, and to make them
the preceptors of the whole human race in the great truths
that God is one, and tbe spiritual Ruler of mankind. The
first object was attained by the strict provisions of the law
against the superstitious belief and impure practices of the
surrounding pagans, and by such obligations to the worship
of the true God as could not be evaded or questioned. The
second object was answered by such a visible and perpetual
operation of Divine power among the people, and such an in-
variable retribution for their good or evil deeds, as could not
fail of arresting the attention of mankind, or of carrying con-
viction to the minds of all who looked on with interest.
When the Hebrews were led forth from Egypt, they were
not sufficiently enlightened to form clear notions of systematic
obedience to God, or any rule of duty whatever. If such a
rule had been given them, unconnected with external services,
and referred to their consciences only for its sanctions, they
would have been ~rplexed in its application, and weak in
every temptation. If they had been merely desired to have
faith in God, to be just to man, and to act always from a
principle of love, the command would have been ,·ain. They
had yet to be taught the meaning of faith in One God, the
rules ofjustice, and the nature of philanthropy. Such exhor-
tations would have been as uselessly addressed to them, as to
Digitized byGoogle
12
the children of our day whose moral education is only be-
ginning. The internal strength of conscience was therefore
cherished by external acts, and the people were trained to
obedience by the habitual homage which their ritual imposed
upon them. The law once received, they were obliged to ac-
knowledge the Supreme daily by various observances, to obtain
security by obedience, and to atone for every transgression
by a corresponding sacrifice. It is clear that nil ramifications
of moral duty cannot be displayed in an external ritual ; but
all may be connected with such a ritual; and this method was
pursued with .your forefathers, while they were yet too little
enlightened to discern the principles of righteousness in the
midst ofthe institutions in which they were embodied. They
could be and were taught to avoid idolatry,and to acknowledge
the Eternal by practising the rites of the tabernacle and wor-
shiping according to foa·ms prescribed ; but the principles of
truth, justice, and charity could not be embodied in any such
forms. Specific and ample directions were therefore given
to regulate the conduct of men to each other, and arbitrary
penalties were attached to the violation of them. Till men
became capable of applying principles for themselves, the ap-
plication was made for them, and their business was to obey
the specific directions given to them. Thus it would not have
been enough to command that charity should be the rule of
conduct from one to another; but this rule was applied in a
large body of Jaws respecting the claims of the distressed, the
poor, the widow, the orphan, and all towards whom charity
could be exercised. There were also penalties ordained for
all who should fall short of ready obedience to these laws.
Again : The people were not only exhorted to be of clean
bands and a pure heart, but specific directions were given for
purification in every case in which defilement could be in-
curred, and a penalty was connected with every violation of
these laws. A body of laws so specific, exhibiting perfect
unity of design and strictness ofdetail, could not be essentially
misunderstood or perverted, and was therefore peculiarly
Digitized byGoogle
13
adapted to a people whose spiritual education was commen-
cing.
Nor were the sanctions of the law less wisely ordained than
its nature. These sanctions were sensible and immediate re-
wards and punishments. A people insufficiently practised in
obedience to form a notion or a rule of systematic duty, re-
quired of course an immediate and perpetual impulse to obe-
dience. Till they could discern the identity of human duty
and happiness, they could know little of the natural rewards of
righteousness; and that little would be insufficient to support
their obedience in temptation, or to engage their perpetual
interest in doing their duty. Neither would the promise of
these natural rewards ha\'e been much valued by those who
had not yet ceased to regret the flesh-pots of Egypt, or learned
to trust implicitly in the promises ofthe true God. Their hopes
and fears were therefore excited by the appointment of such
a retribution as they could understand, and which at first
followed immediately upon the act of obedience or transgres-
sion. The divine wisdom was again shown in causing this
retribution to be more frequently national than individual.
As long as it was administered invariably, its efficiency was as
great to each individual as if it had been appointed to himself;
while the vicissitudes of the nation were at the same time
brought borne to the bosom ofevery man, and the minds of all
were enlarged by the extension of their hopes and fears to
national objects. The conviction that God was their Moral
Governor was thus impressed on each and shared by all; all
became interested in the obedience _of each; a community of
interests established a greater equality, temporal and spiritual,
among this vast family than has ever subsisted elsewhere in a
community so numerous, and the bond which united them as
subjects of moral discipline proved indissoluble.
While your nation was thus brought to a full recognition
of a moral government, a faint conception of the great truth
began to spread among the observant neighbouring people.
The Hebrew .institutions afforded subjects of speculation ;
Digitized byGoogle
your national privileges, of awe ; your national chastisements,
ofa short-lived triumph. When they moreover perceived
that your national prosperity or degradation could not only
be anticipated but hastened or averted with infallible precision
by certain modes of conduct, they could not but conclude,
(however little conversant with the particulars of your law,)
that the lawgiver was powerful and consistent in enforcing its
observance. The less they were aware o£ being themselves
the subjects of moral government, the greater would be their
curiosity about the peculiar people who were so; and whether
they regarded subjection to such discipline as a privilege or a
hardship, they would naturally watch its operation with un-
remitting interest, and thus be visited by a dim reflection of
the light which was shed with apparent partiality upon the
people whom the Allwise had chosen.
The retribution by which God made himself known as a
Moral Ruler was not the less invariable because it might be
averted by relapse or repentance. Such relapse or repentance
altered the position of the moral subject, and became a new
occasion of punishment or reward; so that the ·sanctions of
the law were not impaired, while room was left for the ex-
ercise of emotions which could have found no entrance had
repentance been powerless to save. By the occasional delay
of punishment, and the declared possibility of escaping it by
repentance and atonement, the people were convinced of the
long-suffering and mercy of God, as well as of his justice.
Hope and therefore love was united with fear; so that they
were enabled to acknowledge in him theil· Father and Friend,
as well as their Lawgiver and Judge. They had beheld such
awful displ_ays of his power, were so fully convinced of his per-
petual and discerning presence, and entire national obedience
to the whole law was so impracticable, that they would have
regarded him with unmixed terror, and have been carried
back by this slavish terror into barbarism, if their fear had
not been counterbalanced by the experience of his tenderness
and benignity. As it was, the opposite motives were so pro-
Digitized byGoogle
15
portioned as to strengthen their faith and advance their spiritual
progress by impulses perpetually renewed; till, from ignorant
and barbarous in comparison with 'Some heathen nations, they
became, not only a spectacle but a guide to the rest ofthe world
fi·om their remarkable superiority in wisdom and piety.
What, then, can be clearer than that the design of God in
his dealings with the Hebrew nation was to enlarge and im-
prove the mind of the human race by means of the peculiar
dispensation with which he favoured his chosen people?
Another purpose was answered by the occasional delay of
the retribution which was yet invariable. The people were
by this means taught to look forward. They were made in-
terested in the remote as well as the immediate consequences
of their actions. Whether the ,blessing and the curse were
reserved for themselves at some distant day, or appointed to
their children ofthe third and fourth generation, their attention
was carried on from present objects to future, and their
first attainments were now made in that comprehension of
mind which it is the great end of all revelation to extend. The
commandment to refrain from image worship was sanctioned
by a threat of punishment to a future generation; and that
which inculcates duty to parents contains a promise of long
life to the obedient; and from this time the promises and de-
nunciations reached down to a more and more remote period
of timE'., as the people became more accustomed to extend
their views, and theretore to ennoble theh· principles of action.
It is interesting to remark the progress of this e~tension o
views, and to perceive how remote objects are connected with
immediate, so as to make hope and fear of the future influential
on present conduct. With the blessing in basket and store,
in the fertility of the field and the abundance of the stall, is
coupled the curse of distant captivity and prott·acted wander.
ings in a strange land. While Balaam pronounced that the
tents of Israel were goodly, he declared that a sceptre should
be raised in Israel, that a star should arise out of Jacob, before
which the nations should bow down. The lustre of David's
Digitized byGoogle
16
reign was in part derived from an anticipation of the glory
which the Messiah should shed back on his ancestor; a{ld the
woes of the captivity were aggravated by the fear that the
great national promise had been forfeited. Thus a definite
hope, however r~mote its objects, became gradually strong
enough to supersede lower motives, to expel meaner desires,
tg inspire an energy victorious over pain and temptation, and
by these means to testify to the spiritual superiority of the
chosen people, and to the Divine character ofthat guardianship
under which they had made a progress so unprecedented.
Though as a nation their advancement was unprecedented,
their attainments were rivalled by individuals among the hea-
_thens; but this fact only furnishes a new evidence ofthe objects
and the power of revelation, since such instances were few and
uninfluential. A philosopher arose here and there among
pagan nations, who had attained to the conception of the Dj.
vine unity and even of a future life; who hnd, in fact, equalled
the wisest of the Israelites in spiritual discemment. But to
the race it mattered little what such individuals had effected ;
for while the philosopher was exercising his perceptions ti·om
some astonishing height of speculation, or pondering some
newly discovered truth, too awful to be communicated to the
unprepared, or striving to render the conduct in some debrree
correspondent to the convictions, the multitudes were wander-
ing in darkness, neither perceiving nor desiring the dawn of
Divine truth, and ready to persecute any who would have di-
rected their attention to it. The wisest of the heathens were
usually the least safe and happy in society; they lived in lone-
liness of spil·it, and died despised, calumniated, or martyred.
Socrates lived traduced, and died by._violence for having dis-
cerned the Unity of the Divine nature and the probability of
a future state, and cherished the hope of an ample revelation
from above. The Hebrew nation, at the same period, were
familiar with these great truths, and rejoicing in a revelation
which the wisest of heathen philosophers could on)y conceive
and hope for. By means of the spiritual equality established
Digitized byGoogle
1'1
by a revelation, the whole nation had advanced together. They
were led on, step by step, in close phalanx, to the c~nquest of
truth and the acquisition of spiritual blessings. The attain-
ments made were therefore solid and permanent. The gifts
from above being common to all, there was no jealousy of
superior wisdom in the family of Abraham; for where none
were grossly ignorant, none could be disproportionately wise.
Every accession of knowledge was a family treasure; every
advance in spirituality, a national blessing; and while the
pagan millions were at war with wisdom and the wise, the
Hebrews were, to a man, informed respecting the moral attri-
butes and providence of the Eternal, and cherishing with calm
confidence a mighty hope whose fulfilment they were taught
to refer to a far distant period of their history.
The relative superiority of your nation in intellectual and
spiritual attainments was less obvious to the neighbouring
nations, and even to themselves, than it is to us, now that the
light of subsequent ages is reflected back upon their history.
In the midst of their wonder and admit·ation, the pagans were
too little enlightened to appreciate fully the preeminence of
the chosen people; and the Hebrews had, as yet, had little
opportunity of comparing accurately their own with other
national institutions. They did not know but that other
schemes of national worship contained mh·acles somewhat
analogous to their own ; and the full meaning of the Divine
revelations was not therefore appreciated. They therefore
read their law with darkened eyes~ and were insensible to the
depth of wisdom and beauty which was inhe•·ent in their in-
stitutions, and which was rendered obvious by their subsequent
experience. When the captivity afforded an opportunity of
studying the institutionsofthePersians; when these institutions
of the most enlightened pagan nations of the age were found
to be mean, puerile, and inconsistent, in comparison with the
provisions of the Mosaic Law and the grandeur ofits sanctions;
when the true religion was exhibited side by side with a variety
of superstitions; when a theocracy was displayed in contrast
c
Digitized byGoogle
18
with other modes ofgovernment, the Hebrew people seem to
have become for the first time sensible of the magnitude of
their privileges and the splendour of their destiny. They
looked back to their _records, and all, even that which was
most familiar, appeared to them in a new lighL Beauty was
apparent which had before been unheeded ; power was recog-
nised which had been disregarded; wisdom appealed to them
from the annals of their history, and was for the first time
heard. The revelation was complete, but it had been hitherto
misapprehended. With themselves rested the shame of their
blindness, their caprice, their ingratitude; and to wipe oft' this
shame and satisfy their new cravings after truth, the nation,
on their return, assembled as one man, and ea~rly sought the
wisdom they bad so long undervalued. They listened from
morning till mid-day; their ears were attentive to the words
ofthe Law; they bowed their heads and worshiped in a new
spirit, and never afterwards apostatized. Becoming fully
aware of the peculiarity of their position and the superiority of
their privileges, they adored Jehovah with the understanding
as well as with the heart, and believed in him for ever.
In the course of their retrospect into their history,-of their
reexamination oftheir records, your nation were now prepared
to discern an ulterior purpose in all the events of the one, a
profundity of meaning in the instructions contained in the
other, of which they bad been until now unaware. Every
step of the national destiny, every stage of its discipline, was
now perceived to be ordered with a view to the grand national
event which was yet future, the coming of the Messiah ; while
the phrases in which the Divine messages were couched were
seen to include a deeper meaning than was at first apparent,
and promises which had always been precious were now sanc-
tified by their reference to higher objects than had before been
conceived. Much that had been mysterious, now became
clear; much that had been received as narrative, now appeared
to be allegory ; startling truths came out of familiar aphorisms;
and every form of instruction, every issue ofevents, every inti-
Digitized byGoogle
'
mation of prophecy, seemed to tend to the consummation of
the system, the appearance of the Holy One of Israel.
To you it is given to see yet more than your fathers saw in
all these things. You can perceive the success of the design
to enlarge the scope of the national mind and to strengthen
its powers of spiritual discernment. You can perceive by the
event that the purpose for which mysterious phrases were
employed was to stimulate curiosity and interest. You can
perceive that the form in which abstract truths were conveyed
is that most peculiarly adapted to expanding minds, and that
the style was no less wisely ordered than the mode. You can
acknowledge in a collection of annals, of narratives, of a11e-
gories, poems, and didactic addresses, a repository of truth
whose value and interest must have been inexhaustible to an
advancing national mind. You can recognise in the repetition
of the same truths in various forms, or the annunciation ofdif-
ferent truths in similar expressions, in the mixture ofplainness
and mysticism, and of simpJicity with involution, a pa-ovision
for rousing the sl'eculative faculties, arresting the attention,
and, in short, improving the collective spiritual capabilities.
The faith which it was the object of miracles and prophecy
to generate being now established; the exhibition of both
became less and less frequent, till at length they were beard
of no more. The object of miracles was to establish a belief
in Him who wrought them by the hands of his servants; that
particular directicm of miraculous power which takes place in
prophecy has the further object of carrying forward the views
of those to whom the prophecy is delivered. The e1fect of a
-miracle is an instantaneous beliefin the Divinity of the power
by which it is wrought; the effect of a prophecy is to rivet the
attention, to excite expectation, to engage the mind in a pro-
tracted interest highly favourable to its elevation and enlarge-
ment, while the ultimate faith is, if possible, firmer than that
consequent on a miracle, because it has been formed after a
longer preparation. ·The faith of Abraham was superior to
that of his descendants, probably in proportion as his insight
c2
Digitized byGoogle
20
lnto futurity was more distinct and extended than theirs. He
was more willing to obey and resign himself to the Eternal,
because the promises vouchsafed to him were ofpeculiar splen-
dour. The assurance that the whole earth should be blessed
in his seed induced him to leave his country and kindred ;
and he prepared to relinquish what was all-precious to him,
on the promise that his posterity should outnumber the stars.
Promises so vast were not given to his posterity immediately
on their departure from Egypt, nor for long afterwards, and
accordingly their maturity of mind was far inferior to that
which bad been wrought in their progenitor. In proportion
as the range of prophecy became wider, their faith was extend-
ed and confirmed, till, as has ,been seen, it was so fiu matured,
on their return from the captivity, that prophecy was gradually
withdrawn. These relative effects of miracles and prophecy
remain the same, whether prophecy be regarded as a prolonged
miracle, or whether, as some view the matter, a miracle be
considered as a prophecy immediately fulfilled. Both views
,re correct; since it is equally clear that prophecy is an exer-
tion ofsupernatural agency, and that he who works a miracle
only foretells an effect which will immediately take place by
an exet1.ion of Divine power. In both cases it is God who
works, and whose agency is made known by the servant he
bas chosen. In both cases faith is generated ; the only differ-
ence being, that in one instance the faith is more pure, firm,
and salutary, from its growth having been more gradual, the
scope of its exercise more extended, and the period of its
gratification more remote. · In a case of miracle there is no
time for inquiry, no room for doubt, no trial of faith; the an-
nunciation is made, and the event immediately follows. In a
case of prophecy there is much to ponder; there is scope for
speculation, for variations of opinion, for vacillations of hope
~md fear~ The prediction is compounded of obscurity and
clearness. Some points in it arc obvious enough to excite
expectation; while as a whole, it is left in sufficient obscurity
to occasion uncertainty up to the moment of its accomplish-
Digitized byGoogle
21.
ment. Its appropriation is decided at last by the clearing up
of some one enigmatical expression or allusion, usually hidden
and so apparently trivial·as.to have escaped previous notice; but
subsequently so apt, so decidedly appropriate, as to leave no
doubt respecting the true explanation or the design of the
framer ofthe prediction. Whatever may have been the variety
of speculation upon it, however difficult it may have appeared
to reconcile the differeJ!t parts of a prediction, no sooner is it
fulfilled than the agreement of all minds in its truth is in-
voluntary, for the conviction is irresistible. A strong light is
cast on some clause which had perhaps escaped conjecture;
and now this disregarded expression affords a key to all the
rest, and by its coincidence with tl1e actrial event puts to flight
all plausible conjecture and impresses certainty on every ·
mind. In the instance of prophecy we have not only the evi~
deuce of design, which is apparent in evf:lry mode of commu.,.
nication by which truths are let down into the narrow limits
of the human mind, but an example of the wise methods
by which the faculties are exercised and disciplined to a
longer foresight and a more extended range of hope and fear
perpetually.
It can scarcely be necessary to adduce illustrations of what
has been advanced to those so versed as yourselves in the
history and the records of your nation ; yet one example to
each position mi\Y be of use to render the meaning clear.
Among the phrases which conveyed a deeper signification than
was at first apparent, or which were so mysterious as to sti-
mulate curiosity, were those which referred to death and the
departed. " To go the way of all the earth," to be "gathered
to their fathers" or "to their people," were expressions more
likely to render the mortal change a subject of speculation
than the more familiar and direct phrase.
As an illustration pf the variety and comprehensiveness of
the Hebrew Scriptures, it is only necessary to point to the
three divisions of your records, the Law, the Prophets, and
the Hngiographa; all unlike one another, and each containing ·
Digitized byGoogle
t~
within itself as great a diversity of subjects and styles as can
be imagined; but all bearing the common character of a depth
of design which was not originally recognised. You now per-
ceive the law to have been more accurately adapted to the
condition of your forefathers than they could discern it to be
when delivered. The prophecies have been gradually invest-
ed with a clearer light from the day of their annunciation to
the present; and it is possible that you may not yet have
become aware of all that may be ascertained respecting them.
The devotional portions ofyour Scriptures also, as they speak
the language of faith in the true God, can lose nothing of their
truth and beauty by the further experience of the human heart
in the discipline of life and the practice offaith. Your Scrip-
tures, collectively and individually, being ofDivine origin, yield
more instead of less evidence of their Divinity with the lapse
of time.
As to the effect of prophecy in enlarging the mind and con-
firming faith, it is only necessary to advert to the gradual im-
provement of the national faith from the time when in Egypt
your people cavilled about the deliverance which was at hand,
to the time when they firmly trusted that their Messiah would
come, though ages must intervene. Their experience bad
disciplined them to a longer and a longer extension of their
hopes and fears, till their faith was so far established as to
allow of a cessation 'of miracles and prophecy.
No set of circumstances in the whole ofthe history of your
nation is more interesting than that by which your forefathers
were trained to the expectation of a future life.-There is
no occasion at present to enter into the great controversy
whether a future life was made a subject ofexpre;s revelation
to the Hebrew nation. It is sufficient for our purpose to
know that at an early period of their history, the people had no
idea of such a doctrine : that at the period of the cessation of
miracles and prophecy their faith in it was powerful enough
to inspire firmness under strong temptation, and a fearlessness
of death ; while there is no trace in their records of its being
Digitized byGoogle
28
offered as a sanction to the law, as was·the case with temporal
rewards and punishments.
The belief in a future state is prevalent in every nation in
the world. It bas been and is perpetually disputed whether
this belief originated in a revelation made to the fathers of the
race, or whether it has been obtained by the exercise of un-
assisted reason. However attained, this conception marks the
most important sera in the spiritual history of every nation ; as
it involves a higher peculiarity, and exercises a more power-
ful influence, than any other subjectof faith whatever. In every
nation where it has been known to exist this influence has
been incalculable. It bas stimulated to war, characterized the
laws, modified the customs, pervaded the literature so remark-
ably as to afford a strong general presumption that where the
national records bear no trace of the doctrine, the doctrine is
not known. The fragments of the poetry of the northern
nations of Europe bear a constant reference to a future state.
The savage tribes of Asia and Africa hold it as part of their
religion, and its truth is never questioned by the aborigines of
America. It has from time immemorial, been interwoven
with the institutions of civilized nations, and formed a pro-
minent object in the written references to those institutions.
But the early Hebrew records bear no such traces. No refer-
ence can be found to any life but the present in all early re-
lations of public and private vicissitudes, in their songs of
triumph or of mourning, in their devotional addresses, in their
national instructions, in their individual speculations. There
is no evidence that they were actuated by motives drawn from
this faith, by interest or indeed the lowest curiosity concerning
it. It could not therefore have originally formed a part of
their religious belief, or have been an important subject of
hope and fear ; and this doctrine cannot be received at all
without becoming the most important of all points of religious
faith : it is clear that it was not originally made known toyour.
nation. It is equally clear that, after their return from the
captivity, they not only had a distinct notion of this doctrine,
Digitized byGoogle
but that their conception of it was far superior to that of the
most enlightened nations who professed belief in the immor-
tality of the soul. Whether or not they were the first to attain
the notion, when it was formed, it was more pure than any
which prevailed elsewhere. It was not, like that ofthe heathens,
vague and vacillating, attended with fancies as various as the
imaginations from which they sprang. As far as your nation
believed in a future state, they believed in it as a state of
proper retribution, and their faith became a principle ofaction.
Though it may be impossible to fix the date of the reception
of this great doctrine among your people, it is not more diffi-
cult in this case than in others to discern the means by which
the national mind was first prepared for it, and then enabled
to improve on the first. conceptions of it.
The obscurity of the fate of Enoch must have awakened
curiosity; for whether he was translated, or whether an imma-
ture death be all that was implied in the expression "he was
not, for God took him," the obscurity must have been as great
to .your forefathers as to ourselves at this day. The disappear-
ance of Moses was also mysterious, and the phrases before .
mentioned alluding to death and the dead were ambiguous;
the threat that punishment should extend to many generations
was awful; and by the united force of these circumstances
the people must have been prepared both for further tidings
of the departed, and for the expectation of retribution at some
future time. Then the fate ofElijah afforded a fruitful subject
of speculation, and the notion of a future retribution might be
referred to a period subsequent to his translation. In his case
it might first perhaps be supposed or believed that the righteous
had departed to his reward. During all this time, they enjoyed
the light of natural reason as abundantly as other nations; for
though temporal rewards and punishments were the sanctions
of their law, the wise provision by which this retribution was
made national rather than individual left the way open for the
admission ofthe natural arguments for a future state which had
the most weight with less favoured people. The strong argu-
Digitized byGoogle
ment for.3 renewal of life from- the inequalities in the. OIStri-
bution ofhappiness affected the~ equally with others. By this
union of general and special guidance, the Hebrews were pre-
pared for that more correct apprehension of this great doo-
trine which we have seen that they attained, and the analogy
is preserved between their advance in this and every other
spiritual attainment. If they were originally behind some
other nations, they eventually outstripped them so far as to
prove that they were under special guidance, and to enable
; the· advantages of this special guidance t~ be extended by
their means to the whole world.
It cannot be proved that the bulk of the Hebrew nation
firmly believed in a future life previous to the captivity, though
the most enlightened among them probably did, in a manner
less distinct and correct than after they had had the oppor-
tunity ofcomparing their own conceptions with those oftheir
superstitious conquerors. The desponding expressi~ns ~
specting death found in the Book ofJob, the uncertainty ofany
references which may appear to exist in the Psalms of David,
nod the mournful questionings of the writer of Ecclesiastes,
indicate a very different state of conviction from that which
animated the heroes and martyrs under the rule of the Mac-
cabees. It was probably by intercourse with their Persian
conquerors, with the Chaldeans, and the disciples-ofthe Greek
philosophy, that the bulk of the nation became familiarized
with the heathen doctrine of the immortality of the soul; and,
comparing it with their previous conceptions and with the
ambiguities of their records, became able to confirin and exalt
their faith in a future state of retribution.
· It cannot be disputed, however, nor can the fact be too care-
fully borne in mind, that the belief, whenever and however
originated and cherished, still remained indistinct, partial and
variable. It was superior to all conceptions that existed of the
same doctrine elsewhere in that age; but as no solemn annun-
ciation of it is to be found in the Mosaic Law, as it was viewed
under different lights by various minds, as it is now to be traced.
Digitized byGoogle
ouly by inferences from .the events of your history, or by a
reference to the opinions of the enlightened men of your
nation,-it must have been held on a different tenure from the
other great doctrines ofyour dispensation, and have been in-
ferior to them all in positive sanctity. To the attentive ob-
seners of your national destinies, it is clear that as this doc-
trine is the only important one which has been essentially
corrupted among you, the only one which has admitted of a
wide diversity of views, the only one which has been intermix-
ed with the superstitions of the Oriental philosophy, it must
be excluded from the number of those for which an adequate
exposition was provided in the Mosaic institutions. Whatever
may be objected to the contents of the Talmud, it is remark-
able that the incorporation of the doctrine of the metempsy-
chosis with that of a future life, affords the .only instance of a
coalescence between the Oriental philosophy and a Hebrew
doctrine pretended to be found in the Scriptures; and by
whatever appojntment or agency the notion of a future state
was first communicated to your people, its pretensions to equal
authority with other Mosaic doctrines will be questioned by
all out of your own nation, as long as the doctrine of the me-
tempsychosis is as generally admitted among you as it is to
this day; and this the more earnestly, the more firmly they
believe in the Divine origin ofyour institutions.
One more provision for the spiritual advancement of your
people, the most extraordinary and important circumstance
connected with the dispensation, remains to be noticed;-the
mode by which the expectation ofa Messiah was excited and
cherished.
Till the time of Abraham there was a perfect equality in
the spiritual state of all nations. However widely distinguish-
able they have since become, whether through the separation
of your nation or other means, it appears that till Abraham
received his appointment to become the father of an eminent
nation, no portion of the race was favoured with any peculiar
p~vileges. With the promise to Abraham of the greatness of
Digitized byGoogle
27
hisdescendants, was coupled an intimation that their privilep
should not for ever be peculiar; a clear intimation that the ap-
proaching dispensation was designed for the benefit ofmankind
through the instrumentality of this one family. "I will make
• of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name
great; and thou shalt be a blessing:,and I will bless them that
bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee; and in thee shall
all the families of the earth be blessed •." "Abraham shall
surely become a great and mighty nation, a,nd all the nations
of the earth shall be blessed in himt·" The means by which
this blessing to the race was to be administered were not di-
scerned when the promise was given, nor for ages afterwards;
but the intimation gave a solemnity to the future, highly
salutary, both as it tended to enlarge the views of the ex-
pectants and to deepen their interest in their existing institu·
tions. With the lapse of centuries one shade of obscurity
after another melted away, and the great national hope as-
sumed a form which became perpetually more definite as your
ancestors advanced towards the period of its fulfilmenL The
cloud of glory on which their expectation rested as they tra-
velled on through the vista of ages unfolded by slow degrees,
and revealed the form of one girded with righteousness,
sanctified by the spirit of prophecy, one with themselves as
truly descended from Abraham and being the servant of God,
but greater than themselves, as appointed to establish justice
on the earth and to judge many nations. Your prophets
were the first to pierce through this bright obscurity and to
tell what should be revealed. Your kings were ready to bow
the knee to him who reigned in the hopes of every heart.
The young measured the space which had yet to be passed··
over before they who were still unborn should stand around
the last and greatest of the prophets ; and the aged who ex-
pired on the way, pointed onwards to the light which glad-
dened their dying eyes. There could be no delusion; for the
• Geneaia xii. 2-3. t Ibid. xviii. 18.
D•gitized byGoogle
t8
voice of the Eternal had spoken the promise in the trance of
Abraham and in the thunders of Horeb_, whose echoes were
prolonged and renewed from age to age. First the expecta-
tion was of a blessing; then.that this blessing should be given
through a servant of God; that this servant of God should
be the prince of prophets; that he should be of the offspring ·
of David, a branch of the root of Jesse; that he should com-
plete their dispensation anc.l consummate the work which God
wrought upon his peculiar people; and finally, that he should
appear at a period to which the tendency of events and the
intimations ofprophecy pointed so as to establish an agreement
in the hopes of almost the whole people.
But while the expectations of the nation were referred to a
particular point of time, while all were agreed respecting the
lineage of their Messiah and the fullness of his Divine com-
mission, there was no certainty respecting the nature of his
kingdom. The hope of your people for many centuries after.
the captivity was generally of a prince who should establish
the nation in glory and peace in their own land ; a nation
proved to be preeminent in the favour of God by its surpassing
power and grandeur. In course of time however, probably
about thirteen centuries ago, some of your fathers being liD-
able to reconcile those portions of prophecy which speak of a
suffering Messiah with those which promise triumph and
peace, conceived the expectation of two Messiahs, who shall
succeed each other; the one in a state of humiliation and
sorrow, the other in a state ofglory anc.l magnificence. This
notion, though highly esteemed by many, never becan1e a
general .or settled belief; but it affords a clear proof that the
nature of the Messiah's office was not so clearly defined in
prophecy as to justify any previous certainty respecting it; not
so clearly as to justify the assumption that in this case alone the
expectations of the Hebrew people founded on prophecy must
have been absolutely correct previous to the explanation afFord-
ed by the fulfilment of the prophecy. The object of these pro-
phecies, as of all others, was not to make the people prophets,
Digitized byGoogle
29
but to ·fix their ·attention .and prepare them equally for ap-
proaching events and for the reception of the all-powerful
evidence afforded by the fulfilment of the Divine predictions.
It was not more than formerly given to the people at large to
see (as the few chosen ones from among them saw) the future
in bright and distinct vision: prophecy was still, as before, a
dim shadowing forth of things to come, to which it was for
God and not for man to give a body, when the fullness of time
should be come. In all cases, it was designed that events and
their times should be made certainly known by the fulfilment
of prophecy, and not by the prophecy itself, which would en-
tirely fail of its object if it could establish any such certainty.
Those of your nation, therefore, who entertained a confident
expectation that the kingdom of the Messiah would be a mag-
nificent temporal kingdom, went beyond what their former
~perience of prophecy could warrant, and proved themselves
unaware of the doubt which your nation has since acknow-
ledged to exist. The same may be said of any who ventured
to decide on the precise point of time when the. Messiah was
to appear; while the nation was justified in referring their hopes
to that century whose approach is well known to have been
anxiously watched by the whole people, and in looking for some
display ofnobler power and greatness than had yet been vouch-
safed to the most distinguished messengers of the Supreme.
By an unique manifestation o( Providence, by a series of
means as remarkable for their wisdom as their singularity, had
your nation now been led on to occupy a position in which
the eyes of the whole civilized world were fixed upon them,
while their OWn expectation was·riveted on the further revela-
tion which was to take place. They saw that all that had been
done, however wonderful and however good, was but prepa-
ratory to thatgrand consummation by which their dispensation,
which was already relatively perfect, should be made abs~
lutelyperfect. In thus believing, they were right: while, respect•
ing other truths evidenced by their position, they were either
unobservant or mistaken, for want of the means of surveying
Digitized byGoogle
so
the condition of mankind at large. To us, who can make this
su"eyin the light which subsequentevents havecast back upon
that age, it is given to discern more respecting the objects ofthe
Mosaic dispensation and its actual influence upon the human
race than could be perceived by the recipients ofthe revelation,
even at the advanced period to which they had now arrh·ed.
We have seen that, as all nations originally enjoyed an equa-
lity under the general providence of God, so it is designed that
all should be ultimately blessed in the results of his special
providence towards your. nation. The distinction between
Israelites and Gentiles was arbitrary and temporary, involving
mighty blessings to those who were called to distinction, but
having for its ultimate purpose the communication of yet
higher benefits to mankind at large. The discipline to which
your nation was subjected gave them a firm hold on the grand
fundamental doctrine of the Divine Unity, and the equally im-
portant conception of a Divine Moral Government; and it was
evident to all who observedtheirfortunes,thatbymeans of these
convictions they w*'re led on from the state of ignorance and
barbarism, whence they issued to a speedy superiority to all
the world in civilization, in temporal advantages and spiritual
attainments. While themselves learning, they became teachers
to others, proving by the proportion of their fortunes to their
deserts that their heavenly Ruler was one, and that he ruled
their hearts as well as their state. Some few heathens so
highly estimated the preeminence ofyour nation as voluntarily
to subject themselves to the Mosaic Law. Others who declined
some of its requisitions, acknowledged its essential doctrines,
and worshiped the One God. Many more who made no pro-
fession of a pure faith, yet partook of its advantages in the
purification of mind and manners, which spread far though
faintly from this centre into surrounding countries; and count-
less multitudes watched with curiosity for what should next
befall this peculiar people, who were known to be awaiting a
mighty national change. The great harvest of blessings to
the race remained, however, to be reaped in after ages, when
Digitized byGoogle
Sl
the seed which had been so long sown nnd so gradually ma-
tured should yield its fruit without partiality into the hand of
every man. The fortunes of your nation were not so instruc-
tive while alternating before the eyes of men, or even while
pondered in the ominous pause which succeeded to the cessa-
tion of prophecy after the captivity, as they have been since;
mankind having been slow in recognising and partaking of the
spiritual blessings which were originally too vast to be appre-o
ciated even by those who possessed them.
The deficiencies which remained were certainly in some
degree perceived by them, since they expected a further re-
velation as a completion of that which tbey had already ac-
cepted. The.11e deficiencies have also been discerned by those
of your teachers.in any age who have shown that the general
direction of your religious worship was against the idolatries
which overspread the world when the law was given. By
proving this by invincible argument, Maimonides has likewise
proved that these religious institutions were not designed for
or capable of effecting the improvement of human nature so
far a.'i to enable it to attain the supreme good, and that the
effect of the law was not to make perfect, but to prepare for
the highest means of perfection.
The preparation being made, the completion must soon be
given, or the consequences to the spiritual state of the expect-
ants must be disastrous ; as they are in every case where a
sudden check is given to a gradually accelerated improvement,
where a blank pause bafBes the activity of the strengthened
faculties : and the consequences are the more disastrous, the
grander is the consummation looked for, and the more reason•
able and active the expectation. These ill effects are analogous
to those which arise in children, whose minds have been stirred
up and furnished with theelements ofknowledge,butarehinder-
ed from making further progress. When they have exhausted
their materials, they will employ their intellectual activity in
trifling withaccessories for wantofessentials to workupon; they
will pursue shadows, reason upon images as facts, and become
Digitized byGoogle
S2
at length ·incapable of discerning truth, of appreeiating the
'value of rational conviction, or ofdistinguishing the mandates
of their teacher from the suggestions of their own perverted
understandings.
Your people was prepared for a completion of their dispen-
sation ; the consummation looked for was grand beyond con-
ception; and their expectation was reasonable and active. A
pause succeeded. Whether this pause issued in blank disap-
pointment, or in an indefinite protraction of their hope, or
whether a consummation was given which they refused to ac-
cept, and whether the spiritual progress of the nation was
therefore arrested, is the most·interesting and important in-
quiry which can engage any who would worship the Supreme
with the powers of the understanding as well as the affections
of the heart.
SECTION 11.-Spirit of Christianity.
WHEN the voice of prophecy had ceased for four hundred
years, and when the expectations of your people respecting
the Messiah had been exalted to a very high pitch, it was
rumoured throughout the land of Judea that oue was pro-
phesying in the wilderness, and baptizing into a new faith. In
proportion as this rumour spread, multitudes went out to learn
what was .the object of.this baptism, the nature of this pro-
phecy; and whether he who prophesied was the Messiah who
had been looked for so long. They found one who answered
in no respect to their expectation of a national Saviour: his
mode of life being austere, his promises void of all reference
to future greatness and glory, and his lineage well known not
to be that of the promised deliverer. Yet there was in John
the son of Zachariah a voice of authority which few resisted.
He performed no miracles, but appealed to prophecy ; he
uttered predictions whose fulfilment he declared to be close
at hand ;, and his doctrine and mode of enforcing it were so
remarkable as to rivet the attention of the nation on his pro-
Digitized by GoogIe
ss
ceetlings. Like many of the ancient prophets, he appeared di-
vested of all worldly possessions and advantages. His raiment
was rude, his food simple; he avoided the familiar companion-
ship of men, and took his station in the wilderness and on
the banks of Jordan, where multitudes came from all the
country ofJudea, and from Jerusalem itself, to hear his doc-
trine and to be baptized by him. There appears to have
been no distinction among those who received baptism from
him, however various might be their opinions concerning his
mission. Many supposed him to be the Messiah, as he taught
with irresistible authority : others, who rightly perceived that-
the circumstances of his appearance did not correspond with
the prophecies conceming Christ, yet listened to him as a
mighty prophet: none looked upon him with absol~te un-
belief; and those who conducted the spiritual affairs of the
nation sent a deputation of Priests and Levites from Jerusalem
to inquire of John himself who he was and what office he had
assumed. The members of this deputation found him preach-
ing repentance and purification, as a preparation for receiving
a new faith. Beyond this he did not proceed. He offered no
new doctrine, delivered no new message from the Eternal, and
bounded his efforts to causing a more perfect preparation, a
more exalted·hope of some dispensation which was still future.
His endeavours were seconded by the ardent prevailing desire
of the people; so that, humbling as were his reproofs, and
anstere as W!lS his train of preaching, men of all ranks and
offices submitted to become his disciples. The Pharisees came
to him to be taught, the Sadducees petitioned to be baptized,
while he rebuked their pride, and overthrew the ill-grounded
·confidence which they entertained because they were descend-
ed from Abraham. The Publicans were warned against ex-
tortion, the soldiers against violence and insubordination, and
the multitudes generally against selfishness and evil deeds and
thoughts of every kind. The exhortation was, to hasten to re-
pent of and reform all that wns sinful, that all might be puri-
fied to ·receive certain glad-tidings which should soon be made
D
Digitized byGoogle
,..
lrnown. The deputation from Jerusalem saw and heard these
things; they witnessed the disputes among the multitude con-
cerning this prophet, whether he was the· Christ; and going
to John, they plainly asked the question, which was as plainly
answered. He declared that he was not the Christ, nor Elijah
(who was expected to appear), but a messenger who should
prepare the way for a far mightier prophet; that be was one
who, in the words of Isaiah, lifted up his voice in the desert
to command that the way of the Lord should be made straight.
He declared that this mightier prophet was dwelling in the
midst of his nation at that very hour; so that the expectation
of the people, though still deferred, should not be again dis-
appointed, as the kingdom of heaven was nigh at hand, and
he who should introduce it was prepared for his mission, and
only waiting a signal from God to open it.
These glad-tidings were spread on the tongues ofthousands
to the remotest comers of the kingdom. Herod listened to
them in his palace; the priests communed of them in· the
temple; the despised Samaritans looked for the decision of the
controversies respecting the appointed place of worship; and
the GaliJeans, who had no idea that one of their towns had sent
forth the Deliverer, heard from afar that the name of the
Messiah had been spoken on the banks of Jordan.
The promise given by John was ere long seen to be fulfilled.
As the prophetwas standing beside the river, teaching and ba~
tizing, one approached him who came out of Nazareth iu Ga-
lilee, and desired also to be baptized. For the first time, the
prophet hesitated to discharge his office, declaring that be had
more need to be baptized by the stranger than the stranger by
him. The stranger, however, explained his desire to submit
to all established ordinances without making any distinction
of persons; and John therefore went down with him into the
water. When the rite was ended, those assembled beheld in
one moment that the pl'omise of ages was fulfilled, and the
patience of their expectation rewarded. They beheld the
first miracle which succeeded a pause of many centuries, and
Digitized byGoogle
S5
acknowledged that once again God had plainly spoken to
his people. They saw the heavens opened; tht>y witnessed
the descent of the spirit on the stranger from Galilee, aocl
beard the same voice which bad spoken to Moses out of the
burning bush announcing a higher dignity than had been con-
ferred on the greatest prophet of the first dispensation. The
stranger, being the son of Joseph and Mary, was of the off-
spring of David, a branch of the root.of Jesse, and he was
now pointed out as the ·Messiah by the voice from heaven,
which said, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased."
The expectation of those who beheld was not immediately
fulfiJled by the appea1·ance of the Messiah in Jerusalem or in
any of the cities ofJudea. He was not yet fully prepared for
his office, and withdrew into the wilderness for forty days,
where alone, and probably in communion with Him who sent
him, he might be informed of all things respecting his mis-
sion, and exercised and strengthened for the labours and suf-
ferings h~ was to undergo. When after a time he heard that
his forerunner John had been thrown into prison, because he
had rebuked the vices and therefore incurred the vengeance of
Herod, Jesus withdrew into Galilee, where he first opened his
mission. He taught in their synagogues, proving that the pro-
phecies of the Messiah related to a ·period which had then
arrived, and that the glory which bad long been promised had
at length risen upon Israel. As be taught with the power ofthe
spirit, his fame spread through the whole country of Galilee.
His teaching was already confirmed by miracles. The
first of these was performed at Cana, where some who had
beard from John that Jesus was the Messiah were present to
have their faith confirmed by this first display of miraculous
power. This miracle, of changing water into wine at a mar..
riage-feast, was followed by so many cures of the sick and·
infirm and lunatic, that be was believed on, not only by his
immediate followers 0~ by the dwellers in the towns where he
D 2
Digitized byGoogle
S6
wrought his miracles, but by many inhabitants of Jerusalem
and of the whole territory of Judea, and of the country beyond
Jordan, who came to witness his words and actions. He had
already made provision for securing ample and durable testi-
mony to the nature of his preaching, of his private conduct
and public acts. If he had gone from place to place alone, or
accompanied by a multitude who followed him from curiosity,
and who could not attend his steps everywhere, there must
have been uncertainty and incompleteness in all the testimony,
however strong, which could have been obtained. A fuller
testimony was therefore secured. As Jesus walked on the
shore ofthe lake of Tiberias, he saw Simon and Andrew (who
had learned from John that this Jesus was the Messiah,) pur-
suing their occupation of fishing. He called them, and after-
wards James and John, the sons of Zebedee, to follow him
and remain with him. They did so; and from that day beheld
his works, listened to his teachings, and received his private
instructions during his life; and after his death bore testimony
to what they had seen and heard by their preachings, hy their
writings, and by laying down their lives for the Gospel they
taught. Various and competent witnesses having thus been
appointed from the very commence~ent of his mission, we
are furnished with evidence respecting the life and doctrine of
Jesus which may be re1ied on, whatever may be thought ofthe
innocence ofthe life and the divinity of the doctrine.
Some ofthe acts and words of the new prophet had already
given offence to those religious teachers who could not conceive
the idea of relaxing any of the religious observances to whieh
they had been accustomed, of separating the ordinances of the
priests from the commands of Moses, orofpaying more regard
to the spirit than the letter ofthe Law. Such men had sufFered
from the long protraction ofthe national hope, from the long
absence of higher religious aims than the first dispensation
had set before them. They had acquired the habit of magni-
fying what were merely the accessories of their institutions at
Digitized byGoogle
the expense of their essence; they were more anxious about
the details of the Law than about its designs; and forgetting
that He who gave the Law had the power of superseding the
Law, and that He had actually made provision for thus causing
i.t to be superseded, they looked upon any neglect of their
most trifling observances as an infallible sign that he who
authorized such neglect could not be from God, whatever
might be his miraculous powers. If they had looked back to
the early records of their people with an understanding heart,
they might have, pet·ceived that even while the tribes were
trembling before the display ofthe terrors ofHoreb,a provision
was made for changing or withdrawing the Law, if it should
consist with the Divine purposes so to do. In answer to the
petition of the people that they might no more hear the voice
of the Eternal or behold his lightnings, a promise was given
that prophets should henceforth -be the exponents of the Di-
vine will,-this promise being coupled with the necessary con-
dition, that the voice ofthe prophet should be listened to and his
commands obeyed as readily as if they proceeded immediately
from God. From this condition there was no escape ; so that
by the terms oftheir covenant with God, they were bound to
receive every message which he should send, and to honour
every messenger whom he should appoint, though the one
should command the overthrow of their peculiar institutions,
and the other be made the agent of the revolution. It was
necessary to discover by means appointed whether the preten-
sions of any pr<?phet were well founded; and this having been
ascertained, no alternative remained but to receive whatever
he might teach, however contrary his doctrine might be to
preconceived opinions, and however uncongenial with national ,
or particular prejudices. The words of Moses were these:
" The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a prophet from
the midst ofthee, ofthy brethren, like unto me; unto him shall
ye hearken ; according to .all that thou desiredst of the Lord
thy God in Horeb, in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me
not hear again the voice-of the Lord my God, neither let me
Digitized byGoogle
ICe this great fire any more, that I die not. And the Lord
said unto me, They have well spoken that which they have
spoken. I will raise them up a prophet from among their
brethren like unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth ;
and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken
unto the words which he shall speak in my name, I will require
it of him. But the prophet who shall presume to speak a
word in my name which I have not commanded him to speak,
or that shall speak in the name ofother gods, even that prophet
shall die. And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know
the word which the Lord hath not spoken ? When a prophet
speaketh in the name of the Lord, ifthe thing follow not, nor
come to pass, that is the thing which the Lord bath not spoken,
but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shalt not
be afraid ofbim •."
Ifthese conditions were fulfilled by many Divine messengers,
they were eminently so by Jesus, who promised health to the
sick and food to the hungry in the name ofthe Lord, and,the
thing immediately came to pass. The presumption was not
therefore in him, but in those who prejudged his claims; and
expiation must be required, not of him who taught, but of
those who through hardness of heart refused to hear.
This hardness of heart was most conspicuous among those
members of society who esteemed themselves the wisest, and
who were indeed the most learned in the Law. But learning
is not always wisdom ; and it was the case with many of the
polished Pharisees and learned Scribes and disputatious Sad-
ducees, as it is with many learned men in every age,-that the
exclusive nature of their studies bad perverted the rectitude of
their understandings, and engendered a pernicious scepticism
respecting everything which was uncongenial with their long- -
formed opinions, or which appeared inconsistent with their
former belief and expectations. Over such scepticism, even
• Deut. xviii. 15-22.
Digitized byGoogle
miracles had little power; and their.prejudices closed their
ears to the voice of God himself: while the moa·e simple.
minded, who were ready to trustto the evidence oftbeir senses
rather than to the strength of preconceived opinions ; the
.afflicted, who were relieved by the benevolent miracles of the
new prophet; the repentant, who were encouraged by the
hopes he gave ; and the meekly pious, who obtained from him
higher ideas of duty, and deeper peace in the performance of
it,-believed on him by thousands, and were more ready to be
taught by him than to accuse and judge him ; and this the
more willingly, because they learned from himself that he
came not to destroy the Law, but to fulfill it.
The offences which were given to the rulers and teachers of
the people arose, not-so much from the explanation ofhis views
which Jesus gave in his discourses, as from actions which were
thought to indicate contemp~ ofthe Law, and a presumptuous
pretension to Divine power. It will be useful to advert to the
nature of these objections, in order to ascertain whether the
disregard complained of were really of the Law as given by
God, or Qf the additions which had been made to the Law
by men ; or whether any greater power was assumed than
God had really conferred. We will take the first two or
three instances which occuned when he opened his mission in
Galilee. Jesus was teaching one da,y in the court of a house,
where Pharisees and teachers of the Law who had come from
Jerusalem and from many parts of the country were assembled
around him, with so large a multitude besides that the whole
space was crowded. A paralytic man was brought to the
house by his friends, with the hope that Jesus would restore
him ; and as there was no possibility of approaching the pro-
phet through the usual entrance, the sick man was borne on
his couch to the fiat roofof the dwelling, and let down into the
court by cords. A more perfect testimony of the faith of those
who acted thus could not have been gi\'en ; and in testimony
of his approbation of this faith the Teacher promised forgive-
ness of hi& &ins to the sick man. Some of the Sc1·ibea whe
Digitized byGoogle
were sitting by, and who could not conceive that forgiveness
of sins could be declared by any but the Supreme himself, in
their hearts, though not with their tongue$, accused Jesus of
blasphemy. The accusation was immediately proved erro-
neous. Jesus perceived what was passing in their thoughts,
and at once proved that his power was real and not assumed,
by commanding the paralytic man to arise and depart cured
of his malady; In this instance, the cavillers were convinced;
for all who were present glorified God, saying, " We never
saw it thus."
At another time, when Jesus was entertained by Matthew,
(whose narrative of tbe life and discourses of the Prophet was
written in your language and for the use ofyour nation,) some
guests with whom no Pharisee would have deigned to associate
were at meat with him. When the Scribes saw him in com-
pany with the despised publicans and gentiles, they were
offended at a condescension to which they·were certainly un-
equal. The reply of Jesus conveyed that if these publicans
and.gentiles were really deserving of contempt, tliey stood
more in need of his instructions and society than more right-
eous persons. " Those that are well need not a physician,
but those that are sick ; I came not to call righteous men, but
sinners to repentance." Here the offence was, that the new
teacher did not share their feelings of contempt towat·ds those
who, however. cast out by proud men, were not rejected by
God.
A yet greater offence was given by his mode of regarding
the sabbath, and encouraging his followers to regard it. In
several instances he wrought cures on the sabbath ; and in
one, his disciples were seen to pluck corn as they passed
through the fields, rubbing it in their hands and eating. · Itis
clear that in the first case no command was violated, as the
working of the miracle occasioned no laboul' tO the Prophet
or to any other person; and that it was preeminently a holy
act. It is besides inconsistent in the extreme to suppose that
one who had power given him to control.the.course of.nature
Digitized byGoogle
41
should not also have power over an institution which wa.c; only
ordained for the service of men. Jesus therefore rightly
declared himself " Lord of the sabbath."-The act of eating
corn as they passed along was justified by him by the con-
sideration that the institution ofthe sabbath was made for man,
and not man for the institution ; and he silenced their accu-
sations by referring the cavillers to the fact that David and
his followers did a more daring thing in eating the bread of
the altar, and also to their own common practice of releasing
animals who had fallen into a pit on the sabbath day, with
more toil and a more worldly object than they could impute
to his miracles.
It is needless to multiply instances. These are sufficient to
show that at the commencement of the mission of Jesus, the
objections of his enemies were not founded on any doubts of
his supernatural power, but on their preconceived opinion of
the immutable nature not only of the Law, but of all the ob-
servances which had been connected with it; and on their de-
termination therefore to listen to no voice which should not
chime in•.with their prejudices.
Another purpose for which these instances are adduced is,
that by comparing them with others and with the discourses
of the Prophet, the scope and aim of his mission and ita con-
nexion with the former dispensation may be ascertained.
The mission ofJesus was from its commencement dift'erent
from that of John, not only in its superiority of character and
design, but in the mode in which it was exercised;-austerity
was the characteristic of John's; freedom and mildness of that
of Jesus. The Baptist came to purify men for the reception
of the new faith ; the new faith brought purification with
itself, with the peace and hope which it offered, and with' the
relaxation o( (not legal but superstitious) observances which it
authorized for the sake of promoting the spontaneous obedience
of the heart and understanding. John subsisted on' rude fare
in the desert, while the first miracle of Jesus had for its object
the promotion of innocent .festivity. The. disciples of John
Digitized byGoogle
folJowed the example of the Pharisees in fasting much and
often; while the disciples of Jesus fasted not. The objections
of the enemies of each were of an opposite character: John
being despised as a madman on account of the austerity and
singularity of his mode of life; and Jesus being abhorred as
addicted to too great fi·eedom of living in promiscuous society.
In one respect, however, there was a remark!!oble agreement
between them. Neither ofthem intimated any design ofadding
to the weight of the ritual obligations of their people, nor
offered any expectation that the kingdom of God, which was
nigh, should either draw tighter the bonds of the Law to those
who were under the yoke, or that it should offer new institu-
tions correspondent with the old. It was not the office ofJohn
to declare anything of the nature of the new kingdom, as he
was sent only to announce its approach; hut tlte foHowers of
Jesus looked anxiously and perpetually for those new imposi-
tions by which they supposed the consummation of their
system must be effected. There was much in his conduct to
perplex such expectants; and yet more perhaps to confound
the larger class, whose hopes were fixed on him as the Prince
of_the nation, ~he warrior and legislator who was to deliver
them from the power of the Romans, and to establish their
state in preeminent might and grandeur. In one of these
characters was he regarded by all who admitted his Divine
credentials. With no one snch character did his actions
correspond; and at length the discourses he delivered on the
Mount and by the lake of Galilee, proved that the objects of
his mission were far different from any which had yet been
imagined.
In that collection of his discourses which, as related by
Mauhew, is called the Sermon on the Mount, we find instruc,.
tions addressed to various classes of hearers, calculated to
dispel their various prepossessions and to communicate a more
accurate idea of the purposes of his mission than the people
could previously have obtained. He addressed his countrymen
as "the light of the world," on which the eyes of all people
Digitized byGoogle
were fixed ;-as "the salt of the earth," by which the whole
race of men must be purified ; and this distinction he urged
as a reason, not for national pride and desire of dominion, but
.for peculiar purity of heart and eminence in piety. Jesus bore
testimony to the purpose for which the Hebrew nation 'was
separated from others when he said, "Ye are the light of the
world; but men do not light a lamp and put it under a mea-
sure, but on a stand; and it shineth to all them that are in the
house. In like manner let your light shine before men, that
they may see your good works and glorify your Heavenly
Father." The nature of these "good works" is the subject
which it is the aim of these discourses chiefly to illustrate.
Every one who listened believed that in the person of the
Teacher he beheld the Prince who was to restore the kingdom
to Israel; and the virtues to which they expected to be exhorted
were, therefore, zeal and courage in carrying the name of the
Supreme into other lands; obedience to their Prince; devotion
to the cause of the nation; and, possibly, moderation in tbe use
and enjoyment of victory. They probably thought on Joshua,
on Gideon, on Maccabreus, and hoped now to be led forth
with a brighter glory and by a stronger arm; they remembered
that on the summit of Tabor, where they now stood, Barak
had assembled his hosts before he went out against Sisera;
they looked afar where the wtil1s of Jericho ar~e on the hori-
zon before they fell at the blast of the trumpets of Israel; they
gazed on their teacher, thinking within themselves that a
greater than the greatest of their nation was with them there.
And what did he utter in answer to these thoughts? He re-
plied by a blessing on the lovers of peace. He declared that
the kingdom of heaven was for those who endured rather than
resisted evil; for those who made peacf', rather than urged on
to war; for the meek and mourners, rather than the proud and
prosperous; for those who sought to make themselves pur~
rather than those who loved wealth and glory: he taught that
suffering for conscience• sake was to be prefel'red to the praise
ofmen, and that enemies should be regarded with love rather
Digitized byGoogle
++
than with desires of revenge. Tho~e who sought glory won-
dered to hear him condemn the pursuit ofhonour among men;
those who hoped to bring back treasures from their conquests,
to hear that the desire of wealth is incompatible with the ser-
vice of God. The entire strain of his discourse was opposite
to their habits of feeling and acting, inconsistent with their ex-
pectations, and very mortifying to their hopes. The Teacher
reproved with severity the practices which subsisted generally
among the rulers and teachers of the people, many of whom
were present to hear, ifthey did not choose to appropriate his
rebukes, when he censured all whose charity or whose devotion ·
was os.tentatious. The practices of offering private prayer in
public, of making a parade of fasting and almsgiving, and, yet
more emphatically, the habit of judging and censuring the
conduct ofothers, (all ofwhich were practices prevalent among
the spiritual guides of the people,) were condemned by Jesus,
at the risk, or rather with the certainty, of provoking their
enmity, and of subjecting himself henceforth -to their bitter
opposition.
The kingdom of God which wss approaching was therefore
a spiritual kingdom. He who preached it, and whose preach-
ing was confirmed from above by a multitude of miracles,
declared that it was not of this world, that it had no relation
to common objects of earthly desire, but to that world within,
that busy region of the heart whence arises the peace or woe
of every man.
The special education ofyour nation, the spiritual discipline
which ·had been carried on through so many stages, and ad-
vanced by so great a variety ofmeans, was now to be completed
by a final dispensation, which, however unlike the preceding,
was perfectly and evidently consistent with it.
"Think not that I am come," said Jesus, "to destroy the
Law or the Pa·ophets: 1 came not to destroy but to fulfill
them. Nothing shall pass from the Law till all bt:; accom-
plished. Whosoever therefore shall break one of its. least
commandm~nts, and shall teach men so, shall be called the
Digitized byGoogle
..
45
least in the kingdom of henven; but whosoever shall perform
and teach them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of
heaven."
Every act a,nd every discourse ofthe new prophet confirmed
these dec1arations. He obeyed, not the requisitions which
self-righteous and disputatious men had added to the Law, but
all the commandments and ordinances which the Eternal had
given. He set aside no word of all which the Eternal had
spoken; but, pointing out the purposes for which the holy Law
was given, and explaining the modes in which the prophecies
had been and were to be fulfilled, he convinced all true wit-
nesses of his mission that by him was indeed sent thnt con-
summation which had been so long expected.
The promise, however, was only that the Law should not
pass away till all 'Was.foljilled, and that it was not the office of
Jesus himself to abolish it. That be was sent to prepare the
way for its abolition and to provide substitutes for its pro-
vis~ons, he gave repeated intimations in the course of his
mission; intimations which were not fully understood till ex-
plained and confirmed by subsequent events. He came to ex-
hibit the spiritual objects of the former dispensation ; to show
how the Law had been made a means of informing the people
respecting the character and providence of God, and their
duty to him; to prove that all external ordinances were sub-
servient to these purposes; and that all such ordinances are
useless except in so far as they answer these purposes. He
came to offer a higher system of morals, enforced by higher
sanctions, which, when fully established, should render the
institutions of Judaism unnecessary and even unfit for the
advanced state of its subjects, and which should therefore at
length' occasion its abolition.-Let us see how these purposes
were gradually unfolded by the circumstances which attended
aJld succeeded the mission of Jesus.
At the first Passover which Jesus attended after his baptism,
he wrought many miracles, so as to fix the attention of the
p_
eople upon him and to gain many followers. Among those
Digitized by GoogIe
46
who believed on him for the sake of his miracles. but who
knew not yet the nature of his mission, was Nicodemus, a man
in authority. His anxiety to learn of the new teacher brought
him to Jesus ; but his worldly caution made him choose the
night for the time of their conference. This man may be taken
as an instance of the utter disinclination or inability of the
Hebrew rulers of that age to see further than the letter of
their Law, and the outward forms of their institutions. The
figurative language which was adopted by Jesus during the
conference was such as was constantly in use among them, so
that the misapprehensions of Nicodemus related to the mean-
ing of what was said, and not to the mode of expre!<sion alone;
and merited the reproof, "Art thou a teacher in Israel, and
knowest not these things?"
The scope of the discourse was to declare that those who
would have part in the new dispensation must go through a
remarkable spiritual change; must be baptized into the new
faith, and adopt that faith with the spirit in a more perfect
manner than they had obeyed the former dispensation by out-
ward ordinances. The new prophet was declared to have
brought a purer light into the world, which all whose deeds
were pure would desire to approach; while those who rejected
this purer light would prove that their hearts were not right
with God, and would suffer by refusing the glad-tidings now
brought. Whether these intimations of the spiritual nature
of these glad-tidings were understood by Nicodemus is not
recorded; all that we hear further of him being that he llfter-
wards protested against Jesus being condemned without a
hearing, and that he assisted in embalming the body on the
evening of the crucifixion.
A short time afterwards, when the Prophet was passing
through Samaria on his way to Galilee, he sat down to rest
himselfon a well near Sychar. While no one was more exem-
plary in fulfilling the law, no one was ever so free from all the
prejudices of his countrymen; and in a heart so filled with
benevolence as his, there was no room for that contempt and
Digitized byGoogle
hatred of the Samaritans which were ft:lt by all other Israelites
-his own fo1lowers not excepted. He therefore entered into
a friendly conversation with a woman of Sychar who came to
the well for water. When he had fixed her attention by his
discourse, and given her cimse to suppose him more than a
common teacher, she immediately adverted to the two subjects
of the deepest interest to her people,-the expectation of a
Messiah; and the long-agitated question between themselves
and your nation, whethea· the Supreme ought to be worshiped
at Jerusalem or on the Mount Gerizim. The reply to the last
question contains perhaps a more clear intimation of the spirit
of his mission, of the nature of the great change for which he
came to prepare the way, than any other particular portion of
hia in&tructions on record. It was prophetic of the time when
a more spiritual worship should take the place of the ancient
ritual of your lllltion; when every heart should become asane.:
tuary, and the homage of all be equal in the favour ofJehovah.
"Woman," said Jesus, "believe me, the hour cometh when
ye shall worship the Father neither on this mountain nor at
Jerusalem. The hour cometh, and now is, when the true
worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for
indeed the Father seeketh such worshipers of him. God is a
spirit, and the worshipers of him ought to worship him in
spirit and in truth•."
When not one stone was left upon another of the beautiful
temple your fathers built; when the voice of the Eternal was
heard in other lands, and his signs were seen among the
gentiles, it was remembered with awe, how the Prophet had
declaret.l that God should be sought in the heart of every man,
rather than on the mountain or in the temple.
Because the people of your nation had lost sight 'of the
objects of the formerdispensation in a too exclusive attention
to its outward services, they were called by Jesus "the lost
sheep of ~e house of Israel." To these rather than the
• John iv. 21. 23. 24.
Digitized byGoogle
48
Samaritans and Gentiles he commanded the seventy disciples
to bear the tidings of his kingdom. On the Scribes and Pha-
risees he laid the blame of having misled them by adding the
traditions of men to the law ofJehovah; and yet more by dis-
playing in their lives vices which were absolutely inconsistent
with a faithful understanding and practice of the Law.
· "The Scribes and Pharisees," said Jesus, "sit in the seat of
Moses; all things therefore whatsoever they command you to
observe, observe and do; but do not according to their works;
for they say, and do not." In the exposure which follows of
their habitual attention to- the appearance of sanctity while the
holiness of the heart was neglected, we are clearly informed
that the greatest sin of your people was that they bud forgotten
the spiritual purposes of their institutions; and their greatest
l!eed to be brought back to the discernment of these purposes.
All who believed in Jesus were thus brought back; while those
who rejected him found at length that their perseverance in the
external righteousness which they valued so highly, led them
on to the destruction of their temporal state and the long
postponement of their national hope. They perceived that in
his parable of the householder who planted a vineyard, and in
his subsequent observations (now to be found in the 21st chap-
ter of the Gospel by Matthew,) the teacher had them in view.
Would that they had seen the perfectjustice of the application
- in time to avoid the realization of its prophetic close !
The mode io which higher morals and a degree of spiritu-
ality till now unconceived were taught, affords anothel' illustra-
tion ofthe progressive natureoftheDivine dispensations, and of
their proportion to the advancementofthe people to whom they
were offered. In the earlier stages of their progress, it would
have been useless (as it was before observed,) to propose princi-
plesofmoral conductwhich the peoplecould neither understand
nor apply. The application was therefore made for them, and
they were furnished with a voluminous body of laws, by which
their practice of piety, justice and charity in a great many
instances was secured. Their long discipline fitted them for
Digitized byGoogle
4-9
something far more comprehensive and perfect than this, by
the time that the completion of their system was at hand: and
Jesus was appointed to introduce, not only a more enlarged
system of morals, but to offer it in a new and better form. He
did not, therefore, frame a code of moral laws; nor did he
propose abstract principles. In the first case, he would have
rather set back the national mind than have advanced it, by
detaining it still at the specific applications of the principles
from the recognition of the principles themselves. In the
latter case, he would have hindered the permanent and ex-
tensive influence of the principles, by offering them in a form
which could not be widely intelligible at the time, and which
could not be thenceforward enlarged in proportion as . the
progress of mind required their development.,. The only con-
ceivable rnethod by which these various purposes could be
answered, the only conceivable method by which the spiritual
wants of all the people could be then supplied, and by ~hich
the gt'OWing capabilities of the race could be for ever satisfied,
and their progress for ever stimulated, was by embodying these
principles in a form which should be universally inteUigible
and ever expanding. This only conceivable method was
adopted in the new dispensation, by giving its principles of
doctrine and morals in the form of facts. These facts once
established, are sure ground on which the race may proceed
for ever in deducing the principles of their belief and of their
conduct; while in every instance since the world began, where
instruction has been extensively offered in any othet mode,
some obstacle has arisen fatal to a long and steady progress.·
In every instance where specific directions only have been
given, the obedience has been blind and unsteady, like that of
a child who, after strictly observing a command, will ignorantly
violate the spirit of the precept on the very next occasion of
spontaneous action. In every instance where moral teachers
have offered principles in an abstract form, with however great
immediate advantage, it has been found that their propositions
could not be very extensively understood: and that in a sub-
E -
Digitized byGoogle
60
sequent age they were too narrow and too peculiar for the
changed circumstances or improved capabilities ofthe learners.
No important evidence of this is found in the additions which
have from age to age been made by the doctors of. your nation
to the moral law of Moses, and in the increasing tendency
observable in you for many centuries past, and especially of
late, to draw inferences and deduce princip~s from the re-
cords ofyour institutions, in the same manner that Christians
infer and deduce from the facts of their Gospel. To us, it of
course appears that our deductions are more just, our infer·
ences more valuable than yours, because our facts were de-
signed to undergo the process, while your institutions were
given with no such ulterior purpose, and are in fact made to
suffer perversion when thus used. We find several illustra-
tions of this in that part of the Jew's Catechism which treats
of Morals, and whose correctness is not so universally allowed
by you as to make us hesitate in adverting to our objections
lO it.
This portion of the Catechism presents to us an attempt to
frame a precise system of morals, a lable of virtues and vices.
the original of which is nowhere to be found in the Hebrew
Scriptures, and the advantage, correctness, and beauty of
which have not been attested by experience. The whole <luty
ofman is declared to be comprehended in faith, hope,and love.
li'~ith is originated by an inference of the possibility of all
things from the fact that the world was created. Hope is a
Djvine gift or endowment, from which spring piety and obe-
dience. Love is also a Divine gift or endowment, froD:l which
also spring piety and obedience to God and charity to man:
this love also comprehends the whole duty ofman, since on it
depends the whole Law, and from it are derived the six hun-
<lred and thirteen precepts. · The seed of sin is threefold:
Qbstinacy or wilfulness, imprudence, and rebellion; impru-
~nce being of two kinds, one ignorant, the othe1· rash. The
lat~er involves man in the seven abominable vices, or bodies
orthe tree of perver!>eness : sloth, pride, gluttony, lust, anger,
Digitized byGoogle
51
covetousness, and envy ; which in their tum lead to sbt
abominable impieties: presumptuous hope, distrust of God,
resistance to the truth, spiritual envy, the exercise of private
judgement, and finally, a resolution against repentance. There
are, further, four primary mischiefs: murdet·, adultery, oppres·
$ion, and fraud. The three parts of the soul are, understand·
ing, will, and memory; but the three gifts on which the lively
apprehension of truth depends are, faith, hope, and love.
Such is the moral system taught in the Jew's Catechism.
It can scarcely be necessary to point out the repetition of the
same principles under different names, the division of the same
principle into many parts,the comprehension ofwidely different
things under the same head, and ~specially the extraordinary
classification of vices which it involves. To whatever extent
this Catechism may be used among you, it must be evident to
many of you that, however valuable it may have been in
former days, it is unsuited to learners of the present age. The
same thing is observable ofall S!JSlems ft·amed by the Christians
of the early ages. In neither case do we object to the process
ofinference; but we lament that the earlier Christiims should
have wished· to make their systems obligatory on a succeeding
age; and that your people should not have found access to
that precioos repository of facts to which.your powers of de-
duction would have been more correctly and beneficially
applied. · ·
It is pretty generally agreed among Christians, that no sy-
stem of morals embodied in an unchanging form was offered
by the Gospel, because it is only necessary to exnmirie the
Scriptures to ascertain the fact. Nothing is easier than to ex-
tract from the Old Testament, in Scripture language, a com-
plete system of morals; and nothing is more impossible than
to do the same thing with the New. . ·
The eternal, immutable principles of morals are concen-
trated in the character of the prophet who came to direct our
attention to them; and from a contemplation of this character,
in its union of all virtues and graces, and in its freedom from
E2
Digitized byGoogle
all sins and weaknesses, may more be learned than from all
moral systems of human arrangement that have ever been pro-
mulgated. It is wiser to refer to the records of the life ofJesus
than to enter upon any analysis of his character, which is pre-
sented for all to contemplate and interpret for themselves. It
is now referred to as an answer to the question you are no
doubt ready to propose, 'What and where ·is the moral sy-
stem of Christians? •
Many and invaluable helps are afForded to the work of de-
ducing moral principles from the character of Christ, in the
discourses which he uttered, and the numberless illustrations
he gave of fundamental moral truths. But all these are as
well calculated as his own character to be universally and per-
manently understood and improved upon. We find very few
abstract propositions; but a multitude of parables, allusions to
natural objects which are found everywhere, improvements
of trivial occurrences to which all are liable, and appeals to
afFections universally subsisting and always enduring. While
the records of the Gospel contain so much that is Jewish as to
prove their genuineness, and so clear a relation to the preceding
dispensation as to identify this Gospel with the consummation
which was so anxiously looked for, all its teachings are based
on facts of universal interest, and illustrated by permanent
analogies. 1-Jow is it possible to conceive a stronger evidence
of the great truth we have had in view throughout, that the.
spiritual advancement of the whole race of mankind was the
object of the peculiar discipline ofyour nation ?
The same remarks a1·e applicable to the Doctrine of the
new dispensation, though this application has been.made with.
far more unwillingness by Christians in all ages than the best
friends of humanity could wish. Innumerable evils have
sprung, and still spring, from the notion that a S,fstem of doc-
trines is especially presented in the Gospel records. From
this erl"Ooeous conception have arisen all the follies and crimes ·
with which Christians have in every age been justly reproached
by your nation. From it'have proceeded preposterous creeds,
Digitized byGoogle
intolet·ant councils, persecuting rulers, abject slaves. From it
have sprung cruelty, ignominy, perjury, torture and murder.
"Why," you justlyask, "ifanumberofdoctrineswereexpressly
revealed, are they not universally acknowledged by Christians?
If the parts ofyour system are clearly presented, where is the
difficulty of putting them together? How is it that the divi-
sions which agitate Christendom were never heard of in the
Jewish state, where, whatever other dissensions might arise,
disputes about religious doctrine were unknown?" The reason
of all this is the weakness nnd prt~judices which have been
perpetuated from the times of the first corruption of Christi-
anity, by which men open the Scriptures with false expecta-
tions, looking for what is not there, and then blaming others
for not adopting that which there is no authority for believing.
When Christians in general can so far dismiss their prejudices
as to make the easy discovery of what it is which Christianity
requires them to believe, its privileges willbe duly appreciated
by them, and its nature and design better understood by your-
selves, than it is possible they should have been hitherto. Then
it wi11 be discovered that you have been right in steadily re-
jecting doctrines which you have been taught to regard as
Christianity; and you may perhaps acknowledge that you
have been too hasty in mixing up its corruptions and abuses
with its truths, and in rejecting the whole without an adequate
understanding of its claims.
It hBli been seen that the truths of the absolute Unity of
God, and of his Moral government,.were the great doctrines
revealed by the Mosaic dispensation. The sanctions of the
moral law were temporal rewards and punishments. The
only doctrine taught by the new dispensation is a future life
of retribution ; and its purpose is to be a sanction to the higher
moral system introduced by Jesus. All other doctrines, ad-
mitted, supposed, or incidentally taught in the Gospel, however
true, however important, fonn no part of the Gospel : they
were, or might have been, developed by natural means. The ·
doctrine of a future life, though conceived in a former age,
was not fully, clearly, unquestionably promised by God till
Digitized byGoogle
54
Jesus brought the messagt- from him: and that this doctrine
might appear fully, clearly and unquestionably true to men of
ail countries, in all ages, it was made known by facL
The doctrine ofa life after death bad been admitted in dif-
ferent .forms among the different nations with whom your
people had had intel'couJ'Se. Their notions of the state in
which the departed should dwell were as various as their my-
thologies; and itis now hard to·say which of their heavens ap-
pears·the most joyless and puerile, which oftheir hells the most
absurd and barbaJ:')us, in comparison with those hopes and
fears which a better.faith has lorlg enabled Israelites and Chris-
tians to entertain. The mode in which life was continued or
renewed after the close of earthly scenes was a question ever
agitated, never decided; but the most common beliefwas, that ·
the soul, whose connexion with the body was merely arbitrary;
was released from its prison at the moment of death, an4 that
ihe body perished for ever. Many, however, ~ing unable tQ
obtain·any evidences of this, and seeing the supposition sur-
rounded with insuperabl~ difficulties, doubted whether the soul
mre immortal, and presently had a very loose faith in a fot.I,Jr8
life of any kind. None but yout nation had the idea of a state
of proper retribution; and among yourselves, the Sadducees
disbelieved an account of the appar,ellt physical impossibilities
of the case, perpetually inquiring with what body the dead
should appear: while, among other sects, some reasoned, many
asserted, many believed, and many continued to question
mournfully within themselves, "lf a man die, shall he live
~tgain?" Among all these varieties of thought aud speculation,
there was not one on 'earth who kne'IJJ that the dead could or
should live again. None had ever penetrated the cloud which
rested on the confines of human life; and since none who
entered it t•eturned to converse with men, none could knuw
whether a void or a better country lay beyond. To give this
knou.,ledge, to afford such a certainty as no philosophical spe-
culations could hereafter invalidate, Jesus was sent into the
world; and the mode in which he established this certainty,
made it as stable as the human mind itself.
Digitized by GoogIe
55
The first thing necessary was to show the possibility of a
life after death, so as to sweep away all philosophical objections.
This was done, not by one miracle, but by a series of miracles,
each different from the rest in the preparatory circumstanceSt
and each more astonishing to the ignorance of the witnesses
than the last. Soon after the commencement Of his mission
in Galilee, Jesus raised to life and health the young daughter
of Jairus, the ruler of a synagogue: the child had but just
expired, but was so certainly dead that the mourners derided
the p1·ophet when he intimated that she should be restored.
The witnesses of this miracle were the father and mother- ·~r
the child, and the three disciples who ~ere present ·at each
similar exertion of power.-During this abode· in Galilee,
he drew near the town of Nain, being followed' by his di~
ciples and a great multitude of people. . While approaching,
he saw a funeral train issuing from the gate of the city, to
convey to the sepulchre the body of a young man, the only
son of a widowed mother : he must of course have been .dead
some hours ;-nevertheless the bodily organs resumed their
functions instantly at the command of God, given by the
mouth of the·compassionate Jesus. " He that had been dead
sat up, and · ~gao to speak." No wonder that while the
mother and son.were renewing a communion which bad been
apparently closed for ever in this world, the multitudes pre-
sent glorified God, saying," A great prophet is risen up among
us. God hath regarded his people !"-Many months after-
wards, when the mis!Uon of Jesus bad been published to the
whole nation, and when be had incurred the enmity of many
at Jerusalem by the strain of his preaching in the temple, he
heard, when dwelling on the other side of Jordan, that Lazaru
his friend, and the friend of his disciples, was sick and likely
to die. A morestriking prepa1·ation was made for this miracle
than for any preceding one, in proportion as its importance
was greater. Jesus knew that Lazarus was dead, as he
proved·by an intimation to his disciples, which they afterwards
saw to be prophetic. " Our friend Lazarus sleepetb," be said,
Digitized byGoogle
56
"and I go that I may awake him." He bad delayed for two
days setting out for Jerusalem, and informing his disciples of
his intention to do so ; no doubt in order to make the act he
was about to perform more striking, more evidently "for the
glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified by it."
When he arrived at Bethany, where the mourning sisters of
Lazarus dwelt, his disciples found (what Jesus already knew,)
that Lazarus bad been four days in the sepulchre. Yet here
as instantaneously as in the former cases, where death had
wrought little change in the bodily organs, were the functions
of life restored. From the cold and darkness of the sepulchre,
Lazarus came forth, the life-blood flowing in a healthful cur-
rent, the senses open once more to material sights and sounds,
and no token remai~ing of death but the grave-clothes, which
were presently cast aside.
These three miracles, differing from each other in magni-
tude and importance (if these terms may be applied to· events
too great to be measured by any scale of relative terms), formed
a grand and appropriate preparation for the last and mightiest,
which was to be wrought by God without the intervention of
human agency. But there was preparation of another kind.
The three disciples, Peter, James,and John, who had witnessed
the series ofresurrections just adverted to, saw also, when apart
on a mountain with Jesus, the two prophets of the former
dispensation whose departure had been mysterious, and had
probably initiated the nation 'in the conception of a future life.
Moses and Elijah were seen by these three disciples to attend
while Jesus was invested with visible glory, and again sanctified
by un audible testimony from th.e Eternal himsel£ They thus
saw that those lived who bad been dead for many ages, and
the conception of a future state must have been further exalted
by this experience than by any assurance from any teacher,
however firmly believed.
The doctrine thus intimated to the people through their
own experience, was illustrated by. the discourse of Jesus.
He made frequent allusions to a life beyond the grave, by way
Digitized byGoogle
57
of sanction to his spiritual instructions, and a clear reference
to it when questioned by those who disbelieved the doctrine.
The puerility of the doubts of the Sadducees is proved by their
supposing that if there were a future state, their institutions
must be carried foa·ward into it, and the relations only applica-
ble to the present life be there perpetuated. Jesus replied,
that there should there be neither marrying nor giving in
marriage; " nor indeed.can they die any more : for they are
like the angels and sons of God."
At length the time arrived when the evidence of this great
doctrine became complete, by the resurrection of him who
was commissioned to reveal it by what he did, by what he
taught, and by what he und~rweot. In this case, the pro-
phetic intimations had been numerous, and though obscure
when delivered, so clear when fulfilled as to be unquestionable.
Those who heard these intimations, those who beheld him
expire on the cross, those who embalmed and laid the body
in the sepulchre, and saw how the grave was sealed and watch-
ed; and who afterwards beheld the forna of Jesus during the
forty days that he went to and fro among his followers, and
witnessed his ascension, could no longer doubt, not only that
the dead could be restored to life, but that this second life
might be an immortal one. The three who had seen Moses and
Elijah on the mount of transfiguration bad received a proofof
this before; but not so striking a conviction o.f the nature and
purposes of a future life as they now, in common with a multi-
tude of believers, were privileged to entertain, through n com-
parison of the teachings of Jesus with the stupendous fact of
his resurrection from the dead. They saw that the sufferings
of their Master being ended and his obedience perfected, the
time of recompense had arrived ; and that in his person, as
well as by his teachings, the future state was shown to be one
of retribution. The higher sanctions were now indissolubly
connected with the higher spiritual system ; and the scheme
wa.~ to them, as Israelites, complete, though not yet fully per-
ceived by them to be so. _
Digitized byGoogle
58
Tbe glad-tidings of the spiritual kingdom had as yt>t been
preached only to the Hebrews ; and those who received them
never dreamed oftheir extension to less fuoured nations. But
the. purposes of the separation of your people being now ful-
filled, the time approached when aU things were to be restored
to their original state ofequality. The Hebrews having been
taught the essential truth of a Divine Moral·government, and
been made an exempliftcation of this tl'uth in the eyes ofother
nations, were now to be required to relinquish the individu-
ality of their na~ional character, and to unite with their fellow-
men at large in subjection to the Gospel. This was not fully
understood by the followers ofJesus themselves till the Gentiles
were brought into communion with them by the express com-
mand of God, testified by a miracle.
During the life of Jesus, the Gentiles had no part in the new
dispensation, further than that the faith and humility of one
Canaanitish woman were rewarded by the miraculous restora-
tion of her child•. For fifteen years subsequent to the death of
Jesus, the multitudes who were converted to the 'new faith
were all lsr~lites ; its disciples were found in all the towns and
villages of Judea. The name of Jesus was believed on by the
wayfarers ofthe desert, by those who heard the word in their
cities, by many rulers of the synagogues, and by many priests
who served tile altar of the temple; yet all these converts ad-
hered to the Law .of Moses. The first covenant was not wholly
fulfilled, for the secOnd was not fully understood and establish-
ed. Those who received the second were dis~inguished from
those who rejected it, not only by the superiority oftheir f&iLh·
and their >hopes, but by the gifts of miraculous power which
had been conferred from above. The superintendence ofJesus,
their spiritual King, over the kingdom of which he had said so
much, was evinced by the power which his disciples exercised
in his name. They spoke in many languages, so that the lsra- .
elites of various countries, who came up to Jerusalem to the
• Matth. xv.
Digitized byGoogle
69
~ h~rd the Gospel, each in the tongue of the land where
be dweh. They·had power to heal the sick and ra~ the
dead, and were led forth by the hand of God from prison.
Your l'la~ion was thus divided into two parties,-tba~ .~hich
received the Messiah, and that which rejected biro; while as
yet .the te~ot of the world was unconcerned in the dispensation,
and the designed universality of the Gospel was still unrecog-
nised by even its most zealous and faithful subjects.
At length, however, the final purposes of the Supreme were
made manifest, in that remarkable series of events by which
the Gentiles were brought under the new dispensation. Paul
of Tarsus, a learned Israelite, who had been for years a furious
persecutor of the believers in Jesus, was visited by the presence
ofJesus himself under circumstances·peculiarly awful; a~d as
soon as be was fully informed respecting the new faith he was
thus brought to embrace, received his commission to be an
Apostle of the Gentiles; a coJpmission which he fulfilled by
bearing the Gospel into many strange lands, and bringing into
the bonds of brotherhood Jew· and Greek, philosopher and
barbarian, the ignorant and the wise, the bond and the free.
Peter, who was as strongly wedded to the institutions of Moses
as ever Hebrew was, obeyed a call from God to bap\~e
into the new faith a Roman centurion and his household, who
were worshipers of the true God, and therefore prepared to 1'e-'
ceive his greatest Prophet. In this ease, the purpose of God
was testified to Peter and his Jewish companions in a manner
whieh they could not misunderstand or resist. The miracu..
lous gifts of the Spirit were conferred on the centurion and
his household previous to baptism ; so that the Apostle gladly.
acknowledged them as brethren and equals, and hastened to
report to his friends at Jerusalem that G.od had called the
Gentiles into fellowship with the chosen people. This intelli-
gence caused great astonishment at first; but as the same
thing was henceforth done day by day, the Jewish believers
soon learned to understand and rejoice that their best blessings.
were no longer of an exclusive nature, and that the glory of
Digitized byGoogle
80
Israel was, at the same time, to be a light to the Gentiles, and
that in Jesus the seed of Abraham, all the families of the earth
should be blessed.
While thus administering in the kingdom of their Prince,
they remembered his frequent and impressive intimations that
he should at length resign this kingdom to God. He had
given warning that this period should be one of safety and
peace to his followers, but of unparalleled woe to those who
had rejected him. This period was still future when many
of the Apostles resigned their lives for the new faith; but
they ever pointed the attention of their converts to it, warn-
ing them to ftee from the wrath to come, and exhorting
them to save their brethren, if it were possible, from the de-
struction which was impending: all, however, did not depart
before the long foretold judgement arrived. John Jived to
hear how the Romans had compassed about the city and the
temple ; how woe, such as had never before been heard of, had
overwhelmed those who had rejected the new dispensation :
how those who had been timely warned by Jesus had with-
drawn in safety, while of the rest of the nation, some perished
by fire, famine and the sword, and some were carried into
captivity; and all who survived mourned in desolation of heart
the destruction of their state and the dispersion oftheir nation.
The scheme of revelation was now completed. There was no
longer a sanctuary, and men henceforth were to worship
neither on Gerizim nor at Jerusalem, but in the sanctuary of·
the Spirit. A better covenant had long been prepared to
succeed that of circumcision; and the substitution was now
to take place. The ritual law, which brought no spiritual per-
fection, was abrogated in favour of that purer law which was
sanctioned by better hopes. The wall of partition between
your nation and the world without was broken down, and
tbe Gospel was offered for the common possession of all.
This Gospel being essentially fitted to be permanent and uni-
versal in its influence, all inferior systems were annulled, the
series of revelations was closed, miracles ceased, Jesus gave
Digitized byGoogle
61
lip his kingdom, and the human race has since been governed,
as it will continue to be governed, by Providence, as illustrated
in ancient revelations, instead of any 11ew special methods.
However many may yet be ignorant of this revelation alto-
gether, however some may misunderstand and others reject it,
it is clear to those who observe and reason, that the Gospel of
Jesus is destined to unite the whole race in perfect equality be-
fore him who conducts the education of his rational offspring,
ordaining the mode, administering the means, and leading on
the subjects of his discipline from utter darkness into marvel-
lous light. The most important step in this progress was the
abrogation ofJudaism, when the nobler dispensation had grown
out ofit.
Those of your nation who rejected Jesus were thus (if we
rightly interpret the Providence of God,) stopped in their
spiritual progress by this rejection, as were those who attempt-
ed after the abolition of the Mosaic dispensation to unite the
two systems.
The two systems were irreconcilable, though such an
analogy was preserv,ed in their modes of operation, and their
tendency to the same point was so evident, that the identity of ·
their origin was recognised by all unprejudiced observers.
Both were the productions of the same wisdom, and their
operation was superintended by the same benevolence; but
some ignorantly endeavoured to hold the two systems in union,
while others unhappily rejected the latest, and excluded them-
selves from the Messiah's kingdom.
As the new revelation was not appropriated to the peculiar
people, but, on the contrary, was intended to abolish their pe-
culiarity, it had a lwofold character, and its administrator a
double office. The Gospel was presented in one aspect to the
Israelites, in another to mankind at large. For the sake of the
former, it bore a particular, of the latter a universal character.
To the one it was the glad-tidings ofthe kingdom ; to the other
the me$sage of salvation from darkness and vice. . To the
one 'Jesus came as thei~ King; to the other as the giver of spi-
Digitized by GoogIe
62
ritual life. To the one he was the Messiah, to the other the
Saviour. This distinction, this double character, as it was
the consequence of the old institutions, was destined to dis-
appear in their abolition. To the Hebrews who rejected the
new dispensation, the Gospel was not glad-tidings, nor Jesus a
King. By those wbo embraced it, the separation from the rest
of theit race, which had subsisted from their origin as a nation,
was, as soon as Gentiles were tmited with them~ found to be no
longer neCeSsary or practicable; and to them the Gospel ap-
peared in itS aspect of universality, and Jesus as a Saviour
rather than a.~ a King, as belonging to the whole world rather
than to themselves. They saw that his office consisted in the
introduction of a better system of religion than theirs ; a sy-
stem sent as a substitute for their own. All union between
the believing and the unbelieving Israelites was therefore im-
possible. There could be no halting between two opinions.
The advocates of the two systems were placed in direct oppo-
sition; and Jesus spoke truly when he said, "He that is not
with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scat-
tereth abroad."
The systems are indeed as incompatible in their nature as
unfitted by their form for a contemporaneous existence; and
it is no more possible for a man to adhet·e to both, than for a
pupil to attach himself to an elementary book while extending
the application of.the science it teaches to new objects. The
·Jewish law related to external obedience; the Christian made ·
provision for the discipline of the heart. Infractions of the old
law subjected the offender to death ; but as ·no individual
could have escaped the penalty by ·merit, a commutation of
puoisl!ment was ordained, and sacrifices were accepted as an
atonement. Infractions of the Christian law, which is spiritual·
in its nature and operation, can obtain pardon only by a spiri-
tual act; and it was for the purpose ofpointing out this distinc-
tion that the forerunner of the Messiah preached repentance
to th'e Hebrews. Temporal rewards and punishments, near or
remote, were the highest objects of hope and fear which ori-
Digitized byGoogle
6S
ginal Judaism could present. Christianity not only revealed
sublimer subjects ofdesire, but showed thatlower objects might
be regarded with feelings the very reverse of those which bad
hitherto been connected with them. It displayed the truth
that temporal happiness may issue in evil1 that the afflictions
of)jie may prove to be b)e&Sings, and that.they would no longer.
bear a.strict propottiQil to the obedience either of n nati<>n or
of an indiY.idual; that, in short, they were abolish.ed as &anc·
t.ions. . The distmgui.ing character of J udai&m wn¥ its ex-
clusiveoe¥; of Cbrlstiani~y, its universality, · The one ap-
pealed to...fe.eliugsjpeculiar to the desce,nd~Jnts of pne man; .the
other to desires common to the race.. .The one was based on
facts. interesting to those only whose experience bore a re-
ference to such facts; the other was founded on principles
con~nial to all h~rts, in all regions, through all time. \Vhen
therefore the Jewish disciples of Jesus had learned ft'OQJ the
Gospel the object and destiny of the ritual law;'when they had
witnessed the overthrow of the institutions which rendered
them a sepi\rate people; when they recognised the ,provisions
which had been made for repdering the new <,lispen$at.i,on uni-
ve~..,...tbeyg-r:aduallydismiss~d fro111 their minds.t.heir narrow
notions of the national sovereignty of Jesus, and substituted
fOr them a nobler attachment to him as a spiritual Saviour.
Having first reg11rded the Gospel in the aspect which was
adapted to. .their peculiar circumstanees, their views became
gradually enlarged till they embr~~ed it in its universal c~a­
racter; and:thQse who at. first received,the gll.t~tidings qftke
kingdom, were eager, in course of time, to e;~tphaoge them for
the Gospel.qflife. We may see, as they saw, that the scene of
the Messiah's snpremacy was in the hearts ofthe faithful among
the choaeo people ; that his glory consisted in.his preeminent
endowments from On high, iu his distinction as the beloved Son
of God, in his appointment to the pffice of Saviour. His reign
began with the exercise ofhis extraordinary powers, and closed
when thatexertion ~came no lonf(er necessary; when the first
c:ovena.ut..JVas ended by the destruction of the holy city and
Digitized byGoogle
6+
temple, when signs and wonders ceased, and Christianity had
spread sufficiently to make its way by natural means alone.
We can see yet more; fop events have shown how the promises
of.Jesus were fulfilled. According to his promise, he had been
with his disciples to the end ofthe age in manifest interpositions
of the Holy Spirit, in evident watchfulness over the.interests
of his Church, in personal administration of its government by
communication with its appointed agents. \\-~hen the essential
truth of the new dispensation was completely engrafted on.that
ofthe old, when it had also struck root vigorous ly in a fresh
soil, the hand which planted, grafted and watered, was with-
drawn, and the charge was committed to the sunshine and
dews of heaven. These natural influences have done their
work. The Gospel has spread, and shall spread till it shall
prevail; for, by the influential nature of the .Divine doctrine
and law, the universality of Christianity is secured. The
facts which it displays are of general interest, and the media
through which its instructions are conveyed are universally
intelligible. Since all men die, the fact of the resurrection is
of paramount importance to all. As the parental and fraternal
relations subsist wherever man is placed, the parables of the
prodigal son and the offending brother come home to the
hearts of aU. The wind blows, the field-flowers spring, the
light from heaven shines around the abodes of men in every
land; and the spiritualizing associations with which Jesus in-
vested them may therefore immortalize their beauty in every
heart. Not less universally intelligible will be the purposes
of the Supreme in his providence towards the human race, as
comprehensively intimated in the following prophetic parable
of Jesus.
"The_
kingdom ofheaven islike a king who madea marriage-
feast for his son, and sent his servants to call those who were
invited to the marriage-feast: but they would not come. Again
he sent other servants, saying, 'Tell those that are invited,
Behold, I have prepared my dinner; mine oxen and fatlings
are killed, and all things are ready ; come to the marriage-
Digitized byGoogle
65
feast.' But they made light of it, and went their way, one to
his farm, and another to his merchandise: and the rest took his
servants, and treated them shamefully, and killed them. But
when that king heard of it, he was angry ; and sent his armies,
and destroyed those murderers, and burned their city. Then
he said to his servants, 'The marriage-feast is ready, but those
who were called are not worthy. G.o therefore into the br~nches
of the ways, and as many as ye find call to the marriage-feast.'
So those servants went out into the ways, and gathered to-
gether all as many as they found ; and the marriage-feast was
filled with guests."
SECTION III.-Four Questions of Orobio.
HAVING now reviewed the course of Providence in its deal-
ings with your nation, we can recognise the design of its sepa-
ration from the rest of the world with a degree of assurance
amounting to certainty. It appears that there was an original
equality among all the people of the earth ; that this equality
was disturbed for the sake of advancing by peculiar methods
the spiritual progress of one nation; that this nation was made
an instructor of the rest of the world, by the peculiar manifes-
tations it presented of a Divine Moral Government; that, on
occasion of the completion of the scheme of Providence to-
wards them, a great division took place in this natiqn,-one
portion ofit readily acquiescing in the intention ofthe Supreme
that their peculiarity should be abolished, (not by casting them
back among the Gentiles, but by raising the Gentiles to a par-
ticipation of the crowning blessings conferred by Revelation,)
and the other portion, refusing thus to acquiesce, and being
therefore subject in themselves and their descendants to awful
sufferings in the dissolution of their State, and to subsequent
degradation and the manifold evils ofhope deferred, uncheered
by signs from the Almighty, and perplexed by the obscurity
in which their fate is involved. Reasoning from the past,
we may clearly discern what are further the designs of God
F
Digitized byGoogle
66
towards his offspring. If the latest revelation be gav.e be evi-
dently adapted for a pet·petuul spread and development, it
follows that this revelation must sooner ot· later _
be embraced
universally; that it shall be conveyed to regions where it has
not yet been heard of; that it shall at length approve itself to
those who reject it through prejudice or mistake; and that it
shall in time be clearly apprehended by those (und they are a
multitude,) who receive it mixed up with corruptions which
impair its value and veil its beauty.
As Christianity has ever been presented to your observation
thus mixed up with its corruptions, it is not to be wondered at
that its simplicity of truth has been unapparent to you, and that
your objections to the system remain in full force. Titose ob-
jections are indeed, for the most part, unanswerable; but then
they relate, so far as they are ummswet·able, to the corruptions
of the Gospel, and not to the Gospel itself, which in its essence
is nearly, if not absolutely, unknown among you. According
to your idea of the Gospel, it declares Jesus not tobe the son of
David, a branch ofthe root ofJesse; it declares the Supreme to
have imputed mortal sin to the whole race, and after thousands
ofyears bad elapsed, to have removed the evils of this imputed
sin by imputing an overbalancing righteousness; it declares the
future state to be not a state of proper retribution, but that its
fate will depend on certain kinds and degrees of faith. These,
and manyother things, which have been offered to you as Chris-
tianity, are no more to be found in the Gospel than in the Law
or the Prophets; and the most enlightened ofyour advocates,
Orobio, did rightly in pressing for a reference to the origin
of these doctrines. If his appeal had been candidly listened to,.
and fairly answered, by all who have attempted to get rid of his
question~ the true soua·ce of the worst corruptions of Christia-
nity might have been made known in many high places where
those corruptions still prevail, and the countrymen of Orobio
might now be rejoicing in new truths to wh~ch they have not
yet found access. It is in entire accordance with our plan to
refer to the four questions in which Orobio has concentrated
Digitized byGoogle
67
the strength of his objections to Christianity, since they relate
to the designs of the Almighty in the scheme which we have
been investigating.
It is only necessary to premise, that in all ages of the world
God has communicated with man by various methods ;-
with the prophets ofyour nation, by a miraculous voice; with
the people, by supernatural signs; and in an equal degree with
all nations by the course of Providence, or what is frequently
called the voice of Nature. A clear revelation of his will is
afforded in those written records which have been formed in
consequence of his peculiar communications with your pro-
phets and sages; but the other indications of his will which
are afforded by the course of events are no Jess clear and de-
cisive than those which were given miraculously by visible and
audible signs. The solution of our inquiries into His designs
may therefore be gained with as much precision from the lan•
guage ofeven,ts as the language ofmen: with equal confidence,
in as far as both are the appointed exponents of the Divine
will ; with greater confidence, in as much as the events consti,;
tote the revelation, while the sacred books.are only the record
of the revelation.
It is therefore of little importance whether our questions are
answered in the language of Scripture, or by a reference to the
events which are recorded in Scripture.-Orobio require!!:-
1. Ut assignetur loctiS aliquis, in quo Deus mandaverit, aut
dizerit ezpresse, quodfides in }.fessiam est absolute necessaria
ad salutem generis kumani; adeo ut qui non crediderit damnan-
dus esset.
Such a conditiop is nowhere imposed, such a threat no-
where held forth.-It is easy to trace this mighty err~r to its
source.-We have observed that the Gospel was presented in
one aspect to the Israelites, and in another to the world at
large, because the previous state ofthe Israelites was different
from that of the world at large. They were under a special
Divine law ; a law so multifarious in its requisitions, that it was
morally impossible to avoid its infraction; and so strict in its
F 2
Digitized byGoogle
68
penalties, that there was no escape from its condemnation in
some point or other. The Gospel was presented to the Israelites
as a mocle of release from the burdens oftheir Law,-uot by al-
lowing moral laxity, but by substituting the spiritual penalty of
repentance for the external penalties to which they bad hitherto
been subject. Freedom, external and spiritual, was offered
them in connexion with the greater spiritual purity which Jesus
enforced: th~ Gospel was declared to free them at once from the
yoke oftheir ritual and the yoke ofsin,by making-their worship
and obedience the worship and obedience of the heart alone,
shown forth by spontaneous action. The reception of Jesus
and his doctrine, therefore, sa-red his Hebrew disciples from the
inexorablejudgementsofthe Law: and those Hebrews whore-
fused him and his doctrine, remained under the condemnation of
the Law, and-forfeited those blessings which its repeal would
have brought them. Such was the occasional declaration of
Jesus, and such was the principal theme ofPaul in his Epistles;
while both were filled with compassion for those of their coun-
trymen who preferred the bondage ofthe Law to the freedom of
the Gospel. In his Epistle to the Romans, the Apostle of the
Gentiles describes at length and with great force the condition
ofthe world at large before the Gospel was offered. Heexhibits
the nature of the Law, of which he wus himselfa subject; and
after explaining the inexorable strictness of its requisitions and
penalties, be adverts to the state of the Gentile world, and
declares that their condition was ns much worse than that of
the Jews, as the bondage of ignorance and sin is more burden-
some than the bondage of the old Law. He proceeds to show
that their salvation from the grievous penalties, their redemption
f1·om the condemnation of guilt, is yet more a cause of thank-
fulness than the release of the Israelites. Nothing can appear
more intelligible, nothing more just, than this reasoning, to
those who understand to whom, and concerning whom, and for
what purpose, it was written: but, unfortunately, these circum-
stances are not so generally understood as they might be; and
the whole argument has been misinterpreted, in conseqnenceof
Digitized byGoogle
69
the supposition that by the salvati011 referred to was meant the
happiness ofa future life, and by tondemnation the punishments
of a future life. The result ofa careful investigation will be, a
conviction that nowhere in the records ofRevelation is the hap-
piness or misery ofa future life connected with belief of any
kind : and the same result proves the first question ofOrobio to
tie reasonable, and the doubts implied in it to be well-ground-
ed. While, ho.wever, they shake a coa·rupt doctrine held by
many Christians, they leave Christianity itself untouched.-
He next requires :-
11. Ut assigr1etur locus, i11 quo Deus di.rerit, quodunicum me-
dium ad salutem Israelis, et restitutionis in Divinam gr·atiam,
estfides i11 Messiam jam adventum.
In this question, as in the former, everything depends on
the meaning of the word salutem. The everlasting happiness
of any man or order of men.is surely nowhere said to depend
on faith in the Messiah. But if the Almighty promised the
Messiah as his crowning gift to his people; if He declared by a
voice from heaven that Jesus was that Messiah; if, according
to his warnings, he atHicted those who rejected Jesus with long
and grievous calamities,-it is clear that in the Gospel alone is
his grace to be found, and that to receive the Gospel is to be
restored to his favour. We refer to the whole scheme of Pro-
vidence towards you, for proof that redemption from the yoke
ofthe Law is appointed in the Gospel alone, and that in the
Gospel is to be found the favour which God has dispensed
'through Jesus to your nation in common with every other
under heaven. The time for peculiar favour, as we have seen,
is past; not because less is given to you, but because more is
offered to others. · A boundless store awaits your acceptance
in the last revelation which the Almighty has made or will make
on earth.-The plain answer to Orobio's question therefore is,
that your everlasting salvation is nowhere said to depend on
beliefof any 'kind. As for the rest, it merely amounts to this,-
that you will not possess the grace of tl1e Gospel as long as
you reject it.
Digitized byGoogle
70
III. Ut. assi~tur locus, in guo Deus diztrit, qtwd Israel
propter i'!ftdtlitattm in Messiam erat deperdendus, tt aJdiciendus
in ttationihus, ut nonfit amp/ius Populru Dei, sed in teternum
damnandtu, donee Messiam adventum non crediderit.
Our foregoing investigation leads to the conclusion that, be-
cause a portion ofyour people refused to acquiesce in an equa-
lity with other nations which God had ordained to be restored,·
they became inferior to other nations in honour and peace.
Whether or not the Israelites received the Messiah, they were
no longer to be called the People of God, since His peculiar
covenant with them was fulfilled, and the purpose of their
separation completed. Those therefore who believed in Jesus
became speedily incorporated with the Gentile converts, while
those who rejected him have been cast out among the nations;
and if the voice of God speaking through Christ and the Pro-
phets, as well as in the course of events, is to be believed, your
restoration can only take plnce by your doing as the Christians
ofyour nation have done,-relinquishing the antiquated cove-
nant in which the Supreme no longer bears His part, and lis-
tening to the glad-tidings which await the acceptance ofall men.
That no nation or individual is threatened with eternal dam-
nation for want of faith in Jesus, has been repeatedly declared
already.
Nothing is more evident from the well-ascertained facts and
the well-authenticated discourses narrated in the Gospel hi-
story, than that Jesus ascribed the approaching woes ofhis na-
tion to their rejection of him ; to their misinterpretation ofthe
will of God towards them. He mourned over the Jot of his
enemies and of their city; he instructed his followers how to
escape the fate of their infatuated countrymen ; and, since the
Christians did actually withdraw in safety before the siege of
Jerusalem began, no further proof is necessary that the rejec-
tion of Jesus and his counsel was the cause of the miseries of
that unhappy remnant of Israel. Mark the contrast which is
pointed out by Jesus between those descendants of the patri-
archs 'who accepted the glad-tidings of his kingdom, and those
Digitized byGoogle
'11
unbelievers to whom he addressed himself. Mark how t.he
Gentiles themselves are exalted above the unbelieving He-
brews, and determine whether this prophetic passage does not
t-xhibit a remarkable coincidence with subsequent events:-
" There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall
see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the Prophets, in the
kingdom of God, and you yom·selves removed out. And'men
shall come from the east and from the west, and h·om the north
all(( from tl1e south, and shall be guests in the kingdom of
God. And, behold, there are last who will be first, and there
are first who will be last•."
Again :-"Alas for you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !
. because ye build the tombs of the Prophets, and adorn the
sepulchres of the righteous; and say, if we had lived in the
daysofour fathers, we would not have been partakers with them
in the blood of the Prophets. Wherefore ye bear witness to
yourselves that ye are the sons of those who slew the Prophets.
Fill ye up therefore the measure of your fathers."-" I send
unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes : and some of
them ye will kill and crucify ; and some ofthem ye ~ill scourge
in your synagogues, snd persecute from city to city: so that
upon you will come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth,
from the blood ofthe righteous Abel, unto the blood ofZacha-
riah, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar. Verily
I say unto you, that all these things shall come upon this
generation. 0 Jerusalem, Jerusalem ! that killest the pro-
phets, and stonest those that are ·sent unto thee, bow often
would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen gatbereth
her chickens under her wings, but ye would not ! Behold,
your habitation shall be left byyou desolatet."-These words
were spoken while your city sat upon her hills as a throned
queen, when there was peace within her walls and prosperity
amidst her palaces. They were spoken,-not when Jesus had
been cast out of the temple; not when his body was subdued
• Luke xiii. 28, 20. t .MatLh. xxiii.
Digitized byGoogle
72
byscourging, and his spiritgrieved by reviling and persecution,
-but when a multitude of believers was around hitn, when his
way had been strewn with branches of trees, and when the cry
ofthe people had been,"Hosanna to the Son ofDavid; blessed
is he who conieth in the name of the Lord!" These words of
Jesus were proved true. The wise men and scribes whom he
sent forth were persecuted : Paul and Barnabas were scourged;
Peter was crucified ; James was cast from a pinnacle of the
temple; while John lived to see how the blood of righteous
men was required from the unbelieving portion of your people,
when their habitation was at length left desolate.-This deso-
lation still continues: but a better country lies before you, which
many are entering from the east and from the west, ·from the
north and from the south; which you will also enter gladly,
and where you national sins and sorrows shall be remembered
against you no more.
IV. Tandem assignetur locus, in quo dixit Deus, omnia
Legalia, prceter moralia,fuisse umbram seufiguramfuturorum
in adventu Messice, et quodfere omnia quce et in Divina Lege
et in Pt·ophetisfuere revelata MYSTICE et TBOPOLOGICE ez-
plicare liceat, quantumvis sensus literalis omnino despiciatur.
It would indeed be as difficult to find the place.where God
has permitted such a license as this to the imagination of
man, as for the imagination to make out a perfect analogy be-
tween the institutions of Judaism and those of Christianity.
Those institutions were so unlike each other, designed for such
different purposes, offered to minds in so different a state, and
constituted for so different a degree of extent and permanence,
that nothing but error can be the result of supposing the one
to be typical of the other. Error has betm the result ; error,
which has overspread Christendom as a curse, which has hin-
dered the remnant of Israel from entering into companionship
with the redeemed portion of their people; error, which has
~efiled the purity of Christ's moral law, and overshadowed the
glory of the SupremE'. From this have arisen the dreams ofim-
puted guilt and imputed righteousness,-dreams by which you
Digitized byGoogle
'7S
have ever wisely refused to be deluded. From this has arisen
the pernicious notion of nn aa·bitrary and mysterious signifi-
cation in the death of Christ, which can .only be understood by
means of an arbitrary and mysterious gift of grace. From
this has arisen the imposition of terms of salvation which are
recognised neither by the understanding ofm!l" nor the laws of
God. Your knowledge of the Almighty, your firm faith in his
justice and in his impartial benevolence, lead you to reject these
inconsistent and imaginative docta·ines, and the false systems
of interpretation from which they spring, and therefore fit you
for a more correct understanding of the Gospel (when once its
evidences are admitted,) than is entertained by a multitude who
bear the name of Christ. Some ofthe errors of this multitude
are the same which have been perpetuated from a very early
age, and which arose from the intermixture of the Oriental
mystical philosophy with the Gospel. Others ha,·e from time
to time arisen from a misunderstanding of the pu'rpose and
mode in which the Apostle Paul and others recommended the
Gospel to the consideration ofyour nation and of the Gentiles.
The ignominious death of Christ was ever a difficulty with the
men of tl1at time. It was, as Paul declared, "to the Jews a
stumbling-block, and to the Greeks foolishness;" the one being
unwilling to beJieve that the Prince of Israel could .suffer the
death.ofa malefactor ; and the other being disposed to scoff at
a faith, whose founder had died under such degradation. The
temptation was great, nnd to many who foresaw not the con-
sequences it proved irresistible, to conciliate the attention of
polite heathens by mysticizing, in their method, upon plain
facts ; by philosophizing, embellishing, and accommodating;
till the obnoxious facts assumed a new appearance, and an
arbitrary union was effected between the vain conceits of mao
and the imperishable truth of God. This was done, not by
Apostles or original disciples, but by converts from among the
Gnostics, who fitted their doctrine of emanatioti.S to the Chris-
tian system ; intimating that the body of Christ was tenanted
~y a superior spirit,-an ~anation from God,-and thus at-
Digitized byGoogle
,..
tempting to get rid of the reproach ofthe cross. To remove
this stumbling-block from the Israelites a difFerent method was
pursued ; advantage being taken, at first through a mistaken
intention, and afterwards through a mistaken conviction, of the
writings of Paul, and of that Epistle to your nation which 'has
been generally attributed to him. It has been already observed,
that his arguments on the comparative states of the converted
and unconverted Hebrews and Gentiles of his time have been
ignorantly and unwarrantably applied to the conditions of a fu-
ture state; and a similar misapplication of his arguments has
been made in other instances. The epistle addressed to the He-
brews bas been treated in the same manner. Paulwas learned in
all the learning ofthe- Pharisees; his imagination was vivid, and
possessed with the imagery most natural to one who had stu-
died the Law from his youth up, and he was devotedly attached
to the institutions of his nation. His writings therefore abound
in allusions to the events and persons of y()ur history, in ana-
logies between old and new institutions, in illustrations of what
is strange by reference to that which is famili,ar. All this is
natural; and the beauty of Paul's writings is much increased
by it in the eyes ofthose who understand Judaism; while those
who do not, find many things which are hard to be understood,
and from which a mystical signification is therefore extl'acted.
No wonder that you who are familiar with the stores whence
he drew his imagery should refuse to admit its supposed my-
stical import. You are as fully justified in doing so, as you
would be in rejecting the supposition that the statesmen of
Greece and Rome were truly types of the statesmen of the pre-
sent day because they hnve been connected in the classical
allusions of eminent writers. The same remarks apply to the
Epistle.to the Hebrews, whoever might be it' author. The style
and argument of this Epistle were alike adapted to the pur-
pose ofconciliating the interest oflsraelitisb readers. The then
present condition of the converted and unconverted Hebrews,
the mission, death, and doctrine of Christ, and the appointed
destination of the Gospel, are illustrated in every possible way
Digitized byGoogle
75
by Imagery which was familiar and clearto thedesigned readers
ofthe Epistles. But since no imagination can frame these alle--
gories, references, and analogies into a consistent system; since
the figures are perpetually shifted, and the imagery utterly
irreconcilable in its different parts,-it is clear that no typical
system was meant to be shown forth by the writer, or could
have been supposed by his best informed, that is by his Hebrew
readers. No one analogy holds throughout; and those which
relate to the death of Christ are above all various; as he is
represented sometimes as the sacrifice offered, sometimes as
the priest who offered sacdfice, sometimes as the high-priest
who entered the Holy of Holies; and again, as the veil ofthe
sanctuary; and again, as the successor of Moses offering a se--
cond and better covenant. But it is useless to point out this
delusion--of a typical mode of interpretation-to you, who
never have been and never will be deluded by it. ,
The true nature of the connexion between the two dispen-
sations has been already pointed out: namely, no mystical
arbitrary connexion, but the connexion of the beginning of
a scheme with the end, of the manifestation of a plan with its
promised consummation. This closest possible connexion-
that of absolute unity-can only be obscured by the embellish-
ments of man's imagination ; and this obscuration is the cause
of the hitherto very imperfect recognition ofthe two dispensa-
tions as one.
Thus then do you perceive it to be acknowledged by
Christians that the questions of Orobio are reasonable, and
the doubts implied in them well grounded, since they all relate
to the corruptions of Christianity. Examine for yourselves
whether they touch Christianity itself; whether they call iu
question the design ofGod to complete the spiritual education
of the whole race by a teacher sprung from your nation; whe-
ther they impeach the claims of Jesus the son of David to be
your Messiah; whether they obscure the glory which we per-
c~ive in the spiritual nature of his kingdom; whether they
cwerthrow the evidence of his resurrection, the truth of his
Digitized by GoogIe
'76
doctrine, or the rectitude of the moral system of which that
doctrine was the sanctioil.
Orobio, while asking these questions, might consistently
have believed that Jesus was the Messiah, that he died and
was raised from the dead; testifying that there is a future
life, and that that life is a state of proper retribution ; that is,
-Orobio, while asking these questions, might have been a
Christian.
SECTION IV.-Prophecy. The Prophecies ofthe New
Dupen.Yation.
IT is evident that a different species of tes~imony to the truth
of Christ's pretensions was required by the different classes of
people to whom his Gospel was made known,-a difference
which subsists in some degree to this day. To the Gentiles,
one miracle,-one unquestionable manifestation of Divine
power,-was sufficient to prove the Divine authority of him
who wrought the miracle: and to us, being Gentiles, satisfac-
tory testimony to any one of the miracles of Jesus is, in like
manner, sufficient to command our belief. The same amount
of evidence was also enough for those classes of your people
which at first furnished the greatestnumberofdisciples to Jesus.
The humble, the simple-minded, who were little versed in the
intricacies of Rabbinical learning, thought the evidence oftheir
own senses superior to any derived evidence whatsoever; and
witnessing deeds of Divine power done by a man, they natu-
rally and firmly believed that Divine power wrought through
this man. But the evidence of miracles was not sufficient for
those who sat in Moses' seat, or for such of their disciples as
were, like them, wedded more to the Law than to truth in the
abstract. To them the miracles of Jesus, however numerous,
however well attested, and whatever else ~hey might prove,
failed to prove his claim to supersede Moses; since Moses also
wrought miracles, not more numerous perhaps, but certainly
Digitized byGoogle
77
more splendid. Thus far their opposition is not to be won-
dered at; and had the claims of Jesus been authenticated by
t.he works of his hands alone, it could not have been expected
of the Jewish teachers to acknowledge his right to offer a sub-
stitute for the Mosaic institutions. The claims of Moses and
of Jesus, ifeach reposed on miracles alone, and at the same
time appeared in absolute opposition, ~ould be no otherwise
decided than by the comparative splendour of their illk.acles :
and here,· during the lifetime of Jesus, Moses had undoubtedly
the most weighty claim. If Jesus had, in three instances, re-
stored the dead to life, Moses had, by stretching his hand
towards heaven, .brought plague and famine over all the land
of Egypt, and death into every house. IfJesus had been seen
.to tread the waves at midnight, Moses had led the multitudes
of his people through the sea as on dry land. If the followers
ofJesus, to the number of five thousand, were miraculously fed
with a single meal in the wildemess, the nation under Moses
·was provided for forty years with bread from heaven. These
comparisons were no doubt made in the minds of the Scribes
and Pharisees, who rejected Jesus at the very moment when
they were witnessing displays of power which they could not
deny to be supernatural. To them the Law was everything,
and its sanctions were known to be Divine: and assuming that
Jesus desired to change the Law, they therefore rejected him;
while the common people accepted the assurance of Jesus that
he came to fulfill the Law, and could not but admit his claims.
This is evident in the case of one miracle which was particu-
larly offensive to the teachers of the people.
As Jesus passed out ofthe temple one Sabbath-day, followed
by the maledictions of some who misapprehended his doctrine,
he saw at the gate a man who had been blind from his birth,
and who was well known, as his custom was to sit as a beggar
in the most public place he could choose. The disciples of
Jesus, who had not learned to separate temporal sufferings
from the guilt of which they had hitherto been the judgements,
inqui.-ed if the sin for which this man was punished was his
Digitized byGoogle
'78
own sin or that of his parents. Jesus replied that the blind-
ness was not the punishment of sin, but the means by which
the power ofGod might be manifested in this man. He imme-
diately explained his meaning by giving sight to the beggar.
The bystanders brought the beggar to the Pharisees, who after
declaring that no one who wrought on the Sabbath could be
from God, and that a sinner could effect no such .miracle, re-
fused to believe what had been done. The testimony of the
blind man's pat'ent<~, however, was too strong to be gainsaid,
and the fact was admitted by all: but, by a singular inconsis-
tency, while they ascribed the glory to God, they denied the
claim of Jesus to be his messenger, saying, "We are the dis-
ciples of Moses : we know that God spoke to Moses; but
we know not whence this man is."-The beggar, in his simpli-
city, pointed out this inconsistency, though he had not yet been
informed that Jesus was the Messiah. The Pharisees silenced·
his wise though unlearned remonstrance, and cast him out of
their synagogue: thus, like bigots ofevery age, seeking to sub-
due by persecution the truth which they could not overthrow
by fairer means •.
On occasion of the resurrection of Lazarus, in the sight of
many, "the chief priests and the Pharisees assembled a coun-
cil, and said, What shall we do? for this man doeth many
miracles. Ifwe suffer him to go on thus, all men will believe in
him : and the Romans will come and take away both our place
and nation." From that day they took counsel to kill him; and
not him only, but Lazarus also, because on account of him
many believed in Jesus. This virulent opposition to works
which were all the time admitted to be miraculous may be
explained by the reasons before given, and can be explained
in no other way.
The mistake of these learned men lay in their failing to per-
c:eive that Christ came to consummate the Mosaic dispensation;
and however insufficient the testimony of miracle may be ad-
• John ix.
Digitized byGoogle
79
mitted to be to tkem, nothing can justify their blindness to
the other testimony with which that of miracles was connected.
But for this blindness, fatal to themselves and the whole un-.
believing portion of the nation, tht:y would have allowed that,
however irreconcilable the two systems might appear on a first
view, that of Christ was in reality advocated and protected by
that of Moses.
It could not be expected of any contemporaries of Jesus that
they should discem, as we can, how the whole system of Juda-
ism was a preparation for Christianity. It was necessary that
Christianity should have long become a subject of observation
and knowledge, before the valueofthis spt:cies ofevidence could
be perceived ; and it could not be fully appreciated, till the first
covenant was abrogated, the city and temple destroyed, and the
Israelitish state overthrown. But though this store ofevidence
was yet undisclosed, the testimony of prophecy,-that species
of testimony which was appointed fot: the sake ofthe Israelites,
and specially adapted to their peculiar position,-was weighty
enough to settle with abundant satisfaction the claims of Moses
and Jesus, if it bad been duly considered. Unfortunately, the
necessary caution and humility had not been exercised in the
interpretation of prophecy previous to its fulfilment. The
interpreters formed erroneous notions of the nature of the
Messiah's kingdom, and those who rejected Christ could never
be induced to relinquish them : and all appeals to ancient and
modern prophecy were therefore, fatally for themselves, lost
upon them.
It is not necessary for our present purpose to enter on any
examination ofthe prophecies ofthe Hebrew Scriptures. The
subject is too important and extensive to be dismissed after a
superficial survey; and a full investigation would lead us wide
from our present track ofobservation. The fruits of the contro-
versies of Christians with Hebrews, of Christians with Chris-
tians, and Hebrews with Hebrews, may be gathered elsewhere.
It is enough for us that all are agreed on certain points; that
the expectation of a Messiah was excited in the whole Israeli-
Digitized byGoogle
80
tish nation by means of prophecies, at first obscure, but wax·
ing more clear and definite with the progress ofevents; that the
lineage of this Messiah was determined in the expectations of
all, ns was the time of his appearance; and that though doubts
remained respecting the nature ofhis kingdom, all were agreed
that he should exercise supreme power from God in that king-
dom; that his coming should be preceded by a messenger, and
followed by a remarkable effusion of the spirit. This much,
with the historical fact that after an interval of four hundred
years the people were anxiously and daily looking for their
prince, is enough for our purpose; as our design is to refer, not
so much to the extraordinary fulfilment of particular prophe-
cies in the person of Christ, as to the continuance, after a long
interval, ofthe same species ofmiraculous testimony; by which
a clear evidence is afforded of the continuity of the scheme we
are contemplating.
Whatever difficulty might exist then, and continue to this
day, in the application of some particular prophecies,-what-
ever unbelief might be caused then, and whatever difference of
opinion now, by various expectations respecting the nature of
the Messiah's kingdom,-the fact that some one came at the ex-
pected time, ofthe expected linenge, preceded by a messenger
introduced by miracle, and signalizing his reign by a remark-
able effusion of the spirit, is enough to exalt the claims of this
person above those of Moses; since it makes Moses himself his
advocate, and refers us to the Law for his credentials. In conse-
quence, the obligation to receive Jesus rested not only on the
weight of his own visible claims, but on the submission which
was due to the ancient prophets, and the allegiance which
had been vowed to the Law. The authority of the prece-
ding dispensation was transferred to the present; and Chrig;.
tianity, however apparently designed to degrade Judaism,
was necessarily acknowledged to be its appointed consum-
mation.
That this evidence was as important .to the Hebrews as it
appears to us to be, we know from the practice of Jesus and
Digitized byGoogle
.81
his followers, ofappealing to prophecy whenever they address-
ed hearers of their own nation, especially those whose attach..
·ment to the Law was the .most exclusive; while with Gentiles
an appeal to miracles was found sufficient, though that ofpr0a
phecy was occasionally added.-Ifwe look through the history
for this purpose, we shall find that Jesus not only referred hia
enemies and his new converts to the ancient prophets, but that
'OO the day of his resurrection he by the same argumentquieted
the doubts and enlightened the minds of two of his disciples
who were dismayed by his death. These men knew him to be
"a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the
people"; and, trusting that ~twas he who was about to redeem
Israel, they were perplexed by his death and the ignominious
manner of it; and no less so by the report spread among the
disciples that he had that morning been seen alive. While
they yet recognised him not, he proceeded side by side with
them as they journeyed, "and explained to them from Moses
·and all the prophets, in all the Scriptures, the things concern-
ing himself." The argument was powerful ; as they said one
to another when be had left them, "Did npt our hearts burQ
within us, while he talked with us on the way, and while he
explained to us the Scriptures?"
On the day of Pentecost, presently after the ascension of
Jesus, multitudes of the people of Jerusalem assembled to
witness the effect of the effusion of the spirit; and Peter, in
the discourse by which three thousand were immediately con-
verted, referred to the prophecy of Joel concerning this event,
and the national calamities which should happen when the
gifts of the spirit should at length cease•. Stephen called the
whole company of ancient prophets to witness to Jesus, and his
opponents ~~were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by
which he spake." Paul urged this argumeht against the He..;
brews at Damascus, at Antioch, at Cresarea, (when he almost
persuaded king Agl'ippa to become a Christian,) and, in short,
• Joel ii. 28-32.
G
Digitized byGoogle
8-i
on every occasion when he preached the Gospel successfully
to the Hebrews.
Something more however was done than involving the claims
of Jesus with those of the ancient prophets by means of an
ancient prophecy. The same thing was done by the renewal of
prophecy in the person, first, of the forerunner of Jesus, and ·
next, of Jesus himself. By this appointment, the evidence of
the Gospel wasmade to grow with the lapse oftime, till the dis-
pensation was completed, and the foundation o£ Divine testi-
mony so perfected as that the faith of man may rest upon it for
ever. The prophecies of John the Baptist and Jesus related to
the same subjects as those of the ancient prophets; viz., the
mission of the Messiah and the destiny of the nation ; and as
their fulfilment was necessarily more rapid, it was.more stri-
kingly unquestionable. As the evidence ofancient prophecy was
the most appropriate that could be urged to your forefathers,
this renewal of prophecy is that which should be most carefully
investigated by you. To us Gentiles the testimony of miracles
would be sufficient, if that of prophecy were wanting. If it be
not so withyou,-if these appear to you to render the claims of
Jesus at best only equal to those of Moses; if your ideas of the
nature of the Messiah's kingdom have hitherto caused you w
doubt or refuse the application of the ancient prophecies to
Jesus,-it cannot but interest you to ponder the annunciations
whit'h, after a pause of four hundred years, caused the long-
sleeping echoes of the voice from Horeb to reverberate in all
your land once more. Concerning the application ofthese latest
prophecies no doubt has ever existed. The only question to
be decided is, whether they have been fulfilled. If they were
not accomplished long ago, they were false;.for there is no pol-
sibility of transferring them, like the ancient prophecies, to an
indefinite ·future period. They did not purport to extend be-
yond the overthrow of the lsraelitish state ; and the range of
investigation is therefore confined within narrow bounds ;
viz., from the appearance of the Baptist in the wilderness to the
destruction of your city .and temple.
Digitized byGoogle
8S
John the Baptist prophesied that the kingdom of hea\'en
should presently arrive; that it should he introduced by a
messenger from God ; and that that messenger should be far
mightier than himself.-Were these promises fulfilled?
It appears from the history, that t.he office of John was dis-
charged without any of the opposition which Jesus bad after-
wards to encounter: and in the space which intervened be-
~ween his appearance and the baptism ofJesus, (probably four
or five months,) he bad opportunity to prepare the whole
nation for the reception of Jesus. Of all these multitudes,
among whom, as we have seen, were the most influential
teachers of the people, men learned in the Law and the tradi·
tions, none objected to his application of ancient prophecy to
himselfand his successor. His intimation that some of the
mo~t remarkable of the ancient prophecies were about to be
fulfilled, instead of being gainsaid, added new vivacity to the
national hope; and since John was then allowed to give autho-
rity to the Scriptures as well as to receive it from them, less
amnot be allowed now,-if his prophecies were actually ac-
complished. One did come who was proved to befrom God
by the wonders and signs which God did by him. lie was
also greater than John, for John did no miracles; John knew
not the nature of the Messiah's kingdom, and was not even
immediately certaiu that his great successor was the Christ.
What Jesus saidof him corresponded with what he said ofhim-
self;-"And Jesus said, Among them that are born ofwomen,
there hath not arisen one that is greater than John the Bap-
tist; nevertheless I say unto you, that the least in the kingdom
of heaven is greater than he." It is here evident, not only that
these prophecies were fulfilled, but that they were fulfilled by
Divine agency. Had the mission of Jesus been of human
origin, John might have announced the new kingdom, and
might have declared that the Prince of that kingdom should
be greater than himself; but with God alone it rested to prove
that he was so.
G2
Digitized byGoogle
84
The prophecies of Jesus were so .numerous that it is not
necessary to our purpose to enter into a full examination of
them all. It will best answer our object to select such as were ·
referred for their accomplishment to different periods of time;
from those of private concern which should be fulfilled within
a few hours, to those of national or universal interest which
could only be accomplished at the close of the dispensation.
It has been before remarked that a miracle is .a prophecy
instantaneously fulfilled. When therefore Jesus said " The
damsel is not dead, but sleepeth," he uttered a prophecy whos~
accomplishment immediately followed.
On the night before his death, he uttered many predictions,
one of which was fulfilled immediately, another at midnight,
another shortly after his resurrection, and another a few days
after his ascensi&n.-" And Jesus saith unto them, All of you
will offend because of me this night: for it is written, I will
smite the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered abroad•."
Accordingly, when the traitor and the band of officers en-
tered the garden whither Jesus had retired, all that had been
with him forsook him and fled.
"Then", continues the historyofthese predictions," Peter
said unto him, Even though all others shall offend, yet will
not I. And Jesus saith unto him, Verily, I say unto thee,
that today, even on this night, before the cock crow twice,
thou thyself wilt deny ·me thrice. But he spake the more
vehemently, If 1 must die with thee, I will nowise deny thee.
And thus said alllikewiset."
Yet all failed of their promise, not knowing as, their Master
foreknew, the horrors of that hour, imbittered by the over-
throw of their own narrow expectations, and overwhelming to
their faith before it was made as enlightened and just as it
became through his death and resurrection. Peter, who mixed
with the servants of the palace, was especially exposed to ob-
servation, and consequently to temptation. Forgetting all but
• Mark xiv. t Mark xiv.
Digitized byGoogle
85
tlie terrors of the moment, he was overcome by selfish weak-
ness in the manner Jesus had foretold, till the second appointed
signal opened the fountain of bitter tears, and moved the soul
of the repentant disciple.
"After I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee." This
prediction is related by Mark. Matthew relates that the disci-
ples met him on a mountain in Galilee, where he had appoint-
ed them, and received his instr.uctions a short time previous
to his ascension~ John also relates at length an interview be-
tween Christ and several of his followers who were fishing on
the lake of Tiberias. This relation is so full oftouching beauty,
the words and actions are so correspondent with the whole of
the previous conduct and discourse of Jesus, that, even ifit did
not contain a prophecy (to which we shall allude hereafter), it
might be declared evidently true. The fourth prediction, given
the night before the crucifixion, respected the miraculous de-
scent of the spirit. " These things I speak unto you, while I
abide with you. But the Comforter (or Advocate), even the
Holy Spirit which the Father will send in my name, he shall
teach you all things, and shall bring all things to your remem•
brance that I have said unto you • ."
The further promises concerning this Comforter contained
in the next chapter, and that afterwards concerning the time
ofits appearance, were fulfilled, as is well known; by the de-
scent of the spirit on the day of Pentecost, when three thou-
sand of your people immediately professed themselves Chris-
tians.
The prophecies of Jesus respecting his death were nume-
rous,clear and precise. His intimations respecting the time and
manner of it were exact, at a period when they were totally
unintelligible to his followers, from their disbelief that their
prophet could be persecuted to death in his own land. These
intimations seem to have been given from time to time, from
the day when a clear understanding was fil'St establish€d be-
• John xiv.
Digitized by GoogIe
86
tween him and his apostles that he was indeed the Christ, the
Son of the Living God,-that is, from their visit to Cresarea
(five months after his baptism, and eight or nine before his
death), to the hour of his death.
" From that time Jesus began to tell his disciples that he
must go to Jerusalem, and suffer many things from the elders
and chief-priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised on
the third day•."
Six days afterwards, as his three favourite disciples de-
scended from the Mountof Transfiguration with him, "Jesus
commanded them that they should tell no man what things
they had seen, until the Son of Man rose again from the dead.
And they kept the matter with themselves, reasoning one
with another what rising from the dead could meant."
.Soon after, while they were yet in Galilee, "Jesus said unto
them, The Son of Man is about to be delivered up into the
hands of men; and they will kill him, and the third day he
will be raised againt!'
At the feast of Tabernacles, six months before his death,
he said in his discourse to the Israelites, "For this my
Father loveth me, because I lay down my life that I may take
it again. None taketh it from me, but I lay it down of
mysel£ I have authority to lay it down, and I have auth~
rity to receive it again. This commission I have received of
my Father§."
Before tbe last Passover, " As Jesus was going up to Je-
rusalem, he took unto him the twelve disciples privately, on
the way, and said unto them, Behold, we are going up to Je-
rusalem: and the Son of Man will be delivered up to the
chief-priests and scribes, who will condemn him to death, and
will deliver him up to the Gentiles, that they may deride and
scourge and crucify him: and the third day he will rise again II·,
As the end drew near, and a miraculous voice testified once
• Matth. xvi. 21.
t Matth. xvii. 22.
II Matth. xx. 17-19.
t Mark ix. 9, 10.'
§ John x. 17, 18.
Digitized byGoogle
87
more to him in t.he presence ofthe people, be declared, "This
came not for my sake, but for your sakes. Now is the judge-
ment of this world; now the Prince of this world will be cast
out. And although I shall be lifted up from the earth, I will
draw all men unto me. (This he said, signifying what death
he was about to die.) The multitude answered him, We have
heard out of the Law that Christ continueth for ever : and
how sayest thou, The Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is
this Son of Man? Then Jesus said unto them, But a little
while longer the light will be among you•," &c.
Again, "He said to his disciples, Ye know that after two
days will be the Passover; and then the Son of Man will be
delivered up to be crucifiedt."
Jesus had repeatedly declared that one of his twelve follow-
ers would prove unfaithful: that one he clearly pointed out to
be Judas, a few hours before the treachery was revealed; and
immediatedly all took place as had been declared; the chief-
priests being hurried on to the act against their previous-r&-
solution;-" Not during the feast, lest there be a disturbance
among the people." On the evening before the Passover, he
was betrayed by Judas : during the night he "suffered many
things" from the cruelty of his foes: he was condemned to
death, against the will of the governor, through the chief-
priests and scribes; he was in the morning" delivered up" ·to
the Gentile soldiers, who "derided" him with many insults,
"scourged" aud finally " crucified" him. By his death was his
mission concluded, and therefore the judgement of the first
dispensation sealed ; by his death was the Gospel glorified,
which should become universal ; and therefore by his being
"lifted up " were all men to be drawn unto him. Jesus expired
at the ninth hour ; and as this day was the preparation of the
Passover, his body was taken down immediately from the cross,
obtain,ed of the governor by Joseph of Arimathea, who, with
Nicodemus and others, wrapped it in linen and spices, and laid
• John xii. f Malth. xxvi. 2.
Digitized byGoogle
88
it in a sepulchre in the rock, which was immediately closed.
This first day of his death then. expired amidst the desolation
and mourning of his disciples, who understood not yet that for
them be should rise, and to them he should come on the third
day. The next day being the Sabbath, his disciples made no
further attempt to embalm the body; but Roman ,;oldiers, to
whom the day was not sacred, sealed the stone, and were placed
as a guard over the sepulchre. Their watch was uninterrupted,
and to the disciples the second dayclosed cheerlessly..as thefirst.
At dawn on the third day, the women who bad seen him ex-
pire, and had assil;ted at his interment, came to the sepulchre
with spices, that the body might be duly anointed: but he that
was living had left the place of the dead. The Roman guard
had fled before the celestial watch whom God had sent to re-
lease his beloved Son from the bondage of death, and to hail
his entrance upon his long-promised kingdom. The time was
now come when the eyes of his followers were to be opened;
when they were to interpret rightly the many discourses they
bad hi\herto misapprehended ; when they were to be con-
vinced of the spiritual nature of their Master's rule; and to
n1inister in his kingdom, not as temporal chiefs, rulers, or
judges, but as dispensers of the new privileges, proclaimers of
the new Jaw, to which obedience was required, first from the
twelve tribes, and afterwards from the Gentiles. Their views
having once become enlightened, their obedience became as
steady, their self-devotion as heroic, as the one bad previously
been wavering and the other imperfect. Henceforth, knowing
that their conflicts were not to be in the field, nor their
triumphs in palaces, in camps, or on the judgement-seat, they
looked for more arduous conflicts and for nobler triumphs.
Henceforth they were for a while in troubles and dangers from
their own countrymen and from Gentiles, from false brethren,
from cruel foes: they bore labour and toil, fastings and watch-
ings, cold and nakedness, much torture of body and frequent
peril of dt>.ath. Yet under all this they were blessed infinitely
above the unbelieving of their nation. They knew in whom
Digitized byGoogle
89
they believed ; they were supported by nn unfailing faith,
cheered by an unquenchable hope, and animated by an unre-
mitting love of God and man. While their deluded country-
men were blind to all signs, deafto all warnings of approach-
ing destruction, gazing at the sunshine and unaware of the
gatheringclouds on the horizon,-the followers ofJesus looked
beyond the gloom which appeared to others to encompass them,
and anticipated with assured joy the perfect day whose dawn
had already risen upon the nations. Thus were fulfilled those
intimations which promised safety and peace on the one hand,
peril and woe on the other, to those who should have believed
on or rejected him, when the day of the consummation should
arrive.
None ofthe predictions ofJesus were more remarkablefrom
their obscurity at the time, and their present evident complete-
ness, than those which relate to his kingdom, or the spread of
his Gospel. By his immediate followers the g~nerai meaning
ofthe parables in which they are contained was apprehended
at the time; and his foes took to themselves some of his re-
proaches: but as the scheme of revelation was yet incomplete,
the full signification could only be developed by time. The
rejection of his Gospel by those to whom it was offered, their
treatment of the messengers of God, and especially of Jesus
himself, and the consequent transference of their privileges to
the Gentiles,-are as clearly foretold in parables which were
spoken before the Gentiles had heard even the sound ofa pro-
mise, as the minute circumstances respecting his death, which
it was equally impossible for natural reason to foresee. As
one of these parables (that of the marriage-feast,) has already
beenrelated, it is only necessary to select one besides; which
is chosen because it shadows forth the whole schem~ of Re-
velatiOn, from the primary separation of your people to the
final overthrow of their dispensation.
"There was a certain householder who planted a vineyard~
and put a hedge about it, and digged a wine-press in it, and
built a tower, and let it out to his husbandmen, and went into
Dig1t1zed by Google
90
another eountry. And when the season of the fruit drew near,
be sent his servants to the husbandmen, tliat they might receive
the fruits of it. And the husbandmen took his servants, and
*tone, and killed another, and cast stones at another. Again,
be sent other servants more than the first; and they did to them
in like manner. But last of alJ, he sent unto them his son,
aaying, They will reverence my son.-But when the husband-
men saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the
heir; 'come, let us .kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance.
So they took him, and cast him out of the vineyard, and killed
him.-When therefore the owner of the vineyard cometh,
what will be do to those husbandmen?-They say unto him,
He will wretchedly destroy those wretched men, and will let
out his vineyard to other husbandmen who will render him
the fruits in their season."
How remarkably is the prophecy here made out between
the words of Jesus and those who answered his questions t
The murderers did indeed awfully perish; and their childrea
have ever since wandered abroad, excluded from their ancient
possession. Otherlabourers, oncedespised, have been brought
in, and to them this grace has not been given in vain; since
their earnest desire is to invite and welcome back those whom
they have not voluntarily supplanted.
Before we proceed to the fullest and most important of
Christ's predictions, we will advert to one which at the time
appeared to be of private interest only; but which, from its
fulfilment, becomes important as an evidence.-Before the
disciples knew the nature of Christ's kingdom, they could not
ofcourse understand precisely the nature of its period or the
purpose of his "coming," of which he so often spoke. They
naturally supposed that the entrance upon a future life was
thus referred to; and it wu wisely left to time to explain the
truth, as otherwise these prophecies would have failed of their
object, and could not now have been cited as evidence. At
the time when Jesus made known to his collected disciples that
he was indeed the l\fessiah, he referred to his death, and to
Digitized byGoogle
91
his subsequent "coming in his kingdom;'' concluding with the
words, " There are some standing here who shall not taste of
death till they have seen the Son of Man coming in his king-
dom• ." John, the beloved and probably the youngest of his
disciples, was present when these words were spoken.
·After the resurrection, when Jesus met his followers by the
lake of Tiberias, Peter, pointing to John, said, "Lord, what
shall this man do?" Jesus ans~ered, "If I will that he remain
till I come, what is that to thee?" It was reported among the
brethren, though not supposed by John himself, that he should
pass into a future life without dying. The prediction, however,
was fulfilled by other means. When his fellow-apostles and
mostof his early friends had laid down their lives, and left him
one of the few living witnesses of the first appearance of the
Christ, John, in extreme old age, witnessed that "end of the
age" to which he had been so long taught to look forward,-
witnessed the completion of the covenant of his nation ; wit-
nessed the restoration of equality among the nations by the
free gift of the Gospel to all, when the last impediments to its
free course were removed by the overthrow of the Israelitish
state. He saw the accomplishment of the predictions whose
delivery he had heard; and by his testimony was evidence of
a most valuable kind delivered pure fa·om the apostolic to the
succeeding age.
The prophecy respecting the destruction of your state,-the
last and greatest to which you are to be referred,-is the most
definite in itS terms, and the most unquestionably fulfilled, of
any on record. The precise time of its accomplishment Jesus
declared to be kttown to God alone; ·but announced that that
generation should not pass away before the consummation
should be witnessed. For· the original predictions you are
referred to the 2+th chapter of Matthew's history, and to the
21st of Luke; and for the narrative oftheir accomplishmt>.nt,
to those historians who have written of the destruction of Je.
rusalem, and especially Josephus, whose relation is so circum-
• Matth. xvi. 28.
1gitized b;,Google
92
!ltantial as to afford evidence as valuabJ~ to Christians as it is
interesting to Hebrews. We will, however, illnstrate some
particular points of the prediction, from the involuntary iesti-
mony of your great historian, trusting to your candour in
verifying the rest.
The immediate occasion of the prophecy was the pride
which the disciples of Jesus naturally felt in the grandeur and
beauty of their temple. They pointed to it as it crowned
the brow of Moriah, springing from the valley below to the
height of from five to eight hundred feet,-its battlements, its
courts and porticos, its ranges of priests' apartments, its holy
places and inmost sanctuary, forming together such a pile of
sumptuous buildings as might well be the glory of the nation~
"And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things?
Verily I say unto you, there will not be lett here one stone
upon another that will not be thrown down."
The Roman prince who besieged Jerusalem sought by all
means to preserve this temple, but in vain. Its destruction
was complete, notwithstanding every effort on the part of the
soldiers and people to stop the conflagration. Nor were even
the walls left standing, nor did any portion of them long
remain. The very foundations were ploughed up ; verdure
sprung up where the pavement of the holy courts had been
trodden, and the lamb browsed unharmed on the spot where
the smoke of the morning and evening sacrifice had risen for
ages.
The exhortation to the believers to flee to the mountains
when the foe should be known to have entered the holy parts
of the land, was borne in mind by the Christians, who were
thus brought out and separatedfrom the guiltyand blind among
their'countrymen, and saved by their faith, as bad been pro-
mised. They departed from the city amidst the wonder and
derision of their unbelieving brethren, and sought a timely re-
fuge among the mountains, where tidings were brought them
from afar of the strife and famine and utter desolation which
laid waste their beautiful city, and the house where their fathers
Digitized byGoogle
95
had worshiped. The Passover wa5 kept with its accustomed
pomp, when the Roman army had withdrawn for a time fi·om
before the city. The glittering roof of the temple rose like a
mountain of snow in the noonday sun ; music was wafted ofi
every wind ; there were greetings in the r.treets, and at the
various gates, as throngs of worshipers approached to keep
the feast. The followers ofJesus alone were thoughtful amidst
the joy of these greetings: they alone went forth from the
city, when all others were crowding into it; and those of them
who dwelt in the country were the only Hebrews who refused
to join in a pilgrimage to the sanctuary. And why? They bad
on record the words of Jesus:-
"As the days of Noah were, ~o will the appearance of the
Son of Man be. For as in the days which were before the
Flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying ~nd giving in
marriage, unt.il the day Noah entered into the ark; .and under-
stood not until the flood came and destroyed them·an: so will
the appearance of the Son of Man also be. Then will two men
be in the field; the one will be taken, and the other left. Two
.women will be grinding at the mill ; the one will be taken,
and the other left," &c.-" Let those that are in Judea flee to
the mountains; and let those that are within the city depart
out; and let not those that are in the country-places enter
therein. For these are the days of vengeance, that all things
which are written may be fulfilled."
When we read ofthe brutal pillage and the horrible slaughte~
which tbe citizens inflicted on one another, of famine which
.drove a maddened mother to slay and eat her own child, of
the blood which drenched the holy courts, of the cries ofw~e
which reached the ears of the invading army, and of the death..
like silence which succeeded, appearing to them more ominous
still; when we observe that a man's worst foes were those of
his own kindred, and that each faction in turn proved a greater
scourge than the foreign enemy,-we see the application ofthe
words of Jesus:-"Then will be great aflliction, such~ hath
Digitized byGoogle
9+
not been since the beginning of the world to this time; no, nor
ever will be."
Lest the believers should share the superstitiqns of their in-
fatuated brethren, warning was offered them to give heed to
no signs but those which were foreshown, and which were too
important to be mistaken.-" Then if any say unto you, Lo l
here is the Christ, or there,-beJieve him not. For false
Christa and false propbets will rise, and will propose great
signs and wonders, so as to deceive, if it were possible, even
the chosen. Lo l I have fOretold you this. · Wherefore, if
men say unto you, Behold, Christ is in the desert,-go
not forth : Behold he is in the secret chambers,-believe
them not. For BS the lightning cometh out of the east and
shinetb to the west, so will the appearance of the Son of Man
be."
This warning was needed. Impostors arose here and there
who led the people away to destruction, while the real testi-
monies from God were unheeded : so that their own hi-
storian exclaims concerning them, " How eBSily were these
superstitious wretches seduced into a belief of false oracles,
counterfeits, and impostors!" While disorder and faction were
apparent in every department of the state, these false prophets
drew the people after them in shoals; from him who came out
of Egypt, appearing "in the desert," and promising that the
towers of Jerusalem should fall at his word, to him who re-
ported that one was " in the secret chambers" of the temple,
who should deliver all who took refuge within its walls. While
their deluded countrymen were perishing beneath the swords
of the Romans, or amidst the flames and crashing ruins of the
sanctuary, the Christians were peaceably worshiping, far from
Gerizim and from Jerusalem, in the depths of distant valleys,
or among the groves on the hill-side. There they acknow-
ledged how this day of vengeance had "come as a snare upon
all who dwelt on the face of the whole land." There they
heard, with grief for their nation, that the~e _
was " great dis-
Digitized byGoogle
95
tress in the land, and anger upon the people: that they must
fall by the edge ofthe sword, and be led away captive into all
nations; and Jerusalem be trodden down by the Gentiles."
There they uttered thanksgivings for themselves and their
companions, that they were accounted worthy to escape aU
those things which must come to pass, and to " stand before
the Son of Man " when so many had fallen in this his promised
retribution.
The accomplishment'of the whole series of the prophecies
ofJohn and Jesus being thus complete, it only remains to be
proved that these'predictions have been faithfully preserved
from the time they were delivered,-i. e. from aboutforty years
previous to the destruction of Jerusalem. The chain of evi-
dence from prophecy will then be entire, and must be acknow-
ledged by the Hebrew to be as satisfactory a testimony as the
evidenee of miracles is already found to .
be to the Gentile. As
Moses sanctioned Abraham and was sanctioned by him, Jesus
sanctioned Moses and was sanctioned by him. They were
united by one spirit of prophecy, in a mediation between the
Almighty and the human race.
SEcTION V.-Historical Evidence respecting the De-
livery ofthe later Prophecies.
THE circumstances attending and succeeding the life of
Jesus might be originally attested by three different classes
of historians : Hebrew writers who believed on him ; Hebrew
writers who did .not believe on him; and Gentile .historians.
(As the Gospel was not originally offered to the Gentiles, it is
evident that contemporary Gentile writers could not be be-
lievers.) Let us estimate the value of the various evidence of
these three classes.
Ofthe first class, there were eight writers who witnessed the
events they related. Of the second class, there were none who
were contemporaries of Jesus, and only on~ who wrote within
Digitized byGoogle
96
a century a(ter. Of the last class, there were none who, living
in Palestine, witnessec.l the life of Jesus and the actions of his
followers. Of such as could, within a short period, have been
informed respecting these circumstances, there are many who
confirmed the testimony of the eight writers of the first class.;
some, who like Josephus, are silent respecting Jesus and the
Christians; and one, Tacitus,-who attests the history of
Jesus, without admitting his claims. It is clear, on the mere
enumeration of numbers, on which side the quantity of testi-
mony preponderates. In considering its quality, we will begiq
with the class most insignificant in point of number.
The silence of your historian Josephus on the subject of a
life so remarkable as that of Christ, is very striking, and forms
of itself an e\·idence for or against the claims of Jesus to be a
Divine messenger. It is denied by no one living that Jesus
advanced extraordinary claims, pretended to do extraordinary
deeds, and was believed on by your countrymen to the number
of many thousands. These circumstances, be the claimant
who or what he might, are too remarkable to be passed over
entirely without notice by so voluminous a writer as Josephus,
without special reason. Since the occurrences were, at all
events, not ilu;ignificant, it is clear that they oughtto have been
either confirmed or denied ; and that they must have been so, if
they had been regarded by the writer in the light of ordina1·y
history. He had some strong feeling respecting them. Ifhe
bad known the pretensions of Jesus to be false, he would have
de~ounced them, as he has done those ofmany impostors whose
claims and influence were comparatively insignific.ant. We
all know that he was not an avowed Christian ; and the only
supposition remaining is, that Josephus could not confute the
claims ofJesus, and was therefore wisely silent respecting them.
The silence'ofJo~;ephus respecting Christ was not the only tes-
timony which he unwittingly afforded to the Christian claims.
The coincidences of his History with that of the apostolic
writers are so numerous, so inartificial, and &o complete, as
to constitute him a secondary witness to the truth of the evan-,
Digitized by GoogIe
97
gelical narratives.-It appears a singular charge rtgninst 1-l-e•
brews that they are less fully informed than others respecting
any portion of their national history; but a due attention to the
historians of other nations will convince the learned among
you, that the irifluence ofJesus, whatever were his autlwri~IJ, the
progress of Christianity, whatever might be its truth, constitute
a remarkable period of the Hebrew history which is veiled
from the observation ofthe bulk of your people, while it is emi-
nently conspicuous to all besides.
The silence ofGentile writers respecting Christ has by many
been regarded with nearly as much surprise as that ofJosephus:
but it is not in reality at all surprising. The fact is, that many
of them were not silent, having left very powerful testimony
to the truth of our faith: but because they were themselves
Christians, their evidence is set aside as being partial. This
is manifestly unreasonable: since the fact of their becoming
Christians, in opposition to worldly interests of every kind,
forms of itself a powe1·ful evidence; and, since it also testifies
to their own sincerity, it gives authority to everything which
they wrote. Their testimony is also confirmed by the silence
preserved in the writings of unbelieving Gentiles. There was
no opposition between the two classes ofwriters; as there surely
would have been, if the one had believed in a series of impos-
tures which could be proved-to be so by the other. It will not
do in this case, any more than in that of Josephus, to hint at
the insignificance of the sq,bject. Claims which gave rise to
repeated persecutions, to changes in the subordinate govern-
ments of the empire, to mo•ements of the soldiery, to councils
in palaces, to proclamations, to a multitude of public execu-
tions, could not be beneath the notice of historians. There
was reason enough for their suppression of the facts in the
unacceptab}eness of the subject to those whom they SOIJght to
please, and not less to themselves. Those who had any' real
knowledge of the circumstances, and those who had not, were
probably equally at a loss what to say, and therefore wisely
said nothing. This has never been the case with a heres?' or
H
Digitized by GoogIe
98
rebellion of nny other kind; historians usuallybeing very ready
to pronounce on such events, supplying their own want of well-
ascertained information by following the opinions of others;
and ifChristianity had been viewed in the light of such a heresy
or rebellion, it would have been thus treated. We should have
had the lending events in the life of Jesus and his followers
presented in all, accompanied with political speculations or
expressious of philosophical scorn, or of proud compassion ;
ending, in every case, with a decisive sentence upon the vanity
or falsehood ofsuch pretensions, and abundance ofwonder that
they should be supported by any contemporary writers. Such
is the common course in cases ofdoubtful butimposing claims.
Instead of this, we have a great deal of positive testimony on
the one side, to which nothing is opposed but the silence ofa
few,-a silence which was most certainly not that of contempt,
and which therefore is a negative testimony to the truth of that
which is thus mysteriously passed over.
There is, however, one exception to this rem~rkable system
of advocacy on the one hand and silence on the other. We
have the testimony of a Roman historian to the facts of the
Gospel history, without any advocacy of the Gospel. Tacitus
relates that there was such a person as Jesus, who introduced
a new reJigion, and suffered death in consequence, under the
administration of Pontius Pilate. He relates the progress of
this new religion in Judea, its temporary check by persecution,
its revival, and ultimate spread as far as Rome itself. Itis well
that this testimony is extant, ifit prove satisfactory to any about
to become Christians. To Christians it is also satisfactory as
far as it goes; but they have much that is better. It is some-
thing to have the testimony of a man of understauding and
approved veracity; but it is much more to have the testimony
of many who were so much better informed about these very
facts as to be able to interpret them rightly. Whether Taci-
tus neglected to inquit·e into a faith which he believed to be a
mere modification of Judaism, or whether he_thought it his
duty to adhere to the established religion of his country, or
Digitized by GoogIe
99.
whether he believed in th~ resurrection of Je~us without de-:
claring or acting on his belief, is of little consequence to us, as
long as many men eq1,1ally capable ofjudging and of recording
their judgement have informed themselves more fully concern-
ing the facts, and left us their testimony; a testimony which
cannot be weakened by the fact of their having become Chris-
tians, founding their evidence on conviction, and sealing it by
martyrdom•.
Before we take leave of these heathen writers, it is right to
remark, that though they tell us nothing of Christ and Christi-
anity, they cast a light upon the state of Judea, the provisions
of its government, and the persecuted condition of the primi-
tive Christians; so as to place us in the right position for judg-
ing of th~ testimony of these primitive Christians themselves.
The result of a comparison of this class of evidence is in every
case f.'\vourable to the veracity of the evangelical writers.
We now turn to the remaining class of writers,-Jewish
historians who believed in Jesus.
It is well known that the generality of ancient historical facts
, re~ts on very scanty testimony. One writer perhaps gives a
relation, which is copied and enlarged by another at a short
distance of time; his relation being, in turn, improved or stript
of its improvements by succeeding authors, whose number is
perpetually on the increase. We believe such relations in
the absence ofall testimony against them, and should believe
them probably even if our religious system depended on
~' as long as there was no counterbalancing testimony.
But the Jewish and Christian histories stand on much better
.evidence than this. It is needless to you, as to ourselves, to
point out the evidences of the Hebrew Scriptures, since they
are alike believed by you and ourselves; but it is desirable to
show how differently the historical process has been carried
on in the C&$6 of the Gospel, and all other cases. In no other
instance, perhaps, have eight contemporary writers given the
original history of any series of events. We speak of history
in the case of all the eight writers, because it is in fact so,
H2
Digitized byGoogle
100
wliether expressly detailed in narrative, or implied and attested
in a course of reasoning upon that narrative. You can be in
no danger ofadopting the extraordinary notion that these eight
testimonies are but one, because they are bound up in one
volume,-a notion which it is still sometimes necessary to pro-
test against in the case of unbelievers in all revelation. It is
evident to yo\1, that as your ScriRtural writers lose none oftheir
individual authority by being connected with each othe~, the
same is the case with the evangelical writers, be their testimony
true or false. The evidence of the succeeding Prophets does
not interfere or become one with that of Moses, because they
wrote concerning the same God and the same people, or be-
cause their works have been collected and formed into a regu-
lar series; and in the same manner, the testimony of John, of
Luke, and of Paul, forms three testimonies, whether they be
uni_ted for a special purpose, or kept as-distinct as the works
of Raschi, Maimonides, and Abarbanel.
Of the eight writers referred to, Matthew, James, Jude,
Peter, and John, were among the followers originally chosen by
Jesus to witness his words and actions, and the events of his
life ; and they were therefore the persons best qualified to at-
test the delivery of those prophecies which it is now our prin-
cipal aim to establish.
Matthew wrote his history in your language and for the use
of your nation; and being, doubtless, aware of the .Peculiar
appropriateness of the arguments from prophecy, as well as of
the surpassing interest of the predictions ofJesus to his own
countrymen, he gives them at greater length and with more
careful explicitness than the other historians. His narrative
is judged to have been written first; but as it is evident that
neither Mark nor Luke had seen it, it could not have been
published long before they wrote.
James (surnamed the Just, on account ofthe excellence ofhis
character,) gave his testimony to the Messiahship of Jesus by
his death, which took place, by a decree of the supreme coun-
cil of your nation, in the interval between the death of Festus
Digitized byGoogle
101
and the arrival ofthe next Roman governor. His Epistle bears
as unquestionable testimony as his self-sacrifice to the design
and spiritof the Gospel. It is not possible to imagine a more
beautiful exemplification of the pure system offaith and morals
introduced by Jesus than this epistle affords. Its corrobora-
tion of the historical records of his brethren is as completely
satisfactory, as if he had given his explicit sanction to every
detail.
OfJude little is known, but the da~ of his Epistle may be
nearly ascertained from its purport. It is directed against the
corruptions which the disciples of the Oriental philosophy ·
endeavoured to intermix with the simple faith, for the purpose
(before alluded to,) of making the Gospel more acceptable by
getting rid of the reproach of the Cross.
The testimony of Peter is as valuable from its fullness and
variety, as _from the weight imparted to it by the character of
the man. His character is shown by facts to have been ori-
ginally impetuous and unstable. Of all the Apostles he was
the most forward in enterprise, the least persevering in dif-
ticulty,-the first in eagerness, and the soonest dismayed. He
was therefore the most conspicuous in the history ; and through
this pre-eminence we know how perpetually he was the com..
panion ofJesus. The questions, the remarks, the protestations,
the remonstrances of Peter; his hasty actions and their conse-
quences, the influence which his ardour gave him over his com-
panions, the love mixed with compassion with which his Master
regarded him,-stand out from the ua1Tntive on everyoccasion,
and prove that Peter was, as he declared, a perpetual witness of
the·Messiab's conduct and teachings. In proportion as the new
dispensation became more fully revealed, the views of Peter
became more enlarged, and his convictions and the conduct
arising from them more stable, till he became the prince of tht;l
Apostles ; acknowledged to be so by them, and especially ho-
noured by the importance of the offices appointed him from
on high. It was he who converted the multitudes on occasion
of the descent of the Spirit; it was ~e who was appointed to
Digitized byGoogle
102
bring the Gentiles into the new covenant by baptizing Corne..;
lius and his household; and henceforth he was distinguished
by the zeal, courage and patience, with which he employed
and finally sacrificed his life in the service of the Gospel. It
is observable that on all occasions he laid great stress on argu-
ments from prophecy, both that which was ancient and that
which his own ears had heard. He superintended the com-
position of Mark's Gospel, in which the prophecies of John
and Jesus are detailed; and in both his Epistles,--in the second
at considerable length,-he explicitly refers to the most impor-
tant predictions of Jesus, testifying.that some had been already
fulfilled, and delaring that the accomplishment ofthe last and
greatest was at hand.
Ifthe value of such testimony as this could be surpassed, it
could only be by that of John. The truth of each is alike
unquestionable; butthe evidence ofJohn is more ample, from
the circumstance of his being " the beloved disciple," the con-
fidential friend of Jesus, and therefore the best informed of
all things concerning him; and also from his life havingbeen
prolonged to witness the total and final accomplishment of the
Messiah's prophecies• . It was no doubt because his know-
ledge ofJesus and the Gospel was admitted to be eminently
full and accurate, that he was requested to prepare his history
(in the prospect of a general dispersion of the Disciples), for
the sake of supplying the deficiencies of those narratives which
were already published. His history, being written for this
purpose, contains little which is related by the other Evange-
lists ; but all that it contains is corroborative oftht>ir narratives.
With respect to the prophecies especially-he amply testifies
in his Gospel to their purport, and to their actual delivery ;
and, by his later experience and latest writings, to their accom-
plishment.
The three writers who were not among the original twelve
disciples of Jesus, are 1\Jark, Luke, and Paul.
Mark was the nephew of Barnabas and the companion of
Paul, from whom he had the opportunity of learning the Go-
Digitized byGoogle
,
apel in its purity, and being informed respecting the communi-
cations from Jesus himself with _which the Apostle of the Gen-
tiles was often honoured. No1· was his iJlfot·mation less com·
plete respecting the circumsU1oces ofthe life of Jesus. He was
the intimate friend of Peter, under whose inspection he wrote
his Gospel; so that this history may be considered as the joint
testimony ofhim who hea1·d the prophecies of Christ delivered,
and of him who saw the greatet· pa1·t of them fulfilled.
Luke is said to have been a physician at Antioch, and to
have been included in the number of the seventy disciples,
His writings prove him to have been a man of education, and
one thoroughly informed respecting the events he undertook
to relate. His history of the Acts of the Apostles includes a
mass ofevidence to the fact ofthe Messiahship ofJesus, which
it would require a volume to unfold, by comparing it with it-
self, with the other evangelical writings, and with the histories
of heathen writers. He was the companion of Paul in much
of his journeying, and therefore well qualified to relate what-
ever we know of the life and acts of this extraordinary man.
In directing youa· attention to the Apostle Paul, it is difficult
to decide whether to present him as an evidence of the entire
scheme wehave been contemplatjng, or as a remarkable wit-.
DeN to the truth of the Gospel history. We can only touch
on the principal points of his singular story. Paul seems to
have been created for the purpose of consolidating the system
of revelation, of presenting in his own per~on an epitome of
its designs and evidenceB, of becoming a mediator between
your nation and the rest of the world, and, finally, of occupy•
ing.the space which divided the personal friends ofthe Messiah
. from strangers and enemies; between those who had witnessed
his living signs and wonders, and those who could only be-
lieve them by their report. Paul knew not Jesus during his
mission; but was nevertheless fully instructed by him. Paul
was among his enemies at the time of his death, and one of
the scoffers at his resurrection; yet the most exalted advocate
o( the ho~ of the Gospel. No one was more wedded to the
Digitized byGoogle
104-
first covenant than Paul ; yet above all othets he prized the
second. No one was ever a more blameless servant of the
Lnw; yet none was so thankful to exchange it for the Gospel.
Being famed for his reverential adherence to Moses, he yet
gloried in his allegiance to Jesus. Having been proud, to the
most exalted degree, of the honours and privileges of your
nation, he spent his life in hastening the extinction of those
honours and the abolition of those privileges. Versed in'the
intricacies of the national theology, and in all the other studies
of the most learned of his time, he used these stores only as a
preparation for that high but simple knowledge to which he
applied himself with the meekness of a disciple and the ardour
and power of a matured mind. With the stubborn faith ofan
ancient Hebrew, with the proud complacency ofa son of Abra-
. hnm, with the learning ofa Pharisee, and the accomplishments
of polished heathens, he seemed little fitted to adopt or diffuse
Christianity; yet this was the man who laid open his under-
standing and his affections to truth and love, who used his en-
dowments for self-denying purposes, and thought it an honour
to be the servant of the despised Gentile disciples of a despised
faith. There is but one way of explaining all this. Paul un-
derstood Judaism well; so that when he also understood Chris-
tianity, the whole scheme was complete before him, and
he became peculiarly qualified for making it clear toothers,
whether Israelites or Gentiles. He understood the previous
circumstances and the present relative position of both parties,
and was therefore fitted to bring them together, and to include
them under the possession of common blessings. While he
no longer prided himself on his acquisitions, he was far from
despising them, or relinquishing the advantages they gave.
With him, knowledge was power; and he felt this, and acted
upon it with fur more meekness than in his days of comparative
ignorance. His enlarged views, his consistent convictions, his
bright well-defined hopes, inspired him with an intellectual
nnd spiritual vigour, as influential over the souls of others as
animating to his own : and by his conspicuous po!iition, ita
D•gitized byGoogle
105
operation was equally powerful on the .tWo parties whom he
sought to unite. When the wall of partition was already
trembling to its fall, he stood last on the battlements; and
while the eyes of the hosts without, and of the remnant of
Israel within, were fixed upon him with equal intentness, he
interpreted the signal from above, that their estrangement
should cease, and that they should live like brothers, side by
side. For his own account of the views which this eminence
presented to him, and for his own expressions of the rapture
which their recognition caused to him, you are referred to
the eleventh chapter of his Epistle to the Romans; or rather
to the whole preceding part ofthe Epistle, ofwhich the eleventh
chapter is a summary. Thehistory of Paul is well known to
you ; that he was brought up a blameless servant of the Law,
be\onged to the straightest sect of the Pharisees, and was well
instructed in all sound and ornamental learning; that he was
one of the fiercest foes of the riew faith, urging on the persecu-
tion, and actually assisting at the martyrdom of its professors;
that while travelling in pursuit of such objects as these, he was
arrested by the miraculous presence of Jesus himself, and in-
formed of the destination appointed for him ; that after being
relieved from a temporary blindness, he professed the new faith
in the customary form; retired into Arabia for some time, in
order to be instructed and exercised in the religion of the Go-
spel, in preparation for teaching it to the Gentiles; that being
largely endowed with the gifts of the Spirit as well as with ·
eminent natural qualifications, his mission was attended with
extraordinary success; that he conveyed the glad-tidings from
shore to shore, publishing them among many nations, and pre-
paring for their furtl1er spread in more distant lands; and at
length, after years of outward peril and sufferings, which could
not shake his inward peace, was beheaded at Rome at the time
of the persecution by Nero; being privileged as to the mode
of his death, from being a Roman citizen, over Peter, who was
crucified.about the same tim~.
, The testimony of this extraordinary man is of two kinds,-
Digitized byGoogle
106
that ofhis life, a.o; related hy Luke ; and that of his opinions,
as given at large and in various forms- by himself. The first
would have been sufficient of itself for the purposes we have
now in view, as Paul was converted in consequence of the
fulfilment of·some prophecies, and spent his life in uncon-
sciously aiding the accomplishment of others. But we have
also his own declarations of the completion of man1 predic-
tions, and of firm faith in others which he knew to have been
delivered, but which were not verified till after his death. He ·
testified to the promises ofJesus respecting his own death ~d
resurreetion, the descent of the Spirit, and the bringing in of
the Gentiles; and he als<> wrote of that period, yet future,
when all distinctions should be done away. These declarations
were made, not systematically, or collected in one written form
oftestimony, but interspersed through familiar letters, to the
number of thirteen, addressed to the assemblies of ChristianS
he had visited, or to private friends. The principal doctrine
ofthe Gospel,-that ofn future life ofretribution, as taught by
the death and resurrection ofJesn~-is largely exhibited in that
portion (among others) of his writings which is famed for ita
eloquence among those who regard not its trnth,-the fifteenth
chapter of his First Epistle to the Corinthian church. The
principal historical fact connected with the operation ofthe new
system-the bringing in of the Gentiles-is the prominent
1nbject ofall his epistles; while the spirituality and the exalted
moral .scheme of the Gospel are resplendently exhibited in
eTery act of his life and every page of his writings.
To these eight testimonies some add a ninth, in the unkno'"'
author of the Epistle to the Hebrews. Whether this epistle
wa& written by Paul, or not, matters little :-it is the work of
a contemporary, and of one fully informed respecting the
scheme ofrevelation, and therefore qualified to address you, be
he whom he may. To you, the excellence ofthe author'squalifi-
cations is all that is important; and to Christians it is equally
satisfactory, whether the written records of their faith are the
work·ofeight writers or.of nine.
Digitized byGoogle
107
The record~, and the facts they relate, are again attested
by a series of subsequent witnesses. Clement, mentioned in
the Epistle to t~e Philippians as the fellow-labourer of Paul,
wrote an Epistle to the church of Corinth, some time after the
destruction of Jerusalem. This epistle was held in such high
esteem by the Christians, as to be publicly read, like the Scrip-
tures, in many churches. As its object was to compose some
dissensions which had arisen, it does not enlarge upon the facts
of the Gospel; but it adverts to the resurrection of Christ, and
thus ·
.describes the Apostles,-" receiving the ·commandments,
and being filled with full certainty by the resurrection ofJesus
Christ, and confirmed by the Word ofGod, with the assurance
of the Holy Spirit, they went out announcing the advent of
the kingdom of God."
The epistles of Ignatius immediately follow; with a letter
addres!Jed to the Philippians by Polycarp, who sufkred mar.
tyrdom in the reign of Marcus Aurelius, replying, when urged
to revile Christ,-" Fourscore and six years have I served him,
and he has never done me any injury. How can I blaspheme
my King and my Saviour?·~ Papias, a bearer of the apostle
John, a companion of Polycarp, a great collector ofthe sayings
of the Apostles, left five books "On the Interpretation of the
DiYine Oracles," which were extant in the time of :E(usebius.
Then followed Hegesippus, a Hebrew, who wrote a valuable
ecclesiastical history_ as a continuation of that of Luke, but
which has long been lost. Three other Hebrews, Aguila,
Theodotion, and Symmachus, distinguished them~elves by
their translations of the Hebrew Scriptures into Greek ; their
versions being quoted with great respect by aU Christian wri-
ters. These (with the omission of many names of less note,)
bring OS uown to the timeof Justin Martyr,-i. e.to more than
a century and a half from the appearance and prophesying of
John in the desert. Justin Martyr was the author of many
works which bore witness to the facts and records of the Go-
spel, though his partiality for the Platonic philosophy led him
to corrupt-the Christian doctrine in a manner the evil conse-
Digitized byGoogle
108
· quences of which he little foresaw. It would have been well
if Christians in after ages had been willing to accept the lesson
offered by his controversy with your countryman Trypho, who
had the advantage ofhim in the argument respecting the nature
of Ch~ist, however right' Justin Martyr might be respecting
the office of the Messiah. It cannot be necessary to pursue
further the series of written testimonies. You need only refer
to all the writings of that time now extant, to be convinced that
in the very first age of the Christian church, when the witnesses
for or against the Messiahship of Jesus were still living, the
facts of his miracles, prophecies and resurrection were as con-
fidently assumed by the teachers of the people, as by the same
class ofmen in the present day. The writings ofthe Evangelists
and Apostles were publicly read in the churches, and none
succeeded in shaking their authority.. Those yet living who
had seen Christ between his resurrection and ascension, testi-
fied to this fact in their old age; while those who had died, left
theirtestimony in the form of tradition, and it was never con-
tradicted. While the evidence of the facts was still accessible
to all, while enemies were fiercely active, while all the super-
stitions of the multitude were arrayed against the Faith,-that
Faith stood its ground by an appeal to fact alone, till the re-
cords of facts had become so numerous as to render the over-
throw of the Faith impossible. .
It is interesting, though it ~ay not be necessary, to observe
how perfectly the traditionary as well as the written testimony
is kept up till beyond the time at which we are resting. This
happened through the friendship which subsisted between a
few Christian professors who successively lived to a great age.
Polycarp was educated by the Apostles, and conversed with
many who had seen Christ. He had an attentive hearer in ·
lrenreus, who suffered martyrdom in A.D. 202, and who in
his old-age wrote to Florinus the letter preserved by Eusebius,
from which the following is an extract.
" I saw you, when I was very young, in the Lower Asia
with Polycarp. For I better remember the affairs of that time
Digitized byGoogle
109
than tbose which have lately happened,-the things which we
learn in our childhood, growing up in the soul, and uniting
themselves to it. Insomuch, that I can tell the place in which
the blessed Polycarp sat and taught, and his going out and
coming in, and the manner of his life, and the form of his per-
son, and his discourses to the people ; and how he related his
conversation with John, and others who had seen the Lord;
and how he related their sayings, and what he had heard from
them concerning the Lord, both concerning his miracles and
his doctrines, as he had received them from eye-witnesses of
the Word of Life: all which Polycarp related agreeably to
the Scriptures. These things I then, through the mercy of
God toward me, diligently heard and attended to; recording
them not on paper but upon my heart."
Here is no doubt, no shifting, no chasm to be filled up by
probabilities. Irenreus saw and heard Polycarp; Polycarp
saw and heard the Apostles, who witnessed of Christ. Thus,
while there had been five apostolic fathers, and a rapid suc-
cession of Christian writers, nine of whose compositions fill up-
the interval between lrenreus and Polycarp, the verbal testi-
m~ny is carried down by two old men to 200 years from the
birth of Christ. ·
A very powerful evidence appeals to you from the pages of
the New Testament, which is lost upon the generality ofChris-
tians. Even the most learned among us can scarcely be so
well able as yourselves to appreciate the exact accordance of
the Gospel narratives with whatever is known of Hebrew an-
tiquities; yet by a comparison of the evangelical writings with
your Scriptures, and with the works of Hebrew authors oflater
days, enough may be ascertained to prove that the books were
not only written by Hebrews, but in the time and place where
they purport to have been written. Those of our scholars who
devote themselves for a -while to the study of your language,
literature and antiquities, find, on their return to the Gospel
histories, that they can almost imagine themselves set down in
Digitized byGoogle
110
Judel, eighteen hundred years ago. They can in imagination
traverse the Temple, from the porticos to the treasm·y, from
the treasury to the altar, and from the altar to the threshold
of the Holy place; they can join the groups going up to make
their offerings ; they can behold the smoke rising from the
morning and eveningsacrifice. In private dwellings, also, they
can recognise familiar objects in the apartments, the costume,
the furniture, the modes of exercising hospitality, of practising
devotion, of feasting, and of mourning. They can look abroad
on the noonday glare; on the sudden sweeping storms ofyour
land; marking how the herbs wither on the parched rocks,
and how dwellings are washed down by the descending floodiJ.
They can go down the rugged and perilous way from Jerusa-
lem to Jericho, or overlook the reedy banks ofJordan, orgaze
on the mountains and groves reflected in the calm expanse of
the Lake of Tiberias. They can look into the chambers of
sepulchres, and pass the palace of the high-priest, and enter
the judgement-ball of the Roman governor.-If this famili-
arity is so striking to them, how much more welcoote must it
be to you!.
Let it be remarked, that not only are descriptions given and
allusions made which are undoubtedly real, but much of the
history, and many discourses, are so involved in these ex-
ternal realities as to be inseparable from them. In the first
ease, proof would be afforded that the narratives were penned
by Hebrews :-as it is, we acknowledge the proof that the
things related actually took place; that the discourses actually
arose from the suggestions ofsurrounding objects. Any Jewish
writer who wrote respecting Jesus, without having been a wit- .
ness, i.e. without authority, might describe him as sitting on
J~ob's well at Sychar, or in a boat on the lake, ot· lifting up
his voice in the temple: be might. relate how a woman came
forth to draw water, in one case: bow the multitudes assem-
bled on the shore, in another; and in a third, how the temple
was thropged with worshipers who came up to the feast. But
Digitized byGoogle
111
de8criptions like these give no such impres9ion of reaJity as is
felt when those who understand the history and localities read
what Jesus said of the widow who cast her offering into the
treasury; in what manner the paralytic man was brought
before him; how the temple was purified from the profane
traffic carried on within its walls; how the great prophecy
respecting the destruction ofyour state was suggested by oiJ.
servations on the magnificence of the temple ; bow the night-
watches passed in that dark time when the Disciples forsook
their master and Peter himself denied him. The history, as
a whole, is so involved in political circumstances, as to fix its
date precisely: the many narratives which it comprehends are
so inextricably associated with scenes and circumstances else-
where described and attested, as to be capable of strict verifi-
cation ; and the discourses are so interwoven with external
realities of every kind, as to be recognised as true and faithfully
reported wherever a competent knowledge of those realities
exists. It is enough to have suggested an examination into this
species of evidence; for its interest must surely prove a suffi-
cient incitement to its pursuit.
SECTION VI.-Conclusion.
THE designs of the Supreme respecting the spiritual educa-
tion of the human a·ace have now been inferred from a survey
of the history of the race, and a comparison.of his Providence
towards your nation in particular, with that experienced by
mankind in general. The truth having been established that
a revelation was given, the extent of that revelation was next
ascertained ; it having been proved that Christianity is the
appointed continuation and consummation of Judaism. The
evidence that it is so, springs from the clear connexion, from ·
the obvious unity, of what have been commonly called two sy-
.stems; from their uni~ of object and of plan ; from the strict
Digitized byGoogle
llf
analogy of the evidence by which eacn is attested, and by the
results which have followed the reception of the last, especially
by the subjects of the first. The evidence of prophecy (from
the fact ofits being the mode of evidence selected, as well as
from its results,) has been chiefly insisted on, as that peculiarly
appropriate to the mind of your nation. The continuation and
renewal of prophecy under the later scheme has been pointt>d
out, and the facts of its delivery and complete accomplishment
established. What remains?
Only that which no human being can do for you, however
pure his zeal, however ardent his love,- however importunate
the desires of his heart that you should sympathize in his
deepest enjoyments. We have done what we can, in placing
before you the grounds of our own convictions: and here we
stop sbort,-not because we have nothing more to tell, but
because a participation in our feelings can only be arrived at
through an adoption of our convictions. If you were to believe
as we believe, you would feel as we feel; and then would be
the time to declare the multitude of benefits, of hourly bless-
ings, which we know the enlightened and pure reception ofthe
Gospel to bestow on its disciples. While you do not believe
as we believe, such declarations cannot be welcome to you, or
serviceable to the cause you oppose. Permit us, however, to
advert to a principle which you acknowledge,-that it is an in-
sult to the rational nature of man, and therefore to Him who
constituted that nature, to be careles!:ily ignorant of any truth
which He has not concealed, or wilfully blind to any light
which He has appointed to be- universally diffused. Since
Christianity exists, nothing can excuse you from the inquiry
whether it comes from God ; and since Christianity is spread..
ing by permission of the Almighty, it is your duty to ascertain
whether you are to have any part in it. If, further, you should
find that, owing to the dispersion of your nation, your insti-
tutions are less serviceable as weil as more burdensome than
formerly; that, in consequence, inconsistency of belief and
Digitized byGoogle
llS
laxity of morals are spreading in your body; if you should
find that the spiritual state of your people is no longer pro-
gressive, while your institutions are undoubtedly undergoing
change,-the way is prepared for an inquiry, whether God has
indeed appointed you to remain subject to the Old Covenant,
in which He gives no sign of continuing to bear His part ; and
whether, if the promise of a Messiah indeed temains to be ful•
filled, Israel is in a fit state to receive the blessing. Examine
the changes in belief and practice which have already taket1
place among you; and see if whatever good you have t1dded
be not insensibly derived from Christianity; if your fatllng
away be not owing to the circumstances which render the pet-
feet maintenance of your institutions impossible. If it be found
SOt you will then become in some degree aware of the nature
of the exchange of the Law for the Gospel; of the moral
benefit as well as the delight which attends a release from such
a ritual as your$; of the purity as well as ease which hallows
a wholly spiritual worship; of the animation which Yivlfies the
more extended faith of Christianity ; of the loftihess ofthe hope
which it autliorizes; of the ardour and boundlessness of the
love which it tends to generate and cherish.
Do not conclude this purity and peace to be a draam ofthe
imagination, because·your nation has witnessed all too littlf!
of the lustre of this hope, 11Dd ClXperienced much that is incon-
sistent with this loYe. Judaism was long in working its perfect
work, and Christianitymust be yet longer. What it hal! already
eS'ected for nations and for society at large, you will perhaps
be better able to judge hereafter, when you will make your
homes in the &eYeral nalions where you dweU, and be' intor-
porated in society; than now. What the Gospel has done fOT
individuals you canuot f•lly know, or you would long since
have embrac:ed it. This you may in some measure lea.l'n from
the records ofthe pastt from the observation of1he present, and
especially from coofessions ofindividaal experience, where they
can be had pul-e, and sanctioned by the tenour ofthe life. One
Digitized by GoogIe
IB
ofall the multitudeS extant may be presented here. It is select-
ed on account of its probable interest to you, being the decla-
ration of a zealous and satisfied subject of the Law, of the state
of his mind under the completion of the Law.
"We are the circumcision, who worsfiip God with our
spirit, and glory in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in
the flesh: though I might have confidence even in the flesh.
If any other man seem to have confidence in the flesh, I have
more : circumcised the eighth day, of the race of Israel, of the
tribe ofBenjamin, a Hebrew ofHebrews; concerning the Law,
a Pharisee; concerning zeal, persecuting the Church ; con-
cerning thejustification which·can arise by the Law, blameless.
But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for the
sake of Christ. Yea doubtless, and I count that all things are
loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my
Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and
count them as refuse that I might gain Christ, and be found
of him; not having mine own justification, which is from the
Law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the justifica-
tion which is from God because of faith : that I might know
Christ, and the power of his resurrection, and the partaking
of his sufferings, being made conformable to his death ; if by
any means I might come to the resurrection of the dead. I say
not that I have already attained, or am already perfected ; but
I follow after, if indeed I may apprehend that for which I have
been apprehended also by Christ. Brethren, I count not
myself to have apprehended ; but one thing I do ; forgetting
those -things which are behind, and reaching forth to those
things which are before, I press towards the goal, for the prize
of the heavenly calling of God by Christ Jesus."
Thus testified Paul of Tarsus. . Declarations of the same
kind abound in his writings, accompanied with expressions of
such holy and rapturous 4?motion that it is not surprising that
many have supposed them to refer to the transition from a
mortal to an immortal life. Those, however, who have in-
Digitized byGoogle
115
formed themselves respecting the Law, its requisitions and its
subjects, see abundant cause for the gratitude and exultation
of the Apostle. Still, none but those who have had experience
of both dispensations can completely understand how far the
latter tmnscends the former; and the day may be near when ,
you may be consCious ofeven a closer sympathy than ours with
Paul ofTarsus,-a more complete participation even than ours
in the impulse of himself and his brethren to " rejoice ever-
more."
THF. F.ND,
PJUNTIID liT RICHARD TAYLOR,
RED LlOJf COITRT, FLEIIT IITJUtET.
Digitized by GoogIe
ne folluwing Works li!J tlze same .Autlzor lzave recentlg been
puhlisked.
-
THE ESSENTIAL FAITH OF THE UNIVERSAL CHURCH.
Addre88ed to Catholics. Svo. Price 2s.
THE FAITH AS UNFOLDED BY MANY PROPHETS. An
Essay addressed to the Disciples of Mohammed. Svo. Price 2s. 6d.
Digitized by GoogIe
