{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__obrien___phoenician_ireland.pdf","mytitle":"Phoenician Ireland","mylang":"de"}
PH(ENICIAN IRELAND,
TRANSLATED, AND ILLUSTRATED .WITH
NOTES, PLATES, AND PTOLOMEY'S MAP OF ERIN MADE
MODERN,
BY HENRY O'BRIEN, ESQ. A.B.
Author of the "prize essay" upon the "round towers" of Ireland.
Multa renascentur quae jam cecidere, cadentque
Quae nunc sunt in usu !
Hor,
DUBLIN:
R. M. TIMMS, GRAFTON STREET ; M. KEENE & SON, COLLEGE
GREEN ; AND, F. W. WAKEMAN, D'OLLIER STREET.
1833.
a.
o
o^
1
ADVERTISEMENT.
A great portion of this work, as well in print as manu-
script, having been destroyed at the late conflagration of
Mr. Hardy's printing office in Dublin, where it was being-
published, the translator was obliged to commence his
labors anew, else the volume should long since have been
given to the public.
DEDICATION.
TO THE
MOST NOBLE THE MARQUIS OF THOMOND,
&c. &c. &c.
My lord marquis,
Had I not had the honor of bearing the
same name, and of deriving consanguinity and con-
nection from that ancient stock, of which your Lord-
ship is, at once, the deserving head and the distin-
guished representative, yet—when about to launch
into light a work, which purports to unfold the origin
of Ireland's early colonization, and seeking for a pa-
tron whose discriminating taste and personal ac-
quirements^ would add a charm to the advantages of
station and of birth—my eye should instinctively
direct itself toward you ; —for, where, in the un-
broken catalogue of Iran's proud-born sons, could
I find another name so intimately interwoven with
VI
her halcyon splendors, as that of the benign
patriarch of the house of Thomond ?
But it is not alone^my Lord, as occupying a princely
post, in monarchical succession, among the Scythian^
or later Irish—immortalised by the glories of Cean-
chora and Clontarf—that this homage should be
your due ; but as the direct descendant of the very
principal and leader of that earlier and nobler, and,
in every way more estimable and illustrious dynasty,
the Tuatha Danaans, or true, Iranian, Milesian
Irish—the incorporation of whom with the Scythians
—after the latter, by conquest, had wrested from
them the soil
—gave rise to the compound of Scoto-
Milesians ; which no one has heretofore been able
to elucidate.
These Tuatha Danaans, my Lord, whom your
forefather, Brien, conducted into our ^'
sacred island,"
were the expelled Budhists of Persia -neither Phoe-
nicians nor Celts—whom the intolerance of the
Brahmins and the persecution of the Rajas had
thrown upon the ocean, over whose bosom wafted
* Who came not from Scandinavia but the place which is
now called Tartary,
Vll
to our genial shores, they did not only import with
them all the culture of the east, with its accom-
panying refinement and polished civilization —
evidenced by those memorials of lunettes, anklets>
fibulae, gold crowns, pateree, &c., with which our
green valleys still abound —but raised the country
to that pinnacle of literary and religious beatitude,
which made it appear, to the fancies of distant and
enraptured *^
bards," more the day dream of romance,
than the sober outline of an actual locality. This,
my Lord, will account, for the scepticism of Dio-
dorus as to the ''
Hyperborean Isle ;" and, at the
same time, for the vivid portraiture and enchanting
delineation, in which the divine Orpheus sung of
its happy inhabitants.
After the establishment of this colony in our in-
vigorating region, b. c. 1200, no one can know better
than your Lordship's self, how that—in memory of
theirybrmer residence—they gave it the name of Iran
* The word BardSf emancipated from the mystification of
etymological empyrics, is but a modification of Boreades^
the name of our ancient Irish poetic divines—who, again, were
so denominated, not less in reference to their geographical
position than their elementary worship.
Vlll
—erroneously ciilled Erin—which—signifying, as it
does, the land of the faithful, or the sacred isle—
shews the existence of this epithet before the reve-
lation of Christianity. This original " Iran^' the
early Greeks—who were Pelasgi, and allies of our
Tuatha Danaans—commuted into Terne—a mere
translation of the word, from, ieros, sacred ; and, neos,
an island—which, again, the Latins, without, at all,
knowing the meaning of the term,"* transformed into
Hibernia ; f but which, however, with soul-stirring
triumph, means exactly the same thing, namely,
" sacred island"—the initial H, being only the aspi-
rate of the Greek, ieros, sacred ; neos, island re-
* And yet the primeval sanctity of our isle was admitted
by their writer Avienus, when he says of it, *'
sacram sic insu-
latn dixereprisci." De Oris Maritimis.
t This name, therefore, which has so much puzzled etymo-
logists to analyse, has nothing on earth to do with Hiar, the
west ; or, Iberin, extremes ; or Heber, or, Heremon ; or any otlier
such outlandish nonsense. What, then, becomes of the reveries
of Mr, Ritson ? " This country" (Ireland) says he, *'
it appears
was already inhabited by the Hiberni, or Hiberiones, of whose
origin, any more than that of the Scots, nothing is known, but
by conjecture, that the former were a colony from Britain."
Introduction to '^
Annals of the Caledonians, Picts, and Scots."—
Never was such ignorance betrayed since the beginning of the
IX
maining unaltered, and the letter, h, only interposed
for sound sake. So that, whether we consider it
as, Iran, lerne or Hibernia ; or under the mul-
tiplied variations, which diverge, almost inter-
minably, from those three originals, in the several
languages which they respectively represent—they
will be found, each and all, to resolve themselves
into this one, great] incontrovertible, position of
—the ''
Sacred Island."
But it was not alone, my Lord, under this vague
designation of sanctity, that your venerable fore-
fathers identified themselves with our island ; but
lest there should be any misconception as to the
species of worship whence that " sanctity" had ema-
nated—they gave this scene of its exercise two other
world. The word Hiberni, vulgarised Hiberiones, in English,
Hibernians, is not the name of any particular people, but a des-
criptive epithet, meaning '*
inhabitants of the sacred island"
our own Iran.—And the people whose character had obtained
it this designation, had no connection whatever with Britain !
Equally in the dark was he as to the origin and era of the
Scots, as, indeed, was every other writer up to this date, May
15th, 1833, on the Ancient History of Scotland. But if Mr.
Ritson was right in asserting that " nothing was known" on
those matters, he should have confined the dogma to his own
resources—other resources now shew the reverse.
Phud Inls, and Inis-na-Phuodha —
which, at once, associate the "worship" with the
profession of the worshippers—^for, Phud Inis, is
Budh Inis—Ph, or, F, being only the aspirate of,
B, and commutable with it—that is, Budh Island
and Inis-na-Phuodha, is Inis-na Buodha, that is,
the island of Budha.
Your Lordship must also know, how that, to cele-
brate the mysteries of their religious creed, they
erected those temple'^, which still embellish our land-
scape ; and which—mystified in their character, like
their prototypes in the east, under the vague desig-
nations of " Pillars" and ^*
Round Towers"—have
puzzled the antiquaries of all countries to develope,
until I had the good fortune to pierce the cloud.
And, yet, my Lord, will you not commisserate
with me the degeneracy ? and say ''
how are the
mighty fallen ? " when informed that the individual
who has revived so many truths, immersed beneath
the rubbish of three thousand years accumulation
and that when his researches did not apply alone to
Ireland,^ but took in the scope of the whole ancient
* The formation as well as the date of this, the present name
of our island, I account for in a forthcoming note.
XI
world—has been defrauded of that prize for which
his zeal had been enlisted, and his young energies
evoked ? while—from that system of ''jobbing'' with
which our country has been long accursed—he has
seen the badge of his victory transferred to another,
merely because that other was a member of the
council of the deciding tribunal, who disregarded
the crying fact, that the whole texture of their
friend's essay must, inevitably, be untenable !
*
However, my Lord, in the consciousness of your
countenance I find my consolation ; and, soon as my
"Towers" appear, I doubt not, this ivise(l) '*
tribu-
nal" will reap the fruits, together, of their own
discorjifiture and of my revenge.
In the mean time, my Lord, I have the honor to
subscribe myself.
With every feeling of respect,
and affectionate consideration,
your Lordship's most obliged, most faithful
and most devoted, humble servant,
HENRY O'BRIEN.
* Of this I give, by anticipation, the most startling and
ovei'whelming proof, even in a note appended towards the end of
the 33rd chapter of the present work.
Xll!
TO THE PUBLIC.
I deem it right to publish the following correspondence for
two reasons—firstly, as an apology to my countrymen for any
harshness of expression which may appear in the ensuing
'* Preface ;" and, secondly, as an act of justice to myself, to
assert my right against the oppression of a ** Society" who
would not only fain extinguish the dispeller of their darkness,
but bury in the mire of oblivion and disregard those miracles of
history which his industry has unfolded.
To be explicit. The Royal Irish Academy, in their avowed
desire to arrive at some elucidation of the origin of the ** Round
Towers," proposed, in December, 1830, a premium of a" Gold
Medal and Fifty Pounds," to the author of an approved Essay,
in which all particulars respecting them were expected to be
explained. This manifesto I never saw ;
—the prescribed period
passed over, and the several candidates sent in their works.
After a perusal of two or three months, the Academy came to
a second resolution, which exhibited itself in the following
form :
—
"ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY HOUSE,
*' Dublin, February 21, 1832,
" It having appeared to the Royal Irish Academy that none
of the Essays given in on the subject of the * Round Towers,'
XIV
as advertised in December, 1830, have satisfied the conditions
of the question, they have come to the following Resolutions :
—
" 1st.—That the question be advertised again as follows :
" * The Royal Irish Academy hereby give Notice, that
they will give a Premium of Fifty Pounds and the Gold Medal,
to the Author of an approved Essay on the Round Towers of
Ireland, in which it is expected that the characteristic archi-
tectural peculiarities belonging to all those ancient buildings
now existing shall be noticed, and the uncertainty in which
their origin and uses are involved, be satisfactorily removed.'
" 2nd.—That the time be extended to the 1st of June next,
for receiving other Essays on said subject, and for allowing the
Authors of the Essays already given in to enlarge and improve
them ; for which purpose they will be returned, on application
at the Academy House.
" All Essays, as usual, to be sent post-free to the Rev. J.
H. Singer, D. D., Secretary, at the Academy House, 114,
Grafton Street, Dublin ; each Essay being inscribed with some
motto, and accompanied with a sealed billet, superscribed with
same motto, in which shall be written the author's name and
address."
Now, I put it, frankly, to any dispassionate observer, whether
it could, for a moment, be supposed, that the propounders of
this document had seriously contemplated even the possibility
of '* receiving other Essays on said subject." What ! a subject,
which had baffled the researches and laughed to scorn the im-
potence of all writers, of all countries, from almost the earliest
era —that this should be embarked in by a new adventurer, at
three months' notice ? And that when our Academy itself
after many fruitless attempts to obtain information on the point,
before—had allowed the candidates, in ihe first instance, more
than a twelve month for their composition ; so that, during the
three additional months now extended, they had only 'Mo
XV
enlarge aiul improve them !" The thuig is absurd! It is mon-
strously inconsistent ! And offensive alike to common sense,
as to honesty !
Yes ! I have the most startling evidences—the most astound-
ing /acfs—the most direct positive and substantial affirmations—
to shew, that the Royal Irish Academy, at the very moment in
which they published this second invitation, had actually de-
termined to award the Gold Medal and Premium to one of their
own Council!—in whose favor, alone, the three additional months
were allowed, tor the completion of his work—and, consequently,
that the insertion of the clause by which new Essays were
challenged, was but to give the color of liberality to a dis-
honourable manoeuvre !
Disregarding, however, what their generalship had calculated^
and looking solely to the terms and the wording of their prO'
clamation,—by which I found that I was entitled to enter the
lists, —I grappled with the question with all the ardour of my
nature, and, heaven and earth, night and day, in difficulties
and in sorrow, I labored, until I finished my '*
Essay " against
the appointed hour, when —a brain-blow to their expectations —
I sent it in —full satisfied, from the consciousness of its imper-
turbable axioms, that all the powers of error and wickedness
combined could not withhold from it the suffrage of the adver-
tised medal.
Four days, however, had scarcely passed over when the
machinations of the '' Council" break forth in another, and still
more glaring outrage. Having perceived that a new candidate
had taken the field, and with something like that intrepidity
which rectitude ever stimulates, they—at the request of the
identical party before favored—sent forth a third advertise-
ment, ordering all the Essays to be taken back again, and
extending the period of improvement to one month more !
But the most barefaced and profligate part of the proceed-
ing was, that they had the effrontery to dress up this advertise-
XVI
mem as the second, on the former occasion the " receiving,
^^
forsooth, of " other Essays T' —to lull the public by the plau-
sibility of their motives
At this re-violation of all that was honest and rational —of
all that was conformable with justice, and in harmony with inner
light, I confess, my self-possession, for a moment, forsook me.
Having received the intimation from another, and catching his
spirit as he delivered it, I proceeded, in a headlong and rather
too determined career, to arrest the progress of a villanous im-
posture, which I knew was somewhere at work, though I was
yet ignorant of the proper quarter,—and for wliich, 1 have
since, been, made most retributively to suffer. However, 1 got
a clue to the main spring of the ** affair;'' and, though this was,
in itself, an undeniable good, yet did it little compensate for
the injury which accompanied it; for, by the earnestness of
my manner having identified myself with the author of the new
composition, I did not only take from it all that charm of in-
cognito, under which its merits must otherwise against all
conspiracies—have triumphed, but I embittered the umpires
against me personally, by the tone and bearing of my declared
defiance.
What, however, was the upshot ? Why, truly, that, after
poring over my work for six long months, from no good motive,
it is evident when they had determined on all the others within
the short compass of three —they pronounced, in spite of them,
that it vras the victor !
But how did they give utterance to this forced conviction .-'
Just in the same strain of deceptive evasiveness which character-
ised their earlier measures—namely, by voting it a special and
merely nominal premium ! leaving the original one undis-
turbed, according to previous compact, to their own dearly
beloved brother, and familiar fellow council-man !
It is worth while to quote the outline in which they advertised
this. It was as follows :-—
XVll
''
ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY HOUSE.
''
On Monday, December 17^ a Meetiiig of the Council of
the Royal Irish Academy was held for the purpose of deciding
on tlie merits of Essays received, pursuant to advertisement,
On the Origin and Use of the Round Towers of Ireland, when
the following Premiums were adjudged; viz.
" £50. and the Gold Medal to George Petrie.
'•
£20. to Henry O'Brien, Esq."
Now, if this advertisement were really the herald of truth and
honesty: and not intended as the cover of a systematic cheat,
it should have been thus couched :
—" The Royal Irish Aca-
demy have awarded their Gold Medal and Premium to Mr.
Petrie, for his successful developement of the subject proposed
but, in consequence of certain redeeming features in Mr.
O'Brien's Essay ( which may or may not be mentioned) they
could not dismiss it without some mark of their approval ; they
have, accordingly deviated from their established rule, and
voted it a separate premium." Whereas, the above advertise-
ment would insinuate that there were two premiums all along-
intended ; and that the first of these was given to the best com-
position, and the second to that which approached it in quality !
But this would not square with ulterior objects in view,
which now multiplied in intensity as they approached the de-
nouement. The great point to be secured was the Gold Medal,
not alone because of the accompanying £50; but because that
Lord Cloncurry had declared that he would follow the
Academy's verdict, or even empowered them to award his
premium of £100. additional, on the same topic, to the suc-
cessful Essayist to whom they should vote this insigne. Such
a boon, therefore, must not be lost to their friend, at any peril
or any sacrifice, while they hoped that they should lull the
public vigilance, by the affected ingenuousness in which they
issued forth the announcement
A *
XVI u
As this delusion, however, must, at some time, have an end,
and inevitably evaporate, soon as the rival Essays are pub-
lished, it is determined on, furthermore, to keep mine in the
back-ground, in order to give the other a** market-day;" and,
then, when the public are insulted w\th a farrago oi anachronism
2Lnd historical falsehoods, they are to be treated to the " truth/^
in the shape of the second '*
Prize Essay ;" by the force of
which all mysteries being unravelled, the reader will naturally
exclaim, " this alone is right.'' To which the Academy have
this ready answer :
*' Oh ! Yes; and have we not admitted the
fact, by voting it a special premium ?" Their poor, paltry,
wretched, contemptible Twenty Pounds ! And yet this was
the subterfuge, on which they reckoned for impunity ! ! !
On hearing of the *' decision," I wrote off to the secretary,
tendering, in indignant irony, my thanks for their adjudication —
taking care, however, to tell them that I had expected an issue
more flattering to my hopes. At this time I had no idea what
may have been the theory of the other essayist.—I did not know
but that it may have been my own, supported more talentedly,
and, substantially, more elucidated; fancy therefore my asto-
nishment on learning that they were the very antipodes of each
other, and " wide as the poles assunder !"
The bubble must, therefore, soon burst, I thought ; and I was
not long in suspense as to the accuracy of this inference. From
the commencement of the publication of the Dublin Penny
Journal—of which the principal conductors, or at least, contri-
butors, are members of the academy , and Mr. Petrie, himself,
its antiquarian high priest—pending the scheme of the *'Towers,"
and before its formal notification, whenever reference was
made to their origin and date, its columns, unqualifiedly,
asserted that they were Christian and modern. Now, how-
ever, when their conviction was revolutionised by the proofs of
my treatise, it was necessary, of course, to retrace their steps ;
and, as an open acknowledgment of en'oi' would be too self-
XIX
abasing for academicians, they thought they must put forth a
feeler, as if implying douht on the matter; v/lrich would have
the two-fold effect of screening the " council's" verdict—as the
result of doubt or ambiguity —and of preparing the public
mind for the altered and novel conclusion to which all must,
ere long, as well as themselves, have arrived.
My eye, however, was on their plans, though separated by a
" roaring sea."—I knew that where there were so many
windings to mature the plot, there must be as many to pre-
vent its detection ; and, accordini^ly, the very fiist move they
made, on their new chess hoard of tactics, I check-^nated it, at
once, by the following letter :
(No. 1.)
London, March 16th, 1833.
Dear Dr. Singer,
The Dublin Penny Journal of Feb. 23rd, on
the article '*
Devenish Island," contains this sentence, viz.
" whether the towers are the accompaniment to the churches,
or the churches to the towers, is a question not yet decided."
Now, this—coupled with the circumstance of the commijttee
having awarded two premiums, to two, as 1 understand, con-
flicting ascriptions i and that when only one was originally
proposed—induces me, with all deference, to offer this me-
morial, through you, to the Academy.
As the developement of truth in the elucidation of history, is
the object of the antiquarian—and as " the labourer is worthy
of his hire," I take the liberty respectfully to ask, whether, if
I make my ascription of the Round Towers a mathematical
demonstration, with every other incident relating to their
founders, comprehending all the antiquities of Ireland, as con-
nected therewith—and this by all the varieties and modes of
proof—whether, I say, in that event, will the academy award
a2*
XX
me the gold medal and premium ? or, if that cannot be recalled,
an equivalent gold medal and premium ?
My intercalary work, substantiating all the above, is now
finished, and can be forwarded to the committee by return of
the same post which will favor me with your answer.
1 have the honor to be, Dear Sir,
Your obedient, &c.
HENRY O'BRIEN.
Rev. Dr J. H. Singer,
Secretary to the Academy,
By the above proposal I must not be understood 3.s,for a
moment, admitting that my original Essay "was not all sufficient
all conclusive, all illustrative, and all convincing," but as I had
more arguments still in reserve, I wanted to elicit from the
Academy the admission that it was truth they sought after,
in order to overwhelm them with the influx of its inex-
haustible light. Afier waiting, however, more than three
weeks, and getting no reply, I forwarded those other proofs
accompanied by a letter, of which the following was the con-
clusion, viz.
(No. 2.)
These are but items in the great body of discoveries which
this intercalary work will exhibit. In truth, I may, without
vanity assert, that the whole ancient history of Ireland and of
the world, is therein rectified and elucidated—what it never was
before.
Am I, therefore, presumptuous in appealing to the Royal
Irish Academy—the heads of Irish literature and the avowed
patrons of its developement—for the reward of my labors?
I shall, with confidence, rely upon theiv justice.
i have the honor to be, with sincere regard, &c.
HENRY O'BRIEN.
To the Rev. Dr. J. H. Singer,
Secretary to the Academy,
XXI
(No. 3.)
Royal Insh Academy House, April \Qtli, 1833.
Sir,
Your improved Essay and letter were yesterday
laid before council ; and, as Dr. Singer is at present confined
with the gout, it devolves on me to communicate to you the fol-
lowing extract from the minutes.
" Resolved, that the Secretary be directed to reply to Mr.
O'Brien, and to state that any alteration or revocation of their
award cannot be made, whatever may be the merits of any
additional matter supplied to them after the day appointed by
advertisement; but, if Mr. O'Brien be willing that the new
matter be printed along with the original Essay, the council will
have the same perused in order to ascertain the expediency of
so enlarging their publication."
By order,
RICH. ROW,
Clerk to the Academy.
To B. O'Brien, Esq.
(No. 4.)
London f
April 18th, 1833.
Had I a notion that the Academy's reply
would be such as your letter has this day imparted, I would
never have sat down to indite those long additions, much
less have forwarded them for their perusal. For why
did I write to the Sectetary three weeks ago, but to ascertain,
whether or not, in the event of my doing so and so, would the
Academy act so and so ? and thus repair that injury which they
had before inflicted ? What could be more easy than to give
me a catagorical answer, one way or the other ? Instead of
XXll
which, however, they left me to my own conclusions, which
as usual, in such circumstances —leading me to construe silence
into acquiescence -1 transmitted my documents on the tacit
faith, that though the Academy would not pledge themselves
by a written promise, they would, notwithstanding, if my re-
searches proved adequate, reward my industry by a suitable
remuneration.
Now, however, when my papers have been received, and
my developements communicated, I am told that, be their merits
what they may, the award is irrevocable ; and I have no alter-
native, in the writhings of my mortification, but the consolation
of being injured and duped at the same time.
You will say, perhaps, that my new evidences have not yet
been read ; and that, therefore, my property, is secure and sa-
cred. But has not the accompanying letter been read ? And
what was that but a programme of their contents ?
I had thought that the Royal Irish Academy were not only a
learned, but dijust and a patriotic society. 1 had thought that
having marshalled themselves into an institution, with the
avowed object oi resuscitating from death the almost despaired-
of evidences of our national history, they would not alone ybs^er
every advance toward that desirable consummation, but, shower
honors, and acclamations, and triumphs upon him, who has not
only infused a vital soul into those moriburid remains, but made
the history of Ireland, at this moment, the clearest, the most
irrefragible, and withal, the most interestingly comprehensive
chain of demonstrational proofs in the whole circle of universal
literature*
But it is not alone the being deprived of my reward that I
complain of, and the transferring of that reward to atwther, every
sentiment in whose production must inevitably be wrong^ but it
This 1 predicate of my work upon the " Round Towers."
XXlll
is the suppression of my labors, and the keeping them back
from the public eye, in deference to ray opponent's work, lest
that the discernment of the public should bestow upon me those
honors which the discretion of the Academy has thought proper
to alienate, that affects me as most severe.
Indeed, it has been stated from more quarters than one, that
the withholding' of the medal from me, in the first instance, and
the substituting thereinstead a nominal premium of twenty
pounds, originated from a personal pique against me indivi-
dually. Such a report I would fain disbelieve, and yet it is
hard not to give it some credence, seeing that the irresistible
cogency of my truths, and the indubitable value of my literary
discoveries, are not only not rewarded, but kept back from
publication, until some one else more fortunate, or rather, 7nore
Javored, shall run away with the credit of my cherished disclo-
sures. I wish—1 desire —I most intensely covet, that the Aca-
demy would convince me that this is not an act of the most
aggravated injustice.
You will please lay this before the Council, and tell them
from me, respectfully, that I do not want them either to ** alter"
or " revoke" their award ; but, simply to vote me " an equi-
valent gold medal and premium'' for my combined essay, or, if
they prefer, the new portion of it. Should this be refused, /
will put my cause into the hands of the great God who has en-
lightened me, and make Him the umpire between me and the
Academy.
I have the honor to be, &c. &c.
HENRY O'BRIEN.
To the Rev. Rich. Roe,
Clerk to the Academy.
No answer having arrived to this communication, 1 delayed
the publication of the present work, though printed, to see what
XXIV
the above would effect. —In the interim, Mr. Godfrey Higgins,
the learned and ingenious author of the **
Celtic Druids," and
who has been partly in possession of my developement of the
**
Towers" for some time back, favored me with a visit—during
which we conversed principally on historical questions. The
next day I addressed him a note, a copy of which, with its
answerf I take leave to subjoin^ for the sake of the terminating
clause of the latter, being the suicidal acknowledgtnent of the
•*
Academy's" disingenuousness.
(No. 5.;
May 2nd, 1833.
Dear Sir,
1 hope you will not feel displeased at the
frankness of this question which 1 am about to propose to you,
viz. Have you any objection to shew me in manuscript, be-
fore you send to print, the terms in which you speak of me
in reference to those points of information which I entrusted
to your confidence—such as the ancient names of Ireland
and their derivation, the Towers and founders, dates, &c.
Should you think proper to consent to this feeling of anxiety
on my part, 1 shall be most willing to share with you those
other " points" which I exclusively retain.
To the full extent you shall have them. The only condition
1 require is, the credit of originality—which I have laboriously
earned . Please to drop me a line in reply to this, and allow
me to subscribe myself, with great respect,
Dear Sir,
Your obedient,
HENRY O^BRlEN.
Godfrey Higgins, Esq.
XXV
(No. 6.)
May ^rd, 1833.
My Dear O'Brien,
You may be perfectly assured I shall
print nothing which I have learnt from you without acknow-
ledging it. But I have really forgotten what you told me,
because I considered that I should see it in print in a few days.
Any thing I shall write on the subject, will not be printed for
years after your books have been before the public. You did
not tell me the name of Buddha, but I told it you, that it was
Saca, or Saca-sa,* which I have already printed a hundred
times, and can shew you in my great quarto, when you take
your tea with me, as I hope you will to-morrow. Sir W.
Betham told me of the Fire Towers being Phailus's, last night,
at the Antiquarian Society. ^
Yours, truly,
G. HIGGINS.
* It is true Mr. Higgins has told me this, and I listened,
with polite silence, to what I had read '*in print" a thousand
times before. But our chronicles call the name, Macha, and
I abide by them. The true history, however, of Budha and
Budhism, which I alone possess, neither Ae -and I say it with
submission to his diversified acquirements and indefatigable ap-
plication — nor any other writer of the present or many hundred
preceeding ages, have, or have had, even approached in thought.
Having in a note, towards the conclusion of this present volume,
—which had passed through the press long before 1 had re-
solved on prefixing this expos6—mentioned Mr. Higgins's name
as amongst the supporters of the fire fatuity—that true ignis
fatuus—I here gladly avail myself of the opportunity of quoting
that he only " thought it expedient to continue the name by
which ^Aese towers are generally known." ..." They are cer-
XXVI
Who, now, can pretend to think that the fieutralising award
of the '' Council," was the effect of sceptiscism or legitimate
doubt ? Here Sir William Betham,—the Ulster King at Arms
the Goliah of Antiquaries ! as he is, undoubtedly, of Pedigrees !
—being himself a member of the ''
deciding tribunal," proclaims,
in the midst of a venerable literary assembly, that my solution
of the Round Tower enigma is accurate;* and yet, in the teeth
of this confession^ and of the conviction which extorted it,
trampling under foot the shackles of conscience^ honesty, and
truth, he votes away my 7nedal to a compilation of error and
falsehood, and thinks to evade exposure by a dexterous subterfuge.
But it will not do —I will take the reform of the Academy
into my own hands; and furthermore claim Lord Cloncurry^s
premium.
(No. 7.)
London, May the 2nd, 1833.
Dear Dr. Singer,
I exceedingly grieve to hear of your ill
health.—-Its announcement, I assure you, made me look within
myself, and for a moment, lose sight of my own hardships. I
tainly not belfreys ; and the fire-tower scheme being gone, I
have not heard any thing suggested having the slightest degree
of probability." Introduction to The Celtic Druids, p. 46.
* I am here obliged to let out more of the secret of the
" Towers," than I had intended. Then be it known, that I
hare not only proved them to have been Budhist Temples, but
Budhist Temples themselves to have been Phalli, which ac
counts for their peculiar form. And if, now, the reader should
imagine that he has got all the arcana of my discovery, I can
tell him he mistakes very much.
XXVll
hope, however, that you are now so far recovered as to send me
a favourable answer to this my last appeal.
Taking it for certain that the Academy's having not replied
to the tenor of my late intimation, arose from the circumstance
of there having been no "Council Day" since; and as I
anticipate that on Monday next my question will be finally
disposed of, I am anxious for the good of all parties, and for
the triumph of truth, to shew you in one view how I have am-
putated the last supports of error, and covered its advocates
with ignominy and shame.
Thus every leaf unfolds evidences to the realization of my
victory. I took my stand at the outset on the pedestal of truth;
and 1 challenge scrutiny to insinuate, that, in the multiplied
developements which I have since revealed, I have deviated from
my grand position one single iota.
Let me not be supposed, in the observation with which I am
now about to conclude, that I mean any thing disrespectful
to the Council of the Academy. Many years have not passed
since I knew several of them in a different relation ; and, how-
ever little effect, College Associations may produce on other
minds, /find not their influence so fleeting or transient. It is
with extreme reluctance, therefore, that I would split with a
body who have lectured me as tutors. But time has advanced:
I am now right, and they are wrong, and the came which they
patronise will not do them much credit.
I do not, however, yet give up my hopes but that the
Academy will wisely retrace their steps : revocation of the
former medal I do not require, —much less the exercise of a
single grain of ^^ar/ia/zY?/. —My demand merely is, as my former
letters have indicated, the substitution of justice.
Please receive the assurance of my consideration, and in
XXVIU
confident reliance that you will use your influence in this matter,
and favor me with the upshot instantly after Monday's Board,
I remain, ever sincerely, yours,
HENRY O'BTMEN.
P.S. My translation of " Ibernia Phoenicia" has been printed
for some days back ; but I have suppressed its publication in
suspense about this affair. I shall not wait after the due period
for hearing of Monday's decision.—H. O'B.
No answer having arrived to this or its precursor, I had no
choice but to act as follows ;
(No. 8.)
London, May 9th, 1833.
Dear Dr. 'Singer,
My appeals are over—and, I regret
to say, that they have not been attended to. The virtuous and
enlightened part of the Academy, therefore, cannot blame me,
if in the assertion of my honest right, I try the effect of a public
remonstrance.
In the interim, I transmit to you by this night's post, some
additional leaves, which—in the anxiety of dispatch, as well,
indeed, as from fear that they would not be inserted, because
they overwhelmfor ever the antiquarianpretensions of the Dublin
Pen7iy Journal—I have omitted to copy. However, I will now
forward them and claim, as an act of justice, that they be
printed along with those already sent, in the original Essay.
And now I shall have done by telling you that had I not
XXIX
written a single word on the advertised subject but the follow-
ing, I should be entitled to the advertised premium.
I shall now bring out my printed work, and pretix to it part
of this correspondence. It is a painful duty, but it is a dutyt
of necessity indispensible.
I remain, Dear Sir,
Your obedient, &c. &c.
HENRY O'BRIEN.
To the Rev. Dr. J. H. Singer,
Secretary to the Academy.
I shall now close with the following letter, which will be
seen for the^rs^ ^ime through this medium, reserving my proofs
therein alluded to, until particularly required. In the interim,
if any gentleman, in the exercise of a free judgment^ should
think proper to dissent from me, whether as editor or translator
of the present work, and to express that dissent in correspond-
ing language, I shall feel obliged as having no facilities Jor
watching periodicals^ newspapers, magazines, or reviews —by
his favoring me with a copy of the publication in which his
remarks appear, directed to the care of Messrs. Longman and
Co. Paternoster-row, London. —And I entreat the same favor
of those who may approve of my views, if, peradventure there
be any such :
(No. 9.)
London, May 10th, 1833.
Dear Dr. Singer,
I have exhausted all the forms of bland-
ness and conciliation, in the vain hope of inducing the Academy
XXX
to redeem themselves from disgrace^ by doin^ me common jus-
tice. I have strove in the mildest terms of conscious rectitude,
invigorated by a phalanx of overwhelming proofs, to make
them re-consider their course, and spare me the unpleasant
task of exposing a deed which I am loth to characterise by
its proper designation. But " the heart of Pharoah" was
hardened—the *' voice of the charmer" not listened to —and
to my soft importunites nothing was returned, but the coldness
of obduracyand disregard.
The Rubicon, therefore, is crossed—my patience feels in-
sulted—and the only consideration I value, in the resolve to
which I have at last been driven, is, that you had nothing to
do with the ''job" of the Round Towers.
Little did the Academy know what arguments I could
adduce in e\wc\Adiiion oi certain mysteries. —As little do they
now dream what proofs I can summon—though you cannot
have forgotten one of them, while I promise I shall make
JDr. Mc. Donnell recollect another—that the gold medal and
premium were pre-determined to Mr. Petrie, before ever I
became a candidate ; and that, consequently, the advertisement
under which I was invited to contend, but from which the
Council never expected an intruder, was but a specious de-
lusion !
In this determination, I violate no act of private regard, nor
set light by the claims of individual acquaintance. You know
yourself how earnestly I struggled before the consummation of
this nefarious proceeding, to stem the agency of that despicable
under-current which I had just detected. I knew that fraud, of
some kind, was at work ; and though unable, at the moment, to fix
upon the personage in whose favor it was set a-going—nay,
though rwewifa% fastening the blame thereof upon another, whose
name, however, I never let slip, and to whom, I rejoice to
say, I have since made more than recompense, for this ideal
injury—yet could I not be persuaded but that something
XXXI
sinister was designed : and to frustrate that influence of promi-
neot deceit, you know how vehement was my address. I im-
plored you, I besought you, and all but upon my knees, and
with tears I invoked you, by your regard to justice, and your
fear of a Creator, to check this trickery * and allow merit,
alone and anonymous, to decide the issue.
I now, in the same spirit of solemn self-composure, adjure
the *' Council" through you—for their own sake as well as mine
—in the name of that God before whom they and I shall one
day appear, and who now suggests this threat and propels its ut-
terance, that they will have my cause redressed, and make me
reparation, not only for the substantial trespass, but for the
mental disquietude and agony which this " business" has occa-
sioned. If they do not, rest satisfied that, my path is already
chalked. All the evolutions of the Council, as displayed upon
the " Towers," and with which I am but too familiar, shall be
immortalized in letter-press : and I do not yet despair of the
hereditary fairness of my country, but that it shall register
its dissent from the decision of that tribunal, which could
have had, at once, the obtuseness of intellect and the per.
verseness of conduct, to stultify their own verdict by a contra-
dictory award, 3.nd—9.itev inveiy ling me into a competition which
they never meant to remunerate—deprive me of the fruits of my
indubitable triumph, in the pursuit of which I had almost lost
my life, and cut short my existence in the very spring of my man-
hood.
I mean no offence, individually or collectively to the Aca-
demy, or its members; but as they have been deaf to the
justice of my " private appeals," I shall try the effect of a *'
public
* It is due to Dr. Singer to state that he did all he could to
repress it—but he cannot deny how it escaped him, perhaps in-
advertently, that he feared it was a forlorn hope.
XXXll
remonstrance" ; and as to ulterior consequences, I greatly err,
else the upshot will shew that, the motto* adopted as my
fictitious signature in the *'
Essay," was not the random as-
sumption of inconsiderateness or accident, but the true index
to the author's resources.
My proposal is this^—my unshaken position from which I will
not swerve or retract—a gold medal and premium equivalent
to those originally advertised.
I am, Dear Sir,
Your's sincerely,
HENRY O'BRIEN.
To Rev. Dr. J. H. Singer,
Secretary to the Academy.
Owvr? ev TT] spe/uiu).
TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE.
Should it be asked by any of my " old associates,"
who, from college recollections, may be disposed
to overvalue whatever capabilities I possess, why,
wishing to court popularity as a writer, I would not
rather originate some theme of my own than make
my labor subservient to the fame of another—to this
I shall reply, that I am not so actuated by the desire
of appearing an original, as to forego what I conceive
to be a favourable opportunity of doing a practical
good, by presenting to the great bulk of my country-
men—and countrywomen also —who, in amiable devo-
tion to the land of their forefathers, ever allied and
connected with the purest virtues of the heart, yield
not to the daughters of the once-celebrated Sparta,
whilst in all those finer sensibilities* which constitute
the charm of social life, and sublime the human
* '* The ladies of Ireland," says Carr, an intelligent and
highly respectable English writer,'* possess a peculiarly pleasing
frankness of manners, and a vivacity in conversation, which
render highly interesting all they do and all they say. In this
B
11 TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
species to a nearer relation to divinity, they stand
proudly and pre-eminently beyond them—a faithful
and, I trust, an acceptable transcript of the re-
searches of an individual, who—in the genuine flow
of an ennobling gratitude for the ordinary hos-
pitality* which Ireland offers to every stranger—sat
down in the vigor of a green old age—an old age as
full of honor as it has been distinguished by useful-
ness—when the crude notions of enthusiasm are
naturally extinct, and the mind fixed upon the
awful certainty of its near transit to another sphere,
rejects the intrusions of vanity and self-conceit, not
less of worldly parade than literary hypothesisf—to
open sweetness of deportment, the libertine finds no encourage-
ment, for their modesty must be the subject of remark and
eulogy with every stranger." Stranger in Ireland, p. 148.
*' The ladies of Ireland are generally elegantly, and fre-
quently highly-educated ; and it is no unusual circumstance to
hear a young lady enter with a critical knowledge into the
merits of the most celebrated authors, with a diflfidence which
shows that she is moved by a thirst for knowledge, and not by
vanity. A greater musical treat can scarcely be enjoyed, than
to hear some of them perform their own Irish airs, which are
singularly sweet, simple, and affecting. Those who have been
present at a ball in Ireland, can best attest the spirit, good-
humour, and elegance which prevail in it." Stranger in Ire-
Inndy p, 149.
* Sunt sane homines hospitalissimi, neque illis uUa in re
magis gratificari potes, quam vel sponte ac voluntate eorum
domos frequentare, vel illis invitatum condicere. Stan, de reb.
in Hib. gest. lib. 1, p. 33.
t Opinionuni comraenta delet dies; naturae judicia con-
firmat.— Cicero.
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. Ill
remove the rubbish which overhung our antiquities,
and exhibit before the eyes of an admiring world,
the source of that magnificence which commanded
the homage of this world before ; —anxious only to
elicit truth, and in the laudable pursuit of this para-
mount destination, deeming no industry too great
no pains unrequited. Such being the spirit that influ-
enced our author, in the origin and prosecution of
this his design, I should be ashamed of myself if I
could allow any narrow feelings, of false delicacy or
overweening self-importance, to interfere with my
respect for such exemplary worth ; but chiefly, and
more especially, w^hen the fruits of such an impulse
have been brought to bear upon a country which,
whether its civil condition, or its literary character,
be the topic of debate, never fails to enlist my
keenest emotions, and to vibrate with interest to my
inmost soul.—Hibernicus sum, Hibernici nihil a me
alienum puto.*
^'Nature," says Gibbon, "has implanted in our
breasts a lively impulse to extend the narrow span
of our existence, by the knowledge of the events that
have happened on the soil which we inhabit, of the
* Breathes there the man with soul so dead,
Who never to himself hath said,
This is my own, my native land?
Scott.
*' Nescio qua natale solum dulccdine cunctos
Tangit, et iinmemores non sinit esse sui."
B 2
IV TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
characters and actions of those men from whom our
descent, as individuals or as a people, is probably-
derived. The same laudable emulation will prompt
us to review and to enrich our common treasure of
national glory ; and those who are best entitled to the
esteem of posterity are the most inclined to celebrate
the merits of their ancestors."
But as utility, not celebrity, is my object, I shall
forbear descanting upon my own merits in the under-
taking, lest those who are ignorant of my motives,
and of the frankness in which I habitually indulge,
should suppose that any further explanation, in
which self must be so prominent, would imply a
certain tenacity inconsistent with this avowal.* To
the critics, therefore, and to an enlightened public I
consign the task, while I confine myself to a consi-
deration of the original composition.
The purport then of the author is to prove—by the
analysis of names imposed in the days of Paganism
and retained amongst us till the present, and by
* Nor, indeed, were the subject a less grateful one, would
I consider the province of a translator so inconsiderable by any
means, knowing well that it depends greatly upon the indivi-
dual so to invigorate, at least, if not to mould, the materials as
to make them appear his own ; and should my example in this
instance encourage those endued with brighter qualifications, to
undertake the translation of those Irish MSS. which lie moul-
dering upon the shelves of our University, I shall rest satisfied
with having done some good '* in my day," were it only that
of pioneering to those who may reflect a lustre o'er the land-
scape.
translator's preface. V
the similarity of worship cultivated in Ireland, before
the introduction of Christianity, to that practised
in Phoenicia at the same era of time—that a colony
from the latter place must at one period, and that a
very distant one, have visited our shores, and spread
their dominion over the whole extent of the island.*
It is true I may be here met by an objection, as
to ''
what possible advantage such inquiry could now
promote, either as regards the issue of the discussion
itself—the remoteness of the period, and the absence
of intervening records opposing so many obstacles
or its effects, if successful, upon the literature, the
commerce, or the politics of this country." With
the lukewarm and apathetic, I doubt not, this ob-
jection may carry much weight, as they want but
little argument to countenance the heartlessness of
theii' recreant degeneracy .
'^
What is it to us," they
say, ''
who trod those '
green acres ' in ancient time
—whoever they were, they have long since passed
* Who fill the pages of history? Political and military
leaders, who have lived for one end, to subdue and govern their
fellow-beings. These occupy the fore-ground ; and the people
—the human race—dwindle into insignificance, and are almost
lost behind their masters. The principal and noblest object of
history is, to record the vicissitudes of society, its spirit in dif-
ferent ages, the causes which have determined its progress and
decline, and especially the manifestation and growth of its
highest attributes and interests of intelligence ; of the religious
principle, of moral sentiment, of the elegant and useful arts, of
the triumph of man over nature and himself. Dr. Chaniiiny on
Poiver and Greatness.
vi translator's preface.
away, and we are only interested as to the present
occupancy. The analysis of names—suggested by
caprice, or at best an allusion to some passing acci-
dent, no longer valuable—may afford entertainment,
perhaps, to etymologists, but none to us. To us it is
sufficient that we can disport our exterior, and main-
tain a seemly attitude during our transitory sojourn,
among the butterflies* of the hour, while the book-
worm and recluse may enjoy all the pleasures they
can possibly extract by poring over the pages of
time-worn manuscripts."
" When we have made our love, and gamed our gaming,
Drest, voted, shone, and may-be something more;
With dandies dined ; heard senators declaiming
Seen beauties brought to market by the score,
Sad rakes to sadder husband's chastely taming;
There's little left but to be bored or bore
Witness those *
ci-devant jeunes hommes^ who stem
The stream, nor leave the world which leaveth them/'f
* W^efe a home tour considered as necessary to a finished
education as a foreign one, our high-born youth might visit
other countries possessed of the necessary accomplishment of
being able to describe their own, in which too many of them
are lamentably defective. The admirer of rural beauty in all
its varied forms may be here fully gratified ; while the man
who delights in antiquarian lore will, in Ireland, find numerous
monuments connected with the annals of a nation whose his-
tory, from the most remote period, has been so marked by
vicissitudes, as to render them at this day, perhaps, the most
singularly circumstanced people in Europe. Fitzgerald.
t Byron.
translator's preface. vii
If, in the sentiments here attributed to a certain
class of my countrymen, I should be supposed to
include only the '^ giddy" and the ''gay/' I take leave
at once to correct the misconception, and—though
reluctant to censure—to enlarge the dimensions of
my portrait. It is a melancholy reflection, that, while
all nations on the globe feel a manifest elevation in
tracing the particulars of their origin to the very
minuteness of detail, the Irish alone should lie dor-
mant in the cause, and—though once distinguished
for the more than religious zeal with which they
registered their histories, and preserved their genea-
logies ; —a practice, which—originating in the same
love of order and motives to regularity, that influ-
enced the Israelites in the preservation of theirs, viz.
to regulate the succession to the throne and other
dignified posts, as well military as magisterial —no
less elucidates our assertion, of the early civilization
of the Scoto-Milesians, as the true Irish are empha-
tically and properly designated, than it does their
intercourse at one period* with that ancient people of
God, from whom they adopted the practice, and whom
they greatly surpassed in some improvements—yet.
* The Cuthites, Scuthae, or Irish, were seated on the coast
of the Red Sea when Moses passed through it. It is probable
that after the loss of Pentapolis they united, under the name of
Phoenicians, on the Red" Sea, and these were they who gave
protection to Moses after he had been refused a passage by the
King of Edoni.— Vallancey.
Vlll TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
alas ! do they now—seem to have lost, perhaps^
with the sense of their national independence, all
sense, at the same time, of their hereditary honor,
and ancestral nobleness!* Look to China, and see
how she delineates the progress of her empire
through ages and ages of uninterrupted continua-
* To our want of national feeling, and our tasteless and
ignorant prejudices, may be attributed the danger from which
we lately escaped of losing —what, perhaps, we have most
reason, and deserved most to have lost—our unrivalled national
music. Divided, as we have been, by the bigotry and unge-
nerous policy of our rulers, aided by our own ancient super-
stitions —deserted by our nobles—driven by our poverty, our
misfortunes, and our wrongs, to the moping inanity of despair
—our melodies would soon have shared the fate of our min-
strels, if the genius and industry of two individuals had not
averted such a catastrophe for ever. Moore, by uniting them
to poetry *'
worthy of their tenderness, their energy, and their
spirit," has raised the airs of his native country to a widely
extended popularity; and the natives of the old and the new
world now respect the feelings, and pity the misfortunes, of the
islanders, whose strange and artless stories can excite, by a
power like magic, the strongest emotions of sadness or of joy.
—Dublin Examiner,
DEAR HARP OF MY COUNTRY.
Dear Harp of my country ! in darkness I found thee,
The cold chain of silence had hung o'er thee long,
When proudly, my own Island Harp ! I unbound thee.
And gave all thy chords to light, freedom, and song
The warm lay of love and the light note of gladness
Have wakened thy fondest, thy liveliest thrill
But so oft hast thou echoed the deep sigh of sadness,
That even in thy mirth it will steal from thee still.
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. IX
tion. Turn to Egypt^ to Chaldea, and to Arcadia,
and do they not do the same ?* The houses of
Austria and Ascot, single families, and much nearer
home, trace up their origin to Noah himself. Yet
all these pretensions, however exaggerated and in-
consistent, and at variance with the cosmogeny
given in Holy Writ, are, notwithstanding, listened
to with something like attention, in deference, per-
haps, to that ''
Amor Patriae," that ever pardonable
vanity, which they irresistibly obtrude upon us.f
Other nations, also, that may have controlled their
fancies within more moderate bounds, and confined
their ascensions to more tangible aeras, have yet
Dear Harp of my country ! farewell to thy numbers.
This sweet wreath of song is the last we shall twine ;
Go, sleep with the sunshine of Fame on thy slumbers,
Till touched by some hand less unworthy than mine.
If the pulse of the patriot, soldier, or lover,
Have throbbed at our lay, 'tis thy glory alone
I was hut as the wind, passing heedlessly over.
And all the wild sweetness I waked was thy own.
Moore's Irish Melodies.
* The comparison of these names with that of Ireland will
not appear so very preposterous, nor their juxta-position so very
casual, when my " Essay upon the Round Towers" shall have
been read.
f To trace nations to their origin is among the most curiou*
and delightful of intellectual pursuits : it establishes important
facts ; illustrates sacred records ; and, while it confirms all the
great truths of political science, it tends to gratify a patriotic
vanity ; for nations, like individuals, are proud of being de-
scended from illustrious ancestors.—Whitty.
X translator's preface.
been allowed some slight tincture of romance, and
have improved the indulgence to the very '' poetry
"
of aspiration. In no instance that I am aware of
have those claims been disputed, if we but except
the nations above adduced, nor can that properly be
called an exception, as the facts and assertions are
virtually ceded, when the effort is made to explain
them by an accommodated system of chronology.
But if Ireland—distracted, impoverished Ireland
should raise her puny voice, and breathe an allusion
to her primitive consequence, the sound would be so
dissonant from authorised reports*—set forth by in-
terested or mercenary scribes, confirmed by repeti-
tion and ingenious circulation, while all attempts at
disproval were studiously suppressed—that the
world would look amazed at her impudence in the
assumption, and reject at once, and without a hear-
ing, her prejudged claims ! Shame, however, upon
that policy which could war with the literature of a
country ! and double shame upon that country which
could allow itself, under any circumstances, to be so
Peter Lombard, who was titular Archbishop of Armagh
in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, states, in his Analecta, that
the ** English governors endeavoured to destroy or carry away
every monument of antiquity belonging to the Irish of which
they could obtain possession ; and that a great number were
shut up in the Tower of London, and consigned to forgetful-
ness, which, if translated, would throw new and interesting
light on religion and letters."
translator's preface. xi
debased, as to have its records swept away, its lights
stifled, and its monuments obliterated, except such
as accident may have saved, or laborious industry
decyphered, from the scanty materials of inscriptions
and names, without a single clue to guide the histo-
rian in his path, or a single star but the polar one of
truth, to steer his course by, in the midnight of his
despairing !
*^
On turning," says Whitty, ''
from the
page of antiquity to the accounts of native annalists,
we find the gloom which environs our inquiry pene-
trated but by few gleams of brightness. The
bigoted fury of her invaders, and the gothic policy
of her rulers, have been busy with the historical
documents of Ireland. The Dane and the Briton
were alike hostile to the proofs of a former glory
and what the Pagan spared the Christian sought to
demolish.* Their relentless antipathy being so suc-
cessful, perhaps the interest of truth would have
suffered little had their baneful industry been
greater. The records which survive are few, and of
questionable authority. The information which is
to be derived from them is confused and contra-
* Booth, Analecta. p. 557, et seq. Lynch Carabr. Evers.
pp. 41-157. The Magnates Hiberniae, in their remonstrance to
Pope John XXII. charge the English government, of the 13th
century, with the destruction of their laws. (Hearne, Scoti-
chron. vol. iii. p. 908.) This spirit prevailed even in the time
of Cromwell. His soldiers had a particular antipathy to the
harp. Lynch Cambr. Evers. p. 37.
Xll TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
dictory. They establish no one fact of early Irish
history in a satisfactory manner, and are much
better calculated to perplex than to elucidate."
From my soul 1 am puzzled to find a pallia-
tive for such a system*—a system which, ere long,f
must recoil with dismay before the triumphant
blaze of innocence aggrieved—or if I must elicit
some benefit from its heart-rending sorrows, it will
be, in its affording some excuse for the culpable, and
otherwise inexplicable, supinenessj that pervades all
* Opus opinum casibus, atrox seditionibus, eiiam in pace
sevum. Livy,
t What is a Crisis? Our great Lexicographer has well
defined it, as " the point in which the disease kills, or changes
to the better : the decisive moment when sentence is passed."
Precisely to this point has Ireland arrived; her disease
sometimes slowly and imperceptibly, but always steadily, pro-
gressive —has of late advanced with overpowering rapidity
and the fiat must speedily go forth which can issue but in one
alternative—healthful renovation, or final dissolution. Char-
lotte Elizabeth.
No one affects to deny the awful importance of this junc-
ture : two parties, for ages and centuries divided by an impas-
sable barrier, now start up in simultaneous opposition to each
other ; and both to a government which would unite them on
a basis as repugnant to the darling prejudices of the one, as it is
subversive of the vital principle that animates the other. Chav
lotte Elizabeth.
X The idle indifference which we evince for the knowledge
and preservation of our antiquities, is surely, to say the least of
it, but little creditable to our nationality or our taste. In
no part of Great Britain, we may safely venture to assert,
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. XUl
classes of the Irish^ as to the consideration of what
they once were—a supineness which, I repeat, cannot
else be accounted for, than by the successful opera-
tion of that iniquitous policy,* by which they would
at last seem habituated and reconciled to their de-
gradation !
" In all, save form alone, how changed ! And who
That marks the fire still sparkling in each eye
Who but would deem their bosoms burned anew
With thy unquenched beam, lost Liberty !"t
Let it not be supposed, however, that the sting of
this impeachment is at all levelled against the present
government, or even against those who have preceded
them in the administration. No ; I can myself bear
honourable testimony to the ready willingness with
which they, and their august master, our gracious
and most beloved sovereign, King William the
would a similar feeling be found among the enlightened classes
of society. Dublin Examiner, 1816.
It is extraordinary, how little interest the gentlemen of this
county, and indeed of every other in Ireland, take in any pub-
lication intended to promote the improvement of their country.
Hely Dutton, Statist. Surv. Co. Clare,
* We cannot, with Doctor Lynch and others, but lament
the fatal policy of the English, who, until the reign of James
the First, took all possible means to destroy our old writings,
as they did those of Scotland, in the reign of Edward the First.
They thought that the frequent perusal of such works kindled
the natives to rebellion, from reminding them of the power and
independence of their ancestors. O'Connor Dissert, p. 139.
t Byron.
XIV TRANSLATOR S PREFACE.
Fourth, encourage every pursuit that could supply
the deficiency, or elucidate the purport, of our muti-
lated annals. Nay more, I can affirm, that the taste
—I had almost said the avidity, or rather the rage,
as that is the more prevailing term—for Irish docu-
ments, at this moment, in the British metropolis and
in England altogether, exceeds any thing of the
kind ever before witnessed ; and to such a pitch is it
carried, that on every occasion upon which such docu-
ments are advertised for sale in Ireland, the London
booksellers send over agents to attend such sales ; and
from the poverty of our community, and its decayed
interest, at the same time, for all such research, I
need not say, that, in almost every instance, the
English are the purchasers. By the kind exertions
of a literary friend,* who exhibits in his conduct an
honorable contrast to the apathy of which I here
complain, I have been furnished with an alphabetical
catalogue of works that have lately produced, at the
hands of Englishmen, in the city of Dublin, and
at second hand, the respective sums affixed to each
all considerably higher than the prices of publication.
* Sir Charles Coote, Bart. This gentleman has, during the
course of a long life, paid particular attention to the literature
of his own country. No work has ever been published upon
the history, the antiquities, or the statistics thereof, of which he
has not made it a point to procure a copy. The consequence
is, that he now possesses the most authentic and best assorted
Irish library of any in the kingdom.
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. XV
and incomparably more so than what a mere regard
to value could have elicited.
My charge, therefore, cannot apply to the present
government, or to the present race of Englishmen
at all ; but to governments and races of an anterior
date, who, in the fell work of spoliation, yielded
not to the Ostmen or Danes,*—our ruthless foes, and
the foes of all moral culture—-whilst they surpassed
them far, in the dexterous ingenuity, and masked
insincerity, with which they effected their ravages.f
These are the persons whom I would impugn ; and
grievously concerned am I to add, that on the fair
face of the land itself, sustained by its bounty, and
invigorated by its atmosphere,% are to be found in-
* The invaders of Ireland in the ninth century consisted of a
mixed crew of Danes, Frisians, Norwegians, Swedes, and
Livonians. The ancient Irish distinguished them into two
septs from the colour of their hair ; one being called Fion-gail,
or Fin-gal, the White Strangers, and the other Dubh-gail, the
Black Strangers. Fingal is supposed to have been settled by
the former, and Donegal by the latter. McGregor.
t Walsh thus pathetically laments the ruin of his country by
the Danes and Ostmen :
—*' There was no monarch now, (the
ninth century,) but the saddest interregnum ever any Christian
or heathen enemies could wish ; no more king over his people,
but that barbarous heathen Turgesius ; no more now the '
Island
of Saints.'
X The climate of Ireland, and the fertility of its soil, have
been praised by all writers, as well friends as foes, who have at
all alluded to the topic. Orosius says, **
Ireland, though less
extensive than Britain, is, from the temperature of its climate.
XVI TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
dividuals, and they too not few, who^ calling them-
selves Irishmen, and affecting all the pride insepa-
rable from the name, do yet—from some obliquity
better supplied with useful resources." —L. 1, c. 2. Isidore
states, ** it is smaller than Britain, but more fertile from its
situation." —Orig. L. 14, c. 6. The venerable Bede observes,
that **
Ireland greatly surpasses Britain in the healthfulness
and serenity of its air."—Hist. Ec. L. 1 , c. 1. And Camden,
*' Nature surely must have looked upon this zephyric kingdom
v^^ith its most benignant eye." —Brit. p. 7*27. Whilst the vera-
cious and impartial (?) Cambrensis himself adds, that, " Of all
climates Ireland is the most temperate ; neither Cancer's violent
heat ever drives them to the shade, nor Capricorn's cold invites
them to the hearth ; but from the softness and peculiar tem-
perature of the atmosphere, all seasons are there genial and
tepid." Again—'• Neither infectious fogs, nor pestilential
winds, nor noxious airs, are ever felt there ; so that the aid of
doctors is seldom looked for, and sickness rarely appears ex-
cept among the dying."—Top. Hib. Diet. 1. 25, 27. Would
that this last named writer had but done as nnuch justice to its
inhabitants
" The climate is so salubrious,'' says Carr, " that we find
by history those plagues which so much devastated England had
rarely reached Ireland. The leaves seldom fall till Novem-
ber ; from the almost constant motion of its atmosphere, and
the balmy softness of it, Ireland has been for ages past called
the ' Land of Zephyrs ;' it was also called, on account of the
beauty of its verdure, * the Emerald Isle,' and the *
Green
Island in the West.' " Stranger in Ireland, p. 129.
To the great and peculiar extent of calcareous or limestone
strata of which our island is composed, we may chiefly attri-
bute the fertility of our soil, and the salubrity of our climate
and if we dared venture to fathom the intentions of an Almighty
and beneficent providence, we would point to this geological
'TRANSLATOR S PREFACE. XVll
of intellect or perverseness of intention—think they
amplify their importance by vilifying* their native
soil ;
—and—to bring their dastardly desertion to a
still greater climax —only recognize respectability as
imported from abroad !f
peculiarity, as a single instance of his wisdom and goodness, as,
exposed as we are to the exhalations of the Atlantic, and the
influence of westerly winds, our soil would otherwise be unpro-
ductive and our climate unhealthy. To the same cause is to be
attributed much of the peculiarly romantic beauty of which we
may justly boast; our waterfalls without number, our subter-
ranean rivers, our natural bridges, our perpendicular sea cliffs,
and, above all, our fairy caverns; all these are in almost
every instance the result of this extensive calcareous formation,
and are consequently found in no other country of the same
extent, in equal variety, beauty, and abundance. Most strange
it is, that a land so blessed and ornamented by the hand of pro-
vidence should be so little appreciated and too often aban-
doned by those to whom its fertility gives wealth, and to whom
its beauty should give delight and happiness. — Dublin Penny
Journal.
* Why will the Protestants of Ireland permit this unfounded
obloquy to rest on their beautiful country, ay, and too ojtenjoin
in the aspersive cry, when even a glance at their own homes
might convince them, that the moral blight exhales not from the
innocent bogs of poor Ireland. Charlotte Elizabeth.
\ Revelling in all the pleasures and delights of rich and
royal Italy, smiling with the beauties of that sunny soil —whilst
many of his poor tenantry were weeping from want, and shiver-
ing from cold and hunger—the lord of the manor was patron-
izing the fine arts, and collecting, at great expense, costly
ornaments and other objects to adorn his mansion in England,
when he should return satiated with the fascinations and volup-
tuous attractions of the continent.—Viscount Glentworth,
xviii translator's preface.
** Poor, paltry slaves I yet born midst noblest scenes —
Why, Nature, waste thy wonders on such men ?
* "
* * * «
Not such were the fathers your annals can boast.
Who conquered and died for the freedom you lost!
Not such was your land in her earlier hour
The day-star of nations in wisdom and power I"*
To their own reflections, however, and to the con-
tempt and condemnation of an enlightened, an in-
dignant public, I consign such renegades, whilst I
return to the subject whence I have been thus
forced to digress.
How to account, then, for this new spirit amongst
the English public, to cultivate an acquaintance
with the antiquities of Ireland, which they had so long
neglected and so long affected to despise—a spirit
too, so insatiable, that it will not now confine itself
to works of acknowledged merit and reputed vera-
city, but extends even to those which should have been
exploded as fictions or absurd exaggerations—I con-
fess myself wholly unprepared. One thing, however,
is evident, that they are at last become sensible of
the injustice with which we have so long been
treated, and, feeling their own judgment at the same
time not fairly dealt with in the misrepresentations
imposed upon them, they have—with the character-
istic honesty for which ^^
John Bull" is remarkable, if
his prejudices and errors be but fairly removed, and
Byi
TRANSLATOR S PREFACE. XIX
the spirit, at the same time, with which he resents
every such insult offered to his understanding —re-
solved, as much as possible, to atone for the past, by
enabling themselves to judge as to the question at
issue for the future.
But while lending myself as the translator of Dr.
Villanueva's book, from my wish to extend all dis-
quisitions bearing upon my country's renown, I must
observe that I am not at all insensible to certain, as I
conceive, aberrations, in his literary view^s, besides
those which I have taken the liberty altogether to
erase. That the Phoenicians had been in Ireland
he is quite right to maintain. But as to the share
they had in the early splendor of the country
the nature of their sojourn—and who had preceded
them— as it would not become me here to discuss, I
shall, unshackled by the apprehension of being con-
sidered selfish, refer the reader, who wishes to have
the true history oi ancient Ireland yr;r once laid be-
fore his mind's eye, to my Essay upon the " Round
Towers "* of that country, in which I promise him
* Dr. Villanueva's error as to tlie origin and destination of
those mysterious structures is one in which he may well coa-
sole himself by the number of fellow-sufferers who have before
foundered upon the same sandbank. When Cambrensis, Val-
iancy, Montmorenci, Dalton, Beaufort, Milner, in short all
the writers, as well natives as foreigners, who have alluded
to the topic for the last seven hundred —I may say, fifteen
hundred —years, have been at fault on this theme, it is not to
be wondered at that this eminent philologist, should add another
c 2
XX translator's preface.
he will find this long mystified question at length, and
to a demonstration, irresistibly elucidated.
If, however, I may be allowed a passing observa-
tion, without anticipating the subject here, it would
be to say that the Phoenicians were only the carriers
of that very ancient and sacred tribe, designated em-
phatically ''
Tuatha Dedanan," that is, the " Deda-
nite diviners," who planting themselves in Ireland,
after their expulsion from the east,* raised the isle
unit to the number of the shipwrecked. But he can well spare
this and a few other almost inevitable defalcations, which, like
spots upon the sun's disc, only serve to make the general talent
which pervades his treatise the more brilliantly prominent.
As the reader may, perhaps, wish to see a specimen of this
venerable old gentleman's epistolary style, I subjoin the copy
of a note which he addressed to me on my expressing a wish
to see him after a separation of six or seven weeks, during
which 1 had secluded myself, to adjust my thoughts upon the
** Towers,"—viz :
—
*'
./. X. Villanueva Henrico O^Brien salutem dicens,
'*
O care amice ! Et quare tu, qui junior es, non dignaris ad
me venire ? Vix i dome exeo, nam non bene valeo. Nihil-
bominus, te adire curabo, si vires suppetant. Benevale, et ut
soles, ama tuum amicum.
"6Junii, 1832. J. L. Villanueva."
* The rare and interesting tract on twelve religions, entitled
*« The Dabistan," and composed by a Mahomedan traveller, a
native of Cashmere, named Mohsam, but distinguished by the
assumed surname of Fani, or Perishable, begins with a wonder-
fully curious chapter on the religion of Hushang, which was
long anterior to that of Zeratusht, but had continued to be se-
cretly professed by many learned Persians, even to the author's
time : and several of the most eminent of them dissenting, in
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. XXI
which'ithey also denominated from their former place
of abode—to that pinnacle of literary and religious
reputation which made it a focus of intellect in the
old pagan world.
Of this distinguished caste of people—who, by
the w^ay, built the " Round Towers/' those standing
records of our primitive scientific culture,—the Phoe-
nicians were only the transporters ; yet had they the
dexterity—by reason of their indispensible agency as
navigators, and the power with which they com-
manded the dominion of the seas— to monopolize the
whole credit of civilizing the human race, which
was onli/ true in as far as they joined by (heir ship-
ping the different quarters of the globe.
Here, then, is the source of those egregious blun-
ders, which all our historians have committed in
reference to the Phoenicians, at once cut away ; and
another mistake emanating from this, and in the
many points, from the Gabrs, and persecuted by the ruling
powers of their country, had retired to India ; where they com-
piled a number of books, now extremely scarce, which Mohsam
had perused, and with the writers of which, or with many of
them, he had contracted an intimate friendship: from them he
learned that a powerful monarchy had been established for
ages in Iran, before the accession of Cayumers; that it was
called the Mahabadean diaasty, for a reason which will soon
be mentioned ; and that many princes, of whom seven or eight
only are named in the Dabistan, and among them Mohbul, or
Maha Beli, had raised that empire to the zenith of human
glory. If we can rely on this evidence, which to rae appears
tmexccptionable, the Iranian monarchy must have been the
oldest in the world. Sir W. Jones.
XXii TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE.
case of Ireland, more seductive in its overtures, is
now, in consequence, easily obviated.
It was too fashionable with the gentlemen who
have preceded me in the drudgery of Irish antiqua-
rian research, to flatter the self-love of the present
Milesian natives—of whom I am proud to boast my-
self one—by ascribing to their colony those high-
flown scenes of primeval grandeur of which Ireland
was undoubtedly at one time the theatre; and of which
too, without being able adequately to grapple with the
point, or to adduce any thing like substantial insight
into either its date, nature, or promoters, those
writers, had, notwithstanding, some superficial, in--
definite and vague, conceptions. No position in
history was ever more false. So far from the Mile-
sians, who were a mixed Scythian colony, implicit
followers of Zaoaster and not Spaniards,*(as the Dr.
has himself admitted) being—as a nation—lovers of
literature, they cultivated, on the contrary, a pro-
fession—that of arms—which affected to scorn it as an
effeminate luxury. Nor was it until by an admixture
* They merely touched at Spain on their way to Ireland
from Scythia, keeping up, however, a friendly intercourse with
the Spaniards after their arrival in Ireland, for the hospitable
accommodation which they had experienced on their coasts.
They retained their name, Scythi, Scoti, or Scythians, until the
eleventh century, when they resigned it to the Scots, a colony
of their own from Ireland, and resumed, instead, one of the
more ancient names of the country, viz. Ire, with the affix, landf
making the compound " Ireland."
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. XXUl
with their learned predecessors in the occupation of
the soil, and witnessing the charms of their refined
pursuits—in which they were allowed still to indulge,
though unaccompanied with those religious peculiari-
ties for the celebration of which they had erected the
"Round Towers/' and which the Milesians^ upon their
conquest, had cancelled and obliterated—it was not
until then, I say, that the latter, fired by the moral
ether which the lessons of their new slaves had in-
spired, got infected with the sublimity of their en-
nobling acquirements, and set themselves down,
accordingly, tp emulate their instructors.
Having mentioned the subject of the "Round
Towers" of Ireland, as a rock upon which the anti-
quaries of all countries have so miserably split—not
less as to their ''destination and uses,'' than the era of
their erection—I may be excused if in the honest
fervor of patriotic triumph, undamped hy the chill-
ness of ill-requited success, I should proclaim that
those several difficulties have at last been solved, and
the history of those structures made as obvious to
every capacity as if the whole catalogue of their de-
tails had been graven upon their walls with the im-
pressive incision of steel upon adamant. Low and
contemptible have been the purposes which shallow
speculators,^ or interested calumniators, have at-
tempted to associate with those noble edifices ; but
—the mist once dispelled—those Round Towers will
stand forward as the proof—not only of that envied
XXIV TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
antiquity which our bards have so chaunted—but of
the literary and religious taste which gave rise to
those buildings, and of the grand and philosophic
principle which guided the architect in giving;them
their peculiar form.
But to return, another objection remains yet to be
disposed of before I relieve the reader's patience, per-
haps already too much exhausted, and that is, the un-
fitness of ?iforeigner for the performance of a task, in-
volving, it would seem, a personal knowledge of the
topography of the Island, the prejudices and habits,
the character and genius of the various sects and
denominations by whom the place is inhabited, with
some interest in their fortune, or identity of feeling
in their welfare. The compass of their views must
be very limited indeed who think that to be master
of those various requisites it could be necessary to
pass a life on the theatre of debate. Without stop-
ping, therefore, any farther to expose the lameness
of this argument —who, let me ask, was the author
of that composition, which, professing to be a history
of Ireland, and its conquest (?)*by Henry the Second,
was, in reality, nothing more than a tissue of
falsehood and abuse, concocted in the spirit of indi-
* They were never conquered by any people until betrayed
to Henry II, in 1172, who bestowed the sovereignty upon his
son John : but yet the kings of England were never called only
lords of Ireland till the title of " king" was bestowed on Henry
VIII. by the Irish states themselves in parliament. Hales.
TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE. XXV
vidual * and national hatred, additionally inflamed
by an engrossing vanity, f and a profligate disre-
regard even to ordinary decency in its indulgenceJ
* This was against Aubin O'Molloy, a monk of the order of
Citeaux, and abbot of Baltinglass, by whom he was defeated
in a quarrel.
t His anticipations of repute and literary immortality from
the performaaice, he thus pompously put forth in his preface :
'• Ore legar populi perque orana secula fama.
Si quid habent veri vatum presagia vivam."
But hear what '* Gratianus Lucius," the assumed name of
John Lynch, Archdeacon of Tuam, 1662, says of him—** Li-
bros suos plebeculae spurcitiis inquinavit, et vulgi naevis toti
genti ab ipso adscriptis farcire constituit, sicut aratiea virus e
thymo, mel apis exsugit ; sic e pessimis quibus que quorumvis
Hibernorum moribus fasciculum ille fecit, missa faciens quae
apud Hibernos praeclariora repererat. Sordes tamen istas ille
pro gemmis habere visus est, quas eligens et excipiens tanquam
elegantiora praesenti volumine digessit, instar suis cui magis
volupe est sterquilinii volutabro quam inter suavissimos quos-
que odores se versare." cap. 5. p. 41. Hear, also, what Ware, in
his ** Antiquities," says of his imitators, ** Atqui nonpossura non
mirari viros aliquos hujus saeculi, alioqui graves et doctos, tig-
menta ea Geraldi niundo iterum pro veris obtrusisse." What
would he say, had he lived to see more modern scribblers,
such as Dempster, Abercromby, Mackenzie, '^
et hoc genus
omne" unredeemed by any of the above qualifications, (graves
et doctos,) but with igaoranrce corresponding to their dishonest
audacity, appropriating our history to their own private use;
and to that end, not only denying us those advantages which
even our enemies before allowed us, but like the asp that
borrows its venom from the viper, adopting hatred against Ire-
land, as a legitimate inheritance, and calculating on impunity
from its prostration and decay.
X Having spent five years in composing this Jine work, the
five books of his pretended history of Ireland came forth. In
XXVI TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
under the sanction, I admit, and auspicies of a wily
monarch, who wanted such an instrument to veriiy
the misstatements of " barbarism and impiety" with
which he had himself previously loaded the Irish, and
by virtue of which he had extorted that bull from the
pope * conferring on him a right (how generous !)
raptures with this Dew production of his genius, and unable to
conceal his vanity, he repairs to Oxford, where, in presence of
learned doctors and the assembled people, he read, after the
example of the Greeks, his ** Topography" during three succes-
sive days, giving to each book an entire day. To render the
comedy more solemn, he treated the whole town splendidly for
three days : the first was appropriated to the populace—the
second to the doctors, professors, and principal scholars of the
University—and lastly, on the third day he regailed the other
students, with the soldiers and citizens of the town. ** A noble
and brilliant action," says the author himself, "whereby the
ancient custom of the poets has been renewed in England ! ! !
"
Ussher, Syllog. ed. par. ep. 49, p. 84, 85.
" Than vanity there's nothing harder hearted
For thoughtless of all sufferings unseen.
Of all save those which touch upon the round
Of the day's palpable doings, the vain man.
And oftner still the volatile woman vain,
Is busiest at heart with restless cares,
Poor pains and paltry joys, that make within.
Petty yet turbulent vicissitudes."
* Adrian was himself an Englishman, and consequently the
less indisposed to listen to this application. His Bull is given
at full length by Cambrensis and by Bishop Burgess ; —see also
Leland's History of Ireland, vol. i. 8. It granted the sove-
reignty of Ireland to Henry, who was interested in its subjec-
tion on account of the annoyance it afforded him, and the aid it
sent his enemies, upon the condition of the pajrmeatof " Peter's
translator's preface. xxvii
to the invasion of our country^ and, thereby^ /or the
Jirsf time,* A, D. 1156, subjecting us at once to the
authority of a foreign Crown, and the spiritual sur-
veillance of the Roman See and Pontiff ?f—Who, I
pence" in Ireland, which had never before been paid there;
alledging the absurd claim, *' Hiberniam et omnes insulas qui-
bus sol justitiie illuxit, et qii:€ documenta fidei Christianie acce-
perunt ad jus B. Petri, non est dubium, pertinere." It then
hypocritically exhorts him to inculcate morality and to plant
Christianity, as if we had it not in its splendour and purity
already, in Ireland! ** Stude gentem illam bonis moiibus in-
formare et agas, tam per te quara per alios quos ad hoc fide,
rerbo ac vita idoneos esse perspexeris, ut decoretur ibi Ecclesia,
plantetur et crescat fidei Christianae religio." Alexander III.
his successor, confirmed this Bull in 1173, and added insult to
iniquity in representing the Irish as " barbarous," and " Chris-
tians only in name." The Irish, it is true, spiritedly and nobly
resented these intrusions to Vivian, Alexander's legate, at the
synod of Waterford, held by Henry, 1177 ; but there it ended!
* The Irish, who in the eighth century were known by the
name of Scots, were the only dirines who refused to dishonour
their reason by mbmitting it implicitly to the dictates of autho<.
rity. Naturally subtle and sagacious, they applied their phi-
losophy to the illustration of the truths and doctrines of religion,
a method which was almost generally abhorred and exploded
in all other nations. This subtlety and sagacity enabled them to
comprehend with facility the dialectic art, and their profound
knowledge of the Greek language contributed materially to the
same end. This made them view with contempt the pitiful
corapendiums of theology extracted from the fathers, and
which the unlearned ecclesiastics of other countries accepted as
oracles.—Mosheim
t This ominous title—attached for more than a thousand
years to the regal and imperial dignity from Numa, b. c. 789,
to Gratian, a, d. 375, who renounced its pagan office and name.
XXVIU TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
repeat, was the author of that imposture, every word
of which its vile asserter, from compunction of con-
science for the injustice rendered to an innocent and
heroic nation, was oWiged subsequently to retract
though too late, alas ! to neutralize the poison which
the baneful tenor of his combined subserviency to
courtly favour and individual spite,—so opposite to
the character of the true historian,—had but too
successfully and extensively propagated ? Why,
truly, it was a foreigner and a stranger—Gerald
Barry—or Cambrensis, as he is generally called
from Cambria, the Latin for Wales,* his native
as interfering with those of the high- priest of our profession,
Jesus Christ—but ill accords in its assumption of spiritual and
temporal dominion, with the meek spirit of Christianity as' ori-
ginally founded. " My kingdom," says our Saviour, **is not
of this world" —And when there arose a dispute among the
apostles which should be accounted the greatest, he said, The
kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that
exercise authority over them are called benefactors," euergetest
benefactor, was a favourite title of the Macedo-Grecian kings of
Syria and Egypt, as we sometimes denominate our sovereigns the
"fountain of mercy and honour,"—'* but it shall not be so with
you." John xviii. 36 ; Luke xxii. 95. It is not known which of
the popes first assumed the title, but Boniface III. —who, A. D.
636, first arrogated to himself the unchristian one of **
Uni-
versal Bishop," which Gregory the Great, A. D. 590, had
rejected with horror, calling himself in opposition thereto by
the lowly designation of " servant of the servants of God,"
seems the most likely. Hales.
* Ina, king of the West Saxons, married a second time,
** Gaula," daughter of Cadwalladar, the last king of the Britons,
and in her right inherited Cambria, thenceforward called by
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. XXIX
country—and yet his unfitness on that score was
never questioned at the time, though possessing no
other knowledge of the country than what could be
gleaned from the sojourn of a few short months,
during which he was domesticated at the castle as
tutor to the king's son, where his sources of informa-
tion were necessarily circumscribed—his ignorance
of the native language being one great bar, aug-
mented by the narrow limits of the English power
within the island, amounting to no more than about
one-third of its territorial extent—whilst even the
scanty materials which such opportunities afforded
were polluted and vitiated by the medium through
which they passed, and the sinister influence which
guided their expression !
But why dwell upon this instance of failure in
a foreigner undertaking a province which he was
not competent to discharge, when I should rather
adduce those cases of splendid success in which
foreigners have ventured as historians of other coun-
tries, and won laurels in the attempt, as creditable
to their labours, as they have been honourable to their
subjects ? Merely to expose the illiberality, and
her name " Wales," with Cornwall and the British crown. He
was the first who was crowned king of the Anglo-Saxons and
British conjointly, A. D. 1712 ; and the first measure of this
wise prince, "by the advice and consent of all the bishops and
chiefs, and the wise men and people of the whole kingdom,'*
was, to unite the two nations by intermarriages as speedily as
possible.
XXX TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE.
make the action of their machinery, recoil upon
those knaves themselves, who would uphold a princi-
ple whilst it furthers their own objects—but no longer
interested in the extension of the rule—scornfully
reject it as an abortive bantling, though divested,
perhaps, of the imbecility which disfigured their pre-
cedent, nay, strengthened and adorned by the oppo-
site graces. That I may not, however, altogether
omit some instances of the description above adverted
to, will it not suffice to mention the names of De
Lome and Mills ; the former of whom, with a very
superficial knowledge of the localities of England,
has given a dissertation on its constitution that has
earned for him—from its natives not more than from
the whole civilized world—as much honour as the sub-
ject itself had excited admiration in the bosom of the
author; whilst the other, without ever having so
much as set a foot in India, or within many thousand
miles of its coast, has, notwithstanding, written a
history of that country, the most comprehensive and
satisfactory that has yet come from any pen.
Coolly, therefore, and dispassionately to argue the
point, I see no reason why a foreigner may not be as
competent to enter the lists of literary adventure in
the capacity of civil or local historian as any native
nay even more competent, if an unbiassed judgment,
arising from a total disconnection with local preju-
dices and parties, be considered a requisite ingredient
for the exercise of such a trust. Or is Hterature with
TRANSLATORS PREFACE. XXXi
US alone, I would ask, such a corporate affair that
none but the homeborn can intrude upon the mono-
poly ? What will the sticklers for exclusion say, how-
ever, when informed, that Dr.Villanueva in addition to
the most varied and profound acquirements, embracing
an intimacy with literature at large—has brought to
the execution oithis favourite subject an acquaintance
with our island, obtained not more from the writings of
the ancients to whom its existence was familiar, than
by a long sojourn and joer^omz/ residence amongst us,
during which he has been occupied in digesting ma-
terials for this work, and enriching his stores from
our various libraries. But his principal and leading
qualification, and what constitutes his peculiar fitness,
in my mind, is his thorough mastership of the Hebrew
language, of which the Phoenician was a dialect, and
the affinity, of which with the Iberno- Celtic, or rather
IhernO'Sanscrit, or ancient Irish, I may endeavour
to elucidate in some future pages. This, then, is the
lever with which, single-handed and unpreceded, he
has encountered the difficulties of the Herculean
combat ; and myself the venerable recesses of un-
explored dates the basis of his plan, and the frag-
ments of names and sacred inscriptions the fulcrum
of his operations, he has removed that mountain of
uncertainty and doubt which had so long obscured
the horizon of our history, and— identified in spirit
with the dignity of the cause—the cause as it is, of
truth, of justice, and of letters—has triumphed in the
XXXU TRANSLATORS PREFACE.
enjoyment of literary renown acquired in the investi-
gation of our long disputed ancestry. *
* ** Cujus modi antiquitatis ne ipse quidem popuiusKomanus
nominis sui testem proferre poterat autorem." Ussher. —The
value of this remark, emanating from so distinguished an autho-
rity, 1 may be disposed hereafter to consider in a more appro-
priate place. Meanwhile I feel that I cannot more happily
conclude this discourse, than by extracting a sentiment from a
very spirited publication, which has lately shot up in Dublin,
and which—had it no other claims on public patronage than the
chivalry it has evinced in embarking upon an ocean, where so
many miscarriages have, in that department, occurred, and in
thereby inviting into existence two similar periodicals which
have since followed its example—should, I conceive, on this
single score alone, receive countenance and encouragement from
all enlightened Irishmen. The sentence I so admire, as in
unison with my own feelings, is in a note, as follows :
—
The object of the writer of this article has been, to attack
modern ecclesiastical corruptions under ancient names and
forms ; he has therefore selected the historical materials or
systems that suited his subject best, without the slightest in-
tention of making an insidious or sectarian attack upon any
description of believers, detesting as he does, from his soul, all
sorts of polemical controversy, and convinced as he is, that its
melancholy effects are at this day perceptible in the slavery
of his country, which religious, or rather «Te%2o?/s differences,
have caused, by dividing Irishmen against each other, who, if
united, would be invincible ! Irish Monthly Magazine.—May,
1832.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE ROYAL IRISH
ACADEMY.
Gentlemen,
Impressed with a sense of deep obligation to
your country, celebrated for hospitality as it mostjustly is
not less so on this score, than because of the more imme-
diate, and to me delightful, privilege of free access to the
flourishing and magnificent libraries of your capital—a pri-
vilege, I may add, which I value the more as deprived by
adversity of my own little collection of manuscripts and
books—I here respectfully tender to you, whose zeal for
the elucidation of the " antiquities of Ireland" has been ever
nobly conspicuous, this midnight effort of my pen, under-
taken with a view to assist you in that task, and discharge,
on my part, the offices, at once, of gratitude and of com-
mendation.
I might, indeed, give scope to my feelings in another
form, and find materials, too, for the purpose, by drawing
upon the fruits of a long literary life, no one moment of
which, even when most disengaged, could be well called
idle ; but, to your name, your reputation, and your assembly,
foremost as they all stand in literary fame, 1 could conceive
no offering either more appropriate or more apposite, than
this enterprising excursion into the early periods of Irish
D
DEDICATION-
history, to grope out, if happily to your satisfaction, from
beneath the darkness of that beclouded age, the nations and
the colonie.3 whence you derive your origin.
If, however, in the attempt, my success shall be found
not adequate to my expectations, yet shall I console my-
self with the hope that this little ttact—on so interesting a
topic as that of antiquity, which, as Quintilion well observed,
whether local or universal, can never be too much studied,
in regard to the incidents it may record, the characters it
may develope, or the dates it may assign—may be found
neither unwelcome nor unprofitable to the lovers of such
pursuits ; and did I need any additional incitement to the
luxury of this hope, I would find it in that praise, which
you. Gentlemen, who must have often felt the influence of
praise yourselves, have, after a diligent perusal of this my
work, been pleased to bestow upon my humble labors.
I have now only to beg that you will accept the Jirst fruits
of that which you have before sanctioned with the high
stamp of jour approbation ; and, while taking leave of your
body, with every feeling of regard, may I be permitted to
enforce my prayer, that you will —in accordance with the
spirit of your previous career—proceed laudably and cheer-
fully, by your diligence and your research—as well in push-
ing your own enquiries, as in patronising those of others— to
exalt the standard of yonr academic institution, and encir-
cle new wreaths on the renascent genius of lerne.*
JoACHiMus Laurentius Villanueva.
* For the satisfaction of the classical scholar I give the ori-
ginal of this and next chapter in the appendix. —H. O'B.
PTOLOMYS ancient map of IRELAND,
Ameuded and Modernized.
Uy //crm, /Ir-
! \
lU
til ft ratAjO of34 and 60par.
do fy'jd
U
~-s
PHCENTCIAN IRELAND.
CHAP. I.
Scope of the Work —Origin of first Inhabitants of Ireland
uncertain—Way to trace it out—Difficulty of diving into
early dates —Instance of this —Number and credibility of
Irish historians—Foreign denominations of the old clans and
localities of Ireland—Where to look for their etymology—
The Author s acknowledgments as ivell to the more modern as
the ancient writers zipon Irish topics—Not always safe to
follow them.
The origin of the early inhabitants of Ireland is
not only ancient but uncertain, and not easily recon-
cileable to the exact rules of proof. But though we
must not altogether reject what tradition records of
them, still it strikes me that in our pursuit after
truth, the more likely road for its attainment would
be to trace out the origin of the names of the several
septs and tribes which from time to time have visited
those shores ; a course which, as in other instances,
will be found, if I mistake not, in this too, most con-
vincingly demonstrative of their lineage, their pro-
geny, and the country whence they emigrated. I
d2
36
do not, however, mean to say that the conviction
produced by such a search is in its nature so com-
plete as that it may not even be superseded by
other evidences; but this I assert^ that it is not
contemptuously to be trifled with by ignorance
or guess-work, and that until something more
authentic in the shape of argument be adduced
it ^.s entitled, at least, to a respectful hearing. If we
consider hov/ dimcult a thing it is, as Pliny* well
observed, to clothe antiquity in a modern costume,
to give fashion to novelty, splendor to decay, light
to obscurity, beauty to deformity, and belief to
doubt, the mere endeavor after the object, however
short it may fall of success, must, from the nobleness
of the intention, command respect for its author ; so
shall it be my humble boast that having been blessed
with the advantages of literary ease, I thought I
could not employ it better than by embarking in
some such design, conscious that whatever be my
fortune, my motives at least will be appreciated, as
purely wishing, amidst the crowd of contributors
that press forward at the present day, to offer my
mite also towards the general stock of the republic of
letters.
But as the remarks which I mean to submit respect-
* Res ardua Tetustis novitatem dare, novis auctoritatem, ob-
soletis nitorem, obscuris lucem, fastiditis gratiam, dubiis fidem ;
eatim non assecutis voluisse, abunde pulchrum atque raagnifi-
cum est.— Hist. Nat. Praf.
37
ing the geographical names of this island, are neither
few in number, nor inconsiderable in importance,
involving, as they do, besides, an intimate acquaint-
ance with the languages of the east and north, let it
suffice for the present if, as a specimen, we but hint
at the ancient names of our Irish clans, and the idol-
atrous worship they indulged in, disregarding some
sources of my own private conjectures, which, how-
ever, I pledge myself shall be cheerfully supplied to
any gentleman who may hereafter feel disposed to
devote his patriotic pen to record the virtues
and the heroism of this second Sparta. * In the
mean time I flatter myself thr.t I shall not be alto-
gether without reward in rendering those notes, of
what value soever they be, interesting in their de-
tails, as well to the admirers of what is amusing and
light as to the more grave and austere student.
It is greatly to be regretted that tho' no nation
on the globe has been ever known to be more ob-
servant of its antiquities,f nor more studiously care-
* Dr. Villanueva having consigned to me those papers al-
luded to in this sentence, the best use, I conceive, I can make
of thera is to bestow them upon the public in the shape of an
appendix to the present volume.
f This extraordinary regard which the Scoto-Milesians, like
the Jews, paid to their history and the genealogy of their fami-
lies, bespeaks a nation equally polished and educated. By a
fundamental regulation of the state it was necessary to prove
connection with the royal house of Milesius before you could
either ascend the throne, assume the sovereignty of any of the
provinces, or be appointed to any capacity, military or magis-
38
ful of every thing that could appertain to their
chronology, the deeds of their ancestors, the boun-
daries of their jurisdictions, and their laws, than this
has been, there should still appear such a mist of
darkness spread before our path when we would in-
vestigate the origin of its primitive settlers. This
obscurity is the more to be deplored from the cha-
racter given by Camden of the Irish records, viz.
that " compared to them the antiquity of all other
nations appeared as novelty, and, as it were, the
condition of incipient childhood."^ Deplore it,
however, as we may, it has been occasioned, in no
small degree, by the odd and outlandish designations
given to the different tribes, as well as to many of
the towns, cities, mountains, lakes, and rivers, which
seem to have no affinity with the idiom of the
natives, nay, to be utterly at variance with it ; so
terial. The office of the antiquarians, instituted by Ollamh
Fodia, as part of the triennial council of the celebrated Tara,
and whose duty it was to watch over those genealogies and per-
petuate the memory of their houses, was under the strictest
control of scrutinizing commissioners appointed for that pur-
pose, and the heaviest penalties were wont to be enforced
against such as were found to prevaricate in the slightest par-
ticular. He enacted, besides, that copies of all registries which
upon such examination were found pure, should be inserted in
the great registry called the *' Psalter of Tara;'* and this practice
and institution was continued and flourished up to the times of
Christianity and long after.
* Adeo et, proe illis, omnis omnium gentium antiquitas sit
novitas et quod-ammodo infantia. Carnd. Brit.ed. Lond, p. 728.
39
much so, that Strabo's declaration* respecting the
illiterately-barbarous and geographical terms of
Spain's first inhabitants, and the places to which
they alluded—which, by the way, proceeded from
ignorance on his part of the languages they were
derived from—has been repeated of the Irish, with
literal precision, by O'Flaherty,f a writer in other
respects well-informed, and who has thrown no
small light, too, upon the antiquities of his country.
For instance, the names of our early progenitors, as
enumerated by Ptolemy, he, forsooth, describes as
no less outlandish in their sound than the names of
the savages in some of the American forests,X He
* Plura autem Hispaniae populorum nomina apponere piget
fugientem taedium injucundse scriptionis : nisi forte alicui volupe
est audire Pletauros, Barduetas, et AUotrigas et alia his
deteriora obscurioraque nomina. Grogr. lib. iii. These are
Strabo's words ; but is it not strange that a writer who ac-
knowledges the settlement of Phoenician colonists in Betica
and Celtiberia, should not have recognized in these denomina-
tions the Syriac sources whence they sprung? For the name,
Pletaurij is compounded of the Phoenician words, pletch aur,
meaning a host of inhabitants in the enjoyment of freedom; or
o{ pleta 2ir, a host of inhabitants living in a valley. The name,
BarduetcB, is also Phoenician, from bardothe, residing in a wood
or a grassy country. The AUotrigce were two Phoenician tribes
established amongst the Celtiberi, whence their name alh-thri-
iga, a divided people inhabiting an elevated country. But
these and similar names of the ancient Spanish clans, ema-
nating from Phoenician and Celtic sources, were any thing but
agreeable to Grecian ears.
t Ogyg, sen. Rer. Iber. Chron. p. 1, pag. 16.
X In this rhodomantade of OTlaherty he was much more
40
even adds, " We are no less ignorant, for the most
part, of the import of the names Ausona,* or Ausoba,
accurate than he intended, or, as the English say of our coun-
trymen, *• he blundered himself into the right." Little did he
know how near a connexion there existed between the two peo-
ple whom he affected thus ridiculously to associate; and any
one who attends to the position which I subjoin, independently
of many others which could be brought in support of it, will
admit the happiness of this unintentional coincidence. The
Algankinese are the most influential and commanding people
in the whole of North America. Their name in Irish indicates
as much, viz. algan-kine, or kine-algan, a nohle community^
corresponding to the Phoenician words al-gand-gens, which
means the same thing. The language of this people is the
master language of the whole country, and what is truly re-
markable, understood as Baron de Humboldt asserts, by all the
Indian nations except two. What then are we to infer from this
obvious affinity ? Why, undoubtedly, that a colony of that same
people who first inhabited Ireland, and assigned to its several lo-
calities those characteristic names,which so disconcerted the har-
mony of Mr. O'FIaherty's acoustic organs, had fixed themselves
at an early date in what has been miscalled the ^* new world."
* Ausoba, or Ausona, is the ancient name of a river in the
western region of Connaught nearNagnata or Gallina, mentioned
by Ptolemy. Some think it to be the river Galvia [or rather
the Suck] in Galway ; others Lough Corbes, [or rather Cor-
rib]. The name is, however, almost universally supposed to
mean **a frith," from the old Britannic words, Auise aba, an
•* eruption of water,'* or the old Irish words, Ause obba, of the
same import, (Collect, de reb. Heb. iii. p. 284). To my mind
both names appear Phoenician. Ausoba, from auz ob, means
a narrow bay. Ausona, from aits-on, a resounding river, rich
in water. In that part of Spain called Farsaconeses, the Hes-
ania Citerior of the Romans, in the canton of the Ilergetes,
between Manresa and Gerunda, beside the river Sambroca,
there stood an ancient city called Ausona, or Ausa, which
41
Daurona,* lernus^f Isammum^J Laberus,§ Macoli-
cum^ll Ovoca/'^ &c. ; and to crown all, "Even the few
gave name to the people called Ausetani. Being destroyed by
the Arabians, after their invasion of that country, and restored to
its original level, it was called Vicus Ausonoe, and by the natives,
A^ich de Osona, now merely Vieh. There is, also, in the canton
of the Asturas, a chain of mountains called Ausona ; in Canta-
bria we find Mount Ansa ; in Boetica the city of Osuna ; in the
country of theVacedi are the towns Ausejo and Ausines; in Cel-
tiberia the valley of Auso ; and other names of this kind, of Phoe-
nician birth, which borrow their names from the adjacent rivers.
* Daurona is derived from the Phoenician words duron, a
wealthy people. Spain had an old city in the canton of the
Celtiberians called Duron, and the ruins of which are to be
seen to this day. But the name of the river Duro in Spain, as
well as of the river Dour in the county Cork (or rather county
Kerry, called now, the Mang,) in Ireland, comes from the
Celtic word deir, a river,
t lernus, (now Kenmare river,) either from the Phoenician
lerain, pious, religious, or from the Greek lerne, corrupted, as
we shall shew in a subsequent chapter, from the Phoenician
Jherin, and intimating Ireland.
I Isaranium, (now St. John's Foreland,) from Isaninij ancient,
or Izanim, armed people.
§ Laberiis, an ancient city in Ireland, recorded by Ptolemy,
and called the capital of the Voluntii by Richard of Ciren-
cester, (now Kildare,) was celebrated for the idolatrous super-
stition of the Druids there pre-eminently cultivated. It is
derived from the Phoenician words lahab era, a flame in a cave.
Of the perpetual fire preserved by the sacrificing priests in the
temples of their idols, or in caves, and here alluded to, we shall
have occasion to speak more at large in the sequel.
II
Macolicum, (now Killmallock,) from macolim, the staffs or
walking sticks of travellers ; as in Gen. xxxii. 10, «*
For with
my staff I passed over this Jordan.'* Metaphorically applied
to a nation on a journey.
% Ovoca, the ancient name of a river and bay in the eastern
42
names/' he says, '' which may perhaps be understood
are in their meaning as vitiated and as corruptly
perverted as the places themselves are decayed by
time," Surely so distinguished a writer would not
have so expressed himself had he but taken the
trouble to compare such names with the source and
origin whence they emanated.
It may happen, indeed, in spite of us, and to our
great detriment, I allow, that we may sometimes
meet with obscure, nay, inexplicable, terms amongst
the names given of old to some of our states, our
cities, our rivers, or our mountains ; but this will be
found, for the most part, to have occurred through
the fault of historians and antiquarians mystifying
words otherwise clear, and arbitrarily affixing to
them whatever meaning may have been first sug-
gested by either their caprice or their ignorance.
How much more temperately, and at the same time
more correctly, does that celebrated Irish historian,
O'Connor, in his Rer. Iber. script, vet. 1, p. xlvi.
seq. express himself on this head. " If we but com-
pare," says he, ^^
the Irish names handed down by
Ptolemy, severally, with the British, and afterwards
with the Spanish names which he has also preserved.
section of Ireland, named by Ptolemy, and by some supposed
to be the river Arklow, by others the Dublin Bay, is derived
from the Phoenician voe^ he emptied, he evacuated ; whence the
Arabic ohec^ or abicy a water-conduit, a pipe whereby water is
conveyed into a bath.
43
we must needs acknowledge that by far the greater
part of them are Spanish, bearing reference to times
of the most distant date, and as such accord with
those accounts which we have heard respecting the
very early landing of the Phoenicians in this ' holy
island.' "* This erudite writer accordingly steered
clear of the opinion of those who, pinning their faith
upon some would-be antiquarians, affirm that almost
all the names of our ancient tribes and colonists cor-
respond with the genius of the native idiom, and
must therefore be derived therefrom. Other critics,
with more chastened taste, and no small degree of
merit, derive them in part from the Celtic, in part
from the Cambrian, in part, too, from the Cambrian
and the old Teutonic ; but neither with these do I
agree in all particulars, seeing that they would fain
grub out from other sources, and no matter at what
pains or cost, what I am convinced in my soul are
derived from the spirit of the Phoenician language,
and from that only.
Bulletus I conceive one of those who have been
thus led astray, being, as has been already observed
by a gentlemanf profoundly conversant in the anti-
quities of this country, evidently at much pains in
his commentaries upon the ^^ Celtic Tongue" to
* For the origin of this' name see Preface, or chap, xxxiv.
sub. fin.
t The English translator "of D. Mallet's work, *«
De Sep-
tentrionalibus Antiquitatibus," preface, page 14.
44
wrest, if possible, from that source, the names of
most of our cities, towns, rivers, &c. Nor was
Lhuyd more successful in his collation of the Irish
with the Cantabrian language, bearing, as they do,
infinitely less analogy, one to the other, than the
Irish and the Phoenician.* I pass over, without
notice, the names of other writers, who have displayed
a good deal of industry, and to very little profit,
upon the geographical names of this island.
The truth is these gentlemen, with all their learn-
ing, have not sufficiently sifted the rubbish of the
Phoenician language, preserved and perpetuated
in those names by the peasantry themselves, though
knowing nothing, as we may suppose, of the authors
of the contrivance ; and this observation I have had
occasion to make before upon the geographical
names of Spain, which, in my treatise upon the geo-
graphy of that country, I have attempted to prove as
emanating from the same source. And as it must
be admitted on all hands that the marksman who
aims at the object itself, however distant or elevated,
is less likely to miss the line of direction, than he
who would be content with grazing the circular
superficies, therefore have I ventured to launch my
vessel at once into the depths of the Phoenician
fountains, there to explore, and mayhap with success.
* S^e Essay on the Antiquity of the Irish Language, being
a collation of the Irish with the Punic. Dub. 1772.
45
the genuine and true solution of those complicated
denominations.
The neglect of this on the part of a writer* who
has otherwise shewn consummate information on
Irish affairs, leads him to suspect that the Phoenicians
did only occasionally touch upon the Irish coasts for
the purposes of commerce, both export and import
and that in the course of time, Britain, by reason of
its wealthy tinf mines, holding out to them more
commercial inducements, became, consequently, a
more favorite rendezvous. Here he thinks it pro-
bable that they built themselves temporary huts, in
the capacity of purveyors for merchant's cargoes :
and these abodes, he conceives, not to have lasted
beyond the period of the third Punic war, when Car-
thageJ was destroyed, and Spain laid claim to by the
Romans.
* Vallancey, Collect, de Reb. Ibern. vol. iii. page 405, 406.
j- The abundance of this metal it was that gave rise to the
name of Britain, being compounded of Bruit, " tin," and Tan,
** country ;" corresponding to *' Cassiterides," the mercantile
name given by the Phoenicians to both Ireland and England.
I The Carthagenians were a colony of the Phoenicians, who,
on account of domestic dissensions, had quit their native home,
and built themselves a new city, which they called Carthada,
or Carthage, which means as much, in contradistinction to
Tyre, their former residence. The precise time of its founda-
tion is unknown ; yet writers seem to agree that it was about
869 years before the Christian era, or according to others, 72
or 93 years before the foundation of Rome. The wars which
this people maintained against the Romans—and which origin.
46
In the mean time I would have it distinctly un-
derstood that I do not deny but that some of those
names may have been of Irish (that is of Iberno-
Celtic) origin. Nay, I readily admit the fact.
This only I maintain, that most of those which are
supposed to be compounded of the languages of the
ated altogether in the jealousy and ambition of the latter—have
been celebrated all over the world for the unexampled instances
they display of heroic valour, on the one hand, of cold selfish-
ness and calculating design, on the other; and the awful lesson
held out on both sides of the inconstancy of human affairs, and
the transient tenure of human magnificence. For upwards of
two hundred and forty years, those two nations had beheld with
secret distrust each other's power, till at length a pretext
occurred for removing the mask, and the declaration of hos-
tilities was the inevitable consequence of their inbred hatred.
The two first Punic wars had passed away, and the combatants
on both sides—kept in check by the vigilance of their mutual
operations—had covered themselves with glory and military
immortality; but in the third, the levelling maxim of Cato,
who saw that the peace of Italy could never be secured so long
as the capital of Africa had a being, gave a dreadful impetus to
the Roman perfidy and dishonour. During seventeen days
Carthage was in flames, and the soldiers were permitted to
redeem from the fire whatever possessions they could lay hold
of. But whilst others battened in the wasteful riot of the scene,
the philosophic Scipio, struck with melancholy at the sight,
was heard to repeat two verses from Homer, which contained
a prophecy concerning the fall of Troy. Being asked by the
historian Polybius to what he then applied his prediction, " To
my countryy' replied Scipio, *^for her too I dread the vicissi-
tude of human affairs, lest in her turn she may exhibit another
/laming Carthage,^' This event happened about the year of
Rome 606.
47
Celts and Ancient Britons, are to be traced to a
much higher quarter, namely, the language of the
Phoenicians, who in the very earliest days, that is
much about the time of the entrance of the Israelites
into the land of Canaan, penetrated as far, in the
first instance, as the coasts of Africa and Spain, and
thence—their ambition increasing with the success of
their enterprises—they extended their researches even
to the Irish shores. This, then, is my grand posi-
tion, to establish which I shall enlist all the energies
of my mind and zeal—this the prize* to which I
shall emulously press forward, to point out the
riches of these Phoenician springs, and support that
descent they so irresistibly suggest to us ; that it
may become manifest to the world that they who
neglect this scrutiny into the earliest days of the
Phoenicians, are not qualified as historians to dis-
cover the true origin of the first inhabitants of Ire-
land ; still less so to vindicate their opinions on those
heads, or to refute and overturn those of their adver-
saries.
From what has been here said the reader may, per-
haps, imagine that the Phoenicians were, in my view,'
the primogenial inhabitants of this country—that,
in fact, '* Phoenicians " and ^^
natives" were, as re-
* Palmarium—By this word the author would seem to
allude to the QxeekphoiniXy a palm-tree ; whence some people
derive Phoenicia, as abounding therein.
48
garded Ireland, perfectly synonymous and con-
vertible terms.* To this point, however, my present
disquisition I shall not direct. I am well aware of
all that has been written by some ancient authors
about the aborigines, or giants, and their sanguinary
wars with the Partholani.f I know, also, what has
been said, in more recent times, of the last arrival
of theGadelians, or Milesians, from the coast of Iberia,
or Spain. Without either subscribing to, or reject-
ing, all that the most diligent searchers into Irish
antiquities affirm, as to this country having been
first colonized from the countries more adjacent to
it, and that it was not until after a long lapse of
years the Phoenicians, the Gadelians, and the Tar-
* It is more than probable that Ireland remained desert and
uninhabited from the creation to the deluge. No history, not
even that of Moses, offers any thing which can lead us to sup-
pose, that before the universal deluge, men had discovered the
secret of passing from one country to another that was sepa-
rated by water. The ark, which was constructed by order of
God himself, and which served to preserve man on the watery
element, is the first vessel of which we have any knowledge.-
McGeoghegan.
t There are some old collections of charters, with many
other monuments in writing, of the church of Cluan-Mac-
Noisk, in Latin ** Cluanensis," cited by O'Flaherty in the
dedicatory epistle of his Ogygia, which fix the arrival of the
first colonies in Ireland, under Partholan, in the year of the
world 1969, three hundred and twelve years after the deluge;
this colony was followed by the Nemedians, the Fomorians,
the Firbolgs, and the Tuatha de Danians. McGeoyhegan*
49
tesiens had come hither. I have upon these and other
such topics read over all the authorities, as well
modern as ancient, that lay within my grasp ; and
whilst in justice and candor I am bound to acknow-
ledge myself indebted to their labors on many and
important particulars that passed in review before
me, still did I reserve to myself the privilege, as
sacred as it is undeniable, of forming my conclusions
unbiassed by any authority.
The chief advantage which humble diligence
and diffident sagacity can derive from the labors
of able antecedent writers is this, that from their
priority in point of time they may be considered
as our torch-bearers through the thick and dis-
couraging darkness of ages in the distance ; yet
should we not so fix our eyes upon them, as they
thus precede us in the way, as to omit all attention
on our part to the safety of our own footsteps.
Some of them often chalk out to themselves a road
through which it would be any thing but safe to
follow them, and I have accordingly, guarding
against such a risk, thought proper in many in-
stances to take an unbeaten track and a new line of
journey. But inasmuch as no one hath before me
ever attempted this career, I may be allowed, I
trust, to hope that—if I shall inadvertently have
omitted* any thing in those commentaries which may
* "Where ancient coins?" We acknowledge we have
50
seem within the province of an etymologist's duty —
and in so vast a medley of names it is impossible but
that some such oversight will occur—it will be in-
none. But you yourself tell us, that it was perhaps a thousand
years before our era, that the Phoenicians traded to Britain and
Ireland, (agreeing pretty nearly with the calculations of our
native writers,) and you elsewhere say, that the Phoenicians
did not coin money till six hundred years later. Do you ex-
pect our Phoenician ancestors should have had coins (>0() years
before they had learned how to make them? You also say
elsewhere, that *' had the Phoenicians settled in any part of
Britain or Ireland, their usual splendour would have attended
them ; a few Phoenician coins," you add, *'
may perhaps be
found in Britain and Ireland, a circumstance naturally to be
expected from their trading there, but had there been any settle-
ments, there would have been ruins and numerous coins struck
at the settlement, as at all those in Spain." To all this, it is
only necessary to reply, that there are no remains of Phoenician
cities now to be found in Spain, and that the Punic coins and
inscriptions found there are clearly of Carthaginian origin, and
consequently cannot claim a very remote antiquity. Had the
Irish asserted a descent from the Carthaginians, the want of
such inscriptions and coins would be conclusive against them ;
but as the learned Lord Ross (then Sir L. Parsons,) observes,
no writer of note has ever said so, and we refer the reader to
that distinguished nobleman's " Defence of the Ancient His-
tory of Ireland," for conclusive arguments on that point. Mr.
Pinkerton finally shouts, " Where is the least trace of ancient
art or science in your whole island?" We respond, they are
exhibited abundantly in the numerous antiquities of gold, silver,
and bronze, dug up every day in all parts of Ireland, and
similar to the most ancient remains of the Greeks, Egyptians,
and Phoenicians. Our gold crowns, collars, bracelets, anklets
—our brazen swords, spears, and domestic vessels—our cinerary
urns—our cairns with sepulchral chambers, which are not to
51
dulgently overlooked by the learned amongst my
readers—and by them it is more likely to be so over-
looked knowing by experience, as they do, the diffi-
culties and the accidents to which such pursuits are
liable—than by those who, receiving their information
by hearsay from others, cannot appreciate the trouble
which its acquisition may have cost, but think it as
obvious to every one as it proved in their own in-
stance. The variety and obsoleteness of those
names have obliged many a searcher into their origin,
after a wearisome and fruitless pursuit, to give it
over in disgust : they have then contented them-
selves, as they fain would their readers, with vague
guesses, or obscure intimations of more obscure con*
jectures. Often have they assigned to them a mean-
ing not only different from the true one, but even-
opposite thereto, and such as must at once so appear
from the actual condition and circumstances of the
inhabitants, the locality of cities, and several other
divisional and characteristic denominations. Not that
I would detract in the least from the merit of those
worthy men who have bestowed their pains—and
laudably so bestowed them—in illustrating the geo-
graphy of this my adopted country : —no—I com-
be paralelled in the British isles —and lastly, in those Cydopean
works, agreeing- identically with those in the islands, and on
the shores of the Mediterranean, universally attributed to the
Phoenicians. These are the evidences of the early coloniza^
tion of Ireland. Dublin Penny Journal.
52
mend their efforts—they have pioneered for me a
path. If I shall appear to have surpassed them in
any thing, for this I am indebted to that greater
degree of care which the opportunities of my leisure
have enabled me to bestow upon the valuable labors
of the great men of antiquity. These I peruse with
incessant delight—these I court with undiminishing
assiduity, to see if from the overflow of their genius
I may be able to imbibe a single drop to irrigate,
with the vapour of their fructifying stream, the ste-
rile plants of my shallow capacity. For I am not one
of those who leave no engine untried, no stone un-
turned, to detect little blemishes in every writer
amongst the ancients, and who vilify and distort the
very noblest discoveries —the very grandest pro-
ductions of human ingenuity,—singly and solely, and
without any other assignable cause, than because
that their own petty souls cannot relish nor com-
prehend the innate moral beauty of any thing that
is laudable.
53
CHAP. II.
Arrival of the Phoenicians together with the Iberians in IrC'
land—Memorials of them in Fermoy—Leaba-Chaillde, its
etymology—Origin of the luords Peine and Penians—the
Vascones.
But to return to our subject.—^To me it appears
indisputable, as it is also the opinion of O'Connor,
that those Phoenicians who had invaded Boetica^—and
who in pursuance of, what seems to have been their
original destination, the discovery of Mines,* had in
conjunction with the Iberians or Celtiberians f pro-
• Strabo tells us that they drew such quantities of gold and
other commodities from this country as to make them pass a
law declaring it death to discover its situation to strangers.
The same was their motive for designating the British islands,
Ireland and England, by the general name of Cassiterides, ex-
pressive of their tin mines, withholding, however, their geo-
graphical position for fear of intrusion upon their commerce.
t The composition of this name, Celtee and Iberus, might
have been designed to distinguish the Celtes on that, from those
on this, side the Pyrenees iber in the old Celtic, signifying
over^ as Gaul was divided into Cis and Trans Alpine, and
Spain into Citerior and Ulterior. Lucan, however, would
seem to imply that they were so denominated as a mixed gene-
54
deeded thence onwards to Ireland, to work the iron
and tin mines for which it was celebrated—were the
earliest or amongst the earliest inhabitants of this
island—at least the southern and western parts of it.
I am convinced also, that the plain of Fermoy—called
in the ''
Annals of Innisfallen '*
the ''
Plain of the
Phoenicians"—was not so denominated without a just
and good cause, seeing that in this district we meet
with stone pillars erected after the Phoenician fashion,
in plains and upon little hillocks, in great numbers,
and of almost monstrous proportions. In this opinion,
therefore, I unhesitatingly acquiesce, in preference to
that of a writer already alluded to, who has asserted
that there are no vestiges of either citadels or old
temples to be found in Ireland at this day that could
properly be attributed to the Phoenician era. Why,
an exceedingly antique and truly wonderful monu-
ment of this description, * though in ruins, is to be
ration of Celtae and Iberi —** profugique a gente vetusta Gal-
lorum Celtae miscentes nomen Iberis.'* Lib. 4. They were a
brave and powerful people, and made strong head against the
Romans and Carthaginians in their respective invasions —their
country is now called Arragon.
* 1 should be disposed to include amongst this class the
small vaulted stone chambers called in Irish " Teach Draoi/*
Druids house, some of which are to be seen on the coast of
Kerry, at Cashil, at Dundrum, &c. evidently pertaining to a
distant date, coeval, almost with the *'
round towers," but of a
less noble—though still religious application. Nor should I
omit to mention the sacrafieial altars called ** Cromleach," that
55
seen in the village of Glanworth, * barony of Fermoy^
county of Cork, and province of Munster, consisting
of two stone pillars, placed at right angles, in an
oblong square. This laborious and stupendous piece
of workmanship is deservedly ascribed to the Phoe-
nicians, after their expulsion by Joshua, and was in-
tended, no doubt, either for the worship of some
idol, or to pepetuate the memory of some hero there
interred. The Irish call this structure Leaba-chaillde,
meaning thereby Callid's couch, for '^
leaba " in Irish
signifies a couch or bed ; but who this Callid w^as, no
one that I can discover, even soothsayer or prophet,
hath ever asserted or dared to guess ; much less can it
be ascertained from the interpretation of the populace
who understand by the term the ''
old hag's bed." In
support however of this explanation, it is alledged that
is, the jftag of the Deity, being an immense flat stone, supported
by pedestals, and sometimes, where the ground was sufficiently
high, or where the weight of the incumbent stone rendered it too
difficult to remove it, without any pedestals; nor the hypogae
or antra Mithrse, being subterraneous vaults, of which the most
astonishing yet discovered is that at ** New Grange," corrupted
from Grein-Uagh, i. e. cave of the sun or Mithras, in the county
of Meath. This name is still preserved in Innis Mithra or
Murra, otherwise *'
isle of sun," nine miles from Sligo, where
is to be seen one of those clock greine, or clock muidkr, i. e.
sun stones, being a conical pillar of stone placed on a pedestal
surrounded by a wall to preserve it from profanation^ and cor-
responding to the Makodee stone of the Gentoos, which is a
corruption of the Irish words mah De, i. e. good God.
* So called from the goodness of its soil.
56
all monuments similarly constructed are called the by
Irish, Leapa na Feine, by which they conceive are
meant the dormitaries or sleeping places of the Fe-
nians, their celebrated militia of warriors.
With all respect, however, to the distinguished in-
dividuals who think thus, and otherwise, I am inclined
to imagine that Leaba-Chaillde is a Phoenician expres-
sion, slightly vitiated, and composed of the words
lehab shallaid, a burned corpse, indicating the grave
of some illustrious hero deceased and buried therein.*
For lehab, in the Phoenician language, is a flame,
whence zalehab, to burn, and shallaid is a corpse, or
trunk of a dead body. Leopana too would seem to
be derived from the Phoenician lepin or leponin, that
is, swathings or liguments, or from leopin, linen or
towels ; as much as to say, that, underneath was in-
terred some Phoenician hero, and, according to the
eastern custom, wrapt up in bandages.
But what if it should appear that Feine was a name
given not to any individual Phoenician, but in general
to any chieftain or leader ? For in the Phoenician
dialect fen or feineh, which means the gable or out-
ward angle of a building, is applied metaphorically
to the leader of a camp, the chiefs or captains, who
are the strength of the people, as the corner stone or
* In the Syriac version of the Gospel according to St. Mat-=
thew, (xiv. 12.) it is said of John the Baptist, who was put to
death by Herod, **his disciples took away his body, shailldahf
and buried it*"
gable is of a house.* Should this exposition be ad-
mitted,—and I see no reason why it should not,—we
need not then have recourse to Fenius the ancestor,
according to an old Irish poemf of Breoganus who
built Brigantia, now Braganza in Spain, and whose
posterity are believed to have sailed thence into Ire-
land, under the conduct and auspices of Heber and
Heremon. I more incline to the opinion of those who
would have the troops of the ancient Irish denomi-
nated Fenians, not as though they were Phoenicians
or descended from them, but because that they ex-
hibited in their conduct the prowess and fortitude of
the Ibero-Phoenicians, who had formerly settled in the
country, and whose memory was preserved amongst
the inhabitants by long and repeated traditions. For
their soldiers, the Phoenii, who were equally called
clannaj Baoisgene, or the sons of the Basgneans, that
is the Vasconians, were never accounted of Phoeni-
cian extraction, nor to have obtained that name from
any leader called Baoisgenes, but from the Vasconse
of Cantabria, whence we are informed that Milesius
had emigrated to Ireland, of antient date, and with
* &o in Judges, xx. 2. ** and ail the angles, (feinoth,) of
the people njet." And 1 Kings, xiv. 28. " apply hither all
the angles, gimoth of the people.
t Coemanus in carmine : Canam bunadhus nan GoadhiL
(Cano originem Gadeliorum )
X Clanna is an Irish word, signifying sons or decendants.
So is baoisge also, and means a flash of light, and metaphori^
cally a vain glorious, or boastful fellow, See O'Connor^
58
an immense army.* Nor, indeed, should we omit
noticing that those Fenii, that is, the celebrated old
Irish militia, otherwise called feinne, might have
been so denominated from the Irish word feine, sig-
nifying a rustic or serf, as it is more than probable
that this military corps were originally embodied
from out of the class of the peasantry. To this point
however, we shall again revert when speaking ex-
pressly, and in detail, of the word Fene as one of the
old clans of this country.f
* See O'Connor,
f The history of mankind would be one of the most pleasing
studies in the universe, were it not often attended with the
most humiliating, the most melancholy considerations. By
studying human nature, we are led to consider in what manner
we were formed by our all-wise Creator ; what we have made
ourselves, in consequence of our disobedience to the divine law;
what we may be through Divine grace ; and then what we
shall be in glory. Principles of this nature, should strike
deep into our minds, when we consider the state of the heathen
world, and, at the same time, reflect on the many blessings we
enjoy. In vain do we pride ourselves in any of our endow-
ments, in vain do we pretend to superior attainments; for if
our affections are as much attached to earthly objects as those
of the heathens, then we are much more inexcusable than
they. We have all the truths of the gospel laid open to us,
while they remain in a state of ignorance, worshipping the
works of their own hands. Nay, worshipping even reptiles
and insects, offering human sacrifices, shutting up their bowels
of compassion, and trampling upon every moral obligation.
This will naturally apply to what we are now going to relate,
for the dignity of our holy religion never shines so bright, as
when contrasted with heathen superstition, pagan idolatry, and
every thing else that can dishonour our nature. Hurd,
59
CHAP. Ill
Ireland called by different names by the Phoenicians—Inis
nabjiodha—Fiod Inis- -Criocafrind—Ere—Fodhla,from the
root of which latter term the Phoenicians called all Africa by
the name of Phut— Banba—Fail—Elga.
But my present design being to illustrate the
names of the several localities of this country, as-
serted already and maintained to have been of Phoeni-
cian birth, I shall begin from its very first settlers,
whose tribes it will be shewn have borrowed their
names from that language ; and in this retrospective
view the island itself claims our first regard, as
known both to foreigners and to natives under va-
rious appellatives. By the natives it was called Inis
nab fiodha, by which they would intimate the ''
island
of woods ;" in which sense it was also called Inis
fiod, the "island of timber " or trees, from fiod, timber,
and inis^ an island ; and again, crioca frindh, the
final wood ; from croch, a boundary, and fridh^ a
wood.* It may have happened, indeed, that subsequent
* I never saw one hundred contiguous acres in Ireland in
which there were not evident signs that they were once wood,
or> at least, very well wooded. Trees and the roots of trees, of
60
settlers^ from ignorance of their true meaning, endea-
voured to accommodate to the spiritof their own lan-
guage these names and terms which they found ready
to their hand, and sanctioned by the usage of
their predecessors ; but as to their being originally
Phoenician, that is indisputable and beyond the pos^
sihilify of doubt. Inis nab fiodha is compounded,
as before observed, of the words, Inis, an island ;
nab, of ; and fiod, a wood : Inis, again, is composed
of the Phoenician words, In-is, meaning idolatrous
inhabitants, of intrepidity and spirit in or an being
idolatry, and is, an inhabitant of manly spirit
whilst the two latter words, nab-fiodah, are properly
derived from the Phoenician naboa, an origin, and
phiobd, those who dwelt in a vanquished land. So
that Inis-nab-fiodah conveyed to the Phoenicians the
following idea, viz. who dwelt originally in a van-
quished land, or the posterity of those who sojourn-
ed in a country which they took by conquest.
the largest size, are dug up in all the bogs ; and in the culti-
vated countries, the stumps of trees destroyed show that the
destruction has not been of any ancient date : a vast number of
Irish names for hills, mountains, valleys, and plains, have
forests, woods, groves, or trees, for their signification. The
greatest part of the kingdom now exhibits a naked, bleak,
dreary view, for want of wood, which has been destroyed for
a century past, with thoughtless prodigality, and still continues
to be cut and wasted, as if it were not worth the preservation.
—Young.
61
Fiod Inis, from the Phoenician words, fiot inis,
that is, idolatrous inhabitants who deprecate, for fiot
means deprecation.
Crioca frindh, from cri-ocal, cities, towns, or vil-
lages abounding in victuals, provisions, or food ; and
firin, the earth's produce—all which enunciate the
productiveness of this country.
I pass over to the vulgar, yet most ancient names
given to Ireland, such as Ere Fodhla, and Banba,
borrowed, as some historians aver, from three royal
sisters, the last queens of the Tuatha Dedan, to
which Fiech* the Scholiast adds two others, Fail and
Elga. But it is not safe trusting to fabulous records
wrapt up in darkness and unsubstantiated by proof
more especially when we may otherwise account for
the origin of these words by tracing them to the spi-
rit of the Phoenician language —for Ere comes from
araa or eree, a country, a climate, the inhabitants of
one region. Fodhla from the words phut lah, or
phot lah, a green land, which was formerly the
proper appellation of Ireland, whence the Greeks
used to call it smaragdon, the emerald,f from the
* This was the celebrated convert and disciple of St. Patrick,
afterwards promoted to the bishopric of Sletty, in the Queen's
county, who flourished at the end of the fifth and beginning of
the sixth century—distinguished by many literary productions,
but best known by his poetical hymn, or panegyric upon his
beloved instructor, the apostle of our forefathers.
t "The Emerald" stone, in its purest state, is of a bright
62
greenness and luxuriant freshness of its soil, as ap-
pears from the quotation " grandes viridi cum luce
smaragdi." Unless you would rather suppose it to
have been so denominated by the Phoenicians from
its likeness to the country inhabited by Phut, the
third son of Ham. Nor need we wonder if some of
these should have so named this island, as they had
formerly all Africa,* whose western parts, namely,
and naturally polished surface, and of a pure and charming
green, without any mixture of any other color :
Fair as the glittering waters
Thy emerald banks that lave,
To me thy graceful daughters,
Thy generous sons as brave.
Oh ! there are hearts within thee
Which know not shame or guile.
And such proud homage win thee
My own green isle ! — Barton.
* In ancient times, this country was considered as a third
part of the terrestrial globe, and it may be properly called a
peninsular ; for were it not for that small tract of land running
between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean, it would actually
be an island. It is remarkable, that in ancient times there
were many christians here, who had fair and flourishing
churches, and here some of the most eminent christian fathers
resided ; among these were Cyprian, bishop of Carthage ;
Austin, bishop of Hippo ; and Tertullian, the famous apolo-
gist. These African churches continued to flourish till about
the middle of the seventh century, when the Arabians, under
their caliphs, established Mahometanism in many parts, such as
Egypt, Morocco, Algiers, &c. but at present, the greater
number of the inhabitants are idolaters. But here we find it
impossible for us to inform the reader, from whence these
63
Mauritania Tingitana,* wherein lies Lybia^ are to
this day known by this name ; and the river that en-
compasses those parts is still called Phuti, and the
country all about Phutensis.f
Banba would seem derived from the Phoenician
words bana baha^ cities built in an extensive region,
or a country abounding in towns or cities.
Fail from the Phoenician faila, or a husbandman, a
serf, which comes from filah to plough, to harrow up
the soil, whence also failhin, agriculture, tillage.
Elga from the Phoenician helca, usage, privilege,
designating probably the customs and ordinances of
the primitive sages, which were the rule of conduct
and the model of imitation to the Irish from the very
beginning.
modern idolaters derive their worship ; for it bears no manner
of affinity to that of either the Greeks, Romans, or Egyptians;
and there is so little of the ancient religion of the Ethiopians,
Nigritians, &c. preserved in it, that it would prove a very dif-
ficult task to trace from those remains the idolatry of their
descendants. Hurd.
* So called from Tingis, now Tangier the capital, to distin-
guish it from Numidia, which was called Mauritania Caesari-
ensis after Claudius, who had reduced both kingdoms to the
condition of Roman provinces. Mauritania is derived from
Maur, i. e. a western, it being to the west of Carthage and
Phoenicia, it is now the empire of Fez and Morocco.
t Valent. Schindl. Oderan. lex pent col. 1427.
64
CHAP. IV.
Ogygia an ancient name for Ireland— Various opinions as to its
etymology — Ogyges king of Thebes—Egypt called Ogygia —
would seem a Phoenician name, relating to geography , or else
indicating the bloody sacrifices of the Druids—Gia a valley
ofJerusalem—Perpetualfire in Tophet—As also in the temple
of Hercules at Gades, and in other idol temples — Origin of
this rite—Sons burnt by their parents in honor of Moloch—
Meaniyig of dragging children through fire —Customary ivith
the ancients to offer human victims to idols.
Plutarch and the old poets have given to Ireland
the name of Ogygia, to intimate thereby, as Camden
and others after him have supposed, their thorough
conviction of its extreme antiquity. This opinion they
have formed, not more from the distant recesses of
time which the Irish explore in their historical inves-
tigations, than from the well known practice of the
poets, giving—from Ogyges the most ancient king of
Thebes^—the name of Ogygia to any thing that is
ancient. * Some w^ould have Egypt on this account
* More especially if such antiquity be involved in darkness
and in doubt, as every thing relating to the origin of this king,
the age in which he lived, and the duration of his reign, con-
fessedly is. Ogygium id appellant poaetee, tanquam pervetus
65
called Ogygia, because that its inhabitants are re-
corded to be the most ancient in the world, and
the inventors, at the same time, of all or most of the
sciences and arts which were subsequently borrowed
and improved, to much advantage, by the several
Asiatic and Grecian states.*
For my part, though I would not altogether ex-
plode the purport of this explanation, yet I should
rather imagine Ogygia to be a Phoenician term,
compounded of the words hog-igia, that is, " the sea
girt isle," or hog-igiah, an inhabitant surrounded by
the ocean. For the Phoenicians who liad begun to
frequent in distant voyages the uttermost part of
either ocean, and who, as Strabo mentions, having
proceeded even beyond the ^^pillarsf of Hercules," had
circumnavigated the greater part of the habitable
globe, finding the earth on every side encompassed
by that watery expanse o'er whose bosom they were
wafted to their enterprising destinations, very signi-
ficantly gave the name of " hag" to that " watery ex-
dixeris ab Ogyge vetustissirao. Rhodogonvs, lib. 15, cap. 33.
See Pint. lib. de facia in orbe lunoe. Slatyrius, an English
poet, calls this island, Ogygia, in his " Pale Albioiie."
* Canib. Brit. tit. HibeTuia.
t Two lofty mountains named Calpe and Abyla, situate,
one on the most southern extremity of Spain, the other on
the opposite part of Africa, which Hercules is said to have
erected, with the inscription of iie plus ultra, as if they had
been the extreme points of the world.
F
66
panse," intimating thereby the " sea circumference,"
not unhke what the Arabians designate it, " the
circumambient sea." From hence arose the Greek
word Ogen, the ancient name for the ocean amongst
that people ; whence it is very probable, as many
think, that Ireland was called Ogygia by Plutarch.
It is worthy of note too, that hag, which is common
as well to the Hebrews as the Phoenicians, occurs in
scripture as a cosmographical term, used by Isaiah
(xi. 22.) to express emphatically the circle of the
earth, and by Solomon* to indicate the circle above
the face of the abyss.
But the foregoing interpretation must not make
us treat with contempt, nor fancy it a dream on the
part of those who imagine that by the name of
'^ Ogygia" allusion is made to the bloody victims which
the Druids and other sacrificing priests, introduced
by the Phoenicians into this country, used offer to their
idols according to the Syriac custom in Ireland, no
less than in Spain, and Gaul, and other nations of
those denominated Gentiles. For in the Phoenician
language, og-igiah means grief or sorrow for one
burned, being compounded of og, he burned, and
igiah, he made sorrowful. Whence the valley
near Jerusalem wherein Tophet was situated, and in
which fire was perpetually preserved for burning the
* Proverbs viii. 27.
t Bochart Geog. i. 36.
67
ofFals and bones of tlie dead bodies therein sacrificed,
—sons, by the way, whom their very parents used to
immolate to the idol Moloch, dragging them with
their own hands through two funeral pyles until death
interfered in mercy to their excruciations—was called
gia or gianon, from that horrifying abomination.
By this too is confirmed the belief of the Phoenicians
having made it a custom to preserve fire ''
iiiextln-
gulshable" in the temples of their gods, as Sihus as-
serts of the temple of Gades or Cades, which they
had there erected and devoted to Hercules. *
The ''
evil spirit," no doubt, the great enemy of the
human species, and consequently the rival ofJehovah^«
in this the weakest quarter of the universal created
scheme, had his priests also to preserve his fire in
the temples of his idols, so as to appear not inferior
to the people of Israel whom God had enjoined to
feed the fire continually upon the altar. Hence the
Greeks at Delphi and at Athens, used to preserve it
both night and day ; and if ever, by any accident, it
got extinguished, they used to light it again by the rays
of the sun. The Pyrea of the Persians are also well
known, in which they used not only to preserve the fire
in an everlasting blaze, but even worship it as a divi-
* Under this appellation was typified the sun, the twelve
labors of the " hero," being nothing more than a figurative repre-
sentation of the annual course of that luminary through the
twelve signs of the zodiac.—See Porp. Sch. Hes.
F 2
68
nity.* Strabo describes this pyratheia (xv) or fire-
worship, as existing also in Capadocia.f The vestal
virgins, never allowed the sacred fire to be ex-
tinguished, it being a point of fearful and intense
anxiety to the Romans, as they never failed to
look upon its extinction as a sure presage of the
overthrow of their city. This custom penetrated
even to India, to the Brahmins themselves, who, we
have the authority of Arumianus for saying, " used
to guard the fire on hearths ever burning." But
the superstition had its origin with the sacrificing
priests of the Syrians, who were wont in honour of
Moloch to drag their own children through heaps
of fire. J
This dragging amounted in some instances to an
actual burning of children ; sometimes only to a
scorching, produced by their being either conducted
* Brison de regno Persarum.
f This country—once so immersed in profligacy and vice as
to share in the dishonor of the proverbial alliteration of the
Greek, *'
tria kappa kakista/' the Cretans and the Cilicians being
the other two of the trio, was notwithstanding, ennobled by
being the birth place of Strabo, and of many martyrs and
heroes, such as Gregory Nazoenzen, Gregory Nysson, and St.
Basil, not forgetting the celebrated St. George, who had been
a tribune of soldiers (colonel) under the emperor Dioclesian,
and afterwards appointed patron of the order of the garter by
Edward TIT, all of whom shed a lustre over the history of the
place, and redeem its character though almost irreparable.
X Levit. xviii. 21. xx. 3, 4, 5.
69
or carried through a space betwixt two immense
fires, by their comari or priests, or, according to their
direction, by the parents themselves. Comar, or
cumar, as also mar, meant, with the Chaldeans and
Syrians, a gentile priest, a Camillas, or minister of
idols ; whence the Syriac word cumaruth, priesthood,
and the rabinical cumari, a monk. But they were
so denominated from the burning of victims, for with
the people of the east camar means to burn. There
are those, however, who think that the verb " to drag
across," when used in this acceptation, is equivalent
in import with the verb to "burn." Vossius is of
opinion that when the scriptures make mention of
this dragging, " burning" is not thereby implied, but
merely ''
conducting" between two fires. Never-
theless, he acknowledges that independently of this
scorching, which prevailed in all families, no matter
how affluent, or strangers to want, there was also a
live-burning of their dearest pledges, and from the
very flower of the people too, whereby, in the mad-
ness of their superstition, they had cajoled themselves
into a belief that their deities could be propitiated
on occasions of great calamites.
That this was the opinion of the Phoenicians is
evident from Porphyry.* We learn from Scripture,
* The original name of this writer and philosopher, and
greatest enemy, in both capacities, that Christianity ever ex-
perienced, was Melek, which in the Syriac language signifies
70
itiso, that this worship had obtained throughout the
land of Canaan* and Mediterranean Syria, which
comprehended Phoenicia within its extensive boun-
daries. For we read of the Israelites, in Psahn cv.
being mixed with the Gentiles, and learning all their
practices, sacrificing, (izbechu) after their example,
their sons and daughters to demons—that is to the
graven images of Canaan. And respecting the
Assyriansf who were brought over to Samaria, the
history of IT. Kings, xvii. 31, records that those who
were of Sepharvaim were wont to burn their sons in
honor of Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of
Sepharvaim. J Quintus Curtius§ treats of the human
** King," changed afterwards by Longinus, his preceptor, to
Porphyrias, from poiphura, the Greek for purple, which kings
usually wore, lie was a native of Tyre, and died, I believe, in
Sicily, A.D. 304.
* The first city founded in this celebrated country, known
by the several names of Phoenicia, Palestine, Canaan, Israel,
and Judea, and one literally flowing with milk and honey, was
Hebron.
t This, the first great monarchy established on the earth,
took its name from Ashur, the second son of Shem, who
founded it about the year 341 after the flood. It is at present
called Curdiston, i. e. the country of the Curdes, from the
Curdo mountains.
X Supposed, by Sir Isaac Newton, to have been the Sephara
of Ptolemy, and both to correspond with Pantibibia, where
Zesuthrus deposited the records which he wrote before the
flood. Pantibibia from pan, all, and biblon, a book, is the
Greek translation of Sephara, which comes from Sphar, a book
or record.
§ The era of this historian, the romantic biographer of Alex-
71
victims offered by the Syrians. Diodorus Siculus,*
(xx) and Tertullian^f (Advers. Gnost. c. vii.) record
the same of their Carthaginian colonies, as does Por-
phyry of the people of Rhodes ; J and says Paulus
Fagius, in the Chaldee paraphrase of Leviticus,
" They used to dance in the interim whilst the boy
was being burned in the blazing fire, striking their
timbrels the while, to drown thereby the shrieks of
ander the Great, is not sufficiently determined—some making
him cotemporary with Claudius ; others with Vespasian ; and
others, again, with Augustus.
* This was the writer of whom Vincent used to say, that
** Every word of his was a sentence, and every sentence
a triumph over error." He was called Siculus, as being
born at Argyra, in Sicily ; and flourished about 44 years B.C.
f This eloquent writer was originally a Pagan, and after his
conversion became Bishop of Carthage, his native place, A. Da
196. He afterwards separated from the Catholic Church, and
plunged into the errors of the Montonists.
I This celebrated island, in the Carpathian sea, was so named
from (Gesurat) Rhod, which in the Phoenician language means
** snake," (island) corresponding to " Ophiusa," another name
thereof, and which, in the Greek, signifies the very same thing
—from ophis, a snake. Others derive it from rodon, a rose,
for which, as well as snakes, the island was remarkable, and
adduce, in confirmation, several Rhodian coins, exhibiting the
sun, to which the island was sacred, on one side, and a rose on
the other. But this was a mistake of the moderns not knowing
the Phoenician origin of the word Rhod, and wresting it to the
resemblance of their own rodon, corroborated somewhat by the
accident of finding of a rose-bud of brass in laying the founda-
tion of the ancient city of Lindus. The same objection, how-
ever, equally applies to this, being only a little more antece-
dent in point of time.
72
the unfortunate sufferer." He therefore, methiiiks
cannot be suspected of a wild-goose pursuit who,
depending upon these authorities, .conceives that, in
the name of Ogygia, allusion is made either to the
Syriac settlers in this country who came from that
quarter of the land of Canaan, or to the Phoenician
worshippers of Moloch, who, as we shall hereafter
prove, introduced this custom of human sacrifices,
along with other bloody ceremonies and practices,
into their several colonies.*
^ The inhabitants of all nations in the universe believe in the
necessity of an atonement for sin, before men can be justified
by the Supreme Being, and although very unworthy notions
have been formed concerning the existence of such an essential
point in religion, yet it does not follow that the principle itself
is false. Nay it rather proves the contrary, for there is some-
thing in every man's conscience which points out to him that he
lias offended God, and that some attonement mu«t be made,
either by himself or by another. Now these heathens in India
believe, that an attonement has been made for their sins, and
they are to have the choice of enjoying the benefits of it, on two
conditions : either they are to visit several holy cities at a vast
distance from each other, or secondly, they are declared to be
absolved, in consequence of their repeating the names of their
gods, twenty-tour times every day. Such as visit the holy
places, offer up a sacrifice ; and on the tail of the victim is
written the name of the penitent, with the nature of his offence.
This practice seems to have been universal in ancient times ; it
was so among the Greeks, the Romans, the Carthagenians and
the Jews; and the prophet Isaiah alludes to it, when he says
of Christ, '* surely he hath born our griefs, and carried oar
73
CHAP. V.
The name Hibernia given to this island variously written hy
the Greeks and the Latins—Of Phoenician origin—Other
names, Eri, Eire, Iris, Lug—The Irish called Erin, Erion,
and ErigincB— Ire Erion—Couri—Miluir—Guidhonod— All
Phoenician names.
But the most ancient name we meet with ever
given to this island is Hibernia, the name by which
Csesar, Pliny^, Tacitus, Sohnus, and others have
designated it. Eustathius calls it Overnia and Ber-
nia ; St. Patrick,* Hiberia and Hiberio. With the
Greek writers it is louernia, louerne, and lerne, all
derived from the Phoenician Iberin, meaning extre-
mities, limits, or boundaries. From whence comes
Iberne, the remotest habitation ; because, as Bo-
chart, Geog. sacr. i. 39, well explains it, ''
The an-
* The family name of this venerable saint and celebrated
apostle of the Irish was Succat, which, in Irish, signifies,
** prosperous in battle." He was afterwards named Magonius,
when ordained deacon, and, finally, Patricius, when conse-
crated a bishop. He was by birth a North Briton, born A.D.
372, near the village of Nempthur, or Banavan, in Tabernia,
now Dumbarton, and brought a captive, at an early age, into
Ireland, in one of those predatory excursions which our an-
74
cients knew nothing beyond Ireland towards the ocean
except the vast sea." Whence he infers that the Phoe-
nicians, distinguished as they were for pushing their
voyages to the remotest extremities of the globe,
must have been thoroughly acquainted with the
locality of this country.
For I cannot at all bring myself to coincide in
opinion with those, who imagine that this name had
cestors indulged in after the withdrawal of the Romans from
Britain. Fiech thus alludes to these circumstances :
** Patrick was born at Nempthur,
As related in stories ;
A youth of sixteen years,
When carried into captivity^
Succat was his name among his own tribes :
Who his father was be it known
He was son of Calphurnius and Otide,
Grandson of the Deacon Odesse."
This Odesse is, by St. Patrick himself, called Potitus, as was
Otide, otherwise called Conchessa, being sister to St. Martin,
Bishop of Tours.—The clergy at this period had not been en-
joined celibacy. He died on the 17th of March, A. D. 493,
at the great age of 120 years, and was buried at Down, in the
same tomb with St. Bridget and St. Columba, according to the
Latin distich
** In burgo Duno tumulo tumulantur in uno
Brigida, Patricius, et Columba plus."
Thus translated
'*
In Down three saints one tomb do fill,
Bridget, Patrick, and Columb Kill."
His long disuse of the Latin language during a continued re-
sidence of sixty years in this island, combined with the ignO"
ranee of copyists, will account for the inaccuracy of the names
" Hiberia" and " Hiberio."
15
originated from the Spanish Iberi^ who had once
sent hither a colony. No ; I should rather trace it
even to the Irish word, lar, z. e. west, from its
western position in reference to England ; a view in
which I am sanctioned by Camden's approbation, on
the ground that Spain had been called Hesperia
from its western locality, and a certain promontory
in Africa the Hesperian Cape, from its locality in
like manner.* Vallancey thinks that the Persians,
who had at a very early period established them-
selves in this island, gave it this name in allusion to
the district of Iran in their native country.f Cam-
den's view of the matter is still further supported by
the inference drawn from the Greek idiom by Cor-
mac McCuillinan, Bishop of Cashel, and King of
Munster, in the beginning of the tenth century,J viz.
that Hibernia may be considered a Greek compound,
consisting of the two words, Hiberse and Nyos, the
former of which signifies the loest, and the latter an
island ; w^hilst Bochart's explanation gains credence
by the fact of the Phoenicians being really Iberin, or
Oberin, that is, passers over the sea, in which ac-
* From their proximity to the north in like manner, which
in the Phoenician language is called garbaia^ the following
Spanish towns have been denominated :— Garbi, Garbin, Gar-
belos, Garbayuela; as also Algarbi, a district now in the pos-
session of Portugal.
t Observation on the primitive inhabitants of Great Britain.
X Varaeus de Script. Ibernia, p. 6.
76
ceptation we meet with the expression in Psalm viii. 8,
where it is said, " Who traverse (ober) the paths of
the sea."
The natives have indifferently called it Eri, or
Eire, and not so correctly by the name of Erin
whence perhaps the term Iris, which we find in
Diodorus Siculus. To Eri and Eire we may also
apply our previous conjectures on the etymology of
Ere. This I prefer to the assertion of certain per-
sons who would have this island called lerna and
lerne, from the Greek Hieron, signifying ''
sacred."*
I must not omit to add that from Eri, or Eire, the
Irish have been called Erigenae,f or sons of Erin, a
name by which John, the illustrious Irish historian;};
of the ninth century, is universally and emphatically
denominated. Varoeus de Scrip, Iber. i. 5.
Another ancient name of Ireland, lu Erion, the
learned generally take to imply, '^
the isle of the
earth-born, or offspring of the very earth ;'*
for iu,
au,§ and eu, meant '' water," or ''
island ;" and these
* Ogyg. 1,21.
t From Era, earth, and Ginomai, to be born.
I And Chaplain to Alfred the Great, who, in the preface
to his translation of St. Gregory's Pastoral into the Saxon lan-
guage, was not ashamed to acknowledge his gratitude to Ire-
land, that had given him his education, and additionally im-
proved it by the superintending assistance of this distinguished
ecclesiastic.
§ Aa and ea, i. e. Eau, i. e. Aqua, signify water, and it may
be here added, that the termination of names of places in a,
77
were sometimes written more fully, aug, or ag, like
the Teutonic oege and odghe, from the Greek auge,
splendor, an obvious property of water. Whence,
also, another name, T.ug, from luge, light. Era,*
too, was used emphatically, to signify the land of
ancient Greece, as Er was that of Britain. Where-
fore the Irish at this day call themselves Erin, or
Erion ; and from this Scotus obtained the name of
Erigina, or of Eriniauch, compounded, as they state,
of er, the earth, and geni, or eni, to be bom of In
confirmation of this etymology, they tell us that that
nation, before the arrival of the Brigantes or Phry-
gians, had possession of Gaul, Spain, and Britain
for to this day the Vascones and Cantabrians in a
great degree make use of the ancient language of
the Erii.f But the first men got the name, in the
Greek and Latin languages respectively, of Autok-
thones and Terrigenae, that is, ^'
sons of the earth,"
and " earth-born," from the circumstance of their
dwelling underground in caves, like rabbits ;
J which
aa, or ey, in the old Teutonic, signify places surrounded with
water ; nor ought the word sea, itself, in this case to be forgotten.
* It was in particular the name of a mountain in Messenia,
the rendezvous of Aristomenes and his devoted band, where,
after many marvellous feats of almost incredible heroism,—in
which the women no less than the men had share,—he was at
last betrayed and obliged to vacate his post.
t Edward Lhuid's Archiologia.
X Strabo says that the Scythians used to seek, refuge from
the cold in caverns. Hence the name Troglodytes, from tro-
ghs, a cave.
78
gave occasion to Gildas to say, "From their little
caverns crept forth the Irish like so many swarthy,
sooty little worms."* This has led some to suppose
that the Couri, Miluir, and Guidhonod, as they are
called, who are generally ascribed to a more ancient
date, and who passed their lives in caves and forests,
"were no other than those self-same original Erii
and wishing to derive these names from the Irish
language, they say that Cour, in the singular num-
ber, means a giant, abbreviated from Cau ur, " a
cave man," such as Cacus and the Cyclopsf are
* Prorepsere e cavernulissuisfuscivermiculi Iberni. —Guild.
Dr. Smollet, in his ironical manner, calls the inhabitants of
Lapland the fag end of the human creation, which illiberal and
invidious expression seems to arise from not considering that
these people have the same rational faculties as others, and
only want the means to improve themselves. Now under such
circumstances let us seriously ask, whether these people are
the objects of laughter and ridicule? Are they not rather
objects of pity, especially when we consider that our ancestors
were once as ignorant as they, and probably more barbarous.
Nay, barbarity is not so much as imputed to the Laplanders,
even by those who take a savage pleasure in ridiculing them
for what is not in their power to prevent. That they are slaves
to superstition is not denied, but that superstition never leads
to any thing of a cruel or barbarous nature. Secure in their
simple huts, they live without giving oiFence to each other ;
and if they have but little knowledge, they have but few sins
to account for.—HUrd.
f The Cyclops are represented to have had but one eye in
the middle of their forehead, the origin of their name, from
Kuklos, a circle, and Ops, an eye ; but in reality were so called
from their custom of wearing small steel bucklers over their
79
reported to have been ; Coures, meaning a giantess.
Milur is a wild man, or a silvestrian, and there-
fore a hunter, just as Milgi, is a hound. For with
the Britons, Mil, meant a wild beast, as with the
Greeks did Melon, cattle ; and to this they think
that the Clanna Miledh of the Irish, from clann, or
clain, an offspring, and miledh, a soldier or war-
rior, bears reference. Guidhonod they conceive to
arise from guidhon, a witch.
But since the Phoenician language exhibits the
origin of these names, I should, for my part, as-
cribe them to that source in preference. For in-
stance, lu Erion would appear derived from the
Phoenician I-Erain, an inhabitable island, or one
abounding in inhabitants. Lug, from log, which
with the Arabians is logag, the deep, as much as to
say, the island in the deep, or surrounded therewith.
Erigena, which they would have a-kin to the Irish
word Ereimane, or rather Erionnach, meaning Ire-
land and Irishmen, I would venture to derive from
the Phoenician word Erigain, foreigners ; and Erion-
nach itself from Era-onag, that is, a land or country
abounding in delicacies, for onag, in the Syriac
faces, having but a single apertuve in the middle, which corre-
sponded exactly with the form of an eye. This practice they
had recourse to in their capacity of miners, or in their profession
of archery, as we find a Scythian nation, too, who excelled in
the same art, call themselves Arimaspi, from Arima, one, and
spia, an eye, in allusion to the habit of closing one eye to take
the better aim, by collecting the visual rays to one focus.
80
dialect, implies a delicacy or luxurious repast. The
Couri were so from the Phoenician word curin,
fishes, a metaphorical designation for expert and
dexterous mariners ; or from cura, a fire-hearth, as
if worshippers of fire. Miluyr, from the Phoenician
Mila-ur, an assembly of fire-worshippers, or a mul-
titude of inhabitants living in a valley, for ur signi-
fies indifferently either one or the other, a fire or a
valley. Guidhonod, from the words gui-donoth, a
nation or people with leaders, gui,* meaning a na-
tion, and don, he governed. Unless you would
rather derive dhonad from donoth, that is, the chil-
dren of Dan, that city of Phoenicia, at the foot of
Mount Libanus, where its inhabitants had erected
a graven image, and Jeroboam had raised the golden
calf, as colonies, particularly from distant countries,
generally retain the name of their parent or mother
stock.
Again, the name of Iris, by which this county is
distinguished in Diodorus Siculus,f and from which
* From Phoenician gui sprung the old Irish word ui, or %,
signifying a tribe or clan. Ui is also the genitive case of the
word wa, a son, offspring, posterity, the plural of which is i.
From hy, a tract, or district, many Irish localities have ob-
tained their names: such as Hj^-Anlan, Hy-Ara, Hy-Talgia,
otherwise called Hi-Faillia, and primitively Hy-Bhealgia,
meaning a barony of worsbijipers of Baal, and several others
almost beyond reckoning. See Collect, de Reb. Ibern. vol. iii.
p. 862.
t Diodor. Sicul. lib. v.
81
its inhabitants have been called Irenses^ or Iri,
although I admit it may be derived from the old
Irish word Iris, which signifies brass or copper, as
it does, also, invention or investigation, as well as
friend and friendly fellowship, and, finally, religion,
law, era, and chronicle, yet it is more likely that
Orpheus of Crotone, Aristotle, and other Greek
writers who have used Iris as a name for Ire-
land, have done so not from the language of the
natives, which to them was unknown, but from the
Hebrew word Iris, he possessed or obtained by in-
heritance ; or from Irisa, possession by inheritance,
which words, changing the s into t, the Phcsnicians
used to pronounce as Irith, and Iritha. From this
name, variously inflected irto Ire, Eri, and Eire,
with the addition of the English word land, was
formed the modern and now generally adopted
name, Ireland. But Irlandia and Irlandi, as Latin
for Ireland* and Irishmen, is evidently a barbarism.
* The interest which I take in every thing that concerns
Ireland, makes me often sigh for the additional misfortune
which the general ignorance of its history produces, and has
long since inspired me with a desire of remedying that evil.
Mac Geoghegan.
While many who have left thee,
Seem to forget thy name,
Pistance hath not bereft me
Of its endearing claim :
Afar from ihee sojourning.
Whether I sigh or smile,
I call theestili, " Ma vourneon "
JVIy own green isle ! —Bar/on,
G
82
CHAP. VI.
Ancient inhabitants of Ireland—The Partholani— Various
opinions as to the etimology of this word—The aborigines or
giants, why so called—Their bloody wars with the Partho-
lani the first tribe of Phcenicians who landed on the coast of
Ireland—Origin of their ancieyit name Formorogh—The Ne-
methcey when they seized upon I eland — Where they settled—
Etymology of their name —Why called Momce or Nomce.
Having put the reader in possession of the several
names given to Ireland, I come in the next place to
its ancient inhabitants, whose names I at once recog-
nise as Phoenician, or, at least, deducible from that
fountain. The first that present themselves are the
Partholani, undoubtedly the very earliest people in
this island, of whose colonies—which are supposed to
have preceded the arrival of the Belgians —we can-
not at this day discover a single vestige any more
than we can of the Nemethae. Some suppose that
they were some of the aboriginal Britons, and that
they arrived in Ireland much about the same time
as the Nemethae, that is, as they say, in the sixth
century before the birth of Christ. Others derive
their name from the Irish words bhoeruys-lan-ui, as
83
much as to say, the shepherds or herdsmen beyond
the great ocean, and therefore suppose that they
must have been the first persons who introduced
cattle into this island.*
Others there are who think them so called from
Partholanus, the son of Sera, of the race of Ja-
phet, whom they assert to have first arrived in
Ireland, having set out from Scythia, or as others
say, from Grseco-Scythia, or Mygdonia, a mari-
time district of Macedonia, about three hundred
or more years after the deluge, with his sons San-
guin, Saban, and Ruturugus, their armies and colo-
nies ; and they tell us furthermore that he put in
at Inversgene in Kerry, and took up his residence in
Ulster at Inis Samer in the river Erne, an island
called -from his castle, from whence also the river
was called Samarius. f Some writers add that those
colonists found before them on their arrival other
inhabitants whose origin was not known, and who
were therefore denominated by the Latins as abori-
gines, by the Greeks as Giants ; intimating equally
the natives of the soil, or the true born children
of the country. With these gigantic aborigines
they tell us that the Partholani waged an in-
cessant and bloody course of warfare, and with
such acrimony on both sides, that both were almost
* See Collect, de Reb. Ibern. vol. iii. p. 404.
f See OTlaherty, cap. ii. p. 3.
g2
84
extinguished under one general massacre. These, and
other such things equally involved in fable, are told
of the Partholani amidst the darkness of an unknown
age. As I take it, the Partholani are the most an-
cient, or, if you prefer, the primitive tribes of the
Phoenicians who landed on the Irish coasts, and
from them was given the name of Partulin to all
such as had transported themselves from their native
country. The Syriac word para, signifies to sprout
or shoot—tulin, number or plurality, from tul,
translation. But para means also he grew or en-
creased, so that partulin would then mean a body of
emigrants who encreased and multiplied.
This race the ancient Irish poets and historians
call Fomhoraigh, Formhoraice, and Formoragh ; by
which word, they think, is meant pirates, or transma-
rine robbers, infesting those coasts' in prejudice to,
and defiance of, the ancient colonies ; and they assert
that they were decended from Ham or Midacritus *
from Africa, with the exception of the first Formorii,
to whom they assign neither other sect nor origin, f
* Pliny (vii. v. 6.) tells us that Midacritus was the first who
had imported lead from the island of Cassiterides. But later
critics assure us that this was no other than Melicartus, or the
Phoenician Hercules, mentioned in Sanchoniathon, to whom
the Phoenicians ascribed so many voyages to the west. Mi-
dacritus is in itself a Greek name, and we know that the Greeks
were in total ignorance of the locality of the Cassiterides. See
Bochart.
t O'Flaherty, i. p. 9.
S5
Some suppose them to have been Celts ; others,
more correctly, Phoenicians, which the name itself
would seem to indicate.* For, in their language,
famori, means the lord of an extreme land, that is
of an island, which they had supposed to be the
utmost habitation of the globe, as we have observed
conformably to the opinion of Bochart. The Ne-
methaj or Nemetii, were, as some say, the posterity
of Nemethus,f who, they maintain, planted a second
colony in Ireland thirty years after the death of
Partholanus, when it had now become almost a desert
and been overrun with forests. In his time were
built the fortifications of Rath Kinnech in Hy-Ni-
ellan, in Lagenia, and Rath Kimbaith in Hy-Gem-
nia, a district of Dalaradia, where the plains, being
cleared from brushwood and trees, admitted the
genial influence of the sun's irradiation J Some
writers add, that on the arrival of the Boelgae on the
* It is said, that Neivy or Nemedius, gi eat grand nephew
of Partholan, having learned by some means the disasters and
tragical end of his relations in Ireland, and wishing, as heir of
Partholan, to succeed him in the possession of that island, em-
barked thirty-four transport vessels, carrying each thirty per-
sons, without counting Macha, his wife, and his four sons, Starn,
Janbaneal, Annin and Feargus, who followed his fortune in
the expedition. Macha died after twelve years, and was in
terred in the place since called from her name, x\rdmach.
Mac Geoghegan.
t See Collect, de Reb. Ibern. vol. iii. p. 352.
X O'Flaherty, p. iii. cap. 6.
S6
coast of Heremonia, which is now the province of
Leinster, several of the Nemethae retired backwards
into the northern districts of the island.
There are some who assign to the Nemethae a
different origin, and would call them Momse or
Nomae, deriving the same from the Celtic words
Mou or Nou, land or country, and Mam or Mae,
maternal, so that Nemethae would mean the original
people, * or aboriginal inhabitants of Ireland.
But expunging altogether the fables of the old
poets, to me it appears incontrovertible that the
name of Nemethae was given by the Phoenicians to
their tribes, as equivalent with pleasant, cheerful, or
agreeable. For in their language nemoth signifies all
these, from the root, neem, delightful, amiable, respect-
able. This tribe was furthermore called MomaB by
the Phoenicians, as having cemented their treaty by an
oath,f (noma) which furthermore proves the veracity
* Collect, de Reb.^Ibern. vol. iii. p. 400.
+ The Ostiac takes his oath upon a bear's skin, spread upon
the ground, whereon are laid a hatchet, a knife, and a piece of
bread, which is tendered to him. Before he eats it, he declares
all he knows relating to the matter in question, and confirms
the truth of his evidence by this solemn imprecation ;
** May
this bear tear me to pieces, this bit of bread choak me, this
knife be my death, and this hatchet sever my head from my
body, if I do not speak the truth." In dubious cases they pre-
sent themselves before an idol, and pronounce tVie same oath
with this additional circumstance, that he who takes the oath,
cuts off a piece of the idol's nose with his knife, saying, ** If I
87
and the fidelity of the people^ nom signifying true^
derived from naum^ a discourse or language.
forswear myself, may this knife cut off my own nose in the
same manner, &c.'' AH those nations, who inhabited the land
afterwards called Palestine, were descended from Canaan the
son of Ham ; for although we find many subdivisions among
them, under as many different names, yet the general one was
that of Canaanites : and here it is necessary that we should an-
swer a deistical objection made by Lord Bolingbroke, and
some others, against a passage in the sacred scripture ; and this
we the more readily comply with, because many weak, though
otherwise well-meaning persons, have been led into an error by
those designing men.
In Genesis ix. we read of Noah having got drunk with the
fruit of the vine, and that while he was in a state of intoxication
in his tent, Ham, his youngest son, came in and beheld his na-
kedness ; but Shera and Japhet went backwards and covered
him. When Noah awoke, and found how different the beha-
viour of his sons had been, he said (verse 35) " Cursed be
Canaan ; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren."
Now Canaan is uo where mentioned as the aggressor; but
there cannot remain the least doubt, but he was, at that time,
along with his father, and like Ham, mocked at the aged pa-
triarch ; a crime attended with many aggravated circumstances.
But the deistical objection is this, " It was inconsistent, say
they, with the goodness of God, to inflict a curse on a nation
in latter ages for the guilt of an ancestor. Now let every unpre-
judiced reader attend to the passage, and then he will find tliat
the whole was a prediction, and not an imprecation. Noah,
by the spirit of prophecy, foreseeing that the descendants of his
son Ham, would commit the grossest idolatries, only foretold
what would happen to them in latter times. Hiird.
8g
CHAP. VII.
The name of the Momonii supposed of Celtic origin —Various
opinions on this head—Mumhayn a southern district of Ire-
land—The meaning of Mammoii—Different names of the
idol Ops—The Momonii tribes of the Phoenicians —Their
name Phoenician — Origin of the word Mammanagh —
Mammuna the sacrificing priest in the temples of the Phce-
nicians—The Mammacocha of the Peruvians.
I come now to the Momonii, the ancient inha-
bitants of the province of Munster, divided, we may
observe, according to their several settlements, into
Desmond or southern Momonia, Thomond or north-
ern Momonia, and Ormond eastern Momonia.* The
name of Momonians is agreed on all hands, as we
have already said, to have been composed of the
Celtic or Irish words mou-man or pou-man, a mother
or maternal country. Mou, and pou were the
same as magus and pagus, mais and pais ; f so that
momon or mouman would signify the mother coun-
try of the aborigines : this part of Ireland being
chiefly inhabited by the Nemethae, who betook them-
* Th. Burgo Ibern. Dominii append. Monastic 732.
t Baxter, p, 100.
89
selves from the district of Bolgae into their own resi-
dence in Leinster, about five hundred and fifty years,
as they say, before the christian era. They add, that
from the first annals of Ireland it was discovered that
its southern regions were called Mumha, which they
interpret, the settlement or habitation of the abori-
gines, from whence its inhabitants were called Mum-
hanii or Mbmonii, that is inhabitants of the country
of the aborigines.*
Others think Momonia is a corruption or con-
tracted Celtic word Mammon, the ancient name of
the province of Munster, signifying the country of the
great mother ; as they derive Mama or Moma, the
name of a cave or cavern between Elphin and Ab-
bey-Boyle, from Mammoii, which, in the Celtic lan-
guage, means the place of the shrine of the great
mother. For tradition tells us that there existed
there at one time a celebrated grot, consecrated to
Ops, the great mother of antiquity, whither the Bel-
gian chiefs used, upon occasions, resort to consult the
shades of their departed heroes. This object of re-
ligious resort was also known by the name of Sib-
bol Ama, Anum, Anagh, Aonagh, and Mamman,
whence the Bolgse, who had settled in the southern
parts of Ireland, and who principally worshipped the
idol Mammon, called themselves Mammanagh, (Mam-
monii) to distinguish themselves from the Crombrii,
* Collect, vol. Hi. 396.
90
Crumbrii, or Crimbrii, on the western coast, who
worshipped Fate ; and from the Belgoe who wor-
shipped Bal, or Beal, or Baal, that is the sun or the
element of fire.*
To me it appears sufficiently probable that the
Momonii were one of the Phoenician tribes who be-
came possessed of this district to which they gave
the name of Mamon, which in their language signi-
fies riches or wealth, and by a very natural associ-
ation called themselves Mamonii, that is the wealthy,
the possessors of riches and abundance, intimating
the superiority of their habitation above the other
districts of this country, as well in artificial resources
as in the luxuriancy of the soil.
But if we furthermore compare the words Mamo-
nia and Momonii, or Mammanagh with the supersti-
tion of that nation, I doubt not but that we shall
find them strictly conformable with Phoenician ex-
traction; for ammun, in that language, means the
image or likeness of a mother, ammana, a gift or of-
fering, presented to a mother. Mammanagh, I con-
ceive not derived from Mammon, but from Mam-
muna, the name usually given by the Phoenicians to
the superintending or sacrificing priest belonging to
any of their chapels. And it is very likely that that
whole tribe took their name from them, as the heads
or presidents of their places of worship. I would
* Collect. deReb. Ibern. vol. iii. p. 398.
91
hint by the way, that the ancient Peruvians wor-
shipped the sea as a deity, under the name of Mam-
macocha, and paid similar homage and adoration to
rivers and fountains as contributory to the great ele-
ment.* But this name, though evidently bearing
some analogy with Mamman and Mammanach, yet
is of a different origin, though Phoenician all the
while, if I mistake not. For maim macha in that
language means, encompassing waters, and metapho-
rically, people applauding or clapping their hands.
t Jas. Acosta Historia de las Indies, lib. v. c. 2. 4, from
which and other authorities it is manifest that the ancient pagans
worshipped the sea and all large collections of water. The
book of wisdom, xiii. 2, is clear on the point. Beyer (Selden
de Diis Syrii) states that the inhabitants of Mexico, Vir-
ginia, and Bengal offered adoration to certain rivers and foun-
tains; for the ancients imagined, according to Lipsius, that
rivers and fountains were lesser divinities or genii. The Nile
was worshiped with the most scrupulous veneration by the
Egyptians. (See Plutarch and Athanasius.) For says Julius
Firmicus, from the universal benefits of water they conceived it
must be a god. Wherefore we find (he poets calling rivers
sacred, (Hor. lib. i. od. 1. Juven. sat. iiii.^ as they did also
fountains because of the presiding nymphs. Amongst the an-
cient idolotrous Spaniards, it is plain from an inscription of
Vasconius, published by Gurter, that fountains were considered
divine. " We," (the Spaniards) said Seneca, (epist. 41) " ve-
nerate the sources of great rivers, * * * the springs of warm
waters are worshipped, and certain pools, &c." The Persians
also, with the Scythians, Saxons, and other nations, as well
east as west, conceived water to be sacred, as appears from
Herodotus, (iv.) Strabo, (xvii.) Tacitus, and others.
92
in which sense we find macha occurs in the psalm
xcvii. 9, the rivers will applaud. Machoc, in the
original, meaning, waters that brush or sweep away,
as we often see waves do bodies upon the shore.*
* The Peruvians, before their being governed by their Incas,
worshipped a numberless multitude of Gods, or rather genii.
There was no nation, family, city, street, or even house, but
had its peculiar gods; and that because they thought none but
the god to whom they should immediately devote themselves,
was able to assist them in time of nee(J. They worshipped
herbs, plants, flowers, trees, mountains, caves ; and in the pro-
vince of Puerto Viego, emeralds, tygers, lyons, adders, ; and,
not to tire the reader with an enumeration of the several objects
they thought worthy of religious worship, every thing that ap-
peared wonderful in their eyes, was thought worthy of adora-
tion.
93
CHAP. VIIL
The Crombrii Fate worshippers —Origin of the word Crom—
Not indicating worship, but a nation that worships—Traces
of it in Ireland—As also in several geographical names of
Ireland— The Phoenician derivation of these words.
But since we have made mention of the Irish
Crombrii, we had best see to which nation they be-
longed. Crom, or crum, or crim, amongst the an-
cient Irish signified Providence or the Godhead, which
would lead one to suppose these words were Irish,
crom signifying God in that language. But if it
savours of the place wherein this deity was worship-
ped, which is not at all unlikely, then it takes its
origin from the Phcenician, crom in that language
signifying a shrubbery of trees. So that crombrii,
crumbrii, or cimbrii would seem to mean crambri,
foreigners, that is the Phoenicians, who paid worship
to Providence or Fate* in this island. That under
* Men, ever since the creation, have endeavoured to pry
into the secrets of futurity : this desire is inherent in us, and
has been by many philosophers adduced as one of the strongest
proofs of the immortality of the soul, that, indignant at its con-
finement, is ever attempting to release itself, and soar beyond
94
the name of foreigners the Phoenicians are meant,
will appear from this circumstance, viz. that, in their
present time and circumstances. Finding;, however, all their
efforts to discover them by the force of reason vain, they have
mutually resorted to the aid of that blind god, chance ; and
hence, omens from the flight of birds, from the entrails of sacri-
fices, have arisen : of this last I propose now to write to you.
When a choice between two equal things was to be made, the
referring it to chance by the casting of lots would obviously
present itself as a fair mode of deciding, where the judgment
was unequal to do so ; and we find, therefore, this among the
most ancient usages recorded in the bible : thus Aaron cast
lots for the scape-goat. The direction of these lots would, of
course, be soon imputed to the divine pleasure of the Almighty
observer and guider of all things, and it would then occur to
the inquisitive that this mode might be adopted for looking into
futurity. Accordingly we see that this superstitious practice
was very quickly applied to such purposes, an instance of which
is given in Esther, chap. iii. verse 7, where, when Haraan de-
sired to find out the most proper time to slay all the Jews, he
ordered the pur to be cast, that is the lot, from day to day,
and from month to month, and discovered that the thirteenth
of the twelfth month was most favourable for his designs;
but he was deceived, and the event proved the vanity of relying
upon such divination. This mode, however, was too simple for
the generality of men, and the custom next adopted was the
mixing together of a number of letters'm an urn, throwing them
out, and examining the arrangement in which they might fall;
but as frequently no sense could be discovered from these, in
lieu of letters whole words were adopted, and even here the
answer was very often not to be understood. To obviate this,
Cicero tells us that a variety of predictions were inscribed on
pieces of wood, which were kept in a box, shaken, and one
drawn out by a child ; he informs us how these were first dis-
covered, but observes, " Tota res est inventio fallacis, aut ad
95
language, bri or bari signifies a foreigner. And the
practice of consecrating groves to the worship of
idols, is established by innumerable testimonies from
the ancient heathen writers. Virgil in his ninth
JEneid, introduces Cybele thus speaking of herself.
" On a lofty mount I have a grove, a piny wood, by
me beloved for many a year "* And Prudentius in
the " Roman martyr," says, '^
shall I go to the piny
grove of Cybele."
qucEStum, aut ad superstitionem.^^ " The whole matter is, how-
ever, fallacious every way." And in another place, in speaking
of it, he says, " Quibus in rebus temeritas et casus, non ratio et
consilium valent.^' " Chance, not reason, presides over these
things." This mode of divination is continually spoken of by
the writers of that age ; thus, Lucretius,
** Nequicquam Divum numen, sortesque fatigant."
*' In vain they implore the Gods, and search the lots.^*
And Ovid,
" Auxiliura per sacras qaerere sortes.*'
**
To seek for aid in the sacred lots.^'
And again,
** Mota Dea est, sortemque dedit."
"The goddess was moved, and granted a lot,"
Numberless other instances might be given of the frequency of
the practice ; but, as the urn and heaven-descended mystical
pieces of wood were not always at hand, another mode was in-
vented throughout Greece and Italy which superseded their use.
This was to take the words of some celebrated poet, as Homer,
Euripides, or Virgil ; to open this book at hazard, and to re-
ceive as an oracle the first passage that met the eye ; these were
termed *'
Sortes Ilomericce," or '*
VigilancB,'^ Among the He-
brews too, there was a divination called Beth Cole.—Lim. 3Iag.
* Pinea sylva mihi multos dilecta per annos
Lucus in arce fuit summa.— Virgil,
96
But it may be asked, whence arose this cus-
tom to the heathens of erecting altars to their de-
ities in woods and groves. In imitation, no doubt,
of Abraham, who, as we are told in Genesis, xxi. 33,
planted a grove in Beersheba, and there invoked the
name of the Lord.* These groves consisted of oak
plantations ; for it is said of Abraham,f Genesis xii.
* Abraham planted a grove. In the first ages of the world,
the worship of God was exceedingly simple; there were no
temples, an altar composed sometimes of a single stone, or
sometimes of turf, was all that was necessary : on this fire
was lighted, and the sacrifice offered. Any place was equally
proper, as they knew that the object of their worship filled
the heavens and the earth. In process of time, when fa-
milies increased, and many sacrifices were to be offered, groves
or shady places were chosen, where the worshippers mighten-
joy the protection of the shade, as a considerable time must be
empoyed in offering many sacrifices. These groves became af-
terwards abused to impure and idolatrous purposes, and were
therefore strictly forbidden. See Exod. xxxiv. 12; Deut. xii.
3; xvi. 21.—i>r. A. Clarke.
t Abraham, the father of the faithful, was called away from
his native country, somewhat less than three hundred years
after the deluge, which naturally leads us to inquire into the
origin of idolatry. Abraham, as a wanderer and sojourner in a
strange country, had not been above ten years absent from Ur,
of the Chaldeans, when a famine obliged him to go into Egypt,
at that time a very flourishing monarchy. That Egypt should
have had a regal government within three hundred years after
the deluge, has been objected to by many of our deistical
writers; but when attentively considered, we cannot find any
thing in it of an extraordinary nature. People in those early
ages lived in the most frugal manner, and few of them died be-
97
6, 7, that he passed over the land to the place Sichem,
all along to the oak, (alon) Moreh, where the Lord
appeared unto him, and that he there erected an
altar in consequence. Moses afterwards designates
this place in the plural number, saying, (Deut. xi. 30,)
" Beside (aloni) the oaks, Moreh." With which also
two other passages accord, one in Genesis, xxxv. 4.
the other in Judges ix. 6. We also find in Genesis
xiii. 18, that Abraham dwelt in the oaks (aloni) of
Mamre, in Hebron, and there built an altar to the
Lord. Afterwards also in Genesis, xiv. 13, he says,
" he dwelt beside the oaks of Mamre."- All which
passages the septuagint renders, peri ten drun, that
is, about the oak. From hence the idolatrous Ca-
naanites began to consecrate oaks to their own
divinities, and to worship in groves of that wood.
The Phoenicians subsequently introduced the custom*
into Asia, Egypt, Africa, and the continent of Eu-
rope, with the British isies. Ovid, speaking of the
oak, calls it ''
sacred to Jove." Virgil says " it was
accounted an oracle by the Grecians." And Homer
says the same in Od. xix.*
fore they had attained to years of maturity ; so that there is no
reason for us to be surprised, when we find the children of
Mizraim founding- a monarchy, in the fertile plains of Egypt,
as soon as a suflficient number of the human species had been
collected together. —Ilurd.
* See W. Cook's enquiry into the patriarchal religion, &c»
H
98
The vestiges of the word, crom, can be still traced
in Ireland in many of the old names given to its
several localities ; for instance, we find the actual
word occurs as the name of an old village which
belongs at this day partly to the county of Kildare,
and partly to that of Dublin, in the province of
Leinster. In Crom-artin, a little village near Ardee,
in the same province ; in Crom-castle, a town in the
county Limerick, province of Munster ; in Mount
Crom-mal, or Crom-la, between Loughs Swylly and
Foile, in the county Donegal, province of Ulster,
where the river Lubar, called by the natives Bredagh,
and the river Lavath—beside which, in the declivity
of a mountain, is a very remarkable cave called
Cluna—take their rise ; in Mount Crom-la-sliabh,
now called the Hill of Allen ; in Crom-oge, a little
town in the barony of Maryborough, Queen's
County, and province of Leinster ; in the old town
of Crom-chin, which was otherwise called Atha and
Rathcrayhan, and Drum Druid, but now more gene-
rally known by the name of Croghan, being situated
in the barony of Boyle, county Roscommon, pro-
vince of Connaught, and formerly the principal
city in that province. The name of Croghan is
supposed to have been given to it from the likeness
of the adjacent mountain to a pitcher, which that
word in Irish signifies ; and Crom-chin from a cave
in that mountain which the Druids had dedicated to
Fate. And, finally, we may trace its vestiges -in
99
Crom-lin, or Crum-lin, a little town in the county
Dublin, as well as a little village in the barony of
Massareene, m the county of Antrim ; which name
the Irish interpret as the chapel or shrine of Crom,
where the idolators used to sacrifice to this deity.
To this origin they also refer Crumlin Water, the
name of a river in the same barony of Massareene,
and same county of Antrim.
But it being my opinion that the word Crom has
reference not to worship,* but to a nation that
* In giving an account of the religions of ancient nations, we
must be directed by two guides; namely, sacred and profane
history. The foriner gives us a general view of their abomina-
tions ; the latter lays open all that now can be known concern-
ing their public and private rites and ceremonies. Phcenice,
Tyre, and Carthage, were all peopled by the sons of Ham ;
they had the same form of religion, spoke the same language,
encouraged the same arts and sciences, used the same instru-
ments in war, and inflicted the same punishments upon crimi-
nals. Thus their civil and religious history is so blended
together, that we cannot illustrate the latter, without taking
some notice of the former. The Phoenicians were a remnant
of the ancient Canaanites, who were suffered by the Divine
Being, to remain unextirpated, that they should be a scourge
upOii the children of Israel, as often as they relnpsed into idol-
atry. In scripture they are often mentioned, as a warlike
people, under the name of Philistines, for the word Phoenice
is Greek. They inhabited that part of Asitt adjoining to the
Mediterranean sea, and worshipped an idol named Dagon,
much in the same form as a mermaid is represented by the fa-
bulous writers ; a human body from the navel upwards, and the
lower part that of a fish. The figure itself was very expressive ;
for it pointed out, not only their situation near the sea, but
H 2
L«rc
100
worships, I shall now detail my sentiments respecting
the derivation of the geographical names just
alluded to.
Crom-artin, then, I would derive from the Phoe-
nician words Crom-arithin, a shrubbery dedicated to
Fate,* and surrounded with pools or rivers.
likewise that they were connected, both with sea and land.
Invaded in their continental territories by the neighbouring na-
tions, they settled in an island near adjoining, which they called
Tyre ; and there remained in possession of it till the time of
Alexander the Great. As a trading people, they sent colonies
into Africa : but most of these were comprehended under the
name of Carthagenians ; and such regard had Tyre and Car-
thage for each other, that when Cambyses resolved to make
war upon the latter, the Phoenicians refused to accompany
him ; alledging in excuse, that they could not fight against
their brethren, which obliged that prince to lay aside his
design. Nay, the Carthagenians sent an annual tribute
to the Tyrians, part of which was for the support of the civil
government, and part for the maintainance of the priests and
religion.
The religion of the Carthagenians, which was the same as
that of the Tyrians, Phoenicians, Philistines, and Canaanites,
was most horrid and barbarous ; and so regular were they in
practising what will ever dishonour human nature, that Chris-
tians, in attending to their duty, may take an example from
them. Nothing of any moment was undertaken without con-
sulting the gods, which they did by a variety of ridiculous rites
and ceremonies. Hercules was the god in whom they placed
most confidence, at least he was the same to them as Mars
was to the Romans, so that he was invoked before they went
upon any expedition ; and when they obtained a victory, sacri-
fices and thanksgivings were offered to him.
* According to the notions of the Indian heathens, the
101
Crom-mal, from Cram-mala^ a congregation of
people in a grove or shrubbery of the deity Fate.
Crom-la, from Cram-lah, anxious worshippers of
Fate in a grove. The word sUabh, at the end of the
word Crom-la-sliabh, bears allusion to a fountain of
this mountain, or forest, contiguous to the shrine
for sliaba in the Phoenician, is the pipe of a fountain
through which the water flows.
Crom-oge, from Crom-og, which means, people
burning victims in the shrubbery of Fate.
Crom-chin, from Crom-schin, people applauding
in the grove of Fate.
Crom-lin, from Cram-lun, people entertained or
sojourning in the grove* of Fate ; or hospitality
beside the shrine of this idol.
god Bruiua writes upon the forehead of every new-born child
an account of all that shall happen to him in this world, and
that it is not in the power of God or man to prevent these
things from taking place. Thus we find that the doctrine of
fatality has taken place in the most early ages, and even in
the most barbarous nations.
This system being entirely that which was embraced by the
followers of Epicurus amongst the heathens, and the Sadducees
among the .Tews, we shall not say any thing concerning it, be-
cause it is but a bold attempt to set aside the utility of public
and private worship ; for if God does not take notice of the
actions of men in this life, then the vi'hole bounds of religion
are removed ; there is no motive to duty ; there is nothing to
restrain us as mortals from committing the most horrid, the
most unnatural crimes.
* As it was the universal practice the ancient heathen
10-2
CHAP. IX.
Ops not the Apis of the Egyptians^ hut one of the names of
. Cybele— She was the Roman Vesta — Etymology of the
word— Variously called from the mountains v)here she was
worshipped—Origin of the word Sibbol— Thence Cybele —
Why called Ama, Mammon, Anagh, Aonagh, or Aona —
Shabana.
But, before we proceed any further, I would
entreat the readers' indulgence for the few inci-
dental observations, which I purpose to make, upon
that celebrated idol of antiquity. Ops, which, an-
cient writers assure us, the Momonians worshipped
nations to worship their idols in groves, before temples were
erected, it may be proper here to inquire, what gave rise to
that notion ? It is a principle acquired by experience without
reading, that in every act of devotion the mind should be fixed
on the grand object of worship. Every one who has walked
in a grove will acknowledge, that there was more than a com-
mon reverential awe upon his mind, which must be owing to
the small number of objects that presented themselves. We
may justly call them the haunts of meditation ; but still it
cannot be denied, that many abominable crimes were com-
mitted in them : some parts near their altars were set apart for
secret lewdness, and even for such unnatural practices as
ought not to be related. —Hurd*
103
in a celebrated grotto ; —as well as upon the other
names by which this deity was distinguished.* A
learned gentleman, and a shrewd searcher into the
Phoenician idolatry, suspected once that Ops was to
the Phoenicians the same as Apis, not that which
Tibullusf calls the Memphian Bull,J and which the
Memphians consecrated to the moon, but that
which the Heliopolites had consecrated to the sun.§
* See chap. vii.
t Tibul. lib. iii. eleg. 7.
X The most magnificent temples were erected for him ; he
was adored by all ranks of people while living, and when he
died (for he was a living Bull) all Egypt went into mourning
for him. We are told by Pliny, that, during the reign of
Ptolemy Lagus, the Bull Apis died of extreme old age, and
such was the pompous manner in which he was interred, that
the funeral expences amounted to a sum equal to that of twelve
thousand pounds sterling. The next thing to be done, was to
provide a successor for this god, and all Kgypt was ransacked
ou purpose. He was to be distinguished by certain marks
from all other animals of his own species ;
particularly he was
to have on his forehead a white mark, resembling a crescent
ou his back the figure of an eagle ; and on his tongue that of
a beetle. As soon as an ox answering that description was
found, mourning gave place to joy ; and nothing was to be
heard of in Egypt but festivals and rejoi-cings. The new
discovered god, or rather beast, was brought to Memphis, to
take possession of his dignity, and there placed upon a throne,
with a great number of ceremonies. Indeed, the Egyptians
seem to have given such encouragement to superstition, that
not content with worshipping the vilest of all reptiles, they
actually paid divine honors to vegetables.
§ Voss. de orig. et progress, idolat. 1. 29.
104
For the Phoenicians also worshipped the sun under
the name of Baal, or Bel, by which, as the Assyrian^
and Babylonians, they understood, physically, the
whole system of nature, as well terrestrial as celes-
tialj and above all, the solar nature, as Servius tells
us. They, accordingly, very appropriately gave to
the sun the name of Belus, as the Moabites did
that of Moloch. For as this latter appellation sig-
nifies King, so does Baal, or Bel, signify Lord, as
though the arbiter of all the blessings of nature.
Wherefore, also, did they call him Bolatis, or Bolati.
from the words Bol-ati, which means Baal,* or the
Lord, who bestows.f But this Baal being distin-
guished by various names, it hence happened that,
in Scripture, the Israelites are blamed for serving
Baals, in the plural number. This seems to have
occurred in other countries also, for the Bolgae, a
colony of the Phoenicians in Ireland, worshipped, as
* But of all the gods of the Syrians and Canaanites, none
were honored so much as Baal, who was no other than the
Belus of the Chaldeans, and the Jupiter of the Greeks. It is
probable the sun was worshipped under this name ; for Josiah,
willing to make some atonement for the sins of his father
Mauasseh, in worshipping Baal and all the host of heaven, put
to death the idolatrous priests that burnt incense unto Baal, to
the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the
host of heaven. He likewise took away the horses that the
kings of Judah had given to the sun, and burnt the chariots of
the sun with fire. Hurd.
t See Damascus in the life of Isidorus Photius.
105
We shall hereafter shew, the sun, or the principle of
fire, as a deity, under various names. The name of
Bolgae is compounded of the Phoenician words Bol-
goi, meaning the nation that worships Bol, or Baal
as Belgae is compounded of the words Bel-goi,
amounting to the same. From whence the Bolgas
and the Belgae were at first called by the Latins
Bolgii and Belgii ; afterwards the Bolgian and the
Belgian nations ; and finally, as we now call them,
the Bolg£e and the Belgae. From this cause it was
that the writer^ above alluded to, conceived Ops the
same as Apis, which the Hieropolitans had conse-
crated to the sun.
Indeed I would think this conjecture probable
enough, were it not evident, from another source,
that Ops was one of the names of Cybele, reputed
by idolators as the daughter of Heaven and Earth,
and designated as the Mother of the Gods, the
Good Mother, and the Earth itself.* Wherefore
* Pliny (11, 65.) affirms that the Gentiles worshipped the
earth under the name of Mother, and not only Mother but great
Mother, because of its bountifulness. For this it was that they
called her the eternal creator of men and gods, (Stat. Chebaid.
viii. V. 304,) chief parent, and other such epithets ; for having
fallen away into idolatry from the religion of the patriarchs,
who offered sacrifices to the true God through faith in the pro-
mised Messiah, and having thus contaminated the original
purity of the knowledge of the Godhead, they worshipped the
elements, from which they conceived all things to have been
realized, either as actual divinities or symbols of divinities, and
106
the Romans worshipped her under the name of
Vesta, as bemg clothed in the beauty of her own
manifold productions,* according as some imagine ;f
though others would account for it otherwise. J Un-
der this latter name she had two temples at Rome,§
one built by Romulus, the other by Numa Pom-
pilius, in the mid space between the Capitoline and
Palatine hills, both hills being surrounded by one
wall. Her temples were always round, in allusion
of course to the earth's form.
Others would derive the name of Ops from the
Egyptian word hop, a serpent ; others from the
Hebrew apoe, a viper ; whence the Greek ophis, a
snake, the root of which is poe, or phoe, to hiss.
But this has nothing common, or in connection with
the fables which mythology tells us of this divinity.
They come more near the truth who say that Ops is
a mountain of Phrygia, where this idol w^as wor-
shipped, the name Ops, or Opes, implying a boun-
amongst these, in a special manner, the earth, whence themselves
originated, and into which all things again return in a state of
decomposition. (Plato.—Proclus.) Cybele was afterwards
designated by various other names, many of which may still
be traced upon ancient altars, and recorded by Plutarch,
Paiisanias, Gruler, Smelius, &c. Camden mentions to have
seen one of her altars in Biitain.
* Quippe quae rebus omnibus vestitur,
t See Lud. Despre. on the Odes of Hor. lib. i, od, 2,
X Cicero de Nat. Deo. i. n. 67.
§ Dionys. Hal. cam. lib. ii.
107
dary, as though it were the limit of some particular
country ; as also they think that she was called
Rhea, the name by which she was worshipped at
Hierapolis, from a mountain called Rea, meaning he
saw, or he observed, from its lofty position command-
ing a sight of distant objects. She was called Din-
dymena, from the mountain Dindemain, which
means, olive groves in an eastern quarter ; and Bere-
cynthia, from breschin, or bereschin, a fir or pine
grove.
But our decision on the word Sibbol, a name by
which the Irish, as well as almost all other nations,
designated and worshipped Ops, or CybelC;, must be
guided altogether by another principle For here I
at once recognize the Syriac character as derived
from sibola, an ear of corn, under which guise the
Phoenicians used to worship the earth as the mother
of all harvests, fruits, and vegetables. All nations,
therefore, by one common consent, represented
Cybele holding in her right hand some ears of corn *
* Vossius states that there was at Rome, in the house which
belonged to Cardinal Caesius, a marble altar, on which stood a
statue of Cybele, with a ^0M;er upon her head, and holding millet
and ears of corn in her right hand. The inscription was, ** To
the Great Idean, Mother of the Gods." Many imagine that, in
allusion to the same principle, she was called Rhea ; not from
the mountain of that name, in Persia, but from the Phoenician
reah, he yielded fodder ; whence rei, pasture : the metaphori-
cal signification of reah is, he obtained dominion. She was
called Idean from id or ida, power.
108
Whence the Greeks gave her the name of Cubele^
and the Latins that of Cybele.
She was called Ama from the Phoenician word,
am, a mother, and Mammon, from mammon, riches,
or wealth, as the bestower of all blessings.
The name of Anagh, by which she was also dis-
tinguished, may refer, if you please, to the groves
wherein she was worshipped ; for Anagh means de-
light, or to be delighted, of course, with such worship.
But I would prefer deriving it from nahag, he ruled,
or governed ; for, as the daughter of Earth and
Heaven, and the mother, besides, of the gods. Ops
may be well supposed invested with no ordinary
share of authority, in directing the affairs of the
world. The Isle of Annagh, which lies between the
island of Achil and the coast of the county Mayo, in
the province of Connaught, takes its name from this ;
as does also a little town of the same name near
Charleville, in the county Cork ; and Annagh-uan
an island adjacent to the county Galway, intimating,
as it were, a people who worshipped Anagh ; for the
Phoenicians used, synechdocally, to call the inhabit-
ants of any particular district by the generic name
of "ben."
Nor can I see any objection to the derivation of
the names of these places from the giant Anac, the
son of Arbas,* from whom the Phoenicians were
* Joshua XV. 13, 14. Ben-Anac means literally the sons
109
called Anakin, or Ben-Anac, the sons or descendants
of Anac, their principal or leading tribe^ agreeably
and corresponding to the Irish appellatives, Mac-
Carthy, MacMahon,* O'Brien, O'Connel, the " Mac"
of giants or heroes, of the stock of which Anac was the first
parent. Whence to this day, in the old Irish ballads, Feineagh
means a champion, or heroic warrior.
* At such time as Robert Vere, Earl of Oxford, was in the
Barons warres against King Richard the Second, through the
mallice of the Peeres, banished the realme and proscribed, he
with his kinsman, Fitz-Ursula, fled into Ireland, where being
prosecuted, and afterwards in England put to death, his kins-
man there remaining behinde in Ireland rebelled, and, con-
spiring with the Irish, did quite cast off both their English name
and alleagiance, since which time they have so remained still,
and have since beene counted meere Irish. The very like is
also reported of the Mac-swines, Mac-mahones, and Mac-
shehies of Mounster^ how they likewise were aunciently Eng-
lish, and old followers to the Earle of Desmond, untill the
raigne of King Edward the Fourth ; at which time the Earle
of Desmond that then was, called Thomas, being through false
subornation (as they oay) of the Queene for some offence by
her against him conceived, brought to his death at Tredagh
most unjustly, notwithstanding that he was a very good and
sound subject to the King. Thereupon all his kinsemen of the
Geraldines, which then was a mighty family in Mounster, in
revenge of that huge wrong, rose into armes against the Kino,
and utterly renounced and forsooke all obedience to the Crowne
of England, to whom the said Mac-swines, Mac-shehies, and
Mac-mahones, being then servants and followers, did the like,
and have ever sithence so continued. And with them (they
say) ail the people of Mounster went otit, and many other of
them, which were meere English, thenceforth joyned with the
Irish against the King, and termed themselves very Irish,
taking on them Irish habits and customes, which could never
110
and the " O " prefixed to the latter^ importing the
same as the Ben in the former instance, viz. ''
the
sons of," or " descended from."
Aonagh, another name of Ops, was pronounced
Aona by the ancient Irish, and by others called
Shabana. And as during the celebration of her
solemnities they always held a fair or markets beside
her temple, it requires no great effort of imagination,
as I should think, to derive this name from aon,
wealth, or a place of public resort. Shabana evi-
dently comes from shaban, abundance, which again
is derived from shabaa, he abounded ; all obviously
in keeping with mercantile views and attendance on
the market-place. This is still more clearly proved
by the name given to the first of November in their
calendar, viz. Oidche Shambna, the day, or rather
the night (Oidche signifies night) on which idola-
trous ceremonies were usually celebrated.* The
festival itself was called Tlachgo, which some refer
to the rotundity of the earth, but I should prefer
deriving it from the Phoenician tla agod, a gathering
of yearling lambs, such being the usual victims on
the occasion.f From Phoenicia therefore it was
since be cleane wyped away, but the contagion halh remained
still among their posterityes. Of which sort (they say) be most
of the surnames which end in an, as Hernan, Shinan, Mungan,
Sec. the which now account themselves natural [rish. Spenser,
* See Collect, de Reb. Ibern. p. 420.
f Noah had taught his children the knowledge of the true
HI
that the worship of Ops, under her various designa-
tions as particularized above, was introduced into
Ireland, to procure for her votaries that successful
career as w^ell in agriculture as in commerce, of
which she was supposed the bountiful superintendant.
We may this day observe a vestige of her name in
that of an old town in Lower Ormond, the capital,
at one time, of the district anciently called Eog-
anacht Aine Cliach, called Aonoch. It is now
God; and that they were to trust in his mercy through the
mediation of a Tledeemer, who was to be revealed to them at
a future period of time ; for the necessity of a mediator between
God and man was a general notion from the beginning. But
as no clear revelation was then made of this Divine person,
the people began to choose mediators for themselves, from
among the heavenly bodies, such as the sun, moon, and stars,
whom they considered as in a middle state between God and
men. This was the origin of all the idolatry in the heathen
world ; and at first they worshipped those orbs themselves, but
as they found that they were as often under the horizon as
above it, they were at a loss how to address them in their
absence. To remedy this, they had recourse to making images,
which after their consecration they believed endowed with
Divine power, and this was the origin of image worship. This
religion first began among the Chaldeans, and it was to avoid
being guilty of idolatry that Abraham left that country. In
Persia, the first idolaters were called Sabians, who adored the
rising sun with the profoundest veneration. To that planet they
consecrated a most magnificent chariot, to be drawn by horses
of the greatest beauty and magnitude, on every solemn festi-
val. The same ceremony was practised by many other
heathens, who undoubtedly learned it from the Persians, and
other eastern nations.- JETierc?.
112
called Naiiiagh, or Nenagh, and is situated in the
county Tipperary. I should observe that Aonoch,
in Irish, signifies also a mountain or a leader. But
Nenagh I would derive from the Irish words naoi-
nach, an assemblage of people, rather than, as would
others, from neonach, a player or buffoon.
CHAP. X.
The Iberi, a people of Ireland—Spain not cognizant of the
Iheri of Mount Caucasus —Iberia, a Phoenician word—
Calpe, the extremity of the earth in the estimation of the
Phcenicians—A promontory and city in Spain, actually the
extremity of the earth's extension—This occupied by the an-
cient Iberi—The sun setting in the river Iber—The Irish
Iberi, a tribe of the Spanish Iberi — Where they settled—
The district of Ibrickin, a vestige of them —Derivation of
this word, as also of Ibercon—The idols, Sicuth and Kion.
The Iberi, a people of Ireland, of whom Ptolemy
makes mention, inhabited the coasts of the county
of Kerry, in the province of Munster. Irish writers
make mention of another people of this name, who
had settled in the county of Derry, in Ulster, be-
tween Lough Foyle and the river Ban.* But who
* Richard Cirenester, in his " De Situ Britannia^/' chap.
113
those Iberi were we must now betake ourselves to
consider briefly.
To suppose, then, that the Caucasian Iberi had
gone into Spain, and given to that country the name
of Iberia, I hesitate not to pron©unce as nonsense
the most absurd, though supported by the authority
of Varro,* and sanctioned by the adoption of Apianf
and Diodorus Siculus.;}; No ; the origin of Iberia
must be sought from another source.§ Eber, in the
Hebrew, and Ebra or Ibra, in the Chaldee, signify
a passing over, or any thing remote or far away ;
their plurals, Ibrin or Ebrin, signify boundaries or
limits : the Spaniards, therefore, were very naturally
called Iberi, being, as the Phoenicians imagined, the
very remotest inhabitants of the earth, and their
city, Calpe, the furthermost spot in their opinion
of the habitable globe. ||
Conformable to this is the
character given by Possidonius to the temple of
Hercules, in Gades or Cadiz, calling it ^^
the bound-
ary of the earth and sea/'^jj From the same reason
the Jews w^ould have Gaul and Spain to be the
boundaries of their own land. The Zarphat and
iii. says, from an old Roraau geographer, ** The ancients put
it past doubt, that the Iberi took up their settlements in
Ireland."
* Varro ap Pliny, iii. 3.
t Apian in Ibericis, p. 22b*.
: Diod. Sic. V. 215.
§ Bochart. Geog. Sacr. iii. 7.
II
Strabo, lib. iii.
IF See Erasmus on " Pill. Her." iii. chap. 20.
I
114
Sarphad mentioned by Obadiah, ver. 20. the Jews
would have to be Gaul and Spain ; because the
^^psalter" extends the empire of Christ even unto the
boundaries of the earth, which Aben-ezra * says, are
situated in the remote west. Finally, the Spaniards,
themselves, have long since given the name of Finis
Terrasjf or land's end, to the Nerian or Celtic
promontory in Artabria. A city and district of the
same country, in the district of Compostella, still
preserves its name of land's end—Finisterre.
Others suppose that the Spaniards were called
Iberi, from the river Iber; just as Egypt got its
name from the river Nile, which Homer designates
—Egyptus. Iber, the name of the river, signifies
in the Phoenician, rapidly flowing.
* Psalras Ixxi. 8.
t Some Spaniards derive this name from the Celtic^n-es-tere^
that is, a fair and fertile mountain. As they do, also, the
names of the towns, Finestras, in the Celtiberi, and Fiiiestrat,
in the Edetani, from the Celtic fin-es-tra, a village on a hill
beside a river.
I The river Iber rises in the district of the Cantabrians,
hard by Juliobriga, and flov^'s by the ancient Vetones and
Vascones, dividing the Ilergates from the Editani. Avienus
(in Oris Maritimis) mentions another Iberus, near the ocean,
to the west of the former, being no more than a stream mid-
way between Bcetis and Anas, now called Rio Tinto, or de
Aceche ; these are his words :
" Iberus inde manat amnis, et locos
Foeciindat unda. Plurimi ex ipso ferunt
Dictos Iberos, non abillo flumine.
Quod inquietos Vascones perlabitur.
Nam quid-quid amni gentis hugus adjacet,
Occiduura ad axcm, Iberiam cognominant."
115
The more ancient Iberi had not possession of the
whole of Spain, but only of that part of it confront-
ing the Mediterranean, and extending from the
Pyrenees to Calpe, and the pillars of Hercules.
But though the Iberi were, properly speaking, the
more remote,* yet the ancient geographical writers
accounted the Spaniards, indiscriminately, as the
most distant people ; which gave rise to the fiction,
on the part of the poets, of the sun's setting not
only in the ocean, but more particularly in the river
Iber, thereby to mark out the extremity of the
earth's extent.
The Iberia, therefore, of the ancient Irish took its
name from the tribes of the Iberi of Spain, and
consisted of that tract of country in the environs of
Beerhaven, in the county of Cork ; the families of
which people would seem to have been the original
inhabitants of the county Kerry, and a part of the
county Clare, in the same province,! where we
still find the barony of Ibrickin, a proof of the
* Hence we may infer, that the Beetle Iberi, of whom
Avienus speaks, were more properly so called Iberi, for they
were the most extreme in respect to Spain in general.
t Bochart i. 35. Spain retains the traces of this name in
the Iberic Mountains, which pass through the middle of the
kingdom of Arragon, in Ibera, the name of an ancient city of
the Ilercaones, which Livy designates as " most opulent/' and
in Iberum, a town of Cantabria.
I The Poets tell us, that this district of Ireland, was ap-
propriated to Heber, son of Milesius. See Seward.
i2
116
presence of the Iberi, who gave it that name.
It is probable, too, that the descendants of the
Spanish Iberi, who all originated from a Phoenician
stock, were accounted kin, as the sons of Obab or
Jethro, the father-in-law of Moses,* and from him
called Kini. This would account for the appear-
ance of this word, as the last syllable of Iberi-kin :
and who is it that does not know the avidity of the
Phoenicians to perpetuate their nobility, and the
fondness of delight with which they dwelt upon
every memorial of the glory of their ancestors ?
Or, Kin might be equivalent with Kini, that is
the Cinnaei, a people in the land of Canaan, who
were also called the Cinnaean race.f And this would
seem supported by the names of certain localities
still preserved in this country ; for instance, that of
Cinneich, the residence of Dermott Mac Carthy,J Esq.
* Judges i. 16.
t Judges iv. 11, 17.
X A pathetic incident connected with the Mac Cartys has
such claims on the feehngs that I will not conclude this narra-
tive of their fortunes without the mention of it. A considerable
part of the forfeited estates of that family, in the county Cork,
was held by Mr. S , about the middle of the last century.
Walking one evening in his demesne, he observed a figure,
apparently asleep, at the foot of an aged tree, and, on approach-
ing the spot, found an old man extended on the ground, whose
audible sobs proclaimed the severest affliction. Mr. S
inquired the cause, and was answered—" Forgive me, sir; my
grief is idle, but to mourn is a relief to the desolate heart and
117
near Bandon, in the county Cork ; that of Cineal
Fearmaic, a district in old Thomond, in the county
Clare ; and that of Cineal-Eoghean, an ancient and
extensive tract of the province of Ulster, comprising
the present counties of Tyrone, Armagh, Donegal,
and part of the county Derry. This latter inter-
pretation may be applied, also, to several names of
the old Irish tow^ns beginning w^ith Kin. To a
Phoenician source must we also refer the origin of
the word Ibercon, the name of a place in the
county Kilkenny,* between the baronies of Ida and
Igrim, being composed of the words Iberi-con, that
is, the staunch, the firm Iberi. Nor is it unlikely
that they consisted of those, who borrowed from the
Phoenicians the worship of the idol Kiun or Kion,
which we are told by the prophet Amos, v. 26., the
humbled spirit. I am a Mac Carty» once the possessor of that
castle, now in ruins, and of this ground ; —this tree was planted
by ray own hands, and 1 have returned to water its roots with
my tears. To-morrow I sail for Spain, where I have long
been an exile and an outlaw since the Revolution. I am an
old man, and to-night, probably for the last time, bid farewell
to the ,
place of my birth and the home of my forefathers.'*
—Crofton Croker.
* Canice, son of Laidec, a celebrated poet, was the founder
and first abbot of the abbey of Aghavoe, where he died the fifth
of the ides of October, in the year 599 or 600. The episcopal
see was at length removed from Aghavoe to Kilkenny, or the
cathedral (Kil) of Cannice (Kenny), called after this saint, to-
wards the end of the twelfth century, by Felix O'Dulany, then
bishop.—Mac Geoghegan.
118
Syrians worshipped in conjunction with their idol
Sicuth. The septuagint translation of the bible calls
this idol, '^
Astron/' a star ; the vulgate renders it,
'' the image of your idols, the star of your God."*
The Hebrews think it to be Saturn, who was called
Keuan by the Persians and Arabians ; and it is well
known that the Phoenicians worshipped this deity
under a variety of names and symbols.
* V. 26. The Phoenicians were accustomed to carry about
with them some small imiiges, representing certain gods, in
carved chariots ; the tabernacle of Moloch, above mentioned,
seems to have been a machine of this kind. The first images
or statues were made in honour of great men, who had per-
formed extraordinary exploits; and these being set up in par-
ticular places, great veneration was paid to them, which, in the
end, turned to religious adoration. It appears, from Pliny,
that those statues were at first made of brick, such as that
used in building the famous tower of Babel. As to the text
itself, above alluded to, it should run thus: —*' But ye have
borne the tabernacle of your god, (Moloch) ; and i/c have also
borne Chium, your likeness ; the star (Remphan) of your god,
{the same Moloch.) The common translation insinuates, that
Moloch and Remphan, or Chium, were different deities,
whereas, according to that proposed, they were the same,
since it makes Chium and Remphan the names of that star
which the Arabians and Egyptians appropriated to the false
deity, called by the Ammonites, &c. by way of eminence-
Moloch, or King.
119
CHAP. XI.
The Irish Brigantes, not the Breogani of a later date—neither
Armenians, nor Phrygians.—Various names of Brigantia,
in Spain—Pharos therein, by whom built—An oracle of
Menistheus, in an observatory therein—The Irish Brigantes,
a tribe of the Spanish Phoenicians—The Heneti—Why so
called—Why the Briganters so called —Brigantium the re-
sidence of the Irish — Vestiges of this name, as well in Ireland
as in Spain.
More celebrated than the Iberi far, in ancient
Ireland, was another people, called the Brigantes,
who were either actually Phoenicians, or descended
from the Phoenicians of Spain. O'Connor makes
mention of Gasman's poem,* wherein it is said that
Brioganus, the son of Brathus, in a right line from
Fenius, one of their wise men, was the founder of
Brigantia in Spain. And that his posterity had
sailed from thence into Ireland, under the conduct
* Beginning thus, '*
Canam bunhadus mon Gaodlail ;" that
is, " I sing of the origin of the Gadalians."
120
of the two brothers, Heber* and Heremon.f The
Spanish harbour, which the Greeks call Brugantia,
by Ptolemy called Phlanuion Brigantion, and by the
Romans, Flavia Brigantum, is supposed to have been
so called after his name. Its modern name is Co-
runa, and it is only forty-eight hours' voyage, straight
a-head, with a fair south west wind, from any port
on the coast of Ireland. (EticusJ still further tells
us, that in the abovementioned town of Brigantia
there is a watch-tower of prodigious height, called
Pharos, and intended chiefly as a light-house for
the direction of vessels lying out at sea.§ And
Orosius,|| says that this had been built by the Tyrian
Hercules, who, we know from Diodorus Siculus, had
subdued Iberia, and all the countries thence to the
going down of the sun, before he had crossed the
Alps. Keating,^ nevertheless, asserts, that this tower
was built by Breoganus the founder of the city, and
that the first discovery he made therefrom, by the
aid of a telescope, was the existence of this our
island, to which he instantly transferred a colony of
* Giraldus Cambrensis (Topog. Diet. iii. cap. vii.) in the
following century, and Nennius in the ninth, have asserted the
same.
f Apud. Casaub. in Strab. t. 1. p. 206. note 3.
X This was called the town of Augustus, in the time of
Mela.
§ Adversus Gentes I. 17. Alias I. 2.
II
IV.
If Psalter of Cormac.
121
his subjects^ that is the Brigantes, the same who in
the Irish annals are called Sliocht Briogan, that is,
the stock or the progeny of this leader.
Straboj* alluding to the origin of this observa-
tory, says,
—" In this place is the oracle of Menes-
theus, and the tower of Capio, built upon a rock,
surrounded by the sea, a prodigy of art, like the Pha-
ros ; and it is so contrived, that the rays of light falling
thereon are refracted and reflected in every direction,
as if issuing out of so many chinks, exhibiting all the
beauty and the ruddiness of the sun or moon, when
either rising or setting, and seen through the me-
dium of a transparent and a dry cloud." The
harbour of Menestheus is mentioned by him in the
same passage, as it is also by Ptolemy ; Menestheus,
himself, having been the leader of the Athenians at
the time of the Trojan war, and the person who, as we
read in the commentaries of the Grecians, on his
return from Illium to Athens, had been expelled
thence by the descendants of Theseus, and betaken
himself forthwith to Spain.
* Hisce in locis, Oraculum Menesthei est, et Capionis tur-
ns saxo imposita, quod mari cingitur, opus mirabile, Phari
instar, quibus infractos radios visus, veluti in fistulas quasdama
diffundi, et majorem vera quantitatem fingere, quemadmodum
ciim solem lunamve orientem aut occidentem per aridam, te-
nuemque nubem intuemur, rubere putamus." i. 3.
t See Casaub. in Strab. O'Connor.
122
Baxter,* however, is of opinion, that the Brigantes
were a people of ancient Phrygia and Armenia,f
who passed over into Thrace, and made themselves
masters, in the very earliest days, and by natural
occupation, of almost the entire of Europe ; they
were also, he conceives, called Heneti, from hen,
which, in the two countries abovementioned, is equi-
valent with ancient, or antique. But the Brigantes
being evidently Phoenicians, or, at least, a stock of
the Phoenician Iberi, I should think it more pro-
bable, that they got the name of Heneti, in after
times, from the depravity of their moral conduct,
the word eneth, in the Phoenician language, signi-
fying scandalous or depraved. And from thence,
perhaps, comes the Spanish word, bergante, which
signifies the same. It may, it is true, admit of
another derivation, and infinitely more to their credit,
namely, that of being expert at the management of
the spear, for heneth, in the Syriac and Hebrew,
* Gloss. Antiq. Brit. p. 48.
t Armenia is a very extensive country, and generally divided
into the greater and lesser, but taking both together, they are
bounded in the following manner. It has Georgia on the north;
on the south mount Taurus, which divides it from Mesopotamia,
on the west the river Euphrates, and on the east the Cas-
pian mountains. Georgia has the Caspian sea on the east, the
Euxine sea on the west, on the north Circassia, and, on the
south, part of Armenia. The river Cur^ or Cyrus, so called
from the emperor of that name, runs through it, dividing it into
two equal parts.
123
signifies a spear. Another exposition may also be
adduced, from the custom of embalming the bodies
of their dead, which the Jews, as well as Syrians,
had borrowed from the people of Egypt.* In support
of this latter exposition we shall state, that henet or
hanat, in the Syro-Chaldaic language, signifies to
embalm, the ingredients in which process we may,
en passant, observe to have been myrrh, aloes, cedar
oil, salt, wax, pitch, and rosin, invented with a view
to the preservation of their dead, in a state of sweet-
ness and indecomposition, in their appropriate recep-
tacles. With this ceremony was the body of our
blessed Saviour interred, with aromatic spices, which,
Josephus tells us, corresponded with the form of the
Jewish sepulture. It is not at all improbable, there-
fore, that these Phoenician tribes were called Eneti,
* When any of the Egyptians died, the whole family quitted
the place of their abode ; and during sixty or seventy days,
according to the rank or quality of the deceased, abstained
from all the comforts of life, excepting such as were necessary
to support nature. They embalmed the bodies, and many
persons were employed in performing this ceremony. The
brains were drawn through the nostrils by an instrument, and
the intestines were empt ed by cutting a hole in the abdomen,
or belly, with a sharp stone ; after which, the cavities were
filled up with perfumes, and the finest odoriforous spices ; but
the person who made the incision in the body for this purpose,
and who was commonly a slave, was obliged to run away im-
mediately after, or the people present would stone him to
death.
124
that is the embalmers,* from having introduced this
custom into Ireland, as they did, also, into Spain.
* A question may here naturally be asked, Why do the
heathens in the East Indies, in conformity with the practice of
the Romans, burn the bodies of the dead ? There have been
* several conjectures concerning the origin of this barbarous
practice, as first, many of the eastern nations adored the fire,
and therefore they considered it as an acceptable piece of de-
votion, to offer up the dead bodies of their relations to it.
Secondly, their pride might induce the most celebrated heroes,
and the most beautiful women, to desire to conceal from the
world, what poor helpless creatures they were while alive.
Thirdly, they beheld many indignities offered to the dead, and
they were willing, nay desirous that nothing of that nature
should happen to their relations. Lastly, they might do it in
order to prevent a contagious distemper, which often takes
place from the noxious smell of dead bodies. Whether any,
or all of these conjectures may be founded in truth, we leave
the reader to judge, but, certain it is, the practice itself, is
contrary to natural religion, as well as to Divine revelation.
Natural religion points out, that as man was formed out of the
earth, so at death his body should be consigned to it. •'
Dust
thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return." Divine revelation
teaches us, that as Christ laid down his head in the grave, so
the bodies of those who are his faithful followers, should be
deposited in the earth ; to rest till that awful period, when he
shall come to judge the world in righteousness. Let us pity
heathens, who have none of those consolations, which our
holy religion holds out to us ; let us daily pray for their con-
version ; let us not be afraid to lay down our heads in the
silent grave ; let us not reflect much on the indignities that
may be offered to our bodies after death ; for our Divine Re-
deemer has gone before us, he has made the grave sweet unta
us, and by his almighty power, he will raise us up at the last
^djy.—Hurd,
125
Baxter, however, thinks that the Brigantes or
Heneti, as they may indifferently be called, having,
as we have said, passed over into Thrace, got the
name of Bruges, Briges, or Friges, from the cold-
ness of that climate, and these names got afterwards
inflected, according to the several Teutonic and
Britannic dialects, into Brigantes, Frixi, Trigones,
Frisii, Friscones, Brisones, Britones, and Britanni.
Whence he infers, and gives himself credit for the
discovery, that the Brigantes of Ireland were the
Gauls and the foreigners, who in the older times were
denominated the Erii * or Scots ;f and that this was
a name common to the Britons, nay, to all the Gauls,
before the arrival of the Belgae from Germany.
This distinguished writer adds, that the original
Brigantes on being expelled their own territories,
* Baxter's Gloss. Antiq. Brit. p. 119.
t Two kindes of Scots were indeed (as you may gather out
of Buchanan) the one Irin, or Irish Scots, the other Albin-
Scots ; for those Scots are Scythians, arrived (as I said) in the
north parts of Ireland, where some of them after passed into
the next coast of Albine, now called Scotland, which (after
much trouble) they possessed, and of themselves named Scot-
land ; but in process of time (as it is commonly seene) the
dominion of the part prevaileth in the whole, for the Irish
Scots putting away the name of Scots, were called only Irish,
and the Albine Scots, leaving the name of Albioe, were called
only Scots. Therefore it commeth thence that of some writers,
Ireland is called ScotisL- major, and that which now is called
Scotland, Scotia-minor. Spenser.
126
came in quest of a new settlement to this island,
and that the Ceangi, a people of the Dumnonian
Belgse, called by the Irish Scoto-Brigantes, For-
Bolg, or Belgian-men, followed them in the pursuit
of similar adventures.
But it being admitted on all hands, as we have
said, that the Brigantes were a people of the Phoeni-
cians, who landed in Ireland, from thej^coast of
Gallacia, or France ; they could not possibly have
been so named from the cold of that climate, which
we all know to be very temperate, not to say warm.
Neither were they so called from Briganus, the son
of Brethus, who belongs more to the day-dreams of
story-tellers, than to the rigid accuracy of historical
truth. No ; Bregan or Breogan, I consider a Phoeni-
cian term, from brekin,* which signifies, bringing
offerings to an idol or performing the ceremony of
genuflection before it, which again comes from, brie.
* The conversion of the letter k ox c into a is easy and fre-
quent. Bracca, a city of Lusitania, is pronounced Braga, by
the Spaniards; Malaca, the emporium of Boetica, Malaga;
Lucus, a city of Gallaecia, Lugo; Astorica, Astorga ; the
river Sicoris, Segre, and so on. From the Latin secare, they
say segar ; from pacare, pagar ; from decollare, degollar ; from
vacare, vagar; from jocari, jugar; from joco, juego; from
caeco, ciego ; from cato, gato; from lacus, lago, &c. A
similar permutation of the same letter occurs in various words
in all languages : so that it is not at all to be wondered at,
that by the change of c or ^ into g, these people got from
Breckin, the name of Braga, Breage, or Briganges.
127
that is, he bent the knee, the attitude at once of
adoration, prayer, and thanksgiving. It also means
to offer presents to an idol, by which we are to
understand the phrase of blessing (brie) an idol, as
it occurs in scripture. From brekin, therefore, they
being the most superstitious of all the Phoenicians,
they were at first called Breghan, then Bregan or
Breogan, whence, afterwards, the Greeks called them
Brigantoi, and the Latins, Brigantes, according to
the genius of their respective tongues. Nor are
there wanting persons who would maintain, that the
Spanish Brigantes were called Brigantoi by the
Greeks, from the words purges anthas, a florid
tower, the name by which the Farus, in Brigantia, in
Spain, was formerly designated. But the Spanish
Brigantes, they should recollect, were not Greeks,
but Phoenicians.
Ptolemy places the Irish Brigantes in the south-
western quarters of this island, as a kin to those
who were distinguished under that name in Britain,
living about the sacred 'promontory, leron, just
opposite Wales : adjacent to them, on the west, lay
the Vodii, and behind those, the Itterni, or Ivernii
in the west, still behind the promontory of Notium,
lay the Vallabori, to whom Drosius joins the Luceni.
From these the Nagnatae, Erdini, and Venicnii,
stretched towards the north ; but in the extreme
northern point of the island lay the Robogdii, by
the promontory of this name. On the west, the
128
Voluntii, the Eblani or Blanii, near the city Eblana,
now Dublin, the Cauci and the Manapii, between
whom, and the Brigantes. lay the Coriondi. These
several people Ptolomy has handed down, as existing
in this country ; but we find not the Scots included
amongst them, and this has led Cellarius * to suspect,
that they were subsequent to those people, at least
under this name, in point of occupancy. The opinion
of modern f geographers is, that they inhabited the
eastern districts, now called Catherlaghensis, Miden-
sis, and Waterford ; and that from them a part of
the district of Media is called, as well in the Irish
annals as in some old writings respecting Saint
Patrick, Magh-breg, or the plain of the Brigantes, a
name it holds to the present day.
This our Brigantia then, the modern Waterford,
was situated opposite to Brigantia in Spain. In it
not only does the river Brigas, now the Barrow, but
also the barony of Bargy in the south-west of Ire-
land, seem to savour strongly of the Brigantine
name. Bruighan-da-darg, a district in the county
Meath ; Brigown, Brigowne or Brighghobban,
formerly a city but now a little village in the barony
of Condons, county Cork, all savour of the same,
though some would suppose the last mentioned had
* Geog. Antiq. ii. 4.
t See O'Connor.
129
been called after St. Abban,* the reputed founder
thereof. To these we may add Briggo, a village in
the barony of Ardes, county Down ; Bright, a town
in the barony of Licale ; Briggs, a series of rocks
and cliffs projecting into the sea at Carrickfergus
Breoghain^ an old district in the county Waterford
* Though we have seen in the first part, that there were
Christians in Ireland in the first century, and long before the
mission of St. Patrick; that, independent of Cormac-Ulfada,
monarch of this island in the third century, whom his piety
and religion had rendered odious to the Pagans, several had
left their native country on hearing of the Christian name, and
that having become perfect in tlie knowledge of the evangelical
doctrine, and the discipline of the Ckurch, some had preached
the gospel in the different Pagan countries in Europe ; others,
filled with zeal for the salvation of their fellow-citizens, had
successfully expounded to them the word of God; still the
nation was not yet considered as converted ; this grace was
reserved for the reign of Laogare, and the pontificate of Saint
Celestine I. This great pope, seeing the pious inclinations of
those peoj)le, and the success of private missionaries amongst
them, thought of sending them an apostle invested with full
authority, to complete a work so happily begun. The number
of histories, which have been composed on the life of St.
Patrick, has, in a great measure, tended to darken the know-
ledge we should have of the truth of what concerns him.
According to Usher, and ancient monuments in the libraries
of Oxford and Cambridge, there vtere sixty-three or sixty-six.
However, we must confine ourselves to the most genuine, and
those which appear the most authentic, and least liable to
contradiction ; which are, the confession of St. Patjick, his
letter to Corolic, and his life, written by some of his disciples.
—Mac Geoghegan.
K
130
the river Braghan, and the town of Brick-river.
But chiefly, and above all, we may recognise the
Brigantine lineage in the names of those illustrious
leaders who swayed the destinies of this kingdom in
the days of its former glory, namely the Hy-Brea-
ghan or the O'Breaghan, subsequently altered into
O'Brien and O' Brian, as Seeward,* no mean au-
thority, has before observed.f
In Spain, too, we find memorials of the existence of
those ancient people in the name, for instance, of
the town and country of Brigantinos, near the port
of Flavia Brigantium, the modern Corunna ; in that
of Brigantes, a river of the Edetani ; in that of Ber-
gatiano, a town of the Vetones ; in that of Berganzo,
a city of Cantabria; and that of innumerable other
towns, such as Berga, Bergo, Bergara, Bergezo,
Bergedo, &:c. But as to whether or not the Bergitani,
a very ancient people on the east of the Lacetani, by
the river Iber, could lay claim to this origin, is
what I could not positively take upon myself to de-
termine.
Amongst the Pannonians there was also a place
called Brigantium, which Aurelius calls Victor Ber-
gentium. To this we should also refer the lake called
Brigantium Lacus, now Lago di Costanza ; so that
upon the whole, we see the nation of the Brigantes
* See Topog. Article Breoghain.
t Hy, signifies'* of," tantamount to ''
O."
131
were the most numerous of any since the creation
of man^ laying claim to all Europe as their proper
country.*
* See Baxter, p. 50. Strange, that from one extremity of
the world to the other, even the most unenlighted nations
should believe the doctrine of the immortality of the soul, and
yet many of those who have been brought uj) under the joyful
sound of the gospel should deny it. This will rise in con-
demnation against them, and they will be convicted at the
tribunal of the great Judge of all the earth, for trampling upon
knowledge. We are surprised still more, that there should be
none but learned men in the world so abandoned, but learning
without grace, and the fear of God becomes a real curse instead
of an useful blessing. Ilurd.
K 2
132
CHAP. XII.
The Scots were Scythians, a people of northern Asia—Their
condition and morality—Blended with the Phoenicians—
Their various incursions—Passed over into Spain—Become
friends of the Romans— Their remarkable victories—Land-
ing in Ireland from Spain '—Where they settled—When
called Scots —Whether this name can import Woodlandfolks
— Whether the Scythians were so called from their adroitness
in flinging the javelin—Scytha and Saca, both Phoenician
names.
As Cellarius * is of opinion that it was not until
after the days of Ptolemy that the Scots f had
effected a landing in Ireland, or that, at least, they
were not recognised there under this distinctive
name, we cannot, I imagine, consistently with the
plan we have proposed to ourselves, let this oppor-
* Loco laudato.
f Whether they at their first comming into the la»nd, or
afterwards by trading with other nations which had letters,
learned them of them, or devised them amongst themselves, is
very doubtful ; but that they had letters aunciently, is nothing
doubtfull, for the Saxons of England are said to have their
letters, and learning, and learned men from the Irish, and
that also appeareth by the likenesse of the character, for the
Saxon character is the same with the Irish. Spenser.
133
tunity pass, without some disquisition respecting the
origin of this people^ and their arrival in this
country. Nennius, in his little treatise called Capi-
tula,* or little notes, has proved to demonstration,
that they were originally Scythians, who, as the old
Irish annalsf still farther inform us, had started from
Egypt in the tenth year of Darius, King of the
Persians. Here, however, there was an obvious
mistake as to the place of their birth, for the Scy-
thians were not Egyptians, but Asiatics, the most
celebrated, and widely extended people too, in the
northern regions of that country, described by
Horace,J the immortal poet of the Augustan age,
" as wanderers and fond of living in the opeii plains."
They built no houses, they had no fixed abode,
spreading themselves abroad over the bosom of the
surface, and taking up a temporary residence for
themselves and their families, whom they carried
with them in carts, wherever and long as ever their
convenience and inclination afforded. Hence they
were called Amaxohioi and Atnaxoforetoi, that is,
as Sallust renders it, ''
whose waggons were their
abodes."
The Scythians, says Trogus Justinus,§ have no
* Cap. ix. et x.
t Contin. Annal. Tigernach. ex eod. Dub., written in the
fifteenth century, folio iv. vol. 1.
X Carminum I. ode xxxv. and Carminum III. ode xxiv.
§ Lib. ii.
1^
boundaries amongst themselves, neither do they till
the ground, nor build themselves house or habita-
tion, being alone occupied in feeding their flocks
and herds, and in wandering incessantly through
the uncultivated deserts. Their wives and children
they carry with them in carts, covered over with
a canopy as a shelter from the weather, and thus
answering all the purposes of a house. They cul-
tivate Justice more by inclination and by habit,
than by the obligations of law. Gold or silver
they do not covet. They live on milk and honey.
The use of wool and of clothes is to them unknown,
being dressed only in the skins of wild beasts. This
course of abstinence and habitual restraint, extended
its influence even unto the heart itself, elevating the
tone of their moral character, and eradicating every
extraneous and artificial desire."* Hence in Homerf
* I will begin then to count their custoraes in the same
order that I counted their nations, and first with the Scythian
or Scottish manners. Of the which there is one use, amongst
them, to keepe their cattle, and to live themselves the most
part of the yeare in boolies, pasturing upon the mountaine,
and waste wilde places ; and removing still to fresh land, as
they have depastured the former. The which appeareth plaine
to be the manner of the Scythians, as you may read in Glaus
Magnus, and To. Bohemus, and yet is used amongst all the
Tartarians and the people about the Caspian Sea, which are
naturally Scythians, to live in heards as they call them, being
the very same, that the Irish boolies are, driving their cattle
continually with them, and feeding onely on their milke and
white meats. Spenser.
t Iliad v.
135
we find them called, Dikaiotatoi Anthropoi, '^
the
most just of men." Strabo,* Herodotus,f Virgil,
and others, have made mention of their name, and
equally honourable. Three things worthy of record
are noticed by Justin § respecting them—their an-
tiquity—their military valour || —and their having
t iv.
X Georg. iii.
§ Lib. xxi.
II
The Scoti or Milesian Irish, like their kinsfolk the Scy-
thians, when rushing to battle, made use of the war cry,
Farragh, Farragh. **
Here is another proof that they bee
Scythes or Scots, for in all their incounters they use one very
common word, crying Ferragh, Ferragh, which is a Scottish
word, to wit, the name of one of the tiist Kings of Scotland,
called Feragus, or Fergus, which fought against the Pictes,
as you may reade in Buchanan, de rebus Scoticis : but as
others write, it was long before that, the name of their chiefe
Captaine, under whom they fought against the Africans, the
which was then so fortunate unto them, that ever sithence they
have used to call upon his name in their battailes. Some,
who (I remember) have upon the same word Ferragh, made a
very blunt conjecture, as namely, Mr. Stanihurst, who though
he be the same countrey man borne, that should search more
neerly into the secret of these things ; yet hath strayed from the
truth all the heavens wyde, (as they say,) for he thereupon
groundeth a very grosse imagination, that the Irish should de-
scend from the Egyptians which came into that Island, first
under the leading of one Scota, the daughter of Pharaoh,
whereupon they use (saith he) in all their battailes to call upon
the name of Pharaoh, crying Ferragh, Ferragh.'' Spenser.
It will soon be made manifest, that Mr. Spenser, himself,
*' hath strayed from the truth all the heavens wyde," as to the
origin of this war-cry.
136
founded the kingdom of the Parthians. To these
we may add, the fame of the Amazons, a tribe of
female warriors, who sprung up from their race^
whose exploits have been blazoned in every age and
in every climate, and accompanied besides with such
characteristics of romance, as to make some imagine
the whole had been a fiction. In short, they were
a nation indefatigable from the pursuits of labor and
of war, possessed of incalculable strength of body,
desiring to procure nothing which they might fear
to Ir se, and seeking nothing, when victors, but pure
glory."^
That the Scythians were incorporated with the
Phoenicians, and had both together overran the
whole of Palestine, is proved by the circumstance of
their occupation of the city of Bethsan, which they
called Scythopolis, after themselves—it is further
proved by the name of Bambyx or Hierapolis, the
modern Aleppo as some suppose, which they gave
the city of Magog,f so called from the son of
Japhet,J of that name, from whom the Scythians
were descended, or in memory of its founder, who
was supposed to have been the son of Magog, and
to have come from the land of Magog into Syria. §
* See more on this head in Bochart Greog. Sac. iii. 19.
t Pliny V. 28.
X Bochart iii. 13.
§ Bochart attempts to prove that Magog was the same as
Prometheus, And we know that Deucalion ^ the son of Pro-
137
Strabo* says, that they had extended the Umits of
their empire from thence all along to iVrmenia and
Cappadocia, calling Saca, a district in Armenia,
Sacasene, after their own name. We read, also, of
a settlement of the Scythians in Trogus, along side
of the Thermodon. But what Thermodon means,
we must still doubt, as it occurs in Plutarch as a
river in Scythia ; in Philostratus, as the boundary of
the Scythian empire. From thence they advanced
into Cimmeria, driving out the natives wherever
metheus, a Scythian, is said to have been, according to Lucian,
the founder of the city of Magog, iu Syria, and the erector
therein of a temple to the ** Syrian Goddess.'' The name —
*• Magog," says Valiancy, signifies {3ine tree, agreeably to the
Asiatic custom. We have a beautiful allegory of this kind in
the annals of Inuisfallen, A. D. 1314, composed extempore
by Turlough O'Brien, on the death of his favorite chief Donogh
O'Dea:
Truagh an teidhm, taining thier, rug bas borb
Taoisseach teann dainedh dhamh,
Donncha Don ; Tome is cial, cru mo chuirp
Craobh dom cheill an teidhm uach.
Dire is the loss, alas ! of late
Upon the western shore
By ruthless death, and murth'ring- fate,
A valiant chief's no more ?
Ah ! woe is me : my soundest sense
And kindred friend so true !
My wood has lost a tatcWing branch,
My Donoh, dear, in you!
Translated by 0'Flaherty,
* De fluviis.
138
they went, thence to Caucasus and the Palus Maeotis,
to the Tanais on the northern ocean, as appears
from the testimony of Herod* and Diodorus Sicu-
lus.f From thence they sailed over into Spain, as
Varro, and from him Pliny, hear testimony, which
accounts for the mention made in Silius Italicus,J
of the Scythse or Sacas in Spain.§ Horace,ll speak-
ing of the Cantahrians, who had been subdued by
Agrippa, says, ''
The Cantahrians, that ancient
enemy on the Spanish coast, subdued at last by a
long disputed victory, are subservient : the Scythians
now meditate to quit their plains with their bows
slackened." And they did actually quit them, first
laying down their arms in submission to the Roman
authorities. Such, says Seutonius,^ was the reputa-
tion for virtue and moderation established by Au-
gustus, all over the world, that the Indians and
Scythians, who were not known of otherwise than
by rumor or hearsay, were induced, of their own
accord, to court his alliance, and that of the Roman
people, by an authorised deputation to Rome, for
the purpose which occasions Horace** in his saecular
* De vita Apollon. vii. 11
t ii.
X iii. 3.
§ iii. 3(30.
II
Carmin. lib. iii. Oilo 8,
H In Octavios, cup. xxii.
** Carm. Soee. v. 55.
139
poem, to observe: " Now the Scythians, lately so
proud, court our answer." Yes, they voluntarily
sought after the friendship, the injunctions, and the
laws of the Romans, which, as Justin * observes, was
the more wonderful, inasmuch, *'
they only heard of,
not felt, their power."f Nay, when the empire of
Asia was thrice threatened by invasion, the Scythians
stood untouched, or unconquered in their native
independence, compelling Darius, King of the Per-
sians to retire with disgrace, making Cyrus and his
whole army the victims of their revenge, and cutting
to pieces the forces of Zopyrion, and himself, too, at
* Ibidem, cap. 3.
f All Spaine was first conquered by the Romans, and
filled with colonies from them, which were still increased, and
the native Spaniard still cut off. Afterwards the Carthaginians
in all the long Punick Warres (having- spoiled all Spaine, and
in the end subdued it wholly unto themselves) did, as it is
likely, root out all that were affected to the Romans. And
lastly the Romans having againe recovered that countrey, and
beate out Hannibal, did doubtlesse cut off all that favoured
the Carthaginians, so that betwixt them both, to and fro, there
was scarce a native Spaniard left, but all inhabited of Romans.
All which tempests of troubles being over-blowne, there long
after arose a new storme, more dreadful then all the former,
which over-ran all Spaine, and made an infinite confusion of
all things ; that was, the comming downe of the Gothes, the
Hunnes, and the Vandals : and, lastly, all the nations of
Scythia, which, like a raountaine flood, did over-llow all
Spaine, and quite drowned and washtaway whatsoever reliques
there was left of the land-bred people, yea, and of all the
Romans too. Spenser.
140
their head, though supported by all the spirit which
the consciousness of being general to Alexander the
Great, must necessarily have inspired.
That the Scythians, having now concluded a
treaty with the Romans, proceeded from Spain to
Ireland, is the received opinion of the historians of
this island. Accordingly we find in an old hymn,* in
honour of St. Columba, this expression, ''
that the
Celtiberian Scythian had nothing equal toColumba."
They first put in at the south, and took up their
residence, finally, towards the north. Baxter f de-
clares, that their posterity are, at this day, the
occupiers of Valentia, and we have the authority
of Ammianus Marcellinus and Zosimus for stating,
that, whilst only an Irish colony, they were the
confederates of the ancient Saxons, and successful
ones they proved, in checking the encroachments of
the Roman power.
O'Flaherty, conceiving he had discovered the time
of the arrival of the Scots from Spain, in an old
Irish poemj of the ninth century, ascribes that event
to the 3698th year of the Julian period, which ac-
cording to Scaliger, would be the fifth of the reign
* Servatur in Bobiens. Andphonar. an. 1200, ap. O'Comior,
t p. 211.
I The poem of Euchad O'Floin, beginning with these words:
" List ye learned."—It may be seen in the Dublin Library.
O'Connor has published a fragment of it, which designated,
under an allegorical veil, the year of the Scots or Scythians'
arrival in Ireland.
141
of Solomon.* Others, tracing the matter still farther
back,f assert, that when the Egyptians were drowned
in the Red Sea, the survivors expelled from their
body a Scythian of high birth who had lived
amongst them, lest the facilities of his situation
should foster his ambition to usurp dominion over
them, whereupon he betook, instantly, himself, with
his whole family, to Spain, where he lived for many
years ; and his progeny, after him, being multiplied
beyond the accommodation which the place could
afford, proceeded from thence unto Ireland. But
all the memorials of the Scots, says Tigernachus, up
to the period of Alexander the Great, are vague
and uncertain. Be it so ; yet still T cannot admit
Baxter'sJ assertion to the contrary notwithstanding
that, before the eighth century, there was no such
place known in Britain as Scotia, .the name by
which Ireland is designated by the venerable Bede,
as well as by the monk Ravennas. " Ireland," says
Bede, "is the proper country of the Scots, who,
quitting it, added themselves as the third nation to
the Picts and Britons in Britannia. Jas. Usher,§
also, a very distinguished writer, has furthermore
proved, that the Romans called this island, Scotia.
Gibbon, too, assents to this fact in his preface to his
* O'Flaherty Ogyg. Prol. p. 34.
t Walsingham's Hypodig.
X p. 211.
§ Primordia.
142
history of the Roman empire. But it was not in
Ireland that the Scythians were first distinguished by
the name of Scots ; for Saint Jerom* introduces Por-
phyry, saying, that *^
neither did Britain, that fertile
province in tyrants, nor the Scotic nations, and all
the barbarous provinces round about, know any
thing of Moses and the prophets ;" which makes
O'Connor to conclude, that the Scotic nations then lay
beyond the pale of the British isle. Nay, Baxter him-
self affirms, that Scotia was so called by the Romans
from the Scoti. Orosius,f a presbyter of Tarracona,
who flourished in the beginning of the fifth century,
says, that, in his own time, Ireland was inhabited by
the nations of the Scoti ;J and St. Isidorus tells us,
that " Ireland and Scotia are the same, being called
Scotia, as inhabited by the Scots." ''
Hence, in
aftertimes," says Ludovicus Molina, '*
arose the
* Epist. ad Elesiphontem.
f Histor. lib. ii.
X The most celebrated geographers agree, that ancient
Europe was possessed by four grand classes of men, viz. the
Celtes, who extended themselves from the Bosphorus Ciramo-
rinus on the Euxine, to the Cirabric Chersonese of Denmark
and the Rhine, dispersing themselves over western Europe
and her isles ; the Scythians, who came from Persia, and
spread from thence to the Euxine, and almost over all Europe,
speaking the Gothic, and its kindred dialects, the Teutonic,
the Trisic, Belgic, &c. ; the Iberi or Mauri, who came from
Africa, and peopled Spain and Aquitain, and their language
survives in the Cantabric or Basque j and the Sarmatae, whose
language was the Sclavonic, and whose appearance in Europe
was later than the others.—Mac Gregor,
143
origin of the Iberi in Ireland, who retained, as their
characteristic, the very ancient name of Scythians or
Scots, from whom the Spanish promontory, now
called Finisterrae, or land's-end, was formerly desig-
nated Scythicum or Celticum. These people removed
themselves to Ireland from Spain, as Orosius informs
us."
Now, Baxter, inquiring into the etymology of the
word Scots,* says, that the Britons, called them
Isgwydhwyr, which, in the old scriptural style, is
equivalent to Scoituir, or woodland men. The
modern name, Guydhal, is the same as Brigantine,
or woodland Gaul. For the Irish are, undoubtedly,
a mingled race, consisting, as he says, on the one
hand, of the Erii or barbarous natives ; on the other
hand, of the Scots and Brigantes ; and, thirdly, of
the Guydhali or woodland Gauls : and from this
he accounts for the circumstance of their being so
often designated by the British writers under the
compound name of Scoto-Brigantes.
Others, again, would look still higher for the
origin of the Scythian name, and think it derived
from their dexterity in darting the javelin, scutten,
in the German language, signifying persons expert
* Eginhard, secretary to Charlemagne, or, according to
some, his son-in-law, in his annals on the year 812, informs
us that the naval forces of the Normans landed in Ireland, the
island of the Scots, and having given them battle, in which
they were defeated, that those barbarians who escaped, shame-
fully took flight, and returned to their country. MacGeoghegan.
144
in this art ; just as a portion of the Scythians were
called Arimaspi,* that is^ who close one eye, or use
but one^f which, we all know, is the practice of
those who aspire to any eminence in the science of
shooting.
It strikes me as more likely, not to say indubitable,
that the Scythians w^ere so called by the Phoenicians
from the moment of their first incorporation with
them, occupying, as they did, a great part of Syria ;
and that they did so call them, from the fact of
having noticed their roving propensity driving them
on as adventurers, through hill, through dale,
through desert, and through forest. The word
Scythian, then, I would derive from shitin, which,
in the Phoenician language, signifies traversers,
wanderers, or rovers, and is itself derived from shit,
to go, surround, run about, or digress ; or, from
shitah, to expand or dilate, either in allusion to their
straggling, or the successful ardor with which they
extended their sway, striking terror into their foes
by the very name of their princes, and laying low at
their feet the most numerous armies. Saca or Sa-
casene too, a district of Armenia, called after them,
would seem referable to the same source ; sacac, in
in that language, signifying to run about or walk, as
sacah, does a roof or covering. Perhaps, if we would
regard the justice of the nation, we may suppose
them so designated from zaca, praiseworthy or just, or
* Derived from Arima, one, and Spia, an eye.
f The better to collect the visual rays toward one focus.
145
zaki, blameless, irreproachable ; all which attributes
we find briefly enumerated by Chaerilus, in his work
called the'^Diabasis of Xerxes," saying/^ The pastoral
Sacae, a Scythian race, Asiatics who tilled the land,
colonists belonging to the roving nation of the No-
mades, a people who practised justice." The word
zaca, also, means to overcome or conquer, which
agrees well with the warlike character of the
Scythians.*
* Their short bovves, and little quivers with short bearded
arrovves, are very Scythian as you may reade in the same
Olaus. And the same sort both of bowes, quivers, and
arrovves, are at this day to bee seene commonly amongst the
Northerne Irish-Scots, whose Scottish bowes are not past three
quarters of a yard long, with a string of wreathed herape
slackely bent, and whose arrowes are not much above halfe
an ell long, tipped with Steele heads, made like common broad
arrow heades, but much more sharpe and slender, that they
enter into a man or horse most cruelly, notwithstanding that
they are shot forth weakely. Spenser.
I have heard some great warriours say, that, in all the
services which they had seene abroad in forraigne countreyes,
they never saw a more comely man then the Irish man, nor
that cometh on more bravely in his charge ; neither is his
manner of mounting unseemely, though hee lacke stirruppes,
but more ready then with stirruppes ; for, in his getting up,
his horse is still going, whereby hee gayneth way. And there-
fore it was called so in scoriie, as it were a stay to get up,
being derived of the old English word sty, which is, to get up,
or mounte.— Spenser. In fact, they were a tribe of that people
whom Virgil (from the Punic records) designates as " Numdas
infreni."
146
CHAP. XIII.
The Irish Siluri a tribe of the Phcenicians— Whether so called
because wearing breeches—Origin of the Spanish word
Saraguelles—Not all the Phoenicians of Ireland called
Silures—This word implying the condition of their race, or
their superstition—From them the island Silura so called —
Whether there be only one such or several — Derivation of
the word Cassiteris—Islands of that name in the Spanish
sea—Why called Cica by the ancients.
To the Phoenician Iberi belong also the people
of the Silures, who had fixed their residence in the
British isles, and of whom Tacitus thus speaks :
" Their faces are colored, their hair for the most
part twisted, and seem to encourage the belief that
the ancient Iberi, who lay opposite to Spain, had
crossed over and seized themselves of these settle-
ments."* The Iberi alluded to are of course, says
* This he speaketh touching the Silures which inhabited that
part of South Wales, which now we call Herefordshire, Rad-
norshire, Brecknockshire, Monmouthshire, and (xlamorgan-
shire. And although the like reason may be given for that
part of Ireland which lyeth next unto Spaine, yet in Tacitus
we find no such inference. Buchanan, indeed, upon the con-
117
Bochart^ those of Tartasus, who were a colony of
the Phoenicians, for these alone possessed either the
spirit or the skill requisite for navigation, and the
transplanting of colonies into distant countries.
And as there will be an effort, no doubt, to scoop
the origin of the word Silures from the vowels of the
Phoenician language, the learned, says he, well
know that the inhabitants of the British isles, as well
as the Gauls, were accustomed to wear breeches.
jecture of Tacitus, hath these words. " Verisimile autem iion
est Hispanos rehcta k tergo Hibernia, terra propiore, & coeli
Sc soli mitioris, in Albiura prirailrn descendisse, sed primiim in
Hiberniam appulisse, atque inde in Britannia colonos missos."
Which was observed unto me by the most learned Bishop of
Meth, Dr. Anth. Martin, upon conference with his lordship
about this point. One passage in Tacitus touching Ireland
(in the same booke) I may not heere omit, although it be extra
oleas. *• Quinto expeditionuni anno (saith he) nave prim^
transgressus, ignotas ad tempus gentes, crebris simul ac pros-
peris prieli is domuit, earaque partem Britannia quae Hiberniam
aspicit, copiis instruxit, in spem magis quam ob formidinem.
Siquidem Hibernia medio inter Britanniam aque Hispaniam,
sita, & Gallico quoque mari opportuna valentissiniam imperij
partem magnis invicem usibus miscuerit. Spatium ejus si
Britannia comparetur, angustius, nostri maris insulas superat.
Solum coelumque & ingenia, cultusq ; horainum haut multdm
^ Britannia ditferunt, meliiis aditus portusq ; per commercia &
negotiatores cogniti. Agricola expulsum seditione domestica
unum ex regulis gentis exceperat, ac specie amicitae in occa-
sionem retinebat. Saepe ex eo audivi Legione una & modicis
auxilijs debellari, obtinerique Hiberniam posse. Idque ad-
versiis Britanniam profuturum, si lloniana ubique arma, &
velut e conspectu liber tas toller etur." Sir James Ware,
l2
148
For this he quotes Martial*—*' As an old pair of
breeches belonging to a poor Briton." Then he
takes shelter in the language of the Arabians, in
which sirwal, and sarawuel, from which again comes
the Spanish word saraguelles, signify all one and the
same thing, namely, a pair of breeches. Sirwalin,
therefore, in the Arabic, signified persons who wore
this article of dress. From this the Romans, says
he, by transposition, gave the name of Silures to
those Phoenicians who had settled in Ireland, as a
mark of distinction between them and the rest of
their race, just as a part of Gaul, where the use of
this article prevails, is called Braccata from that
very circumstance—such is Bochart's opinion.
To me, however, it appears more likely that not
all the Phoenicians who had come over to those
islands, but only a few of their tribes, the lowest
and the poorest, got the denomination of Silures
from the rest of their fraternity, and that not from
an Arabian term relating to dress, but a Phoenician
one, purporting obscurity and meanness of origin.
For zeluth, in the Phoenician, means vileness or con-
temptibility, as generally applied to the rabble ; and
zaluth, impurities, filthiness. Thus much respecting
their condition as a caste. But if you would prefer
referring it to the superstition of the whole nation,
it is evident that in this point of view we may derive
* 11 Epigr. 22.
149
Silures from the words zil 'ur, that is worshippers of
the sun or fire ; for or, as well as ur, both in the
Hebrew and Syriac languages, signify the sun, to
blaze, or any luminous body. In this sense we find
it in Job,* where he says, "If I have seen the sun
(or) when he shone ;*'
and in Nehemiahf ''
From
the morning (or) even unto the mid-day," that is
* Men have, in all ages, been convinced of the necessity of
an intercourse between God and themselves, and the adoration
of God supposes him to be attentive to men's desires, and,
consistent with his perfections, capable of complying with
them. But the distance of the sun and moon is an obstacle to
this intercourse. Therefore foolish and inconsiderate men
endeavoured to remedy this inconvenience, by laying their
hands on their mouths, and then lifting them up to their false
gods, in order to testify that they would be glad to unite them-
selves to them, notwithstanding their being so far separated.
We have a striking instance of this in the book of Job, which,
properly attended to, will throw a considerable light on ancient
Pagan idolatry. Job was a native of the confines of Assyria,
and being one of those who believed in the true God, says, in
his own vindication, " If I beheld the sun while it shined, or
the moon walking in brightness ; and my heart hath been
secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand," &c.
Job xxxi. 26, 27.
This was a solemn oath, and the ceremony performed in the
following manner
The person who stood before his accusers or before the
judge's tribunal, where he was tried, bowed his head and
kissed his hand three times, and looking up to the sun, invoked
him as an Almighty Being, to take the highest vengeance upon
him if he uttered a falsehood. Hurd.
t viii. 3.
150
from sunrise till noon ; and from this it was that
Apollo was called Orus by the heathens. It also, as
I have intimated, signifies fire, lit and blazing, and
by synechdoche, the hearth wherein it blazes, in
which acceptation it occurs in Isaiah—'^ In the blaze
(or) of your fire.'* As to zila, it means to pray to,
or worship, as ziluth does prayer, adoration. The
introduction into this country of the Phoenician
usage of worshipping the sun and fire, is a point
beyond dispute, as we shall make by and bye more
manifest.
From the Silures is named the island of Silura,
separated, by a turbid strait, from the coast, which
is inhabited, as Solymus informs us, by a British
race, the Dumnonii. There are those who would
name as the islands of the Silures, or the Silenae,
what we at this day call the Scilly Isles, and the
Belgians the Sorlings ; and which Camden enumer-
ates to the amount of about one hundred and forty-
five, more or less, being circularly arranged, and
about eight leagues distant from the extreme cape
of Cornwall : these have been otherwise called by
the ancients Cassiterides, from the tin in which they
abounded ; Hesperides, from their western locality ;
and Ostrymnidae, from the promontory of Ostrym-
nus, in Artabria, to which they are opposite. Now
there is no one so unacquainted with history as not
to know that the Phoenicians exported an immense
151
quantity of tin from those islands. They alone,* as
Strabo informs us, had repaired thither, from Gades,
on those commercial speculations, studiously, the
while, concealing their schemes from all others
which Bochart confirms by several collateral testi-
monies. This tin they used to ship off to Syria
and Arabia. And we find in Numbers xxxi. 22, how
much it was sought after by the Midianites ; and in
Job xix. 24, by the Arabians. Of which see at
large in W. Cooke, p. 23 ; PHny Nat. Hist. vii. 56.
Take care, however, that we do not confound
these islands with the Cassiteridesf in the Spanish
sea, right opposite to Baiona of Tudium, which are
supposed, by some, to have been so denominated
from the immense rocks with which they are sur-
rounded, called by the Greek inhabitants of Spain
* From some passages in Plutarch, O'Halloran offers a
conjecture, that the sacra et delecta cohors of the Carthaginians,
mentioned by Diodorus and others, was a select body of Irish
troops in the pay of that people. From the time of the Scipios
until the reign of Augustus, a space of more than two hundred
years, Spain struggled with the Romans for independence ; and
we may naturally suppose, that as Ireland was but a few days*
sail from Spain, they had auxiliaries from thence, and that the
Carthaginians had them also. Hannibal's army was mostly
made up of foreign troops, a great part of which he brought
from Spain after the taking of Saguntum. 31ac Gregor.
t This name is derived from Kassitera, the Greek for tin
being the translation of Bara anac, which, in Phoenician, sig-
nifies the land of tin ; and from this again the word Britannia
would seem to be immediately formed.
152
Cica, from cicos, which in their language signifies
strength, a stronghold, or fortress ; whilst others,
with more probability, think it a Phoenician name
given to those islands before ever the Grecians set a
foot in Spain, and from the same circumstance as
the other islands of the same name were denomi-
nated, namely, their tin mines, cicar or kicar, in the
Syriac, signifying metal of any kind.
CHAP. XIV.
The Vodice, in what section of Ireland they had settled-^
Whether they were of the race of the Erigence, or a tribe of
the Phoenicians—Conjecture upon the Etymology of the
name— Vodie the country called Dergteachneagh— Origin of
this word—The Lucani, or Lucent, a people of Ireland —
This name supposed originally Irish — Where they settled—
Whether different from the Lugadii—Whence the name
Slioght—Lucus and Lucena cities of Spain — Conjecture on
the Phoenician origin of the Luceni —Fire worshipped amongst
the Phoenicians —The promontory of Notium.
The Vodiae, or Vodii, were, according to Ptolemy,
an ancient people of Ireland, contiguous, on the west,
to the Brigantes in the county Cork, being the same
as the Mediterranean Momonienses ; what you
153
would call in English, says Baxter,* the woodland
folk, and consequently of the primitive stock of the
Erigense, or real natives. Vydhieu, or Guydhieu,
means woods at this very day amongst the Britons.
Others would interpret Vydhieu as people living in
woody places by the water side ; for in Ptolemy we
also read of a place called Vodie, which the Irish
writers call Dergtenii, or Dergteachneagh,—and give
us to understand it means a woody habitation beside
a lake,—comprising the southern coast of the county
Cork, namely, the old baronies of Corcaduibhne,
Corcabhaisin, and Corcahuigne.f
It may be worth the attention of the learned men
of this country to see whether the Vodise were not
one of the Phoenician tribes who had settled here
for Bohodi in the Phoenician language meant a con-
gregated clan ; as you would say, stop with me, live
with me ; from whence, in the Arabic, bahad, he
stopped, or sojourned, and badi, the origin of a
race, the introduction of a family, a congregation.
This conjecture is supported by the name of the
country called Dergteachneagh, being, as I imagine,
an abbreviation from Derc-teachin-agch, which sig-
nifies travellers, or strangers, in a wilderness ; for
derc means he walked, teachin, living or lurking in a
lonely place, and agah, he passed the night. Derg-
* p. 253.
t See Collect, de Reb. Iberu. vol. iii. p. 333.
154
tenii sounds like that langnage too, derc-tenar mean-
ing in it a rocky road, and derc-tenin a road on
which men, or beasts of burden, carry provisions or
other merchandise.
The Lucanii, or Luceni, are to be found also in
Ptolemy as an ancient people in this island, of whom
Orosius also makes mention. Richard Cirencester
says, that their settlement lay in the county Kerry,
near the bay of Dingle.* The name is supposed to
be compounded of the two Irish words lugh-aneigh,
meaning the inhabitants of a district adjoining a
lake, or sea, what you would call, says Baxter, mari-
gene, or sea-born. This gentleman imagines that
these were originally a colony of the Dumnonian
Belgae, and that they gave their name to the pro-
vince of Lugenia, or Leinster, which certainly does
sound very like the land of the Lugeni, and in after
times had advanced farther into the interior, into
Momonia, or the province of Munster. Seward,f
and others more modern, J suppose that they were
the Lugadii, who, according to the old Irish writers,
inhabited the south-western coasts, extending from
* This remote town in the province of Muns»ter was once of
considerable importance. The Spaniards held a direct inter-
course with the place, and built many private residences there,
besides the parish church, &c. Queen Elizabeth granted to it
a charter in 1585.
t Seward, Topogr. Ibern. A pp. II. p. 8.
X Vid. Collect, de Reb. Ibern. loc. laud. p. 381.
155
Waterforcl harbour along to the mouth of the river
Shannon. The name of Lugadii to the natives was
equivalent with sliocht lugach macithy, that is, a
maritime race of dwellers by the water. Yet, sliocht,
may perhaps be of Phoenician root, coming from
shlic, a neighbour ; in this sense, too, we shall find
ourselves at home, for slioght, in Irish,* signifies
alliance or kindred.
But Baxter, descanting upon the origin of the
word Lacanii, or Luceni, says, aug, by the old
Britons, was understood for the liquor of water, and
thus for the sea, whilst geni, or eni, meant descent.
* It is well known that in Munster and Connaught, in the
western parts of Ulster, and the south of Leinster, this ancient
dialect is spoken most extensively; and although many of the
native Irish are sufficiently acquainted with the English
tongue to use it for the purpose of daily traffic, and mere busi-
ness, yet it is in their beloved Celtic that they think, through
that they feel, and by that they communicate to each other the
deep purposes of present revenge, and future triumph. It is
no random assertion, but an authenticated fact, that among
the most abject poor, who cut turf on the bogs, or break stones
for the roads of those districts, the proudest legends of their
country's former glory, and the prowess of her native chiefs,
couched in language the most exciting that can be conceived,
are frequently repeated ; together with the wild prophetic
rhymes of gifted bards, handed down orally from father to
child, predicting the re-appearance of that sun which they con-
ceive to have set beneath the dark night of English usurpation^
Those who have studied the Irish language concur in pronoun-
cing it to be most richly and powerfully expressive, highly
figurative. — Charlotte Elizabeth.
156
or to be descended. Hence he infers that the
Saxon pirates were called by the Britons Lhoegyr,
corruptly for Luguir, or seamen, and from this, he
says, comes the modern name of Anglia or England ;
Ihuch, in Britain, signifying at this day a lake, as
loch does in Ireland.
If one may indulge conjecture in a matter not
very clear, I should think myself near the true ex-
traction of this name by deriving it from lucus, a
grove, which we know those were in the habit of
resorting to, nay, of worshipping. In this case we
may seek for the origin of slioght in the Phoenician
slocah, or sliocah, which signifies divinity. But this
I do not like, for the people called Luceni, or Lu-
canii, existed before the time of the Romans, which
would make it incongruous to take as a parallel in-
stance the name of the Spanish city, Lucus, now
Lugo, in the country of the Gallaici, which must be
acknowledged to be designated from those religious
haunts. Therefore, as well as Lucene, the name of
a Phoenician town in Boetia, I should suppose it
comes from lushen, or leshen, a word of very various
significations, all of which, however, spontaneously
apply to this people. First it is a people or nation ;
secondly a difference of language or dialect, which
we know to prevail amongst the several tribes of
Syria. The Ephrataei, for instance, could not arti-
culate the double letter, sh, instead of which they
would pronouno© it in its single form, s, which may
157
have proceeded either from the air or local influence.
Thus we find that when, in Judges xii. they were
obliged to say shibboleth, a river, they could only
call it sibboleth. The Bcetians of my country, also,
pronounce z instead of s, calling it zabana instead of
sabana. The Gallacians, too, differ from the other
provinces of Spain, not in pronunciation alone, but
in many other peculiarities of language. The same
may be observed by every one in the idiom of his
native country. But to return. It means, in the
third place, a flame of fire, which would seem at
once to point us to the practice of their worshipping
this element in their sacred groves, a practice, I may
add, which the Chaldaeans, the Persians, the Medes,
and other nations of Asia, shared in common with
the Phoenicians, who offered sacrifice to fire after the
custom of the Persians,* at first only worshipping it
* When the Persians drew near to their consecrated fires in
their divine service, they always approached them from the
Vilest side, because by that means their faces being turned to
those as well as the rising sun, they could direct their worship
towards both at the same time. * * The priests are
obliged to watch day and night to maintain and repair the con-
secrated fire. But it is absolutely necessary that it be re-
kindled after the purest manner that can possibly be devised ;
for which purpose they frequently make use of a steel and flint,
or two hard sticks, which, by continual friction, will in time
take fire. Sometimes, likewise, they kindle it by the light-
ning which darts down from heaven on any combustible
matter ; and sometimes again by those ignes fatui which fre-
quently arise in marshy grounds; or else by common fire, in
158
as a type or symbol of the Deity, but so, however,
that g-radually, and at last, this commemoration, and,
as such, innocent adoration, degenerated and sunk
into actual and downright worship of the element
itself.* This superstition they imported into Ireland,
as they did into Spain, and their other colonies.
But as this people had established their settle-
ment in the country by the promontory of Notium,
I should not think it at all unlikely that they derived
their name from that very fact, for lushen, or leshen,
in the Syriac, is a cape, or oblong and mountainous
tongue of land jutting out into the sea.
The name of the Lugadii would seem to be equi-
valent with that of allies, for luahin, in the Phoeni-
cian, implies association or union. Or they might
have got this name from luch, or lach, meaning-
sturdy youths, valiant warriors, in conformity with
lucadin, the stormers of towns ; whence evidently is
derived laochd, the Irish designation for an armed
soldiery, as well as lugh, active, and luch, a captive
in battle. We find, besides, that laga, which signi-
fies renown, or pre-eminent distinction, was an usual
adjunct to the names of many of the leading families
case it is pure and undefiled, or with such as the Banians make
use of to kindle the funeral piles. But they have one other
method still, as noble as it is pure ; and that is, by collecting
the rays of the sun into the focus of a burning-glass. Hurd.
* Theodoret. Hist. Eccl. V. 38. S. Isidor. Hispal. Grig.
XIV. 3. Cons. Voss. De Orig. et Progr. Idolol. II. 64.
159
of this island, as Lughaidh-laigha, Mac mogha
nuadhat. Richardson makes mention of a cele-
brated tribe of the Arabians, called Legah, or Lukah,
that never acknowledged the dominion of a tyrant,
or bent with abject and humiliating prostration to
the inhuman attitude of slavery. Nor would the
conjecture be altogether without ground if, after
all our peregrination and excursive research for
the origin of the name of this people, we would at
last turn home, and look for it in the Irish word
lughadh, meaning the interposition of an oath,* and
which would indicate their compactness as a social
body ; or in lughad, scantiness, as if they were but
few ; or, finally, in luchd, a tribe or assemblage.
* According to the annals of Ulster, cited by Ware, the
usual oath of Laogare IT., King of Ireland, in the time of
St. Patrick, was by the sun and wind. The Scythians swore
by the wind, and sometimes by a scymeter or cutlas, in use
among the Persians, upon which was engraven the image of
Mars. Mac Geogheyan.
160
CHAP. XV,
The Voluntii—In what part of Ireland settled—Various
opinions as to the etymology of this name—As also of the
names Ull, Ullahy and Thuath—Conjecture with respect to
their origin being Phoenician— Country of the Blanii—Eb-
lana the ancient name for Dublin—Derivation of this name
—Ebelinum, an ancient city of Spain—The town of Blane
—Origin of both names.
The Voluntii or Boluntii mentioned by Ptolemy,
were an ancient people in Ireland, situated on the
east of the Luceni, who took up their quarters in a
tract of the county Down, which Baxter thinks is
so called at the present day, by corruption, for the
land of the Voluntii ; as„ also, that the Britons had
called them Boluntii, as if from Bol or Vol-unte,
that is the /arther head-land or Vennicnium.
Others think it a degenerated term, from Ull-an-
teigh, which they explain by the inhabitants of the
county of Ull. But teigh, in Irish, means a house
or shelter. Ull is, indeed, a district in this island,
mentioned by Ptolemy, and called by the Irish
161
writers who have touched upon this point, Ullagh,
and also Uilad. This word some would derive from
Thuat-all-adh, a northern section of the county of
Ull, which formerly was the modern province of
Ulster, but was afterwards circumscribed to the
single county of Down. Our old poems and chro-
nicles call the inhabitants of this tract, Tuath de
Donans, and understand thereby the northern people,*
of intrepid bravery ; for tuath, in Irish, means not
only a people, but the north: and dan, brave,
intrepid.
To my mind Boluntii is a name of Phoenician ex-
traction, derived very probably from the quality of
the ground; in that language, bolun means a glebe
or gleby land, as it does, also, fruit and the shoots
of palm trees : or, with still more appearance of
probability, we may derive it from the superstitious
worship of that nation, bolinthis or belinthis meaning
the immolation of he-goats to the idols of Baal, and
bolintir, his augurs or soothsayers. Akin to this is
the gentile Spanish name of Bolontii or Bolonii, in-
habitants of the old city of Bolona, built by the
Phoenicians in the straits of Gibraltar, by tlie pillars
of Hercules.
But Ull, too, savors very strongly of the Phoenician
tongue, in which it literally signifies fortitude,
whence el, brave, powerful, and also an idol in
* Vid. Collect, de Reb. Ibern. vol. iii. p. 424, 425,
M
162
Isaiah. * With this acceptation agrees the name of
Ullagh, for olagh in the Syriac means an idol, as
olaha does a goddess, by which name the Phoenici-
ans chose to designate Diana of the Ephesians, as
appears from the Syriac version of the Acts of the
Apostles.f I would not, indeed, deny but that the
origin of tuath, may be essentially Irish ; but it is
worthy of remark, that the word thohath, conveyed
to the Phoenician mind the idea of a low ground, or
skirt of a country, which is in perfect keeping with
the situation of the province of Ulster, where the
Voluntii settled, being encompassed almost on all
sides by the sea. J
On the borders of the Boluntii, in the eastern
section of Ireland, the Blanii or Eblanii—whose name
is supposed to be composed of the Irish words, ebb
or aobb, a region or tract, and lean, a harbour,
bearing evident allusion to their propinquity to the
sea§—had formed their establishment. The universal
opinion of the learned goes to prove that from them
the city of Dublin, the metropolis of this once
flourishing and imperial kingdom, hath obtained in
Ptolemy the name of Eblanum, which gave rise to
* Isai. xliv. 10. «' Quis forraavit Deuni, et sculptile for-
mavit ad nihil utile ?"
f Act. Apostol. xix. 37.
I Vid. Seward. Topogr. Ibera. V. Ulster.
§ Collect, de Reb. Ibern. ibid, p. 342.
163
that of Eblinii or Ebhleaneigh, generally rendered
inhabitants by the water-side.* Of these we find
mention made by the ancient chronologers of Ire-
land, amongst the population of the county Dublin
though others would place them in the county
Limerick, and derive the name from ebhluin, a
mediterranean region, or one widely separated from
the sea.f
He will not be far astray, who thinks that both
Blanii and Eblani are Celtic terms, seeing that in
that language we meet with the word ebelin, in the
sense of a people or habitation alongside a river. I
incline, however, to the belief, that they are of
Phoenician birth, derived from eblin, uncultivated
wilds, or hebelin, idols, from which in a former
treatise I have taken upon myself to deduce Ebeli-
num, the name of an ancient city in Celtiberia, in
Spain, on the ruins of which it is supposed that the
town of Ayerbe is now erected. From the same
source would I derive the name of Blanes, another
Spanish town amongst the Ilergetes on the coast of
the Mediterranean, called by Nubiensis in his geo-
graphical work, Eblanessa, although some would fain
have it of Grecian root, from balanos, an oak; or
planes, a wanderer ;J whilst others, again, would
* V. Burg. Ibern. Dominic, p. 185, 187.
t Collect, de Reb. Ibern. ibid.
X When the daring adventurer, or one of the children of
want, seeks, in a foreign land, that fortune which is denied him
M 2
164
ascribe it to the Celtic words—blaen-ess, meaning
a promontory in the water.
CHAP. XVI.
The Erdinii-- Where settled— Whether the same as the Ernai
-^Etymology of the word—Vestiges of them in some of the
Irish towns—Similar geographical names in Spain—The
Venicnii conterminous with the Erdinii—The promontory of
Venicnium called after them, not they from the promontory—
Conjecture upon the origin of this word as Phoenician—why
the Spanish promontories Juno's and Gora, called CeltiCy
and Scythic.
The Erdinii, an ancient people of Ireland, situated
according to Ptolemy, on the north of the promon-
tory of Robogdium, in the southern section of the
counties of Donegal and Fermanagh, are called
Hardinii, in the writings of Richard Cirencester.
at home, and braves perils by land and by sea, for a bit of
bread, he is cheered by the hope that he may be enabled, one
day, to return to home and country with the fruit of his hard and
hazardous toil, to spin out the remnant of life's thread in the
land of his nativity, and to pillow his head in the lap of his
native earth.—Viscount Glentworth,—Arliss's Mag, Sep. 1832.
165
Their name some would deduce from the Irish ex-
pressions, eir dunedh, that is, a mountainous people,
or inhabitants of mountains, in the west ; and think
them the same as the nation which the Irish anti-
quarians call Ernai, that is a western people, or
rather the primitive aboriginal natives of the soil,
for Erin used for Erie, is Ireland, as Erionnach is
an Irishman.
I should prefer, however, to consider them a
haughty, arrogant and overbearing tribe of the
Phoenicians, who obtained this name from erdin or
eradin, which signifies, Hectors, from rod, he domi-
neered or bore haughty sway. This nation appears
formerly to have inhabited several districts of Spain,
which to this day retain their vestiges ; for instance,
Ardines and Ardon, amongst the Astures ; Ardanue,
Ardanui, and Ardanse, in Celtiberiae ; Ardanaz, in
Cantabria, and Ardon and Ardona, in Gallacia.
From thence, too, it is very probable, that the town
of Ardinan, at the mouth of the river Ban, in the
province of Ulster, whither they had first introduced
their colonies, hath derived its name, as well as
Ardicnice, a village of the same : Ardoyne,^ a little
town in the county Wicklow, and Erinach, another
town in Ulster, celebrated from its spring well, de-
dicated to St. Fionan; beside which was erected in
the beginning of the twelfth century, a monastery,
called by the old name of Carrig, from the immense
cHff adjacent ; for carraic, in Irish, is a rock, from
166
the Phoenician carric, fortified. Perhaps to the
same origin belongs Artane, the name of a very
delightful village in Leinster, although it might
have been derived from Araa-tanar, stony or flinty
ground, corresponding with the Irish arteine or ar-
tine, of the same signification.
Conterminous with the Erdinii were the Venicnii
or Benicnii, ancient residents of Ireland, noticed
also by Ptolemy, situated by the promontory of
Venicnium, on the western coast of the county
Donegal, the Ergal of the ancients. Some imagine
that they were so called from this same promontory
alluded to in the last chapter, which Camden thinks
equivalent with the English words, ram's head;
Venictium being, by the authority of Baxter, dege-
nerated from Vendne-cniu, which, in the old dialect
of the Brigantes, indicates the head of a young
ram ; cniu, to a British ear, conveying the idea of
the young of almost every animal, in the plural
number.
It strikes me, however, as more like the truth,
that they did not take their name from the promon-
tory, but that the promontory, on the contrary, was
denominated from them ; as that which we now call
Cape Finisterre, on the Cantabrian coast, was called
Scythic and Celtic, from those respective nations
and that which the Arabians in after times called
Taraf-al-garr, signifying a perilous extremity or
point, the modern Trafalgar, lying on the maritime
167
coast of Boetica, between Calpe and the straits of
Gibraltar, was called by the Greeks the promontory
of Juno, their favorite deity ; and as the modern
Cabo de Gata was called by the Phoenician settlers
upon the Mediterranean coast of Spain, the Cape
of Gora ; for gor, in the Syriac, intimates a stranger
or foreigner taking up his abode in another place
than where he was born, a sojourner ; whence the
Greek georos, a neighbour, a tiller.
As to the people themselves, whether Venicnii or
or Benicnii, they appear to me to have been a tribe
of the Phoenicians, and to have got this name from
Kini, which imports, of a Cinnsean stock, or from the
land of Canaan : benikini consequently implying a
tribe from such a stock. Nor is it at all unlikely but
that there might have been an additional motive for
this name, suggested by the frankness of those
people's demeanor and the purity of their moral
character,* for, in this language, beni-enin means
* Such appear to be the general principles and outlines of
the popular faith, not only among the Grec ks, but among all
other primitive nations, not favored by the lights of Revela-
tion : for though the superiority and subsequent universality of
the Greek language, and the more exalted genius and refined
taste of the early Greek poets, have preserved the knowledge
of their sacred mythology more entire ; we find traces of the
same simple principles and fanciful superstructures from the
shores of the Baltic to the banks of the Ganges : and there can
be little doubt that the voluminous poetical cosmogonies still
extant among the Hindoos, and the fragments preserved of
168
upright and righteous dwellers^ whether of town ojf
country, from kian or kina, just and true, in which
sense we meet it in the Syriac version of the gospel
according to St. Matthew : —and Joseph, her hus-
band, was (kina) a just man, As to beni, it is a term
applied not only to sons, but to the residents of any
particular place, which by a very natural association
may be considered as their mother, being there born
or educated. Thus in Ezekiel, xvi. 28, the people
of Assyria are called beni, or the sons, of Assur
and in Jeremiah, ii. 10, the Memphians are called
Veni, or the sons, of Noph. The word is, also,
referred to the condition or morals of the persons
alluded to, as in the third chapter of the Acts, and
25th verse, the Israelites with whom God had con-
cluded a covenant by the form of circumcision, are
styled the sons of the prophets and of the testament,
and in other passages throughout the sacred volume
and elsewhere, the wicked are designated as the sons
those of the Scandinavians, may afford us very competent ideas
of the style and subjects of those ponderous compilations in
verse, which constituted the mystic lore of the ancient priests
of Persia, Germany, Spain, Gaul, and Britain ; and which id
the two latter countries were so extensive, that the education of
a druid sometimes required twenty years. From the specimens
above mentioned, we may, nevertheless, easily console our-
selves for the loss of all of them as poetical compositions^
whatever might have been their vtilue in other respects.—*
Knight,
169
of wickedness ;* the unjust, as the sons of injustice ;
and warriors, by the expressive circumlocution of
sons of strength, or hearts of oak.
* All we shall here add is, that those who have been the
most irreligious in this world, formed their notions upon the
inequality of rewards and punishments. Were all the wicked
to suffer just punishments in this life, and all the virtuous to be
rewarded, what occasion would there be for a future judgment?
In many cases God has shewn himself to be at the head of
divine providence, but not in all ; to convince men, that how-
ever hardened they may be in wickedness while in this world,
yet there may be a time, or a period, when the mask of
hypocrisy will be laid aside ; nay, it will be stripped off, and
the daring sinner will stand as a culprit at the bar of infinite
justice. On the other hand, the oppressed virtuous man
should rest satisfied in this, that God will be his friend at the
last day, notwithstanding all the sufieriugs he may have been
subjected to in this world ; for it is an established maxim both
in natural and revealed religion, that the upright judge of the
universe, will not deceive his creatures. Uurd,
170
CHAP. XVII.
The Caucii— Various opinions as to their exact settlement—
Others of the same name amongst the Germans—Whether
they derived this namefrom their staturer—Ancient inscription
of the Cumbri— Interpretation thereof— Their name Phoeni-
cian or Celtic—Cauca an ancient city of Spain—The ancient
Menapii, where settled—Menappia the modern Waterford—
Various opinions on the origin of their name—Whether they
were Phoenicians — Customs of idolators to call themselves
and their people after their deities and the worship of them —
Aphrodisia, Portus Veneris, and Artemisia, ancient cities
of Spain—The Isles of Momce—Evolenum—Coulan.
Ptolemy makes mention of another ancient people
of this island, the Caucii, whose residence he defines
as on the east of the Cape Robogdium. Cirencester
places them in the county Dublin, between the sand-
banks of the river LifFey and the northern sections
of the county Wicklow. Others assert that they had
settled in the mountainous districts situated between
the rivers Barrow and Nore, called in the old Irish
dialect Hy Breoghain Gabhran, which they translate
an elevated country between forks.*
There were also, amongst the ancient Germans,
two distinct people of this name, distinguished as
* Collect, de Reb. Ibern. loc. laud. p. 305.
171
the greater and the lesser, of whom the former, we
are told by Ptolemy, mhabited that part of the
country between the Elb and the Wesser ; the latter
from the Wesser all along to the Emse. We find,
too, that the ancient Spaniards could boast of their
Caucii, in the district of the Vaccei, whose princi-
pal city was Cauca, placed by Antoninus as sixteen
days' journey, or on the sixteenth station on the
road from Emerita to Caesar Augusta.
Some suppose that they had obtained this name
from their extraordinary stature ; for cauc in the
old British, and coc in the Brigantine, and hauch, or
hoch, in the German, all imply one and the same
thing, namely, lofty, or high. Hence, Baxter con-
jectures, had been borrowed the inscription found
amongst the ancient Cumbri, the Ceangi of the
Brigantes, " To the god Cocis," which is supposed
to have been executed in fulfilment of a vow to the
genius of the river, at this day called Coque in the
country of the Otonidae.
But is it not possible that those Caucii may have
been Celts,* cau, in their language, signifying a river ?
This, however, I do not like, as I think it more
likely that they were one of the tribes of the Phoe-
nicians who had landed in Ireland from Spain
whose name, like that of the Spanish city Cauca, I
conceive borrowed from the temperature of the
* The name of geilt, ceilt, or keilt, which signifies terror, a
wild man or woman, a sylvestrous person ; and hence I think
the name, Celt.-— Vallancey,
172
climate in which they had fixed themselves. This
opinion I form from observing in the Phoenician
language that cauzz, or coz, signifies the summer
season, from which cauzzi, a summer residence
and with this corresponds cauc, or coc, old age,
infirmity, or a country adapted from the mildness
of its air to renovate the energies, at least allay the
irritation, of the aged and enfeebled.*
The Manapii, or Menapii, were also an ancient
people of Ireland, on its eastern coast, being a por-
tion of the Brigantes Coriondi, in the city of Mana-
pia, or Waterford, as Camden thinks, in which he
is supported by the authority of Baxter. Others
would have it that they were the inhabitants of the
county Wicklow, the chief town of which bearing
the same name, the Euobenum of Probus, they
maintain to have been the ancient Manapia. They
further state that they had taken up their settlement
between the mountains and the sea, in that part of
the country now called Coulan, Cuolan, or Crioch
Cuolan, which means, says Seward, a close and con-
fined tract, or as others prefer a corn country.
Many persons derive the name of those people
from the old British words, Mene-ui-pou, a narrow
region, with which Coulan above mentioned almost
corresponds. Others think that they took their name
from the city of Manapia, which they say is com-
pounded of the British words, Mant-ab, signifying
the mouth of the water.
* Regio senibus apta.
173
But to my ear their name sounds the certainty of
their Phoenician descent. I had formerly supposed
that it had been derived from Mana-pip, a double
portion or part of some tribe or nation ; but as the
Syrians had a custom of denominating themselves
and their people from their idols, and their super-
stitious v^^orship of them, I am more disposed now
to think they were so called from Mani-apiin, which
means, adorning with branches or flowers a multi-
tude of idols, or singly, that of Mercury, which
Mani also signifies, and whom the Phoenicians wor-
shipped as the god of calculation. That this custom
prevailed also amongst the ancient Greeks and Ro-
mans, we have numerous proofs in the geographi-
cal names of Spain. Thus, from Afrodite, the
Greek name for Venus, and Afrodisios, which means
belonging to Venus, Timoeus and Silenus have given
the name of Afrodisia to the ancient city of Gades
in Boetica, which was contiguous to the site of the
present city of Cadiz. From her also the Romans
gave the name of Portus Veneris, or the harbour of
Venus,* to that maritime city of the Ilergetes, which
* Who would not sigh ai ai tan Cutkereian !
That hath a memory, or that had a heart ?
Alas ! her star must fade like that of Dian ;
Ray fades on ray, as years on years depart.
Anacreon only had the soul to tie an
Unwithering myrtle round the blunted dart
Of Eros : but though thou hast played us many tricks.
Still we respect thee, ** Alma Venus Genetrix !"
Byron.
174
is at this day corruptly called Porvendres, From
Artemis, Diana, the Greeks gave the name of Arte-
misian, or the temple of Diana, to that city of the
Contestani which the Romans afterwards, and from
the same cause, adapted to their own language as
Dianium; and which now, from that decay to which
names as well as things must submit, is called
Denia.
The Monapia of Pliny, called Menavia by Orosius,
seems to me to have been inhabited by the people
called Manapii : I mean that island in the Irish sea
almost midway between England and Ireland, of an
oblong form, extending from north to south—it is
called by Ptolemy, Monseoida. This and another
island lying more to the south, and wider in its
dimensions, situated in the bay of the Ordovices, from
whom it is separated only by a narrow strait, are
both designated by the common appellation of Monoe.
The more southern one abounded in a hardy popu-
lation, which it hesitated not to strengthen by open-
ing an asylum to all deserters, without regard to the
cause. After its capture by the Angli, it got from
them the name of Anglesey, that is, the isle of the
Angli, or English. Mona is a term of Phoenician
superstition, from mon, an idol or image. Moneoida
would seem compounded of mon, and of oid, a
festival, intimating a festival held in honor of an
idol ; and Monoceda of mon, and chedad, which
signifies bent or stooping, the attitude of reverence
in the presence of their idols. Evolenum, which is
175
supposed to have been the city of Menapia, I would
derive from hebelin, idols ; and Coulan from coulin,
sounds, thunders ; elsewhere called Beth-col,* that is.
* A divination called the Bath-coly which was the taking as
a prediction the first words they heard any body pronounce
and as superstitions have ever been contagious, we find some-
thing similar to this in the Grecian records ; for when Socrates
was in prison, a person there happened to quote from Homer
the following line :
*' In three days, I, Phthiae, shall visit thy shores."
Socrates immediately said to ^schinus—'* From this I learn I
shall die in three days !" [He formed this opinion from the
double sense of the word ** Phthice,'^ it being in Greek not only
the name of a place, but also signifies deathJl Conformably to
this prediction, Socrates was put to death three days after."
All these various modes have descended to our times. The
first Christians, in adopting them, rejected searching into pro-
fane writers, and looked for these, as they termed them, divine
ordinances, in the Scripture. They termed them the " sortes
sanctoi'um/' 0,11(1 even attempted to justify the practice from the
authority of Proverbs, chap. xli. verse 33 " The lot is cast
into the lap, but the disposing thereof is of the Lord ;" and
again, of this text—** Search, and ye shall find ;" but at the
same time, they omitted to pay due attention to such verses as
these—** Thou shall not tempt the Lord thy God ;" and (Dent,
chap, xxiii. verse 10,) " There shall not be found among you
any that useth divination, &c., for all that do these things are
an abomination unto the Lord ;" aud their sentence (according
to Leviticus, chap. xx. verse 27,) was to be stoned to death.
When lleraclius in his war against Cosroes, wished to learn
in what place he should take up his winter quarters, he purified
his army for three days, opened the Gospels, and found
'* Albania ?" A thousand other instances might be given to
prove its prevalency ; and many learned divines have seriously
argued in its favour, in many grave and ponderous folio
176
tlie daughter of voice, intimating not a real or solid
voice, but the echo thereof, more particularly the
volumes ! ! Nor is it less amusing, in our days, to remember
the Council of Agda, at which were assembled all the chief
dignitaries of the Church ; and all the learned men of that age
thought it worth their while to take the matter into their
serious consideration, and after discussing, with due solemnity
all the pros and cons of the question, they, in the year 506,
condemned the practice as superstitious, heretical, and abomi-
nable, and denounced the severest ecclesiastical vengeance on
all who should resort to it ! ! ! The Viryilian Lots, in the
mean time, did not languish, though the *' holy" ones so
much flourished ; there were still found many admirers of the
Classics, who preferred consulting Yirgil to Scripture, not
the less so, perhaps, from the then generally received opinion,
of Virgil's having been a great conjurer. In the reign of
Charles the First, when implicit credence was placed in
lots, anagrams, &c., we meet with several accounts of this
divination having been had recourse to. Howell, in his
entertaining Letters, frequently mentions it ; and Cowley,
writing of the Scotch Treaty, makes use of the following
curious words :
—'* The Scotch will moderate something of the
rigour of their demands; the mutual necessity of an accord is
vissible ; the King is persuaded of it, and to tell you the truth,
(which I take to be an argument above all the rest,) Virgil
has told the same thing to that purpose." Charles the First
himself and Lord Falkland being in the Bodleian Library,
were shewn a magnificently bound Virgil, and the latter, to
amuse the King, proposed that they should try to discover in
the " Virgilian Lots " their future fortunes. They did so, and
met with passages equally ominous to each.
Nor has this superstition been confined to Europe, or the
borders of the Mediterranean ; it is equally to be met with in
Arabia and Persia, for Credula mens hominis, et erectce fabulis
aures" *' The mind of man is every where equally credulous,
and the ears equally open in all parts of the world to receive
fables." Superstitious practices are therefore never lost, but.
177
representation of the reverberated voice in the
oracles.
where the slightest intercourse exists, the first thing bartered for
are these. We need not then be surprised to find that a pre-
cisely similar custom prevails in the east, where this sortelege
is termed ''
tufal." Hafiz is the chief poet whom they consult;
so great is the veneration the Persians entertain for him, that
they have given him the title of ''
divine f^ and on every re-
markable occasion, his Book of Odes is opened for oracular
information. When Hafiz himself died, several of the Ulemas
violently objected to granting him the usual rites of sepulture,
on account of the licentiousness of his poetry ; but at length,
after much dispute, it was agreed that the matter should be
decided by the words of Hafiz himself. For this purpose, his
diruan (or collection of poems) was brought, and being opened
at random, the first that presented itself was read ; it proved to
be the following :
—
Turn not thy steps from Hafiz mournful grave,
Him plunged in sin shall heavenly mercy save !
Of course every funereal honour was immediately ordered to be
paid him ; he was buried at the favourite mosella, and a mag-
nificent tomb was raised over his almost adored remains,
shadowed, as Captain Franklin tells us, by the poet's beloved
cypresses ; in this a remarkable fine copy of his Odes was
continually placed. When the great Nadir Shah and his
officers were passing by this tomb, near Shiraz, they were
shewn the copy of the poet's works, and one of the company
opening it, the first passage that met their eyes was the follow-
ing, which they, of course, immediately applied to the con-
queror :
—** It is but just that thou shouldst receive a tribute
from all fair youths, since thou art the sovereign of all the
beauties in the universe; thy two piercing eyes have thrown
Khater (Scythia) and Khaten (Tartary) into confusion ; India
and China pay homage to thy curled locks; thy graceful
mouth gave the streams of life to Kheyr ; thy sugared lip ren-
ders the sweet reeds of Mirr (Egypt) contemptible."
N
178
CHAP. XVIII.
The Auteri a people of Ireland—Various opinions respecting
their proper country —Muriagh, whence so called — Various
opinions likewise as to the derivation of the name Auteri —
Whether they ivere Phoenicians—Coronaan epithet of Tyre—
The Autetani a people of Spain—The Dannance a people of
Ireland—Where settled— Whether from the Danes —River
Dee—Conjecture on the origin of the name Dannance—Dan
a city of the Phoenicians —Ardes—Ardea.
The Auteri, emphatically designated as the real
native ancient Irish, were situated at the mouth of
the river Erin, in the farthest extremity of the pro-
vince of Munster. Ptolemy, in alluding to them,
calls them at one time, Auteiroi, at another, Auteroi,
and places them in certain parts of the country then
known by the name of Naquatia or Connatia. Others
think they inhabited those districts which correspond
with the present counties of Galway, Mayo, and
Roscommon in the province of Connaught, being
that old and extensive tract often called Muriah or
Hy-Moruisge, which they interpret by the region of
sea water, and which is still preserved without much
179
alteration in Morisk, the name of a barony as well
a sa little town in the county Mayo,* and in Murrach
a village of the barony of Carbery in the county of
Cork. But Muriah would seem naturally to be de-
duced from the Phoenician Moriaga, which means,
habitations or houses systematically arranged, from
whence it is probable that the Irish Murighin, that is,
families took its rise, and the Spanish Amoraga, a
gentile appellative.
Baxterf is of opinion that the Auteri were so called
by the Brygantes after they and the BelgGe had
taken possession of the greater part of Ireland to
their colonies,—that they were the Erigenae or real
offspring of the Irish soil —and that they were driven
at first by the Brigantes from Britain, who after-
wards, in this country, followed up their pursuit till
they made them take shelter in its remotest extre-
mity. Wishing then to account for the origin of
their name, the same author adds, " Er in British is
land, from the Greek era ; from this the native Irish
were named Erion or Erii by the Brigantes, and the
island itself Iris, that is, the isle of Erii, by the
Greeks. And seeing that ot, or aut, means to the
Britons a coast or shore, what should hinder our
considering, aut erion being so called, as the coast of
the Erii, or the ancient autokthonos, or land of the
* Collect, de Reb. Ibern. vol. III. p. 285.
t Baxter, loc. laud. p. 30, 31.
180
natives/' He finally observes that the Cantabri, the
Vascones, and the Irish used in a great measure the
dialect of the Irish aborigines, interspersed v/ith
many terms from the Phoenician, Celtic, and Bry-
gantine languages ; and this interspersion may be
accounted for by the fact, which some maintain, of
the Frigones and Brigantes having had possession of
either Spain, long before the days of the Punic wars.
O'Flaherty* differs from this opinion, and asserts
that the name of Auteri was forcibly twisted out of
the term ath-en-ria or ath-na-rig, that is, the king's
ford. But Ptolemy having declared his belief that
Autera, an ancient city in Ireland, was the capital of
the Auteri residing therein, many have been thereby
induced to interpret the word as meaning a village
or state by the waters of the west, compounded, as
it were, of the Celtic aubh or aith, water, and eireigh,
a western people. For the Auteri had inhabited
near the sea coast.
I, however, would venture to guess that the Au-
teri, or ancient Irish, were the primitive Phoenicians
who had discovered this island, and that they had
obtained or assumed this name from that spirit of
enterprising research which, in this as in other in-
stances, had been so signally rewarded. I would,
therefore, agreeably to this view, derive the name
from, thar, he explored ; or from aatarin, adven-
O'Flahert. Ogygia. p. 16, 17.
181
turers, deserters^ or people departing—as they did
from Spain to fix themselves here. It may also have
borne reference to a number of families of this colony
for aatharin, in the Syriac, denotes^ a great muster of
nations^ w^hilst it does also the wealthy^ and who can
say but that by this name they would indicate the
treasures they had acquired from the mines of this
country, or the exportation of its commodities and
the produce of its soil, to the most distant quarters
of the then known world. Or what if they chose
this name from autereh, or aature, a crown ? This,
we know, was an epithet given of old to Tyre, the
capital of Phoenicia, as in Isaiah xxiii. 8, it is said,
''
Tyre formerly crowned," as it may well be called
from the splendor of its buildings, the strength of
its citadels and fortifications, and abundance of its
riches, ''
whose merchants were princes, and whose
factors were the renowned of the earth." With the
Hebrews and Syrians also, autereh, or crown, was
equivalent with honor or delight. We meet fre-
quently in the scriptures '^
the crown of old men"
for their children's children ;
''
the crown of glory in
the hand of the Lord," &c. which perhaps gave rise
to the custom amongst some ancient states to wear
a crown on either their head, their neck, or their
right hand. That the christians of the primitive
church wore crowns on their hand is evident from
TertuUian's book ''
on the soldier's crown/'
These Auteri may have been a tribe of the Ante-
182
rani or Autetani of Spain, of whom Ptolemy makes
mention, and whom we now call the Ausetani. But
it is to me beyond question that the Spanish Autri-
gones, who had settled on the confines of the Can-
tabri and the Barduli, were a part and parcel of the
self same Phoenician colony ; for the name Antri-
gones is obviously perverted from Auterigones, in-
cluding in its formation the two Phoenician terms
Autereh-goin, crowned nations, or atharin-goin, ex-
ploring nations—goin, in the Syriac, as goim in the
Hebrew, meaning tribes, nations, or families.
The Danannae, or Dananni were also an ancient
colony in Ireland, who, as some writers declare, had
fixed their residence in the northern quarters of the
island. Tradition tells us that they had originally
inhabited the cities of Falia, Goria, Finnia, and Muria
in North Germany, and spoke the language too of
that country ; but an immense number of Irish an-
tiquarians, as O'Flaherty observes, have irrefragably
proved, at least put upon record, that they were in-
habitants of the northern parts of Britain, more
especially of those places that went then by the
names of Dobar and Indobar.* In this section of the
* The ascription which would make those people either Ger-
man or British, notwithstanding the vagaries of would-be anti-
quarians, even though backed by O'Flaherty, is egregiously
erroneous^ as I shall show elsewhere. " The colony of the
Tuatha de Danains, [thus called from three of their chiefs, named
Brien, luchor, and Jucorba, —who were High Magi, or diviners,
183
sister isle, Camden tells us, lies the river Dee, which
makes O'Flaherty suspect that the name of Tuath-
Dee—intimating a people residing by that river
was thereby occasioned. He does not dare, however,
to trace any affinity between the name Danann and
that of the Danes, it being notorious that it was not
until after the introduction of Christianity and the
salutary doctrines which its professors had enforced,
this scourge of the human species, and of the latin
nations in particular, had burst forth from the ob-
scurity of their previous existence, bringing death
and dismay in their desolating career, ravaging the
abodes of sanctity and religion, and obliterating every
vestige of previous civilizalion.*
as the word Tuatha signifies, -brothers, and children of Danan,
daughter of Dealboith, of the race of Nemedius,] was in posses-
sion of Ireland, according to the Psalter of Cashel, for the space
of one hundred and ninety seven years, governed by seven kings
successively, namely, Nuagha Airgiodlamh, Breas, Lugha-
Lamh-Fada, in Latin, *' Longimanus," Dagha, Delvioth,
Fiagha, and the three sons of Kearmada, namely, Eathur,
Teahur and Keahur ; who reigned alternately, a year each^
for thirty years. Those three brothers were married to three,
sisters ; they took surnames from the different idols which they
worshipped. Eathur, who had married Banba, was called
Maccuill, from a certain kind of wood which he adored
Teahur espoused Fodhla, and worshipped the plough ; he was
called Mac-Keaght. Keahur, husband of Eire, displayed
better taste than his brothers, as he took the sun for his divi-
nity, and was thence named Mac-Greine, that is to say, the
son of the sun. Mac Geoghegan.
* Danann autem non audet Danorum nomini affine dicere ;
184
I^ too^ would not be positive, in furtherance of my
own theory, in claiming those people as of Phoeni-
cian birth, though my pretensions to the claim may
not seem altogether groundless when I recollect that in
that language are to be found the words danihain, sig-
nifying illustrious, generous, noble, or rather Danin for
Danani or Danita,the inhabitants of the city of Dan,*
at the foot of Mount Lebanus, the boundary, towards
the north, of the ten Israelish tribes, and still more
celebrated as the spot where the Phoenicians wor-
shipped the graven image given them by Micha, and
where Jeroboam had erected the golden calf. I wave
these pretensions, however, on the probability that the
Aradians, or natives of the island of Arad, friends
and allies of the Phoenicians, had given their names
as the very sound implies, to those towns in Ireland
called Ard, Ardes, Arde, &c. on the probability also
that the Aramaeans, or natives of Aramcea gave rise
to the name of the Irish Aremorice, as will appear
more fully in the sequel.
ciim non nisi saeculis Christianis Danorum nomen cum eorum
irruptionibus Latinis gentibus innotuerit.
* Afterwards called by the Greeks, paneas, caesarea paneae,
and Caesarea Philippi ; but by the barbarians Belina.
185
CHAP. XIX.
The Damnii, ancient inhabitants of the county of Down—
whether so calledfrom the river Davon —Orfrom Diuium—
conjectures ujjon the origin of the name as Phcenician—Dam-
iana a city of Spain—The Damnonii whence so called —where
they settled—The Curiondi celebrated seamen—Inhabitants
of Wexford—Various opinions as to the etymology of the name
—Curucce, ships made of bark—Used by the Spaniards—
Whether the Curiondi were Phcenicians—Whether descended
fromCauriumor Cauria, cities of Spain.
The Damnii, an ancient people of Ireland, to be
found in Ptolemy, had fixed their settlement in the
present county Down, in the province of Ulster,
Some people suppose they had derived this name
from the Brigantine term Davon, or Daun, a bay or
river. Daunii, Dunin, &c. coming from which, sig-
nify the country of lakes or rivers. In this sense it
corresponds to the Irish denomination of a tract or
portions of a country, Magh Gennuisg. Seeing, how-
ever, that in some copies of Ptolemy, they are styled
Damnonioi, there be some who suspect that the
Damnii, of whom he makes mention, were so called
from Dunum, now Downpatrick. In the Celtic Ian-
186
guage, dun is precisely the same thing as berga, the
common name for a place of abode, and the Teutonic
berg, meaning a fortress upon a hill, or a hill sur-
rounded by a fortress. These have been borrowed
from the Arabic and old Phoenician in which we
meet with the word barg, a tower, and barga, a
villa. Hence was derived Barca, the name of a
town amongst the Vetones in Spain ; Barceo, another
amongst the Vaccei; Barch, amongst the Edetani ;
Bargos, amongst the Carpetani ; Bargo, Bargota
Barjas, Bergua, Berga, Berge, Begos, Borge, Bur-
gas, and other names of this kind to be met with
in almost every canton of that Peninsula. In this
list I should not have omitted Bergio, an ancient
fortified tow^n of the Lacetani, designated by Livy
by the denomination of " the long town," which it
afterwards changed for that of Celsona ; its modern
name is Solsona.
I should myself suppose that the Irish Damnii
were a tribe of Spanish Phoenicians, descended from
the Damnii, or Damniani, who built the ancient city
of the Edetani, called Damiana, the name by which
Ptolemy also notices it. And, though some Spanish
writers would derive the term from the Celtic words
da-min, a habitation beside a mountain or river, it
strikes me as more probable that it originated from
its Phoenician inhabitants, and in allusion to the
worship which they paid their idols, damain, or
damon, signifying in their language, idols or images.
187
Or, perhaps, the name belongs to geography, and
comes from dumain, the descendants of Dumah, a
city of Syria, or Dimona which was one of the lot
of Judah, or from a city of Arabia of the same name,
and called after Dumah, the son of Ismael, of which
latter it is said in Isaiah, " the bm'den of Dumah,"
rendered by the septuagint Idumea ; and the Phoe-
nicians, we may observe, never forgot the Arabian
cities from whence they had emigrated into Syria.
To the same source would I refer the name of
the Damnonii, or Damhnonii, who according to the
ancient* writers upon Irish topics, originally occupied
the lands of Cornwall and Devonshire, laying to-
wards the extreme west of England, just opposite
our shores ; they subsequently took possession of
the ancient Hy-Moruisge, or Morisk, an extensive
district in the west of Ireland, being the present
county of Mayo, in the province of Connaught,
Others, on the contrary, think this name derived from
the Celtic, or Cambrico-Britannic word, Dyvneint
or Duvnon, meaning depth of water, Duvnonii^
* For their dear sakes I love thee,
Ma vourneen, though unseen ;
Bright be the sky above thee.
Thy shamrock ever green ;
May evil ne'er distress thee,
Nor darken nor defile,
But heaven for ever bless thee —
My own green isle !
Barton.
188
Dabhnoiiii, or Damhnonii, therefore, would express to
them a people settled beside the deep water or the sea.
O'Flaherty asserts that they were called Fir-Dom-
nan, equivalent to, the men or the clan of Domnan
and that several places in Ireland have been named
from them, for instance, Inver-Domnan, where they
first put in on their landing from Britain, afterwards
called Invermor,* and at present Arklow, being a
river and seaport town in the county of Wicklow,
and the capital of a barony of the same name.
The Coriondi or Curiondi, a tribe of the Irish
Brigantes, were celebrated sailors and lived almost
continually and professionally upon the water.
Ptolemy, in his writings, has made mention of them,
and it is generally admitted that their settlements
lay in the present county of Wexford, in the province
of Leinster. There is a tradition very prevalent
amongst the inhabitants of the county, that their
* Avoiimore, which name signifying the g:reat winding stream,
corresponds most happily with its character, the banks conti-
nually forming the finest waving lines, either covered with close
coppice woods or with scattered oak and ash of considerable
growth —the ground in some places smooth meadow and pas-
ture, in others rising in romantic cliffs and craggy precipices.
At Avondale, the Avonmore meeting with the Avon beg, or
little Avon, the united streams assume the name of Ovoca, and
passing by Shelton, it empties itself, through a bridge of nine-
teen arches, into the sea at Arklow, whence it keeps its stream
distinctly marked from the sea for near half a mile from the
shore. Fraser.
189
chiefs were the Mac-Mooroghs, or O'Moroghs, who
in the old records of Ireland are called the Leinster
kings. Certain families, of their party, we find had
separated from the general corps, and established
themselves in the adjoining county of Carlo w, in a
place then called Hy-Cabha-nagh, being a district of
the barony of Idrone.
The opinion most received is, that the name of
Coriondi consists of the Irish words corcach, vessels,
and ondiu, a wave. In this light it may fairly be
rendered as equivalent with, navigators. The ancient
Irish used besides to call them Corthagh, that is " the
rowers," and their habitation or locality Hy-Moragh,
that is, the maritime country. Some, however, on
the authority of Camden, would take another road,
though aiming at the same sense, and maintain that
they were inhabitants of Corcagia or Cork, and the
founders of that city, in Irish Corcugh, being the
capital of all Munster, and next to Dublin the most
considerable city in the kingdom, for extent, for
commerce, and its concomitant wealth. Seeing then
that the barky vessels or canoes of the ancient Bri-
tons were called curucae,* they think it very probable
that the town of Cork was so called, as you would
say ''
the dockyard," or naval store, and its inhabi-
tants, coriondi, that is, navigators, from those curucse
or bark boats. Others wT)uld derive their name
* Curuca sen Currach eiat navis coriacea pene rotunda,
190
from corion-diu, which, for ought I know to the
contrary, may signify a sea hide. Certainly the
vitiie navigium, ut ait Pliniiis (IV. 16.) corio circumsutum.
Pelasgos item et Etruscos, Britannorura et Scotorum more, navi-
busex corio et vimine usos fuisse, auctor est Dempterus (Etru-
riae Regal. III. 80.) '' Res, inquit Festus Avienus (Oi'ce Mariti-
mce lib. I.) ad miraculum —Navigio junctis semper aptant pelli-
bus—Corisque vastum saepe percurrentsalura." Lydii, aitlsi-
dorus Hispan. {Orig. XIX. 1.) primam iiavem fabricaverunt,
pelagique incerta petentes, pervium mare usibus humanis fece-
runt." (V. Praes. Carol. Vallancey in n. XIT. Collect, de Reb.
Jbern. p. CXVI1 1.) Talibus Silures navigasse ad Cassiteridem
insulam, scribit Plinius : quin et Cantabros et reliquos boreales
Hispanos diphtherinois ploiois fuisse usos usque ad Brutum, ex
StraboneTItl.) constat: imo et Babylonios ipsos ex Herodoto
(V. Baxter. loc.laud.) Inde hodie Carraca vocatur Hispanis
quaedam species onerariae navis : et situs construendis navibus
aptus juxta Gaditanum emporium. Hanc navem carabum etiam
appellatam, testis est Isidorus in etymologicis. Quae vox ducta
videtur a Phoen. carab, adiit, advenit, quod de iter facientibus
dicitur ; vel a caiab aravit : nam iter navis in mari similis est
sulcis, qui fiunt arando. Carraca autem, seu currucak Phoen,
carrac, circumdedit, ligavit, velavit, involvit ; quod apprime
navibus congruit corio circumsutis. It is not unworthy of no-
tice that this description of boat was quite common round the en-
tire coast of Ireland not long since, the very look of them would
be sufficient to appal the bravest seaman from embarking his pre-
cious person in so small and frail a vessel, where in calm weather
you can, in ten fathom water, see every particle through her bot-
tom on that of the sea, as distinctly as you can discern an object
through a window ; instances have been known where acci-
dentally putting a foot between two ribs which it had gone
through, the person vras obliged to keep the leg protruded in
that position until the land was made.
*' Where in leathern hairy boat.
O'er threatening waves bold mortals float."
191
Britons, to this very day, call hides by the name of
cruyn, from the Greek, krous, to which the Latin
corimn, also, has reference.
But we have the clearest evidence, in the very con-
struction of the name itself, that this was a Phoeni-
cian nation, and the accounts given of them by the
Irish historians, if but diligently perused, would be
sufficient to confirm us in this conviction. For,
from the skill they evinced in the building of vessels,
and the vast number and variety of them that they
contrived to employ, from the adventuring trader
and the daring man of war, down to the cumbrous
lugger and the volatile skiff, plying them constantly
on the water, in one form or the other, they were
very appropriately, though metaphorically, charac-
terised as curin or fishes,* which we find still applied,
and for the same causes, to the Britons of this day.
* The Inland Fisheries of Ireland have never been made
available to their practical extent, although they contribute
alike to the luxuries of the rich and the comforts of the poor.
It is not a merely local or a partial improvement that we re-
commend; the benefit is not confined to a spot or district here
and there ; the advantages we suggest are as extensive as the
rivers are many which beautify, refresh, and fertilize every
county in Ireland. —And shall man, impious man, to whom the
all-providing word of God gave power, when he said *'
Let
the waters hrijig forth abundantly the rnoving creatures that
hath life, and let man have dominion over them ;"—shall man,
by a devastating waste, counteract the beneficent design of his
Creator, and even destroy, in its very source, that gracious
abundance intended to feed millions !
192
Nor must it be put down as a dream, and that of
a sick man too, if I express my belief that they were
Phoenicians who had proceeded from Caurium, an
ancient city in Spain on the borders of Lusitania, now
called coria, or from a city of Boetica, called Cauria
Siarum, now Coria del Rio ; for the Phoenicians in-
habited them both, and both are derived from cauria
or coria, which in their language signifies a city, a
villa, or a camp. Hence arose the name of many
of the cities in the department of the tribe of Judah ;
Cariathiarim, meaning the city of woods ; Cariath-
sepher, the city of letters ; Cariath Arbe, that of
the Patriarch Enoch, as well as of several towns in
different parts of Spain, such as Corias, Coristancas,
Lacoriana, &c. &c. Thus Coriondi, or Curiondi,
quasi Corin, would express the descendants of the
above mentioned cities of Cauria, or Caurium ; or
quasi Caurionin, the robust and substantial people
of those places ; on, importing strength, fortitude, and
worldly opulence.
193
CHAP. XX.
The Fomhoraice, or sea robbers ravaged Ireland—They were
Phoenicians —Analogy of this Irish name with the Phoenician
— -Vestiges thereof in certain Spanish towns —Sujjerstitioiis
name of the Forcrabii inhabitants of Ireland^ why so called —
The Vellabori a people of Ireland—Conjecture on the origin
of this name—Cape of Notium— The Uterni—Their prin-
cipal city Uverni or Rufna—Whether these names be of
Phoenician descent.
The Fomhoraice, or Formaragh,* of whom the old
poems of our island make mention, were a people
who plundered its southern coast, long as the Neme-
* Plutarch, in his life of Sertorius, tells us that this cele-
brated commander «letermined to make the Atlantic Isle (that
is Ireland) a place of retreat and residence from the persecu-
tion of his enemies. In another work, entitled " De facie in
orbe Lunae," he describes this " Atlantic isle" to be opposite the
Celtae, and but four days sail from Britain. The Irish legions
in Gaul, were called Fine Gall, those in Albany, Fine Albau.
** We may very well suppose," says O'Halloran, " that the
Fine Fomharaigh, or African legions, so often met with in the
old Irish manuscripts, meant no other than the Irish cohorts
in that service."
O
194
thae held possession of it. They are supposed to have
been a body of Phoenician traders, who visited the
British isles, about four hundred years before the
Christian era, and obtained this name from the occu-
pation of prowling sea robbers ; fomhor and fomhbrac
in Irish, signify a pirate, as they do a giant also.
These words, however, have originally their root in
the Phoenician, where we find fom-horac meaning fu-
gitives and disturbers of the earth, which well accords
with the description given by ancient historians of
those rapacious intruders into the British islands.
Perhaps they were some of the first Phoenicians who
flying before the face of the people of Israel, trans-
ported themselves from Syria, whose footsteps are
still preserved in the names of those towns in Spain,
situated amongst the Gallaici Lucani, Formarigo,
and Formaran ; in that of Famorca, amongst the
Edetani, and that of Formanes amongst the Astures.
The Forcrabii, or Fir-na-crabii, were ancient set-
tlers in that part of the country called Hy-Magh-
neigh, embracing in its dimensions the present county
of Monaghan, with a part of what was anciently
called Oirgail, and under the command of the Ma-
honies, or Mac-Mahons. The name of this tribe
would appear suggested from some superstitious con-
sideration, as it is evidently composed of the Irish
words7?re crahhath, true religion ; or if you prefer
the Phoenician words, frin, fruit ; or farin, bullocks ;
and crabin, oblations or sacrifices, which latter word
195
is itself derived from corban, importing any thing
offered to God or to idols. The name of Oirgael
too, or Orgiel^ which some call Oircael, and interpret
by the eastern cael —being an extensive district,
consisting of the present counties of Louth, Mo-
naghan, and Armagh, and formerly ruled over by its
own petty sovereigns—savors very strongly of Phoe-
nician superstition. For, or, in that language, is
fire ; and gael, or gail, delight, exultation, from the
root ghil, which expresses that gladness of the mind
that betrays itself by the gestures of the body ; and
their combined import would appear to refer to the
joy of that nation in the days sacred to the worship
of fire.
The Vellabori, an ancient Irish tribe, to be met
vnth also in Ptolemy, were stationed in Munster, be-
side the promontory of Notium. There are who
think this name derived from the British words vel-
aber, or bel-aber, the source of a frith.* What would
the learned suppose of its being of Phoenician de-
scent, and compounded of the words bali-bira,an anci-
ent temple ? which, yet, I confess I do not incline to so
* Baxtero (loc. laud. p. 236.) vitiosa sunt nomina oueliboroi.
et OucUcboroi , qua^ in quibusdam Ptolemoei exemplaribus le-
guntur. Si ver(^ haec genuina scriptura est, suspicarer fuisse
Ibero Phamices, oriundos ex campo Abel seu Obel, quae erat
magna Syriae planities (Judic. xi. 33.) viiieis coiisita, ubi Jephte
devicit Amnionitas : quique ek de csiuso. Obel-Iberi appellati
sunt:
o 2
196
strongly as to the idea of its bearing reference to the
victims offered in sacrifice to Baal—whether as actu-
ally burned or only dragged through—in which view
of the matter I would suppose its ingredients to be bel-
aborin —which means, dragging across before Baal
from abar, the verb, which expresses this ceremony,
the nature of which was to conduct or drag the vic-
tim—and that too a human being, and generally a
boy—between two pyres, or series of fires, until he
was burned to death. In reference to this monstrous
and unrighteous practice it is that we are to under-
stand the passage in II. Kings, xvi. 3, where talking
of Achaz it is said, " he hath devoted his son, bearing
him over admidst the fire." But we have descanted
upon this more diffusely in the early part of this
work, and will dwell upon it still more when we come
to treat of the idolatry of the Phoenicians in Ireland.
The promontory of Notium seems to have got its
name from the woods and forests in which it
abounded ; for Notiin, in the Phoenician, from which
it is manifestly derived, signifies plants, or planta-
tions.
The Vellabori would seem to have left traces of
their name in that of Ballibur, a town in the county
Kilkenny, province of Leinster ; in that of Bally-
burris, a village in the county of Carlow, same pro-
vince. In Spain too, from whence this people may
perhaps have originated, the mind instinctively asso-
ciates their name with that of Ballobar, a town in
197
Celtiberia, and that of Belabarce, a river in the
district of the Cantabrians.
The Uterni, a people mentioned by Ptolemy* as
living on the borders of the Irish Brigantes, above
the Vodiae, were stationed in the southern quarter of
the county Kerry, and the western quarter of the
county Cork which adjoins it, in the province of
Munster. Their chief city, as mentioned also by this
distinguished geographer, was Uverni, situated on
the sea-coast, and called, Insovenach, by the natives,
though Cirencester would call it Rufina, a name, it
is supposed, vitiated in its formation from ruadh
eanagh, which is generally translated, the habitation
of the progeny of the waters. The exact site of this
* This great Alexandrian geographer, who lived in the reign
of Antoninus Pius, about the year of Christ 130, enumerates
several illustrious cities existing in his time in Ireland ; and it
is manifest they must have existed a long time before, else he
would not have heard of them, for he never himself visited
those shores—viz.
1. Nagnata, an illustrious maritime city (poHs episemos) on
the western coast.
2. Manapia, a maritime city on the eastern side.
3. Eblana, a maritime city, on the eastern side.
4. Rhigia, an inland city 13 60 ^
5. Baiba, an inland city 12 59^ |
6. Laberos, an inland city 13 59 ^
7. Makolikon, an inland city 11 58 ^
8. Another Rhigia, an inland city... 11 59 J
9. Dounon, an inland city 12| 58^ |
10. luernis, an inland city 11 58 -}
city is now unknown, though some think it likely to
have been either the present town of Bantry or that
of Kenmare. Many identify the Uterni with the
Ibernii of Cirencester ; others deduce their names
from the Irish words Ubh-ernii, that is, a more
western people. But, perhaps, it is the Phoenician
utrin, or atrin, explorers, called also thirin, that best
accords with the elevated ground on which they had
settled. It also signifies, leaders ; or persons dis-
charging convoy. Whence, too, they would seem to
have been called Ibernii, from the Spanish Iberi, who
were their conductors, unless you prefer that they
had got their name from their physical power and
strength, for Iberin, in the Phoenician, signifies brave
or valiant. This would seem to gain countenance
by the name of their principal city, Rufina, coming
from rufiin, giants ; as also by that of Insovenach,
composed, as it is, of the Phoenician words izzab-
anac, or the post where the giants stood together,
namely, the race ofAnac, the son of Arba, from whom
the flower of the Phoenicians, as well in birth as
prowess, boasted of having derived their origin. As
to Uverni, by which in common with the two names
just elucidated, this same city was indiscriminately
called, it would seem to be, merely a geographical
term, referring to locality, for uberin, in the Phoeni-
cian, expresses boundaries, extremities, or sides.
199
CHAP. XXI,
The NagnatcB inhabitants of Connaught—The islands of Arran
— Sligo, why so called — Whether the Nagnatce were
Phoenicians—The valley of Aran amongst the Ilergeti in
Spain—Arana, Aranaz, villages and tracts of land in Spain
—Promontory of Robogd—Its etymology—The Heremonii,
what tract of Ireland they inhabited — Origin of their name
—Whether they were the Aramcei—Footsteps of this nation
in Ireland and in Spain—Etymology of the tribes into
which they were divided.
The Nagnatas,* mentioned by Ptolemy as an
ancient people of Ireland, are called by him, in
some of his writings, by the name of Naguatee.
Baxter agrees with Camden in thinking, that their
residence lay in Connaught, that is, in the western
section of the island. This was a large and spacious
line of country, lying on the north of the Luceni,
* Nagnata, a if markable city on the sea coast, of which uo
traces now remain, lay, it is supposed, northward of the Aiisoba.
It must have been once a flourishing place, as we find that with
the prefix '* Cuon," signifying in Irish, a port, or harbour, it
gave name to the whole province of Con-naught.
200
in the extreme south of the island of Robogdium,
by the promontory of this name. The name of
Connaught is supposed to have been abbreviated from
Cuan-na-guactic, that is, the port of the little
islands, namely, those which from the natives, Erion
or Erii are called, at this day, Arran, for le-
rion. Cuan, Baxter tells us, signifies a harbour in
the Irish, as in the language of the modern Gauls,
or the French,—coin, means a corner ; and congl,
in the British, means the same. Vict, also, or vact,
or guact, as it is otherwise expressed, is a little
island ; na, being nothing more than the mark of
the genitive case in the old language of the Brigan-
tes, as well as that of the Irish.
Others account for the composition of Nagnatae,
by the Irish words, Na-gae-taegh, meaning an abode
near the sea, and affirm that our ancient historians
had called them, Slioght gae, that is, a race or pro-
geny settled beside the sea ; from which latter words
combined, comes the modern name of Sligo
I should rather think, however, that the name of
this people was Phoenician, and borrowed from that
of the chief or leader of their body ; for in that
language I perceive, that nagud, means a prince or
chieftain, to whom the people look up, and to whose
decision they appeal in all matters of dispute or
litigation ; this word in the plural, makes nagudin.
Nor would it be straining our fancy at all too far,
if we would suppose them to have been so designated
201
from the quality of our lovely isle^ which threw
open to the delighted vision of those bold ad-
venturers—at the moment, perhaps, when long
estrangement from home and country was whisper-
ing despair—the genial richness of its prolific bosom.*
In support of this conjecture I would observe, that
nagad, means a spacious country, a generous soil;
nagab-natah, means the same, with the additional
consideration of aridity or dryness ; which comports
well with the nature of the western districts, in
which those people had taken up their residence.
Nacha-natah, means the inhabitants of a country
such as we have just described.
Nor do I agree with Baxter in his etymology of
the islands of Arran or Aran, as they appear to me
to have been so named by the Phoenicians, as a great
many of the Irish mountains have been, from their
abounding in trees, which they call Aran,f and to
* Nee absonum est sic appellatos a regionis alienae qualitate,
quae eis novas sedes obtulit.
f It has also, in a peculiar degree, the property of preserv-
ing bodies committed to the grave. Of this property, Giraldus
Cambrensis took notice five hundred years ago —the following
are his words as translated by Stanihurst—*' There is in the
west of Connaught, an island placed in the sea, called Aren,
to which St. Brendon had often recourse. The dead bodies
neede not be graveled, for the ayre is so pure that the contagion
of any carrion may not infect it, there may the son see his
father, his grandfather, and his great-grandfather, &c. &c. This
island is enemy to mice, for none is brought thither, for either
it leapeth into the sea, or else being stayed it dyeth presently."
202
which sonobar, in the Arabic, meaning a pine tree
or pinaster, exactly answers. Unless you would
choose to adhere to the exposition of the Spaniards
known, as we must admit they are, for accuracy in
such points—who think that the name of the valley
of Aran, which lies in the county of Urgellum, and
under the jurisdiction formerly of the Ilergetes,
being watered with rivers and numberless fountains,
had been given it by the Phoenicians from its simi-
litude to Mesopotamia, which they called Haran.
The valley of Arana, which belongs to the Canta-
brians, is submitted to the same test of the reader's
decision, as are also various other tracts in the
Spanish peninsula of like name, such as Aranaz,
Aranache, Aranda, Aranga.
The promontory of Robogh is supposed to have
given its name to the Robogdi, who were an ancient
people in this island, inhabiting parts of the several
counties of Antrim, Londonderry, and Tyrone, in
the province of Ulster. Ptolemy represents them as
facing the Voluntioi. Camden thinks Robogd to be
synonymous with Fair-fore-land, being a shewy and
imposing cape ;
* for in the old dialects of the Bri-
gantes, re, ri, and ro, are indifferently used for rae,
or ragh, before ; and vog-diu means a wave,"so that
* On the water it forms one of those ever varying and pecu-
liar novelties of view, which in this northern region give sin-
gular pleasure.
203
Robogd, ill his estimation, would express this local
position, before the waves of the sea. But, as I
take it, the promontory was named after the people
living beside it, not the people after the promontory
from the Phoenician words rabh-gad, a multiplicity
of associates : or rob-gad, tumultuous allies, plun-
derers, invaders.
The Heremonii or Hermonii, who were classified
according to their respective tribes of the Falgii,
the Elii, the Caelenii, and the Morii, were inha-
bitants of the eastern and central division, comprising
the whole of the present province of Leinster. The
fabulous story is, that they were the descendants of
Heremon, who was the son of Milesius, from Spain.
There is also another vulgar belief, that they were
so denominated from residing in the west, the very
name, it is supposed, signifying a western tract.
But if it be at all of Irish extraction, it were better
to derive it from armuinn, exiles ; but even this, I
do not approve of. I shall, therefore, deduce the
appellation from the Phoenician ermin, naked, un-
clothed ; or ermon, a chesnut-tree, in which the hills
of that district abounded.
But what if I should assert that they were Phoeni-
cians, from the vicinity of mount Hermon, which
projects over Pameas ? For this celebrated mountain
of Syria was so high, and so cold, that it was capped
with snow in the midst of summer ; which made the
natives take flight from its cheerless horrors, and
204
repair to the more attractive and congenial air of
Tyre. Or from Hermonin, a small mountain be-
tween Tabor and Hermon, at the other side of the
Jordan ? whose inhabitants, also, are called by
geographers, Hermonii, or HermonitaB.
But if we may indulge conjecture, I would add,
that the Irish Heremonii may have been so called
as being essentially a tribe of the Phoenicians. For
the Syrians were called Aramgei or Aremin, from
Aram, a region of Asia Minor, whose maritime in-
habitants, were Phoenicians, and their principal cities.
Tyre and Sidon. Now this region obtained its
name, not from Aram, the son of Camuel, of the
family of Nachor, (mentioned in Genesis, xxii. 21,
23.) ; but from Aram, the fifth son of Sem, with
whom the inhabitants of that coast ever plumed
themselves as being connected. Accordingly, we
know that Shur—that is—minus a syllable—Ashur,
or Assyria, and Syria itself, which was confounded
therewith—was called by them by the name of
Aram. Hence, too, the Syrians living on the con-
tinent of the land of Canaan, and the Phoenicians
bordering on the sea coast, would fain affect the
distinctive designation of Arameans. The Greeks
used to call them Syrians, but they used to call
themselves Aramaeans, as affirmed by Josephus and
Strabo. The custom of the Old Testament, too, is
to put Aram for Syria, and Arami, for Syrian
Arami and Armai, also, signified to the ancients,
205
idolators, because that the first worshippers of
idols, recorded by the scriptures, were Syrians, as
Thare, the father of Abraham ; as Laban, and Na-
haman, were of that country* Add that the gods of
Syria, (as in Judges, x. 6,) were called Elhei Aram,
meaning emphatically, the goddess of Syria—by
which name Juno was worshipped in the east, and
had a temple dedicated to her in Hierapolis, a city
of that country. Nay, the Syriac language itself, was
called Arimith, from this very source, as in Esdras,
iv. 7, and in II. Kings, xviii. 26, where it is said,
''
We pray thee that thou speak to us, thy servants,
(arimith,) in the Syriac tongue, and not speak to us,
(ihudaith,) in the Jewish."
Ireland seems still to retain some vestiges of this
people in the name of Armoy, a small town in the
county Antrim ; in that of Arman or Ardman, a
village in the barony of Ballaghkeen, in the county
Wexford. As does Spain, also, in the name of
Armian, a town of the Astures ; and in that of
Armona, a mountain between the Pyrenees, in the
district of the Aragonians.
That the Heremonii were Aremin or Syrians, you
will be more apt to admit, if you but observe that
the names of the tribes into which they were dis-
tributed are Phoenician. Falgii, the first, from falg
or flag, signifies a division ; Elii, the second, from
elin, strangers, also eminent, surpassing; or from
aeli, a sacrificing priest, derived from ela, a holo-
206
caust, or whole burnt oiFerings : elil, also in the
Syriac and Chaldaic, signifies idols, as it does also
illustrious ; Caelenii, the thirds the ancient inhabitants
of the tract called Caelan, in the county of Wicklow,
conveyed to the Phoenicians the idea of cloked, from
calaen, a cloak or outer garment.* Nor is it at
all improbable but that these were a tribe of the
Babylonians, consisting of those who, after the cap-
tivity were mixed with the Syrians, for Caleneh
* Doe you thinke that the mantle corameth from the Scy-
thians ? I would surely think otherwise, for by that which I
have read, it appeareth that most nations of the world auncienllHy^
used the mantle. For the lewes used it, as you may read of
Elyas mantle, &c. The Chaldees also used it, as yee may
read in Diodorus. The Egyptians likewise used it, as yee
may read in Herodotus, and may be gathered by the description
of Berenice, in the Greeke Commentary upon Callimachus.
The Greekes also used it aunciently, as appeareth by Venus
mantle lyned with starrs, though afterwards they changed the
form thereof into their cloakes, called Pallia, as some of the
Irish also use. And the auncient Latines and Romans used it,
as you may read in Virgil, who was a very great antiquary : That
Evander, when ^neas came to him at his feast, did entertaine
and feast him, sitting on the ground, and lying on mantles.
Insomuch as he useih the very word mantile for a mantle.
** Humi mantilia sternunt."
So that it seemeth that the mantle was a generall habite to
most nations, and not proper to the Scythians onely, —Spenser.
[" Humi mantilia sternunt."] Evander's enter-
tainment of JEneas, is set out in the 8 booke of Virgil's ^neis,
but there we have no such word as mantile. In his entertain-
ment by Dido we have it, but in another sence. iEneid lib. 1.
207
was a name given to the city of Babylon. The
Morii, in fine, were so called from being professionally
masters and instructors of others, this being the
literal and exact meaning of Mori, or its plural
Morin.*
CHAP. XXII.
The Fomorii subdued Ireland— They vjere Punic or Iberi
merchants— Why so called — Whether the same as the Fom-
horaice—The Firbolg or Bolgce—Various opinions on the
etymology of this name— Whether it savors of superstition—
Some roots of Irish names—The Gallionii, a nation of the
Bolgce—Their name Phoenician.
The Fomorii, or Fomoriani, whom some consider
the Aborigines of Ireland, who were celebrated for
their predatory attacks upon all its colonies, are
lam pater iEneas, & jam Troiana iuventus
Conveniunt, stratoque super discumbitur ostro,
Dant famuli manibus lymphas, Cereremque canistris
Expediunt, tonsisq, ferunt mantilia villis,"
Sir James Ware.
* A family in Ireland still retains this name.
208
agreed on all hands to have reduced it to submis-
sion, with the confederated assistance of the Dannani.
Authors disagree as to the period of their arrival.
Some suppose that they had been established amongst
us before the time of the second importation of the
Belgae, and that they consisted of Punic or Iberic
merchants, who had frequently and from immemorial
time visited the coasts : they would, therefore, in
accordance with this view, interpret the word as
seafarers, or mariners, from its similitude to the
Irish fomhor, or fomhorac, a pirate. But to my
mind it is differently composed, and comes from the
Phoenician expressions, fom-or, implying a foot
shaking the earth before fire,* as much as to say.
* These consecrated fires are at present much in vogue
amongst the Gaures, and preserved with so much care and
precaution, that they are called idolaters, and the worshippers
of fire, though without the least grounds to support the un-
generous accusation. For they pay no adoration to the material
fire, although they make use of that element in the celebration
of their divine service. It is the deity alone whom they adore
in the presence of the fire, as the true symbol of the Divine
Majesty. Though fire, according to the Gaures, is the purest
of all tlie elements, yet they look upon it only as one of God's
most perfect creatures, and it is, as they imagine, his favourite
habitation. When they pray, they neither make their addresses
to Mithra, nor the sun, nor the fire, but God alone ; many in-
stances whereof are produced by the learned Dr. Hide from
whence we may very readily infer, that the imputations
of idolatry are as rash and groundless in Asia as they are in
Europe.
209
dancers in honor, and revellers in honor, of this
element ; for we have it on historical faith, that the
sacrificial feasts of the Phoenicians, and of all nations
also, terminated generally in drunkenness, with las-
civious dances and plays. But if the Fomorii be the
same as the Fomhoraice, or Formoragh, of whom
our old ballads make mention, and who are also
supposed to have been pirates or sea-robbers, it
being indisputably manifest that the latter were a
colony of the Foeni, or Phoenicians, I should con-
ceive the name originated from frima-arac, a scissure
of fugitives. This is the origin of Formariz, the
name of a town in Spain, amongst the Zamorenses
and of Formiche, the name of two small towns
amongst the Celtiberians. Perhaps, too, we may
recognize a vestige of those people in the name of
Fermoy, a very handsome town in the county Cork,
which some think to be an abbreviation for Fear-
magh, or Fear-magh-feine, a man living in a sacred
level.
The Firbolg or Bolgae,* had established themselves
* The Firbolgs or Belgians, to the number of five thousand
men, commanded by five chiefs, either by the defeat or deser-
tion of the Fomorians, took possession of the island. Those
five leaders were Slaingey, Kughruighe or Rory, Gann,
Gannan, and Sengan, all brothers, and children of Dela, of
the race of the Nemedians. They divided the island into five
parts or provinces, which gave birth to the pentarcliy, which
lasted with little interruption till tlie twelfth century. Slaingey,
P
210
in the neighbourhood of the harbours of Wexford
and 4rklow, in the east of Ireland. Frequent
mention of them occurs in our ancient poems and
annals ; and the received opinion is, that they came
from Britain. They are called also Siol m Bolgae,
and Slioght m Bealidh. They were distinguished
into three nations, Firbolgae, Firdomnan, and Fir-
galion, which are generally interpreted, clan Bolus,
clan Domnan, and clan Galion : of the two last we
shall speak under the head of the Domnanii and
Galionii.
On the origin of the name Bolgas the learned are
far from agreeing in their opinions. Some think
that by clan Bolus are meant the Belgae of Britain,
who having passed over from Belgium, or the lower
Germany, spread themselves over the counties of
Somerset, Wilton, and the interior of Haverford
and that the British language which they made use
of in Ireland, was eloquently and expressively desig-
nated Belgaid, intimating it to be a Belgic idiom.
governor of lieinster, was the chief of the pentarchy, and
monarch of the whole island. These people were known by three
different naraes, viz., Gallenians, Damnonians, and Belgians;
but the last was the general name of the whole colony ; their
dominion lasted about eighty years under nine kings, who were,
Slaingey, Rory, Gann, Geanan, Sengan, Fiacha, Rionall,
Fiobgin, and Eogha, who married Tailta, daughter of a
Spanish prince, who gave name to the place of her burial, still
called Tailton, in Meath. Mac Geoghegan,
211
Others would have them called Bolgae, from bolg, a
quiver, as excelling in archery ; others from the Irish
word bol, a poet or sage, as eminent in those
several characters.
They come nearer to the truth who think the
name to be connected with superstition, and derived
from the worship which they paid their gods. For
Bel, in the language of the Celts, the Germans, and
all the northern nations, stood for Sol or Apollo, the
sun ;* and was indiscriminately called Bal, Beal, and
Sol, intimating his dominion as lord of the world.
This they received from the Phoenicians, the authors
of such superstition, who in the infancy of their
false zeal, scrupled not to offer human sacrifices to
* **
Let us adore," says the Gayatri, or holiest text of the
Vedas, as translated by Sir William Jones, "the supremacy
of that divine Sun, the godhead, who illuminates all, who
recreates all, from whom all proceed, to whom all must return,
whom we invoke to direct our understanding aright in our
progress towards his holy seat. What the sun and light are to
this visible world, that are the supreme good and truth to the
intellectual and invisible universe, and as our coporeal eyes
have a distinct perception of objects enlightened by the sun,
thus our souls acquire certain knowledge by meditating on the
light of truth which emanates from the Being of beings ; that
is the light by which alone our minds can be directed in the
path to beatitude. Without hand or foot he runs rapidly and
grasps firmly; without eyes he sees, without ears he hears all
he knows whatever can be known ; but there is none who knows
him. Him the wise call, the great supreme pervading Spirit/'
P 2
212
their Baal, though he afterwards condescended to
acquiesce in the substitution of brute immolation.*
Hence, the first of May is called in Irish, La Beal
teine, that is, the day of the fire of Beal. Several
of the Irish mountains, too, retain the name of Cnoc
greine, that is the mountain of the sun; and in
many of them are to be seen the frame-work of the
altars, and the delapidated ruins of the temples of
those Gentile idolaters. The old Irish name for
year, was Beal-aine, now Bliadhain, meaning, liter-
ally, the circle of Beal, that is the period of the
sun's annual revolution ; all which terms they bor-
rowed from the rites and religious ordinances of the
Phoenicians. From their bal, too, which signifies
power or wisdom, is derived our bale, of the same
import, and balg, a man of letters.
Moreover, we may refer to the worship paid by
those tribes to Sol or Beal, the above mentioned
names of Siol m Bolga, and Slioght m Bealidh ; for
in the Phoenician tongue, slil means a cymbal or
timbrel, and shiol, fire. The Gallionii or Gallaenii, or
clan Gallion, a tribe of the Fir-Belgas or Bolgae,
who settled in Ireland, are supposed to have taken
* Humanis saorificiis prim cultus, postea belluinis. —The
Spaniards would seem to have reversed the case in their
worship of Mars, for Strabo tells us, that ** Omnes, qui in
montibus degunt. . Marti caprum iramolant, praetereaque
captivos et equos."
213
their name from Gallena, a city of the Attrebatii,
who bordered upon the Belgae in Britain. From
them Lagenia,* which was formerly considered the
fifth province of Ireland, was called Coiged Galian.
It is to me, too, as clear as conviction can make it^
that they themselves were so designated, from the
Phoenician name gallein, which means, departing or
transported to another country, more properly
applied to voluntary emigrants. Unless, perhaps, the
name may have been derived from their idolatrous
ritual ; for the Phoenicians used to give the name of
gaelin, to heaps of stones huddled up together, on
which they sacrificed their victims. From hence
numberless Spanish towns, such as Galinda, Galin-
do, Galinday, Galindush, Galinsoga, Gallinar, Gal-
liner, Gallinera, &c. &c. would appear to have been
denominated.
We would appear, also, to have amongst us some
vestiges of the clan Gallion or Gallionii, in Gallian,
the name of that tract of countiy encompassing the
greatest part of Kildare, Carlow, and the Queen's
counties ; in Gallen, the name of a barony in the
* In Lagenid statuit Regis et Regince comitatus Thomas
Ratcliffe, Sussexiae comes, Iberniae prorex, anno 1556, reg-
nantibus Philippo et Maria. Indeque capitale Regis comitatus
oppidura Phillippi Burgus; Regince vero conutatus Marice
Burgus vocantur. Wicklow in Lagenid, patrum niemoria co-
mitatus jus induit. (V. O'Flahert. loo. laud. p. 27. Burg
Ibein. Dominic.)
214
county Mayo : in Gallen Hills, the name of a town
in the county Tyrone ; in Gallion Point, the southern
point of the harbor of Castle-haven, in the county
Cork.
CHAP. XXHL
The People called Miledh, supposed to have been Milesians—
The Milesians, fable of the Spanish prince—Miledh and
Milesians why so called—Miletum a colony of the Phoeni-
cians—Cities built by the Milesians—Vestiges of the Miled
still in this Country.
The people called Miledh, and so frequently
alluded to in the ancient poetry of Ireland, are sup-
posed by the more modern antiquarians to have be-
longed to the Milesians. These latter again, it is
believed, were the posterity of the Carthagenians,
who sailed from Spain, under the conduct, say they,
of Heber* and Heremon, the two sons of Milesius, the
* Heber, after this first advantage, having refreshed his
troops, advanced into the country to make further discoveries,
in hopes of meeting some of the colony, that were scattered by
the storm some time before, and after a long and fatiguing
march, arrived at Invear-Colpa, where he found Heremon with
215
king of Spain, and settled in Ireland with a host of
followers. In the poetical histories of the Druids,
we have it upon record that this island was inhabited
by the Miledh Slioght Fene.and the IMiledh Espaine ;
which first names have been interpreted to us by later
times, as equivalent to Milesius the Phoenician. The
learned of our day, however, think that Miledh is a
perverted abbreviation from M Bealedh, meaning
the worshippers of Beal, and figuratively, the noble
Druids, Fene, too, they say, means wise, so that
Miledh Fene, to them, would represent the wise and
his division, by whom he was informed of the disasters that had
befallen his brothers Aireagh and Colpa, who had perished on
that coast. The brothers now uniting their forces, formed their
plans of operation for a campaign. They determined to go in
quest of the enemy, who, according to the reports of their
scouts, was not far off, They began their march, and after a
few days came up with the three princes of the Tuatha de
Danains, in the plains of Tailton, with a formidable army ready
to meet them. The action began, and this battle, which was
to decide the fate of both parties was for a long time doubtful,
the troops on both sides making extraordinary efforts ; the latter
to defend their patrimony against the invaders, who wished to
wrest it from them ; the former, less to revenge the death of their
countryman, than to obtain Ihe possession of an island which
had been destined for them, according to the prophecy of the
druids. At length the three princes of the Tuatha de Danains,
together with their principal ojQficers, having fallen, the army
was put into disorder, and the rout became so general, that
more were killed in the pursuit than on the field of battle.
That day, so fatal to the Tuatha de Danains, decided the em-
pire of the island in favour of the Milesians. Mac Geoghegan,
216
noble Druids, and Miledh Slioght Fene, a wise and s^
generous offspring. In like manner would some
writers make Miledh Easpainne^ the son of Golam, un-
der whose guidance and auspices the Iberi established
themselves in the south of Ireland, to be equal in
import with Milesius the Spaniard ; though others
asserting that easpainne, espaine, or hespin, stood in
the old Celtic for a bare, arid, and barren coun-
try, understood by the words, miledh espainne mac
golam, noble, from the barren mountany country of
Gael.
But it being an acknowledged fact that the Miledh,
or Milesians, whichever you choose to call them, were
a Phoenician race, who put into this country from
the coast of Spain, I, for one, would derive their
name, not from Milesius king of Spain—who has no
existence in the records of that kingdom other than
what the fictions of the poets invest him with—but
from some one of the Phoenicians who had sailed over
into Spain from Miletum, which was one^ of their
very earliest colonies.* The Phoenicians, we know.
* Greek history informs us that Miletum in Ionia was first
colonised by Phoenicians from Crete—that this colony was at-
tacked by the Persians and transplanted into Persia —that the
Phoenicians and Milesians joined with the Persians against the
lonians, at the battle of Mycale, and that they were made
slaves by the Persians, but kindly treated by Alexander —and
ih the time of Psamiticus a colony of Milesians settled in
Greece, The Sacae joined the Persians at the battle of
217
after their taking possession of Miletum, disseminated
themselves in tribes in every direction. These are
the Milesians who pursued the Thessalonians from
Caria, and who took up their residence, in the first
instance, on the coast of Anatolia. To them is at-
tributed the origin of the cities of Trebezon,* Hera-
clea, or Penderaclea,f Sinope,J &c. After the ship-
wreck of Pylades and Orestes, near the ; temple of
Diana at Taurus, the Milesians visited the Crimaea,
and laid the foundations of the cities of Theodosia or
Kafa,§ Chersonesus, and Oliera on the Dnieper. They
also, besides other cities, built that of Odessus, or
Barna, on the western shore of the black sea. But
their principal one seems to have beenfAppollonia, or
Sizeapolis,|| which was exceedingly fortified, and con-
Marathon, and broke the centre of the Athenians. The Liber
Lucanes, an ancient Irish MS., informs us that one colony of
the Milesians arrived in Ireland in the last year of Camboath
(Canibyses) son of Ciras (Cyrus).—It then describes the divi-
sions of Alexander's empire among his generals, and says,
another colony arrived in Ireland in that year wherein Alex-
ander defeated Daire, i. e. Darius. —Vallancey.
* Trebezon k thrap eshan, fumus ex igne procedens ante
idolum. J^eroc/ea, Herculi dicata.
t Penderaclea, kpeneh, facies. Est facies sen simulachrum
Herculis.
X Sinope k zinip, thiara, vitta, insigne capitis ornamentum.
§ Kafa, k Kafaz, saltavit, saliit ; vel k Cafa, incurvavit,
inclinavit, flexit corpus, genua, quod prosternentes se faciunt
utrumque denotat cultura idololatricnm.
II
Sizeopolis k Phojn. ziz, frons arboris, arbor :^plur. zizin:
218
structed partly in the peninsula and partly in the
little island of Pontus, where the celebrated statue
of Apollo—which Lucullus afterwards brought to
Rome—was worshipped with all solemnity. Pieces of
money, stamped at Appollonia by the Milesians, bore
the impression of Apollo's head, with this motto,
" Dorionos,"* that is, the bountiful.
Miledh, therefore, is not the name of a particular
race, but of the city of Miletum; nor is Milesian
a proper or individual name, but a gentile or na-
tional one. For the Milesii were the inhabitants
of Miletum, and any thing appertaining or belonging
thereto was called Milesian. Thus we read of
Thales the Milesian ; Anaximander, Anaximenes,
Hecateus, the Milesians ; so also we find Milesi-
ourgos to signify any thing done by Milesian art—as
Milesian tapestry—Milesian wool, which was cele-
brated all over the world.
But the name of the city of Miletum itself would
appear to have been given it by the Phoenicians,
from milet to escape or be liberated, which accords
with the history of the first tribes of the Caananites,
who had fled before the face of Joshua and the Isra-
quasi disceres, urbs in arboreto vel neraore : vel a ziz, flos :
urbs florida. Odesus a Odesa, fiuctus. Barna a harin, advena,
peregrinus.
* John Edward Alexander's Travels to the seat of War in the
East, through Russia and the Crimea, T. I. p. 293.
219
elites. We should observe^ also, that Miletiim was
otherwise called Anactoria, from Anach, a descen-
dant of Anak, of whom many of the Phoenicians used
to boast as the founder of their family.
Ireland would seem to retain still some traces of
the name Miledh in that of Malahide, a town in the
barony of Coolock, in the county Dublin, just beside
a fort called the court of Maiabide, and in that of
Malahidert, a village in the same county, &c.
Let us now pass over to other names connected
with this. Espaine, Hespin, or Spania, is a word
not of Celtic but of Hebraic and Syriac extraction,
being derived from Span, or Sapan, a rabbit. Hence
the name of Spania as abounding in them ; and this
is the epithet by which Catullus distinguished that
part of Spain at present called Celtiberia,* But the
Phoenicians very deservedly extended the name to
the country at large, seeing the multitude of those
* We have the greatest authority from the ancient chronicles
of Ireland to believe that there was a strict friendship and cor-
respondence by navigation and traffic between the Spaniards
and Irish, from the time that Eochard the son of Eire, the last
king of the Firbolgs in Ireland, was raarried to Tailte, the
daughter of Maghmore, king of Spain, so that the people of the
two nations were well acquainted with one another long before
Brah, the son of Breagar, was born. And this account is suf-
ficient to destroy the credit of that idle fancy that Ith and the
family of Briogan first discovered the country of Ireland, veith
an optical instrument, from the top of the tower of Brigantia.
Keating.
220
animals so overwhelmingly immense that they seemed
to venture even to dispute its possession with man
himself; nor did trees, roots, plants, and vegeta-
bles alone give way, before their dense and desolating
myriads, but the castellated dome was not safe from
their attack, and whole towns have been overturned
by their undermining. Most ancient writers, there-
fore, impressed with this fact, treat of the rabbit as
if it were an animal peculiar to Spain. Hence we
may see how little weight is to be attached to the
reveries of those who maintain that, as Lusitania was
so named from lusus, play, so was Spain from Pan
the Arcadian, one of Bacchus's associates. For His-
pania, the Latin for Spain, some of the ancients
wrote Espaine, and now frequently Spania, which
Vossius and Bochart confirm by the testimony of
Paul the apostle, Theophilus, Eusebius, Epiphanius,
and others. Nay more, Eulogius, has in more places
than one, written Ecclesia Spanioe, (that is the church
of Spain) which Ambrosius Morus erroneously and
unjustifiably transcribed into Ecclesia Hispaniae.
Hence the color black is called spanus by Nonus,
and Spanicum argentum, for Hispanicum, (that is
Spanish silver) occurs in Athanasius Bibliotheca, in
his life of the Pontiffs. Sliog, as we have said, is a
Phoenician name, indicating a certain , species of
superstition.
It remains that we say something about Fene, or
Feine, Fane, Fine, or Fion, an ancient Irish clan.
221
of whom frequent mention occurs in the ancient
chronicles and ballads of this island. Some would
look for the etymology of these names in the Irish
fine, which signifies a tribe or nation ; others in feine,
the celebrated ancient militia of our country ; others
lastly, would expect to find it in feine, a steward or
husbandman. There are those too to whom those
words denote a standard, or ensign, or whatever is
erected in an elevated and conspicuous position ; and,
when connected with sacred matters, the officiating
high priest or sacrificer ; a learned man ; a Druidical
temple ; as the Romans gave the name of fana to
the shrines wherein they worshipped their idols.
They, however, come nearer to the truth who con-
ceive that by these words is indicated some one of
the ancient colonies of the Phoenicians, who settled
in Ireland. For it is an admitted and established
opinion, that the Phoenician name was invented by
the Greek in imitation of the Hebrew form of ex-
pression, phene-anak, that is, the sons of Anak, or
Anaceans. Anak, as we have said, was a giant, and
the son of Arba, whence comes Anakim, in the plu-
ral, giants ; and being the founder of' that race, the
Greeks thought that the inhabitants of all Syria had
derived their origin from him. Indeed, it were more
correct to say Bene-anak, but the Greek always
soften the Hebrew letter B (beth) in this manner, as
we find Josephus writing sopho instead of soba, a
region of Syria. It is no wonder, therefore, that
222
Bene-anak, Phoenices, and Punici, or Poeni, should
all stand for the same tlnng, the Phoenicians. In
former times Beanak^ or Phianak, was used as an
abbreviation for Ben anak, and from the name thus
abbreviated, the African Phoenicians* were called
Poeni, and those of Iberia, Fene, retaining in either
case only the first member of the name, Fene-anak.
But that the Phoenicians affected the name of
Bene-Anak, or sons of the Anaceans, and would have
them themselves so designated, you may infer from
the fact of their calling the city of Carthage, built
by them, Chadre Anak, that is the seat of the Ana-
caeans, as you may see in the Paenulus of Plautus ;
* It appears, that like some of the rest of the Pagan Afri-
cans, they worship a being, who, according to their imagina-
tions, can neither do them any good nor any evil. And which
is still more remarkable, they worship another being inferior to
this, whom they believe can do them much injury, unless his
anger is appeased. This being they imagine frequently appears
to them under the most tremendous form, somewhat resembling
the ancient satyrs of the Greeks ; and when they are asked how
they can believe in such absurdities, so inconsistent with the
divine attributes ; their answer is to the following import :
" We follow the traditions of our ancestors, whose first parents
having sinned against the grand captain, they fell into such a
neglect of his worship, that they knew nothing of him, nor how
to make their addresses to him/' This may serve to shew, that
however ignorant they may be in other respects, yet in this dark
tradition they have some faint notion of the fall of man, which
indeed is acknowledged by all the world, except some letter
learned men among ourselves.
223
and, as we have observed in a preceding part of this
chapter, their calHng Miletum, a colony of theirs,
Anactoria, from Anacte, that is, a descendant of the
great Anak. For, although, but few of the Phoeni-
cians had really owed their origin to the family of
the Anaceans—as Bochart has before observed—yet
the celebrity of the race had charms for many to make
them wish and lay claim to it as their parent stock.
Besides, in all nations, it is handed down as a pre-
sumptive usage, that they select their name from the
elite of their nobility ; and amongst the Canaanites
no family could compete with this either, in personal
valor or the collateral influence of a splendid name.
They were superhuman in strength, and so gigantic
in stature that, compared to them, the Israelites ap-
peared like so many locusts.*
* Pepin the Short, perceiving himself the object of contempt
amongst a particular set of his courtiers, who on account of his
figure, which was both thick and low, entertained but a
mean idea of his personal abilities, invited them, by way
of amusement, to see a fair battle between a bull and a lion.
As soon as he observed that the latter had got the mastery over
the former, and was ready to devour him, ** Now, gentlemen,"
says he, " who amongst you all has courage enough to inter-
pose between these bloody combatants ? Who of you all dare
rescue the bull, and kill the lion ?" Not one of the numerous
spectators would venture to undertake so dangerous an enter-
prise ; whereupon the king instantly leaped into the area, drew
his sabre, and at one blow severed the lion's head from his
shoulders. Returning without the least emotion or concern to
224
CHAP. XXIV.
The Clan Cuilean, a people of Ireland, where settled —Called
also Hy-namor—Etymology of these names —The Deasii in
what part of Ireland they settled - Their leader— Whence
named—The Dareni^ inhabitants of Voluntia—City of
Derry, why so called—Whether the Dareani derive their
name from the Greeks or the Phoenicians—The Gadeliani,
whether from Gadela —Whether it be a Phoenician name.
To the list of the ancient inhabitants of this coun-
try we are to add the name also of the people called
Clan Cuilean, who resided in a part of the county
Clare, on the banks of the river Shannon, comprising
»all that tract formerly known by the name of Tho-
mond. Clain, in Irish,* signifying sprung from or
his seat, he gave those who had entertained but a mean opinion
of him, to understand, in a jocular way, that though David was
low in stature, yet he demolished the great Goliah ; and that
though Alexander was but a little man, he performed more
heroic actions than all his tallest officers and commanders put
together.
* What Erin calls in her sublime
Old Erse or Irish, or it may be Punic;
(The Antiquarians who can settle time,
Which settles all things, Roman, Greek or Runic,
OO:
genitive, the name of this people is generally ren-
dered the growth or harvest of wheat near the water.
They were also called Hy na mor, which sounds to
the natives as the maritime region. But, in my
opinion, clan cuilean^ is a name compounded of the
Phoenician words, clain culain, that is, the summoned
together from different or mixed nations, intimating
their composition to be diversified and motley. Or,
may be, of Clanu Culain, that is, the summoned Ba-
bylonians, for the Chaldeans, who had accompanied
the Isaraelites on their return into Syria from their
captivity, attached themselves afterwards to the
Phoenicians in their maritime expeditions, as well as
in transplanting their colonies ; and, in the Chaldee
language, Clanu and Calnah meant Babylon. Hy
na mor, also, is a Phoenician name from, inamor, a
variegated or party-coloured people in a sea-girt
province.
The Deassii, the Decies, formerly Deassies, an an-
cient people of Ireland inhabited the southern sec-
tion of the county Meath, and the northern bank of
the rivers LifFey and Rye, which whole line of coun-
try was very appropriately designated by the name
Swear that Pat's language sprung from the sanae clime
With Hannibal, and wears the lyrian tunic
Of Dido's alphabet ; and this is rational
As any other notion, and not national :)
—
Byron.
Q
226
of Ean, or Magh Ean, that is, the region of waters.
Their leader is supposed to have been named Mag-
ean, or Ean-gus, afterwards abridged to CEngus,
which is usually interpreted prince of the region of
Ean. A tribe of this nation was afterwards trans-
ported to the county Waterford. This region is at
present divided into two baronies, namely, Decies
within Drum, bounded on the east and south by the
Atlantic ocean, and on the west by the black water ;
whilst, Decies without Drum, bounds it on the
north, and is itself the other part of this tract.
The name of Deassies, or Deassii, is supposed to
be derived from the Irish word deas, southern, and
to indicate a southern people. This is not impro-
bable. I would venture to guess, however, that they
were a Phoenician tribe, so called from deassin, or
deassain, or rather deazzin, that is, exulting ; from
duaz, which means, he exulted with joy, to which
daizz, joy, corresponds ; and there is no one who
is not aware of the dancing and rioting of idol-
ators during their sacrificial feasts.* The barony of
* Although it is difficult to discover any relation between
dancing and religion, yet among the Pagans it constantly made
a part of their worship of the gods. It was usual to dance
round the altars and statues ; and there was at Rome, an order
of priests, called the Salii; they were dedicated to the service
of Mars, and they danced on particular days, through the
streets, in honour of their god, and had their name from that
very ceremony. Indeed, religious dancing was so much the
Deece, in the county Meath, which Seward tells us
was formerly called Decies, or Desies, as well as
another barony of the same name, Decies, or Desies,
in the county Waterford, are vestiges in this country
of the once existence there of the Deessii. In Spain
too, the Phoenicians would seem to have had a tribe
of this name, I mean the inhabitants of the old Can-
tabrian city of Decium, which is surrounded by the
river Aturia.
Baxter is of opinion that the Dareni, or Darnii,
taste of the Pagans, that the poets made the gods dance along
with the graces, the muses, and virtties. When the Jews kept
the feast of the golden calf, they sat down to eat and to drink,
and rose up to play, which means to dance, and undoubtedly,
they learned this in Egygt. Arnobius, an ancient Christian
writer, asked the Pagans, if their Gods were pleased with the
tinkling of brass, and rattling of cymbals, or with the sound of
drums and musical instruments. The idolators in other parts
of the world, even to this day, have the same esteem for this
custom, and the greatest part of the worship they pay to their
deities consists in dancing. On the whole it appears, that
dancing was tirst practised by the heathens in their temples, as
a part of their religious worship, to point out their gratitude to
their gods, either for general, or particular favors; nor have
the Christians been altogether free from this custom. The
Christians of St. Thomas, dance in honor of that saint, before
which they cross themselves, and sing a hymn. The men dance
in one apartment, and the women in another, but both observe
the greatest decency. At present, however, there are but few
Roman Catholics who pay much regard to this ceremony, and
in all probability it will soon fall into disrespect and cease to
be practised.—Hurd.
q2
228
the ancient inhabitants of Voluntia, mentioned by
Ptolemy, gave its name to the city of Derry ; as also
to Dairmach, which is interpreted the oaken city,
called also Armach, that is, the lofty city, now Ar-
magh. He furthermore thinks that they themselves
were so designated, as if descendants of the oak,
seeing that Ptolemy names them Darinoi, or Darnii,
for dar, in the British, is an oak ; and eni, or geni, to
be born. But I submit it to the learned to deter-
mine whether it be not from the Phoenician darin,
meaning foreigners, soujourners ; or darin, villas,
habitations. From the Dareni, or Darnii, I should
imagine that the island of Darinis, in the Black-
water, in the mouth of the bay of Youghal, in the
county Cork, took its name. After the introduc-
tion of Christianity, this was called Molana, from
St. Molanfid, who founded a convent therein, in the
sixth century. You will pronounce the same judg-
ment on another island of the same name, near the
city of Wexford, where St. Nemham erected a mo-
nastery, in the middle of the seventh century.
Spain has an old town called Dapnius, on the
banks of the river Muga, in the country of the
Ilergetes, whose inhabitants, like the Irish, are named
Darnii, in the ancient chronicles of the kingdom.
The Gadeliani, an old Irish tribe, are commonly
supposed to have derived their name from Gadelas,
an ancient progenitor of the Milesians. Whether
this Gadelas be a character of the real history of this
229
country, or only like Milesius, the reputed prince of
Spain, an imaginary fiction for the songs of the poets,
I leave to the decision of more competent judges.
I cannot, however, but express my perfect disregard
to what Geraldus tells us of the Irish being called
Gaidheli from some grandson of Phenius, who was
distinguished as a linguist. My dissent from his
opinion I choose to couch in this strong phrase, not-
withstanding his being backed therein by Nennius,
Malmura, Eochodius, and other writers of the ninth
century, and countenanced by the approbation of
the more modern O'Connor.
But what if Gadelas, or Gadhelus was some con-
spicuous and honorable individual, belonging to
some tribe of the Phoenicians,f whose descendants
were after him called Gadeliani ? For gadel, in their
language means, great, illustrious ; and gadelin, emi-
nent, superior men. Hence, also, the inhabitants of
two ancient cities, but now only petty towns, of the
* In fine, there are no names or dogmata of the Phoeni-
cians recorded by either Greek or Latin authors that are not to
be found or explained in the ancient Irish, a strong collateral
proof that the Phoenicians of the old Greeks were not Cana-
anites or Tyrians, h\ii that mixed body of Persians, that is,
Scythians, Medes, &c. whom Sallust informs you, from the
best authority, the Punic annals, composed the Gzetulians and
Numidians of Africa, the first settlement of the Phoenicians in
that country ; and the same people that Varro, Pliny, and Jus-
tin bring from thence to Spain, conformable to the ancient his-
tory of Ireland. Vallancey.
230
name of Gadella, in the district of the Astures and
Edetani, in Spain, were called Gadelin, or Godeli-
ani ; for I am satisfied that those cities had obtained
this name as expressive of their magnitude and their
magnificence.
CHAP. XXV.
The Degades, settlers in Ireland—In what part — Whether a
body of fishermen —The Tuat de Doinan arrive in this
country —Whence come— Whether a tribe of the Caledo-
nians—Why called Ulleigh—Origin of their name — The
Caledonians of Brigantine origin —The Irish Cangani,
why so called.
The Degades, an ancient people of Ireland, are
supposed by some to have been a colony of the Lein-
ster* Scoti, who settled in the western quarter of
the county Kerry, some years before the advent of
Christ. The name is supposed to have been made
up of the Irish words, de ga deas, implying a situa-
* Leighan, an axe or spear, it being with such weapons the
Leinster people fought.—The country was thence called Lein-
ster, from leighan, as above, and ter, a territory.
231
tion at the south of the sea. To me, however, it
seems to express a colony of Phoenician fishermen ;
for degah, in that language, is fish, collectively ; deg,
to fish ; dughioth, fishing cots or wherries made of
rushes ; deg, a fisherman, and adesa, profit, emolu-
ment ; so that Degades would appear a name abbre-
viated for deg-adesa, or expressive of fishermen who
acquired their support from the profits of that pur-
suit.
The Tuatha de Danaan^^* or Danans, usually ren-
f In my work upon the " Round Towers," it is proved to a
demonstration, that these (who by the way had nothing to do
with Britain) were the real authors o/Jre/awrf^s ancient ce-
lebrity. They arrived here about 1200 years before Christ,
under the conduct of three brothers, Brien, Juchorba, and Ju-
chor, and immediately gave battle to the Firbolgs, commanded
by Eogha their king, at Moyturey near lake Masg, in the ter-
ritory of Partrigia otherwise Partry, in the county of Mayo.
The latter lost in one day the battle and possession of the island,
and were so reduced as to seek an asylum in the islands of the
north, Nuagha, the Tuatha Danaan general, having lost a
hand in the action, had one made of sdver, whence he attained
the name of Airgiodlamh, which signifies silver hand. This
narrative had been long supposed a day dream of fiction, which
legendary chroniclers had of old trumped up. The hour, how-
ever, has arrived for the restoration of truth ; and I rejoice that
I am the first person to announce to my countrymen that this
relic, or silver hand, is still extant. It was exhibited to the
"Society of Antiquaries,'* a short time ago, who, q/cowrse, knew
nothing about it. The moment I saw it I exulted in the con'
firmation of our ancient history ; and did not hesitate, at once»
intimating to the Gentleman who had the kindness to gain me
232
dered the northern race^ were an ancient colony in
this country, situated behind the Fir-Bolgoe ; they are
supposed to have originated from Britain, and to
have been a tribe of the Caledonians, who emigrated
over from Mull-Galloway, or Cantire, full an hundred
years before the Christian aera. The old Irish poets
seem to know nothing of the chieftains of the first
colony of the Caledonians, or Danani as they call
them ; but they are diffuse on the subject of their ar-
rival, which happened only a few years before the
birth of Christ. These were accustomed to style
themselves Ulleigh, which some would interpret as
worshippers of the sun, for in the Celtic dialect, uU
is the same as sol, or beal, which is the sun. Ac-
cordingly, their country was called Ulladh or Ullin,
and these names still represent to the native, the pro-
vince of Ulster. All that tract of country also, im-
mediately encompassing the present county of Down
was called Ulla informer times. Other relics of this
name may be traced in Ullard, a village in the barony
of Gowran county of Kilkenny ; and in Ulloe, a
little town in the barony of Coonagh, in the county
Limerick.
access to their museum, that it was the long missing arm of
Nuagha Airgiodlamh. I now give the inscription, which is in
old Irish characters, for which I am indebted to the gentle-
man above alluded to, whose name—T. Crofton Croker
perhaps, I may be pardoned if I publish.
or JO
p
1
K)
'q s 'S'
.?
o Z3
z Pi .^ Za
i
L-
^
1
w->
7" 5
1
P
o (2
1
->
»
•--
5 3 2: .?
to o
u
u
••
f
•
p
8
5 i §- re
»
3
-
-
u
o
J_
233
But as some will have Ulleigh and Ulladh to be
Celtic names borrowed from their custom of worship-
ping the sun, so, perhaps, the name Tuath de Doinan
may have originated from the form of that worship,
which we know the Phoenicians offered to their idols,
prostrate and silent before their banquets. For tuath
donian, in that language, means those who meditate
in silence and fasting. Nor yet would I reject the
conjecture, nor deny the fact, of tuath being an
Irish geographical term signifying the due north.
The Caledonians were so named from Caledonia,
at this day called Scotland, after the Scoto Brigan-
tine Irish, and formerly Valentia by the Romans,
after the name of their emperor Valentinian. They
were of Brigantine extraction, and their constant
allies, or rather vassals, in their several wars. The
name of Caledonian is supposed to have been de-
rived from the woods which they inhabited, being
called in the British, Kelydhon, or Colydhon, and the
woods themselves, coit kelydhon. Nor, indeed, were
the foreign Brigantines called Keloi on any other ac-
count than that of their living in the woods, as the
ancients generally did, nor were the Caletes, a peo-
ple of the Attrebates, so denominated for any other
reason.
In the Scoto-brigantine dialect of the present day,
coil, means a wood. In the Greek too, kalori, means
the same, as did, cala, in the ancient Roman ; whence
234
are derived caliga, a wooden sHoe ; and calones,
hewers of timber.
I suspect, however, that the Caledonians were
Phoenicians, who were expert in astrology ; or, per-
haps, Chaldeans, associates of the Phoenicians ; for
Ohaledain, or Chaldein signifies both, and that, there-
fore, Caledonia was named after them, and not vice
versa.
The Cngaanii, or Ganganii, an ancient people of
Ireland, mentioned by Ptolemy, were settled in the
western section of the county Clare, in what is at
present called the barony of Burrin, on the south of
the bay of Galway. Baxter takes them to be de-
scendants of the Ceangi, or shepherds of the Dam-
nii, who dwelt in a district called, from the summer
exposure, and the habitual recumbency of shepherds,
Somersaeten, or, aeetival sitters. Tacitus calls them
Cangi. But as from the singular, cang, is formed the
Latin ceangus, so from'^the plural ceangon, do they
also form, canganus. Many persons believe that every
individual state had its own Ceangi, who were a co-
lony of minors, or of youthful^ shepherds, passing
their lives in mountains, in villages, in marshes, or in
fens, as suited the interests of their pastoral occupa-
tion. Of these, Trogus Justinus says, ^^
they transfer
their flocks now to summer, now to winter lawns.
As formerly, the ancient Romans had amongst the
Calabrians and Lucanians, so now have the Spaniards
235
also amongst the Cantabrians and other states, dis-
tinct pastures for their flocks^ as well in summer as
in winter.'* The advocates of this opinion derive
the word ceangus from the British ceang, or cang, a
branch, in the same manner^ and with the same figu-
rative licence, as ''
youths" in Greek are styled
'^
branches of Mars." Others think it compounded
of cean gan, and interpret it, the external promon-
tory. Whence Canganii, to them, will express a peo-
ple residing beside such promontory ; as Burrin, or
Bhurrin, the ancient seat of those Canganii, means
an external region. There are those who flatter
themselves that they have discovered the etymology
of this name in the Hebrew chanoc, or chanic, ver-
nal ; and, finally, others who think them called
Ceangi, from the god Ceangus, the tutelary genius
of the Cumbri. In a matter so perplexed, and as
yet so undecided, I would venture to guess that the
Canganii, or Cangani, were a people of the Canta-
brians in Hespania Tarraconensis, who were a colony
of the Massagetae, or else a tribe of Phoenician agri-
culturists,* and that their name is composed of the
words can-gannin, a society of gardeners, from gan,
a garden, applicable as well to trees as to herbs
* Omnium rerum ex quibus aliquid acquintur, nihil est agri-
culture melius, nihil uberius, nihil dulcius, nihil homine libero
dignius.—C«cero-c?e- 0/^c. l,c. 42.
236
or from gan-ganin, the Ganganii^ who excelled in
that department.*
* But they say, that the modern critics have despised and
rejected those chimeras of antiquity to which the Scoto-Mile-
sians aspire, as well as the authorities they produce to support
them. It is evident that those critics should not be believed
in respect to the monuments of that people : they were unac-
quainted with the language in which they were written ; it was
altogether impossible for them to know it. There are but few
even among the natives capable of decyphering their ancient
writings : it is by a particular study only, of the abreviations,
punctuations, and of the ancient characters of that language, and
the Oghum, that they can attain to it. The old Scotic lan-
guage, which was spoken two (or rather three) thousand years
ago, and which is made use of in their monuments, was entirely
different from what is now, and has been spoken, within the
last few centuries ; and has become a jargon by the adoption of
many Latin, English, and French words. Are these not dif-
ficulties, which are impossible for a stranger to surmount, who
attempts to vrrite the history of that country ? If the primi-
tive Irish language be scarcely known by the bulk of the na-
tion itself, what knowledge can an Englishman have of it?
Mac Geoyhegan.
Yet for the antiquities of the written chronicles of Ireland,
give me leave to say something, not to justifie them, but to
shew that some of them might say truth. For where you say
the Irish have alwayes bin without letters, you are therein
much deceived ; for it is certaine, that Ireland hath had the
use of letters very anciently, and long before England.
Spenser,
237
CHAP. XXVI,
The Aremorici, what nation they were — Whether the Ato-'
brites—Where they settled— Whether Aramceans or Phce-
nicians —The Alobrites and Morini, why so called— The
Aradii, inhabitants of the island of Arad—Skilled in naval
matters—Allies of the Phoenicians—Colonies of them in
Spain and Ireland—The Armeri called Cardanum by the
Phcenicians—Vestiges of their residence in Ireland as tuell
as Spain,
The Aremorici, in Irish, Armhorac, or Armho-
raice, are supposed to have been transmarine
Britons, namely, the ancient Belgae, that is the Alo-
brites, or remains of Belgic Britannia, who were
driven out by the Franks, or Sicambri, into Celtic
Gaul. They are generally considered as refugees of
the Belgas, who settled in the British islands, having
come thither at the season of the Saxon war. The
Aremorican tract, or line of country they inhabited,
'is by some writers accounted the Saxon shore of the
Gauls, otherwise called Celtic Gaul, Neustria, and
Britannia in the Marshes ; Caesar, however, and
Pliny call it, Aquitania of the Vascons.
238
Baxter thinks that they were called Aremorici,
from armor, or arvor, a shore ; as the Morini, who
were the Vallonic Flandri, were called, he says, from
the Celtic words, mor-eni, as if, marigenae, or sea-
born. With all respect, however, to so high an
authority, I would venture to guess that this was
one of the Phoenician tribes who arrived in this
island, and passed over from it afterwards into Bel-
gium and Gaul. From them it is probable that the
ancient city of Ardmore, in the barony of Decies,
county Waterford, hath derived its name ; as also
the promontory of Ardmore on the east of the
Youghal harbor ; and Armoy, a town of the barony
of Carey, in the county Antrim : just as the Phoe-
nicians who inhabited the district of Aram in
Asia Major were indiscriminately called Aramaeans,
Syrians, and Phoenicians, and, by a junction of the
two last, Syro-Phoenicians. Whence in the Syriac
version of the Bible, the Syro-Phoenician woman,
mentioned in the seventh chapter, and twenty-sixth
verse of St. Mark, is said to have been *^
from Phoe-
nicia of Syria." And Josephus declares that the
Aramaeans were called Syrians by the Greeks.
Strabo also asserts that some take the Syrians for the
Arimi, whom they now call Arami.
The Irish name Armorhac, therefore, would
appear to consist of the Phoenician words Arami-
arac, that is, a people, or nation, from the district of
Aram, namely, from Shur, that is Syria, or Phoenicia.
239
For, arac, means a state, or nation, and Arami an
Aramoean, or Syrian, a native of Phoenicia; it like-
wise signifies an idolator ; for the first worshippers
of idols recorded in the sacred Scriptures were, as
we have above observed, Syrians.
Alobrith seems an Irish name, signifying a por-
tion of an ancient stock or tribe ; for, all, in Irish,
means extraction, or lineage ; allod, antiquity ; and
brith, a part or fraction of any thing. This I con-
ceive more rational, than to say that they had been
called Alobrites as equivalent to Galo-Britones,
which is Baxter's opinion. Nor is it more unlikely
if we would suppose it a Phoenician name denoting
a tribe who had concluded a treaty by the obligation
of an oath; for, alah, in that language, is an oath
and, brith, a league or compact, any thing about
which many dehberate and ultimately agree.
What if we should consider this Alobrith to be an
abridgement from Baalbrith,* or berith, that is, the
* Baal-Berith, or lord of the covenant, was an idol wor-
shipped by the Sechemite, and many of the idolatrous Israel-
ites erected altars to him. To him human sacrifices were
offered ; and it was common to appeal to him as a witness and
judge in all matters of controversy ; and, especially, when pro-
mises, covenants, engagements, or treaties of peace were
entered into. In the most early ages of the world, the Pagans
made their altars of earth or turf, and they were, for the most
part, in groves or on hills, and besides offering up sacrifices to
the gods, they were used for several other purposes. All
alliances with foreign princes were ratified on the altars, that
240
Lord of the Compact ; namely, the idol with whom
the children of Israel had concluded a treaty, after
the manner of the Phoenicians, and in whose honor
the Phoenicians had erected a temple in Gebal, a
mountain and city at the foot of Mount Libanus,
whence the circumjacent country hath obtained the
name of Gebalene. This temple was restored in the
time of Alexander the Great, and consecrated, by
some despicable enthusiasts of the Pagan priesthood,
" To Olympian Jove, the patron of hospitality." For
few things are better known than that the Alobrites,
as well as the other nations of Gaul, of Belgae, and
of Britannia, had embraced the idolatry and the rites
of the Phoenicians.
It is very probable, also, that the Morini were
those whom the ancient Irish called Morintinneach,
high-spirited ; or the Phoenicians, Marin, lords, or
Morin, teachers. Unless, perhaps, they may have
been inhabitants of the land of Jerusalem, and so
denominated from Mount Moriah, which is situated
the gods might be witness of the faithful performance of them ;
of this we have many instances both in ancient history and
poetry. Thus, Harailcar made his son Hannibal lay his hand
on the altar, and swear he would never make peace with the
Romans ; and thus a poet says :
** I touch the sacred altars, touch the flames.
And all those pow'rs attest, and all their names
Whatever chance befal on either side,
No term of time this union shall divide."
241
by the side of Mount Sion. We have already
hinted, above, that the Phoenicians, like the other
nations of antiquity, made it an estabUshed rule, that
whenever they emigrated into foreign countries they
should, through national affection, and a v,ish to
perpetuate the remembrance of the present stock,
transfer to their tribes and families the names of the
cities or provinces, mountains or rivers, that were
associated with their childhood ; a fact which we
could prove by innumerable examples in the con-
duct, as well of the Phoenicians themselves, as of the
Celts, the Greeks, nay, of the Romans and the
Arabians in Spain, and recently in the conduct of
the Spaniards themselves, in North and South
America.
But it may suffice to adduce the instance of the
Aradii, ancient inhabitants of Ireland, who made
several voyages and maritime excursions, in com-
pany with the Phoenicians. These were originally
inhabitants of the island of Arad, on the coast of
Phenice, at the mouth of the river Eleutherus, and
with part of the adjoining continent, such as Antar-
adus, Marathus, Laodicea, the principal city of the
island, and which bore the same name, Strabo says
had been built by some Sydonian exiles, and that
the Aradians contributed much to the advancement
of naval science. We must not wonder, therefore,
when, on allusion to this, we read in Ezekiel's pro-
phecy, that rowers from Arad and Sidon had held
R
242
possession of Tyre ; nor when, in a subsequent
verse of the same chapter, we find that, in the vigor
of their bravery, they with all their forces had
mounted upon its walls, and nobly fought in its
defence. And not only Tyre but Tripolis, the most
illustrious city of Phenice, consisted, as Pliny tells
us, partly of Aradians, and partly of Tyrians and
Sidonians.
That from this island the Aradians, in conjunction
with the Phoenicians, had sailed over into Spain, and
there built the town of Arades amongst the Astures,
Aradilli amongst the Vaccei, and Aradueniga
amongst the Carpetani, all called after their own
name, is to me certain as demonstration can make it.
Ardisa also, formerly a city, now a small town of
Celtiberia ; Ardisalsdo and Ardisana, villages in the
country of the Astures ; Ardaiz, amongst the Canta-
brians, and others of that kind in various quarters of
Spain, seem to me indisputably as colonies of the
Aradians. It is the opinion of a certain very learned
person, that the river of Araduey also, amongst the
Palentines, was called after them ; although others
think the name derived from the Greek, ardeuo, to
moisten.
Again, that from Spain, still in company with the
Phoenicians, the Aradians had shifted across to our
coast, and there established a permanent colony, we
may be assured, I think, from the names of the old
districts of Ard and Arad Cliach, which comprise a
243
great part of the county Tipperary ; as well as of
the tract of Ardes in the county Down ; and the
citadel of Ardea in the county Kerry.* I pass over
the names of other towns, beginning, like the
Spanish, from the word Ard, and still used popularly
and vernacularly as their current designations in the
Irish geography.
That a tribe of the Armenians, also, along with
the Phoenicians, had arrived in this country, may be
inferred from the names of Cany Rock, a town on
the sea coast of the barony of Bairuddery, in the
county Dublin ; of Knordoe, a town in the county
Galway ; of Cahirdonel, a village in the county
Kerry, where are to be seen the ruins of an old cir-
cular fortress, almost impregnably fortified, and con-
* In the name of this county we discover the commercial
nation by whom it was first inhabited ; for Cearagh, its Irish
name, is derived from cear, a merchant; whence comes, ciara-
ban, a company of merchants, equivalent to the eastern, cara-
van, of the same signification.
" O, native, (Kerry!) O, my mother isle!
How shouldst thou prove aught else but dear and holy
To me, who from thy lakes and mountain-hills.
Thy clouds, thy quiet dales, thy rocks and seas,
Have drunk in all my intellectual life.
All sweet sensations, all ennobling thoughts.
All adoration of the God in nature.
All lovely and all honourable things.
Whatever makes this mortal spirit feel
The joy and greatness of its future being."
R 2
244
structed of stones truly wonderful in size ; of Cahir-
dowgan and Cahirdriny, which were camps or forts,
in the county Cork ; and of Cardangan, a small
town in the county Tipperary. For Armenia was
called by the Phoenicians Cardu ; and an Armenian,
Cardanun ; whence Ptolemy calls the lofty mountains
of this country Gordoi ; and Quintus Curtius, Cordei.
That this Cardanian or Armenian people had
seized themselves of Spain also, in conjunction with
the Phoenicians, we have proof clearer than the
moonlight, in numberless names of places in that
country; for instance, Cardena, the name of a river
of the Vaccei ; Cardenu, or Cardenus, a river of the
Ilergetes, flowing into the Rubricatum, now the
Llobregat ; Cardenas, a town of Cantabria ; Carden-
chosa, a little village of Bcetica ; Cardona, a very
ancient city of the Ilergetes ; with the towns of
Cardenosa, Cardenete, Cardena, Cardenueta, &c. in
different parts of the kingdom.
245
CHAP. XXVII,
The Attacoti, inhabitants of Ireland—Whether they were the
Silures—Whether an ancient or modern people—Whether
descended from Cuthah, a city of the Persians—Vestiges of
the Cutheans in Ireland, and in Spain.
The Attacoti,* mentioned by St. Jerom as ancient
inhabitants of Ireland, gave their name to the
country, or rather province, of Attacottia, which the
* Gibbon has given a very strange perversion to a sentence
in St. Jerom respecting the Attacotti, which runs thus: *' Et
quum per sylvas porcorura greges et armentorum pecuduraque
reperiunt, pastorum nates et ferrainarum papillas solere abscin-
dere, et has solas ciborum delicias arbitrari," —which the
historian thus translates, " They curiously selected the most
delicate and brawny parts of both males and females, which
they prepared for their horrid repasts." But he was misled by
the word pastorum, which is not the genitive plural of pastor,
a shepherd, but of pastus, meaning well-fed ; and thus the
sentence should be :
" When the Attacotti, wandering through
the woods, meet with flocks and herds of black cattle, sheep,
and pigs, they are in the habit of cutting off^ the rumps of the
fat or well-fed he beasts, and the udders of the she ones ; and
consider these as the only delicate parts of the animals." That
246
Emperor Constantine, from his own name, after-
wards called Flavia Caesariensis. But as this people
are not to be met with in Ptolemy's commentaries,
Baxter has been induced to believe that the Silures,
together with their dependants, the Demeti and
Cornavii, and the Cangani, who were their vassals,
again, had obtained this designation at a later period
of the Roman empire. For what does Attacotti mean,
he says, but, dwelling in the woods ? For At-a-coit,
written loosely, means, in the woods. This he con-
firms by some verse from Condelia, called Prydydh
Maus, or the great poet ; whence he conjectures
that the Irish Attacotti were named from the syno-
nymous term Argoet, and Argoetnys, meaning men
beside woods ; or, as the old Leomarchus would take
it, Guyr Argoet. The condition of the country, which
this custom, barbarous and savage as it is, was frequent amongst
the ancients is evident, from that text of scripture, which says :
—Neither shall ye eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field,
Mr. Bruce, the traveller, threw light upon this command, by
stating that this practice exists in Abyssinia, where pieces of
flesh are cut out of the animals alive and eaten ; the creature
being kept alive for further use. This statement was long con-
sidered as a traveller's exaggeration, but it has subsequently
been found to be true. The prohibition might have a two-fold
object, first, to prevent the imitation of the cruel practices of
the heathen ; and, secondly, to prevent the light treatment of
blood, when the blood which was the life of the beast was shed
in the sacrifices, being emblematical of the blood of the
covenant.—See Dr, A, Clarke, The Attacotti, however, were
not Irish at all, but a canton of England.
247
every one must be aware from the poem of Higdenus,
to have been woody and uncultivated,, even so late
as the Norman times, agrees well with this conjec-
ture, to which we must add Ammianus Marcellinus's
testimony to the effect, that the Attacoti, assisted by
the Saxons, the Scots, and the Picts, had ravaged
and laid waste the Roman province.
I imagine, however, that their nation was more
ancient; and would be disposed to refer their arrival
in this country to the times of the Phoenicians, whom
it is more than probable the Chutaei had accompanied
in their maritime excursions. The Chutaei or Chuti
were natives of the country of Persis, called Cuth,
who after the dispersion of the ten tribes were
carried off from Chuthah and the other cities of that
empire, into Phcenice, by Salamansar, King of As-
syria; and they and their posterity were, for the most
part, so called, because the greater number of them
were from the city Chuthah. Being intermixed with
the Phoenicians, they introduced into their cities the
worship of the idol Nergel, which many suppose Ijo
have been, tharingol, that is, a dunghill cock, which
they had perched upon a pole in the air, as the
herald of the dawn. The word Attacotti, therefore,
conveys to my ear the same idea as Atha-Chuthi
did to the Phoenicians, and that is, the arrival of the
Cutheans ; or as Athar-Cuthi, a place or country
where the Chutaeans reside ; or as Chutaei scouts.
248
in keeping with the character of the people, which
Zosimus designates as a warlike nation.
From the Attacotti would seem to have been de-
rived Annacotty, the name of a town in the county
Limerick ; for Anna, in the Phoenician, hanna, means
delightful, acceptable. This name, if we suppose it
composed of the words Hanna-Chuttai, will mean,
a place acceptable to the Phoenician Chutheans ; or
if we suppose its component parts to have been
Anakia-Chuti, it will then mean the offspring of the
Phoenician Chutheans. Or, perhaps, it bears refer-
ence to the idol Ana-Meloch, which the Phoenicians
borrowed from the Chuthaeans and other Assyrians,
in which case you may render it by, the oracle of
Moloch ;
—aonah or onah, being, an answer. On
these points, however, let every one judge as he
thinks fit. I volunteer my guesses, principally to
elicit those of others.
Before any such appear, perhaps the curious in
antiquarian lore may recognise other vestiges of the
Cuthaeans in the name, Cot's Rock, now Castlemary,
in the county Cork, where is to be seen an immense
stone altar, supported by three others. Inis Cathay,
too, now Inis Scattery,* an island at the mouth of the
* Scattery island is about three miles from the shore, and
contains about one hundred and eighty acres of choice land
a priory was founded here, by St. Sennan, in the sixth century.
It is recorded in St. Sennan's life, that during his residence in
249
river Shannon, where there is still standing, in toler-
able preservation, one of the Round Towers in which
this country abounds, may seem a vestige of Cuthaean
occupancy ; so may Cath, also the name of a rock
on the coast of the county Cork ; as well as Cotton,
an extensive district in the county Down ; and Cot-
land, a small town in the county Kildare.
That the Phoenicians too, who had originally
landed in Spain, had been Chuthaeans, appears to be
indicated by the name of Cotinussa, by which, as
Festus Avienus and Pliny inform us, the island of
Gades was once known ; by the names of the towns
of Cuthar in Bcetica; Cutanda and Cotanda in Cel-
this island, which was then called Inis Cathay, a ship arrived
there, bringing fifty monks, Romans by birth, who were drawn
into Ireland by the desire of a more holy life and a knowledge
of the scriptures. This island, called also Inisgatha or Inisga,
the island in the sea, situated in the mouth of the Shannon, one
of the most convenient harbors for the Danish and Norwegian
invaders, who generally came north about round Scotland, was
for a long time a bone of contention between them and the
Irish ; and from the multitude of those round forts, said to be
thrown up by the Danes—though in reality they were erected
long before their inroads—in the adjoining parishes in the west
of Clare—it is likely that the Danes was strong in this quarter.
From the Annals of Munster, Act 55, p. 542, we learn that in
the year 975, Brien the " Great," King of Munster, at the head
of twelve hundred Dalgais troops, assisted by Doiunhall, King
of Toanhuein, recovered the island of Iniscattery from the
Danes, by defeating Tomhar, the Norman, and his two sons,
Amblaib and Duibheann. Eight hundred of the Danes, who
fled thither for safety some time before, were slain in this battle.
250
tiberia; Cotar and Cotillo in Cantabria; Cutian, (two
of same name) in Gallacia; and Cutialla, an immense
rock of the Pyrenees. To these you may add the
names of various villas and villages in different
quarters of that country, such as Goto, Cueto,
Cotanes, Cotarones, Cotovad, Cotolino, Cotorillo,
&c. &c.
CHAP, xxviir
The Druids^ Magicians and Soothsayers—Whence named—
The introducers of human immolation and human divination
amongst the people of the West.
It is admitted on all hands that the soothsayers
and magicians, and as such—conformably to ancient
custom, —the magistrates of the ancient Britons
and Gauls, had been called Druids in the British
language.* We have the authority of Pliny for
* Of all the ancient heathen systems of religion, the Druid-
ical comes nearest to that of the Carthagenians ; but then it
will be naturally asked, how, or in what manner did the ancient
Britons become acquainted with the religion of a people, who,
251
stating, that these had transmitted the science of
the Magi, or the art of Magic, to the Chaldeans and
Persians. Undoubtedly Orphgeus,* who was one of
their number, taught music and theology to the
Greeks.f The Gauls and the inhabitants of the
British isles, had, as Caesar and Tacitus inform us,
their own Druids. With both nations did the custom
of sacrificing human victims to their idols prevail,
which Cicero and others record of the Gauls, as
Pliny does of the Britons ; and perhaps it would not
in point of locality, were situated at avast distance from them?
To a thinking person, this would afford much instruction, be-
cause it will serve to convince him, that the account of the
dispersion of Noah's children, as related in Genesis x. is
genuine ; and that all idolatry originated from the mistaken
notions which men embraced, after their dispersion on the face
of the earth, when they vainly attempted to build the Tower
of Babel. Lastly, the Carthagenians, or Phoenicians, carried
on a very extensive commerce w^th the natives of Britain ; a
circumstance which could not easily have taken place in those
barbarous ages, unless their religions, manners, and customs
had nearly resembled each other. That they did so, we have
many evidences remaining in Britain, particularly in Devon-
shire and Cornwall ; and to support this assertion, we have the
testimony of the best Greek and Roman historians.
* We should observe that the ancient name for a harp, in
Irish, is Orpheam, an evident derivation from this great musi-
cian's name.
•f
Whilst their first taught creed, the mystic or philosophical
religion of an earlier age, came to them directly from India
itself. And of this, Herodotus himself is the authority we
choose to quote, who admits that the Grecian divinities were
partly Egyptian and partly Pelasgic.
252
be straining commentary too far if we would take
the observation of Horace, where he calls the
*^
Britons savage to strangers," as allusive to the
same ; for some persons suppose that they were in
the habit of immolating strangers, which it is well
known the inhabitants of the county of Taurus
had practised without reserve. The Concani too,
who were a part of the Cantabrians, as we have
said above, residing in Hispania Tarraconensis, and
a colony of the Massagetae, had some things in
common with the Sarmatians, Thracians, and Scy-
thians, as far as regards cruelty and beastly pro-
pensities.
The word Druid some would derive from the
Celtico-Germanic, deruidhon, which means exceeding
wise ; for, der, or, dre, in Celtic, is the same as, deur
or, door, in the German Celto-Scythic; as are their
compounds Druides and Deurwitten. Others choose
to derive it from druis, which, both in the Celtic and
German, is equivalent* to trowis or truvis, that is, a
teacher of truth and faith. Others from the British
and German, dru, faith ; by some called tru ; whence
too, God was called by the antient Germans, Drutin
or Trudin, as you may see in the gospel of Othfridus
Drudin, therefore, may signify either, divine or feith-
ful; either term being applicable to the priesthood.
Others from the old British word, drus, a daemon or
magician ; or the Saxon dry, an enchanter, whilst
others, in fine, would derive it from the Greek, drus.
253
an oak, and that solely because of Pliny's remark,
that ''
they make choice of oak groves, neither do
they celebrate any sacred rites without that tree, so
much so that they may seem to have been thence
denominated by a Greek derivation."* What Lucan
says of them would seem to bear upon this, viz.
''
deep groves, in remote uncultivated forests."
Whence the Greeks, by an old taunt, used to call
them, Saronides, from the worship of old oaks,
which that word originally and properly signified.
They who hold out for the Celtic etymology say,
that this explanation would be satisfactory enough,
if the Gauls had received the Druids from the
Massilienses, and they from the Phocenses. But
the Druids were unknown to the Greeks, so that we
must look altogether for their origin in the Celtic,
especially as it is supposed, on the authority of Caesar
and Tacitus, that the Gauls had borrowed them from
the British isles.
Every one will doubtless judge for himself. To
my ear the word sounds of a Syro-Chaldaic, or
Phoenician descent, yet could I not dare to specify
* In the Irish annals, Magh, a Magian priest, is sometimes
put for Draoi, a Druid. The Druidioal religion was at first ex-
tremely simple; but such is the corruption of human nature,
that it was soon debased by abominable rites and ceremonies,
in the same manner as was practised by the Canaanites, the
Carthagenians, and by all the heathens in the other parts of the
world.
254
its precise signification. In the Phoenician language,
dor-ida means a progeny of wise men or benefactors,
or of such as have the charge of the people ; dor-id,
a powerful generation ; dra-id, powerful lords ; dru-
sin, teachers and instructors, from the singular drus
or dras ; each and all of which would admirably ac-
cord with the established and well known literature of
the Irish Druids,* as well as their power and influence
amongst barbarous nations^ sunk in vice and devoted
to the worship of idols. Drur or dreur, also, in
that language, means exemption from work or ser-
vitude ; freedom from debt or demand, &c. And we
know that Caesar has declared of the Druids, ^^
that
they do not pay tribute in common with others,
having exemption from war, as well as immunity
from every other demand." I am not so vain, how-
ever, as to think that I have altogether in this
particular hit upon the truth. Mankind are liable
* The Scoto- Milesians, free and independent, lived within
themselves, and were separated by their insular situation, from
the rest of the world ; whilst the Britons were slaves, trampled
upon by a foreign power, and often harassed by the Picts and
Scots. The Scoto-Milesians held a superiority over them in
every thing : they made war upon them in their own country ;
they carried away prisoners ; and in fine were a lettered
people, which cannot be said of the Britons. Shall it be then
pretended, that, because there were not in the time of Gildas,
any historical monuments among the Britons, the neighbouring
nations must have been also without any ? The inferencee
cannot appear to be a just one.—Mac Geoghegan,
255
to err in these matters, but I am greatly deceived,
if I am not far less distant from the truth than they
who, in the fondness of their zeal, would boast of
their success in extracting this and other names from
the Celtic language, or that of the old Britons and
Germans.*
That from the Druids, as well as from the other
sacrificial forms of the Phoenicians and other nations,
was introduced into Spain and Gaul, and the
British islands, the barbarous custom of human
immolation, called anthropothysia, together with
* Tartars, who, in Isbrand's account of them, are called
Daores, and who are a branch of the Orientals, assemble
themselves together at midnight, both men and women, in
some commodious place, where one of them falls prostrate on
the ground, and remains stretched out at his full length, whilst^
the whole cabal make a hideous outcry to the doleful sound of
a drum, made on purpose for the celebration of that particular
ceremony. At the expiration of two hours, or thereabouts, the
person thus extended, rises as it were in an ecstasy, and com-
municates his visions to the whole assembly. He is perfectly
apprized during his trance, of what misfortunes will befall this
man, and what undertakings that man will engage in with
success. Each word he utters is listened to with the utmost
attention, and is deemed as sacred as that of an oracle. All
their religious worship, however, does not absolutely consist
in this ; for they have their particular sacrifices as well as
others. There is a small mountain on the frontiers of China,
which is looked upon as holy ground, and the eastern Tartars
imagine their journies will prove unsuccessful, if, as they pass
by, they neglect to consecrate some part of their apparel to this
sacred mountain.
256
that of human divmation, called anthropomanteia,
is a question that no one can contravene. Diodorus
Siculus speaking of them says, " Whenever they
deliberate upon matters of importance, they observe
a wonderful and almost incredible custom : for they
sacrifice a man, and from some old estabhshed ob-
servation upon matters, affect to know the future by
the circumstances of his fall, whether it be from some
accident, or the laceration of his limbs, or the flow
of his blood." Tacitus, too, says, " the Druids held
it lawful to offer upon the altars the blood of their
captives, and dive into futurity by the fibres of
humanvictims."* This custom the Spaniards observed.
* When the lights, after being just taken out, were found
still panting, it was looked upon to be so happy an omen, that
all other presages were considered as indifferent or of no con-
sequence ; because, said they, this alone sufficed to make them
propitious, how unhappy soever they might be. After they had
taken out the harslet, they blew up the bladder with their
breath, then tied it up at the end, or squeezed it close with
their hands, observing at the same time how the passages,
through which the air enters into the lungs, and the small veins
which are generaly found there, were swelled ; because the
more they were inflated, the more the omen was propitious.
They also observed several other particulars, which it would be
a difficult matter for us to relate.
They looked upon it as an ill omen, if while they were rip-
ping up the beast's side, it rose up and escaped out of the
hands of those who held it down, and they also looked upon
it as ill boding, if the bladder, which generally joins to the
harslet, happened to break, and had thereby prevented the
taking it out entire ; or if the lights were torn, or the heart
putrified, and so on.
257
having borrowed it, no doubt, from them or some
others of the Phoenician priesthood. ^^
The Lusitani,"
says Strabo, '^
study immolation, and inspect the en-
trails of their victims before they have been cut out
they also examine the veins of the sides, and pretend
to divination by touching. Nay, they prophesy also
from the entrails of their captives, first covering
them over with thick cloths : when thus, from be-
neath, a pulsation can be distinguished, the soothsayer
instantly predicts from the body of the slain. They
cut off the right hands of the prisoners of war, and
consecrate them to the gods."
The same Diodorus Siculus says, that the Druids
had a custom "of offering no sacrifice without a
philosopher to officiate : for they thought that sacred
rites should be performed only by men conscious of
the divine nature, and as such in a near relation
to the gods."* They attended also at the sacrifices
* Some of theiv priests were extremely ingenious, and made
amulets, or rings of glass, variegated in the most curious
manner, of which many are still to be seen. They were worn
as we do rings on the finger ; and having been consecrated by
one of the Druids, they were considered as charms, or pre-
servatives against witchcraft, or all the machinations of evil
spirits. From what remains of these amulets, or rings, they
seem to have been extremely beautiful, composed of blue, red,
and green, intermixed with white spots; all of which contained
something emblematical, either of the life of the persons who
wore them, or of the state to v^^hich they were supposed to
enter.
258
of the Gauls^ at which, TertuUian tells us, they were
in the habit of offering human victims to Mercury.
And Menutius Felix says, ''
the Gauls slay human,
or rather, inhuman, victims." Strabo, speaking of
their sacrifices, which had been invented, or at least
patronized, by the Druids, says, " they used in their
sacred offices to pierce some individuals to death by
arrows, or else crucify them ; or having reared up a
pillar of hay and stuck a wooden pole therein, they
used to burn cattle and animals of every description,
nay, men themselves, whole and unmutilated." And
Diodorus Siculus, " criminals kept for five years,
they nail to the stakes, and sacrifice to the gods, and
with other first fruits, immolate over immense funeral
piles."* Which practices, as well as the others apper-
taining to idolatrous ritual, were common to the
Spaniards and Britons, and its various Celtic tribes.
But as the first Druids were, in my opinion, the
sacrificing priests of the Phoenicians, it is very likely
that they borrowed this bloody and atrocious super-
stition from the Phoenicians, of whom Porphyry says,
* And barbarous indeed was the manner in which it was
done: the victim, stripped naked, and his head adorned with
flowers, was chained with his back to an oak, opposite the
place where the Arch-Druid stood; and while music of all
sorts, then in use, was playing, the Druid, having- invoked the
gods to accept of the sacrifice, walked forward with a knife in
his hand, and stabbed the victim in the bowels. The music pre-
vented his cries from being heard by the people ; it was some-
times four or five hours before he expired.
259
*^
the Phoenicians used to sacrifice on occasions of
great calamity—whether of war, of draughty or of
pestilence—some certain one of their dearest friends,
appointed for this purpose by common suffrage."
And Eusebius :
" The Phoenicians used yearly to
sacrifice their most beloved friends^ nay^ their only
sons." What wonder is it then that the greater part
of the religions of the barbarians should have at
length accorded with the Phoenicians in this human
immolation, finding it an easy transition, from sa^
crifice to malefice, from piety to enormity, from the
blood of victims to the murder of man? a thing not
only savage and revolting in the act, but monstrous
and horrible even in idea ! The Thessalians we find
used annually to sacrifice a man to Peleus and
Chiron ; so used the Scythians foreigners to Diana.
As the Syrians used to slay a virgin annually in
honor of Pallas, so used the Arabians a boy. The
Curetes, like the Phoenicians, used to sacrifice some
of their children to Saturn ; the Lacedemonians, a
man to Saturn ; the Chians, another to Bacchus ;
the Salaminians, another to Diomed ; and the Rho-
dians, another to Saturn ;* whilst the Phrigians, in
* Saturn was the deity whom the Carthagenians principally
worshipped ; and he was the same with what is called Moloch
in Scripture. This idol was the deity to whom they offered up
human sacrifices, and to this we owe the fable of Saturn^s
having devoured his own children. Princes and great men,
under particular calamities, used to offer up their most beloved
s 2
260
the heat of their superstitious zeal, used miserably
to burn and sacrifice themselves to the great mother,
Cibele. The Greeks, before setting out upon any-
military expedition, used to sacrifice a life, thereby
making their devotion towards the gods to wreak its
vengeance upon themselves. The Athenians, oppress-
ed by a frightful famine on account of the assassination
of Androgeos, consulted the oracle ; when they got for
their reply, that they must send fourteen souls every
year to Crete for sacrifice. The Italians themselves
used to sacrifice every tenth man, or the tithe of
their population, to Apollo and Juno. But I grow
sick of the recital, and shall leave this unnatural and
impious superstition to the merited lamentations of
Lactantius and TertuUian.*
children to this idol. Private persons imitated the conduct of
their princes ; and thus, in time, the practice became general ;
nay, to such a height did they carry their infatuation, that those
who had no children of their own, purchased those of the poor,
that they might not be deprived of the benefits of such a sacri-
fice, which was to procure them the completion of their wishes.
This horrid custom prevailed long among the Phoinicians, the
Tyrians, and the Carthagenians, and from them the Israelites
borrowed it, although expressly contrary to the order of God.
* The ancient idolaters of Peru offered not only the fruits of
the earth and animals to these gods, but also their captives, like
the rest of the Americans. We are assured, that they used to
sacrifice their own children, whenever there was a scarcity of
victims. These sacrifices were performed by cutting open the
victims alive, and afterwards tearing out their hearts ; they then
smeared the idol, to whom they were sacrificing, with the blood
261
It was chiefly on account of these human sacrifices
that Augustus Caesar interdicted to his subjects the
introduction of the Druidical religion. Tiberius re-
moved it from the city ; and Claudius abolished it
in the Gauls themselves. Yet have we the lament-
able truth to record, that this cruel rite was again
revived and perpetuated^ at a subsequent period, in
Gaul and elsewhere, as Lampridius, Vopiscus, and
Eusebius, but too mournfully testify.*
Some Spaniards suppose that vestiges of the
Druids of that Peninsula are still preserved, in the
depraved names of Drada and Dradas, which are
small towns belonging to the ancient Lusitania,
which became afterwards the jurisdiction of the
yet reeking, as was the custom of Mexico. The priest burnt
the victim's heart, after having viewed it in order to see whether
the sacrifice would be agreeable to the idol. Some other idol-
ators offered their own blood to their deities, which they drev^
from their arms and thighs, according as the sacrifice was more
or less solemn ; and they even used, on extraordinary occasions,
to let themselves blood at the tips of their nostrils, or between
the eye-brows. We are however to observe, that these kinds
of bleeding were not always an act of religious worship, but
were often employed purely to prevent diseases. Hurd,
* No idolatrous worship ever attained such an ascendant over
mankind as that of the ancient Gauls and Britons ; and the
Romans, after their conquest, finding it impossible to reconcile
those nations to the laws and institutions of their masters, were
at last obliged to abolish the Druidical system by penal statutes
a violence which had never, in any other instance, been prac-
tised by those tolerating conquerors."^ Hume's EngL I. 5.
262
Suevi, as it is now of the Lucani, in the district of
Gallacia. They also suppose that Adrada and
Adrades, the names of two towns belonging to the
Vaccaei, allude to the same ; as also Adrados, the
name of two villages in the country of the Astures,
&;c. &c *
* Some traces of the Druidical religion remained in Gaul
and Germany, till the time of the Emperor Constantine the
Great ; but in that part of Britain, now called England, it was
totally suppressed, in consequence of the following incident. In
or about the year 62, the Romans having cruelly oppressed the
Britons, who were at that time subject to them by conquest,
the latter took up arms, and massacred many of their invaders.
.News of this having been sent to Rome, Seutonius, a gallant
commander, was sent over to Britain, in order to subdue the
insurgents, and the whole body of the Druids, calling in the aid of
superstition, retired to the island of Mona, since called Angle-
sey, in North Wales. To that island the Roman general pur-
sued them ; and such were the hopes that the Druids had of
success, that when the Romans made their appearance, they
lighted up fires in their groves, in order to consume them. The
Romans, however, put most of the Britons to the sword ; and
having taken the Druids prisoners, burnt them alive on their
altars, and cut down their consecrated groves. From that time
we have but few accounts of the Druids in the southern parts of
Britain, although there is the strongest reason to believe, that
both in the western parts, and likewise in Ireland, their religion
continued much longer. Hurd.
263
CHAP. XXIX.
The Phcenicians initiated the Samothracians in the discipline of
idols—They also introduced it into Ireland—Astaroth, a
Phoenician idol— Vestiges of its worship in Ireland and in
Spain.
Thus far have we seen all that is worthy of being
known respecting the ancient manners of the early
inhabitants of Ireland. Now lest any one should
imagine that I have been induced, from the mere
circumstance of the derivation of these names, to
infer the possession of this island, as well in length
as in breadth, from coast to coast, at one time by
the Phcenicians, I shall endeavour to construct my
theory still more secure, by the idol worship which
anciently prevailed amongst us, and which was the
same as originally obtained amongst the Phoenicians,
from whom, doubtless, we have adopted it. In sup-
port of this I shall adduce, first, the authority of
Artemidorus, who says that " there is an island near
Britain, in which sacrifices used to be offered to Ceres*
* Prima Ceres ferro mortales vertere terrain, instituit. —Virg.
Geor. i. 7.
264
and to Proserpine, in the same manner as in Samo-
thrace." '^
Nor is there any reason/' adds Bochart,
'^
that any one should think its inhabitants had the
Greeks as their instructors at the time of Artemido-
rus, who wrote in the reign of Ptolemy Latyrus
the learned know well that no Greek ever landed in
Britain : it remains, therefore, that those same
Phoenicians, from whom the Samothracians had
learned the worship of the Cabiri, had initiated
those also in the same discipline." In like manner,
are we furnished with proofs—as well from other
memorials as from certain terms used by the Irish
people, which savor strongly of the idolatrous ritual
—that they had instructed in the principles of their
superstition not only the Irish, but the Spaniards too,
and every other people amongst whom they could get
footing as a colony.
To begin with Astarte or Astaroth, the deity of
the Phoenicians, and the groves dedicated to'her,
we may observe the evidence of her having been
worshipped in Ireland, in the name of that town
in the county Donegal, by the river Erne, called
Astroth, or, otherwise, Ashro ; in Ardsrath or Ard-
stra, the name of a town by the river Deirg, in the
county Antrim, now called Bathlure ; in Aterit, the
name of an ancient district and borough in the
county Galway, now called Athenry or Atenree.
For Ashro is the Phoenician word, Ashra, a grove
or shmbbery that is worshipped ; or a tree planted
265
in honor of some idol beside his shrine or altar ; for
the Phoenicians, like the other idolators of the east,
were wont to plant a tree by the temples or altars of
their divinities, as a meeting-place for the congre-
gation ; a custom which, perhaps, had its rise from
the similar one universally observed by the easterns,
of planting trees over the graves of their illustrious
men or heroes.^ A specimen of this custom we still see
in the linden or elm trees planted over ancient ceme-
tries. Spain, too, has to this day, in the district of
Cantabria, a celebrated tree of this sort, which they
call, de Garnica; under the branches of which, from
the earliest date, the people have been accustomed
to celebrate their general elections.
That the idolators used to worship a tree situated
in the centre of a garden may be inferred from the
sixty-seventh chapter, and seventeenth verse of Isaiah.
Holy writ speaks in more places than one, of woods
or groves consecrated to Baal, a superstition which
the Lord prohibited to Israel. The people, however,
forgetting the Lord their God, are said afterwards to
have worshipped Baalim and Ashroth or Asheroth,
that is his groves. Which observance the Greeks and
Romans in after times adopted. The Galli Narbonen-
* Super tumulum Iddo, prophetae, qui sepultus est in urbe
Phcenicura Dan juxta fontem fluminis lor-Dan (fluvius Dan)
abor magna botam (terebinthus) collocata est. Ibidem tumula-
tus est Sabuelj Moysis ex Gerson nepos ; et super eo arbor
magna Sagadian. V. Schindl. he. laud. col. 378.
266
ses, who were called Massilii^ that is, the inhabitants of
Marseilles, used to adore their gods in woods; or in
other words, used to consider as gods the trunks of
their trees ; an usage from which the Scythians, the
Persians, and the Lybians did not differ much, who
at a time when they had neither likenesses nor
images, began afterwards to worship idols in woods.
Unquestionably Jupiter was called Endendros by the
Rhodians, as was Bacchus by the Boetians, from
their being worshipped in groves, as this epithet
signifies. Diana, too, was called Nemorensis, or
presiding over groves, as she was also Arduenra, and
the Albunean goddess, from a grove and forest of
those respective names. Conformable to this is what
we read of King Manasses, namely, that he laid
down in the temple of the Lord, pesel hasherah, or
ashrah, the idol of the grove.
The first king who is recorded to have consecrated
a grove under that name is Achab. What follows is in
keeping with this, viz. ''
And they made themselves
statues and groves in every high hill, and under every
shady forest." But why under every leafy oak they
burned fragrant incense to all their idols may be in-
ferred from Hosea, iv. 13, where it is said they did
so '' because its shade is good." It will be enough for
our purpose merely to hint that the oak to which the
worship was offered, is understood by Salomon Jarchi
as the word Asherah, which signifies an oak grove
and that from it seems to be taken the sense of that
267
passage in Isaiah, Ivii. 5, ^'
Ye comfort yourselves
with your gods under every green tree ;" the Hebrew
text has eUm, which the Septuagint and Enghsh
versions render by idols. They, therefore, who
understand by those scripture texts, not the real
trees, but the idols consecrated by that name, bring
forward in proof of this acceptation the lofty oak,
which Maximus Tyrius assures us, had been a statue
of the Celtic Jove.
And, indeed, that Asharah means not a place
planted with trees, as Flavins Josephus supposes,
but actually a deity, or rather a false god, may be
concluded from the fact of King Manasses having
placed an idol of that name, and that too of wood,
in the temple of Jerusalem. Whence, perhaps, by
the terms oak and grove, is intended a reproach
upon their fictitious, fragile, and perishable divinities
as we find it to have been burned by King Josias,
and ground to dust and then flung over the groves
of the populace. In other places, also, the word
Asherath or grove, is taken for the wooden image of
Belus, which was consecrated above his altar. We
likewise frequently meet with images dedicated to
Astarte or Astaroth, called Asherim and Asheroth, or
groves ; that, both, an attention may be enlisted by
the allusion of the name, and a material so inade-
quate to divinity find that merited reproach which
the very sound must convey. All our conjectures
about Ashros I wish to be understood as equally
2f6g
applicable to Easroe and Easruadh, being but inflec-
tions of this word^ and names of two towns in this
country.
With this accord the depraved names of Astrath,
and of the village Ardsrath, that is the idol which
was worshipped there, called Astaroth or Astareth,
or Astrath, being an image of the Sidonians, respect-
ing which the scripture says, "that the people of
Israel had forsaken the Lord and worshipped Baal
and Astaroth ;" for these were the supreme, not to
say the only deities of the Sidonians, by the former
of which they understood the sun, by the other the
moon or the earth.* Whence some heretics, by
reason of its being common to all men to receive
their vital heat from the sun and heaven, and their
grosser matter from the terraqueous globe, over
which, and more particularly over its watery compo-
nent, the moon exercises dominion, have specially
attributed this to Melchisedec,f whose father they
* This idolatry was founded on a mistaken notion of grati-
tude, which instead of ascending up to the Supreme Being, stopt
short at the veil, which both covered and discovered him: —
" Ah ! how basely men their honours use.
And the rich gifts of bounteous heaven abuse
How better far to want immoderate store
Of worldly wealth, and live serenely poor ;
To spend in peace and solitude our days.
Than be seduc'd from sacred virtue's ways."
MilchelVs Jonah.
f He appears to have been a real personage. He had pre-
served in his family and among his subjects the worship of the
269
state to be Heracles^ or the sun^ and his mother
Astharte, that is the moon or Tellus. Nor would
they have done so, but that his parents were not
known.
We see, then, that the idol Astrath or Astharoth,
was also called Astharte, of which Lucian of Samo-
sata thus speaks :
" Now there is another temple in
Phoenicia which the Sidonians have, and by name
Astharte as they themselves call it ; but I consider
Astharte to be the moon." Whence Eusebius hands
down from Philo, that Astharte had the head of a
bull placed upon her own as the ensign of royalty ; that
by his curved front he may imitate fire, and exhibit
at the same time the appearance of the moon. Nor
can we conceive any more appropriate symbol of the
moon than an ox's head, representing as it does by
its horns the moon's curvature ; as the Egyptian Isis,
—by which likewise was meant the moon —was in-
vested by that people with a pair of horns. All which
characteristics clearly accord with the Diana of the
Greeks and Latins, whom Horace designates as
true God, and the primitive patriarchal institutions ; by these
the father of every family was both king and priest. By Salem
most judicious interpreters allow that Jerusalem is meant. From
the use made of this part of the sacred history by David, (Psa.
ex. 4,) and by St. Paul, (Heb. vii. 1—10,) we learn that there
was something very mysterious, and at the same time typical,
in the person, name, office, residence, and government of this
Canaanitish prince.
270
" mistress of the woods." Whence it is evident that
Astharte is the moon or Diana ; groves having been
consecrated to her, as Vossius and others have de-
monstrated. From Astharte the septuagint has
given the name of, Astarteion, to the temple of As-
tharoth or Beth Astaroth; where the Palestines*
deposited or consecrated the arms of Saul, whom
they slew. You also meet Astartion in Flavins
Josephus.
There are those who maintain that Astaroth or
Astharte was so called, from its images having been
made in the form of a sheep, and considering Aster-
oth to mean, flocks. Others suspect it was so named
from the multitude of its victims. Others considered
Astharte to be Venus, whom Procopius, of Gaza,
asserts to have been worshipped by the Sidonians,
and to have had groves planted in honor of her.
* The appellation of Palestine, by which the whole land of
Canaan appears to have been called in the days of Moses, is
derived from the Philistines, a people who migrated from
Egypt, and, having expelled the aboriginal inhabitants, settled
on the borders of the Mediterranean ; where they became so
considerable as to give their name to the whole country,
though they in fact, possessed only a small part of it. The
Philistines were for a long time the most formidable enemies
of the children of Israel, but about the year of the world 3841,
that is, before Christ 159, the illustrious Judas Maccabeus
subdued their country ; and about sixty-five years afterwards
Jannaeus burnt their city Gaza, and incorporated the remnant
of the Philistines with such Jews as he placed in their country.
Hartwell Home,
271
And here I may be allowed, in passing, to remark
that Herodian has inconsiderately and ill-advisedly
asserted, that the Phoenicians had no images of their
deities ; what he and Strabo have also said of the
ancient Persians, as Lucian has of the Egyptians.
This has led some to conclude that the Gauls, too,
and the Britons made no use of idols in their Druid-
ical ceremonies: and hence that it was not to be
wondered at that none were ever found in the ruins
of their old temples throughout this island. But it
is manifest from Holy writ, that the Phoenicians had
Baal, and Astharoth, and Moloch, and other like-
nesses of their deities, for idols. That the ancient
Irish worshipped idols will appear equally evident
from what Diodorus Siculus tells us of the " Hyper-
borean" island, "Where," he says, ''
peculiar worship
is paid to Apollo, whom they worship every day with
incessant singing of praises,* and in honor of whom
* One would suppose that the most ancient sort of poetry
consisted in 'praising the Deity ; for, if we conceive a being,
created with all his faculties and senses, endued with speech
and reason, to open his eyes in a most delightful plain, to view
for the first time the serenity of the sky, the splendor of the
sun, the verdure of the fields and woods, the glowing colours
of the flowers, we can hardly believe it possible that he should
refrain from bursting in an ecstacy of jfoy, and pouring his
praises to the creator of those wonders, and the author cf his
happiness. This kind of poetry is used in all nations ; but, as
it is the sublimest of all, when it is applied to its true object, so
it has often been perverted to impious purposes by pagans and
272
there is there a magnificent grove and a splendid
temple, of circular form."* And a comparison of the
original, in its several descriptive points, will prove
beyond the possibility of doubt, that by this island
was meant our own green Ireland,f as Dalton has
before affirmed. But, more than abundant on this
idolaters : every one knows that the dramatic poetry of the
Europeans took its rise from the same spring, and was no more
at first than a song in praise of Bacchus; so that the only
species of poetical composition, (if we except the epic,) which
can in any sense be called imitative, was deduced from a
natural emotion of the mind, in which imitation could not be at
all concerned. Sir W. Jones.
* These are the " Round Towers," or, to speak correctly,
our Budhist Temples, as I have proved in my '•
Essay :"
Divine
And beauteous island ! thou hast been my sole
And most magnificent temple, in the which
I walk with awe, and sing my stately songs.
Loving the God that made me !
Coleridge.
f
'* Although," says Sir John Carr, " the Welsh have been
for ages celebrated for the boldness and sweetness of their
Music, yet it appears that they were much indebted to the
superior musical talents of their neighbours, the Irish. The
learned Selden asserts, that the Welsh music, for the most
part, came out of Ireland with Gruffydh ap Conan, Prince of
North Wales, who was cotemporary with King Stephen. " I
am delighted," adds the elegant author of Julia de Roubigni,
** with those ancient national songs, because there is a simpli-
city and an expression in them, which I can understand.
Adepts in music are pleased with more intricate compositions,
and they talk more of the pleasure, than they feel ; and others
talk after them, without feeling at all.
273
head will be the testimony of St. Patrick,* whom we
find continually and keenly reproving the adorers of
the sun, whom he found before him in this country,
grieving from his soul that the Irish could, to that
day, continue in the v/orship of ridiculous idols.
As, therefore, the Iberes in Spain worshipped after
the Phoenician fashion, the sun and moon, under the
guise of Baal and Astharoth, so did the Irish embrace
the same superstitions from the Ibero-Phcenicians, as
well as the worship of those images that prevailed
amongst them. Nor is it to be wondered at, if, in the
old walls of those temples—which Ireland still pre-
serves, despite the ravages of time—there are no such
images as those to be met with, as I am perfectly as-
sured that St. Patrick and the other preachers of the
gospel, took particular care to overthrow, —to extir-
pate, and, like Josias, to burn, —every vestige of an idol
that came in their way or could possibly be met with.
This I can more immediately testify with respect to
Spain, where no appearance of the like is to be found,
by digging beneath the rubbish of old castles or towns
* S. Eleranus sapiens in Vita S. Patricii n. LIII. narrat
beatum hunc episcopum, in loco ubi est hodie Ecclesia S. Pa-
tricii, quae Scotice Domnach Paclruic vocatur,invenisse idoluni
Slecht (vel in campo Slecht) auro et argento ornatuin ; et 12 si-
mulachra aerea bine et inde erga idolum posita. " Rex autem,
addit et omnis populus hoc idolum adorabant, in quo daemon
pessimus latitabat." Colgan.
274
though it is a well known fact that idolatry flourished
there, in all its varieties, of Phoenician, Celtic, Grecian,
and Roman forms. I will instance the town of
Gades, in which Philostratus bears record there were
deities worshipped that were scarcely elsewhere
known or heard of. CElian tells us that it had one
altar sacred to the year, and another to the month, in
honor of time, of those respective durations. There,
too, poverty had an altar, as well as art and old
age; and death also, which, as Philostratus tells us,
they used to celebrate with songs of joy ; unless,
perhaps, by death we are to understand, Pluto ; whom
it is well known, from Sanchoniathon, that the Phoe-
nicians used to call Muth, which means death. But
to return from this digression.
Nor ought we to wonder that the Phoenicians
should have named those towns in Ireland after
their idol Astharoth, or Astharte, and the groves
consecrated thereto ; for there was a city also of
the name in Phoenicia, the royal residence of Og
king of Basan, in which the modern Jews will have
it, that the house of Job was situated. We have,
however already proved, and without the possi-
bility of doubt, from the ancient geography of
Spain, that several of its towns and villages, as well
as also its distinguished cities, have been named
from the groves, or mountains, or caves wherein
they used to offer their devotions ; as well as from the
idols themselves to whom they used to offer them.
275
To these I add the example of the name Astarte,*
or Astharoth^ at present under discussion : for it is
to me unquestionable, that, from the worship of this
idol, arose the names of the Spanish villages of As-
trar, amongst the ancient Suevi, in the department
of Compostella ; Asteire, in the Lucanian territory ;
Astariz, in the Ariensian tract ; with the town of
Astrain, and the deserted and almost ruinated little
village of Astrea amongst the Cantahrians. Nor
should I think those to be far astray, who—merely
expunging the initial letter, as is usual in other geo-
graphical names of Spain—conceive that, from the
idol Asthartes, originated the name of Tartessus,f the
most ancient city which the Phoenicians built near
Calpe and the pillars of Hercules. This I beg leave
to say with all deference to the authority of the
poets of Spain, who, with Ovid at their head, insist
that Tartessus is the extreme section of the west, and
who think it so called from the river Tartessus, whose
source is in the silver mountain of Oros-pedda, which
abounds in mines of that metal ; or whose sides, say
they, being overlaid with tin, exhibit the appearance
of so much silver.
* Astore, that word of bland endearment and familiar con-
verse amongst the native Irish, implying, my refulgent delight,
is an evident emanation from this Astarte or Lunar Goddess.
t Sic a Enieritd, expuncta priore syllaba, dicimus 3Ierida
il Ccesaraugusta, Zaragoza: a Vico Ausonce, Vic, Innumera
occurrunt exempla.
T 2
276
CHAP. XXX.
Vestiges both in Ireland and Spain of the worship of Moloch,
the idol of the Phoenicians-^ Various names thereof—Des-
cription of it—The name of God attributed to the deities of
the Gentiles —The Syrians used to sacrifice their sons and
daughters to Moloch—What meant by bearing over across
the fire—The horrible practice, ofburning alive, spread from
Syria into other nations.
Of Moloch toO;, the Phoenician deity, as there
would seem to be some traces of his worship still
remaining amongst the Spaniards, evidenced in the
name of Malaca, a maritime town in the province of
Boetica; and Malagon, or Malgon, a town of the
Artabri, so here would the name of Ard-Mulchan, a
town in the barony of Duleek, county Meath, seem
to prove itsexistence amongst the ancient Irish ; as
would also another town of the same name in the ba-
rony of Skreen ; Macroon, a town in the barony
of Bantry, county Cork ; Meehck, a town in the ba-
rony of Bunratty, county Clare ; Melick, a small town
in the barony of Gallen, county Mayo ; Melches-
town, a village in the barony of Moygeesh, county
277
Westmeath ; Melcombe, a town in the barony of
Canagh, county Mayo ; Malco^ a lake in the county
Mayo ; and Melogh, a river^ in the county Down, with
numberless others ; all of which, until undeceived by
some other more convincing authority, I shall con-
tinue to derive from various inflexions of the word
Moloch, which the Phoenicians themselves used some-
times to pronounce, Molech ; and, with the initial
letter repeated at the end, Milcom, and in the Sy-
rian vulgate, Malcum. But the place wherein this
idol's sacrifices used to be performed, was called
Malken, or Malaken.
Molock, or Milcom was expressly the deity of the
Ammonites, amongst whom he had a temple in the
city of Gebal, and in it an image of stone, overlaid
with gold, and seated upon a throne ; on either side
of him were two female images, also seated, and in
front an altar, whereon the sacrifices and incense
used to be offered up. But the Assyrians, who had
been carried away into Samaria, had other idols of
Moloch, which they called Adra-Melech and x4na-
Melech, that is, the brave and magnificent Moloch
for adir, which is one of the attributes of the deity,
signifies great, powerful, excellent, or magnificent.
And no wonder, for as the Chaldee paraphrast, com-
monly known under the disguise of Jonathan, ob-
serves, " the Gentiles called their idols after the name
of the Lord Jehovah." Which is the opinion of several
of the Hebrews " conceiving," as St. Jerome says.
278
" that their idols were made in the name of the
Lord^ and after his likeness. Let the learned judge,
whether or not, the town of Ard Mulchan in this
island, had not been so called from the name of the
idol Adra Malcum.
Moloch was represented with the face of a calf,
having his hands stretched out ready to receive any-
thing offered by the bystanders ; it was a concave
image, with seven distinct compartments ; one they
used to open for offering flour, another for turtles,
the third for a sheep, the fourth for a ram, the fifth
for a calf, the sixth for an ox, but whoever affected
to be so exceedingly religious as to sacrifice a son for
him, as a mark of special approbation, they would
open the seventh.* Under the symbol of this idol the
* The Rabbins say it was made of brass, the body resembling
that of a man, and the head that of a calf, with a royal diadem,
and the arms extended. They add, that when children were
to be offered to him, they heated the statue, and put the mise-
rable victim between his arras, where it was soon consumed by
the violence of the flame. From the whole of this we may
learn, that human sacrifices were the most acceptable at the
altars of Moloch; which, undoubtedly, made our great poet
Milton rank him among the infernal deities, as one of the fallen
angels ; and as one who was to be a curse to the idolatrous
world,
" First Moloch, horrid kiog, besmeared with blood
Of human sacrifices, and parents' tears ;
Though, for the noise of drums and timbrels loud, 1
Their children's cries unheard, that passed thro' fire
To his grim idol."
279
Phoenicians used to worship the sun and Saturn,
namely, that large star in the firmament which they
used to call Melee, king of all the rest.
They who think Saturn to have been the Moloch
of the Phoenicians, seem to gain countenance in the
idea from the practice of sacrificing children to Mo-
loch ; which thej, in common with the Carthaginians
observed ; whilst we know from the Greek and Latin
writers that victims used also to be sacrificed to
Saturn.
But the scriptures inform us, in divers places, that
the Syrians had unnaturally burned their own seed,
their own sons and daughters, in honor of this deity.
This abominable sacrifice of the idol, then, consisted
in dragging children through the fire, and by the
hands of their parents in honor of him.
That this \vas a Phoenician custom is evident from
Philastrius, and Porphyry, and Eusebius too, as I
have already shewn when treating on the subject of
the Druids. It obtained particularly in the land of
Canaan and the Mediterranean Syria, in which Phoe-
nicia was comprehended ; and the author of the book
of wisdom, as well as Jeremy and Ezekiel, seem
severally to allude to the prevalence of the practice
in Syria of immolating their children. Whence the
valley of Gia, or of the sons of Hinnon, in the out-
lets of the city of Jerusalem, obtained its name from
the wailings or lamentations of boys whilst burning
before the idols.
280
It appears too^ from the testimony of the ancientsy
that these impious rites had travelled from Syria into
Africa and Spain ; Pliny informs us, that the Her-
cules of the Carthaginians, like Moloch, was usually
appeased by human sacrifices ; whence to me it is clear
as demonstration that human victims had been im-
molated to Hercules in the celebrated temple of Ga-
des, built by the Phoenicians ; and where, as Diodorus
Siculus mentions, splendid sacrifices were wont to be
solemnised after the Phoenicianform ; for the Phoe-
nicians, who—we are assured by St. Athanasius, Cyril,
Eusebius, Minutius Felix, and others, were wont to
sacrifice their sons and daughters to their deities—
made it an invariable rule to carry with them their
peculiar rites with the worship of their idols to their
several colonies. Of the Carthaginians, who were a
colony of the Syrians, Ennius says, they practised
" that custom of sacrificing their little children to
the Gods." Fescenius Festus relates that the Car-
thaginians were wont to immolate human victims to
Saturn.* They who had no children, used to buy them
from the poor to offer them in sacrifice, as Plutarch
informs us.
* Diodorus relates an instance of this more than savage bar-
barity, which is sufficient to fill any mind with horror. He
tells us, that when Agathocles was going to besiege Carthage,
the people, seeing the extremity to which they were reduced,
imputed all their misfortunes to the anger of their god Saturn,
because that, instead of offering up to him children nobly bern.
281
I should wish —in my zeal for the fair character of
Ireland,—I could have access to proofs, whereby to
shew that its early inhabitants,—on accepting from
the Phoenicians, like the Spaniards, the worship of
Moloch, Astarte, and Baal, as also of Hercules,—had
nobly rejected,—at least one, the most unhallowed,
the most unnatural feature in their superstition,
human immolation. In the absence of such proofs,
and bound by the responsibility of a faithful histo-
rian, I am painfully obliged to refer my readers to
the authority of Ledwich, who, in the footsteps of
Keating, Baxter, Jurieu, and Vallancey, asserts that
on the festivals of Ops, or Astarte, and Baal, when the
heads of the people were assembled together on the
eve of the first day of November,* whatever criminals
had been convicted by the Druids on Mount Usneach,
on the first day of May preceding, and sentenced to
he had been fraudently put off with the children of slaves and
foreigners. That a sufficient atonement should be made for this
crime,—as the infatuated people considered it, —two hundred
children of the best families in Carthage were sacrificed ; and
no less than three hundred of the citizens voluntarily sacrificed
themselves, that is, they went into the fire without compulsion.
* A prince, on Saman's day, (1st of November,) should
light his lamps and welcome his guests with clapping of hands;
procure comfortable seats ; the cup-bearers should be respect-
able, and active in distribution of meat and drink ; let there be
moderation of music ; short stories ; a welcoming countenance ;
failte for the learned ;
pleasant conversations, &c. These are
the duties of the prince, and the arrangement of the banquetting
house." Cormac.
282
deaths they were now sacrificed by way of expiation
to Baal^ and burned for that purpose between two
fires. To these I should add Seward's* remarks in
his Irish Topography^ under the article Usneach.
Walker too, after declaring that the Hebrews, in
commonwith the Turks, and the Druids of the British
isles, made use of cymbals to drown the shrieks of the
human victims offered at their sacrifices, adds—in a
tone of that inevitable horror which the very thought
must suggest, '^
I shudder and feel my pen tremble
with a religious dread, in the execution of its task,
when necessitated to record, that this rite was ob-
served by the Irish Druids, and for the very same
purpose/'f—or words to this effect.
* His words are as follow.—" Usneach, a mountain, ... on
which fires were kindled by the Druids on 1st May^ in honor
of Beal, or the Sun. This was the grand Bealtinne of the
northern parts of Leinster, where the states assembled and held
judgment on all criminals worthy of death, and such as were
found guilty were burnt between two fires of Beal: children
and cattle also were purified on this day by passing them
between two fires."
t The best way to point out false religion, is to display it in
its native colours; and men, by seeing unaccountable absurdi-
ties presented to them as objects worthy of their notice or regard,
will become in love with the truth. Truth carries conviction
along with it, and happy must that man be, who seeks wisdom.
He who sincerely enquires after *'
truth," has great reason to
hope, that God will direct him to it, and convince him^ of its
excellency above every other thing in this world. The Tuatha
Danaans, or Iranian colony, the real authors of Ireland's an-
cient grandeur, and the erectors of the ''
Round Towers,'' never
283
CHAP. XXXI.
Tyrian Hercules worshipped in Ireland—Transferred from the
Phcenicians to their colonies — The celebrated ternple of
Hercules at Gades—His sacred rites perforined in the
Phcenician fashion—The altars of Hercules —The Alps—
Vestiges of this superstition in the geography of Spain—
Whether the worship of Iphis had obtained amongst the Irish
—Vossius's opinion about Iphis.
That the Tyrian Hercules^ too^ who was worship-
ped in the celebrated temple of Gades^ which had
been built by the Phoenicians, has had sacrifices and
oblations, with all corresponding ceremonies, offered
to him in the British isles, may be inferred from a
very ancient altar, found a few years since, by Dr.
Todd, in a church-yard in the town of Corbridge,
in Northumberland, bearing an inscription deeply
cut in the old Greek characters, and purporting to
be in honor of him. Doctors Hunter and Todd have
practised those horrid rites. They were indulged in only by the
Fir Bolgs, who were Celts, and who contrived the cromleachs
for the occasion. The Scythian Druids would fain re-establish
the usage, until repressed by the humanising precepts of the
enlightened Danaans^ So they immolated only criminals.
284
both given a very accurate description of it. Cooke,
who has sketched a drawing of it, thinks it still more
ancient than Todd, and that it was erected—not by
the Phoenicians, who unquestionably, he says, would
have inscribed those characters in their own language,
and not the Greek —but by the I onians, natives of Asia,
sons of Javan, otherwise called. Ion, and the founders
of the great city of Phocea—furthermore distinguish-
ed by their expertness as seamen, and by being the
first amongst the Greeks, as Herodotus testifies, who
undertook expeditions over the vasty deep.
I incline more, however, to the opinion of Todd,
who endeavours to prove from this altar, that the
Phoenicians made use of the letters of the Greek
alphabet after their arrival in Greece, as the Cartha-
ginians did those of the Latin language, which they
had borrowed from the Romans. This latter cir-
cumstance Aurelius Victor appears to allude to,
when, speaking of Septimius Severus, he says, '^
he
was versed in all the literature of the Latins, and
spoke the Punic language with ease ; the more so, no
doubt, as being born in Leptis, in the province of
Africa." Which custom we may conclude had
flourished amongst the Carthaginians in the time of
Plautus,* from a Carthaginian fragment inserted in
* Valiancy, a name never to be mentioned with disrespect,
encountered much ridicule, in consequence of his having traced
Irish in the Carthaginian's speech, in a play of Plautus. He
285
his Paenulus, and written in Roman characters. Seve-
ral inscriptions found in Africa, relating to the epoch
of the Carthaginians, and all written in Roman cha-
racters, give strength to this conjecture.
Dr. Todd has rendered the abovementioned in-
scription thus in Latin :
" Herculi Tyrio Divina Dona
Archi-sacerdotalia,"—that is. Divine offerings to be
presented to the Tyrian Hercules, by the hands of
the high priest. On either side were engraved the
heads of bulls, crowned with garlands, with the, sacri-
ficing instruments,* as represented in the opposite
plate.
This learned gentleman still further conjectures,
that Erkelens in Gonderland, means the camp of Her-
cules ; and Hartland Pointf in Cornwall, the promon-
was quite correct in doing so ; and so was Bochart, when he
discovered Hebrew, in the same speech. The reason is obvious;
the Irish, Carthaginian, and the Hebrew, can all be traced to
the Assyrian. This fact also oflfers a true solution of the dis-
pute about the Basque, or language of Biscay ; one contends
that it is Celtic, another that it is an African tongue ; and both
are right— it is the language of the Iberi, and Mauri, who
peopled Spain, and which is also derived from the Syriac,
The resemblance, therefore, between the Irish and the Basque,
offers no support to the imaginary colonization of Milesius.
Whitty.
* An Essay on the Antiquity of the Irish Language, being
a collation of the Irish with the Punic Language. Dublin,
1772. Preface, p. V. seq.
f Hartland Point, on the coast of Cornwall, in Britain,
called in Camden's time, Harty Point, is evidently a cor-
286
tory of Hercules^ and that from the words, Hercuhs
castra, which is the Latin for, the camp of Hercules,
was made the name, Hercul-ceaster, of the Saxons,
which became afterwards abridged to Colchester.
And Cook is convinced that the name of the town of
Hartlepole on the Durham coast, is a manifest de-
pravation of the word Heracleopolis.
To me, too, it appears exceedingly probable that
the great western promontory of Airchil, with the
islands of the same name, were the promontory of
Hercules, as denominated by the Phoenicians; and
whether the town of, Errigall, in each of the two
counties of Monaghan and Londonderry, may not
also be some vestige of Hercules' name, I leave to
the decision of more competent judges.
The worship of this deity, it is certain that the Irish,
as well as the Spaniards, had borrowed from the
Phoenicians ; for they alone had erected temples and
altars to the Tyrian Hercules as their national hero
it being under his conduct,—whom some describe
as contemporary with Moses,—that the Phoenician
tribes had sailed to Gades. Whence, after his death,
they built a temple at this place in honor of him,
which was deemed illustrious for its religion, its
antiquity, and its wealth ; and if at a loss to know
ruption from its original name, Herculis promontorium, which
it obtained from the celebrated navigator, the Tyrian Hercules,
known in our annals by the designation o£ Phenius.
287
why it was particularly sacred, Pomponius Mela ex-
plains :
^'
because that it contained Hercules's bones."
There were no statues in this temple, according to
Philostratus, but only two brazen altars without an
image. We have a verse of Silius Italicus to the
same effect, which may be thus translated :
" In it were seen no sacred effigies,
Nor well-known likeness of their deities;"
conformably, as would appear, to the worship in
which Hercules had instructed them. Bochart, how-
ever, thinks that it was from the Jews the Phoenicians
had adopted the practice of not worshipping images
in this temple ; or, perhaps, from the patriarchal re-
ligion, which did not recognise images. For Cornelius
Tacitus declares, that the Hebrews thought it im-
pious in any one to represent the deity by any statue
or likeness, and consequently ridiculed the Assyrians,
as Macrobius asserts, for their habitual worship of
the sun and moon. Plutarch tells us, that Lycurgus's
doctrine corresponded in this particular with the
Hebrews ; and though the Scythians, the Persians,
and the Lybians, not only differed, but were directly
opposed to one another in their respective creeds,
in one point, however, they harmonised completely,
and that was —^the invisibility of the godhead. The
Romans, likewise, some time subsequent, and more
especially in the reign of Numa Pompilius, adhering
to the authority of Moses, Pythagoras, Socrates, and
288
Lycurgus, continued to adore their gods without
statues for a period of upwards of one hundred and
seventy years. The ancient Germans did the same,
as appears from the testimony of CorneUus Tacitus.
But Hercules might have learned this system of
religion in Arabia, whence some antiquarians suppose
that he was descended. For the Arabian* idols con-
sisted, in a great measure, of huge rough stones,
which the posterity of Ismael had taught them to
worship, and upon which they used to pour oil and
wine, in imitation of Jacob, who poured oil upon the
stone which served him as a pillow at the time of his
vision .f Afterwards, however, they practised their
* The Arabians were the descendants of Ishmael, the son of
Abraham, by his concubine Hagar ; and they are, in some re-
spects, even to this day, the most remarkable people in the
world. The angel told Hagar that her son should be a wild
man, and the Arabians remain uncivilized even to this hour.
His hand was to be against every man, and every man's hand
against him ; and so it is even now, for the Arabians live by
plundering, not only such as travel from this part of the world,
but even the Turks themselves, who pretend to be their masters.
He was to live in the midst of his brethren ; and it is very re-
markable, that the Arabians were never yet conquered. In vain
did the great monarchs of the east attempt to subdue them,
they still remain what they were three thousand years ago.
t Eastern travellers, in modern times, have been known to
do the same; the night air is not generally injurious in the East
as it is with us. We are not to suppose that Jacob laid his
bare head on the bare stone; a cap or turban probably guarded
the one, and a portion of his long garments or perhaps a wallet,
formed a covering for the other.
289
adorations upon those very stones, which it is very
probable that the Phoenicians did also originally
although, in process of time, before the people of
Israel entered into the land of Canaan, they betook
themselves to the worship of graven images. Where-
fore the Lord had commanded his people, before ever
they arrived at the promised land, to overturn their
altars, demolish their statues, and cut down their
groves.
Strabo relates in what spot of the island of Gades,
and on what occasion, the Phoenicians had erected
that temple, as advised by the oracle. Appian and
Arrian, both, assert that Hercules was worshipped
therein, after the Phoenician manner, as we have
said, with religious solemnities and magnificent
sacrifices ; whilst we have loads of monuments as
well in Asia as in Europe, to prove that the custom
was thence transferred, and by the same people, to
their different colonies, where they erected altars
and shrines for its celebration. Of this number,
it may suffice to remind the reader, only, of the
altars erected on the Alps, of which Petronius says,
''
On the aerial Alps,—where lofty cliffs ascend under
a Grecian name, and suffer themselves to be sur-
mounted,—lies a spot consecrated to the Herculean
altars."
From Hercules, its founder, did the ancients give
the name of Heraclea to the Phoenician city Seta-
bim, in the province of the Edetani, in Spain; as
also to another Phoenician city in Boetica, at the
u
290
foot of mount Calpe. For as in Greek, Heracleia
with an acute accent over its penultimate—means, in
the general, anything belonging to Hercules, so the
same word, with a circumflex—thus, Heracleia —over
the same syllable, means, sacred rites or sacrifices de-
dicated to Hercules ; and in either sense are to be
found several cities of this name, in various parts of
the East. From Hercules, too, it is probable that
the Phoenician settlers in Spain, gave the name of
Eriguela, as it is now called with some slight varia-
tion from the original, to a village of the Artabri
as, also, to Arcalis and Argolell, villages of the Iler-
getes ; Arcal and Argalo, towns of the Suevi, near
Compostella ; Arquillo, amongst the Numantines ;
Argul], Arcallana, and Arguiello, amongst the As-
tures. Wherefore, I should hope it will not seem
over-absurd if I should trace, in this country also,
some vestiges of the name Hercules—in that of
Arklow, a town in the county Wicklow, near the
vale of Ovoca, where are to be seen, at this day, the
remains of an ancient camp ; and in Errigol-Keeroge,
a little town in the barony of Clogher, county Tyrone
for as Keeroge would seem derived from the Phoeni-
cian, Kerag, a census or cess ; or Kerac, a citadel or
fortress, we may easily understand by the name of
this town, either ''
the fortress of Hercules," or tri^
butary to the worship of Hercules.*
* In every stage of society men naturally love the marvellous
but ia the early stages, a certain portion of it is necessary to
291
I should wish to give a whet to the investigating
talent of the learned sons of Ireland^ to ascertain
whether IfiPa and OfFa, the name of a barony in the
county Tipperary, prorace of Munster, may not be
a vestige of the worship of Iphis, that we may be
able thence to infer whether or not the Phoenicians
had imported it among us. For some Spaniards are
very positive, that from Iphis, was given the name of
Iphae, to a rock of a conical form, and miraculous
elevation, without the slightest support on either
side, lying on the Mediterranean coast, between
Alona and Dianium. Although others derive it from
the Phoenician word Ipha, handsome ; and others,
again, from the Celtic If-ach, meaning standing alone,
or unsupported. As to Iphis itself, some Syriac
make any narration sufficiently interesting to attract attention,
or obtain an audience : whence the actions of gods are inter-
mixed with those of men in the earliest traditions or histories
of all nations ; and poetical fable occupied the place of his-
torical truth in their accounts of the transactions of war and
policy, as well as in those of the revolutions of nature and
origin of things. Each had produced some renowned warriors,
whose mighty achievements had been assisted by the favor, or
obstructed by the anger, of the gods ; and each had some
popular tales concerning the means, by which those gods had
constructed the universe, and the principles, upon which they
continued to govern it: whence the Greeks and Romans found
a Hercules in every country which they visited, as well as in
their own ; and the adventures of some such hero supply the
first materials for history, as a cosmogony or theogony exhibits
the first system of philosophy, in every nation.
u 2
292
antiquarians suppose it to be a corrupted name from
Jepthis^ that is, the daughter of Jephtha, and so
called after him ; from the union of which name with,
anassa, which, in the Greek, means, queen, was made
up the name of Iphianassa ; as from its union with
genia, which signifies descended from, arose Iphige-
nia. Wherefore, also, the daughter of Jephtha had
a place amongst the deities of the Phoenicians, having
divine honors paid to her by the inhabitants of Sa-
maria, who celebrated an annual festival in her
honour—as we learn from Epiphanius —the origin of
which we will see accounted for in the book of
Judges.
From the story of Jephthah, who devoted his only
daughter in fulfilment of his vow to God, Homer
took occasion in his fable of Agamemnon to make
him sacrifice his daughter Iphigenia, with all suit-
able solemnities. Memnon, too, who had been slain
by Achilles, after he had come an auxiliary to Priam
in the Trojan war, is a farther instance, having been
wept* for, after his death, and worshipped by the As-
syrians as a distinguished scion of Aurora—as Oppi-
an relates—with a temple, also, built in Egypt, to
* Sunt lachrymae rerum etmentem mortalia a tangunt. —This
reminds me of the philosophic tears of Xerxes, at the contem-
plated mortality of his innumerable army ; and as I happen to
light upon an unpublished poem—written by a young officer of
the artillery corps, merely as a school exercise during his pre-
paratory education—I feel happy at the opportunity of inserting
293
his honour by the inhabitants of Thebes. And here
I cannot avoid reflecting with Vossius on the great
an extract from it here, as z. foretaste of talents which I have
reason to appreciate, and which I doubt not will shine out,
some day, an honour to their possessor, and a benefit to his
country.
" Unnumbered plumes are waving o'er the plain.
The gentle zephyrs wave them back again :
So golden corn that ripens in the sun,
Stoops, gently stoops, the zephyrs' force to shun :
T^ave after wave in soft succession roll.
Cheer the glad eye, and sooth the musing soul.
The monarch saw, and high in fortune's gale
Pride, hope, ambition, in their turn prevail:
And as he saw his countless hosts below
With her bright garland victory crowns his brow
He looks again, but other feelings rise.
Rush on his heart, and sorrow dims his eyes
He thinks, he feels—and with averted head
Soils the proud purple with the tears he shed.
Why weeps the king ?
—'Tis nature at this hour
Claims her full force, and proves her rightful power :
By her subdued as by some magic spell.
In fancy's ear he hears the funeral knell.
Knell of those myriads whose bright banners stream.
While martial music aids the living dream.
Whose plumes around them cast a moving shade.
Their souls all fire, their limbs of iron made.
That fire shall die : those plumes shall cease to wave :
Those swords and spears shall rust within the grave
Where music floats around, shall silence reign.
And prostrate banners strew the desert plain.
Ere one short century shall near be run.
To tell the dreadful tale shall live not one
294
similarity existing between the Phoenician and the
Egyptian sacrificial forms ; and on the extreme
probability, that the fleet which first landed in that
colony in Spain, consisted not only of Phoenicians
but of Egyptians also ; so that both countries may
severally lay claim to the honour of the enterprise.
I may be allowed just to hint, that it was, probably,
from this very cause, that Hercules was indifferently
called the ''
Tyrian " or the " Egyptian."
Expunged each name—the mighty and the mean,
From being's page, as though they ne'er had been :
Thus fade the flowers in Tempe's lovely vale ;
Thus vanish clouds before the driving gale :
Thus Time, omnipotent, sweeps all away
Grandeur's proud blaze, and pleasures of the gay.
Stanley Hornby
295
CHAP. XXXII.
The Cabirif divinities of the Phoenicians —Their worship in
Ireland—Etymology of the name—The Coryhantes sacri*
ficing priests of the Cahiri—Whence so called — Vestiges of
them in the Geography as well of Ireland as of Spain.
From the Cabiri, Seward thinks is derived, Cab-
ragh, or Cabaragh, the name of a very ancient Irish
town situated formerly near Dublin Castle, but now
so in corporated with this Metropolis of the kingdom,
that its very limits cannot be pointed out. The name
Cabiri itself, he conceives consonant with the Irish
word Cabhar, a prop or buttress ; or rather, I take it,
with Cabhaire, one who props, a supporter. These
deities, he says, the Corybantes invoked, who were
the sacrificing priests of Ireland as they were of the
Greeks too, on sudden and unexpected emergencies*
Whence he supposes it likely, that the above men-
tioned term of Cabaragh was so called as containing
within it, or as being itself a seminary of, the Cory-
bantes.—From the same source would he derive the
name of the district of Cabragh, or Cabra, near
296
Rathfriland, in tlie county Down ; to which we may
add Cabra-castle, near Kills, in the county Meath.
The Spanish towns of Cabeiro and Cabeiros amongst
the Suevi, in the canton of Toledo, savor strongly of
the same superstition ; which would rather seem de-
rived from Cabirse, or Cabiria, the sacred rites of the
Cabiri ; just as the district of Asia Minor, where
they were worshipped, was called after them Cabira.
Pausanias, too, assures us that a district of Perga-
mus was called by the name of Cabiris.
Some of the ancients have supposed that the
name of the Cabiri was borrowed from that of a
mountain in Phrygia, called Cabirus, where they
were worshipped with religious solemnities. But
the reverse is more likely to have been the fact, and
that the mountain was so called after them. They
were themselves ancient divinities, belonging to the
Phoenicians, which they designated as, Cabirin, that
is, great or potent, from the singular, Cabir, which,
by the addition of, a, and the expunction of, c —which
to them is only an adverb of similitude—becomes
abir, that is, strong, or preeminent in fortitude. This
word—originally, truly applied to God—the Syrians
transferred to Ceres, Pluto, and Proserpine—by some
called Axieros, Axicersus, and Axicersa—whose father
too they state to have been Vulcan. Therefore it was,
perhaps, that in some coins, these deities were re-
presented under the appearance of a man holding in
his right hand a mallet, and in his left an anvil.
297
Some would have them to be Jupiter, Bacchus, and
Ceres ; others, Osiris, Orus, and Isis.* Julius Fir-
micus, in his ^^
Errors of profane religions" says,, that
the Cabiri were three brothers, the eldest of whom
having been slain by the two others, was enrolled
amongst the Gods, and worshipped by the Thessa-
lonians. But this I look upon as foreign from the
truth, and merely a fiction of the poets. For the
worship of the Cabiri had its origin in Phoenicia,
whence it passed over to the islands of the JEgean
sea, and more especially to Samothrace and the
Imbri, where their religion was flourishingly esta-
blished, until, at length, it made way to Athens and
* These were the general gods of Egypt, and such as were
worshipped by the king, and his courtiers ; for almost every
district had its particular deity ; Some worshipped dogs ; others
oxen ; some hawks ; some owls ; some crocodiles ; some cats
and others ibis, a sort of an Egyptian stork. The worship of
these animals was confined to certain places ; and it often
happened, that those who adored the crocodile, were ridiculed
by such as paid divine honours to the cat. To support the
honor of their different idols, bloody wars often took place ;
and whole provinces were depopulated to decide the question
—whether a crocodile or a cat was a god ?
It does not, however, appear that these people were idolaters,
in the strict sense of the word, although it is more than pro-
bable, that, in many instances, they deviated from the worship
of the true god, according to its original purity. Pharaoh, the
king of Egypt, calls the God of Abraham, Jehovah and
Elohim, both of which are the highest titles that can be as-
cribed to the Divine Being, because they include all his incon-
ceivable attributes.
298
the other cities of Greece^ with Spain and all the
other colonies which the Phoenicians had planted.
There are those, too, who add a third to their num-
ber, namely, Kadmus, or Kasmilus, or Kadmilus,
whom many suppose to have been the same as Her-
mes, or Mercury ; for by Varro's testimony, in the
Samothracian mysteries, Kasmilus is the name given
to a certain officer or attendant upon the sacred
rites offered to the great gods, that is, the Cabiri.
The natives of the island of Lesbos, also, worshipped
him under the name of Kadmus, or Kadmilus, which,
by the way, they borrowed from the Phoenicians, in
whose language cadmi, means a harbinger ; and
cadmilac, a forerunner of some news or message.
Therefore, also, it was that Mercury was called Her-
mes, from the Greek word signifying an interpreter,
or messenger—which was his province amongst
the heavenly inhabitants ; and they who conceive
his real name to be originally Celtic, derive it from
the words, mere, traffic, and ur, a man ; which emi-
nently accords with the Phoenician word Cnani, or
Canani, which signifies not only a Canaanite, or na-
tive of the land of Canaan, but also a merchant or
trafficer, the inhabitants of that country having
been ever intent upon trade, in the furtherance of
which, with a view to the improvement of their for-
tunes, they spent their whole life and energies.
These four Cabiri were worshipped in some shrines
as the gods of the deceased ; Ceres, who was also
299
called Cabiria^ as the earth that sustains them ; Pluto
and Proserpine as a symbol of hell, wherein they re-
side ; and Mercury, as their leader and conductor.
A great portion of the leading men of that age
used to visit the celebrated temple of the Cabiri, in
Samothrace, to be initiated in their mysteries. This
journey was undertaken by the heroes of the Trojan*
* Sir Isaac Newton brings the sera of the destruction of
Troy about three hundred years lower down than any other
chronologist had done before, fixing it to the 78th year after
the death of Solomon, the year before our vulgar sera 904 ; —and
the year of Dido's building Carthage, to the year 883, i. e. 21
years after, when ^neas might very well be alive. Those who
vrill take the trouble to examine his book, will find it no easy
matter to withstand the weighty reasons he offers in support of
his singular opinion. To shorten the reader's labour, I shall
briefly mention a few of them.
1. He observes that Virgil agrees with the Arundel marbles.
As Tirgil relates, probably from the archives of Tyre or Cy-
prus, that Teucer came from the war of Troy to Cyprus in the
days of queen Dido (see Mn. I. 623.) and with his father
seized Cyprus; so the Arundel Marbles say that Teucer came
to Cyprus seven years after the destruction of Troy, and built
Salamis.
2. In the temple built at Cadiz to Hercules, under the name
of Melcartus, was Teucer's golden belt, beside Pygmalion's
golden bow, by which it appears, that the temple was built in
their days, and that they were contemporary.
3. Dionysius Halicarnasseus reckons sixteen kings from La-
tinus, who reigned in Italy in the time of the Trojan war, to
Romulus ; and from him to the consuls were six kings more :
which twenty two reigns, at a medium of eighteen years to a
reign (taking the lowest reckoning, because many of them died
violent deaths), amount to 396 years. These, counted back-
300
war, by Philip of Macedon, and others—not solely
because of the protection and support which they had
promised themselves from those deities against dan-
gers and accidents, and more especially storms, but be-
cause of the respect which ever attached to any indivi-
duals who happened to have the honor of initiation
in those solemnities. Heathen writers have omitted
all allusion to those mysteries, f either from
ward from the consuls Brutus and Publicola, place the Trojan
war about seventy-eight years after the death of Solomon,
according- to Sir Isaac's first computation.
4. Herodotus, who says Homer and Hesiod, were but 400
years before him, wrote in the time of Nehemiah, i. e. 444 years
before Christ. And Hesiod said he was but an age after the
destruction of Troy. Now 400, 444, and 60 years more for
the time between Hesiod and the war of Troy, bring it to the
year before Christ 904, as Sir Isaac reckons.
5. Lastly, in the year 1689, the cardinal points had gone
back one full sign, six degrees, twenty-nine minutes, from the
cardinal points of Chiron (in the time of the Argonautic expe-
dition) as nearly, he says, as can be determined from the coarse
observations of the ancients. Consequently, at the rate of
seventy-two years to a degree, 2627 years had then passed since
Chiron, which brings us back to the forty-three years after the
death of Solomon, for the time of the Argonautic expedition ;
and the destruction of Troy was about thirty or thirty-five years
later. So that all these collateral proofs agree in one point,
and fix the sera of the ruin of Troy about one and the same
year, viz. 904 years before our vulgar aera.
* There never was any one religion whatsoever, that had
not a particular set of mysteries, which none but a few select
devotees could ever attain to. In order to arrive at that pitch
of perfection, there have always been such extravagant cere-
301
some groundless veneration which they thought
silence would encourage; or, what appears more cer-
tain, from the obscenities of conduct with which they
were but too grossly defiled, and to which even
the high priests themselves would be ashamed to
give utterance. Therefore it was, probably, that
during their celebration they made use of a peculiar
dialect, unintelligible to the vulgar ; which Cam-
byses very humorously upbraids them with, at the
doors of those deities, as Herodotus informs us.
Some people confound the Curetes, or Corybantes,
with those Cabiri, whilst others think it more pro-
bable that they were their sacrificing priests, and
more especially of Ceres, Cibele, or Rhea, whose
agonising spirit and disconsolate heart for the dis-
astrous loss of her darling Atys, those ministers af-
fected to represent in their devotions, rending the
air with the most hideous yells, adding thereto the
confused conceit of timbrels and brazen cymbals,
running about all the while, and shaking their heads
from one side to the other ; in short, exhibiting
every symptom and gesticulation that madness could
suggest.
Strabo conceives the Corybantes were so called
from, coruptontes hainein, that is, from their walking
as if they danced ; whence lunatics and frantic
monies to be observed, as were sufficient to surprise, blind,
shock, and even confound the inferior class of religionists.
302
people have been called corybantes. Others think
the name derived from corns, a helmet ; others from,
corutto, to butt with the horn, or toss the head
others from, crubo, or cruhazo, to conceal, as they
assisted Rhea in doing with respect to her offspring ;
others from, crouo, to beat, or make a noise, at which
they excelled—clashing instrument against instru-
ment, and metal against metal, bearing the brunt of
all upon their sonorous shields, and seasoning the
whole with their *^
most sweet" voices.*
But in as much as these all, coming from a Grecian
source, are disapproved of by some people—as too far
fetched, injudicious, and at variance with one another,
—they look upon it as more to the purpose, what
Diodorus Siculus asserts, namely, that the Corybantes
were so called from Corybas, the son of Cybele, by
Jasion ; or from another of the same name, who con-
veyed into Phrygia the sacred rites of the mother of
the gods, and named the directors of her religious
ceremonies after himself. But Corybas, the son of
Cybele, belongs to mythology; and as it appears
from other sources, that the names of Cybele and the
Cabiri took theirs from Phoenicia, I consider the
same may be said of the Corybantes, who were the
officiating ministers of the Cabiri ; for in the Phoe-
* Such is the origin of drums, and although they make at
present a distinguishing figure in our armies, yet they were no
more, originally, than implements of idolatry and superstition.
303
nician language, Corban, or Coriban, means a gift
or offering presented either to God, to idols, or to
men ; as it does also, the treasury, or the coffer, in
which such presents were deposited ; and idolators
took occasion subsequently to transfer the name to
their shrines or chapels ; and, as the superintendants
of such shrines had the charge and custody of all
donations consigned to them, they thence, naturally,
were denominated Corybantes. Or they may have
assumed to themselves the name from, Coribin, mean-
ing kinsfolks, kindred, or relatives, with a view to
conciliate the affections of the populace from the fa-
miliarity of its tone.
The geography of Spain appears still to retain
some vestiges of the names of Corybas and Cory-
bantes in that of Corbate, a town situated in the
province of the Vaccei ; Caravainos, Caravion, and
Caravanzo, amongst the Astures ; Corbite, Curbian,
and Curantes, in the district of the Suevi. The
learned men of this country also may, perhaps, please
to consider whether the proper names of, Corballys
and Corbally, with that of Carbery and Lake Corib,
as also that of, Corribinny, which is a promontory
situated near the harbour of Cork, and on the sum-
mit of which is still preserved an ancient sepulchre,
may not be vestiges of the same name. The analogy
too, which we may observe between Camilus, or
Kadmilus, a name of Mercury, and the names of cer-
tain Irish towns, such as that of Camlin, in the
304
county Antrim ; Camolin, in the county Wexford
not forgetting that beautiful and delightful mansion
belonging to Lord Mount Norris, near Gorey, in the
same county, called Camolin-park, deserve especial
and particular notice.
To me, at least, it is extremely probable, that, the
ancient city of Camala amongst the Astures in Spain,
was so named from the Phoenician worship of Ca-
milus, or Kadmilus ; though others consider it a
Grecian name, from, Kemelaia, a little olive tree—to
which I must add the names of, Cameles and Cama-
leno, towns of the Astures ; Camellera, a village of
the Ilergites, and Comillas, a maritime town of Can-
tabria.
305
CHAP. XXXIII.
Fire worship in Ireland—Bi/ whom introduced—Ur a city of
the Chaldeans, why so called—Called also Camerina, and
why—Vestiges of these names in the geography of Spain—
The religion of fire transferred from the Phoenicians to
other nations —The Estia of the Greeks, and Vesta of the
Romans.
That the ancient Irish were worshippers of fire is
a point upon which the antiquarians of the country
are all unanimous.—But whether they derived the
superstition from the authority of the Celts or Phoe-
nicians, is what has not yet been determined, though
closely contested by the partisans of either side. I
think, however, the controversy admits of a very
easy solution, if we but attend to the rise and pro-
gress of the worship itself, as well as the names of
certain localities in this island, which are considered
to bear a direct reference to it.
The first, then, who, according to Vossius, ordered
fire to be worshipped as a deity, was Nimrod,* whom
* Or, rather, in whom they considered the Belus, or Sun, to
be personified. He resided for some time at Babylon, but
X
306
the Gentiles called, Belus, that is, master or lord.
From this circumstance, Ur, a city of the Chaldeans,
in which sacrifices used to have heen performed
to fire, obtained its name, as it did also those of
Urge, Urie, and Camarina ; for, ur^ or, or, means a
flame or blaze of fire, or the hearth wherein it
blazes ; camar, as before observed, to burn ; cuma-
rin, idol priests, and cumarith, the office of priest-
hood. But as from. Urge and Ur, I conceive were
named those very ancient Phoenician cities of Spain,
called Urci and Urgellum ; as well as that extensive
and flourishing district in Ireland, which formerly
constituted a dynasty in itself, and comprehends
within its compass the modern counties of Louth,
Armagh, and Moneghan, I mean Orgeal.—And as
from Camarina, I imagine, were denominated Cama-
rena and Camarenilla, towns of the Carpenti ; with an
Camorina—both town and river—of the Suevi, near
Nineveh was the grand seat of his empire. This city was
built on the eastern banks of the river Tigris, and was one of
the largest ever known in the world. It was about sixty miles
in circumference ; the walls were one hundred feet high, and so
broad, that chariots could pass each other upon them. They,
were furthermore, adorned with fifteen hundred towers, and
each of these two hundred feet high ; which, may, in some
measure, account for what we read in the book of Jonah, that
Nineveh was an exceeding great city, of three days journey.
Her lofty towers shone like meridian beams,
And asa world within herself she seems.
307
Compostella ; in all of which fire worship was insti-
tuted by their several founders. —^So from the plural^
Urin, signifying, hearths, or fires lighted, do I think
it exceedingly probable that the river Urrin in Ire-
land, in the county of Wexford, and barony of
Scarewalsh, had been denominated. Again the town
of Uregare, in the barony of Coshma, and county
Limerick, is obviously compounded of, ur-egar, mean-
ing, a shrine dedicated to fire ; or else, of, ur-egur,
an altar consecrated to the same. Urglin, too, the
name of a village in the barony of Gatherlough,
county Carlow, is made up of the words ur-glin, a
manifestation, or revelation of fire ; or, ur-galglin,
fire in a round heap of stones ; for, glin, in the Syriac,
means heaps of stones, as well as it did, a manifest-
ation ; and galglin, rotundities, or roundnesses. It is
not improbable but that there might have been
erected there some one of those round towers so
jQrequent in this kingdom.
St. Jerome makes mention of this fire worship
amongst the Chaldeans, whose whole country,
from the same circumstance, was called, Orkoe
The Persians too, had their, ur ; and it is well
known that they held fire in great veneration,
having first only worshipped it as a symbol of
the deity, but this figurative worship gradually
passed into actual and downright homage, until, in
the progress of time, as Lucian observes, they were
content with no less than offering sacrifices to it.
x2
308
The same is asserted by the ancients of the Medes.
from whom this superstition was transferred to the
Syrians, and from them again to other nations inha-
biting Asia ; nay, to the Cauromatians, Macedonians,
and Cappadocians, whose Magi were called ^'
Purai-
thoi/' that is, fire kindlers, and their temples " Pu-
raitheia, that is, places wherein fire is kindled, which
latter, we may add, consisted of ''
immense inclosures
in the centre of which was erected an altar, where the
magi used to preserve a heap of ashes, besides the ever
burning fire," resembling, as D'Alton affirms,* our
* Yes, but Mr. D'Alton, and Mr. Higgins, (Celtic Druids,)
and all the other ^re votaries^ should know that those tire tem-
ples of the Ghebres, were nothing more than, what Dr. Hurd,
an ocular witness, has appropriately styled them, viz. '* sorry
huts/' —the ancient ones, being, according to Sir John Malcolm,
arched vaults about fifteen feet high ; and the modern ones, ac-
cording to Captain Keppel, without any covering at all ! Han-
way, who appears to have misled all our fire speculators, fell
into a similar mistake, himself, with respect to the " Round
Towers," or Budhist Temples, which he met with in the east
calling them, "fire temples."— Yet, by and by, when he has
occasion to describe an actual fire temple, he represents it as a
vault, not exceeding^ in height, ten orJifteen feet, of which, by
the way, we have several still in Ireland, before hinted at in
an early note in this volume, and distinct altogether from the
*• Round Towers," which are specimens of the^wes^ architecture
extant in any country. In 1820, Henry de Loundres, archbishop
of Dublin, put out this fire, called" unextinguishable,"— which
had been preserved, though a remnant of the pagan idolatry
of Baal—-from the earliest times, by the nuns of St. Brigid,
at Kildare. It was re-lighted, and continued to burn until the
309
Irish ''
Round Towers/'* as well as the '' Atush kudu/'
or fire chapels, which Zoroaster had ordered to be
total suppression of monasteries; the luins of the fire-house
and nunnery still remain, and bear no relation to the " Round
Towers." Here was Dr. Villauueva's greatest mistake.
* As the benefit of light is best known when contrasted with
darkness, so truth is the more admired for being compared with
falsehood. On this principle it was that the early missionaries
of the Christian church have proceeded in Ireland. Finding,
on their arrival, a hallowed regard attached to those localities,
whereon stood the memorials of previous Pagan adoration, the
best use, they conceived they could make of this *' regard," was,
to erect, on the same " localities," Christian houses of worship;
to, at once, conciliate the prejudices of those whom they would
fain persuade, and divert their adoration from the creature to
the Creator.
"We observe, accordingly, mouldering in decay, beside each
of the three species of ancient Irish worship, the Celtic, the
Budhist, and the Druidical —the ^rst and last of which be-
came ultimately identified, and of which the Cromleachs and
Mithratic caves are the memorials ; while the " Round Towers"
represent the purer^ the bloodless, and the inoffensive Budhist
faith —Christian ruins of more modern structures, yet venerable
in antiquity, and composed by architects who could not vie in
skill, of either design or cement, with their pagan predecessors.
And yet upon this single circumstance of contiguity to Ec-
clesiastical dilapidations - coupled with the bas-relief of a cru-
cifix which presents itself over the door of the Budhist temple
at Donoghmore in Ireland, and that at Brechin in Scotland
have the deniers of the antiquity of those venerable edifices,
raised that superstructure of historical imposture, which, I pro-
mise them, will soon crumble around their ears, before the
indignant eflfulgence of regenerated veracity. It might be suf-
ficient for this purpose to tell them that they might as well,
from this vicinity, infer that the Cromleachs were also erected
310
erected. These ancient temples of Cybele or Vesta,
wherein was preserved the perpetual Jive, were
by the early missionaries, as tliey would fain make out, by
precisely the same mode of inference that the Budhist temples,
or Round Towers, had been ! But this would not suit. They
could find no ascription associated with Christianity, to which
to assign the Cromleachs ; —and thus have the poor missiona-
ries escaped the cumbrous imputation of having those colossal
pagan slabs affiliated upon themi.
Not so fortunate the towers. After ransacking the whole
catalogue of available applications, appertaining to the order of
monastic institutions, with which to siamise those temples, the
Royal Irish Academy have at last hit upon the noble and dig-
nified department of a dungeon keep ! or, lock up !—as the sole
use and purpose of their costly erection !
Now, if the monks possessed the secret of fabricating those
Round Towers, or even the materials whereof they are con-
structed—being, in some instances, an artificial substance
resembling a reddish brick, squared, and corresponding to the
composition of the Round Towers of Mazumderan; or else,
when natural, a reddish grit, or pudding stone. —Why were not
the monasteries, the more important edifices, according to our
would-be-antiquaries, composed of the same elements? and is
it not strange, that all elegance and extravagance should have
been lavished upon the appendages, while uncouthness, inele-
gance, want ofdurability, or other architectural recommendation,
are the characteristics of, what they tell us were, the 'principals?
Yet, neither in the Monasteries, nor in any other Christian struc-
ture, do we meet with those materials above described, either
generally ox partially ; except where the ruins of a neighbouring
" Round Tower" have made them available—which, in itself,
is sufficient to overthrow, for ever, the anachronisms of those
who would deny the existence of the Round Towers anterior to
the Christian aera.
311
called by the Irish, Tlachgo, which some would de-
rive from the Irish word, tlacht, the earth, the world.
But the sign of the crucifixion remains yet unanswered?
and, no doubt, my opponents fancy that it will remain so ; and,
nay more, unansicerable, unless attempted to be evaded by the
pretext of interpolatimi. No such thing. —Hand tali auxilio, nee
defensoribus istis tempus eget. The genuineness of i\i\s emblem
and of the other signs whXch. accompany it, is at once the
triumph of my truth and my discovery. Do I mean to say
that the crucifixion of Jesus Christ can bear any relation to the
doctrine of Budhism'? That is the question which ignorance
will ask. But our Saviour was not the only one who was cru-
cified for his faith. In my work upon the " Round Towers,"
1 have shewn that Budha, in whose honor those temples were
constructed—was crucified alsOf in sustainment of a religion the
very counterpart of Christianity, diflfering from it only in pri-
ority of date.—And I have given, at the same time, an effigy
of this idol, representing his godship in this attitude of cruci-
fixion ; which, with two other effigies, all representatives of
Budha—in different bearings of his incarnation—have been dug
up in the bogs of Ireland, and reserved for me to develope and
elucidate.
Struck with this extraordinary similitude between the
Christian and the Budhistical religions, the Jesuits —who
went to convert the Beduins on the coast of Guinea, Mada-
gascar, Socotora, and the countries thereabout—and unable,
furthermore, to account for the veneration which those heathens
universally paid to the cross—all of them, without exception,
wearing it about their necks—while they celebrated^their divine
service in Chaldee, a dialect of our ancient Irish—concluded
most absurdly, that Budhism must have been a modification of
Christianity before promulgated,—whereas Budhism was pro-
pagated many thousand years before Christianity, or Brah-
minism either ; and this cross was the symbol of Budha crucified.
312
But it more properly comes from the Phoenician,
thlal, he exalted, in conformity with the elevation
of those edifices. Nay, the word, clogha itself, the
Iberno Celtic denomination thereof, appears to me of
Phoenician origin, from clach, he shut up, in reference
to the fire ; for the Phoenicians called these fires,
cammia, from, camas, hidden ; because that in them
was preserved the fire concealed. See Collect, de
Reb. Ibern. p. 308. From the Greeks, the prac-
tice of worshipping fire passed to the Romans, who
worshipped it under the name of Vesta ; for it is
past dispute that by Vesta, or the Grecian Estia, was
meant not only Cybele, but also a public hearth, or
fire place. But as all sacred names have been de-
rived from the east, so were Estia and Vesta, from.
It will readily be believed, therefore, that my indignation
and my disgust were, in no small degree, excited, on reading an
article in the " Dublin Penny Journal," written by Mr. Petrie,
representative oi" the antiquarian literature ? of the Royal Irish
Academy—in which, having never once dreamt of Budha or
his crucifixion- he ignorantly attempts—but with a confidence
which, in my ears, sounded as blasphemy—to identify the above
image wilh that of our saviour Christ ! As I would fain hope,
however, that this error was encouraged from any other cause
rather than what has been broadly affirmed—a prejudice to me
personally, 1 forbear—for the present—saying more upon the
point, as—having appealed from the tenor of the late decision
I have adopted a course to remove every pretext for incertitude
and scepticism; after which, if my just reward be withheld,
or viciously neutralized, I shall make no secret of the pro-
ceedings.
313
es, fire^ and iah, one of the denominations of the
deity ; tantamount to the ^'God of fire/' or the ^'
fire of
God." Means were taken also to preserve ever burn-
ing the hearth of Vesta, as the Romans appointed
virgins to the superintendance thereof, while the
Greeks elected widows, well stricken in years, as best
adapted to the office. Upon which Tullius says, '^
ves-
tal virgins guard in the city the eternal fire of the
public hearth."
Besides the name of Urrin, Uregare, and Urglin,
there occur others in the topography of Ireland
which evidently borrowed their origin from this wor-
ship of fire ; Delgany for instance, or, Delgueny, as
it is otherwise called, being the name of a village in
the county Wicklow, Baxter conceives denominated
from delgue, or delga, an old British word, signify-
ing an idol or image ; whence the Delgovicia of An-
toninus, the modern Wighton, he looks upon as equi-
valent to '^the sacred image ;" —for there was a cele-
brated temple belonging to some idol in a certain
village thence called Godmundam, that is, the divine
mouth. But to my mind, Delgany is a Phoenician
name derived from, delkin, which means a burning
fire, the root of which is, deleche, blazed or burned.
From this worship also, would seem to be derived
the name of the ancient district of Duleek, which at
present forms both a barony and borough town in
the county Meath ; for, in the Syriac language, du-
leek, signifies an immense fire. Thus in the Syriac
314
version of the gospel according to St. John, verse
35, it is said, "he was (dulek) a burning light.*'
From the same root was named the Phoenician town
of Delica, amongst the Cantabrians in Spain.
Aire-Caldachiaroc, the name of a district in the*
county Tyrone, seems to me to be compounded of
the Phoenician words, hair, he kindled a blazing
fire ; Caildai, a Chaldean ; and, chiric, an enclosed
place, or chirac, a citadel ; intimating altogether, a
fortified place, where the Chaldasans—the name by
which the Phoenicians designated all magicians and
soothsayers—used to worship the sacred fire. Ac-
cording to the testimony of Strabo, as we have just
before observed, the fire temples consisted of immense
enclosures, in the centre of which, upon an altar, was
preserved the perennial hearth. From the word, hair,
too, which indicates the worship of fire, it is pro-
bable that the Phoenicians had designated the town
of Airoa, in the county of the province of the Bri-
gantes in Spain; as also that of Aireje, Aireja, Airesa,
and Aireche amongst the Lucanians, who were also
a colony of the Phoenicians.
315
CHAP. XXXIV.
The worship of Baal in Ireland— Various names of Baal—
The Baby Ionic Bel—The Edessenian—The Phcenician—
Jupiter Thalasius—Bel with the Celts meant Sol— Whence
the Irish designated the first day of May—Origin of the
word Grian —Grange Mountain—Greenfield— Green Island
—Green Mount, SfC. —The Cities, Countries and Nations
that derive their name from Baal—Origin of the names
MernSy Foggart, Feighe, and Feigh—Meaning of Baali.
There are innumerable names in the Irish topo-
graphy, which point out to the eye the extensive
prevalence, at one period, from one part of the king-
dom to the other, of the Phoenician worship of Baal,
who was the principal deity of that people. Some of
those places begin with the singular Bal or Bel, and
Bally or Baily : others by the plural Balin and Ballin,
or Ballim, There are, I know, those who derive all
these from the Irish, ball or bail, a place, coast, or
margin ; or from, balla, a wall or fortification. This
may be true of some of them, but by far the greater
part of them, if not evidently, at least, very probably.
316
savor of the worship of this idol. But though my
intention is to shew this more fully in my forth-
coming work on the Phoenician Geography of Ire-
land, I flatter myself that my learned readers will
not think I trespass upon them too much, if, in the
interim, I give them a few as a specimen.
Baillie Boroug, a town in the county Cavan, pro-
vince of Ulster, beside a fort of the same name.
Very probably, this may come from the Irish words,
baill, grateful, delightful, pleasant ; and borg, a dis-
strict or village, corresponding to the Teutonic
borough ; or from the Phoenician words, ballei,
ancient; or balHa, the same in the feminine; and
barg, a tower ; or barga, a villa, a hut, which were
in use amongst the ancient Persians and Chaldaeans
but now they are not read of but amongst the
Arabian writers.
Yet I look upon it as more likely, that, Boroug, is
a corruption of the Phoenician word, borac, implying
genuflexion, from barac, he bent upon his knees ; and
that Baillie, too, emanates from Baal, under whose
veil the Phoenicians worshipped several idols, ofwhich
we will discuss a little more diflusely when oppor-
tunity shall offer, because that very many of our Irish
towns and little villages have been denominated after
them. The Sidonian Belus, the Phegorian Belus, and
the Babylonian Belus, were almost the same in reality
as the Jupiter Olympius, Jupiter Latiaris, Jupiter
317
Cretensis ; or the Apollo Clarius, Apollo Delphicus,
Apollo Selinnutius, &c. &;c.*
The word Bel, omitting the letter, a, after the
manner of the Chaldeans, was peculiar to them and
the Babylonians. Thence the Greeks and the Latins
indiscriminately call the Phoenician Baal, Bel—utterly
regardless of Eastern dialects. Perhaps the temple
of Belus, the Babylonian, was the '^
great house,"
which Periegetes mentions, that Semiramis erected
to Belus in the Babylonian citadel. Bel was wor-
shipped from the earliest times at Edessa, a city of
the Phoenicians ; as was also Mercury, whom they
name Monimus ; and Mars, whom they name Azizius,
* The primitive religion of the Greeks, like that of all other
nations not enlightened by Revelation, appears to have been
elementary, and to have consisted in an indistinct worship of the
sun, the moon, the stars, the earth, and the waters, or rather of
the spirits supposed to preside over those bodies, and to direct
their motions and regulate their modes of existence. Every
river, spring, or mountain, had its local genius or peculiar deity;
and as men naturally endeavour to obtain the favor of their
gods by such means, as they feel best adapted to win their own,
the first worship consisted in offering to them certain portions
of whatever they held to be most valuable. At the same time
that the regular motions of the heavenly bodies, the stated re-
turns of summer and winter, of day and night, with all the
admirable order of the universe, taught them to believe in the
existence and agency of such superior powers ; the irregular
and destructive efforts of nature, such as lightning and tempests,
inundations and earthquakes, persuaded them that these mighty
beings had passions and affections similar to their own, and only
differed in possessing greater strength, power, and intelligence.
318
as you may see in a hymn to the sun, composed by
Julian the Apostate, who acknowledges that the
sentiment and the information here alluded to, was de-
rived from Jamblicus the Syrian, who had been once
his preceptor. As bearing reference to this Phoenician
Belus, it is that we are to understand what is said
in the II. Kings, xvi. 31, 32, where King Achab in
compliment to his father-in-law, Ithoboal, King of
the Sidonians, is recorded as having consecrated a
temple to Baal in Samaria, called Beth Baal, that is
the shrine or chapel of Baal. But the Syrians have
handed down from age to age, that this Belus, who
was called the Jupiter Thalasius, or Marine Jupiter
of the Sidonians, and who, Hesychius mentions, had
been worshipped in Sidon : —the Syrians, I say, have
a tradition that he had descended from this latter
place, which was a maritime and flourishing com-
mercial city of Phoenicia. The Europeans called
Belus by the names of Zeus* and Jupiter, as applied
to whom we are to receive that sentence in the first
* As the maintenance of order and subordination among men
required the authority of a supreme magistrate, the continuation
and general predominance of order and regularity in the universe
would naturally suggest the idea of a supreme God, to whose
soverign control all the rest were subject; and this ineffable
personage the primitive Greeks appear to have called by a name
expressive of the sentiment, which the contemplation of his
great characteristic attribute naturally inspired, Deus, signify-
ing, according to the most probable etymology, reverential fear
or awe. Their poets, however, soon debased his dignity, and
319
iEneid, where it is said, that " he filled with wine a
goblet, which Belus and all descended from Belus,
were accustomed to fill
;" for the Carthaginians had
sprung from Phoenicia, and the poet is here speaking
of the libation of Dido, their queen. Stephanus also
relates, that there was a temple in honour of the
Carthaginian Belus or Baal, in Balis, a city of Lybia.
Bel, in its diminution from Belin, meant, with the
Celts, Sol or Apollo ; which they borrowed from the
Phoenicians, the authors of this superstition, and to
whom Baal, Beal or Bel expressed the sun, which
they originally worshipped with human sacrifices, as
we have mentioned, afterwards substituting the brute
creation. Hence the first day of May, in Irish, was
called La Baal teinne, that is, the day of the fire of
Baal ; and several of our Irish mountains still retain
the name of Cnocgreine, that is, mountain of the
sun ; in numbers of which you may yet see the ruins
of heathenish altars and chapels; for the sun is sup-
posed to have been called Grian, Gren-ur, or Gren-or,
in Irish, from the circumstance of the worship paid
thereto ; which accords with the Grynean Apollo of
Homer, and Grynaeus, a town of Asia Minor, where,
as Strabo asserts, is a temple, and an oracle, and a
grove sacred to Apollo^ and celebrated for their an-
made him the subject of as many wild and extravagant fables
as any of his subject progeny ; which fables became a part of
their religion, though never seriously believed by any but the
lowest of the vulgar.
320
tiquity, together with their other attributes. To
these we may add the river Granicus, as called also
from the sun, since its source lay in mount Ida,
which was sacred to Apollo, and where the I dean
stone was preserved, upon which Homer asserts that
Hector was in the habit of sacrificing. From the
same worship of the sun was named Grange, a con-
secrated mountain mear Drogheda^ formerly Tredagh,
which is a town in the county Louth, where O'Conor
testifies is to be found a circle of immense stones,*
* This extraordinary monument or pyramid, or rather sub-
terraneous temple, which is now but a ruin of what it originally
was, covers two acres of ground, and has an elevation of about
seventy feet ; but its original height was not less than one
hundred. It is formed of small stones, covered over with earth;
and at its base was encircled by a line of stones, of enormous
magnitude, placed in erect positions, and varying in height,
from four to eleven feet above the ground, and supposed to
weigh from ten to twelve tons each. Of these stones, ten only
remained about fifty years back ; and one has since been re-
moved. About a century ago, there was also a large pillar
stone, or stele, on the summit of the mount, now also destroyed.
These stones, as well as those of which the grand interior
chamber is built, are not found in the neighbourhood of the
pyramid, but have been brought hither from the mouth of th
river Boyne—a distance of seven or eight miles. The stones of
which the entire structure consists, are of great size: those
which form the lintels or roof of the gallery, are but six in
number; and, of these, the first is twelve feet four inches long,
the third eighteen feet, and the fifth about twelve feet; the
breadth of these stones is not less than six feet. The tallest of
the upright ones forming the entrance to the recess, is seven
feet six inches in height, and its companion seven feet. The
321
and other vestiges of idolatry, of wonderful magni-
tude, as appears, also, in the descriptions of Llhuydh
and Pownall. These and other such vestiges of the
sacrificing priests, are even at this day called Leab
thacha na bh Feine, or the monuments of the Phoe-
nicians.
From the sun's worship, too, it would seem that
Greenfield, which is situated by the banks of the
Blackwater, in the county Cork, had obtained its
name ; as well as Green-Island, which lies in Dona-
ghadee harbour, in the county Down ; Green-Mount,
a town in the county Louth ; Green-Hills, which
are the summits of certain mountains in the county
Kildare. But we should observe, that hill, which
with us means a mountain, meant with the Phoeni-
cians, an idol, and was spelled with one, L The Irish
word Grian or Green, too,—the sun,—is derived from
the Phoenician Krew, the sun's ray or splendour.
Hence the Irish call the zodiac or sun's revolution,
by the name of Grean bheach ; and a sun dial, by
vase or urn within this chamber, is three feet eight inches in
diameter ; that in the opposite chamber is displaced from its
supporter : these urns are of granite. On the first examination
of the interior, a pyramidial or obeliscal stone, six or seven feet
in height, is said to have stood in the centre, near which the
skeletons of two human bodies were found ; and about the same
period, two gold Roman coins were discovered on the top of
the Mount—the one of the elder Valentinian, and the other of
Theodosius.
322
the name of Grian clog, that is, a solar clock ; to
this I refer the names of Cnoc Greine and Tuam
Greine, that is, hills of the sun ; very many of which,
as the Irish writers attest, were remarkable for idol-
atrous altars ; Aois-Greine, called Cnoc-Greine, from
the hill of the sun, lying in the county Limerick, up
to the suburbs of the very city. And although Aois
may well be derived, as O'Conor imagines, from the
Irish word Aos, which signifies a religious sect or
society, because there formerly a certain leading sect
of the Druids was worshipped, or paid worship them-
selves ; yet the Irish word, aos, itself, must be derived
either from the Phoenician, aoz,he assembled; or, aos,
he was assembled. Likewise the name of that Druid-
ical altar, called Granny's* Bed, near Fermoy, in the
county Cork, is supposed to have been corrupted from
Grean Beacht, which is usually interpreted, the sun's
circle. I prefer, however, the word, bed, which is,
the Phoenician, beth, meaning a house, a shrine, a
temple.
The Phoenicians named some of the cities of their
country from the name of Baal ; for instance, Baal
* Caile, or Granny, that is, " old hag," the name of a
giantess, who devoured all the children of the neighbourhood,
corresponding with the destructive goddess, Calee, of the
Brahmins, whose neck is ornamented with a chain of human
skulls, descriptive of the human sacrifices which were annually
offered to her in Hindostan.
323 A
Meon, mentioned in Numbers xxxii. 3S ; Baal Hae-
mon, in Canticles viii. 11 ; Baal Zephon, in Exodus
xiv. 2 : for the story of Aben Ezra is, that this idol
was constructed by Pharoali's Magi, in imitation of
the position of the heavenly bodies, and placed beside
the Arabic Gulph, with a view to observe and retard
the Israelites,—being vested with the power of in-
veigling them on their march, and diverting their
course from their heaven-ordained enterprise. The
Phoenicians, also, gave the name of, Baal Gad, to a part
of Mount Lebanus, beginning within the precincts of
their own jurisdiction, under Tyre, afterwards called
Gibel ; and the plain of Jericho, they called Baal
Thamar, as you would say the palm-grove of Baal
for, Jericho, itself, was called Thamar, or the city of
palms, from the numerous plantations of this kind
with which it was environed and ornamented. Of
this Phoenician custom of consecrating to Baal the
names of cities and of people, Spain still retains evi-
dent proofs, in the names of Balin and Balina, towns
belonging to the Astures and the Gallicians ; as it
does, also, in Balimana, a village of Celtiberia.
Madrid had formerly a gate, opposite to the river
Manzanares, named Balnadu, comprising, in its for-
mation, the Phoenician, Baalin dub, that is, the river
dedicated to Baal; or beside the temple of Baal;
which I shall also prove, in its proper place, to be the
etymology of Dublin. So also Baillie Boroug would
y2
% 324
seem to have been a town or temple of Baal ; or
as, bending the knee before Baal.*
But it is not only to the names of places and
cities, but, also, to those of men, that we can ad-
duce the most copious instances to show, that the
name of Baal was added as an honorary adjunct.
Certainly, we may trace it in the final syllable of
those ancient and distinguished Carthaginian appel-
latives —Annibal, Ardrubal, and Adhubal. The
Easterns, too, have very often modelled their names
after the same plan, as we may see in the first sylla-
ble of Beladane; the last of Ethobale; and several
others of the same kind. And Daniel, the prophet,
was called Beltzazar, that is, " according to the name
of my God," as that tyrant, Nebuchadnezar, ex-
presses it.
That the Phoenicians had introduced into Ireland,
as they did into Spain and other colonies, the worship,
sacrifices, dances,f and other religious rites, instituted
* The Burates celebrate a kind of sacrifice, twice or thrice
a year, which consists in driving stakes through their he-goats
and sheep, whilst they are alive, and planting them before
their teuts. They keep constantly bowing their heads to these
victims, till they expire.
+ We are awakened from our first sleep by the sounds of
tinkling instruments, accompanied by a chorus of female voices.
I looked out of the window, and saw a band of thirty damsels,
at least, come tripping towards us, with measured paces, and
animated gestures. The moon shone very bright, and we had
325
in honor of Baal, is as clear as the noon- day, from
numberless names of the topography of the country.
The memory of this superstition is preserved to the
present day, in the islands of Ebudae, Ebonise, or
Evonas, situated in the Deucaledonian sea, and
whose number is not known, but called, by the Scoto-
Brigantine Irish by the modern name, Inseu Gal, or
the Brigantine Islands. For as Martin, who is by
far the most accurate and most diligent describer of
them, has shewn, it is usual amongst them to apply
to persons, who happen to stand on the brink of any
difficulties, the expressive proverb of their " standing
between the two fires of Belus ;"
—alluding, of course,
to the bloody sacrifices of youths and infants, who,
in honor of this idol, as we have often before men-
tioned, were cruelly burned between two funeral
piles. Nay, more, the very word ''
funeral pile " was,
by the Anglo-Saxons, called Bael-fir ; and a priest, by
the Aremorici, was designated Belec, as you would
a full view of them, from their entering the gate of our street,
until they reached our house. Here they stopped, and spread*
ing themselves in a circle before the door, renewed the dance
and sung with infinite spirit, and recalled to our minds the
picture which is so fully given of these dancing females in holy
writ. It seems that they took our house in the way to he
river, where they went down to bathe at that late hour, and to
sing the praises of the benevolent power who yearly distributes
his waters to supply the necessities of the natives.
Irivins Voyage up the Red Sea,
326
say, the minister of Bel or Baal. Whence, too, may
I ask, comes the Vulcan of the Romans, unless from
the Syriac, Bel-canna, which is the Celtic, Belcan,
that is, the burning hot Bel or Baal ?
Furthermore the Irish, Samhain, or sacred season,
appears to me to have originated from, Shamain,
which was another name for Baal amongst the Phce*
nicians, in whose language, Shamain, litterally ex-
presses, the heavens ; and, by Synechdoche, the god of
heaven, or who dwells therein. An, ' likewise, in
Irish, signifies a planet; and, samh, the sun ; whence
after the manner of the Phoenicians, who looked upon
the sun as the only god in heaven, as Phylo Bybli-
ensis, the interpreter of Sanchoniathon mentions, they
worshipped this planet under the name of Baal.
Respecting which, Augustine, on Judges xvi, says,
''
The Carthaginians seem to call Baal, the Lord,
Whence they are understood to say, Baal-samen, as
if, the lord of heaven—the heavens with them being
called, samen ;
" where instead of, samain, we per-
ceive that he uses, samen ; in conformity, perhaps,
with the Phoenician dialect of that age. But this
very deity, which the Phoenicians styled Beal-
samen, or lord of heaven, was no other, as Philo re-
marks, than the Olympian Jove^, or the Jupiter
of the Grecians. And observe now the origin of the
Irish words, samh, (the sun) and samhain, (sacred
season,) for the sun's circuit round the earth, or
more properly, of the earth round the sun, is a mea-
327
sure of time, and this measure, which they ascribed
to their deity, they naturally looked upon as sacred.
To this too, I refer the etymology of Merns, the
name of one of the Scotch counties—one of its most
fertile, I may observe, both for tillage and pasture.
For what else is it, with a slight alteration, than
Marnas, the idol of Gaza, a city of Palestine, by
which name the Gazeans affected to worship Baal
for Mar or Maran, in Syriac, if you look to the ages
after the captivity, is interpreted the same as Baal
hence in the Phoenician, marnas, or marnasa, means
the divinity, or lord of mankind.* When the island of
Crete adopted the worship of this idol, he was called
by its inhabitants, Jupiter Cretensis ; so that you see
the Cretans borrowed their Jupiter from the Phoe-
nicians, not the latter from the former. And they
transferred their idol Marnas, with their own an-
cient name into the British isles. The same con-
jecture gains countenance in Foggart, a town in the
county Louth, province of Leinster ; for under this
name there seems to lie concealed the idol Fegor, or
Baal Fegor, which the Moabites worshipped, and
* We read in I. Kings, xix. that when Elijah the prophet was
called upon, by the ** still small voice," in the wilderness, he
answered, that he only was left in Israel to worship the true
God. But let us remember the reply ;
" I have seven thousand
in Israel, who have not bowed the knees unto Baal, and mouths
that have not kissed him."
328
\\'liich St, Jerome, commenting on a verse in Hosea^
affirms "^
we may pronounce to have been" Pri-
apiis. Although others think the name derived from
Fegor, a mountain in the country of Moab, opposite
the desert of Jesimmon, in which Baal, or as
Suidas calls him, Beal, had a temple and religious
honors paid him, which may have been the origin,
perhaps, of the Irishf words, feighr, a hill, and feigh,
bloody, in allusion to the human victims immolated
to this idol. Finally, Bel, or Baal, is a name impi-
ously given to other images also, whether of stars>
or of heroes, the memory of which they would far
rather cherish, and was to them more dear.
But the Baali, here indicated, does not only mean
Baal, but, my Baal, or my Lord, which name was
originally given to the true God. The Israelites,
with propriety and devotion, called God their Baal,
before that God himself, from the frequent applica-
tion of that name to profane divinites, forbad its
farther use. That the Phoenicians had often used
Baali for Baal, is evidenced by the very localities and
local names of this country, for instance, Ballibofy,
Ballyboughan, Ballibrack, Ballibur, Ballicary, Bal-
tinglas, or Beal-tine-glas, a mountain in the county
t Yet the chastity of the women, and the bravery of the
men, are traits of the national character on which these people,
not without justice, pique themselves. Philos. ^uro. of the
South of Ireland.
329
Wicklow. This was the great Beal-tinne of the
southern division^ in which were lighted fires by the
idolatrous natives^ on the first day of May and Au-
gust respectively, in honor of the sun. In its vici-
nity are to be seen, to this day, several altars and
monuments of ancient superstition. The word is
usually translated in Irish, Beal-tinne-glass, that is,
the custody of Baal's fire, or the fire of the mysteries
of Baal, because of the fires then lighted by the
Druids.
From this worship of Baal, or the sun, and of
Saturn—as also from the veneration paid to Astarte,
and to fire, for which the Phoenician colonists of
Ireland, and their Druids, or sacrificing priests were
conspicuous beyond all the nations of the west—Ire-
land was designated the '^
sacred Island,"* by them-
* The land of beauty and of grandeur, lady,
Where looks the cottage out on a domain
The palace cannot boast of. Seas of lakes.
And hills of forests ! crystal waves that rise
'Midst mountains all of snow, and mock the sun.
Returning him his flaming beams more thick
And radiant than he sent them. Torrents there
Are bounding floods ! and there the tempest roams
At large, in all the terrors of its glory !
And then our valleys ! ah, they are the homes
For hearts! our cottages, our vineyards, orchards
Our pastures studded with the herd and fold !
Our native strains that melt us as we sing them !
A free—a gentle s\m^\e—honest people.
Knowles,
330
selves, and by the Bards,* and by other states; and
the first head-land which presented itself to the Phoe-
nicians on their sail from Cornwall to I erne, was
characterised by the epithet of the " sacred promon-
tory." f In Irish, the word " sacred,'* or otherwise,
fatal "island," is Inis-fail ; which originated from the
* Of the ancient bards or poets, Lucan makes this mention
in the first booke of his Pharsalia.
" Vos quoque fortes aniraa, belloque peremptas
** Laudibus in longum vates dimittis aevum,
** Plurima securi fudistis carmina Bardi."
The word signified among the Gaules a singer, as it is noted
by Mr. Camden, and Mr. Selden, out of Pestus Pompeius, and
it had the same signification among the British. Sir lohn Price
in the description of Wales, expounds it to bee one that had
knowledge of things to come, and so (saith he) it signifieth at
this day, taking his ground (amisse) out of Lucan's verse?
Doctor Powell, in his notes upon Caradocof Lhancarvan, saitL
that in Wales they preserved gentlemens armes and pedigrees.
At this time in Ireland the bard, by common acceptation, is
counted a rayling rimer, and distinguished from the poet.
Sir James Ware,
The true origin of the word " Bard," however,was as much un-
known to Sir James himselfas to any ofthe above authorities. It
being but a modification of Boreades, the name of the ancient
Irish priests, as I prove in my work upon the ** Round Towers.''
f Opposite to " Hartland point, or Herculis promontorium,
on the Irish coast, is *' Carnsore point," which in Irish is equi-
valent to ''promontorium sacrum;" for '* came," from the ori-
ental keron, ** a horn," is usually applied to those sacred mounts
or high places on which Pagan temples or altars were wont to
be erected; and *'soire," corresponding to, surya, of the same
import, in Sanscrit, signifies in Irish, ** the rising sun," or the
331
prophetic stone, called liack-fail,*or stone of destiny,
used by the ancient Irish kings during the ceremony
of their coronation, a practice which continued up to
the period of Murtogh Mac Earc, in the sixth cen-
tury, who sent it to Scotland for the more solemn
inauguration of his brother Fergus, the first founder
of the Irish monarchy in Scotland. The epithet,
sacred, was more aptly afterwards applied to this
isle, when—after extirpating therefrom all idolatrous
usages, by the exhilirating announcement of the
gospel of Christ,f it became in St. Bernard's words
east. In analogy with this name we find on the Atlantic, not
far from Gibraltar, that of Cape St. Vincent, which was for-
merly denominated, **
Promontorium sacrum."
* Ware, speaks of the fatal stone called Liafail, or ^* saxum
fatale," which the Tuatha Danans brought with them to
Ireland, and which groaned when the kings were seated
on it at their coronation. This stone, he mentions, was sent
into Albania to be used at the coronation of Fergus; that
Keneth had it placed in a wooden chair, in which the kings of
Scotland sat at the time of their coronation in the abbey of
Scone, whence it was transferred by Edward I,, king of Eng-
land, and placed in Westminster abbey.
t We cannot but admire the omnipotence of God, and power
of his grace, in the rapid conversion of this idolatrous nation.
So sudden a change can only be attributed to him who has the
power of softening the most callous hearts ; for it can be said
with truth, that no other nation, in the christian world, received
with so much joy the knowledge of the kingdom of God, and
the faith in Jesus Christ. Nothing can be found to equal the
zeal with which the new converts lent their aid to St. Patrick,
in breaking down their idols, demolishing their temples, and
building churches. Mac Geoghegan.
332
truly blessed and prolific in saints, yielding fruit
many fold in the vineyard* of the Almighty, whose
inhabitants, in virtue prospering—as with the impetus
of an inundating tide—diffused the sweet odor of
that celestial sanative, which they had themselves ex-
perienced, into the remotest quarters of the habi-
table world.f
* Oh ! let the Christian philanthropist promote its general
diffusion there; and, should no visible harvest crown his
toil, yet his work will be with the Lord, and his reward
with his God. But a harvest there will assuredly be ; for the
fields are already white unto it : and glorious will be the *'day
when he that soweth and he that reapeth shall rejoice together"
—'* WHEN THEY THAT BE WISE SHALL SHINE AS THE SUN,
AND THEY THAT TURN MANY TO RIGHTEOUSNESS AS THE
STARS FOR EVER AND EVER."
t Vert sanctus, fcecundusque sanctorum, copiosissime fructi-
ficans Deo: cujus incolae virtute floreutes, quasi inundatione
facieiy Christi bonum odorem in exteras etiam nationes effude^
runt.—Bernard.
APPENDIX.
335
REGI^ IBERNI^ ACADEMI.E
JOACHIMUS LAURENTIUS VILLANUEVA.
Innumeris ab hospitalibus Ibernis afFectus beneficiis, et quod
mihi, libris et MSS. codicibus spoliate, apprime cordi est, ad
principes et ditiores Dublini bibliothecas admissus ; en tibi,
illustris Academia, quae patriis antiquitatibus elucidandis raag-
nopere studes, banc lucubratiunculam, Ibernicae laudis ergo h.
me arreptam, in grati animi officium reverenter exhibeo. Pau-
cula quidem alterius generis e peou meo depromere possem,
cui ne otium unquam otiosum est ; sed nomini, institute, et eru-
ditissimo coetui tuo nihil mihi visum est quod propriiis et con-
venienti^s ofFerrem, qu^m ardua haec excursio in remotissima
Iberniae tempora, si forte repererim inter spissas illius aetatis tene-
bras, quae fuerunt gentes quae earn primitils incoluerunt. Quod
si non plene assecutus sum, (nee enim in evolvenda antiquitate, ut
aiebat Quintilianus, nee in notiti^ vel rerum, vel hominum, vel
temporum, satis operae insumitur) non injucundam tamen, nee
inutilem banc commentatiunculam hujusmodi eruditionis culto-
ribus futuram, vel ipsa laus, quam vos, laudati viri, pro huma-
nitate et benignitate vestr^, post censoriam operis auimadversi-
336
onem, labori meo contulistis, propemodum indicat. Nunc oro,
ut quod k vobis probatum est, comiter excipiatis. Valete qua-
propter, Socii eruditissimi, et Academiae vestrae, atque etiam
Iberniae gloriam laboribus ac studiis vestris amplificare, ut jam
laudabiliter ccEpistis, alacriter pergite.
Datum Dublini Idih.Junii, ann. 183X,
337
IBERNIA PHOENICEA,
&c. &c.
CAPUT I.
Scopus operis—Incerta Ibernice incolarum origo—Via earn, in-
quirendi —Ardua res est in prisca fempora penetrare—Hujus
conatus specimen —IbernicR historiarum copia et Jides—Iber-
nice priorum gentium et locorum peregrina nomina—Unde
petendum esteorum etymon—Gratus animus erga recentiores
et veteres rerum Ibernicarum scriptores— Non semper tutum
est eos sequi.
Priorum Iberniae incolarum, qukm vetus, tarn incerta origo
est, nee ratione satis concipienda. Quanivis autem quze de iis
fama celebrat, ea non prorsils abneganda sunt ; ad veritateni
tamen propi^s accedendi tutius iter est norainum originem ve-
terum hujus insulae populorura et tribuum investigare ; quae
certe, magnA saltern ex parte, sicut in aliis orbis regionibus ac-
cidit, eorum genus, et stirpem, et patriani unde emigrarunt, ve-
luti digito monstrant, Non dicam inconvulsa, sed aliquantula
tamen huic expiscationi manet fides, cujus pretium non inani-
Z
338
bus vilipendendum conjectiiris, nisi potiora et magis authentica
accedant argumenta. Cilm enim res ardua sit, ut ajebat Pli-
nius, vetustis novitatem dare, novis auctoritatem, obsoletis nito-
rem, obscuris lucem, fastiditis gratiam, dubiis fidem ; etiam non
assecutis voluisse, abuude pulchrum atque magnificum est. Id
quod ego cordi habens, aliquali reipublicae litterarise bono, fa-
cile ill id consilium veni, ut aliquid simile tentare, ne dicam
perficere statuerim ; banc mod6 provinciam veluti otii litterarii
caussa suscipere non dubitans.
Cilm ver6 ilia, quce super geographicis Iberniae nominibus
discutere in animo est, nee pauca, nee exigua sint, ac sedulo
egeant examine, linguarumque orientalium et septentrionaiium
studio ; eorum specimen in priscis Ibernarum gentium nominibus
et idololatrico earum cultu interim innuisse sufGciat ; rejectis
quibusdam mearum conjectationum fontibus, qui praesto esse
possunt iis quibus banc Spartam deinceps ornare libeat. Ali-
quantulam tamen gratiam inire confido, si hujusmodi scrinia,
muiiusculi instar, tam iis praebeam, quiludicris levibusque cre-
pundiis assueti sunt,, quam iis, quibus cordi est gravis ac
severus litterarum atque honestarum disciplinarum cultus.
Dolendum sane est, tot nebulis interfusum veterum Iberniae
incolarum originis investigandi iter ; cdm ali^s nusquam gen-
tium alia natio antiquitatum ab omni aevo observantior, exac-
tiiis chronographiam, majorum facta, ditionum terminos, jura,
et omnem deraum vetustatis supellectilem custodierit. Ut non
immerito dixerit Camdenus '* prae illis Ibernicis historiis, om-
nem omnium gentium antiquitatem esse novitatem, et quod-
amraodfi infantiam." Huic obscuritati ansam praebuit raritas
ipsa nominura, tam Iberniae gentium, qu^mplurium oppidorum,
urbium, montium, lacuum, amnium, quae nihil habere videntur
commune cum indigenarum idiomate. Adeo ut quod de ru-
dibus et barbaris Hispaniae veterum incolarum et geographicis
339
nominibus scripserat Strabo, linguarum ignarus uiide desumpta
fuerant; id ipsum de Ibernicis repetit E^odeiicus O'Fiahertyus,
vir ceteroqui doctissimus, et de Ibernicis antiquitatibus bene^
meritus. Nam veterum hujus Insulge populorum nomiiia, quos
Ptoleinteus receiiset, non minus sono peregrina vocat, qiidm
A mericani tractus gentium. Flermnque etiam, addit, locorum
nomina Ausona, vel Ausoba, Daurona, lernus, Isamnium,
Laberus, Macolicum, Ovoca, &c. non minus nobis incognita
sunt, Et tandem : Pauca locorum nomina nobis nota, non
minus corrvpta ac depvavata sunt, qudm ipsa loca vetustate
exesa, Heec forte non diceret vir clarissimus, si hujusmodi
nomina cum scaturigine contulisset, unde emanarunt.
Nostro enim vitio sit, qudd obscura quoedam, et, ut ita dicam,
arcana, in veteribus Iberniac populorum, urbium, montium,
amnium nominibus deprehendamus : plerumque vero historio-
graphorum et antiquariorum culpa, qui sepe clarissimis alioqui
vocibus tenebras offundentes, etyma pro arbitratu depravarunt
eo sensu quern ipsis placuit effingere.
Kectidscl. C. O'Connor (Rer. Ibernic. Script. Vet. t. 1. p.
xlvi. seq.): " Si singula nomina Ibernica, inquit, a Ptolemaeo
servata, cum Britannicis ab eodera servatis conferamus, et pos-
iea cum Hispanicis; longe plura Hispanica esse fateamur
necesse est, atque ad tempora antiquissima referenda ; ideoque
cum lis convenire, quae de vetustissimis Phoenicum in insulam
sacram expeditiouibus superius relata sunt." Cavit ergo eru-
ditus yir in eorum sententiam ire, qui quorundam antiquariorum
fide freti, pene omnia priscarum Ibernise gentium et tribuum
nomina Iberno idiomati consentanea utpote ab eo ducta, au-
tumant. Alios laudo subacti judicii criticos, qui partim e
Celtico ducunt, partim ^ Cambrico, partim etiam e Britannico
et veteri Teuthonico. Sed nee in omnibus eorum sententiam
probo: citm mihi exploratum sit multa, quae evidenter e
Z 2
340
Phoenicea linguA clucta sunt, conaii eos ex aliis f'ontibus
eruere.
Ita hullucinatus videturcl. Bulletus , qui in suis commenta-
riis super Lingua Celtica, sinistra interpretatione conatur ex e^
educere plura Iberniae urbium, oppidorum, fluminum, &c. no-
mina; ut obsorvavit vir antiquitatum Ibernicarum peritissimus.
Nee propius ad veritatem accessit, cl. Lhydus in collatione
Jinguse Ibernicae cum Cantabrina: inter quas longe minor affi-
nitas est, qu^m inter Ibernicam et Punicam. Omitto alios
seriptores, qui perperam geographica hjijus insulae noraina in-
tellexerunt.
Nempe viri alias docti, non satis scrutati sunt linguae Phoe-
iiiceae rudera, quae in his nominibus servaverunt vel ruricoela^
ipsi, (\m\)\i^ jabricoB hujns auctores ignoti erant : quod et in
Hispaniae veteribus coloniis et nominibus geographicis nuper
observavi, quae ut plurimum ex eodem fonte manasse, in meo
geographiae Hispanicae opere demonstrare proposui. Nam
qui ad punctum collimare contendit, is certe a scopo minus
aberrabit, quam qui superficiem circularem assequi contenius
est. Ideo ad fontes usque Phoeniceos attingere ausim, si forte
in illis veram et genuinam horura norainum rationem invenerirn.
Haec quoniam non praestitit vir ceteroqui rerum Ibernicarum
peritissimus, suspicatur Phcenices tautum pro re nata ad Iberniae
oram ut negotiatores appuiisse, mercimonia peregrina advehen-
di, vel importandi causs^; donee Britannia, ob ditissimas,
quibus gaudet, stanni fodinas, locus fuit eorum copiis ad con-
veniendum praescriptus. Ubi probabile existimat habitacula
stabiliisse eorum ohlectamento, vel quasi mercatorum procura-
tores. Sed haec tant^m durasse usque ad finem Belli Punici,
quando Carthago deleta est, et Hispania a Romanis conquisita.
Interea illud velim animadverti, non improbare nos aliquot
horum nominum Ibernicam originem, im6 earn fateri ingenue.
341
Id taiitiim ostendere iiitimur, plura ex iis, quae Celticis vel
Britannicis vocibus confecta ereduntur, altiiis esse repetenda,
ex Phoeuieum nempe lingua, qui primis temporibus, id est, non
longe ab ingressu Israelitarum ia terram Chanaan, ad Africae
et Hispaiiiae primilnj, ei exinde ad Iberniae litora pervenerunt.
Ad hoc nobis adnitendura est : hoc opus nostrum est palrnari-
um, Phoeniceas scilicet has scaturigines indigitare, et ex iis
spontaneum ortum fulcire : ut palkni omnibus fiat, eos qui re-
motissiraa Phoenicum saecula penetrare negligunt, non satis esse
aptos ad inveniendam veram antiquorum Iberniae incolarum
onginem : miniis autem ad placita sua confirmanda, et ad
contraria refutanda vel eluenda.
Fortasse inde quis colligat, meo judicio fuisse Phcenices
priscos Iberniae populos. Atqui non mod6 instituenda est
mihi super hoc disputatio. Novi quae de Ahoriginibxis seu
Gigantibus scripsere quidam veteres, et de eorum cum Partho'
lanis bellis cruentissimis ; et tandem de postremo Gadelianorum
seu Milesianorum adventu ex Iberice oris. Nee amplector, nee
respuo quod scribunt Ibernarum antiquitatum solertissinii in-
dagatores, primes nempe Iberniae incolas e vicinioribus com-
migrasse ; et longo post intervalJo temporis suas in ea colonias
statuisse Phcenices, Gaditanos utique et Tartesios. Super his
et aliis Iberniae antiquitatibus percurri quas ad manum habere
potui veterum ac recentiorum lucubrationes. Sunt quaedam, et
non pauca inter eas magni pretii, quibus fateor me valde ad-
jutum. Hie enim est fructus, quern ex excellentium virorum
laboribus percipit modesta sollertia ; qui ideo nobis praeiverunt,
ut in spissis remotissimae aetatis tenebris facem succedentibus
praeferrent, Non tamen in superioribus ita oculi defigendi, ut
propriis etiam gressibus non attendamus. Per illas enim qui-
dam incedunt aliquando semitas, in quibus non tutum sit eos
sequi : id quod et ego hie cavi, saepe vias parvim tritas seeutus.
342
Sicut autem haec tentavit ante me nemo ; sic indulturos viros
doctos spero, si quid in hisce commentarioiis praetermiserim,
quae ad etymologi officium pertinent. In tant^ enim nominum'
farragine facile est aliquam negligentiam irrepere, quam liben-
tiils ignoscent docti viri, qui qu^m proclive sit hujusmodi in
studiis deficere experiraento didicerunt, quam ceteri, qui sin-
gula in propatulo putant, et ut ipsi casu ab aliquo audieruut,
ita eadem etiam unicuique in nuraerato esse vellent. Nam ut
sunt varia et obsoleta haec nomina, indagatores eorum originis
saepe efFugiunt, qui ciim in eam penetrare nequirent, divinando
fet tentando prope, quantum fas est, accedere, vel k longe saltern
indigitare curarunt. Affixerunt eis saepe-numer6 sensum, non
modd diversum, sed etiam adversum, quemque ipsa incolarum^
conditio, et regionum aut urbium situs a veritate alienum de-
tnonstrat. Non qu6d ego quid quam detractum eis velim, qui
ante me Ibernicae Geographiae illustrandae operam contulerunt*
Laudo conatus illorum; illi mihi viam aperuerunt. Si qua in
re a me superati sunt, acceptum id refero magnis ex antiquitate
viris, quos majori cum cur^, raajore cert^ otio assidue tero, ut
eorum scaturigine ingenioli mei hortulos irrigem. Nee ex iis
esse fateor, qui nullo labori parcunt, dum antiquorum vitia et
naevos pervestigant, quique pulcherrima saepe inventa vexant,
ideo tanlilm, quia quod laude dignum est, k genio eorum
abhorret.
CAPUT 11.
Iberniam metallorum venis esse divitem, ait CI. Jac. Waraeus
(Disquis. de Ibeinia et Antig, ejus cap. xxv.) quotidiana ex-
perientia docet, speciatim sunt ibidem aliquae plumbi fodinae^
343
quae mixtam habent lucrosam argenti quantitatem, Hadrianus
Junius, in Iberniae laudem, fodinas hasce puri argenti venas
poetic^ appellat.
JEt pari argenti venas, quas terra refossis
Visceribus manes imos visura recludit.
Inde tot nummi aurei et argentei in Ibernia percussi : inde scyphi,
monilia, et alia id generis pignora, de quibus in veteribus hujus
Insulae Annalibus frequens mentio occurrit, et quorum spe-
cimen exhibuit idem Waraeus loco laud.
CAPUT IV.
Ab idolorum sacrificulis parentes persuasos fuisse, unius
morte, reliquos liberos hoc sacriticio ereptum iri, seque tot^
vit^ futures prosperrimos, affirmat judaeus hispanus R. Levi
Barcelonius. '*
Falsi flamines, inquit, patri prolis spondebant,
beneficio oblati filii reliquam ejus stirpem prospere habiturum,
quocum que se verteret, adeoque domi suae locum habituram
benedictionem et prosperitatem. Utque dolus facilius suc-
cederet, nuUam initio fixerunt legem, nisi illi, cui praeter filium
datum, alius superesset, ne obsequium detrectarent, sive cora-
burendus plane fuerit filius, sive tantiim traducendus juxta
quosdam interpretes, perflammam. Et ut certos eos redderent
benedictionis et prosperitatis in reliquis, sicque his blanditiis
commodius simplices pellicerent ; acclamabant sacerdotes patri
sacrificanti : Utile erit tibi : dulce conditnentum erit tibi, &c.'^
344
Ideo Vallis Hinnon juxta Hierosolymam, ubi immolatos
pueros constat, appellata est thophet, ob tympanorum usum^
quibus lamentabilem puerorum vocem, quae naham (rugiens)
erat, supprimerent, ne audiretur a parentibus. Nam hebraeis
thoph erat tympanum, a sono sic vocatum ut existimat Pas. in
Novi Testam. Lexico, de rege Josia legitiir Reg. IV. cap. xxiii.
10. " contaminavit quoque Thopheth quod est in convalle jfilii
Ennom ; ui nemo consecraret filium suum aut iiliam per ignem,
Moloch."
Appellatus est etiam locus ille malcken, quod significat
fuinum ad conficiendos lateres, sed ibi ad comburendam te-
nellam aetatem.
CAPUT IX.
Tellurem Mairis nomine a gentibus cultam, testis est Plinius
(II. Go.) : neque Matris solum, sed magnce quoque ob nimiam,
quam praestat utilitatem. Nisi forte in hoc, sicut in aliis bene-
multis, sacra scriptura abusi sunt, quae terram matrem omnium
appellat (Eccli. xl. 1.) immemores deum esse gui magna fecit
in omni terra (Eccli. 1. 24.) Unde hmninumque deumque cEter-
nam creatricem eam appellabant (Stat, thebaid. viii. vers. 304.)
almam parentem : summam parentem, &c. Priscae enim gentes,
post quam k Patriarcharum religione, vero Deo ex fide in pro-
missum messiam sacrificantium, ad Idolomaniam, cum caec^
sacrificiorum, defecissent, et prira^vam connatae de Deo Un6
vero notitiae puritatem infecissent ; elementa, ex quibus omnia
345
coaluisse arbitrabfanlur, vel pro Numinibus, vel pro Numinum
symbolis coluerunt. Et inter haec maxime Terram, ^ qua origo
ipsis, et in quam soluta reverterentur omnia, ut apud Platonem
(Tim. Lib. IV.) ajebat Proclus.
Quod autem Cibele, quae Mater Magna vel Mater Deum
primiira fuerit, compluribus postea nominibus indigitata fuerit;
inde Deorum Matrem nomina in veteribus aris reperta sunt,
quarum mentionem invenire est in Plutarchi Marcello, et in
Pausaniae Atticis. Plurimas ex insculptis hisce aris in Europa
repertas prodidere Gruterus et Smetius. Sed et ejusmodi aram
k se visamin Brigantibus meminit Camdenus, etiam ad majorum
animalium sacrificia peragenda aptam. Hanc in Lancastria :
alteram quoque habet in agro Dunelmensi : tertiae descripti-
onem ad se missam, sibi ostendisse, asserit Seldenus. De Diis
Syris Syntagm. II. cap. 2.)
CAPUT XII.
Doctorum virorum sententia est, Scotos, seu Ibernos, Scy-
tharum more, ante'praelium, tum ad robur excitandum, tum ad
hostes perterrendos, clamore Martio usos esse, Faragh, Faragh
acerrime saepe iterantes. (Waraeus De Ibernia et Antiquit. ejus
Cap. 11.^ Has autem voces e Phoenicibus mutuasse, mihi in-
dubium est. Nam eorum lingua^ara^ significat lacerare, fran-
gere, rumpere ; quod legioni in hostes irruenti apte dicitur, ut
eos dissolvat, et abrumpat, faraa autem est liberari a jugo ser-
vitutis, et ab injuriis hostium : tum et vindicari, ulcisci. Sic
346
Hispani olira ad prselium contra Saracenos euntes, acclamare
solebant Santiago y a ellos, quasi dicerent : In hostes irruamus,
Jacobi Apostoli munimene fulti. De vocibus ante piignam
Graecis et Roraanis usitatis, consul! possunt Suidas, et Ammia-
nus Marcellinus lib. xxxi.
Nisi malis Sacas a Persis Scythas appellatos ob victoriam
in eos a Cyro primitus reportatam : quam Sacarum cladem
Photius in Miriobib. Cod. 72. libris succidaneis meminit, Inde
opinantur quidam origineni habuisse festum Sacca, a Cyro hac
de causs-^ institutum, et saeratum Anaitidi, Dianae nempe
Persicae, quod numen erat patrium. Ipsum autem victoriae
diem, unde festi initium, Sakeian dictum k Cyro, ait Eustathius
(ad Periegeten), et Anaitidi dicatum. Addit Strabo (XI.)
ubicumque hujus Numinis fanum esset, ibi et sancivisse ut
sacra celebrarentur, velut bacchanalia interdiii noctuque ad
morem Scythicuro ordinata, compotantibus viris feminisque et
lascivientibus. Haec sacra fiehant quinque diebus continuis, in
quibus morem esse, ait Berosus Chaldaeus (ap. Athenaeum Dip-
nosoph. 14.), dominos parere imperio servorum : praesse autem
familiae eorum unura, vestem regiae similem indutum, queni 20-
ganen nuncupabant: nomen, certe, quod Chaldaicam petit
originem, nam in ea dialecto Sayan erat proetectus, proepositus.
Cons. Selden. De Diis Syris, Syntagrn, II. cap. xiii.
CAPUT XXIV.
Figmenta sunt etiam a viris doctis explosa, quae de Ibernicae
linguae origine narrant quidam, cujus auctorem fuisse existimant
Gaidhelum hunc, seu Gaothelum^ ^ quo Gaolic, seu Geolic appel-
347
ata est, qua si ex caeteris linguis desumpta; turn et Ibernos ipsos
Guydhill nominatos ;
quamquam haec Humfredi Lhuidi Cam-
bro-Britanni senteiitia est in Fragmento Britanicce descriptionis.
(Cons. Jac. Waraei Disquis. De Ibernid, et Antiq. ejus, cap. I.)
Sunt qui existimeut nomen cualemalec quo olim appellatam
putant linguam Ibernicam, ductum ^ nomine culamuam, quo
antiquitus vocatam fuisse Iberniam, asserunt. Sed si verum
est linguam Ibernicam sic olim dictam, quod in suis collectaneis
historicis docuit Thadaeus Dowling, Phoeniceae esse originis hoc
nomen probabile duxeris. Nam Syropboeniciis calam vox est,
sermo, oratio : halecy viator ; adeo sponte fluit viatorum seu
exterorum linguam, esse cualemalec.
CAPUT XXVI.
Ante divisionem imperii in Assyrios et Syros, ab Aram, Semi
filio, dictos esse Syros Aramaeos, testantur Fl. Josephus et
Strabo. (lib. xvi.) Hoc nomen apud Syros desiisse deinceps
ex hac causszi quidam conjiciunt, quod nomen Aramcei pro
gentili idolotr^ usurpatum fuit, ut in Gemara Talmud Babylo-
nici, de idololatrio, ubi Samaritanus sive Cuthcens, medius
ponitur inter JudcBum et Aramceum, vel idololatram gentilem.
Apud Onkelos Levit. xxv. 47. Aramceus ponitur pro Idololairo,
Et in versione Novi Testamenti Syriaca (Galat. ii. 14. et iii, 2.)
pro gentibus et greeds, legimus aramceos. Eruditam super hoc
edidit Dissertationem M. Andraeas Beyerus in Additamentis
ad Seldeni Syntagm. De Diis Syris, pag. 2. seq.
348
CAPUT XXVII.
De Romanis ait T. Livius (I. 22.) In bello Punico secundo,
ex fatalibus libris sacrificia aliquot extraordinaria fecissc, inter
quae Galium et Gallain, Grcecum et Groecam in foro hoario
vivos sub terram demissos.
Hodie, ait Minutius Felix, a Romanis Latiaria Jupiter ho-
micidio colitur ; et quod Saturnifilio dignum est, mali et noxii
hominis sanguine saginatur.
Iramanius est quod de infantis, materno utero exsecti et
mactati sacrificio, legitur apud Lucanum (VI.)
*^ Vulnere si ventris, non qua natura vocabat,
" Extrahitur partus, calidis ponendus in aris."
Pratereo bustuavias victimas in certaminibus funebribus, qui-
bus litatum est mortuis ; et in Spectaculis mutu6 caesos, de qui-
bus TertuUianus (lib. De Spectaculis, cap. xii.) Ludovicus de
La Cerda (in IV. JEneid. pag. 386.) aliique. Jure Romani,
inquit Justus Lipsius (Lib. I, Saturnal. cap. viii.), quia gladi-
atorum sanguine placari manes credebant, eaque prima ludicri
caussa, hoc spectaculum dedicarunt crudo et sanguineo deo.
Vid. Grotiuni de Verit. Religionis Christ, et Beyerum loc. laud.
pag. 263. seq.
349
CAPUT XXVIII.
Lucus dictusest, k lucd etrusca voce, senem significante juxta
Franciscura Sanctium (Miuervse pag. 437.) NamjuxtaLucanuni
Phaisalia, Lib. Hi. Lucus erat longo nunquam violatus ah
cevOf &c. Claudianus etiam De laude Stilicon. Lib. 1.
.... Lucosque vetusta
Religione truces, et robora numinis instar
Barbarici nostrce feriant impune secures.
Truces dixit, propter victimas humanas. Robora vero numi-
nis instar barbarici, vocat Deos arbores, de quibus Seldenus, et
alii ; sive quercus superstitioni dicatos, de quibus Plinius, Lib.
XVI. cap. ult. et nos in praesenti capite.
Alii Lucos dictos credunt per antiphrasin, quasi minirae lu-
ceant. Alii e converso, quia raaxime luccant, religionis caussa.
(Vid. Scalig. Poet. Lib. III. c. 00. et Voss. Etymolog. p. 296.)
£rant haec omnis nequitise et spurcitiae latibula, diaboU con-
sistoria, in quibus libidini sub specie religionis vacabant. De
quo legi merentur Dilher. (t. 1. disp. 127.) ubi agit de Meretri-
cibussacris; et Selden. (loo. laud. Syntagm. II. cap. 27, p. 237.)
ubi de Venere Babylonica, quae k Chaldaeis Regina ccelorum
appellabatur.
De veteribus Ibernis narrat auctor De Statibus Imperiorum,
pag. 44. genua flexisse ante Lunani novam, ei dicentes : Ita
nos salvos degere sinas, sicuti nos invenisti. Vana idolatrarum
superstitio juxta diei praesidem, noctis quoque Lunam, utpote
inter planetos terras proximam, et influxu sue notabilera coluit
350
(V. Hevelius in SeleMographicis, pag. 202.) Tempore ejus
defectus, quantus fuerit eorum timor, quantaque trepidatio, vel
ex Tacito (1. Annaiium) constat. Et quando deficiebat, ejus
lumen aeris sono et tubarum, cornuumque concentu revocari
posse stulte sibi persuadebant. Hane veterum consuetudinem
produnt Jacobus Andraeas Crusius (De node et nocturnis officiis.
Cap. IV. pag. 106, 107.) et alii. Etiam num k pluribus fere
omnium terras partiuni colitur Luna ut divinum numen : ab
Indorum benemultis sub nomine Schendra : sub aliis nominibus
a barbaris Africanis et Nigritis maritimis, a Conganis, Anzi-
charis, turn k sueciae populis subpolaribus, Catainis, Tartaris, et
Samojedis, Hujus Selenolatrice vestigia reperta sunt etiam in
insulis Java Majore, Moluccis et Philippinis. Lectu digna
sunt quae de hoc argumento litteris mandarunt Kirchei us {CEdip,
JEgypt. torn. 1. lib. V. cap. iv. p, 416. seq.) Barlaeus (De
rebus gestis sub Maui'^
pag. 62.^ Gottfredus (Historia Antipodar,
P. I. pag. 30.)
Ibernorum morem servabant etiam liomani qui solerani ritu
Junonem invocabant Carthiginiensem, Lunam alloquentes.
Calantes, nimirum, pontifices nonas mensium, quod fieri soli-
tum kalendis in capitolio, in Curia Calabra, clamabant :
'^ Dies
te quinque Kalo Juno novella, aut Septem dies te Kalo Juno
novella :" uti auctor est Varro (De Lingua lat. lib. v.) Nisi
pro Junone Janam substituas, ut suspicatur Seldenus. Nam
Varroni {De re rustica I. 37.) Jana, Lunay dicitur : et in ve-
tustioribus excusiae (De re rustica) non novella, sed covella
legitur. Covella autem, Urania, seu caelestis interpretatur.
Nam veteres covum caelum vocabant, ut auctor est Sextus
Pompeius. Et Uraniam, seu Lunam, quam a PcEnis accepe-
rat, veneratus esse videtur Massanissa, Numidarum rex, dum
Juno nis fanummagno honore prosequutus est in Melit^ insult;
quod ex Cicerone constat (in Verrem Act IV.) Unde coelestem
351
banc Venerem, sive Lunam vocabant Assyrii Mylitaon^ ab
Arabibus diffidentes, qui eani venerabantur sub nomine Alilaty
et a Persis, qui earn vocabant Mitram. Mylita auteni vox est
ducta ab Arabicae Mylidath, geiiitrix : vl/i/a^ arabibus etiam
luna est nascejis et noctiluca. Cui affine est nomen Lilith, quo
Zwwam vocabant Judaei; a lilah, nox. (V. Selden. De Diis
Syris Syntagm. II. cap. 2. et M. Andreae Beyeri Additara.
in hunc loc.)
Ex hoc Lun£e corniculantis cuitu, qui apud veteres Saracenos
seu agarenos invaluit, Mahumedanorum forte superstitiosus
ritus ortus est, qui summis Meschitaruni et turriura fastigiis
lunulas imponunt. [n hon6rem quippe suae Cabar, id est,
magna deae, quo nomine Lunam seu Venei^em venerabantur, ut
mox dicemus, insignia ilia antiquitus collocata et sacrata, doc-
torum virorum sententia est. Quamquam alii volunt colocatus
a Mahumedanis has Lunulas in memoriam Hegiroe, id est, fugas
Mahumedis ex Mecha, quae accidit biduo post verum Lunce
coitum, in initio videlicet, mensis Muharam, et anni arabici
lunaris, corniculante jam Luna. (V. Scalig:er De emendat,
tempor. Can. II. III. et Selden. loc. laud. Syntagm. 11. cap.
iv.) Sed Hegird vetustiorem Lunularum apud Saracenos
honorem fuisse, vel ex eo coUigi potesi, quod LunulcB priscis.
Ismaelitarum regibus, eorumque camelis, uti singularia erant
ornamenta, et veluti gentis symbola. Unde de Gedeone post
quam occidit reges Zebee et Salmana, legitur (Judic, viii. 21.)
Et tulit (^Schahoronim) ornamenta ac hullas, quibus colla rega-
lium camelorurn decorari solent. Hasc autem ornamenta erant
Lunae similia : bullcB in modum Lunas rotundas : quas postea
(v. 26.) vocat torques aureas camelorum. TJnde arabes appel-
lant, Schuor, Lunam, circulum : —turn et mensem, lunationem.
Nee inverisimile est ab lis tulisse nobiles Romanos morem ha-
bendi in calceis notam Lunce, unde Lunatos se esse gloriabantur.
352
Inde fortasse Asartai pluraliter dicebantur, quemadmodum
repeiire est apud LXX. Seniores (Judic. ii. 13.) Nam, ut
plures Junones, ait, Seldenus {loc, laud. Synt. II. cap. 2.) Plu-
res Veneres, Dese Syriae plures ob simulachrorum multitudinem
erant ; ita et Astartes plures. Id ipsuni pene dixerat D. Au-
gustinus (ad Judic ii. qucest. xvi.) '*
Juno, inquit, sine dubi-
tatione, ab illis (a Poenis) Astarte vocatur. Et quoniam istae
linguae (Phoenicia et Punica) non multum inter se difFerunt,
merito creditur de filiis Israel hoc dicere Scriptura, quod J5aa/^
servierunt et Astartibus : quia Jovi et Junonihus. Nee movere
debet quod non dixit Astarti, id est, Jimoni, sed tamquani mul-
tae sint Junones, pluraliter hoc nomen posuit. Ad siraulacro-
rum enim multitudinem referri voluit intcllectum ; quoniam
unum quodque Junonis simulacium Juno vocabatur : ac per
hoc tot Junones^ quot sunt simulacra intelligi voluit."
Jocelinus, monachus Cistercieiisis ccenobii Furnessensis apud
Lancasterienses in Vita S. Pairitii, cap. 96. tradit Loegarium,
tilium Nelli, regis Iberniee adorasse idolum quoddam appelia-
tura Caencrolthi, id est, caput omnium deorum, '* e6 quod,
inquit responsa dare putabatur a populo stulto." Sunt qui du-
bitent an eo nomine Apollonem Iberni intellexerint sed forte
cean fuerit Saturnus, quern Hebraeis ciu7i, et ceuan, lingu^ Isma-
elitica appellatum Persis et Arabibus, ex Aben Ezrae testimonio
constat ; unde facile hoc nomen Phoenices, Saturni cultores,
trahere potuerunt. Sub hoc nomine coluisse pravaricatores Is-
raelitas Saturnum una cum Moloch, testatur Amos Propheta
qui cum dixisset : Portastis tabernaculum Moloch vestri (Amos
V. 26.) addit : et dun, imaginem vestram: cujus loco habet
vulgatus interpres : Et imaginem Idolorum vestrorum. Sed
Aquila et Symmachus retinuerunt vocem Ciun, pro Rempham,
in versione allocutionis B. Stephani Protomartyris (Actor, vii.
43.,) qui hunc locum Amos laudavit ad redarguendam seniorum
judaic! populi et scribarum duritiem. Sunt qui in nomine Ciun
reperire opinentur nominis Chon vestigium quo Hercules, ^gyp-
tiorum lingua appellatus est. Sed hoc nee Seldeno placet, nee
satis, ut ostendit, hue quadrat, Saturnum verb cofirmant veisio
Novi Testamenti Coptica, turn consensus comraentariorum cop-
ticorum in Caput. VII. Actuum, et Lexici Arabici coptici,
quod Rephan, vel Rempham vocant Saturnum, Lunam esse
opinatur Vossius (loc. laud. II. 23.) Victorious Strigelius
(pag. 369.) Hypomnem. Alii Syrii stellara, veluti numen cul-
tam apud ^gyptios pro felici agrorum inundatione : quia circa
Syrii ortum incipit Nilus ebullire, ut ciun sit quasi canis : quod
tamen vix Phoenicum theologia permittet. (Vid. Selden. loc.
laud. Syntagm. II. cap. 14. et Addit. Beyeri in hoc caput : turn
et. Hotting. Smegm. Orient, p. 89.
Croithi vero duxerim, vel a voce Phoenicea cret. vel creit,
thesaurus ; ut fuerit cean croithi thesaurus, vel ditissimum
fanum Saturni: vel k gente Palaestinae bellicosissim^ crethi,
vel ceretki, ex qua habuit David Satellites, seu corporis sui
custodes (II. Reg, xv. 18.) et quorum pars cum caeteris
Phoeniciis k facie Jopiae fugerat.
De aho Idolo, quod Clochorce e lapide aureo responsa dare
solebat, testatur Waraeus (loc. laud. cap. v.) fieri mentionem in
Regesto Clohorensic, Clochora (mod6 Clogher prov. Ulster)
existimant Ibernorum Antiquarii nomen duxisse a lapide aureo,
plim dicto Lia fail, aut Lee fail, de quo serrao nobis est ad
calcem capitis xxxiv. Clochora congruitcum vocibus Phceniciis
clO'Cor, imago in aere, auro, argento, vel saxo sculpta.
Plinii (II. 7.) testimonio constat Romanes morbis, et multis
etiam pestibus, dum placandas esse trepido metu cupierunt, Aras
erexisse: turn et publico Febri fanum in Palatio dicasse. Nee
Paupertas h6c apud eos honore caruit, ob id Diva dicta, Ar-
temque dignati sunt ut cam effugerent, teste ^liano (ap Eu-
A a
354
stathium in comment, ad Dionys.) Apud Romanes etiam et
alias gentes habuenint Aras Mors, Tartarus, Senectus, Lucius,
Fames, Funus, Pavor, Dolor, Sopor, innumera alia. (Cons. M.
Andr. Beyer, ad Cap. III. Seldeni Proleg. Cap. V.)
CAPUT XXTX,
Cuidam cordati interpretes Vallern Hinnon (Jos. xviii. 8.).
Sive Ge-ben- Hinnon, vallisfilii Binnon, vel Ge Hinnon (Jerem.
vii. 31.) vallis Hinnon, dictum maluut potius, quam ex nomine
proprio, nescio cujus Hinnon, Vallis ista erat locus infamis,
ob foedani istam idololatraim, infantum Molocho tostorum ulu-
latus, elaots sordes, et perpetuum ignem ; at que ad inferorum
horroretn represent ardum aptissimus. (V. Dilherr. Eclog,
Sacr. p. 129.) Quare etjudaei Orcum, sive locum damnatorum
usitatissime Gehinnon vocant. Est enim Infernus, uti vallis
hoc Hierosolymee erat, communis totius Orbis sentina, quo
itidem confluxit omnis generis, atque omnimoda spurcities, qua
sepeliendi improbi numquam morituri, perpetu6 flammis ustu-
landi, sicuti commune sepulcretum Urbis vallis ilia credita
nonuUy est. Nom Ixx. Seniores Jeremiae xix. 2. et 6. per
locum ubi multa sepulcra sunt, reddiderunt. Nee in Inferorum
significatu salvator et scriptura ab hac voce abhorret, nempe
gekenna ignis—gehenna ignis inextinguibilis. (Marc. ix. 44—46.)
Cons. Lightfoot. Hor. Talmud, ad Math. v. 2.
A Phoenicihus derivatam esse in Africam ad Poenos, banc
immolandorum hominum cujuscumquae aetatis maxime impube-
rum, superstitionem, Deorum pads exposcendce caussd, constat
355
ex Curtio, Lib. IV. cap. 3. et Justino, Lib. XVIIL cap. 6,
Silius Italicus, Lib. IV. v. 767.
Mosfuit in populis quos condidit advena Dido,
Poscpre coede Deos veniam acJlagrantihus aris.
Injandum dictu, parvos imponere naios,
Germani, si quando aliquo nietu adducti, Deos placandos
esse arbitrabantur, humanis hostiis eorura aras et templa funes-
tabant, ut ne religione?n quidem colere potuerint (ait Tuliius
Orat. pro 3f. Front. ) nisi earn prius scelere violarint.
CAPUT XXX.
Hercule Romano loquitur Solinus (cap. I.) ATrachiniis cul-
tus est Hercules^ Koruopion sive locustas abigens : nam eorum
lingua Parnopa (corrupte ^ Kornopa) locusta erat. Erythrseis
Ipoktonos appellatus, quasi diceres, vermiculorum vitibus in-
festorum occisor. Europaeis Herculem generatim Baalzehub
nomine cultum opinatur Seldenus (loc. laud. Synt. II. cap. 6.)
Baalzebub autem, Deus muscce, seu Deus musca interpretatuFj
a Muscarum multitudine, quae Victimarum carnes in gentilium
fanis plerumque sectabantur, dictus, ut nonnuUi coistimant.
Quamquam Scaligeri judicio, '' id quod dicebatur Baal-zebahim
(sic ille). Deus victimarum, immolationum, sacrificiorum, jocu^
lari vocabulo scriptura vocavit Deum Muscce quod in templo
Hierolymitano muscae carnes victimarum non liguriebant,
quum tamen gentium fana a muscis infestarentur propter nido-*
A a 2
356
Probahilius taraen est Accaronitis ipsis, bujus idoli cultoribus,
illud Baalzebnh dictum. Ctijus rei testimonium est, quod cum
Ochorias rex Israel, per cancellos ccenacuU sui prseceps deci-
disset, de salute consuluit Baalzebub deum Accaron (IV. Reg.
1. 2.) Ecquis, inquit Seldenus (ibid.) numen, quod coleret,
ac de salutis instauratione contulandum duceret, in honesto et
joculari vocabulo compellaret ? Accedit quod etiam Europaei
Iioc nomen in Herculis cultu retinuerunt, quasi dominum musca
eum appellantes ; in quo Accaronitarum Phoeoices aemuli vi-
dentur extitisse. Cujus rei indicium est superstitiosus cultus
idoli Achor, quem in Africam Phoenices, in ejusoram appulsi,
invcnerunt. Nam de Ct/rewaim ait Plinius (X. 17.) Achorem
deum invocare, iiiuscarura multitudine pestilentiara afFerente
addens protinus interire muscas ciim illi numini litatum est.
In Achore enim vestigia apparent Accaronis, et quae de tnuscis
dicit, ea Beelzebub apertissime indicant. Quo nomine, eadem
de causa et simili allusione, Herculem Phoenices invocasse, ad-
modum est verisimile. Non enim AccaronitK in cultu sui idoli
quam Phoenices in cultu Herculis pii magis censendi sunt, aut
religiosiores. Quod de Grascis etiam et Romanis intelligito, qui
Herculis sacra a Phoenicibus acceperunt. Et satis sit itinuisse
Muscarum annua solemnia in Apollinis Actii delubro jfieri so-
lita, de quibus in Annalium lib. XI. loquitur ^lianus. An
autem Herculi acciderit quod Accaronitarum idolo accidit, mu-
tatio nempe nominis Beelzebub in Beelzebul, asserere non ausim.
Certe Accaronitarum idolum Beelzebul, id est, dominum ster-
coreum legimus apud Athanasium, Origenem, Cyrillum, et alios
Patres Grsecos. Quae mutatio apud Hispanos etiam obtinuit,
quorum Celebris poeta Prudentius {Peri Stephanon Hymn V.)
de Martyre Vincentio Levita canit.
Sed Belzebulis callida
Commenta Christus destruit.
357
Super hoc argumento multa scitu digna collegit complutensis
theologus Leo de Castro in sue Apologetico. (Lib. VI. pag,
658.) Beelzebul autem pro Beelzebub legi in benemultis graecis
Evangeliorura exemplaribus, turn et in vetustissim^ versione
Arabica h. Thorna Erpenio Edita, Seldenus auctor est. Nisi
velis inventum vocabulum Beelzebul^ in contumeliam idoli
Accaronitarum, quae est sententia J. Drusii. Nam Judaeorum
sapieiites hujusmodi appellationum variationes in fictorum nu-
minum ignominiani fieri praecepisse, res est notissima. Sic
impostorem Barchocebam (filium stellse), sub Trajano principe
Messiae nomen venditantem, Barchochibam (filium mendacii)
appellaruut. Mons etiam olivarum, qui hebraice dicebatur
Har hamischah (Mons olivarum seu unctionis) : mutato ele-
mento, et Jod addito, appellatus est Har hamaschith (mons
corruptionis seu offensionis) post quam eum Salomon inquinavit
cultu Astaroth, Chamos et Melchom (IV. Heg. xxiii. 13.^
Quo nomine locus indicatur, sed non sine opprobrio. Ad ido-
lorum etiam ignominiam R. Abraham Ben-kattun verba Exodi.
(XX. 3.) Non habebis deos alienos coram me, sic exposuit : Non
sines apud te habitare qui colutit deos peregrinos, vel stercoreos.
Sicut enim, spiritus sancti stylo, ab adjunct^ vanitate et turpi-
tudine omnia idola hebraice, elilim, per paranoraasiam vocantur
galilim, (nihilum, stercora) ita long^ apud judaeos praxi obtinuit,
ttt ab idololatris nomina suis idolis tributa perverterent probroso
aliquo nomine (V. Lightfoot. Hor. Talmad in Math. pag. 168.)
Isaiam imitantes qui dxit (xxx. 22.) : Disperges ea (sculptilia)
sieut immunditiam menstruatce. Sic quod vocabant idolatrae
Faciem Dei (Strab. xvi.) vocabant judaei Faciem canis : quae
idololatris erat Fons calicis, hasbreis appellata est fons tcedii,
vel tribularum : Fortunes vocabulum gentilicum mutarunt in
Fcetorem : idque levi litterarum mutatione, vel transpositione,
oppidum, quod aliquando dicum est Bethel (Domus Dei)
358
(iictuni est postea Bethaven (Domus vanitatis). Quod aUteni
banc praxim hodierni judaei nequitiose et saepiiis occulte imiten-
lur, ostendit Buxtorffius Lexic. Talmud, (ad rad. cara.)
CAPUT XXXIII.
Bardos poetas fuisse, testis est Strabo {W.) y (\\xos cantionum
factores vocat Diodorus Siculus (V,). De iis ait Lucanus (I.)
in longnm cevum dimittere laudibus fortes animaSy belloque pe-
remptos. Noraen gallicum existimat Pompejus Festus, quod
non quemcumque cantorem significat, sed qui carit virormn
fortium laudes. Sed cum indubia res sit veteres Ibertios Poetas
Bardos appellatos, conjectare ausim a Phoeniciis hoc nomen
traxisse, in quorum lingua bar significat polire, dilucidare, de-
clarare ; duz autem, exultavit, gavisus fuit : Ut fuerit Bar-duz
qui l^etanter declarat seu dilucidat heroum et fortium virorum
res gestas. Quod apprime Bardis seu Vatibus Ibernicis congruit
qui heroica sua carmiua, lingu^ cantui aptissima scripta> uti ad
oculum demonstravit CI. Vallancey, dulcissim^ modulatione
canebant, quae non aures pulsabat, sed cor. (V. Encyclop. Bri-
tann. Art. Music, et Jos. C. WsAkeri Historical Memoirs of the
Irish Bards. Vol. I. pag. 88. seq.) Idem de Musicis eorum
instrumentis adstruit Giraldus Cambrensis ( Topograph. Ibernie,
dist. III. cap. 11.) ** in quibus, inquit, velox et praeceps,
suavis tamen et jucunda sonoritas. Mirum qu6d in tant^ tarn
praecipiti digitorum rapacitate, musica servatur proportio, et
. , . tarn suavi velocitate, . . . consona redditur et completur
359
melodia , , . Semper ab molli incipiunt, et in idem redeunt, ut
cuncta sub jucundae sonoritatis dulcedine compleantur," &c.
Fuisse Bardos inter veteres Ibernos Idololatras res est notissi-
ma : e quorum numero fuit Dubtachus, de quo ait Jocelinus
(in Vita S, Patricii, Cap. XLV.) carmina in laudem falsorum
deorum studio fiorente peregisse ; conversum autem ad fidem, in
laudem omnipotentis Dei, et sanctorum clariora Pcemata com-
posuisse. Medii aevi scriptores appellare solebant Bardos in-
ferioris notae Poetas, vulgo dictos Rythmicos ; qui carmina, seu
Rythmos canebant, non semper ad aedificationem et pacem
populorum, sed ad morum plerumque corruptel^m, vel ad sedi-
tionis incitamentura. Qui abusus, ut observat Waraeus, ansam
tandem praebuit statutis sancitis ab Anglicanis et Ibernicis
commitiis contra eos, eorumque receptores (Waraeus loc. laud.
cap. V.) Bardos etiam a quibusdam medii aevi scriptoribus
vocatos reperies Stolidos quosque et impolitos. Lectu dignum
est Ducangii GLossar. Medice et Jujimce Latinit. V. Bardus.
Hoc Saxum aitWaraeus a Thuathededanis in Iberniam por-
tatum, atque inde, regnante Moriertacho^ Ercae filio f Mortoghi
Mac Earc) ad Fergusium fratrem in Argatheliam missum, sed
^ Kenetho rege lignea cathedra posteainclusum, Regibus Scoto-
rum consecrandis, in Monasterio Sconensi coUocatum, ac tan-
dem a rege Edvardo primo Angliae, Westmonasterium trausla-
tum. Additque famam tenere, Ethnicismi temporibus ante
Christum natum, eum dumtaxat Iberniae monarcham approba-
tum, sub quo Saxum illud coUocatum ingemiscebat, vel (ut
liber Houthensis penes I'homam StafFordium equitem habet)
loquebatur (Waraeus loc. laud. cap. V.)
Saxa, ut deorum simulachra, coluisse veteres, res est notis-
sima. Exemplo sit Alagahalus (quem depravate Heliogabalum
quidam efferebant), Sol, nempe, Pyramidis specie k Phceniciis
iBultus. Venerem, pilae, seu quadrati saxi forma colebant
360
Arabes. Testatur Pausanias septem columnas erectas ritu
prisco apud Laconas, errantium stellarum signa. Vetustissimus
fuit Graecorum raos, Saxa, sive quadrata, sive rudia, saltern
aliam, qutlm Saxi speciem prae se non ferentia, pro simulachris
ponere, neque aliter, quam simulachris divinura honorem exhi-
bere. Quod ex ejusdem Pausaniae (in Achaicis) testimonio
constat. V. Selden. loc. laud. Prolegom. cap. III.
Hujus lapidis portio usque hodie servari dicitur in throno
Anglorum regio.
Cave confundas hoc Saxum cum lapidibus seu columnis cir-
cumlitis et vacillantibus, quas in Tyri urbe erexerunt Phoe-
nices ; und^ probable existimat W. Cooke {loc. laud.) ab ipsis
esse in Britaunicis insulis coUocatas, ubi vocabantur Ambre, et
Main Ambre, id est, Lapis Ambrosius, ait Camdenus. Horum
lapidum quosdam inventos esse in Ibernia, auctor est cl. Tolan-
dus in Druidarum Historia. Robertus Sibaldus alterius me-
minit in Scotia : alterius juxta Balvaird in Fife. Dr. Stukely
asserit se aliud ex Gygonian, seu saxis vacillantibus vidisse in
Derbyshire. Quod ver6 conspiciebatur juxta Pensans in Corn-
wall, dirutuni est in bello civili ab uno ex Cromwelli guberna-
toribus. Depictum est hoc saxum in Norden's History of Corn-
wall^ p. 48. Num horum lapidum vestigium sit nomen Am-
brose Town, oppidi baron. Bargiem comit. ^ea^brc?, aliis dis-
quirendum relinquo. Mihi valde probabile est ab his Ambrosiis
Saxis, quae Phoenices in Hispanic coUocaverunt, nomen sortitam
urbem Lusitaniae vetustissimam AmbraciuSf non longe ab Eme-
ritd ; turn et oppida Ambros, Ambrox, Ambroz, Ambres, Ambro-
sero, &c.
Habes hie, praeclara Iberniae sapientum virorum concio, quae
in meis schedulis adnotaveram de Phoeniceo ejus colonum et
idololatriag origine. Rudera sunt arcis vetustissimae, pulvere
oblita, quae doctiores alii limpida forsan aliquando et a sordibus
361
libera in hujus insulae gloriam posteris otFerent. Fastidient,
fateor, exilia haec nostra, si conferantur cum erudilorum lucu-
brationibus, qui banc Spartam peragrarunt. Veriim prudeus
lector, non ex operum sapientis cujusquam viri praestanti^ haec
nostra metiatur ; quin poti^s ex bono ea duntaxat animo diju-
dicet. Qukm vellem, ut ego gratam et obsequentera erga
Ibernos voluntatem prodere nunc studui ; sic illi meam banc
observantiam aequi bonique consulurent ! Sed quid ab insit^
Ibernorum, planeque singular! erga me humanitate nunc mihi
polliceri dubitem ? Quae quidem etsi stimulis non egeat, nee
precibus locum relinquat ; passuros tamen spero, ut de ea jugiter
mihi conservand-^, tamquara de re mihi turn charissim*^, turn
spectatissim4, cujus instar eorum, qui pretiosas res possident,
soUicitum esse me decet, eos majorem in modum exorandos
nunc censeam. Age interim et tu, quisquis es, qui haec legeris,
accipe libenter has nostrii ingenioli conjecturas ; et si quid iilis
rectius novisti, candidiis imperii : si wow, his utere mecum.
FINIS.
BINS AND SONS, PRINTERS, SOUTIIWARK.
ERRATA ET CORRIGENDA.
Instead of " Tuatha Dedanan," p. 20, pref. read Tuatha Danaan; and instead
of, " Dedanite diviners," read Danaanite diviners.
Instead of " Milesian"—and " Milesians," ps. 22 and 23, pref. read—Scythian
—and Scythians. Scoto-Milesian, however, is the correct designation of the
present Irish, as implying the intermixture explained in my " Dedication."
Instead of " Myself the venerable," p. 31, pref. read, making the venerable.
Instead of "eatim," p. 36, note, read etiam.
Instead of " Iherin" p. 41, note, read Iberin. And here let me observe that of
the notes in said page, only the words within parenthesis are mine.
Instead of " Numdje," p. 145, note, read Numidas.
Instead of " acquintiir," p. 235, note, read acquiritur.
Instead of "landed in that colony" p. 294, read, landed that colony.
